

h
Established
1878
"
c
N
mm
m
i
*
tj;
m
:
■
wm ■ md
mam
\W
:
V
Assets
£11,000,000
THE CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
(Incorporated in N.S.W.)
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
PURELY MUTUAL ANNUAL BONUSES
The result of the recent ballot for the election of three Directors was as follows:
W. BENNETT ... 53,514 VOTES
C. B. KEARNEY . . . 52,857
R. J. TAYLOR , . 53,740
T. G. MURRAY 23,372
M. J. O’NEILL 22,226
M. S. VEECH 21,560
WILLIAM BENNETT, Chairman of Directors and General Manager.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62. —No. 3207.
Wednesday, July 30, 1941.
Are Reds to be Supreme?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Sioru Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100'Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
ily Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
Randolph Bedford .
It was press-day at The Bulletin and
I was doing some small task for editor
S. H. Prior in his office when Randolph
Bedford, back in town after three months’
roving, burst into the room.
“Morning, Sam,” he bellowed huskily,
and, hauling a thick wad of “copy” from
a hip-pocket, threw it on Prior’s desk.
“You can have the damn’ lot for fifty
quid,” he continued, standing over Prior.
Prior, who was used to Randolph's
volcanic visits and abrupt demands,
merely said, without looking up from the
proof he was correcting, “Not a far-
thing, Randolph, until the stuff is typed
and I can tell whether I want it or not.”
Randolph’s rejoinder shook the foun-
dations of the old building and the air
was full of vermilion oaths, but Prior
had weathered many such storms. The
upshot was that I was given the unenvi-
able job of typing several quires of Ran-
dolph’s appalling handwriting, and Ran-
dolph, rumbling with indignation, left for
downstairs, where Tom McMahon, the
accountant, would listen with a grin to his
outburst and appease him with a tenner.
The next batch of copy from Randolph
was typed. It prompted this note from
the editor:
Dear Randolph.—Your typing is worse
than your handwriting. If you cannot
afford a typist, scrap the typewriter and
go back to your pen.—Yours, S. H. Prior.
Yet, although Prior and Bedford rarely
met without sound and fury on Ran-
dolph’s part, the two men had been
staunch friends from the time they first
met in Broken Hill. Each had a high
opinion of the other’s ability and
esteemed the other as a man.
“You know, Sam,” said Bedford one
day, “I like you, but you’re a damned
lousy editor. Not like Jimmy Edmond,
for instance.”
“How’s that?” asked Prior.
“Well,” replied. Randolph, “whenever
I called upon Jimmy he would offer me
a cigar. You’ve never given me a smoke
in your life.”
Prior smiled quietly, “So you think
Edmond was a good fellow,” he said.
“Why, Randolph, I know for a fact that
he regarded you as a nuisance and was
trying to poison you with nicotine for
years.”
Edmond’s black apd fearsome cigars
were a standing horror in Bulletin
circles, and many a visitor had left
Jimmy green around the gills, dizzy in
the head and gasping for breath.
William Macleod and Bedford fre-
quently got into verbal holts. Once,
Macleod, stung by Bedford's sarcastic
tongue, and few could be as sarcastic as
Bedford at his best, dwelt at length on
some mining men with whom Bedford
had contacts. Randolph pushed his chair
back, stood up and surveyed Macleod
pityingly.
“Macleod,” he said, “mining men
might be all that you say they are, but
thank God there’s one thing they won’t
be able to say about me when I die.”
“What’s that?” demanded Macleod.
“They won’t be able to say,” replied
Randolph in a deliberate tone, “that it
was Randolph Bedford who illustrated
the cover for The Golden Shanty.”
“My God, Bedford,” exclaimed Mac-
leod, who was responsible for the illus-
tration but not proud of the fact, “that’s
hitting below the belt.”
Bedford began his explorations in civil-
isation at Enmore (Sydney) 73 years ago.
Before he was five he knew all' the water-
holes in the district and had got lost in
the eucalyptus forest on Johnston’s Hill,
where are now the streets of Annandale.
A year later he roamed as far as Five
Dock and saw great herds of cattle on
their way to the slaughteryards at Glebe
Island, and decided that he would be a
cattle-drover. His first job was minding
sheep, and at 14 he was a messenger in
a solicitor’s office. The solicitor sacked
him because young Randolph preferred
reading books at the Public Library to
running errands.
He was a draper’s assistant, a beef
clerk in an abattoir, a rabbit-trapper be-
tween the Murrum.bidgee and the Dar-
ling, a groom and, like Ted Dyson a few
years earlier, a barnstormer. After a year
or two knocking around the river towns
of western N. S. Wales, he landed in
Broken Hill, where he began his life-
long interest in mining.
Writing is easy,” he said one day to
-S. H. Prior, who had not long come
down from the Barrier to join The Bul-
letin, “but floating a mine taxes all your
mental and physical powers.” Frequently
he would shower a heap of jagged speci-
mens on Prior’s desk and urge him to
throw up editing and become a partner
in some new show.
Like Lawson, Dyson, “Dryblower”
Murphy, A. G. Hales and Ted Sorenson,
who knew the life of the fossicker from
first-hand experience, Bedford capitalised
his knowledge in innumerable first-class
short stories. He tried mining in Aus-
tralia, New Guinea, Asia and even in
Italy, and said once that he had met
every mining shark in the game.
He was 18 when he broke into print
and 21 when his first story—“Jepson’s
Fortune”-—appeared in The Bulletin.
That was in 1889 and Bedford was living
in Melbourne and mingling with Victor
Daley, Bob Whitworth, Jack Bunster,
Teddy Ryan, Charles Junor and other
thirsty newspapermen. It was Victor
Daley, sitting one summer afternoon at
Studley Park, who urged Bedford to
adopt writing as a profession, and it was
Bedford whom Daley first let see the
manuscript of “A Sunset Fantasy.”
Bedford was 35 when his first novel,
True Eyes and the Whirlwind, was pub-
lished in England. By then he had wan-
dered the length and breadth of Aus-
tralia. True Eyes and the Whirlwind was
largely a thinly-disguised autobiography.
“Crude but honest, exuberant but sincere,”
to use the author’s own summing-up, it
was Bedford at his raciest. Billy Pagan,
miner, journalist, actor and politician,
continued his variegated experiences with
men and women in The Snare of Strength
and Billy Pagan : Mining Engineer , and
the three make a classic as honestly Aus-
tralian, as soundly democratic and full
of life, as Tom Collins’s Such Is Life.
Shortly before the publication of True
Eyes and the Whirlwind Bedford took a
trip to England. Unlike Lawson, he en-
joyed himself in London, sold all that he
could write, won a big action against a
rich mining syndicate, found a Cockney
manager to produce a play of his own
making and captivated audiences with his
breezy talks on Australia.
He crossed to the Continent with a
large family and a pile of baggage as
huge as that of a travelling circus, lost
his family for three days in Paris, and
ended up in Italy, where he ran an option
on a mercury mine for a London com-
pany. His experiences abroad he re-
corded weekly for The Bulletin under
the heading “Explorations in Civilisa-
tion.” The articles were collected and
published in a book with that title in
1916.
Bedford frequently turned his hand to
verse, and his best appeared in The Bul-
letin before the dawn of this century.
His verses, fervent, rich in imagery, full
of picturesque phrases and epigrammatic,
were as nationalistic and masculine as
those of Grant Hervey and as forthright
as “Dryblower” Murphy’s. He seemed
to write them, as he wrote everything, as
if a bushfire threatened to engulf him at
any minute.
In 1904 the Troedel Print, Melbourne,
had ready for publication The Poems of
Randolph Bedford when the whole issue
was destroyed by fire except about six
copies. When the news was conveyed to
Randolph his only comment was, “It
seems to be a clear case of spontaneous
combustion.” He took no steps to order
a further printing of the volume. Those
that escaped destruction are rarities in
the Australian book world. Not long
before his death J. A. Philp exhibited in
Brisbane a copy that Bedford had given
him. One copy is preserved in the Public
Library, Melbourne.
Randolph was just as tireless with his
tongue as with his pen. Mrs. William
Macleod wrote of him as being “large,
aggressive, loud-voiced, moustached,” and
trailing “the atmosphere of the footlights
behind him like a cloud of glory.” A
Maori land newspaper advertising a
lecture by him stated: “As an entertainer,
he should prove to be a whole circus
and the dog under the wagon in one suit
of clothes.” An English newspaper pub-
lished at Yokohama, with the strange
title “The Weekly Box of Curios,” said
in bidding him farewell from Japan:
Talk!!—he talked as fast as an aero-
plane flies, and never lost a stroke. He
sailed by the Korea, and we feel confident
that if he is not either gagged or locked
up not a passenger will survive the trip.
It was in Japan that he made his
famous retort —“Nothing! I’m a Labor-
ite” —in answer to a question as to what
he did for a living in Australia. Actually,
he was a most industrious person, and
J. F. Archibald, who had a theory that
fat men were the hardest workers, used
tc quote Edmond, Macleod and Bedford
as shining examples. He was a hard
worker and staunch battler for the Labor
party all his life. A robust individualist,
he belonged to the old school of Labor-
ites who had minds of their own and did
not walk in fear and trembling of the
party bosses.
Members of the Brotherhood of the
Dawn and Dusk, a Sydney fellowship
which created Randolph Episcopus in
partibus infidelium, were very loyal
to each other. When Bedford’s third
play, “Aladdin and the Boss Cockie”
(the other two were “The Unseen Eye”
and “The Lady of the Pluck-Up”),
was produced in Sydney, most of
the leading dramatic critics, headed by
Gerald Marr Thompson, of “S. M.
Herald,” slated it principally on the
ground of its excessive Australianism.
Fred Broomfield took up his pen in
defence of “Aladdin” and in a Bulletin
Red Page article smote the critics as only
Fred could when his blood was boiling.
According to Fred they welcomed and
praised with “treacly adjectives”
any drivelling melodrama from old Drury-
lane; any sexual rottenness from May-
fair; any indecent ribaldry from Ratcliffc
Highway or the penny-gaffs of the Shore-
ditch slums.... any suggestive seepage by
the imported music-hall vulgarians, and
any inane sweepings and ragged ravellings
from castaway revues, riotous with luscious
legs and reeking with libidinous lyrics.
“My God, Fred, I wish that I had
written that,” said Randolph with grati-
tude and admiration a few days after
publication of the article.
“Never mind, Randolph,” said Fred,
chuckling ; “everyone will say that you
did.”
The motto of the Brotherhood of the
Dawn and Dusk, coined by Henry Law-
son, was “Roost high and crow low.”
Randolph never crowed low in his life,
but when he crowed it was a crow for
Australia and a challenge to all the hum-
bugs and sycophants who impeded her
national progress.
W. E. Fitz Henry.
Seven Kinds of "Newness.”
There are 14 contributors to the
Penguin New Writing (vol. 1 ; edited by
John Lehmann) but, when the prin-
ciples of each contribution are examined,
only three kinds of “newness” in the
collection. Two new books from Faber,
Louis Macneice’s Plant and Phantom and
Stephen Spender’s The Burning Cactus
(reprinted in the Faber library), add three
more varieties of newness, and if only
some publisher had come out with Dylan
Thomas’s latest ingenious unintelligibili-
ties the seven techniques which, exploited
and re-exploited, constitute the newest
newness would be available for survey.
Nobody in any of the three books
under review finds it necessary to achieve
newness by imitating the museum-piece
obscurity of The Waste Land or the
deliberate destruction of language—the
means of communication between writer
and reader—of Finnegans Wake,, or
Thomas’s blend of the two horrors.
Everybody, even the poet Macneice,
speaks plainly; and that, remembering
the sort of newness fostered by the New
Adelphi a few years ago, is the great
virtue of the newness approved by the
Penguin people or submitted by Spender
(in his short stories) and Macneice.
The three ‘ newnesses” —none of them
novelties—offered by New Writing’s 14
contributors are:-
(1) Politics.
(2) Toughness.
(3) Quaintness.
To which Spender adds:- —
(4) Taboo subjects.
And Macneice:
(5) Mapping the contemporary world;
and
(6) Plain speech in poetry.
The politics, of course, are Left, for
Leftism is the fashion. Politicians in the
Penguin are George Orwell, who, in a
first-person short story about shooting an
elephant, observes, “I did not even know
that the British Empire is dying, still less
did I know that it is a great deal better
than the younger empires that are going
to supplant it” ; and M. R. Anand, whose
comedy about a smart Hindu barber-boy
points, perhaps by accident, the opposite
political moral to Mr. Orwell’s, for Mr.
Anand notes with great satisfaction that,
by imitating the wicked British im-
perialists, the barber-boy was able to
form a barbers’ trade union. George
Garrett describes “The First Hunger
March” ; Louis Guilloux records, “Sweet
sons of bitches! They nearly did for me
when I was one and twenty oh! ” ; Alfred
Kantorowicz writes of a journey “To the
Western Front” in the disillusioned
manner of the war novels of the ’thirties.
There are three “tough” stories —one
French, one English, one American —
and all of them could have been written
by Hemingway, though he’d have had to
work hard to capture the realism of Andre
Chamson’s small boys in “My Enemy.”
Leslie Halward has a character sketch of
a “Boss” who slavedrives a boy to the
point of tears and then, in a redeeming
flash of humor, takes pride in the young-
ster’s rebellion—“ You ought to have
heard the young devil go off at me!”
Morton Freedgood’s “Good Nigger,”
about to be taken for a ride by gangsters
because he’s raped a white girl (same old
toughness), stumbles off into the dark-
ness pleading (same old tears) “You ain’t
going to let them hurt me, is you, Mistuh
Henry?”
One Nikolai Ognev, a Soviet humorist,
offers the prize specimen of quaintness.
He has a comedy about a man missing a
train he particularly wanted to catch be-
cause a woman he is pursuing is aboard
it; the comedy, like most Russian humor
in English, not being in the least funny,
is a choice specimen of the sort of thing
which all good Leftists, if they can’t
enjoy, should at least revere. Also
quaint, as coming from Foreign Parts, is
a story called “Hatred” by Mr. Tchang
T’ien-yih (pronounced Tchang T’ien-
yih). It’s a poor story, about some
peasants travelling in the heat from no-
where to nowhere and learning not to
hate soldiers (apparently Chinese soldiers)
because the soldiers are just as miserable
as they are; but it’s interesting as a
sample of modern Chinese writing, spring-
ing directly from the Russian of Tolstoy,
Dostoevski and Sholokhov. Dostoevski,
he say—“ Sit down and weep.”
That’s the end of New Writing’s new-
nesses. The best thing in the book
(apart from some direct travel-writings)
is a short story by V. S. Pritchett
which, opening like a Saroyan first-person
story with the conventional toughness
and misery, breaks away into an aston-
ishingly vivid comedy with a salesman
and his girl sitting up on a hearse and
taking as compliments to themselves the
hat-raisings that are meant for the coffin.
Though he hasn’t Spender’s brilliance
of phrase, Pritchett is a better story-
maker than Spender, for he presents the
human realities; Spender offers the un-
realities of politics and pathology.
Spender’s problem, like that of any
other poet who attempts prose fiction, is
how to come down to earth without
losing his special qualities of feeling for
words and cadence and acuteness of per-
ception. But it’s no solution for him to
make the chief characters of three of the
five stories in The Burning Cactus
neurotics, for to write about neurotics,
even though London “Observer” says the
stories “dazzle and astonish with flashes
of psychological insight and poetic
vision,” isn’t to come down to the earth
where prose lives.
Macneice’s newness, bearing in mind
that he shares it with Auden and Day
Lewis, is as striking as Spender’s and
a good deal more pleasant. He is a clear,
often humorous, observer, and this busi-
ness of mapping the contemporary world,
as if poets had suddenly stepped out of
their shells on to an unknown continent,
always gives the pleasures a travel book
does when it describes familiar places
and occasionally, when the poet is as
good as Macneice, strikes genuine poetry
out of the most unexpected rock:
Cranks, hacks, poverty-stricken scholars.
In pince-nez, period hats or romantic beards
And cherishing their hobby or their , doom
Some are too much alive and some are asleep
Hanging like bats in a world of inverted values,
Folded up in themselves in a world which is
safe and silent:
This is the British Museum Reading Room.
Out on the steps in the sun pigeons are court-
ing,
Puffing their ruffs and sweeping their tails or
taking
A sunbath at their ease
And under the totem poles the ancient
terror—
Between the enormous fluted lonic columns
There seeps from heavily jowled or hawk-like
foreign faces
The guttural sorrow of the refugees.
Macneice’s other newness (not counting
a development of the ballad, which was
revived by Yeats, borrowed by Auden,
and has now become common property)
is a deliberate plainness of language. This
is exactly the newness that gave Words-
worth his greatest merits and his most
colossal faults; and Macneice, like
Wordsworth, apparently has trouble in
preventing a valuable basic-English from
degenerating into dull prose. Even when
he took the measurements of the bridge
Wordsworth sank no lower than Macneice
sinks in:
Or viewed as history they remind us of what
we always
Would rather forget—that what we are or prefer
is conditioned
By circumstances, that evil and good
Are relative to ourselves who are creatures of
period
None of these three books, New Writ-
ing, The Burning Cactus or Plant and
Phantom, can really be described as
“new”; they’re specimens of contem-
porary techniques and, in the instances of
Pritchett’s story and Macneice’s poems,
examples of modern work that may last,
because the writer’s talent breaks through
the dead weight of fashion.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the Salt of Business
“THE SENIOR STORE”
/ /
/ J
/ V V
\ V J
\ '
' /
/ /
v/ 7
r
> /
'A -
/ / \ \/
v s/ /
v v/
/ v
n
i
■
V ' 7
..
’■ U
DV
./ /
\ /
\ /
f-
/ ,
V 7
Vi
s.
if tvi/, A
/ A\//\ \ / /' \ / , \ \ / - V / ''// ' \ /
v' v/ v'/ \v,-\' /A\ / ~\ /,< < ;■ 4
< ; < > < - < v* 'vvw' A-. /a' / v
‘\//\' /V\' //v\ /' A ' ( V/ \'/ V'/ \
v V/ \V / '/ /v\ / )v)| \/ A ' A \ / \ , \
> < \ / \ / A ] v/ »\/A\ /,\' /a >
/,*\ Av\ /-A /Wk; W
/ \' 7 \\v /•»'. //
n / ' , / ' 7 ' ' y
s /A v , N
\ >// \ \ / A, /
; / \V 7 \ / /
v \/
\ z \
\/A\ //N
VV V'/ '
/ >v if
' \
' \ \ / A V
' >, '•/ / \\ /
c
VTi —
/ A v
/ \
/ \ •
. V /
1
(t-Picce Cedar Mining Suite, comprising Sideboard,
5x3 Tabic and 4 Ladder-Back Chairs, with drop-in seats covered
in fabricoid. Price *■ '
pr
oudly we hail . . . .
the timber which stands
supreme amongst Australian
Cabinet Timbers
Enjoy in your home the charm of Cedar Furniture ... of modern design,
yet retaining the finer features of period detail, adding a decor of
graciousness. This Furniture represents the highest standard of workman-
ship and finish. Every piece is of solid cedar, back panels are screwed and
framed, and draw runners and bottoms are screwed throughout. All
polishing is done entirely by hand. When you buy Cedar Furnituie from
Anthony Horderns’ ... you buy Furniture that will endure the test of time.
• Furniture—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
Chest of Drawers
with fret work in solid
cedar. Size, 3ft. 6in.
Price £ 19/19/-
u,r
f
'' '
■' Sj!®?;
Cedar Book-
case , 6ft. high
x 38 ins. wide.'
Price . £ 27/2/6
Cedar Fireside
Stool . with beautiful
imported tapestry cover-
ing, in various colours.
Price 7°/~
h
ANTHONY
’Phone: M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C, C.P.0.,
Sydney


A SOUTH WIND
By OLAF RUHEN.
Down in the
square old Stecnie
was feeding the
pigeons again,
and the children had
stopped by to watch on their way home from
morning school. Steenie was throwing out the grain
in little handfuls, measured miserly, so that the birds
must fly and perch on his arms and feed from his
hands if they would be satisfied. In one corner a
flock of kittiwakes stood, heads to the wind, waiting
to gather up the outermost of the grains, and some
flew, wheeling and screaming in the joy of the fresh
sun-laden southerly that swept through the park under
the hawthorns.
Mamie watched from her window, singling out
her David from the group of youngsters. A balloon
of cloud caught her attention, and her eyes followed
it. Then she looked to the harbor-mouth, and her
smile stilled, and the skin creased in slight lines above
her brows. At the truck of the flagstaff hung a black
ball. She knew that sign: “Bar dangerous for small
vessels.”
“PSANCER” MARTIN, who was Mamie’s man,
hadn’t seen the signal—he was fifteen miles way,
over on the East Reef —but in any case he didn’t
need to. He was sea-wise,
and knew what he had com-
ing to him. While Mamie
watched the pigeons, he
pulled his last line and made
the craft shipshape for the
long slog home. Since the
dawn he had been keeping a
weather-eye for the mare’s-
tails that now showed high
above him. Now it was
noon, and his day was fin-
ished and he had beaten the
squall.
Only just. Down in the
south’ard the horizon
seemed to detach itself and
move toward him bodily,
and quite suddenly the sky
there was black. But
Dancer sang—a deep, bull-
throated roar that had never
yet been loosed on a land
breeze —as the Julio picked
up her paces and swung in
a wide arc for home and
harbor. Beneath the song,
a staccato undertone, the
double bark of the exhaust
seemed to gather up and
synchronise all the many
voices of the growing storm
—the breaking rush of the
combers and the boom and
chatter of the buoy-drums
dancing on the cockpit
floor. Then a new voice
clattered in, and Dancer
sprang up and cut the
engine, and the launch eased
gently into the trough. While his hand was still on
the switch he saw the pump flying in ugly flailing
sweeps, following the crankshaft eccentric on which it
worked. When he made his examination, he found
that the casing was broken off altogether from its
anchorage on the engine-bed. There was nothing
much he could do with it.
A T three o’clock the square was not such a pleasant
*'• place. The pigeons had gone, the kittiwakes had
forsaken the spot for the waterfront, and the children,
when they left afternoon school, hurried past. No one
of Mamie’s glances was for the empty square, though
she stood a long time at the window. Her eye was
for the harbor-mouth, and her heart beyond it and
aching with a familiar dread.
Half a hundred women saw with her the first
white launch round the bend of the headland, but
for only two of them it lightened a fear. But then
the first launch became the leader of a train, and
there was fish unloading at the wharves, and the port
became busy with calling and the bark of engines, and
the day seemed brighter, though the wind swept in
more strongly.
Launch after launch steamed into the basin, wheel-
ing to sidle into the fishing steps. Soon there was a
crowd of them, dipping their stumpy masts in the little
harbor joggle, and swaying in the busy rhythm of the
afternoon hour. And then the early ones left for
their moorings out in the stream, and the rush was
over, and only a straggler now and then appeared at
the harbor-mouth on his way in from deep water.
When the last of the late-comers had unshipped
his freight, and still from the harbor-mouth there was
no sign of Dancer, Mamie went down to the street
door and stood there shivering a little as the keen
wind nipped her bare arms and her throat. By-and-
bye, Sonny Borg came up from the docks carrying his
oilskins and a bucket of groper tongues.
He told her what she wanted to know. “1 didn’t
see him. But the bar, she isn’t so bad, not just yet.
Locky at the Light lofted up that ball too soon. He's
always the same.”
“Do you think Dancer would have worked the
long day? Would he make another lift of it, do you
think?”
The big Norwegian shook his head. “I think he
would not have stayed. The jump-up will be big
before tonight. I did not see him, but if he was
south”
“He’s on the East Reef.”
“Then he’ll be home soon. He’ll have this wind
on his quarter.” He touched a great hand to his blue
beret and took a pace or two up the street. He hesi-
tated. “Send the lad up if you might need me.” He
walked on, the groper tongues sloshing about in the
bucket.
Mamie went inside and closed the door quietly.
She shouldn’t have said that Dancer was on the East
Reef. He’d had the ground to himself for a fortnight,
and at the moment it was a rich one. He wouldn’t
like it if Sonny Borg took the Inga out to fish along-
“Where ish that recruitin' offish?"
side him. But it was not like Dancer to linger after
noon, when the line-fishing failed.
I YING to the trough the Julio swung to the onrush
of the growing combers in crazy agonies of move-
ment. She was a broad and beamy hull, double-ender
with open cockpits fore and aft, and mounting one
mast aft, a short stick that never did more than carry
the riding lights. Dancer scanned the shore marks, and,
seeing that he was on the trawling ground where the
bottom was even, he dropped the anchor. The bottom
was at twenty fathoms, so he allowed a scant thirty
of bankline, not enough to hold, but just what would
keep her bows to the weather. He unshipped the
mast and eased it forward to where the tabernacle lay
empty just aft of the fore cockpit, inching his way,
his booted feet feeling for the greasy and uncertain
hold of the toerail. To move his position he must
each time lash whatever he was holding ; to fetch a
spanner from the engine-room meant five minutes of
arduous journey. Stepping the mast, with its jury
rigging of new manila, took him a full hour.
For sail he had only the pocket-handkerchief
hatch-cover from the fore cockpit. He lashed its upper
edge to the boathook, setting it like a little square-sail
forward of the mast after he had lifted the anchor
again, and was lying once more to the trough. Slowly
the launch picked up her paces, the tiny rag bellying
bravely to urge the boat back to harbor. Dancer
settled in by the tiller, taking almost imperturbably
the occasional seas that broke over the stern.
A T six o'clock that evening, Mamie, watching still,
saw the ball at the truck of the flagstaff lowered.
A moment later it was raised again, leading a line of
three —“Bar dangerous to all navigation.” She put
the boy to bed, and when the house seemed quiet she
slipped out and went down to the wharf.
It was dark then, and all she could see was the
pattern that masts were weaving against the sky, and
here and there the
luminous glow from the
dipping topsides of a
launch, and the white
tops of the waves. But
she could hear the groaning of light hawsers and
the thudding of the fenders against the piles and the
cracking of tautened rigging and the slapping of a loose
block and the waves breaking on the sea-wall and,
once, the mourning of a gull whose sleeping place was
imperilled by some drifting danger. She strained to
hear the reassuring sound of an engine exhaust, but
there was only the wind and the noises of its making.
It was an hour, perhaps, that she waited, but she
waited through the lifetime of her marriage. She
lived again through the waiting for David and the
lonely days while Dancer was at sea. And when at
length the launch glided ghostlike to the fishing steps
it seemed indeed a ghost launch. Her heart was too
full to call to him, and when he noticed her at length
she could not answer him except with monosyllables
and little happy nods that he could not see.
All the time he spoke to her, while he was un-
loading his freight and making the Julio all fast to
the steps for the night. Things like “You shouldn’t
have come down in the cold” and “What’s for tea?”
“it’s a day for the King tomorrow,” he told her
when at last they walked back up the street. “Just
as well anyway. I broke a casting today. I'll have
to get one made.”
When they got to the house he said “You
shouldn’t have sent the boy to bed. You know he
likes a play with me before he gets to bed.”
He went up to David’s bedroom and straightway
she could hear their voices. Something failed her
then, and a few salt tears flavored Dancer’s meal as
she set it on the table. She heard his footsteps on the
stairs, and quickly wiped them away with the corner
of her apron.
“Another bonny freight today,” he told her, sitting
down. “That’s a great bit of country, that East Reef.”
SMOKE
By JAMES HACKSTON.
ONCLE was a champion smoker, and used to
express himself with smoke. It seemed that he
could carry on a conversation the way he blew
smoke out; he could almost ask questions with
his many and varied series of puffs. He could be calm,
excited, indignant, good-tempered or angry the way he
puffed. When he passed people he did not like he’d
emit little, solitary, disdainful spits of smoke or
aloof, haughty bursts. On meeting a friend a placid,
handshaking kind of puff would stroll out and hang
about as if loath to leave.
1 could always tell what the war news was like
(there was a war on then) by the way he was smoking.
If we were doing well, determined battalions of con-
fident smoke would come marching out of his mouth
like an army going into battle. Then when his smoke
shot out in small bursts like shrapnel, followed by big
stuff which rolled out in strong, slow belches, I knew
a battle was on and that Uncle was keeping the
machine-guns and heavy artillery company. When
he read jokes in the papers his smoke shook and
wriggled just as if he were splitting his sides. You
could always tell what mood he was in by looking at
his smoke.
He had a mate who understood Uncle’s smoke
and who used to come and exchange puffs with him.
They used to sit by the fireplace, and you could hear
a pin drop when they rowed, as they sometimes did.
The only way you might have guessed they were
quarrelling and blowing out angry thoughts about
each other was the manner in which they drew in
deep supplies of air between outbursts.
They’d only let their pipes go out when they
hadn’t anything more to smoke about; then they’d
stare about them until one of them thought of some-
thing, when they’d light up again.
One time they had a really big row. It began
one afternoon when they went for a walk about the
farm. I went with them. When we got to where the
scrub grew thick right up to the sheds and the bail.
Uncle’s mate took a long look at it, then looked at
the burning sky, then at the sun itself, and then at
Uncle and sent out a series of assertive puffs. Uncle
didn’t like hard work much and he pretended not to
notice this bit of straight advice, and knocked his
pipe out so’s to dodge replying.
A week later a fire started up behind the hill,
took a flying leap into Uncle’s paddock, ran up the
trees, got an eyeful of the scrub beside the sheds and
then galloped down the paddock and charged into it.
Uncle and I fought hard and managed to save the
bail. The sheds went.
The next time his mate came he had to go and
see the damage ; and as they both strolled round I
think Uncle was remembering the advice his mate had
given him, for his smoke was most retiring; just
o Continued on next page.}


sneaking out of the corner of his mouth as if sub-
dued ; not wanting to discuss the subject. But his
mate’s puffs were coming out with little snaps as if
saying: “Didn’t I tell you to burn a break!”
This went on for some time until Uncle couldn’t
stand it any longer. Bringing up his pipe he fired a
volley of replies, and what with one thing and an-
other it was no time before their smoke was at it. His
mate ran out of smoke first (he had fired a pipeful),
and while he was reloading Uncle sent in a fine broad-
side.
You’d have thought Uncle was exploding in his
inside, such a lot of smoke was being shot out of
him. He could reload quicker than his mate, and he
was quicker with the matches when their pipes went
out. His mate lost a lot of ground between matches ;
and then he ran out of tobacco. The battle was over.
Uncle cut off a further supply, and, reloading him-
self, let him have a few short, conquering whiffs for
not minding his own business.
After tea, when they’d got settled by the fireplace,
Uncle got his knife and raked out his pipe and gave
the barrel a run through with a feather, then loaded
up again. Then his mate borrowed the knife to clean
the muzzle of his, and when he’d done that Uncle
handed over his tobacco and they both started to
smoke. Long, soft, soothing wisps of smoke floated
out and soared up in spirals—nothing aggressive or
argumentative. And as I watched them puffing
apologies to each other for losing their heads I
noticed that their smoke floated gently round, merg-
ing peacefully like the clasping of hands.
THE OLD MAN
By ULLIN McKEE WRIGHT.
i t I T’S me heart. You don’t want to worry it,
I son. It often gives me a bit of gip like that.”
The scared look went out of the old man s
eyes. The frightening yellow left his lips as he
smiled. There was a trickle of blood running down
from his forehead where it had struck a stone.
Peter laughed and tried to mean it. 1 m not
worrying,” he said. He walked across and caught the
dangling reins of the old man’s horse. You take a
spell in the buggy while I get round the mob.”
“That’s right.” The old man’s eyes were grate-
ful. “Don’t go worrying now ”
“Not me!”
Just the same he couldn’t help worrying. The
old man had been riding alongside the buggy and
Peter had been talking to him about the mobs he was
going to handle outback when he got a decent outfit
of his own. Big mobs, like ten or twenty thousand.
That was real droving. Not like pushing a couple of
thousand head along lanes. That was all this was.
Then he might take on cattle. There was more ex-
citement with cattle
Suddenly he’d known the old man wasn’t giving
any answers and he’d looked up into his face. It
was all twisted up into a hard white knot of pain.
He’d opened his mouth to ask what was up. Then
the old man had crumpled up in the saddle. He d
hit his head on a stone when he fell. Peter was still
shaking when he rode ahead to put the dogs round
the mob.
There was a branch lane about a quarter of a
mile down the road. He could see it came to a dead
end down at the river. That would be a good place
to camp for the night. The two dogs could guard the
top end and there was some dry wood down by the
river. They could sleep there. The horses would be
all right out on the road as long as he short-hobbled
them.
He heard a new noise above the bleating of the
sheep and the dogs barking and the old buggy rattling
up from behind. The sun sinking quickly into a nest
of low white clouds showed him an endless wave of
pink flame rolling over and over above the long line
of river oaks. It took your breath. Made you forget
the smell of sheep and horses and the dust.
The old man pulled the buggy up beside him.
“Know what them is?” he asked. “Them’s white
cockatoos. Always see ’em in these parts at this time
o’ year.”
They were silent, watching them. Then the dis-
tant clouds folded the sun away and you couldn t
see them any more. Only hear their shrieking as
they dodged in through the branches and out over the
tops again.
The buggy rattled on. “Glad I seen ’em,” the old
man mumbled. “Glad I seen ’em. Knew I would, o
course.”
Peter sent the dogs ahead to turn the mob into
the side lane.
“Always make me think o’ kids with all the noise
they make. Just like a pack o’ happy kids. The
"OH, SARGE!"
buggy rattled on along the gravel road. “And when
the sun gets on ’em and they get that pink look -
always makes me think o’ girls.”
Peter looked at him. The paleness had mostly
gone now. There was a queer dazed look in his old
blue eyes, but Peter had often seen that there before ;
sitting round the campfire at night or lazing in the
shade of a tree while the sheep rested at midday.
“You drive on to the river,” he said. 111 get
the dogs tied up.”
“That’s the idea, son.”
BY the time the boy had driven in a couple of
stakes and chained the dogs to them the surround-
ing paddocks had turned a misty grey. The sheep
were grunting as they lay down on the warm earth.
He watched them go down, first on their knees and
then, with a satisfaction that he envied, they folded
their hind legs under them and were motionless except
for their ever-moving jaws.
He whistled as he rode down to the river, where
the tall oaks made it almost dark.
The old man was half in, half out of the buggy.
“Better give us a hand, son,” he said. He seemed
small and very grey in the half light. “Old heart
gave me a bit of gip again. Be all right as soon as
the fire gets goin’. No call to worry, son.”
Peter felt the hands as he helped him down. They
seemed like ice. Suddenly he wished there was some-
one else there besides only the two of them. “Look”
he tried to keep the fear out of his voice—“you’re
crook! ”
“Just a bit of a turn. No call to worry.”
But he was worried. More than that, he was
scared. His hands trembled as he gathered leaves and
dry wood to start the fire. The old man was crook
and something had to be done. It was fourteen miles
back to Gallapin and about twelve to The Dip. He
couldn’t leave the old man while he rode that far.
When the flames sprang up he could see the old
man was shaking. He was even paler than when he
fell off the horse. When he spoke his voice was thin
and far away.
“You done wrong there, son. You’d have done
better to let the horses go before you made the fire.
Always remember that, son. Always your stock first.
“I know.” Maybe the old man wasn’t so bad
after all. “I thought you seemed a bit cold.”
“That’s all right, son. Just thought I’d remind
you. Stock first. Always.”
A new sound back at a bend in the road sent
the boy leaping past the fire.
“Where you goin’, son?”
“Thought I’d” He stopped in his tracks. You
couldn’t tell the old man you thought he was dying.
You couldn’t own up that you were scared stiff.
“Thought I’d take a look at the sheep.”
“They’re all right.” The voice seemed more far-
away than ever now. “You get the billy on. You
might scare ’em, runnin’ up to them like that.”
A moment later a pair of headlights lit up the
camp, flashed across the grey backs of the mob, made
small green lights of the dogs’ eyes and disappeared
down the road towards The Dip.
FOR a long time the old man held the pint pot in
his hands. He sat on the log staring into the fire.
To Peter it seemed that the wrinkles on his face grew
deeper as he watched.
“Glad I seen ’em, Pete,” he said at last. “Glad
I seen ’em. Always been a kid meself inside.”
Peter was wishing he’d hailed that car. Anything
so that there would be someone there to share that
thin, faraway voice. A possum scuttled in the trees
overhead ; further up the lane a sheep bleated.
“You’re sixteen, aren’t you?” the faraway voice
asked him.
“Yes.”
“Sixteen, eh? I was about sixteen when I first
come down here. That’d be about the first time I
seen them cockatoos. You don’t want to forget them
cockatoos, son. ’Mind you of girls, they do. And
young kids.” He was silent again, staring into the
fire. “Better make up the beds, son.”
Peter pulled the neatly-rolled bundles out of the
buggy. He undid the ropes and spread them out
where the river oaks would shelter them from the
dew.
“Better give me a hand with me boots.”
The old man’s shins were cold and spongy. Like
putty. The boy had the feel of them on his hands
long after he was lying between his blankets staring
at the cold glitter of the stars. He was listening to
the old man’s breathing. Wondering if it would stop.
He thought of the screeching of the cockatoos, trying
to get some of their noise into the soundless night.
“You awake, son?” It was as if the old man was
calling him from up on the road.
* “Yes.”
“There’s somethin’ I want to tell you so’s you
won’t get a scare afterwards. This old heart o’
mine” „
Peter sat up. “You’re not goin’ to peg out.
His voice seemed loud and shrill in the night,
“Keep lyin’ down, son. Sooner yer wasn’t lookin’
at me. Don’t want any fuss. Always felt a bit funny
about bein’ looked at.” For a while there was only
the tiny sound of hobble chains. ‘lt don t matter
about peggin’ out when you’re as old as I am. Long
as yer peg out in your own house. This is my house.
Always has been. Since I was sixteen, like you.
“You’re not going to peg out.” That was all he
could do. Lie on his back to please the old man
and keep telling him he wasn’t going to die to try to
make it sound true.
A whole family of possums scampered about in
the river oaks. A mopoke hooted in the distance.
He couldn’t hear if the old man was breathing. After
a long time the voice came to him again.
“Glad you didn’t stop that car, son. They might
have took me to hospital. That would have done me
in properly.” The old man’s voice seemed to be get-
ting more distant. “You’ll be able to carry on from
here. Tie the old mare to the back of the buggy.
The dogs’ll do the work. Did you hear them possums?
All me life I been listenin’ to possums of a night” . . .
It seemed a year that the boy lay on his back
listening to the old man talking, then waiting to hear
if he was breathing, hearing the hobble chains fade
and come back; hearing the possums scuttling in the
oaks, the rattle of sheep’s horns and their short, jerky
coughs, or the sound of the dogs’ chains if one of
them tried to leave the lane—a year of cold fear that
seemed to hold his head and back in a vice.
And then somehow he knew that the old man was
dead ; knew it even before he stood up and saw the
kindly eyes fixed interestedly on the tops of the oaks.
He wasn’t scared now. All his fear had gone
with the old man. There was only a dry, empty feel-
ing left. He put a few sticks on the fire and he
stood there warming himself till at last the low purr
of a car came from up round the bend. He walked
through the mob, past the howling dogs to the road.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
h
Seppelts
KITCHENER MEMORIAL CHAPEL
While the statue erected to Field-
Marshal Lord Kitchener on the
Parade Ground, “behind Whitehall,”
where the Trooping of the Colour
takes place in peace-time on the
Sovereign’s birthday, reminds all
and sundry of the work that great
soldier rendered to the Empire, in
whose service he made the supreme
sacrifice, by far the most impressive
outward and visible tribute to the
memory of the illustrious warrior-
statesman is the strikingly sombre,
yet beautiful memorial chapel under
the north-west tower of St. Paul’s
Cathedral, dedicated on December
10, 1925. The effigy of the Field-
Marshal and Secretary of State for
War is of white marble, and the
work of the eminent sculptor Reid
Dick, A.R.A. On the right of the
recumbent figure is a statue of the
patron saint of England, St. George,
and in a recess of one of the walls is
a roll on which are placed the names
of the officers and men of the Royal
Engineers, with which much of
Lord Kitchener’s military life was
so closely associated, who fell in the
Great War, 1914-18. Though his
body lies with H.M.S. “Hampshire”
on the ocean’s bed off the rugged
western coast of Scotland, his soul
goes “marching on” with the legions
of Empire in their greater battle for
freedom than that for which he
passed to “higher service.”


The Bulletin
Vol, 62.—N0. 3207.
Wednesday, July 30, 1941.
MYSTERY HIKE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 J.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
• Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp . G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.-
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months. £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad-
Hal] overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) ;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s -
3 months, I Is.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth. New Zealand, Papua. Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
ACTION AGAINST JAPAN.
French dominion in Indo-China dates from the
empire of Napoleon the Little, though he was an
exile before the conquest was completed. Now there
remain of it only the pale shadow of a Government
and a name. Its doom was pronounced when Vichy,
after signing and sealing concessions extorted by a’
show of force, agreed to the Japanese settling its
war” with Thailand on their own terms, chief of
which was the acceptance by both parties of “the New
Order in East Asia,” with Japanese overlordship.
“Once you start paying the Danegeld, you’ll never
get nd of the Dane.”
Last week Japan went through the motions of
asking Vichy’s consent to Japanese occupation of
naval and air bases in southern Indo-China. Consent
was announced in a statement in which the bitter pill
of humiliation was coated for the unhappy French
with humbug. “Japan,” it was alleged, “merely wants
to protect Indo-China,”
Chinese troop concentrations in Yunnan and con-
centrations of British troops and aircraft in Burma and
Malaya caused France and Japan to fear an attempt
to occupy Indo-China, and France is unable to defend
Indo-China alone.
The author of this detestable rubbish went on to
assert that Germany and Italy had had nothing to do
with the arrangement, and to plead that Japanese
occupation of the bases would not be permanent. He
was reminded that the surrender was in flat contra-
diction of Vichy’s repeated assurances that French
possessions would be defended against all-comers, and
all he could reply was that “events in Syria have
obliged us to make an exception.” Syria was not
even a French possession, yet it was defended at a
cost to the A.I.F. alone of nearly 1700 stout soldiers,
killed, wounded and missing. The contrast between
this resistance to an old ally and the abject surrender
to Japanese imperialism makes every Australian feel
bitter, and it is a memory that will endure.
Of itself, the Japanese move into Indo-China
was no great matter, militarily speaking. Camranh
Bay is a long way from Singapore and Manila, and
as a jumping-off place for a war which would bring
the Japanese into collision with five countries, three
of them Great Powers, and that without any possi-
bility of direct assistance from their Axis partners,
it would be a singularly bad choice. Probably Tokyo’s
immediate object was to “save face.” The extraordi-
nary predicament in which it found itself on June 22,
tied to one of the belligerents by an alliance and to
the other by a non-aggression pact, must have evoked
laughter all over Asia. This it was necessary to
silence, and Indo-China was the softest thing in sight.
All the same, it was impossible to regard the
occupation of the Indo-China bases as a mere face-
saving manoeuvre, fraught with no menace to the
democracies or to other warring countries in which
they are interested. To all English-speaking people it
suggested ugly possibilities, all of which had to be
taken into account. Before the bases had actually
changed hands, Washington denounced the whole
business and intimated not obscurely that words would
be followed by action. Mr. Sumner Welles saw in the
Japanese action “a preparation for further movements
of conquest in adjacent areas.” As it stood, it would
“endanger the peaceful use by peaceful nations of
the Pacific Ocean” and “jeopardise American sources
of vital defence materials, such as tin and rubber,”
besides endangering “other areas, including the
Philippines.” The Under-Secretary of State drily
recalled that the Japanese Government had itself
“expressed the wish that the war would not spread
to the Pacific, with special reference to the Nether-
lands East Indies and Indo-China.”
The President, for his part, made a remarkably
frank statement on his policy in the Pacific, mention-
ing in particular the considerations which prompted
the uninterrupted supply of United States petrol to
the Japanese and indicating how closely he has co-
operated with the Empire all along:
One of our efforts from the very beginning was to
prevent the spread of that world war in certain areas
where it had not started. We had to get a lot of things
rubber, tm and so on—from the Dutch East Indies,
the Straits Settlements and Indo-China; and we had to
help get the Australian surplus wheat, meat and corn to
England. We wanted to keep that line of supplies
from Australia and New Zealand going—all their troops
and all their supplies that they have maintained in
f rl ?>’ . 9 r *-" Africa and Palestine. So it was essential
:P r " nta,n we tr X to keep the peace down there in
the South Pacific.
And now here is a nation called Japan. Whether or
not they had at that time aggressive purposes to enlarge
their empire southward, they didn’t have oil of their
own up north. Now, if we had cut off the oil, they
would probably have gone down to the Dutch East
Indies last year and you would have had war. There-
for l here Was m . ethod in letting this oil go to Japan with
the hope—and it has worked for two years—of keeping
war out of the South Pacific for our own good, for
the defence of Britain and for the freedom of the seas.
Australians gratefully recognise the warm friend-
ship which inspired this policy. The horrid word
“appeasement” has been applied to it, but it was not
appeasement” of the Stalin kind, nor did the Presi-
dent surrender a particle of control. Americans noted
that he referred to it in the past tense. His speech
was immediately followed by the freezing of Japanese
assets by the U.S.A. and Empire countries acting in
concert.
Australians regret the necessity for this measure.
Their own relations with Japan have been good and
mutually profitable, and they have learned to respect
the character of their Japanese community, whose
long association with the Commonwealth has never
been disfigured by illicit immigration, dope rings,
opium dens or the pollution of Australian woman-
hood. Nor can they forget that Japanese warships
convoyed their soldier sons over perilous seas or that
in one of the great scenes of their history a Japanese
commander ran up the signal “I want to go and help
Sydney.” Left to themselves, Australians would prefer
not to be involved in Oriental power politics, much
less Oriental wars ; but the situation brought about
by Tokyo foreign policy—so different from that of
the wise men of the Meiji era —leaves them no alterna-
tive to the action their Government has taken. What-
ever may befall, they march with their kindred peoples
to a common destiny.
Are Reds to be Supreme?
Remarks attributed to Lincoln get a frequent airing at
Canberra when Parliament is sitting. Father Abraham
is extolled, not as the greatest of war Presidents, but
as a champion of “monetary reform” or “costless
credit,” or whatever new fancy name Labor Senators
and Ms.H.R. have found for their dangerous delusion.
“What sort of a mad system is this,” barked Senator
Darcey, an elderly gentleman from Tasmania, “under
which the Government goes on taxing the people
when it can get all the money it needs in the form of
credit from the Commonwealth Bank?” Then he
quoted Lincoln or said he did;
The Government should create, issue and circulate
all the currency and credit needed to satisfy the spend-
ing power of the Government and the buying power
of consumers.
The time and place of the alleged prescription are
never given, nor do the Darceys or the many cock-
sure cranks who repeat it in the papers ever
say that Lincoln tried to ram it down his nation’s
throat when he had the power. Under an Act of
Congress he did, “as a question of hard necessity,”
issue non-interest-bearing Treasury notes (“green-
backs”), which depreciated until they were worth “only
35 cents on the dollar,” but this issue, which was made
legal tender, amounted to merely $433,000,000,
whereas in four war years the national debt grew from
$90,867,800 to $2,423,437,000. Lincoln had far too
much sense to try to finance his war as the Darceys
and their tribe want to finance this war.
But those looking for Lincoln precedents can find
a good one for the action taken against the Com-
munists who have been hunger-striking. It won’t be
availed of by Labor Senators or Ms.H.R.; so, though
glanced at here before, it will bear repetition.
In 1862 one of Lincoln’s generals grabbed one
Vallandigham, an Ohio “peace” Democrat, on a
charge of having in a public speech “declared dis-
loyal sentiments and opinions with the object and pur-
pose of weakening the power of the Government in its
efforts to suppress an unlawful rebellion.” Vallandig-
ham was tried by court-martial and sentenced to
imprisonment in a Boston fort; but at Lincoln’s
instance he was passed into the enemy’s lines instead.
A writ of habeas corpus was applied for and refused.
Vallandigham’s friends started a great rumpus,
and Lincoln saw fit to reply to hostile resolutions car-
ried at a meeting of New York Democrats. This he
did in an address which has become a classic. He
pointed out that “suspension of habeas corpus”
was “allowed by the Constitution on purpose that
men may be arrested and held who cannot be proved
to be guilty of defined crime ‘when, in cases of rebel-
lion or invasion, the public safety may require it.’ ”
Mr. Vallandigham avows his hostility to the war,
and his arrest was made because he was laboring, with
some effect, to prevent the raising of troops... .because
he was damaging the army, upon the existence and
vigor of which the life of the nation depends.
I concede that the class of arrests complained of can
be constitutional only when, in cases of rebellion or
invasion, the public safety may require them, and I
insist that in such cases they are constitutional wherever
the public safety does require them.
I can no more be persuaded that the Government
can constitutionally take no strong measures in time of
rebellion because it can be shown that the same could
not be lawfully taken in time of peace than I can be
persuaded that a particular drug is not good medicine
for a sick man because it can be shown not to be good
food for a well man. I am specifically called on to
discharge Mr. Vallandigham. It will afford me great
pleasure to discharge him so soon as I can, by any
means, believe the public safety will not suffer by it.
Claiming that Vallandigham, though against the
war, was “devotedly attached to the Union,” and that
his banishment was “a palpable violation of four
specified provisions of the Constitution,” the Ohio
Democratic Convention nominated him for Governor
and demanded a revocation of the order of banish-
ment. To a committee which presented this demand
and challenged Lincoln’s interpretation of the Con-
stitution as it related to the acts of citizens in time
of war, the President replied with some more crushing
logic:
You claim that men may, if they choose, embarrass
those whose duty it is to combat a giant rebellion,
and then be dealt with only in turn as if there were
no rebellion. The Constitution itself rejects this view.
The military arrests and detentions which have been
made, including those of Mr. Vallandigham, have been
for prevention and not for punishment —as injunctions
to stay injury, as proceedings to keep the peace—and
hence, like proceedings in such cases and for like
reasons, they have not been accompanied with indict-
ments, or trials by juries, nor, in a single case, by any
punishment whatever, beyond what is purely incidental
to prevention. The original sentence of imprisonment in
Mr. Vallandigham's case was to prevent injury to the
military service only; and the modification of it was
made as a less disagreeable mode to him of securing
the same prevention.
Your nominee for Governor is known to you and to
the world to declare against the use of an army to
suppress the rebellion. Your own attitude, therefore,
encourages desertion, resistance to the draft and the like;
because it teaches those who incline to desert and to
escape the draft to believe that it is your purpose to
protect them, and .to hope that you will become strong
enough to do so.
The committee retorted that it had “asked for the
revocation of the order of banishment, not as a favor
but as a right due to the people of Ohio, and with a
view to avoid the possibility of conflict or disturbance
of the public tranquillity.” The people of Ohio showed
what they thought of the “right” by rejecting Vallan-
digham by an enormous majority, the voting being
288,661 for the candidate supporting Lincoln and
187,562 for Vallandigham.
Under the Commonwealth Constitution, as inter-
preted by the High Court, and under the National
Security Act, the constitutionality of which has not
been challenged, the Australian Government is clothed
with powers corresponding to those exercised by
Lincoln. It is its right and its duty to guard the public
safety alike by stamping out organised opposition to
the Commonwealth’s struggle for existence and by
thwarting Communist efforts by word or deed “to turn
the imperialist war into a civil war.” Very tardily it
struck at Communists who were campaigning against
“the imperialist war” in a variety of ways—among
others, by urging men not to fight in “the imperialist
war,” and by stirring up stoppages and strikes on the
waterfront and in defence industries —by banning their
organisations and publications, and it caused the Com-
munists Ratliff and Thomas to be prosecuted. At the
trial it was proved that the accused had converted a
house at Como (N.S.W.), “rented under an assumed
name,” into a distributing centre for poisonous propa-
ganda. Among the many documents seized was one
in which it was alleged that the promises of Labor
leaders had “led the people into the bloody mire of
war and Fascism,” and in which Australians were
urged to “have done with false leaders and lying
promises” and “take the path of the Russian workers
in 1917”—that is, the path of revolution.
The men were convicted and sentenced to a very
light term of imprisonment. They came out of gaol
unreformed, impenitent and capable of further mis-
chief, and that at a time when the war had entered
upon a stage far more perilous to Australia than when
their imprisonment began ; so they were very properly
interned. It is true that after Russia was attacked—
the Russia that seems to command all their devotion
—they promised that they would “not do anything to
prejudice or hinder the successful conclusion of the
present war,” but “in view of” their “previous activi-
ties,” and of their hunger strike, “begun, with the
obvious intention of expanding the unrest already
created,” on the eleventh day of the Russo-German
war, the tribunal that heard their appeal found itself
“in considerable doubt whether the undertaking will be
faithfully carried out.”
It is possible that so long as Russia remains an
active ally of the British Empire, the objectors will
refrain from further subversive activities, but the onus is
on them.
Which leaves it to be inferred that, in the tribunal’s
opinion, “the onus” will not trouble them should the
Moscow Government be beaten into a reversion to
the attitude it chose to adopt from September 1, 1939,
to June 21, 1941.
The chairman of.the tribunal was Justice Pike,
who is universally regarded in N, S. Wales as a fair-
minded man. It reported that both men were proved
to have been “actively engaged, not only in spreading
Communist propaganda, but in deliberately hindering
the war effort by every means in their power.” Dis-
missing the contention that they are being punished
twice for the same offence it refused to recommend
their release, and the Prime Minister has refused to
order it. Mr. Menzies justifies the holding of the men
in custody without another public trial by much the
same arguments as were employed by Lincoln in the
Vallandigham case. He has added a few remarks of
his own for good measure:
Deliberately to hinder the war effort is to be guilty of
something singularly like treason. It might very well
cause unnecessary death in battle through an interruption
of the supply of munitions and equipment. But it is
said that these men have now decided to alter their
way of life. The Government cannot risk the war
activities of this country by accepting the assurances of
citizens who can profess to change their minds with such
facility, and who even now, apparently, feel no sense
of duty toward their own country as such, or toward
the cause for which this country has been fighting, and
for which the sons of this country have been dying.
There followed familiar performances in the world
in which union bosses move. One-day strikes were
ordered by the same old parcel of union bosses with-
out reference to the sentiments of the men who were
to do the striking and suffer the loss of wages, and
without regard for the necessities of the nation
and those of the Australians who are doing the fight-
ing while union bosses have a glorious time in Aus-
tralia. It is to be hoped that the Government will be
equal to the task imposed on it by this renewed chal-
lenge of an arrogant section to the nation when it is
fighting for its life, this repeated claim of a Red and


Pink union hierarchy that it constitutes a State within
a State, an imperium in imperio in which union
executives’ ukases are the supreme law.
It is unfortunate that Dr. Evatt, M.H.R., should
have seen fit to intervene with an attack on the Gov-
ernment. The member for Barton pronounces it
“unwise and provocative to exercise the arbitrary
power of military detention.” As a constitutional
authority and a student of American history he ought
to know what Lincoln did to Vallandigham. He ought
to know also that the British Government has for
many months held Admiral Domvile and Captain
Ramsay, M.P., without a trial, and without any notice-
able protest from any quarter —certainly not from
British Labor or British Communism. And he knows
now what Mr. Herbert Morrison, the Labor Minister
for Home Security, said in reply to a demand for the
lifting of the ban on the Communist “Daily Worker”:
At this critical period of the war the Government
feels that it would not be justified in relaxing a safeguard
against a newspaper which systematically fomented
opposition to the war effort.
I came to the conclusion that the Communist party
and the newspaper had no fundamental loyalty to the
British war effort. I am not satisfied yet that they have
such loyalty, and until I am satisfied I do not propose
to alter the decision.
No British union boss threatened a one-day strike.
British unionists are too close to grim realities to
have any patience with Red work-stoppers.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Consultant and Co-ordinator.
If there were need of any more evidence that, in the
attitude of the British Government to these Dominions,
Dominion status is only a name signifying nothing, it
would be found in the roving commission issued to
Mr. Duff Cooper. That gentleman, though he has
ceased to be Minister of Information —a post wanted
for Mr. Churchill’s Parliamentary' secretary—has been
named Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, and
is not to be relegated to insignificance, as Mr. Churchill
was when he was appointed Chancellor of the Duchy
after Gallipoli. On the contrary, Mr. Duff Cooper is
to go to the Far East “to examine arrangements for
consultation and co-ordination between military,
administrative and political authorities” in that region.
In other words, he is to be in the Far East what Mr.
Lyttleton is in the Middle East, and presumably he
will report to Mr. Churchill, who, as usual, will decide
everything.
No more unfortunate appointment could be
imagined. Mr. Duff Cooper has had several portfolios
and has not lasted long in any. What he knows of the
Far East could be written on a gooseberry leaf and
covered with a wineglass. He is a proud, explosive,
provocative English aristocrat —the very type of poli-
tician that should be kept well away from a part of
the world which is loaded with dynamite.
If it were necessary to send a consultant and
co-ordinator to the Far East —which is Canada’s Far
West and our Far North—the Governments of the
three Pacific Dominions, in which there are nearly
20,000,000 of his Majesty’s subjects, should have been
asked to nominate a man. They have vital and per-
manent interests in the Pacific, and what is happening
there is of greater immediate concern to them than
it can possibly be to the Churchill Government. Had
their advice and participation been solicited Mr, Duff
Cooper would have been the last man they would
have thought of. They would have remembered,
though the Churchill Government has evidently for-
gotten, the unfortunate results that flowed from the
roving commission issued to another British aristocrat,
Lord Lytton.
The Australian Government, for its part, might
have reported —and the Governments of Maonland
and Canada might have agreed that John Greig
Latham would fill the bill admirably. It would no
doubt be a dreadful shock to Whitehall to add to the
British Cabinet an Australian who was a Cabinet
Minister and party leader before he was named Chief
Justice of the High Court, but these are times when
Whitehall-shocking precedents should be established.
In 1916, when half the world was fighting for
Britain, Mr. Lloyd George set up an Imperial War
Cabinet. He has set it on record that it was “the most
remarkable Council of War on the whole vast battle-
field,” and that it “played a very considerable part
not only in “the direction of the war,” but m the
shaping of the terms of peace.” Mr. Churchill has
other ideas. Though he professes to regard the
Dominions as “independent nations” (he has used the
term several times) he treats them as colonies.
Generous with compliments, but self-sufficient in the
Chatham and Marlborough style, he refuses to trust
them with responsibility. The Governments of
Canada and South Africa have specified the terms
on which their land forces may be employed, but to
the Governments of our Dominions the will of Mr.
Churchill is law. Everything he does they meekly
accept, even when their soldiers are wasted m
Churchillian campaigns that were lost before they
were launched.
The "V" Diversion.
To the extent that the “V for Victory” stunt is a “lark”
it appeals to boys and girls of mature years who have
never grown up. That the symbol is being chalked
on walls and streets in occupied cities and towns may
be true —given a dark street, some chalk and no enemy
in sight the impulse to scrawl something is irresist-
ible. But revolt, in the face of a ruthless authority
armed with and willing to use machine-guns and
explosive bombs, is almost an impossibility, and the
jvord “revolution” is charged with fear for millions of
steadyeoing people in occupied countries. Who would
take charge of the “revolution”? Most probably
Communists.
Still “V for Victory” has given the anti-German
world a ’fillip. It is claimed that it inspires the con-
quered with a new hope. It has certainly inspired the
Mayor of Australia’s biggest city to make some re-
markable suggestions, and it will mean a good thing
for makers of badges and rubber stamps.
But to assume, as some appear to assume, that
it can win the war is not only absurd but dangerous.
Absurd because popular crazes seldom last any length
of time, and dangerous because it is apt to divorce
the mass mind from the grim business on hand. How
ready that mind is to be diverted is evidenced in the
way the thing has caught on ; to judge by what has
been said people could be excused for believing that
the “V” sign has the German leaders m a cold sweat
of fear.
This readiness to believe in any diversion, relevant
or otherwise, is a constant weakness of our side—or
that portion of it far removed from the bombings,
sinkings and rationings of essential commodities. In
a small way there was the tremendous interest taken
in Sydney in the prognostications of a clergyman
based on the angle of the Pyramids or something In
a large way there is the far-too-common belief that
Stalin’s Red Army is going to win the war for us.
“Y f o r Victory” is no substitute for an all-in war
effort. Yet people who have no use for an all-in war
effort may accept it as a substitute.
Despite the Russo-German clash, despite the
prophets of the Pyramids and the astrological columns,
and despite the vogue of “V for Victory, hopes of
victory for us depend in the main on the outcome of
the Battle of the Atlantic. The men who are fighting
that battle with unsurpassed courage and endurance
would give all the symbols in the world for more ships
and ’planes.
Settlement in the Saltbush.
City chaps, who generally make up a Labor Govern-
ment in this country, still cling to their ancient delu-
sion that the man who owns or leases large lumps of
the saltbush country is wallowing in wealth. Hence
the McKells, of Sydney, are casting eyes on their
State’s Western Division, announcing that they intend
to take 5,000,000 acres from leaseholders out there
and cut it up among “small holders.”
Total area of the Western Division is 80,318,708
acres of freehold, leasehold and Crown lands. At
31/12/’39 it was carrying 6,976,947 sheep, an average
of a sheep to Hi acres. Not a reliable average this,
since some of the country is capable of a sheep to
three acres, and some of it won’t carry one to 50
acres. All of it is in the under-lOin.-ramf all belt
Some of the leases are due to expire between 1943
and 1948, and it is from these the McKells propose
to withdraw the 5,000,000 acres, in addition to resum-
ing “some large estates.”
Sheep-raising in the saltbush isn’t the simple busi-
ness it is in more favored areas. Feed is scattered
and sparse, and so is water: young humans frequently
reach the prattling-age before enjoying the weird
experience of getting wet in the ram. Finding a town
within 50 miles of a railway is an achievement, and
the gregarious instinct of the human finds few outlets.
The saltbush is inhabited by a type of Australian not
found in crowded Labor electorates a sunburned,
thoughtful, sardonic fellow with an absurd idea of
self-reliance who maddeningly persists in inhabiting
lonely places. , ,
What a “small holder” will do on that sort of
country is a mystery which the McKells will, perhaps,
solve. All the same, since a number of small holders
on the margin of the area, who have been trying in
vain to make a do of wheat and sheep for years, have
become a permanent headache for Sydney Govern-
ments the McKells should tread wanly. The saltbush
is not kind to Labor idealists, nor to the subjects of
their idealistic experiments.
Strange Case of a "Conchy."
Called up for military training, a 23-year-old clerk in
the N.S.W. Department of Justice applied for exemp-
tion as a conscientious objector. Under the Defence
Act he could obtain exemption from combatant ser-
vice but not from non-combative service. He refused
to take the oath for either on the ground that he was
a member of a church which upheld the right of every
person to follow his own conscience.
The objector was informed by the area officer
concerned that his application for total exemption
could not be granted. Again he refused to take the
oath of enlistment, and a charge was laid against him.
The case was adjourned.
When it was resumed at Paddington Police Court,
Mr. Armstrong, for the Commonwealth Crown
Solicitor, announced that “defendant’s position had
been considered by Army Headquarters and he ha
been instructed to withdraw the proceedings, adding
that he did not know whether or not the defendant
had been granted permanent exemption. Meantime,
the chairman of the Congregational Union stated that
the young man had no right to speak for that denomi-
nation as a whole. Next day the objector resigned
from his position.
The public was told a couple of days later that
the War Council had decided not to prosecute any
more “conchies,” that the Army Command had been
instructed to that effect and that objectors would, in
future, be enrolled for “non-military service, pre-
sumably in labor battalions, the reason being that the
legislation was difficult to administer.
Compulsory military training for home defence
in Australia can mean only one thing. It is difficult
to see how anybody can be permitted to escape it on
“religious, ethical or moral grounds.’ If a labor
battalion of “conchies” suddenly found enemy para-
troops dropping among them are they to let the enemy
run loose on religious, ethical or moral grounds?
In September, 1939, the commonsense of Mr.
Cameron realised the fatuity of the whole business.
Mr. Ward had said that the Opposition considered
exemption didn’t go far enough: “We are of the
opinion that conscientious objectors should also be
exempt from non-combatant service, even * n . ,^ e
event of invasion. He also sought a wider definition
of the grounds of objection and right of appeal to the
High Court or Supreme Court.
Mr, Cameron characterised the Opposition’s idea
as a “completely novel interpretation of what consti-
tutes a conscientious objector.”
Surely the clause was drafted by the Communist
party and given to the member for East Sydney. It
it be given effect, a conscientious objector will no longer
be a man having any particular religious objections....
he will be one who objects on political grounds.
The statement that “conchies” will be enrolled in
labor battalions won’t satisfy the public nor the militia,
for it is obviously a sidestep. It suggests that the
Menzies Government has once more intercepted a dis-
approving look from the firm of Curtin, Evatt,
Beasley and co.
The Volunteer Teacher.
There has been a lot of talk lately about education,
ranging from abolition of corporal punishment to
reform of the examination system. None of the
controversialists seems to be worrying over the enlist-
ment of teachers in the fighting services. Yet in N. S.
Wales about 500 of the 5000 male teachers have en-
listed ; in Tasmania enlistments are so high that it
may be found necessary to close some high schools ;
in other States difficulty is being experienced in find-
ing enough teachers to go round.
Teachers are not included in the absurdly long
lists of reserved occupations, though policemen are.
Any strong young man can be turned into a police-
man in six months; it takes five years to mould a
teacher, and teachers need to have a flair both
for educating and the more difficult job of controlling
the young. It is doubtful whether the country can
afford to lose their teaching ability at a time when
education assumes an added importance.
The effect on the remaining teachers, struggling
with increased classes, and on schools, lacking effi-
cient teaching numbers, is bad. Though there are a
great many ex-teachers—married women and retired
men—no attempt has yet been made to recall some
of them to, fill the gaps, largely because education
departments are starved financially by State Govern-
ments, which never seem short of millions for more
spectacular “services” likely to dazzle the voter.
The sooner the education of the Australian child
and the training and employment of the Australian
teacher become Commonwealth functions the better.
Meantime, educationists and parents should be ask-
ing themselves whether trained teachers are of more
value to the nation as such than as volunteer soldiers.
Just a Big, Happy Family?
“Tovarish” is not enthusiastic:
The most abject spectacle I have seen for a long time
is that of newspapermen, clergymen and aldermen cuddling
up to the Reds and trying to join them in a happy family
union because Stalin has been double-crossed and attacked
by his partner in the invasion of Poland that started two
terrible years ago.
The “Australian” Communist Constitution was born in
1930. The document in which it is embodied is called
“Australia’s Part in the World Revolution—Theses of the
Central Committee of the Communist Party of Australia.
It was carried to Moscow —as the document itselt states
for approval by a Mr. Lawrence Sharkey. The theses which
Mr. Sharkey took “home” declared that “respect for trade-
union rules and decisions must be shattered by the Communist
party by waging a determined against social fascist
bureaucracy and all forms of trade-union legalism. On the
outbreak of partial strikes.... the Communists must carefully
study and utilise every possibility of intensifying the struggles
and develop them into political mass struggles.
Yet when the same Mr. Sharkey, who, according to his
own account, has been in “smoke,” communicated with the
Sydney press, as one power to another, reporters sought him
out in his alleged hiding-place to hang on his words and
reproduce his mealy-mouthed dictum that our policy is to
support everything for victory over Hitler Germany.
And up popped the Friends of the Soviet. The Friends
are holding meetings—“enthusiastic” ones—in every Sydney
suburb. And one of their supporters is a bishop, who has
evidently become imbued with a forgiving spirit of mateship.
List to the “Theses of the Australian Communist party dis-
cussing bishops: “The most notable feature of this new
campaign is the mobilisation in the service of imperialism
of the very scum of the earth, the filthy crew of religionists
under the leadership of the Pope of Rome, the British
archbishops, the Protestant hell-peddlers, the Jewish rabbis,
the Salvation Army, the holy rollers, jumpers and crawlers in
a campaign on behalf of the kulaks inside the Soviet Union,
the kulaks (/.<?., Russia’s best and thriftiest farmers) having
been subjected to “stern revolutionary liquidation as fi class.
Leaders of the Northern (N.S.W.) coalminers have
demanded the legalisation of the Communist party, so that
the full resources of all political parties rnay' be united behind
the war effort to destroy Hitler and Fascism. Sydney Premier
McKell has warned promoters of war strikes and their dupes
that “we must face the possibility of having to fight tor the
White Australia policy in the near future —not with words
or gestures but with guns.” The dupes are commended to the
C P.’s official views expressed in its thesis ( No. 40—Smash
White Australia Policy”):
We must emphatically declare before the whole work-
ing class and in defiance of the charlatans of the social
fascist Labor party and its bureaucratic trade-union hench-
men that we will fight this policy and demand that any
worker, regardless of color or nationality, that desires to
enter Australia should be permitted to do 50....1n such
places as Darwin, where there are masses of colored
workers, our party must become the leader of these masses
and bring them into the political struggle against their
capitalist exploiters The majority of our party members
in such districts should be colored. Let the contemptible
scoundrels of social fascism scornfully sneer at us as a
“colored party” in such districts. We will accept it as a
tribute to our revolutionary determination
It was added that, “just as the capitalists exploit us regard-
less of color or nationality, so we mobilise these exploited
masses to crush our common enemy.’


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Craiser”: The spinster who occupied
a flat at the top of a gloorhy business
building in the city returned home on a
Sunday evening after spending a month’s
holiday in the country. As she got out
her latchkey she idly noticed a large
“V” chalked on the front door. When
she switched the light on inside two more
“V’s” flashed out at her from the dark-
ness. She had never noticed before how
silent and deserted the building seemed
on a Sunday with the tenants absent and
the caretaker having his usual evening
off. As she toiled up the dismal stair-
way she saw fresh “V’s” on every land-
ing, on the walls and on the locked doors
along the darkened passages. Approach-
ing her own apartments with growing
apprehension, she switched the light on
and instantly a “V,” larger than all the
others and colored blood-red, leapt at
her from her own door. Without paus-
ing to look under the bed, she fled, called
a taxi and sped to the home of a mar-
ried sister. “You look as if you had
seen a ghost, dear,” said her astonished
connection. “What in the name of good-
ness has happened?” “Somebody has
been chalking my initial all over my
place,” she stammered. “Oh,” said the
other tumbling to the situation, “that’s
not V for Vera but V for Victory, Vera!”
. “Lid”: The Order of the Worn-out
Valve to a burbler I heard the other night
trying to get his tongue around this “V
for Victory” business. The first few times
he stuttered badly over the d’ d’ d’ dah,
then he changed it to dah d’ d’ dah, and
managed to keep it at that all night. I
don’t know whether he was merely swept
away by his enthusiasm or (since his
signal represented XXX) doing a bit of
surreptitious propaganda in favor of
strong beer,
* * * *
“Bonder”: Sir Evelyn Wrench, of
Overseas League fame, had some spots of
bother in Sydney last week. Genesis of his
troubles was a visit to the Uni. to address
a lunch-hour meeting of students. At
lunchtime only about 20 prospective
hearers were in sight, and Sir Evelyn,
not understanding that nobody is ever
on time for anything in Sydney, took
umbrage and went back to town. Next
evening he was billed to make an A.B.C.
broadcast. He had had his speech re-
corded and was under no necessity to
visit the studio again, but he fell for a
bogus message “from A.8.C.” that took
him away from the Australia in a rickety
motor-car and left him stranded at the
Botany crematorium. The visitor was
naturally irate, and informed the police
as soon as he got back to town, asking
them to get on the track of “a rather
tall, dark fellow, a gangster type, with
big black circles under his eyes.” He
was probably angrier still when he found
the city’s newspapers had given a lot of
headlines and space to the story of the
cruelly clever hoax. He would have
done better to laugh it off.
>5 * * *
“S.T.S.”; The Wild West influence has
struck Adelaide in a novel form. At a
public ballroom, a man in the balcony
caused a sensation by firing three
revolver-shots and breaking an electric
globe. In “true” cowboy fashion, he told
the police “The party was dead, and I
wanted to liven it up.” Fifteen pounds
and costs.
* * * «
Visitor”: One of Adelaide’s best sites
is in the market. It is just on the left
in King William-street approaching from
the railway station and Parliament House.
The Savings Bank of S.A. had it until
building more spaciously, nearly 40 years
a B°- Then it was Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis, until that firm became a branch
of the Goldsbrough, Mort Co., which has
recently moved to the big new Shell
Building round the corner on North-ter-
race. This was just in time for the Bank
of N.S.W. close by to move in, for tem-
porary quarters, while it, too, built hugely.
This now being finished, the site is on
offer, with its two-storey building which
Adelaide considered palatial in the
eighteen-seventies.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; It is time Prof. Heinze told
the A.B.C. to drop the word “celebrity”
attached to the concerts he conducts so
ably. Its use arose when A.B.C. im-
presarios wanted to impress people who
love reputations—they think they love
music—with the eminence of the foreign
virtuosos that were being imported. The
term was overdone and reached its nadir
when a brass band, assisted by singers,
played to the elephants in the Melbourne
Zoo one Sunday and the affair was billed
as a “celebrity” concert. In the first
“celebrity” concert of the current season
“Is it true, Aud, that you've bin awarded the M.C. posthumously?"
in Melbourne the principal performer
was a grey-haired woman who was quite
unknown to nine-tenths of the people
present —unknown because she’s an Aus-
tralian who had been out of the public
eye for many years. Una Bourne was
known well enough in the days when
Melba claimed her to be “the perfect
accompanist.”
* ♦ ♦ »
“General Prac.”: An impressive fitting
in the modern shop is the shoe depart-
ment’s X-ray machine. You buy a new
pair of shoes, the salesman switches on
the X-ray screen and you decide (though
it’s a matter for an expert) whether your
feet are unduly compressed. But a Mac-
quarie-street specialist has uttered a warn-
ing. He recently saw a woman customer
expose her small son’s feet eight times,
enough to produce an erythema (burn)
within a few days, and later bad results
on skin and nails which might not be-
come apparent for years. Overdoses of
the rays have baneful effects on young,
growing cells, and since children need
three or four pairs of shoes during the
year the potential damage which may be
inflicted by scientifically-minded mothers
and shop assistants may be imagined.
« * * *
“Pitt-street”; Whatever other criticism
Sydney may be open to, it feeds its citi-
zens well. There are eating-houses every-
where, and still more are springing into
being. Every big store has a restaurant
(some more than one), most of the pubs
supply lunches and afternoon-teas, chain
eateries are thicker than leaves in Vallom-
brosa, the hamburger joint flourishes
everywhere, every side street, lane, base-
ment and rooftop has its tea- or coffee-
houses, and there are huge refresh-
ment rooms at Wynyard and Central.
It is unnecessary to move more
than 100 yards in any direction from
any spot in the city for a meal. No
sooner is a shop vacant than some-
body shoves in tables, a tea-urn and a
pie-heater. Yet still in the lunch hour
there are queues waiting for seats, and
crowds battle at shop counters for sand-
wiches and buns.
* * * *
The editor of this page sends an SOS
to “Mac Hoots” (B. 16/7/’4l), “Ex-Vic.”
and “Oliver Filter” (B. 23/7/’4l): —
These contributors are invited to call and
remove the man with a sore hand who has
been practising his arts in this office since their
treatises on mendicant methods appeared. One
member of the staff coughed up the price of a
drink when told about the hand and how some
doctor had refused to treat it, though whether
this was because he disliked the hand or liked
its owner isn’t clear. A few hours later an-
other staff man was bailed up. Wise in buck-
passing, he shunted the visitor on to a col-
league. It cost the colleague 2d.—“me tram
fare home” —and the experience of hearing
verse recited sotto voce, this to prove the re-
citer was a “freelawnce.” At time of writing
the place seems fairly safe, but there is a
noticeable swift closing of doors and ducking
for secret exits every time anybody with a
doubtful hand appears.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Bo”: Touching on Diggers’ peculiar
surnames (B. 23/7/’4l), the ominous
moniker of Death didn’t stop one bloke
from joining up last time. Moreover, he
looked his name. With a nutcrackin’
jaw—he must have had a set of crockery
to get in the army, but he never wore
’em—and parchment-like skin taut over
the prominent bones of an incredibly
hollow-cheeked face, he immediately was
dubbed “Skeleton” when he joined the
rejnstoushments of our unit. His cobber
swore that if he’d been allowed to go
over the bags with a scythe he’d have
had a more demoralising effect on the
Squareheads than several batteries of
trench mortars. But his whiskered name-
sake sought him over there in vain. The
last time I saw him, some years ago, he
was driving a Sydney taxi.
* * $
“Snarker”; If phonetic spelling is ever
introduced to Australia words like “no-
thing, anything, something” will have to
end with a k. Almost everybody in Syd-
ney says “nothink” or “anythink,” even
radio announcers. Listen carefully to
public speaker, blonde in frock shop or
butcher boy. It’s most illuminatink.
* * * *
“Oxmead”; There were worse writers
than Bedford (B. 16/9/’4l) in the
days when I handled yards—or, rather,
rods, poles and perches—of Bul-
letin contributions. Randolph’s copy
always began legibly enough ; it wasn’t
till you got to the fourth or fifth
sheet of a short story or article that it
began to puzzle and perplex the reader,
and by that time he was in a position to
interpret it. Absolutely the vilest hand-
writing I have ever encountered in close
on half a century of journalism was that of
J. F. Hogan, a sometime M.P., who wrote
about political and theatrical happenings
in London. Typewriting girls used to
try to translate the stuff before it went
“higher up,” but so little of it ever got to
print that it was scarcely worth decipher-
ing. The very best copy that ever came my
way was Mervyn Skipper’s—a free, flow-
ing hand o’ write which, he told me once,
came from having been in the cable
service. But the most distinctive, indi-
vidualistic caligraphy was that of Johns,
the Adelaide editor of “Notable Aus-
tralians.” So tiny, and so clear, it was
that I would cheerfully have backed
Johns to write the Lord’s Prayer legibly
on a threepennybit.
-,,*0 * * ... *
C ?' b , u " : n The fa ™°|| s B<:dford r ° a . r
B - 16 k /7 i 4 ’, ) " ould have ~r f ?u " d ed
through the land could Randolph have
, .•* .. .• • .tT uxr «
rea d his own obituary notice in the N.Q.
Register.” Amongst his literary achieve-
ments it credited him with a travel book
Exploitations inVicilisatlon.
.. . c
Craiser : The attempt on the part of
the Commonwealth to make inroads on
S(ate r i ghts by establishing a Federal
, „ . • ®„ j u lira „„
fingerprint and criminal recoid bureau
m Sydney is strongly resented in the
underworld of Melbourne. Russell-street
has a co i| ect ion of 50,000 prints of the
.... « ~ , , ! v ... .
hght fingers that have been found within
Victoria’s borders, whereas the Sydney
bureau aims at 500,000 prints covering
the whole continent and buttressed by a
vast library of criminal biographies and
portraits. Quite unnecessary, say those
Victorians most concerned. The State
system has hitherto worked with satisfac-
tion to both parties. Crooks have a
sporting chance as well as policemen,
and if a burglar breaks into a house and
gets away with the swag there is just
enough possibility of his escaping cap-
ture to make the game exciting for
criminal and copper. It is true that if the
game gets too hot he can escape over the
border into another State and return
after a reasonable period and start from
scratch again in some suitable locality,
but this keeps the police from sinking
into inertia
*
“P o lonius”- As a subscriber from date
* Polomus * . a subscriber from date
fi rs l publication, I venture to ask why
name °f Shakspeare ’ as you stead-
fastly and correctly print it goes unchal-
longed as Shakespeare,” _ especially in
such a reputably cultured journal as the
1 Sydney Morning Herald.” Has the
adulteration or deterioration been caused
because to some it sounds more
euphonious or is it blind following of
American misspelling? I remember the
drop scene of the old Victoria Theatre
(demolished) in Pitt-street (later the site
of Her Majesty’s, now a store) having
for its central elaboration a large portrait
of the Bard enclosed by an embroidered
border on purple velvet ground and in-
&cribed « S h a kspeare.” I could multiply
examples of the public exhibition of the
correct spelling.
A URIEL'S AMONG YOU.
“Professor Bland, of Sydney University, giving
evidence before a Federal Parliamentary committee,
said that Australians were ‘a most self-confident and
complacent people, more ignorant of what is going
on outside their doors than any other people I have
ever read about.’ ”
It’s a bit of a change from the butter
And honey to which we are used,
The sentiments candidates utter
Their stocks with electors to boost.
The torrents of blarney and blather
That eminent visitors hand
To our papers. There’s nothing, you’ll gather,
Like that about Bland.
Let others beguile us and flatter,
He’s out on the opposite tack;
He’s wise to the merits that matter,
He’s down on the virtues we lack.
Should alien critics disclose so
Our failings, ’tis like we should scoff,
But he knows us—at least I suppose so—
He knows us, the Prof.
Is it then, with our prowess at cricket
And tennis, he reckons is blent
Complacent assurance’s ticket,
The label of smirking content?
Care we not for the world that’s beyond us
No more than such primitive chaps
As the Senegalese and the Pondos,
The Djinns and the Lapps?
Who knows? Well, it may be professors,
Recipients of learned degrees,
Bestowers as well, are possessors
Of answers to queries like these.
Though hard to encounter and meet are
The blows from our foes that descend,
We’ve warrant (from Scripture) how sweet are
The wounds of a friend.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


*
“Zake”: I have followed with absorb-
ing interest the fictional careers of many
criminal “master-minds”-—impressive fel-
lows, swift yet sure in every move, icy
cold, flashing of eye, dressed immacu-
lately and unknown to underlings except
as a cipher, such as “No. 1” or simply
“The Chief.” Invariably they chewed
double Coronas and disappeared into the
secret passage behind the Gainsborough
on the wall. It was therefore with eager
anticipation that I attended Sydney s
Quarter Sessions, my flapper paper hav-
ing informed me that one whom the
police consider the master-mind behind
the recent series of robberies” was to be
tried. My hero shuffled into the dock.
He was ginger, freckled, wore a sky-blue
shirt with an old green and red football
guernsey beneath a bottle-green sports
coat and a hangdog look throughout the
proceedings. When he was handed a five-
year stretch and a woman waved fran-
tically to him from the back of the court
the “master-mind” drew a frowsy sleeve
across his eye ere he disappeared below.
Now another “master-mind” has cropped
up in Melbourne. I don’t propose going
to see the genius.
#*♦ ■ *
“Mideast”: As the R.A.F. expands so
does its vocabulary. If you are crossed
in love or officially reprimanded, you
have been “shot down in flames. If you
have inside information you call it “Real
Gen” ; if the news is still more exclusive
it is “Pukka Gen.” The origin of the
word “Gen” is unknown. Anyone who
obstructs you is called “a bind.” There
are three degrees of dejection: “browned
off,” “brassed off” and “completely
cheesed.” Australians are credited with
the coining of “acker” for piastre.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: I read with' much
concern that Noel Coward was having
difficulty in maintaining his artistic in-
spiration, having been asked to bend his
talents to the purposes of a “Victory V ’
song based on the motif of dot-dot-dot-
dash. Coward reports that so far he has
racked his brains in vain; ideas simply
won’t come, although he is usually a rapid
worker. He has a dreary suspicion that
he will be unsuccessful, especially as he
has so many other things to do. Beet-
hoven managed to work up a whole
symphony from the kick-off of the same
rhythmic motif, although he had plenty
of troubles, including indigestion, arrears
in his room rent, a disease of the ear
and a nephew who was always driving
him to distraction by getting into the
police courts. So there is no call yet
for a display of despair on the part of
England’s playboy.
* * * *
“Susah Hati”: I see the A.B.C. is in
a spot of trouble over the broadcasting
of the Russian “national anthem.” 1 re-
member when a representative of the
King got into a similar predicament in
relation to another British ally. It was
the jubilee of the late King George, and
the British Resident of the small Bornean
island on which I was stationed had
invited the Sultan of Brunei to cele-
brate with him. The Sultan, an opium-
drugged youth of 19, arrived in a barge
towed by a steam launch, followed by
several other barges containing 440 of his
entourage. The Resident had staged a
curry tiffin in Government House for 20.
It took some time for the situation to be
explained, but eventually his Highness,
a score or so of his dukes, earls and
viscounts, and a select number of the
white residents, male and female, sat
down to the repast. There was a moment
of tension. The usual utensils had been
provided, but the Sultan and his Court
were obviously quite unacquainted with
their purpose. A true-blue English gentle-
“Are you the boss of this ’ere tub ?”
man, the Resident rose to the occasion.
Remarking that fingers were made before
forks, he dipped his digits into the bowl
of curry and started conveying the steam-
ing mixture to his mouth, along with
handfuls of rice. The Sultan and the
aristocracy of Brunei promptly followed
suit. By the end of the meal the white
suits and frocks of the Europeans looked
like advertisements for Colkeen’s mustard.
The Europeans then went and had a
bath, the Sultan and his Court had their
usual siesta and the Empire weathered
another crisis.
,** * *
“Nagheer”: U.S. citizens of a super-
stitious turn of mind are seeing a favor-
able war omen in the names of three
prominent aid-for-Britain compatriots—
WELLes, WlLLkie and WlNant. Any
Australian who may regard such alleged
portents as comforting can do even
better by inserting ROOSevelt after
WELLes. But to the average way of
thinking, that sort of thing is just a
FADden MENzies HUGhes.
“Colbun”: A Mackay (N.Q.) man has
suggested that the “Hello, Joe!” greet-
ing from Malayan youngsters to Aus-
tralian troops may have originated from
the “Joe Club” which once had its head-
quarters and membership list at a pie-
stall in the Sugar City. It started in a
local factory, where the proprietor sim-
plified the problem of recollecting the
names of his employees by calling all
the men Joe and the girls Josephine.
Percy, Lionel and Norman Lindsay and
their Melbourne friends of the ’nineties
pre-dated the idea by more than 40 years
by adopting “Joe” as the generic name
for all males worthy of being received
into the circle. Ditto females were
“Jane.” Forty years again before that,
when the Eureka Stockade troubles were
brewing on the Ballarat goldfields, the
warning call to indicate the presence of
troopers wanting to see mining licenses
was “Joe,” so that the name has quite
venerable Australian associations how-
ever it got to the ears and tongues of
Malayan youngsterdom.
* * * *
“Rufus”: If “Bo” (B. 9/7/’4l) still has
that tape measure he should have an-
other look at it. A stretched tape would
have resulted in his being too
short. The most frequent cause of vexa-
tion in our home has been the wife’s tape
measure. New curtains made to its
measure have always been too short for
windows I had measured with my 3ft.
rule. The unreliability of this generally-
accepted family “foot-rule” is shown by
the fact that, of six tested against a 3ft.
Rabone carpenter’s rule, none was right
and no two agreed, the variations rang-
ing from 3-16 in. to l|in. And they were
all short, even the new ones.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: How we were all lulled to
sleep in the pre-war years by those who
should have known better! Have just
chanced on a paper of March, 1938, in
which the London “Economist” assured
us that “Germany is not so well equipped
for a world war as she was in 1914,” and
that “it will take five years to produce
a trained army comparable with that of
T 4.” There is some more guff about the
morale of the German nation being badly
shaken, but then we get this even today.
And one needn’t go nearly so far back
to find the things we all blindly liked to
believe for the moment. The latest issue
of London “Punch” to hand has a pic-
ture of Hitler as a snake, in fear of the
mongoose about to pounce. And the
name of this avenger, which only last
April was to be so terrible, is—you can
have 20 guesses—Yugoslavia,
* * * *
“Duck’s Disease”: Shelving of the 6ft,
4in. Ironside recalls that there have
“For the Lord's sake, Venus, turn off the light an go to bed.
been remarkably few out-
size military leaders
throughout history. I can
recall only Cromwell,
Coeur de Lion, Peter the
Great, Kitchener and
Hindenburg. But look at
the little fellows who made
military history Julius
Cassar, Napoleon, Welling-
ton (only a couple of
inches taller than Boney),
Foch and Roberts spring
to the eye at once.
Hannibal was, and Wavell
is, a medium-heighter.
Both Brauschitsch and
Keitel are big men, but not
until long after Hitler and
his gang have been swept
into oblivion and the mili-
tary historians can gather
their material will it be
known whose was the real
brain that directed the
movements of the Nazi
military machine. I’m
willing to bet that whoever
it is he hasn’t got to bend
going through a door.
* * *
“Bo”: Every big industrial organisa-
tion includes at least one of a noble band
without whom routine toil would be
deadly dull. “O. Henry” coined a term
to embrace these gifts to the toiling
masses: “come-ons.” Tom, painter in
a Government workshop, was a perfect
“come-on.” When Harry the mixer casu-
ally mentioned that old Steve in the oil
store used to be a good runner—in fact,
could still lick men 10 years his junior—
Tom rose to the bait as expected. In a
space of minutes the hardheads had
arranged a road race to be run after
work. Tom, on the advice of Harry, his
self-appointed trainer, went on a diet
of peanuts, bananas and stout until he
was pronounced in perfect form. Then,
clad in regulation running shorts, he
started with Steve on a five-mile race
which went around three contiguous
suburbs and back to the workshop gates.
He lost Steve after the first quarter-mile,
but the latter was in a handy possie to
come in later a bad last. The judges
solemnly declared it “no race,” as it had
been specifically designated a road race
and Tom had run part of the way on
the pavement.
*** ' *
“K. Ley”: Arriving home, a Vaucluse
(Sydney) woman left her car in the street
and went inside. When she came out the
car was moving downhill towards the
cliffs. She chased it, but it drove through
the cliff fence and dived 300 ft. into the
sea, right in the middle of the spot where
her husband fishes every week-end.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The thrills the Empire’s
airmen are getting in adventures over
Europe make one wonder how they will
adapt themselves to the daily routine of
civilian jobs when peace comes. In an
eyewitness account of a night raid oyer
Berlin a M.L. reporter gives the civil
occupations of the crew, four of whom
were countrymen of his. The captain
bold was an insurance-company in-
spector ; second pilot, a reporter ; navi-
gator, a civil servant; wireless operator,
an electrical engineer; front gunner, an
underclothing salesman ; rear gunner, a
farmer,
* * * *
“Pawang”: A Melbourne psychiatrist
who is in charge of a home for the
mentally retarded tells me that, after he
has resolved conflicts of his patients,
restored their confidence and readjusted
them to society, they become efficient
factory workers. They are interested, in-
dustrious, punctual, uncomplaining, and
want no other life than that of the
factory. It set me thinking of a talented
boy of my acquaintance who went into
the munitions business to do his bit in
the war effort. He found that the factory
—a private one —had no use for his skill
and no desire to train him further. All
it wanted him to do was to pull a lever
for 10 hours a day. His
fellow-workers, for the
most part, didn’t want to
do anything different
either and resented any
attempt on his part to
further himself as a
craftsman. None of
them showed particular
interest in what they were
doing, which is not sur-
prising, because nobody
could be interested
in such monotonous
operations for more than
a short time. After the
war the fitting of this
vast industrial army to
the more varied necessi-
ties of peace-time will be
a major social problem.
THE WOWSER ELEMENT.
“Too lore: has amendment of the liquor laws been
blocked by what might be termed the wowser
speaker in N.S.W. Leg. Council.
I think ’twas Shakspeare phrased it thus,
Epitomised the age-old tale,
That those who, being virtuous
Themselves, are down on cakes ana ate.
Withal I doubt it irked the bard
When to the Mermaid Inn he went,
The thought that his objective jarred
Upon “the wowser element.”
I feature them more tolerant when
A bearded Bung their cups would hll
To drain a toast to Jonson (Ben)
Or sink a pot to Shakspeare (Will).
In good Queen Bess’s spacious day,
Or when the Scots a sovereign sent,
They didn’t trouble much, I’ll say,
About “the wowser element.” ,
When Adam delved and Eve was taught <
(Or learned) his buttons on to sew,
I question if they ever thought
About our modern comme il faut.
I feature her a laughing dame,
And him an estimable gent.,
’Tween whose relations never came
What’s termed “the wowser element.
They had no pubs whereat to slake
Their thirsts, in bowery Eden pent.
It must have started with The Snake,
What’s styled “the wowser element.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O, Box 4028 V.V.
mT' 5i* to 6
cin^ cS o|»t,o*°'
pr*W 8! cic.
s. S . wß „^
HQ^ 1
S.»
///>>
Next Town Hall
Little Collins Street
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies is not without his share of
dour Scottish combativeness, as he
showed last week, to the discomfiture of
a lot of noisy people on both sides.
S. M. Herald” nevertheless decided that
it was a favorable time to suggest that
he should return to London, “where he
achieved such outstanding success,” and
leave “the local political field to the
direction of someone better able to recon-
cile the divergent political factions and
to achieve the administrative co-ordi-
nation and drive which our war effort
demands.” But could Fadden (“Call
me Artie”) really do all thatl
Marr, M.H.R., who has hitherto been
what is called “a good party man,” which
means that he has done everything he was
told to do by the bosses, has published
a declaration of independence. He says
he will vote against Fadden’s Budget if
it doesn’t suit him, and that if his vote
dishes the Government he will not
“hinder” a Labor Government “so long
as Labor policy assists the war effort.”
I place country before party. It does
not matter to the country, and it does
not matter to me, if Marr goes out of
politics.
Agreed as to the statement that “it
doesn’t matter to the country.”
Because he happened to turn two pages
instead of one in his address to the new
Sydney Parliament, the N.S.W. Gover-
nor missed some items of the programme.
The afternoon press gave the incident
double-heads and black type. As if any-
body cared!
The Victorian “Parliament” has been
wrangling over a s.p. betting bill destined
to bring licensed premises, except clubs,
under the Act, give power of summary
arrest, prohibit publication of odds be-
fore “the larst” and keep convicted s.p.
men off courses. Labor-“ Leader” Cain
and his deputy, Cremean, together with
Hollway, the Opposition “Leader,” have
found a way to deal with it. Anyone
can guess it —a royal commission.
V.A.D. for Victory! After arguing for
many months with morose brasshats
whose view is that woman’s place is in
the home, Percy Spender announces, with
inexpressible delight, that he is sending
720 V.A.Ds. abroad to act as controllers,
commandants, clerks (including dental),
cooks, orderlies, operating-room assist-
ants and maids to nurses. Isn’t Percy a
darling ?
Cabinet, having abolished the petrol
cartel, has appointed a Commonwealth
Petrol Co-ordinator and committees to
assist the State Liquid Fuel Control
Boards. It’s getting hard to find any-
body who isn’t a co-ordinator these days,
and committees are thicker than blowflies
on a western sheep camp.
From the “Wall-street Journal” of
June 24:
On Saturday night American Commu-
nists, who act on directions from Russia,
were busily plotting strikes at key indus-
trial points to slow up the American de-
fence programme and delay aid to Britain.
Early on Sunday morning Britain’s enemy
attacked Russia. So it might seem that
Russia’s creatures would cease their acti-
vities. But you can’t tell. Communists
seem so mad at everybody that sometimes
we think they are mad at themselves too.
And then again Moscow is so busy that
it may have neglected a cable about the
change in the party line.
Something of the sort seems to have hap-
pened here.
The Red and Pink union bosses who
arrange these work-stoppages exploit the
honest unionist’s natural fear of being
branded as a “scab,” which hateful term
should have been made actionable long
ago. Sometimes—all too rarely, unfor-
tunately—they strike a snag. The hate-
ful word was hissed and shouted at an
elderly Sydney unionist who was object-
ing to the familiar Red technique at a
union meeting. “I have two sons in the
A.1.F.,” he shouted, “and I would rather
be a scab than a traitor to them.” The
yells and threats of the Red gang were
lost in the cheers of his mates.
Twitted by Bruxner (C.P.) as to why
he didn t fulfil his election promise to
abolish wages tax by introducing a simple
Act and having it passed at once, the
Sydney Premier replied, “The Opposition
seems anxious for us to do in a few
months what they omitted to do in nine
years.” Neat, but it shouldn’t take a few
months to stop the most execrated form
of legalised robbery practised by Aus-
tralian Parliaments.
The younger of the political Evatts
went up like a rocket and may come
down like a stick. Thus early in his
Ministerial career he has fallen out with
the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation by veto-
ing the cane. This president McGuinness
ALL IN AND EACH TO WIN.
“I’ve got this Moscow butcher where I want him.”
“And I’ve got this carpet-biter by the short hairs.”
describes as “trying to shackle the dis-
cretionary power of a teacher: Mr. Evatt
has intruded into a profession of which
he knows nothing.” Nothing harsher was
said of any previous Minister by the
experienced McGuinness.
Queenslanders- who have followed the
career of F. W. Paterson, sometime
Rhodes scholar, are grinning at the plight
in which colossal effrontery has landed
him. After many electioneering ventures
as a Com —beg pardon, Independent
Socialist —Paterson became a Townsville
alderman. As such he weighed in with
a proposal that at municipal farewells to
A.I.F. men it should be “explained” to
them that “the present war is not a war to
smash Fascism or Nazism but... .a war
to decide which group of millionaire
exploiters is to dominate the world,” and
that “the conditions for the defeat of
Nazism and Fascism throughout the
world” necessitated, among other things,
“resistance to every attempt to impose
Fascism on Australians by their own
ruling class,” and “formation of soldiers’
committees.” Prosecuted under the
National Security Act, Paterson was fined
£4O, with £4B 18s. costs, and required
to enter into a bond. He said he would
sign the bond.
Hitler to the British Ambassador at
Berlin on August 25, 1939:
The agreement with Russia is uncon-
ditional, and signifies a change in the
foreign policy of the Reich which will last
a very long time. Russia and Germany
will never again take up arms against each
other.
“Never again” was Hitlerese for 22
months.
“If our troops are needed outside
Africa the Government will feel obliged
to come to Parliament and ask for the
authority of Parliament.” Smuts said
that in the Assembly at Capetown dur-
ing the interval between the campaigns
in Greece and Crete. It shows that there
is at least one Government which doesn’t
consider Dominion status a sham.
Hutchinson and Marr, Ms.H.R., did
not attend the U.A.P. meeting summoned
by Menzies to receive any challenge to
his leadership; but both gentlemen let
off steam beforehand, and so did Mc-
Call, M.H.R. McCall accused Menzies
of having threatened a snap election.
Denying it, Menzies accused McCall of
“setting a new standard in public in-
decency” by repeating something he had
been told in confidence. McCall retorted
that he hadn’t been told it in confidence
and that Menzies himself had “disclosed
the proceedings of a private Parliamen-
tary party meeting, traditionally regarded
as confidential.” Then, lowering his note
to a whine, he pleaded that “all I have
done has been to call for more inspired
leadership.” He had learned that the
A.L.P. wouldn’t grant him immunity
from opposition, and his seat, Martin, is
anything but safe.
There has been growling in Britain
over the latest lot of changes in the Min-
istry, but Churchill idolaters have no-
thing to complain about. Friend Duff
Cooper, though complimented out of the
Ministry of Information into the Chan-
cellorship of the Duchy of Lancaster,
is to go to the Far East “to co-
ordinate military, administrative and
political matters” to the boss’s satisfac-
tion. Parliamentary private secretary
Bracken becomes Minister for Infor-
mation and son-in-law Sandys goes to
the War Office as Financial Secretary.
Apparently the only members of the
Churchill circle not yet provided with
Ministerial posts are son Randolph,
daughter Diana and her husband Vic.
Oliver, the dance-band leader.
A photograph of King Leopold
wrapped in the Belgian flag was the prin-
cipal decoration at the 111th anniversary
of the independence of Belgium as cele-
brated in Sydney, and the cry of “Vive le
Roi” was raised by all present. Consul-
General Jansen said that what had come
out in the case of Sir Roger Keyes v. the
“Daily Mirror” had “cleared King
Leopold of any charge of treachery.”
Treachery was not charged by Churchill,
though he did describe the King’s capitu-
lation as “a pitiful episode.”
Suddenly, without prior consultation,
with the least possible notice, without the
advice of his Ministers and upon his own
personal act. King Leopold surrendered his
army and exposed our whole flank and
means of retreat.
If subsequent events have driven him to
take a more charitable view he hasn’t
published it.
Nash, Fraser’s deputy, has revealed
that the P.M. “attended the meetings of
the British War Cabinet” at which the
arrangement with Russia was “discussed
and agreed upon,” and that the Govern-
ment at Wellington was “kept fully in-
formed throughout all stages of the nego-
tiations” ; also that “members of both
the War Cabinet and the Government
Cabinet wholeheartedly endorsed the
terms.” But he didn’t call the thing an
“alliance,” as Churchill did. His words
for it were “declaration,” “agreement”
and “understanding.”
The Nash Budget, with its promises of
additional social-security benefits, a
“domestic allowance” of a shilling a day
“for the families of all soldiers,” reduced
overdraft rates, and, above all, no
further taxation during the current year,
is taken to mean that the general election
due this year will be held, instead of
being postponed indefinitely. But the
matter is not to be decided until the
P.M. returns, and he is not expected back
till the end of next month.
N. S. Wales has a Legal Aid Depart-
ment, but Martin, the Labor Attorney-
General, has decided that it doesn’t go
far enough or isn’t spending enough. He
is appointing a public defender “to extend
legal assistance to many classes of case
where it has not been available previ-
ously.” In a fair average year, N.S.W.
has 25,000 criminal cases, so the public
defender will have his hands full. No
doubt he will be given power to dele-
gate his functions to the Junior Bar.
The two items were published un-
obtrusively. One came from Hobart:
The hunger-strikers will get no sympathy
from the National Union of Railwaymen,
said the secretary, Mr. W. Fletcher.
The other came from Brisbane:
The secretary of the Shipwrights and
Ship Constructors’ Union said that the
union was proud of its record. There had
not been one stoppage of work by its
members in any State since war began.
Comrades, how can such things be?
The Forgan Smiths are not leaving
anything to chance when it comes to
posthumous credit for public works. The
Story Bridge at Brisbane bears a bronze
plaque announcing that the bridge was
built by Queensland workmen “under
the authority of the Queensland Labor
Government.” The practice has been
followed with the new Dental Flospital
and College, a plaque recording the fact
that it was “built and equipped by the
Labor Government of Queensland.”
Queensland workmen are not mentioned,
credit for design and construction being
given to the Public Works.


V UP VJITH THAT OIL
IM WAdTIMGi POIR (juice . "
Owing to the possibility of getting more tankers, there has
been a noticeable slackening in the demand for producer-gas
units and charcoal.
' \ WOULDWA. CARED BUT I LOST ME HELMET.
A policeman was blown 10 yards when a German aerial bomb
exploded in a town in the north-east of Scotland. The policeman’s
helmet was blown to pieces.
/ l>
" The recruiting* is hn pulu bi-ast
ft I
\ts wo use, Dig,, the aovs
STR'KdW'IH SUPPORT OP= THE
HUWG,e.R &T(RiK.SR.a "
'■*“ Where do i conte. '*a z , "
Country dairy farmers who
supply two-thirds of Sydney s
milk threatened to strike unless
they gel a rise of 4d. a gallon.
VV )TS HOT A. STRIP®
SARC,S, 'fs A
vj pr 0 R VICTOR.V / '
The bride nmho turned up oh T\wse. .
“Late brides should be taught a lesson. The clergyman and groom
ehould retire and turn up 10 minutes after the bride arrives.
„ /
Members of the Legislative Assembly cheered when the Speaker
announced that he had had a red light installed in the Chamber which he
would switch on to warn speakers three minutes before their time limit expired.
FROM HERE AND THERE.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors; THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines); 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
MILITARY TOILET SETS
VERY NEAT AND HANDY.—Comprising: Hair
Brushes, Clothes and Shaving Brushes, Containers
for Toilet and Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush,
also Steel Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Pigskin Leather Case, with
Zip Fastener Attached.
PRICE 97 6
Others
55/- to 70/-
C. E, Kitching Pty. Ltd.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
h
PERSONAL ITEMS
Major-General Sir Nevill Smyth, V.C.,
was a Sandhurst product who saw active
service with the Queen’s Bays on the
Indian nor’-west frontier and got his V.C.
in the Sudan, being one of the heroes
of what Churchill called the River War.
He had a command at Khartoum in 1914
and from there went to Gallipoli in
charge of the Ist Brigade, A.1.F., com-
manding it at Lone Pine, Pozieres and
Mouquet Farm. In 1917-18 he was the 2nd
u IV 7n S u G O,C ’ leaving to command
the 59th Division when the British sth
Army was reorganised. Contact with the
Diggeis must have suggested that the
country that produced them would be a
good place to live, and on his retirement
in 1924 he took up Kongbool, in Vic-
tuna’s Western District, where he passed
cut last week, at 73. His two sons and
daughter are serving in the present war.
‘ , . ,
Sir John Fraser, who died at his home
m Launceston (Tas.) last week, was the
son of a Scottish Controller of Inland
Revenue. He joined the Ceylon civil
service as a cadet and ended up holding
the same job in the island where every
prospect pleases as his father had in
Scotland. Sir John on his retirement in
1923 went to live in the Speck. He was
76 when he died.
~r , , . .
Sir Evelyn Wrench who is renewing
an acquaintance with Australia which
dates back to a visit in 1913 and finding
that undergrads, and reporters are
different, is best known as the
founcei in 1910 of the Overseas
League, but he is also a figure in English
journalism, being governing director of
the Spectator. ’ Educated at Eton and
Oxford, he went into the postcard-pub-
fishing business; then, became one of
SIR EVELYN WRENCH.
(“Show me the way to Sydney.”)
Lord Northcliffe’s bright young men.
Since 1912 he has devoted himself mainly
to the interests of the Overseas Club.
Obit., Duncan Angus Cameron, one of
the best-known sheepmen in Australia.
He managed Pinnacles station, Grenfell
(N.S.W.), then Boramble, Condobolin,
meanwhile serving on shire councils, P.P.
boards and hospital committees; and on
the sale of Boramble he went to Central
Queensland, where for some years he
managed Isis Downs. Returning to N. S.
Wales, he looked after the A.A. Co.’s
Warrah station near Quirindi. He judged
merinos at many shows.
Known throughout Westralia as the
A.M.P.’s supervisor of agencies, W. G.
Randell recently retired from his executive
job, but will carry on as a field staff
representative in the metropolitan area.
Son of a legislator of the Forrest era who
ran a mosquito fleet on the Swan before
the Fremantle-Perth failway was built,
Randell joined the A.M.P. 46 years ago.
Gardening is his hobby.
A chip off the old block is Lieut. F.
W. Cook, recently awarded the M.C.
Cook, who in private life was an ento-
mologist at the Waite Agricultural Insti-
tute, enlisted in a South Australian bat-
talion shortly after the outbreak of war.
His father, Captain Fred Cook, collected
a similar decoration in the 1914-18 war.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: From a 40-year-
old group photograph of members of the
Ishmael Club Randolph Bedford, still in
his early thirties but even then impres-
sively bald, stares dominantly. On each
side are Ted Dyson, Court Poet, and
Jack Elkington, Randolph’s fellow-Vice-
Joss, complete with Elizabethan beard.
Keir, High Harper and Great Shawm,
sits at Bedford’s feet with the bassoon
which he played in Cowan’s orchestra,
and Ruff Tremearne, Custodian of the
Salad, is Keir’s opposite number. Behind,
each leaning an elbow on the shoulder
of his neighbor, stand Ray Parkinson,
Controller of the Garlic ; Lionel Lind-
say, Hetman of Ze Greegas; Norman
Lindsay, High Limner; Bill Dyson, Lord
of the Beer-Tides, and Percy Lindsay,
Keeper of the Volume of the Sacred
Law. A few months after that picture
was taken the members had scattered to
the ends of the earth.and taken with them
Melbourne’s Bohemianism.
G.O.M. of the steel-castings industry
in S.A. is Robert Mason, who, though
76, goes daily to his foundry, of which
he is managing director. His burr is as
thick today as when he brought it from
Scotland in 1917. Bred in an ironworks
district in Stirlingshire, he went to work
at 10, and after serving an apprentice-
ship moved to London and Birmingham.
He has an immense library, mostly tech-
nical works.
Wallace Charles Wurth, of Sydney,
who has been appointed Director of
Manpower Priorities, has been 30 years
in the N. S. Wales civil service. He saw
active service in the 1914-18 war, in
which he was wounded. Since 1939 ho
has been chairman of the Public Service
Board of N. S. Wales. He will retain
that post,
John Service Strong, who is to tackle
petrol problems as Co-ordinator-General
of Liquid Fuel, is a Scot by birth, but
was educated in Melbourne. After ten
years as Chief Assistant in the Melbourne
and Sydney offices of H.M. Trade Com-
missioner, he became Australian repre-
sentative of the Society of Motor Manu-
facturers and Traders, London, Lives
at Vaucluse, Sydney, and goes in for
gardening and golf.
First Salvationist to be mentioned in
dispatches in this war is Major Garnet
S. Palmer, of Victoria. Equipped with
a mobile canteen, he slaked the thirst of
troops in action from Bardia to Ben-
ghazi. Going to Greece, he saw his
caravan blown to pieces and then
manned an ambulance. In Crete
he met Adjutant John Blake, and
they went through that disastrous
campaign together. Palmer had sal-
vaged his cornet from Greece and
Blake his concertina, and they organised
concerts until the second evacuation,
Three of Major Palmer’s brothers are in
the forces overseas, and one of them, a
bandmaster from Perth, formed the band
which headed the A.I.F. into Beirut. He
was fated not to lead it, having been
killed in action a few days beforehand.
Adelaide’s new Lord Mayor, A. S.
Hawker, is a grandson of the G. C.
Hawker who founded Bungaree station
over a century ago. Like his brother
Charlie, M.H.R. for Wakefield, who
perished in an aeroplane crash, A. S.
Hawker saw service in the 1914-18 war—
as a lieutenant in the 50th Battalion and
A. S. HAWKER.
won the D.C.M. He was born at sea
61 years ago, and educated in England
and the U.S.A. He planned a career as
a mining engineer, but a health break-
down brought him back to S.A. and a
life on the land. He runs three stations
and keeps up his interest in soldiering—
he commands a battalion of the V.D.C.
He has been a member of Adelaide City
Council since 1930, and an alderman
since 1936.
Col. G. W. Macartney, who has been
Deputy Director of Medical Services,
Northern Command, since 1938, becomes
boss of the 12th Australian General Hos-
pital, A.I.F. A Townsville (N.Q.) man,
he joined the A.M.C, in 1913 and the
A. the following year, going through
Gallipoli and gaining his lieut.-colonelcy
and a D.S.O. From 1921’t0 1926 he was
in charge of the 7th Field Ambulance,
and was Assistant Director of Medical
Services, 11th Brigade, for four years.
His assistant in the Northern Command,
Lieut.-Colonel N. C. Talbot, who be-
comes Acting Deputy Director, is a
Rockhampton medico, was one of the
first Australian doctors to serve with the
B. in France in 1914-18, and won a
M.C. He has held various A.IVI.C. jobs
since 1921.
An unusual sort of parson was Robert
Turnbull, dead in Adelaide at 82. In
his youth a Rugby footballer who was
picked for Scotland, he saw service in
Matheson’s Horse in the S’African war
of 1879 ; returned to U.K. as sportsmaster
at an English school; then became an
Anglican missionary under Bishop Selwyn
in the Solomon Islands and Rector of
Macquarie Plains (Tas.) about 1892. For
the last 45 years he held various parishes
in S.A.
Montague Brearley, the first of the nine
Australian conductors billed for the sym-
phony concert season in Melbourne and
Sydney, comes from Geelong. When
Kaiser William banged the war gong in
1914 he was studying the fiddle in Berlin.
The student made two attempts at escape
and got to Copenhagen. Back in Aus-
tralia, he joined the A.I.F. and ended up
as second in command of the 48th Bat-
talion. After the war he went back to
his old German master, then gave violin
recitals in London, got the job of leader
of the Harrogate Symphony Orchestra,
became a regular 8.8. C. performer—he
gave 1500 broadcasts—and then resigned
to form his own light orchestra —still an
institution in London. Brearley was one
of the pioneers of radio broadcasting in
the sphere of chamber music. He re-
turned to Australia last year.
Francis Mackle, of West Melbourne,
dead at 66, was regarded as the historian
of the Catholic Church in Vic-
toria. Among his publications was Foot-
prints of Our Catholic Pioneers. He had
been associated for more than 40 years
with St. Francis’s, Lonsdale, and St.
Augustine’s, Bourke-street West.
Alan Reeve is reported to be on his
way back to Australia. His stature as a
caricaturist has increased considerably
since he left here four years ago ; he has
held one-man shows in France, London
and Dublin and has had a double-
column color-spread in “Fortune.”
W. R. Hume, here illustrated, is man-
aging director of four Hume pipe com-
panies, and he and his pipes are known
all over the world. His biggest contract to
date is the Whyalla project, which is tak-
ing water from the Murray, part of the
way through 140 miles of 12ft. Hume
pipes—the largest he has yet made —to
Whyalla. He invented the cement-lined
pipe. Opposite his home in Kew, Mel-
bourne, is a vacant allotment on which he
has had built a quasi-Japanese garden all
made of Hume pipes, from garden seats
to toriis, and opened it to the public.
Born in Fitzroy in 1873, Hume started
work with the first telephone exchange in
Little Collins-street in 1887. From then
on, both in N.S.W. and Victoria, he was
plasterer, bricklayer, carpenter, farmer,
woodcutter and horse-breaker, amongst
other things. In 1892 he started Hume
Bros., and in 1898 he took out the first
W. R. HUME.
of many patents. In 1909 he married, and
also floated the first syndicate for the
development of the Hume pipe. He’s a
great traveller.
Ken Cara, who had a lot to do with
the assault on skeleton weed and St.
John’s wort in the Riverina, becomes
assistant-manager of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s grain elevator system. A Wagga
man, he got his H.D.A. at Hawkesbury
College, was experimentalist at the
Temora and Wagga Government farms,
then weeds officer, and has judged wheat
for the R.A.S. field contests. His travels
in the wheat country put him in close
touch with growers, who expect a fair
go from him in the new job.


3000 AUSTRALIANS
Illustrated above is an Australian-
made 2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun now
being produced in quantity , proofed and
delivered to the Army. This weapon ,
an intricate mobile piece of ordnance ,
fires an armour-piercing projectile at
high velocity . At right is an impression
of the gun in action .
Quantity production of this complex Anti-Tank Gun in the short time of 9 months from
receipt of order is a testimony to the capacity, enterprise and teamwork of Australian
Industry. It is not the achievement of any one group or any one organisation—it is the work
of nearly every section of Australian Industry, from steel making to production of finished
parts in more than 50 engineering shops. It is the combined effort of a team of more than
3000 Australian workers.
By any standard of measurement this achievement is a remarkable one. The complete
manufacture of this gun—including necessary jigs, fixtures, dies, patterns, gauges and tooling
up for quantity production —was carried out in Australia. The entire gun is an Australian
product including even such complicated items as the telescopic gun sights and other
optical equipment.
Because of its experience in quantity production the motor industry is well suited to aid in
this planning. As an example, General Motors - Holden’s Limited employs in peace-time
some 6,000 people, a considerable number of whom specialize in planning, scheduling and
tooling for volume production whilst the Company in the natural course of its business
co-operates with many hundreds of Australian manufacturers. This Company is now
employed in manufacturing a considerable number of components for the Anti-Tank Gun,
assembling the complete unit and co-ordinating the whole production project.
The teamwork of Australian Industry has made possible the results already achieved—and
this spirit will promote the still greater efforts required in the future. The collective organ-
isation of General Motors - Holden’s Limited —the executives and staff throughout Australia
—is happy to be associated with this all-important war supply.
Who Develops Industry Serves Australia,
GENERAL MOTORS- HOLDEN'S LTD.
Factories and Plants at : fishermen's bend and south Melbourne (Vic.), woodville, birkenhead and beverley (S.a.),
PAGEWOOD and WILLIAM ST. (N.S.W.), BRISBANE (QUEENSLAND), MOSMAN'S PARK (W.A.)


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”; Our poisoner had left
us, so when the boss heard that a newly-
arrived bagman was a cook he. came
down to the hut. .“You bet your life
I’m a cook,” said the bagman, with that
shy sincerity of his kind. “Anythin’ from
roast turkey with the trimmin’s t’ goose-
liver pie, an’ if y’ want a Madras curry
or oyster patties t’ make y’r mouth water
I’m y’r man.” The boss took this in,
then asked, “Where’ve you bin cookin’?”
“Everywhere,” was the answer, “from the
Hotel Australia in Sydney t’ Jim Trickett’s
road-job in east Gippsland.” “Well,”
said the boss, “we don’t go in for any
fancy scran on this sheep nursery ; just
plain cookin’s what we want. What do
y’ call a fair thing?” “A fiver a week
an’ the tallow,” came back the applicant.
The boss winced, then he went into the
galley. We eyed our prospective poisoner.
Then the boss came out wearing a white
apron. “If there’s any cookin’ jobs on
this place worth a fiver an’ tallow,” he
announced, “I’m takin’ it. You,” to the
goggle-eyed bagman, “can have the
station.” Thus was lost our chance of
finding out whether the skite could cook
or not.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; A peculiar note of
distress in a frog’s croak drew my atten-
tion to the creek as I was making camp.
Floundering about in midstream the
“bully” appeared to be taking some sort
of a fit —until an extra high leap revealed
an eel about as thick as a man’s fore-
finger clinging tenaciously to his foot.
At dusk, after the grim tug-of-war had
been in progress for perhaps half an hour,
I took the frog’s side to the extent of
pelting stones around the vicinity ; but
the slippery leg-puller wouldn’t be scared
off. It was long after dark when the
croaking dramatically ceased. I’m still
wondering whether “Bully” broke free
or was drowned.
* * * *
“Odd P.”: The first modern car fitted
with a charcoal gas-producer hit our way-
back town when we were in the throes
of the big football match against Red
Creek. Nobody noticed the contraption
until, making for the pub after the match,
it was seen standing outside. Then,
when a large and curious crowd had
gathered, the proud owner came forth
ready to dilate on its virtues. Before he
could get a word out, the town dag
stepped forward, held out sixpence and
said, “Give us a saveloy an’ roll, with
plenty of sauce.
* * * *
“Propalong”: If all Cockneys are as
tough as the few I’ve struck, Hitler and
co. are wasting a mighty lot of h.-e. over
London. We had one, cooking for our
mustering camp, who had just learned to
make a brownie. Becoming ambitious,
he decided to make a “coffee cake” and
chose as flavoring half a pound of coffee.
When the mob kicked at this addition to
soggy damper and saline well water, he
ate the lot himself. But the daddy of
them all was Robbo, on Witchelina
(S.A.). Sent out to camp at a drying
tank, he had to throw his meat away.
There was an old ewe bogged to the eye-
brows in the tank and at her last gasp.
Robbo cut her throat, made a trial in-
cision and fished out the liver. Next day,
wanting more meat, he peeled a steak off
the ribs. For five days, till we called for
him, he got his meat on the instalment
plan. “But wasn’t she pretty high,
Robbo?” the boss asked. “Aw, not too
bad,” was England’s opinion. We’re still
wondering what the meat he chucked out
must have been like.
* ♦ * *
“The 0.D.”: Heaven knows I’m all
for poetic license, but Jim Grahame’s
picture of “The Plains of Hay” (B.
23/7/’4l) is over the odds. Got through
the first two spasms all right, but stuck
in “The blacksoil plains of Hay,” which
I have never sighted in the vicinity. I’d
have let it go, thinking Jim had somehow
got mixed between Hay and Boggabri,
but further on the “many hues of bloom
and bush.... With desert pea as red
as wine” absolutely refused to go down
as the “magic change” following “summer
rain.” No, Jim, summer on the claypans
isn’t like that, and the nearest desert pea
is many a day’s tramp away, though you
might find plenty of Darling pea, a
flower of another color.
* * * *
“Hanko”; From the kick-off that
morning I could see that the boss had
“Another comm up!”
nothing up his sleeve. He’d been to a
sale the previous day; a real old-time
sell-up where there was lashings of
refreshment on tap. To make matters
worse, the sheaves were short and slip-
pery, and the trump was none too sure
of himself kneeling-in the outside row.
But Choom, turning on the stack, was
blithely unconscious of all that. Sud-
denly a corner of the stack came out.
“Art hurt, sir?” gasped Choom, peering
gingerly down. It was about the worst
thing he could have said. Even my quiet
old shatters bolted down the paddock.
* * * *
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: I fancy you
call it collateral circulation. A bloke at
Gwaiia (W.A.) sent a copy of The Bul-
letin dated 15/5/’4O to a cobber in Kal-
goorlie last year. With a piece of char-
coal he had drawn a circle round an
Abo. par, about a coot quenching his
thirst better with tea than in the
Westralian mulga. His cobber sent it
out on the mail truck to a crony at Edju,
dina. The Gwaiia man lost trace of it
then. Just before Christmas he was visit-
ing a friend in the Broome hospital. He
idly picked up a Bully off a chair and
was astonished to discover it was the
charcoal-marked copy he’d sent his Kal.
cobber. That Bushman’s Bible had had
a walkabout of a good 2000 miles since
leaving the Gwaiia bloke’s hands.
“Sad Jack”; Since bunny has become
the most profitable product of the farm,
Bert, Alf and Joe, average age 11, de-
cided they’d “give rabbitin’ a go.” Armed
with a couple of shovels, they advanced
upon a near-by warren and commenced
digging valiantly. Suddenly came a
hoarse cry from Joe. “Hi! Gripes!
What’s this?” A longish pair of hind
legs and a long tail were protruding from
the burrow along Joe’s line of sap.
“Fox!” yelled Bert. “What’ll we do?”
Rabbiters went into council and decided
to tie the hind legs together. This accom-
plished with the aid of several thicknesses
of hayband, the question of the next
move arose. Alf, youngest but brainiest,
suggested: “Pull ’im out by the ’ind legs
and swing ’im round y’r ’ead till ’e gets
giddy.” Bert undertook the job, but he
didn’t allow for the effect of the swift
gyrations on his own equilibrium. Next
thing he knew he’d hit the ground, and
an extremely annoyed and groggy fox
weaved his way across the paddock like
a drunk. About a week later his body
was found by a neighbor, his hind legs
still tied.
* * * *
“Lid”: “Gidya George’s” pawpaw-
tree that went searching for the sun (B.
16/7/’4l) was no exception to the general
run of plants. If “Gidya George” cares
to plant a few broad-bean, wheat or maize
seeds —on blotting-paper in a saucer of
water will do—and place them just inside
a window the young plants will all lean
towards the glass. Then, if he turns the
saucer round so that the plants are all
leaning into the room, he can watch for
a day or two and see them all lean back
towards the window again. It is the
working of the immemorial urge for light
necessary for photosynthesis and the
manufacture of the chlorophyll that gives
plants their green coloring.
* * * *
“Philp”: Another popular fallacy
about the abos. (B. 16/ 7/’4l) is that they
are born horsemen. As a matter of fact
very few of the full-bloods ever make
naturally good horsemen. Plenty of them
can stay on a horse, yes, but almost
always to the cost of the neddy. There’s
nothing like a bad or clumsy rider to
ruin a good steed, and I’ve seen the abo.
do that to many of them. Half-castes,
of course, are another matter; they are
capable of developing a genuine love for
a horse—something which seems beyond
most full-bloods.
* * * ♦
“R. Ney”; As one who has studied the
thing under all sorts of conditions, I’m
not sure but what N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
isn’t right in describing the jumbuck as
a “strange Australian animal” (B.
23/7/’4l). “Strange” is about the ’only
printable word to fit an animal that dies
when it should live, lives when it should
die, won’t go through gates opened for
it but goes through gates not opened to
it, jumps over non-existent obstacles, has
a reputation for docility to which no
sheep-dog will subscribe, will stubbornly
face a dingo pack in defence of its young
and flee madly from a cavorting hare,
wears heavy wool in the hot months and
goes naked in the cold, is docked, dagged,
dogged, drenched, drafted and damned
from birth to death, yet retains its sanity
and can look on unmoved while allegedly
superior animals throw their coats on
the ground and shriek curses to the
heavens. In my more retrospective
moments I sometimes believe it was jum-
bucks that drove me from the bush.
* * * *
“Smithy”: “Bogaduck” (B. 16/7/’4l)
might think Old Steve did a fair job with
a horseshoe taking 22in. of iron, but an
old-established farrier in Melbourne says
that is nothing to write to The Bulletin
about. He has been shoeing a horse for
a suburban council for four years which
takes 23in. of iron in front and 22in.
for the hinds. The biggest shoe he has
ever made was for a timber-hauler, and
took 27in.
* * * *
“Petermann”: In sandhill country
there is nothing to touch the camel with
its spreading, gripping pads. In such
country the horse sinks fetlock-deep with
every step, and the car, unless tyres are
deflated to the point of ruination, will
become hopelessly bogged.
But the oont is a complete
washout in country where
rain creates mud, for then
the spreading of the pads,
so advantageous over sand,
gathers up the mud so that
it packs into a wedge which
prevents the pads from
coming together as the foot
is lifted, resulting in a quick
crippling of the ship of the
desert. Invariably the brutes
know this is likely to
happen, and so take time by
the forelock by lying down
and resolutely refusing to
be “hooshta’d” up again.
Many a time on the old
Coolgardie tracks teamsters,
plodding along through the
very exceptional wet, came
across Abdul with all his
beasts down, Abdul himself
calling on all the saints of
the Koran to aid him in
getting his shaitans of
camels on to their feet lest
the infidels forestall him in
getting stores to Kurnalpi,
Goongarrie, Niagara and a
score of other camps to
which the rains had brought
temporary famine,
* * *
“Edjudina”: Let me write
an obit, on Russian Jack
(B. 2/7/’4l). Like many
another old battler, Jack in
his evening days fell back
on vegetables and poultry,
eked out by an occasional
bit of specking, his garden
being a landmark on the
track between Meekatharra
and Peak Hill. He died,
and they buried him in the
tiny Peak cemetery. The
grave was without a head-
stone, so one of his old
cobbers brought along the
famous wheelbarrow. Up-
ended, with the shafts sunk well in the
soil, it served as a memorial. With a
paintbrush, crudely, the old pal paid his
last tribute; “Here lies Russian Jack.”
H: He sfc sfc
“Youanmi”: “I see by me latest Bul-
letin.” said Centre-Cut Murphy, “that
some feller had a dawg that could run
so fast that it caught up with a bullet
and killed itself. That dawg was slow
alongside a tyke I ’ad called Satan, which
I’d trained to pinch chickens. One night
’e was in ‘Lousy’ Larkins’s backyard, just
next door to the Bulloobookanka race-
course, and tryin’ to get into the fowL
house when ‘Lousy’ came out with a .303.
As he fired Satan took off; the bullet
nearly caught ’im when ’e slowed down
to jump the fence, but after that ’e raced
it three times around the racecourse until
its energy gave out, and it fell to the
ground about three feet behind ’im.”
* * sft *
“Sailor Bill”: Most of our prettiest
birds feed only on the choicest of flowers
or fruit, but the needle-tail is an excep-
tion. The shape and size of a kingfisher,
it makes sallies after winged insects from
dead messmates during autumn and
winter days here in coastal N.Q. When it is
sitting on a limb its plumage looks plain,
but when it takes to flight it displays
every color of the rainbow. But its
beauty is truly only skin-deep, for in its
tail it has an ugly and formidable
weapon —a projecting bone in the shape
of a large needle.
ALL WRONG.
A bushman’s wot ’e calls ’isself,
Orstrylien bushman! ’strewth, that’s rummy;
’E oughter pose upon a shelf,
A fancy dressed-up shopman’s dummy.
’E’s all so tidy, clean an’ neat,
list like some movin’ pitcher ’ero,
’E wears wide pants wot flap ’is feet,
An’, for a lid, a ’uge sombrero.
’ls stockwhip makes a feeble sound,
’E calls a poor old ’orse a broncho,
’E ’umps a big guitar around
Which gives a wailin’ tonk-tink-tonko.
’E busts into a moanin’ air,
A dyin’ duck but no canary,
An’ sings of (’ow did they git there?)
The dingoes ’owling on the prairie.
That’s ’ow I seen ’im on the stage,
A sort of ’arf-an’-arf creation;
’E ’ints at it, but I’ll engage
’E’s never been on no sheep station.
Us bush blokes when we sing we sing;
We beef it out, no sloppy sob-stuff;
Pianner fiends ’oo know a thing
All give us dinkum on-the-job stuff.
“Orstrylier’s Croonin’ Rouserbout,”
That’s wot ’e’s dubbed; it’s all erratic;
The title’s hybrid out an’ out,
Ts whole git-up ain’t emblermatic.
But let me tell wot’s worst of all,
Which don’t make me a bit politer,
A big storm’s near, a ragin’ squall—
Me girl’s gone crazy on the blighter.
VIC.
PURSKOLE.


“ ‘V’ for 'Victory,' brother!”
“Mat’s Mate”: “Gettin’ a cheque
cashed ain’t always easy,” said Mat. “I
did a month’s shoot-cuttin’ for a bloke
up the Mallee once, gets me cheque an’
heads f’r Ouyen. In the pub I books a
room, calls f’r a drink an’ passes over the
cheque. The publican knew me, so he
hands over the drink before he says he’s
sorry but 1 better go back an’ get the
bloke t’ sign the cheque. It’s nine mile
out, so I borrows a bike. When I gets
there the cocky laughs like hell, takes
the cheque an’ finds he’s got no ink. In
the end he mixes up boot polish an’
water, signs with that an’ off 1 go. But
the signature is faded when I gets back
t’ town, so back I goes again, borrowin’ a
bottle of ink from the pub. The cocky
thinks it’s a great joke, but I’m doin’ 36
mile on a bike an’ I ain’t so pleased. I’m
less pleased next day when Bung tells me
the bank has sent the cheque back be-
cause the ink has somehow got mixed
with the boot polish an’ they think it’s an
attempt at forgery. Strike me fat, it
looked like me an’ half the local police
headin’ f’r that cocky’s place till the bank-
manager rings him up an’ the whole thing
is straightened out. I bin dead careful
about cheques ever since.”
* * * *
“Altera Merces”: At seven months my
cocker spaniel bitch, which had never
been within coo-ee of a dog, began to
show milk. A fortnight later she was
swollen with milk and quickly developed
fever, the nearest teat to the near-side
forearm becoming the size of a duck-
egg. After fomenting and massaging it
burst, and three days later she was out
again as efficient as ever with traps and
gun. Again at 14 months she developed
a flush of milk. Two male kittens who
were just being weaned, and had made
great pals with Jenny, quite voluntarily
suckled her, and thus saved her from an-
other illness.
“Lucullus”: “Gumsucker’s” reference
to the old-time camp oven (B. 18/6/’4l)
recalls many a gravy-filled roast of
mutton and round of beef. No appa-
ratus since invented can come up to,
much less excel, the camp oven as a pro-
ducer of succulent foods. Paper-bag
cookery was good ; meals thus prepared
touched the heart of every epicure, and
mankind was definitely the loser when
the housewife got too tired to be always
making greaseproof bags. But it was
only the old camp oven in another form.
Being practically airtight the camp oven
conserved everything, and with heat top
and bottom cooked to a turn. And
cooked also to a delectable tenderness.
No one in those days moaned for lamb ;
mutton did mum quite well. It was the
advent of the gas oven, which is merely
a frying machine, since it has to be open
and have a draught to enable the gas to
burn, which has created the modern
demand for lamb. For a draught carries
all the fibre-softening steam away into
the air—unless a casserole or something
similar is used —which, of course, gets the
cookery back to the old camp oven again.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Strange and subtle are
the effects of environment upon the lower
forms of life. Above the tablet in a
Sydney street which proclaims the site
of the first Government House in N.S.W.
stands a row of brush-box trees, and,
although probably descended from sturdy
North Coast stock, they are puny, pasty,
sallow citizens, plainly unhealthy in the
shadows of the towering Government
buildings which have crowded that area
ever since it was first stamped by official-
dom. Hanging on these trees are hun-
dreds of leaf-case moths (Oeciticus hub-
meri) ranging from sedentary old speci-
mens quite hidden beneath layer upon
layer of dusty wrappings, through middle-
aged types still capable of alternate in-
dustry and idleness, yet already acquiring
the stamp of the old-stagers, to young-
sters who try to appear busy but mostly
get in the way. The seniors, probably
ruled by procedure and scared of estab-
lishing a risky precedent, never move far ;
but on still, sunny days the juniors lower
themselves by slender threads and dangle
over the footpath, sharing the hazards
of the street tor the sake of a spell out
of doors and compelling the notice of
observant passers and even those who
never see anything until it smacks them
in the face. Some pay the price of this
reckless excursion during working hours,
and soon the rest slip back upstairs to
their usual dull occupations, there to
potter and fuss and obstruct each other
till such times as conditions again conduce
to an adventure in the sun. In short,
they behave much the same as public
servants in the mouldy, melancholy man-
sions that frown down upon the corner
where these grubs exist.
* * * *
“Blue”: At Torbul (Q.) two spotted
gums stand side by side. During growth
one tree was attacked by termites, Its
roots and the first 4ft. of its trunk being
completely eaten away. It is supported
bodily in the air in a normal perpendicular
position with the upper part of its trunk
firmly grafted into a forked branch of
its companion. Despite its lack of roots
it obtains sufficient nourishment to sus-
tain life.
“Non-nud”: The two pets, a six-
months wether and a younger unmarked
ewe, had, by reason of frequent raids on
the garden, been banished from the pre-
cincts of the homestead. The woolshed
some two miles away seemed homely, so
they moved in, almost gaining a repu-
tation for intelligence. Their camps were
in the darkest corners away from flies,
while they selected a carefully-balanced
diet of natural feeds from outside, with
bale lucerne and nuts inside, these last
stored from a previous drought.
Catching both in a pen, we docked
the ewe’s tail and shore her mate.
For the next half-hour the ewe ran
round all the favorite haunts com-
plaining loudly and often for her
lost mate, who trailed two lengths
behind unrecognised in his suit of
white.
“Nor-west”: Those “killers” (B.
18/6/’4l) that went six days without a
drink were really boozers. Around the
Murchison, the Gascoyne and the Ash-
burton districts of W.A. sheep have been
known to go months without a drink.
One mob on Mardathuna, out from Car-
narvon, once went two years. That’s
during drought times when all water has
long vanished and no rain has fallen, as
in the Mardathuna case, for a couple
of years. Dewfall is the secret; even in
such deserts there is always some dew,
and the jumbucks, perishing from thirst,
soon learn to get out before sunrise to
do their feeding. Small as such a supply
may seem, it suffices. Man also can
sustain himself by such means ; Binghi,
caught without water in dead-dry coun-
try, rises long before dawn and goes
round licking the leaves. He won’t get a
drink, but he will get enough moisture
that way to help along the supply of
saliva and keep his tongue from swelling
—and that’s at least halfway towards
staving off actual thirst.
* * * *
“Snowy”: And not only old blankets
and rugs (B. 9/7/’4l) have histories. I
have a cashmere shawl which was part
of my mother’s wedding outfit 80 years
ago. It was worn folded three-cornered
and pinned round the shoulders, the back
point resting halfway down the hooped
skirt. In it was wrapped each of her 10
children when they travelled per dogcart
50 miles to Cooma (N.S.W.) to be christ-
ened. As I was the youngest the shawl
became mine. Later it did service for my
children, and when there were no more
babies we used it for years as a sulky
rug. It is fawn-and-brown striped, with
a long tasselled fringe, and, except that
a few tassels are missing, it is in good
condition, sound and unfaded, and at
present does duty on the foot of the bed
in the spare room. Its price when new
was a fiver.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: That Maori who couldn’t
grasp the principles of banking (B.
9/7/’4l) reminds me of old Windlass
William. For as far back as most could
remember he’d been coming in from his
mine about twice a year for a bender
and to get his stores from old Tom
Murray. Then one day a large city busi-
ness house reached out and set up in
opposition to Murray, and William,
tempted by lavish window displays and
cut prices, took his custom to the new
shop. They made up his order and pre-
sented him with the docket, which he
struggled through with difficulty—old
Tom Murray had never bothered about
such trifles. At the bottom of the list
William struck the item “Freight, 7s. 6d.”
“What’s this?” he roared. “Freeite. I
never ordered none of that.” The sleek
young assistant smiled with a superior
air and tried to explain the intricacies of
modern business, but William’s blood
was up. “I never asked for no freeite
and I’m not payin’ for any,” he bellowed.
“You city coves are all the same;
always tryin’ to take us bush blokes
down. I’m goin’ back to old Tom
Murray. ’E’s honest, anyway.” And go
back he did.
* * * *
“Swanlo”; Transplanting pearlshell
southwards has never met with success
anywhere around Australia (B. 2/7/’4l).
Luggers down from the north-west pearl-
ing grounds have many a time brought
both mother shell and spat to the Swan
River, and not seldom small pearls have
been found in that stream. But the trans-
planted shell has always been paper-thin,
though of a fine lustre, while the pearls
have suffered in the same way, lacking
body. And after the next heavy run of
floodwaters the breed has always died
out, probably owing to something lacking
in the mineral content of the ocean
thereabouts. And even the common
oyster, which flourishes in the same lati-
tudes on Australia’s -Pacific coast, fails
to secure a hold on the Indian Ocean
side. Yet pearlshell transplanted from
the south northwards does well. Thus
the small Shark Bay oyster, nearly use-
less save for its pearls, grows into a fine
“fish” if dropped in the chicken stage
into, say, Roebuck Bay. But the trans-
planting industry has never proved profit-
able, for, although the Shark Bay oyster
breeds pearls much more prolificacy
than its aristocratic northern cousin, its
pearls still retain in the more northern
waters that faint straw tint which mark-
edly detracts from their value as com-
pared with the “stones” from the lordly
Meleagrina margaritifera.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Like most other creatures,
the snake follows the line of least re-
sistance whenever possible. Hence his
practice of using a makeshift nest wher-
ever a handy ready-made hole is avail-
able. But when necessity forces he will
dig. And he invariably prefers the hori-
zontal to the vertical. Hence one finds
holes, or more correctly nests, under
stones, fallen trees, etc. And another
thing: although Joe goes into his hole
head-first, he comes out the same way.
Thus his home, although possessed of
only the narrowest possible entrance, is
sufficiently enlarged inside to permit of
his turning right round. One day a
startled black snake shot into the hole
under the big packing-case in a corner of
the camp, a hole that we had previously-
thought harbored only a mouse. I lifted
the case suddenly —there the villain was,
lying shaped like a capital U ; head and
fangs on guard just inside the mouth of
the hole.
“Darling, I just missed a birdie by four strokes."
HARRY HAWKER.
“ ’Planes are now crossing the Atlantic in droves;
it has to be seen to be believed.” —News item.
“Australian Harry Hawker and a companion,
attempting the first Atlantic crossing in an old
Vickers bomber in 1919, were picked up in the sea
only 152 miles short of their destination.”
When Harry Hawker made that trip,
A long, long while ago.
His was the first aerial ship
To cross that Overflow —
The Pond between the Old and New,
But now the job’s just “pie”;
The navigators of the blue
Can eat it as they fly.
But while they do it, don’t forget
That Harry did it first,
Even if he did hit the “wet”
Because a feed-pipe burst.
He got across, all but about
A paltry hundred-mile,
With one old engine, all flat out;
His ’plane would make you smile —
It was a beaut., all open to
The wind and frost and snow,
But Harry crossed that bit of blue
A darned long time ago.
He put his monicker on it,
He wrote it in the sky.
If he was here he’d have a fit
To see those “droves” go by;
Like black swans on the Castlereagh
Or Darling billabongs—
The sort of sight that makes you pray
Or starts you singing songs . ..
Let honor rest where it should be—
Hawker! His name stands clear,
The first bold flier of that sea,
Atlantic pioneer.
N.S.W.
Will Lawson.


*/T
' N
\
h
ABSOLUTELY SAFE!
...and gives USSTATST HEAT
A genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame Stove is absolutely SAFE
and silent. No pricking. No prim-
ing. No pumping. Lights like a
gas stove and is hot instantly. No
pump valves or washers to replace.
Just one fuel, Kerosene. A fill lasts
8 hours. Entirely odourless and
HALF THE PRICE of a pressure
stove.
GENUINE • #
'Mil
iEL. tsiLENT BURNING
See your
local Store.
ĥ
Stout Walking Shoe
SPECIALLY
PRICED!
A tough, serviceable shoe made
pig grain leather. Heavy double
lock stitched tops, also calf lining
Made in black or brown, in full
sizes, wide fittings. Unsurpassed i
and value
ABBEY
SHOES
in strong
sole and
in backs,
and half
n quality
.. 37/6
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
m
, ■
y
37/6
PIG GRAINED
■ *SL
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland National Bank
Net To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1931.. 142,291 6i p.c.= 1137750 1 ~, a 77 ...
Written off premises, £lO,OOO ( 18,,>44 8/7,056
1932.. 74,088 4 p.c.= 70,000 ) ra o 070 :\aa
Written off premises, £2,500 j ’ BB 878, 44
1933.. 75,540 4 p.c.= 70,000 \ „ n , n «si
Written off premises, £2,500 1 3 ’ 040 881>C84
1934.. 09,911 4 p.c.= 70,000 \ _ a7Q no -
Written off premises, £2,500 1 ' a,UJO
1935. . 72,192 4 p.c. = 70,000 1 __
Written off premises, £2500 | o/0,/o/
1936.. 73,648 4 p.c. = 79,000 ) , ~a a7Q
Written off premises, £ 2500 j I>l4B 1 > 148 8,9,93
1937.. 77,320 4* p.c. = 74,375 ) ~, aan „ an
Written off premises, £2500 ) 44 880,380
1938.. 81,671 41 p.c. = 78,750 ) OQ .
Written off -premises, £2500 j 481 880,801
1939.. 84,692 4| p.c. = 80,937 ) „ r
Written off premises, £3OOO ( 881,550
1940.. 91,031 5 p.c. = 87,500 ) ......
Written off premises, £3OOO j ■ 81 882,08/
1941.. 90,835 5 p.c. = 87,500 ) „„ r QQO ...
Written off premises, £3OOOl 33G 882,422
The Q.N.’s figures reflect conditions in
its home State, where about 90 p.c. of
its business is done. Here, during the
first half of the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts, drought affected the
big pastoral areas out west, and butter
and cheese output in the southern coastal
areas suffered from the same cause. But
a change in seasonal outlook early in
1941 and prompt payment for wool and
other exports by Britain helped to reduce
the demand for bank accommodation
from primary producers. Sugar produc-
tion was down, but the quantity of cotton
ginned nearly doubled, and the yield of
wheat was above average. Still, there
was a net increase of £440,987 in the
Q.N.’s advances, largely on account of
expanding industrial activity—stimulated
by the growing demand for essential war
goods—and the call from retailers and
others who decided to build up stocks
in anticipation of price rises and delivery
difficulties.
To meet the call from customers
liquids were drawn upon for £452,987,
reducing them to 46.5 p.c. of liabilities
to the public:
1933. 1939. 1940. 1941,
Paid £ £ £, £
capital . .1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Interminable
stock ..3,015,095 2,690,133 2,677,307 2,665,298
Bills, etc. 302,531 384,204 442,973 425,115
Deposits . .7,872,214 9,237,965 9,441,382 9,462,091
Liquid
assets ..4,612,512 4,151,337 5,051,131 4,598,144
Advances. .8,694,760 10,260,491 9,610,696 10,051,672
Premises.. 549,253 573,593 575,672 578,862
The net growth in deposits was £20,709
—current and fixed accounts aren’t sepa-
rated in the published sheet. When the
books closed advances amounted to
106.2 p.c. of deposits, compared with
101.8 p.c. and 111 p.c. at the two preced-
ing balances. The bank was holding only
375. 4d. of the public’s money for every
pound of its own, including interminable
stock, a reminder of the 1890’s. It’s a
strong position, indicating the bank’s
ability to extend its lending connections
further.
The. slight contraction (£196) in net
earnings was due to a bigger but undis-
closed allowance for taxation. The profit
(£90,835) was 5.2 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 5.2, 4.8, 4.6, 4.4, 4.2, 4.1 and
4 p.c. back to 1934. The div, was kept
at 5 p.c.
During the year the board bought
£12,009 of the interminable deposit stock
at a profit—which was passed to inner
reserves reducing the figure to
£2,665,298, This money is costing the
bank 3% p.c., and shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) are turn-
ing in 3.4 p.c. net, so the stock is just
gbout earning its keep, which is all that
it seems likely to do—for the present, at
any rate.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is bright enough, but what course
the war will follow, to what extent we
may become involved with Japan, and
the consequent political and economic
repercussions remain to be seen. One
possibility is interruption to normal ship-
ping routes, which would mean, among
other things, further dislocation of im-
ports and exports, while taxation and
costs 1 ' continue to climb. Also our war
effort will become more intensified, and
therefore more costly. Still, the national
effort cannot be allowed to fail for want
of the means of payment. What needs
to be remembered is that inflation is the
enemy of everybody with fixed incomes.
Ihe least harmful method of war finance
lies in a judicious blending of taxation,
loans and central-bank credit, with the
stress on taxation.
At 925. (89s. 6d. a year ago) the Q.N.’s
£5-paid shares return 5.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
150 s. 5d., or 58s. sd. more than the
market reckons they are worth on an
earning-power basis.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
T _ . To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £,
1931.. 38,222 10 p.c. = 44,370 156,190
1932.. 36,051 8 „ „ 35,496 555 156,745
1933.. 35,589 8 „ „ 35,496 93 156,838
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35,496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 .. „ 35.496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 „ „ 35,490 415 168,649
1938.. 42,915 81 „ „ 37,714 5,201 173.850
1939.. 40,191 9 „ „ 39,933 258 174,108
1940.. 42,530 91,. „ 42,152 378 174,486
1941.. 39,685 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
Ihe management, which writes its profits
conservatively, has never been given to
overindulgence in the matter of divs.;
so last term’s 10 p.c., up half-point to
the level of the ’twenties again, may be
significant, considering the distribution
called for £4685 more than was visibly
earned. Still, market for the pound ords.
has slumped from 465. 6d. to 41s. (sellers)
since the beginning of the year,, the lower
valuation returning 4.8 p.c. from current
divs. Written-down value of the cover
is 275. Bd. per share.
Ihe co.’s fleet has been courting
river bars on the fertile N.S.W. North
Coast —the co. enjoys virtually unchal-
lenged right of sea transport from New-
castle to the Queensland border—for
over half a century, shipping farm and
dairy produce to city markets and back-
loading supplies for storekeepers and
others —a select trade largely immune
from fluctuations in the length of inter-
state manifests and vagaries of the coal
trade. While Government requisition-
ings have made inroads into available
tonnage, which was further depleted by
foundering of the motor-ship Nimbin
last term, it has meant an assured avenue
of income and provided more work for
vessels remaining. North Coast wasn’t
among the owners affected by the recent
far-reaching requisition order.
Though Nature hasn’t helped, British
purchases of surplus outturn have pro-
vided strong incentive to maximise farm
production. Declared slip of £2845 in
net earnings was mainly the result of the
climb in taxation and marine insurance,
wage, fuel and other costs, which the
management refrained from passing on
in higher freights. On capital the £39,685
ran out at 8.9 p.c., as against 9.5, 9, 9.6,
8 and 9.2 p.c. for the five years preced-
ing. That was after paring depreciation
allowance (£22,000) by £8499 ; the extent
to which taxation and other contingencies
were provided for isn’t indicated.
In five years £137,000 of earnings has
been openly struck off the book value of
ship property, which can obviously stand
stretching:
1931. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* .. 30,859 50,578 60,111 70,604
Ships .. ~ 298,238 314,401 260,300 266,058
Freeholds, etc. 35,859 16,383 15,038 15,038
Liquids .. 318,837 307,568 425,146 425,194
* Including tax provision.
Loss of the Nimbin and progress pay-
ments on two new ships building locally
don’t show up there, being covered by
insurance payments and depreciation. Of
the fine accumulation of liquids, £350,373
comprises Consols (another source of
inner strength) and cash, together 15s. 9d.
per share. Expansion in the debt is con-
nected with tax provision included
therein.
Freight adjustments, the first since the
outbreak of war, came into effect on
July 1, and, though Britain will take less
of all types of primary produce in the
third year of war, Canberra has tem-
porarily eased the situation for producers
by entering the market itself.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to lie- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 10,790 3 p.e. = 6,969 Nil I „o lq *0 soo
Provident Fund, £5OB .. j 3319 69,890
1985.. 11,869 3 p.c.= 6,969 2317 I 71
Provident Fund, £524 .. J ‘ joj9 7 1,0 49
1933.. 12,407 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 ) „ nR7 ,
Provident Fund, £612 .. J 2087 74,0u6
1934.. 20,739 5 p.c. = 11,016 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 4578 77,397
1936. . 22,403 5 ~ „ 12,403 6723 3217 80,014
1937.. 26,622 0 „ „ 14,949 7056 4017 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 ~ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,155
1939.. 7,610 23,, „ 7,499 Nil 111 88,260
1940.. 20,648 4 „ „ 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
1941.. 17,334 3 „ ~ 9,000 3289 5045 99,102
The business spreads mainly throughout
south-western N.S.W. and northern Vic-
toria ; but there are connections also
with northern N.S.W. graziers, to protect
which, in view of the growing import-
ance of Newcastle as an appraise-
ment and selling centre, the board is
acquiring “an important interest” in
Nennco (New England North and North-
West Producers’ Co., Ltd.), the pioneer
Newcastle co.
Woolbroking activities are most promi-
nent in N.S.W., livestock-dealing at New-
market (Vic.). Seasons weren’t favor-
able most of last year, and wool receipts
fell 11,415 bales; but because of the
previous term’s heavy carryover actual
disposals were 4643 bales heavier:
f Wool, Bales
Year Dis- Carry-
Mar., Receipts. posals. forward. Sheep. Cattle.
1936 .. 123,613 142,545 1,783 539,227 37,877
1937 .. ,133,267 124,305 10,745 624,183 30,394
1938 .. 131,826 122,262 19,809 644,445 28,841
1939 .. 113,658 125,089 8,378 608,566 20,272
1940 . . 141,996 135,311 15,063 519,345 26,859
1941 .. 130,581 139,954 5,690 559,141 18,659
Cattle sales were 8200 head lower, but
an additional 39,796 sheep were put
under the hammer.
In the result, gross earnings showed
little change, while a growth in exes,
left the net balance £3314 lighter
at £17,334. Of that, £3289 (10 p.c.)
was chipped off wool commissions, the
residue of earnings representing 4.6 p.c.
on capital, compared with 5.8 p.c. in 1940.
Div. was lowered from 4 p.c. to 3 p.c.,
and £5045 ploughed in.
Prompt settlements by the Central
Wool Committee enabled debtors to
repay £134,797 of advances;
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital ~ £249,116 £299,953 £299,980 £300,000
Sundry ] f
creditors, etc. [ 361,692 1 202,821 179,290 149,708
Overdraft, etc. J [ 238,657 310,441 • 232,587
Provident fund 39,300 50,374 54,627 59,282
Freeholds, etc. 416,275 476,366 479,023 498,777
Stocks .. 10,994 14,476 31,341 46,059
Book debts 1 f 398,092 432,725 297,928
Cash and!,,, Ql7 J
P u b 1 j c f 315,917 j
securities J [ 7,736 - 7,306 6,915
This in turn facilitated reduction in the
co.’s own indebtedness by £107,436 and.
additions of £19,754 to freeholds—stor-
age facilities are scarce these days—and
£14,718 to stocks. The excess of outside
liabilities over more or less liquids in-
creased from £18,359 to £31,393. When
the books closed, excluding provident
fund, there was 19s. lOd. of outside
money at risk for every pound of share-
holders’ equity.
As for the current term, further rains
are needed. The Imperial purchase
deal has infused a measure of stability
into woolbroking activities; but export
difficulties portend lighter earnings on
stock account, despite Government pro-
posals to buy unexportable lamb and
canned mutton. Anticipating no marked
improvement in earnings, the market
prices the pound shares to yield an im-
mediate 5.2 p.c, at 11s. 6d. The net tan-
gible cover is 265. 7d.
Automobile Fire and General (Melb.)
Bonus, Dividends
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur-Policy- 12 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 p.c.= 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,704 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14.073 3103 300 12 ~ ~ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 2700 53,648
174 p.c.
1935.-18,984 2423 437 174,, „ 3938 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ „ 4500 13,032 78,866
1937.. 18.937 2777 500 20 „ „ 4500 11,160 90,026
1938.. 32.463 2913 500 20 „ „ 4500 24,550 114,576
1939.. 12.016 3043 500 20 „ „ 7625 848 115,424
1940.. 18.331 3389 500 20 „ „ 9500 4,942 120,366
1941.. 17.799 3524 500 20 ~ ~ 9500 4,275 124,641
In a field which most other underwriters
have found poorly remunerative, this
little Melbourne co. has long been ex-
ceedingly prosperous. However, more
stringent petrol-rationing, which pushed
relatively few cars off the roads in the
period covered by the latest accounts,
threatens sharp cut in current income,
which will be affected further by last
month’s 10 p.c. reduction in private-car
rates for other than third-party cover,
which is now compulsory in Victoria at
fixed rates. What compensations there
may be in a lighter claims experience,
already beginning to show up, has to be
seen.
Following a one-for-one par issue in
1938, connections widened rapidly ; but
so did the risks and costs of the bigger
business, and there has been no benefit
to profits:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1928.. £63,711 £41,501 £16,065 65.1 p.c. 25.2 p.c.
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394 41.5 „ 42.0 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 „ 35.9 „
1939.. 127,579 72,502 51,059 56.8 „ 40.0 ~
1940.. 135,889 71,359 56,366 52.5 „ 41.5 „
1941.. 133,252 63,436 59,853 47.0 „ 44.9 „
Last year’s lift in outgoings was
mainly in respect of taxation —the reserve
for the purpose (£5577) lifted £2877 net.
Lighter traffic is reflected in the smaller
crop of claims, however, and, the way the
“Wild Cat” looks at things, the under-
writing surplus improved £1799 to £9963.
Income from other sources turned in
£7836 (down £2331). So, after rebating
£3524 to policy-holders, there was £14,275
(£667 less) to show to shareholders, or
28.5 p.c. on capital, compared with 29.9
and 22 p.c. for the two years before.
Though the 20 p.c. div. was again
covered with £4275 to spare, mainten-
ance of that rate looks more than can be
expected. Still, provided underwriting
breaks even—it will partly depend on how
heavily overhead presses—a 15 p.c. hand-
out would be covered by investment in-
come alone. On that basis the £1 ords.
paid to 10s. and covered by 365. 3d. in
net tangibles yield 5.7 p.c. at 265. There
are 95,000 issued, apart from 5000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs., which participate fully with
the former beyond that rate.
Policy-holders can see Consols and cash
equal to 116 p.c. of the year’s retained
premiums backing their contracts:
1930. 1934. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £25,000 £25,000 £50,000 £50,000
Liabilities . . 10,905 21,436 33,182 34,111
Freehold, etc. .. 42,576 43,034 53,012 52,793
Debtors . . . . 10,637 6,122 15,179 14,641
Investments and cash 41,268 58,429 146,556 155,418
A 40 p.c. ratio is usually considered evi-
dence of conservative liquidity, and there
is another £50,000 of capital at call,
should the need arise.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
Dividends. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 9,904 8 p.c. = 3,331 6,573 19,942
1937.. 8,194 8 ~ ~ 3,331 4,863 24,805
Surplus electrical undertaking-, £7500.. 32,305
1938.. 12,330 11.1 p.c. = 4,626 7.704 40,009
1939.. 9,044 11.1 ~ „ 4,626 4,418 44,427
1940.. 9,597 11.1 „ „ 4,626 4,971 49,398
1941.. 15,469 16.7 „ „ 9,253 6,216 55,614
Even before war’s stimulus to a (till
then) overproduced industry, this country
mill was getting along in encouraging
style measured by the ratio of profits
to capital. Until the beginning of
last year there was £50,889 less of the
latter than there used to be, however,
that much having gone overboard in a
clean-up of finances in 1931, when 11s.
per pound share was used to eliminate
intangibles and write down the work-
ing assets. Conservation of profits by


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
» * * ♦
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY. T. Sc G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Svdney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * • *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
Position Wanted.
MINE ACCOUNTANT, single (50), not eligible
military service, 8 years West Africa, 8 years
Siam and Malaya, 6 years Australia, with
mining interests, desires position abroad. Fully
experienced, especially with dredging accounts,
and used to temporary management, control,
etc. Salary required, £7OO sterling, free fur-
nished quarters, first-class return fares, and all
other usual allowances. Reply in first instance
to No. 304, Advt. Dept., Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
PTC
MtdMWWW I #C?
11 11
'
s§
-. Q
Do yon want Security
FOR YOUR OLD ARE ?
MOST men do. They want individual security for themselves
and their families; security that measures up to their idea of a
proper standard of living. They want to be sure that they
will always be able to enjoy the good things of life.
The A.M.P. representative nearest to your home, Sir, can show
you how the Society can help you win this security. Ask him to call
on you. Ask him to explain how you can arrange for (1) a lump sum
on retirement or (2) an income as long as you live after retirement.
If you prefer, write for a copy of a booklet, "Investing in
Happiness.” It should help you find the road to security. Write
to-day.
To the A.M.P. Society.
Yes, I want security. Send me a copy of "Investing in Happiness.”
Name
Address
Age next birthday
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, fc.B.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
District Offices throughout all States.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
mm
10 for Iod. 20f«rl «
CRAVEN A.
IfottU appreciate
tuiitaiulitujf tjptaU&t "
h
PREVENT
the changed management had accumu-
lated reserves at the end of March m
excess of the present £55,512 of share
capital, of which £13,876 was gathered
in the period covered by the latest
accounts. It suggests the possibility of
some of the lost capital being restored it
the co. can maintain its position in what
present expansion threatens to make a
difficult post-war period for these kniT
wear, etc., manufacturers.
Meantime the co. is paying an all-
round 16.7 p.c. without straining anything
—the 52,525 prefs., which also figured in
the capital cut of 1931, participate fully
with the ords. for divs. above their cumu-
lative 8 p.c. Gross earnings (£58,207)
lifted £27,190, indicating something of
normal idle potential. After charging
£3246 for depreciation, profit (up £5872)
was 27.9 p.c. on average capital, com-
pared with 23, 21.7 and 29.6 p.c. for the
three preceding periods.
Last year’s new capital was applied to
reinforcing finances, which have never
been more shipshape:
1930. 1937. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. £93,003 £41,636 £41,636 £55,512
Liabilities* .. 53,223 24,318 34,091 29,998
Freeholds •. 13,496 10,885 13,815 13,815
Plant etc. .. 50,581 19,615 21,696 21,201
Debtors .. 18,823 20,793 25,353 26,023
Stock. . .. 53,845 42,304 66,329 74,555
Shares . ■ - 3,000 3,000
Cash, etc. .. 629 492 558 13,783
* Including tax provision.
Most of the new issue was held in cash
at the end of March, suggesting that
further extension is contemplated. Surplus
earnings financed the accretion of £8226
in stocks, the more or less liquid surplus
£84,363) stepping up £26,214. The share-
holding is scrip in an associate co., Inter-
knit Hosiery, of Clunes, substantially in-
terested in making socks for the services.
Buyers optimistically offer 12s. 6d. for
Maryborough scrip, at which dealings
were reported in May ; but sellers remain
in their shell. From current divs. the
buyer’s price would yield 12 p.c. Cover
is 425. 4d. prefs., 245. Bd. ords.
In its fourth year of digging, Welling-
ton Alluvials (N.S.W.) is to break its duck
with a 4d. distribution. That rate of
div. will take 12 years to repay the
present market, which has lifted to
4s. 2d. per share, representing 41s. Bd.
per pound of capital paid up. The co.
hasn’t met with the best of luck ; but
there’s nothing in its record to date to
justify the flattering premium now being
asked and paid. Net earnings after de-
preciation were no more than 4|d. per
share in the year to April, and the
value (1.65 gr.) of ground immediately
ahead suggests that the level of profits
will be lower still over the next couple
of years unless something can be done
about costs. Present market is all the
more puzzling when compared with that
for the pound scrip of, say, the Maori-
land dredgers Arahura and Kanieri, both
of which pay 3s. a share annually and
command premiums of only 6s. and 2s.
a share respectively. Perhaps their 2s.
denomination may have attracted undue
speculation in Wellington Alluvials’
shares ; or the co.’s B.H.P. connections —
it was Prop.-fostered —may be responsible
for a lot of wishful thinking. Sale of
the Orange-Apsley transmission line to
the State Railways for £30,772 has lately
benefited finances.
* * * *
The substantial earnings of Central
Norseman, Norseman (W.A.), continue
to go back mainly into the co.’s Mararoa
mine, enabling small impression to be
made on the debt (now £255,545), and
no hint is given as to when this capital
drain on profits is likely to let up. Ap-
parent capital outlay last term (£133,333)
was only £18,213 short of the profit
claimed, the whole of which was appro-
priated to meet the item and/or depre-
ciation. Operating figures show more
work for smaller earnings:
Year Treated, f Gold 1 . Costs,
Mar., Tons.* Oz. Dwt. Ton. Profit.
1940 .. 88,267 37,678 8.64 35/9 £201,301
1941 .. 98,734 36,077 7.31 39/5 151,546
* Excluding tributing ore (now ceased).
That was because of a fall from 83s. 2d.
to 725. 3d. a ton in recoveries and higher
costs —the latter more apparent than real,
owing to inclusion of an unrecurring
item of 4s. 6d. a ton in order to adjust
ore stocks. In addition, depreciation
reserve showed an unexplained reduc-
tion of £8639. Measured by ore reserves,
the mine is less favorably situated than a
year ago, a decline of 17,000 tons in ton-
nage (328,000) having been accompanied
by a shrinkage of I.3dwt. in grade
(6.9dwt.). That excludes another 21,000
tons of 7.2dwt. stuff in the Lady Miller
reef. There are 1,600,000 55.-paid shares
on issue, 1,300,000 held by Western
Mining Corp. and 300,000 by Phoenix
Mines, N.L., previous owner of the
property. Gold Exploration and Finance,
which controls Western Mining Corp.,
has a five-year option over another
2,000,000 in consideration for advances
—£236,457 at March 31.
» * * •
Allowing for extraction of 20,539 tons
(up 20 p.c.), development at Cox’s Find,
in the remote Erlistoun district (W.A.),
last year added practically nothing to ore
reserves, down 17,200 to 24,500 tons,
grade unchanged at 11.6dwt. The ounce
(and better) values which characterised
the upper levels of this producer have dis-
appeared in depth, where mining has also
become progressively difficult because of
water and the flattening and irregular
occurrence of the ore-shoots. Excluding
development, working costs were got
back 4s. Id. to 68s. 9d. a ton, but an-
other fall from 13.1dwt. to 9.sdwt. in
recoveries pulled the net result down
from £30,223 to £11,437 before deprecia-
tion. Western Mining Corp. (three
quarters) and Central Gold (one quarter)
are joint owners.
* * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) pays a final
dividend out of goldmining profits for
1940 of Is. a share, making Is. 6d. for
the year, against 2s. for each of the three
previous years. Co.’s production for
1940 was 48,861 fine oz., representing
an average extraction of 6.3Bdwt. Yield
includes that from Croesus Proprietary
block, where a separate treatment plant
kicked off last September. Some im-
portant ore exposures were made in the
North Kalgurli, Kalgurli and Croesus Pro-
prietary blocks during 1940.
* * ♦ ♦
Prospects of South Kalgurli (W*A.)
have brightened. An Bft, cross-lode aver-
aging sdwt. a ton has been exposed over
a length of 200 ft. at the No. 19 level, and
has also been broken into at the 15th and
16th levels. At the 16th level another
cross-lode 6ft. wide and averaging 13dwt.
a ton has been opened up. This wealth-
carrier is being explored at the 15th level,
where values appear to be the same,
although the width is less. It is probable
that after a stoppage for many years
shaft-sinking will be resumed below the
19th level in order to look for the con-
tinuation of these cross-lodes in deeper
ground.
The stabbing by a diamond-drill some
time ago and subsequent confirmation
by a crosscut of a 60ft.-wide ounce lode
at a depth of 2650 ft, in the Lake View
mine is described in the latest annual
report of Dick Wilson, Westralia’s State
Mining Engineer, as the most outstand-
ing ore exposure on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile for many years. The posi-
tion of the lode is 600 ft. west of the
Lake View main shaft and 100 ft. from
the Gt. Boulder boundary. It is thought
to be the northerly continuation of the
Lake View main lode.
* * * *
The increased price of copper has
started a crop of new producers in the
Cloncurry district (N.Q.). Seeing the
urgency of lifting production, the Gov-
ernment might well have a geological
examination made of all the new produc-
ing shows. A Carbine in copper could
well be the outcome in this district blessed
with rich secondary carbonates and
oxides. The new list of producers is
twice as long as three months ago, but,
as they have not yet got into their stride,
they do not yet make up the falling-
off in Trekelano,


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
AMERICA’S HUGE PRODUCTION.
lAqycme jucWns by reports in American sensation
sheets would think that war-effort production in the
was dangerously behind schedule. A very
tnZT is presented the articles here con-
v ’ Fle ?. rst ’. surveying the U.S. war production
position generally, is from a July American “Mercury”
Machinist >® urnham Fin ney, editor of “The American
About a y ear a H° the U.S.A. started to build the
piggest industry the country has ever known. The
srSSl 7 W I S ™ unitions making. We began from
scratch without any nucleus except a few army
arsenals, a naval-gun factory and a puny aviation in-
dustry. It was the equivalent of launching a com-
\ i n - ew ve pture, on a scale beyond the greatest
undertakings of the past. s
The world marvelled at the magnitude of the
operation of building the Panama Canal. On the
basis of cost, American industry has been given the
task of constructing five Panama Canals a month for
an indefinite period ahead. Later it is likely to be
fnH en t° r ei fi ht u° r t ? n ' J Com P resse d within 12 months,
industry will be asked to turn out defence equipment
planes tanks, ships, guns, ammunition—equivalent
to 60 or 70 Panama Canals,
One thing can be said without equivocation and
needs to be said above the chorus of complaint.
Defence production programme is not “in a mess.”
There is emphatically no cause for defeatism on the
subject. Unquestionably, things could be better : but
America is achieving another miracle of the indus-
trial age.
A broad programme has been laid down on land
on water and in the air. It calls for;
(1) Production of all combat equipment for an
army of 2,000,000 men and all heavy equipment for
an additional 800,000 men ; together with the creation
of productive capacity for making all goods essen-
tial tor an army of another 1,200,000 men.
(2) Construction of a navy of over 900 ships the
largest and most powerful naval force in world his-
tory, with fleets in both the Atlantic and Pacific The
warships, cruisers, destroyers and other fighting craft
require supply ships and fleet auxiliary
units. Then come cargo ships for Britain.
(3) Creation of an air armada, and
the capacity for building it, the like of
which the world has never seen ; 50,000
or more military ’planes was the first
objective, a goal that has since then been
raised. The new bomber programme
announced in May specifies production
of over 2000 bombing ’planes a month
by 1943.
Machine tools are the machines on
which all other machines and metal-
working equipment are made. Without
them, mass production would be impos-
sible. Originally asked to make
$380,000,000 worth of machines for de-
fence, the machine-tool industry com-
pleted that task in eight or nine months.
But the rapidly-widening scope of the
defence programme put an ever larger
burden on the industry. Just now it must
build almost $500,000,000 worth of tools
for the new bomber schedule alone!
From a low point of $22,000,000 in the
entire year 1932 the industry has enlarged
to an output of $60,000,000 a month in
April of this year. That is twice the
volume of a year ago. By next January
production should be on a basis close to
$1,000,000,000 a year. Neither in Ger-
many nor England has the machine-tool
industry ever approached such volume
as the U.S.A.’s is already handling.
Until recently smokeless-powder production was
little more than 50,0001 b. a day, though it is estimated
that half a pound daily is needed for each man in
battle. Facilities for manufacture in quantities large
enough to supply all needs are under way at Charles-
town, Ind., Radford, Va., and Childersburg, Ala, The
Charlestown plant, opened 30 days ahead of time, is
the world’s largest powder factory. Output will rise
steadily during the last half of 1941 and will attain
full schedule in the first half of 1942.
No official figures are available, but airplane-
engine output has been stepped up sharply in the past
six months. It is now better than 3000 units a month.
The U.S. army is planning eight armored divi-
sions ; each division has 287 light tanks and 110
medium, or a total of 397 tanks. For the eight divi-
sions projected, 3176 tanks would be needed. In addi-
tion, five separate armored battalions may be formed,
requiring heavy tanks ; and British needs must be met.
By August total production of light tanks will reach
1000. Chrysler Corporation agreed to erect a new
tafik arsenal at Detroit on a mass-production basis in
August, 1940, It was to be ready in 13 months and
would turn out tanks at a rate of 20 every 24 hours.
The Battles of Flanders and France revealed many
weaknesses in medium-tank construction, particularly
in armor plate and fire power. A completely new tank
was designed by October, 1940. In April of this year
pilot models came off the lines at three factories:
Chrysler, American Locomotive Company and Baldwin
Locomotive Company. First production at all three
factories is looked for in July and August, climbing
sharply for the remainder of the year. The Germans
have used heavy tanks, but no satisfactory report has
come through regarding their efficiency. The U.S.
Army’s heavy tanks probably won’t exceed 50 tons,
though the Germans reputedly have employed 70- and
80-tonners. Those who figured that building tanks
was a cinch soon learned differently. They are land
battleships. The medium tank carries eight .30 calibre
ma . < T. ine 'B un s, one 37-millimetre cannon and one 75-
rni imetre cannon. But the United States has some
a van age in tank manufacture because of pre-emi-
nence in automotive and rail equipment building.
In 1937 the U.S. Army had only about 12,000
m f ° or current programme specifies a total
° ji 50,000 motor vehicles, apart from tanks and so-
called combat cars.” Here is a product for which
we don’t have to wait months. The United States
has a large and efficient motor-truck industry. All
250,000 motor vehicles will be delivered to Uncle Sam
by the early autumn of 1941.
In May mass production of machine-guns had
begun, with four plants in operation, four more to
come in during June, another in July and two more in
August. By late autumn machine-guns will be com-
ing off assembly lines at an unprecedented rate.
Figured on a basis of 24-hour operation seven days
a week, a latest-type machine-gun will be completed
in American factories every two minutes.
By the end of 1941 small arms ammunition out-
put will be not far from 1,000,000 rounds of ammuni-
tion an hour.
In the last year ’plane output has been tripled.
In the first four months of 1941 the production of
military ’planes numbered 4651 units ; the April figure
was 1376. With the rate scheduled to go to 2000 a
month by August and to 2500 a month by next March,
the 1941 total should be 18,000 ’planes, or three times
the 1940 figure. Most of the present output consists
of single-engined fighters and trainers. The propor-
tion of big bombers, and even of the smaller bombers,
goes up slowly. It takes more time to build them
and more time to create plant capacity to produce
them. More appropriations and more contracts will
call for 44,000 by the middle of 1942 and a total of
80,000 up to sometime in 1943.
The semi-automatic Garand rifle, standard in the
U.S. Army today, is being turned out at a rate of
about 800 to 1000 a day. Twenty-five plants will
—New York “PM.”
NOT AS DEAD AS HE THOUGHT.
eventually produce field and anti-aircraft guns. One
aircraft-cannon factory is in operation, a second is
about to start and two others are tooling up.
Some 1120 naval and commercial ships must be
built, of which 266 are to be delivered by December,
1941. It is safe to guess that more than that number
will be completed by the time limit. Not long ago a
new ship for the navy was being launched every 12
days ; the rate has been speeded since then. Com-
mercial ships are being launched at the rate of one
every five days. Re-equipping and expanding an in-
dustry which, like Rip Van Winkle, had been slum-
bering for almost 20 years was no mean task.
Thus the vast, unprecedented, truly magnificent
development of an American munitions industry is
getting under way.
Two million men have been employed in Ameri-
can industry as a direct or indirect result of the defence
programme. Another million and a half are likely
to be required by the end of 1941. In the next 18
months the shipbuilding industry, including Govern-
ment yards, must expand its forces by 305,000
workers; it now employs 251,000. Of the machine-
tool industry’s 85,000 employees, over half have been
put on the payroll in the last year. No skilled man
should be without a job today.
Yet there is no acute shortage in man-power.
There are good reasons why. By next January more
than a million workers will have received training in
public schools and engineering institutions; several
hundred thousand others will have had work experi-
ence with related training. Private industry has trained
tens of thousands more. But the most plausible reason
for absence of a serious shortage of labor is in the
mass-production process itself. Manufacture has been
broken down into relatively simple operations of a
repetitive nature, so that men learn quickly and reason-
ably well someone operation. Men off farms or from
small towns make passable machine operators in three
months.
How far has Uncle Sam come down the arma-
ment road since last September, when the defence
effort started in earnest? Here is the record, open to
public inspection: —
1. Total defence contracts awarded to American
industry amount to $13,000,000,000 and are rapidly
going up. Anyone familiar with the intricacies of con-
tract placing, involving expenditures on such a vast scale,
will admit that a big job has been done.
2. About 800 factories have been erected at a cost in
excess of $2,000,000,000, of which one-third was
financed privately under a Government guarantee. On
March 30 the Government was committed to spending
$2,000,000,000 for new industrial plants.
3. Direct expenditures for the defence programme
rose from $219,000,000 in September, 1940, to
$572,300,000 in January, 1941, and jumped to
$761,000,000 in April. By April, 1942, it is expected
that output will get up to $2,000,000,000 a month.
4. The nation’s industries are about 80 per cent,
retooled for the defence job.
5. Before the end of the summer mass production
of munitions should be under way. Before the spring
of 1942 war materials will be coming off the assembly
lines of this country at a dizzy pace.
6. The U.S.A. is at least eight months ahead of
where it was in 1917-18 after a year of effort.
When mass-production factories get into full
swing, the speed with which we will turn out war
materials for Britain and ourselves will amaze the
world.
Russian Oil.
(Condensed from a New York “Journal of Commerce"
article.)
Last year 216,000,000 barrels of crude oil were
produced in Soviet territory, placing Russia in second
place among world oil-producing countries.
The bulk of the Russian production comes from
the Baku and Grozny fields in the Caucasus, at or
near the western shores of the Caspian Sea. In 1939,
the Baku and near-by fields in the Tartar Azerbaidjan
republic produced almost 75 p.c. of the entire Russian
output, and the Grozny field to the north was the
chief supplementary source of produc-
tion. Third in importance was the
Maikop field in the north-western part of
the Caucasus near the Black Sea, but this
area accounted for only 7 p.c. of the
total. The only other important field was
the Ural-Volga, even further from Cen-
tral Europe, where 6.4 p.c. of the total
output was produced in 1939.
In order to reach the Baku and
Grozny fields, which alone would pro-
vide major relief for Germany’s oil short-,
age, the German armies would have to
march a thousand miles across the
Ukraine into the mountainous Caucasus
area. Even if the Russian armies fail to
stem the Nazi advance through the flat
Ukraine, they may be able to make a
stand at the mountains. Considerable
damage could be done to the oilfields
before they are abandoned, although effi-
cient German personnel could probably
restore production within a relatively
short time.
Most of the Caucasian oil is refined
near the producing regions and moved
by tank car to consuming centres in the
Soviet Union. Pipelines have been built
to carry crude across the Caucasian
peninsula to Black Sea ports, and some
small capacity lines also serve refineries
200 miles or so inland. The largest pipe-
line terminates at Batum, on the Black
Sea, where a large refinery is located, and
whence oil products are exported via the Black and
Mediterranean Seas.
This water route would doubtless be utilised to
carry large quantities of petroleum to Germany, if the
Nazi armies take over the Caucasus. The Danube
would furnish a water artery over which oil barges
could then be moved from the Black Sea into Ger-
many proper. However, not until the Germans occupy
the Caucasian producing areas proper and establish an
adequate fleet of tankers and barges to carry the oil,
will they obtain any major relief in Russia for their
own shortage of oil.
Germany’s Disappointed Aims.
('Condensed from a New York “Herald Tribune” article .)
In his magnificent Berlin Diary William L. Shirer
[a former press correspondent in Germany] brings out
clearly the unquestioning confidence which filled not
only the German Army and people but their Fiihrer
as the Compiegne armistice was signed a year ago.
The former were eager for the peace which had been
so brilliantly won after their seven years of privation
and preparedness; the latter was swollen with the
vengeance which in another month or so would be
complete. The seven years are now eight. Twelve
long months have passed since then. They have passed
in a further unbroken succession of spectacular vic-
tories. Yet each of those victories has in reality ended
with defeat; this is the paradoxical but inescapable
fact fundamental to any consideration of the strategy
of the Russian war.
The diplomatic victory of Compiegne was to bring
Britain suing for a peace. She did not come. The
invasion threat was mounted in order to speed her
submission. It failed. The Luftwaffe advanced to
blast the R.A.F. out of the air; its “victory” was a
defeat, and invasion had to be abandoned. The night
bombers through the winter pounded the British cities
into rubble, while the British could make only a weak


retaliation; but British war potential continued to
mount, and again a “victory” had won nothing but
failure.
The last serious attempt to exploit military suc-
cess by diplomatic means was the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo
alliance. This was a big diplomatic victory under the
Klieg lights at Berlin ; it brought only a severe diplo-
matic defeat in London and, above all, in the United
States. The Battle of the Atlantic was launched in
March ; we know how grim is that struggle, but we
also know that three months later it has not brought
decisive results, and has brought the American people
to the realisation that it must be ended decisively
against Germany.
Then came the victorious sweep through the
Balkans with the auxiliary sweep through Libya, aimed
at Suez, at the communications and at the oil of the
Near East. It ended in Crete and at Solium ; another
victory defeated in its only purpose, which was to
conquer peace. What next? Hitler was already a
year behind his timetable, still tangled in an “elastic
defence” being conducted by the British on a vast
scale. Always they had got away—and gone on fight-
ing. We can only guess, from such hints as the Hess
episode, at what pressures he was meeting from within
—pressures of short ration and war strain, of Com-
munist infiltration, of “old Nazi” restlessness against
the entente with the Soviets, of Catholic disaffection.
Hitler needed positive results. Where was he to get
them?
There seems no reason to doubt that the basic
consideration was exactly what he declared it to be:
so long as any considerable ground and air force had
to be left on guard against Russia, the knockout blow
against Britain was out of the question. Doubtless he
might have continued the drive to the south-east, but
that was a hard, time-consuming road with no clearly
decisive results to be gained at the end. There re-
mained the alternatives of stripping the eastern front
and relying on Russian passivity while he made the
all-out assault on Britain, or stripping the western
front while he eliminated Soviet military power and
so freed his total resources for a final effort.
But why should he have chosen the second and
seemingly more reckless course? It had important
ancillary advantages. Reviving the anti-Communist
crusade might still take in the gullible in Britain and
the United States as well as ease the pressures at
home. Wheat and oil lay ultimately beyond the Rus-
sian lines. But primarily, one infers, the choice re-
sulted from the belief that he could reduce Russia to
military impotence more quickly and easily than he
could take Britain. The main and immediate objective
of the military attack is not wheat and oil (which it
might, at best, take months or years to extract in any
quantity); it is the Russian Army itself, which may
well have seemed an easier prey than the British Isles.
One wonders if Greece and Crete did not induce
some second thoughts among Hitler’s architects of
slaughter. The crushing military victories —Poland,
France, Yugoslavia—were won with relatively little
fighting. Ponderous armies were in each case slashed
through, paralysed and captured. But when the Nazis
came up against the heroic Greeks and British they
ran into something new ; by that time, their over-
whelming weight of numbers made the defence hope-
less, but the defenders fell back in good order, pro-
tected by relatively narrow fronts, and taking a toll
which may have given the Germans a certain distaste
for that kind of warfare. The Red Army—huge, pre-
sumably unwieldy, deployed on wide plains like those
in which the Poles were trapped —may have seemed
an easier prospect.
If dividing and trapping the main masses of the
Red Army is the aim, then the fate of that army is
the one thing that matters. If it is annihilated, as
was the French, then Hitler will have won freedom
for sweeping action, diplomatic, political and mili-
tary, against Britain and against civilisation. If it
remains in being, then, however wide Hitler’s terri-
torial gains, and whatever political capital he may
seek to make out of them, all these victories will mean
only another defeat.
No Easy Victory at Sea.
(Condensed from on article by Hew York "Times" naval
correspondent Hanson W. Baldwin.)
Several observers have said that if the United
States would immediately undertake any and all sea
and air measures necessary to counteract the German
submarine, surface raider, mine and ’plane blockade,
the Battle of the Atlantic would be won by Britain
and the United States within a month.
This is a dangerous statement, and almost certainly
untrue. It encourages the belief that we can defeat
Germany by half measures, which is contrary to any
sound estimate of the situation, and it ignores the
very nature of the present attrition warfare at sea.
Attrition war is a slow, gruelling and intense struggle,
into which, past experience has shown, more and more
forces must constantly be poured in by both sides.
There is no single, clear-cut solution of the Ger-
man counter-blockade, such as the convoy system of
1917. The present type of attrition war, made far
more deadly by the ’plane, can be answered only by
fighting ships and fighting ’planes of many types and
in constantly increasing numbers.
The Germans are probably operating more long-
range submarines than they operated at any time
during the World War; the depredations of these
U-boats now extend from the latitude of Greenland
to the Equator and as far west as 45 degrees, or close
to the Newfoundland Banks. Yet the Germans have
not reached the peak of their submarine capacity, nor
are they now striking with full force in the air against
the vital British sea lanes and the bottlenecks of the
ports.
There is no doubt that if American ships and
’planes began shooting and bombing in the Battle of
the Atlantic tomorrow, the rate of ship losses would be
sharply reduced immediately. But the effectiveness of
this defence would be challenged by a stronger offence
as the Germans extended their scope of operations and
intensified their efforts. This would call for constantly
increasing effort on our part.
When the last war ended Rear-Admiral William
S. Sims wrote in his book, The Victory at Sea, that
the United States had “seventy-nine destroyers in
European waters, while Great Britain had about 400.”
We had in all, on the day of the Armistice, 370 men-
of-war in European waters, most of them small, but
including five battleships, 12 submarines and more
than 500 naval ’planes of various types. More than
5000 officers and 75,000 men manned these ships and
’planes and operated them from the 45 bases we
established at various points in Europe.
The World War showed, and this war is showing,
that attrition war means long, hard and continuous
struggle and that quick victory cannot come to either
side. The ships and ’planes of our Atlantic Fleet,
which have been and are being constantly reinforced,
may be strong enough to tilt the scales, but it would
be dangerous wishful thinking to start such a shooting
war with the complacent expectation of a quick and
easy victory.
Nippon, Indies and Uncle Sam.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Hallett Abend, now back in the U.S.A. after long
service as a Far East correspondent .)
What Japan has really asked of the Netherlands
Indies is enough oil to make her independent of the
American market, enough high-grade gasoline to make
her air fleet certain of adequate supplies, and enough
—Chicago “Tribune.”
TEA PARTIES.
tin and rubber to make her a factor in world trade
in these essential commodities of both peace- and
war-times. Quinine, tungsten, iron-ore and other
necessities also figure in the calculations, on the
economic and military sides, and in addition Japan
wants the privilege of unrestricted migration to the
rich islands of the Netherlands Indies.
The military and naval stakes are of just as great
importance as the economic issues. If Japan can gain
a preferred economic foothold in the Indies she will
send cruisers and ’planes to protect her new position
—just as she has done in French Indo-China. If she
gains a military and naval foothold in the islands she
will be in a position to cut Britain’s sea routes be-
tween Australia and New Zealand and India and the
whole of the Near East and the North African regiohs.
Netherlanders’ resistance to Japanese economic
demands is based on several factors. First, they do
not want their vast East Indian empire merged into
an Oriental sphere. They do not want to trade almost
exclusively with Japan because their profits, if any,
would be in terms of Japanese yen, and the Nether-
lands Indies want their profits to be in American
dollars or British pounds. Only if their oil, tin and
rubber yield dollar or pound profits can the islands
finance Queen Wilhelmina’s Government, in forced
exile in England. Only by holding the bulk of their
export trade to American and British markets can
the Batavia authorities pile up foreign exchange credits
that can be spent on necessary defence equipment.
To the United States the outcome is a vital matter.
Without rubber, much of America’s industry would
be paralysed. The U.S.A. grows no rubber, but relies
on Batavia and Singapore—in other words, on the
Netherlands Indies and British Malaya—Tor most of
its supplies. This year the U.S.A. hopes to purchase
180,000 tons of rubber from British Malaya and 70,000
tons from the Netherlands Indies.
So it is with tin. In 1939 the world’s production
of tin, which is a vital necessity in time of war and
in peace-times, too, was only about 184,000 tons. Of
this total 55,150 tons came from British Malaya and
31,221 tons came from the Netherlands Indies. The
U.S.A. also depends on the Netherlands Indies for
tungsten ores, and tungsten is a necessity for arma-
ment factories.
There is also China to be considered. The U.S.A.
has pledged aid to China under the Lease-Lend Act,
but if Japan were to gain ascendancy over the Nether-
lands Indies the route to Rangoon, which is the only
port from which goods can reach Chungking by any
overland path, would be lengthened by at least 3000
miles.
And the Philippines and Singapore. If the
Japanese make a military move against the Nether-
lands Indies, the Philippine Islands would be imperilled
in a naval and military sense.
British-U.S. Union.
[One of the popular fancies for some time past,
replacing League of Nations Union ideas and suchlike,
is a British-American Union. In a recent “poll” of
American women 95 p.c. voted against the idea, and
newspapers expressed amazement that there should have
been 5 p.c. in favor. Still, the notion is discussed in
the usual sort of quarters both in America and Britain.
How the idea strikes New York “Sunday News” is
shown in the item here condensed. It should be prefaced
to these remarks, perhaps, that the idea is of American
origin, anyhow.]
Larry Rue, interviewing Leslie Hore-Belisha in
London for this newspaper [New York “Sunday
News”] got some interesting remarks out of the former
British Secretary of War. Mr. Hore-Belisha feels that
a union between Great Britain and the United States
would mean “the salvation of the world, let alone for
ourselves” ; and that it is “the biggest single idea in
the world today.”
He was openminded, even, on the question
whether, in event of such a union, the British would
be willing to de-lord, de-earl and de-duchess their
nobility, turning the members of the peerage into plain
Misters and Missuses, out of respect for the U.S.
Constitution’s ban on foreign titles
for American citizens.
“We should,” said Mr. Hore-
Belisha generously, “abolish what-
ever is non-essential to achieve
what is essential.”
For our part, we begin to see
now why British governing circles
regarded Hore-Belisha as no great
shakes as a diplomat. We don’t
know what he could have said
that would have been more likely
to alienate the strongest bloc of
Anglo-American union’s friends
in the United States than this re-
mark about demobilising the
nobility. With the British peer-
age reduced to the level of
common working stiffs like
Americans, what incentive would
any American banker or financier
have to marry off his daughter to
some Englishman? To many
Americans, there is a magic and
a magnetism about a title —any
title —that Hore-Belisha all too
evidently wots not of.
This isn’t the only objection
to a union between England and
the United States. There are
political and economic objections
also. Marry ourselves to the
British, and we shall marry into
their eternal European quarrels.
We’ll make ourselves Britain’s big
brother, to change the simile a
bit; and every time Britain gets
into real trouble with some Euro-
pean nation or alliance it will call
its big, good-natured, rich and
husky brother to its aid. We’ve
answered this call once, and seem
about to do it again. A permanent union with
Britain will sentence us to answering them for all time.
Economically, the British standard of living is
below ours —meaning British labor is paid about half
of what American labor is paid. We hear a lot about
what Hitler is going to do to our high-cost goods in
world markets with his slave labor if he wins the
war. But what if we take our tariffs off British goods,
and give up competing with Britain for foreign
markets? With their labor costs about half of ours,
and no tariffs between us to protect the American
standard of living, British salesmen will be able, not
only to make headway in the South American market,
but also to undersell a lot of our goods right here in
our own domestic market. You can use your own
imagination as to what this will do to American fac-
tories, laboring men, travelling salesmen, clerks,
executives, stockholders and so on who live by them.
Union with Britain, now or ever, looks to this
newspaper like a fine thing for Britain, but a bad and
dangerous thing for the United States.
* * * * *
(New York “Daily News” continued the argument .)
Mr. Hore-Belisha said nothing about uncrowning
the British King. Yet that question is important. If
we are to team up with Great Britain, is the King to
be somewhere in the picture? We feel that a great
many Americans would object; and that this point
ought to be cleared up in advance of any British-
American marriage.
*****
(The same newspaper’s London correspondent reported
the following item.)
Cries of “nonsense” and “shame” resounded in
the House of Commons when Rupert de La Bere
(Con.) insisted to Prime Minister Winston Churchill
that the British people did not desire Federal Union
with the United States, now or in the future.
Bere [possibly with Mr. Churchill’s offer to France
in mind] asked Churchill if he could give assurance
that, as distinct from the idea of an Anglo-American
entente, the Government would not formulate a plan
for Federal Union without a mandate from the
British people.
“So great a change could not be brought about
without the fullest public and Parliamentary discussion
beforehand,” Churchill said.
’Planes in Pacific Strategy.
(From a New York "Times'’ article.)
The new relationship between air power and sea
power has revolutionised the previously accepted


strategy of the Western Pacific. Hitherto the great
menace to the Netherlands Indies or to the Philippines,
or anything else within its range, has been considered
to be the Japanese Navy. The Dutch had nothing
remotely to compare with this, and even with the
Singapore base the problem of getting and keeping
superior British or combined British and American
naval power in the South China Sea was considered
a very grave one.
But the cumulative experience of recent months
nas thrown a new light upon the question. The fate
ot the German Bismarck and of a pocket battleship
shows that torpedo ’planes can hunt out and cripple
D ™ odern and powerful battleship afloat. The
wattle ot Crete showed that a powerful navy is helpless
against air power, and can suffer appalling losses if it
ooes not have superior air power to protect it. As
Prime Minister Churchill explained: “We could only
stand a certain proportion of naval losses before the
seaguard fleet had to be withdrawn.”
In the light of this, consider the Japanese strategic
problem. Batavia is more than 3000 miles from Tokyo
!" ol l ] g ,. Ja P T an L has nearer bases from which it could
attack the Netherlands Indies, it would have to supply
these in turn by ships open to aerial as well as naval
attack. In the South China Sea, some 600 miles wide
mere is no spot now which is not within the range of
American, British or Dutch air power. At the northern
ntrance of the sea only 150 miles separate the
Philippines from Japanese Formosa.
■ substantial land-based air power in this
legion the Japanese fleet would have little protection.
Japan s air force is not formidable either in quantity
or average quality. Japanese current output of military
planes of all types has been estimated at 250 a month
rp^h a^nnn Wlth an . A . me T ri c a n production expected to
reach 2000 a month in July. The Japanese shortage,
moreover, is not accidental, like our own, but struc-
tura! ; Japan has not the necessary supply of machine
tools or of technical resources.
All on a Sabbath Day.
(From New York "Worid-Telegram.")
JU81 as an aside, we think recognition should be
expressed to Winston Churchill as the all-time master
o± invective. Without the aid of profanity he can
wrap up more hate in a neater package than anyone
we have ever read in all the literature of conflict
. , S . lnc ? the jewels of his abuse flashed by so
quickly m the rapidly-moving week-end scene—too
quickly to be fully viewed or appreciated—we here-
with re-display the choicest as the supreme art of
name-calling: —
:;fj itlers accon ?pHce and jackal, Mussolini.”
i i Monster of wickedness, insatiable in his lust for
blood and plunder.”
“His work of butchery and desolation.”
This bloodthirsty guttersnipe.”
The dull, drilled, docile, brutish masses of the
Hun soldiers, coming on like a swarm of crawling
locusts, led by clanking, heel-kicking, dandified Prus
sian officers.
That small group of venomous men who planned
and launched this cataract of horrors.”
And as of the same date, we think Hitler should
receive recognition as having attained at last the peak
of his ambition in the art of lying. He had been doing
exceedingly well all along, working up to the climax
of his capacity. But never in all of his previous pre-
yancations did he quite achieve his ideal as described
m Mem Kampf: “They will more easily fall victim
to a great he than to a small.” He “made it” in his
declaration of war on his former bedfellow.
Both these records, it may be noted, were hung
up on the Sabbath day.
War Blunders and Lessons.
(Condensed extract from an "Atlantic Monthly" article
by William Henry Cham her! in.)
By his proclamation of a total emergency Presi-
dent Roosevelt recognised implicitly that war is immi-
nent. By his assertion of determination to see that
war material reaches Great Britain he foreshadowed
the possibility of at least a limited naval conflict. And
he has suggested that America’s modern Bunker Hill
may be fought thousands of miles away from Boston.
It is possible to draw some lessons, general if
not specific, from the tragic mistakes which brought
France to its fall and England to the gravest ordeal
m its history. Three capital blunders stand out in
this recent record. The first of these was the passive
acquiescence in German rearmament and in German
remilitarisation of the Rhineland, in violation of the
Locarno Treaty. Both Czechoslovakia and Poland
were militarily lost from the moment when Hitler
was able to wall off his western frontier against
invasion.
The second great blunder was the giving to
Poland of guarantees of military support which there
were no means of implementing. The consequences
of this abrupt lurch from “appeasement” to adven-
turism in British and French foreign polciy were more
disastrous than is generally realised.
Any possibility, however slight, of a compromise
settlement of the Danzig and Corridor questions was
ruled out. By promising to go to war on behalf of
Poland which, as events were to prove, they could
not help—Great Britain and France canalised Hitler’s
tide of aggression from an eastward into a westward
channel. They brought it to pass that the war, when
it came, possessed the best propaganda build-up for
the Germans and the minimum stimulus for the
peoples of France and England. Nearly all Germans,
even before Hitler came into power, believed they
had a legitimate grievance in their eastern frontier.
Very few British and French wished to die for Danzig.
The third cardinal blunder was to fight the war
half-heartedly after the irrevocable decision to engage
in it had been taken. During the quiet first eight
months of the war there was nothing like a total mobi-
lisation of French and British national energies and
resources, France only awakened from this lethargy
when it was already too late. England rose to the full
height of its moral and material power when its dark-
est hour had come, when it was compelled, as an
island, to beat off the attacks which were backed by
the resources of a continent.
/, n c eses there are certainly lessons for
.S.A. There should be a clear recognition that
wars are not won with words. There should be no
gmng of assurances that cannot be fulfilled.
neie should be no humiliating fiascoes, no enter-
prises which fail for lack of proper appreciation of
risks to be run and obstacles to be overcome.
if war proves to be America’s destiny it should
be resorted to only on an issue where the Govern-
ment can be certain of an overwhelming support of
public opinion. A deeply-divided people will not pass
he ordeal ot modern war. Such a war will require
efforts and sacrifices of which America’s present social,
economic and financial set-up does not offer the faint-
est prevision.
F° r war cannot be won on a basis of limited
liability. The successful prosecution of modern war
excludes business as usual, pleasure as usual, strikes
as usual. France and England and Canada can all
afford valuable object lessons. AH began by giving
too little. For France the “too little” spelled “too
late. And for England, too, the penalties of a slow
start have been cruel.
Hunger in Spain.
(Condensed from a New York “Post" article by John
T . Whitaker, sent from “somewhere in Europe.")
“A small army isn’t powerful enough and a big
army would starve to death.” Thus one of the ablest
diplomats in Madrid explained why Hitler has delayed
to occupy Spain. Gibraltar is vital to Hitler if he is
to close the Mediterranean. Faced with military
—New York "Herald Tribune.”
SEPARATING THE WHEAT FROM THE CHAFF.
necessity, he will probably feel that he has no choice
and Spain’s refusal to come into the war will be
brushed aside.
But Napoleon spoke of the “Spanish ulcer” as
the cause of his downfall, and Hitler may well find
that in Spain history repeats itself.
Starvation in Spain is a reality. Even with money
it is hard now to procure food. One of the best
hotels in Madrid gets meat only about every three
weeks and “that is generally horsemeat or dog.” A
workman would rather receive bread than pesetas.
An expert who studied conditions in France and
Spain said that while the French are in dire want the
Spaniards are starving. He said that the average
person in unoccupied France gets 2800 calories of
food daily, whereas in Spain the average consumption
is only 800 calories. Many have less than that. They
are the ones found dead in the streets.
When a whole people suffers malnutrition, plague
becomes inevitable. Nearly 2000 caSes of typhus have
already been reported in Spain. The Government is
making heroic efforts to stop it. Beggars are being
rounded up because typhus is carried by the louse,
which vermin is almost never found on clean bodies.
If the Government’s efforts prove inadequate, typhus
may sweep northward, where the French are vulner-
able, and thence into the prison and concentration
camps of Hitler’s “New Europe,”
Marching into Spain consequently is going to be
easy for Hitler’s army. Staying in Spain is going to
be hard. Starving Spaniards are not going to enjoy
watching Hitler’s soldiers eat. The men at the top
may be thrilled with the thought of regaining Gib-
raltar and Morocco. But the simple Spaniards are
tired of war and its horror.
The strength of Franco has been his comprehen-
sion of the national revulsion to further fighting. That
more than anything else has given him national pres-
tige. Spaniards have decided that Franco is an honest
man in a moment when there is much corruption in
Falangist circles, and they have decided that he will
not be a cat’s-paw for foreigners in a moment when
many Falangist leaders are on the German payrolls.
But can Franco maintain this position?
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Comment on the enlistment of the newspaper
columnists Joseph Alsop and Robert Kintner in the
U.S. Naval Reserve and Army respectively: “We
hope and expect that in their new careers Messrs.
Alsop and Kintner will always verify their sources,
and that circumstances will soon permit their joint
return to a line of work in which the candid and
sometimes happy guesser has his honorable place.”—
New York “Times.”
* * * * *
The Communists suddenly dispossess the rich and
gradually enslave the poor. The Fascists suddenly
enslave the poor and gradually dispossess the rich.
This is the real difference. All the rest is poetry and
theology. —Max Nomad ; American “Mercury.”
*****
On paper, the Red Army is colossal, a mobilised
force of 15,000,000 men. But an army is worth no
more than its effective weight in battle. The old story
of “firstest and mostest” at the point of contact still
holds. It is doubtful whether the Russian transport
system can maintain much more than 80 divisions,
say, 1,500,000 soldiers, in the front line with all the
equipment and supplies war requires today. It is
doubtful, also, if the Russians have more than 80 divi-
sions of first-class, well-trained troops. They may
find themselves in numerical inferiority to the Ger-
mans on the battlefield. —Walter Duranty; New York
“Times.”
*****
Eight times since Hitler started out to rule the
world, bringing 14 countries under his domination
since March, 1938, Sunday— at dawn—has meant war
or loss of freedom for some European nation. It
was on Sunday, March 13, 1938, that Hitler started
his career of war and ruin. That day he absorbed
Austria. On Sunday, Oct. I, 1939, came the partition-
ing of Poland. On Sunday, Sept. 3, 1939, war on
France. On Sunday, June 9, 1940, the occupation of
Norway. On Sunday, April 6, 1940, war on Yugo-
slavia. The same day, war on Greece. On Sunday,
April 27, the Germans occupied Athens. On Sunday’
June 22, Hitler opened war on Russia. —New York
“Daily Mirror.”
*****
“The question is not if it is really necessary for us
[Americans] to do more today. It is, what more can
we do today so that we may have less to do and to
sacrifice tomorrow.” —John G. Winant, U.S. Ambas-
sador to Britain.
*****
The Japanese police clamped down on “insincere”
mind-readers, astrologists and fortunetellers who
bilked the public. Those who were sincere and not
considered harmful to public order were allowed to
continue their trades under a license system which
also forced them to charge uniform fees. Soon after,
the Tokyo Association of Fortunetellers decided to see
only happy omens in cards, stars and tea leaves so that
patrons might not be unduly discouraged in these times
of great emergency and stress .-—Alice-Leone Moats,
in “Collier’s.”
*****
“I am happy to report to you a far-reaching event.
You know that Russia and Germany are ruled by
two different doctrines. There was only one question
that remained to be cleared. Germany does not intend
to export her doctrine to Russia. I see no reason
that we ever again will take a stand against one an-
other. We both realise this, that every fight of our
people against one another would be advantageous
only for others. We, therefore, agreed to conclude a
pact which excludes for all the future any application
of force between us, which obligates us to consultations
in certain European questions and makes possible
economic collaboration and, above all, assures that
the forces of these two great States will not be spent
against each other. Any attempt of the West to alter
this will fail. At this point I wish to assure you that
this political decision means a tremendous change for
the future and is final. 1 believe the entire German
people will welcome this political stand. Russia and
Germany fought each other during the World War
and both were the ones who suffered most in the end.
This shall and will not happen a second time.” —
Hitler; Reichstag, Sept. 1, 1939.
*****
The Communists have no time to waste on such
bourgeois emotions as embarrassment or chagrin. In
less time than it takes to say it, they turned their con-
sciences, convictions, principles and policies inside out,
altered black to white, good to bad and vice versa. —
Washington “Post.”
* * * * *
In his biography of Allenby, General Wavell in-
troduces the book with a passage from Socrates, once
a valiant warrior himself: “The general must know
how to get his men their rations and every other kind
of stores needed in war. He must have imagination
to originate plans, practical sense and energy to carry
them through. He must be observant, untiring, shrewd,
kindly and cruel, simple and crafty, a watchman and a
robber, lavish and miserly, generous and stingy, rash
and conservative. All these and many other qualities,
natural and acquired, he must have. He should also,
as a matter of course, know his tactics ; for a dis-
orderly mob is no more an army than a heap of build-
ing materials is a house.” Even with all those quali-
fications a Soviet general would be kept busy trying
to forget the nice things that Joe told him about Adolf
only a few months ago.—New York “Sun.”
*****
A responsible Englishwoman living in Switzer-
land in a letter quotes a report from a Swiss doctor
who had been visiting British wounded in Germany
for six weeks on behalf of the International Red
Cross. The work included examination of 1800
wounded British officers and men. He found them in
very good spirits and not depressed. They get enough
to eat, and as for the quantity of things sent to them,
it is such that in ten camps sheds had to be built for
parcels of the prisoners. They miss shoes most, and
some have very threadbare uniforms. The doctor saw
some very sad things, but the camps and hospitals
were very decent and only two were absolutely awful,
and he got the men there immediately removed. On
the whole his impression was of careful medical and
surgical attendance from the Germans, very much
better than in the 1914-18 war. He could talk with
whomever he wanted, in English and alone, and so
could the other Swiss doctor. —Manchester “Guardian”
London correspondent.


V
ft
PROTECTIONS
“BIRKMYRE
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS,
TENTS, Etc.
No matter how hard the downpour or how continuous the ram,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give you undoubted protection.
The canvas is made from highest grade raw materia s by
Scottish workers and the famous BIRKMYRE PROOFING is
recognised as the world's best. Obtainable from reputable
makers. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supplies,
write . Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE — MELBOURNE — SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“The R.A.F.’s crushing blows are shaking
the morals of the civilian population in western
Germany.” —Townsville “Daily Bulletin.’
Or is it that they are simply taking
advantage of the blackout?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The really important men who are guiding
the various phases of our war effort are never
heard.” —Daily paper.
Silent “noises.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If you have a' lame evening frock, put ? it
away in black tissue paper when not in use.”
— Woman’s paper.
To prevent it from going limp?
“Man, despite his great achievements, is but
dust.” —Writer in Sunday paper.
And woman settles him.
4* 4* 4* 4"
“As part of the marriage ceremony of primi-
tive pygmies, the bride and bridegroom wail
for an hour with their relatives.” — Oddity.
Afterwards, about them,
4* 4* 4* 4*
She thought the shearer was sheepish,
but he was only pulling the wool over
her eyes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Far Eastern army of the Soviet with
its fleets of bombers only 64 fr miles away
from Tokyo.”— “S.M.H.”
Newsprint rationing will never prevent
“Granny” from presenting all of the facts.
4* 4* 4* v
“Girls, beware of the Romeo who writes you
yards of poetry.”— “D.T.” letter.
She thinks his poetry sublime,
And she suspects no treason.
A t present she just sees the rhyme,
But soon she’ll see the reason.
“He gave a lecture on ‘The History of
Wine.’ ” — “Sun.”
He was full of his subject, of course.
“Put that cigarette out!”
“Charged with wife-beating, a husband at
Los Angeles (U.S.A.) was ordered to kiss his
wife every day for six months.”
This will help her to keep her pecker
up,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“As he wound up the gramophone David
looked at Patricia tenderly. ‘Listen carefully,
darling,’ he said, ‘and think what this reco
recor sh drdl yuiop record reminds you of.’
—Short story.
Sounds like the one the baby banged
up against the grate.
•b 4*
Female.
“You don’t mean to say you believe
in astrology! But, my dear, it’s all non-
sense! Why, my husband told me it was
just a method of duping superstitious
women. Really, I can’t understand any-
one believing in such piffle! As if the
stars could influence us! Mavis, I'm
surprised that you should fall for any-
thing so ridiculous!
“Darling, I like your hat. It suits you,
too ; but —show me —is that a green
band? Yes, it is green! My dear, I
wouldn’t wear that for the world! Don’t
you know it’s unlucky?”
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4*
“When he collapsed on the pavement one
man in the crowd which quickly gathered re-
moved his collar and tin.” — “D.T.”
Trust some hardhead to lose no time
in “fanning” him,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After the meal at the station, the train
wheezed off into the blackness of the night.”
—Short story.
We get that way too if we tear around
after eating heartily.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the secret of good hostessing?”
— Woman’s paper.
It boils to this, when all is said,
The final social arbiter:
To make you feel at home, instead
Of simply wishing that you were.
Zake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Gent., tail, good fin. pos., net inc. over
£5OO, wishes corr. refined young lady, view
mat.” — Ad. in Q. daily paper.
Sounds a bit fishy.
“At the conclusion of the concert, the chair-
man said he hoped the talented young singer
would - go to England some day and sing before
the King.” —Suburban paper.
It was perhaps unfortunate that the
audience immediately rose and sang “God
Save the King.”
4* + •S 1
“The water position is really serious in Syd-
ney and unless heavy rain falls restrictions will
be more severe.” —Board president.
We’ve had nothing but dam trouble
for years.
*4* 4* 4* 4*
“12 Nazis Shot in Panama.” —“Daily Mirror."
A straw which shows which way the
wind is blowing.
■i* 4 1
“He flogged the horses to a gallop, the buck-
board bounding and bouncing over the prairie
behind them.” —Short story.
A jitter-buggy.
Ode.
(On the “kidnapping” of a distinguished
English visitor.)
And didst thou leave me thus?
Say nay, for very shame!
Fifth Column not to blame,
And kidnapped for a game?
Say nay ! Say nay !
And didst thou leave me thus?
In some far wildness, where
From the o’ertainted air
I legged it like a hare ?
Say nay ! Say nay !
And was Sir Evelyn wrenched,
That hath endured so much
To urge the common touch ?
And didst thou leave him thus?
Say nay ! Say nay !
For very shame, say nay !
PETERKIN.
Try This!
“Helpful hints for a bazaar.”
— Chemists’ magazine.
Surprise Packets —
Blow up some large paper bags, tie the
necks with tinsel and sell at a shilling
each. The surprise is that there’s nothing
in them, which is also something of a
relief to anyone with a house already
full of bazaar junk.
Guessing Competition —
Put the suburb’s most determined gos-
siper in a tent, and charge the women
sixpence to go in. All she has to do is
say “Guess what I know about you!”
to each competitor and, of course, no-
body will win the prize, because no matter
what confessions the women make to her
she’ll say “No, that’s not it.” The real
point to this competition is that the hus-
band of each competitor is charged a
bob to listen-in from the other side of
the canvas, and thus discover at last what
really goes on in his own home.
E.
Cashing In.
The general manager of the Striptease
Knitting Co. nodded in approval. “Yes,
very nice, Mr. Sweetfellow,” he said.
“This one-piece bather in oiled angel-
skin should pack the beaches in the
coming season. Perhaps —ah —if I may
make a suggestion, just slightly less
opaque here and here. But, generally,
really very attractive. Now what .have
you done in the way of trunk-and-
brasstere swim suit?”
The chief designer glanced towards the
model’s room, “Forward, Miss Brazan,
please,” he called.
As the model stepped out the g.m.
gulped involuntarily and his eyes stuck
out like hatpegs. When he got his breath
back he turned to the c.d.
“Mr. Sweetfellow,” he spluttered, “I
expected that the brassiere would be re-
duced to three inches in depth, and I
admit that the one you have got here is
quite —ah —becoming. But I didn’t ex-
pect that the legs would be cut away so
abruptly. Really, I don’t think we could
take a risk by having them so brief.
Police regulations, you know. Why, they
are no longer trunks you have designed,
but V’s!”
The c.d. looked at the chief executive
calmly. “Exactly,” he said. “We simul-
taneously move forward the fashion and
assist the war effort by boosting the ‘V
for Victory’ campaign!”
The g.m. gazed at his c.d. with the light
of gladness in his eyes. Then he held
out his hand. “My dear Sweetfellow,”
he burst out, with something of awe in
his voice. “You’re a positive genius!”
K.
The Old Touch.
“Oh, where are the friends of my youth ?”
In a moment reflective I cried.
Through the door peeped a head, and the
office boy said
“There’s a bloke wants to see yer out-
side.”
It was one of those friends of my youth.
His first words were these: “Could I
borrow,
Old man, a few bob ? I’ve been
promised a job.
I’ll return it for certain tomorrow.”
CLEM LACK.
Battles for the Bored.
It isn’t surprising that the smouldering
embers of hatred, fanned by some windy
politicians, have once again burst into
open warfare between Ecuador and, Peru.
It has long since become a habit, the
main reason being that the periods be-
tween hostilities become too perilous for
the respective armies, for at peace-time
manoeuvres accidents are numerous.
When peace broke out after the eighth
war before the present one, General Vin-
cenzo Porkanbini, the Ecuadorian patriot,
immediately overthrew the Government
with a coup d’etat. At the same time,
Lorenzo Cascara, the Peruvian insurgent,
led a counter-revolution against the
revolutionary Government of Colonel
Bolero Fandango. Cascara, who pro-
claimed himself Colonel-General, was
able to boast that he was a counter-
revolutionary, whereas Porkanbini could
claim to be only a common or garden
general as well as a c, or g. revolutionary.
Bad blood thus sprang up between the
two Presidents. To make matters worse,
the Peruvian rejoiced in a waxed mous-
tache which stuck out nine inches each
side of his face. Owing to a deformity
in his hair, the Ecuadorian leader’s mo.
was a mangy-looking affair at which all
the girls giggled.
After Bolero had dipped and skipped
there were in the Peruvian national peter
only 62 pesetas and some non-negotiable
duty stamps which the departing Presi-
dent had missed. Lorenzo immediately
clapped a temporary amusement tax on
the siesta, which under an industrial
revival that the republic was enjoying at
the time had become the leading industry.
Vincenzo tried the same extortion, but
his mob were a wake-up, and he had
to sell the flypaper and shampoo-powder
concessions to pay for the new taxation
forms he’d had printed and were then
worthless. Angered at this frustration
and the success of his rival across the
border, the Ecuadorian President de-
manded from Peru six pesetas royalty for
each time that the morisco, the national
Ecuadorian dance, was performed in Peru
in public or private, and made it retro-
spective, fixing the bill at 1750 million
pesetas, or 37,000 times more than Peru
was officially worth.
Lorenzo sent a plenipotentiary with his
answer. When he was handed the pansy
Vincenzo, whose puce Oxford bags,
yellow-and-ox-blood shirt, emerald sara-
band and pearl-grey pumps were his
especial pride, wrote out a declaration
of war there and then for the insult.
Quito, the capital, which had been seeth-
ing with unrest during the hazardous days
of peace, was immediately beflagged, the
pavanne and the morisco —tax-free for
the day—were danced in the great Don
Yorpantz-square and the country settled
down to the safety of warfare,
A fortnight later news reached the
frontier outposts. A passing goatherd
woke the Peruvian guards up late one
afternoon to tell them the news. The
officer signalled the officer in charge of the
Ecuadorian guards across the 20 yards
of no-man’s-land that as Ecuador had
declared war Peru was entitled to the
first shot. He announced that he would
finish his siesta first. As he turned to go
back to his tent the Ecuadorian treacher-
ously fired at him, knocking the front
near-side teat off a goat that was grazing
on a tent-fly a hundred yards to the left.
Incensed at an attack which might have
cost them a valuable animal, a Peruvian
non-com. fired at the Ecuadorian officer,
putting a bullet clean through his water-
bottle, which was standing on a table
outside his hut. The Ecuadorian com-
mander immediately sent a dispatch-rider
on a mule to get artillery support.
Two hours later the Ecuadorian artil-
lery laid down a terrific barrage, the
whole of the battery going into action.
Throughout the hell of noise the Peru-
vians opposite could be plainly seen
calmly playing their eternal “old maid”
and practising a few steps of their new
gambado dance. Next morning a dis-
patch rider was again sent to the artillery
commander asking him to use live shells
instead of ceremonial blanks, but the
reply came back that the American com-
panies that were running the iron and
lead mines had no metal to spare after
export demands had been satisfied.
Next day the Peruvian infantry
attacked, but their bayonets, which were
a job lot bought from Japan, had all
buckled in the heat and were too blunt
to go through the enemy’s tunics. They
settled down then to grim war, and after
six months the total casualties for the
two armies were one officer bruised and
two O.Ns. with gravel rash.
It was then that the 0.-in-c. of the
Ecuadorian Army, Major Camisolo Es-
quadrillo, left his winter quarters to over-
throw the regime of Vincenzo Porkan-
bini, taking all the army with him. But
when he got to Quito he found that he
was 17 revolutions too late. Not having
an army to fight the Peruvians went back
to sleep until war was declared on again.
It’s a quaint old custom they have in
South America.
BO.


Want to give you car
greater power?
To enjoy all of your car’s power, provide the
strong, hot sparks that produce complete
combustion without waste of fuel. Install
Champion Spark Plugs. They have ex-
clusive features that ensure
longest, strongest, cheapest
ignition and will actually
pay for themselves in the
fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor,
Can. Tbledo, USA.
A
fiS*Swu£
asm
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals
Champions against
troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder
and past the center
electrode, common
to ordinary spark
plugs. This paten-
ted feature corrects
rough, uneven and
wasteful engine op-
eration caused by
leaky, overheated m
spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
m
r A
£. PETROL!
NEW INVENTION
1000 FREE TO MOTORISTS.
IMAGINE SAVING 6d. ON EVERY GALLON OF PETROL. The Aero
Oil Vaporator not only makes this possible, BUT IS DEFINITELY
GUARANTEED TO DO IT. IT BRINGS WASTE PETROL FROM THE
CRANK-CASE BACK TO WORK IN A NEW WAY AS VALUABLE FUEL.
FREE ADVERTISING OFFER FOR NEXT 30 DAYS!
Readers can get VAPORATOR FREE UNDER NEW ADVERTISING
PLAN. The object is to further popularise this ingenious new invention in
Australia and New Zealand.
EASILY FITTED ON ALL CARS, TRUCKS AND TRACTORS.
Anyone can fit the Vaporator in a few minutes. NO DRILLING, Tapping
or Cutting. A spanner is the only tool required. The Vaporator
works automatically on the speed of the engine and lasts a lifetime.
25% MORE MILES GUARANTEED!
Print your Name and Address plainly on the Coupon. Cut out and
post now. Enclose 2d. stamp for postage.
FILL IN AND POST COUPON.
| NATIONAL DISTRIBUTING CO., 663 George Street, Sydney.
* Without obligation, please send me full details of Vaporator.
NAME ....
ADDRESS :
CAR
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Broken Hill Prop.
. Wha t is now by far Australia’s most
important industrial undertaking began
life as the pioneer Barrier silver-lead
show. B.H.P. is no longer actively in-
terested in the Silver City, but is a large
employer at Newcastle, Iron Knob,
Whyalla, etc. When the co. has any
labor difficulties they are mainly round
the coal centres of Newcastle and Port
Kembla—the A.I. and S. works at
Kembla are controlled by B.H.P. Truth
to tell, however, strikes in the Newcastle
works themselves have been few and far
between. But for some reason or other
political Labor dislikes B.H.P, Any old
stick is good enough to beat the Prop,
with.
The highly-protected beer-bottle indus-
try, for instance, rarely worries the likes
of Mr. Forde, M.H.R, Possibly that is
because A.C.I. doesn’t own any coalmines
—yet—though it owns a surprising variety
of other industries, and wanted to own
a motor-car plant. A.C.I. is a large
employer, too, though far behind the
B.H.P. enterprises.
Whatever the brand one’s politics hap-
pen to be, only a nitwit or a bigot could
fail to see the value to Australia of
the B.H.P. undertaking. Even Mr. Forde
admits this when he raises his scare cry
about the “necessity” for Government
control. Up to the present, however, the
great development of the Australian steel
industry has been carried on in a way
entirely foreign to the management of
most Government undertakings; the
brains and initiative for which the Broken
Hill field was world-renowned are still
fully evident by the way in which the
co. has tackled the job of turning out
steel as cheaply and efficiently as any-
where in the world, paying Arbitration
Court wages for its labor at the same
time. In so doing it has been ruthless
in its manner of dealing with obsolescent
plant and ideas. No one except the
shareholders in B.H.P. have been asked
to pay —and they have paid liberally—
for the new plant and ideas. But these
things have been necessary in the job
of keeping down the cost of steel to the
Australian consumer. It is only good
management that can guarantee cheap
steel. Australia is not particularly
blessed by Nature in the matter —the
iron ore, though excellent, has to be
shipped nearly 1300 miles to Newcastle.
B.H.P. is run by human beings, of
course, and therefore has probably made
its mistakes. The very size and import-
ance of the industry bring it into con-
tact with thousands of people, some of
whom may envy as much as admire it.
But most things it does it tackles in a
big way, and prefers to reach out and
establish new industries rather than butt
in on the preserves of smaller folk. And
it doesn’t do a lot of talking.
When Forde, deputy Labor leader,
lately took it into his head to “go for”
B.H.P. it seemed that all he could find
to talk about was “watered capital” and
dividends. The picture he drew was
grotesque.
he said, was paying divs. on
approximately £6,000,000 of watered
stock “accumulated by shareholders
from reserved profits.” Capital, he
went on, was “ballooned” in 1940
by the issue of £4,445,000-worth of
bonus scrip out of “reserves held for
share premiums.” The nominal div. rate,
he added, was reduced from 12j p.c. only
to 10 p.c.; the co. was now paying “more
dividends than at any other stage in its
history,” and most of its operations con-
cerned war contracts.
What Forde means by “reserve held
for share premiums” it is difficult to say ;
what the £4,445,000 capitalised really
represented was that amount paid in by
shareholders in premiums in previous
years as a privilege for being allowed to
take new shares. All the money they
subscribed was used to develop the
undertaking. When issued with the addi-
tional scrip in 1940—the move was
announced before war broke out —they
got no more shares than had actually
been paid for. That is why the scrip,
when issued, was free of Federal and
ordinary State income tax.
Before the 1940 capitalisation of share
premiums B.H.P.’s div. was 12i p.c.
After the 64-for-100 issue it fell to 7\ p.c.,
not 10 p.c., as may be found out readily
by anyone really interested in facts. The
holder of 100 old shares before the capi-
talisation got an annual income of £l2
10s. On 164 shares afterwards he got
£l2 6s. There was no humbug about
this at all.
As to prices, B.H.P. has set an example
most Australian industries will find hard
to follow. Though the Commonwealth
basic wage has been lifted 13 p.c. since
June, 1938, B.H.P. has not raised the
prices of its products by a penny a
ton in that time. The following is a com-
parison of prevailing prices for steel pro-
ducts in Australia and Britain, both ex-
pressed in terms of Australian money:
British. Australian.
Pig-iron .. ~£B 7 6 £4 10 0
Merchant bars ~ 21 2 11 10 2 8
Structural steel ~ 18 7 9 10 2 8
Plates .. .. 19 6 7 10 12 4
As most people will admit, those figures
are astonishing. B.H.P. says it is supply-
ing steel for munitions at a price which,
if applied to all its production, would
mean that there would be no profit from
steel-making. It has spent, or is spend-
ing, nearly £2,000,000 on defence plant
and other machinery essential to the war
effort. From an immediate profit-earn-
ing viewpoint this is mostly dead money,
and shareholders have been called on
heavily to finance the outlay. The co.’s
shares, allowing for all new issues, are
at a much lower parity now than they
were before war began, or than they were
at the beginning of 1940, when some
people had the idea that this was a
“phony” war.
B.H.P.’s war effort has been a remark-
ably big and effective one. Whatever
course its fortunes may take when the
conflict is finished, the prices now being
charged for its products show that f he
co. believes the present is not the time
for the mere making of profits. The
soundly-financed undertaking is expand-
ing it is true, but not at the expense
of the Defence Department or anyone
else. It pays its dividends—not particu-
larly high ones —out of an efficient busi-
ness. And everything has been done with
Australian money, materials and labor.
That is something we should feel really
pleased about.
Broken Hill Prop.’s net profit for the
year to May 31, after providing £996,881
for depreciation (against £903,354),
£1,050,000 for taxation (against £650,000),
and £456,330 special depreciation of
plant installed for defence purposes,
ran out at £963,279, down £15,859. Divi-
dend remains at p.c., calling for
£854,770. If most of the tax provision
is absorbed in paying the assessments
when they arrive, then the Government
will get more out of the year’s profit than
shareholders.
* * * *
Share prices remained firm, on the
whole, last week. Even the Japanese
move into Indo-China failed to upset the
general equanimity, though there was a
slight fading of interest in the market
leaders on Thursday and Friday. Broken
Hill Prop, fully-paids came back to 38s.
6d., and the contribs. weakened to 225.
9d. But interest here has been cautious
for some time, the political situation and
a strike in the ferro-alloy plant having
brought into the B.H.P. picture factors
not present elsewhere in the market.
The div, for 1940-41 stays at 1\ p.c.
The maintenance of G. J. Coles’s div.
brought increased support for all chain-
store scrip. Woolworths, Selfridges and
Coles were all in increased demand at
higher prices. Retailers in the ordinary
way were dull, as usual, though most of
them have done well in the financial year
that ended on June 30. Brewery shares
are hard to buy ; Tooth scrip, still the
most active® Australian beer stock, sold
extensively at upwards of 525. Carlton
Brewery is particularly hard to get;
there were frequent sales at 60s, during
June, but the scrip was unobtainable at
under 635. 9d. last week. A div. just
declared is at an unchanged rate. The
whole C.U.B. group was in demand, Mel-
bourne Co-op. being the most active.
These stocks have many attractions in
their class, though not so often dealt in
as Tooth in Sydney.
Australian Consolidated Industries,
leading light on ’Change for some weeks,
slipped back to 475. 9d., after having
gone as high as 495. 9d. What is looked
for here is still a mystery. Bradford
Cotton, another interesting co., sold ex
rights at the firm price of 40s. The rights,
dates of calls undecided, sold at 17s. 6d.
It is expected that all the money will be
asked for by May 19, 1942. This co.’s
scrip is attractive among the cotton
textile cos. It is probably the most solidly
established concern of its kind in this
country. Bond’s Industries shares showed
signs of stabilising at 28s. after the pre-
ceding week’s lift. Davies, Coop ords.
were sought after in Melbourne at 335.
6d. Buyers offered 345, for H. B. Dickie
shares without attracting sellers.
Felt and Textiles ords. stick round
their old price of 38s. 6d. Turnover in
the scrip isn’t so wide as it used to be.
The year to June 30 was probably an
excellent one, but figures won’t be avail-
able for some time. The co.’s subsidiaries
are widely spread. Yarra Falls shares
keep steady round 445., and interest con-
tinues to be taken in Melbourne in the
various provincial woollen cos. Output
of Victorian woollen mills in 1939-40
was worth £8,000,000, and in 1940-41 it
was probably higher still.
* * * *
Barrier shares were in demand last
week. Norths again rose strongly to
41s. 6d. and there was inquiry for Souths,
too, at 265. 6d. Zinc Corp. ord. shares
sold at 575., and as a long-term proposi-
tion they seemed good at the price. Im-
mediate drawback is their London domi-
cile —Great Boulder’s excess-profits prob-
lem is a fleabite alongside this one —but
as a mine the Zinc Corp. presents an out-
standing picture. In peace-time about
twice the price of North shares, when
the present row is over Zinc scrip will
come again.
Zinc Corp.’s output in 1940 was the
highest on record. Only heavy taxation
prevented shareholders reaping the bene-
fit. Development at the mine was in
every way satisfactory. In the lead lode
ore reserves increased from 3,459,000
tons to 3,650,000 tons, values being
maintained. Zinc lode reserves in-
creased slightly. Ore from this lode
presented some initial treatment prob-
lems, but recent metallurgical results
have been the best in the Corp.’s history.
The new mill was designed to handle 90
tons an hour, but it can actually handle
up to 105 tons an hour without trouble.
The new main shaft has been a great
factor in bringing Zinc Corp.’s produc-
tive capacity up to its present high level.
The shaft is being taken down to below
the No. 16 level.
* * * »
Permission is being sought by Mel-
bourne interests to form a £1,500,000 co.
to manufacture aluminium at Port
Kembla. Mt. Tamborine (Q.) bauxite
is also under consideration. Sponsored by
a concern called Sulphates, Ltd., and its
associates, the co. is to be called National
Aluminium Mining and Smelting Cos.
* * * *
The first Glen Davis shale petrol will
be retailed in Lithgow, Bathurst, Mudgee
and Orange on August 4. As supplies
increase the sales area will be extended,
but it isn’t likely to come east of the
Blue Mountains,
* * * •
Leo Ranney, an American oilman, is
enamored of the chances of making a
payable thing out of Lakes Entrance
(Vic.) oil. He does not regard it as a
petrol proposition, however, but simply
as a supply of good-quality lubricating
oil. The method of development sug-
gested by Ranney is the sinking of a
shaft to 1200 ft. to the oil sands and
drilling horizontally from the base of
the shaft. From 20 to 24 drillholes, each
about half a mile long, tapping about
50,000 ft. of oil sands, are envisaged ; the
aim is to drain the oil into the bottom
of the shaft, where it and any water con-
tent would be pumped to the top of the
shaft for separation and treatment. About
400 acres will be worked from the one
shaft. A Ministerial sub-committee is
being appointed by Canberra to investi-
gate the field.
* * * *
The Forestry Pulp and Paper Cos. of
Australia (Melbourne) has circulated
“acreholders” asking them to “signify
their approval of the scheme of conver-
sion as outlined in the co.’s circular dated
June 2.” The circular mentioned that cer-
tain marketing difficulties had now arisen,
“the logical solution” of which was “the
conversion of acre certificates into shares
whereby all acreholders would become
shareholders with varying preferential
rights (according to the date of purchase),
somewhat on the lines set out by the
New Zealand Forest Products, Ltd., and
approved by a special commission ap-
pointed by the New Zealand Govern-
ment.” Though the form of the commu-
nication lacks details, in essence the pro-
position sounds all right. The approval
asked is merely as to the form of the
reconstruction, not as to its details.


BRANDALERrS
it*" 1 '
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BKANDADKR * CO, Ltd, BIItiItNOHAM, KNO
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE |
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated'
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP .. y £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL •• 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.O.
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T,
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
m
SSS&*
1
acA R ff7W%
-
Ma
mc/mmmifm
m
~*YJ
'■ ::
BSKST;
sss
WtMi <** «*»<
THE DEMAND
F ° R
CAPSTANS
INCREASES
l. DAILY .
/\ \/
mm
m
10 for T
20 for I'2
ALSO FLAT
AND ROUND FIFTIES
BeiWi bmf C&pstMt
tkeif ’le b (tended
bet&i !"
Capstan Special Mild . , . Red Packs
Capstan Medium . . » . Blue Packs
Capstan Full Strength , . Brown Packs
They’re GOOD because they’re absolutely PUREJ
American business is doing aston
ingly well as a result of this war. Not
only is it making defence equipment tor
Britain —until recently, at any rate, a
paid for on a cash-and-carry basis -
volving the sale to U.S.A. of a swag ot
Britain’s American investments, incl “
ing Courtaulds —but it is well into the
business of manufacturing for
defence. Britain has set up a Htimber
of factories in the U.S.A., and these em-
ploy Americans under British manage
ment. Britain has financed extensions
to some U.S. munitions factories m order
to get speedy delivery ot the things
wants. Trade with the South American
republics has picked up since the Conti-
nent came under Britain’s blockade, ana,
though Britain itself has participated in
this wider market, the opportunity opened
up for the U.S.A. is too obvious
to need stressing. In the midst of all
this stimulation the Americans find them-
selves working at a pace never before
seen. Figures for 1929, the big boom
year, have been left behind after nearly
a decade of New Deal activities had
failed to do anything substantial with the
States’ huge block of unemployed. Ameii-
can prosperity had its foundations in the
Great War, and the U.S. business out-
look has ever since been colored by a
“boom” tinge. It may be assumed, there-
fore, that to some more shortsighted
Americans their present prosperity is
merely a return to “normal,” and a dis-
turbance of this “normalcy” by actual
participation by the U.S. in the war would
be resented, to say the least.
Unemployment in the U.S.A. totalled
18.8 p.c. in 1938—an average monthly
figure. At the end of December, 1940,
the figure had fallen to 12.6 p.c., and it
has since gone lower. It is hardly sur-
prising, then, to read this sort of opinion
in U.S, newspapers: —-
The sudden return of a real peace at
this time would doubtless precipitate a de-
pression and widespread unemployment, as
armament spending would be curtailed and
the industries dependent upon defence
orders would sutler a severe loss of busi-
ness. The longer the war lasts, however,
and the greater the volume of normal
civilian spending that will be deferred, the
more likely it is that a lasting peace would
prove a business stimulant, as well as a
depressing factor in the armament sector
of the economy.
That is from the New York “Journal of
Commerce” of June 11. Peace is un-
doubtedly regarded as an unmixed bless-
ing from some U.S. points of view, but
it is fair to point out that on Wall-street
as a whole any successes against the Axis
are regarded as a favorable market sign.
It is a fact nevertheless that the U.S.A.
is still haggling over such things as the
form its excess-profits-tax legislation is
going to take, and it will astound many
Australians to learn that a married U.S.
citizen with two children earning 2800
dollars a year pays no Federal income tax.
At present rates of exchange the 2800
dollars represents about £9OO Australian.
The married Australian with a wife and
two children pays Federal tax on any-
thing over £350, with heavy State taxes
as well. The American is also allowed
as deductions any interest payments on
mortgages or other debts. So far the
U.S.A. is taking the view that defence
expenditure is little concern of the average
citizen.
* * * *
In 1939-40 the value of output of Aus-
tralian woollen mills was £15,767,000,
compared with £12,515,000 in the preced-
ing term and £10,308,000 in 1932-33. The
wages bill in 1939-40 was £3,413,000, and
the number of persons employed was
22,041. Victoria led with 11,039 em-
ployees, N. S. Wales following with 7490,
South Aus. with 1106, Tasmania 1645,
Queensland 622 and Westralia 139. The
greatest increase in activity during 1939-
40 was in the worsted and woollen cloth
section; blankets followed next, while
flannel production showed a drop. Tweed
and cloth made in 1939-40 totalled
31,440,000 sq. yards. It is highly prob-
able that the records of 1939-40 have
now been left far behind by output for
1940-41. And if orders continue to ro|l
in at the present rate for the year just
begun, 1941-42 will show a greater out-
put still.
* * * *
Some of the shares in Timbrol, Ltd.,
have been listed on Sydney and Mel-
bourne ’Changes. Total issue is £205,759
in £1 shares, of which dealings are re-
stricted to 86,364 shares. The co. started
making wood-preserving oils in 1925. It
became a public co. in May this year.
Paid capital grew from £69,974 in 1938 to
£205,795 at present, part of the growth
being represented by a recent bonus issue.
The co. developed processes for treating
coal-tar products, and later on began
the manufacture of synthetic chemicals,
output of the latter being helped along
by importing difficulties. The co.’s turn-
over at the present time is partly reliant
on war-time conditions, but the market
apparently likes prospects, and offers 345.
6d. for the shares on an ex rights basis.
* * * ♦
“Business as usual” is something that
dies hard in Britain. A Sydney grocer
has in his window cans of plum-pudding
made in London and Dundee, probably
from Canadian flour and Australian fruit.
English suitings are still coming into Aus-
tralia. The double trips that components
of these articles take in the course of
their life must waste considerable ship-
ping space.
* * * *
N.S.W. Labor Minister Knight said
last week that there were 17,193 unem-
ployed in the State. Of these 7500 were
on the dole.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Moonee Valley provided Melbourne
with its latest racing sensation on Satur-
day when W. Cutler, who rode Methuen
to success in the G.N. Hurdle and was to
have ridden him in the Australian Hurdle
next Saturday, was disqualified for 12
months for his handling of that gelding
m the Aberfeldie Hurdle. E. O. Kirby
(owner) and S. Lawrence (trainer) were
exonerated,
Methuen’s form was intriguing, but
racegoers are wondering why Cutler
should have taken it upon himself to risk
his livelihood on the eve of another im-
portant race. There was nothing to gain,
but everything to lose, Methuen was
always at fairly long odds, most backers
and bookmakers considering that two
miles would be too short for him, but
it did not take a great deal of money to
bring his price back to tens after it had
eased to sixteens. A kick from another
horse in the mounting enclosure could*
not have helped him, and in the race itself
he tailed off hopelessly in the first six fur-
longs. Warming up to his task toward
the finish, he made up a tremendous
amount of ground to run fifth, about 10
lengths behind the winner, Naverino.
Cutler, who was charged with dishonor-
able action and improper practice in
connection with his handling of the geld-
ing, was a dashing and successful cross-
country rider several years ago, and re-
cently made a comeback after a severe
fall had kept him out of the game for
some time,
• • • • •
With 10.9, same weight as he carried
on Saturday, Methuen seems sure to be
hard to beat over the additional mile of
the Australian Hurdle, but Harley might
be too formidable an opponent, Harley,
in third place, finished over eight lengths
behind Methuen in the National, but the
disinclination to risk a further penalty
by giving him another run probably dbn-
tributed to his lack of dash at the finish
of that race. He will have 71b. the better
of the weights next Saturday, and his
race on the flat in the Glen Orla Handi-
cap at the Valley has brought him right
to his top.
Disqualification of Cutler was not the
only sensation associated with the Aber-
feldie Hurdle. Owing to severe wasting to
get his weight down to 9.4, Ron Sweet-
nam collapsed in the jockeys’ room after
a strenuous ride to land Naverino win-
ner by half a head from Winterset. Well-
placed throughout, Naverino went to the
leaders after taking the last jump, and
his weight advantage of 261 b. over
Winterset was the deciding factor in the
result. Winterset, however, battled on
particularly well and will have derived
benefit from the race. Naverino is not
engaged in the Australian Hurdle, but
he is one of Melbourne’s most promis-
ing young jumpers with a record of three
starts over hurdles for two wins and a
fourth. A five-year-old by Beau Fils
from Lady Lanius, he might be a
National proposition next year,
Brightello, runner-up to National Debt
in the G.N. Steeple, enhanced his Aus-
tralian Steeple prospects by an easy win
from Sachem and Lockslea in the A. V.
Hiskens Steeplechase. He hit the front
about five furlongs from home, and was
always a winner subsequently, Brightello
is one of the most consistent fencers in
training, his last five races having yielded
three wins and a second, and, although
he could hardly escape an Australian
Steeple penalty after Saturday’s success,
he seems almost certain to improve on his
fourth to Dark David in the correspond-
ing race last winter. Australian Steeple
success would be no new experience for
Brightello’s owner, J. Abrahams, who
won it with Tongalla in 1937 and 1938.
Sachem had every chance, and Brightello
should hold him safely again, but
National Debt hit hard and lost his rider
little more than a mile from home. He
appeared none the worse for the mishap,
and must still be considered a big danger
in the second leg of the V.A.T.C. double.
Highland March, however, ran badly,
and will need to improve considerably to
have any chance of success, while Locks-
lea, though he shaped well in third place,
may be troubled by the longer distance.
Ten-stone-six on a heavy track, com-
bined with an effort to run his opponents
off their legs in the early stages, contri-
buted to the downfall of Victoria’s most
brilliant colt. High Title, in the first divi-
sion of the Cooee Handicap. Always a
short-priced favorite, long odds were laid
on him when he had a break of five or
six lengths three furlongs from home,
but he stopped suddenly and, showing no
fight when collared at the top of the
straight, finished only ninth. High Title
might have done better had he been
ridden more quietly, and it would be in-
advisable to condemn him because of
one defeat under such conditions.
Wallace James, starting at 16 to 1 after
25 to 1 had been laid, won gamely from
Spearmain and Alcmena, but was lucky
to defeat the runner-up by half a head.
Spearmain should have landed the big
bets which forced his price from fifteens
down to sixes. Flat-footed at barrier-rise,
last at the end of a furlong, and having
to be checked and change his course in
the straight, he would have won in an-
other stride or two. Alcmena, one of
Melbourne’s best fillies, did well at her
first start since a spell, and should repay
following, while Manito, who finished
fifth, can be placed to advantage.
Wallace James stands only about 15
hands high, but is decidedly useful and
cheap at his yearling cost of 70 guineas.
By John James from Principal Girl, he
is owned and trained by W. O’Dwyer.
Corunna, a 675 guineas yearling,
finished just too well for the 1400 guineas
War- Ace in the second division of the
Cooee Handicap. Corunna adds to the
many juvenile winners by Portofino this
season, and, being a daughter of that
good staying mare Lampra, a bit of
distance may not trouble her later. She
has won her last two races, and further
improvement is probable. War Ace, a
33-to-l chance, surprised by defeating his
stable-companion Silver, also trained by
J. Holt, for second money. Silver started
second favorite at 3 to 1 and appeared
to have every chance. Portable, favorite,
ran into a fair amount of trouble and
was never dangerous, but Mizario did
well enough in fourth position to indi-
cate a near-future win.
Ex-Sydney gelding Fountain justified
his favoritism for the Glen Orla Handi-
cap, for which he was always favorite,
Well-placed throughout a slow-run race,
he ran round the leaders, Frill Prince and
Gay Invader, at the top of the straight,
and won decisively from Frill Prince and
the fast-finishing West Wind. The latter
just cut Gay Invader out of third money,
though most people who watched the
finish from points near the judge’s box
thought that Gay Invader had struggled
into that position. Grandson, Ellison and
Our Boy disappointed their backers,
Ellison beginning too well and showing
no dash at the finish. Fountain was a
useful performer in Sydney, and, although
still owned in that city, is now raced on
lease by J. Parkinson. He has won two
races in Melbourne, and, having struck
form again, should continue to pay his
way at a time when staying form is not
of a high standard.
Outstanding Melbourne apprentice of
the moment is H. McCloud, who landed
a Moonee Valley treble on Wallace
James, Fountain and Chatasan. McCloud,
who is apprenticed to Fountain’s trainer,
shows good judgment during a race and
plenty of vigor in a finish, and he had
to ride Chatasan desperately to defeat
Knight's Armour by a head in the Derri-
mut Handicap. Knight’s Armour was
unlucky. She showed exceptional bril-
liance, but broke down during the race
and returned to scale on three legs.
Beaufiler, who was a long way out of
her ground early, shaped fairly in third
place, but only plodded on right at the
finish. Phildoll, fourth, will do better
over a distance beyond six furlongs.
Owned in Adelaide, but trained in Mel-
bourne by P. B. Quinlan, Chatasan’s last
three starts have yielded two wins and
a second. A three-year-old son of Chat-
ham and Cho Cho San, he impresses as
likely to keep on improving.
•••••*
Strategy came from last at the six fur-
longs to win the first Sunset Weiter
running away from Retnuha and Bronze
Flight, and, having struck winning form
again, it might not be long before further
success comes his way. Portico survived
a protest after his half-head defeat of the
pacemaker, David Copperfield, in the
second Sunset Welter. The objection was
rather optimistic, and the willingness of
bookmakers to bet 4 to 1 against the
placings being reversed was a true indi-
cation of its fate. To prevent confusion
and delay, the stewards announced that
the totalisator would pay place dividends
before hearing the decision on the protest.
At one time Ascot was a goldmine for
its shareholders, but of recent years its
dividends have been on the light side.
However, a few more meetings like that
of Saturday last should again put it on
the up-grade, and enable the management
to give various improvements serious
consideration. Still, while Ascot cannot
claim many other advantages, it is the
most up-to-date of all Sydney courses in
respect of tote speculation. It provides
for straight-out, place and double bet-
ting.
Fast times were the rule during the
afternoon, and, while Many Ways made
a race record of 1.40 in the Welter Mile,
Freckles put up a track record of 1.134-
for six furlongs in the Flying Handicap.
Both won in similar fashion, giving none
of their opponents a chance over the last
half-mile. There was merit in Many
Ways’ win, as she had the tidy weight
for a three-year-old of 9.6 ; and Freckles
was having his first race since the last
Caulfield Cup. It was probably on that
account that he drifted from 3 to 1 to
5 to 1. Brazandt can still gallop, but,
with everything in his favor, he could
not trouble Freckles from the first hun-
dred yards. Well-backed Reception
struck trouble, and Tarn and Jazbeau,
others in the market, were never dan-
gerous.
Kestrel was another who shone from a
time - making standpoint. Although
knocked back at one stage of the Ascot
Handicap, and forced to come from the
inside to the outside after passing the
half-mile, he outstayed Kurrawid to equal
the race record of 1.58 for nine fur-
longs and fifty yards. Rhythmic, in third
place, ran well enough to give him a
chance in a similar race, but Stylish
again failed to stay, and interference
that sent Climax back to nearly last at
the half-mile disposed of her chance,
though it is doubtful whether she could
have won even if she had escaped
trouble.
A clear run throughout enabled Dawn
Mary to win the first division of the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap from
Don Byrne, who is well on the way to a
return to his best form. Canvasser again
displayed plenty of pace, being first into
the straight, up to which point Tyrannus
was also prominent. As Qui Va La beat
only one runner racing is not improving
him.
Maorilander Omapo hung in and
generally misbehaved himself in the
second division of the Three- and Four-
year-old Handicap, but got up in the last
stride to win by a half-head from Bruns-
wick Joy, in time a quarter-second slower
than Dawn Mary recorded in her divi-
sion. As Omapo’s form was not up to
the best shown by him in Maoriland he
is bound to improve upon this effort.
Colonel Post added to the two-year-
old winners trained by J. W. McCurley
this season. He finished too strongly for
Galliard, who, no matter what excuses
may be made, will need to improve
greatly during the next few weeks to be
included in the list of Derby possibilities.
The same applies to Milanja. Makatha,
who was fourth, has pace, but is a poor
stayer. Colonel Post is by Posterity
from Curtain (Thespian-Cowl), a three-
quarter sister to Veil, dam of Veilmond.
* * * *
After Freckles, with 8.5, beat Ever-
green (7.12) and Veiled Threat (7.9) in the
good time of 2.3* in the Trial Stakes
of 1* mile at Randwick last October, he
was credited with having a Caulfield Cup
chance with 7.0. He cut up badly in that,
but at his previous start led into the
straight in the Toorak Handicap (run at
Flemington) with 7.13. In the straight
he dropped right out, but after his record-
breaking win at Ascot on Saturday he
now enters strongly into calculations for
the Epsom Handicap, in which he has
only 7.5. It takes a smart horse to out-
pace Brazandt in the first furlong of a
sprint, but Freckles did it without any
trouble.
It is therefore not surprising that his
price for the Epsom has shortened con-
siderably, and if at his next appearance
he runs another good race he may be-
come a definite favorite. He will be
meeting Evergreen 201 b. better than when
he beat the latter, and that is a very big
difference, not losing sight of the fact
that at a mile the w.f.a, scale allows for
151 b. improvement in Evergreen and only
31b. in Freckles in the year. It must be
added that since their last meeting Ever-
green has shown good form in several
races, while Freckles had done nothing
of account until last week.
* * * *
All the year round the average of suc-
cessful favorites at most Sydney courses
is, about one in three. There are fluctua-
tions, as while one track may show
slightly better than the percentage men-
tioned it may be worse at another, but
the general average is that stated. Rose-
hill got slightly inside of it this season.
Inclusive of the Hawkesbury meetings 92
races were run there, and while 31 were
won by absolute favorites two went to
horses sharing favoritism with another
runner, and in two others favorites were
dead-heated by less-favored horses. Favor-
ite-followers actually had an interest in
35 winners. Of these five started at odds
on and 11 ranged from even money to
7 to 4. However, though some of the
prices were decidedly short, any backer
who had a fixed stake on each favorite
won on the season.
As there was not a meeting at which
winners did not include one favorite, re-
sults also favored those system backers
who are saved by the success of one favor-
ite in a day. On April 30 favorites won
five of nine races, and on November 16
four of eight races were won by absolute
favorites, and in a fifth the winner shared
favoritism with another runner. On
four other occasions four of seven races
were won by favorites.
There were days on which outsiders
came to the rescue of the books. Grand
Fils was a 50-to-l winner, and others at
double figures were; Rival Spear and
Guild Hall, 25 to 1 ; Good Morning,
Speardale, Forestage and Dyne, 20 to 1 ;
Merton, 16 to 1 ; Jolly Times, 15 to 1 ;
Haridello and Royal Sceptre, 14 to 1 ;
Nightbeam, 12 to 1; and Kurrawid and
Nightbeam, 10 to 1.
Continuing statistics of winning favor-
ites, Randwick is behind Rosehill in that
respect this season. Of the 228 races
run at headquarters, 64 went to absolute
favorites, in seven the winner shared
favoritism and in another —the Summer
Cup, won by Malagigi—the three most
fancied runners closed at 5 to 1 each.
Backers of favorites consequently had a re-
turn from 72 horses, or a little worse than
one in three. On October 26, November
23, December 4, April 5 and April 14
all the favorites were beaten, and com-
plete downfall was avoided on May 24,
with half a favorite in Proud Fox at
3 to 1.
• • • * • M
On each of seven days one favorite
scored, while on several days favorites
had a good innings. On Sept. 14 and
May 3 they scored four of seven races,
and three and a half on five occasions.
The hottest successful favorite of the
season was Session, at 8 to 1 on for the
FOR FLEMINGTON.
C Before acceptances.)
Crimea Trial: Ballycummins, 1 ;
Neutron, 2 ; Gipsy Way, 3.
Moondah Plate: Aurie’s Star, 1 ;
Pure Gold, 2 ; Burrabil, 3.
Australian Hurdle Race: Harley,
I ; Methuen, 2 ; North Cape, 3.
Balaclava Stakes: Rivette, 1 ;
Fountain, 2; Prince Ariel, 3.
Wilgah Steeplechasers’ Flat; King
Arthur, 1 ; St. Robert, 2; Dark
David, 3.
Mornington Welter: Sir Richard,
1 ; Cumulus, 2; Astounding, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances.)
By "PILOT.”
Brush Hurdle Race: Bringa, 1 ;
Duke Claro, 2 ; Good One, 3.
Maiden Handicap: Gay Romero,
1 ; Gormic, 2 ; Indian Emperor, 3,
Three-year-old Handicap: Justitia,
1 ; Harprey, 2 ; Parsing, 3.
Carlton Mile Handicap: Sober-
sides, 1 ; Many Ways, 2; High-
born, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Aristocrat,
1 ; Scarlet Ranger, 2 ; Trade Mark, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap :
Southerly, 1 ; Canvasser, 2 ; Melo-
rado or Fan Dancer, 3.


IS va $ s
sill
95.0QP Woolgrowers ol Aus-
tralia control 123,000,000 sheep
and maintain Australia's
unique position as the largest
Wool producing country in the
World.
Wool has always been and is
to-day our Great National In-
dustry. The Australian Wool
Clip realizes over £60,000,000
per annum, and provides the
Commonwealth with over
£50,000,000 worth of Foreign
Exchange Annually.
Millions of pounds of Aus-
tralian Wool are supplied an-
nually to clothe and equip the
Empire Forces. Employment is
provided for hundreds of thou-
sands of men and women in
both Australia and Great
Britain.
* BUY YOUR SHARE IH VICTORY . . IHVtST IK THE WAR LOAN *
Adrian Knox Stakes. At that she was
not far ahead of Astrid, who won the
Valicare Handicap at 6 to 1 on. Longest-
priced winners at Randwick this season
were:
Price. Price.
pi nero 50 Bonnie Loch .. 14
jhrax 33 Constant Chatter.. 14
Jymjon 33 Irish Sea .. ..14
Steal On .... 33 Hash 4
Home Rule .. .. 33 Fire Jax 14
Bland Princess .. 25 Snow Queen .. .. 12
Kuttabul .. •■ 25 Bel Oiseau .. .. 12
Beau Son .. .. 25 Valcello .. .. 10
Linemond .. .. 20 Overbold .. .. 10
Red Wendy .. ..20 Rossjoy 10
Ciesar 20 Pallama 10
Decelea 20 Buzalong .. .. 10
Red Sails .. .. 20 Pennywise .. .. 10
Tranquil Star .. 20 Adios 10
Grand Boy .. .. 20 Bronze Flight .. 10
Hydra 20 The Miller .. .. 10
Peekmond .. .. 20 Tuckerbox .. .10
Tel Asur .. .. 20 Metallic .. .. 10
Dewar 20 Masterpiece .. .. 10
Seven Fifty .. .. 20 Hope 10
Half Way .. .. 16 Teddie Rion .. .. 10
Sioneel 15 Jazbeau 10
Melorado .. ..15 Forward .. ..10
Tel Asur .. ..15 Pierce 10
Asnazu 14
The foregoing list is a good set-off against
the season’s successful favorites at Rand-
wick.
He * «
There is said to be a possibility of
the Six-Hour Day demonstration and
sports being held on the third Monday
in October, instead of the first. Of
course that would mean the loss of
October 6 as Metropolitan day, and
might cause the reduction of the A.J.C.
spring meeting from four to three days.
That would be regrettable. Even if Six-
Hour Day should be set down for Oct.
20 it would probably still have to com-
pete against a race meeting by some
Sydney club. It is therefore to be hoped
that a satisfactory arrangement between
the two interested bodies will permit of
the Metropolitan being run on the usual
day, especially as the A.J.C. is giving all
its profits to war funds.
* * * *
At the Belmont Park 24 days’ meeting
which ended in June, the largest atten-
dance on any day was 53,904 —a record
for New York —and the tote turnover
was $1,881,160, something more than
£A572,140. The principal race, the
Suburban Handicap, was put back half
an hour in order to give the crowd a
chance to bet, but even then a very large
sum was crowded out, and it was the
same on other races. For the 24 days
the tote turnover was about £A7,786,300.
Machine betting continues to grow at
New York meetings, and is stated to
have caused a marked increase in atten-
dances at the various meetings,
* * * *
Advocates of night trotting in Sydney
now appear to have a fair chance of
realisation of their hopes. At any rate
it has appeared in print that a proposal
to be submitted to the Chief Secretary is
that a club be given a night for a trotting
meeting to test whether that class of sport
is wanted by the public. Of course, bet-
ting is to be permitted, and as the oppor-
tunity for a bet is something not to be
missed, and night trotting is in itself
spectacular, there is bound to be a
bumper attendance. That will be stressed
as showing that night meetings are really
a “crying need,” and as some members
of the Government are credited with be-
ing favorable to trotting it may not be
long before such meetings are added to
Sydney’s night amusements. An increase
in racing of any kind is undesirable at
this juncture, and if night meetings are
decided upon presumably they will re-
place some day fixtures.
Footbrawl
Carlton v. Richmond was played at
Carlton before 23,000 disciples. The
Tigers got away well, but the Blues soon
overhauled them and led by three goals
at the third change. The last was played
in a crescendo of sound as the Tigers
evened the score and both sides plugged
on, point for point. For long periods
there was no scoring, as the backs drove
out attack after attack. Then, with the
timekeeper reaching for the bell. Smith
hit the post with a snap and Richmond
won by a point, 11.18 to 12.11.
Melbourne disposed of Sowth in a
slightly-bored manner at M.C.G. —18.16
to 10.13.
Collingwood and Hawthorn had a
romp in the mud at Collingwood, Every
few minutes a ’Woodsman would emerge,
scrape the stuff off his face, boot another
goal and then plunge joyously back.
’Wood by 22.20 to 12.13.
Geelong, the most welcome visiting
team in the League because it never has
the bad taste to beat its hosts, maintained
its reputation at St. Kilda, the locals belt-
ing up 18.14 to 11.15.
At North Melbourne the home side
went down to Essendon by 12.14 against
17.8 after hanging on grimly all the way,
even in the fighting.
Fitzroy, of which much was expected
earlier in the season, continued its fade-
away at Footscray. ’Scray made it 15.20
to 9.4. It was a fumbling sort of affair,
relieved towards the finish by better foot-
ball.
it * * *
At Erskineville (Sydney) a Victorian
R.A.A.F. team gave N.S.W, seconds a
lesson in the national code by 16.13 to
5.15. Then Canberra beat N.S.W. by
18.20-15.18. The Sydney men are still
relying on fellows a bit too old for the
business, having no reservoir of young-
sters to draw on like the other States.
* * * *
A last-minute try, converted, gave
Randwick a 14-9 victory over East in
the Sydney Rugby Union competition.
Winger Stone scored the try —he got the
ball just outside his own twenty-five, and
beat three men with his speed and swerve,
running 80 yards. It was Randwick’s
best showing to date, but, though the
result brought East i ba c k v to,share w .he
stU? hasn’t made “the £our”-Manly and
Parramatta share third and fourth post-
tions, with Randwick next.
• ’ •,
Manly came right at the finish also to
beat Parramatta 15-12. tackling
hard game with both teams tacking
solidly and defending wc 1 » A ni
made better use of to ch Unr
put on six tries to We t -
and was never out of a canter.
Drummovne got ahead of St. George,
12-10 with a field goal as the bell was
ringing. North gave Gordon a terrible
dSfbbfaig-22-3 * #
Brisbane “sports” who didn’t* go to
the races on Saturday tossed up between
Queensland and N.S.W.
v. Queensland (Rugby League). There
were 8000 to see the Chinese give Queens-
land a lesson (8-nil), and 9000 cheered
the Queensland forwards, who put N. S.
Wales through 27-21. “S. M. Herald”
mentioned, quite unnecessarily, that the
beaten team “returned to Sydney dis-
satisfied with some of the decisions of
the referee.”
Miscellaneous
“Once Ped.”: When R. T. Fletcher
won a five-mile open footrace on Satur-
day at Botany (N.S.W.) it came out that
he was the handicapper, and the State
Amateur Athletic body is to consider a
rule that no handicapper shall be allowed
to compete. Fletcher said he had ac-
cepted the job because nobody else
would. He is 41, the oldest active long-
distance runner in Sydney, and has won
and been placed in a lot of events.
* * * *
“Trew”: There must be something in
the molasses country air that inspires the
horse. Another high-jump record has
been put up at a Cairns show, this time
by two nags, Perry’s Rukin Lass and
Mrs. Blanckensee’s Peninsular. Both
cleared Bft. sin., beating Flyaway’s 1939
record by an inch.


THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or call for free
Booklet.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
h
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
PETROL FROM COAL.
TAXATION AND SQUEALERS.
August Issue On Sale Saturday.
PRICE 2\- PER COPY or £1,12/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of KiZncy Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood In your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get tha
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache Is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To buy full list of Charles Dickens’s novels
in paper covers, also books entitled Red Harry,
Mr. Barnes of New York and The Book of
Life.—mi.
To buy Railway Wonders of the World.
State price.—2036.
To buy, new or second-hand, model steam-
driven locomotive, 0 gauge.—2031.
Information Sought.
(1) Is an R.A.A.F. air crew composed of
officers ? (2) Does the air crew sit in the
officers’ mess ? (3) What rank does a wireless-
operator air gunner hold? (4) What is a ser-
geant-pilot ? —1330.
(1) No, partly of officers and partly of air-
men. (2) Officers only are members of the
officers’ mess. (3) On graduation, a wireless-
operator air gunner receives the rank of ser-
geant; a small percentage may be granted com-
missions. (4) Pilots on graduation are also
promoted to sergeants ; a certain percentage re-
ceive commissions.
* * * *
(1) Can the Commonwealth Government
order conscription for overseas service without
taking a vote of the people? (2) Is there an
Act which gives the Commonwealth Govern-
ment the power in an emergency to deny to
the people the right to vote on the issue of
conscription ? —1797.
(1) Under the Commonwealth Constitution —
Section 51 —Parliament has full power to make
laws with respect to the naval and military de-
fence of the Commonwealth and of the several
States. Under this power a universal obliga-
tion could be imposed on all citizens to defend
Australia by serving in the naval, military or
air forces within the Commonwealth or over-
seas. Up till the present, however. Parliament
has provided for compulsory service only within
the limits of the Commonwealth and those of
any Territory under the authority of the Com-
monwealth (including any Territory governed
under a mandate). Legally a referendum
would not be necessary for the introduction of
conscription for overseas service—an ordinary
Act of Parliament would be sufficient. (2) Sub-
section (7) of Section 5 of the National Security
Act, 1939-40 (which section gives the Governor-
General in Council wide powers to make emer-
gency regulations), provides that nothing in the
section shall authorise the imposition of any
form of compulsory naval, military or air-force
service, or the extension of any existing obliga-
tion to render compulsory naval, military or
air-force service. Section 13a of the Act
(added in 1940), which gives further wide
powers to make regulations, contains the fol-
lowing proviso: “Provided that nothing in this
section shall authorise the imposition of any
form of compulsory service beyond the limits
of Australia.”
* * * •
(1) Is there a shortage of greasers for deep-
water ships leaving Australia ? (2) What income-
tax formalities have to be observed on signing
on for sea service? —1841.
(1) No general shortage, although occasion-
ally through unforeseen causes ships are some-
times short of a man or two. Anyone hoping
to fill such a vacancy if it occurred would have
to be standing by on the spot. (2) It would
also be necessary for anyone joining in Aus-
tralia to have a permit issued by the Director
of Navigation and to have an income-tax clear-
ance. Whether a permit would be issued
would depend upon the view of the Director
of Navigation as to the suitability of any par-
ticular man for seafaring employment.
* * * *
(1) Would it be very difficult for a lad living
at Bundaberg (Q.) to obtain a position as
steward in the mercantile marine either on a
passenger or a cargo vessel? (2) Is it necessary
to join the Marine Stewards’ Association ? (3)
Is it necessary to pass a medical examination
before being signed on a ship as a steward? —
1519.
(1) Most overseas shipping lines engage
stewards in London. As regards coastal vessels,
there is very little prospect of obtaining such
a position at Bundaberg as most of the vacan-
cies are filled at Sydney. (2) Not for a first
voyage as a cadet. (3) Must obtain a medical
certificate from the Navigation Department if
18 or under.
* * * *
t Has Joyce’s “Ulysses” or Thomas Mann’s
Joseph in Egypt” been banned in Australia?
—1507.
Neither of these books is a prohibited publi-
cation in terms of Section 52 (c) of the Customs
Act, 1901-36, and Ulysses may be bought in
Sydney. Specimen copies have not been sub-
mitted to the Customs Department for deter-
mination as to whether importation would be
permitted from non-sterling countries in accord-
ance with the Customs (Import Licensing)
Regulations.
* * • *
(1) What are the principles and method of
modelling in clay? (2) Type of day used and
where obtainable ? (3) Books on the subject?
—1166.
(1) and (3) Consult Modelling for Teachers
and Students, by Prof. Lanteri, and Modelling
and Sculpture, by Albert Toft. (2) Clay for
modelling purposes may be purchased from
Fowlers’ Pottery Works, Fitzroy-street, Mar-
rickville, or from Bakewells’ Pottery Works,
Mitchell-road, Erskineville—both Sydney.
* * * *
On what side should pedestrians walk on a
road in N. S. Wales not provided with a foot-
path ? —1663.
Local Government Ordinance No. 34, 2a ( b ),
decrees that “Every person walking along
any public place shall, where there is no foot-
way available and in a fit condition for
pedestrians and he uses the carriageway, (1)
keep as near as practicable to the boundary
of such carriageway on his right-hand side;
(2) when meeting any horse or vehicle (includ-
ing a motor vehicle), pass on his right-hand side
of the same; (3) when overtaking any pedes-
trian, pass on the left-hand side of such pedes-
trian.”
* * * *
What amount of excise revenue was received
on wine, spirits, beer and tobacco in Australia
for the latest financial year? —l77l.
For the year ended June, 1941:
£A.
Wine 9,466
Spirits for fortifying wine .. 327,948
Beer 11,848,441
Spirits 2,926,615
Tobacco, cigars and cigarettes 12,350,762
» * * ♦
(1) Where in Australia can I obtain an
American army saddle, and price? (2) Method
of curing cowhide to make it suitable for plait-
ing whips? —l77o.
(1) Walther and Stevenson, Ltd., 395 George-
street, Sydney, could make you such a saddle
complete with American wooden stirrups and
cord cinchas for £l4 10s. Importations to Aus-
tralia from the U.S.A. are not permitted. (2)
Soak skin in a lime solution to remove hair,
then sprinkle with a mixture of equal parts of
alum and baking powder. Stretch the hide out
and roll the alum and baking powder in.
Brief Answers.
A.H.S.: Sump oil has been used with some
success, but it spoils the appearance of the
court. One or two applications of “Weedi-
cide,” a standard arsenical preparation, should
do the job—obtainable from William Cooper,
4 O’Connell-street, Sydney M.H.: Com-
bined income of husband and wife (including
value of board and lodgings provided) may
reach £65 a year in addition to pension with-
out pension rate being affected. Earnings of
pensioner’s daughter will not affect pension
rate... .S.T.S.: Relief work is still provided in
N. S. Wales; a man supporting a wife and
two children is employed on relief work two
weeks on and two weeks off. That a relief
worker owns the cottage he lives in does not
debar him from relief work J.C.W.: (1)
Fibre has not been grown with commercial
success in Australia, but successful experiments
have been carried out by the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture as far back as 1890. (2) Suitable
areas for its production are on the far North
Coast or Queensland coast —hot, humid climate,
rich, moist soil and ample water supply for
retting. (3) Propagated by seed. (4) Consider-
able Indian literature is available in the Public
Library; in the “N. S. Wales Agricultural
Gazette,” 1890, page 129, and in the “Queens-
land Agricultural Journal,” June, 1904. (5)
Capital required would be about £IO,OOO, to
establish treatment and manufacturing plant.
(6) Experienced fibre men are available in Aus-
tralia.... W.R.C.: (1) The North Coast district
is suitable for tea culture. (2) Tea plants are
apparently not procurable locally. The N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture has intro-
duced seed for experimental sowings. (3) Leaflet
will be forwarded P.J.E.: (1) No, but if lia-
bility on land were met there is a way. The
T. and G. Society, Melbourne, would advance,
say, £9BO on a total valuation (by it) of
£I4OO, comprising £llsO house, £250 land,
borrower to take out life insurance policy for
half amount of loan. Loan repayable within
25 years, instalments and premium on policy
amounting to about 365. a week. Existing in-
surance policy might be of use as security.
Consult society, which has other alternative
schemes S.J.P.: Coin is an Australian token
(penny or halfpenny, according to size), one of
many hundreds of varieties issued by tradesmen
between the ’fifties and ’seventies to relieve
the shortage of copper currency. The legend
“Peace and Plenty” occurs on several varieties.
There are few rarities among Australian tokens.
The “Peace and Plenty” series are common and
your specimen would, if in very good con-
dition, be worth sixpence cither as collector
value or as a curio... .M.E.D.: Course in
veterinary science cannot be taken at the Uni-
versity of Adelaide. A full course is given by
the University of Sydney, and arrangements
can be made for the first year’s work to be
taken at Adelaide. Full information from the
Registrar, University of Sydney, on inquiry.
Not possible to study at home for the degree.
... J.D.: Auburn cars are not now imported
here. Last agent and distributor was Stan
Hill Moginie Motors, Ltd., 80 William-street,
Sydney... .F.R.S.: A simple papier mache can
be prepared from newspapers. Tear into small
pieces about 30 ordinary newspapers and soak
in a kerosene-tin of water overnight. The wet
pulp is then boiled with caustic soda (4oz. in
one gallon of water) for one hour, the pulp
strained and washed with water to free it from
caustic. For use, the pulp is mixed with thin
glue and plaster of paris. Should be suitable
for photographic dishes if the dried articles are
coated with a waterproof finish... .W.R.D.:
Acting High Commissioner for the United
Kingdom, Canberra, suggests you communicate
with the Secretary, Ministry of Works and
Buildings, Whitehall, London... .8.D.: A
building can be freed from ordinary subter-
ranean white-ants by effectively eliminating con-
tact with the ground; any white-ants already
in the woodwork above ground will eventually
die if they cannot get back to the ground....
0.H.: (1) Trees of N.S.W., by R. H. Anderson,
Government Printer, Sydney, 55.; Timbers and
Forest Products of Queensland, by Swain,
Government Printer, Brisbane, about 11s.;
Handbook of Forest Trees for Victorian
Foresters, Government Printer, Melbourne, price
not known; Key to the Eucalypts of Western
Australia, Bulletin 34, Forestry Department,
Perth, price not known. (2) Current prices
may be obtained from the Sydney and Suburban
Timber Merchants’ Association, 2 Carrington-
street, Sydney... .J.D.G.: Hard to say why
the plants aren’t growing properly without
knowing the type of soil and other conditions.
Perhaps they have been allowed to get too
dry at some time, or the ground may not be
properly drained, or the soil may contain spots
of something that does not suit them. If pos-
sible, get somebody who knows Grevillea ros-
marinifolia to examine them... .W.S.H.: Apply
to the Area Officer, c/o Drill Hall, High-
street, West Maitland... .J.T.T.: A passion
vine usually starts to bear fruit when six to
nine months old from the time of seed plant-
ing. The climate may have been unsuitable
for your vines—possibly too much rain fol-
lowing a dry period caused such vigorous
growth. Loss of foliage may be due to an
attack of brown spot, likely to be prevalent in
the N.T J.C.: The Mysterious Universe, by
Sir James Jeans ; 3s. 3d., post. 4d., from Angus
and Robertson. Know of no books on the
laws of chance. Red Hell, by Joseph Ameel,
could be imported by Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, for 165., post. 6d., in about four or
five months... .J.C.: Angus and Robertson
will post you a copy of The Wandering Jew,
by Eugene Sue, on receipt of order and remit-
tance —10s. 6d., post, lid X.Y.Z.: Albury
platform is 1305 ft. on the side serving N. S.
Wales trains and 908 ft. on the opposite side,
which serves Victorian trains; Kalgoorlie plat-
form is 1660 ft. between tops of ramps.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
. to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
G.G.:
Shrapnel bursts on Rotten Row,
No windows remain in Pimlico,
But though the Nazis blast it down
We’ll build again old l-ondou town.
Whitechapel will then be Paradise
And all around new homes will rise;
No longer slatternly slums will show'
But beautiful palaces all in a row.
E.W.:
A blinding flash up in the sky,
A howl, a sickly roar;
A Messerschmitt comes screaming down
To lay her eggs no more.
J.J.P.:
We are waiting for you, Adolf.
What is keeping you so late?
Are you busy playing golf?
E.T.:
O’er Europe’s suffering soil,
Lusting for blood and spoil,
Thrusts the mad Prussian:
Through ages long oppressed,
Now modern armor dressed,
Parries the Russian.
.... R.P.: “And the frogs a-croaking gaily.”
And the pome a-basketed quickly... .J.D.:
It plight have been better if Mr. Spender’s cam-
paign to “glamorise” the A.I.F. left you speech-
less. .. J.F.: Still patchy.... L.H.; A notion;
but the metre’s too mechanical....M.S.:
Might be able to stomach one “mess of pot-
tage”; but not three L.M.: It would be
kindest if “the little old maid on Graveyard
Hill” were decently interred... .L.H.: Can you
really visualise a ship cleaving the grey Atlantic
with its “mighty forefoot”? M.H.: Mr.
Portwin, still protesting volubly in chopped-up
prose, was gently escorted from the premises.
... .H.N.M.: Much of a labored muchness....
C.R.: Some promise; don’t be satisfied with
slipshod technique because it looks “modern.”
V.E.B.: It’s been better don? before
M.1.D.: Rambling... .G.R.W.: “Completely
surrounded by foe,” was he? E.G.T.:
Another blinking “sentinel” tree! ... .E.L.: “I
was not myself last night, nay.” Nay....
R.8.P.: It seems to begin and end nowhere,
and the cook jumps in like Hamlet’s father’s
ghost... .R.M.: Try a woman’s paper A.S.:
“Oh, come along and walk with me, there’s
magic in the air.” Not if you’re going to recite
to U5....G.8.: So many bad poems have been
written about them that we’ve reluctantly come
to the conclusion that women’s slacks are not
a subject for the Muse... .H.H.8.: Keep at it.
. ...8.H.: Wherever did you see a dragon
with a “cloven head”? P.J.1.: One or two
excellent ' lines among many bad... .L.W.:
Tame... .G.P.: Might make a song....
W.M.F.: If you’re going to damn the younger
generation, do it with a bit more fire... ,B.I.:
Thin..... J. 8.8.: Must you bring in Hecate and
Neptune? J.A.F.: Rough J. 0.: Atmo-
sphere; that’s all S.G.: Good for your age.
. ...R.W.T., C.C., J.H.A., D.N.S. and E.W.:
Misfires.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.S.: A brace of deformed heads and a
feeble he-she gag; n0!....J.W.F.; You’d do
better to leave charcoal alone... .S.C.: The
blacktracker will have to keep his face to a
long, long trail before he noses out the peter....
P.M.M.: Admitted that a mature barmaid could
have biceps like a wheat-lumper’s, but could she
at the same time be flat-chested?... .T.H.; By
having the swaggie bogged and his head in a
raincloud you’ve solved the problems of head
and feet; why not a smokescreen to cover the
mess you made of his middle?... .L.R.: Only
73 errors in the first quick tally; we await your
instructions whether to run over it again....
E.D.L.: We took a real bullocky into our
special asbestos-lined room, showed him your
sketch of a kine conductor swinging a whip
with a 15ft. handle and left him to it....
A.J.N.: The kangaroo appears to be success-
fully defying the law of gravity A.S.V.:
What, you live in the Mallee and can’t draw
sliprails!... .E.D.; Gent, with long face appen-
dage perched on rocking-horse talking to
woman with bosom where her waist should be
declined with no thanks... .V.S.: Labels, sign-
posts and inscribed balloons take up seven-
eighths of the sketch... .G.H.R.: You appear
to have been trained in the hit-or-miss school,
and your aim’s awful A.D.L.: The ghoul
is in the strongroom until you call for it.


n
mmm
mDTORS PLV LIMITED
53 North George St., Sydney, Australia.
Established in 1906.
“INVINCIBLE” INDUSTRIAL
ENGINES
are stocked in 1,2, 4,6, 8 and 12 cylinder
models, \ h.p. to 165 h.p.—All Four-cycle.
Fuels; Petrol —Kerosene—Crude Oil or
Charcoal Gas.
Write for Catalogues, stating your requirements.
Position Vacant.
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Secretaryship of Appointments Board.
APPLICATIONS are invited from University
graduates under the age of 45 for the above
position. The Secretary is the executive officer
of the Appointments Board, which is responsible
for maintaining liaison between University
graduates who are seeking employment and
potential employers.
His principal duties are to keep a register
of such persons; to advise parents, students
and schoolchildren of the prospects and con-
ditions of employment on completion of any
particular University course; and to encourage
the employment of University-trained personnel
throughout the professional and business world.
Commercial, industrial or professional experi-
ence, preferably with some knowledge of per-
sonel work, is therefore desirable.
Salary range £450-£7OO per annum; com-
mencing figure according to qualifications and
experience. Copies of conditions of appoint-
ment may be obtained from the Registrar of
any Australian University.
Applications (in triplicate and accompanied
by a recent photograph), including copy
testimonials and if possible the names of two
referees in Victoria, must be lodged with the
undersigned not later than Wednesday, August
6, 1941.
J. F. FOSTER,
University, Melbourne, N. 3. .Registrar.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
EIRE CIRCUIT COURT OF JUSTICE,
SOUTH-WESTERN CIRCUIT, COUNTY
OF CLARE.
Equity Suit No. 1221.
IN the Matter of THOMAS CONNORS
(otherwise O’CONNOR), late of Cragg,
near Kilbane, Post Town Broadford, in
the County of Clare, Farmer, Deceased.
JAMES CONNORS, of Fermoyle, Broadford,
County Clare, Plaintiff;
THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL FOR EIRE, De-
fendant.
NOTICE OF DECREE AND
ADVERTISEMENT FOR NEXT-OF-KIN.
BY Decree of His Lordship the Circuit Court
Judge for Clare made in above Suit on the
14th June, 1937, the Estate Real and Personal
of the abovenamed Thomas Connors, deceased,
was ordered to be administered through Court
and the Accounts and Inquiries usual in an
Administration Suit were directed, including an
Inquiry as to the next-of-kin of the said De-
ceased. Notice of said Decree is hereby given
to all parties interested and who are hereby
requested to enter and prove their claims with
and before the undersigned before the 25th day
of February, 1942, and in default will be per-
emptorily excluded from the benefit of sain
Decree, and in particular all persons claiming
to be next-of-kin of said Thomas Connors, who
died Intestate and a bachelor on the 28th Febru-
ary, 1935, are, on or before the 25th day of
February, 1942, to lodge with the County
Registrar of Clare, Court House, Ennis, a
statement in writing of their claims as such
next-of-kin with detailed particulars of their
relationship to the Deceased, and are also re-
quired to attend before said Registrar at Court
House, Ennis, by themselves or their Solicitors
on the 27th day of February, 1942, being date
fixed for adjudicating on claims, and with all
necessary proofs and documentary and other
evidence in support of their claims.
This Notice is particularly addressed to:
(1) JOHN CONNORS, brother of Deceased,
who emigrated to U.S., America, about 1889,
married there to Lizzie Lewis, resided at
433 North Exeter Street, Baltimore, Mary-
land, and, if now deceased, then to the
children and grandchildren of said John
Connors.
(2) MARTIN CONNORS, brother of Deceased,
who emigrated to U.S., America, many years
ago, married there to Hanora Roche, be-
lieved to have resided in Baltimore or
neighborhood, and, if now deceased, then
to the children and grandchildren of said
rick Connors.
(3) PATRICK CONNORS, brother of Deceased,
believed to have emigrated to Australia be-
tween 1890 and 1894, and, if dead, then to
the children and grandchildren of said Pat-
rick Connors.
DATED this 24th day of April, 1941.
(L.s.) MICHAEL KILLEEN,
County Registrar, Clare,
Court House, Ennis.
MICHAEL TYNAN & CO., Solicitors for
Administrator, having carriage Limerick.
Estate Late Richard Summers (Deed.).
ANYBODY knowing the whereabouts of
ALBERT SUMMERS, son of the abovenamed,
late of Dunoon, near Lismore, New South
Wales, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned executor and he will hear some-
thing to the advantage of the said Albert
Summers.
W. F. McDERMOTT, Executor estate late
Richard Summers, P.O. Box 49A, Lismore, New
South Wales,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Haxtons,” last dramatic work of
the late Hugh Walpole, which was pro-
cluced by the Melbourne Little Theatre
for the first time in Australia at the tiny
St. Chad’s, South Yarra, was exception-
ally well cast and acted. It is a thought-
ful drama—if heavy going in places—
about a young married woman who steals
a pair of baby’s shoes in a provincial em-
porium in England, is apprehended, tried
and found guilty, and returns to the dis-
tracted bosom of the county family which
has always regarded her as an interloper
and on which she has now inflicted this
shocking social stigma. Fearful of a
further lapse, her husband keeps the
family plate out of her vicinity, but a
second theft occurs, and although she
knows who did it she takes the blame
with obvious enjoyment, and the house is
in another turmoil. She has made the
family that despises her feel to some
order, but, not content with that, she
rushes out into the night threatening
suicide, and the husband rushes after to
save her. In due course she returns un-
damaged, and it turns out that the re-
actionary son of a widowed sister of the
husband pinched the boodle, having got
into trouble with a village maiden.
A playwright is under no obligation
to understand the psychology of a situa-
tion ; all that is required is that he de-
scribes it correctly, and Mr. Walpole’s
is a good description and dramatically
exciting. Nancy Summers was consis-
tently emotional as the wife who hits un-
erringly on the spot in her husband’s
armor which will make him feel most
intensely, and as a specimen of the Eng-
lish landed gentry W. G. Southwell was
a winner as her husband. Loveday Hills
gave a convincing presentation of the
galled and bitter sister, but David Reid,
as her son, was too self-consciously a
scoundrel. As the grandmother who
watches it all work out with a somewhat
unreal detachment, young Jean Camp-
bell at any rate gave an extraordinarily
sound illusion of an old lady.
*
Sydney concertgoers listened to three
pianoforte recitals last week, all at the
Con. Ignaz Friedman, who played the
first of a newly-planned series of Chopin
programmes, has been known in Europe
as a pedagogue and an executant for 30
years, and is a superb technician. He was
at the top of his form in the Op. 58
Sonata and the G Minor Ballade, but
displayed no real affection for or sym-
pathy with either of these works. The
following night 15-year-old David Mad-
dison exploited his prodigy-value in an
amazingly tough and heavy programme
—Bach’s Chromatic Fantasia and Beet-
hoven’s 32 Variations in C Minor were
items, with a Schumann Sonata thrown
in. Again, more technique than feeling.
Most pleasurable recital came third, that
of Joyce Greer. Her performance of
the Sonata Op. 110 —Beethoven in his
transcendental mantle, but wearing it
with a smile —was a heart-warming ex-
perience. She played Brahms, too, with
power and understanding, and demon-
strated that this country isn’t exactly un-
musical by making works by four Aus-
tralian composers sound just as impres-
sive as if they were made in Europe.
* * * *
Trustees of the Victorian National
Gallery varied the menu at their latest
concert in the Stawell Gallery by provid-
ing an elocutionary interlude by Hope
Slessor. Garbed in semi-medieval cos-
tume, Miss Slessor recited poems by Her-
rick, Donne and others, and then, to a
musical obbligato by the Elizabethan
quartet culled from a Beethoven sonata,
recited, the balcony scene from “Romeo
and Juliet.” She struck the right note
of girlish romanticism, but lapsed into
intimate whispers which Romeo might
have heard in the garden but which most
of the audience in the Stawell didn’t.
The Elizabethans played the Quartets
Nos. 3 and 4, Op. 10, of Beethoven and
the Mozart Quartet in G. Minor very
nicely. The crowd applauded Bertram
Mackennal’s “Circe,” who looked un-
moved upon the proceedings.
ARTBURSTS
An exhibition of Australian paintings
at Brisbane City Hall Gallery to raise
funds for the Red Cross brought about
the discovery of a promising Australian
artist who had never before shown his
work in public. Reginald Leman, now
of Brisbane, a former pupil of The Bul-
letin’s Unk White in drawing and
student of painting under J. S. Watkins,
brought in a portrait of his wife by him-
William Powell and Myrna Loy living up to the title
of “Love Crazy,” at Sydney St. James.
self, modestly seeking an opinion from
John Cooper, manager of the show, as to
its merit or otherwise. So struck was
Cooper by its vitality and warmth of
tone that he called in Prof. Duhig and
they gave the portrait a prominent place
in the exhibition. Before the show
closed six portrait commissions had been
taken for the artist, with prospects of
more to follow.
* * * *
The Medworths have a show at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, Frank
Medworth is represented by a bevy of his
clever sophisticated water-color sketches,
in which the manner is so much more
important than the matter that the latter
is sometimes not readily identifiable.
Some oils, in a much more extended
color range than the water-colors, refuse
to hang together. Mrs. Medworth’s share
of the show includes some really delight-
ful flower studies and some- nicely-
proportioned pottery.
* * * *
Miniature Camera Group’s second
annual exhibition is at Farmer’s Blax-
land Galleries. There are 200 pictures,
all enlargements from the tiny films or
plates of vest-pocket cameras, and the
general standard is as high as could be
found anywhere. All the members seem
to have a lot of skill and luck. J. S.
Archer, R. V. Benny, Donald Brown,
Eric W. Bierre, W. C. Noble, Gordon
Stilling, C. Walker and R. Dobinson are
notably successful.
AT THE TALKIES.
“One Night in Lisbon,” at Sydney
Mayfair, has to do with the pursuit of a
rowdy and highly unconventional Ameri-
can, who has been ferrying ’planes across
the Atlantic to Britain, after a quiet and
very conventional English wench. Film
is played at a good, humorous pace and
filled in mainly with the wench’s nib-
bling at and retiring from the bait of
the American’s attractions, the retiring
part of it being encouraged and assisted
by an equally conventional English naval
man (played with some good humorous
touches by John Loder). The “night in
Lisbon” business seems to have been
thrown in as an afterthought— most of
the story is set against a background of
war-time London, with scenes of air raids,
blackouts, etc. Fred Mac Murray, as the
American, follows up his earlier successes
in boisterous clowning, and Madeleine
Carroll makes an excellent foil for his
particular brand of humor. Good light
entertainment with a fair quota of
guffaws.
« V ♦ ♦
Clarice at the talkies:
“Well, Mildred, I went to that new
show at Sydney State, and I was never
so shocked in all my life.
They call it ‘This Thing
Called Love,’ but love was
never like that, Mildred.
Melvyn Douglas is the
husband, and the things
that poor boy has to put
up with they’d make your
heart bleed. You see, he
marries this brazen
creature, gives her a gor-
geous home, and then she
calmly turns round and
tells him that he’ll be
sleeping in the room across
the hall. I’m not one to
be catty, dear, but I
couldn’t help thinking of
that woman next door, not
that she looks anything
like Rosalind Russell, of
course. At any rate,
there’s the man with no-
thing to do but start after
his own wife as though
she were a chorus girl—
soft lights, music, flowers,
champagne and all that —
but he doesn’t have much
luck, so he clears out, and
she gets quite hurt and
clears out, too. Of course
they both start having
regrets and they both
come back, and they
decide that the room
across the hall should be
used as a guest-room, so
everything turns out all right; but, my
dear, at times it’s positively raw.”
* * * *
Support at Sydney Mayfair, “Power
Dive,” at least explains the mystery of
the disappearance of the 976,335 cow-
punchers, their 3,657,298 horses and their
10,487,563 head of cattle that infested the
screen a few years ago. Their disappear-
ance was gradual but sure. When the
first motor-car invaded the range the
cowpunchin’ ’ero reined his mount and
demanded to know what goldarned con-
traption was that. Presently he was
scooting about in the latest streamlined
model and horses became the background,
and soon even the rustlers were lifting
cattle in vans and driving it to market
fresh off the range. Then a ’plane flew
over and the cowpuncher pulled up and
demanded to know what sort of
mechanical buzzard was that. But soon
he was in a ’plane himself, using it to
round up his cattle, chase rustlers, elope
with the sheepman’s daughter and so
forth —occasionally a horse or cow flitted
across the background. Then even the
background became a little out of date,
the range was swapped for a flying field
and the transition was complete. What
matter? The principle’s still the same
and the kids cheer just as loudly when
the ’plane roars through the clouds or
hurtles off or down on to the landing
ground ; they approve of the flying helmet
as much as they approved of the Stetson ;
and the ’ero’s glory doesn’t fade if he
gets himself out of a scrape with a
parachute instead of a revolver. Any-
way, that’s how it seemed at the Mayfair
when Mr. Richard Arlen broke any odd
records that were going with his trusty
stee —pardon, ’plane, and finally brought
the old bus safely to earth with aileron
wires wrapped around his bleeding fists
and graciously handed the goil over to
his young brother.
“Cauboy”; One of the most refresh-
ing theatrical experiences to be had in
Melbourne is a visit to the Lyceum,
Bourke-street, on a Friday evening. In
more pretentious theatres the public sits
as solemn as boiled owls and is polite
to everything on the screen, good, bad
or indifferent. At the Lyceum it’s dif-
ferent. Possibly the ghost of the tradition
of the old Bijou lingers on there fighting
a losing battle against the forces of
modern standardisation. Anyway, the
audience is one of the few in Mel-
bourne which maintains the right to ex-
press its feelings. When it approves of
a picture it applauds without stint; when
it doesn’t, it is wholehearted in expres-
sion of its disapproval. It reprobates
long clinches and extended osculations
much more emphatically than Mr. Cres-
well O’Reilly, and its reception of such
spectacles might easily lead the observer
to conclude that it is hardheaded and
unsentimental. But it just as strenuously
acclaims other passages just as sentimen-
tal. Why, it would take a psycho-analyst
to discover. But exhibition at the
Lyceum, which gets some of the worst
and some of the best pictures in town, is
as severe a test of producers and actors
as it is possible to imagine.


THE MAN
On the Eastern Front.
“Ek D.”; Information about the cam-
paign in Russia is so conflicting that it is
impossible to decide anything about it
with confidence, save that there is a large,
whirling, mud-stained battle going on
along a line equal to that from Darwin
to within a couple of hundred miles of
Adelaide, in which more men are in-
volved than are numbered in the whole
population of Australia. Struggling round
and among this armed concourse is a
vast civil population, men, women and
children, trying to get away from it all.
Their villages and towns are burning.
The poor creatures have been torn from
normal life and either flung into military
or semi-military service or into the fields
or told to go to some strange spot behind
the lines where they have to take what
food they can get. The women are
doubly hampered and disorganised in
that most of them must have their able-
bodied men fighting in the Russian
armies. Thousands must know that their
husbands and fathers are dead or
wounded or prisoners. All are being
adjured by their own leaders to destroy
everything which may be useful to the
enemy ; and Moscow is urging them to
greater efforts by stories of atrocities and
by assurances that the Germans are, in
frustration, about to use gas.
About what is happening to these
unhappy people there is no real news.
Neither combatant mentions them except
as an obstruction or side issue, though
they must be playing a great part in the
campaign through their very tangled help-
lessness.
And the military “information” made
available is as clear as mud. The follow-
ing diary samples give a general idea of
the opposing views of Moscow and
Berlin, as purveyed by the Australian
daily press;
July 10: Germans report Russian losses
must be near a million. They have counted
423,000 Russian prisoners, 7615 Russian
tanks, 4432 guns and 6233 ’planes destroyed
or captured.
July 11: Losovsky, the Assistant Foreign
Commissar, says; “The German attack is
beginning to fizzle out. .. .Germany’s diffi-
culties are increasing,- and she is heading
for catastrophe. More than 1,000,000
Germans have been killed and wounded.
July 12: A German spokesman in Berlin
(he and the reporter of his remarks both
unnamed) says:. “The Germans are almost
ready for a final victorious assault against
Russia.”
Losovsky: “The war is only now begin-
ning.”
July 13 : Russians declare that their losses
in 21 days have been less than 250,000
killed, wounded and missing. “The best
German divisions are broken up. The first
three weeks of the fighting testify to the
undoubted collapse of Hitler’s Blitzkrieg.
July 14: German radio reports that the
Stalin line has been broken at all im-
portant points, that Leningrad is immedi-
ately threatened, the fall of Kiev imminent
and the road to Moscow open.
A Russian communique reports the front
unbroken and two towns —Rogachev and
Jlobin —retaken. Stockholm had previously
reported these towns burned to the ground.
July 15: “Izvestia”: “The inhabitants
are returning to Rogachev, and the roads
are choked with captured Germans and
British United Press: “Usually reliable
but unofficial sources report that the Ger-
mans have reached Kiev, and are lighting
their way into the city, street by street.’
London “D.T.”: “One million first-rate
Russian troops in the Leningrad area have
not yet been thrown into the battle. Photo-
graphs of captured material prove that
the Russians are not yet using their best
equipment.”
Moscow Radio ridicules the idea that
the Germans are anywhere near Kiev or
Leningrad.
The “Neue Ziircher Zeitung”—Zurich
was William Tell’s city—declares that “mili-
tary circles in Berlin today predict the fall
of Leningrad within 24 hours.”
July 17: The German High Command;
“Nine million men are now locked in a
vast battle along an 1800-mile front. The
Russians have thrown in their last reserves
in an attempt to stem the German on-
slaught. The decisive struggle is now in
progress. Great successes are near.”
Moscow: “We are delivering heavy
counter-attacks.”
Berlin: “We have captured Smolensk
—which meant a sudden advance of nearly
50 miles. „ , . x ,
Moscow: “We admit fighting in the
Smolensk area, but Smolensk is ours.”
July 18; German High Command con-
firms capture of Smolensk. German corre-
spondents describe the fight for it over the
radio. Moscow reiterates that Smolensk
remains in Russian hands.
July 19: A Stockholm correspondent
describes how Russians razed Smolensk to
the ground with fire and explosions before
leaving it, so that the Germans found
nothing but a smouldering ruin.
The “Red Star,” oflßicial organ of the
Red Army, describes recapture of a large
town taken by Germans whose name begins
with ‘S.’ ”
July 20; Russian Information Bureau
announces that Germans never captured
Smolensk and never will.
July 24: Moscow reports that “German
generals are now fighting in the ranks like
lieutenants in the Smolensk area to extri-
cate themselves from chaos produced by
the Russian method of giving battle in
zones of unbelievable depth, instead of
standing as a mass and fighting in a huge
battle, as the Germans expected. It is a
type of warfare that Marshal Voroshilov
predicted and prepared for years ago.
July 25: Germans, according to Hitler’s
headquarters, turn up 85 miles nearer
Moscow than Smolensk.
Most of the nonsense which is doled
out does not emanate from the military
commands. It comes from propaganda
departments and from “famous corre-
spondents” a couple of thousand miles
from the front.
It has rained on parts of the front. On
some sectors, especially those where there
has been rain or mud or where there
have been wide rivers, the Germans have
made less progress than in other parts.
Armies of nine million men on an 1800-
mile front work out at 5000 to the mile,
plus heavy and light guns and tens of
thousands of motorised vehicles, some of
them weighing up to 80 tons.
Any couple of Panzer brigades locked
in battle would have as much fire power
per minute as the combined armies of
Wellington and Napoleon launched in a
day at Waterloo ; yet a Panzer brigade
is such small fry in this war that the
lordly combatants scarcely deign to men-
tion it, if there is better prey.
A couple of divisions are frequently
taken, according to the reports; and the
taking of two divisions in this kind of
war is quite believable. The Russians
claimed to have annihilated one Panzer
and one armored division on Friday.
A Panzer division consists of a motor-
cycle reconnaissance battalion, 40 to 50
heavy tanks whose main armament is a
75 or thereabouts, 80 lighter tanks, one
artillery regiment, one heavy machine-
gun battalion, one anti-tank battalion,
one brigade of lorry-borne infantry, one
engineers’ battalion, field ordnance work-
shops, light assistance units, a light
machine-gun battalion and air support.
On Saturday a Russian announcement
that the Red Army had taken another
two divisions by surprise and smashed
them completely was beaten half a neck
by a German claim to have smashed two
Russian divisions near Smolensk, the
booty including 23,000 prisoners and
many tanks and guns.
The very weight, speed and devastating
rate of gunfire of any Panzer division,
whether Russian or German, must carry
it forward irresistibly for a time, until it
is held up by some natural obstacle which
must be bridged or got over in some
other way. On what condition it has left
the enemy during its career, on how
quickly the forces behind it can consoli-
date its lines of communication, wftat air
support it has and what bomber attack
it must face depends its fate.
If it is not stopped it will go charging
round like a bull over a vast landscape,
breaking up support lines, tearing up
infantry columns, wrecking towns and
generally paving the way for a mechan-
ised infantry invasion. Otherwise, it may
find itself surrounded by a superior force
and be compelled to capitulate because
of lack of ammunition or because it is
beaten into the ground.
When carried on along a long line
in which there are all sorts of climatic
conditions prevailing at one and the same
time, all sorts of natural features, and all
sorts of obstacles separating one battle
zone from another —such as lakes and
the Pripet Marshes —any fight in which
9,000,000 men with a heavy mechanised
vanguard are involved must take an
appreciable time.
Even a vanquished army of these
dimensions would be unable to retreat
hurriedly if it were beaten. The bad
roads in the rear, choked with refugees,
the earth scorched behind the defeated
and before the victors, with all the ham-
pering columns of wounded and prisoners
and exhausted battalions and material
and supplies, must all hold up retreat, as
equally obvious factors must prevent a
fast advance by the winners. Flanks
have to be thought of, otherwise armored
divisions might smash them. The mighty
clash of the Russo-German armies must
continue as indeterminate for a time as
a melee between charging mastodon
herds.
At its present stage the campaign has
certain points of resemblance to the final
battle for Paris during the first two weeks
of June last year, when the Germans
assailed the Franco-British forces on their
new Somme line and broke off the north-
eastern branch of the French static
defences at the Maubeuge joint.
There are the same confusion, the same
diversion of aircraft to bomb hitherto
neglected capitals and the sudden emer-
gence of new place-names to prove that,
in spite of counter-attacks, the German
spearheads have moved further forward,
though at a much slowed-down pace.
It does not necessarily mean that in
the three sectors the result will be the
same as in France. The Russians have
far more ground to manoeuvre on. At the
same time, the Russian position is rather
serious unless reserves are plentiful and
material limitless.
At the week-end, the Germans claimed
to have Kiev surrounded from three
sides. The joint command in Rumania
reported that Bessarabia and Bukovina
had now been completely occupied by
Axis troops and that permission had been
granted to Rumanian nationals to return
to these provinces on and after July 24.
In the Smolensk sector, the High Com-
mand declared that, despite bad weather,
the German spearhead had pushed 85
miles east of Smolensk —to within 140
miles of Moscow. The Finns were said
to be making steady progress between
Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega, though
the Russians were holding their positions
on the Viborg side of the old Finn border.
On both sides of Lake Peipus there was
fierce fighting, especially in the Porkhov
area, but the Germans asserted that they
were making ground. German Radio
on Sunday night declared that the time
was almost ripe for another strong for-
ward advance.
Throughout the week heavy bombing
of Moscow was reported. The Germans
alleged that the Kremlin and the sur-
rounding suburbs and the railway sys-
tems were attacked, and that huge fires
were started.
Moscow Radio ridiculed the idea that
the air raids had done much damage. It
declared that thousands of incendiary
bombs had been dropped in Moscow,
but had been put out promptly by old
men, women and children, while the
majority of the German ’planes which
tried to break through were beaten off-
Moreover, Russian fighters had carried
the war into the enemy front lines, where
“the tendency of the German fighters
when they sight our ’planes is to flee.”
One fight was described in which nine
Messerschmitts were taken by surprise
and wrecked without being able to fire a
single shot. Twelve attempts to raid
Leningrad were said to have been made,
but they were all “routed.”
Moscow’s report declared that there
had been no important change in posi-
tions throughout the week ; that a large-
scale counter-attack had been launched
on the Moscow front; that 38,000 Ger-
mans were being killed on an average
every day; that the Germans’ second
offensive had been blunted and that they
had nowhere gained a decisive advan-
tage. They had been thrown back four
times in the Smolensk area during the
week with heavy loss. At Jitomar on the
south their attempts to break through had
failed and many of their units had been
almost completely wiped out.
On Friday, the Russians claimed that
98 German ’planes were shot down for
a loss of 28 Russians along the battle-
front—the Lutfwaffe notched up 312
wrecked Russian machines for the three
days ended July 27. A Rumanian island
at the mouth of the Danube was cap-
tured, Moscow said, after a three-hour
struggle, by fast motor-boats, which
dashed in, ignoring terrific fire.
Predictions should not be ventured. It
is sufficient for the present that the
Russians continue to fight and to use
up German man-power and material.
And that is all to the good for Britain.
"Monotonous" but Deadly.
“Aileron”: The R.A.F.’s war against
French occupation ports and western
Germany has become monotonous to a
section of the London press, which seems
to think that it should be replaced by
something more productive of headlines
—preferably another sideshow “to help
Russia ” even if there is a shortage of
ships. One organ doubts whether it is
worth while losing aircraft pounding the
battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneise-
nau, in view of the machine losses sus-
tained. ' ,
The two ships have been kept locked
up in a French port. At sea they might
easily destroy tens of thousands of tons
of shipping in a few days, and, in any
case, their presence would mean the
difference between a need for battleships
and a mere need for destroyers in con-
voy escorts.
Actually, raids which result in fire after
fire and widespread ruin at military
points constitute the most deadly kind
of warfare. They are being carried
out by machines heavier than had ever
been used in raiding, with larger and
deadlier bombs. The new squadrons are
being used against well-defined targets,
attacked very largely in clear daylight
from low altitudes, which makes for
maximum damage, though losses cannot
be avoided.
The world has not yet woken up to
the fact that in heavy machine building
the British have the same pre-eminence
that they have in the field of fighters.
While no report of attacks is complete
without reference to Catalinas and Flying
Fortresses, the British heavy brigade of
the R.A.F. is only rarely mentioned save
for contrast. Yet the Australian-manned
No. 10 Short Sunderland Squadron can
make the amazing boast that in nearly
two years’ service not one of its ships has
been shot down. Sunderlands handle
enemy fighters with confidence, and need
no escorts, and British pilots rate them
as in the Spitfire class when it comes to
general excellence.
The same can be said of some of the
new heavy British land bombers. What-
ever losses there are among them, they
provide the only means by which Ger-
many can be attacked inside, and they
carry out their operations with a loss
of life which would be reckoned as
nothing in infantry campaigns.
The main German targets last week
were Frankfort and Mannheim, both
large manufacturing cities, which were
battered night after night and which, like
several other German cities, are now in-
cessantly on fire in some quarter or
another.
The resistance has become stronger, as
the air war has died down a little on
the Russian front, and many bomber
squadrons in the last few days have had
to fight their way both into and out of
the Reich, and even across the Channel.
The Germans claimed the other day that
the R.A.F. lost 54 fighters in one attempt
to cross the Channel and raid the
French coast, against a German loss of
three machines, and German commu-
niques continue to refer to “negligible
raids” and “minor casualties among
civilians.”
However, Germany heard a broadcast
by an A.A. gunner the other evening
designed to impress on the public mind
the heroism involved in the continual
effort to drive off invaders.
“We in the Channel ports,” he said,
“are worn to a frazzle. We have no let-
up night or day. We are always under
an almost unbearable strain, since we are
continuously on duty and we have not
the support of the Luftwaffe on the scale
to which we were once accustomed.”
From Wednesday onwards, the R.A.F.
turned west and kept up an incessant
series of heavy attacks on Brest, La
Pallice and Cherbourg. The Gneisenau
was reported to have been hit seven times.
The attacks were made from great height
by the four-engined craft, mainly Boeing
Fortresses, with massed formations of
British machines ranging from the Stirling
down to the Blenheim.
The Scharnhorst, which is at La Pallice
—240 miles from Brest —was hit fairly
on the stern on Wednesday.
The attacks were not driven home with-
out loss. The fighter escorts had a terrific
battle which one day cost the R.A.F.
15 bombers and seven fighters and the
Germans 24 fighters. Hundreds of
machines were involved, but there were
still some to spare to attend to Germany
proper.
Kiel, Emden, Wilhelmshaven and
Rotterdam were victims late in the week.
Five R.A.F. machines were shot down
on those raids.
The Germans admit that the Brest-
Cherbourg-La Pallice raids on Wednes-
day were the heaviest on record. They
describe the British formations as
“gigantic” and the battle as “incessant
from dawn till dusk”:
It was a day such as we have never
previously suffered. These attacks have
been going on for weeks, forcing our fighter
pilots to make the utmost sacrifices.
German activity over England was
slight. The Merseyside was attacked on
a small scale, and, for the first time for
weeks, there were raiders over northern
Ireland. An unidentified bomber dropped
bombs in Eire near Dundalk, and odd
raiders were seen off the Scottish coast,
where one was shot down.
In the week ended on Friday British
and Germans each lost 64 machines over
Europe.
There were further daylight sweeps of
the French coast during the week-end,
after the first raid for 53 nights on
Berlin, where a small number of bombers


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 848 of 1941.
BETWEEN MYRA ALISON BUCKLEY Peti-
tioner and
MERVYN LESLIE BUCKLEY Respondent.
TO MERVYN LESLIE BUCKLEY.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MYRA
ALISON BUCKLEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted the Petitioner and without any such
cause or excuse left her continuously so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-first day of October One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event
of your not doing so within the limited time
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 21st day of July, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JAMES E. CARRUTHERS & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 477 of 1940.
BETWEEN ELEANOR ADA BLAIR (formerly
Eleanor Ada Meier) Petitioner and
THOMAS JAMES BLAIR Respondent.
TO THOMAS JAMES BLAIR late of Bel-
fast Northern Ireland and Coventry Eng-
land.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELEANOR
ADA BLAIR has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the, said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Fourteenth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of July One
thousand nine hundred ond forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. W. HENRY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
24 Bond Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 433 of 1941.
BETWEEN EDNA PEARL BIERWORTH
Petitioner and
OTTO FREDRICK JUILIUS BIERWORTH
Respondent. „
TO OTTO FREDRICK JUILIUS BIER-
WORTH late of Woollahra in the State
aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDNA PEARL
BIERWORTH has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-first day of October 1941
and in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of July, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
H. E. DALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
dropped heavy stuff well inside the met-
ropolitan area. Hamburg and Hanover
were heavy raided the same night, with
a loss of nine machines.
In the Mediterranean.
“Ek Dum”: With the Syrian campaign
ended, and fresh troops in Egypt, and
Axis ships being sunk almost every day,
the Libyan front has been gradually
coming to life on land as well as at sea
and in the air.
All through July 20-21 the “prisoners
of Tobruk,” as the Germans de-
lighted in calling them till they
harassed their warders, got out of hand.
The successful raids of Friday, July 19,
were succeeded by smashing patrol
attacks, one of which inflicted “serious
losses” on the enemy. And the R.A.F.
conducted its nightly strafe on Benghazi,
and Naples counted its dead after two
raids.
Other R.A.F. squadrons plastered Ben-
ghazi and Catania, Sicily. Tobruk engi-
neered another raid or two, and the only
German answer was a medium air attack
on the Suez Canal. A few bombs were
dropped, but Cairo H.Q. reported no
damage and few casualties.
Tobruk’s garrison was exceedingly busy
again on Wednesday, July 23. The Axis
lines were broken into —for three miles
at one point, covered by a barrage. And
naval activity was intense for several
days.
On Tuesday evening, July 21, F.A.A.
and R.A.F. found four medium-sized
enemy merchant ships off Pantellaria,
escorted by destroyers. They attacked at
once. A 5000-ton munition ship blew
up, a 7000-tonner was seen to be twice
hit and to catch fire, and the F.A.A. tor-
pedoed a 7000-ton tanker —“a total loss,”
the report said. Another ship was badly
crippled and a destroyer hit astern and
left limping.
Italy then needed a “victory” to keep
its spirits up. A Rome communique at
once reported a fierce battle in the cen-
tral Mediterranean in which a vast British
convoy was knocked to pieces—a 10,000-
ton Southampton class cruiser sunk with
torpedoes, another 8000-ton cruiser dam-
aged, and havoc generally caused among
an escort which consisted of battleships,
an aircraft carrier, torpedo boats and
destroyers. A 15,000-ton merchant ship
and a 10,000-tonner blew up and sank ;
a battleship, a cruiser, a destroyer, a tor-
pedo boat and a large merchantman were
hit with bombs, and seven British ’planes
were shot down!
Not satisfied with this “triumph,” light
Italian naval forces attacked the re-
mainder of the battered convoy, sank a
“large” but unidentified unit and a British
destroyer. The Italians then decided that
they needed a rest, returned to their
bases intact and only slightly damaged,
and then continued the pursuit of the
wretched convoy and sank another “large
unit.”
A “corrected” version gave the British
losses as “more than” 70,000 tons of
merchant shipping and two warships
sunk, 21 aircraft shot down and 10 mer-
chant ships “severely” damaged. It was
admitted that the F.A.A. had sunk an
Italian ship, though the crew were
rescued.
What really happened was that the
Admiralty sent a huge convoy through
the Mediterranean with orders that it
must get through. Though it had to
traverse the narrow waters between Sicily
and Africa, and was attacked seven times
in three days by bombers, E-boats and
a sub., it got through. The enemy lost
an E-boat, at least 12 aircraft and prob-
ably a sub. Our losses were six aircraft
and a destroyer, and a cruiser and a
destroyer were damaged. So was a mer-
chantman, but she and all her sister-ships
reached port. A great feat of seamanship
and aircraft management, for all the ad-
vantages of position were with the enemy.
The lost destroyer was H.M.S. Fear-
less —a 1375-ton ship of the Javelin class.
She was sunk by our own forces, after
having been torpedoed. Casualties were
“not large,” and the crews of four lost
machines were saved.
The region round Sicily has been
famous since ancient times for its
mirages, which seem to be peculiarly
visible to Italians.
Malta has been in the news again.
Italian bombers raided it on Friday, but
were driven off, four machines being shot
down. Next day Valetta was attacked
by “a secret type of naval assault craft,”
which, it was claimed, torpedoed eight
ships in the Grand Harbor and started
off vast explosions and huge fires. The
British communique said that the attack
had been a complete failure. The
attackers did not penetrate the harbor.
Eight small torpedo-carrying craft and
five E-boats were sunk by the fixed
harbor defences when they appeared off
the forts at 5 a.m. Four E-boats fell
victims to the R.A.F. while they were
fleeing, and three of a number of Italian
’planes which tried to interfere with the
R.A.F. were shot down, against one
British machine.
Move into Indo-China.
“Ek Dum”: Japan’s “new order” has
changed the whole outlook of life in the
European zones of China. But after four
years of war, though there is a “puppet”
Government in Nanking, though Chung-
king is bombed almost every week and
though Hainan is under Japanese control,
along with all the exits and entrances of
Kwangtung and other coastal provinces,
it is becoming clear that about
350,000,000 of Chinese are about as con-
scious of Japanese elfort as a dog is of a
flea.
John Chinaman is the greatest isola-
tionist on earth. Even when conquered,
as he has been several times in history,
he goes on calmly ignoring his con-
querors, doing what he likes, and, after
the fashion of the English, presently
swallowing up the legions which have
occupied his territory.
In any other continent than Asia,
Japan’s victories in Manchukuo and in
China would have meant domination. In
Asia, each new success is bought at the
expense of that peculiar thing an
Oriental Government’s prestige among
Orientals.
The conquest of Shanghai was a case
in point. Shanghai is a city on a mud
flat beside the Whangpoo, built mainly
by a century of British enterprise and
ruled according to the ideas of Britons
and other Europeans on the international
side of Su-chow Creek.
Three years ago the Japanese took
over part of the international settlement,
realising an ambition which they had
nurtured for a quarter of a century. But
the ghost of burnt-out Chapei, the world’s
first properly Blitzed suburb, rose to
haunt them ; the Shanghai dollar went
to pot, rate collections vanished and the
vast, sprawling city sat on the edge of
bankruptcy.
Last year the British Government with-
drew its garrison to Singapore. This
should have been another Japanese
triumph ; but capital and trade followed
the garrison and there was much sore-
ness in the Japanese concession, also a
lot of vicarious shooting.
It dawned on the Chinese that, wherever
the Japanese arrived and conquered,
Europeans left, along with their fat
trade which had been of such local bene-
fit. Moreover, it dawned on Asia that
the Anglo-Saxon nations seemed immune
from Japanese influence in any matter
that constituted a worth-while issue. The
Burma Road was opened. Japanese
attempts to persuade Thailand to agree
to the cutting of a canal through the
Siamese isthmus to short-circuit Malayan
trade resulted only in a bigger and better
Singapore, as Japanese domination of
the Canton area resulted in a better pre-
pared Hong Kong.
Mention of a “South Seas” policy
(which doesn’t mean our South Seas) was
followed by immense Anglo-American
military, air and naval activity, which
showed that, however the Axis alliance
might strengthen Japan in her own esti-
mation, it also made her the kernel of a
new Anglo-Saxon Pacific Ocean defence
zone, and proved that Axis friend-
ships had to be paid for in grave dis-
advantages.
Japanese ships on the high seas sud-
denly found themselves under British
policing. Those suspected of giving
whale-oil supplies to the Germans were
forbidden various British ports. The
German habit of using Japanese flags and
names on raiders brought more embarass-
ment. The 48,000,000 Chinese Moham-
medans, instead of joining with the
Japanese to shift the centre of Islamic
leadership from Western Asia to the East,
continued to give their loyalties to
British-controlled centres.
The sending of peremptory Japanese
delegations to Indo-China to order the
handing back of acquired Thai provinces
and to the Netherlands East Indies
to dictate trade relations had mixed
results. The Dutch would have nothing
to do with “new orders” ; and, though
the Indo-China Government caved in, the
United States promptly increased its sup-
plies to the Chungking Government.
The Japanese thought they had an
answer to that. They seized 10,000,000
dollars’ worth of U.S. war material in
Indo-China. Thereupon exports from
the Philippines to Japan were placed
under rigid control, and export of
57,000,000 dollars’ worth of war plant
from U.S. to the N.E.I. was author-
ised. And Japan found that restric-
tions had brought her own trade with
Uncle Sam down from 60,000,000 Ameri-
can dollars in the first quarter of 1940 to
30,000,000 in the first quarter of 1941.
For the first time, warnings aimed directly
at Japan came from the White House:
Hitler’s plan of world domination would
be near its accomplishment today, were it
not for two factors; one is the epic re-
sistance of Britain, the other the magnifi-
cent defence of China.
Almost at once, a U.S, delegate was on
his way across the Pacific to help stabilise
the Chinese (Chungking) currency in
association with Britain.
The final calm rejection of an ulti-
matum from Tokyo by the Dutch East
Indies topped off the situation, along
with the anti-climax which followed the
Matsuoka visit to Berlin and Moscow.
With the outbreak of the Russo-German
war, large-scale face-saving became neces-
sary for the Japanese, who were in the
unfortunate position of running their
ships and other oil-burning transport only
by grace of the United States, which
allowed them to buy oil supplies so that
they might have no excuse for attacking
the Dutch East Indies
The Japanese entry into the Indo-China
zone, forcing the wretched Vichy Gov-
ernment to hand over bases which it
cannot defend, probably is Tokyo’s ex-
pedient to uphold the national dignity.
But Mr. Sumner Welles viewed the
action as “primarily a preparation for
further moves in adjacent areas and as a
threat to American sources of vital
defence materials, such as tin and rubber,
and its territories, including the Philip-
pines.” Mr. Eden viewed it as a poten-
tial threat to British territories and in-
terests. The Dutch East Indies were
placed in an immediate state of defence.
The Anglo-Saxon nations took their
own measures. They froze Japanese
assets, and the British Government gave
notice of intention to denounce all com-
mercial treaties with Japan. That country
retaliated by freezing U.S. assets. And
President Roosevelt placed the Philip-
pines on a war footing, appointing Major-
General MacArthur to command “the
United States Army of the East.”
Japan, by her new move, has put her
head into the centre of a zone in which
she could, if necessary, be encircled. Indo -
China has a common border with Burma.
It has a common border on the north
with that part of “Free” China through
which the Burma Road runs. Camranh
Bay, which will almost certainly be the
main Japanese base, has Hong Kong
750 miles to the north, Manila 780 miles
to the east, British Borneo 600 miles to
the s.-e., Singapore 820 miles to the
s.-s.-w., and Batavia less than 500 miles
further on.
Japan itself is distant 2400 miles, the
full cruising radius of the Japanese battle
fleet—as far, in fact, as the nearest point
of Australia. On the other hand, all the
combined resources of British India,
Burma, Australia, the Dutch East Indies
and the Philippines are at easy call for
central defence.
It is possible that the move southwards
is an expedient to secure materials and
to give as much protection as possible
for the Japanese rear in the event of war
with Russia. If the U.S.S.R. cracked, the
Japanese would assuredly try to turn the
Sea of Japan into a real Japanese sea
through the capture of the Vladivostok
coast and the Russian eastern railway
systems and metal and timber resources.
The first V.C. won by an Australian
flier in this war has been awarded to a
Westralian, Acting Wing-Commander
Hughie Idal Edwards, who already wore
the ribbon of the D.F.C. Edwards earned
his cross on July 4, when in broad day-
light in a cloudless sky he plunged into
a hail of A.A. fire round Bremen. With
four of his machines lost, he broke
through a forest of balloons, found the
target and drove home his attack from
50ft, above it. Edwards, a Fremantle
man, aged 27, was trained at Point Cook
(Vic.) after a period in the R.A.G.A., and
has been five years in the R.A.F. He
won his D.F.C. three days before his
V.C. for swooping down with his squad-
ron on eight well-protected ships off the
Dutch coast and blasting them from mast-
level in the face of pom-pom fire. Despite
the effects of injuries which might have
put another man out of the R.A.F., he
is credited with having “repeatedly dis-
played gallantry of the highest order.”
* * * • »
Senator Leckie, now Minister for Air-
craft Production, says the first batch of
Bristol Beaufort bombers will be ready
in October. Before the end of the year
about 1600 men will be employed in
building the bombers and their engines.
» * ♦ *
“Aileron”: The R.A.A.F. has built up
a great reputation in the Middle East, the
more remarkable since the first squadron
manned Gloster Gladiator biplanes, and
was in the air for months before Hurri-
canes and U.S. machines could be spared
for their equipment. It began fighting
operations in November, 1940, and has
brought down 85 enemy aircraft —54 in
Libya, 31 in Syria—and damaged or de-
stroyed 82 others, as well as 135 motor
transports and a few tanks, trains, han-
gars and dumps. The total tally credited
to Australian pilots for eight months’
fighting in the Middle East is 195
machines definitely destroyed, apart from
a large number seriously damaged.
* * * *
The Russians, unlike their ardent Aus-
tralian friends, have no time for the
shirker. One of the first measures taken
by their Supreme War Council was to
conscript all men between 15 and 50 and
all women between 16 and 45 in the war
zone. They will be used for labor on
defence works, as well as for filling the
ranks of the Red Army.
* * * *
One voice broadcast un-
obtrusively in the recruiting campaign
was that of General Waved. It was a crisp,
incisive voice and it remarked that the
war would be won by “British seapower
and the spirit of the British people,”
but that every available man would be
needed by the Army to complete the
victory. The general said nothing about
the U.S.S.R. winning the war for us.
Neither did Herbert Morrison, the British
A.R.P. minister, who at the week-end
warned the British people that they must
not look to others for success and that
the Government was preparing for the
hardest and most difficult winter Britain
had suffered.
* * * *
According to the enemy, a light British
naval force tried to raid the French coast
on Saturday, but coastal batteries drove
it back. No raid of the kind had been
attempted since February 10, when
Ostend and adjacent ports were shelled
from the sea by an R.N. squadron.


women's Letters
From Melbourne
Renovated with apple-green paint, etc.,
have been the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion rooms. A small ceremonial was
timed for one mid-afternoon, and off-
siders from Legacy and Carry On Clubs
took time off to call in for tea and a
sandwich. Present were Roy Miller, Ed
Borrie, Stan Parkes, W. L. Sinclair, who
does the banking, and lan McEacharn,
who’s the hon. solicitor. Mrs. Lavarack
and Mrs. Clive Steele were on the door-
step for Mrs. Beaurepaire and Mrs.
Menzies. In the canteen Mrs. W. Cowper
and Mrs. Colin Simpson and other
helpers in brand-new green overalls were
a credit to equally new stove and glitter-
ing pots and kettles.
Exceeding rosiest expectations, the
Radio Party Drive for the Comforts will,
according to Kitty McEwan (who ought
to know, she being a tipster of rare ex-
perience), reach £lO,OOO. Auditing is not
yet completed. Parties to the number
of 2700 were registered, and 70,000 is a
lowish rough estimate of the number of
guests taking part. The drive was State-
wide and covered all fields of size, quality
and entertainment. The Lady Mayoress,
accompanied by offsider Mrs. H. P.
Ogilvie, walked into 11 parties during
one afternoon and evening, including her
own in the Town Hall, several at city
stores, one at the Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital and a smoke-oh in a penthouse upon
the skyline of the Olderfleet Building.
At this last the host was caretaker Cap-
tain Ahearn, who won decorations in the
last war, assisted by pal of bygone
soldiering days the Trustees and Execu-
tors’ guardian, otherwise Lieut. Mc-
Carthy, V.C. Fifteen pound-odd was
raked in.
Other doughty boys who rose to the
occasion were the firemen—brigades had
parties in many suburbs. Various sport-
ing clubs assisted ; associates of Victoria
Golf Club won a gas stove and came to
town in a body to admire it. Intentions
as to its destiny are still unknown. Some
cheery men ran a wheel in Bourke-street
in spite of the chance of iron bars and
bread-and-water, for officially they should
have had sanction from the Attorney-
General, the police and the City Council.
They were only mildly satisfied with £7O
and said it would have been £lOO but
for the rain.
The Irving sisters of Waverley Riding
School ran two sittings of riding parties
with 40 equestrians in each, the limit
for the school’s steeds. Bishopscourt had
a tea party. Mrs. Simon Fraser’s party
raised £143 and the Comforts depot, 85
Collins-street (with original intent for a
mild do “30 people at Is. each”), turned
out bright and full of surprises and
achieved the street number in pounds.
Ideas with snap were prevalent at Mrs.
Jack Kemelfield’s party, with a box for
threepenny fines for infringements of very
temporary etiquette. There were Russian
cakes and caviare and vodka to warm
the cockles of the heart, and afterwards
black tea, for only barbarians drink tea
with milk after vodka. Mrs. T. Prince,
of Goldberg’s, has promised to work up
some other function for the Comforts,
for good fortune smiled upon her party
with three prizes, including a diamond
and sapphire ring.
For money-making the Cock Crows’
party at the Australia wasn’t within the
same frontier as other less elaborate
efforts, but it got a heap of publicity. The
fun waxed fast and furious, and those
who drifted to the Embassy later were in
the best of form. Backyard decorations
of barn, poultry pens and livestock were
carried out by Albert Williams, long
since an inventor, once a circus
“strong man.” Floor shows devised
in the fertile brain of Harold Clapp’s
better-half included a “Fifth Avenue”
dance by Mrs. Geoff Smith, a “gin-and-
two” by Mary Guy Smith, with assist-
ance from two children and a face black
as the hobs of hell, a Cuban “planter’s
punch” from Gwen Izzard, a “Hawaiian”
from Lyn Dickenson and a “white lady,”
wherein Mrs. Tony Daniels walked the
floor in elegant bridal attire. Prizes came
to the Cock Crows in the guise of pound
notes, fireproof dishes and boxes of soap
for respectively Mrs. James Purves, Mrs.
Fytton Stephens and daughter Barbara.
Monthly meetings at the Combined Old
Girls’ Club and regular dances are
features in the lives of the Young
Mud and Bloods Welfare Association.
Supporters, having sought information re
battalion requirements, are now on their
way towards buying a second pair of
binoculars. Mrs. Evans is president,
and there’s a welcome for new members.
Hon. sec. Della Martin has increased in-
centive towards more work and interest
in the news that fiance Lieut. Alan Hutch-
inson, previously reported killed, is a
prisoner of war in a German hospital.
Della’s mother, Mrs. Norman Martin,
expects that Sundays for the three ser-
vices will commence again at the recon-
ditioned Green Mill in about a month.
The troops are delighted.
At Grong Grong there’s a family re-
union, for the Tom Smiths’ daughter
Madame Norma Gadsden has come home
for a few months, accompanied by hus-
band Dominique Modesti and little Domi-
nique, aged two. Sharing in the general
rejoicings are Madarae’s daughter
Georgine Gadsden (aged 21 and in a
Government job as a translator of French
and German) and son John Gadsden,
at Geelong Grammar. Madame, who is
a Wagnerian soprano, and who sings
opera in three languages, will give con-
certs in Australia (she hopes to give
some for patriotic purposes with her
husband, a baritone, as co-artist), and
has an engagement in the U.S. at the
Metropolitan in December. She has sung
a great deal in Europe, particularly in
Germany, Belgium and Paris, and was in
“Boris Godounov” at Monte Carlo when
Chaliapin gave his last performances in
that opera.
Herewith Marjorie Gordon, for whom
leisure is a thing of the past. For
patriotic and other good causes she is
always singing ahd dancing, putting over
her personality with lucky wheels or
selling flowers and chocolates. In addi-
tion she hasn’t yet missed once in
“Susan and God,” which on August 11
reaches its hundredth performance in
Melbourne, thus breaking the standing
record of “The Women.” The gala 11th
is in aid of the Victorian Baby Health
Fund.
A wedding which expanded from
family circle only to inclusion of inti-
mate friends was that of Julie Griggs and
Peter Tronson ; ceremony at Grammar
chapel and felicitations among single
pink roses and profusion of blossom at
the Tom Greys’ home in Hawthorn. The
all-white bride was attended by sister-in-
law Peggy, otherwise Mrs. John Davis.
Among telegrams was a message from
Lieut. Davis in Darwin, “Kiss the bride
and the matron-of-honor for me.” A
friendly gesture on Julie’s part was the
sending of her bouquet to an absentee
through pneumonia, another Mrs. John
Davis (but no relation of Peg’s), who
until a few months ago was Audrie
Jamieson.
Top layer on the wedding cake goes
further afield to Julie’s parents in Sussex.
Among guests present at the wedding was
a bevy of beauty including Helen Lane,
Mrs. Fred Skinner, jun., in parchment
gown and gold-embroidered pockets, Di
Foster Woods and Betty Spring, also
L.A.C. Fred Spring. Present on leave
was Captain Jack Temple (A.D.C. to
S.A.’s Governor), who became a pal of
the Tronson family in England. Julie’s
oldest friends, excepting new relatives,
were Captain and Mrs. Henry Stephens,
whom she met on the voyage from Eng-
land; Captain Stephens, who is attached
to the Heidelberg Military Hospital as a
psychiatrist, is intensely interested in his
work.
Mildred Hoarder, only daughter of the
Irwin Hindses, of Caulfield, has given
Her promise true to Frederick Ormond
Owen, son of the Oscar Owens, of Upper
Hawthorn.
From Sydney
Was it a trick of the winter sunlight, or
did the reflective looker-on catch a
glimpse of the shades of Gladstone and
Disraeli, of Alexander Macdonald and
Thomas Burt, accompanying Lord Wake-
hurst as he made entry to open another
session of this State’s Parliament? Prob-
ably the sight of the law factory’s neigh-
bor, the Sydney Hospital, brought up
the memories. The hospital was being
built while the struggle for one man one
vote was still raging. To Vice-President
of the Legislative Council Farrar, on last
Friday’s fair noon, fell the pleasant task
of being host at the traditional morning
tea following the opening. President John
Peden was ill, but giving Mr. and Mrs.
Farrar a hand to entertain was Mrs.
Ranald Peden. Lady Wakehurst, her
bright smile flashing under a fascinating
toque, sipped a refreshing cup ; Premier
McKell’s wife and daughter Betty were
there. Wife of Minister for Lands Tully,
too, was a consumer of the liquid that
threatens, as the war goes on, to make
champagne an economical breakfast
drink.
Clonmel, the home of the medical
Hamilton Kirklands, is on Point Piper,
and has a view like a poem. Last Friday,
though the wind blew with the breath of
icebergs, the house on the hill was a
miniature grocery and provision store.
Mrs. Kirkland, with other lovers of Syd-
ney Hospital, was enjoying an American
tea, and women huddled in furs arrived
clutching packets of coffee, tea, cakes,
jam and departed clutching similar par-
cels. Miss McAuley, passing through
from Melbourne, did her good deed in
company with Mrs. John Woods. The
Norman Paul lady, whose husband is
president of the old-established health
shop in Macquarie-street, was there.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt, junior, and a host
of young wives of beginning Harveys,
Listers and Simpsons were among the
cash-and-carriers. Tea in the dining-
room with its faintly pink walls and
raftered ceiling was a cosy affair, warm
fires and bowls of glowing camellias keep-
ing the circulation snug.
Everything about David Maddison’s
recital at the Conservatorium had a
pleasant informality. David, a 15-year-
old pianist, is a young musician any city
might be proud of. He has no manner-
isms. He looks as though he plays the
piano because he likes doing so, and any
audience is quick to feel that. Then,
too, prefects of Sydney Grammar, which
is David’s school, ushered the audience
to its places in very correct fashion. The
grey of their uniforms and the blue of
Air Force House, worn by a group
of its prettiest girl helpers who sold pro-
grammes, were in nice harmony. The
concert was in aid of Air Force House,
and seemingly all the best cars in the city
had enough petrol left to stagger up the
hill to the Conservatorium,
Ermine was worn to the best
advantage by the Fraser lady from
Melbourne. David Maddison’s father
was busy with the front of the
house, and was in the throes of
the prevalent laryngitis cold. Mrs. Mad-
dison decked her black velvet coat with
an outsize in orchids; and David’s
teacher, Miss Shadforth-Hooper, was an-
other of the keenly-interested. Crowds
of teen-olds were among the listeners.
But David proved no Orpheus to one
young schoolgirl. Drowsily she slipped
down into her seat, and presently she was
asleep.
For 16 years Sydney hospitals have
benefited from the annual dance of City
Tattersall’s Club. Last week almost a
thousand dancers made the Trocadero
their headquarters from nine o’clock
onwards. About £4OO clear is expected,
and nine metropolitan hospitals will
share. President of the women’s com-
mittee Mrs, Edward Johnston (she has
been a deputy-president since the begin-
ning of the scheme) presented 19 debs,
to the city’s Mayor, Stanley Crick, and
his Mayoress ; the State’s Premier and
his wife. Mrs. Johnston, who walked,
erect and dignified, at the head of her
covey of white doves, trailed sapphire-
blue velvets.
That the patriotic colors might be
stressed the two small flower-girls (in
petal-pink organdie) who followed her
carried between them a basket of red
roses. These were loot for the Mayoress
and were impressive with her pale-gold
frock—her skirt, by the way, showed the
newest pleated effect. Mrs. McKell’s
parchment taffetas brightly bloomed with
small pink flowers.
Mrs. C. Pointing’s rose-du-Barry crepes
were belted in poinsettia-red velvet.
Chairman Gus Mooney was host to a
big party. Secretary Eric Byron and his
wife were noted; so were Mrs, S. J.
Clarke, Minister for Lands Tully and his
wife, Colonel Murphy and Mrs. Murphy,
and the A.J.C. Rowe couple.
News comes of three soldier lads whom
playgoing Sydney knows well. First word
was of actor John Wood, who sent a
cable to father to forward civilian suits.
No, he wasn’t leaving; he was, with
others of the A.1.F., putting on Noel
Coward’s “Design for Living” in Singa-
pore. In the cast with him was popular
Roger Barrie. Next came news of Ken
Brodziak, who wrote his ship’s revue in
three days and then produced it. It was
a great success. The theme song
“Thumbs Up” owed words and music to
Maorilander Gunner F. W. Ulyatt. Ken
is with the R.A.A.F. in Canada. He
reports the people as most friendly and
hospitable and very amused at the Aus-
tralian accent. He’s in a big city, but
finds there are no stage shows, only
movies hot from Hollywood and radio
programmes. A Gracie Fields concert
was being looked forward to by t the
whole population positively with tongue
hanging out.
Peggy Walker (herewith) will be lead-
ing lady in the Mosman Musical Society’s
show “No, No, Nanette.” This will
be played at the Cremorne Orpheum
Theatre for a three-night season, begin-
ning tonight, July 30. Peggy as “Sally”
made a hit recently with the Roseville
Musical Society. Photograph from
Raymond Sawyer.
Josephine Marks, at the party for Syd-
ney Hospital, was receiving congratula-
tions on the success of the C.U.S.A.
pageant the night before. Josephine,
with all her flair for the spectacular and
her attention to detail, had made this
Queen-crowning memorable. As closely
as it could, it followed a crowning at
Westminster. The Queen, Julee Helen
McGrath, wore over her silver lame frock
a cloak of royal purple, same as any
Queen of England, added to which she
had the real thing in ermine—mother’s
new cape. The runners-up, too, were
lustrously arrayed, and all wore crowns
of diamente. The Queen for a Night
wore the tiara flashed by Fay Compton
in “Victoria Regina.” It is composed
of a succession of diamond Maltese
Crosses. Here were the orb and sceptre
on their satin cushions, here were pages,
beefeaters, princesses. The city’s Mayor
crowned the royal lady. Lady Wake-
hurst, on her way to catch the train for
Melbourne, looked in, was welcomed by
a guard of honor formed into a victory
V and told the C.U.S.A. helpers that they
were the largest war organisation of
women in this State. The competition
raised almost £4OOO.
The Camp Library Service, organised
by the Australian Institute of Librarians,
supplies Australian soldiers, sailors, airmen
and nurses at home or abroad with reading
matter. All hands are invited to send
as many books as they can (novels, plays,
biographies, poetry) to the Camp Library
Service, Public Library of N. S. Wales,
Macquarie-street, Sydney.
A letter of thanks for the autographed
supper-cloth on which no fewer than
1157 Chinese and Australian women
signed their names (paying at the same
time a small sum towards China’s relief
funds) arrived recently from the wife of
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. In it
she mentions with appreciation the box
in which the cloth was packed. This was
the work of an Australian wounded
soldier, and the letter says “it is recog-
nised as a real work of art. The maker
has shown great taste in the arrangement
of the various Australian woods of which
the box is composed.”
On Tuesday, August 5, Raymond
Hanson will loose to the world works of
his own composition. Sydney de Vries,
Neville Amadio and Clifford Gibbs will
be associated with him in songs and
sonatas for flute and piano and violin
and piano.
The lot of bombed Malta will be made
a little easier by the £lO,OOO subscribed
by the people of Sydney,


Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking , I’m smoking
( Hillmans.”’
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia —Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST as from Ist June, 1941.
Four Square 9/6
First Crop, mild 9/6
All British, mild 9/6
Riverhead Gold, medium ... 9/6
Old Peter, dark 9/6
Cavendish Strong 9/6
Beech Nut, medium 9/6
Africa, mellow and mild ... 9/6
Soldier's Own, mild 9/6
Normandie, medium 9/6
Winning Post, medium 9/6
Three Bells, strong 9/6
Bird’s Eye, medium 9/6
Nigeroid, in pipe only 9/6
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge Medium 10/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium 11/-
Imperial . 147-
Premier 167-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., Valley, N.l, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
'Phone No. 84587.
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
'boctors spy your Virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/4. Write TO-DAY.
T.JONES £ CO
MEN!
821
CL4MO
CHJEMIST, 310 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
« . m. \
.
liiif
*s**s
The history of
“CATERPILLAR”
is the history of
TRACTOR PROGRESS
The name "Caterpillar" is registered
all over the world to identify the
machines built by Caterpillar Tractor
Co. Behind this name are over 30
years of track-type tractor building
experience. More tractors have been
built and sold by Caterpillar Tractor
Co. and its predecessor than all
other makes of track-type tractors
combined.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS':
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & 00.. Ltd.,
521 Collins St., Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & JosephsonPty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Western Australia;
Wigmore’s, Limited,
613 Wellington St., Perth.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Power Alcohol from Wheat
From Colin W. Waddell, technical ad-
viser to the Queensland Canegrowers’
Council:
In B. 9/7/’4l it is stated that 60 gallons pure
spirit per ton of wheat is about the best yield
that can be expected.
Assuming that writer had imperial gallons
(equivalent to 101 b. water) and long tons in
mind, the figure would represent abnormally
poor operating conditions at the distillery.
Admittedly, without proper equipment or
attention to process, particularly in the fermen-
tation department, even lower than 60 gallons
per ton may easily occur. But the Power
Alcohol Inquiry Committee visualised reason-
ably modern equipment and skill and assumed
that the plants would be large enough to en-
sure good average efficiency. This would defi-
nitely yield nearer 86 than 60 gallons per ton
under Australian conditions.
One of the latest and most reliable publica-
tions is Motor Fuels from Farm Products,
issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
On page 24 it gives 85 to 91.4 gallons per ton.
Converting U.S. gallons and short tons to our
units we get 79 to 85 imperial gallons per long
ton, depending upon quality of wheat.
Even an old textbook like Power Alcohol,
by Monier Williams (1922), quotes an average
figure of 83 gallons of 95 p.c. alcohol per ton
of wheat—equivalent to 79 gallons pure alcohol.
And there has been considerable improvement
in distillery technique since 1922.
“S.C.R.”: The report of the Power
Alcohol Inquiry Committee stated clearly
that, for a selling price of 2s. per gallon,
the new distilleries could pay 3s. 6d. per
bushel for wheat, delivered, if the malt
process were used, and 3s. KTjrd. per
bushel if the Amylo process were used.
The yield of p.a. is gallons per bushel,
malt process, and gallons per bushel,
Amylo process. Average price per
bushel f.o.r. Williamstown (Victoria) over
the years 1929-39 was 3s. 3.2 d. per
bushel. The p.-alcohol industry can
afford to pay 3s, 10id. per bushel.
“Balander”: Queensland is beginning
to wonder what it has struck in the
Barnes brothers, publicans, of Bunda-
berg and Maryborough. The Bundaberg
Barnes first shocked the natives by prose-
cuting his fellow-Bungs for breaches of
the Liquor Act; then he came out and
won the Bundaberg State seat as an
“Andrew Fisher Laborite.” Now his
brother L.G., of Maryborough, hints that
he may contest Warrego as a “Randolph
Bedford Laborite.” Following the Bed-
ford policy may prove a tough job, but
as L.G. has promised to support 11.15
p.m. closing for pubs and their keeping
open on Sundays he is certain of a fairly
strong vote if he decides to stand.
* * * *
“23-4”: Brisbane has lost one of its
musical leaders in E. R. B. Jordan. A
Norwich (Eng.) native, he arrived in
childhood, such a prodigy that he was
organist of St. Paul’s, East Brisbane, at
12. At 17 he was choirmaster and
organist for the Ann-street Presbyterians.
At 26 he founded the Brisbane Amateur
Operatic Society, and remained its con-
ductor for 24 years, finding time to con-
duct the Brisbane Austral Choir, the
State and Municipal Choir and St. Paul’s
choir. Few concerts by prominent visit-
ing artists were without Jordan as accom-
panist. A prolific composer, he was a
bosom pal of Percy Grainger, whom he
brought to Brisbane at every opportu-
nity. He was 56 at the end.
* * * *
“Tiup”: Queensland Supreme Court
has witnessed the unusual spectacle of
two jurors trying a third on the score
of his impartiality in a civil suit. Plain-
tiff in a damages case, waiting outside the
court, was asked by one of a group if
smoking were allowed. A policeman
drew attention to a notice. When the
Court met the defending solicitor stated
that plaintiff had been seen talking to
one of the jury of four. Plaintiff’s soli-
citor admitted it and gave the explana-
tion, adding that plaintiff had no idea
the men were jurymen. After challenges
one juror was sworn. The Judge there-
upon acted under Sections 36 and 38 of
the Jury Act, picked another juror from
the panel and had the matter tried by
him and the other. Their verdict was
that the juror concerned was impartial
and indifferent, and the case proceeded.
Section 36 enables any party to a civil
trial to challenge a juror on the ground
that he is not indifferent; Section 38
allows the matter to be adjudged by
jurors already sworn, or if only one be
sworn the addition of some indifferent
person chosen by the Court from the
panel to assist him.
* * * *
“Dawval”; When a dinkum Austra-
lian makes up his mind he takes stop-
ping. A 19-year-old Dawson Valley lad
rode 50 miles to Mt. Morgan to enlist
in the R.A.A.F. Accepted there, he
travelled to Brisbane for his final air-
test, only to be rejected because he was
color-blind. Demanding to know what
difference it made if he saw the enemy
red or green so long as he could get at
him, he was tactfully informed that it
went further than that. Look, he said,
“anything will do me so long as I can
get in And m he is, enlisted tor
# # ,
“Dungeness”: A surprising and useful
discovery on the new road now under
construction from the Queensland border
to Tennant Creek (N.T.) was a lake of
good water a mile and a half long, half
a mile wide and from three to four feet
deep. Abos. had told the original survey
party about it, but as it had not been
sighted during several flights over the
proposed route it was regarded as an-
other product of Binghi imagination.
Situated about four miles from the
present roadline, it saves an 80-mile haul
for maintaining camp water supplies at
the 150-mile mark.
“How long will the War last, Jeff ?”
“Sorry, dear, but my lips are
sealed.”
“B. Mack”: Brisbane isn’t wasting any
time about getting back to the horse for
transport, buyers from there being busy
a £ every horse sale on the Downs. Ned-
djes are also in demand for cane-farmers
in the north and in N S w Tweed River
district& From 600 tQ 700 horses a
month are being sold at Toowoomba.
Average quality farm and dray types are
bringing £2O a head and fair buggy
horses £8 to £lO.
* * ♦ ♦
“T.Y.N.”: Welcome to Queensland,
Southrons, but don’t expect us to
, the call Unless we can dig up
emergency” we can't travel by
C, ..
car more than 100 miles ■over the border
The ukase is said to follow a r q y
the Central Liquid Fuel Board for
limitation of long-distance intcr-Statc
travel, but we have our suspicions be-
cause of the alacrity with which the re-
was applied. Now, if one seeks
a police permit to travel over the border
the police first refer it to the State Fuel
Control Board. Anyone with experience
of the speed at which such things are
handled will be wise to apply for the
permit at least three months before the
date of departure. It will hit border
traders hard, especially in outback dis-
tricts, but it has the usual unconscious
humor of officialdom. No matter how
much petrol the Queenslander has, he
can’t pass more than 100 miles beyond
the border, but if he has the petrol he
can travel without hindrance from Bns-
bane to Cape York.
Sir Evelyn Wrench, founder of the
English-Speaking Union, told Australians
that a population 95 p.c. British was a
luxury they might not be able to afford
after the war. “Luxury” is certainly a
new term for it; all the same, a glance
at birthrate figures shows that the visitor
may be right. He suggests permission for
Scandinavians to come here “if there is
an exodus from the Old World after the
war.” Next to British, they’d be the
best, being good seamen, fishermen and
farmers, intelligent, healthy, self-reliant
and haters of Communism.


To prevent and cure mineral deficiency feed
r -fa.Gxi-O*
C/ Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os is the most reliable form of calcium and phosphorus
or all stock. It contains over 70% tricalcic phosphate,
4nT/ ng T- a guarant . eed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and
/O lime. Tri-cal-os is a pure bone product without
admixture of any other substance and is specially processed
to ensure maximum digestibility. Stock take to it readily.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from —•
G a pn SfvTSSkr C R P '?' BoX r<n s^ 3S n Sydney >' GP 0 - Box 4058, Melbourne;
0.F.0. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth!
Way-Bio
STRIKE PREVENTIVE
Kills the Maggot—Does Not Scald—
Cannot Wash Out. Heals the Wound
Without Scab Formation.
Non-poisonous. Prevents restrlke. Harmless to
fleece. Contains no mineral oils or harsh ingredients.
100% EUCALYPTUS OILS.
(Highly antiseptic oils combined with viscous residuals.)
HEALS WOUNDS AFTER LAMB-MARKING, BARBED WIRE CUTS
AND ALL INJURIES TO STOCK.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
se
&
m
o
£
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
ltd.,
17-31 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE WAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Victoria’s Dual-purpose Sheep.
“G.P.S.”: Although Riverina lambs
make up a fair proportion of the Vic-
torian average of 4,500,000 lambs a year
for home and export, Victoria itself has
largely swung over to the dual-purpose
ewe. There were 5,632,325 last season,
an increase of 6. p.c., compared with
3,729,937 wool ewes and their increase
of 4 p.c.
Border Leicester sires are still the most
popular lamb-getters, particularly in
Riverina, though Dorset Horn and South-
downs are making headway south of the
Murray. Borders comprised 38 p.c. of
the rams used last season, a drop of
5 p.c, but still well ahead of South-
downs, 25 p.c., and Dorsets, 18.5 p.c.
Southdowns increased 1.5 p.c, and Dorsets
2.5 p.c.
A four-year average of percentages of
marked Iambs is fairly high for the whole
State, ranging from 67 in the Wimmera
to 86 in the central district. The main
lamb district is inside a line between the
Divide and the Murray, east to the Hume
Highway and west to about the Kerang-
Bendigo line, where the marked average
for 1939 was 87 p.c. Wool mainly conies
from the Western District, where the
average in the same year was 74 p.c.
Merinos are well ahead as wool sires,
making 58 p.c. of the 108,175 wool rams
used in Victoria last year. This, how-
ever, is a drop of 2 p.c., and Corriedales
are creeping up with an increase of 2 p.c.
to 31 p.c. of the total. Polwarths, which
diehard woolmen never recognise without
a snort, made up 11 p.c.
The Phenothiazine Drench.
“J.R.D.”: The chief problem connected
with the drench is to find a suitable
vehicle to carry the 25 grammes of light,
though bulky, powder down the sheep’s
throat.
Phenothiazine is not soluble in water.
In its pure state each dose would have
to be measured separately and adminis-
tered in capsules or shaken in a small
bottle of water and poured down the
animal’s throat before the powder could
settle. The powder becomes sticky and
much of it clings to the drenching appa-
ratus, necessitating a “chaser” after each
dose.
Two commercial forms of phenothia-
zine are available in limited quantities.
Blending various chemicals with wetting
and dispersing properties into the pheno-
thiazine enables a larger quantity of
powder to be mixed at a time —20 to 30
doses—and with a little agitation these
stay in suspension long enough to allow
that number of sheep to be drenched
at once.
Consistency of the drench depends on
the volume, and this in turn is limited
by the amount a sheep can swallow with-
out discomfort. To one fluid ounce water
some add loz. phenothiazine, resulting
in a thick, porridge-like mixture; others
add sufficient water to bring the adult-
sheep dose up to three fluid, ounces.
None of the automatic drenching .guns
is suitable for phenothiazine. To the
difficulty of getting the thick, sticky sub-
stance past the valves is added the rapid
settling of deposit in the tank and block-
age of the feed pipe. Best results have
come from a single-shot drenching gun
fitted with bucket piston washers. The
drench is mixed in a large billy, and as
each dose is drawn up by the gun the
mixture is stirred with the nozzle. Avoid
spilling drench on clothes or fleeces —the
stain is hard to remove. Phenothiazine
stains the urine a reddish color and crutch
wool may be affected. Turn sheep out
to the paddock as soon as possible.
Phenothiazine is safe to use and is the
only good mouth drench for nodule and
black scour worms. The drawbacks of
cost and difficulty of administering will
be surmounted in time.
Zebus Making Good.
“Beefo”: Results from zebu bulls and
heifers imported from U.S.A. to N.Q.
in 1933 show that, the more zebu blood,
the greater the degree of immunity
against ticks. Full-bloods are practically
immune; three-quarter and half-breds
show slight infestation, and quarter-breds
were only a shade more immune than
British breeds.
Apart from their value as tick resisters,
cattle with a preponderance of zebu
blood seem well able to withstand the
conditions in the Far North. In the
worst of droughts crossbred zebus have
held their condition in a remarkable
“Don’t let the Commissioner of Railways ’ear about this”
manner. Good travellers and hardy, they
are natural fossickers.
Most crossbred zebu bullocks, when
sent to the meatworks, have graded over
80 p.c. first. With beef bought by the
works on a chilled or frozen weight over
the scales at per 1001 b. on a grade basis,
the quality of the crossbred zebus makes
them profitable. Once fat, half- and
three-quarter-bred zebu bullocks hold
their condition longer than any British
breed, and, although inclined to be leggy,
the bullocks give pleasing carcasses.
Once the natural objection of some
northern cattlemen to the Brahmin blood
disappears, it’s quite possible that all, or
most, of the N. Q’land herds will use
crossbred zebu bulls.
Victorian Pastures.
“Kirkstall”: Sub. clover and perennial
rye grass are generally the best pasture
improvers for the Victorian Western Dis-
trict. On deep volcanic soil or heavy
clay phalaris goes well, and in the latter
areas white clover and cocksfoot are
useful, strawberry clover suiting the peaty
flats.
Sub. seems to do best when grown with
perennials like p. rye grass, cocksfoot or
plylaris, which get away early, provide
eafly feed, suppress weed-growth and so
clear the decks for the later rush of sub.
The proportion of sub. in the pasture
can be controlled by grazing. Hard and
close feeding favors the sub., lighter feed-
ing—particularly if it lets the pasture get
to a hay stage in spring favors the
grasses. Good early autumn rains will
bring the sub. away, a dry autumn might
make the pasture almost all grass.
In the drier parts of the Western Dis-
trict, where soils are fairly shallow, a
few years of vigorous sub. clover growth
so refertilises the topsoil that a heavy
outbreak of weeds like barley grass, soft
brome, capeweed, spear grass and stork’s
bill can be expected. Best way to beat
them is to plough in the surface layer,
which reduces fertility ; then sub. clover
can be resown to make the pasture again.
Yorkshire fog is common on improved
pastures in the area, but provides good
grazing only for a limited period early
in the season. Where it shows up in a p.
rye grass pasture it should be hit hard,
after which the p. rye will come away
strongly. Light grazing or closed pad-
docks in spring often result in a heavy
growth of Yorkshire fog.
On the coast Kentucky blue does
well; so does meadow foxtail where
grazing is light. Wimmera rye suits the
drier north and the stony rises, and
lucerne the well-drained alluvial soils and
the deep volcanic stuff.
As always, the keynote of successful
pasturage is annual renovation and top-
dressing with superphosphate.
Wheat Pioneers.
“Ben C.”: Two South Australian
farmers who deserve a place in any his-
tory of Australian wheatgrowing are
James Ward and R. Marshall, the first
for work that led to the evolution of
Nabawa and Bencubbin and the second
for Marshall’s No. 3 and Yandilla King.
In 1881 Dr. Schomburgh, of Adelaide
Botanic Gardens, sent a parcel of wheat
to the Farmers’ Association for distri-
bution, Ward got a handful and planted
it in his garden. At maturity it “proved
as rusty as a horsenail,” but a few plants
were immune. Ward collected the pure
ears and sowed them. He got 11b. of
grain the first year, 501 b. the second,
seven bags the third and 233 bags the
fourth. It was Du Toil’s, a South Afri-
can wheat.
Its ability to resist rust and capacity
to yield under dry conditions made Du
Toit popular in South Australia, though
millers disliked its dark, hard grain. The
fixed type became known as Ward’s Pro-
lific and was used as a parent in breeding
Marshall’s No. 3, through which it en-
tered the breeding of Sword. Other
selections of Ward’s Prolific founded
Gluyas and Baroota Wonder, and it was
a Gluyas Early-Bunyip cross that gave
the country Nabawa.
Ward’s White, a Ward’s Prolific strain
with white instead of brown ears, was
crossed with Quartz to produce Warden,
a great hay wheat and very popular in
Victoria and N.S.W. from 1900 to 1920.
In addition to Marshall’s No. 3, Mar-
shall produced Yandilla King, a Yandilla-
Silver King cross named in 1907 and by
1915 second only to Federation as Aus-
tralia’s favorite wheat. Earlier maturers
have since developed and pushed it out
of cultivation, but even as late as 1939 it
was fairly popular in all four wheat
States. In 1926 it was fifth leading variety
in Westralia and in 1932 third in N.S.W.
Onion Seed.
“Bagger”: Britain badly needs onion
seed. Those here who feel like growing
some can’t get better than the Australian
brown onion. Seed is got by planting
sound bulbs of the previous crop, with
good brown skins and free from cracks.
Make sure the variety isn’t mixed in the
bed or you’ll get hybrid seed from cross-
pollination.
Planting rate is about \\ tons of bulbs
to the acre or about 171 b, to a bed of 200
sq. ft. Soil must be of good tilth, and
it should have 2oz. per sq. yd. of super-
phosphate dug into it. Plant now
in rows about 2ft. apart, with about 18in.
between bulbs. If there is to be horse-
cultivation, widen the rows and close
up the bulbs, which should be covered
by of soil and water straightway.
Weeding and watering, with a little shal-
low hoeing, are all that is necessary dur-
ing growth. After seed-heads form run
the water on in furrows.
As the seed-heads form stake and tie
them to prevent wind-damage. They
mature usually in early February, when


TIMBER KILLER !<
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN *
DAYS from roots to top. Ncw<
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates t
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY.
VciveS should (fcleskd -
ONCE A YEAR
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE
ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/S1A), LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
©YUPPOihTMtHT
S IS
r
»xi Jy .C
GW'S
m
m
liSSS
m
Cr
y.\X°
OV,
STl
El*
erav
flV)'°
G«
f/
,rJ*a
ts I
O'fl
m
m
b®
i
7
ofiS
eB>
tfeP
tlic Gin
made as Gin
should be
made*- the
secret of the
House of
Gordon since
1769
Gordon’s
Stands Supreme
TANQUERAY,GORDON & CO.,
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
Ofu Latest gm dtitilkM in the wvild
mB. -
Ej£U
m r,
WIWWW
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11 /-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
the seed-pods become white and papery.
Cut with an inch or two of stalk adher-
ing, and place the heads on sheets. Leave
in the sun for several days to cure, roll-
ing the sheets up each night and when
there is rain. After curing the seed can
be threshed out with light flailing.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”; Take care in choosing the
place to hang sheepskins. Rain will
damage them, and unless they’re painted
with an arsenical solution weevils won t
be long in putting in an appearance.
After removal from the carcass, the skin
should be cleared of fat and meat and
hung over a beam or wires in a shed,
flesh side out. When dry, paint with an
arsenic-and-soda solution and place out
of reach of dogs. When sending to
market, fold the skins flesh to flesh, head
to tail, and cut off all shanks. When
pressing, make neat bundles, the amount
of wool growth determining the number
of skins in each bundle. Brand each end
of the bundle, label and keep a record of
the number of skins consigned.
“Bahb Dwyer”: To make jute and
hessian bags rot-proof: Dissolve 4jlb. of
soda ash or washing soda in five
gallons of water. In a separate wooden
barrel, dissolve 101b. bluestone in 30
gallons of water. Add the soda solution
to the bluestone solution, stirring
thoroughly. Immerse the bags until they
are thoroughly soaked (if doing a con-
siderable quantity, add 2oz. Calsolene Oil
HS, a “wetting agent” which assists in
thorough penetration of the fabric).
Allow the bags to soak for five minutes,
wring out and dry in the shade. Imperial
Chemical Industries research department
developed the process.
“Broncho”: Blotched brands on horses
are due mainly toAoo much pressure with
too-cold irons. Make sure that the
irons are thoroughly hot, rub the part to
be branded with oil or melted fat and
apply the iron with slight pressure and
just long enough to allow it to take.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXIX.
Every Dog Has His Day.
You are riding into town in the old
sulky, the boys and their mother having
gone off to some teafight or other in the
car. It’s good to be in the sulky. The
pace is slow, but the old horse knows
the road and jogs along steadily, allowing
you to 101 l back and eye the country as
you move along. Not like clinging to
the wheel of a car and watching the road
for ruts and stray logs. You turn round
to look back and see the back-end of a
dog ambling along under the sulky. You
can tell it doesn’t belong to one of your
dogs, so you pull up to have a look at
him.
The biggest staghound you’ve ever seen
slides out and stands off a bit, sizing you
up. You know most of the dogs within
10 miles of your place, but you don’t
know this one.
“Whose dog are you?” you ask. He
grins and gives wags of his tail, then
becomes serious, waiting. “Go home!”
you say. He ignores the advice. “Ger-r-r-r
out, y’ mong!” you growl. He lopes
across the road in a bored way and drops
down under a bush. You get back in the
sulky and drive on, watching him. He
looks after you in an interested way,
waits till you are 100 yards along, then
gets up and trots after you. “Oh, well,”
you think, “I’ll lose him in the town.”
Later, having tied the horse up, you
make for the Universal Stores, conscious
of the big staghound shadowing you but
displaying no interest in him. You have
to get some cotton for the wife. At the
counter there is a woman with a little
boy. The little boy is sucking a lolly. A
girl comes to serve you. Suddenly there
are a fierce growl and a snap behind you,
a scream and the yell of a terrified kid.
You whirl. The woman is backed into
the counter, her arms round the kid,
facing the staghound, which is licking his
chops, eyeing the kid.
“Me lolly. Took me lolly,” wails the
kid.
“He won’t hurt y’, missus,” you say
soothingly. The woman regains her color
and glares at you. “Bringing savage dogs
into a store,” she charges. Before you
can deny it the store manager prances
up, blowing, “What’s all this? What s
all this?”
The girl behind the counter says, “The
gentleman’s dog frightened the little boy. ’
The manager knows you. “Look, Mr.
Fordcubbin, you’d better get your dog
out of”
“He ain’t my dog!”
You can see nobody believes you. It
makes you wild, but there is nothing to
be done. You stalk out. On the foot-
path you aim a kick at the staghound,
which jumps aside and gives you an
astonished look, then reveals a double
row of white fangs. “Gripes,” you
mutter, walking away warily.
You get the cotton at another
place and make up to see Ned
Horton, the butcher, about some fat
wethers you have. You trick the stag-
hound by slamming the wire-door quick.
He stands outside and watches through
the gauze. Ned takes you through to
his office at the rear. Just as you sit
down you hear the front door slam, then
a rushing sound, yells and curses and a
clatter. You and Ned rush back into the
shop, just in time to see the staghound
charge through the wire into the street,
half a lamb clamped in his jaws.
“That flamin’ dog o’ yours!” yells a
shop-hand, holding a bitten hand. “The
blankard rushed through the door when
a customer came in. I made a swipe at
’im an’ look what I got. Why don’t y’
tie y’r flamin’ dogs up?” He glares at
Horton. “This’ll cost y’ compensation,”
he snarls.
Horton turns on you. “You bloomin’
cockies an’ your dogs,” he begins, but
stops as an appalling uproar wells in
from the street. All hands make for the
door.
There is a wild sqene. The 73 assorted
dogs that can be found in the streets ol
that town at any time have surrounded
that staghound and his prize. Bits of
mutton and dog fly through the dust-
cloud surrounding the centre of storm.
A shocking medley of yelps, squeals and
growls comes from it. People come
from all directions. The barman from
the corner pub rushes out, heaves a
bucket of water over the battle and
stands, grinning, till a surge of the fight
sursounds him. He does a half-somer-
sault and falls into the gutter.
A baker’s cart rounds the corner. The
horse props, rears and bolts. From every
side street and laneway more dogs pour
into the fray. More people arrive. A
couple of policemen gamely rush in and
scatter the belligerents, which break up
into battling knots among the crowd, in
shops and doorways. Girls giggle or
scream : men and boys shout at the dogs ;
there is general chaos. And loping away
up the road, alone, still with his trophy,
goes the staghound. You sneak into the
pub.
Later, when peace has been restored,
you get into the sulky and head for
home. The sergeant stops you. “Look,
Mr. Fordcubbin, that dog of yours caused
a lot of damage. There’s bin complaints.
You’d better come”
“But he ain’t me dog. I never saw
him before. He just followed me like he
might have followed anybody. I tell
you”
The sergeant is looking at something
under the sulky. With a sinking feeling
you follow his gaze. The staghound
grins up at you and gives 2\ wags of his
tail. You look at the sergeant; the ser-
geant looks at you. You can see he
doesn’t believe you, and a helpless rage
mounts in you. You’re about to let loose
when a battered utility truck, full of
rabbit-traps, skins, dogs, camping gear
and two lanky whiskered blokes, whirls
to a stop.
“Hey, pup ; come on, pup! Wheremell
you bin?” cries the driver.
The staghound lands among the traps
and dogs at a bound and the utility van-
ishes in a cloud of dust.
“Hop in, sergeant,” you say. “I could
do with a drink.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first Is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
Z|d. per line.
An Old Digger’s indictment of the above-the-battle brigade gets full marks
this week.
“These Tailors’ Dummies”
B°rn and bred in the Australia of
“Banjo” Paterson and Henry Lawson
and ushered into manhood with the land-
ing at Gallipoli, I have fixed ideas about
Australia and Australians, but they
received a rude shock when I recently
visited Sydney. The cruellest blow I was
struck was the attitude of “What have
we got to fight for?” the reply to recruit-
ing sergeants by the anti-war party, which,
owing to its concentration, seemed to
assume big proportions.
I thought of my lad, 19 last birthday,
being carried out of the wreck of his
fighter in Canada, out cold, after a defec-
tive wheel had crashed him ; and almost
before he had stopped bleeding up and
away into the skies again in another
“crate,” boasting that before the letter
reached us he would have his wings. Then
I thought of his brother, in a good Gov-
ernment job in the town where he has
everything he could ask as an excuse to
keep him back, waiting and watching the
post for his calhup to start training as
a pilot in the R.A.A.F., and his only
worry the delay until his call comes.
Then the other brother, just turned 16,
pushing his way into the Air Cadets and
secretly anxious lest Hitler should be
beaten and the war over before this
schoolboy has a chance *to get a crack
at the Huns, like his brothers and his
father before them.
And then I thought of their mother,
putting by pennies and sixpences, wear-
ing last year’s frocks, going without an
annual holiday, spending her sparse
pocket-money on wool for knitting, all
for the lads overseas, and steadily brac-
ing herself for the shock that may come
at any moment with a telegram to the
next of kin.
And then I thought of Lofty and Splinter
and Bluey and Dummy, who sailed from
Pinkenba with me in 1914, and the great
company of Australian gentlemen, rich
and poor, generals, captains, corporals
and gunners, who bared their breasts to
the blast of the Huns to make a living
barrier between the Kaiser and the Aus-
tralia of Paterson and Lawson, that it
might be preserved for their sons.
And I looked at the sleek, overdressed,
overfed, gutsless anti-war brigade, eating
their heads off at the expense of the kids
of the R.A.A.F. and the real Australians
of the A.I.F. and the R.A.N., and I
heard them again asking “What have we
got to fight for?”
Back in the bush I am asking myself
“Who the hell have we got to fight for ?”
Isn’t there a way to make these tailors’
dummies do something to help our sons
preserve Australia for them whether they
like it or n0t?—2315 (N.S.W.).
What Can Be Done
Some months back Mr. Menzies de-
clared over the air that it was an all-in
war, that there was no limit to what
Parliament couldn’t and wouldn’t do, and
much more to the same effect. It sounded
well, and I almost thought the fellow
meant it. Following that brave declama-
tion Curtin and others said “Hear, hear,”
or words to that effect; and perfect
unanimity was promised. Almost it
would seem our politicians were actu-
ally going to set us a lead. And I know,
though some may have complained, the
people would have been behind the
leaders.
Regularly since then, and to an extent
that is boring in the extreme, appeals
come over the air from all stations to buy
war savings certificates, to buy stamps,
to give to the Red Cross, to support other
worthy functions which are of national
importance. Added to that we have
appeals to men to enlist —though they
were knocked back a few months ago—
and in many of the appeals there is a
veiled hint that fear may be holding a
man back from doing his obvious duty.
In my crass ignorance I thought all
that sort of thing would be finished when
Menzies, Curtin and co. declared for an
all-in effort. They had the power ; they
were going to use it. Then why the
blazes don’t they use it? If money is
needed, and if it is there, why don’t they
take it? To me it seems the time is over-
due. To me it seems unbalanced that
any authority should hint at fear on the
part of the people when that authority
itself is afraid to use the power with
which it is invested. Menzies promised
not to do one thing—conscription for
overseas service. There remains a heap
he can do. —H. G. L. (Q.).
Fifth Column
There is a widespread notion that the
wily ways of Hitler and co. are original.
Absurd. The tricks are all duplicated in
ancient history. Thousands of instances
could be quoted, but only one is neces-
sary to prove that the progress of Nazism
is backward toward the jungle.
Many centuries ago a force of Israelites
decided to subdue a foreign city. Instead
of doing so by direct assault they sent a
number of missionaries to convert the
citizens to the true faith. So successful
were the preachers that the whole popu-
lation was won over. In order fully to
embrace the new doctrine it was neces-
sary that each adult male should undergo
a minor operation. On the third day
after the physical rite had been performed
en masse and while the converts were
“ Ere, Wot's this? You know the union Won't let you Wear
shorts on the job!"
still cot cases, the invaders entered the
city and put their dupes to the sword.
In this age of machinery the same plan
is followed. The only difference is that
machines are incapacitated instead of
men. There is no difference in the ethics
of the preachers, the foolishness of the
dupes, or the disastrous results to the
credulous community. What were the
rulers of the beleaguered city doing dur-
ing the crisis? Doubtless some of them
openly aided and abetted the missionaries
while others investigated theological
avenues. It does not really matter, for
they all suffered the same fate.—S. W.
(S.A.).
Refugee Doctors
On one side we hear the argument “By
all means let the refugee doctors practise
here. There are some clever specialists
among them, and we have plenty of
people needing their medical help,” On
the other side we hear “If they must be
registered, register them ‘for the dura-
tion’ only or when the war is over and
our own army doctors return the profes-
sion will be overcrowded.”
Well, what’s it matter if the profession
is swamped a bit? There’ll be more
patients, anyway, what with the war-
wounded, the war-reaction cases and so
on. Besides, an increase in the number
of doctors might mean a reduction in,
and a fixing of, all medical fees, thus
bringing health within the pocket-range
of everybody. There’s so much sickness
about that we can’t have “too many”
good doctors.—M. (N.S.W.).
Realistic View
Germany’s attack on Russia has made
the comparison of Hitler to Napoleon
even more popular than before. Day
after day we hear and read commenta-
tors pointing out that the Fiihrer will go
thus far and no farther, and that every
tyrant must inevitably meet his Water-
loo. Which is just the kind of wishful
drivel to lull people into that old and
dangerous complacency.
It would be far more helpful to our
war effort if the public were told that
history frequently does not repeat itself,
that present warfare bears no compari-
son with that of the past, and that if
armies in Napoleon’s day had moved with
the speed of German Panzer divisions
he might quite conceivably have ensured
a lasting victory.—T. W. N. (N.S.W.).
Military Science
A knowledge of routine and precedent
(B. 28/6/’4l) may be very useful in a
law court because the law is administered
according to tradition and can’t be
changed except by the will of the Gov-
ernment or the people. But war is a
science, and a science is constantly being
confronted with new problems to which
precedent and routine can give no
solution. There was precedent once for
believing that the earth was the centre
of the solar system. When Copernicus
brought arguments to show that it wasn’t,
routine and precedent stood between the
professors and understanding an argu-
ment that is perfectly obvious to every
schoolboy in Australia.
When the present war started nobody
thought that an ex-housepainter with a
moustache like Charlie Chaplin’s who
had never been to a military academy,
who knew nothing about routine and pre-
cedent and who rose to be only a cor-
poral in the old German army could
possibly know more than they did. But
it is obvious that he did, and the only
reason is that he had less of routine and
precedent standing between him and un-
derstanding the new situation.
Everybody says that Hitler is a menace,
but it isn’t Hitler who is the menace, it
is ourselves. We have been trying to
counter the he has given us
traditionally, which was what the dino-
saurus did. The dinosaurus had a tradi-
tion of bigness, and when its existence
was menaced by a diminishing food
supply caused by the Ice Age it reacted
traditionally by getting bigger and bigger
until it finished up by eating itself off the
earth. It was a whale for routine and
precedent.— Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Conscientious Objectors
To most people it seems futile to force
into the army men whose consciences
tell them that they owe no duty to the
country in which they live to learn to
defend it in its hour of peril. A far
better plan would be to declare the con-
scientious objector ineligible for the duty
of national service and at the same time
declare him ineligible also for the privi-
leges of citizenship which are the natural
concomitant of that duty, e.g., the right
to vote, to receive State pensions and
endowment, to hold land under the
Torrens title and to hold offices of profit
under the Crown.
Were this done, the number of con-
scientious objectors would take a sharp
and sudden decline.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Lottery Prizes
Various States are blessed, or cursed,
with lotteries, and The Bulletin has
more than once suggested taxing the
prizes. With that I am quite in accord.
But why not compel the various manage-
ments to pay a specified portion of the
prizes over £lOO in war bonds bearing a
nominal interest, say 2\ p.c. If from half
to two-thirds of the major prizes were in
10- or 20-year bonds, several millions
annually would become available to the
Commonwealth Government, no hardship
would be caused to anyone, and it might
possibly have the effect of encouraging
thrift.—D. C. T. (N.S.W.),
Non-combatants’ Tax
As a minor expedient in the way of
raising money for the prosecution of the
war I suggest a special “non-combatants’
tax.” There is a large proportion of
people in Australia who, so far as the
war effort is concerned, might truthfully
be classed as “neutral,” for they con-
tribute nothing, except in the most in-
direct way, towards the prosecution of
the war. On these the non-combatants’
tax should fall with the utmost severity.
All adult males between 19 and 35, if
not engaged in some direct war activity,
should be taxed as non-combatants. Also
people who do not work for their living
—whether they spend their time attend-
ing “patriotic” cocktail parties or not.
I would favor also an extension of the
tax to certain folk in “reserved” occupa-
tions, and to certain others who, whether
they appear in uniform on special occa-
sions or not, are not really contributing
anything of practical value to the war
effort. — Taxi (N.S.W.).
Tax on Sport
I’m sure the sporting fraternity and
public generally would willingly fork out
a 5 per cent, tax on
entrance fees to sports
and entertainments
(B. 11/ 6/’4l), but why
exploit only this
avenue of revenue?
After all, sport is a
safety valve for many
a hard-working Aus-
tralian, and in most
cases his only indul-
gence, except for an
ounce or two of
tobacco a week, and
perhaps a bottle of
beer for the week-end.
When the time comes
for this form of taxa-
tion, I hope the Gov-
ernment will impose
a heavy super-tax on
such commodities as
imported wines and
liq u e urs, expensive
cigars and table
luxuries, to say no-
thing of the costly
jewellery, cosmetics,
perfumes, etc., which
are used by those well
able to pa y.—
Pequena (S.A.).
New Order
We read and hear much of a new
social and economic order ; we have seen
many changes in methods of government,
social and monetary systems since the
1914-18 war; and we have seen so many
new “isms” that the ordinary individual
finds it hard going to keep track of what
they all mean.
I haven’t much faith in a new order.
The tendency of late years has been to
discover the perfect system which will
give to each one equal opportunity, jus-
tice and a fair share of the amenities of
life. The greatest Teacher of all time did
not try to change the systems in vogue at
the time, but stressed individual perfec-
tion. It is on the rock of man’s indi-
vidual selfishness that any plan will fail.
If we cultivate a real respect for im-
partial justice, an appreciation of and
sincere desire for a well-divided and
equitable distribution of the gifts of the
Creator and the right of every man to his
share, then, no matter what form of gov-
ernment we have or what economic sys-
tem is in vogue, our social and economic
life will approach nearer to Utopian
ideals than it will by any new order. —
Alpha (N.S.W.).
Nations and War
The New Order, it appears from sundry
prophecies in the press and elsewhere,
will include some arrangement or other
for preserving peace amongst the nations.
I hope that the fallacies on which the
moribund League of Nations was nur-
tured will be borne in mind when our
statesmen are signing any new inter-
national agreements or pledging their


,
/
///
I
¥
m
mm s s
m
: V
m ,
I a
m
■ill
H,


countrymen to co-operative ventures with
countries outside the British Empire.
One of the optimistic assumptions on
which the League was based was that
members would support other members
who were attacked, not only with eco-
nomic but, if necessary, with military
aid. This assumption was, in fact, the
basis of collective security. Yet this war
has shown up the unpalatable truth that
no country will go to war to aid another
unless its own safety is directly and
specifically threatened.
When the League was in its heyday
few would have dared to assert that col-
lective security was far too vague and
shadowy an aim to fight for. Though
the horrors of war were described again
and again in those 20 years of peace, we
forgot the fundamental truth that, because
war is horrible, inhuman and destructive,
it is the last resort of a peace-loving
nation.
If this had been remembered when the
League was brought into being, the world
might have been spared much waste and
suffering. The British nations in parti-
cular might have relied more on their
own strength and based their plans for
defence on the principle—forced on us
now by the defeat of our allies —that the
far-flung Empire is capable of defending
itself by its own efforts, provided the
component Dominions and colonies bear
their fair share of the task.
There must be international co-opera-
tion in the future to a greater degree
than before. But agreements which no
country is willing to fulfil should be left
severely alone. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Cromwell
No, Cromwell “had no vision of a
world order” (B. 28/5/’4l). In political
outlook he was a typical conservative
English country gentleman. It was his
strongly Puritan religious convictions that
caused him to join the opponents of
the Episcopalian and Arminian King
Charles I.
Cromwell, however, did not “rule more
capably than any of his immediate pre-
decessors had managed.” His adminis-
tration, except in the foreign sphere, was
far inferior to that of Charles during the
years (1629-40) that he ruled without
calling a Parliament. Charles was not
able to do much in foreign affairs be-
cause of inadequate financial resources,
but his record in domestic government
in those years was very creditable. For
the first time the system of poor relief
instituted by Elizabeth was really ade-
quately enforced, the working classes
were protected alike from exploitation
and oppression without injustice being
done to the rich, the church was reorgan-
ised to its advantage and trade and in-
dustry wisely regulated.
The powerful army and navy Crom-
well maintained enabled him to make
England feared and respected by her
neighbors and to wage two successful
wars, but economically his rule was dis-
astrous. His naval and military establish-
ments were on a scale out of all pro-
portion to what the country, impover-
ished by the Civil War, could afford. The
army alone cost £BOO,OOO a year, only
£lOO,OOO less than Charles I’s whole
revenue.
Crippling taxation and the forcing of
the Royalists to pay fines so heavy that
they amounted to capital levies failing
to provide Cromwell with sufficient in-
come, he borrowed at high rates of in-
terest, leaving his successor a debt of
nearly a million pounds. His wars with
Spain and Holland, if fruitful in glory,
brought England little other benefit, while
Spanish and Dutch raiders took heavy
toll of English shipping.
It was the severity of Cromwell’s taxa-
tion and the damage done to English
commerce by his wars, far more than
religious reaction, that brought about the
downfall of the Commonwealth. The
politically-powerful London merchants,
whose support had been a vital factor in
giving the Parliament victory in the Civil
War, were alienated. When they threw
in their lot with the Royalists, restora-
tion of the monarchy was only a matter
of time. — Tom (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
No doubt many of the anomalies now
apparent in the child-endowment scheme
will be ironed out in time, but the Act
has unmistakable signs of the slapdash
methods which have characterised much
recent Commonwealth legislation. For
instance, for each of her children after
the first, a mother will receive ss. a week
irrespective of how well off she and her
husband may be; but a little girl of my
acquaintance who lost both father and
mother recently in tragic circumstances
and is now entirely dependent upon the
goodness of relatives will not receive a
penny piece from the Government.
Whether the Act was intended to benefit
the child or to encourage larger families,
it is equally unjust to the orphan. After
all it is not her fault that her parents
were cut off in early life before they had
other children. — Smilax (Q.).
In bracketing child endowment and
equal pay for the sexes (B. 11/6/’4l)
“Stop-the-Rot” fails to realise the re-
lated value of both schemes, provided
they are administered intelligently. The
purpose of child endowment is, or should
be, either to increase the birthrate or, at
least, to impose some of the cost of sup-
porting the much-needed additions to
our population upon those who have
hitherto enjoyed greater spending power
for themselves by avoiding this service.
Logically, then, the cost of endowment
should be financed entirely by taxing
those without family responsibilities, or
with families below the capacity of their
means, to the full extent necessary to
provide a reasonable share of the cost
of supporting the nation’s children.
In such circumstances, equal pay
for the sexes would not render women
independent of marriage (and children),
since the balance left 1» them after taxa-
tion will be no more than they receive at
present. On the other hand, employers
who use women at present purely because
of the fact that their labor is cheaper
will employ men instead, rendering the
latter more able and the former more
willing to marry.
At the same time, those males who
retain their bachelorhood because one
can live a dashed sight more expensively
than two -plus will receive the privilege
of helping to support those “pluses”
which this country surely. needs, but
which should certainly not be made a
burden upon the funds that should be
going into the war effort. Array
(N.S.W.).
Subsidised Writers
As long as it is permissible for the
proprietors of our daily press and other
publications to buy at knock-down rates
syndicated literary and artistic matter,
we shall have complaints of people like
“Arev” and “Sword” (B. 9/7/’4l). I
can cast back my mind nearly 25 years
and recall similar complaints registered
in The Bulletin from numerous literary
and artistic aspirants who have sought
Governmental aid in the uneven battle
for the right to earn a crust at their
chosen occupation.
Back in 1923, after contributing a
number of short stories to certain pub-
lications, I approached the editor on the
subject of a serial. He was quite nice,
but also quite embarrassed at having to
show me a multigraphed opening instal-
ment and detailed synopsis of a 65,000-
word novel by a world-famous author,
the first S.A. serial rights of which were
available for the princely sum of £2 2s.
Would I like to compete? Would you?
I suggest that, instead of subsidising
a few chosen writers with a £5-a-week
literary fellowship, this beneficent Gov-
ernment of ours proceed to ban the im-
portation of “roneoed” serials, stories,
articles and syndicated art matter, or,
alternatively, force the editors to pay full
A.J.A. rates to the original authors or
artists for their works. — Inko (S.A.).
“Comics”
I glanced through a bundle of the
kid’s “comics.” What “literature”!
Death, torture and the hint of rape
stalked through the pages. Gangsters
that made Al Capone and John Dillinger
look like pikers. Slow death handed out
in ways that made the late Dowager
Empress’s head executioner look like a
healer. Monstrous robot, controlled by
a fiend hidden in a central power
chamber, which broke battleships with a
blow of its club, snatched aeroplanes
from the air, waded through oceans to
deal destruction to whole cities.
Youth nowadays is nourished on
sadism. Back in the ’nineties when I
was a kid we nourished mentally on such
as Ballantyne and George Manville Fenn,
while Deadwood Dick was almost, though
not quite, on the forbidden list. Yet
compared with youth’s literary heroes of
today Dick was a blameless citizen. It’s
something of a shock to find in the hands
of a child stories which make the imagin-
ings of an Edgar Allan Poe seem seda-
tive.—W. C. C. (W.A.).
The Public Pays
X owns a shop in my town, Y rents
it. A dispute between them about a
sanitary charge of 7d. a week led to an
appeal to the Fair Rents Court. In order
that the Court might arrive at a just
determination, the Valuer-General was
required to submit his opinion of both
the improved and unimproved capital
value. This involved sending a special
officer 200 miles, with two days’ absence
from Sydney. Cost, for his salary and
travelling expenses, close on £lO.
Do the litigants bear this charge?
No fear. The public pays. During the
past year that same officer has made
four trips to my town, all on fair rents
cases. I gathered from a conversation
with him that a large part of his time is
similarly occupied. The poor old public
is carrying quite a big enough load with-
out being saddled with this additional
burden. Either the unsuccessful litigant
should bear it or the municipal valua-
tions should be accepted.— Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
House Rents
“Why should the owner of a dwelling
be compelled to let it for occupation by
someone he does not care for and at a
rental he is not prepared to accept” (B.
9/7/’41)? Well, why should anyone have
a spare dwelling house on his hands in
which, apparently, he is not prepared to
dwell?
This “dog-in-the-manger” business is
at the bottom of most of our troubles
today, Australia is, nominally, a free
country, but actually I have to pay
17s. 6d. a week for one room before I
can even carry on the business of living.
The woman who is renting this house
lives partly on me and, for the rest, on
four other sub-tenants. The house has
one bathroom for the use of half a
dozen people. Each of the four sub-
tenants cooks in his or her own room.
Properly speaking, the rent of the whole
house should be about 10s. a week at the
most. Actually, it is about £3 10s.
No one in this world has the right
to make his living by hiring out spare
houses to tenants. If shelter is a neces-
sity of life there ought to be no such
thing as people living in idleness on the
returns of house property. But in this
case you get the original exploiter—who
does not even collect his own rents. Then
you get a sub-exploiter who lives by the
rake-off he gets from collecting rents ; a
sub-sub-exploiter, who is my immediate
landlady ; and myself and three others,
who are the exploited—trying to exploit
others so that we may continue to be
exploited.— Front Room (N.S.W.).
The Banks
The grouch says “the banks keep those
hundreds of millions of pounds lying
idle,” This is not correct, because there
are such things as loans and overdrafts
which enable borrowers to enlarge fac-
tories and employ thousands. Part of
the money is held, however, to provide
for runs and other contingencies. This
holding is about 25 p.c. of total deposits.
If “A” deposits with the bank £lO,OOO, the
bank lends only £7500 to “B,” meaning
that either the depositor is short-paid
for the interest on £lO,OOO or the bor-
rower is overcharged. In the days when
gold was in general use, the reserve safety
factor was necessary, but today the
soundness of banks is bound up with
public confidence, and that confidence is
expressed in paper notes.
That being the case, we can, without
inflation, release the idle 25 p.c. for use
by the simple expedient of the Common-
wealth guaranteeing to the banks “tem-
porary notes” to cover any run to the
extent of their additional advances. Thus
either the depositor could receive more
interest or the borrowers could borrow
at lower rates, perhaps a bit of both.
When runs occur on banks, if the banks
prove solvent, the money returns in a
few days ; it is then that the banks can
repay the Commonwealth, which would
hold the “temporary notes” for the next
run, if any.—No. 1 Teller (W.A.).
Highbrow Music
“This ought to be good,” said Dad to
the family circle when the voice of the
announcer warned us that we were in
for a “concherto” by a big orchestra
and a famous pianist. So we prepared
for the worst.
A few crisp arpeggios, a thin tootle
from a lonely flute, a wail from a violin
were followed by an unfinished, discor-
dant phrase from two instruments of
brass. Now and then a one-finger
melody on the ivories gave promise of
a bar or two of intelligible meaning, but
all that happened was a breathless chro-
matic run that seemed to stop short of
the post.
For endless minutes we waited for a
full chord, a sustained harmony or a pas-
sage with steady rhythm. Instead we
had a succession of stuttering, stammer-
ing, unrelated sounds that might have
been tuning-up or trial canters by indi-
vidual players at a first-night’s practice.
The only decided “statement” was heard
in the rather stereotyped finale.
The applause did not come imme-
diately, except from one pair of hands
that clapped and clapped persistently
without missing a beat until other pairs
of hands —each with a distinctive note
and tempo —were inspired by example to
give a little encouragement. Then fol-
lowed the simple, sweet-toned chimes of
the station signifying the end of the ses-
sion. “Now that’s what I call real music,”
said Mum. “It has some tune in it.”
No wonder lowbrows like us prefer
jazz when a mighty ensemble of brilliant
musicians fills the air with piffling little
innuendos while there is a whole world
of majestic masterpieces to choose from.
— Tum-te-tum (S.A.).
Write to the Member
We read the O.F.M. page, the “Letters
to the Editor” in the dailies, listen to a
Cameron making disclosures, then say to
ourselves or our fellow-tram passenger
“What a rotten state of affairs.” Then
we mostly forget about it. And if we go
on that way we’ll get precisely nothing
done.
This suggestion no claim to
originality, but it does make claim to
having achieved results. It’s simply this:
sit down and write a letter to your
Federal member, drawing his attention
to the grievance, quote your authority
and then urge your fellow-tram passen-
gers, neighbors, etc., to do likewire.
Never mind about writing to Menzies
direct or to Billy Hughes ; just bombard
your own Federal member with fan mail.
If every member of the House starts to
receive five or ten or fifty times his regu-
lar mail we are well on the road to get-
ting things done, not talked about and
then forgotten. —Jack Point (Q.).
Contrast
This morning my newspaper reported
that a well-known Sydney firm had been
convicted of overcharging ; that 10,000
ironworkers were threatening to declare
a general strike unless their wages were
raised by £1 a week ; and, among others,
Pte J. E. H was killed in action. The
latter was my brother’s cobber.
What a contrast! —B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Little Bitter Men
It is noteworthy that very few of our
soldiers ever claim that they have en-
listed to save democracy. If pressed for
a reason most will say that they are going
to stop Hitler. I asked a man who hadn’t
enlisted if he didn’t think our system
of government was worth fighting for,
and got this reply:
“I don’t see anything in our govern-
ment to get excited about. Our members
of Parliament don’t care about anything
except doing themselves proud at the
expense of the taxpayers. Look at them
now, creating jobs for themselves and
their friends every day. They tell every-
body to make sacrifices, and have a whale
of a time themselves. Everybody knows
politics are rotten.”
On being challenged to produce evi-
dence of this rottenness, he admitted that
he knew of no specific example, but he
referred me to Mr. X, “who knew every-
thing about politics.” Mr. X could pro-
duce plenty of evidence. He listens to
all the news sessions; reads all the news-
papers, “Hansards” and reports of royal
commissions with the one object, appar-
ently, of discovering proof of corruption
in politics.
Every statement made by a public
man which subsequent events proved to
be wrong Mr. X claimed to be a deliberate
attempt to mislead the public for some
base reason (and he was wonderfully
fertile in thinking of possible motives).
Every charge or insinuation made against,
a Parliamentarian in the heat of elections
or debate he accepted as a fact without
listening to the defence. Any discredit-
able scene in the House was held up as
an example of the degradation of
democracy. He believed all the fantastic
charges against our economic system
which are made by quack financial re-
formers or rabid Communists, and
asserted that Big, Business was an organi-
sation of robbers having an unholy
alliance with the Government.
He believed all the unfavorable evi-
dence given before the various royal
commissions without regard to the par-
tisanship of the witnesses. In fact, he
just overwhelmed me with his contempt
for every man in the public eye.
He is a man who never stops talking
about political depravity, and he converts
many to his point of view because of
his earnestness and the evidence he can
produce. There are hundreds more like
him in this country; the Little Bitter
Men who never pause to ponder on the
possible result of their words. They
regard themselves as model citizens, but
everyone who comes in contact with them
is robbed of his faith in his country and
his hope for a better future.
They would strenuously deny that
they are disloyal, but if every one was
paid for the results he achieves Dr.
Goebbels would be subsidising them
heavily.—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).


are uou
iverish
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less
from Liver Complaint. Those feelings of No energy
and “Not too well" are but symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source ,of endless suffering.
When the Liver is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels,
life into the Liver, and tone the Stomach —thus bracing
up the system generally.
Dr. Morses
jy
a
mm
PILLS
They Make You Fee/ Brighter
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
j Windbum and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
I with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
j soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skift until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
I W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
I Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
I lington. New Zealand.
Price, 2/7i per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
i
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
j crying out at night as though in
i fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
| twitching, irritability, sleeplessness.
and general discomfort.
| Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington. N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
h
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
For local office address (Subscribers living outside Australia and New
see Page 8. Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months .. 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 4/-
post free.
,otf
0°
,\\®
•
..*•* o*'
v 4v c V °^ c
\o c


SSSSS3SSS
■>
mmmmm
sssSss?
X; ;X.
SSA
&. * ' |MP>».« H
m
m
m ■
■■■-■■■■■'■■
im
m
m
■--■
m
m
Si»
■Sill
Mechanisation, in these perilous
days of war ‘mechanisation’ has, for
most of us, but one meaning— the mechan-
isation of the means and instruments of
war, the substitution of the petrol-driven
tractor, tank, ‘dragon’ or lorry for the horse
or mule-drawn vehicle. But mechanisation
depends on rubber as well as petrol, for
without rubber in some form or other petrol
cannot function efficiently. The most suc-
cessful engine is disastrously handicapped
unless rubber is available not only for
tyres and treads but also for the hundred-
and-one rubber parts in engine and chassis.
Leave war aside for a moment. Have you
ever pondered the amazing increase in the
life of the motor tyre I No farther back
than 1920 you were well satisfied with a
tyre that stood up for 5,000 miles. Today
you have good grounds for complaint if
your tyres do not give you an average of
between 15,000 and 20,000 miles. 50,000
is now a common mileage for the tyres of
motor coach or bus: even 100,000 is not
unknown. These astonishing developments
could not have been achieved without the
work of Imperial Chemical Industries.
Working in their laboratories, LCX organic
chemists are constantly adding to the range
of products used by the rubber manufac-
turing industry. Chief among these are
what are known as accelerators and anti-
oxidants. The use of the former means that
the rubber manufacturer is able to construct
tyres of increasing strength and of greater
resistance to abrasion. The presence in
the rubber of small quantities of special
anti-oxidants delays the action of flex-
cracking. Just as mechanisation depends on
the rubber manufacturer,
so he in his turn depends
upon the rubber research
chemist of Imperial
Chemical Industries*
Behind the Empire Throughout the Empire
a
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA &
(lAN/
NEW ZEALAND LTD.
Subsidiary Companies:
PTY. UP. NOBEL (A, ASIA) PTY. LTD. INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS PIT. LTD. LEATHERCLOTH PTY. LTD, 1.6.1. ALKALI (AUST.) PIT. LTD. IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES (I.I.) ITU
