

SI I
wm
.
m
m
Mi
m
m
m
1
*r
S
«3*^-
NATIONAL
SE R V I CE
-
#
QJCIENCE is to-day playing a greater part than ever in helping to win the war —and
an all-important factor in all arms of defence is the application of the science of
wireless.
For many years A.W.A. has maintained a highly technical and experienced laboratory
and engineering staff designing wireless equipment of every type for use at sea, on land,
and in the air.
As a result, the Company’s extensive organisation is to-day producing high-grade wire-
less apparatus for the Australian Navy, Army and Air Force in ever-increasing quan-
tities, as well as manufacturing stations for vital Wireless Communication Services.
Further, the Company’s munitions annexe is in full production.
Over 2,500 Australians are to-day engaged in research, designing and manufacturing
activities at the A.W.A. Radio Electric Works.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
mm ltd.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.-No. 3179.
Wednesday, January 15, 1941
From Victory to Victory
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Hond^M
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B.Jil .
The Red Page
NEGLECTED TALENT.
While the Commonwealth Literary
Fund’s two latest publications, unlike
the first —Professor Moll’s verses—are
wholly Australian publications and, being
of some national importance, are
probably the sort of books the Fund was
meant to assist, neither Vance Palmer’s
National Portraits nor C. Bede Maxwell’s
Wooden Hookers is the sort of writing
to create any great enthusiasm among
lovers of Australian literature. Palmer’s
essays on notable Australians are the
sort of thing one reads as a matter of
duty; Maxwell’s notes on sailing ships
and their adventures are of specific his-
torical interest; neither will cause a
single ripple in the stream of creative
literature in this country.
If the Fund is out to foster Australian
literature, as no doubt it is, there is better
material available. Where it’s a case of
an individual writer with a good book
that the commercial publishers won’t
touch, it’s up to the writer to approach
the board controlling the Fund. But if
the writers, through ignorance, don’t
apply, it wouldn’t hurt the board to
make the first move. And there are two
things the board could well do of its
own initiative: publish an annual an-
thology of Australian poetry on the lines
of New Zealand Best Poems and an
annual collection of stories by the dozen
or so first-class short-story writers whose
work each year is lost in the files of the
newspapers.
These are two jobs one always hoped
to see the Fellowship of Writers tackle.
Since the Fellowship was largely respon-
sible for persuading the Government to
spend a few pounds on literature, it has
a good chance now to press for these
two anthologies.
The influence of both could be enor-
mous, as a continual spur to young
writers, as a means of letting the public
know the work of genuine quality that is
being produced, as a vehicle of publicity
for Australian writers in other countries,
and as a method of keeping poetry and
the short story alive and vigorous. Com-
mercial publishers are terrified both of
poetry and the short story, yet—provided
the standard was kept rigidly high—
sufficient publicity should give the Fund
a chance of at least getting its money
back. In Maoriland a private firm
manages somehow to keep N.Z. Best
Poems going.
The good work—stories and verse—
is undoubtedly being written ; there’s not
much of either, but enough to make a
book of each every year; the books
ought to be published, and, except
through the Fund, they’re not likely to
be.
If one turns to individual writers whose
work hasn’t been published in book form
and emphatically ought to be there is
at least one story writer of really outstand-
ing quality—Gavin S. Casey—and one
poet of considerable ability—Norma L.
Davis, of Tasmania. There are probably
others; the fact that these two haven’t
had their work between book covers is
enough in itself to suggest that the Fund
might do well to look around for worth-
while material.
Norma Davis is a landscape poet, and,
like all of that good company from
Clare to Edmund Blunden and W. FI.
Davies, lacks some of the technical re-
finement, the clarity of thought and
theme of a Yeats. She writes with a
whole bird in hand, not a quill. The
result is a rich, closely-woven verse,
crammed with lovely images, presenting
a fine picture of the Tasmanian scene in
all its moods of sun, rain and fog.
Drenched by the morning rain the black rocks
gleam
Like oilskins worn by fishermen when blows
The bitter rime across the narrow beam
And salt nets sag beneath their silver load.
The shepherds’ wreath that blue as heaven
glowed
In dead September now lies bleached and grey,
A half-coiled lariat lost among the heath.
The berries of the snake-bush, ripe and gay,
Glint green as little muscatels beneath
The ashen eaves of sullen thrusting thorns.
The wild hop swings pale amber gourds of
seed
Below the moss-entangled brittle horns
Of dead sweet-briar where, like locusts freed
From Bible days, the flecked motes move among
The tinted guava gold of June sunshine.
The cold volcanoes of the gorse have sprung
To flame again, and line on yellow line
The blossom lava ripples and runs down.
What makes this good verse, apart
from the richness of the imagery, is
that, like all true landscape poetry, it is
written as it were from inside the land-
scape ; the mind behind it is not that
of a tourist admiring a pretty “view,”
but that of a pantheist feeling mystically
at one with the countryside, weaving the
actual substance of earth
and rock and grass into the
verse. Norma Davis has
been writing for a good
many years and must have
a big collection awaiting publication. It
will not be “great” poetry ; but it will be
better than nine out of ten of the little
books of verse that somehow do get pub-
lished each year in Australia.
That Casey’s short stories have never
appeared in book form is as astonishing
as it is regrettable. His work will bear
comparison not only with any established
Australian writer, but with the recognised
masters of the short story overseas. His
“Short Shift Saturday,” published by The
Bulletin in December, 1937, was a
masterpiece.
In his goldfields stories and in a few
stories of man-and-wife he leans
towards gloom and disillusion, but
against that there is the clear, hard
strength of his characterisation, the
spare, racy masculinity of his style, the
finish and polish of his art. Some of
his beach scenes, as wholly Australian
as his grimmer studies of the goldfields,
bring gentleness and beauty to his land-
scape ; and a few most accurate sketches
of childhood are as tender as they are
realistic. If his stories were collected in
a book they would have an impact that
newspaper publication can never give
them, and that impact would be a good
thing not only for Casey and his readers,
but for literature in this country.
Whether or not the Fund is used to
do these four jobs-—the two anthologies,
Norma Davis’s verse and Casey’s stories
—they ought to be published, and there’s
something seriously wrong with the state
of Denmark if nobody will tackle them.
Now, while the unlucky English writers
and publishers are under such difficul-
ties, is the time for Australian effort to
flourish.
Leacock on the Empire.
Reference has been made elsewhere in
The Bulletin to the serious ingredients
of Stephen Leacock’s Our British Empire
(Bodley Head). It is such a good piece
of work that it’s worth further pointing
out here that Professor Leacock doesn’t
jettison his humor in setting sail to sur-
vey the Empire in detail as it stands
today. From that survey, which brings
to view all sorts of curious odds and ends
as well as figures that leave a staggering
impression of vastness, Professor Lea-
cock works out a general plan for the
improving and holding of the Empire,
He suggests that the right way to con-
sider the Empire’s history is as a story
of action and reaction, the British in
their home isles being influenced by the
dominions and nations they originally
established, no less than the people of
these have been influenced by British
tradition and the British way of life.
“The Puritan brought to America his
deadly seriousness and his long-winded
piety, reimported back to England two
centuries later in the chastened form of
American humor.” From America also
the British at home learnt “to eat Thanks-
giving Turkey and to suffer oratory at
lunch.” The right story of the Empire
is that telling “of what the British Isles
did for the world and of what the world
did for the British Isles.” That is Pro-
fessor Leacock’s method, and, told that
way, instead of in the usual way (“how
we conquered this, and then conquered
that, annexed this tribe and then that. ...
a mean story of success”), it adds up to a
magnificent tale. Despite the figures thick
in it, the tale runs in a strong narrative
flow, with this sort of salting to com-
pensate for having to digest the statistics :
The Scots also settled themselves in
Dunedin and Southern New Zealand, look-
ing for something as bleak as the High-
lands—or call it “as stern and wild,” their
own name for it.
Tobacco, not food, but better
Turning from food to drink —the com-
fortable and highly strategic position of
the Empire in regard to Scotch whisky
The brief Maori wars left little but a
picturesque memory and no rancor. The
enemy, if cannibals, were at least gentle-
men.
The resuscitation of Gaelic [in Eire], its
use lost to all but a few western peasants,
was just a piece of Irish nonsense. It has
no literature except to the fond eye of the
antiquarian, and not enough words to say
what it means without reaching up for
English. The deliberate attempt to revive
Gaelic seems to be succeeding. First thing
the Irish know they’ll really talk it, and
then they’ll be sorry.
But the matter of official Gaelic as the
first language of Eire is a matter that
hangs with its tangled history. Ireland’s
cup of misery, it is said, has been over-
flowing for years and is not full yet
Having to learn Gaelic is just another
bitter draught.
Fricassee of Fuehrer .
“Fricassee: A dish made of fowls cut into
pieces, and stewed in gravy.”— Webster.
“Hitler’s portrait conforms largely with
the popular picture of a tyrant: neurotic
and suspicious, full of hatred and scorn,
vehement and revengeful, incoherent and
shrewd.”
But this picture, Axel Heyst submits
in After Hitler (Minerva Publishing Co.),
does not explain all.
Mr. Heyst’s own difficulty is one that
has troubled nearly all others before
him, and has baffled most of them
—that of complying with the first
recipe - stipulation: First catch your
Fiihrer. The dish that most of them
serve up, despite their hand with deceptive
flavorings, remains, according to the par-
ticular chef’s preference, grilled, curried,
scalded, fried or stewed photograph,
Mr. Heyst, admitting to the general diffi-
culty, might as well have owned up also
to the peculiar one of shaking off normal
prejudice where Hitler is the topic. He
dismisses Hitler’s war record with: “Even
if his personal war record is not altogether
clear, there is no cause to suspect that
Hitler was a poor soldier or a coward.”
To have delved deeper into Hitler’s war
record might have been upsetting to one
aspect of the Hitler who eventually
emerges from the analysis —one who,
while employing the weapon of terror,
shrinks from the idea of it; “he falls into
a state of prostration and shrinks from
the sight of those who were involved in
carrying through his orders.” If this is
so, Hitler must have spent a large amount
of his time shrinking.
The fact, which seems to be reasonably
well established, is not that “there is no
cause to suspect that Hitler was a poor
soldier or a coward,” but that there is
every reason to believe he was the very
opposite. On the Somme in 1916 he
was severely wounded and “on discharge
from hospital was sent to a reserve
battalion, but applied for and obtained
his immediate return to his comrades at
the front” (R. C. K. Ensor; Oxford
Pamphlet Who Hitler Is). Mr. Ensor
records that Hitler “displayed great
bravery” as a dispatch-runner.
Also, there would seem to be plenty
of vulnerable spots for attack without
seeking to question the authorship of the
most platitudinous, as it is one of the
most brooding and tormented, books ever
written. Mr. Heyst suggests joint compo-
sition of Mein Kampf by Hitler, Hess
and Rosenberg, on the astounding evi-
dence that Hitler subsequently attached
Rosenberg to his following as “court
philosopher” and that Hess “once won a
prize in America for an essay on the
rebirth of Germany.”
Mr. Heyst finds part-prototypes, not
for Mussolini, but for Hitler, among
some of the more disreputable of Roman
dictators. His “raving promises in the
presence of Sir Nevile Henderson that
after the Polish campaign he would settle
down as an artist are strikingly reminis-
cent of Nero’s passion for music—he
was as bad a musician as Hitler is a
painter.” His “hysterical outbursts, his
persecution mania, and the intensity of
his hatred remind one strongly of Cali-
gula” ; he “despises humanity as much as
Tiberius used to despise it” ; his “solitary
broodings in the face of Alpine preci-
pices, his eyrie perched on top of a moun-
tain, call up a vision of the castle of
Tiberius overhanging the cliffs of Capri.”
Hitler’s jokes are grim, “his irony
smells of revenge and is a camouflage
for intense hatred.” His “panegyrics
on the exploits of the German Army are
full of the sadistic joy of a man possessed
by hidden passions He cannot free
himself from his own past, and his past
haunts him.” He can die only as Fiihrer;
neither he nor any of his party could go
into exile as the Kaiser did ; there are too
many enemies waiting in ambush for them.
And so Hitler and his Party are driving
the maddest course modern history has
witnessed. They are determined and they
have no scruples. They are bound together
not only by the consciousness of their
common fate, but also by the fact that they
know a lot about each other, and that there
is no escape from the justice of the Party.
They are all caught in the net of their
mutual intrigues.
Mr. Heyst is in conflict with himself
in presenting Hitler mounting to, and
then holding, his position. On the one
hand, he presents him throughout as a
solitary being. First the boy and youth,
influenced by his mother, a remarkable
woman with a sensitive mind and roman-
tic temperament, moody and sentimental,
embittered with life and in silent revolt
against fate, seeing in her son the em-
bodiment of her dreams: he was to be
different, and lead another life (all of
which sounds like a passage from the
stock-in-trade of the sentimental-saga
novelist). Next, the orphan youth in
Vienna, perhaps joining in cafe argu-
ments, but still solitary, even as an in-
mate of an asylum fox Ihs ..homeless,
where “he learned by heart all the
trickery of the poor and defenceless....
dived into the dark depths of the human
soul and saw the terrific power of hunger
realised how cheap is the price of
man’s conscience and how easy it is to
lie.” So on to the army life which he
welcomed as enabling him to change from
a homeless nonentity to at least being a
member of a great organisation ; and still
on through his tough personal fight to
the top —much tougher than Mussolini’s
—with his “custom of leading a solitary
life and never sharing the brutal joys
of his henchmen” still maintained.
On the other hand, Mr. Heyst would
have it that this same man’s present soli-
tariness is largely policy. What would
appear to be natural, either inborn or
implanted by environment, Mr. Heyst
pictures as a mask. Hitler knows that
“he must keep his distance from his lieu-
tenants must be different from them
in his way of life.... must be an intrigu-
ing riddle to them... .They should never
catch him at a moment when he was as
human as they Let them ridicule
him as impotent or as a man given to
secret vices ; still they would respect him
as somebody different.” It is not very
convincing, and Mr. Heyst is not con-
vinced by it himself, for from that pic-
ture of Hitler an anchorite by shrewd
policy, he turns a moment later to r
As in the case of his vegetarian diet and
teetotalism, so in the case of his “chastity”
he offers us a very noble excuse when
rather unpoetic reasons are to be suspected.
A defect or inability attains sublimation
to the level of a virtue.
That, then, is the reason why Hitler,
though he “loves to be surrounded by
beautiful women” and is “surely amused
to watch their intrigues and attempts to
win the Fuhrer’s heart,” remains “aloof
and remote from that wave of adulation.”
Or is it? “He knows,” says Mr. Heyst,
“that he must preserve this aloofness of
a deity. He avoids being involved in
love affairs and intrigues, and he fears to
come under anybody’s 1 influence.” Policy,
preference or impotence?—that is the
question. As with most others, Mr. Heyst
would like to have it several ways.
His general picture is made up of a
small part passable quasi-virtues and a
large part brooding malevolence. Hitler
is a clever tactician. He is no coward.
When we put his lies and his frankness
on the scales, perhaps the frankness will
weigh the heavier.
“He is not a great reader, despite the
legend of his deep knowledge, carefully
propagated for internal consumption”;
he reads chiefly newspapers or thrillers,
the thrillers to kill the tedious hours of
a sleepless night, when, “afraid to be left
alone,” the burden of his loneliness
weighs heavily on his narrow shoulders.
He cannot rise above himself and smile
at his own miseries and torments ; unable
to purify his gloomy self with self-irony
or humor, he is “condemned for life to
wander within the precincts of his past
fears, of his complexes and hatred, of his
thirst for destruction.” He cannot under-
stand purity of motive in a human being.
He offers to our eyes the spectacle of a
primitive man, believing in blood and his
tribe, who applies all the forces of primi-
tive wizardry to politics. A pathological
megalomaniac, whose emotional life would
interest Dostoievsky, he is endowed with
an imagination which seems sometimes un-
canny. He stands for the triumph of
instincts over tradition and education and
that is why he is so dangerous.
Years ago, Mr. Heyst records, this man
“who reminds us of a beast of prey”
was driven by the conviction that he
would not die before his mission was
achieved. Now he is anxious to perform
his work in time. He feels that the life-
span of a man is too short for the execu-
tion of such a tremendous scheme as he
has plotted. “Too many things are to be
uprooted; the people clutch to their
superstitions; the resistance of the outer
world is greater than he expected. He
is haunted by the fear that he will leave
his work unfinished, and that his succes-
sors will spoil his plans and ideas. There-
fore Hitler is in a hurry. He undertook a
mission which cannot be completed by
one man and during one generation.”
But this is a story with an anticlimax;
“Hitler often repeats the judgment that
his influence will be greatest and most
deeply felt after his death.”


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’— bearing strictest scrutiny
"THE SENIOR STORE”
FAMOUS f LOW PRICES
' HALF YEARLY GENUINE
£32/10/-The Sydney Bedroom Suite
"The Sydney" Bedroom Suite is of Walnut, waxed finish, and comprises sft.
Wardrobe with two-thirds hanging space, and one-third fitted with three
dustproof drawers and shelf. 3ft. Gin. Pedestal Dressing Table fitted with
six small and 1 centre drawers. Rimless Mirror is 33 x 30 ins. Lowboy is
3ft. wide and 4ft. Gin. high. 4ft. Gin. Bedstead to match. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £32/10/-.* Sale Price £29.
- EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/18/-. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/11/2.
e 29
LACQUERED CHILCOTT CHESTS
SOP. £B/12/6 IN WHITE OR CREAM - - £B/2/6
Here is an attractive and efficient Chilcott Ice Chest for any
home. It is lacquered in White or Cream and has one-piece
Porcelain lining. Outside measurements: Height 39in., Width
19|in., Depth 15in. One shelf in food chamber. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £B/12/6. Sale Price £B/2/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 16/3. 6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 25/-.
51P. £9/10/- LARGE CHILCOTT £B/19/6
A Choice of Cream or White in this Chilcott Ice Chest. It
is larger than the Chilcott described above and it is also fitted
with two shelves in the provision chamber. Outside measure-
ments; Height 41-jin., Width 2Hin., Depth 17in. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £9/10/-. Sale Price £B/19/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 18/-. 6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 27/8.
52P. £ll/10/- OUTSIZE CHILCOTT - - - £lO/19/6
This Chilcott is lacquered White or Cream, and has two shelves
in thq provision chamber. Otherwise it is the same as 50P.
Outside measurements: Height 43in., Width 24in., Depth 17in.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £ll/10/-. Sale Price £lO/19/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £l/2/-. 9 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 22/10.
mm
I
m
m
J
£26/10/- Dining Suite at
Bowend Dining Room Suite in Walnut, polished. sft. Sideboard has
veneered front and tops. Fitted two bent glass doors, China cup-
boards, two small drawers and centre cupboard. sft. x 2ft. 9in. Re-
fectory Table with Veneered top and rolled edges. Four Dished Back
Chairs with removable Spring Seats covered in Fabrikoid, complete
the suite. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £26/10/-. Sale. £24/15/-.
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT £2/5/6. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/6/7
t 24
/15/-
n
stem
TICKING
felted
r ; COTTON
HAIR
CANVAS
SPRINGS
SPRINGS
SEPARATELY
CASED
£7/16/- "Hordernian"
Spring Filled Mattress
ZI ! V-
A comfortable mattress is essential. This
‘Hordernian’ Regd. Spring Filled Mattress
is hand made in our own Bedding Factory.
The numerous springs are each fitted in
separate pockets. A layer of best quality
Hair and Felted Cotton is placed each side
of the spring. Mattress is covered in
Belgian striped ticking. C quality.
£7/7/6
Chilcott
Ice Chest
SSgS :
ill
i m
mm
mm •'
Hi I Hfe**.
mmmm m-
■■■
WmmmSmlß
mm
mm
-
m
<yt
SOP. —Our famous Chilcott Ice Chests are made with Oak
Cabinets. The Ice Chamber opens on top. All interior fittings,
including ice container, are removable. The lining is of one-
piece porcelain. Outside measurements: Height 39in., Width
19iin., Depth 15in. One shelf in food chamber. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £7/17/6. Sale Price £7/7/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 14/9. 6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/2/8.
51P. £B/12/6 LARGE CHILCOTT - - - £B/2/6
SIP. —This Chilcott is slightly larger, but is made exactly as
the Chilcott described above. The outside sizes are 41 i inches
high, 21* inches wide, and 17 inches deep. The provision
chamber is fitted with two shelves. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price £B/12/6. Sale Price £B/2/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 16/3. 6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 25/-.
52P. £lO/10/- OUTSIZE CHILCOTT £9/19/6
This Chilcott has lining of one-piece porcelain and the Cabinet
is of Oak. All interior fittings, including the Ice Container,
are removable. Ice Chamber opens on top. Outside sizes;
Height 43in„ Width 24in„ Depth Win. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price £lO/10/-. Sale Price £9/19/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 20/-. 9 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF 20/9,
Furniture —Third and Fourth Floors. Delivered free only within our delivery area.


"THE GOING TO USE THAR SCYTHE"
By DOUGLAS STEWART.
THAT big man striding through the town with the
scythe on his shoulder is Larry Flannagan. He
grips the scythe so tightly in his two gnarled
hands that he seems to brandish it rather than
just to hold it. He always carries it like that, like a
weapon instead of a tool. The people step aside for
him, make a clear track through the crowded street.
People walking ahead of him seem to know that
he’s behind them. Even to those who don’t know him,
the way he carries the scythe, the hugeness of his body
and the uncanny swiftness of his stride give a clear
warning of eccentricity, a hint of danger. Those who
know him say “One of these days Larry’s going to use
that scythe.
Somewhere in Larry there must be a streak of
exhibitionism, of bitter humor, perhaps, that makes
him create and enjoy this sinister appearance, for it is
too sensational to be completely unconscious. Never
turning his head to right or left, he cuts through the
crowd as if the people were so much grass. He would
seem completely self-absorbed if it were not for the
restlessness of his eyes, very blue and small and bright
in his square hard face, looking quickly from one side
of the path to the other and giving him an air at once
frightened and cunning. He might be a trapped
animal, and then again he might be going to trap an
animal.
Just finished his gardening at Mrs. Gordon’s, he
is on his way to the pub to collect his week-end supply
of whisky. Most people know that, and they know
that tonight he’ll be dancing in the street to the Sal-
vation Army Band again. That’s not a joke any more.
Since his court case people have begun to speculate
about Larry, and, because he’s associated in their minds
with what his greyhound bitch did, they don’t like
the look of him. It gives some of the mothers a feel-
ing of horror to think of the way the children used to
crowd round him and jeer at him when he was dancing
in the street; they’ve been told to keep their distance
now. The police ought to lock him up—but the police
can’t lock up a man who hasn’t actually done any-
thing yet.
Mrs. Gordon’s a fool. It’s all very well being
kind to a poor man who’s been up before the Court —
playing the Lady in that genuinely (and therefore
irritatingly) English way of hers—but Larry’s not the
sort that an old woman ought to have about the place
all day. “It’s not safe,” people say. “There’s some-
thing about the way he carries that scythe”
7“ HE story about the bitch and the court case con-
cerns four people—Larry, Mr. Grover, who was
Larry’s employer at the time, Constable Dolan and
Mr. Baylebridge, the J.P.—and the curious thing about
it is that, although it may yet lead to something pretty
bad, it didn’t matter two hoots to any of them except
Larry. It was unpleasant, of course, for Grover, for
he had to put his hand in his pocket, where his finger-
nail scratched his soul, but it didn’t do him any more
“Nah then, Fritz— ’ands oop!”
harm than that. For Constable Dolan and the J.P.
i was all in the days work, and both of them found
m it the pleasure of a job well done. For Larry it
was pure tragedy.
Grover, one of those iron-grey men, with iron-
grey hair and iron-grey face, a body hard as iron and
an iron-grey religion, had a scraggy, down-trodden
wife three pale daughters and 200 acres of the green-
est dairying country in all of green Taranaki. He em-
p oye arry for two reasons: drunk or sober, the wild
Irishman was a magnificent worker ; and, because of
his bad reputation, he was cheap. Perhaps, too, it
was a continual satisfaction to him to have a living
symbol of Sin about the place, and to reflect that
the wages of sin were twenty shillings a week,
At daybreak Larry got the cows in, and that was
one task that never failed to send a glow of pleasure
through his sodden intelligence. Rounding up the
animals in the misty paddocks, with the blackbirds
singing as the morning whitened, he felt hilarious,
lightheaded. He’d clap the cows on their rumps and
shout “Come along, there! Come along, there, me
Irish darlint.”
Grover, looking like a morning fog himself, met
him at the shed with his wife and two of the pale
daughters, and they’d sit down to milk with hardly a
word spoken. Larry pressed his head against the cow’s
belly and felt the rhythm of its breathing. If the girls
found a chance as they moved about the shed, they
stole a glance at him, for he was a figure of fear and
wonder to them, but they avoided his mad blue eyes
and they never spoke to him. Grover had warned
them. And they’d seen for themselves what he could
do in a black mood, how brutally he’d treat the cows,
with Grover biting his lip and not daring to say a
word. They’d heard him shouting at night, too, out-
side his whare away down the valley. ' After she’d
seen him raving in broad daylight, shouting out some
jumbled song and dancing on his surprisingly light
feet, Mrs. Grover had given up making him surrepti-
tious cups of tea.
Grover himself felt uncomfortable when he
watched Larry working. Stumping, fencing, ploughing
or digging a drain, he threw himself into his toil in a
frenzy which should have lasted about half an hour,
but which he maintained all day. All his movements
were lithe as well as powerful. He wasn’t interested
in smoke-ohs, often went without lunch even. Grover
could never catch him drinking, yet he was often
enough singing-drunk at the evening milking. He
drove the cows down to the night-paddock, bellowing
at them with unintelligible hilarity or, if he was in his
other mood, pelting them with sticks and clods. Then,
finished for the day, he went to his lonely, tumbledown
bach across the swamp and cooked his own tea. After-
wards, if his whisky supply was scanty, he’d go off for
a walk, wandering into town or over the neighbors’
properties,
When Larry brought the bitch home—it was only
half-grown then—Grover was annoyed, but he could
find no satisfactory pretext for complaint. While it
was still young it would play with the girls, leaping
absurdly around them as if all its limbs were springs.
The greyhound was a mixture of white and silver in
color, pretty as a deer. One day Larry saw it playing
with a calf, nipping at it in a friendly way ; he seized
it by the scruff of its neck and slammed it on the ground,
It grew quieter in its ways and would snap if one
of the girls went to touch its head. It followed Larry
everywhere, keeping as close at his heels as his shadow,
and moving as quietly. Its gait curiously matched his
own, so quick and stealthy. The man and the bitch
were conspicuous when they walked through the town,
and soon rumor got to work on them. People said
Larry knocked the bitch about a lot and it howled
all night.
That, though Larry did beat it fairly often, was
unjust. The bitch was the joy of his life. All day
long he was grateful for its silent companionship, and
at night when they were together in the whare he
would stroke its lean body for an hour at a time, then
suddenly clutch its head in his two great hands and
stare into its eyes and jabber to it. In the evenings
after work he trained it patiently, and soon it killed
its first hare,
Larry lived well. In a few weeks they had killed
or frightened away all the hares on Grover’s farm,
and they began to range far and wide over the coun-
tryside, coming home in the dark and startling the
cows and the little flock of old ewes and their lambs
Grover kept in the paddock by the road. Larry drank
less, but Grover said, “He’s going crazy over that
greyhound of his ; and a murderous, starved-looking
brute he’s made of it.”
I ARRY’S near-reformation was a relief to Mrs.
- Grover and the girls, even if Grover didn’t appre-
ciate it. Having the bitch gave him something definite
to do at night, freed them from the fear that he was
prowling about the house. The girls always swore
that one night he’d peeped in their window. One other
time Grover caught him in the garden and told him
to clear out, and Larry just stood still and said nothing.
Grover went back to the house and watched him
through a crack in the door, and after a few minutes
the Irishman strode off towards the cowshed and dis-
appeared.
The bitch learned to fear Larry when he got on
the whisky, and it was nights when he danced and
shouted at the stars outside the hut that the people
heard it howling and thought it was being half-killed
by “the drunken beast.” But it was howling because
Larry sang. It would lie away from him in the
shadows, its head resting on its front paws, watching
him, ready to leap out of his way. Maybe it howled
in sympathy—as dogs will howl to a piano—or maybe
its intuition told it that here was madness, and it was
afraid.
These were rare occasions, and the two had good
times together. The sport was cruel, but their instincts
were clean enough—the natural thrill of the chase —
and the man and the greyhound took the same keen
delight in the hare’s wild spurt over the paddocks, its
turning and doubling, its hopeless quest for cover in
swamp or boxthorn hedge or random patch of bush.
As the hare slackened its pace and began to manoeuvre
foolishly, the bitch raced faster and Larry’s mouth
worked and his hands clenched and unclenched in his
excitement; as the bitch pounced for the kill, Larry’s
mind pounced with it. He shouted, and ran to the
flurrying animals. When he’d killed the hare he
fondled the bitch lovingly, and as they set off home
he was filled with a new, calm happiness and took
notice of the evening light on the long grass and the
songs of the thrushes on the hedges.
Then one night the inevitable happened. The
bitch was a killer ; Larry was too fond of it to chain it
up at night; there were ewes and lambs in the pad-
dock by the road. That evening the bitch had had no
luck with the hares ; there was only a scrap of bread
for its meal. The greyhound slipped out of the hut
and, swift and ghostly in the moonlight, ran the faster
for Larry’s wild curses. Hours later he heard the
sheep bleating, but the bitch made no sound, and it
did not occur to him that it was hunting them. When
the greyhound in the morning slunk around outside
the hut and would not come to him, he thought it
was afraid of a beating for running away. Larry had
drunk heavily through the night and was cold-drunk
still. He enticed the bitch towards him, caught it and
beat it savagely. The bitch hovered around him all
morning, refusing to come close.
Going round the farm towards midday, Grover
found the sheep—six of them, ewes and lambs, stark
and stiff and bloody on the clean grass.
He said to Larry “Come with me,” and led him
in silence across the farm to the sheep paddock.
“That’s your bitch!” he accused, pointing at the
dead sheep.
Larry moved threateningly towards the bitch,
then swung round and faced Grover, his shoulders
hunched, his fists swinging, an ugly look in his blue
eyes. He would not meet Grover’s eyes, but kept his
gaze shifting from the dead sheep to the bitch.
“You’ll pay for this, Flannagan!” Grover burst
out. “Do you understand, you’ll pay for these sheep! ”
Larry took a step towards him, and Grover
backed away. The Irishman called to the bitch and
strode off towards his hut.
“That bitch’ll have to be destroyed!” Grover
yelled after him. “I’ll shoot it myself!”
He was certain that the bitch was going to pay
with its life, but he wouldn’t have said so to Larry’s
face. Rage at the loss of his sheep and the Irishman’s
blank hostility, mortification at his humiliation by an
employee, and the sickening knowledge that he was
afraid of Larry welled up in him and choked him,
like a ball in his throat. He set off for the house at a
run, and telephoned the police.
k|N consequence of a telephone call from Mr.
* Grover at 12.30 p.m. on February 17,” Constable
Dolan told the Court, “I went out to his farm on my
bicycle. At the road gate I met Flannagan with his


greyhound bitch and asked him where he was going.
Flannagan, who was looking the worse for drink, did
not reply.” The constable, a tall, powerful man with
a pale face and a grey moustache, rattled off his evi-
dence in a genial, matter-of-fact tone, giving the im-
pression that all this was a matter of useless though
pleasant routine, and that the whole affair had already
been settled between himself and the J.P., as, in fact
it had.
“I said to Flannagan,” he went on,
“ ‘Been getting any hares lately, Larry?’ Flan-
nagan did not reply.
“I said, ‘lt’s a pretty good bitch that
from what I hear. Absolutely death on hares,
isn’t it, Larry? You trained it to kill yourself,
didn’t you?”
“Flannagan, who still wouldn’t reply,
made off as if to go on his way to town.
“I said, ‘Come on, Flannagan, that won’t
do, you know. The fact of the matter is, I’ve
just had a telephone call from Mr. Grover to
say that the bitch has been getting into a bit
of trouble.’ I asked him to come and have a
look at the sheep with me, and we proceeded
to the scene of the killing.
“On the way over the paddock I asked
Flannagan if he thought his bitch would kill a
sheep, and Flannagan replied ‘That bitch never killed
anything in her life.’ I asked him what about the
hares, and he did not reply.
“There were six sheep—two ewes and four lambs
—dead in the paddock, and it was clear to me that
they had been mauled by some animal, probably a
dog. I warned Flannagan that, if his bitch had done
it, he had better have it destroyed.
“Flannagan”—the constable’s voice hardened —
“spat in my face.”
There was a stir of interest in the sleepy little
courtroom, and the Justice—who had left his shop to
deal with Flannagan and his bitch, but who was in no
hurry to return, for he liked to sit on the Bench and
crack the whip of authority—looked sternly at Larry.
“Did Flannagan appear to be excited?” he asked
foolishly.
Larry, who was sitting at the back of the court,
looked out the door. He didn’t seem to be concerned
in the proceedings. It was a game between Dolan and
the J.P. and he was only a spectator. He felt angry,
helpless and miserable.
“Yes,” said the constable. “He was very excited.
I told him that proceedings would be taken to have the
bitch destroyed. He said that he was not going to
work on the place any more, and would not come up
to the house with me to interview Mr. Grover.”
Grover gave his evidence. The bitch was
notorious for its success with the hares. One day he
had seen it attempt to kill a calf. His wife and
daughters had been terrified of it, and he had allowed
Flannagan to keep it only out of kindness which,
especially in view of Flannagan’s attitude, he now
regretted. Flannagan refused to pay for the sheep,
and would not discuss the destruction of the bitch.
Flannagan had maltreated it when he was drunk and
it was so savage that no one but Flannagan could go
near it.
“Why, if Flannagan ill-treated the bitch, did he
oppose its destruction?” the J.P. asked. He knew the
answer, but he liked to make himself heard from time
to time.
Grover admitted that Flannagan was fond of the
greyhound, in his own way. So fond, in fact, that he
would be unlikely to tell the truth about it.
“Couldn’t the bitch be kept under proper super-
vision—muzzled?” asked the Justice.
Constable Dolan —who had explained all this to
the J.P. before the court opened—said that Flannagan
wasn’t a fit and proper person to have charge of such
a dangerous animal. “I have information,” he said,
“that since he left Grover’s Flannagan and the bitch
have been sleeping under the grandstand in the park.”
The Justice made an order for the destruction of
the greyhound. The Court rose. Larry stood up very
“The ’ orse-flies are tough this summer, Bill.”
straight and still for a moment and darted his furtive
glance round the courtroom as though trying to fix
the shabby scene and the faces of the principal actors
in his memory. He rushed out blindly into the sun-,
light and strode past the police station, where he knew
the bitch was, without turning his head. The Justice
and Constable Dolan congratulated each other ; the
Justice went back to his shop, and the constable rang
up the Borough Foreman —who did most of the un-
pleasant jobs round the town —to come and take the
bitch for a walk.
HP HE story, of course, couldn’t end like that.
* Not with a man like Larry. Even the constable,
though he was a hard man ; even Grover, though he
was vindictive ; even the shopkeeper-justice, though it
gave him pleasure to wield his little powers, won-
dered what Larry would do now. Kindly Mrs. Gordon
worried so much that she gave him a job. Most
people felt sorry for him —but it’s hard to keep feeling
sorry for a big, drunken, dangerous-looking brute
who is surly sober and mad drunk. Dolan “kept an
eye on him,” expecting trouble, pleased at the thought
that he could deal with it.
Larry’s cutting hay in Mrs. Gordon’s paddock
now, and that’s why he’s always carrying that scythe
about as he makes his silent, swift, curiously graceful
way through the town. Cutting hay won’t keep Larry
quiet for long, people say ; and he’s so sodden with
whisky these days that he’s never normal, or as near
normal as he was in the old days when he had the
bitch to keep him busy. One way or another he’s
bound to break out, and nobody likes the way he car-
ries that scythe about. Grover can look after himself ;
but Mrs. Gordon’s a fool to take the risk. It’s a
horrible-looking implement, a scythe.
OUT as a matter of fact Larry never did use that
' scythe. One night when Mrs. Gordon was com-
ing home from Evensong at the Church of England
he sprang out of the dark hedge on the corner and
screeched out at her “Come to me arms, me Irish
darlint!” Poor old Mrs. Gordon screamed and Larry
ran off. Constable Dolan ordered him to get out of
town, and Larry, with his murderous impulses and
his queer, twisted sense of humor, went.
FOR BROKEN SHRINES.
Now the destruction dropping from the sky
Breaks our cathedrals, and our sacred stones
Are scattered ’mid the crashing overtones
Of war. It is as if God said, “Shall I
Keep a fair house to mock My world of men
Among their devastated dwelling-places,
Or wait their rising with resolved faces
To build themselves, and build for Me again ?”
Each edifice the years have not unkindly
Spared for the record of our growing pains,
Each place our tyrants or our heroes trod.
Perhaps we have accepted them too blindly,
And mourned too soon, forgetting truth remains.
And man’s the ultimate temple of his God.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
THE ‘TOP-END” BOATS
By WILL LAWSON.
TILL 1863 the trade from the Murray, Darling,
Wakool, Murrumbidgee and Edwards rivers went to
Adelaide by Murray steamers. In the early ’fifties,
two powerful companies, representing wool and
stock and station firms, had started running steamers on
the rivers, and for nearly ten years the trade in station
stores and wool and grain from the rivers of western
Victoria and New South Wales was carried by Adelaide
steamers to Murray Mouth, or Goolwa, as the port
inside the river was called. In collaring all this trade
from her neighbors, South Australia believed she was
within her rights because she had the only outlet to the
Murray. On the other hand, New South Wales be-
lieved she should own the Murray, since all the water
in the rivers came from her territory—by the Darling
into the Murray and from Mt. Kosciusko ; moreover,
most of the trade was from her lands. Victoria de-
manded a hearing, too, and the three-cornered fight
over the river trade was long and fierce.
At last came a ruling that a navigable river flow-
ing through several States could be used freely by any
of those States, without regard as to where the shipping
outlet was situated. Victoria at once abandoned her
claims to any ownership of the river, and built a rail-
way line to Echuca, 1066 miles from the sea by river
and 150 miles from Melbourne by rail.
Echuca jumped into prominence as a port imme-
diately, and there was created the “top-end” fleet of
steamers, as distinct from the “bottom end” boats
which linked the rivers with Adelaide. Echuca became
the leading port on the Murray. Stations out west in
New South Wales were building and fencing exten-
sively, and most of the material required came from
Melbourne, through Echuca. By 1890 there were 100
steamers and 150 barges sailing out of Echuca.
They went as far as Bourke on the Darling when
the river was high. More often they stopped at Wil-
cannia, the port of a wide area, including Mt, Brown
goldfields and places as far inland as Tibooburra, Wil-
cannia was well built, the finest town on the Darling.
Sometimes on high rivers Echuca vessels went far
beyond Bourke to Walgett, 1200 miles above Went-
worth. One ship, the new Brewarrina, commanded
by Captain George White, went to Mungindi on the
Queensland border.
Three large shipping companies, owning many
steamers, made their headquarters in Echuca. They
were Cramsie, Bowden and Company, William
McCullogh and Company, and Permewan, Wright,
Ltd. Besides, there were many private owners,
most of whom captained their own vessels. Captain
Bill Davis had two fine, fast passenger vessels, the
Trafalgar and the Pride of the Murray, running
between Echuca and Wilcannia. Davis was originally
the puntman at Echuca, but saved money to buy a
steamer and eventually got a master’s ticket. He finally
owned four steamers and a share in Murtee station,
near Wilcannia.
Another passenger flier was the Invincible, owned
by Charlie Hunt, well-known for many years as a
wood-pile man —that is, one who cut red-gum into suit-
able lengths for steamers’ furnaces and sold it by the
cubic ton.
One of the best-known Echuca skippers was
Johnnie Innes, who started life in Scotland as a bank
clerk, but ran away, seeking adventure, and fetched up
at Echuca. A daredevil captain was Tommy Free-
man, who amused himself when his steamer, the Free-
trader, was running all out by diving in in front of a
paddle-wheel and rising after it had thundered over
his head ; he caught the towline of the barge and
came back on board hand-over-hand.
Other well-known “top-end” captains were Gus
Lindquist, Jimmy Dickson, who commanded the Rod-
ney when she was pirated and burned by striking
shearers at Tolarno station, Bill Keir, Charlie Cant-
well, Billy Carlyon, Bob Strange, Bill Rowlands, Davey
Bowers, Charlie Payne, George Dorward and Gus
Pearce.
One skipper took his bride with him on a trip to
the Darling. They were caught by the falling river in
a billabong where they had gone to get wood, and
after an absence of three years, during which the
engine was used to saw wood for a station, they re-
turned from their honeymoon with two children.
There was Black Alick, who cooked on passenger
boats during the season, which lasted seven months.
Then he arrayed himself in black tail-coat, grey
trousers, black silk topper, kid shoes and walking-
stick and took the train for Melbourne. In Mel-
bourne he cooked at a high-class cafe till the call
came to return to the river. It was a great life on the
rivers in the days when Echuca boomed. But the
glory departed. The railways spread from Sydney to
Menindie and Bourke, and New South Wales finally
won the Battle of the Rivers.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
uhtt Urns e/Wie viellmmeddandlviiq/uei/
Seppelt's
STONE ON WHICH SAXON KINGS WERE CROENED.
Five miles “up the river” from Richmond is Kingston-on-Thames, and though but 12 miles by the Southern Railway from Waterloo, it
as many advantages, first as a place for suburban residences, and secondly the charm of a great historic past. Sixty years ago it was
described as a pretty little town, and contains many handsome houses, a fine church, some good libraries, and a capital inn, where you
may dine for a shilling or a guinea! Adjacent to the market place is the lately erected monument to our Saxon Kings.” Today Kingston
C m ° St Sa^„t 0 a ar^e f i ve rside city,’ securing a commercial fame from the establishment of a large “Winery,” where so-
ca e British Wines are manufactured in immense quantities from foreign imported must! Kingston was either a royal residence or
a royal demesne at the union of the Saxon heptarchy. In a record of a council held here in 838, at which Egbert, King of all England,
an is son Athelwolf were present, it is styled Kyningestun, formosa ilia locus.” This coronation stone, rescued from a rubbish heap,
was ‘ used” at the crowning of Edward the Elder (900), Athelstan (925), Edmund (940), Eldred (946), Edwin (955), Edward the Martyr
and Ethelred (978). King John granted the first municipal charter. Kingston sent members to Parliament so far back as the second
and third Edwards. The church, in part, is believed to be of the age of Richard 11. Kingston enjoyed a reputation through many centuries
foi the preservation of quaint customs, such as cracking nuts in church on the Sunday before Michaelmas, and playing football in the
streets at Shrovetide, the original objective being the head of a Danish assassin. In present times, Kingston Regatta is a notable event
and the Kingston Rowing Club an important institution in the world of sport.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3179.
Wednesday, January 15, 1941.
ONE DOWN AND ONE TO COME.
"Daedalus made wings for himself and Icarus with which he flew to Italy. Icarus fell into the sea.” — Story from the classics.


The Bulletin
The National Austral ism Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man."
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
FROM VICTORY TO VICTORY.
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Fisher conveyed his wisest
war maxims in language which his enemies condemned
as improper. In September, 1917, when unemployed
and sick at heart (“the world forgetting, by the world
forgot”), he wrote “In war you want Surprise. To beget
Surprise, you want Imagination to go to bed with
Audacity.”
Were the old genius alive today he could point
to the campaign against the Italians in North Africa
as a perfect illustration of his theory. Surprise, the
Child of Imagination and Audacity, leapt full-armed
at the enemy on December 9 and drove him out of
Egypt. Before he had had time to rally Bardia was
invested and taken, and the conquerors were pushing
on to Tobruk. A month after the first blow was
struck the Italians had lost a third of their African
army, together with a great part of its equipment and
supplies; and not only Libya but all their other
African territories were in danger. Never in the re-
corded history of African war have forces so great and
so well-equipped been smashed in so short a time;
and the effects have been felt in every continent.
Fisher would have rejoiced at the victory for
other reasons. A splendid contribution was made to
it by British warships from Alexandria, whose pres-
ence there throughout the Italian war, with its im-
portant military and political consequences, was due
to Fisher’s foresight (“I entreated Lord Cromer to cut
a channel into Alexandria Harbor deep enough for a
Dreadnought; and he did it, though it cost a million
sterling, and thus gave us a base of incalculable ad-
vantage in certain contingencies”); and Bardia was
bombarded for six weeks by a monitor of the Fisher
vintage and two shallow-draught gunboats, whose value
“in certain contingencies” he never ceased to emphasise.
On November 3, 1914, four days after he became
First Sea Lord, he presented a plan for the building
of 612 naval ships, of which five were battle-cruisers
with 18-inch and 15-inch guns and a speed of 33 knots,
56 were destroyers, 64 submarines, 37 monitors and 24
gunboats. The monitors were intended for use in an
attack on Zeebrugge, with army co-operation, before
the Germans fortified it and made it a submarine
base ; but other views prevailed. The monitors in
particular were “diverted to purposes for which they
were unfitted and employed in waters to which they
were unsuited,” Gallipoli waters especially. What was
worse, we “pandered” to the French:
Our Expeditionary Force should have been sent in
August, 1914, to Antwerp and not to France; we should
then have held the Belgian coast and the Scheldt. But
this was too tame —we were all singing: “Malbrook
s’en va-t’en guerre.”
We built up a great army, but we wrecked our ship-
building.
We left our element, the sea, to make ourselves
into a conscript nation fighting on the Continent with
four million soldiers out of a population of forty
millions.
The B.E.F. was, by French direction and because of
French susceptibilities, stationed far away from the sea
and sandwiched between French troops. We have always
been giving in to the susceptibilities of others and having
none of our own.
The vision of a grand Continental campaign still
dazzles the minds of persons in authority in Britain.
We hear about it from time to time, and we hear also
that newspapers of all shades of opinion are attacking
the Government because it has failed to mobilise man-
power for all forms of war production and defence
against attacks from the air. Going further than the
other critics, the “Times” demands a “coherent and
consistent policy covering the whole field of finance,
production and trade,” insisting that “this cannot be
delayed much longer without grave risk.” Clement
Davis, one of the National Liberal Ms.P., points out
that, although expenditure is going on at the rate of
£3,000,000,000 a year, “unemployment remains at a
disturbing level” (715,279 was the latest figure), and
asserts that Britain’s industrial effort is still much
inferior to Germany’s.
Britain still continues to call up men for military
service, but equipping and maintaining an army of
3,000,000 requires an additional 2,000,000 workers.
The Prime Ministers of the Dominions ought to
have something to say about this Continental-campaign
project when they go to London. French conceptions
of war should have been abandoned for ever when
France capitulated and made a separate peace. The
Empire should rely in future and for all time on what
Fisher called its “unrivalled amphibious power,” plus
the air power in which, already second to none, it is
moving towards complete supremacy.
The campaign in the Western Desert is a magni-
ficent example of what the three fighting services can
accomplish when combined and concentrated on a
great objective, without political or foreign meddling.
Planned with great skill, it has been carried out with
superb dash, and the quality of the military leadership
must have been a most unpleasant surprise for both
Axis countries. It suits the Germans to belittle the
taking of Bardia, and the Italians to multiply by
six or eight the forces opposed to them ; but the swift-
ness and completeness with which a big invading army
was turned into a mob of fugitives obviously stag-
gered both. And the result would have been the same
if Germans, not Italians, had been the invaders, though
Germans would no doubt have been tougher to dig
out and mop up. Nor will it be necessary to mobilise
an army on the Continental scale to knock Italy right
out. The steady pressure of the Royal Navy and the
R.A.F., combined with the operations of the armies
already in Africa, will be sufficient for that job. When
it is finished, part of the victorious troops may be
transferred to well-chosen ground in Southern Europe,
if necessary.
It was reserved for our Sixth Division to play
a grand part in the taking of Bardia, and in the thrust
towards Tobruk. No easy task was assigned to it
at Bardia, for the place was a natural fortress,
strengthened at every point by many months of pre-
paration ; and, whatever his failings as an infantry-
man fighting in the cause of traditional enemies against
traditional friends made enemies by the mad policy
of his Government, the Italian is a first-class laborer.
Moreover, the Italian gunners, at least, were no mean
opponents; some of them served their guns to the
last. But there was no stopping the Australians.
Shouting and exchanging badinage, they went into
battle behind the tanks, and when night fell they were
conquerors.
In short, our lads did what their countrymen knew
they would do. Led by Gallipoli veterans, and ad-
vantaged by a longer period of training and by vastly
superior planning and preparation, they accomplished
at Bardia what it was not in the power of the men of
Gallipoli to accomplish. They did not fight more
bravely—that would be impossible—but they fought
with greater skill and effect, because they were directed
by men who have profited by the lessons of the past,
who make scientific use of the unsurpassed mechanical
genius of the English, and who have a proper sense
of the value of soldiers’ lives. This is a great matter,
and one which will appeal to every Australian who
remembers how much rich blood was squandered
in the last war —in response to the demands
of French generals or to the repeated clamor for
“offensives” —by dull old fools who never learned
their trade. This war has thrown up another breed
of commander. With such generals as Wavell and
Maitland Wilson and such leaders of the companion
services as Cunningham and Longmore, Australians
can fairly look forward to more Sidi Barranis and
Bardias. They don’t want any more Gallipolis, Fleur-
baix, Bullecourts or Passchendaeles, nor any more
Narviks or Dakars.
British Style Warfare.
Every country has its own peculiar ways of waging
war; it is even conceivable that somewhere, outside
the range of imagination, there are limits beyond
which Germans might hesitate to go. Certainly the
British have their own ways, which must often make
them in war as puzzling to others as they reputedly
are in peace. At the best of times others —including
their “cousins” in America, and not excluding their
true blood brothers in Australia —find their humor
puzzling, though it would be others again who would
be puzzled over that humor cropping up from among
the ruins in London, or flashing out through the “flak”
from above Berlin.
One of the stories that have come out of bombed
London —of course, vouched for as true —is that of
an old woman who walked into a police station to
tell the sergeant that an unexploded delayed-action
bomb had fallen in her garden. Asked if she had
moved out, and if she had informed the A.R.P. about
it, she said “Oh, no, I’ve brought it to you!” and
proceeded to unwrap a paper parcel. Then, taking
the mind to a quarter that must be as much in the
thoughts of Londoners as their own bombed city, is
the account of the British bomber, gone in advance
over Berlin to drop flares to guide the rest of the
squadron, and, caught in a terrific barrage, sending
back the wireless message; “The natives appear to be
hostile.”
These are typical examples: if the significance of
all that they represent could be appreciated, those
ranged against Britain might well give up the task as
hopeless. What they might find even more puzzling
is the British attitude concerning those same bombers
over Berlin. Surely no other people but the British,
subjected to the ruthless indiscriminate bombing that
these have suffered since the “airblitz” was launched
at the end of August, would still be discussing in its
press the question of reprisal bombing—on grounds
which include the ethical!
In November the Gallup Survey people in Britain
put the question: “In view of the indiscriminate bomb-
ing of this country, would you approve or disapprove
if the R.A.F. adopted a similar policy of bombing
the civilian population of Germany?” The vote was
equal for and against, 46 p.c. approving, 46 p.c. dis-
approving, with 8 p.c. undecided. Also during
November—the latest month for which English news-
papers are to hand —London “Times,” London “Daily
Telegraph,” Manchester “Guardian” and other papers
were publishing a volume of letters from readers dis-
cussing the same question.
In London “Daily Telegraph” one letter-writer
pointed out as significant that, of five letters on re-
prisals in the paper’s previous issue, “two pleading for
kindness came from Devonshire and Malvern, while
three suggesting that only reprisals or the threat of
reprisals can halt the present aimless butchery of
civilians were written from London and the South-
east.” That at least carries a suggestion which any-
body anywhere can grasp ; but what is to be made of
it—anywhere but among the singular British —when
the same letter-writer, supporting return raids over
Germany, stipulates that they should be “delivered
after due and public warning”!
Lest anyone might be disposed to accept that as
yet another characteristic example of British humor,
it can be stated that a good deal of the discussion
touches similar academic heights. In the “Nineteenth
Century” a contributor, making a survey of the dis-
cussion generally, ranges along those heights with an
agility which brands him as almost certainly a hard-
trained professor. He finds the term “reprisals” itself
unsatisfactory, since “it may seem to connote an ele-
ment of vindictiveness.” This, coming after London
had then already been through a couple of months of
intensive wanton bombing, can hardly be ascribed to
anything else but British peculiarity. Facing up to the
question in this lofty spirit—in which he is by no
means alone—the writer admits that there might per-
haps be something in reprisal bombing, “to make the
situation plain to the enemy,” but
It would be necessary to make it plain that, as soon
as the enemy gave up this deliberate bombing of the
homes of the common people that have no military
significance, this shocking demolition of churches, hos-
pitals, museums, etc., these “reprisals” on our part
would come to an end—so long as such work of mere
destruction was not revived.
The writer, who touches heights of cloudland un-
inhabited since the retreat from Geneva, mentions as
a main argument against any “reprisal” policy that “it
would lower our standard.” In fairness, it should be
stated that he is discussing the question, not neces-
sarily subscribing wholly to such arguments. He says,
however: “To take America, for example, a sheer
policy of ‘an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth’
would no doubt alienate some of the sympathy of our
cousins across the Atlantic who are nobly helping us
with public and private generosity.” And he is able to
declare—at this date, with the ruins of London and
heaven knows where else about him—that “no one in
England who, in a fit of fury, advocated ‘reprisals’
in this bald way would really persuade this country
to follow him.”
No doubt it is only another aspect of peculiar
Britishness that the magazine which published the
article here referred to is one that makes no bones
about its own feelings on the question of reprisal
bombing. In fact, its editor is in that respect prob-
ably the most ferocious in England. His epithets
touching on Germany are an object lesson to the
mealy-mouthed ; his strong advocacy of reprisals takes
the line that they would break the civilian morale in
Germany, they would destroy the power of the Ges-
tapo, they would hearten the people of Britain and
satisfy their sense of justice.”
The experience of people in Britain, however,
might lead them to doubt the soundness of those con-
clusions, except the last. The major effect of the
wanton bombing of Britain—and it has been the same
elsewhere—has been to make people more united and
determined. In Britain’s case that effect is not re-
stricted to Britain. In Australia—and there can be
no doubt that this holds good wherever there are
British people—the effect on public feeling of such
demonstrations of utter callousness, viciousness and
malignancy as the destruction of Coventry and every
hideous bombing of London is to strengthen the
resolve to see Germany beaten to a standstill at all
cost.
Along with that runs a feeling—here, as no doubt
in all British countries—that for all this Germany
must, and will, be paid back in its own coin. The
notion that that will break the German morale is cer-
tainly fallacious, but the feeling that such repayment
is necessary to satisfy a merely normal sense of justice
mounts with every ruthless raid on Britain, and there
is nothing surer than that it will have to be met. After
the attempt to burn down London, the crowd shouted
to Mr. Churchill “We’ve got to give them hell for
this! ” and “We can take what we have got and more,
but they’ve got to get it back! ” To that Mr. Churchill
answered: “Never fear, they will!”
In the meantime, though anger must mount more
and more into rage with every ruthless bombing, and
be harder and harder to stave off, nothing stands out
clearer from the war to date than that, whereas Hitler
and his minions have made no worse mistake than in
the indiscriminate bombing of Britain, few things in
any aspect of British policy in recent times have been
so calmly sane as the determination to go on smashing
the German war machine.
That can be stated without any access of self-
righteousness: as far as ethics go in war it is being
scrupulous not to go beyond the answering of ruth-
lessness with ruthlessness ; moderation in war is cer-
tainly imbecility. But the plain facts are worth noting,
nevertheless. The stocks of Britain, which is waging
war in its own peculiar way, stand higher today than
ever before. The very word “German” calls up nothing
but loathing and contempt.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Spender to the A.I.F.
Spouting to the soldiers in Palestine, and intending
to take in the whole A.1.F., Mr. Spender made a series
of promises, all of which were no doubt jotted down
for future reference. One was that jobs would “be
found for all A.I.F. men after the war —I give you my
pledge that not one of you will want.” Old Diggers
among his listeners must have smiled grimly when
they heard this. It would have been sufficient for
the occasion had the Minister undertaken to find as
many army jobs as possible for those who might be
willing and able to remain in the army.
This was not done in the last war, and it was one
of the grand mistakes of repatriation. Born soldiers
who distinguished themselves in the A.1.F., and who
would have adorned the C.M.F., were instead encour-
aged to quit military life, though in all too many
cases —having enlisted before they had learnt a trade,
and having become used to the military calling—they
were unsuited for civil life. The post-1918 history of
many a stout Digger is a sad one. When he had spent
his gratuity he drifted from one dead-end job to an-
other or put in dreadful years of struggle-having to
learn the business from the beginning —on a Repat.
farm.
Some of the most magnificent soldiers in the A.I.F.
were failures in civil life. They would have been
much happier and more useful in the army, and the
country would have benefited in many ways from
their presence in it. Had there been a strong nucleus
of Diggers in the C.M.F., it would have been difficult
for the politicians to skittle the defences as they did.
The R.A.N. and the R.A.F. would also have been
much tougher problems for political “economists” had
retention of the services of bluejackets and flying men
been an express part of the repatriation scheme. As
it was, when the Scullin “reforms” were introduced in
1929-30 Defence Department clerks received far more
consideration than fighting men.
Repetition of this criminal blunder should not be
tolerated. Whether the war ends soon or late, it will
always be necessary for Australia to have a strong
army, navy and air force, and the man who has seen
active service in the present war should be the back-
bone of each service. They won’t all want to con-
tinue their present careers, but places should be found
for the greatest number possible of those who will
prefer to carry on ; and it should be made part of the
bond.
And let us have no more forcible-feeble stuff
about lieutenants being too old at 30, captains at 35,
majors at 40, lieutenant-colonels at 45 and generals
at 50. In the case of the generals, at least, Bardia
has made these Spenderian notions ridiculous.
Jeremiahs at Large.
“Australia is justified in taking the gravest view of
the Pacific situation.” So it was asserted last week
by “a Special A.A.P. representative in Tokyo” ; and
the Special went on in this harrowing fashion:
It is thought that the conflagration may arise from
one of two causes —war between the United States and
Germany, coinciding with a renewed Blitzkrieg on Eng-
land which would involve Japan under the Tripartite
Pact, or a direct clash between Japan and the United
States, which the Japanese accuse of attempting to
extend the Monroe Doctrine to Indo-China and the
Dutch East Indies.
A couple of days later the Special was heard from
again, having in the meantime seen “the Japanese
Minister-designate to Australia, Mr. Kawai.” Mr.
Kawai, the Special said, “hopes to leave for Australia
before the end of February. When asked whether, in
view of the situation in the Pacific, he expected to
arrive in Australia, he merely laughed.”
Perhaps Mr. Kawai laughed because he considered
the question such as a mannerless schoolboy would
have asked. Perhaps he had been apprised of the
Special’s dark dispatch to this continent. Possibly
he had heard also that a Washington correspondent
who sends stuff to Australia had certified that the
“situation in the Far East” was “balancing on a knife-
edge.”
A little later a New York correspondent struck a
different note:
Nothing has contributed more towards easing tension
in the Pacific than President Roosevelt’s initiative. His
reaction to Japan’s adherence to the Axis Pact had an
immediate good effect, and everything he has done
since has had an equally sobering influence.
The cordial reception extended to John Greig
Latham in Tokyo is another reassuring sign. Our
Chief Justice seems to be going about his business in
that city undisturbed by the fears that depress Specials,
In any case, there is no reason for Aus-
tralians to get down in the dumps because wan-
dering correspondents are in that condition of
mind. The speculations of wandering correspondents
about “situations” in strange places are generally
gloomy and nearly always wrong. We have had 50
different versions of what has gone on in unoccupied
France since Laval lost his job, and 50 more about the
manoeuvres and troop-movements of the Germans in
the Balkans. As things have fallen out, Australians
would have been “justified” in rejecting the lot.
Roosevelt and Lincoln.
From the British Commonwealth’s standpoint, Mr.
Roosevelt’s speeches get better and better. Trenchant
sentences from his message to Congress:
We know that an enduring peace cannot be bought at the
cost of others’ feelings.
Freedom means the supremacy of human rights every-
where, and our support goes to those who struggle to gain
those rights or to keep them.
The best way of dealing with slackers and trouble-makers
is, first, to shame them by patriotic example; if that fails,
to use the Government’s sovereignty in order to save the
Government.
There are selfish men who would clip the wings of the
American Eagle in order to feather their own nests.
Today’s best is not good enough for tomorrow. The
nation’s hands must not be tied when the nation’s life is in
danger. We must all prepare to make sacrifices.
We look forward to a world founded on four essentials
of human freedom: freedom of speech and expression every-
where in the world; freedom for every person to worship God
in his own way everywhere in the world; freedom from want
—which means economic understanding and security for every
nation and a healthy peace-time life for the inhabitants every-
where in the world; freedom from fear —which means a
worldwide reduction of armaments to such a point and in
such a fashion that no nation would be in a position to
commit acts of physical aggression against any neighbor.
That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called
new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with
the crash of a bomb. To that new order we oppose a greater
conception—the moral order.
By the impressive expression of the public will, we are
committed to an all-inclusive national defence... .and to full
support of all those peoples everywhere who are resisting
aggression, and thereby keeping the war from our hemisphere.
Our most useful immediate role is to act as an arsenal for
them as well as for ourselves.
The time is near when they will not be able to pay ready
cash. We cannot and will not tell them that they must
surrender because of their present inability to pay for the
weapons which we know they must have. I do not recom-
mend that we make them a loan in dollars with which to
pay for these weapons, a loan to be repaid in dollars. I
recommend that we make it possible for those nations to
continue to obtain war materials in the United States, fitting
their orders into our own programme.
For what we send abroad, we shall be repaid within a
reasonable time after the close of hostilities in similar
materials, or, at our option, in other goods of many kinds
which they can produce and which we need.
Let us say to the democracies: “We Americans are vitally
concerned in your defence of freedom. We are putting forth
our energies and resources and organising our powers to give
you strength to regain and maintain a free world. We shall
send you ever-increasing numbers of ships, ’planes, tanks and
guns. This is our purpose and our pledge. In fulfilment of
this purpose, we shall not be intimidated by threats from
dictators.
In style and matter there has been no such address to
the American nation since Lincoln’s speech on his
second inauguration, the greatest passages of which
are curiously applicable to the struggle with the Nazi
conquerors of Europe:
Both read the same Bible and pray to the same God,
and each invokes His aid against the other. It may seem
strange that any men should dare to ask a just God’s assist-
ance in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men’s
faces. But let us judge not, that we be not judged.
The prayer of both could not be answered. That of
neither has been answered fully. The Almighty has His own
purposes. “Woe unto the world because of offences, for it
needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom
the offence cometh.”
Through Roosevelt’s mouth, as through Lincoln’s,
the real America has spoken at last, and the Invin-
cible Republic goes forward to a loftier destiny.
A National Need.
If there is one phase of Australian production more
than another which should be removed from State
control and placed under the Commonwealth it is
agriculture. Wool, wheat, meat, dairy produce and
fruit are practically in that position now, and State
concerns set up to handle or control various aspects
of their production and marketing have become at
best redundant and at worst moribund.
Though the fact is seldom referred to by press
or politician, the Commonwealth guarantees to wheat-
growers are really guarantees by the Commonwealth
taxpayers, and it is they who will lose should world
parity or British prices fail to equal the guarantee
prices—as is most likely. They pay also for Com-
monwealth butter graders, export fruit supervisors and
meat inspectors and for other things, including the
flour tax and the butter equalisation balance.
The work of the six State Agricultural Depart-
ments seldom meets at any point in common, and,
directly or indirectly, there is conflict. Some States
have Stock Registration Acts, others haven’t; some
recommend one wheat variety, across a border an-
other variety is recommended ; one State will achieve
a high percentage of butter quality, another doesn’t
bother. All this and much more show out in the
failure to bring Australian lambs, pig meats, fruit, etc.,
up to a uniform standard, and help the overseas buyer
to regard Maoriland or Argentine produce as superior.
But it is when he contemplates soil erosion and
drought that the thoughtful Australian could well be
appalled at the failure of the States to make any
respectable attempt to deal with them.
Day and night, under rain and wind and heavy
stocking and denudation of timber and natural cover,
fertile top soil of the arable lands is being nibbled
away. Nobody could dare an estimate of what has
been lost in the past ten years ; words fail in attempt-
ing to describe what is going on.
What are the States doing about it? In N.S.W.
there is a Soil Conservation Service. It is understaffed
and under-financed. It has one or two demonstration
stations which few people ever see. Its officers, con-
scientious and hard-working fellows, have not been
able to stop the rot. Victoria has just set up a board
which will be as futile. In the other States little or
nothing is being done.
Drought has decimated sheep flocks, reduced pas-
ture lands to dust-patches, pulled down dairy produc-
tion. It has demonstrated dreadfully that, for all their
grandiose talk, not one of the affected States had any-
thing like an effective system of fodder conservation.
It has shown clearly that pasture improvement, the
re-creation of native herbage and the science of care-
ful grazing management are no more than in their
infancy, for all the bragging of State Governments.
Produce-marketing systems are a hissing and a
byword. State transport laws are allowed to harass
farmers and check commerce. State legislation to
protect sectional interests keeps farm products away
from the people.
Primary production and all its ramifications are a
national matter. After this war Australia is going to
find herself trying to sell fruits of the land on im-
poverished world markets against severe competition.
Out of those sales she must try to reimburse herself
for war spending. The Commonwealth Government
will have to take a bigger and bigger part. The time
has come for it to create a Department of Agriculture
that would bring the big things like erosion, fodder
conservation, export standards and so forth under one
control. Then we might see the Victorian mallee
country saved as the U.S. department saved the Okla-
homa territory; then there would be an end of all the
confusion and waste and futility now going on.
With the C.S.I.R. as a beginning, the Com-
monwealth could take over the State departments, get
rid of superfluous employees and settle down to one of
the biggest and most important jobs confronting the
country apart from its war effort.
Young Phaethon Returns.
“Ente Marid” goes back to the ancients:
All the ground over which the new A.I.F. is fighting
has age-old associations with myth and legend. The name
Libya in Roman times was applied to all North Africa,
except Egypt. Under Italian rule it has come to mean
the coastal strip along the Mediterranean from Tripoli and
the desert behind it.
The Greeks’ legend ascribed the origin of the desert to
Phaethon, son of Phoebus (Apollo), the sun god, who bad a
shrine in their day at Apollonia, near Cyrene, just west of
Derna. Phaethon’s main job was the sunrise, and he is always
represented in Greek art as standing in his chariot with his
horses spread out like sunrays, in the shape of the A.I.F.
badge. One day, driving from east to west across the roof
of Africa, his steeds tripped, he spilled the sunrays over the
landscape, and the Libyan desert was born of the fire which
he created.
Libya and Egypt were separated in ancient times because
of the desert country. Carthage left the part of the world
where Wavell’s armies are fighting to the Greeks, who settled
there and formed their five cities and Cyrenaica, which still
bears the name they gave it, about 2600 years ago. It was
not till Cambyses the Persian brought the camel that traffic
with Egypt began.
The Greeks did a good job with their colonising. Their
settlements, overlaid in Cleopatra’s day and after with Roman
settlement, still have their continuance. Solium was there
in Roman times masquerading as Catabathmus Magnus.
Tobruk stands on a bay which in Greek and Roman times
bore the name of Menelaus, husband of Helen of Troy.
Benghazi—then without an aerodrome —was Berenice. Strange
as it seems, the country was so thickly populated and the
ancient geography so copious that a classical atlas is more
useful for following the war —since it shows the physical
features in greater detail —than the standard modern “Times”
atlas, which is full of blanks and vaguenesses.
The country into which the Army of Egypt is now pene-
trating was known to the Greeks as the Pentopolis for its
five great cities —Berenice (Benghazi), Arsinoe or Tuechira
(Tokra), Ptolemais (the small village of Tolmaita), Apollonia
and the great city of Cyrene, just inland from it, west of
Derna near the western end of the high rising coastal range
of Jebel el Akhdar.
For centuries this country was largely a land of pirates
and fugitives, but it was presently recolonised by Muslims
from Crete. Turk and Arab contended for it for 200 years
till it became a Turkish vilayet a year or two before Victoria
came to the throne.
On October 18, 1912, after a queer Italo-Turkish war,
it was handed over to Italy by the Treaty of Ouchy. Benghazi,
from which the only railways in the region run, has a popula-
tion of 64,000 in times of peace. It is the capital of one
of the four Libyan provinces. Derna (population 21,000) is
another provincial capital.
This part of the country was famous in ancient times for
its export of the edible lotus, which is mentioned in Homer.
The mystery of its disappearance in modern times seems
to be explained by the sloth of Musso.’s armies. They
must have eaten the lot.
The Point of View.
“Mr. Menzies’s date of departure and route to
Britain will be kept a close secret. T am not going to
help the enemy know where and when they can pick
off a Dominions Prime Minister,’ he said.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
Submarine U 897 surfaced just as night was coming
down. While the crew tumbled up for fresh air the
commander studied his orders, which had been sealed
for opening when the boat reached its Atlantic station.
They were terse:
Our intelligence reports that a very important person-
age has left a southern enemy country secretly for a
conference with the criminal Churchill. All lines of
communication are being watched. You will intercept
any ship which looks like a Spanish mackerel boat and
carefully examine all aboard. Look for a large man
with a slightly benevolent air. If any such appear, he
must be taken to Germany alive. Remember, he may
be in disguise. Wait 48 hours on station. After that,
resume patrol.
Except for a distant convoy, nothing disturbed the
idle submarine until just after dawn, when a single
ship was observed beating up from the west. An
hour later she was hove-to while the submarine board-
ing crew examined her. Fifteen minutes later the
steamer was on her way, minus one large man with a
slightly benevolent air.
Five days later U 897 moved quietly to her berth"
in Lorient harbor. A fast car awaited, and into this
was hustled the prisoner. An officer in the car shook
the submarine commander fervently by the hand. The
car headed eastward.
The grizzled German officer rubbed his head in
puzzlement. “You say you a Prime Minister are?
Nothing more?”
The large prisoner with the slightly benevolent air
also looked * puzzled. “Yes,” he said, with a slight
flourish, “I am a Dominions Prime Minister.”
The German appeared to forget him. “It iss
beyond understanding,” he muttered. “Intelligence
was so certain. ‘A very important personage.’ They
seldom make mistakes.”
“B-but,” said the prisoner, “I am a Prime Minister.
That is something very important.”
“Tush,” said the officer impatiently. “What would
we with Prime Ministers want? Well, I suppose it a
mistake is. You will released be. Ja, through Switzer-
land. I am sorry. Goot-bye.” He bowed stiffly and
withdrew, leaving the large man with the slightly bene-
volent air to ponder over the relativity of values.
Meantime, the chief of the German Intelligence
was dictating a code message to a southern agent:
We are not impressed. Your important personage
was a mere Prime Minister. We have been put to
great trouble. In future, use more discretion. Mark
this well. Heil Hitler.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“D.D.”: How did the Australians go
into battle at Bardia? “Singing ‘The
Wizard of Oz,’ ” says one witness. “Sing-
ing ‘Roll Out the Barrel,’ ” says another.
“Firing Bren guns from their hips and
shouting ‘Bardia or bust,’ ” is a third
version. “Shouting and grinning—they
were grinning all the time,” runs a fourth.
I am not disputing any of these accounts,
and I accept gladly other picturesque
first-hand stories, such as that cries of
“What time do the pubs shut in Bardia?”
were heard, and that “when the corre-
spondents entered the town they met a
young Australian, his head wrapped in a
bloodsoaked bandage, who said “Hey,
I’ve got a whole ruddy battalion over
there”—though in that case certain
descriptive expressions were obviously
omitted. But I wouldn’t mind making a
modest wager that many of the boys
exhorted one another to stiffen “the black
bastards,” as their fathers did on another
sterile coast long ago. And it is palpably
true of the sons, as it was of the fathers,
that they were “more humane in their
deeds than in their words” (Bean), Look
at those photographs of Aussies sharing
their cigarettes with prisoners, and con-
sider the testimony of that Italian from
Connecticut who was caught up in the
conscription “when we gave jn they
treated us like gentlemen.”
“Exdig”: A delightful 1941 war touch
was the Australian Comforts Fund’s
invitation to the victorious Diggers
at Bardia to have a drink with
Australia. One thousand pounds was
cabled to Cairo for that purpose
an hour after news of the Diggers’
exploit was announced. Although an extra
rum issue followed some big operations
in the last war the only occasion of some-
thing like a “shout” occurred when some
shattered fragments of our battalion,
after relief, staggered back from Pass-
chendaele, payless, tired, dry and fagless.
Some of the comforts huts wanted to
see our non-existent cash, but we found
fags and rest in a Salvarmy hut. Then
the S.A. captain in charge spoke surpris-
ingly, “What you coveys want is some
hale,” he said benevolently. He dis-
appeared, add in a few moments he called
for volunteers to roll out a barrel from a
near-by canteen, where he had made the
necessary arrangements. We had our
“hale,” and were grateful.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Apropos of radio pro-
nunciations (B. 25/12/’4O), a word uni-
versally maltreated is “aerial.” 8.8. C.,
A.B.C. and B-station spouters, whether
English, American or Australian, invari-
ably make it “mV-e-al.” Shelley knew
better.
Like a glowworm golden
In a dell of dew,
Scattering unbeholden
Its aerial hue....
Spoken in the radio-station fashion that
last line wouldn’t scan and the stanza
would be spoilt. There should be a
Society for the Protection of Beautiful
Words against Modern Barbarians.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: Sydney Uni. Medical
School having got tired of keeping the
pickled body of “The Pyjama Girl,” it
will probably be given decent interment
after six years of exhibition. The
woman’s identity has not been discovered
despite exhaustive inquiries and the
offering of a reward of £lOOO. She was
murdered in September, 1934, and her
body, pyjama-clad, bearing a shot wound,
injuries to the head caused by “some
blunt instrument,” and evidence of an
attempt at burning, was found in a
culvert near Albury, N. S. Wales. The
pyjamas captured the imagination of the
feebler-minded newspapers of the. State,
and the Police Department and its un-
availing but spectacular manoeuvres has
got columns of publicity out of the
corpse in the last six years. If this is to
cease even the Police Department should
be grateful. It means one more of a
score of unsolved mystery murders con-
veniently forgotten.
* * * *
“Bo”: The flapper press is a hard
taskmistress, and woe betide any who,
having once been “glamorised” and
slobbered over by it, ever in its opinion
slips a cog or two, especially when
“romance” suffers an umbilical crash.
Amy Johnson’s was a classic case. When
she pulled off her initial aerial success
the Stunt Rags vied with one another in
hysterical adulation, and thereafter they
ladled it on thick. When the lady’s spec-
tacular career culminated in her mar-
riage with Jim Mollison self-styled
“playboy of the air” —underworld queens
and diplomatic skirmishes were pushed
off the front pages to make way for the
splash news, and the “feature” boys
cursed the inadequacy of their thesauruses.
But when after a few years the nails of
incompatibility began to split the marital
timber the S.Rs. couldn’t mock the pair
savagely enough, and they have joyously
recorded their many barneys since. Now
death has claimed Amy after an accident
to the air bus she was ferrying over the
Thames estuary, and the S.Rs. were at
once torn between the revelation that the
lady had formed “a new and deep friend-
ship for Jim” (“every spare moment she
devoted in flying to see him”) and the
mystery of her apparently unauthorised
man passenger, in a vain attempt to
rescue whom a gallant naval officer lost
b j s jj£ e
* * * *
v c „ ■
Pawang : Dr K S. Cunnmgh ,
direclof of the Australian Conned of
Educational Research wants intelligence
tests applied to recruits for the army, and
has published a specimen list of qu«-
tions. The doctors examination method
reminds me of my mother’s efforts to
add up the household bills every Friday
evening. After sucking her pencil and
father: “Should a cofumn of figures add
up the same from the top to the bottom
as it does from the bottom to the top?”
“Why?” asked my father. “Because I
can never make them come out the
same.” But though she couldn’t have
written correct replies to an exam, in
arithmetic, she knew where every penny
went, and at practical mental arithmetic
could beat even the vegetable John to a
standstill. How can you gauge anyone’s
intelligence by seeking written answers to
theoretical questions?
44 „ _ „ . . . .. * _
C.Q. . A couple of Air Force
trainees had a crowded quarter-hour
near Melbourne. Compelled to make a
the way to ter™ finrta the ’plane sheered
the mast off a fishing vessel, plucked the
roof off a trailer full of circus ponies,
just missed a cage of monkeys, wrecked
a few feet of arena railing, and had both
wings wrenched off between two pine-
trees as it landed. Had they fallen foul
of one particular tent it would have
changed the whole complexion of the
business. It contained half a dozen
elephants
s’* * *
“Craiser”; A young woman from the
country who had been warned to be very
careful whom she mixed with in Mel-
bourne went to an employment bureau
and inquired for a position as a maid
with some respectable family. “Would
something in Toorak suit you?” asked
the bureau lady. “Certainly it would,”
said the girl, delighted at the thought of
attaining at one step to such heights of
social elegance. She was given the
address of her future mistress, landed
there on New Year’s Eve and was at
once engaged. Two days later she was
back at the employment bureau. “What,
didn’t it suit you?” asked the surprised
proprietress. “No, it didn’t,” said the
girl. “I went upstairs, put my uniform
on, was coming downstairs to go to the
kitchen, looked over the banisters and
"I had to do something, colonel—the native carriers deserted me."
saw a wild party in progress. I went
upstairs, took off my uniform, left
the house, went to the nearest tele-
phone booth and ’phoned my mistress
that I had resigned.”
* * > * *
“F.S.”: With the aid of a gantry and
six navvies. Queen Victoria has been
removed from the Public Library in Mel-
bourne. She had cast her marble gaze
out of its portals since 1878. Her Prince
Consort was shifted two days earlier, and
the pair will face each other at the
Agricultural Showground for probably
the rest of their terrestrial existence,
having been lent in perpetuity to the
R.A.S. by the Gallery trustees. Both
statues were patriotic gestures, and, like
most patriotic gestures of the sort, not
worth very much artistically. Most Court
painters and sculptors are more im-
pressed with the importance of their
sitters than with their art. Consequently
their portraits are eventually relegated
to some limbo like that which Victoria
and Albert are now inhabiting at Mel-
bourne Showground.
« * » *
“Hyer”: Advised by A.B.C. that the
survivors of the Pacific sinkings would
be welcomed at Sydney Central station
and the proceedings broadcast, I waited
eagerly by the set. Heard Gov.-Gen.
Cowrie, Ministers Foil and Fadden
(Federal) and Manning (State) but not
a word from any survivor. Next day
the press had a report of a speech by
Upton, the skipper of the Rangitane.
Now, did the A.B.C. miss that, or does it
think the speeches of politicians more im-
portant on such an occasion? My bet
is that every listener would cheerfully
have bartered ten thousand words from
the Ministers for six from the skipper.
* * * *
“Decadesse”: Every ten years or so
Sydney gets an attack of conscience or
something about its art gallery, and sug-
gestions of means of making it more
attractive to the populace are aired. Will
Ashton, the gallery’s director, set the
ball rolling again a few days ago with
a plea for the electrical illumination of
the place so that it can be opened at
night. Premier Mair seems to be sym-
pathetic towards the scheme, and it may
be put into effect. But the idea will leave
most people very, very cold. The gal-
lery isn’t being neglected. Last year its
average daily attendance was 650, which
is about as many visitors as it can ex-
pect in its present isolated position.
Henry Parkes wanted the gallery planked
down in the centre of the city (in Queen
Victoria Markets, in fact), and that’s
where it should be, instead of on a route
that is served by no tram, bus or rail-
road. But the time to shift it or re-
furbish it or otherwise worry about it
is not in the middle of a war.
* * * «
“S.T.S.”; A commercial secretary in
Adelaide has been given four months’ for
“having, while an undischarged bank-
rupt, taken part in the management of
a co. without having obtained leave of
the Court.” This seems severe for the
first case of its kind reported, and coun-
sel argued that it was a mere breach of
the Act, and so punishable only by a fine ;
but the Full Court held that, legally, it
is a common-law “misdemeanor,” and
that, commercially, other undischarged
bankrupts must be “deterred.”
“V. Cluse”: His much better half
having departed on a short holiday, our
suburb’s tame drunk began to populate
his home with a strange assortment of
humanity garnered in his wanderings
from pub to pub during his unusual
freedom. One or two neighbors, slightly
concerned at the aspect of some of the
guests, sought to warn him against the
loss of valuables, etc. “ ’Sail ri’,” was
his invariable reply ; “all men brothersh,
y’ know, all brothersh.” Then some of
the brothers began bringing their sisters
along and the night-quiet of our streets
heard strange songs and saw stranger
sights, until it became too much for one
neighbor, who dropped a quiet tip per
post to the absent wife. She arrived early
one morning, pushed aside the Lascar
seaman who answered the door, and
stalked, bristling, into the lounge-room.
From the array of bottles, glasses, food-
stuffs and stray humanity which littered
the lounge-room floor she managed to
select her spouse and drag him to the
kitchen, where she tore into him verbally.
Blearily hanging on to the sink, he
listened in silence until she wound up,
“And look at you. Dreadful! I’ve never
seen you look so terrible —never!” He
pulled himself together. “Well,” he de-
manded, “how would you look if y’ had
to drink rum from a flamin’ fryin’ pan
because y’r missus went away an’ there
was nobody t’ wash the glasses?” After
that there was no sound save the shuffle
of the departing guests’ feet.
COME WHAT MAY.
“President Koosevelt’s slogan ‘All aid for Britain,
short of war’ is virtually changed by his latest
message to Congress into “All aid for Britain, what-
ever the consequences.’ ” — “S. M. Herald.”
Franklin, your kinsman Theodore,
Famed in his time for blunt address,
Could certainly have said no more
And would, for sure, have said no less
Than what those stirring words convey—
“ All aid for Britain, come what may.”
No qualifying “ifs” or “buts,”
No subtle reservations here;
All ambiguities it cuts
Across, this statement plain and clear.
That Uncle Sam will keep the way
For which he’s headed, come what may.
Let foiled dictators snarl and threat,
Their threats and snarlings he’ll defy,
On one objective staunchly set,
Pledged to one aim inflexibly,
To be our steadfast shield and stay
In time of travail—come what may.
A bullet Adolf needs must chew,
And one he’s like to reckon tough;
A pipeful Mussolini, too,
Will find it passing hard to puff.
Linked in a tie that none can fray
We stand together, come what may.
Then here’s to “Hands Across the Sea!”
That toast we’ve often heard before.
But one may safely guarantee
It never meant so much before
As now we know the U.S.A.
Stands firm behind us —come what may!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


QUITE SERIOUS.
"Make sure you re not being followed, then rap three times on the back
door and ask for six of whisky and two dozen of beer.”
“Ente Marid”: As I waited in the
hamanhif for my two saveloys I heard
the voice of Bellevue Hill saying sweetly
at my shoulder: “....And two pounds
of cocktail sausages . . . nice ones . . .
and I must have some gherkins and some
cream cheese. Have you any real cream
cheese?” There was a sound of heavy
wrappings, and she began again; “Oh,
and some Russian bread. I positively
must have Russian bread. Are you sure
it is real? You know, I would so hate
it if it were wrong, because I am enter-
taining some Viennese people, and one
must give them the food they are used
to, mustn’t one? It’s only courteous,
isn’t it?” I looked cautiously round. There
she was, diamonds and all, and there was
old Hamanbif solemnly wrapping up a
bit of the hard rye bread—the kind the
victims of the German raiders complained
about when it grew whiskers. . A loaf
—“tenpen, pliss”—which can be bought
for a halfpenny in any Turkish or Balkan
village, but which the elite of Vienna
would only use to keep a door. open.
“Now, I think that is all,” said Mrs.
Bellevue-Hill reaching confidently for
change, “unless there is anything more
you can suggest.” Fell upon us the
gloomy silence of heavily concentrated
thought, into which presently rose loud
and clear the hopeful words of Haman-
bif: “We got some good Vienna sossige,
mum.” Haughty footsteps padded to
the door, and the calm without was shat-
tered by the sudden starting of a Rolls-
Royce.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The blackout is not a
modern institution. After the Eureka
Stockade business all lights on the gold-
fields were forbidden after eight in the
evening. An officer doing the rounds
saw a light burning in a tent and threat-
ened to shoot the wick off the candle if
it weren’t immediately extinguished. A
word of explanation caused him to pass
on and leave the occupants unmolested.
Lucy Cox was in the act of being born.
She is still living at Middle Park, Mel-
bourne, 86 years later.
“Spokeshave”: With a few bottles of
choice Australian wine in the boot a
Melbourne citizen motored off into the
country with his wife and family and a
couple of friends to spend a mildly con-
vivial New Year’s Day by a pleasant
river. Placing the bottles in the flowing
stream to keep them cool, he and his
friends started fishing. They were inter-
rupted just before lunchtime by shouts
of exultation. A party of churchgoing
relatives had discovered the picnickers,
and one of them was a rich old lady with
strong views on the liquor question. They
were settling down to a lunch of tinned
salmon and salad washed .down with tea
when the old lady, who had been wander-
ing round looking at the scenery, turned
up with two of the bottles. “Look what
I’ve found in the river,” she cried, Fold-
ing them up for inspection. “Two bottles
of ginger ale!” The. labels had been
washed off. Soon the corks were pop-
ping, and nobody got jollier- than the
teetotal party.
■** * »
“Mac Hoots”: I have a - notion that
what the ordinary motorist thinks aboiit
petrol rationing never gets into the dailies!
Most of the squeal is coming from people
interested in selling the stuff. Anyhow,
I know one man, an ordinary Australian
who uses his car for pleasure, who was
offered a big store of petrol just bdfore
rationing started, and who refused
cause he thought it wasn’t fair to try- to
beat regulations that were brought,in as
part of the war effort. I am sura he
would dong anyone who tried to sell him
a forged ration ticket. He was a Digger,
in the last war. I’d take a bet that hjs-
name is legion, but you’d
never guess it from the
shabby rumpus in the
newspapers.
* ♦
“S.”: There have been
recently two notable at-
tempts to make Hitler
funny, and both of them
have been flops. One
was Peter Fleming’s skit
The Flying Visit, in
which Hitler is dropped
from a bomber into the
English countryside, and
the other is the Chaplin
talkie “The Great Dic-
tator.” Both of them
fail, partly because Hitler
looks more unpleasant
than comic, just as his
nature is more unpleasant
than comic; partly be-
cause nothing about the
war can ever be much of
a joke. But the chief
reason for the failure is
that they will go beyond
legitimate satire, impos-
ing ridicule on the man
from without instead of
satirising him within the
limits of his personality.
Chaplin is funny when
he takes off Hitler’s
speeches; Fleming makes
him gloriously funny when he has him
mistaken for an impersonation of himself
and kissed by an enthusiastic blonde.
Here the humor succeeds because Hitler
does look silly making a speech, and his
aversion from kisses is notorious.
But when Chaplin has him shin-
ning up the curtains, and when
Fleming trips him up in a puddle,
neither can get a laugh ; neither
incident is fair comment on Hit-
ler’s character; both are mere
pointless jeering. Jack Oakie is
funny as Musso. in the film be-
cause his strutting and bragging
are fair 1 caricature of Musso.’s
normal behavior.
* * *
“K.P.”: Last October the Xs.
brought their three-month first-
born in for advice about feeding.
To test its general muscular tone
I tried the old trick of stimulating
the reflex crawl by pressing a
hand lightly against the kid’s soles
while it lay on J its stomach. It
wriggled off in the typical rep-
tilian fashion, using arms and
spine mqscles, but not legs, and
stopped to suck directly the feed-
ing-bottle was ' put to its mouth.
Today I tried tire same trick again,
but nothing happened. Had the
baby responded in similar fashion
in this, its sixth-month, it would
have meant long odds on its grow-
ing up feeble-minded. Between
the fifth and eighth months a
growing normql brain submerges
the reflex crawjl. Yet in March
it will begin to crawl again, this
time of its own volition and with-
out stimulus, but will use its legs
and knees more and • more to help
the arms. By July or \so it will
commence cautiously to whlk, keeping
the crawl in reserve for difficult places
and as a diverting change of locomotory
technique until it is quite sure of its new
role of biped. Had the Sphinx known
a bit more about the human infant it
could have complicated its historic riddle
about the two-four-three-legged animal
yet further by a no-leg stage. Tne reflex
crawl occurs from the moment of birth —
probably before birth even, as prema-
turely-born babies show it.
*♦, - ♦ »
“Uramao”: The way of the plagiarist
is hard in Maoriland. In a country town
in Otago one newspaper runs a Saturday
children’s page, encouraging original
poetic contributions. In a recent issue
over the name of a 12-year-old miss was
a stirring poem which the editor failed
to detect as being one of the most suc-
cessful during the last war —Henry Chap-
pel’s “The Day,” addressed to, the Kaiser.
But a cousin of Henry Chappel was a
plumber in that small remote town, and
soon had the editor by the ears.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: A Sydney paper notes one
of the first effects of Federal war taxa-
tion: —•
One agent in Elizabeth Bay said; The
people who formerly paid £6 6s. a week
are seeking homes, or flats for £4 45., the
£4 4s. people are going to £3 35., but where
the £3 3s. people are going we don’t know.
However, the paper’s readers were
assured that everyone is contemplating
sacrifices in the best spirit, realising the
necessity of the hour. Exhibit A was
a radio actress, a member of the party
that makes free use of “Steele Rudd’s”
characters and setting for a chewing-gum
ad. The lady’s salary, the paper said
, with that reverence for cash which char-
acterises the flapper press, is more than
£10(0 a week, and she is flat out to make
sacrifices. She will keep only two of her
racehorses. She will manage on a mani-
cure every 21 days and will economise on
hair-dos. This stirring example will
have a tremendous effect on the wives of
£5-a-week workers, and if word of it can
be got to the ears of the soldiers in Libya
it should send them yelling into Tripoli
within a matter of days.
* * * *
“Oxmead”; There was another quip
credited to W. S. Gilbert when some
mealy-mouthed people objected to the title
“Ruddigore” (B. 8/l/’4l). He ironically
expressed his entire readiness, if the name
grated on ears polite, to alter it to “Ken-
sington Gore” —a section of a suburb
familiar to Londoners to which no san-
guinary association could possibly attach.
But “Ruddigore,” although it came a
few years after “Patience” and “The
Mikado,” and not long before “The Yeo-
men of the Guard” and “The Gondo-
liers,” was not among the major suc-
. cesses of the Gilbert-Sullivan partnership.
Like most of their plays, it bore an alter-
native title, “The Witch’s Curse.”
* * * *
“Colbun”; Those gloomy persons who
moan about how war has changed the
face of Europe are talking nonsense. The
same old faces are still there. England
continues to thrust an aggressive Wel-
lingtonian nose and fighting chin at the
shrinking Low Countries. The features
of France, an eye at Paris, Normandy as
nose, Brittany the chin, and long ex-
posed throat along the Bay of Biscay,
gaze sadly up at free England. Portugal
regards the Atlantic with grave detach-
ment from all the troubles, and Spain’s
tip-tilted nose sniffs suspiciously at
Northern Algeria. But I grant that there
is a change in Africa. A scared and
weeping Mussolini, just like Scorfield’s
drawings of him in his more anxious
moments, with nose-tip at Cape Bon and
the Hammant Gulf for mouth, bellows
frantically across his lost Mediterranean
in the direction of Greece.
* * * ♦
“Colonel Bungstarter”: An unexpected
effect of the war in England has been
to put private detective agencies out of
business. The job simply can’t be done.
If the sleuth tracks his quarry to a hotel
or other building and waits for them to
come out he is promptly moved on by
the police or A.R.P. men. The black-
outs make night observation practically
impossible, and frequent interruption of
telephone communication by bomb
damage or air alarms prevents effective
co-operation between observers. Outside
the cities things are even worse because
any request for information by a stranger
causes him to be taken for a fifth-
columnist or disguised parachutist and
deliberately misled by the wily villagers.
Dozens of private dicks have been sent
miles out of their way, arrested by Home
Guards or rural police, or in some cases
tied up and handed over at the nearest
military post in a more or less battered
condition. So Sexton Blake and his col-
leagues have given it best until Hitler’s
bombers are got under control
“I’ve got t’ economise some'oW, so I'm makin' me own ferfcaccer.”
“Mr. Hughes denied the suggestion that he was
speaking jocularly when he criticised departmental
heads for their reluctance to be transplanted from
Melbourne to Canberra.”
He featured them as loath to quit
The homes they set such store on,
The bouts of golf that keep them fit,
Their bridge and all the rest of it,
Even when there’s a war on.
They deemed his words a crying shame,
They voiced their protests shrilly,
But it’s apparent, all the same
He had some cause, did Billy.
A touch of humor —just a spot—
Refreshes and placates men
Who’ve had their fill of platform rot.
But that’s a relaxation not
Allowed to Elder Statesmen.
They must be grave, impressive, staid
And serious, willy-nilly.
It follows, when his point he made,
He meant no joke, did Billy.
Oh, Melbourne is a pleasant base
To peg a restful groove in,
A really admirable place
To run your departmental race
And eke to live and move in.
And Canberra grills in summer days,
And winter nights are chilly.
But you in greener fields who graze
Should take a note of what he says;
He seldom jests, does Billy.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Ok
fig
m
8/1 w l OS
aOI M i Oi
50 for 4'2
100 for « 4
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
2817
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT’SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Strikes and threats of strikes —against
overtime, award rates of pay, income tax,
the price of beer and anything else that
may occur to militants continue in
N. S. Wales and other States where Reds
can work the federated-union oracle.
“As a challenge to the Government,”
overtime has been banned by the Syd-
ney ironworkers and boilermakers at the
instance of Comrade Denford. The same
day brought news of another Russo-
German Pact of Friendship, the parties
being described by “Izvestia” as “the two
greatest countries in the world,” so Com-
rade Denford must now be blissfully
happy.
Last week the N.S.W. Metal Trades
Employers’ Federation was served with
a demand for wage-increases which were
not even specified, the alternative being
as usual. This prompted Judge O’Mara
to point out that “the executives” had
“apparently arranged a stop-work meet-
ing and decided to call a strike before
the answer to their demands had been
received,” and he added sternly that “the
Court may have to decide whether in-
dustrial stoppages come from the top or
the bottom.” The sooner the Court does
that the better for Australia.
Denying the “sinister developments” in
the Balkans for which a swarm of corre-
spondents have vouched, Moscow Radio
said that Stalin would have to be in-
formed of them “under the terms of the
Russo-German agreement,” and hadn’t
been so informed.
The signing of the Japan-Axis pact was
no surprise to us; the Soviet had been
informed of it in advance.
According to some accounts, the world
is about to be informed of a Russo-
Japanese pact. If it comes off, the Port
Kembla Reds will no doubt clamor for
the renewal of pig-iron shipments to
Japan on the ground that the Japanese
are Friends of the Soviet.
Tackled from several quarters the
Polish Consul-General watered down his
indictment against “disloyal Poles, most
of them Jews” and some “working in
defence industries.” In the revised ver-
sion, he defined “a disloyal Pole” as
“one who has failed to register at the
nearest Consulate,” and “believed” that
“Germans and Austrians are posing as
Poles to gain information harmful to the
war effort.” He denied that Poland had
always been “anti-Jewish,” as asserted
by “the president of the Victorian-Jewish
Advisory Board, Dr. Jonah Jacob.” Guar-
antees to distant and little-known lands
are apt to bring very odd troubles in their
train.
It must be nice for some of these
picture-theatre interests to have a De-
partment of Information about the place.
Frank Hurley’s film of the desert
victory in Africa has packed theatres
in ajl Australian capitals, and the rake-
off must have been heavy. Yet the thing
has been hired at a nominal charge,
though the same film through a private
newsreel service would probably have
cost three or four times the usual fee.
Minister Foil “explains” that his depart-
ment (cost this year, £198,000) isn’t out
to make profits.
Another blow has been struck at the
Australian wine industry by a British
suspension of shipping licenses for im-
port of wines for “at least” three months
from January 20. It has been softened
to some extent by the beer strikes which
are raging in parts of N. S. Wales. Many
of the beer strikers have developed a
taste for hock and soda and for sherry
and lemonade.
Five Jehovah’s Witnesses, one at New-
castle and four at Sydney, were sen-
tenced to terms of imprisonment last
week for refusal to take the oath when
called up for home service. One of the
Sydney fanatics confessed himself a dis-
loyal subject of King George. The New-
castle man was a radio announcer. His
station and three others —two in S.A. and
one in Queensland —were forthwith cut
off the air, and the public naturally con-
cluded that this was a sequel to the con-
victions. Hughes denied that this was
the case ; the action taken had been asked
for by the Naval Department because it
was supposed that information had,
though not deliberately, been supplied to
the enemy. It must be said that Billy
has been dashed vague about it in an
extremely wordy way.
The fell hand of Sydney has been ex-
posed—in Melbourne, of course. Sydney,
“Mr. Blain, M.H.R., has presented Mr. Hughes with a pair of buffalo horns.”
“Did I hear you criticising me, Mr. Menzies?”
and Sydney alone, has been responsible
for the move for abolition of State Par-
liaments. The conspiracy was uncovered
by H. E. Thonemann, the U.A.P. can-
didate for Toorak:
It is obvious why an extravagant State
like N.S.W. wants a one-Parliament system.
It will relieve spendthrift States of portion
of their financial burden, which will have
to be carried by thrifty States.
Before the Sydney U.A.P. Premier rushes
to the defence he should invite Mr.
Thonemann to name the thrifty States.
Nobody else can do it.
F. R. Connelly, who stood as an In-
dependent U.A.P. for Toorak (Vic.),
came out strong for abolition of State
Parliaments, crying that there was so
much duplication in Australian Parlia-
ments that it was confusing the national
war effort. He wants Victoria cut up
into 10 regional councils under a single
national Parliament made up of regional
council representatives. These ideas were
evidently a bit too radical for the late
Argyle’s supporters, but Victoria will
hear more of Connelly.
Billy has said many foolish things
lately, and Menzies had to chide him for
“some jocular remarks” to the effect that
administrative headquarters of the fight-
ing forces were in Melbourne, not Can-
berra, because “high service dignitaries”
had “their homes in Melbourne and their
bridge and their golf.” They didn’t take
it as a joke, nor was Herbert, N.S.W.
secretary of the Seamen’s Union, pleased
when the loquacious old gentleman “con-
veyed the impression that the Seamen’s
Union is run by Communists.” Herbert
replied that “there has not been a single
dispute in Sydney since the war began,”
and that “disgruntled elements will get
short shrift from us.” All the same, he
had some kind words for Billy, and for
Page, Beasley and Cameron.
We appreciate the attitude and language
of Mr. Cameron. He speaks straight, and
that is a language seamen understand.
It is a language all Australians under-
stand,
American isolationists are a rather dull
lot, but there is one exception: the Re-
publican Senator Vandenberg. He de-
scribed Roosevelt’s message to Congress
as “a strong plea for peace through war
by proxy.” There is just enough truth
in the gibe for the wit to be appreciated.
In Adelaide, which rejoices in night
trots, complete with totes and book-
makers, and in licensed betting shops,
stern justice or rank humbug or some-
thing has been meted out to a concern
which sold “lucky numbers,” and to ten
ladies who assisted in the dreadful trans-
action, profits going to the Red Cross.
The thing was called “an illegal lottery,”
and the firm was fined £1 with 10s. costs,
eight of the ladies being ordered to pay
55., with 2s. 6d. costs. One of them was
the Countess of Bective. While the charge
was hanging over her, word came from
London that E. E. D. Clarke, an R.A.F.
pilot and a son by her first marriage, was
“reported missing and believed killed.”
“Adelaide for culture” —and cant.
The Australian Teachers’ Federation
has repeated its demand that the Com-
monwealth should drag ten millions from
the Commonwealth taxpayers and hand
it oyer to the six State Education Depart-
ments for expenditure at their own sweet
will. If the idea were that the Common-
wealth should take control of education
and attend to what the six State Educa-
tion Departments have very palpably
neglected, it would deserve serious atten-
tion. In the form which commends itself
to the Teachers’ Federation, it is merely
silly.
It might be a good thing to invite Isaac
Isaacs to intercede with the N.S.W.
metal-trade and waterside narks who hold
up the country’s war effort. When these
people clapped an embargo on the export
of pig-iron, Isaac Isaacs likened them to
the heroes of Eureka. Now that they
are doing much the same thing at the
expense of Australia, it would be a grace-
ful act on his part to suggest that they
should behave like Eureka heroes and
not like work-stopping crawlers to Mos-
cow. In the cases of Red union officials
from parts abroad, he might have to
explain where Eureka is and who the
heroes were.
Canberra asked for trouble when it
drew up the schedule of income-tax
deductions on wages and salaries under
£lO a week. Between wages of £3 17s.
a week and incomes of £lB 10s. there are
only 15 rates of tax —all relating to rises
in income of £l, except between £3 17s.
and £4 10s. On £4 10s. a man pays 2s.
a week; on £4 10s. 6d., 55.; on £6 10s.,
95.; on £6 10s. 6d., 14s. The actual scale
of taxation isn’t so erratic as that; but
the deductions in anticipation of tax are
stupidly antagonising to everyone, par-
ticularly the working man with a wife
and children who is on, say, £5 to £8 a
a week. Against Canberra’s 15 rates, the
N.S.W. wages tax has 146 rates between
£3 17s. lid. and £lB 10s. —the income
rises are 25., and the tax rises a penny.
The whole trouble arises from neglect to
unify the multitude of income taxes. It
should have been done years ago.
Queensland’s State election may be
held in March. N.S.W.’s Mairs talk of
going to the country in May. Both Gov-
ernments had better make the most of
their precious elections. It is quite on
the cards that there will never be another.
For some unknown reason a gentle-
man near the retiring age was taken from
the Post Office to run the Civil Aviation
Department. He has just issued a long
list of instructions to pilots. One is a
gem of “officialese”:
That a ship fires at an aircraft cannot
be regarded as proof that the ship is
necessarily hostile.
The shelling may be just friendly-like.
Announcing with the usual flourish of
trumpets—the things are getting a bit
tinny—a scheme to build 25,000 homes
to “relieve the house-shortage expected
after the war,” the Sydney Premier said
his Government had a realistic post-war
programme of works, employment and
development. Sounds like another of
those “asparagus plans” of his. The last
one fell through for want of cans or
labels or something.
“An ill-timed proposal” is what E. P.
Tressider, chairman of Sydney County
Council, calls the plan to grab every
powerhouse and electricity authority
throughout N. S. Wales and place them
under yet another commission. “Ill-
timed” is mild. Tressider ought to hear
what some of the country councillors are
calling it.
Condemning Minister Martin’s stunt to
place all N.S.W. electricity authorities
under a single commission, the chairman
of Sydney County Council stated that
N.S.W. Railway Department was selling
power to St. George County Council at
£3 a kilowatt, “which is at least £1
under cost.” Thus, according to the
S.C.C. man, the general taxpayer is bear-
ing the cost of the railway sideline. Still,
he is used to bearing things like that.
Thonemann, U.A.P. candidate for the
late Argyle’s old seat in Victoria, con-
demned as “paltry” issues which an oppo-
nent was introducing into the “fight.”
Notable among them is a campaign
for the abolition of State Parliaments. It
must be clear to all that this would pro-
duce chaotic conditions at a time when
administrative machinery should be geared
to smooth working.
Nothing could possibly make conditions
of government here more chaotic than
they are, a fact in large part due to there
being 13 Houses of Parliament with all
their overlapping and extravagant and
partially useless departments. Toorak, of
course, is safe for the U.A.P. Whether
Thonemann is safe for Toorak is another
matter.


“EAST, WEST, HOME’S BEST.”


74
T 7
f
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre -war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways’
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHEIX HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE- 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE. . ,
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment —even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5% per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1. post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Robert Baden-Powell, founder of the
Boy Scout organisation, dead at 83, came
into Empire-wide prominence at the be-
ginning of the century as the defender
of Mafeking. He formed a corps of boys
in that town to help the troops by cart-
ing water and ammunition, and that was
the germ of an idea that captured the
imagination of boys and girls all the
world over. 8.-P. was a lieut.-general
when he retired from the army in 1910,
and he was raised to the peerage in 1929.
He died and was buried at Nairobi; but,
if the family agrees, his bones will be
transferred to the Abbey after the war.
As a very young war correspondent.
The Bulletin’s Bert Toy was in Mafe-
king a few days after the Relief which
gave the Empire an occasion for its most
memorable drunk. With the austerity of
youth, he wrote very savagely about
the Mafeking show for the Perth “Morn-
ing Herald.” In after years he took a
more philosophic view, but he never
ceased to declare that Mafeking was the
best stage-managed siege in history. In
point of fact, Baden-Powell was no great
soldier, though a resourceful one. He
left the army at 53. But he was destined
to hit on a Great Idea, and he will be
remembered when all the South African
generals are forgotten.
“Bob” Nicholls, remembered in the
New Year honors for his work as Speaker
of S.A. Assembly, has been in Parliament
for more than half of his 51 years, and
in the Chair for the last eight, mixing
geniality with firmness. Like so many
other S.A. politicians, he is a busy lay-
preacher in his spare time ; only in his
case there is no sign of it in either voice
or manner socially. His 18-year-old son
is a midshipman on active service abroad.
Henry Stephen Bailey, Chief Secretary
of Victoria, entered Parliament for Port
Fairy in 1914. A Labor Minister under
Hogan, he has been 51 years with Dun-
stan, and is Attorney-General and Chief
Sec. As such his chief interests have been
hospitals, mental hygiene and prisons—
H. S. BAILEY.
he organised Corriemongie prison camp,
where 45,000 acres of dairying country
are worked by short-term prisoners on
the Maoriland plan. The Widows’ Pen-
sion Act was one of his babies. Bailey
was born in Ballarat, son of a Govern-
ment M.O.
Major-General Northcott, who will
take charge of the new Australian
Armored Corps, is an old Ballarat boy,
and was educated at Grenville College.
Destined for an academic career, he went
to Melbourne Uni. but escaped into the
“Congratulations, Tubby.”
“ ‘SIR BERTRAM’ to the likes of you!”
army. He went from Tasmania to the
last war as adjutant of the 12th Battalion.
In 1924 he was drafted to the Staff Col-
lege at Camberley (Eng.), just when
mechanisation was beginning. He got
further experience of the new depar-
ture when he was in the Imperial
Defence College. He became Deputy
Chief of Staff in Melbourne in 1939,
and acted as C.G.S. during General
Squires’s sickness, and again after Brude-
nell White was killed in the air crash at
Canberra.
Daisy Bates is walking out on civilisa-
tion again. The Federal Government
lured her away from the abos. she had
lived amongst for 30 years in 1933 to
give it the fruits of her experience. She
has been writing the history of Binghi
at Canberra, and, the job finished, the
first thing she thought of was to return
to Ooldea, on the Transcontinental,
where her residence is a bark humpy and
her companions lubras and piccaninnies.
The astounding woman has just touched
80. This is not the first history of the
race she has written. She compiled one
for the Government of Westralia, but it
was never published.
B.H.P.’s development of Whyalla is
particularly congenial to Walter Duncan,
who has helped the several other S.A.-
born directors to place S.A. more and
more on the industrial map. A knight of
comparatively recent vintage, Walter is
often busy showing visitors round the
new blast furnace and shipyard. He
has been an M.L.C. for 22 years and
president of the Royal Show Society since
1932.
The Department of Information is
blowing up like the frog in the fable, and
now it is demanding overseas appoint-
ments just like a full-blown diplomatic
service. Its first is David W. Bailey,
who goes to New York to take charge of
the Australian News and Information
Bureau. He is a journalist with plenty
of experience, having been on the
“Herald” in Melbourne and acted as its
deputy chief of staff in London. Just
before the war he was on the staff of the
Australian Associated Press in London,
but has been in charge of its N’York
branch since January last year.
Rev. Edgar A. Bennett, of Binnaway,
N.S.W., recently appointed principal of
Wolaroi (Methodist) College, Orange, is
carrying on a family tradition. Both his
father and uncle are clergymen of high
academic attainments, and each is prin-
cipal of a N.S.W. Methodist college, the
one at Wesley (Sydney Uni.) and the
other at Leigh.
Amongst latest Red Cross appoint-
ments is that of Basil Burdett, the Mel-
bourne art critic, who goes overseas as
deputy-assistant commissioner to the
Australian society. Burdett served in the
last war, and after the Armistice was
one of two soldiers who took the Gov-
ernment’s offer of an opportunity to tour
European galleries. Then he set up as the
manager of an art gallery in Sydney.
Melbourne “Herald” engaged him to
criticise pictures, and when Keith Mur-
doch conceived the idea of educating
Australia on the subject of so-called
modern art he was sent to Europe to
make a selection. The collection arrived
just before the outbreak of war, and its
showing in the capital cities produced
great argument.
Another of the long string of Aus-
tralian cartoonists to make good in Lon-
don, Sam Wells, is back in Melbourne.
A few years ago he left the “Herald” to
try his luck in London, and landed a job
with the Manchester “Despatch,” where
his style deepened, while his Australian
satire and humor got him wide recogni-
tion. He is back in his old job on the
“Herald.”
One of the first civil-trained pilots to
offer his services to the R.A.A.F. at the
outbreak of war was J. Irving Toohey,
owner of Mandemar, Bowral (N.S.W.),
a show place on which he breeds Red
Polls. The pastoralist-aviator received
his initial flying training with Goulburn
Aero Club, and owned a ’plane himself.
When he gets any leave he makes a bee-
line to Mandemar to see how his stock
are faring.
Australia’s first naval attache —he goes
to Washington —is Commander Henry
Mackay Burrell, R.A.N. He was one
of two contemporaries who passed out
of Parramatta High School into the
R.A.N. College in January, 1918 the
other was Bulletin artist “Lock,”
father of “Prendergast.” Both were
sons of State school headmasters —
Burrell’s wielded the tawse at Pros-
pect, where the only water is to
be found in the reservoir. He served in
both R.A.N. and R.N. all over the world
in ships which ranged from drifters to
battleships. His subject is navigation,
which he will scarcely need in Washing-
ton, where all the streets are straight.
“K. 8.”: Apart from sitting in his
corner at a political contest at which he
was handsomely walloped, my outstand-
ing memory of recent knight Fergus
McMaster was obtained at a crocodile
hunt in the Gulf country. It was a nasty
morning ; the water was cold, green, re-
pellent, dotted with pairs of bubbles
which were the snouts of the man-eaters.
It was 150 yards across that river. The
thought of swimming it struck me with a
shiver. “I wouldn’t swim that hole for a
thousand quid,” I volunteered the infor-
mation. “Nah. Wouldn’t ye?” F.McM.
asked. “I would not!” I replied. “It
wouldn’t be any good to me. I’d be a
nervous wreck if I ever did get to the
other side. Would you? Would you do
it for two thousand?” “Oh, weel, Ah
might gie it a shot if Ah got the money
firrst.”
“Mt. Lawley”; Dr. Evatt has fallen
under the spell of Westralia, and intends
going back to see more of the country as
soon as circumstances allow. He made
pals there not only among the Labor
people but among pressmen like Victor
Courtney and Jack Simons of the “Sun-
day Times,” having been armed with in-
troductions by Curtin, his friendship with
whom is independent of any possible dif-
ference of opinion in Caucus. Inciden-
tally, the Swan by-election, though Dinan
went off pop before it was over and is
still exploding at intervals, was conducted
quite amiably as far as everyone else was
concerned. Menzies and Evatt, political
rivals as they are, were seen hobnobbing
together on more than one occasion. The
P.M. himself kept his entourage waiting
LEONARD MURRAY, Administrator
of Papua.
at a country siding while he went and
blew the froth off a pewter with a Labor
stalwart. While disputing the claims and
arranging the chances, each had dis-
covered that it was the other’s birthday.


INDUSTRY'S PART
*
*
*
%
%
i
7"
p x
p»
m
i
MR
$P
m
m
*m
m*
TRAINING FLIGHT!
Industry has answered the call to arms—throughout Australia factories
have been converted from peace-time to wartime activities.
More than 50 Australian Manufacturers with the men on the job in
their factories and with the ready support of the de Haviland Aircraft
Company in England, have, by a great co-operative effort, made
possible the production in record time of the first urgently needed
Australian Gypsy Aero Engines.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd. are happy that they were able to play
a useful and responsible part in the production of this engine; that
in this and other ways a National need is being served and a con-
tribution made to the development of Australia’s industrial capacity.
Who develops Industry serves Australia
C 739.60
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDENS LTD.
BEDFORD ■ BUICK • CADILLAC - CHEVROLET• O.MX.
LA SALLE • OLDSMOBILE * PONTIAC VAUXHALI


ABORIGINALITIES
“Excuse ME, but this is NOT a smoker.”
“B. A. Ker”: Sober, Bert couldn’t fix
a cigarette-lighter, but outside the pub
on Christmas Eve he was a mechanical
genius. Surveying the motley collection
of parked vehicles, his lubricated tongue
tore them to pieces, individually and col-
lectively. After a particularly choice
effort an indignant owner rasped, “You
seem to be an authority on cars.” “I
am,” declared Bert modestly. “I’ve never
met the feller who could tell me some-
think about a car that I didn’t know.”
“Don’t you own the ‘baby’ parked around
the corner?” asked the indignant one.
“Well, I’ll bet you a dollar I can tell
you something about it you don’t know.”
Bert couldn’t produce his five bob quick
enough. “All right,” said the stranger,
covering the cash. “I know a big ‘Studey’
backed into your bus and nearly flattened
it just a while ago—but you don’t.” The
information proved correct; but it wasn’t
until the winner was driving away with
the stakes that Bert noticed the bent
bumper-bar on the rear of his car.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Townsville (N.Q.) had a
thrill when two hefty sharks fought an all-
in battle just outside the City Baths. An
eight-footer had been nosing longingly
round taking no notice of stones pelted
at it by bathers, except for an occasional
leering glance at the plumpest of them,
when a 14-footer arrived and promptly
sailed into it. The lightweight put up a
good scrap for ten minutes with some
neat dodging, every detail of which could
be seen by the interested audience as the
water was not more than three feet deep.
Then it made a fatal tactical error by
leaping from the surface to evade a par-
ticularly savage rush. The big chap fol-
lowed it into the air, caught it side on
and bit it in two with one snap. The
head end drifted ashore while the victor
was devouring the rest, and just as a
party of police arrived with rifles the big
fellow made a clean getaway, as the
biggest fish always do.
* * * *
“Nagheer”; An incident in a recent
police investigation of an alleged murder
at Boorara station in Queensland’s far
south-west recalls The Bulletin draw-
ing of an abo. soldier bringing down an
aeroplane by pointing a bone at it. A
blacktracker had worried the last scrap
from a muttonbone when a passing con-
stable suggested that he point the bone
“along tent b’long cook.” “No fear,”
replied Billy. “Mine likit that pfeller
cook.” The John picked up the bone
and pointed it himself. A second later a
willy-willy tore the cook’s tent from its
moorings, and, accompanied by a cloud
of blankets, cooking utensils and cloth-
ing, it sailed a hundred feet into the air.
Billy followed their flight with awe-
stricken eyes, then bent a reproachful
gaze on the meddler in supernatural in-
fluences. “Flurry fool!” he said. “S’pose
you bin killum that pfeller cook, where
we get our plurry tucker?”
* * * *
“Colbun”; “Mugga” (B. 25/12/’4O) is
right about the neck shot being the best
for outing a croc, on land, but his refer-
ence to the difficulty of keeping them on
the bank afterwards shows that he doesn’t
understand what a proper neck shot
means. Something over halfway back
between the head and shoulder there is
a patch of hide of slightly different tex-
ture. In a 12-footer it is about the size
of a man’s palm, and with practice can
be easily distinguished up to 50 yards—
further with glasses. A bullet placed
there from any ordinary make of larger
calibre rifle —say a Winchester .44 or
even .38 —will knock the lizard cold for
keeps if it lands anywhere within 10
degrees from a right angle to the skin
surface. The reason is that the base of
the skull joins the top of the spine just
there, and the bullet wrecks the whole
brain-cord-muscle transmitting mechan-
ism in both directions at its main junc-
tion, As for a big croc, being unable to
bite a man in half by reason of the blunt-
ness of its teeth, “M.” should take a
look at the complete jaws where each
tooth interlocks with its neighbors and
opposite number. Aided by twists from
the powerful tail, that great spiked clamp
should be fully capable of tearing its
way through a man’s body in one effort.
I have seen one take the belly out of a
swimming horse clear back to the spine
in a single rush.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Out from Coonabara-
bran (N.S.W.) a 2i-year-old boy dis-
appeared on Christmas Day. A search-
ing force of police, blacktrackers and
local men, numbering close to 1000,
combed the district, and, though the
police had a bloodhound to assist, no
trace of the infant had been found after
14 days. Then, two Sunday newspapers
gravely informed me, “serious considera-
tion” was given a theory that the child
had been seized and carried off by an
eaglehawk. It would be impossible to
conceive a more fantastic theory, as the
biggest wedgetail ever hatched could no
more lift a child that age than disguise
itself as a police bloodhound. If it
weren’t for the tragedy of the lost boy
all Australia would be shrieking its head
off. I wonder if some of these journalists
and police have ever seen an eaglehawk.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Seeing that Australians
are beginning to get about the world
again as they did in 1914-18, I wonder
how many parents, wives and cobbers
in the coming months will be astonished
to get letters from a bloke in some out-
landish corner of the globe. My mate,
Kelly, never previously out of Mel-
bourne, got away with the originals in
1914 and began an Odyssey that, for all
I know, might still be going on. I had
notes from Gallipoli, Egypt and France.
Then, after a silence, one from Ulster.
Another long pause, then one from
Smyrna. Months passed and that war
ended, but Kelly got to Russia and to
a place called Kicking Horse Pass in
Canada. About a year later he sent a
request for a few quid, this time from
Chile, saying he was about to go to
Japan. The following year I was camped
on the Wakool, near Stony Crossing,
when Kelly blew in, as casually as though
he’d left the week before, and demanded
tobacco. He had, he said, an idea of
making for New Guinea. I wouldn’t
mind betting he’s not 100 miles from
Bardia right now.
* * » *
“Wang”: “On the track one time look-
in’ fer work,” related Dan, “I stroll inter
a pub in a little one-horse township fer
a drink an’ on the offchance of bearin’
of anythin’ offerin’, though I ain’t quite
stony. There’s only one customer there
—a wizened-up ole coot sittin’ on a form
nursin’ a pot. I order a drink, an’ asks
the ole bloke if he’d join me. He does
quick. He grunts ‘Thanks,’ an’ sits there
eyein’ me orf with a sorta sickly expres-
sion, just like a cove would who feels a
bit awkward ’bout not bein’ able t’ return
the shout, so I lines ’em up again. Bung
looks at me hard, but don’t say anythin.
The ole coot pours his down his gullet,
upends himself an’ ses ‘G’day’ an’ toddles
out. ‘Poor ole beggar,’ I ses. ‘He seemed
to feel it hard not bein’ able to shout
back.’ ‘Poor!’ echoes Bung. ‘Him!
He’& the richest ole cow in the district,
an’ the meanest. I wus tryin’ t’ tip yer
off, but I couldn’t say anythin’.’ ‘ ’Struth !’
1 ses, staggered. Then, gettin’ down t’
bizness, ‘S’pose y’ don’t know where a
bloke could get a job anywhere round
here?’ ‘Well, yes,’ he ses. ‘As a matter
of fact, I heard that ole coot yer’ve been
buyin’ beer for was lookin’ for a hand.’
I rush out an’ catch the ole bloke as he’s
gettin’ inter a jinker. T just been tole
yer want a man,’ I ses. He eyes me up
an’ down. ‘Yes,’ he ses, T do. But not
you. If you think yer can wangle a job
outa me just be buyin’ me a drink or
two yer damned well mistook! ’ ”
* * * *
“Pick*: Have noticed that for pur-
poses of shelter and ready downhill flight
reptiles choose grassy hillside slopes for
their hunting forays, returning to the
scrubs when the birdnesting season
begins. The big snakes —carpets and
diamonds—find a track from the thickets
and coil alongside it on a sandpit or dust-
heap with their heads erect from the
middle coil. The rabbit or bandicoot that
skips from the thicket and escapes the
outthrust head suddenly slung from those
unwinding coils is a rarity.
* * * *
“Monger’s Lake”: Has “Naturala”
(B. 18/12 /’4O) ever tried fishing for those
little mud turtles? The funny little
fellows will take a bait. Fish for prefer-
ence, though they will occasionally take
a worm. But their real glory is their
pull. One fancies a twenty-pound perch
or tench is on. And they kick and fight,
too. Getting the hook out of their tough,
well-toothed mouths is a difficulty. It
is advisable to keep the jaws open with
a cork or a bit of wood—else one is
liable to lose quite a trifle of finger. But
they are no good for eating. Ideas of
turtle soup fade when one gets a good
smell of the little shellback, though I
have known hardy-stomached whites who
liked them baked. The abo., of course,
never let a chance pass. But the best
customer to a turtle-catcher who during
the Great Depresh started in that way
of business was John Chinaman. John’s
relish for turtle soup often led to the
capture and disposal of half a chaffbag-
ful in a single afternoon.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Kids around the W.A.
jarrah country have lately been able to
indulge in what was once recognised as
a kingly dish for wasn’t it Henry I
who died from a gorge of lamprey? You
can catch the eel-like creatures by hand
in some streams, but not with hook and
line, for the lamprey doesn’t bite. Run-
ning in length to 30in. and more, it coils
round its prey and proceeds to rasp off
a meal with a curious arrangement of
horny teeth. Not unlike the eel in the
body, the lamprey shows differences in
having six gill openings on each side of
the neck instead of the eel’s one. Its
throat pouch, which it can distend to
the size of a billiard ball, is evidently
a means of discouraging any ambitious
diner scenting a lamprey meal. But the
real puzzle is where it comes from and
where it goes. Also why W.A. should
be favored with its presence and the
rest of the continent not, though Maori-
land has it. It has been observed in the
Blackwood River up to 300 miles inland.
Only drought stays its journeyings, for
it scales waterfalls and rapids, springing
from rock to rock, anchoring between
jumps with a tail-hold. Probably goes
upstream to spawn, though that is a
question still to be solved. Good eating,
but, with that lesson from the history
book, to be taken with moderation.
* * * *
“Wagong”: Using beach worms I
wasn’t doing any good until I saw some-
thing jump in the shallow tide-water on
the flats behind me. Threw out and
trawled the line slowly. Got three nice
“niggers” in a few minutes. Confirmed
blackfish men won’t believe it. Anybody
done the same?
* * * *
“Telluride”; Larry the Gent, was dead-
beat out from White Cliffs (N.S.W.).
Towards sundown he strode into a clump
of leopard-woods which sheltered a dila-
pidated tent. The lonely occupant was
just handing his enamel plate to an
expectant kelpie. Larry watched the dog
washing up in silence. The boss slowly
took Larry in and drawled: “I’m just off
around my traps. There’s tea and sugar
in the box ; brew yourself » mug.” Larry
went hopefully to the tuckerbox. The
sight of a crawling leg of mutton in the
meatsafe somewhat diminished his
hunger, but when he opened the tucker-
box he found the bottom of it an in-
separable mass of tea and sugar with a
burst bag of strychnine encroaching on
it. Letting fly with a beautiful string of
curses, Larry hoisted his knot and lit out
for the next habitation.
JOHNNY ALL-SORTS.
In Windmill-street his junk-shop was known
to stevedores
And wights who worked for wages around the
sunny shores
Of Sydney in the ’eighties, when ships with
canvas stowed
Lay waiting by the wharfside to empty and
reload.
From Galway Bay to Goa and ports that lie
between,
In tubs of different tonnage had Johnny All-
sorts been;
Ere seaboots and sou’westers and sailor slops
to sell,
At last he’d come to anchor; he rode his
moorings well.
I fear he was unsober, perhaps at times
profane;
But unto Johnny All-sorts indebted I remain
For spicy sailor stories and salty sailor lore
1 ne’er could gain or gather from college dons
ashore.
From Rio now with Johnny I often long to go
Around the windy corner that turns to Callao;
We’d see their topsails drawing and hear the
deep-sea rain,
Who took the buoyant wind-ships around the
world again.
Oh, heave away my hearties! On plains of
Mexico
We’ll fight for Santa Anna, and as we roll and
go
With Tommy down to Hilo, we’ll raise the
sounding song
Of Rio Grande and Ranzo, and Captain Storm-
along.
We’ll blow them up in Boston, and blow them
down in Cork;
We’ll munch our British biscuit and chew our
Yankee pork;
Fair winds will gaily meet us, and when our
ports we win
We’ll walk with lovely ladies and do our money
in.
A painter in his vision, a poet in his heart —
He had the poet’s spirit, if not the poet’s art —
A sage who knew the real, a man from head
to feet,
A friend and fellow-rover, once lived in Wind-
mill-street.
They called him Johnny All-sorts. On sailing
ships forebye
He’d gathered sailor wisdom; he had the seeing
eye.
Aye, many yarns he spun us and many chanties
fine
We sang in Johnny’s parlor, in days of Old
Lang Syne.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Don’t give a damn; it's got t’ come down!”
A.S.C.
They have carried their loads down the out-
back roads,
And the labor has been their pride.
They have hauled the clip to the waiting ship
Through the streets to the waterside.
They have brought the grain from the stippled
plain
Tf!F the silo siding was full.
Through the blue days long they have loved
the song
Of the engine’s thrust and pull.
When the gale’s fierce lash bade the branches
crash,
Spite of peril, old and new,
Down the winding grade, not a whit dismayed,
Came the transport roaring through. .
Through the coastal rains and the black-soil
plains,
Through flood and dust and flame.
Whatever the by all the gods
They got there' ! 'just the same.
Now they leave the roads where they hauled
their loads
To the wharf and the outback store,
For the Empire’s call has brought them all
To the days and the ways of war.
And the engine’s song sounds yet more strong,
For its theme is the common will:
Though the foe of old prove yet more bold.
We’ll keep our freedom still.
Though the noon-skies reel to a rain of steel,
Or Death through the darkness runs,
They’ll haul each shell through the gates of
hell
To the maws of the hungry guns.
Let the spotlight shine on the fiery line,
On the guns and the infantry,
But save a cheer for the gallant rear —
The men of the A.S.C.
Victoria. C. Company.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Jeff”: Humping Matilda along the
Highway, near Kiah (N.S.W.), I came
across a fellow-bagman coming south. He
was a tall, rangy chap, barefooted and
limping painfully. It was a hot day, and
tough going on the gravel road, I sym-
pathised with him on how hard Fate was
to us old-timers. “You’ve said it, Dig.!”
he exclaimed. “I’ve called in every blasted
place from Bega to this rotten hole, and
not one of the blighters wore size thir-
teen. And they call themselves men!”
* * * *
“Mei”; Re the cactoblastis taking to
the pawpaw-trees (B. 8/1/’4l). When
one considers that the moth has no way
of testing the suitability of a plant as
an article of diet for her offspring, it is
a marvel how she chooses unerringly only
those on which the grubs will thrive. An-
other instance of this is the Emperor
gum moth, which, after centuries of feed-
ing on red-gum trees, suddenly found
that its progeny thrived just as well on
the pepperina-tree imported from Brazil.
* * * •
“Flight”: So “Brig” knows of no bird
other than the waterhen that swims with-
out webbed feet (B. 1/1/’41)! Has “B.”
never seen a spoonbill in the water? Nor
a bald coot alight in water out of its
depth; likewise a waggie or any of those
others which wade considerably? Though
they don’t swim as consistently as the
waterhen, they can do it just as well. A
hen can swim as expertly as any wild
duck, according to “B.” Actually, it
jerks itself along with a series of pro-
pulsions that indicate what heavy
weather it is making. Judging by dis-
tances as compared with times, the thing
is faster under the water than on top of
it. It may use its wings when acting as
a submarine. Practically every bird can
swim—for a time, at any rate. It might
surprise “B.” to know that those long-
striders and land-coverers the emus and
the brolgas can swim as expertly as a
waterhen until their feathers become
waterlogged.
* * * *
“Naturala”: That brown bullfrog of
“B.A.K.’s” experiment (B. 11/12/’4O)
certainly had a rough spin. By the time
a frog has attained that shade it has
become a land-dweller, often erroneously
called a toad. And though, like a human
swimmer, it could kick a sufficiency of
strokes to bring it to land, it can’t live
indefinitely in water out of its depth as
can its younger green relatives. Brown
Bully has evolved through those stages.
First an egg, for the depositing of which
his parents returned temporarily to the
water —you hear the male bully croon-
ing his love song after rain. Then as a
tiny hatchling entangled with a thousand
others in a mass of frothy spawn-raft.
Then the tadpole with gently-waving tail
but shocking cannibalistic habits. Then
the newt-like stage as the tail shortens
and legs grow. Then the hilarious
“greeny” ducking and diving in its
native pool, unable to drown, since water
is still its element. Then Greeny climbs
out, and may become one of several
browns—even a tree frog. Or a solitary
burrow-digging “moaner,” or a night-
roving “squealer.” Or it may just stay
a swamp-edge greeny and commit
suicide with a hundred others hopping
across motor-roads after a shower of
rain.
* * * *
“Wester”: Hayband, J.P., had Hay-
stack up before him. Charge was drunk
and disorderly and using language in the
presence of females. “Bein’ drunk ain’t
much, Joe,” said the Bench, “an’ any
cove’s likely t’ fight when he’s got a few
in, but this sweatin’ in front o’ women
is over the odds. It’ll cost y’ a quid!”
Joe was staggered. “Gripes,” he com-
plained, “y’re rockin’ it in, ain’t y’, Tom?”
Then the Bench arose in outraged dignity.
“Hey!” it roared. “Y’ don’t think / get
y’r bloomin’ quid, do y’?”
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”; We were humping
the drum along a quiet road on the Dar-
ling Downs when we came up with a
cocky driving a small mob of cattle. He
said he would like to make a cask of beef
out of one of them but was no butcher.
Ned offered to slaughter one and cut it up
for five bob, and the cocky agreed. With
the bucket of water handy, knives were
sharpened, the rope fixed on the rickety
gallows and the poddy tied to one of the
gallows posts. The owner and I took a
half-hitch of the rope around the post
to pull the victim up tight, while Ned
reached for the 41b. Kelly that had been
promoted from the woodheap. Warning
his employer to stand further back so as
not to interfere with his swing, Ned got
his “sight” and swung, with dire effect,
to the accompaniment of a blood-curd-
ling shriek from the cocky. “Strike me
roan,” he gasped, “I thought yer was goin’
ter hit w’ere yer was lookin’!” He had
failed to notice before how very cross-
eyed Ned is.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Practically all the fauna
that Maoriland has imported and pro-
tected have evolved into pests. It was
never anticipated that the native pukeko
—the swamp hen —would give cause for
lifting the protection so long accorded it.
But the sad fact has been established that
the gaily-plumaged fowl has become an
abductor of ducklets and a robber
of the fruits of fowls and ducks. The
drying-up of swampland has necessi-
tated the cunning and secretive aristo-
crat seeking food outside its natural
hunting-grounds. Ministerial decree is
expected soon to give the man with the
gun a chance, though the bird has ever
proved evasive.
* * * *
“Aratta”: The subject under discus-
sion was rifle shooting. “Yes,” said Long
Alec, “the best shot I ever knew wus a
cobber of mine. He would set up a row
of lighted candles, about a foot apart, an’
stand orf about fifty yards an’ blow out
the lot in less than six seconds.” “A mate
of mine useter do the same trick,”
affirmed “Grubby” Woods, “but he did
it in less than one second. He just fired
from opposite the end of the row,” “That
ain’t nothin’ t’ what a chap I useter
know could do,” chimed in little Fred.
“He had a round board about a coupla
feet in diameter with inch holes bored
round the edge of it a couple of inches
in an’ about six inches apart. It wus
fitted on an axle, after the style of them
chockerlate wheels. At the back of the
board he’d stand one of them fancy
cigarette-lighters in sech a position that
when the board wus spun round the light
would shine through each hole in turn
as it came opposite it. Then he’d stand
orf about seventy yards an’ let drive.
Through the first hole he’d blow the
light out, an’ then on through ev’ry other
one.” “ ’Spect us t’ b’lieve that?” sneered
Long Alec. “How the blazes could he
do that when he’d blown the light out
first shot?” “Easy,” said Fred evenly.
“Through ev’ry second hole he’d hit the
edge of the ratchet thing on the lighter
an’ set it alight again!”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Of tropical cypress pine,
light but hard, my aboriginal shield
measured originally 30in. by Sin. by two
or more inches thick —a sizable slab.
With infinite care and labor it was pared
down until at the ends it is no more than
three-eighths of an inch thick. Towards
the middle at the back it swells gradu-
ally, forming good buttresses for a
handle or handgrip, itself part of the
solid wood. What chiselling, what
paring and scraping went to the carving
of that handle! Nor is the handle casu-
ally placed. Meant to be held in the
left hand, it lies well to the right side
of the shield, so as to give ample pro-
tection to the knuckles and the swell of
the forearm. Nor is the face of the shield
merely a flat. When lying on a table
it rests on a point just underneath the
handgrip, the two ends sweeping up
nearly an inch. Thus it is streamlined.
The face is decorated artistically with
grooved lines, painted alternately white
and red. Tool used was a stone or per-
haps a sharp bone. The pigments, still
bright after 40 years, were mixed with
blood from the carver’s own veins. As
an individual war effort the carving of
that aboriginal shield compares readily
with the effort of any individual muni-
tion-worker of today.
* * * *
“Pointer”: Admitted that Sandy (B.
18/12/ ’4O) was a fair dog, but I still
think Jock, my own pointer, has the edge
on him. One day Jock disappeared. The
nippers and I, searching the neighbor-
hood, eventually located him at the gate-
way of a big new house in the town.
Jock was rigid as a rock, one paw slightly
raised, tail held, not parallel but vertical,
at right angles with the body. Apparently
he’d got the scent of game, but the up-
right tail had me thinking. I’d never
known him to “point” in such an unusual
manner before. And keen —I’ve never
seen anything like it. I had to exert
pressure in dragging him from his in-
visible quarry. His queer manner of
pointing had me tricked until next day,
when I was passing the same gate and
noticed the brass plate on it. It read
“Dr. Quayl.” Then I tumbled. Jock
had been trying to tell me by forming
the letter I with his tail and body that
the medico had fallen down on his
spelling.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Excitement ran
high when Tommy Nankervis, swimming
with some of his pals in the quarry hole
at Billygoat Flat, came to the surface
after a dive holding a human skull aloft.
It was immediately assumed that the skull
was part of the mortal remains of Cranky
Jackson, whose disappearance had
puzzled the Flat for several years. As
further diving failed to reveal the re-
mainder of the skeleton, several Cali-
fornia pumps and their owners were
requisitioned and set to work. Hauling
on the plunger-rod of a California pump
is a tough job, but the toilers stuck to
their work, and late on the third day
had the satisfaction of seeing the bottom
but not a single bone. “Gripes!” ejacu-
lated Bill Henderson, “all that work an’
no flamin’ skellinton.” “I knoo that yer
wouldn’t find none,” said Dirty Dickson.
“Y’ see, wot the kids found wus the skull
of an abo. wot me brother Fred brung
down frum Innerminker as a kinda
soov’neer. Me ol’ woman ses it’s ’orrible
ter keep sich a gastily specimint in the
’ouse, an’ she keeps on rousin’ ontil
fin’lly I gets fed up an’ chucks the damn’
thing inter the quarry ’ole.” “W’y didn’t
yer say so before an’ save us all this
work?” demanded Bill. “Well,” retorted
Dirty, “one day w’en I kem ’ere for a
swim a. coupla bob fell outa me weskit
pocket an’ rolled inter the ’ole, an’ w’en
I sees y’ start pumpin’ I reckons I gotter
good chanst ter git me money back, so
I acks the iseter.” They picked Dirty out
of the hole in time to prevent his becom-
ing a skeleton.
“ 'Course I Were younger then."


IiUDOUIICIS
%
o
m
3P
m
o
for
GEARS
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES
V BELT DRIVES
J. C. LVDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST. STH. MELBOURNE
Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend to be the Executor of your Estate, appoint him
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T H Kelly (Chairman). Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Cresco Fertilizers, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends % To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1929.. 65,028 7 p.c. 10 p.c. 63,573 1,455 74,915
Unexplained additions to reserves, £BOOO.. 82,915
1930.. 64,224 6 p.c.* Nil 6,610 57,614 140,529
Loss.
1931.. 26.2601 Nil Nil 114,269
Profit.
1932.. 16,616 12 p.c.*t Nil 13,316 3,300 117,569
1933.. 26,577 6* „ 4 p.c. 31,579 112,567
1934.. 22,675 6* „ 6J „ 22,217 458 113,025
Loss.
1935.. 29,349 6* „ Nil 6,659 77,017
1936.. 16,472 6* „ Nil 6,659 53,886
Bad debts recovered, £2500 .. .. 56,386
Tax reserve disclosed, £2500 .. .. 53,886
Profit.
1937.. 19,087 6* p.c. Nil 0,660 12,427 66,313
1938.. 18,632 6* „ 1* p.c. 15,987 2,645 68,958
1939.. 11,787 6*,, 14 „ 15,989 64,756
1940.. 28,307 6* „ 1* „ 15,989 12,318 77,074
Enlisted employees’ fund, £lOOO .. .. 76,074
*lncludes 5 p.c. on old prefs., 2825 in 1930, now
240. f After making special provision ( £59,000)
for depreciation and doubtful debts. Jlncludcs arrears.
This co. operates three plants in South
Australia and one at Geelong (Vic.), and
has a £90,011 share interest in Cresco
Fertilizers (W.A.) as well. Sales depend
largely upon conditions in the wheat in-
dustry, with a growing demand from
graziers who cater for the fat-lamb trade.
Last season Nature was kind, and, though
fewer acres were planted in S. Aus. and
W.A., bigger yields were obtained, as
the following table shows:
Season. Acreage. Bushels. Bushels.
Average
Yield, per Acre,
q 1 1938-39 3,080,000 31,674,000 10.28
'• ' j 1939-40 2,737,000 40,985,000 14.97
Vmtnrio 1 1938-39 2,748,000 18,014,000 6.59
a | 1939-40 2,827,000 45,054,000 15.93
W Auq J 1938-39 3,413,000 36,844,000 10.79
. aus. 1939-40 2,949,000 40,860,000 13.86
To cover increased costs the selling price
of super, was lifted 28s. per ton between
August, 1939, and June, 1940. A Gov-
ernment subsidy, however, enables a
rebate of 4s. per ton to be made to the
farmer.
The co. doesn’t broadcast its sales, but
output of its four plants was slightly
lower than for the previous term. Still,
gross earnings (£93,707) were up £12,616,
and exes. (£65,400) were £3904 lighter.
But no allowance was visibly made for
bad debts, etc., whereas £5OOO was so
set aside for the preceding 12 months.
The £28,307 of profit claimed, however,
was no more than sufficient to pay the
pref. div. and show 3.4 p.c. on the
£622,200 of ord. capital. The div. was
kept at 1} p.c., money being wanted in
the business owing to the serious
seasonal and general outlook for the
current term.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1937 1938. 1939. 1940
Paid capital.. £734,679 £733,165 £733,165 £733,165
Liabilities .. 256,466 307,509 323,501 324,270
Freeholds and
plant . . 509,485 572,098 587,369 578,815
Stocks . . 123,739 161,499 190,933 284,556
Shares in other
cos. .. 90,005 90,005 90,005 90,011
Debtors .. 202,930 176,124 143,790 129,465
Cash, etc. . . 140,458 87,155 75,103 14,029
Farm property, etc. 41,737 54,212 58,623
Outstanding feature last year was the
increase of £93,623 in stocks a wise
precaution considering what has hap-
pened at Nauru, which, together with
Ocean Island, is the chief source of
supply of phosphate rock, the co.’s prin-
cipal raw material. To finance the out-
lay, cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£61,074 and debtors’ balances were re-
duced by £14,325, thanks to a good
season. The improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£103,780, exclud-
ing shares in other cos.) was £17,455.
The Westralian offshoot (paid capital
£343,549) continues to make a better
showing than the parent owing mainly
to the absence of aggressive competition;
ORESOO FERTILIZERS (W.A.).
Net , Dividends Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 13,459 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 13,050 409 10,728
Unexplained addition, £3500 .. .. 14,228
1936.. 12,136 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 13,057 13,307
Unexplained addition, £4OOO .. .. 17,307
Tax reserve disclosed, £7500 .. .. 9,807
1937.. 20,719 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 15,885 4,834 14,641
From bad debts reserve, £16,000 .. 30,641
To depreciation reserve, £6OOO . . .. 24,641
1938.. 24,896 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 18,975 5,921 30,562
1939.. 24,558 6 „ 6 „ 19,667 4,891 35,453
1940.. 25,281 6 „ 6 „ 20,261 1 . n9n , Q , 7 ,
Enlisted employees’ fund, £lOOO ) 4,uzu 6y ’* ia
Last year’s profit (up £723) was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 7.1 p.c.
on the £315,989 of ord. capital. The
div. was maintained at an all-round 6 p.c.
As for the current season, the wheat
crop throughout Australia has suffered
severely owing to a dry winter and spring,
and the demand for super, will be much
lighter. The estimated yield for 1940-41
compares with the average yield for the
preceding 10 years as follows:
, Million Bushels — N
Average 10
1940-41.* Years to 1940.
N. S. Wales .. .. 28,000,000 60,000,000
Victoria . . . . 13,000,000 40,000,000
S. Australia .. .. 19,000,000 36,000,000
Westralia . . . . 19,000,000 36,000,000
Total . . . . 92,000,000 178,000,000
* Estimate.
The average yield per acre for Australia
for 1940-41 is figured at 1} bushels as
against the preceding 10-year average of
12} bushels, and the area sown through-
out the Commonwealth (12,355,000 acres)
is about a million acres less than for the
previous season. Also, owing to the big
American surplus, sale of the current
season’s crop at a satisfactory figure may
not prove an easy matter. The Govern-
ment is considering a scheme to stabilise
the export price at 3s. lOd. per bushel
for bagged wheat f.o.b.
No early shortage of superphosphate
in either Australia or Maoriland is likely
to result from the recent shelling of
Nauru and the sinking of transports by
German raiders. Manufacturers in both
countries have built up large stocks of
rock phosphate and super., and before
installation of the cantilever crane and
other loading machinery at Nauru, phos-
phate ships calling at the island loaded
from lighters. Of our wheatlands, it is
estimated that only about 7 p.c. (mostly
in Queensland and parts of N. S. Wales)
does not require phosphates in order to
produce satisfactory yields.
At 19s. the co.’s 6 p.c. prefs. yield
6.3 p.c. The f.-p. pound ords. at ss. 3d.
return 5.7 p.c. The net tangible cover
(book value) is £7 ss. lid. prefs. and
225. sd. ords.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 164,575 Nil 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,843
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,276 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
1935.. 30,128 6.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
1936.. 35,680 9.1 „ „ 20,000 15,680 56,192
Contingency reserve, £13,500 .. .. 69,692
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 25,385 95,077
Loss.
1938.. 91,391 Nil 3,686
Profit.
1939.. 4.120 Nil 4.120 7,806
1940.. 33,552 13.6 p.c. = 30,000 3,552 11,358
This co.’s scrip is one of the most specu-
lative industrial stocks on the market.
That is because the co. buys wool, hides,
furred skins, etc., largely on its own
account, and sells them overseas. Among
other things, this means heavy stocks,
and the time factor makes earnings vul-
nerable to economic and other develop-
ments. For four out of the last dozen
years losses aggregating £287,781 showed
up ; during the other eight profits totalled
£214,092. In 1930 the books were cleared
of intangibles, including £130,000 of good-
will, by lopping 9s. per share (£180,000) off
capital, reducing it to its present figure
(£220,000) in 400,000 11s. shares. A run
of divs. averaging 8.5 p.c. were paid for
the four years to the close of accounts in
1937; then a sharp drop in prices
for skins, etc., brought a loss of
£91,391 in 1938. In the following year,
developments in Europe and Asia nar-
rowed the co.’s markets, and competition
for the limited amount of business offer-
ing made it difficult to earn reasonable
profits.
Last term, the wool section of the busi-
ness had a certain market, thanks to the
British Government contract. As for
skins, the board says:
In normal times America purchases large
quantities of European fur skins, and par-
ticularly rabbit and hare skins. With these
supplies now cut off the demand for Aus-
tralian skins has been better than usual,
and the co. has enjoyed a full share of
profitable business. A rare opportunity
exists to increase Australian trade with
America in these lines, as well as other
raw products.
After providing for all contingencies, the
net result was £29,432 better at £33,552,
or 15.2 p.c. on capital as against 1.8 p.c.,
a loss, 20.6, 16.2, 13.3, 17.8 and 11.1 p.c.
back to 1933. Shareholders, who had
gone without for the two preceding
terms, were handed 13.6 p.c,, making the
average 6.8 p.c. over the last seven years.
The £3552 that remained lifted reserves
to £11,358, which is none too stout a prop
for £220,000 of capital in this class of
business.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £220,000 £220,000 £220,000 £220,000
Overdraft . . 119,462 162,088 167,845 145,842
Creditors .. 101,974 62,953 44,744 80,701
Fixed assets.. 175.294 183.812 169,181 102,252
Stocks .. 215,926 171,879 157,162 202,222
Book debts . . 150,849 78,630 99,778 107,100
Cash .. . . 1,592 1,555 1,423 1,475
Shares other cos. 12,851 12,851 12,851 14,851
Stocks, the most vulnerable point,
are up £45,060. Still, for reasons
already referred to, the dangers in
this respect have been greatly reduced—
for the present, at any rate. To meet the
outlay and lop £22,003 off the overdraft
the amount coming to sundry creditors
was increased by £35,957. The year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£99,105) was £40,480.
During 1940 the price of the shares
fluctuated between Bs, and ss. 3d. in the
market. At 6s. lid., the figure last week-
end, the return would be 21.3 p.c. so long
as the 13.6 p.c. div. is maintained, or 8 p.c.
on a 5.1 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
11s. 7d. in net tangibles, partly stocks.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends ■,
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ if £ £
1929.. 65,213 10,500 13J p.c.=44,555 10,158 101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 „,. 32,404 3,490104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 2J „ „ 8,101 64,681
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,680
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2} „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
Unexplained additions, £2225 .. .. 1,403
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 2J p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
1938.. 31,068 10,500 4 ~ ~ 12,902 8,206 29,540
Reserves disappear, £7498 .. .. 22,042
1939. . 27,421 10,500 4 p.c.=12,!)62 3,959 26,001
1940.. 30,954 10,500 4 „ ~12,962 7,492 33.493
To staff pension fund, £3OOO .. .. 30,493
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts retailers were in clover.
There was plenty of money about, thanks
to contract sales of most of our export-
able surplus to Britain at very satisfac-
tory prices, and to Government spending
on defence and other account locally.
Together with the high level of employ-
ment, due to absorption of personnel into
the fighting services and to increased
tory production of war goods, this spelt
keen demand for most shopkeepers. Also
price control had prevented a sharp rise
in costs, though they continued on the
up-grade.
Sales of this old-established retailer,
whose store is in Bourke-street, alongside
Myer’s in the centre of Melbourne’s shop-
ping area, were the best since 1929. After
setting aside £lO,OOO (up £5543) for the
taxgatherer and £11,609 (up £328) for
depreciation, and making whatever other
provision was considered necessary for
contingencies, there was a spring of £3533
in net earnings, which reached £30,954.
That was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 6.3 p.c, on the £324,041 of ord.
capital, compared with 5.2, 6.5, 7.5 and
2 p.c. for the three preceding years. The
div. was kept at 4 p.c., and nothing better
need be expected—for the present, at any
rate.
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1930 the ords. averaged a shade over
13 p.c., sweetened with £133,221 of bonus
scrip. For the next half-dozen years
declared trading profits exceeded declared
trading losses by only £3625. Stocks
were the trouble. Imported high-grade
fashion goods, the most difficult of all
drapery lines, used to account for a large
slice of the turnover. But slump and
competition forced the co. to take up
more medium-priced lines with slender
profit, margins. About four years ago,
however, a system of budgeting was in-
troduced which made for better buying
and the stopping-up of many outlets, and
moderate profits and regular payments to
the ords. have continued since.
As for the current term, trading prom-
ises to become more difficult. The Gov-
ernment will mop up in loans and taxes
of one kind and another millions of
pounds more than it did last year, and
costs remain on the increase. Also taxa-
tion is likely to alter the nature of
demand, especially for luxury lines, and
difficulties associated with the importa-
tion of cotton and other goods can be
expected to grow. Still, it will probably
not be until arrival of the post-war period
that the co. will meet with the toughest
nuts it will have to crack.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
T QQ A IQQK "I QQQ 1 Q4A
Orel, capital. . £324.041 £324 041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital. . 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities . . 268,673 376,820 400,471 386,868
Premises, etc. 411.044 468,089 504,400 501,309
Plant, etc. .. 83,465 96,320 116,576 113,328
Book debts .. 77,368 59,741 64,959 63,471
Stock.. .. 304,582 199,678 237,253 237,346
Cash, etc. . . 5,323 39,814 2,507 8,335
Last term there was no change worth
mentioning so far as stocks are con-
cerned, though much depends upon the


Position Vacant.
The Farleigh Co-operative Sugar Milling
Association, Limited.
Applications are invited until noon on
Wednesday, 29th January, 1941, for the posi-
tion of MANAGER at Farleigh Mill.
Residence, firewood, light and water supplied.
Applications to be addressed to the under-
signed and endorsed “Manager” and must
state age, qualifications, salary required and
when prepared to commence duties.
A. P. BOWERMAN,
Secretary.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE Sc COMPANY. T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD,
CAPITA! PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA! 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
m
m
Mafcl
'Vv-.'
Hi i
m
m
mm HS
HBE
.....................
;■ -
f|B|
■. Wi
hoiv COOL
IS YOUR KITCHEN
IN JANUARY?
If you have a beautiful streamlined AGA Cooker, the pride of any woman’s
heart, the AGA’s heavy insulation keeps your kitchen cool right through summer.
That is one reason why AGA Cookers are so popular in tropical towns like
Darwin, Port Moresby, Townsville.
Cooking is all pleasure with an AGA, instantly ready, day or night, for every
kind of cooking
Husbands . . . you’ve never tasted anything tenderer or tastier than an AGA
grill or roast. Tired wives should plan now to get an AGA, and take credit
for miracle-cooking. If both of you are budget-minded, get down to fuel facts
quickly. In a whole year, the AGA Model C, suitable for city or country
homes, burns only £3 worth of coke (at 30/- per ton). 40,000 happy users in
the British Empire have proved how much an AGA saves.
JfaOmmdfleatSirrme
COOKER
Now come and see an AGA actually cooking, in
our Showrooms. Or write today for illustrated
Booklet Rl.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Estd. 1852. (Inc. in N.Z.).
45 King Street, Sydney ; 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
and Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
nature of the goods on the shelves. The
outside debt (down £13,603) consists
mainly of a mortgage (unaltered at
£225,000) and deposits (£93,544, down
£3722). When the books closed the
amount coming to outsiders exceeded
more or less liquids by £77,716, an im-
provement of £18,036 over the twelve-
month. The floating debt was well
covered.
The market, which expects that the co.
will have no difficulty in maintaining the
4 p.c. div., prices the pound ords. at 18s.
(same as a year ago), at which figure
the return is 4.5 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis. The 7 p.c. prefs. at 255. yield
5.6 p.c. The net tangible backing is
675. 4d. prefs. and 21s. lid. ords.
City of Melbourne Loan
Loan Council approval has been given
to a conversion and cash loan of £215,000
for the city of Melbourne. The issue is
at par, currency of 10 years, interest 3j
p.c. It is a record low-interest rate for
an Australian public body, but it com-
pares with an average redemption yield
on all issues of Commonwealth bonds,
based on earliest maturity dates, of
£2 19s. 4d. per cent.
The new loan is secured upon the
Town Fund and the revenue of the cor-
poration. Total revenue for the year to
Sept. 30, 1940, was £1,712,088, whilst the
total interest charge on the council’s loans
for the same year was only £167,739.
The aggregate loan indebtedness amounts
to £3,983,000. The council has un-
limited rating powers over all properties
in the city of Melbourne. The amounts
standing to the credit of sinking funds
total £843,000, or over 20 p.c. of aggre-
gate indebtedness. A cumulative sink-
ing fund of £1 10s. p.c. is being provided
in respect of the new loan, which has
been underwritten by J. B. Were and Son.
From London:
Believing that there is a chance of the Trea-
sury removing its ban on the transfer of the
domicile of Great Boulder from London to
Westralia, the liquidators are not proceeding,
at least for the present, with their application
to the Court for a stay of the winding-up
which they proposed to make so that the co.
could resume its former status. Further light
on the negotiations for the change of domicile
is shed in the liquidators’ statement. It is
recalled that De Bernales told the meeting of
shareholders on September 20 last that the
liquidators would not execute the agreement
for the sale of the co.’s assets to a co. domiciled
in Westralia for 14 days, so that discussions
could take place with the Chancellor of the
Exchequer. On September 25 the Chancellor
received De Bernales, another director, ex-
Governor Campion and legal representatives
of the liquidators. But on the very next day
the Treasury issued an order forbidding the
transfer out of the U.K. of the central manage-
ment or control of any business without Gov-
ernment consent. Later the legal advisers to the
co. wrote to the Treasury asking for consent
to the transfer to W.A. No reasons have been
given for the refusal of the Treasury to the
transfer, it is stated. The liquidators reiterate
that if the co. earned £A460,000 during the
current financial year over £A400,000 will be
paid away in Australian and English taxation,
which amounts to 87 p.c. of the net profits.
They declare that even if the proposal as sub-
mitted by the directors had been carried into
effect the revenue authorities in both countries
would collectively receive approximately
£A200,000 in taxation, which, in percentage,
compares very favorably (to the Governments)
with taxation payable by other cos. At the
time the proposal was submitted to share-
holders there was no legal objection to its
being carried into effect. The only consents
necessary were those of the Commonwealth
Treasurer to the formation of a new co. in
Australia and to the issue of its shares. Both
these were obtained after consultations between
the Commonwealth and Britain —months be-
fore the shareholders’ meeting was held. It
is claimed that no indication of the British
Treasury’s objection was given until two days
before the meeting was held.
In London the other day shareholders
of the De Bernales-controlled Great
Boulder Mining and Finance approved,
but only after a row, to the board’s re-
organisation proposals, which include the
acquisition of the assets of the Murchison
and Meekatharra cos. Great Boulder
Mining and Finance was the second of
De Bernales’s Westralian mining corpora-
tions (Commonwealth Mining and
Finance was the first) to be formed in
London. It was registered in 1935 to
acquire from Australian Mining and In-
vestment, Ltd., a De Bernales family
concern, several old and mostly
waterlogged mines, most of which have
since proved disappoining. Co. also
acquired other interests, including blocks
of scrip in Yellowdine and in
mining ventures abroad. It was floated
under the auspices of Great Boulder Pro-
prietary, and issued 4,848,198 ss, shares.
De Bernales’s co. got £BO,OOO cash and
930.000 paid shares and Great Boulder
£55,000 and 414,000 shares out of the
float. Yellowdine received £20,000 and
350.000 paid shares in exchange for the
scrip it handed over. Later a four-
ninths interest in the Comet at Marble
Bar was bought. Murchison was formed
in 1934 to acquire from other De Ber-
nales family ventures the Riverina at
Mulline and the Emu at Lawlers. It has
1,203,459 issued ss. shares and has put
out £145,000 10 p.c. convertible notes
redeemable at par in 1942. Purchase con-
sideration was £31,500 and 400,000 ss.
paid shares, of which the De Bernales co.
received £26,500 and 350,000 paid shares
and Great Boulder £5OOO and 50,000 paid
shares. Riverina is idle, but Emu is earn-
ing a little profit. Meekatharra, a 1935
London flotation, has had a rough spin.
It issued 2,417,590 2s. shares and gave
£22,500 and 740,000 paid shares for a
boosted Meekatharra venture. This was
soon abandoned, and the Lalla Rookh
at Marble Bar was then acquired
from Australian Mining and Machinery
Co. for £42,000 cash. Ore-treatment diffi-
culties caused a suspension of operations,
and it is doubtful if they will ever be
resumed. Later the co. bought a ninth
interest in the Comet.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp. is shallow-pros-
pecting at Mt. Monger (W.A.) with a
mechanical shovel formerly used first at
Great Fingall, then at Big Bell, and
afterwards by Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie.
With the shovel the Corp. hopes to
costeen or dig pits to a depth of 14ft.
The ground being prospected is north of
Milano, and is described as a “concealed
area.”
* * * «
South Kalgurli, which has been on the
dying list for years, announces an in-
crease both in tonnage and grade in
ore reserves. The latest half-yearly
figures are 179,600 tons blocked out aver-
aging s.ldwt., and 98,800 tons probable
averaging sdwt. Six months previously
the figures were: Blocked out, 165,500
tons averaging 4.99dwt., and 94,400 tons
probable averaging s.o7dwt.
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) announces that it has
bought £lO,OOO-worth of power-units
from the London-controlled Edjudina
Consolidated, which shut down its mines
some time ago. The purchase has been
approved by the State Government under
its loan to Tindals. The additional power
is needed for larger mining and treatment
operations.
♦ * * ♦
An analysis of 1940 production on the
various Westralian goldfields shows that
five increased their output and 12
recorded lower yields.
* * * *
Edna May Amalgamated (W.A.) pays
a sixpenny div. on Feb. 26. A six-figure
sum was raised by the co. at the time of
its formation to reopen the old Edna
May, Edna May Central, Edna May
Deeps and Edna May Consolidated
mines, which had previously been worked
separately by four Adelaide cos., and
which combined had produced 294,4630 z.
of gold. The mines closed down in 1922
owing to high labor costs and unwater-
ing difficulties. When Edna May Amal-
gamated took over estimated ore reserves
were calculated to contain about £750,000-
worth of gold. The market quotation
for gold was lower then than it is now.
Co. has been doing well lately, and hopes
early in 1941 to increase ore treatment
from the present 18,500 tons to 24,000
tons p.a.
* * * *
The Surprise tin show, worked by
Johansen and Elliott on the Hidden
Valley tinfield, Ingham district (N.Q.),
has a modest production record, but re-
cently it produced 70 tons for a 10 p.c.
oxide recovery, which is really high-grade
stuff. The point is that the lode is big
enough—l2ft. wide in the opencut to
work on a low percentage, and points to
the existence in N.Q. of many chlorite
tin lodes that, given capital, could be
developed in a large way. But, of course,
all the big cos. want alluvial dredging
properties nowadays, and opencast possi-
bilities of 2 p.c. ore are ignored.
♦ * * *
J. W. Street, who has spent a few years
on Eungella, behind Mackay (C.Q.), pros-
pecting for gold, has found a nice reef in
his new show at Coral Tree. It looks
like a branch of the old Highland Chief,
and a first crushing of seven tons yielded
4oz. per ton. As it is a well-defined reef
it looks like producing pretty well in the
next year or two.
* * * *
New Gympie (Q.) had a better run dur-
ing the last year, but it wants to improve
several dwts. all over to satisfy tributors.
Still, they have been getting pretty regular
crushings lately, and the last 40 tons
was worth £A9 per ton —not a bad return,
though there is a lot of financial leeway
to make up. No. 5 reef is big but low-
grade, faces showing up to 6ft., which is
big for Gympie reefs. A lot of it is
under the payable limit. No. 6 reef at
present is showing payable gold in a
small reef in good dark slate.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.D.8.; No N.Z. Forest Products shares
are yet listed; therefore there are no reliable
quotations for any class of scrip F.T.: The
co. apparently has passed into oblivion....
C.S.: Australasian Paper ord.; Adelaide
Steam; Woolworths ord.; B.H.P Reader:
Cannot trace the word in our taxation
references, but apparently it means the amount
of production or stock used by a taxpayer for
his private purposes.


Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to "The Bulletins criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
CATHOLIC
Australasian
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane,
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States .
SMOKE-OH!
“It is the sense of having been a fool that
drives many a man to drink.” — “Sunday Sun.”
In short, when a man feels like a mug
he feels like a mug.
4* *l* ■s*
“It is the husband’s income in most cases
which propels the ship on the sea of matri-
mony.”—Mush article in magazine.
Some of them need twin screws to
keep their wives going.
+ 4* t
“Some wives treat their husbands merely as
a necessary article of furniture.”
— Woman’s paper.
The doormat, for instance.
■b 4* *i*
“Owing to the long months of drought
fewer and fewer calves are being born.”
—Country paper.
Soon we won’t know where our next
veal is coming from.
“My boy friend hit the roof when he saw
my new hat, so I told him I was finished with
him.” —Flapper in “D.T.”
He hit the roof because her tile
Was shaped in most peculiar style.
And, as his tin reserves weren’t great,
She promptly wiped him off the slate.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the meaning of ‘Canberra’?” asks
correspondent.
We’ve often wondered ourselves.
“Ten-minute lectures given on art.”
— “Argus.”
Looks as though that’s where some
of the modernists have had their training,
•p 4* 4*
“Too many farmers sit looking at their cul-
tivation paddocks day after day instead of
getting to work ploughing them up.”
—Agricultural paper.
They’re just turning them over in their
minds.
“The punishment of hanging, drawing and
quartering was first inflicted in 1241 upon one
William Marise, a nobleman’s son, who had
turned pirate, year. His English estate was
valued at £701,229. A reseal of the will was
granted in the New South Wales Probate Office
to-day.”— “N.Q. Register.”
So much for those who contend that
the law’s delay is merely a truthless
cliche!
“Raid precautions at girls’ school.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Dear, dear, aren’t these boys getting
out of hand!
•s* *I 4 4- 4*
“When she went down to dinner she could
feel repressed excitement among the boarders.”
— “S.M.H.” serial.
What! Was Saturday’s corned beef
made to last beyond the usual Tuesday?
Heroes.
“Expert shorthand writers make transcripts
of everything of importance given on the Ger-
man official wireless.” — “S.M.H.”
Stout herods these, they must endure;
They work without renown.
To help our side to win the war
They take this lying down.
H. M.
Women’s Camps.
“Women should certainly have some say
about the planning of their camps.”
— Woman’s paper.
“My dear, you never saw such a fright-
ful place. But, of course, it was ridicu-
lous to leave the planning of our camp
to a man.”
“But I understand it was well drained
and sheltered from high winds and”
“But, my dear! There wasn’t provi-
sion for a single beauty parlor in the
place! It was barbaric! I mean, a
woman may be prepared to go to any
length to serve her country, even endure
rough camp conditions, but there is a
limit.”
“But surely there was a hairdress-
ing”—
“Not even that! Not one place where
one could get a permanent wave or even
a wet set. It was terrible. When we
held our beauty-parlor parades we had
to march three miles to the township!
“Why, there wasn’t even a long mirror
anywhere. You’d have thought that they
could have put up a couple of full-length
mirrors on each side of the huts. But
all that stupid man could say when I
pointed it out was that he hadn’t thought
of it.”
“So you are disbanded?”
“Not at all! But, as I told the Min-
ister for Defence, if he wants us back
again he must provide a camp designed
sensibly by women to include all necessi-
ties, such as cosmetic bars, bridge rooms
and a place to get a hair-do. But he’s
a man, too, so what can one expect, my
dear?”
H. M.
Yours Sincerely.
“Is insincerity part of letter-writing?”
— Woman’s paper.
You return home and your wife sends
this off by next mail:
“Dear Elsie, —We arrived home safely.
John says he doesn’t know how he’ll put
up with my cooking now after all the
lovely meals you cooked us. Well, dear
Elsie, thanks again. Give our love to
your sweet children. Hoping you’ll visit
us next time”
As you return from mailing that, you
hear your wife telling the lady next door:
“We’re so glad to get home! Elsie’s
dreadful kids nearly drove us mad. One
thing the holiday did, though—it made
John appreciate my cooking. Down at
Elsie’s he spent half his time sneaking off
to the chemist for indigestion mixture.
I’ll have to get Elsie to visit us. My home
will make her positively green with envy.”
Eve.
As We Were.
“New Hope for Horses.” — “S. M. Herald.”
New hope is dawning for the horse,
New promise gleams for draughts and
pacers,
Trotters, brumbies, hacks and hunters,
Stayers, sprinters, steeplechasers.
Even ponies. But, of course T
There’s very little hope for punters !
PERCY.
"This job's no good to me, mate; I'm just a square peg
in a round hole."
Courtesy Is Right.
Above the clatter and clang of hurtling
trams and the shriek of protesting tyres
as taxis skidded around corners at 40
m.p.h., a stentorian “Hey! You!” rang
out. The young woman who had just
stepped off the pavement leaped in the
air at the bellow close behind her, and
the hat she was wearing over one ear
settled squarely on her. head. “Can’t you
see those yellow lines? They’re to walk
between. Do you want to get skittled?”
yelled the cop.
A few seconds later the dull roar of
traffic was drowned by another “Hey!
Yes, you I mean. Whaddayer doing wan-
dering across there in a trance? Get
back between the lines and stay there, or
you’ll get booked. Go on, get along
there now and have less to say.”
Then from the black car parked by
the kerb came a voice: “Hey, Joe, just
got a call —we’ve got to go uptown.”
As the jay-walk scotcher rolled across
to his mate and opened the car door he
said: “That’s the worst of being in the
Courtesy Squad—you never get a minute
to yourself.”
ZAKE.
Address to a Sandfly.
I grant with kind philosophy
That you should evermore be free
To live your simple life where combers
wash;
Moreover, you’ve a right to lie
Upon the sand as much as I:
Nevertheless, I mean to slay you—
squash !
T. W. N.
Scenes That Are Brightest.
“Most of the food now provided on the
stage is eatable.” — “World’s News.’’
Old-time hamfats who could only pre-
tend to ingurgitate soup or gnaw at a
“prop” steak must seethe with envy to
think that modern actors can lash into
a good feed at the expense of the man-
agement.
Long years of chewing rubber potatoes
and wooden slices of bread in the bad
old days wore my own teeth down past
the stumps. Nobody would have a tooth-
less hero, and as a heavy villain I got
the “bird” from the gallery when I at-
tempted to gnash my gums in rage. In
despair I invested in a set of crockery on
time-payment, and the enhanced appear -
ance they gave me enabled me to land
juvenile lead in “Poor but Honest.” It
was in that role I first encountered the
realism that was beginning to creep into
the theatre.
I was cast as Plantaganet Softknut,
scion of a line of belted earls. Scorning
the forceful charms of the heiress to an
American pulp-magazine foundry, I had
become enamored of one Aggie, a Soho
limeburner’s daughter. At the opening
of the fifteenth scene (behind the gas-
works) in the fourth act, I was expound-
ing to her on the beauties of Schopen-
hauer when, with her own mouth full
of the lollies I had bought for her, she
was supposed to become suddenly aware
that my face-opening could be put to
better use.
“Blime, Plant., y’ ain’t eatin’! ’Ere,
fill yer fice with some o’ these,” and play-
fully she thrust into my jaw what I pre-
sumed would be one of the usual ’‘prop”
sweets.
Unfortunately I was unaware that the
manager, thinking that the sight of hero
and heroine dribbling over real sweets
would so have the mouths of patrons
watering that at the interval they would
almost knock down the peanut-and-lolly
boys in the rush to buy their wares, had
given the heroine some Bulgarian rock,
and it was on this that my three-guinea
set of tombstones clamped.
I tried to open my mouth to reply
“How thoughtful of you, sweet! By my
halidom, you have a natural charm of
manner denied to many a high-born
lady! ” when I was chagrined to find
that my jaws wouldn’t come apart. All
I could manage was a splutter sounding
something like “Ow-or-or-o’-00-ee.” As
the juice dribbled down my chin I could
see the manager in the wings leaping
with rage. Then came Aggie’s low, angry
“Go on, you goat, that’s your cue,”
Frantically I pointed to my mouth,
and the manager, apparently guessing my
predicament, rushed on with what the
coroners would vaguely term a “blunt
instrument” and proceeded to prise my
teeth apart. Above the shriek of the
audience’s laughter I heard an ominous
crack as the top set went. Maddened to
think that for the next three years I’d
be paying for a set of imitation ivories
which would be useless even for chewing
junket, 1 lashed out at him. The resultant
scrap proved so realistic and popular that
we had 14 recalls, and the script had to
be altered to include it in future per-
formances.
The old-time actor’s breakfast was a
walk around town, a smoke and a spit,
and his subsequent meals for the day
were equally meagre. Naturally those
who were still strutting the boards when
real fodder was introduced welcomed the
innovation with joy.
For my part I chose only those plays
which had a handsome feeding sequence.
1 was lucky enough to land the part of
the farmer in “The Mortgagee’s Re-
venge.” As the playwright was a friend
of mine I got him to alter the homely
dinner in the second act to an eight-
course feed, starting with hors d’oeuvres
and turtle soup and proceeding through
the fish and joints to Peche Melba, port,
coffee and cigars. The management
questioned the suitability of this as scran
for a humble bucolic toiler with a thump-
ing mortgage over his head, but the play-
wright insisted that farmers always do
themselves proud. I put on five stone in
the opening run.
But one thing I couldn’t make out for'
quite a long time. The manager took
to paying us just before the curtain went
up on the fifth act. This was the one in
which the mortgagee’s hired villain stole
in and drugged my buttermilk so that he
could rat the writing-desk for the letter
which proved that he had kidnapped the
vicar’s daughter 45 years before.
I noticed that I always seemed to be
broke next day and that my head felt as
if I’d been on a prolonged bender. It
was not until the manager skipped with
the takings that I found out he used to
have real drug put into my drink, and
then he would slip on to the darkened
stage while the desk-ratting was going on
and “lift” the pay he had handed me a
few minutes before.
There can be too much of realism.
Bo.


Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Man Who Creates Things
This big, wasteful war is bringing us —
or some of us—back to realities. There
are still people, it is true, who humbug
themselves as well as others, but many
of such persons are born irretrievable
humbugs. The high tempo of the total
war has forced us to peer through the
tangle of outgrowth from our industrial
Australia and try to find out what part
of the structure is vital and what isn’t.
Clear eyes see things that aren’t very
flattering to some of us. The same eyes
cannot but be impressed at the same
time by the pre-eminent importance of
“the man who makes things” during this
gigantic clash of men and mechanisms.
During peace-time Australia devoted
quite a considerable portion of its
energies towards urging people not to
think, not to save, not to walk, not to
do housework, e£c. On the other hand
it encouraged them to buy illustrated
newspapers of “amusement” value only,
to use cash-orders, etc., on a colossal
scale at colossal rates of interest, to
litigate, to ride everywhere, to bet on
horses from afar off, to go to the pictures
and dance-halls at all hours of the day
and night, and to eat tinned, preserved
or frozen food. There was an enormous
amount of money to be made out of
these do-don’t crazes provided you
started something that “went.” For a
long time many Australian men and
women worried more about “B.O.” than
they did about defence.
The 1941 war taxes and the daily news
from Europe should bring even the most
light-minded to their senses. Britain is
short of destroyers, of cruisers, of mer-
chant ships, of aeroplanes and other
things. It is not lack of money that is
the cause of this. It is lack of sufficient
craftsmen, materials and plant to do the
jobs necessary in the woefully short time
available in order to prevent a woefully
long war. Coming down to essentials,
it is the man who can turn his hand to
useful, productive work who is the most
valuable in our community today. He
needs direction, certainly, and his efforts
combined with the efforts of others call
for organisation. Thus we can’t all be
craftsmen or “producers.” Banks, trans-
port systems and organising brains are
essential. Even a certain amount of
amusement is necessary. But there is a
lot of “service” of a superficial kind that
we can do without, and some more of
it should be available at much lower
rates of profit. Non-essential services
often return more money to the promoter
than essential work would. Distribution
of goods is sometimes more profitable
than their production. Which, of course,
is a cockeyed situation. A producer is
far more valuable to the nation than an
“agent.”
When war broke out there was a great
scurry on the part of some deadheads of
long experience to get into officialdom
somehow. While productively-minded
men were still wondering whether they
would be doing their country a better
turn by carrying on their work than by
getting a job as a “comptroller,” a “sec-
retary” or “commissioner,” many pro-
fessional office-holders were in no such
two minds; they hopped in quickly and
pushed their barrows hard. Administra-
tion of Australia’s war effort on the home
front has thus become horribly expen-
sive. We hear of costly blunders in
planning in all the services. There may
be ten times as many that we never hear
about.
Wars are notoriously wasteful, partly
because war is essentially destructive, and,
in our own case, hastily planned, but
also partly because of an overload of
non-productive office-holders. A com-
mittee becomes a board, and a board
may become a department, and the bigger
the show the more important the head
serang feels. So expenditure may increase
without a bullet being made. Often
officialdom looks overhard at essential
expenditure while inflating its own per-
haps largely unnecessary payroll.
Australia is a country susceptible to
droughts as well as good seasons, and in
parts it is a lonely country. In many
things, too, it hasn’t had much worldly
experience. Thus it may be that people
here have in the past been seeking
“escape” from the more forbidding
aspects of Australian life, and have
drifted to the cities more and more. The
national debt is rather grim, and the
waste of overgovernment is shameful.
Australian workmen, too, have shown a
susceptibility to leadership by sharp-
witted imported gentlemen who talk
volubly rather than to that of
from their own ranks. The Australian
worker has had more than his share of
strikes that have brought him nothing
but discontent and idleness. The Arbi-
tration Court has been of much more
benefit to him.
The city congestion, the debt, the over-
government and the industrial strife
aren’t conducive to full production. The
States for the most part these days are
run by politicians of poor quality, and
Canberra has something of a scratch
crew in the present Cabinet. Some of
the members are doing good work, but
if the length of the proposed recess is any
guide, the Government as a whole hasn’t
a high opinion of its own value in this
national emergency. Production goes on
while Parliament relaxes. It would go
on much better if the six State Govern-
ments relaxed themselves right out of
existence.
Now, as in other times, we hear and
read stuff about rearrangement of the
“national credit” in order to do some-
thing in a hurry and put the country
right. All that can be asked of our credit
is that it be conscientiously managed.
The work of doing a real job rests, as
always, in the hands of the man who
makes things directed by organising
brains, and hindered as little as possible
by money difficulties. Men who make
things are doing very fine defence work
in Australia now where they have been
able to get a clear go at what they are
trying to do.
An anomaly has already arisen in the
scale of the new Federal war taxes that
would be amusing if it were not being
taken so seriously by the aggrieved. They
are “banning overtime,” they say, until
overtime is made exempt from Federal
tax. According to the boilermakers,
overtime rates increase their tax liability
as follows:
Wages received for normal working week
of 44 hours, £6 9s. Taxation, 9s. Federal
tax, 4s. 9d. N.S.W. tax, total taxation
13s. 9d.
Wages received through working 16
hours overtime, £9 17s. Taxation,
£1 10s. Federal tax, 7s. Bd. N.S.W. tax,
total taxation £1 17s. Bd.
Amount earned in overtime, £3 Bs.
Extra taxation to be paid through work-
ing overtime, £1 3s. lid.
The ordinary hourly rate is just over
2s. lid. The overtime rate is 4s. 3d.
But when taxation is deducted, according
to the boilermakers’ figures, the overtime
rate works out at 2s. 9d. an hour —less
than the rate for ordinary time. The
engineers quote the following:
Wages received for a normal working
week of 44 hours, £6 6s. Taxation, 9s.
Federal tax, 4s. 9d. N.S.W. tax, total
13s. 9d.
Wages received through working 16 hours
overtime, £lO 13s. 6d. Taxation, £1 13s.
Federal tax, Bs. sd. N.S.W. tax, total
£2 Is. sd.
Amount earned in overtime, £4 7s. 6d.
Extra taxation to be paid through working
overtime, £1 7s. Bd.
Their overtime works out at ss. 6d. an
hour gross, and 3s. 9d. when the tax is
deducted, compared with 2s. lOd. an
hour ordinary time. They have little
to growl about, all things considered.
And what isn’t mentioned by either
organisation, and it may easily be over-
looked, is the fact that the Federal taxes
quoted are for 12 months payable over
six months. In other words, there is
double tax for six months, then six
months free, so that, over 12 months,
the boilermaker gets 3s. sd. for his over-
time and the engineer 4s. 6d. Any depen-
dants reduce the rate of tax further, too.
The humor of the situation arises from
the enthusiasm with which trade-
unionists advocate “soaking” the middle
and higher incomes, and how they resent
it when they find themselves in the
middle-income class.
* * * *
Seemingly the demands for rises in
ordinary weekly wages by several sec-
tions of the metal trades arise from,
firstly, the burden of the new taxes and,
secondly, the fact that some other trade
has been granted rises. To begin with,
all “invisible” taxes, such as increased
sales tax, customs and excise duties, will
enter into the recorded cost of living and
will be allowed for in the basic wage.
The direct taxation now being extracted
from pay envelopes was designed as a
contribution to the defence effort on
the part of every person earning more
than £2OO a year, and is not a thing to
be passed on. That is why there was
so much Labor opposition to the Budget,
and why the proposed minimum of £l5O
was raised to £2OO. If rates of pay were
reasonable before the taxes were im-
posed they are still reasonable. There
is a war on —a very serious war —and
Labor in Australia is so far getting off
lightly.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
Although Treasury permission was last
week granted to B.H.P.’s £2,500,000 share
issue the opening prices of the New Year
were not sustained. After having gone
as high as 475. 9d. they came back to
455. 9d. at one stage. If the terms
of the issue are five for 23, then
the return to the buyer at last
week’s cum rights price would be
£3 19s. per cent., provided the p.c.
div. is maintained. The closing price
for 1940 was 445. 6d., and the market
then anticipated a return of £3 7s. 6d. per
cent. At last week’s lower price B.H.P.
shares seemed to deserve support by
those who are prepared to take the long
view with this stock. It still has great
potentialities.
By Jan. 8 the sharemarkets generally
had lost most of their New Year vim.
Though prices were still firm on the
whole, numerous small declines occurred
throughout the lists, and there were no
singular increases. Olympic Tyre ords.
at 375. yielded £7 17s. per cent, pro-
vided the \A\ p.c. div. continues on the
increased capital. This co. is interested
in the manufacture of insulated cable,
an enterprise that is reported to be com-
ing along well. Felt and Textiles main-
tained their usual confident appearance
at 38s. 3d., returning £5 ss. per cent. (10
p.c. div.). Phenomenal growth continues
here. Paid capital is now over £1,000,000,
compared with £130,000 in 1936. Earn-
ings so far have kept well up with the lifts
in capital. It will be interesting to see
how long this rate of progress can con-
tinue. War-time conditions have had the
effect of making the co.’s products more
sought after than before.
W. R. Carpenter shares were offering at
355. 6d. last week. On a 10 p.c. div. basis
the return available was £5 12s. 6d. per
cent. The copra market is in a particu-
larly bad way at present; first of all the
stuff is hard to ship to a market and then
it is hard to sell. Carpenter’s big ships
have already been chartered by Britain.
However, it is a very strong co. in spite
of its present trials and tribulations, and
makes money from goldfields and other
activity as well as copra-trading.
Woolworths ss. scrip has been the
weakest for some time at 17s. The return
is a shade over 5 p.c. on a \l\ p.c. div.
G. J. Coles £1 ords. at 68s. 6d. are priced
on a similar basis. Woolworths last year
disclosed 22.5 p.c. on ord. capital, Coles
20.4 p.c. Both paid \l\ p.c. divs. Wool-
worths’ interim div. was at the un-
changed rate of 12 p.c. p.a. A final is due
in April. An interim from Coles is due
this month. It is not quite clear how
these cos. will fare as regards war-profits
tax, but Woolworths has fairly substan-
tial reserves, and so has the Coles co. The
position in Woolworths would be clearer
but for its subsidiary cos., some of which
it doesn’t entirely own.
* * * *
An Australian coastal shipper, New-
castle and Hunter River Steam, is keep-
ing its div. rate steady at 10 p.c. p.a. in
spite of all the doubt surrounding the
trade concerning Commonwealth charter-
ings, etc. Perhaps this co. hasn’t been
affected as much as Adelaide Steam, for
instance, which has cut its div. N. S.
Wales coastal shipping cos. have held
their prices well. After last sales at
445. 6d., buyers offer 435. for Newcastle
scrip ; at the higher price the yield is
£4 11s. per cent, on the basis of the cur-
rent div. North Coast last sold at 455. 6d.
and buyers offer that figure ; the div. here
is 91 p.c., though 10 p.c. is indicated.
Illawarra Steam, paying 9 p.c., last sold
at 405.; buyers offer that price. Adelaide
Steam, the big inter-State co., paid 61 p.c.
last term and is priced at 30s. 9d. The
return is only moderate at 4.2 p.c., but
the future is encouraging. Ord. scrip in
Melbourne Steam is going at 285., yield-
ing 5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. This
should be all right for holding, too.
« * * *
Electrolytic Zinc’s interim has been
maintained at 6 p.c. In the preceding
term a final of 8 p.c. made 14 p.c. for the
year. The co. has been doing particularly
well recently ; profits for the year to June
30 last were up, and at the last annual
meeting the chairman reported that all
stocks had been cleared from the market
and demand was remarkably strong ; the
keen inquiry was expected to continue
into post-war years. At 535. 3d. the ords.
return 5.3 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis.
Over the past 15 years the .average div.
has been 9.2 p.c.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1940 was
1,191,481 fine ounces, compared with
1,214,2380 z. in 1939. In Australian
money the 1940 yield was worth
£12,698,391, as against £11,842,964 in
1939. Thus, though production fell
22,7570 z., value increased £855,427, owing
to the increased price of the metal fol-
lowing the outbreak of war. Not all of
the increase went to the producer; half
the excess over £9 Australian goes to the
Commonwealth in excise. The decrease
in recorded production in 1940 was the
first backward movement since 1929. It
is said that the new method of four-
weekly clean-ups (against clean-ups each
calendar month) was responsible, a fort-
night’s production for 1940 being carried
into 1941 because the last clean-up
occurred in mid-December with two
weeks’ production still to go. The State’s
production, however, showed a tendency
to fall away as the year advanced.
* * ♦
Divs. of Mercantile Mutual Insurance
and Australian General Insurance, two
associated cos., are unchanged; the
Merc.’s is an interim of 9 p.c. p.a., and
the A.G.l.’s a single distribution of 10
p.c. for the year. A.G.I. £1 shares paid
to 7s. are at 17s. 6d., yielding 4.1 p.c. ex
div. ; the Merc.’s 165.-paids are at 28s. 6d.,
returning 5.1 p.c. after div.-deduction.
* * * *
The new year begins with the first
heavy cut in incomes resulting from war
taxation. Federal taxation is rising from
an actual figure of £9O millions in 1939-40
to a budgeted figure of £l5O millions in
1940-41. Many people, investors especially,
are concerned about what is going to
happen to trade and business generally.
Some say that the tax money is taken
from the people only to be returned to
them, and that in any case the increased
employment resulting from defence acti-
vity will tend to counter the reduced
spending power of some persons that will
follow the substantial cuts into incomes,
especially what are known as the middle
incomes.
Although the taxes drawn off from
the people are returned by the Defence
Department in the shape of wages, pay-
ment for goods and other services, etc.,
they are returned only to be taken away
again. Defence taxation will not end in
one year, unfortunately. Thus war taxes
are very real. They are a tax on pro-
duction. But so far as trade and busi-
ness are concerned, there are compen-
satory factors. To begin with, incomes
of £2OO and under are untouched by the
waf taxes. Again, unemployment has
dropped, and more men, women and
youths are in jobs, particularly in the
lower-income classes, which are the
classes that spend most of their wages.
The higher incomes, portion of which is
invested or spent on houses, etc., and
luxuries in peace-time, will be hit by taxa-
tion, though some of these incomes will
be larger than usual, while some will be
smaller. Manufacturers of defence
materials and essential goods no longer
obtainable from abroad are likely to
augment their profits; dealers in pro-
hibited imports and the like will suffer,
and manufacturers of some types of
luxury goods will be hit. The wider
spread of employment may save the retail
stores from suffering particularly from
war taxes and war conditions. They will
lose the buying support of A.I.F. men
overseas, and heavily-taxed income-
earners will probably buy less from them,
though food and clothing may not be cut
down much in household budgets;
cheaper goods may be bought, it is true,
but these may carry little less profit so
far as the retailer is concerned. A great
deal will depend, too, on the extent to
which greater efficiency and production
offset the inroads of the Defence Depart-
ment into the national outturn of goods
and services. If we increase our produc-
tion to the extent of a considerable pro-
portion of the war taxes, then the burden
will fall on us more lightly than first
seemed probable.
Manufacturers of a number of essen-
tial products seem bound to make money
out of this war. They will bear war tax
at the agreed-on rate, but some will fare
better than others. Some will increase
their turnover substantially, thus offset-
ting the taxation charges in varying
degrees. Textile cos. are cases in point.
Most woollen mills are doing extraordi-
narily well compared with peace-time.
Cotton mills are also booming. There is
a great demand for steel, zinc, copper
and many metal products and chemicals.
On the other hand, some radio cos. and
motor concerns are having a poor spin.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
LETTERS FROM LONDON.
[Since the indiscriminate night bombing of London
started, the New York “Times” has been publishing
pages of private letters from Londoners to friends in
America. Following are selections from this revealing
correspondence in extract and digest form.]
(A Londoner to a friend in New York.)
Preparation for bed is now quite a business. After
we have heard the nine o’clock news bulletin we set
up in the doorway of a room on the ground floor a
camp bed covered with a mattress, blankets, etc., for
myself, and in the doorway of an adjoining room a
chaise longue similarly equipped for my wife.
The choice of doorways on the ground floor
arose from a study of bombed houses, which shows
that floors which suffer most are the first and second
and that doorways seem to collapse last.
Close to the heads of our temporary beds is placed
a suitcase containing spare clothing, toilet gear, spec-
tacles and so forth, which we can grab if we have to
make a bolt for it. We go to bed each clad in a siren
suit, which is really a glorified overall.
In one pocket of each of the suits is a whistle, to
be blown as a guide to rescuers if one is buried under
masonry, and in one pocket of mine is a box of
omopon syringe ampules for use in case the crushing
is very painful.
We put soft wax in our ears before turning out
the light because of the ’planes and the A.A. gun-
fire, which has to be heard to be believed.
If reparations could be exacted, I might reason-
ably claim to be supplied with the free labor of one
Hun for at least one year in consideration of the ex-
pense to which his people have put me in putting the
house into a state of defence.
First there was the roof of the kitchen, a one-
storeyed annex, which was covered with one layer of
corrugated-iron and one of sandbags, the whole being
covered with a waterproof roofing material to keep
the sandbags as dry as possible. This was protection
against incendiary bombs. Then the loft was painted
with a fire-resisting material and floored with asbestos.
The windows have cost many pounds in experi-
ments to make them splinter-proof. First we tried
strips of brown paper crisscross, then ditto cellophane,
then painting with cellulose solution, and finally for
most windows covering them with cotton gauze. The
last has been used for windows with shutters. For
those not so well protected we have strong close mesh
wire netting, so I am hopeful that nobody’s throat will
be cut with flying glass.
*****
{From a letter written by a British army doctor.)
Don’t kid yourself that sitting around reading
about raids and hearing about them on the radio is
worse than being in them. When a bomb comes
whistling down and you hold your breath wondering
just exactly where it’s going to fall, one experiences
real fright and no one is ashamed to admit it. That
it is possible to get used to explosions in the distance,
to the shrapnel whizzing overhead, the noise of build-
ings crumbling down, the sight of fires, with flames
piling on flames, I’ve learned by now. That it’s pos-
sible to get used to hearing bombs coming at you, the
whistle getting louder and louder as it nears the earth,
I don’t believe. It’s worse than shellfire because the
shell that hits you you don’t hear.
We don’t talk about the raids much now, except
in a general way. Everybody one knows or meets has
had some experience of being bombed out of home or
office, of having boml?s in one’s garden, or delayed-
action bombs in one’s street, and, because of that, to
relate one’s experiences is to become a bore. We keep
our sense of humor, but some of the jokes we used
to make about bombs and sudden death would be
rather in bad taste just now.
*****
C From another Londoner’s letter.)
We have lots of guns around us, and the noise is
sometimes terrific. Our “Hearty Henry” is the worst.
When he goes off, all our doors and windows rattle,
and the whole house shakes like a leaf. The other
night he shot about 300 rounds in four hours, so you
can, perhaps, imagine what our rest was like.
One night about one o’clock, when I was lying
on the sofa, there was a terrific crash, and I felt myself
being lifted high into the air and the house swayed
from side to side as if it could not decide which wav
to fall.
We spent hours on our top flat watching the fires
of London. It was a dreadful sight, and I shall never
forget it. The sky was red all over and you could see
the flames far away leaping up and spreading, and
the masts of ships on the river, cranes, the skeletons
of warehouses and church spires illuminated by the
flares.
*****
{From a London woman’s letter .)
You would be really amused if you could see how
we sleep. Four people sleep in the kitchen, one on
the couch, the other three on mattresses on the floor
with their heads and shoulders under the kitchen
tables, the idea being that if the ceiling falls down it
falls on the table and not on us. In the bathroom —
in the bath —is a five-year-old boy, and another girl
sleeps under the stairs, very private and comfortable.
One bomb did fall in the tennis courts behind the
house, smashing all back and most front windows and
bringing down a shutter from the bathroom window
over the bath, where the boy was sleeping, and thus
protecting the boy from the plaster which came off
the ceiling. Now we have reinforced cardboard in the
windows, and in some oiled linen, which is a little
colder but lets all the light in.
*****
(From another Londoner’s letter.)
A sailor who had been through Narvik and Dun-
kirk told me that both of these exploits were as
nothing when compared with London’s nightly gruel-
ling. And every morning Londoners come up smiling
again!
Newspaper reporters have paid glowing tributes
and lyrical rhapsodies to the spirit of Londoners dur-
ing this, their hour of tribulation. Those flowery
praises are well deserved, but my heart, nevertheless,
goes out to those who have suffered so terribly, those
who have lost their homes and their loved ones, those,
like some of my friends, who have lost everything they
possessed. Certainly they have behaved heroically.
I spent one dreadful night in the shelter near my
home. I think I shall remember that night always.
Bombs dropped all around us. The whistling noises
seemed to be heading for us —“our lot,” as we say here.
I felt sick and frightened. It was a strange sort of
fear, an “if it comes, let it be over quickly, please”
feeling. Worst of all, my mother fainted, and mother
is the most calm and pacific of persons in a crisis.
When bombs fall around me I count from one to
fifty. That simple mathematical operation keeps me
sane and helps me to contain myself.
It’s really funny to be writing about air raids.
We in London rarely discuss them. Daylight raids
hold little fear for myself or most Londoners. It’s the
night raids which are hellish.
You know I ought really to tell you how people
spend their 10 hours in the shelters. They read, they
play cards, they engage easily in conversation. The
Englishman’s reticence has gone for ever. He is be-
coming resilient and interesting.
*****
(From another Londoner’s letter.)
With ordinary bombs you hear the swishing,
sometimes 10 to 15 seconds long, and have plenty of
time to dive under a table or to lie down flat. I’ve
been lying on the pavement quite a number of times
when I was unexpectedly caught in the road. One
gets used to it all, even to the thought of death, which
you can’t help thinking about.
*****
(A Dublin resident on a visit to London.)
An incendiary bomb had fallen on the balcony of
the first floor of Paquin’s Dress Shop in Piccadilly. A
policeman who was walking along the street cast off
his gas mask and steel helmet and shinned about 20
feet up the side of the building, just like a monkey,
and proceeded to knock the bomb down with his
baton. How he got up the building defeats me, as he
had large policeman’s boots on him, and to my eye
there did not seem to be a toehold.
The incendiary bomb was put out by lads, and
shortly afterward the fire brigade arrived, put up a
ladder and the policeman came down. He was greeted
by a gentleman with “How would you like a beer,
mate?” to which the bobby suitably replied “I don’t
mind if I do,” and the two of them walked off.
The whole thing was so casual and rather typified
the average Londoner’s attitude.
Doing business is very difficult, as most of the
staff, instead of getting in at nine o’clock, wander in
somewhere between 10 and 11. Nobody particularly
minds as travel is very difficult, either by train or by
bus, as owing to bomb craters a pretty extensive diver-
sion has to be made. It sometimes takes two hours to
do a half-hour’s journey.
While at work, needless to say there is an alert,
and eventually a secondary warning, which means that
everyone has to leave his job and rush down to the
shelter straight away, which is in the basement. This
is all taken in a spirit of fair fun, but it does hold up
the work very much. The staff then leave at 3.45 p.m.
or 4 p.m. so that they can get home before the black-
out starts and anti-aircraft guns start their nightly
barrage.
*****
C From an Englishwoman’s letter.)
When I get to the shelters I find the children and
some of the grown-ups asleep and others knitting and
chatting, passing round hot tea, and they say “Wouldn’t
Hitler be annoyed if he could see us all?”
The three- and four-year-old children hear the dis-
tant sirens before anyone and run in to their parents
saying “The Germans are coming” before the grown-
ups hear anything at all. Then the children seize their
gas masks, games, comic papers, etc., and hustle their
families down into the shelters.
* * * * *
(From another Londoner s letter .)
Although the majority of us have not had our
clothes off at night-time for weeks, we are still fit and
smiling and realise that, whilst Hitler and his vicious
crowd are peppering us, they are not getting military
objectives, and we, as a race, can take it.
I undress little June each night and put her to
bed in the cellar, where, incidentally, we all spend the
night, and, believe me, cellars can be made quite com-
fortable, and are certainly most welcome these days.
As long as June knows that I am by her side she
thinks that nothing can possibly happen to her, and I
only trust and pray that her confidence need never
be shaken.
You can take it from me, most of the bombing
is absolutely ruthless ; many of our friends around us
—a matter of a hundred yards or so away—are home-
less, their houses razed to the ground, but almost as
soon as they are up and doing again you will see a
Union Jack stuck up in the wreckage.
Hitler is doing just the reverse to what he expected
to do. He only makes us more determined than ever.
I never thought that I should ever live to enjoy
seeing so many wrecked Junkers, Messerschmitts,
Heinkels, etc., strewn about the countryside. It makes
me wonder whether I am becoming a trifle barbaric,
too.
*****
(From a London A.R.P. worker’s letter.)
My first call was to the ruined house of a friend
where the rescue parties were digging in the shambles.
I had not seen him for some time and did not know
that this was his house. I picked up some books which
had been flung into the road and found his signature.
His poor body, together with the bodies of his wife and
daughter-in-law, was recovered from the ruins.
A common sight to those who have time to look
around during air raids is that of a German machine
being brought down in flames. One feels sorry for
the poor fellows inside.
The little steel shelters have proved their value
many times in the course of the past few weeks. Fre-
quently when an A.R.P. party arrives at a demolished
house—usually before the brick-dust has cleared away
—they are met by the occupants of the shelter, shaken
in nerve but steady in faith.
Those who have had the misfortune to lose their
homes—and this means more to a poor man than to
a rich man —after the initial shock are generally more
resolute than ever that the war should be carried to a
successful conclusion.
*****
(From a London woman office worker’s letter.)
What is amazing is the way you can fall asleep
the moment the noise stops. I find I can sleep for 15
minutes at a time between each barrage in the most
amazing fashion.
I don’t know whether Hitler thought his attack on
London would lower our resistance. If he did, he mis-
judged the British temper as usual. One doesn’t feel
any more kindly disposed toward Germany because
one’s friends have been killed or rendered homeless.
One merely feels, “I’ll fight on whatever happens, until
the whole of London —even of England—is a heap of
smouldering ruins.”
That sounds abominably melodramatic, I’m
afraid, but I’ve had so much melodrama in the past
fortnight that I’m beginning to think and talk in the
accents of the twopenny dreadful.
jjt Ht Jfc sfc He
(From a letter written by a woman of 85.)
Houses on either side have their shelters and
people go into them, but I cannot get there, so I stay
in my room, away from the window, over which cur-
tains are drawn, and when I hear shooting I retire
to my bed, close to an inner wall, with pillows over
my head.
But, if that silly ass thinks that is the way to break
Britons he does not know his history. Every bomb he
drops and houses and people destroyed just makes us
all more determined to squash him.
Oh! but isn’t it an awful time! So senseless and
evil! Certainly it will be a “New World,” but not of
Hitler’s making. One feels, too, that, terrible as it all
is, God is working His purpose out, and what fine
men He has raised up to defend us by day and night!
* * * * *
(From a London woman’s letter.)
It will certainly be the survival of the riff-raff, as
the most awful looking foreigners wait all day to get a
good pitch for the night in the underground railways.
At seven o’clock they are let in.
The shelter opposite the old flat was a sight. We
watched them for hours streaming in, with their bed-
ding. Looking down, I saw a double-bed mattress
moving down the street; could not see the man under-
neath carrying it. Anyway, they are going to have
bunks and heating—so why pay rent?
One woman who lets rooms was telling me that
young fellows at work put their bags in a station
cloakroom for 2d. a day, then sleep in shelters at night
—so she had lost her lodgers!
One night I heard someone go down our street
ringing a bell. I thought “Oh, poison gas!” It is so
long since I read the various instructions I did not
think any more about it at the time, but mentioned it
to someone in our street the next day, who said she
had heard it but a bell meant invasion, and a rattle
was gas.
I asked “Did we have an invasion?” She said “I
don’t know; I did not think any more about it.”
What is the good of giving us instructions?
*****
C Another Londoner’s letter.)
Luckily I have steady nerves and a philosophical
attitude toward the prospect of being bust to pieces
by bombs and so do not have to seek underground
rabbit warrens in which to sleep. Am still homeless,
as it were, and mostly live at the office.
Paid depressing visit to view as much of contents
of my flat as have been salvaged from ruins. Things
I have hated for years have survived, such as bronze
lion with idiotic smirk inherited from deceased aunt.
Salvage men toiled to dig out our old oak chest, no
doubt thinking it full of silver, whereas all it contained
was bits of manuscript and cherished writing. Can
appreciate your feelings on being rescued from Athenia
whilst your precious belongings went to bottom of sea.
There is too much shrapnel whizzing about to
make walking around very pleasant these evenings and
so haven’t seen anybody of note. Do occasional spells
of ambulance driving all night, but it is no sinecure
and with ordinary job in daytime it takes some days
to get straight on sleep. Find the danger rather ex-
hilarating, but cannot get hardened to pitiful and
gruesome sights and sounds.
*****
(From a London woman surgeon’s letter .)
There is no use denying it, things are pretty grim.
Not as regards food ; from that point of view one
would hardly know that there was a war on.
The other night they bombed a house full of ex-
pectant mothers. I had to deal with the casualties.
I thought I was inured to most things, at times almost
to the point of callousness, but never have I seen any-
thing so terrible or horrible as the results of this. To
have to amputate arms of pregnant w«oaeo- well as


to deal with other horrible mutilations, is an experi-
ence I hope never to have to go through again.
Of course thousands of people are homeless,
mostly or largely from the East End, and have been
sent into surrounding districts. Yet they show the
utmost determination to stick it out —many of them
look on it as the nature of things. They are cheerful,
philosophical and plucky, almost to the point of idiocy.
Many after two or three days return to the neighbor-
hood of their homes, now ruined if not completely
destroyed, to stay with friends in the dangerous area.
A people like that cannot be beaten.
My own hospital had a wing demolished by a
mine, the kitchen destroyed by a bomb, and the
laundry burnt out by an incendiary. It is easier to
count the number of hospitals which have escaped
(very few) than those that have fallen victims. Hap-
pily the loss of life has, on the whole, been slight,
though of course mounting into many thousands.
Well, we’ve got to stick it out and beat these
devils. How, it is a little difficult to foreshadow at
the moment. No one even contemplates a negotiated
peace—such an event is unthinkable, no matter what
destruction or evil may befall us. There can be no
doubt that, should the Nazis even stave off defeat, the
world would sink back into anarchy, immorality and
into an abyss of evil, from which there would be no
escape, except by death, which would be preferable.
Churchill, Orator.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” leading article.)
Winston Churchill is the modern Pericles. His
communications to the House of Commons on the
give and take of battle have the grand simplicity of
Greek orations. But they are not formal compositions
prepared beforehand, as for a ceremony. They are
summaries of instant fact, colossal narratives, imme-
diate revelations of history, delivered free style, with
no trace of conscious rhetorical effort. Long after
they have been forgotten as news they will be gathered
up in the anthologies as examples of eloquence ; much
more, however, they will deserve to be remembered for
what they are eloquent of, for they are the great papers
of an immortal thing—namely, the intrepid human
spirit.
The battle is not beyond the horizon. The British
Empire is fighting for its life not in Asia, not in the
Mediterranean, not on the continent of Europe, but
on the banks of the Thames. A nursery jingle has
come true. London Bridge is falling down. And yet
a German bomb cannot wreck a British Prime
Minister’s magnificent phrase but by making a direct
hit. As the shuttered windows of Parliament are
rattled by concussion, he can say of Hitler; “This
wicked man, the repository and embodiment of many
forms of soul-destroying hatreds, this monstrous pro-
duct of former wrongs and shames.”
What an apostrophe! Not Hitler, the monster.
Hitler, the monstrous product of former wrongs and
shames. And what a stage on which to utter that
sublime generosity!
Understatement you would expect, and humor.
But there is another gift, much more rare in men of
action, and British, too. That is a way of telling “this
heavy story straight,” even to oneself —saving oneself,
of course, and yet not entirely.
There was, for example, the “grim and sombre
question” of what to do about the French Fleet after
France had surrendered to the enemy. It would have
been enough for him to say to the House of Commons
that the resolve had been to take drastic action. But
he said it was “a very drastic and grievous action.”
Still that was not enough. For all his bitter anger
against the Vichy Government, he could not bear the
look that came into the face of the fallen ally. To
that feeling in him is owing this strange classic of
regret: “When you have a friend and comrade at
whose side you have faced tremendous struggles and
your friend is smitten down by a stunning blow, it
may be necessary to make sure that the weapon that
has fallen from his hands shall not be added to the
resources of your common enemy. But you need not
bear malice because of your friend’s cries of delirium
and gestures of agony.”
This tragedy had taken place. The prostrate
friend and comrade had defended his weapon. Never-
theless, he was gallant. That was part of the straight
story. “I need hardly say,” said Churchill, “that the
French ships [at Oran] were fought, albeit in this un-
natural action, with the characteristic courage of the
French navy.” And with that he turned from it, say-
ing, “That melancholy phase in our relations with
France has come to an end.”
Great statesmen have a power over words. Zim-
mern imagines that, like great poets, they “speak to
one another from peak to peak,” across immensities of
time, in a kind of common language. Winston
Churchill, the writer, had not this power. Churchill,
the statesman, has it. The word itself is not what pro-
duces the effect. Where, in one case, the word gives
meaning to the thought, in the other the thought com-
pels the word. Any docile word will do. Contrast,
for example, the momentousness of meaning with the
carelessness of style in Churchill’s announcement of
Anglo-American collaboration as a political event in
the world. “Undoubtedly,” he said, “these two great
organisations of the English-speaking democracies will
have to be somewhat mixed up together in some of
their affairs for mutual and general advantage
No one can stop it. Like the Mississippi, it just keeps
rolling along. Let it roll.”
He had just then told the British Parliament about
the air and naval bases in the Western Hemisphere
that had been leased to the United States. After that
he got his 50 destroyers from the United States Navy
and presented them to his country with a Jovian
chuckle. Hitler, he said, would not like it. “I have
no doubt he will pay the United States out if ever he
gets the chance.”
War of the Hemispheres forecast in words almost
of banter.
In all moods, especially this one, you must read
great statesmen between the lines. Their ink is the
fluid of history. They know more than they tell and
brood more than they say. It is their own tradition.
War Anomalies.
(From a New York “Times” article .)
Germany, an ally of Italy, has normal relations
with Greece, with whom Italy is at war. The Ger-
mans, with a sizable diplomatic staff and a few thou-
sand businessmen and “tourists” in Greece, are able
to gather information of importance to Italy, whose
interest in winning the larger war against Great
Britain is identical with Germany’s.
Japan, an ally of Germany and Italy, is at peace
with Great Britain. Russia, a non-belligerent ally of
Germany and Italy, is helping China, which is at war
with Japan. [According to cables last week, Russia
is also helping Greece, which is at war with Italy.]
The French Vichy Government has an uneasy peace
with Britain and is represented by a Minister in the
British Dominion of Canada, but Britain is sponsor of
the French De Gaulle forces, who are in conflict with
the Vichy Government. Egypt, on some of whose soil
Italian forces camped and whose cities have been
bombed by Italian fliers, is at peace with Italy.
It does not take a master mind to figure out that
such a situation cannot go on indefinitely, for beneath
—New York “Post.”
“And one low churl, compact of thankless earth, the fatal byword of all
years to come.” (Tennyson.)
it all lies the one salient, easily understandable fact —
the world is, indeed, becoming unified. Two forces
are at work here: totalitarianism and democracy. One
or the other must rule. The anomalies become more
understandable in the light of this dictum—over-
simplified, to be sure, but a better yardstick in the
light of experience since Nazism came to power than
any other that presents itself. For although it must
be taken for granted that the totalitarian Powers do
not see eye to eye on all things or work hand-in-glove
in a perfectly arranged conspiracy, they are wily
enough to go to the rescue of each other when it
appears the collapse of one might mean the dis-
appearance of them all.
The French Remain French.
(From a New York "Times" article by
Anne O'Hare McCormick.)
Many speak and write as if defeated France were
an entirely different country from the “glorious
republic” they extolled as freedom’s first line of de-
fence. Having moved the frontier of civilisation from
the Rhine to the English Channel, they have virtually
abandoned all the ground between.
It is true that the French are in a tragically
anomalous position. Their surrender has delivered
. . J K r u , ,
them into the hands of an enemy who aims not only
at military conquest, but at political and economic
subjugation, so that even a drastically diminished
France cannot hope to regain her independence if
Germany wins. Beyond that, defeat has turned France
into a battleground for her conqueror and her former
ally, for Hitler has no other use for France at the
moment except as a foothold and an instrument to
strike at Britain.
But the French, after all, are French, and appar-
ently they are resisting Hitler as far as prisoners of war
can resist. They embarked on this war without real
conviction, without spirit, with fatal cracks and weak-
nesses that stunned the French as much as they dis-
mayed the outside world when the test came. But
anyone who knows France will refuse to believe that
the French are not pro-French first of all. It is absurd
to suppose that the whole thought, tradition and direc-
tion of a great free people can be turned by five months
of German occupation.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Appeals are rolling in to the U.S.A. The Dutch
East Indies have asked for ’planes and other equip-
ment. So have the Philippines. Almost all of the 20
Latin-American republics need everything from
bombers to battleships if they are to bear their share
of hemisphere defence. On top of all this the United
States is beginning a $15,000,000,000 rearmament pro-
gramme with little time to spare. Therefore a sort of
munitions rationing system can be expected. The
nation is cutting its own requirement to the bone —
or, as one official expressed it, “a little below the
bone.” Whatever can be produced above this irre-
ducible minimum will go where it is most desperately
needed. Great Britain heads the list because fully 85
p.c. of the American people are convinced that if she
is beaten we will be next in line. — New York “World-
Telegram.”
In the matter of
’planes and ships and
supplies, the American
people want to be help-
ful. There is no real dif-
ference of opinion in the
U.S.A. on war questions ;
in the recent national
campaign both Presi-
dential candidates saw
Britain as the outpost of
United States security,
and both supported all
aid short of war. The
British danger is serious
enough to demand our
utmost -effort. It is too
serious for any haggling
over profits on one side
or hours of labor on the
other. Our manufacturers
and workers, our politi-
cians and taxpayers, must
see the danger for what
it is, and act accordingly.
—New York “Times”
comment on the U.S.A.,
which isn’t in the war;
how much more perti-
nent to countries like
A ustralia that are in !
* *
The best available
statistics, by no means
complete, place the mini-
mum current arms ex-
penditures of the six
major nations at close to
$50,000,000,000 annually.
The outlays of numerous
smaller countries would
send the total higher, and
no one has yet begun to
estimate the monetary
value of the lost lives, de-
stroyed wealth and devas-
tated areas in those
nations bearing the brunt
of war. Britain has in-
creased her spending to
nearly £5,000,000,000
annually, or about as
much as all the United Kingdom s 47,0u0,000 people
earned in a pre-war y£^ r - The great bulk of this out-
lay probably about 85 per cent, is going tor war
purposes.—New York World-1 elegram.
* * * „ * * , .
When the armistice with Germany was sought the
French armies were in a critical situation, ou num-
bered m efficient fighting men and more an cu-
,m ma l e nAn ‘ 9 ermans lA a n
7500 tanks to 2000 and 5000 modern planes o
In these conditions the continuation of the war was a
forlorn hope. The reasons for all this have been mar-
shalled before-reduction of production due to such
Poetical causes as insistence on leisure rather than on
toil and such military causes as faith in the defensive.
—New York “Times” Vichy correspondent.
* * * * . , *
“Think for a moment what is involved if the
battle in the Near East and the Mediterranean is lost.
Vast resources, the oil of Persia, the cotton and other
products of Egypt, the resources of the great African
colonies and of India, are lost to Britain and pass
under the control of the Axis Powers. Into Hitler s
hands fall the resources of some 700,000,000 human
beings to be organised with satamc skill
remains of a free world. What » meant by thei hold-
»»g of the Mediterranean lifeline by Britain need not
be further e a ora e nin avia c: a n^o
the most important links of all is Palestine. — Sir
w
* 6 * * * *
Above all the Norwegian nation has drawn fresh
inspiration for its passive resistance from reaction
against the worst psychological blunder made by the
invaders—the attempt to drive a wedge between a
loyal people and their patriot King. King Haakon in
exile has become just such a focus for the aspirations
of his countrymen to freedom as long ago King Alfred
was in Athelney. Any doubts they may have felt in
the dark days of June have been dispelled. A gentle-
man in Oslo recently called at a restaurant to reserve
a table for the day of the King’s return. He was told
that all places were booked for the first three days of
the celebrations, but room might be found for him
on the fourth. —London “Times.”


St 27 YEARS
The MARCONI SCHOOL of WIRELESS
has been the Leading Wireless Training
Institution in Australia. Its graduates hold
the best positions in Australian Radio
today.
MARCONI SCHOOL GRADUATES ...
are employed in radio development and research
laboratories.
... staff A.W.A. Beam Wireless stations in the world’s
longest and fastest radio-telegraph service.
... are in 100 Broadcast stations.
...are in charge of Aeradio stations at the principal
air ports in Australia.
.. . operate Coastal Radio stations throughout
Australia, maintaining communication with ships
at sea and the Pacific Islands.
YOU CAN ENTER UPON A SUCCESSFUL CAREER
BY ENROLLING NOW FOR RADIO ENGINEERING,
RADIO TECHNOLOGY AND RADIO OPERATING
CLASSES, STARTING THE NEW TERM ON
MARCH sth.
A general education to Intermediate or Leaving Certi
ficate standard is desirable.
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
CONDUCTED BY AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/ SI A) LTD.
47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVE S YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLESS!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
“Weather pleasant but otherwise a
most disagreeable afternoon,” would
probably have been the summing-up of
most bookmakers who operated at Rand-
wick on Saturday. One winning favorite
at odds-on, another at even money, two
others at 2 to 1 and 7 to 2 respectively,
and no winner at longer than 5 to I—and1 —and
that one was once at 5 to 2 —gave many
layers cause for unpleasant thought on
Sunday. Still, they can console them-
selves with the reflection that such things
must happen at times, and that in the
long run they generally weather the
storm better than the punters. Money
was plentiful, and the day’s tote turn-
over was nearly £29,000, which was satis-
factory for an attendance of 18,300.
Notwithstanding she had not previously
raced for over three months, Fly had an
easy win in the Sefton Handicap. She
led soon after the start, her nearest fol-
lowers turning into the straight being
Winifred and Yuletide, with Flying
Knight and Petruchio heading the re-
mainder. Halfway down the . straight
Winifred and Yuletide were still closest
to Fly, but they were unequal to
troubling her. Winifred, who was rather
slow off the mark, accidentally checked
Yuletide a furlong from home, but for
which the latter would have run second
instead of dead-heating for that position.
Petruchio, though fourth, raced without
any dash, and Flying Knight will need
to improve considerably during the com-
ing week to have any chance in the Chal-
lenge Stakes.
When Tuckerbox took the lead from
Triggerman after going a little over half
a mile in the January Handicap his
backers were hopeful he would be able to
hold his position to the end. However,
he could never get far away from Trig-
german, who was with him turning for
home. There was not much between
Triggerman and Tuckerbox starting upon
the final furlong, and then they were
joined by Mabson. For a few strides the
three were almost level, but Mabson,
staying best, won from Triggerman, and
added to “W. Biey’s” contribution to war
funds. Tusculum was never seen to less
advantage, and, though there is nothing
amiss with his condition, he has lost the
form shown by him when he beat Yours
Truly and Malagigi at Rosehill a few
weeks ago.
Addition was not backed with quite the
same spirit for the Maiden Handicap as
at her previous run at Randwick, but she
started second favorite, and, acting up to
her track deeds, beat Crowon half a
length. The latter’s previous form scarcely
warranted it, but on some of the boards
he was the early favorite in doubles com-
mencing with the Maiden. Red Pete, in
third place, again finished fast, and only
for being unlucky might have won. Half-
way through the race he had to be
checked to avoid getting on the heels of
another horse. Red Pete does not look a
weight-carrier, but he handled his 9st,
well. Addition is by The Buzzard from
Calculate (Caledon-Ashtorath), and was
a 525gns. yearling.
Innisfail showed pace, but though she
was in front with Crowon entering the
straight she could not see it out, nor
could Eager Fox, who was prominent to
the turn. Triton was beaten a long way
from home, but River Valley finished
sufficiently well to give hope of a win in
the near future. The same applies to Real
Gem, who was nearer the front at the
finish than at any other part.
The books did not err in making Gold
Strand their opening favorite for the
Nursery Handicap in a moderate field
of colts and geldings. At one stage he
touched 5 to 4, but he receded to 2 to 1
consequent on a strong demand for Gold-
brook. There was little between them at
the close of business, but, while Gold-
brook was outpaced from barrier-rise,
Gold Strand led all the way. A furlong
from the winning-post he had to be hard
ridden to stall off Twofold, a Double
Remove colt trained by P. Riddle. He
is a half-brother to Light Dragoon and
Halifax. Of the remainder only Kimbell
ran even respectably, Goldbrook’s fourth
counting nothing in his favor. Trained
by J. T. Jamieson, Gold Strand is by
Portofino from Rolvan Queen, by
Blankney 11.
Astrid had not previously raced, but it
was again demonstrated that the books’
sources of information are generally ex-
cellent. Opening at 6 to 4, she firmed to
even money for the fillies’ division of the
Nursery Handicap, and justified her short
price. She set up a substantial lead in
the first two furlongs, and going further
away as the race progressed won by
nearly half a dozen lengths in 59i —three-
quarters of a second faster than Gold
Strand’s division. Strongly built, Astrid
should be well up to weight. She is by
Brueghel from Aulone (dam of Buonar-
roti and Royal Routine) by Claro.
The minor places went to Double Rise
and Owl’s Rest, the former being by
Double Remove. There was strong sup-
port for Stainless, but though she, Awake
and Mary Lou were Astrid’s closest fol-
lowers for two furlongs the finish saw
them among the well-beaten runners. As
it is reasonable to suppose Astrid will
improve with racing, she may be among
the best of the autumn two-year-olds. B.
Payten will be lucky if he has a better
youngster in his stable. Awake did not
shape nearly as well as when fourth in
Skerries’s race on New Year’s Day.
The Miller, starting at a shade of odds-
on, won the Farm Encourage Handicap
without giving his backers any cause for
anxiety. Merry Warrah was the pace-
maker, but The Miller had him beaten at
the leger, and did not have much trouble
in stalling off Kestrel, though the latter
improved upon his recent efforts. My
Dear ran on fairly to get third, and a win
at a mile is now a possibility for her.
Merry Warrah and Jasper are likely to
score at shorter distances. The Miller
is only a three-year-old, but there was no
stronger-looking horse in the field.
In winning the Berala Handicap
Sioneel showed even better form than
when he accounted for the Trial Handi-
cap at Randwick on Boxing Day. He
carried top weight in a field of 20, and,
leading from the three-furlongs post,
stalled off Calruin and Glorious when
they tackled him inside the last furlong.
Glorious, Insignia and Merton were
nearest Sioneel at the home turn, but
then they tired. Calruin, in getting
second, acquitted himself really well, con-
sidering he had an outside position at
the barrier. Among the unplaced division
Dorn’s fourth pointed to him as an early
winner, and Glittering Flame and
I’Amond were more prominent at the
finish than at any other part. Pierce,
Climax, Beaucaire, Table Talk and
Brazen Lad looked well, but were among
those not sighted. They may do better
in a smaller field.
* * * *
After having had three light seasons at
the stud, nine-year-old Pamelus, one of
the best though unluckiest sprinters in
Australia in recent years, has staged a
comeback with wins in the Christmas
Handicap at Flemington and the Chester-
field Handicap at Ascot from his last
three starts. He carried 9.9 at Ascot on
Saturday, conceded from 151 b. to 371 b.
to his younger opponents, and won in a
style reminiscent of his best. Or do this
season’s successes of Pamelus and eight-
year-old Aurie’s Star indicate that Mel-
bourne sprinting form is below par?
Whether or not Pamelus is quite as
good as formerly, he is an old marvel.
Stallions of his age and brilliance are
rarities on the racecourse, and, as he re-
fuses to grow old, it is not improbable
that he and one of his sons will be
racing next season. Owner-trainer Harry
Dukes, who bought Pamelus cheap as a
yearling, is hopeful concerning the future
of a yearling colt by this horse from a
Verbius mare, and he also possesses a
colt foal by the same sire. Had stud-
masters taken more interest in Pamelus
he would not have been racing at all this
season. His retirement from the Turf
had been announced, but, although he
served three of his owner’s mares, outside
bookings did not come up to expecta-
tions. Dukes decided to give Pamelus
another chance on the racecourse, and
has had no reason to regret that decision.
His two wins and a second from five
starts since he resumed training have
yielded £930 in stakes alone. Total earn-
ings are £11,675 for wins, 15
seconds and three thirds from 65 starts.
Backed from fives to threes on the
strength of his unlucky fourth in the
Standish Handicap, Pamelus was ridden
a well-judged race by Norman Creighton,
who believes the horse does best when re-
strained early and allowed to see daylight
about a furlong from home. He rode
him accordingly on Saturday, and,
although Pamelus was fortunate in re-
ceiving a rails-run at the turn, he won
decisively from All Veil and Scarlet Toi.
Dukes realises that Pamelus will receive
plenty of weight in the Oakleigh Plate
and Newmarket, but intends entering him
for those races. It might be expecting
too much of a horse of his age to win
one of Australia’s principal sprints, but
racegoers will look forward to another
clash between Pamelus and Aurie’s Star.
They have been rivals for many years,
but honors so far are with Aurie’s Star.
Latter beat Pamelus into second place in
the 1937 Newmarket and 1939 Oakleigh
Plate.
All Veil disproved his Standish form
by battling on well for second money
after being one of the leaders rounding
the bend, and Scarlet Toi ran on strongly
enough to indicate that he will repay fol-
lowing over a distance beyond six fur-
longs. Con Naru, who came from nearly
last at the half-mile to be fifth, wide out,
at the finish, is another worth keeping in
mind. Cumulus got away slowly, and
made up considerable ground to finish
sixth, while the Adelaide gelding
Operatic, who tired after leading for
home, should be all the better for the
race.
Companion, who sandwiched two
Flemington failures between his wins in
the Ascot Cup and Inverness Handicap,
is regarded by many backers as unre-
liable. Trainer and part-owner Roley
Trihey, however, contends that Com-
panion is not the rogue he’s painted, that
he needs a solid pace, and that muddling-
run races have accounted for his
failures. Companion finished second-last
in the Bagot Handicap on New Year’s
Day, but he pulled hard for the greater
part of the trip, and was left with noth-
ing in reserve for the business end. In
addition to the field being weaker, the
Inverness Handicap on Saturday was run
at a much sounder pace, and Companion
was able to' settle down early without
fighting for his head. Result was that
he finished too strongly for Request and
Bankshaw, and ran the H mile 40 yards
in 2.8, which equalled Keeping Watch’s
record for the course.
Neville Percival’s suspension for one
month after his winning ride on Bathing
Beauty at the Valley is proving costly.
He is Companion’s usual rider, and in the
ordinary course of events would have had
the mount on Saturday. Badger was sub-
stituted, and timed Companion’s finishing
run nicely. The Maoriland-bred horse
had done a winning trial at Mentone
during the week, and was always a short-
priced favorite.
Beauty is only skin deep. Kalbar,
according to her trainer, G. Jenkinson,
was an unattractive-looking mare when
she entered his stable several months ago
—so unattractive that he advised C. Sims
and H. Wilks, on whose behalf he had
arranged a lease, to delay inspecting her
for a month. Friends chided him, said
that he would never win a race with her,
but Jenkinson has had the last laugh.
Inclusion of glucose in Kalbar’s diet
helped to build her up into a winner of
three of her last four races, and, judged
by her defeat of Royal March and Sar-
thorn in the first Anglesey Trial division,
further improvement is likely.
A disappointing run at Pakenham two
days earlier was responsible for Kalbar
easing from 7 to 1 to twelves on Satur-
day, but she came from fifth at the turn
to beat Royal March in the last couple
of strides. She is a five-year-old by
Verbius from Halloween, and a half-
sister to Hathersage. In each of her three
recent wins she has been ridden by
apprentice A. Angus, and presumably
this lad will receive more opportunities
in future. Palencia, an easy winner at
Mentone the previous week, was a dis-
appointing favorite. A lot of use had to
be made of him after a slow getaway
from an outside position—a disadvantage
in seven-furlong races at Ascot —and he
weakened to finish fifth after moving to
the leaders at the turn.
An offer of 260 guineas at auction was
refused for Alstone a few weeks ago, but
he was sold later for 300 guineas, and
has already won three races for his new
owners. Two were at Kyneton and
Hanging Rock, but defeat into third place
in novice company at Woodend last week
did not say a great deal for his chance
in the second Angelsey Trial division.
There was a little money for him at 12
and 14 to 1, however, and, obtaining a
run between Star Boarder and Sheer Joy
in the straight, he won by a head from
Star Boarder after the latter had momen-
tarily looked sure to justify his 10-to-9-on
favoritism. Star Boarder may have been
upset as a result of knuckling over and
falling as he was being mounted, other-
wise there was no excuse for him.
Daretis shaped fairly in third place, but
Sheer Joy weakened into fourth position
after attempting to lead all the way.
Alstone’s time for the seven furlongs
was a second and a quarter faster than
that recorded by Kalbar in winning the
first division.
Silver Light was untroubled to beat
Leicester Square and Lilette in the Effing-
ham Handicap. She was due for a win,
not having been farther back than
fourth in any of her four previous races,
and the demand for Leicester Square
made a good market for her. Latter was
always a warm favorite, Silver Light
starling at fours after fives had been bet.
She was third to Kuaka and Colonus to
the turn, dashed to the front when fairly
on the way for home, and won easily.
Silver Light, who cost 170 guineas as a
yearling, is described by her trainer, L.
McCann, as a highly-strung and fretful
filly. She is a good galloper, however,
and when she settles down should win
races in better company than she beat
on Saturday. By Pantheon from Light-
ness, she comes from the same family as
Gloaming. No excuse was possible for
Leicester Square, who is becoming an ex-
pensive proposition, but Lilette should
be worth keeping in mind. Kuaka, who
weakened to finish fourth, should win a
small race shortly, and possibilities are
associated with Foxhow, who, starting at
100 to 1, ran on strongly in fifth posi-
tion.
Gold Token’s success in the Sandhurst
Welter had an unfortunate sequel for his
rider, G. Nichols. Latter was suspended
for one month for crossing Maldevon
too sharply rounding the home turn.
Limerick Lace attempted to lead all the
way, but Gold Token, who moved up
sharply on the turn, was too solid for
her at the finish, and won comfortably.
Lalmoni, third, was a disappointing favor-
ite. As usual, she dropped a good way
back early, and was forced to cover
extra ground on the turn. Heavily-backed
Bluebeard ran into trouble early, O. Cal-
linan (rider of Conflagration) being sus-
pended for one month for causing inter-
ference to him shortly after the start.
Unaffected by his fall at Moonee
Valley a week earlier, Spirak, backed
from twelves to eights, won the Nor-
manby Trial Hurdle in promising style
from Ronalla and Big Swell. Spirak and
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT."
Maiden Handicap: Crowon, 1 ;
River Valley, 2 ; Canvasser or Innis-
fail, 3.
Quality Handicap: Tanda, 1 ;
Owl’s Rest, 2 ; Goldbrook, 3.
Novice Handicap: Red Pete, 1 ;
Ginger Hugh, 2 ; Lo Dokes, 3.
Flying Handicap: Glorious, 1 ;
Novice, 2 ; Sir Regal, 3.
Rosehill Handicap: Australasia,
1 ; Sioneel, 2 ; Kurrawid, 3.
Carlingford Mile: Asnazu, 1 ;
Aranui, 2 ; Bestop or Rylstone, 3.
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
(By “SENTRY.")
Hawthorn Hurdle: Winterset, 1 ;
Green Cape, 2 ; Merridale, 3.
Holiday Stakes: Intrepid, 1 ;
Silver Light, 2 ; Portable, 3.
Anniversary Handicap: Marauder,
1 ; Keelie, 2 ; Companion, 3.
Rowena Welter: Our Boy, 1 ;
Royal Jubilee, 2 ; Saki, 3.
Koakaribb Trial: Graeme, 1 ;
Tetianui, 2 ; Palencia, 3.
Tooronga Handicap: Manrico,
1 ; Industry, 2 ; Cumulus, 3.


%
%
*
f£>
m
'Af
So
M I
JOUBERT *• JOUBERT
Ag«nU
; 1
LI D
ft
ft-
V lvS/>v'>
»/• >
T.JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
K NEW
CHAMPIONS
\
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Install new Champions and get
strong hot sparks that ensure
complete combustion of the
fuel. Less carbon. More speed
k and power. And much more
\ economy. Champions save
J you money!
kAn Empire product
—made in Windsor, Can.
is mss.
HeS.
5032333
Ronalla had the race to themselves over
the concluding furlongs, but Ronalla is
a lightly-framed gelding and was
anchored by 10.12 at the finish. A six-
year-old by Stand By-Good Company,
Spirak is only a newcomer to hurdling,
and will improve. He is a brother to
Terka, and, like the latter, is trained by
Ron Cameron. Penfield was a disappoint-
ing favorite, finishing a moderate fourth
without ever really flattering his backers.
L. Meenan, outstanding cross-country
jockey in Melbourne last season, has
been in the wars this season. A serious
accident at Flemington during the spring
meeting kept him out of the saddle until
New Year’s Day, and he will be idle for
several more weeks as a result of his
fall with Victory March on Saturday.
Victory March fell at the hurdle in the
straight the first time round, Meenan
suffering a fractured collarbone.
♦ * * *
Last week I mentioned a few horses I
regarded as Challenge Stakes possibili-
ties, but now there is doubt as to some
of them starting. The owner of Trimmer
says it is no certainty he will run.
It has appeared in print that he does not
like his horse’s weight nor the price he is
likely to get. However, up to the time of
writing Trimmer had not been scratched,
and, with £750 for first, the Challenge
Stakes will be the richest sprint handicap
run in Sydney for some time.
Waireka is to be a runner, and it is on
the cards that G. Price’s stable will have
another starter in either Beaulivre or
Gold Salute. Both look bright after a
recent holiday, and, though neither might
be forward enough to beat a really good
field, it is surprising what a horse of
class can do against moderates. Petruchio
was not impressive in the Sefton Handi-
cap, but the lower scale still leaves him
with a chance. Caesar is doing well, but
if Trimmer’s owner decides to start him
he must be hard to beat.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
There will not be a large field for the
Anniversary Handicap, and as Feminist
has done well since she won Tattersall’s
Cup it is probable she will be favorite.
I have heard it suggested that she is not
a weight-carrier, but she looks much
stronger than when racing at four years,
and at that age she ran second in an
L. K, S. Mackinnon Stakes at Fleming-
ton with 8.9, and was similarly placed
with 8.11 in a Rawson Stakes at Rosehill.
She disappointed in the Caulfield, Mel-
bourne and Brisbane Cups with a few
pounds less than 8.12, but that weight
should leave her with an excellent chance
at a mile and a half in moderate com-
pany.
Marengo, meeting her 51b. better than
in Tattersall’s Cup, w'ill be a tough nut
for Feminist to crack. He has also gone
on the right way since Tatt.’s Cup, and
as a result of that race may be better
fitted to run a distance. As he has
proved himself a weight-carrier up to
nine furlongs, his rise should not be
a serious matter for him. He is raced on
lease, and that is why he is not included
among the horses “Miss Lorna Doone” is
sending up for sale after the Anniversary
meeting. In the Warwick January Han-
dicap last Saturday Tuckerbox did not
run as if he would be suited by a mile
and a half, and Tusculum’s showing in
that race was so poor that the extra
quarter-mile will have to do a lot for him
to enable him to win.
Bourbon, Malagigi, Kurrawid and
Yours Truly can get a mile and a half,
and lightly-weighted Dollar may stay,
but at present it appears certain that
Feminist and Marengo will dominate the
betting, with one or the other the prob-
able winner. It does not seem as if the
field will be numerically stronger than
when Gold Spark (8 to 1) beat eight
others last year. The minor places were
filled by Mildura (6 to 4) and Kurrawid
(10 to 1).
R. Wootton probably regrets that he
did not nominate Fly for the Challenge
Stakes. Going on Sefton Handicap
weights she would have received 101 b.
less than Petruchio, and that would have
put her in at 7,6. She gave the impres-
sion on Saturday she was slightly above
herself —perhaps, however, she races best
that way—but, as it would be reasonable
to expect the run to benefit her to some
extent, the Challenge Stakes would have
given her a great chance of improving
her record. Perhaps her owner may have
designs on the Oakleigh Plate or New-
market Handicap, but they are much
more difficult, and this year the former
will be run down the straight at Flem-
ington.
* * * *
Tea Cake, who cost only 210gns., and
has deposed High Title as Melbourne’s
best two-year-old colt, is not in either the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes or Cham-
pagne Stakes. Neither Tea Cake’s
owners nor trainer could have visualised
the possibility of his proving out of the
ordinary. Neglect to nominate him for
Sydney’s principal two-year-old races
may have meant the loss of a few thou-
sands, though to dispose of such young-
sters as Yaralla, All Love and Astrid
Tea Cake would need to be an excep-
tional galloper.
* * ♦ ♦
Old horses have been so much in evi-
dence in important handicaps this season
that it is not surprising to hear pessimists
contend that our thoroughbreds are de-
teriorating. Seven-year-olds in Old
Rowley and Malagigi respectively won
the Melbourne and A.J.C. Summer
Cups, and nine-year-old Fernridge the
Perth Cup; while Aurie’s Star (eight)
and Pamelus (nine) are two of Vic-
toria’s best sprinters. Going upon his
Saturday’s win with 9.9 at Ascot Pamelus
must be within reasonable distance of
the form of his younger days, and the
autumn may see him making another bid
for the Oakleigh Plate. He won it in 1938
with 9.11, ran second with 9.10 in 1939,
and again last year with 9.8. His other
sprinting deeds include two seconds in the
Caulfield Futurity Stakes and seconds in
the Newmarket Handicap and Cantala
Stakes. A good but somewhat unlucky
record.
* jfc H* *
It seems only the other day that Mil-
dura won the Doncaster Handicap and
Mosaic the Sydney Cup, but entries for
those races close again on Monday next.
Penalty conditions are the same as last
year. The winner of one handicap of the
value to the winner of £6OO, or two or
more aggregating £7OO, can receive up to
101 b. extra. Weights will be declared on
March 17. The Autumn Plate and All-
Aged Plate, of £l5OO each, will be the
most valuable w.f.a. races, the Cumber-
land and A.J.C. Plates each carrying
£1250. The races mentioned should
attract Maoriland’s as well as Australia’s
best.
* * * *
It is understood that in several Queens-
land towns there is betting on Saturday
races in Sydney at set prices. According
to reports Astrid was made the medium
of a commission last Friday, and some
money was obtained at 5 to 2. The
owner and trainer of Astrid had nothing
to do with the business, and it is prob-,
able that they would like to know who.
supplied the information concerning the
filly; also the identity of the Sydney
backer who allegedly tried to put £2OO
on her in Rockhampton.
* * * *
Mannerheim, a 9-to-4-on favorite for
the Two-Year-Old Handicap at Doom-
ben, failed badly, finishing fourth in a
field of 11. The winner was Beau King,
by Hebrus, who has sired numerous
winners. Mannerheim (9.13) had a big
weight, and though, as a rule, a good <
two-year-old is not greatly affected by a*
few additional pounds, Mannerheim’s rise,
for his previous win proved too much
for him. However, his trainer is not
easily discouraged, and Mannerheim’s
easy win in the Canonbury Stakes may,
still make him a possible visitor to Syd-
ney for autumn racing.
* * * *
Mildura is reported to be progressing
favorably in Melbourne, and, good as
are his past performances, it is on the
cards for him to show something up to
the same standard in Melbourne in the
autumn. Weight-for-age races, with
Ajax, High Caste and Beaulivre as prob-
able opponents, are going to be hard for.
Mildura, but it must not be overlooked
that he gave Beau Vite 41b. in the
Craven Plate and ran him to a half-head
in the fast time of High Caste, also
in receipt of 41b., was a length and a
half away.
* * * «
Two races worth winning at the Armi-
dale and New England J.C. meeting next
month are the Armidale Cup, of £4OO
and a £5O gold cup, seven furlongs, and
the City Handicap, £l5O, seven furlongs.
Entries close on Monday next.
* * * *
Aulone had two representatives at
Randwick on Saturday, one being Astrid
and the other the three-year-old Dyne
(by Marconigram), trained by J,. W.
Cook, jun. The latter started in the
Maiden Handicap, but did not display
any of the pace that enabled Astrid to
run away with her race. Astrid is by
Brueghel, so it would be fair to credit
her speed to her sire.
* * ♦ *
A member of a Sydney suburban
club committee evidently erred in sup-
posing the Government was anxious for
starting-price betting on Sydney’s various
courses. The A.J.C. was notified last
week that there was no necessity
for immediate departure from exist-
ing conditions, but the matter would be
reviewed later on. If a change should
eventually be decided upon, presumably
betting boards will be insisted upon.
Otherwise it may be difficult to get even
money for a place about something that
is at 5 or 6 to 1 straightout, and better
than 2 to 1 will be difficult to obtain
about anything that is 12 to 1 or more.
Even when place boards were permis-
sible some years ago, the odds quoted
made humorous reading.
* * * *
Not only three-year-old but two-year-
old form puzzled backers in America
last year. In turn Our Boots and Whirl-
away received credit for being the best
two-year-old, but in the Pimlico Futurity,
run over eight and a half furlongs at Pim-
lico (Baltimore, Maryland) in November,
both were beaten by Bold Irishman (Sir
Gallahad 111-Erin), whose totalisator
price was nearly 23£ to 1, First money
was approximately £A10,290, and the
breeder of the winner received £230.
Bold Irishman is owned by Mrs. H. C.
Whitten,
* ♦ * *
Six-year-old Bristol was sold last week
for £125, but, though that price might
suggest his days of racing usefulness are
over, his new owner, aviator J. Broad-
bent, will see what he can do in the way
of making him fly before he is retired to
the stud. Winner of the Canterbury
Guineas, Bristol was backed for the Mel-
bourne Cup the same season. He did not
come up to expectations, and his princi-
pal win since he was three years was Tat-
tersall’s Cup. His latest success was when
he dead-heated Mischief for a race at
Rosehill last August.
* * * •
It has appeared in print that Beau Vite
is not to race in Sydney in the autumn.
If that is so it is regrettable, as his ap-
pearance would have greatly added to
the interest in the w.f.a. races. There
may, of course, be a possibility of his
owner changing his mind. Beau Vite has
certainly had a strenuous time, but the
three and a half months intervening be-
tween the recent Auckland R.C. meeting
and the A.J.C. meeting might be long
enough to permit of his having a let-up
and then being ready for racing in the
middle of April. Beaulivre and High
Caste raced in Melbourne in November
and are again in training with a view to
autumn racing, probably at the V.A.T.C.
meeting in February, and that would be
about three and a half months since they
last started. Still, if Beau Vite’s owner
believes his horse would be affected ad-
versely by autumn racing in Australia, he
may be wise in keeping him at home.
There are many rich w.f.a. prizes to be
vvon in the spring.
* * * *
Some circularising tipsters have used
the names of prominent trainers and
jockeys in their efforts to attract clients.
but the other day, in discussing this, I
heard a Queenslander say: “While these
fellows are bogus, don’t forget there are
trainers and jockeys—and not little ones,
either—who don’t mind getting a bit on
the side. Of my own experience,” he con-
tmued, “I know of a jockey who arranged
with a northern punter to put a certain
amount on any of his mounts he (the
jockey) fancied. Naturally, the jockey
did not wish his name to appear in any
way, and he did his business through a
friend. The latter, however, got greedy,
and his wires occasionally included horses
not ridden by the jockey supposed to
supply tbe information. The punter
resented this, and eventually^ there was a
definite understanding that only the
mounts of this particular jockey were o
wired him. I do not know whether
Je arrangement Still holds good, but it
did for a long time. Who was the jockey ?
1 am h® l gomg to tell you t at.
would surprise you if I did. I don
know whether we Queenslanders are con-
Sld /red good marks, but we never lack
information from supposed knowledgable
fl uart ers in New South Wales and Vic.
tona - # #
Tanda has score d three successive wins,
but> as he was al| out to beat La Junta in
the Rosebery Two-year-old Handicap, it is
probable the handicappers now have his
It is possi f£ that Henchman,
third in F -panda's race last week,
wi| , develop into a useful colt . j, was
. fi J and> al prominent , he
Tc-
Cafroll and E. E. Mcfntosh he fs by
Timide mad£ a
.... . .
P™mismg showing coming from a long
way back at the turn to finish fourth
He is a brother to Beaucaire, and is
trained by J. S. Packer, who races him
in partnership with W. J. Smith.
Th *, Kn * c, ak „ was a
lc last f ,f la ? K / loa - . a . ■
B °° d / a Vhn, ,L £™ a LT»‘v S
20 to L*. S
l, g . . j, th k , happening this year,
0n Melbourne form Sessions chance
£ac t of the AJC
handicapper giving her 8.6 ( ■
weight-for-age) “ the 9 la^ nge , Sta £“
shows that he has no doubt as to her
superiority over the other fillies Stylish
hl , s , 5™ T,”l W u V" ■‘ S kK
*‘>l be unable to hold Session if the latter
is herself. Addition, a winner at Rand-
wick, and Dawn Mary may be the best


Car Truck,Commercial
Utility, Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres and Tubes
of the remainder, as, though Alluring won
a division of a Maiden Welter at Vic-
toria Park last week, she beat nothing that
had any pretensions to class. Session
appears to have a mortgage on the race.
Most backers thought that of Waireka
last year, but she failed. Still, she
had to be taken on trust at a mile,
whereas there is no doubt as to Session
getting that distance.
♦ * * *
Four-year-old horses have done well
in important handicaps and w.f.a. races
in Sydney and Melbourne this season,
but those of the coming one will have
to improve on their three-year-old form
in order to have much chance in the
longer w.f.a. races. Lucrative, Rimveil,
Pandect, Tidal Wave, Session, Tranquil
Star and Ensign have shone most
of the three-year-olds. At a mile Rim-
veil, Lucrative and Ensign may enter
into calculations, but whether any of that
trio will be able to hold their own against
Beau Vite, Beaulivre, High Caste and
Ajax at a mile and a quarter is
doubtful. Tidal Wave, Lucrative and
Pandect ran fairly in the Melbourne
Cup, but when the first-mentioned two
subsequently met High Caste on better
than w.f.a. terms in the Williamstown
Cup they finished well behind him. Tidal
Wave beat Beau Vite and Beaulivre in
the Melbourne Cup, but he met them
respectively 121 b. and 111 b. better than
w.f.a. terms. Tidal Wave looks a horse
that will improve with age, but he has
a lot of leeway to make up to overtake
the older horses.
* * * *
If good pedigrees always assured
galloping ability, there would not have
been 18 runners of four years or over
in the Maiden Welter at Victoria Park last
week. Several were related to excellent
performers, and that they have gone so
long without giving a return further
emphasises the luck that attaches to
yearling buying. As a yearling Eager
Fox was sold for 525gn5., Drava 325gn5.,
Dionne 250gns., Experiment 160gns., and
Decelea 180gns. Charlotte Greenwood,
who was entered but did not run, cost
525gns. as a yearling.
# * * *
In the Wellington Cup, to be run this
week, Beau Vite was given 10.1, against
Royal Chief’s 9.10. In the circumstances
it is not surprising that, if there was ever
any intention of running him, Beau Vite
was withdrawn. In the Auckland Cup
Beau Vite was, on the w.f.a. scale, rated
only a pound better than Royal Chief,
but the former’s win in that race, as well
as the Clifford Plate, completely altered
the position. Applying the w.f.a. scale
the Wellington handicapper rates Beau
Vite 91b. better than Royal Chief. If
the A.J.C. handicapper should follow that
lead Royal Chief will be well treated
if he is nominated for the Sydney Cup.
* * * *
Among the arrivals at Randwick dur-
ing the past few days are Pinero and
Fearless Fox. The former looks particu-
larly well after his rest. Triggerman,
who has recently done a fair share of
racing, has been sent to Maitland.
* * * *
A Calcutta correspondent who saw the
Viceroy’s Cup run tells me Baqlava put
up a remarkable performance in winning
that race. He fell on his knees at the
start, his rider losing an iron. Then he
struck so much trouble that he was
second-last six furlongs from home, and
was disappointed in trying to get through
at the half-mile. However, with a bril-
liant run, he defeated the 5-to-4-on
favorite Finalist by a length in 2.57|.
That was a record for the race, the pre-
vious best being Orange William’s 2.59|.
Baqlava also made a record for the King-
Emperor’s Cup, 1 mile, when he won
that a few weeks ago.
Baqlava, who was lame after the Cup,
was heavily backed, the best laid against
him being 8 to 1, and he closed at 6
to 1. There were 12 starters. The owner
of the winner was not present, and a
photograph of A. Higgins leading the
horse in shows him smiling broadly,
which was not surprising. Baqlava is
by Tetratema and never won in England.
His first success in India was in a Class
111 race. Although registered as a brown
after his arrival in India, his coat has
altered so much that he is now an iron
grey. He was ridden in the Viceroy’s Cup
by Treffone. As I mentioned in a recent
issue, an attempt was made to secure the
Melbourne rider Preston for him, and it
would have been a payable trip.
* * i? *
If the report that a Victorian owner
offered 5000gns. for the Maoriland three-
year-old colt Kindergarten is correct he
lacks nothing in pluck. Weight-for-age
races will be hard to win in the autumn,
and harder still when Kindergarten has
to carry 9st. in the spring. Such older
horses as Beau Vite, Beaulivre and High
Caste will be tough opponents for any
four-year-old. Kindergarten finished
strongly to win the Great Northern
Derby (Auckland) in the record time for
the race of 2.31, but he defeated Lou
Rosa by only three-quarters of a length,
with Beau Leon a head further off.
Whether that was a 5000gns. perform-
ance must, of course, be a matter of
opinion.
* * * *
If Astrid should run in the Easter
Stakes she will have a decided advantage
over All Love in weight. The latter has
101 b. penalty, whereas Astrid has nothing
additional. Trueness, with 101 b. penalty,
was a 2-to-l favorite for last year’s Easter
Plate, and ran fourth in a field of six.
* * * *
In America up to the middle of De-
cember of the past year 6394 foals were
registered with the Jockey Club. That
number broke all records, and it was
anticipated the total would reach 6500.
There were many new breeders, and,
according to the registrar of the Jockey
Club, there were approximately 1500 stal-
lions on innumerable farms in the coun-
try, and as perhaps 2 per cent, of the
foals were not bred for racing purposes
they were not registered. In addition
the United States Government and
Jockey Club have thoroughbred stallions
scattered over the country for the use of
farmers and army men who desire the
thoroughbred strain in their stock horses
and cavalry mounts. About 300 horses —
stallions, brood mares and yearlings —
arrived in America from other countries
last year. The advance in prize-money
has naturally done a lot towards increas-
ing the number of horses bred, and it is
said owners have a great deal for which
to thank the totalisator.
* * * *
Good two-year-olds and three-year-
olds can win a lot of money in America.
So can a steeplechaser. Up to the middle
of November Cottesloe had won $27,400'
(approximately £8400) this year. At
latest he had won five steeplechases in
succession, the last with 11.9. Most of
the critics credited him with standing
further out in his class than any flat-
racer did in his.
* * * *
Fields as large as those common in
Sydney and Melbourne are rarely ap-
proached in America. The greatest num-
ber of runners for any race in New York
last year was 17, and that, rather un-
expectedly, was for a lwo-anfi-a-quarter-
miles race. Provision is not made for
large fields. The latest thing in starting
gates was used at the Miami J.C.’s course,
Hialeah Park, this month, and there were
only 14 stalls. Electric magnets placed
in the overhead structure hold the V-type
swing-out doors close. The start is
effected when the starter breaks the elec-
tric control, causing all gates to open
simultaneously. It is said the magnetic
principle precludes the possibility of lock-
ing in horses in any one or more of the
individual stalls.
* * * *
Beau Pere is to do stud duty in
America after all. Difficulties associated
with a return to Australia disposed of a
temporary stay in America. However,
L. B. Mayer, who had arranged for it,
made such a big straightout offer for
the horse that W. J. Smith (St. Aubins
Stud) thought it too good to turn down.
He was wise in accepting it, in view of
the effect the war may have upon blood-
stock breeding and racing nearly all over
the world. Mayer, however, can have
little fear that America is going to suffer,
as he purchased freely last year. After
Hunters Moon IV won the Cesarewitch
in England in October, he bought him.
Purchased in England by a Maoriland
breeder for 100gns., Beau Pere was sub-
sequently sold at auction to Smith for
3300gns. —a mere nothing by comparison
with the amount Mayer is reported to
have paid for him. Two of Beau Pere’s
great performers this season are Beau
Vite and Beaulivre, and they are bound
to do him further credit. Beau Pere is
14 years old,
* * * »
In November the prominent American
breeder and owner Col. E. R. Bradley
made his annual gift of $lO,OOO to be
divided among the various orphanages
and charitable institutions of Kentucky.
The gift was to provide Thanksgiving and
Christmas dinners for the orphans and
other children of Kentucky. In 20 years
Col. Bradley has distributed $140,000 in
this manner. At first the Colonel held
race meetings at his stud farm, and gave
the profits to the various institutions, but
he later decided upon a straightout
donation.
* * * *
After the recent $50,000 two and a
quarter miles handicap at Belmont Park
(New York) there was a deal of contro-
versy as to the preparation necessary
to fit horses for long races. Some
trainers held that a horse well enough
to run a good mile and a quarter was
fit to run two miles. Possibly the condi-
tion would be right, but a horse that had
not run beyond a mile and a quarter in
public, and was not prepared for a longer
distance, might have a lot of trouble in
getting two miles. In Australia many
horses have done well up to a mile and
a half, but have found two miles com-
pletely beyond them.
It has not been unusual to see horses
win at a mile and a half after being
trained for a mile, but in similar circum-
stances success at two miles is decidedly
unusual. At the same time I can recall
a horse that was specially trained for six
furlongs failing at that distance and win-
ning at two miles. That happened at
Randwick in the 1892-93 season. A big
Moorethorpe horse named Chatham was
sent out favorite at 7 to 2 for the Car-
rington Stakes. He finished seventh, and
three days later completely upset calcu-
lations by easily winning Tattersall’s Cup,
then two miles, his starting price being
20 to 1 in a field of 14.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM PERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
In winning the United States amateur
championship at Winged Foot, N.Y., Dick
Chapman achieved a 25-year-old ambi-
tion. He began playing at Pinehurst in
1915 as a boy of five. The only son of
an old golfing family, Chapman has been
able to play and practise without having
to work for a living—almost a guarantee
of ultimate success.
When Chapman was eliminated in the
opening round of the amateur cham-
pionship in Chicago in 1939, he publicly
announced that he would win the title
in 1940, and cut smoking and drinking.
The event was played on his home
course. Over a steady week in which
he averaged a stroke a round worse than
par, he managed to succeed after several
narrow matches.
When reviewing the qualifiers I gave
Chapman little chance of success despite
his advantages. I liked the chances of
Wehrle and Ward. Wehrle had Chap-
man five down at the ninth in the semi-
final, and then collapsed, taking 42 for
the last nine. This lucky break gave the
winner the confidence to go into the final
and overwhelm McCullough by a huge
margin.
From the point of style Chapman is
hardly a copy-book player. He is highly
temperamental, which is reflected in his
swing—one of the quickest I have ever
seen. He can be likened to a highly-
strung colt champing on the bit; he can’t
reach the ball quickly enough to get the
stroke over. For ever changing minor
points in his style and experimenting,
Chapman would, I believe, be a greater
player if he stuck to his own swing and
worked on it.
At Pinehurst the other day Chapman
and I teamed together in the mid-south
open four-ball championship on the No.
2 course, and we returned a best-ball score
for the 36 holes of 137 —a 65 and 72 —
the latter round played in a severe wind
and rain. We finished second to Ed
Oliver and Clayton Heafner. It was a
field of leading professionals and
amateurs.
As a best-ball partner Chapman is
ideal; his brilliant bursts were of great
importance in our scores. His rounds
were 72 and 75, mine 71 and 72.
These rounds with the amateur cham-
pion gave me a good insight into his
game under keen competition. He is a
good match player and is worth watching.
He is game at all times, battling wherever
his ball may be lying. From the tee he
doesn’t drive exceptionally far ; the shot
is fairly low in trajectory and has a curl-
ing draw or hook. He gets a lot of run.
Standing well into the ball he opens the
face of his driver quite a lot and has a
very open face at the top of the swing.
By using his wrists he whips the club-
head over swiftly, thus getting the decided
draw on his ball.
In his address Chapman uses an open
stance, with the ball two inches nearer
the left foot than the right. Following
a couple of quick swishes with the club
in getting himself set, he begins his fast
backswing, which is practically as swift
nearing the top as it is coming down.
Chapman uses a fairly full swing, and
smashes down firmly at every shot —even
his short iron shots. Every shot, whether
it be a 200-yard iron or a No. 8, has a
pull or draw on the ball; he swings all
his shots from right to left.
When in form and mentally confident
Chapman can be an extremely dangerous
player. He has made brilliant nine-
hole scores on championship courses,
and his putting touch is deadly
whether he is faced with a 30-footer
or a five-footer. With his irons he
plays the ball midway between his
feet and punches down on it, sending it
away low, with the ball gradually climb-
ing till it reaches its highest point just
prior to dropping suddenly on to the
green. Favoring an orthodox overlap-
ping grip, Chapman likes to feel his
hands slightly in front of the ball in all
iron shots, and is a believer in taking the
divot from the spot where the ball lies.
Chapman has to my mind the best re-
covery shot of any American amateur I
have seen. His pitching is deadly within
75 yards of the flag. Using a fairly
heavy pitching club, he keeps the ball
flying rather low, squeezing it off the
turf; the ball pulls up remarkably
quickly after the first jump. On the
putting green he uses an upright swing,
playing the ball off the toe of his left
foot, with his weight mainly on this foot,
with the feet about 18in. apart. His
stroke is a wrist one, with no body move-
ment.


YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Musi First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
Is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to be
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
.Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
blogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
bess. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney Town Hall is to be enriched by
a spirited painting of the Sydney in
action with the Bartolomeo Colleoni.
Artist Alcock has caught the moment
when the Sydney is sweeping in a curve
on the Italian cruiser. The large painting
is now in Birt and Co.’s boardroom, but
will shortly be handed over to Sydney’s
Mayor by Frank Albert. In the mean-
time copies of the painting are being
made and will be sold at one guinea each
for the King George Fund for Sailors,
The King George Fund for Sailors
already stands at about £14,000. All done
by men. That is very good, but with
women’s help they hope to do better.
So, last week at a meeting in the board-
room of Birt and Co., knight Tom
Gordon, Commodore Muirhead-Gould
and banker Tom Church invoked the
sex’s aid in keeping up that steady stream
of income that in the long tot makes
richer reading than do the results of three
or four spectacular occasions throughout
the year. To the men in the navy and
to the British seaman, this country has
been indebted since the arrival of Cap-
tain Cook. The King George Fund is
trying to pay off a little of what Australia
owes. The money does not all go to Eng-
land. Much of it is spent among our
seamen here. Five hundred pounds was
handed over the other day to make the
lot of the raider survivors a little happier.
The meeting was called for four; was
preceded by tea, and followed by ices.
The Thomas Gordon lady was elected
president of a committee which has Mrs.
Grace and Mrs. Muirhead-Gould and
Mrs. T. Church as vice-presidents. A
number of girls, too, on the shipping
co.’s staff are keen members of the
general committee. Viki Gordon is a
helper full of bright ideas, and Mrs.
Frank Albert,has a scheme or two. Miss
Withall, of the Wool Board, lost no time
in getting down to plans. Altogether the
meeting was a good one, and promises
well for the Rangitane Ball to be held
this Friday night at the Trocadero. Cap-
tain Upton and the officers of his ship
will attend this ball, and as many of the
passengers as can do so.
Mrs. Iven G. Mackay, wife of Major-
General Mackay, is small, dark, bright-
eyed and is the right wife for a soldier.
In fact, if her horoscope were read Mars
would probably be found to be in the
ascendant. Her father was Brigadier-
General Meredith, her son is a lieutenant
in the A.1.F., and her brother, Captain
Meredith, is with the A.I.F. in Egypt.
Daughter Jean just about the beginning
of this war married Lieutenant Bill
Travers, of the A.I.F. (his father is a sol-
dier, too), now in the Middle East. Jean
has managed to get herself a job in Cairo,
and is doing cipher work for the British
Imperial Airways. They seem to be the
real Mackay when the Empire gets into a
bit of bother.
The brightest party of last week was
given for what Dr. George Mackaness
calls the Copracornians. The Pacific
Islands Society was the host; the guests
were the men from Tonga, the Solomons,
New Caledonia, Papua and other tropic
outposts who were in Sydney conferring
on markets and dispositions of copra.
Everybody seemed to arrive on the tick,
and by twenty past five the Carlton recep-
tion-room was a seething mass of
humans, their voices breaking against the
walls like some gay and chuckling surf.
The afternoon was hot and sticky, and
one woman visitor opened up a refresh-
ing vista when she said if asked to choose
between a sherry and a shower she would
choose the shower. Maybe in summer
days to come waiters will announce to
the arriving guests “Sherry to the right,
showers to the left.”
Among the guests were Judge and Mrs.
Stewart. He was in transit between his
Chief Justiceship of Tonga and that of
British Guiana when the Rangitane, on
which he and Mis wife were travelling,
was victimised by the raider. The Hunter
lady from Maoriland, a friend, was an-
other guest. The Crown Prince of Tonga,
now studying law at Sydney Uni., sup-
ported president A. E. Stephen in welcom-
ing everybody, with a special word for the
importants. In this respect there was a
handful of aces: Leonard Murray, just
succeeded to famed Uncle Hubert as
Administrator of Papua; T. J. Collins,
the Commonwealth Minister; Andre
Brenac, leader of De Gaulle’s Free
French movement here; visiting Ameri-
can journalists Waymack and Binder, and
Landon Smith, who five days before had
been in America.
The society’s chieftainess, Mrs. Page,
is a pleasant and efficient hostess. She
helped mix the different groups with an
adept hand. Mrs. Mary Irvine, who is
busy writing a life of Queen Salote, of
Tonga, was one of the well-knowns; so
were the Monckton couple. He was once
Commissioner for Native Affairs in Fiji.
The mother of the late Jack Hides, the
explorer, was one of the much-greeted.
Editor Robson, of “P.I.M.” (“Pacific
Islands Monthly”), a pretty girl who
was introduced as the daughter of
“Tibby” Hagen, Mrs. Purcell, just
back from Maoriland, and the Dr.
George Mackaness couple helped to
make the merry-go-round.
Tonga’s Crown Prince gave a dinner
party at Usher’s after the sherry party
to the copra-conferrers.
When Faith Macarthur Onslow mar-
ried her Ivan Lloyd Phillips at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, there were,
a ready reckoner declares, 223 guests.
These included the staff of the bride’s
Camden home. They were also present
at the reception at Redleaf, Double
Bay. There were Blighs and Gordons,
Osbornes and Warrys at this muster,
which was so country it was the equiva-
lent of English county. The bride’s slim
figure carried its white swaying chiffons
with a dignified simplicity. A dash of
orange-blossom, a short tulle veil, the
gleam of pearls, the flash of diamonds
and a posy of stephanotis were other
points noted.
Blue and white seem to be Mrs. Phil-
lips’s favorite colors. In daisies, gladioli
and delphinium they decked the church; in
hydrangea, gladioli and stephanotis they
made cool-looking flower compositions at
Redleaf. Cousin of the bride Mrs. Beres-
ford Grant was matron of honor. Her
frock was of white sheer, long, full and
very simple. Her posy was blue. She
wore no hat, but her hair was blithe with
a bow of white corded ribbon. Another
cousin. Captain Dick Onslow, squired
Faith. Gunner Geoff Lempriere was best
man. Parson Paul, of Camden, tied the
knot. Mrs. George Macarthur Onslow,
in navy and white (her small white hat
was nearly covered in navy feathers)
came into the spotlight as hostess at the
reception. Knight Donald Cameron gave
the toast of her only child and the
’groom. He was the right man for this,
as Faith’s father, Brigadier-General
George Macarthur Onslow, had been his
great friend. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Music during the reception was very
alluring, and the bride’s favorite —all
ballet music.
It must be mentioned, of course, that
the bride is a great-great-granddaughter
of John Macarthur, of merino fame.
Which reminds of a funny story told of
Ernest Bevin, When he was touring Aus-
tralia as one of the Commonwealth Rela-
tions Conference he was taken to view the
Macarthur Onslow pastures. Later at a
farewell dinner, at which the Governor,
Lord Lothian and Sir Alfred Zimmern
were guests, Bevin told of his experience.
“ And, gentlemen,” he ended, and a
twinkling eye passed over the peers of
the realm on each side of him, “I came
to the conclusion as I looked at those
illustrious, those noble merinos that they
would be an adornment to the House
of Lords.”
Have you seen the small flags of Aus-
tralia, in enamel, that Sydney women are
wearing? The arrival of this writer’s
one synchronised with the victory at
Bardia, and it has been flown on the
lapel, in celebration, ever since.
Wearing the flag, however, is not
thought by Mavis Ripper, of Melbourne,
to be all-sufficing. Last week, as a re-
minder that, though today may be melting,
the cold winds of autumn are just around
the corner, Miss Ripper has brought
to Sydney a collection of soft woollen
frocks and suits, and some lengths of
material. These materials are all hand-
woven to Mavis’s design, and a great suc-
cess they are. The beauty of her scheme
is that the woman who wants to be dis-
tinctive can pick her own design, and
have a dress length woven specially for
her.
Mavis, who studied her art at the Mel-
bourne Gallery, arranged a dress parade
on top of Feltex House last week. For-
tunately for the effect of her woollies the
day was grey, with a cold breeze. Round
about and in and out the green lawn of
the roof garden, the ornamental dwarfed
trees and the gay flowers nodding in the
borders stepped the demonstrators in
their suits, frocks and greatcoats. Some
of these feather-soft materials reminded
of Scots moors. There were mountain-
mist greys and blues. A suit to put color
into the shortest day had its skirt of soft
pink, its jacket of grey. This had narrow
navy stripes and patch pockets the same
shade as the skirt. One alluring material
was in a deep rose-red. Mavis has a cun-
ning hand with checks. One topcoat had
its golden-brown ground barred in subtle
greens, blues and whites. Trays of
samples carried proudly about among the
spectators would have turned any patch-
work-quilt maker into a kleptomaniac for
the afternoon. Mavis, in a white frock
and a hat of coarse crochet design banded
in red velvet, superintended the show.
She has been designing frocks for Marie
Ney and other members of the “No Time
for Comedy” co. and was for some time
dress-designer for Cinesound.
For 20 years, or maybe a trifle more,
Dr. Katie Ardill Brice has been running
a clinic in Liverpool-street for the de-
pendants of returned soldiers. Dr. Katie
founded this clinic shortly after the last
war. Its yearly average of patients is
3000. Her career is a record of un-
flagging service to her country. She
graduated at Sydney University in 1914,
and a year later found her working with
the British Medical Corps. She served
in France and in Egypt till 1919. In
addition to her clinic and her Macquarie-
street practice, Dr. Brice is an honorary
member of the staff of the R.P.A. and of
South Sydney Women’s Hospital, which
was founded 40 years ago by her father,
George Ardill, M.B.E. This is one of
several institutions founded by that great-
hearted man. The “open-all-night”
refuge for women and children and a
boys’ home at Camden are among his
good works. Dr. Brice also contrives
time to give first-aid and A.R.P. lectures.
Her husband, Lieutenant Brice, served
in the 1914-18 war, and is now engaged
in military duties. Dr. Katie Ardill
Brice was the only woman in the State
to be awarded the 0.8. E. in the New
Year’s honors list. Norton Trevaire
photograph,
Oswald Cheeke’s nephew, another
Oswald Cheeke, a lieutenant in the R.N.,
has been awarded the D.S.O.
The Shiplovers’ Society is sorrowing
the passing of its founder, Captain Wil-
liam J. Wade, M.8.E., a master of craft,
who belonged to the old days of sail. He
was one of the notable figures in the
Loch line sailing ships. Captain Wade
founded the society, and was its presi-
dent up to the time of his death. The
Rawson Institute is the meeting-place,
and there happy nights are passed by the
183 members and as many seamen who
like to drop in, telling dogwatch yarns,
singing chanties and sometimes with a
movie of seagoing flavor. The first muster
of members since Captain Wade’s death
will take place on January 15, when the
star event will be Dr. Maurice Hum-
phrey’s film “Ships That Have Gone.”
Sydney men and women who remem-
ber Amy Mollison, then the girl Amy
Johnson, when she came to Sydney, the
flush of triumph still bright about her,
must grieve over her untimely end. It
seems impossible now to doubt that she
perished last week when her ’plane
crashed into the Thames Estuary.
Whether stunt flying be commendable or
not, the fact remains that Amy must have
been brimful of courage, tenacity and
endurance when she made her famous
flight from England to Australia—the
first woman to bring off such a solo flight.
Even Amy seemed rather dizzy with the
surge of admiration, the constant round
of congratulatory parties that greeted her
in Australia It was here she met Jimmy
Mollison, whom she married two years
later in 1932. Six years after that she
obtained a divorce from him. At the time
of the fatal crash she was on duty in the
Air Transport Auxiliary. Amy was a
graduate in economics of Sheffield Uni.,
and it was out of her own earnings as a
typist in London that she paid for her
first flying lessons. All that courage and
determination was ended at the age of 32.
Noel Coward in his farewell interview
with the press earned first prize for thin-
ice skating. During the interview Mr.
Coward stood like a stag at bay while
newspaper people ringed around barked
their questions at him. True, the barks
were tempered by politeness and the Aus-
tralian sunny disposition. The playwright
never turned a hair. He was smiling,
terribly civil, and never came out with
a statement about anything except what
he considered a Marvellous Party. Appar-
ently it seems to be something where
everyone belongs to the theatre, and there
are about as many pianos as guests, and
each chucks his box of talents or tricks
into the ring. He said it was at one of
these parties he first heard Gershwin’s
“Rhapsody in Blue.” Mr. Coward might
assay as much gold as Kalgoorlie, but
the interviewer’s pick wasn’t going to
chip off any nuggets.
Noel Coward says he has read several
plays while he has been here, but that
none of them is about Australia. What
exactly do people mean when they say
that? Drama is not so much background
as the reactions of human nature to love,
lust, envy, fear —in short, the fight be-
tween the seven deadly sins and the Ten
Commandments. Comedy juggles them
together so that they crack into a rain-
bow of laughter. What particularly of
England is there in Mr. Coward’s
“Design for Living”? He doesn’t think
it necessary constantly to drag in morris
dancing, problems of the shipbuilding in-
dustry or the cotton trade, the Tower of
London, or even to have backcloths con-
sisting entirely of sturdy oaks and mistle-
toe boughs. When will American and
English writers cease to think that
Australians should always write about
conditions on the land or pioneer days?
Dead at 82 in Paris, Henri Bergson,
the Jewish philosopher who wrote
Creative Effort. Bergson was presi-
dent of the Committee of Intellectual Co-
operation, which Shaw satirised in a
recent play. His philosophy placed a lot
of emphasis on intuition, and was derived
in part from Henri Fabre’s observations
of the workings of instinct amongst
animals. A good many of Fabre’s find-
ings have been found to be as fallacious
as the Committee of Intellectual Co-
operation’s notion that international fric-
tion can be abolished by friendly corre-
spondence between scholars.


SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIHLS
River Road, Greenwich, North Shore,
and
Moss Vale.
For girls of all ages from Sub-Primary to
leaving Certificate Honours. The schools are
ideally situated, excellent cuisine, qualified
mistresses, good examination results. The
school at Moss Vale is in 381 acres, with
special facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools.
Personal and Missing Friend.
KEANE. —Any person knowing the present or
past whereabouts of THOMAS KEANE, the
husband of the late SARAH ANN KEANE
(who died on 13th September, 1940), please
communicate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
WILLIAM McKERRIN. —Any person knowing
of the past whereabouts or date of death of
WILLIAM McKERRIN, father of the late
JOSEPH McKERRIN (who died on 9th
October, 1909), please communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Estate of Bridget Covil.
Any persons having information regarding
the relatives of Bridget Covil, nee Dogherty,
are requested to communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Public Trust Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
An unnatural quiet hangs over Mrs. D.
L. Rintel’s Army Leave Club in Elwood,
for although a few strays and old pals
call in now and then the club is officially
closed, and the only noise about the place
is made by young David Rintel and
smaller brother Derek. The club just got
through Christmas and New Year owing
to a timely donation from the racing
fraternity.
The cause for the club’s abandonment
is that the family breadwinner, D. L.
Rintel, joined the A.I.F. He’s a profes-
sional photographer, has had a lot of
experience with sound recording, and has
invented a gadget used on cameras when
photographing animated cartoons. He
had four years’ militia training with the
Engineers. He enlisted as a private, and
no club in the world can be run on a
private’s pay.
Mrs. Rintel is quite undaunted. She’s
going back to work —she was a steno-
grapher before her marriage 14 years
ago. As for her sturdy boys, they like
bare feet and pants with patched tails,
for thus they have been running around
for the last ten months —the club took
every moment of mother’s time and
energy.
The club equipment, which included
30 beds, linen, blankets, etc., has been
given to other hostels. In the early stages,
before the opening of Air Force House,
80 or 90 airmen used to arrive on Friday
nights. On Saturdays 50 soldiers were a
usual quota. The men didn’t all sleep on
the premises, though some stayed lying
on bare boards with their heads on their
kitbags. Mrs. Rintel (“Sarge-Major
Frankie,” the troops called her) was able
to cope with the catering, for she had
experience in producing food on a large
scale when she ran a restaurant in Perth
some years ago. When she and her hus-
band sold out of that enterprise they
thought they’d take a holiday in W.A.,
and did so in a second-hand car they
bought for a song. With David, aged
seven, and the baby a few weeks old, they
toured the wheatbelt and the south-west,
sleeping under the stars and cooking their
food on a shovel over a fire. They had
a grand time, which was only equalled in
David sen.’s estimation by a trip he did
with buffalo-hunters through the
Northern Territory, his job being to
photograph the beasts. One charged him,
but he got a picture before leaping for
his life.
Things are happening at the Silver
Door, in Flinders-lane, hardly less amaz-
ing than the changes rung by the ugly
little caterpillar who turns up one morn-
ing a butterfly. The dark and dusty loft
where silver foil and other metal scrap is
sorted before being sold as waste pro-
ducts in aid of the Free Kindergarten is
growing brighter and gayer. During a
recent hot week-end H. J. Owen and
metallurgist Eric Connor took off their
coats, and with their own competent
hands put up a fibrolite partition in place
of an arras of hessian that stretched
across the room. Other men of moment
were present with brooms and scraping
knives, and Mrs. D. Dare, Mab Alston
and Mrs. Eric Hogarth, who both wield a
paintbrush in a professional manner, got
to work on the sorting tables. These are
now a joy to the eye in lettuce-green. The
windows are following suit, and surprises
are happening to the chairs. The speed-
up sorting tables where the second sorts
take place are keeping their plain pine-
wood faces under a coat of clear lacquer.
The grimy walls are turning cream, and if
some steeplejacks are available the ceiling
may follow suit. As for the washroom,
no longer is it dark as a wombat’s
burrow, but so frilly that it’s almost
become a boudoir. Donations made the
renovations possible.
New Year wishes come to friends in
Australia from conductor Georg Szell
and his wife, now in New York. Madame
writes enthusiastically of her husband’s
engagement at the Hollywood Bowl, of
six weeks of parties and one week of
motoring and of a further contract to
conduct Toscanini’s orchestra through the
N.B.C. Pianist Ignaz Friedman sent his
greetings from the Dutch East Indies ; so
did Dorothy Helmrich, who is giving con-
certs in Java. On her return to Australia
she will take up an appointment at Syd-
ney Conservatorium. Another new mem-
ber on the staff of that institution is
Harold Williams. Mile. Jeanne Gautier
sent New Year cards from Over-the-Hill,
Crawley, W.A.
Recently returned to town from Lakes
Entrance is Betty Howden (Dickinson-
Monteath photograph), who is finding an
antidote for her holiday nostalgia in get-
ting to work with rehearsals for
“Poisoned Pen.” Betty plays the vicar's
daughter, part of the play’s romantic in-
terest. Some of her past experiences were
gathered in P.L.C. Old Collegians’ pro-
ductions. She was in their “Dear Octo-
pus,” and she also had a part in “The
Man Who Stayed at Home,” Old Scotch’s
contribution for Boat Race Night.
“Poisoned Pen,” which will be produced
by Terence Crisp, is set in rural Eng-
land, is by Richard Llewellyn, and con-
tains at least one Welsh character.
Nucleus of the plot is that oddity of
human life the anonymous letter-writer,
and there’s enough mystery to get the
audience guessing that scribe’s identity.
The play has never been performed in
Melbourne, but received favorable
notices in London in 1938. The season
is from January 25 to February 1 at the
Little Theatre.
Making quite sure that Beatrice Lynch
wouldn’t miss the train, her pals from the
Women’s League of Health gave her a
farewell party, not quite on the station,
but as close as they could get, at Car-
lyon’s. Beatrice boarded the Overland
for Adelaide en route for Perth to take
up her new appointment as teacher in
charge of the League’s W.A. centre. Her
presentation gift at the party was a box
of stockings, which was just what she
wanted, for sheer stockings are a big
event in the lives of gym. girls who spend
most of their waking hours in white
blouses and brief black shorts.
Coinciding with Beatrice’s transfer was
a recall back to Melbourne for Jean
Barnet, who is now assistant to Ethel
Lancer. Jean, who went to Perth eight
months ago, speaks glowingly of the pro-
gress of the League in that city and the
hospitality extended to herself as its ex-
ponent. There’s to be an open-air demon-
stration over there in April which is
going to keep Beatrice on her toes, but
she won’t fall down on the job ; she had
experience of similar organising in the
Como Park demonstration in 1939.
The League has just turned out 14
graduates from its Sydney Teachers’
Training School. As new branches are
being opened there will be no difficulty
about jobs for them. In March Thea
Hughes goes to Brisbane to open a centre.
Mrs. Bernard Dixon, who is going to live
in Mildura, will take over a centre in
that town. Another New Year appoint-
ment is for Helen Smith, who will be
Mrs. Dorothy Dowling’s right-hand man
in Adelaide.
Three cases of reading matter con-
signed to the Women Journalists’ Library,
Air Force House, were unloaded re-
cently in Melbourne, The contents were
mostly better-class magazines and
periodicals collected in Honolulu by Mrs.
E. Farrow. Principal contributors were
officers of the American Navy, who liked
the idea of Uncle Sam’s sailors sending
across the sea a handful of something
to read to Australia’s airmen. Mrs.
Farrow writes that on Christmas Day
Father Christmas delighted the children
of Honolulu by arriving with sacks full of
toys in a submarine.
Recently returned to Melbourne is
Doreen McArthur Berry, who was
hostess at the Australian Pavilion for the
World Fair in New York in 1939 and
again last year when the Fair reopened
after the Northern Hemisphere winter.
She’s a young woman of vitality, has a
good line of sales talk, is sincerely inter-
ested in the job of cementing friendship
between Australia and the U.S.A., and, in
short, must have been a useful emissary
across the Pacific. Her big idea now is to
keep and improve what we have gained,
i.e., an interest in this country which is
growing in America. Miss Berry considers
that teachers and children are the best
medium of reciprocal propaganda. They
came round the Australian Pavilion in
swarms, their questions were never-end-
ing, and there are a lot of them. It is
said that the teachers of the U.S.A.
would populate a 49th State.
Miss Berry feels that the Common-
wealth’s Pavilion was a good advertising
show, which, however, could have been
improved by a kiosk for the sale of
goods. Visitors tried all methods of coax-
ing and cajoling to buy toy bears and
boomerangs, lyrebird and kookaburra
gramophone records, Margaret Preston’s
flower paintings, etc., but unfortunately
nothing was for sale. Miss Berry is all
for the opening of an Australian Infor-
mation Bureau in New York (news of
David Bailey’s appointment to the man-
agement of this establishment came
through last week). She hopes it will be
in Fifth-avenue, at street level.
Miss Berry says that the Australians
employed at the World Fair tried to keep
the home brew in their speech, but they
had to give way over aluminium —the
stuff which covered the huge luminous
ball containing a map of Australia which
revolved in the Pavilion. Afterwards this
bauble was presented to Pan-American
Airways. The contest was between
“al-u-minium” and “aluminum.” An-
other word that got the staff into trouble
was station; finally they gave in and
called it ranch.
Miss Berry mentioned that Hubert
Wilkins travelled a long way to be present
at the Australian Pavilion on the day of
prayer arranged by the belligerent
nations. The Percy Graingers were in-
vited, but they didn’t show up. Tenor
John Dudley was a frequent visitor, at
the time very thrilled over his engage-
ment for the Metropolitan. Melbourne
singer Jean Love was a very popular re-
ceptionist at the Pavilion. She’s getting
on well with her studies, and Lotte Leh-
mann and Tibbett continue to be inter-
ested in her. Mauricette and Joan Mac-
gillicuddy were also among visitors. Miss
Berry says she wouldn’t have missed the
Presidential elections for anything in the
world. She has a suitcase of snooty
buttons varying from threepenny bit to
saucer size. Most are digs below the belt
directed from Willkie to Roosevelt —the
former spent a sum on publicity that’s
past all imagination.
Inset by Dickinson-Monteath is Judy
Stringer, who recently became engaged
to Lewis Duncan Loane, second son of
the late Duncan Loane and of Mrs.
Loane, of Devonport, Tasmania. Judy,
who is the youngest daughter of the
R. W. Stringers, of Grandview Grove,
Hawthorn, is already planning her wed-
ding apparel, for the marriage will take
place in a few weeks’ time.
Evelyn Auld has deserted her home
town, Adelaide, and finds Brisbane very
much to her liking, particularly so since
she announced her engagement to Wynd-
ham Grimes, only son of the I. A.
Grimeses, of Graceville. Eve, who is the
third daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
E. P. Auld, formerly of Tusmore Park,
Adelaide, is a nurse, and has done quite
a lot of moving around from capital to
capital. She was toying with the idea
of nursing in New Guinea when Mr.
Grimes walked into the picture. When
she can be persuaded to she sings any-
thing from light opera to swing-time.
Among the New Year honors awarded
Adelaide women was an 0.8. E. for Mrs.
F. W. Rymill, vice-president and acting-
president of the N.C.W. She was the first
State secretary of the C.W.A., and during
her stay in England five years ago repre-
sented the association on the executive
committee of the Associated Country
Women of the World. Among her many
active interests are the Liberal and
Country League, the Lyceum Club and
the Mothers and Babies’ Health Assn.
Victim of a German raider in the
Pacific, Doris Beeston,
worker and former general secretary of
the Kindergarten Union in S.A., was on
a return journey to London, where she
had been assisting with the evacuation
of children since the outbreak of war.
In March, 1939, she left Adelaide as the
Catherine Helen Spence scholar to study
social welfare at London Uni.
Killed by a bomb in London, Hinemoa
Rosier, the Maoriland singer who im-
pressed musical Melbourne when she was
getting her training in that city. She
was a Melba scholarship winner, and was
getting a final polish in Europe when
war came.
The young members of the W. B. Mc-
Innes family are enjoying plenty of swim-
ming this summer in spite of the fact that
Gwendy Cottage on Long Island, Frank-
ston, has been let. Occasional snags and
an eel or two don’t mean a thing to the
boys and girls who swim in the Yarra
round about Alphington. The Mc-
Inneses have a canoe which makes
summer days pass all too quickly, and
young Gwendy, aged 12, borrows a horse
from one milkman and a saddle from
another to go riding along country tracks.
The studio in the grounds where W. B.
Mclnnes did some of his finest work has
been rebuilt and is let as cottage. Mrs.
Mclnnes and Jean use a smaller studio
which is part of the house —a charming
home in an untamed woody garden. Jean,
who is on holidays from her art job at
the “Emily Mac,” is in Sydney. Geoff is
pursuing his apprenticeship in aircraft
construction. Allan, who passed leaving
in a very satisfactory manner for a boy
of 16, thinks he’ll become a draughtsman.
lan and Gwendy still have a few years
to go before making up their minds about
careers. With such a family to look after
Mrs. Mclnnes doesn’t get as much time
as she’d like for painting, but her friends
are confident that somehow or other she’ll
manage to have a show during the year.
While the rest of the town’s histrioni-
cally-addicted clubs are in recess for the
summer (or the coolish weather we are
getting in lieu of summer) the Theatre
Lovers are still faithful to their Friday
afternoon gatherings, when the president,
Mrs. A. Chavasse, is hostess to a guest
or two of honor, to members and their
friends. Welcomed at last Friday’s meet-
ing was the small, sturdy walker around
the world, Lisbeth Listervik, of Sweden.
Lisbeth hopes to land a job as soon as
possible in Melbourne, for she and her
sister Greta are marooned in this country
for the duration. Greta, whose English
is the more fluent, is now a salesgirl in
Sydney. Lisbeth, who occupies an un-
ostentatious room in a women’s club in
the city, has few clothes but a number
of souvenirs, among them commodious
scrap- and autograph-books carried
through some 19 countries; a pair of
brogue shoes (the last of 10 pairs from
Sweden ; Lisbeth says no cobblers in the
world can make shoes like her own
countrymen); a snakeskin and an
aluminium saucepan.
The snakeskin is a relic of Lisbeth’s
walk from Sydney just before Christ-
mas. At Eden she was given shelter
for the night in the tent of a wood-
cutter, his wife and family. Waking
up in the morning the first thing
she saw was a black snake curled up
beside her. Her host killed the snake and
wrote his name inside the skin. In the
saucepan Lisbeth and Greta cooked many
an open-air meal since their arrival in
this country 14 months ago. And it’s as
clean and shiny as a pot that’s used only
over an electric cooker.


THE SERVICE MAN
On the Road to Benghazi.
“Ek Dura”: Events move swiftly in
the Western Desert. In less than a
month, which contained an inactive
Christmas week, the British forces
covered 150 miles of country and cap-
tured two crucial fortifications, nearly
six full divisions of the enemy and the
two base aerodromes in East Libya.
It was never the intention of the Italians
to let Wavell’s men walk into Bardia.
Their defences were laid in steep and
rugged country, seamed with old-man
wadis and bristling with natural defence
features. Following Siegfried Line
methods, they had seen to it that nothing
rose above the earth which could be
knocked sideways by artillery fire. They
had moated the earth itself with narrow
concrete channels so built as to form
tank traps. .
Their outer ring of defences was
originally well covered with wire and
pillboxes. Their defence units were fitted
out with 200-odd machine-guns per
division, some of them heavy and of the
modern flashless type sc that they could
not be easily located, and capable among
them of delivering, if fired at once, bursts
of about 240,000 bullets per minute.
And the mortar was not forgotten.
Its name among the Italian arms was
legion. Since the Finnish armies de-
veloped the tank-infantry method of
attack, the mortar is as necessary in
short-range defence as trousers at a Lord
Mayor’s Ball.
In the good old days when wars were
wars, footsloggers arrived in open order
led by a gallant subaltern shouting “Up
boys and at ’em!” Now they turn up
loping behind a heavy tank like Towser
behind the dray. Machine-gunners can’t
hit them with point-blank fire —they can’t
even see them. The average defender
doesn’t get a squint at them till he has
been rolled out by 12 tons of caterpillar,
which has first of all sprayed him with
shrapnel to get him into position for the
rolling pin. Then he sticks his head out
of the mud in time to be impaled on a
long infantry bayonet.
There are two ways to stop the battle
reaching this stage —to mine the
approaches so that tanks and infantry
will be blown to glory before they reach
the human defenders, and to toss bombs
over the tanks at the bayonet men with
mortars.
The Italians were not unmindful of
both these methods. They had scads of
mortars. They planted the surroundings
of Bardia with mines put in through every
drill in the combine. But in the dark of
the night British and Australian sappers,
with nothing to worry them but Italian
artillery and machine-gun fire, cleaned
up the obstructions to permit the tanks
to “pave the way”—as a correspondent
wrote with a nice literalness for the
trotting battalions.
The attack on Friday, Jan. 3, was
carried out with engineering precision.
Some of the battalions —New South
Wales and Victorian rolled in behind
the barrage at dawn from the west,
loping along with fixed bayonets astern
of the trundling tanks. One N. S. Wales
battalion camped down on its “limited
objective” late in the bitter cold of the
afternoon on the heights overlooking
Bardia town.
Two others, having broken into the
defences, sheered off to the south and
fought their way from blockhouse to
blockhouse for 4\ miles to a point on
the Fort Capuzzo-Bardia road. This plan
did not work out so neatly, but it was
completely successful. The order was
that the advance was to be made by
companies, each company to take an ob-
jective, sit on it and allow another fresh
and unblooded company to go ahead and
take the next blockhouse. But once the
crowd in front got going they were not
to be left behind, and the extent of the
mopping up needed had not been fore-
seen. The whole of the force moved
into the hunt, which was conducted on
the principle on which rabbits are smoked
out of a warren.
The Italians were in their blockhouses,
sometimes 70 to a post. Underneath
were tunnels leading to getaways.
There was work for everybody in the
A.I.F. Bren men dumped their “type-
writers” in front of blockhouse doorways
and washed out the interiors. Grenadiers
snooped round looking for openings and
dropping tentative grenades and bombs
down them. Bayonet men stood waiting
for levanting prey as it hopped out of
cover.
So engaged were most of the advancing
companies with this game that the spear-
head of the southern force reached its
objective in very light order and found
itself on the Bardia road, sprayed
by an Italian battery. But a few dozen
Victorians arrived at the crucial moment
and the battery went west.
All through the short, cold afternoon
the scattered forces mopped up strong
posts and extricated themselves from
forests of prisoners. At evening, while
the western section of the attackers
occupied the heights above the town,
those to the south seethed in a deep
wadi up which the continual roar of the
naval guns echoed. They had little rest.
All night Italian posts advertised their
need to be purged of defenders, and at
dawn on Saturday the stream of prisoners
was still flowing rearward. Because of
the roughness of the country, the cold,
the dust and the confused number of
melees which were going on all over the
broken and battered landscape, it was
not easy to handle wounded, and the
field ambulance units had to be brought
into the middle of the general foray.
Dawn saw the frontal wall of tanks
facing the second main line of Bardia’s
defences, while a new barrage rumbled
in front. Before long enemy aircraft
appeared, but a temporary holdup due to
their interference with spotting ’planes,
and consequently with artillery fire, was
soon over. From the horizon came the
cheerful noises made by the R.A.F. and
R.A.A.F. engaged in a morning strafe
which was turning Italian aerodromes
into quarries.
Just after noon, the heights having
been cleared, the losses repaired, the
wounded dealt with and some of the
embarrassing hordes of Italian prisoners
seen safely on the way to internment, the
Australian division, led by its steel
pachyderms, dropped down to the plain
by Bardia town.
Here were more wadis r more machine-
gun nests, more mines and more strong
posts. But while these were being care-
fully emptied—one or two units having
learnt that the penalty of neglect to do
a thorough job is unnecessary death —
tanks and a squadron of Australian
mechanised cavalry thundered into
Bardia itself in time for afternoon tea.
In Bardia, however, nobody seemed to
have time to boil the billy. Italians were
pouring out of the earth like ants out
of disturbed heaps, waving white flags,
making for the town exits and eddying
round their conquerors. Back to the
west and south a number of machine-
guns still stuttered, and a fort on the east
near the sea, apparently unaware that it
was beaten, insisted on continuing to
plaster the town approaches with shrap-
nel until a party was detached to clean
it up. It arrived to find others who had
already got there calmly driving out the
garrison.
At sundown that second day Bardia
had become an Australian-British town.
The coastline for two miles on each side
was in our hands. Only towards the
north near Ras el Milh —the coast runs
south-easterly into the Gulf of Solium, on
the west of which Bardia lies —did one
of Graziani’s legions of about 8000 men
hold out. These troublesome fellows tried
to rob a weary Australian brigadier of
his sleep by sending emissaries in the
dark to suggest surrender. Sated with
captures, the general told them they must
wait till daylight.
Next morning they came in. At 1 p.m.
on Sunday a signal was made that the
battle of Bardia was over.
The attack had begun at 5 a.m. on
Friday. In 56 hours the Australians and
the tanks had broken up and/or cap-
tured the troops of the Ist and 2nd Black-
shirt divisions, part of the 4th Black-
shirt militia division and large numbers
of the Marmarican divisions specially
recruited and equipped in Italy for ser-
vice in that particular part of Africa.
The victory, though British losses were
remarkably light, had not been all beer-
and-skittles and singing.
The Italians resisted vigorously at many
points, but were overwhelmed by the
technique, equipment and dash of the
attackers. At times, advancing battalions
were in tight corners. One Melbourne
suburban battalion found itself in a wadi
with 21 field guns practising on it oyer
open sights. Australian mortar companies
calmly got to work on them in the open.
A western Victorian battalion had a
tough time further south. And, generally
speaking, the troops on Saturday morn-
ing were glad of heavy barrages and a
strong infusion of reserves which were
thrown into the centre to clinch the
result.
A pause in the operations was needed
to allow the sorting of 40,000 prisoners
and stores and whole wadis full of guns
and equipment. As a Digger sardoni-
cally said, “Libya’s chief export is
Italians,” and they are being crowded
down to the Nile in brigade lots when-
ever transport is available to carry them.
The balance are held in wire enclosures
in the desert which serve the purpose of
drafting yards.
The drive into Libya passed round
them as it thundered on towards Tobruk,
which, a week after Bardia’s fall, was
almost as thoroughly cut off from its
capital city of Derna as Bardia had been
from itself.
Tobruk is a poor sort of harbor, with
a couple of jetties leading out into the
sea and heavily fortified cliffs and ravines
above, A high defence wall surrounds
it. A fine military road runs westward
75 miles to Derna, and from there an-
other 90 miles or so to Benghazi, the big
city of Marmarica. Before that is
reached much heavy mountain country
has to be crossed, and Tripoli, the Libyan
capital and centre of Italian civilisation
in Africa, is still more than 500 miles
away from it.
Round Tripoli, on fertile land, the bulk
of the Libyan Italians live. There the
main defence will probably be concen-
trated, the city itself being twice as popu-
lous as Benghazi. But there, unhappily for
them, the defenders will have to fight at
a spot only 200 miles from Malta, which
has suddenly become an offensive instead
of a defensive position, and with their
backs to the French border, behind which,
under control of Marshal Weygand, are
500,000 French troops and a population
which loves Italians almost as much as
the Digger loves a green ant.
An Italian account of the battle men-
tions that “300,000 barbarous Australians
hacked their way into Bardia.” Italian
casualty lists have not yet been issued,
but they will be modest. Their list for
December, which included the battle of
Sidi Barrani, was 77 killed, 307 wounded
and 343 missing. No mention of 38,000-
odd prisoners.
There were more men in Bardia than
was first supposed. There were killed
or captured 2041 officers and 42,827
men; captured or destroyed, 368
medium and field guns, 94 A.A. guns,
130 tanks and 708 vehicles. Booty taken
since December 9 includes 200 light
tanks, 589 field and medium guns, 600
machine-guns, 700 light guns, 11,300,000
rounds of artillery and rifle ammunition
and 1700 lorries—this apart from heavy
captures of Italian Air Force equipment,
and of vast supplies of food and medical
stores.
On the lonian Coast.
“E.D.”: On Jan. 13 Musso.’s war on
the Greeks was 10 weeks old. At the
beginning it looked as if there might be
an Italian walkover. Greek towns and
cities were heavily bombed. The _ in-
vaders claimed to have reached Konitza,
about 50 miles into the heart of Greece
east of Corfu. On the south, their
mechanised forces had swept down the
lonian littoral across the Kalamas River
and seemed to be bound for the Gulf of
Arta.
Then the R.A.F. and the R.N. began
to take a hand. The Greek army was
strengthened by the arrival of British
specialists. The situation changed like
magic, and disasters followed on the
heels of each other almost as fast as
Italian generals. Exactly three weeks
after the campaign began, the last Italian
soldier who was not a prisoner was
driven off the soil of Greece and the
campaign transferred itself to Albania.
At the end of another three weeks,
the Italians were advertising their rout
by accepting the resignation of Marshal
Badoglio as head of the Italian armies.
And the Greeks were entering the bat-
tered port of Santi Quaranta, thus mak-
ing the far southern corner of Albania
untenable. The fall of Argyrocastro
heralded the crumbling of the main
Italian internal southern line.
At the end of the second week in
December, Palermo, a few miles nearer
the port of Valona, was in Greek hands.
The defences had been moved westward,
till they lay irregularly, almost squarely,
across the internal ends of the flats which
penetrate the mountains along the many
river systems scored out by the melting
snow of the Grecian ranges—from the
outskirts of Khimara, north of Albanian
Palermo, on the sea, to the region of
Tepelena and Klisura, on the Viosa
River, whose nearest point is about 25
miles away to the north-west across the
Griva Range ; thence via positions cover-
ing the oil country behind Berat, deep in
the hills in the winding valley of the
Devol River, to the adjoining range coun-
try between Pogradetz and Elbasan.
At each of these three points there was
ordered Greek activity. The first drive at
the north essays to empty itself into the
Shkumbi River valley by Elbasan, as a
preliminary to a northward turn to take
Durazzo and Tirana, the Albanian capi-
tal, and perhaps pour southward over the
Muzakiya Plain to link with the southern
forces. The capture of Klisura (town and
passes), announced last week, sweeps
away a vital Italian stronghold in the
path of the central drive and opens up
the valley of the Viosa.
The central attack strikes primarily for
the oilfields and the cutting of communi-
cations between the forces round yalona
with Durazzo. The third drive is
aimed at investing Valona.
The whole of the three lines of attack
—the southern one is double-forked,
pressing down two river systems —is
embraced in a line which, as the crow
flies, is only 60 miles or so long.
As they have advanced the Greeks
have shortened their front, which 10
weeks ago was roughly 150 miles long.
The whole of Albania is only about
10,629 square miles in area —smaller than
Alexandria station in the Northern Terri-
tory, The Greeks hold more than a
quarter of it, and considerably more than
a third of the population. If Elbasan
and Tirana fall the Greeks will com-
mand the railway which runs in two
branches from Elbasan to Scutari (via
Tirana) northwards, and to Durazzo west-
ward. The one port left will be in the
far north at San Giovanni di Medua, 40
miles across the Drin Gulf from Durazzo,
and the north is not worth holding, out-
side a small bit of country round Lake
Scutari. It is for the most part trackless.
Mussolini took Albania from the
Albanians on April 7, 1939. He may
have to celebrate the second anniversary
of his conquest in Rome.
Complete control of Albania by the
Allies before spring is immeasurably im-
portant for reasons other than the saying
of Greece. With the ports in British
hands, with Malta, terete and Tripoli con-
trolled by the R.N. and R.A.F., and with
the resentful French and Gibraltar on the
west, Italy will become like a kernel in a
nut, with the borers at work on all sides.
Even Trieste, Fiume and Venice will
be within a couple of hours’ flight for
big bombers camped along a chain of
Albanian ’dromes. The northern railway
systems, which connect with Germany
through the Brenner, will be within com-
fortable bombing range. And life in un-
fortunate southern Italy can easily become
one long earthquake which will make
sober Italians long for the days when
there was nothing more volcanic in the
kingdom than Vesuvius and Musso.
Musso.'s Battered Air Force.
“Aileron”: Like the terra-firma resist-
ance, Italy’s air campaign, which a Regia
Aeronautica bulletin declared last August
to have “sent the British lion scuttling
like a frightened boa-constrictor to his
hole,” has petered out.
Up till two months ago Italian bombers
in the Mediterranean ranged as widely
as those of the R.A.F., even if they
did most of their damage through the
publicity department.
Romans were cheered with stirring
tales of battered British battle-cruisers
limping home and of smaller fry sinking
end-up by the half-dozen under the crash-
ing blows of the Savoia squadrons.
Alexandria and Malta were plagued with
bombings which killed a few civilians
and did a little damage. Haifa and
Sudanese ’dromes also had their share,
and a half-dozen correspondents in the
Western Desert were neatly buried for
the best part of an afternoon.
When Italy sent bombing squadrons to
the English Channel and began to attack
defenceless Greek towns, the tune sud-
denly changed. The leaders of the fight-
ing services had a chance to see at first-
hand that many Italian machines were
inferior in speed and armament, and they
provided good target practice for British
fast fighters. The greatest damage done
by the Italians who did reach British
shores was to the objectives they fell on.
British long-distance bombers, too,
crossed France and the Alps without
escort, and came home with good jobs


Queensland
insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
done, having suffered nothing worse than
engine trouble.
Up to this point the only British fighters
in use on the Egyptian front had been
biplanes with a speed of about 250-270
m.p.h. Yet these machines—Gladiators
mostly—without armor and with old .303
armament and a limited arc of fire, were
shooting the primest Italian monoplanes
out of me sky with unfailing regularity,
The main reason lay in superior per-
sonnel.
However, it occurred to the Air Minis-
try when the Boulton Paul and other
power-turret fighters came out of the
factories, and when the new over-400-
m.p.h. Spitfires and Hurricanes arrived
carrying explosive-shell cannon among
other terrors, that the obsolescent 325-
m.p.h. Hurricanes of last year’s Blitz
were not now all they should be
for modern war purposes, and they sent
squadrons to the Mediterranean fronts,
Now, even with four-squadron escorts,
Italian bomber formations cannot live in
the air, and the R.A.F. is able to provide
its own bombing squadrons with such
escorts that blowing up enemy aero-
dromes is scarcely more dangerous than
quarrying.
When war broke out the well-informed
“Aeroplane” estimated that the Regia
Aeronautical African force totalled 500
machines, a large percentage of which
were heavy bombers. The R.A.F. and
Dominion squadrons have blown that
number out of the sky. The R.A.F. and
the Fleet Air Arm have also stopped all
the heavy civil raiding on Greece, Pales-
tine, Suez and Alexandria. And tde
Italians have been compelled to call home
the squadrons from the English Channel,
At times they have been so hard put
to it that there has been a complete
cessation of their operations on the
Libyan front! at other tones d.sorgam-
sation ot aerodromes by British bombing
has caused chaos. And so soon as they
acquire fresh squadrons they are blasted
out of the air. For instance, they took
tte sky m force on January S, and the
™ d T. R ; A - A - F ' a C | C da y 111
which 19 Italian machines of various
types were destroyed against a loss of
one British bomber and one fighter The
rest were too fast for the Gladiators.
The R.A.A.F. squadron can claim to
have shot down 24 machines since Dec.
8, though official confirmation has been
made regarding only 14. Every week
brings fresh tiles of victories against
overwhelming odds. One Australian
reconnaissance ’plane with an escort of
three fighters was attacked by 18 CR42's.
In 25 minutes the Italians broke off the
fight, having lost three fighters for cer-
tain and probably two more.
Another R.A.A.F. squadron is to go
to the Middle East as soon as possible to
support the A.I.F.
By far the most important work yet
done by the Empire air forces has been
the destruction and capture of Libyan
aerodromes. The results in this field
“Were about to attack the Italians, sir.”
may be decisive in the Libyan campaign
and may cost the Italians their African
territories, since from now onward they
must fight almost blind and without aerial
artillery support on a proper scale.
Large-scale aerodromes are immensely
important factors in modern campaigns,
They cannot be improvised. They
need vast, carefully-built runways—
and plenty of them which will enable
large bombers to take off with a maxi-
mum load, and fighters to take the air in
dozens after a 1200- or 1500-yard sprint
across country. There must be sufficient
space for incoming machines hastening in
for reloading or repair. There must be
huge workshops, petrol storage, large pro-
tected hangars, precision-instrument re-
pair equipment, huge ammunition dumps,
housing for vast staffs, hospitals, trans-
port. There must also be great and
well-established A.A. protection.
The great Libyan depots were El
Adem, near Tobruk, which served
Graziani’s “army of invasion,” and Castel
Benito, near Tripoli, 700 miles away.
There is another big base in Eritrea and
there is one in Abyssinia, neither so large
as these. Other aerodromes were merely
forward depots, serviced and controlled
from military headquarters,
The Italians in the Tobruk battle area
were obliged to do without their head-
quarters at El Adem, and the loss of it
hamstrung the Jarabub divisions. They
have lost their landing grounds at Gam-
but, Solium and Bardia. Gazala and six
others are reported burned out and
abandoned. But El Adem is another
matter. It was a permanent headquarters,
built and equipped on the best German
home model, with all the amenities of the
military section of the Templehof em-
bodied in it. Its owners cleared out of
it on New Year’s Day before a skirmish-
jn g party of British Hussars, but came
back later to retrieve what they could.
When the British arrived to take over
on January 6 they found the ground
largely converted into a quarry and the
rem ains of 25 bombers and 43 fighters
Iying where they had been thrown by the
RA p. attacks. However, a few bull-
dozers do wonders to a bomb-scarred
terra i nj especially when uninterrupted by
raiders The buildings and most of the
equ ip m ent are intact. And while the
Ita ij ans w m have to serve their battles
in Marmarica with ’planes based on
headquarters 700 miles away at Castel
Benito _ and tha t catching it hot every
day _ the R.A.F. has acquired a new
home from hom6) with h . and c. and all
mod. cons., commanding splendid views
and within fiv£ minutes > flying of the
line
Th uickl added another landing
ground _ Gaza i a 30 miles from Tobruk
f_, o ,heir trophies, along with 11
machines 0 „ ,£ e nd . and com .
muni ds issued late in t he week from
Cairo chronided a devastating trail of
destruction . at M artuba, two S79’s de-
d and several others damaged . at
Ben ? na _ 1(x) machines on the ground
blasted and several destroyed ; at Tmimi,
, planes on the ground burnt out;
Ben P hazi tour or flve ships hit; a t
J convoys scattere d.
week-end, after the R.A.F.
, , u .
ac pro .y. S- d™- d ;-_
Italian ciies | T .
f"'"fad a traveller s tale of Itow Itahan
tlon “ ,he S.cO«in
a cruiser, wic w , ..Lined
damaging wo destroyers. They admitted
*a an Italian torpedo-boat had been
funk. But overhead it was alleged
Mian ’planes dropped torpedoes on an
aircraft-carrier and heavy-calibre bombs
° n a cruiser, while Germans,
fraternal manner and in strict collabora-
ti°n. brilliantly participated, hitting two
aircraft carriers and a destroyer,
There is talk of the Germans sending
’planes to help rescue Libya. The Ger-
mans may, but they will be under the same
disabilities as the evicted Italians—wan-
dering souls without a headquarters or
repair and service equipment and
adequate fuel. For the present, at least,
the Luftwaffe will have to confine its
operations to attacks on British warships.
This, according to the Italians—bursting
with pride or humiliation or something—
it has begun to do.
The Middle Eastern Command of the
R.A.F. was better prepared for war than
possibly any other in the Empire. Its
men had been virtually on active service
since the last war, keeping open the new
air routes to the East, organising and ex-
perimenting, opening the Hydramaut,
policing Iraq. The work has been done
from the beginning very largely by a
high command of Australians,
At one and the same time, or within
a few months, just before the war began,
Australians were in command of the
R.A.F. at Aden (Arabian Command),
Ramleh (Palestine), operating with an
Australian Chief of Staff at Heliopolis
(Egypt) headquarters —Drummond—and
co-operating with another Australian —
Huddleston who was licking Turkish
air-training into shape up at Eski Shehr in
Asia Minor.
It is something to shout about that the
culmination of two years of preparation
has been in the hands of an Australian,
Air Chief Marshal Arthur Longmore,
G.O.C. Air, in the Middle East, whose
work has been specially praised by Mr.
Churchill, with Westralian “Peter” Drum-
mond as his chief of staff.
From a technical point of view it has
been a war to be proud of —unhurried,
nothing done until the enemy strength
had been carefully and fully measured ;
then no forces stronger nor machines
faster or more powerful than were
needed used. No waste at all.
No campaign so decisive in the air has
ever been carried out with so little loss
of men or materiel —not even the cam-
paign of Poland, which cost the Germans
300 machines and hundreds of pilots.
Winter Checks Raiding.
“Aileron”: Jack Frost took charge of
northern Europe at the New Year. Snow
heavier and earlier than usual fell all
over the north of the Continent. Eng-
land had its share, but snow is not nearly
so serious in England as it is in Germany.
In England a few inches usually comes
down and melts. In Germany the drifts
pile up feet high, so that aeroplanes
have no chance of taking off. Roads
are blocked until the snowploughs do
their work, and then there is an ice sur-
face underneath. River and canal traffic
is often completely held up and whole
towns are normally paralysed. After-
wards comes a wet, intensely cold, dirty
thaw.
On Jan. 6 bombs were dropped in
daylight over England, a Dornier machine-
gunned a couple of trawlers off the
British coast and Coastal Command
Blenheims attacked three eneiriy vessels
off the Norwegian coast and damaged
one of them severely. At night both
R.A.F. and Luftwaffe stayed in their
warm beds while a snowstorm raged over
hundreds of miles of Europe.
Next day London had its longest day-
light raid since October, but it was
a relatively mild affair. A Midlands
town suffered some casualties, and four
were killed and four wounded in an
isolated raid in the Home Counties. The
Germans claimed to have bombed Lon-
don and the Midlands and to have sunk
a merchantman of 2500 tons and hit a
minesweeper with bombs off Great Yar-
mouth. There were no R.A.F. raids on
Germany or France, and no German
night raids on England.
January 8 was another quiet day in
England, with desultory day raids by
single machines which
smashed a few houses in
the Midlands and East
Anglia at the cost of a
Junkers 88, brought down
by fighters off the coast.
The R.A.F. returned to
its routine and hammered
at “invasion” ports, Wil-
helmshaven and Emden,
starting 20 fires in the
latter town.
The end of England’s
respite came on Thursday.
London had a longish
raid which ended shortly
after midnight, and other
attacks spread all over
England, but the damage
was not heavy. German
High Command mentioned
raids on Manchester, London and
Liverpool.
They certainly were not nearly so
severe as those launched on the Ruhr,
where, the Economic Warfare Ministry
declares, incessant harassing has been
largely responsible for reducing the coal
output by 40 per cent.
British raiding began with a large noon-
tide assault by escorted heavy bombers
on Channel and North Sea ports,
especially Boulogne, Calais and Flushing.
Western German centres raided included
Gelsenkirchen, Duisberg, Ruhrort and
Diisseldorf. One flight ranged as far
afield as southern Norway, where the
Egersund railway bridge was smashed.
The operations cost Britain two machines.
The day’s successes were only dis-
tinguished from the general run of
R.A.F. performances by the German
High Command’s originality in inventing
damaged objectives. The H.C. admitted
that the raids had been “widespread over
the western industrial areas” and said
that the raiders bombed “several dwell-
mgs, a monastery, and a Catholic home
near Diisseldorf, killing 20 people.”
On Friday night the Germans strafed
Portsmouth, did considerable damage
and killed a number of citizens, though
the raid cost them six machines. They
had less success with a culminating raid
on London on Saturday night. They
used light, fast formations and new types
of incendiaries, but this time London was
ready and there was no serious blaze.
The attack ended abruptly. The R.A.F.
countered by further raids on Wilhelms-
haven, Zeebrugge, Turin and Palermo.
Merchant shipping losses for the week
to December 30 were lower again—
indeed the lowest for some time: three
British ships of 18,208 tons and four
allied ships of 19,348 tons; total 37,556
tons. If they can be kept down to that
average, replacements will present no
serious problems to shipbuilders, whereas
continuance at October-November rates
would have been very serious. In the
week to October 21, 45 ships aggregating
198,000 tons were sunk, and 32 of the
45 were British.
* * * *
The first Australian whose death in
action in Egypt was reported was Private
John Leo McAviney (36), a Clarence
River (N.S.W.) man. The first officer
reported killed in action was Lieut. Peter
Charles Jackson Taylor (25), of Sydney.
He fell at Bardia.
* * * *
First Maorilanders decorated in the
Egyptian campaign for gallantry were
Lieut. J. H. Sutherland (M.C.) and
Trooper L. A. Wilcox (M.M.). Both
were with the 2nd Div. Cavalry.
* * * *
The R.A.A.F. has issued an S.O.S. for
2300 men for specialist work wireless
operators, mechanical jobs, guard, cook-
house and mess duties. It is proposed
to try to enlist them during January.
There is not likely to be much difficulty.
* * * *
The R.A.A.F. put up a fine perform-
ance for pilots’ examinations under the
Empire Air scheme in Canada. Tests,
physical and mental, are gruelling, but
the passes so far average 95 per cent., and
some of those rejected for war pilotage
have been seconded for ferrying and
other service duties. One batch put up
a record—there was one failure, and that
through illness.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, having had the lesson driven
home to it that this is a mechanised war,
has decided to organise a. complete
armored division under the direct super-
vision of Major-General Northcott.
Several million pounds will be spent
to provide armored equipment, and
Colonel Watson, a British expert in
tank design, has been lent to the
Commonwealth as an adviser. Organis-
ing and training will be under Lieut.-
Colonel R. N. L. Hopkins, and a
small staff who have had specialist tech-
nical training in Britain and officers of
the Royal Armored Corps who were
through the fighting in France last year
will help. The new scheme will shorten
overseas training. The division will be
made up of two armored brigades, a
support group, armored divisional troops
and ancillaries.
* * * *
“Pawang”: For the first time in Aus-
tralian military history a ship with
several hundreds of soldiers aboard has
returned to this country without a single
case of v.d. amongst the complement.
This is a tribute to a Melbourne doctor,
who started to attack the taboo on the
subject. The doctor had maintained that
the scourge could be eliminated from an
army just as effectively as it has been
from some Scandinavian countries. He
was right, and it could be eliminated from
Australia.


THE EVACUEE AUNT
. '
P P
: - v »
m I w
f.
m
~ ~ r
A>
PC Wr*i
*
I 1
I
pipiltl
ki jUli
fwMMm
-„:i.
WHEN you're faced with the problem of providing
space for a hitherto unsuspected relative —when
your son or daughter demand ”a room of their own"
. . . REMEMBER CANE-ITE. An attic, a box-room,
any disused corner of your home, can be trans-
formed with fresh, attractive modern walls and
ceilings. You can make a guest room a study, or
a game room—or. you can modernise your entire
home, quickly and inexpensively. And, when you
modernise and beautify your home with Cane-ite.
you insulate permanently against heat, cold and
noise.
Cane-ite is made in Australia, and comes in strong,
durable, white-ant-proofed boards up to 12 feet long
and in 3 and 4 feet widths. Write now for further
information. .
[You can make a hundred and one things with inexpensive 1
Masonite "Shorts". Ask your nearest Builders' Supplier I
for details. J
FOR DECORATION &
RENOVATION
mv
FOR INSULATION
AGAINST HEAT
A
]L=f
FOR INSULATION
AGAINST NOISE
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Brisbane . Perth CA29-40
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Norther”: Like all outback railheads,
Cunnamulla is fairly used to strange
sights, from rutting bull camels to sing-
ing hatters from the Condamine; but
when it saw two men holding a black dog
while a third picked ticks off it and put
them in a matchbox it gathered round,
wondering whether a joke would become
apparent or whether some scheme of
revenge was under way. The tick-collec-
tor was Dr. E. H. Derrick, the Govern-
ment pathologist, who had been called
to the town as a Crown witness in a
murder trial and was improving the wait
by gathering the parasites. They will be
used for research, the pathologist being
anxious to get as many varieties as pos-
sible under the microscope. Having
ascertained this, Cunnamulla eyed the
scientist with a sort of humorous respect
and resumed its hunt for a publican will-
ing to take a risk, the day being Sunday
and the place full of policemen for the
trial.
* * * ♦
“Odd Pint”: I see by the papers that
a retired tea-planter cove from India
reckons we could grow enough tea in
North Queensland to satisfy our entire
needs. Reckoning we drink about
50,000,0001 b. of imported tea a year, he
says we should grow our own, thus con-
serving currency and getting a step nearer
self-sufficiency. Well, he might be right,
but somehow I can’t see the country back
of Cooktown turned into tea-gardens, nor
Australians producing it at a price to
compete with the Indian stuff. The
retired planter says tea-plucking could
be done by women and children. In
India they get about a shilling a day. I
can’t imagine any Australian woman
taking the job on at that price.
“Darwarb”: One of the first things
talked about in Darwin when the pubs
reopened after the meningitis ban was the
compulsory medical-service scheme which
the Administration hints has been ap-
proved by Canberra. Subscriptions, from
Is. to 2s. 6d. a week, according to in-
come, will be collected as taxation, and
N.T. residents will be entitled to free
doctors’ service, ambulance transport,
drugs, dressings, X-ray and other neces-
sary treatment. Maternity comes within
its scope; so do the natives, whose share
will be paid by the Native Affairs De-
partment. Assistance in obtaining special-
ist aid will be provided for cases needing
it, and inland centres are to receive
periodical medical service for routine
cases that don’t need immediate attention,
Only general hospital treatment will be
free; any cashed-up color-chaser from the
back country who wants a private ward
in the new tropical hospital will have to
pay extra for it.
* * * *
“Maranboy”: W. M. Hughes got one
of the hardest and largest presents yet
handed to him when Blain, M.P., pre-
sented him with an outsize pair of buffalo
“Sorry, sir, but there Were no kangaroos about."
horns, mounted on a shield which is
inscribed:
These horns, from a battle-scarred old
Northern Territory warrior, are presented
by Macalister Blain with affection to W.
M. Hughes, another battle-scarred old
warrior, who for 50 years has buffaloed
every enemy who opposed him.
December 25, 1940.
The bull that wore the horns, which are
as big and as battered as any ever brought
out of Arnhem Land, was shot by Blain
while he was leading the survey expedi-
tion that made the first blazed line across
the Adelaide into the wilderness over a
decade and a half ago. They travelled
4000 miles on their way to W.M.H.’s
mantelshelf.
• * * *
“23-4”: The habit of making cost in-
quiries has spread, this time to the
Queensland Council of Agriculture,
which is to send two men on a three-
months’ tour of dairy farms to “com-
pile comprehensive data on butter pro-
duction costs.” The absurdity is part of
a plan sponsored by the Queensland
body, the P.P.U. of N.S.W. and the Vic-
torian Dairymen’s Association, which
will perform similarly in their own States.
What it is hoped to achieve isn’t stated,
but that a lot of time and paper will
be wasted is certain, for seldom do two
farmers agree on the matter of costs, and
the fallacy of trying to average them has
long since been proved by the useless
Wheat, Fruit and Milk Commissions
which have from time to time afflicted
the landscape. In any event, if the bodies
concerned are really anxious to know,
ten thousand dairy-farmers are willing to
tell them without the expense of highly-
paid officials galloping about the country
to find out.
« * * *
“Bisi”; Emira Island (B. 8/l/’4l) had
a heroine in Juanita Wilde, wife of the
German planter who was the first to
settle there. In 1913 Wilde visited New
Ireland, leaving his wife and two young
children at Emira. During his absence the
natives became menacing, so Mrs. Wilde,
the two children and a faithful native
set out for New Ireland in a dinghy,
travelling about 100 miles before landing
south of Kaevieng. The natives became
friendly with the Wildes, but remained
pagans until the Seventh Day Adventists
made a dramatic mass conversion 10
years ago and banished pigs, betel-nut,
shellfish, tobacco and other wiles of the
devil from Emira (Squally) and Musau
(St. Matthias).
“X.T.”: Queensland began its self-
governing existence with 28,000 people,
Twenty years later it had -.11,000. An-
other 20 years and they had grown to
493,000. The ieat a
end of the next two decades. Followed
a time boom and umam anan
legislation : with high wages, high
prices and assured markets. Everything,
in fact, which should have encouraged
people to have families and brought heaps
of immigrants from the cramped indus-
trial towns of England. Instead, the
increase slowed up. Between 1890-1910
the State gained 207,000 people. In the
two decades 1920-1940, the population
grew from 750,000 to 1,030,000, or
roughly 100,000 short of the percentage
quota of the worst and most difficult
period of Australian history. In the last
10 years the increase was only 116,000.
We will have to do better after this war.
* * * *
“Dip”: Brisbane City Council expects
to make a saving of “at least £900” a
year by combining “the duties of the
readers of electricity and industrial water
meters.” Why they couldn’t have been
combined years ago aldermen only know.
* * ♦ «
“R. 8.5.”: Six young persons of an
economical turn of mind wormed their
way through 100 yards of sewer in an
unsuccessful attempt to get free admis-
sion to a Brisbane racecourse. Which
reminds me. In my youth, with half a
dozen cobbers, I found a sewer leading
under the fence of a country showground.
One by one we went through and darted
for the safety of the crowd and waited
for the next to follow us. I was last,
and an official followed me along the
pipe. I beat him by a head, reached
the crowd and turned to see a second
official waiting at the end of the pipe
for the next to come out. The next was
the official who had followed me. He
stopped a bucket of slops from one of
the refreshment stalls. Penurious youth
rarely lacks champions.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: In the 75 years which have
elapsed since Queensland railways began
operations they have managed to evolve ,
the worst suburban and holiday rail ser-
vices in Australia. Regular equipment
for the daily journey from home to city
and back includes a mat or duster on
which to sit in order to prevent the seats
from dirtying clothing. For women a
head wrap is necessary in order to pro-
tect hat and hair from flying grit and dirt
from the engine. The railway heads say
there isn’t sufficient staff to dust the car-
riages. Petrol rationing has brought large
numbers of new suburban and holiday
passengers but no new trains. Bayside and
coastal holiday services remain as before,
although privately-owned bus services
have been ruthlessly driven off the roads
to bolster up rail traffic, and hundreds of
private car-owners and their families
travel by train to conserve petrol. Yet
with superb effrontery—or just sheer con-
tempt for the vote-fodder —Queensland’s
archaic railways decorate their grimy
stations and obsolete carriages with
posters advising all to “Travel by Train
and Travel in Comfort.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 155 of 1940.
BETWEEN WILLIAM JAMES MEEK Peti-
tioner and
LILY ISABELLA MEEK Respondent.
TO LILY ISABELLA MEEK late of Binalong
and Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
JAMES MEEK has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted him and without any such
cause or excuse left him continuously so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Third day of March One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one AND in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 13th day of January, 1940.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) T. R. BOOTH,
Clerk in Divorce.
i MORTON WAY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
104 Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
a
ill*
tmm • -V
m
a
. I
m }
A Magnet for all Classes of Men
It affects men in all walks of life. Lawyers leave their
books, sailors their ships, farmers their ploughs all
convinced they will strike it rich. Whether they found
gold or not, this country owes much to the pioneering
efforts of the gold-diggers and prospectors. Prosperous
cities now stand as monuments to their courage and
strength. The National Bank has for over eighty year
assisted this progressive movement, making its services
and facilities available in mining centres, purchasing or
making advances against gold, and, in other ways pro-
viding a full financial service. Today that service is
offered to the public through 446 offices and branches
spread throughout Australia.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated In Victoria)
ai-u-40
SUNDRY SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“A Dispatch from Reuters”
Previewed at Warner Bros.’ Theatrette,
this opus is all about Paul Julius Reuter.
The filmsmiths have honored Holly-
wood’s custom of sentimentalising the
characters to a degree and giving as much
space as possible to what lurv interest
they can wring out of the story or add
to it.
From youth, Reuter was interested in
the rapid transmission of news and infor-
mation, and got his kickoff in the busi-
ness by inaugurating a pigeon post be-
tween Aix-la-Chapelle, where the Ger-
man telegraph line ended, and Venders,
which was the termination of the French
and Belgian lines. He went out of the
pigeon business when the two telegraph
lines were connected, and tried to start
a newsagency in Paris, but, finding it im-
possible, moved to London, where he
gradually built up the news service which
now covers most of the world.
If the film mangles its history pretty
severely, it at least draws a few highlights
from it, and, accurate or otherwise, these
give an indication of what an arresting
film could be made on the life and work
of Reuter. Best scenes are those dealing
with Reuter’s successful attempt to beat
a rival agency with his news from the
U.S.A. He built a private line from Cork
to Crookhaven, had his dispatches thrown
off the mailboat from America in a buoy,
picked them up and got them to London
some hours before the mail reached
Liverpool. The film version of this
episode may or may not be correct, but
it does add up to the most interesting
part of the yarn.
Edna Best and Edward G. Robinson
figure as Reuter and his wife; Miss Best
is rather limpid, and Edward G. is handi-
capped by the sentimental nature of the
story—present commentator has yet to
strike the actor who could weather suc-
cessfully a scene wherein he is supposed
to shed a heavy tear and make a major
tragedy over the dead body of a pigeon.
Albert Basserman, who is cropping up in
films everywhere, turns in the best work
in the film.
* * * *
“Moon Over Burma”
The current bill at Sydney Prince
Edward has a support feature —with only
support-feature players —which, through
sheer freshness, makes a much better
entertainer than the main piece, resplen-
dent with box-office names and polished
technique in all departments.
The main offering is “Moon Over
Burma,” with Dorothy Lamour, Robert
Preston and Preston Foster; setting is a
Burma teak plantation, and there are
some interesting, well-constructed scenes.
The theme, however, is that royal and
ancient and infernal triangle. The opus
is smooth and polished along accepted
lines, and everything about it, from long
practice, is just as it should be, and
exactly as an audience, also from long
practice, would expect it to be.
Support film, “All Girls Are Alike,” is
an unpretentious sort of show, but, with
a bright plot and bright, if unpolished,
Charlie Chaplin and Jack Oakie as the Dictators of Germania and
Bacteria —“The Great Dictator,” at Sydney Plaza.
acting, it makes fresh and engaging enter-
tainment. Chief male in the piece is
Wayne Morris, making an exceptionally
good fist of a dual, twin-brother role. A
smaller part and a gem in its own way
is that of an absent-minded professor-
modern U.S. university style—played by
Alan Mowbray. Original handling and
rather unorthodox acting provide plenty
of laughs.
* * * *
“The Ape”
By the usual Boris Karloff standard
this current effort at Sydney Capitol is
a tame affair. Karloff is a mildly eccen-
tric doctor engaged in research for a
paralysis cure. Having lost his own wife
and daughter to the disease he busies
himself trying to mend a neighbor’s
daughter, and, in urgent need of a serum
obtainable from the human spine, he
adopts the disguise of an ape which has
escaped from the local circus in order
to slaughter a few prospects —selected
citizens of whom the town could be well
rid. Out on what he hopes to be the last
of these escapades, he is sighted and him-
self slaughtered. Sheer shock puts the
neighbor’s darter on her feet again, and
all ends in sad happiness, with the
drought broken for all unemployed stone-
masons as they work like mad erecting
monuments to Boris.
Something more like genuine Karloff
is the revival show, “The Bride of Fran-
kenstein,” featured in a programme of
“horrors” films at Sydney Cameo. In-
teresting is the appearance in a small bit
part of the now very successful Elsa
Lanchester. The other half of the bill is
“Dracula’s Daughter,” also a revival and
of the same standard as a thriller.
* * * *
“Smellies”
“M.G.S.”: I have a personal interest
in the “smellies,” inasmuch as I invented
the term independently in a skit 1 wrote
ten years ago for The Bulletin. The
actuality is the work of Hans Laube, a
Swiss scientist who has gravitated to
Hollywood and produced his first odor-
ated film under the title of “My Dream.”
In the preliminary showing the audi-
ence watched the heroine walk through
a garden, and when she bent her lovely
head to smell a lilac bush the odor of
lilacs instantly assailed their nostrils.
When the hero tried to lure her to his
bachelor apartment by hosing the
cushions with eau-de-Cologne that char-
acteristic perfume immediately filled the
theatre. It stopped the instant he
squeezed a lemon to mix her a cocktail,
and the acrid taste of lemon fell on the
house’s olfactory system, to vanish the
moment the lemon did and to be replaced
with the perfume. The smell of peaches,
bananas and tar used in road-construc-
tion were equally satisfactorily dissemi-
nated, and the magnates of Hollywood
are said to be as agitated over the new
development as they were over the talkies.
An aspect that hasn’t yet been con-
sidered is that smells have different asso-
ciations for different people, just like
colors, shapes, girls and movie heroes, so
varied emotions may be produced.
STAGE AND CONCERT
New Year in the Theatre
“Cauboy”: Difficulties tend to stimu-
late effort, and if projects maturing in
the brains of Australian entrepreneurs
are realised, 1941, instead of being in
the doldrums, may be one of the most
distinguished in Australian theatrical his-
tory. J.C.W. proposes to import a grand-
opera organisation from America, with
30 principals, two conductors and a pro-
ducer. The repertoire looks very familiar,
though Wagner is conspicuous by his
absence.
The only works mentioned which
haven’t been frequently performed in this
country are Verdi’s old-age operas
“Otello” and “Falstaff,” both highly
praised by erudite critics, but very seldom
heard, either in whole or in part.
The Firm also proposes to import the
Jooss Ballet Cos. from Roosevelt’s coun-
try. Jooss is said to have struck anew
note in ballet. He went in for political
satire in “The Green Table” and “The
Mirror,” and his company is said to be
disciplined to a degree that makes the
Russians look like a crowd of raw
recruits, so balletomanes will have to
readjust their views on the ballet.
Marie Ney is to be presented in Shak-
spearean productions. She was one of the
company which was invited to Cairo by
the Egyptian Government in 1927 to give
a season of the Bard’s plays, and three
years ago she played Isabella in “Measure
for Measure” at the Buxton Festival and
the Old Vic. in England.
Several companies, mainly composed
of Australians, will open in drama under
the Firm’s auspices, and J.C.W., being
nothing if not broad-minded, will provide
the froth on the beerpot with a series of
revues and musical comedies. Carl Bris-
son, Danish actor and singer, will be a
visiting “celebrity.”
« * * *
Panto, continues to pant at three spots
in Melbourne, and drinks are still on the
house at the King’s, where Levante pro-
duces his magical kettle nightly. Marie
Ney and the “Private Lives” of Noel
Coward disappeared from the Comedy
on Saturday, and there is no information
as to when that playhouse will reopen.
The remaining show in town worthy of
consideration is “Stars in Your Eyes” and
“We’re in the Army Now” at the Tiv.
Jim Gerald is the life and soul of a
cheerful entertainment.
In the northern half of N.S.W. and a
good bit of Queensland there have been
, broken bridges, impassable roads,
inundated towns, torn-up railways, stock
losses and some human tragedies;
now they’re watching floodwaters pour
down the Darling, This should excite
most of the younger inhabitants out there
—a good many of the elders can still
remember the last time the river was a
banker. Despite damage and loss nearly
everybody welcomed the water, which
will fill tanks and streams, liven up culti-
vation paddocks and bring away a good
body of summer feed.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stump
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIM WALE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Geneeaß Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Throw Dull Razors Away
Examination of an ECLIPSE RAZOR BLADE under
a powerful microscope at once reveals the perfection
of workmanship and the reason for its masterly
performance. ECLIPSE BLADES remove the old-
time tyranny of dull Razors. ECLIPSE BLADES
are long lasting and retain their keenness for a con-
siderable time. In packets of 5 blades at 1/6 per
packet everywhere. ECLIPSE BLADES are made
in England.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of BuLLErn
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Position wanted by tutor, exp. with Black-
friars’ correspondence school course. —9012.
Window-dresser desires meet member of
same profession from abroad, view to obtain-
ing information, books, photographs, etc.,- con-
cerning latest display methods in U.5.A.—9102.
To buy Isles of Illusion, by “Asterisk.” —
9074.
To buy specimen of malachite with gold
association. Write first to H. Karai, importer,
16 Wadia-street, Tardeo, Bombay, India.
Words of poem “Dan Drew,” by C. J.
Dennis. —9075.
Information Sought.
Details of new German battleships Bismarck
and Tirpitz, and of British cruiser Enterprise ?
—8097.
Bismarck and Tirpitz are 35,000 tons, with
eight 15in. and 12 5.9 in. guns; speed about
28 knots. Enterprise is a 7580-ton cruiser,
built between 1919 and 1926. She carries
seven 6in., three 4in. A.A. and strong batteries
of A.A. and light guns. Her speed is 33 knots
and complement 577. She cost £1,690,658.
* * * *
Details of the British airship RlOO ? Was it
larger than the R 101 7—9193.
The RlOO was a rigid airship with a gas
capacity of 5,000,000 cub. ft. and a gross lift
of 152 tons. It could fly at 80 m.p.h. with
100 passengers and do 4500 miles without re-
fuelling. Length 800 ft., diameter 130 ft. Built
of duralumin, with six engines each of 700 h.p.,
the ship weighed 83 tons, and its fittings in-
cluded a restaurant for 50 persons. (2) No.
The RlOl had a gas capacity of 5,500,000
cub. feet.
Hi * * *
What are the main causes of industrial dis-
putes in Australia ? How many working days
are lost through the various causes ? —9198.
Latest statistics are for 1938, figures indi-
cating number of working days lost. Wages:
For increase, 32,390 working days lost; against
decrease, 7340; other wages questions, 116,468.
Hours of labor: For reduction, 34,300; other
disputes over hours, 900. Trade-unionism:
Against employment of non-unionists, 2906;
other union questions, 80,280. Employment of
particular classes or persons: 104,454. Work-
ing conditions: 744,147. Sympathetic: 4440.
Other causes: 210,369.
* * * *
(1) When and how did the Cross of Lorraine
( Croix de Lorraine) originate? (2) Exact
dimensions, if possible? —B923.
(1) In church heraldry it is a patriarchal
cross, and it probably received its name and
associations when Henry the Black, Roman
Emperor, who had close territorial associations
with Lorraine, was (about a.d. 1046) promoted
to be a patriarch, i.e., an elector of the Pope,
and chose it as the emblem of his office.
Later, in the days of the Huguenots in France,
it became the emblem of the High Catholic
Holy League, which Henry of Guise founded
and which Henry 111 hamstrung by seizing its
headship. It was because the author of the
league had been the Cardinal of Lorraine that
its cross was adopted and had the name of
Lorraine firmly attached to it. It is now chiefly
known as the emblem of the international
association for the wiping out of tuberculosis.
(2) No exact dimensions, save that to be correct
heraldically the lower fess or bar should be
slightly longer than the upper one, and all the
“limbs,” horizontal or perpendicular, should be
either a third or a fifth of the width of the
shield on which they are blazoned.
* * * «
(1) When was the Great Wall of China built,
and exactly where ? (2) Total length ? (3) Other
dimensions ? —9205.
The wall was built in the third century b.c.,
extending along the northern frontier of China
from the northern part of the Gulf of Pechili
on the Yellow Sea, north of Peking, in a
zigzag course to Syning on the border of
Turkestan. (2) Professor Geil, who made a
reconnaissance of the wall about 1908, esti-
mated the total length of the Great Wall, in-
cluding all spurs, curves and loops, at 2550
miles. Included also in this are 25,000 watch-
towers built into the wall and 15,000 detached
watch-towers. (3) The wall has crumbled into
heaps in many places, but it was measured in
1900 at Kalgan and found to be 16ft. high
and 17ft. 6in. thick, composed of two face
walls of large bricks and filled between with
earth and stones.
* * * *
(1) Who was responsible for the universal
language Esperanto, and when was it intro-
duced ? (2) Have there been any other “uni-
versal” languages? —92l7.
(1) Dr. L. L. Zamenhoff, of Warsaw, intro-
duced Esperanto in 1887. (2) Yes, many. With
the year of their introduction they are: Vola-
puk, 1879; Spelin, 1888; Myrana, 1889; Mon-
dohngue, 1890; Universala, 1893 ; Kosmos,
1894; Novilatin, 1895; Idiom Neutral, 1902;
Ro, 1906. More recent developments are
Spatari-Radio-Code, which has neither grammar
nor vocabulary, but is based on the seven
notes of the musical scale; Anglic, proposed
by Professor R. E. Zachrisson in 1930 and
based on an analysis of all English words in
general use; and Ido, constructed in 1907 by
an international body of philologists and
linguists.
* * * *
(1) When, why, and by whom was the recent
Royal Commission on Banking appointed ? (2)
Has its report been acted on? —9191.
(1) The Royal Commission on monetary
and banking systems was appointed by the
Commonwealth Government in November,
1935, to inquire into the monetary and banking
systems in operation in Australia, and to report
whether any, and, if so, what, alterations were
desirable in the interests of the people of
Australia as a whole, and the manner in which
any such alterations should be effected. (2)
The Commission presented its report on July
15, 1937, but so far no action has been taken
on it.
* * * *
What number of deaths in Victoria in 1935
were attributed to the following: Typhoid
fever, measles, scarlet fever, whooping cough ?
In each case state actual number and number
relative to total population. —92o2.
In that year deaths from typhoid numbered
16, equivalent to nine per million of population;
measles, 20, representing 11 per million; scarlet
fever, five, or three per million; whooping
cough, 50, or 27 per million.
* * * ♦
Particulars regarding barks suitable for
tanning and the use of them in Australia ?
—9203.
Australian forests are capable of yielding an
abundance of tanning materials —many species
of eucalypts and other genera contain varying
proportions of tannin, chiefly in the bark, but
also in the wood and twigs. Many of these
species contain higher percentages of tannin
than are found in the barks of the oak, chest-
nut and hemlock—’formerly the chief source of
tannin material in the Northern
but scattered distribution has resulted in the
richest tan-bearing species only being used in
Australia. These are the golden wattle, black
or green wattle and mallet. Until 1913 the
production of wattle bark was ample for local
needs and an export trade was built up. The
supply diminished from 1921-27, and Australia
imported an average of 2900 tons a year from
Natal, where the plantations were originally
started from Australian seed. Since then, how-
ever, exports have exceeded imports in every
year except 1936-37, the annual excess value
averaging £11,159 during the last five years.
The other valuable tan-bark, mallet of W.A.,
is not extensively used in Australian tanneries,
but is, or at any rate was, exported to Europe
and other countries for producing a tannin
extract. The production of extract from the
bark of karri has passed the experimental stage,
and experiments are being made on kino-im-
pregnated marri bark.
* * * *
(1) Symptoms of carbon monoxide poison-
ing? (2) Treatment ? —9220.
Symptoms vary considerably, depending upon
the concentration of the carbon monoxide
breathed, but the ultimate result is usually a
red coloration, especially of ears, lips and nails,
and a stopping of breathing. (2) Remove the
patient from the atmosphere containing the
gas. Start artificial respiration immediately, by
the prone pressure method if breathing has
stopped. Administer oxygen as quickly as
possible, and in as pure form as is obtainable,
preferably from an inhalator. A mixture of
oxygen 95 p.c. and carbon dioxide 5 p.c. is
usually used in these. Keep the victim flat,
quiet and warm, and afterwards give plenty
of rest.
* * * *
What is the extent of ‘‘the great Australian
artesian basin” ? —9196. \
It includes considerably' more than one half
of Queensland, taking in most of the State
lying west of the Great Dividing Range, with
the exception of an area in the north-
west contiguous to the N.T.; a con-
siderable strip of N. S. Wales along its
northern boundary and west of the Great
Dividing Range; and the north-eastern part of
S.A., together with the extreme south-eastern
corner of the N.T. It comprises an area of
about 600,000 square miles —376,000 in Queens-
land, 118,000 in S.A., 80,000 in N. S. Wales,
and 25,00 in the N.T. The area of the intake
beds is estimated at 60,010 miles—so,ooo in
Queensland and 10,010 in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
What is the system of medical inspection of
schoolchildren in S.A.? —9194.
All children attending primary, central, high
and technical high schools must be inspected.
Children at primary schools are examined in
grades 1, IV and VII, at central schools in
grade X, and at high schools in their second
and fourth years. Parents are given reports of
any remediable defects; medical inspectors meet
the parents and give an address on the treat-
ment and prevention of conditions found during
the examination. Where an epidemic is, or
threatened, in any district, similar lectures are
Buven, 8 u ven ,- a ” d s P ecial visits Paid to schools in
the district. All students are examined before
they enter the Teachers’ Training College and
courses of lectures in hygiene and first aid
are given to them. The medical staff consists
of a principal medical officer, two medical in-
spectors and a trained nurse. A psychologist
two dentists and two dental assistants are
attached to the medical branch.
A few points to aid in the selection of a
Newfoundland dog? Is it a useful breed?
—9239.
Desirable points are a broad, massive head
and flat skull, broad back, well-ribbed body
and muscular hindquarters, and a deep, broad
chest. Twenty-seven inches is a good average
height for a dog and 25in. for a bitch. Respec-
tive weights should be from 1401 b. to 1501 b.
and from 1101 b. to 1201 b. (2) In its native
home it was, and still is, a worker. Imported
into other countries it is used merely as a
companion and guard. It is one of the finest
of water dogs.
* * • »
Who are the world’s boxing champions in
divisions from flyweight to welterweight, in-
clusive? Who are the most serious contenders
for these championships? —9lB9.
The world’s flyweight championship is vacant,
but Britons award Jackie Patterson, of Scot-
land, the title, and Americans recognise
Filipino Little Dado as the champion. Filipino
Little Pancho is chief contender. The other
world champions and contenders are: Bantam-
weight—champion, Lou Salica; contenders,
Tommy Forte and Tony Olivera. Feather-
weight—Harry Jeffra, champion ; Chalky Wright
and Pete Scalzo, contenders. Lightweight—Lew
Jenkins, champion; Sammy Angott and Jackie
Wilson, contenders. Welterweight—Fritzie
Zivic, champion; Milt Aron and Izzy Jannazzo,
contenders.
* * * *
Details of hand-feeding and rearing a
thoroughbred foal from birth? —9017.
Use a long bottle with a large nipple. For
the first few days give the foal a pint of warm
milk every hour; add a tablespoonful of sugar
and four tablespoonfuls of lime water to the
milk. If possible, get the milk from a cow
with a low butterfat test. As the foal grows,
gradually increase the milk feeds and lengthen
the periods between feeding. Cut out the sugar
at four weeks; after six weeks you can give
it separated milk instead of whole milk. When
the foal is three months old it can have as
much as it likes to drink, thrice a day. Get
it on to meal, crushed oats, bran, oilcake and
chaff as soon as possible, and let it have access
to grass at all times.
* V * *
(1) Recipe for cooking a rabbit in wine?
(2) Method of curing and marketing blue-
tongued lizard skins? —9072.
(1) Take half-pint of any white wine, half-
pound bacon, and one tablespoon port, one
rabbit, half a cabbage. Cut rind from bacon,
cut bacon small and fry till fat runs, then
fry jointed rabbit in the fat. When brown,
put rabbit and bacon in piedish or casserole,
add wine, shredded cabbage, pepper and salt,
cover, cook one hour, add herbs to taste and
cook 10 minutes longer. Serve with peas and
potatoes. (2) Blue-tongued lizards are protected
by law. You mustn’t kill them, and their
skins are valueless for leather.
* * * *
How to make a glove; what of; where to
obtain material, and price? —9l32.
Gloves can be made of almost any material
and the price depends on what you wish to
pay. Unpick one of your old gloves and use
for a pattern. Inquire at any department store
for prices of material (silk, wash-leather, canvas,
etc.).
* * * *
Method of treating and boring cherry-stones
for the making of necklaces? Can they be
polished or varnished ? —8899.
Each stone must be placed in a vice and
pierced with a hand drill. The stones can
be polished with friction; put them, after
piercing, in a wooden box with a quantity of
jewellers’ rouge and shake the box for an hour
or so, finishing by rubbing the stones between
velvet cloths. The result is scarcely worth the
time and trouble expended.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the quotation: “If we go forward
we die; if we go backward we die; let us go
forward”? —9004.
Brief Answers.
J.M.: Except for keeping the soil moist
there is no fertiliser value in coffee dregs. If
used, they must be worked through the soil;
when left on the surface they are likely to
attract lice and slaters... .R.R.; (I) A table of
square and cube roots of numbers up to 1000
cannot, save in a very restricted way, be used
as an aid to ascertaining roots of higher
numbers. Rules for extracting square and cube
roots will be found in any advanced arithmetic
textbook. (2) For the rules, consult an ele-
mentary work on mensuration. In the case you
cite the diameter of the big sphere is approx.
17.146 in. Quantity of water containable is
about 9y gallons... .E.M.8.: A batman is an
officer’s servant or orderly. His choice depends
on the personal taste of the officer J.E.W.:
Initiative, referendum and recall. It refers to
a system of legislation under which electors,
as distinct from Parliament, have the right to
initiate laws, vote upon them by referendum
and recall either Acts of Parliament or legislators
who have betrayed their trust J. 8.: The
register of members of the C.S.R. may be in-
spected at the co.’s office in Sydney, and that
of B.H.P. at its office in Melbourne. The
Registrar-General in every State also has a
list of shareholders in cos. whose offices are in
the State... .J..L.: He refers to his own son.
....LB.: Suggest you get in touch with Alf
Lawrance, Winston, 199 a Victoria-street, King’s
Cross... .T.McC.: Unable trace that song and
cannot advise where music is obtainable....
L.T.V.: The Brisbane Museum was opened in
September, 1871, and moved to the present
building in 1901... .N.R.D.: For information
regarding copyright, write to the Registrar-
General’s Department, Sydney... .F.C.R.;
Write to the secretary, N. S. Wales Rod Fishers’
Society, Bull’s Chambers, Martin-place, and
to Mick Simmons, Ltd., both Sydney
N.T.F.: Your unsupported assertion that the
remarks were addressed to you is insufficient
ground for action G.T.: The price of a
packet of the cigarette papers has been in-
creased from 2d. to 31d., but there are now
60 papers to the packet instead of 44....
G.F.S.: The certificates may be cashed at any
branch of the Commonwealth Bank in Aus-
tralia G.R.: The statue by the footbridge
over Fremantle station and overlooking Fre-
mantle harbor is that of C. Y. O’Connor, the
engineer responsible for the Kalgoorlie water
scheme and for Fremantle harbor... .F.K.R.:
Charles Chauvel was not the director of the
film “Mutiny on the Bounty.” But he pro-
duced and directed a film entitled “In the
Wake of the Bounty”... .M.K.: (1) £1043 14s.
(2) £196 3s. 2d G.P.T.: The Common-
wealth Year-Book for 1939 gives the number
of artesian bores in Australia as 8549, but
states that the figures are incomplete
L.T.V.; The Commonwealth acquired from
N. S. Wales sovereign rights over 28 square
miles of land and water at Jervis Bay for pos-
sible use as a port in connection with Canberra.
The Royal Australian Naval College was estab-
lished there, but was removed in 1930 to
Flinders Naval Base, Victoria F.D.L.:
Immigration question too long to answer here;
write to the Department of the Interior, Can-
berra 8.G.R.: “The scheme for burning
coal dust” to which you refer is probably that
of grinding the coal as finely as possible and
introducing it into the furnace by means of
a blower... .D.S.R.: Latest figures available set
the Australian consumption of fish at 131 b.
per head and that of Britain at 421 b. per head.
. ...8.F.M.: From July, 1914, statistics relating
to overseas trade have been shown according to
the fiscal year (July to June). Before that the
figures related to the calendar year... .C.G.F.:
With a population density of 2.35 persons to
the square mile, Australia is the most sparsely
populated of the civilised countries of the
world.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
H.R.N.:
Dear friend, defer
The idiot mirth, the sports that soft beguile
High-souled endeavor with enervation vile;
For unless we eschew this evil, choose the good.
We may ne’er attain true nationhood.
E. 8.:
When danger lurks close to our shores
And danger threatens near our very doors,
’Tis not the time to hark to bores
Who just sit still and use their jaws.
P.P.;
By carrying on, day by day,
Producing wholesome crops,
Would enable soldiers to more steadily fight
Against Hitler’s shells and shots.
D.R.:
Ho! now you German boars. Your chests do swell,
With conquest’s pride you strut those ravished lands,
But listen, Germany: England still stands.
. ...M.P.: Not a bad sonnet, but it’s not
poetry... .F.L.8.; De dum de dum de dum
de dum de dum de dum de dum H.8.R.:
Hard to find a new curse for free verse....
H.E.H.: Stick to beer, then, and swear off ink.
. ...G.P.: Pleasant, but literary... .T.E.: Not
quite E.S.W.: Come in, come in:
A working man, may his tax decrease,
Looked up one day from works that never cease
And saw within the boss’s room,
Making it interesting—flowers of hope took blooijj—
An income-tax chap with that look of old.
Exceeding fears had made this worker bold,
And to the Tax Rep. in the room he said,
“What knowest thou?” The Tax bloke raised his
head
And with a look, smirk, grim and set, answered,
“The names of those who tax exemption get.”
“And is mine one?” the worker asked.
“Nay, not so,” replied the taxy bloke.
The workman spoke more low
But cheerily still, and said,
“I am surprised, write me down
As one who wants his tax revised.”
The Tax Rep. wrote and vanished.
He came next day, looking his smiling best.
“Your answer, sir,” he said. And, lo!
Our hero’s claim was dished with all the rest.
... .C.8.C.: That plot was pensioned off about
the beginning of this century... .H.F.J.; The
humor is lively enough, but it’s off our beat.
B.R.D.: “Flannagan’s Ford” broke down
at the fourth page and is being sent home by
rail 8.G.D.: The office boy requests that
you make your mysteries a little more
mysterious D.C.: “I write only in my spare
time.” Well, you’re wasting it J.P.S.:
Won’t ask our readers to “Meet Your Sister”
until she grows up a bit, literarily speaking.
C.C.S.: Duels in Czarist Russia a bit out
of date these days.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P. 8.: Sending back those X-ray plates you
appear to have submitted by mistake K.P.:
It’s futile trying fine penwork on that coarse-
surfaced paper W.H.P.; The map of Aus-
tralia has been coming in once or twice a week
since the war broke out M.F.: Same old
drunk making same old remark to same old
cop G.K.: Puzzled as to the presence of
the bloated goanna on the baronial drawbridge.
. ...P.T.: Not badly drawn, but they need
more polish... .N.L.S.: Hopeless daubs
E.A.: Subject insufficiently interesting for
cartoon and your likeness not striking
M.L.8.: What! Another double-ended
christening? J. 8.: A waste of good Bristol
board R.D.M.: Sound draughtsmanship,
but you’re lacking in humor... .L.H.: Sketch
of inebriated gravedigger irreverently interred in
office morgue... .8.G.M.: Emaciated jokes,
flatulent drawings Fred L.: Your figures
look as if they’ve been dipped in tar and
dragged through a concrete mixer.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
Mm
Q
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
w. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
S 4-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE. VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W,
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION WITH
ZftjL-OJt-Ok
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
The most valuable mineral supplement for increased milk production is
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, with its guaranteed minimum content of 33%
phosphoric acid, and 40% lime. Being bone, Tri-cal-os is definitely
palatable, and in its fine flour form is easily digested and assimilated.
Profitable milking can be carried on for four or five months longer
by giving Tri-cal-os in the dry period.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from —
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
After the Drought.
“B. Cub.”: With the exception of those
in parts that didn’t get rain, everybody in
N.S.W. believes the drought has broken,
and there is a suitably subdued air of
jubilation in reports from country centres.
But the mere fact of rain having come
doesn’t mean an instant end of drought
so far as feed is concerned. Grass doesn’t
grow overnight, and even in districts
which respond very quickly there won’t
be any great body of feed for a few
weeks.
I went through the N.S.W. Illawarra
just after it got a drenching last month.
The response was instant. Grass pad-
docks, maize and oat crops are now
thriving. The country is a verdant pic-
ture. But you can still hang a hat on
the hipbones of the cattle, which are
losing sleep in their eagerness to keep
on eating. Those who had good fodder
reserves find it necessary to keep hand-
feeding, for the new growth is very
washy and needs time to harden up.
Some of the more thoughtful land men
are convinced that a drought is not all
“C’mon ’ere, Ma, an get the cool breeze orf the Water!”
curse. Constantly-grazed land gets a few
months or even a year or two of spelling,
a lot of useless plants are wiped out,
certain parasites that thrive in lush pas-
tures take the knock and there is a weed-
ing-out of the poorer and less productive
types of animals. Also, a drought has its
lessons in soil management, erosion, pas-
ture improvement and fodder conserva-
tion for those who will learn.
State-wide in N.S.W. and bad enough
in the other States, the recent dry time
showed clearly that for all the good work
done fodder conservation in Australia is
still far from what it should be. To make
themselves safe, farmers will have to put
away a lot more feed than they do. There
should be more grain bins and pit-silos,
more fodder crops and more tanks and
dams. In wheat country, where sheep
and pigs are coming more and more into
the scheme of things, oats will have to
be considered this autumn, both as a
quick-grazing crop and as hay and grain
for storage. Oats can be grown wherever
wheat is grown, and with the help of
sulphate of ammonia will do well on
wheat stubble
Sown in early autumn, oats will be fit
for S raz,n B within five or six weeks under
normal conditions, when sheep can be
P ut « £ alrl y thickly for up to a fortnight.
be Brazed "B h ‘ into spring if care-
managed, thus giving the slower
natural pasture a chance to get set again
and keeping the ewes and lambs in good
f , £fter that it wiu stm make a s hay
in h is hard t 0 beat for stored
f oc jj er
In what are known as “safe districts”
tbe j n t roc j ucec j pastures have had a doing,
should be renovated and reseeded
wberever necessary and as soon as pos-
sibl and stock should be kept off unti i
th ts well under way. Where
extra . heavy grow th is being made, put
mower in. Pasture hay makes one of
the best fodder
reserves and is easily
handled It well too as silage .
°
Ad lust Pltrs to Milk
Adjust Figs to Mine.
“Pappamosca ; Most dairy farms
could raise more pigs if some attempt
was made to get the best out of the milk
supply.
Best to work two farrowings a year
only—the first in winter to take up the
late spring milk flush, the second six
months later. Under this scheme pigs
are small when feed is scarcest and a
maximum number can be carried on the
year’s minimum nourishment. When the
pigs have attained the topping-off size
and are at maximum ration consumption,
it is provided for them naturally.
Animals born in June and July can be
turned off as fair to heavy baconers in
late January and February, and second
rounds of piglets come to porker and
light bacon weights towards the end of
May or early in June —they have lighter
feed in April and May.
By working on a five-month maturing
programme for porkers and a six- to
seven-month schedule for baconers, there
need be no overlapping.
The policy works in well with crops
and grazing. There are no winter stores
to be carried.
Lucerne Over the Ranges.
“Wing’s Ghost”: Seeing that lucerne
has been growing in Australia for over
140 years—Governor King mentions its
success in 1806—it has taken it a long
time to spread.
In 1833 there were 2500 acres of
lucerne in N. S. Wales, but for almost
a century it was considered suitable only
for rich river flats such as the Hunter,
Fassifern (Q.) and Bacchus Marsh (Vic.).
A few hardy farmers took it out to the
Macintyre before the 1914 war, and now
it would need a well-equipped exploring
expedition to trace the roots of those old
plants, which have wandered as much
as 70ft. to water.
Next it was established as far inland
as Inverell, and the N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department tried it at Bathurst,
where it was sown through every hoe of
a drill in rows 2ft. apart. From there it
migrated to Trangie, which used to be
purely “gentleman’s” country in which
all hard work was done with stockwhip
and branding iron. The rainfall of Trangie
is just under 18in. average.
That was going on for two decades ago.
Land was ploughed to turn over the roly-
poly and other weeds, which were
chopped into the soil with a cultivator,
which then made a second run over the
soil before sowing. Seed was put in with
|cwt. super, at the rate of 21b. per acre,
the total cost, with seed at Is. 6d.,
super, at ss. and wages at 13s. 9d. per
day, being 14s. 6d. per acre.
The country struck a dry time during
the experiments, but this bit of grazing
carried 2.07 sheep per acre (average) from
June, 1926, to November, 1927, on a total
of 16.6 inches. It was not long before
there was extensive development with
lucerne in the N. S. Wales middle-west—
Parkes and Canowindra and Cowra. Now
there are thousands of acres grazing
lambs which not so many years ago were
looked upon as good only for native
grasses.
At Trangie the ability of lucerne to
hunt for food and moisture was shown
by digging out roots. After 12 months
sturdy roots were found at 2ft., and
roots |in. in diameter at 6ft. after three
years.
It is a pity that more experimenting
has not been done along the rivers of
Central Queensland. There must be a
lot of land beyond the Dividing Range
where lucerne will take a hold—some of
it now growing rubbish and burr.
Handling Paspalum.
“Grasso”: Paspalum has a bad name
in some N.S.W. districts —fashions change
in these things—but properly treated it
still can be useful. Even in the irrigation
areas it is an ideal grass in summer when
rye and sub. clover are at their lowest
level.
Paspalum binds up the ground in wet
seasons. As J. N. Whittet, of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, points out, it
should be kept well grazed, the ideal
length for cattle being from 3in. to Sin.
and for sheep not more than 2in. If it
overtakes the grazing it should be allowed
to run into seed head and then mown.
One of the great dangers on irrigation
ground is that the grass will become
sod-bound. To avoid this, apart from
regular harrowing, give a regular run-over
with some type of knife-point cultivator
in spring, after watering the paddock.
Paspalum on closely-cultivated land
needs regular topdressing or
2cwt. super, late in February or early in
March, which will help clover growth
along. Give an equal amount in spring.
Green Feed Inland.
“Ager”: It pays to grow sorghum on
irrigation. Results may show up to 20
to 23 tons of green feed per acre.
Few other crops adapt themselves so
easily to soil and climate. The most
suitable soil is a deep, well-drained,
sweet loam or alluvial. Sorghum is not
so particular as maize. Watch frost.
Sorghum is affected in its early stages,
but when older will stand frost better
than maize.
The best scheme is to plough deeply
as soon as other crop has been taken
off. Then let the land lie in the comb
to obtain all the benefits of the sun, air
and rain. Work down with heavy
harrows. Just before sowing, cross-
plough lightly.
Sow 18-201 b. to acre, with super,
to lewt. Mix seed with fertiliser, and
sow through every run of the combine.
A good month is October. The best
varieties are White African, Sumac, Jones
and Saccaline.
Don’t let the soil dry out. If you sow
in October you will probably have to
irrigate in November, December and
January. Give a good soaking each time
—three inches. Sorghum responds to
good treatment.
Don’t cut before grain begins to form.
Crop is best fed to sheep as cut fodder.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kyamba”: When at one to three
months old lambs lose the use of the
hind leg muscles and sway when they
move, knuckling over at the fetlocks of
the hind legs, the cause is probably
enzootic ataxia, due to copper deficiency
in pastures. Prevent it by supplying the
sheep with a lick made by dissolving |lb.
fresh copper sulphate in a quart of hot
water and mixing the solution with 1001 b.
salt. About loz. per week per sheep is
the dose. Treat affected lambs with a
solution of loz. of the bluestone to three
gallons of water, and allow about
daily per lamb.
“H.G.”: “Kyamba” backed a winner
with Evening Primrose for sandy country
pastures (B. 25/12/ ’4O). Two best
methods to establish it are: (1) Drill in
about 21b. seed per acre with a disc
on stubble land with about 501 b. 45 p.c.
super, during April. (2) During same
month spread same quantity seed and
super, with a broadcasting machine on
grass land and harrow. Seed sown deeply
won’t germinate. Graze very lightly dur-
ing the first year. Shut the stock out dur-
ing March. There will be good feed
during April and May for ewes to
lamb on. During these two months
cultivate with a spring-tooth combine,
using only the two centre rows of tines
with narrow shares. The most economical
way to obtain seed is to cut with a
binder and make into small stocks.
After a few days put through a chaff-
cutter and winnow. Watch for loss of


Here a "Caterpillar" Diesel D 4 Tractor, pulling a 5 furrow
mould board plough is lowering power costs by cover-
ing acres per hour, 10 hours per day, and using 11
gallons of fuel per hour. What are you working for?
Just to meet increasing production costs or to lower
your costs and keep the profit yourself. Hundreds of
thousands of farmers throughout the world are proving
that whatever your farm power problem, a "Caterpillar"
Diesel can do the work faster, more thoroughly, and at
a lower cost.
Any "Caterpillar" Dealer can show you concrete facts and
figures on bow YOU can reduce your farming costs NOW
see him to-day or write us direct.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pal. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED,
Unwin’s Bridge Road, St. Peters, Sydney.
45 Baylis Street, Wagga. Marquis Street, GunnedaK.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., Kins St., Sydney
Smokers are saying—
“Fm not cutting down
my smoking, Vm smoking
‘Hillmans,’ ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially CU 1
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST
Four Square 8/6
First Crop, Mild 8/6
All British, Mild 8/6
Biverhead Gold, Medium 8/6
Old Peter, Dark 8/6
Cavendish, Strong 8/6
Beech Nut, Medium 8/6
Africa, Mellow and Mild 8/6
Soldier’s Own, Mild 8/6
Normandie, Medium 8/6
Winning Post, Medium 8/6
Three Bells, Strong 8/6
Bird’s Eye, Medium 8/6
Fatakia (in Pipe Only) 10/-
White Fudge, Medium 10/-
White Fudge, Fight 11/-
Barlock Flake, Fight and Dark . .. 9/6
Cahills, Medium 10/-
IJnion Feader, Medium 11/-
Tender Feaf, Medium 11/-
Imperial 14/-
HIGH CLASS PLUG TOBACCOS.
“Skipper,” Medium 8s 8/6
“Clinker,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Three Sailors,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Big Hit,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Irish Twist,” 13s 8/6
“Royal Navy,” Nuggets 8/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 13s and 26s .... 7/10
Subject to 6d. lb. postage to all
States outside Queensland. Quantities
of 51b. and over, Post Free to all States.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., VAFFEY, N. 1., BRISBANE
Telegrams: “Comgrow,” Brisbane.
’Phone No. 84587.
issa3Piwi
1 v. 1 'r"
■2»sfl
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11/-
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spaclous, Up-to-date Dining Room—-All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
seed when handling. To allow plants
to seed lightly stock during February
and March
“Mullengah”: Isolate any pig that
develops ringworm. Then remove scales
and crusts from the affected skin areas
with hot water, soap and soda. When
dry, paint with a strong tincture of
iodine, including a wide circle of skin
round the margin of the ringworm,
Repeat the painting every second day
until new hair begins to grow on the
bald patch.
“Bundalinga”: Cool milk and cream as
soon as possible to avoid deterioration
of quality from bacterial action. If you
haven’t a water-cooler, stand cans in
cold water or put wet bags around them.
Use fresh water every day. Change the
bags daily and let them dry before re-
using. Stir cream with a tinned metal
stirrer two or three times a day, and
don’t mix cream until each lot is cool.
“Goulburn : It a heilcr has too many
teats use a pair of sharp, half-curved
surgical scissors to cut off the surplus
ones close to the skin when the animal
is a few weeks old. Smear the wound
with a teaspoonful of turpentine m a
cupful of oil.
“Kyamba”: For storing loose grain
it is hard to beat ordinary corrugated-
iron water tanks. They should be filled
up to as near the cover as possible. Stand
a lighted candle on top and whilst burn-
ing seal the tank by daubing the edges
of the manhole cap with some plastic
material before fixing into position,
When the oxygen supply is used up the
candle will go out. An 8000 gal. water
tank will hold 1000 bushels of grain.
A circular 10ft. tank 10ft. deep will
hold over 600 bushels. If grain is in
airtight storage, germinating power will
be rapidly destroyed. So grain for seed
evento"/ a'short
. pt m sedled c ntamers even tor a snor
time-
“V.E. : Here’s something for those
small black ants. Boil 11b. sugar, ?
gramme crystallised tartaric acid, one
gramme benzoate of soda in nine-tenths
of a pint of water slowly for 30 minutes,
making up water lost by evaporation,
Dissolve two grammes sodium arsenite in
one-tenth pint of hot water. Allow both
mixtures to cool and pour the second
mixture into the first, stirring well. Add
240 z. honey, and leave it for the pests.
■
„ . . , ...
“Oraz | Experience m Australia with
sheep having tails docked at the buttocks
has been the reverse of that in America
//a entirely tailless sheep (B. / 1/ 41).
C.S.I.R. experiments with 390 ewe lambs
resu ited in 61.3 per cent, of strikes among
t jj ose butt-docked, 54.7 per cent, among
the 2 j n . tails and only 30.2 per cent,
amon g the 4in. tails. In later trials for
testing citronella dressing only two sheep
QUt Q £ w j t j 1 4j n ta ils were struck com-
pared with 14 in the 2in.-tail group.
“Ghanam”: Believe it or not, N. S.
Wa i es has the luck of a Chinaman with
j ts droughts. In four years before the
i ates t one the lamb drop to ewes mated
was never better than 67.4 p.c. (1936-37)
an d in 1938-39 was only 52.5 p.c. When
the drought began there were 54,372,000
sheep in the State, including 27,269,000
ewes and 12,885,000 lambs—an increase
of 5,500,000 over the previous year,
There had been a record lambing of
15,674,000, or 70.5 p.c. Graziers there-
fore started on the drought with a reserve
of youngsters above average numbers.
Even with losses of 4,000,000, which are
possible, there will still be more sheep
than there were in 1939.
Outback Occupations.
No. LIL
THE JUNIOR FARMER.
Having a Junior Farmer on the place
might sound all right when you tell the
neighbors, but there are some aspects
of it that are apt to make life a little
more painful.
Some smart bloke travelling through
got hold of young Tom —he’s getting on
for 15—and persuaded him to become a
Junior Farmer. You had always thought
that this meant rearing a pet calf or
something, so when the lad asked you if
he could join you gave him his head.
You hadn’t reckoned that young Tom
was ambitious. No pet calves for him.
He intended to run an R.I.R. stud. Think-
ing this had something to do with British
breeds of sheep you thought it a good
idea, until you came home one night and
found several large red fowls roosting in
the implement shed. You shooed them,
and they fell off their perches and
squawked and ran outside, where they
encountered the cattle-dog. That dog
detested chooks as much as you did, and
there was a fine old flurry, till young
Tom raced from the house and kicked
the dog in the ribs.
Then you learnt all about R.I.Rs. from
a reproachful progeny, and you an-
nounced flatly that there were too many
blanky chooks on the place already —
always getting in the chaff or falling
down the underground tank or some-
thing—and you weren’t going to have any
more. The missus sided with Tom, and
said it was a fine thing to promise a boy
something and then break your word,
and how did you think the children could
learn to respect you if you treated them
like that? Whereupon you raised your
voice and said that if she felt that way
about it you’d sell the blanky place and
go and buy a chook farm on the coast
and give them all the chooks they
wanted ; but anyhow you weren’t having
this farm turned into a chookery, and
that was that. And Jack, your eldest
son, said it was just the sort of sissy thing
Tom would do. Whereupon Tom hit
Jack with the R.I.R. the cattle-dog had
accounted for, and the two boys flew
into each other.
After everything was sorted out Tom
agreed to fatten the R.I.Rs. up for eating
on your undertaking to let him go in for
Border-Leicester ewes.
The red chooks either went into the
wife’s kitchen or joined the rest of the
fowl population of the farm, and one day
a bloke arrived in a motor-lorry with
ten B.L. ewes which cost you 30 guineas.
Well, by the time you’d chased those
ewes all over the country, and from one
paddock to another on your place, you
came to the conclusion that your fences
weren’t made for B.L. ewes, and you sug-
gested to Tom that since they were fat
and had had plenty of exercise it might
be a good idea to sell them. But Tom
wasn’t having any. The ewes were in
lamb to a good sire, he said, and the man
who wrote to him about junior farming
said there was a good demand for young
Border Leicesters. In the end you netted
off 100 acres and said he could have that,
but if you caught the, darned things in
any other paddock you’d turn ’em into
mutton.
One day old Bill Thurston called in,
“Was goin’ past an’ saw them Borders
o’ yours,” he said. “They look like good
stuff. Mind if I have a look at ’em?”
You went with him, feeling a sudden
sense of pride. Thurston is one of the
best sheep men in the district. He looked
them over and said “What have you got
on ’em?”
“Well,” you hesitated, wondering about
young Tom, “reckon they’re worth four
guineas.”
“Fiddlesticks,” said Thurston, “but see-
in’ I could do with ’em I’ll pay it.”
Whereupon he whipped out a cheque-
book and paid you on the spot, saying
he’d lift ’em within seven days.
Rather elated, you bade him farewell
and went up to the house. Tom was
away on some job or other, so you
decided to say nothing until he came
home, when you would produce the
cheque and show him what it was to have
a father who could make a good deal.
That night, when tea was done and
the things pushed back, you lit your pipe
and said to Tom “How’re the sheep
gettin’ on, boy?”
“Aw, they’re all right,” he said, busy
with paper and pencil on some problem
of his own.
“If someone wanted t’ buy ’em what
would you take?” you prodded.
He looked up quickly, frowned, said
decisively “They’re worth five guineas a
head. Dad,” and went back to his
problem.
“Five guineas!” you scoffed.
“Five guineas!” scoffed Jack.
Tom didn’t say anything. His mother
said “Leave the boy alone. He’s quite
right. Five guineas is the price the
breeder charges, but he lets Junior
Farmers have them for three. It’s to
encourage them. The man believes in
the Junior Farmer movement. In his
last letter the supervisor told Tom the
ewes were now worth at least six guineas
each.”
Tom gave Jack a triumphant look.
You, feeling Thurston’s cheque trying to
climb out of your pocket, mumbled
something about the horses and staggered
drunkenly outside.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2id. per line.
A refugee’s reply to criticisms of refugees is placed first this week.
Refugees
Perhaps “Barwon” (B. 25/12/’4O) and
many others do not know that the
Australian Government decided how
much capital a refugee had to
bring as landing money to the Com-
monwealth. I refer to my own land-
ing permit, No. 34476, issued at Can-
berra on July 14, 1939, according to
which I had to bring £6OOO to this coun-
try, otherwise I never could have entered
Australia. Although 90 p.c. of my Euro-
pean assets have been confiscated by the
German invaders (1 come from Czecho-
slovakia), I was able to fulfil the request
with the help of relatives and friends
overseas. Would “Barwon” explain what
harm is done to this country if, among
many poor refugees, a few wealthy were
able to get a permit to live in Australia?
It is true that not all of us are farmers,
but all who were farmers before they
came to Australia are on farms again.
The Government of the Commonwealth
is informed by the application every
refugee had to fill out before a landing
permit was issued to which profession
he belonged. If a former manufacturer
would undertake to buy a farm I think
he would be a bad farmer, just as a
former farmer would be a bad manu-
facturer.
It is easy to point out the few wealthy
refugees who were able to start business
and to overlook the many poor ones who
nave just the same hard fight for a living
as any other poor man in any other
country of the world. —E.
Air Attack on Australia
“Lyle” (B. 25/12/’4O) still leaves me
unconvinced. A.R.P. training is just as
necessary here as in any other country,
and now is the time to institute it by
compulsion. Great Britain had her
squads training from Munich onwards,
and even now, after intensive training
and actual experience, criticism is often
heard about the scope of the precautions
in London.
The international scene shifts pretty
quickly these days and the final line-up
in the war hasn’t arrived yet. Who our
foes are going to be depends on the show
Britain puts up during the next few
months, but it doesn’t do to be com-
placent about things. A hostile aircraft-
carrier, or two or three for that matter,
wouldn’t be operating “thousands of
miles from its base”—events at Nauru
should convince us of that. Several
large armed merchant raiders have
obviously pretty efficient bases scattered
round the Pacific, and if these vessels
can operate why not aircraft-carriers?
“Lyle” says hit-run raids by a few
score ’planes couldn’t inflict much dam-
age to our cities. That would depend
entirely on the amount of opposition
they encountered from superior fighters,
and, as I said before, we have no fighters
or pursuit planes capable of dealing with
heavily-armed modern bombers. The
R.A.F. raids on Germany are hit-run
affairs and appear to be pretty effective.
“Lyle’s” last paragraph is a gem. He
says exactly what we said in September,
1939, about the Polish cavalry and the
Polish marshes and later about the
Maginot Line, General Gamelin and the
invincible French army. How long would
it take the Commonwealth to produce
or buy a sufficient number of fighter
aircraft capable of dealing with a raid-
ing force? And now is the time we
want them. —W, M. C. (N.S.W.).
“Legal”
Nazis have committed enough foul
crimes at sea to damn them for ever in
the eyes of all decent seamen, but much
dangerous nonsense has been talked of
late in the Australian press and else-
where concerning the use of Japanese
colors by the Nauru raiders and the
shelling of the phosphate loading gear
and oil tanks. Oppenheim, the leading
authority amongst international jurists,
states that a public (i.e., State-controlled)
vessel may lawfully use a neutral or
enemy flag provided the national flag
is displayed before actually attacking.
When in 1914 the Emden, with a
dummy fourth funnel and Japanese
colors, slipped into Penang harbor and
torpedoed the Russian cruiser Zhem-
stchug, the action was completely
legalised by the fact that she hoisted the
German flag before loosing off, Just as
the Nauru raider is reported to have
done. It is also perfectly legal to use
neutral or enemy flags to draw an enemy
vessel within reach of action, when pur-
suing one, or when trying to escape from
one.
The attack on Nauru was preceded by
a warning, and the destruction of such
resources as phosphate gear and oil tanks
is legally justifiable. Captured crews and
passengers appear to have been humanely
treated and given every reasonable chance
of reaching safety. The denunciatory
ravings of a section of the Australian
press and some politicians who ought to
know better only afford the Nazi gang-
sters a good excuse for future self-
justification in cases which outrage every
principle of international law and com-
mon humanity alike. Captain Pintle
(Q-).
War Epics
The Bulletin (1 /1 / ’4l) gave a meri-
torious mention to General Goddard
and commented that “the story of the
defence of Villers-Bretonneux is one
of the epics of the war.” It seems
strange that we, during our present fight,
do not have more of the stories of some
of the epics of the war retold. Esprit
de corps built up on the traditions of the
old brigade is of illimitable advantage
to the morale of our fighting men and
people.
There is perhaps only one man today
in Australia, W. M. Hughes, who really
knew how black the outlook was for the
Allies when the first battle of Villers-
Bretonneux was fought on April 4,
1918. Others knew the position was
desperate, but just how bad they had no
means of knowing. Goddard and the
men of the 9th Brigade had no illusions
as to what was expected of them. It
was a fight to a finish.
What an offset to any defeatism such
stories of the last war would be! We
won then against overwhelming odds,
and we will win again.—A. C. (N.S.W.).
Bombing Germany
It is more than a mere desire to see
just retribution that inspires many people
to advocate the bombing of German
civilians as ruthlessly and as indiscrimi-
nately as Germany is bombing the British
people. Full retaliatory bombing would
be justified only by the fact that the
German civilian is more likely than the
British to crack under the strain. It is
useless to protest that the Germans will
hate us if we bomb their civilians. They
hate us already, and it will be impossible
to win this war without making them
hate us a lot more.
It is no coincidence that the countries
of Greater Germany have produced most
of the world’s leading pioneers in the
science of neurasthenia. The recent
behavior of the German people has been
neurotic to a degree. The German’s
fanatical adherence to a theory or ideal
is a neurotic symptom. So is his humor-
less insistence on carrying a theory to
its logical conclusion.
These factors support the view that
full retaliatory bombing of civilians in
Germany is more likely to produce a
breakdown in morale than is the German
bombing of British civilians, provided
the terror raging over Germany is no
less than that unleashed by the Nazis
ever England.— Blitz (N.S.W.).
Women and Work
Would “1.M.” (B. 1/1/’4l) say exactly
what is to become of surplus women
when they are forced out of industry and
business? He seems to forget that thou-
sands of women must work or starve
simply because the chance of matrimony
has been denied them. Does he presume,
therefore, that their destiny should be
that of poorly-paid domestic slaves for
their more fortunate sisters?
“1.M.” might also remind himself that
many women work because those men
who might have been their husbands are
too selfish to save money towards home-
making—horses, pubs and other extra-
vagant pleasures being preferred to the
cost and trouble of supporting a wife
and family. Such men, by the way, are
often those who are tfeeply concerned
with the falling-birthrate problem.
He forgets, too, that in large or poor
families the girls have to work to sup-
port themselves, and in many cases to
ease money difficulties for the family
breadwinner. Would “1.M.” have fathers
keep adult daughters in idleness until, as
in once-popular novels, Prince Charming
conveniently arrived and relieved them
of the burden?
Married women whose husbands are
in receipt of good wages should not be
allowed to work outside their homes, but
single ones should certainly be permitted
to try to hold their own in the labor
market.— P. Radwon (Vic.).
I was an office brat in the days when
staffs were nearly all men (B. 1/1 /’4l),
but they used to duck-shove just as much
as girls do today. In latter years I have
been the official nark over an office staff
of 70 p.c. girls, and my experience is that
both sexes have the proclivities of
the mouse in the cat’s absence —it is
human nature. Allowing for this, I con-
sider that the average male is most em-
“Bill always believes in givin' the fish a fair go!"
phatically a better office worker than the
female. It’s not a question of male
superiority. Actually, girls are just as
brainy as men, but the feminine consti-
tution is not so well equipped as we
males for steady brainwork all day long.
Most girls are as temperamental as
Sunday’s joint on a hot day. Trivialities
can upset them for hours, sometimes
days. To get the best out of men one has
just to be reasonable and exercise ordi-
nary business courtesy, but to get girls
to do a fair day’s work one has often to
flatter and coax them as if they were
highly-strung theatrical stars.
The existence of so much cheap female
labor in offices is because of the stupid,
short-sighted policy of most company
chiefs. Office salaries, being non-produc-
tive or non - revenue - producing, are
regarded as unnecessary expenses, and
heads of staffs are expected to run the
administrative side of the business on
budgeted monthly salary allowances so
small that they are forced to employ girls
to keep within the required limits. If
they don’t there is a howl from the chief.
What the big nuts often overlook is
that, although they may save a few hun-
dred pounds a year with cheap girl labor,
the indirect and hidden losses which
occur in their business through insuffi-
cient and inefficient statistical recording
amount often to thousands of pounds.
Although many girls have dependants
the fact remains that a job is not the
same serious problem in their lives as it
is to a man. A girl’s greatest ambition —
at least, a senior girl’s—is marriage, not
promotion. But to men their job is every-
thing. It is their very life. If a girl gets
tired of work she can become a respect-
able married woman. But if a man can’t
get a job he can only resort to the dole
or to activities that soon put him on
speaking terms with the very best police-
men. — Danbo (N.S.W.).
“A decent minimum wage for all, male
and female, on equal terms” (B. 1/1 / ’4l)
would be welcomed by many women
clerks and stenographers. There are in-
efficients of both sexes in the average
office, and it is just as galling to the
honest, hard-working female to see her
male co-worker (earning almost twice as
much as she) taking advantage of the
lack of sensible supervision as it is for
“1.M.” when he sees the women powder-
ing their noses
I, too, work in an office, and I see
male clerks whose work sometimes for
half an hour consists of calculations on
a scribbler with continual reference to a
current racing paper, whose frequent
trips to town “on business” mean having
a haircut or shave in the firm’s time, who
are allowed to smoke while they work —
a privilege forbidden the female staff.
There are hardworking males and there
are hardworking females, and there are
slackers of both sexes. Equal pay would
be a good thing ; so would a little intelli-
gence on the part of the “heads” of de-
partments, where as long as the work is
done it doesn’t matter who does it.
And this was not typed in office hours
or on office, paper.— Stenog (N.S.W.).
Town and Country
Out in these parts we haven’t much to
complain about of our employees or their
union. With a very odd exception bush
workers are good fellows, good workers,
loyal and certainly worth treating well.
Their pay under award rates hasn’t much
more purchasing value than it did in
1913. They are, of course, fed and
housed better, as they have a perfect
right to be.
The men who shear our sheep, save
our sheep and keep our improvements in
order cost considerably less than the
amounts which are grabbed by the
hungry maws of the city, and we
get far more value from the
former than from the latter. Once
our wool or livestock reaches the
local rail we’re for it, and our
account sales and bank statements
are plastered with enforced pay-
ments, over which we have no
control.
City industries are subsidised,
which seriously affects our mar-
kets. Subsidised industries pay big
dividends, or, rather, make very
big profits, water their shares, and
are generally quoted well over par
on the Stock Exchange. Our cost
of production is thereby increased,
and so is taxation ; and when we
wish to buy manufactured woollen
goods we have to pay out of all
proportion to the price of raw wool.
I don’t know what knitting wool costs
now, but 10|d. an ounce was asked when
the raw wool it was manufactured from
was worth about sd. a pound.—J. S. (Q.).
Workers’ Compensation
Why is an injured worker often com-
pelled to wait until resutfiing work be-
fore he can receive payments to which


he is entitled under the Workers Com-
pensation Act? Many injured workers
are hard put to maintain themselves
during the period between their dis-
charge from hospital and resumption of
work.
Also, some companies do not immedi-
ately admit liability in cases of hernia,
strained back, etc., and a worker has to
wait until his return to work before
knowing whether or not he is going to
receive compensation.
These flaws in the Act should be
speedily removed. — Pierrot (N.S.W.).
These Honors
The people responsible for these honors
lists might well publish full details of the
deeds that they considered worthy of the
respective honors. It is not sufficient
merely to state that the person concerned
did splendid national work.
We have an instance of one man
figuring well in the honors list after he
had been rejected as a Premier, and then
rejected as an ordinary member of
Parliament by the people. When a sol-
dier is awarded a V.C. or even a M.M.,
the actual deed for which the honor is
awarded is made known. Why not
apply this to all honors? Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Something for Nothing
f’ve never suffered from a dictator com-
plex, but I’d like to decree that every
item contributed to the daily press should
be paid for.
Surely even the editor of the “Daily
Yell” would have hesitated about pass-
ing the recently-printed gem of wisdom
which advocated the sanctioning of
bigamy owing to the inevitable male
shortage which the war would bring
about if he’d known that it had to be
paid for at space rates. Nor is it likely
that the long-visioned gentleman who
demanded the restriction of night flying
because it interrupted his slumbers would
be paid 2\d. a line for the thought behind
his effort.
No doubt it eases “Harassed’s” feel-
ings to dash off a complaint about a
neighbor’s crowing rooster, but is it in-
teresting enough to be paid for? And if
it isn’t worth paying for is it worth
reading?
The laborer is worthy of his hire, but
“something for nothing” is generally
worth exactly what it costs. —B.A. K.
(N.S.W.).
Spirit of Federation
January 1 was the fortieth anniversary
of the beginning of Federation in Aus-
tralia. So saddened were a dozen Adel-
aide men by the moribund condition, v if
not the complete demise, of the true spirit
of Federation in the Commonwealth to-
day that they had a bob-in collection for
a wreath and laid it at the main door of
S.A. Parliament House on New Year’s
Day morning.
Our fathers visualised one Australia,
but the States have persisted as separate
and envious entities. So we find that
N. S. Wales says it will grow fewer wine
grapes if S.A. will agree to grow fewer
potatoes. On plywood derived from its
forests the Queensland Government
allows manufacturers of its own State a
special remission of eight per cent.—a
concession not available to industry in
the other States.
The A.I.F. is one of the few real
expressions of the Federal spirit. Our
Diggers do not go away as Victorians
or Westralians but as Australians. —
Pigge (S.A.).
New Year at King’s Cross
The “revels” consist of an enormous
crowd of people, one half of which
shows off in a very amateurish way while
me otner half watches. Somebody bangs
on a kerosene-tin and everybody roars
with laughter. Why? Because it’s the
King’s Cross carnival and to-morrow
your photo, might be in the paper. Some-
body picks up somebody else in a chair
and carries him down the centre of the
road and the crowd applauds; the
carrier tips the chaired one out and the
crowd goes mad with delight.
As an interested observer I was dis-
mayed at the display of forced spirits,
the uninspired antics of louts, semi-
drunks and other people all desperately
anxious that the reputation of the Cross
be kept up. During occasional lulls,
some of the impromptu entertainers
would get that blank, tired, worried look
as though thinking “Whatever can I do
next to be funny?”— Elm (N.S.W.).
“£ 1 Lent for 6d‘.”
“Eddie Torial” (B. 1/1 /’4l) says I’m
crazy for claiming that my particular
“Uncle” charges me only 6d. in the
pound a month when I pop my trinkets.
Either he’s been unlucky or I’ve been
lucky. As a pawnshop patron of about
seven years’ experience, I’ve never paid
more for jewellery. I have just got a
ring back from “Uncle” and, having
borrowed a pound, I placed a pound
note and a sixpence on his much-auto-
graphed counter.
With this letter I’m enclosing the only
other ticket I have in my skinny purse
at present. It reads: “Gold Three (3)
small diamond ring (18ct. plat.). Amount
lent, 17s. 6d. Rate of interest, 6d. per
month or any part of a month.”
For sixpence in stamps (that would be
for my interest, of course) I will mail
“Eddie” my “Uncle’s” address with
pleasure.— Uncle’s Niece (N.S.W.).
Personality
During the holidays I put up for a
week at a seaside boarding-house, and
was interested in studying the reactions
of the company to the Prize Bore and
the Spirit of the Party. We had several
wet days and there was ample oppor-
tunity in the lounge and on the verandah.
The P.B. was well read, widely
travelled, musical and had every mark of
education and culture, but couldn’t play
cards and took little interest in sport.
When he played the piano he gave us
classical stuff that nobody understood.
When he talked he quoted highbrow
books and historical instances that we
couldn’t reply to. When he joked we
generally missed the point because it was
original, and because he didn’t laugh at
it himself. He was highly respected and
carefully avoided by all.
The other fellow was just the opposite.
He read nothing but “form” ; played all
“That’s enough, mate . ’E’s ony a carrier, not a furnitcher-van."
the card games well; vamped his own
accompaniments to the latest hits;
spouted wisecracks like a hose, and had
a good stock of funny stories which he
seemed to enjoy as much as anybody.
He had no opinions on anything but the
weather, and not a worry in the world,
not even when he borrowed the second
five bob from me just before he left
for parts unknown.
His class are the salt of the earth.
They help us to forget our troubles,
relieve us from the labor of thinking, and
never oppress us with a sense of our
ignorance of the past or lack of vision
for the future.— Small Bore (S.A.).
Youth Served First
Being an old-age pensioner I have been
thrilled to my slippered soles by the
news that my weekly screw has been
raised by a bob, and that the unearned
increment will be made available a few
days before due date. The Ministerial
statement shows that this will impose a
quite considerable burden on an already
overtaxed exchequer.
The first to congratulate me was a
single young man next door whose
weekly wage, including overtime, on
munitions is about £lO. In his pay bag
is a free gift towards the upkeep of a
wife and family he doesn’t possess and
has no intention of acquiring.
He has bought a new car and wants
me to erect a garage for it. Quite an
easy job, but I’m debarred from earning
money unless I forgo my pension. In
short, he has a pension thrust upon him
though he is young and vigorous and
comparatively rich, while I am com-
pelled to be useless and poor because I
am old.
Put it in another way: if this par.
should by any chance win a prize I will
be breaking the law by a margin of a
few shillings, while my flash young
neighbor, achieving the same result,
would be held innocent.
There’s something wrong somewhere,
and I’m not clever enough to show how
it can be put right, but perhaps if pen-
sioners had a union and went on a hun-
ger strike we might be able to draw
attention to the inconsistency of over-
feeding the fat while starving the thin.
—T. S. and T. (S.A.).
Loose Thinking
Go up to the first man you meet in the
street and ask him whom he blames for
the state of the country. Ten to one
he’ll answer the Jews or, more vaguely,
international financiers.
Next in popularity come the trading
banks and Broken Hill Proprietary. In
the course of discussion with ordinary
intelligent people I have discovered that
this country is run by, for and in the
interests of the Masons, the Catholics,
the Bank of England, the newspapers.
Conservatives, Laborites, Reds, Sir
Whosit, bureaucratic boards, the trade-
unions, the big industrialists, R. G.
Menzies and the ghost of Sir Otto
Niemeyer.
Is it any wonder that when the en-
lightened elector goes to the polls the
result is only confusion worse con-
founded? — Crab (Vic.).
For Posterity
The Americans think of everything.
As a grand finale to their New York
World’s Fair they buried a lot of con-
temporary “treasure” fifty feet in the
ground, in a bed of pitch and concrete,
enclosed in a torpedo-shaped metal tube.
This treasure includes micro-films of con-
temporary journalism and literature deal-
ing with all phases of twentieth-century
civilisation, as well as everyday articles,
such as a Walt Disney cartoon, a tooth-
brush and a tin-opener. The big idea is
that this is for the benefit of posterity in
five thousand years’ time, just to show
them how we lived.
Doubtless we in Australia would never
have thought of such a beautiful gesture,
but I wonder what the Aussies of a.d.
6940 would make of a similar collection
if it were laid down locally. The treasure
might include the following:
Micro-films of some syndicated comic
strips, syndicated short stories, syndicated
mush articles, all from contemporary Aus-
tralian journals.
Photograph of a politician discussing
some knotty points in sea strategy with the
Lady Admiral of the Amazon Marines.
Gramophone record of Maisie Baloni
singing “Mai Deddie Beelongs to Me-hee.’’
Miscellaneous items in use in the daily
life of the twentieth century—a couple of
dead marines, a pair of scanties, a lottery
ticket, latchkey of a block of flats at
King’s Cross in which 529 refugees lived
simultaneously during the war 1939-59,
and horoscope of a local professor with
second sight who won the war with his
able news comments.
—Gerald Dillon (N.S.W.).
Transcontinental Road
It used to be held that the Kalgoorlie-
Port Augusta line would serve military
purposes as well as provide better com-
munication between the eastern and
western States. Since that time armies
have been mechanised, and the impedi-
menta of modern warfare have enor-
mously increased in quantity. Now the
railway cannot cope with the burden
which is placed upon it. There is an
acute shortage of rolling stock, and the
general public is using the railway as
never before.
It would seem then that the time is
ripe for the construction of a good road
between Kalgoorlie and Port Augusta.
The way is easy going for the most part,
and, with the exception of a short stretch
near the Madura Pass, the task presents
few difficulties. We still have some thou-
sands of unemployed in Australia, mostly
unskilled laborers. —J. E. D. (W.A.),
The Corns.
The Communists say that they want
to give equal opportunities for everybody
and they think that a classless society
would do it. Possibly it would, but how
are they going to give us a classless
society? They certainly haven’t done it
in Russia, where marshals have been
ordered to wear a gold star studded with
31 diamonds, each of 2.7 carats.
In a classless society, as most Com-
munists speak of classes, there would
still be beautiful girls and plain ones,
people obsessed with the problems of
science, art and so forth, and people with
no strong interests whatever who could
solace themselves with a pot of beer much
more easily than by thinking out a prob-
lem of painting or a mathematic equa-
tion. There would be people with a
passion for organisation and people who
dislike law and order, and the organising
type of individual, because of the inten-
sity of his desire, would be found direct-
ing the activities of other individuals.
The beautiful girl could still walk into
a drawing-room and, without making the
slightest effort, attract the attention of
everybody in it, including that of the
plain girl. The plain girl would still be
obliged either to call her jealousy of the
good-looking girl some name that would
protect her amour proprc and sink into
self-pity, or to make an
effort to give herself some-
thing to compensate for her
lack from the point of view
of beauty. Unless they could
completely change human
nature, how would the Com-
munists give these two equal
opportunities?
Then there would be the
individuals who are born
with a metaphorical hump
on their backs which, for
some reason or other, they
can compensate for only by
taking to some activity or
other. This activity may be
either good or bad for
society, but the obsession
they have would put them
in a class apart from the
majority who are better
adjusted to their environ-
ment and so don’t have to
make an effort.
How would the Commu-
nists eliminate the meta-
phorical hunchback from
their classless society. Putting them all on
the same economic basis wouldn’t do it.
And what good would they do if they
succeeded? They would produce a society
in which there was no necessity for any-
body to make an effort. —L. L. (Vic.).
Pensions
“Grafter” (B. 1/1 / ’4l) is to be con-
gratulated on his arrival at three-score-
and-five in good order and independent
condition. We may presume that he has
been blessed with a fairly steady job,
good health, a grateful family and honest
tenants in his properties. But he is wrong
in assuming that all his
are equally fortunate and get their “just
due” ; and also in his belief that most
of the aged poor have been “drifters” to
the “inevitable end” of indigency. Virtue
is not always rewarded with riches, nor
is it an insurance against fire, flood, acci-
dent, disease, depressions, bad tenants or
prodigal offspring, to mention only a few
of the natural and unnatural shocks that
flesh is heir to.
It would be interesting to read “Graf-
ter’s” suggested alternative to old-age
pensions for either drifters or industrious
derelicts. For thousands of years the
only one was beggary as a prelude to a
nameless grave—“ Rattle his bones over
the stones: he’s only a pauper whom no-
body owns”
We may take it that the average man
or woman whose days have been long in
the land, by working and spending and
paying taxes, has rendered services to the
State "worthy of the meagre recompense
of a bare-existence pension. The well-
earned increment serves two good pur-
poses. It saves the recipients from slow
starvation, and it obviates the nuisance
of seeing the gutters of our fashionable
thoroughfares lined with mendicants,
some of whom might be old acquaintances
or even near relatives. After all, it would
have been a good investment for Dives to
pension off Lazarus. — Poor Tom (W.A.).


Treat CAUSE
hot i^Symblohi
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
FOR
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found a
medicine that by acting on the Liver and Bowels corrects the
everyday little ills of life. For Biliousness, Constipation, Sick
Headaches, and such complaints arising from Imperfect Digestion
and Sluggish Liver they are unexcelled.
Dr. Morses
•1!
PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU LOOK AND FEEL BRIGHTER
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Windburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7-h per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington. N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-). P ost
free. _ .
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
KAilifl
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
i enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
t Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 47-
post free.
■«0
Cw%o'
o°^
e , 3 4 ’
i>w'> 0 V
„ rd A*
X *\V ■•■■’
C'N
e
/
sfx
v # s
.•*' d. *'\) fc s s *
•* ’ A V^ V 01
tA*'
X s-
..•■ of e ‘


G
N
I
L
E
E
D
ov
E
m
l
»
T
T
o$
v>
=/V
\0
\\°
O v
0^
fm.
V?.
N V
v>>
v>.
I
T
lW 6
%'o°*
<;;■
e*S!
it
'
M
9?
S'«s
mm
\> e
vvc
\V
£
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Now, perhaps more than at any
other time of the year, Wolfe’s
Schnapps plays an important part
in maintaining good health. Its mild
tonic action and unique medicinal
properties provide that little help
and correction so necessary to keep
the system functioning normally
through the trying summer months.
Cool and cooling, possessing all the
distinctive flavour and aroma of
genuine Schiedam Schnapps, Wolfe’s
is undoubtedly the most beneficial
and pleasing of summer drinks. Yet,
at the same time, it is more than
this for in character and con-
stituents Wolfe’s Schnapps is essen-
tially a Health Drink.
WOLFE'S
<zJh'umdtic S
SCHNAPPS
J*° ke Your
Mon ey Fights
buy
c ** s w
c «r/p/CA TEs
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
W.5.146.F.P-
