

fc#
:*tfmm»*--w, m
& »■■ ■ OMff *
SK f
Equipping and maintaining a Navy, Army
and Air Force, that will keep the width ol
the ocean between us and War, demands
money. Millions of pounds are needed
urgently, and you must help to find it! You
must lend every pound every shilling,
every penny you can spare—to the Nation.
Buy War Loan Bonds. You can invest as
little as £lO, and can even arrange to pay
that by instalments. If you have Loan
Holdings maturing now, convert them.
Australia's need is urgent. Act now.
Apply at once, at any bank, money order post office,
or stockbroker. Interest is 2\% for 4-5 years or 3\%
for 9-16 years. Subscriptions may be paid 10%
deposit, balance in 6 instalments to 2nd May, 1942.
CONVERT YOUR LORN HOLDINGS NOW
“"war loaf^
B A
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3219.
Wednesday, October 22, 1941.
Two Minutes at Tobruk
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
Patrick White Refuses His
Soup.
Mrs. Standish asked everyone if they
would have some soup, in a tone of voice
that expected the offer to be refused. It
was the consequence of many years spent
ignoring the second-best. The material
second-best, of course. Spiritually, she liked
to believe, she managed to keep to the
heights. A precious country, it was also
cheaply reached.
Will you have some soup, Elyot?
There is the keynote of Patrick White’s
new novel The Living and the Dead
(Routledge ; Angus and Robertson); it is
about the kind of people who are ex-
pected to refuse their soup and the kind
of people who expect people to refuse
their soup. It is not a novel, conse-
quently, that one could describe as bound-
ing with animal spirits, dripping with
soup and wine, burning with joy and
passion: the soup is cold.
White is an Australian, living abroad.
His first novel, Happy Valley, set in Aus-
tralia and distinguished like the new one
for keenness of perception and a clinical
accuracy of characterisation, left the Red
Page reviewer wondering whether White’s
preoccupation with method (in particular,
then, his devotion to James Joyce) would
devitalise his material. Would the color
and vigor of the Australian scene, for-
cibly projecting itself into his work, bring
light and warmth and strength into his
second novel ; or would his inteliec-
tualism freeze his material into something
one stage more remote from the Aus-
tralian actuality?
The Living and the Dead (unless a
third novel should show signs of a thaw)
answers the question. White has gone
further into the wilderness than the re-
viewer had imagined ; he has frozen
himself right off the Australian landscape.
The Living and the Dead is set in
London and deals with English intellec-
tuals.
There are still patches of Joyce in his
prose ; but Joyce is not the chief influ-
ence at work. Rather, White has settled
into the icily clinical style prevailing
among the younger English experi-
menters, an acidulous precision which,
as Stephen Spender has shown in his
short stories, is admirably suited to the
expression of spiritual Indigestion. The
curious effect of this meticulousness, in
White’s case as well as in Spender’s, is
that the narrative becomes woolly and
obscure: refinement is piled upon refine-
ment of description until any statement
becomes a maze of qualification.
The drunk had ventured out from the
corner, following the line of some imaginary
tightrope. He moaned a little, and looked
at Elyot, conscious perhaps, in the way of
the drunk or mad, that some transient
thought was resting on him. But there was
no contact. He meandered into the street,
not so much man as the clown upon his
tightrope, a flapping of empty sleeve and
hollow leg. And then, just at this moment,
the moment before, Elyot realised it would
happen, he must move from this fixed spot,
at once, quickly, associate himself with the
anonymous figure, that it was for this pur-
pose they had lingered close to each other-
on the pavement. Because he could see it,
the bus, ballooning down by lamplight,
very red and ominous. The whole side of
the street came careening over into his close
vicinity. I must do this, his mind shouted,
tossed out into the screaming of the bus.
The lights spun. The whole neighborhood
moved. Except his feet. He was anchored
where he stood. He was the audience to a
piece of distant pantomime.
They put the rrtackintosh on the pave-
ment. The legs protruded stupidly, the
turned-up soles, round them a sudden
flowering of pale, uneasy faces.
There are three ways of describing an
incident such as this, the running-over
of a drunk by a bus ; Hemingway’s, the
deliberate lowbrow, the bare statement,
“The bus hit the drunk”; White’s, the
clinical highbrow, meant to be abso-
lutely accurate, but really so refined and
rarefied, spun into such elaborate detail,
that the picture is destroyed and it is, in
fact, not at all clear that a man has been
run over by a bus ; and the third method,
such as the straightforward novelist, not
trying for fancy effects, would use —to
describe the scene, the men and the acci-
dent as one would if trying to convey a
picture of it in conversation with a
friend. Of the two fancy methods,
White’s is clearly the worse, for Heming-
way at least lets the reader know what
has happened.
Transferred from incident to character,
the clinical meticulousness has the same
surface accuracy and the same fundamen-
tal vagueness. By careful attention and
by sufficient benevolent leaps of the im-
agination, it’s quite possible to see the
English family of his book and to follow
their careers in love, business and poli-
tics ; yet they remain cases in a doctor's
notebook. The novel is crammed with
images of their emptiness;
Sometimes he decided, in moments of
uncomfortable honesty, that he began and
ended with these positive lives, their
presence or flight, that he had no actual
life of his own.
Bumping up the stairs in darkness, she
was not particularly there, or anywhere.
Drink made her miserable.
Leaving behind all sense of geographical
ties at Aachen, Elyot Standish found him-
self floating, placeless, timeless, there was
no end to his present or past fluidity. Then
the years flattened out into a general
monotony of time, broken by a few twinges
of pain, the transitory and intensely per-
sonal hells of school.
The warning neck of a swan stretched
across a distant path. Julia walked dully.
Leaving her mind empty, she hoped some-
thing would fill it soon.
Eden raised her head, not to look at
Connie, but beyond windows, into some
distant country where there were answers.
Irritated by his own hands, he watched
them continue to play with the salt. The
little mounds that rose, only so far, that
fell, dry pure, and limited. Connie sighed.
“We are the Hollow Men,” in fact.
The chief nigger in White’s woodpile,
however, is neither Joyce nor Eliot, but
the Aldous Huxley of Point Counter
Point. White on a wife who has dis-
covered that her husband is unfaithful:
Have a good day, dear, she sighed.
She might have been almost asleep.
So-so, he said. Worked while I had the
ligfit. Anything I can get you? he asked.
Was there anything he could get, when
she knew, when her hand, and touching
her arm with his hand, and then her face,
if he could put his hand through and touch
the real state of her feelings, she longed for
that, Willy withdrawing a burnt hand.
Alone, she was furious. She put on the
reading lamp when he had gone and lay
there rigid in her impotent anger.
So it became a game of knowing and
watching. She made him feel how remote
and superior and all-informed she was.
Aldous, on a similar situation:
“You won’t be late?” There was anxiety
in Marjorie Carling’s voice, there was some-
thing like entreaty.
“No, I won't be late,” said Walter un-
happily, guiltily certain that he would be.
It was only two years since they had
begun to live together. Only two years;
and now, already, he had ceased to love
her, he had begun to love someone else.
The sin was losing its only excuse, the
social discomfort its sole palliation. And
she was with child. “Half past twelve,”
she implored,' though she knew that her
importunity would only annoy him, only
make him love her the less.
The tone is identical. And that is the
page of Huxley which Wyndham Lewis
once devastatingly reprinted to show how
weak, how peevish, precious and vapid
the intellectual novel can become. Patrick
White has a pretty considerable talent,
but he will do no good with the novel
until he can take a bowl of soup without
a sigh, a shudder and a clinical analysis.
Sitwell for Sitwell's Sake.
To whom in the wide world is it of
any consequence that the officer who was
on sentinel duty at the Winter Palace
of Czar Alexander II at St. Petersburg
on a night of 1868 remained at his post
for 24 hours; or that, as compensation
for this long watch, he was officially
permitted to have an armchair, to undo
the chain of his helmet, and to take off
one glove?
It is of no interest to the sentry any
longer; he is dead. The present inhabi-
tants of the city now called Leningrad
have other things to think about. Even
if the sentinel had been permitted to yawn
three times and scratch his left ear with
the toe of his right boot, it wouldn’t affect
the price of fish in Sydney. Yet that
trivial curiosity of history, and a hundred
like it, moved Sacheverell Sitwell to write
a book —Valse des Fleurs: a Day in St.
Petersburg and a Ball at the Winter
Palace in 1868 (Faber) —and, because of
the intrinsic interest of its oddities to
collectors of literary or actual bric-a-brac
and because of the unvarying fineness
of Sitwell’s prose, the book is readable.
Valse des Flews is what its sub-title
says it is, and very little more. There
is an attempt, but so slight as to be
negligible, to portray in the manner of
Carlyle the miseries and slowly awakening
angers of the poor in contrast to the
splendors of the nobility and the Court;
there are occasional political observations,
remote and precious perhaps, but none-
theless acute:
But the circumstances are more extra-
ordinary than in any other city in the
world because of the unmeasured wealth
that had accumulated to the Crown. It
was as though the Sleeping Beauty had
slept undisturbed into our times.
And again:
These are the Russians, who are the Anti-
podes to all other nations, born, it would
seem, into a different perspective or pro-
portion, often overtaken by disaster owing
to ignorance and vastness, but wrongly
blamed for never having been happy. They
are the mute animal upon whom experi-
ments are made, of one kind and another
of inoculation.
But the book wasn’t written to analyse
the Russian soul, nor to stress the in-
evitability of the Revolution.
It was written because Sitwell could
work in a footnote recalling “the Semir-
amis of the North,” Catherine the Great:
The brothers Orlov, Vissensky, Vassilts-
chikev, Potemkin, Zavadovsky, Zoritch,
Rimsky-Korsakov, Lanskoi, Yermolov,
Momonov, Plato and Valerian Zubov re-
ceived in money alone, from the hands of
Catherine, some ninety million roubles,
which was the equivalent of fifteen million
pounds in mid-Victorian England. In our
time it could not be calculated. In addi-
tion, they received other gifts, houses, and
huge estates with tens of thousands of
serfs attached.
And that, as presented by Sitwell, is
not so much a political or social state-
ment as a piece of barbaric decoration ;
on a par with the item about the sentinel,
or his preposterous aside about the num-
ber of soldiers wearing steel breastplates
at the end of the nineteenth century, or
his lavish descriptions of Petersburg
architecture, his rhapsodies about Russian
music and the ballet, his pictures of the
almost-fabulous “Court Arabs” black
Christian Abyssinians whose function at
the Court, essentially, was to symbolise
Russia’s imperial ambitions.
“Huge blocks of ice the size of a small
iceberg,” says Sitwell, describing the ball,
“have been hollowed out to hold tubs
with bottles of champagne.” His book
is rather like one of those bottles of
champagne; good wine, but infinitesi-
mally small in the gigantic mass of
Russia. As with most of his other books,
its chief value is not as a history but
as a specimen of a poet’s prose style.
An Australian Admiral .
The Yield of the Years (Hutchinson),
by Admiral Sir Guy Gaunt, is the auto-
biography of an outstanding Australian,
a member of a remarkable family.
The father, W. H. Gaunt, was a Vic-
torian Judge and a goldfields commis-
sioner in the “roaring days” of Ballarat.
The eldest son, Cecil, commanded the
9th Dragoon Guards, Ernest became an
Admiral, Guy ditto, Clive a distinguished
cavalry officer, and Mary (Mrs. Lindsay
Miller) a traveller in wild parts of the
world and an authoress of more than
ordinary merit.
The young Gaunts were brought up near
Ballarat. Guy was a Melbourne Grammar
School boy and was destined for the law,
but, flatly refusing to be anything else
but a seaman, was shipped off to Eng-
land when he was 14 to join the training
ship Worcester—where, by the way, Ad-
miral E. R. G. R. Evans also learnt the
.rudiments of his profession. He went to
sea as an apprentice in a windjammer
two years later, equipped with first-class
extra certificates and an appointment as
a midshipman in the R.N.R. After many
adventures about the seven seas in a
variety of craft he had his second mate’s
ticket at 19, and a few years later passed
for master. He met his brother Ernest,
then a lieutenant R.N., in London:
“How much longer are you going to
continue this rotten existence of yours?”
Ernest began.
“I’m sure I don’t know.”
“Where are you sleeping now?”
“Down in the Old Kent-road, in what
they describe as ‘Good London Beds, a
shilling a night,’ over the entrance door.”
His brother induced him to join the
Navy, and got him an appointment as
acting sub-lieutenant in HALS. Rupert,
whence he was seconded to the Victorian
Navy when he was 21. He served four
years with that, as he describes it, futile
organisation, and then went back to Eng-
land. From this time he never looked
back. First on the China station and
then the Australian in H.M.S. Porpoise,
with Commander Sturdee, subsequently
victor of the Falkland Islands battle, for
a skipper. The war in Samoa of 1899
was largely run by Sturdee and Gaunt.
The book is crammed with good
stories, always told with a laugh, but the
really fascinating part of it for most
people must be the adventures pf Captain
G. R. A. Gaunt, R.N., as Naval Attache
and Chief of the British Intelligence Ser-
vice in the United States, 1914-18. He
goes into detail about the strenuous work
that came his way in countering, expos-
ing and checking the plots of the German
Embassy and its agents up to the time
the U.S. came into the war, sometimes
just escaping being murdered for his
trouble. President Wilson was not his
style of man, but Colonel House was,
and so was Franklin Roosevelt, whilst
for ex-President Roosevelt he expresses
unbounded admiration. It is a splendidly
told bit of history as viewed from behind
the scenes.
The writer of this review has known
Guy Gaunt for 40 years or so, from the
time when he was navigator in H.M.S.
Porpoise, just back from Samoa and the
startling doings of Gaunt’s Brigade (the
battalion of native warriors he organised
and led), has met him at intervals as
commander, captain and admiral, and
can certify that The Yield of the Yean
rings true: the authentic reflection of a
spirited, adventurous and humorous per-
sonality.
J. H. M. A.
Various Verse
An Australian to a New Zealander.
Bewilderment turns to hatred; and at last
The sight of your idle lingers, curved and
holding
Slow vapor’s drawling purpose, makes me cast
Quarrels between us, light into darkness, the
darkness where you're folding
Us both within the charm of our doomed years.
And you say
“What does it matter? All this age is
doomed. Above
With a dulling drone of wings men dance to
death. And the day
Is fine again. Let us go out, my love,
And burn and prune and dig. On our cold
cheeks the fires
We build along the hedge will burn and die,
While thoughts of turning gold and metal wires
Bite deep and drone and roar across the sky.”
But in my mind across a harping brain
I play some words that took me in the sun
One morning when I shook my hair’s dark
rain
Over the flowers and shadowed them, one by
one.
“Dying in New Zealand, friend, remember!
Not living here in strength, not using this damp
land
As the seedbed of your youth; not fanning the
slow ember
Of life to come and things to understand.
No! Dying here, among the days of grass,
The eves of cloud, the dawns of wind and dew,
Dying here, beneath the nights that pass,
Condemning gigantically, bone-pointing you
Into the grave, demanding that you be
Willing to lie in peace in this wet clay.”
And, upright in the dark, I silently
Leap into death, return, stand firm, and say,
“But I’m Australian earth. I’m dry and lean,
And I live long, though scarred with widening
wounds.
You spring on me with mad growth, twisted,
green,
Unending, untamable. I laugh. I was not
tuned
To join in your mad orchestra of death,
Half-savage, all chaotic and unreal.
I, the clay pigmy, drew my first sharp breath
Tn a depth of heat and dust. Therefore I feel
The striking, swift, sane anger of long heat,
Of bowing and receiving it upon my tropic back.
I carry the sun like a rider, and underneath
my feet
Opens a road whose wide lips curl and crack.”
So to the stars I turn and shake my fist,
So to the moon, the sneering faery globe,
I turn and shake within. Harshly I twist
A mist called prayer between us. A warm robe
To shield me from that cold New Zealand light.
I think all this, quiet faced, while silently
With hook and hoc and torch I make the bright
Fires burn among the bracken. From the sea
A fountain of rainbows, plumed and misty, rise,
An autumn leaf grates harshly on the ground.
And we, you say, are doomed. Awedly from
the skies
The oily roar comes circling round and round.
It does not matter that tonight we’ll sit
Tired about our fire and shut the door
And eat our bread. There will be bitterness
in it.
Someday we shall sit here . . . and eat no more.
MAORILAND.
EVE ALNGLEY.
Love and Friendship.
What was it that you said? “Friendship, not
love,
Shall keep us close together”—bodily friendship
You meant, and you and night and wine be-
trayed me
Tenderly into this. But now, being womanly,
Out of the summer of our genial bodies
You reap uneasy yearning, now all’s over —
The sharp-edged, sweet fruit of wild regret,
The angry hunger raging in you still.
What shall I do? We counted our betrayals
And cancelled them with reason: said, “Thus
long
And after that no longer may we lie
Together and about our fierce encounter.”
Yet in your distant voice desire is mixed now
With something more than friendship and
memory.
I would not want that love should spring from
this —
From nights of sleep and pleasure ended lately,
Ended on oath, god-bless-you, and one kiss
To seal the bargain. I can love no more
And no more want it, turning always backward
Into the past, where love, being solitary.
Is perfect. If you love me, do not say so
But hold your peace; for I can not love you
And so am not deserving of your love,
Nor its true object. Be content, content
To wait upon the future and its chances
Of our superb resumption—when, I know not,
But be assured I shall not fail you there.
Count the dark nights, and count the shining
days,
And in their noble order and declension
May you find comfort, if your heart is troubled
By what we said our union would not mean.
Let your strong body outgrow memory
Of all it suffered in the summer nights
Whose heat for some wild hours we both con-
tained.
Let winter’s cool embrace, and sleep, and
laughter
And food and labor purge you of me now
So finally that if We go again
Your first low cry of passionate surprise
Will be your first indeed.
All this I beg
In your name and my own: friendship, not
love,
Has been our bond. Let it be so for ever.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the salt of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
SH
m
m-
M
y>., /
Service Uniforms
FOR THE NAVY,
MILITARY AND R.A.A.F.
Service Uniforms Naval, Military and R.A.A.F. are
tailored by Anthony Horderns' with military precision.
They are cut by expert cutters who have wide experience.
These uniforms are made from the correct materials, and
are tailored perfectly in every detail, giving perfection in
fit and comfort.
R.A.N. Uniforms for Officers
Tailored in lightweight serge.
Sub-Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. £6/ 0/3
Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price £6/11/9
Lieutenant-Commander. Price £6/18/9
R.A.N.R. Uniforms for Officers
Tailored in lightweight serge.
Sub-Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. £5/11/3
Lieutenant. At Anthony Horderns'. Price £5/18/-
Lieutenant-Commander. Price £6/ 4/3
R.A.A.F. Flying Officer's Uniform
At Anthony Horderns'. Price
Summer Uniform. Prices horn .. ‘
A.LF. or Militia Officers Uniform
All Wool Twist. Prices £7/19/6, £B/15/-
All Wool Barathea Uniforms. Prices .. . £B/15/-, £l2/12/-
Khaki Drills Uniform. Prices from 89/6
£B/15/-
. 89/6
A
r
■
u#
tlfl
Vj V
' \a
\
V_/f<
FOR VICTORY'
Greatcoats and Trench Coats
Every need of the military man is available at Anthony Horderns' famous low
prices. Urgent orders will be completed within 48 hours. Enquiries and orders by
mail will be given prompt attention.
Naval Greatcoats. At Anthony Horderns'. Prices
from £5/11/3
A.I.F. Officers' Greatcoats. Prices from ... £7/7/-
Army Style Shorts, khaki drill, made to order.
Prices from 19/6
READY TO WEAR
English made Trench Coats, fawn cotton gabar-
dines, correct style, British army pattern, water-
proof, interlined oiled linings. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Blizardeen. Price £ 7 /15/-
Dexter, triple proofed. Price £l2/12/-
• Military Outfitting—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
'PHONE: M 2401
(PAY OR NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C.
G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j4 ffhlt r H^<)fww7Tiellmrn£4£mM
Seppelt's
THE ASMIRALTY.
Ever since the Armada days, when British naval might attained a power which by its protecting arm made the Empire British genius
budded, no department of the Imperial Government has exerted so great a fascination for all sons and daughters of the race,
wherever domiciled, as the Admiralty. As we are essentially “a sea people,” this is not surprising. The new and imposing structure
icpresented is a conspicuous feature of that array of Government buildings of which it forms one of the ends, the other being the
Foieign Office. The whole may be said to overlook the parade ground where on King’s Birthday in peace days the stirring pageant
of Tiooping the Colour may be witnessed. The building the present structure succeeded was the first Government establishment on
the right-hand side of Whitehall, passing down from Trafalgar Square. Erected from designs by Thomas Ripley in the reign of George
I, architecturally it had little to commend it. It consisted of a courtyard separated from the roadway by a stone screen and gateway,
and behind which was the building housing the various departments. Almost a century ago, a capacious and convenient erection for
its time, its work soon exceeded available accommodation, and several departments were for long located at Somerset House. The new
home of the Royal Navy is a marvel of completeness, as the amazing ramifications of its duties demand. The “wireless masts” on the
roof recall the semaphore “Telegraph” on the roof of the old building, by means of which messages could be conveyed to Portsmouth,
74 miles away, by a line of these signal devices in an incredibly short time. This signal telegraph was in use from 1796 until the
invention of the electric telegraph.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3219.
Wednesday, October 22, 1941.
AT THE AMATEUR STRATEGISTS’ CLUB.
“We won’t stand any more of this fatal inertia! We must have ruthless offensives everywhere, and at once!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. £. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.)
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Halj overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign) •
12 months £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s ;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebndes and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places. 4d.
GATHERING CLOUDS.
The third week of October was a week crowded with
events and big with the fate of nations.
• + P dC r rf and the enem y made another advance
in the Ukraine. Thrusting towards Moscow, and
taking further toll of Timoshenko’s armies, he placed
the capital in such peril as to necessitate a large-scale
evacuation of non-combatants, among whom were the
representatives of foreign countries. In the North
Atlantic an American destroyer, the Kearny, was tor-
pedoed, though not sunk, by a U-boat—in self-
<if f n i CC ’ Il: 18 alle § ed ky the Germans, whose story is
that the torpedoes were fired after the destroyer, whose
+ jf atl T°T n . a^ty ” Coldd not he “established,” had attacked
the U-boat with depth-charges. The news reached
Washington while the House of Representatives was
considering amendment of the Neutrality Act to admit
of the arming of merchantmen. This was carried by
259 votes to 138, and the revision goes to the Senate,
with every prospect of being adopted straightway.
Simultaneously with the deterioration in the Rus-
sian military position, there were disquieting develop-
ments in Japan. The declarations of Army and Navy
spokesmen became more bellicose. Prince Konoye’s
Cabinet his third —resigned, and was succeeded by
what is described as a pro-Axis Cabinet, with
General Tojo, lately Minister of War, as first Minister,
there had previously been a meeting of Elder States-
men, who are summoned only in times of emergency
and the oldest of them. Count Kyura, a former Pre-
mier and a nonagenarian, had himself carried to
the Imperial Palace, clutching an oxygen inhaling
instrument, “because of the very critical situation con-
fronting the country.”
In the official account of the change of Govern-
ment, it was stated merely that the Konoye Cabinet,
after making “every effort to achieve its mission,’’
found it difficult to reach an agreement on the method
of pursuing national policy,” and “came to the con-
clusion that it must resign.” This is interpreted to
mean that Prince Konoye’s position was made unten-
able by his failure to reach an agreement with Wash-
lt does not mean that the discussions with
Washington have been broken off \ on the contrary
the Domei newsagency states that the Tojo Cabinet
will continue them, and Mr. Sumner Welles agrees
that they will proceed. But it is abundantly clear
that Washington will make no concession which may
be detrimental to the interests of friendly countries.
While all this was going on, it came out that
the Japanese had leased a commercial air base from
the Portuguese at Dilli in Timor. This development
seems to have startled the peahen press more than any
other, but of itself there is nothing very alarming
about it. The project is at least two years old. To
get to Timor from Palau, in the Carolines, a Japanese
service must cover 1500 miles of sea—about the dis-
tance from London to the North African coast—and
from Palau to Japan is another 2000 miles —Darwin
to Singapore is an equivalent. In any case, British-
Australian services have the same landing rights in
Timor, and Qantas has a more extensive ground and
fuel organisation there than the Japanese are likely
to have for a long time.
Certainly it seems a strange conception of inter-
national relations that a little country in Europe which
is indebted to Britain for every scrap of colonial terri-
tory it possesses should be granting concessions to
an Axis Power while an Axis war is raging, and that
in an island so far away from Portugal and so close
to Australia as Timor. More especially as half of
Timor belongs to our watchful friends the Dutch. But
Air Chief Marshal Brooke-Popham, who is no stranger
to Timor, does not take “a serious view” of the new
arrangement. “So long as we are awake,” he said “I
don’t suppose it will do any harm.”
This statement was made by the British
Commander-in-Chief in the Far East after a meeting
of the Advisory War Council held at Melbourne
which he attended last week. He said other things,
some flattering to Australian war production (“our
first instinct when we are short of anything is to send
a signal to Australia, and we are getting anti-aircraft
guns, anti-tank guns and a lot of other stuff, especially
wireless equipment”) and others reassuring as to “the
strategic defences of the Far East and the Pacific
(“there has been improvement everywhere, a general
strengthening all round”). And the attitude of the
Empire to the Japanese he expressed in terms with
which every Australian not hopelessly biased in favor
of some other country will agree;
We don’t want war with Japan. We have enough
on our hands in dealing with Hitler. We don’t want
to assume any more commitments; but if Japan insists
on war with us we are going to be ready.
“We don’t want to assume any more commitments”—
excellent! There will be no war in the Pacific unless
the Japanese start one; and if they start one it will
not be in their power to determine the shape that the
war will take. That will be done by the American
Government, with the peoples of the Empire giving
it their full support.
Two Minutes at Tobruk.
Old Diggers or Young Diggers, you can : t keep them
under. Whatever they have endured or are enduring
they will have their joke. Witness the priceless story
from Tobruk of the reaction of the Australians among
the defenders to the intelligence that professional
footballers inexplicably detained in the Common-
wealth had suffered severe casualties, on a wild
Sunday as well as a wild Saturday, on the stricken
field. Touched with pity for the victims, a senti-
mental soul organised a two-minutes-silence ceremony
in their interest, and, though enemy bombers and
gunners kept going, it was solemnly observed by all
the Australians under Morshead’s command.
Though the incidental perils are great Tobruk is
kept well supplied with news from home by the heroic
fellows who carry his Majesty’s mails, so it must have
since learned that the objects of its solicitude soon
recovered and were presumably well up in the rush
for gate-money dividends—in Sydney, as has been
rapturously recorded, the juiciest for many years.
Doubtless Tobruk will also have read that, though
all is now quiet on the football front, Rugby League
thoughts have already turned to the winter of 1942
and its abundant promise of sport—and splosh.
Though the League press has taken a proud and sad
farewell of a veteran of the business, who has aban-
doned footbrawl for sailing, there is a sufficiency of
others, together with an ample supply of leather-
chasers at or near the height of their powers. One of
these worthies has been signed up for two seasons.
Another engagingly announced that he was giving up
his cinder-track ambitions to devote himself exclu-
sively to professional football. And League scouts
with contracts in their pockets have their eyes on
possible recruits from country clubs and the Rugby
Union, though Union material is running short, so
many young fellows who play the amateur code hav-
ing enlisted-some have been invalided home with
honorable wounds.
In brisk, though not cutthroat, competition with
the Rugby League are the Soccer people. Last season
they brought out a team from China, which departed
with mysterious suddenness after toying with the
notion of remaining in Sydney and playing as an
associated club for the duration. War conditions per-
mitting, the next lot of foreign round-ball performers
may come from Soviet Russia.
In the lawn-tennis position there is little change.
Though Davis Cup challenges are barred, champions
figure in exhibition matches, and one of them recently
improved on previous displays of “temperament” by
complaining to the referee that a barracker was annoy-
ing him. And the N.S.W. association has bounded
into the limelight again by banning games between
amateurs and professionals. This is the concern
which distinguished itself after the outbreak of war
by objecting to the immediate return of the victorious
Davis Cup team, protesting that “no good purpose
would be served” by recalling the lads straightway,
and that it would be a felon blow to their American
hosts if they didn’t remain for the U.S. national
singles. These representations prevailed; the team
remained for the U.S. national singles, and, beaten in
those momentous contests, arrived home in the ninth
week of the war, bearing a terrific bill (£80) for a
shipboard cocktail party.
One of the returned wanderers tried to join the
A.I.F. To the enlistment of a companion there was a
physical impediment, as was well understood. So, for
one reason and another, the military history of the 1914
Davis Cup team (tragic in Wilding’s case) has not been
repeated. Nor, perhaps for the same reasons, can the
A.I.F. in its hours of ease field nearly as many first-
class cricketers as it had in the last war. And khaki
has signally failed to attract professional boxers, nor
has any of the homekeeping bruisers had to suffer the
obloquy which pursued the ill-fated Darcy, who, in
his 1916 form, could have beaten any three pugs of
their class in the same ring.
One of the men of Tobruk is the son of a Rand-
wick celebrity, the trainer of Beau Vite, and no doubt
he will be interested to read that “two armed guards,
working in 12-hour relays, will stay at Beau Vite’s
side all the time he is in Melbourne,” and that “a
watchman with a savage dog will night and day patrol
the stables, which are surrounded by high walls.” He
may also be charmed to learn that, while second-class
passengers travelling from Sydney to Melbourne, men
(some of them soldiers), women and children, had to
sit up all night in “overcrowded carriages,” and, while
seven Cabinet Ministers found themselves without
accommodation, every arrangement had been made
for the protection and comfort of racehorses.
High Caste travelled in a roomy horsebox knee-deep
in straw. He had a personal attendant to soothe him
if he became restless in the night. Clay was pasted
in the frogs of his hoofs to keep his feet cool. There
were mats to prevent him jarring his legs. Five other
horses on the train Pandect, Hesione, Triggerman,
Berrima and a two-year-old—had the same comforts.
Attendants loaded a variety of horse goods—chaff, oats
(two kinds, local and N.Z.) and bran.
The young man may likewise be gratified by the
information that the spring meeting at Randwick was
“easily the most successful AJ.C. carnival since 1922,”
that attendances totalled 204,500, that “totalisator
investments amounted to £272,131, compared with
£222,107 at the 1940 spring meeting,” that Big Punters
thought nothing of taking the odds to four figures
from Dashing Bookmakers, that “the dressing on
Derby Day was a blaze of color,” that “many
lovely spring ensembles had the crowning adornment
of orchids at 10s. 6d. a bloom, and that flash hotels
and jazz joints did a roaring race-week trade. On the
other hand, after six months at Tobruk, such things
may have temporarily lost their fascination for him.
Anyway, when the accounts of this orgy of gambling
and ostentation reach the town whose garrison has
written a deathless page into the history of human
valor and endurance, some sardonic Digger is sure to
ask whether Sydney really knows there is a war on.
This will be an atrocious injustice to Sydney,
especially the part of Sydney which contributes its
quota to the New Journalism. Sydney prints, while
publishing full and particular accounts of the horses
and the dogs and the tennis and the cricket and the
“hot news from Hollywood” and the latest in Beach
Girl and Australian Venus competitions, as well as
drapers’ advertisements which convey the impression
of being written by lounge lizards for lounge lizards
and beach loafers of both sexes, reserve part of their
space for reports of and animadversions on the war.
And they brighten their war stuff with enchanting
glimpses of the female recruit and the apparel in
which she is marching on to victory—“silk scanties,”
it seems, are “standard equipment” in Britain, and
“spotted silk pyjamas, two pairs, in shades ranging
from pastel blue, pink and lemon to green,” are
issued to W.A.A.F. officers, one of whom, cased in
her spotted silk pyjamas, was the subject of a news-
paper photograph which suggested that the photo-
grapher had been hanging round the camp since dawn.
But the war is represented as having become
a shamefully restricted struggle. The enemy’s only
antagonists are the Russians —the Royal Navy, the
R.A.N., the Merchant Navy and the British imperial
armies have become inert spectators of Russia’s
Calvary. Even the R.A.F.—though it has kept more
than half the Luftwaffe fighters busy for four months,
and bombed enemy and occupied countries day and
night, inflicting severe damage, but suffering cruel
casualties in men and machines—is alleged to be doing
little to help Russia. Is this a false picture of the
attitude of the New Journalism? Read the “famous”
John Gordon, editor of the “Sunday Express,” who
“leads English newspaper demands for armed aid for
Russia,” and is echoed and applauded by the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” and by Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume,
of the “Truth” stable.
You know and I know that we lack something more
vital than equipment or ships—fighting spirit, enter-
prise, initiative, energy, drive, even courage.
“Even courage.” What will the men of Tobruk make
of that? But let the “famous” John Gordon proceed:
If I could only believe that my own country would
measure up to the quality of Russia, I would be easier
in mind. Let us get one fact straight: You won’t
save the British empire by sitting and looking on while
Hitler destroys your allies, one by one.
While Russia is fighting battles such as no nation
has ever had to fight before, the British empire, so far
as its military might is concerned, might just as well not
have been in the war at all.
The “famous” fireside fusilier owes everything he has
—even the privilege of publishing his crazy ideas of
strategy, belittling “my own country” and slandering
the saviors of the Empire— to the unsurpassed achieve-
ments and sacrifices of the men in the fighting and
auxiliary services. So do his imitators in this Com-
monwealth, and that to a greater extent. Australia
is exempt from even bombing raids, and non-
starters of the New Journalism are free to go
about their business and pleasures as usual, because
of what the Royal Navy, the Merchant Navy, the
R.A.F. and the British imperial armies have done in
the struggle with two great military Powers, notwith-
standing dreadful losses and sufferings—and of these
the half has not been told. What a foul insult it is
to the noble fellows who are keeping the sea routes
open—though they are never free from the danger
of dying terribly, as so many thousands of their
companions have done —to say that they are merely
looking on while Russians fight! How consummate
the impudence and ingratitude of swivel-chair
strategists who, ignorant alike of the shipping and
equipment position and of the extent to which Alexan-
dria, the Suez Canal zone, India and other vital parts
of the Empire are imperilled, but concerned only with
their Pink politics and their mania for offensives in
which they will not themselves be actors, would con-
demn thousands —perhaps scores of thousands —of
fighting men and seamen to death in frightful forms!
Yet this sort of thing can be read in the Sydney
“Telegraph,” from which the High Caste and Beau
Vite paragraphs were taken:
When the Germans stripped Western Europe of
men and material to use against the Reds, vast British
forces dashed into action in a mighty five-day battle —
in the Home Counties. It was a famous victory. And
some good came of it at last. The Chief of the General
Staff went on a two-day honeymoon.
The anti-Red Minister for Aircraft Production says
that the Reds are using up Nazi ’planes so fast that we
are close to air parity. He boasted of our terrific
striking force. The way in which we are not using that
force is striking, too.
So it may seem to a gentleman writing a mile or so
from Randwick and the Sydney Cricket Ground. But
it has come out that in September, though “the
weather considerably hampered all offensive opera-
tions over Germany and occupied territories and de-
fensive operations over Britain,” the R.A.F. lost 173
machines ; and the mothers of the lads who died in
them will have other views. But to continue the
quotations:
Russia needs our active assistance now. What are we
going to do about it? Can’t Mr. Churchill be more
explicit?
“Red Fleet” has appealed to Britain to attack in
the west. “Fewer than 30 German divisions are in
France,” the paper Says. But those few are too many,
if recent speeches a/re a reliable guide to British policy.


If an attack in the west is ruled out, what are the
“sacrifices of a very serious kind” that Mr. Churchill
mentions? A few ’planes and a few tanks?
These vague clues to British policy are bewildering
and alarming. We haven’t been told how many fighters
have been sent to Russia, although six months ago Lord
Beaverbrook boasted that Britain was bristling with
fighters. Nobody has explained why we are waiting for the
Italians and the Germans to take the initiative again in
Libya
“An active invasion in the Near East is not a possi-
bility but a certainty,” declared U.S. Naval Secretary
Knox. If so, why not try to avert those developments
by standing in line with Russia?
There was a lot more of this stuff and there were the
usual cheap sneers at Colonel Blimp —a character 20
years out of date, as every Australian who has fought
with 1940-41 British tank and artillery units knows.
And there was some unsolicited advice for Aus-
tralia, one of whose duties, it appears, is “to prevent
Russia being attacked on her Pacific front,” in the
first place “by making Britain understand that we
want still greater help given to Russia,” and above
all—since Australia may be “fighting alone without
the help of Britain or America” —to “see that Russia
is our ally.”
Not only to do everything we can to see that her
Far Eastern forces are preserved, but to see that they
are fighting with us, and haven’t compromised with
Japan in the face of our weak, contemptible attitude
towards them in their hour of need.
The grammar may be mixed, but the meaning is plain
enough and the political bias very obvious. But when
the “Telegraph” fustian reaches Tobruk, and with it
the text of the Gort report, there may be a two-
minutes’-violence ceremony.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Savage Blackout Fines.
When the Sydney Parliament passed a bill enabling
the Minister for N.E.S. to make blackout regulations
which could be altered only after the lodging of a
petition signed by 30 members, nobody in the House
bothered to ask what was being prepared for Aus-
tralian citizens by this sort of legislation.
Some of the citizens have been finding out since
then. For showing lights in “Blackout” Heffron’s
first “test,” four of them were fined £lO each. The
next blackout cost one person £6 11s., two others
£7 10s. each, two business firms £lO each, six £2O
each, one person £l5, another £5, a woman £ls—
and cross-charges of assault between her
family and a warden were adjourned —and another
woman £lO.
All but two or three of the lapses were due to
forgetfulness, errors by employees or unavoidable cir-
cumstances such as that of a woman owner of flats
who was away at the time. She was fined £lO because
her son-in-law, spoken to by a warden, “treated the
blackout as a joke” and didn’t put out the light. Thus
a soldier in Tobruk might find himself liable because
he happened to own a house or shop in Mr. Heffron’s
territory.
They had a blackout in Melbourne a month ago.
Breaches were reported, but at the week-end nobody
had been prosecuted. In Wollongong (N.S.W.) there
was one on July 27. Mr. Heffron expressed general
satisfaction with results, but added that “prosecutions
would be “issued in every case where there was no
co-operation.” According to “S. M. Herald,” “Wol-
longong wardens reported two shops and an office
for showing lights ; the office was that of the Trades
and Labor Council.” That mighty body’s explanation
was the same as many given in Sydney that a light
had inadvertently been left on. No prosecution!
There has been a lull in the blackout onslaught,
presumably while Mr. Heffron prepares new ones.
He has threatened to conduct “surprise blackouts,
some of them in mid-week.” Before he does and
before any more people who don’t belong to Labor
Councils are savagely punished, the “Parliament
should take another look at that enabling bill.
It is doubtful if those who passed it dreamt
that it would lead to 19 people paying a total
of £272 15s. in fines and costs for mostly inadvertent
breaches of a regulation imposed by temporary
officials armed with temporary powers “more exten-
sive than those of the police.” In bombed Britain,
which is increasingly critical of the blackout business,
fines for breaches have been as low as a pound.
Winkler and Other Witnesses.
Given in evidence at the Secret Fund inquiry in
Sydney:—
Mr. W. M. Hughes: On March 3 Mr. Nelson, of the
Miners’ Federation, came to see me at my office in Sydney.
He asked for assistance to promote the policy of industrial
peace. . .
Mr. Nelson: I had no communication, direct or indirect,
with Mr. Hughes on the matter. His statement that I saw him
is inaccurate in its entirety. <
Mr. Winkler (Assistant Government Publicity Officer till
compulsorily retired): On March 2 I saw Frank Finnan in
conversation with Mr. Fadden at the Carlton. On the follow-
ing day Mr. Fadden said to me: “I was seen by Frank Finnan
last night. He said he knew you and was confidential man for
Nelson.” I think it was on the same afternoon that Finnan
saw me in my office in the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney, and
discussed the proposed campaign with me. By ’phone from
my office on the evening of March 7 I said to Nelson: “About
that business Frank Finnan has been talking about, if you will
see me at 11.15 tomorrow I will give you something.” I paid
Nelson £3OO in three rolls of notes.
Mr. Nelson; Winkler never at any time paid me any
money. The only time I ever saw him during the period under
review was at the Hotel Australia, and Mr. Fadden was
present—l thought Winkler was his private secretary.
Mr. Finnan (sometime of the “Labor Daily” and Consoli-
dated Press; now M.L.A. for Hawkesbury): I did not meet
Winkler in his office on March 3; I never rang him on the
telephone ; I am not Nelson’s confidential man; I did not
have an interview with Mr. Fadden in the Carlton; I have
never spoken to him there or anywhere else.
Before the taking of evidence was completed the
learned Judge mentioned, quite understandably, that
he was “running a temperature” ; but he carried on.
"Democratic Co-operation."
Said Mr. Curtin after the conference to which Sir
Robert Brooke-Popham was a party: “The grave
danger to Moscow and the change in the Japanese
Government indicate the arrival of a stage when the
utmost cohesion is called for.” He added that the
“democratic co-operation” required was being
“achieved,” and that “plans for mutual support and
action” were being “elaborated.”
The “democratic co-operation” which Mr. Curtin
is receiving in some quarters is imperceptible through
the most powerful microscope. At the week-end 4000
armament workers at Lithgow who struck on October
7 were still on strike. They would not associate in
the small arms factory with a man who had been fined
a fiver for the awful crime of continuing to work
during a stopwork meeting. A mass meeting attended
by members of the Arms, Explosives and Munition
Workers’ Federation decided on Friday to stay on
strike until the man was “brought before a tribunal
which it was suggested should be set up.” And the
clerical section of the union was invited to “broaden
the strike.”
Clyde Engineering Works has had several stopwork
meetings because boilermakers don’t like their dressing-
rooms, showers and other conveniences. The men
in North Africa and Syria may well be similarly dis-
pleased with these facilities, or complete lack of them,
but they don’t strike about it. At Clyde, the men
agreed to continue work on vital national jobs “pend-
ing conferences with the management.”
The Navy is Austrajia’s bulwark against invasion.
During the week 500 metal workers at Garden Island
Naval Depot, which is engaged only on the most
urgent defence works, imposed a ban on overtime in
excess of 12 hours a week.
At Bunnerong, which provides the power supply
for most of Sydney’s industries, the maintenance staff
told the management that an overtime ban will be
imposed unless the County Council agrees that all
holidays shall be taken in summer. Employees at
Bunnerong receive three weeks’ holiday each year
on full pay, are given “generous sick pay” and receive
6s. per week average over award rates.
At Metters’s works at Alexandria, Sydney, 54 men
struck for a pay increase, resulting in 71 employees
being put off.
An ironworkers’ strike on an overseas vessel in
Sydney was settled, but it was followed on the same
ship by a strike of painters and dockers for another
6d. per hour. However, the employees of the Com-
monwealth Aircraft Factory in Melbourne have con-
sented to postpone their strike for a 10 p.c. wages
increase until Friday next, pending a conference.
Mr. Ward, the Minister now dealing with labor
affairs, has implored “all men concerned” to “prevent
stoppage of all sea traffic,” and has expressed the
“hope that a settlement will be reached in the dispute
which is holding up arms manufacture in Lithgow.”
Nobody is on strike in Germany or Russia, nor
is there any fine talk in either country about “demo-
cratic co-operation.” Co-operation, “democratic” or
otherwise, is taken for granted, and it would be
desperately unhealthy for non-co-operators if it were
not forthcoming.
State Paternalism.
Just when nearly everybody in Victoria, from the
Premier down, was beginning to think that the country
was all set for a bumper Christmas, the State Auditor-
General came to light with some unpleasant facts.
Various “undertakings,” he pointed out, owe the
State £1,355,274. Largest debtors are co-operative con-
cerns which among them owe £811,293, settlers who’ve
received “advances” (£347,063) and “various interests”
(£113,103). At least one of the co-ops. is in liquidation
and others owe sums that will take a lot of paying
off. An example of this sort of thing is a group of
fruitgrowers who in 1926-27 received £22,973 for
“thrip relief.” Their debt is now £24,095. Only 27
of the original 171 applicants have paid up, no pay-
ment has been made by 52 and “some borrowers are
not now engaged in the industry.”
Accumulated deficit on closer settlement, Vic-
toria’s financial skeleton in the cupboard, is
£34,085,613, plus £477,262 “loss on land account.”
From this is to be deducted £13,989,894 paid by the
State Treasury^ —which doesn’t mean that the State
gets the money back —and £2,160,960 by the Com-
monwealth, leaving £18,412,021. But £1,346,070 will
be required to “redeem discharged soldiers’ concessions
loan,” giving a total of £19,758,091. It is mentioned
that last year’s drought increased the arrears under
closer-settlement leases by £108,940.
Country water-supply concerns are £617,059
behind, the A.-G. rightly including £110,872 written
off. Loan liability, increased during the year by
£335,037, is now £28,025,126, reduced by the “equity
in the National Debt sinking fund” to £26,181,816.
The asset itself is depreciating through the rush of
country people to the metropolis.
The cash deficit of the Housing Commission is
£34,253, though only £662 is outstanding in rents. The
A.-G. unemotionally remarks that rentals were com-
puted on average land and building costs, no regard
being paid to rent-collecting and general administra-
tive charges. Moreover, there is no reserve to meet
rising maintenance costs, and “progressively increasing
annual losses can be expected.”
They can be expected in all States so long as
Governments, instead of trying to remove causes, use
the country’s wealth in vain efforts to overcome
effects, like a man putting poultices on recurring boils
when the obvious remedy is a blood tonic.
Apples and Pears.
The Federal Government is expected to introduce some
form of restriction or rationing of luxury goods. Un-
doubtedly there are many things Australians could do
without at present, not the least of them being the
dreadful Apple and Pear Board, which has about the
sorriest history of any organisation of its kind.
Set up in February, 1940, under National Security
Regulations, it consists of a chairman and seven other
members representing Commonwealth and States. In
addition there are State committees and a host of
superintendents and inspectors. The idea was to
acquire and dispose of to the best advantage surplus
pome fruits resulting from restricted export markets.
Its first blunder was to advance money on about
2,000,000 bushels of fruit that never came to light.
By this time last year the board had lost £469,060 ; by
the end of last year the loss was £538,768. Looking
into these matters the Commonwealth Auditor-
General contented himself with saying that “The deficit
is stated to be due to absence of normal export out-
lets, unfavorable weather and lack of co-operation
and support from sections of the industry.” It was
also due to the general inability of people to buy
fruit at a reasonable price.
In the Commonwealth Estimates for 1941-42, the
sum of £1,400,000 is set down for “assistance to the
apple and pear industry,” an increase of expenditure
on the previous year of £850,000. For what? The
scheme has been a costly failure from the beginning
and has been constantly and bitterly condemned by
all except a few growers.
As for the public, which naturally expected to be
able to buy cheap fruit and was horribly disappointed,
its feelings on learning that fruit has been buried or
allowed to rot under the trees need no description.
The board apparently took it upon itself to keep
up the price of fruit, even if thousands of bushels
had to be destroyed, a notion that should shock a
Labor Administration. Another pome fruit harvest is
approaching. A majority of growers and all con-
sumers don’t want the Apple and Pear Board to work
its dreadful way again.
City Episode.
“Old A.W.U.”: I’ve been a unionist for more than
20 years, and in that time I’ve met a good few union
officials of various sorts and sizes, but I never sus-
pected that any one of them had within him the germs
of either military or naval strategy or that if ever the
Empire faced war our unions would produce an
imperial war policy. Now I read that Brisbane
branches of the Painters, the Carpenters and the
Trammies all advocate the opening of a new front
against Germany, “not only to help the Soviet but to
give the best possible assistance to the British Empire.
After reading this I sallied forth to sit in the
Sydney sunshine and chew my crib. Presently I was
joined by a pale young man in a cinnamon sports
coat, grey pants, green shirt and grey suede shoes.
He wore no hat, but a fixed look and long hair de-
tracted from the omission. “Bought your button
yet?” he asked. “What button?” “Your Aid-to-
Russia button.” I fought back the temptation to bait
him with a military salute and said “I see where some
unions up north want us t’ open up a new front—
invade France or somethin’.” “It makes me sick,
he said, “all this talk about aiding Russia and what
are we doing? Nothing! Just sitting back behind
the fleet and hoping Russia will hang on. We ought
to be landing thousands of men and guns in western
Europe.”
“Don’t it strike you,” I said, “as a bit funny that
’way back in 1940, when them Germans was gal-
lopin’ through France, none of these here union blokes
was urgin’ Russia to open up a new front in the east?
He got up, dusted his pants, and looked down at me.
“One of these days,” he said viciously, “we’ll knock
all this Fascist stuff out of heads like yours.” After
which he hurried off to join the afternoon-picture
queue or something.
The Radio "Ghosts. 1 *
“0.T.”: A London newspaper, drawing attention to
the development of “ghost voices” interrupting broad-
casts, claims that “total war” has broken out between
the radio services of the warring Powers and that it
threatens to reduce all broadcasting to chaos.
It’s a pity these hadn’t appeared earlier.
Often some such corrective has been badly needed
in A.B.C. war broadcasts. Earlier still, before
Munich, when bellicose professors and gentlemen like
Mr. F. E. Baume poured out millions of ill-founded,
biased and insupportable statements about all sorts of
persons and nations, from Mr. Chamberlain to
General Franco, from Czechoslovakia to China, a
“ghost voice” would have been a godsend. Sufficient
of them, by reducing that sort of broadcasting to
chaos, may have enabled the world to find some
means of escaping the war.
Perhaps it isn’t too late for this development to
force radio into some sort of respect for truth or at
least some attempt to get at it —to put a stop to the
dreadful business of turning on the air persons whose
fitness to broadcast on matters of national and inter-
national importance seems to be dependent on their
cheek rather than their knowledge or ability to judge
events and policy.
8.8. C. is reported to be planning to ask listeners
to give their views on the entertainment value of its
particular “ghost” before taking “serious action”
against him. That shows that not even 8.8. C. is desti-
tute of the national sense of humor, and there appears
to be a good deal of humor among the “ghosts.” If
they can start the nations laughing at each other the
world might begin to get back some of its common-
sense. You can’t laugh at a man and hate him, too.


Society
"AND IT'S pRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Puyyaka”: Recent political upheavals
recall the “Rambler,” which ran for 13
issues in Melbourne. Norman and Lionel
Lindsay, Ray Parkinson, Bill Dyson and
Hughie McLean composed most of its
unpaid but ever-joyous staff, and its long-
suffering but eventually-paid publisher was
a peppery little Englishman named Tomp-
kins, who ran a jobbing printery under
the supervision of a strictly businesslike
wife. A nice boy of 14 called Jack
did the messages and copy-running
—also a spot of growler-rushing for staff
and visitors when finances permitted—
his first job after leaving school. Com-
ing as he did from the Lindsay-Dyson
home town of Creswick, his weekly five
bob was given preferred status. Several
times it was my privilege to lend it to
his employers. Jack is now Prime Minis-
ter, so the “Rambler” lived not altogether
in vain.
* * * *
Oxmead”: But is it only a theory
that Bracken’s “God Defend New Zea-
land” is the official national anthem of
the Dominion (B. 15/10/’4l) or a fact
that few people know it? I first heard
it over 40 years ago in a Westralian
goldfields settlement, where a few of
Bracken’s compatriots were holding a
convivial celebration, and it struck me
as having a swing and a sonorousness
sadly lacking in most of these artificial,
made-to-measure compositions. Scores
of versemakers have tried to supply Aus-
tralia with a national anthem as stirring
as Bracken’s effort, and so far they have
had singularly little success. Even a
Bulletin competition of a few years
back produced nothing notable.
* * * *
X.S.”: One of the most notable
careers of embezzlement in Melbourne
history came to book the other day when
Judge Clyne sentenced an ex-superinten-
dent of the Victorian Deaf and Dumb
Institution to a five years’ term, with
hard labor. It was the story of the grow-
ing snowball. Peculation began with the
theft of £4OO in bonds. Followed the
usual frenzied endeavors at repayment
by the usual methods —the dead cert on
the Stock Exchange and the racecourse.
Finally there was the usual confession of
guilt when the snowball had reached the
impressive figure of £25,670 and was still
tearing downhill at a great rate. The only
defence was an abscess on the brain and
a nervous breakdown in 1920. ’Sonah
awarded the defaulter five years with
hard labor; but what about the institu-
tion? In a parallel case in Sydney the
malefactor ran a cemetery trust. Seems
sad as well as strange that such quiet
and useful concerns should be preyed
upon so long and for so much.
* -f $ Jj;
“Schnorrer”: This year is the centenary
of the opening in Druitt-street of the first
regular synagogue established in Sydney.
A congregation had been in existence for
"This tee very famous. Two thousand seven hundred and fifty year old three of clock next Monday afternoon."
years, holding its meetings originally in
a private house in Bridge-street. The
first couple married in the synagogue
were the parents of financier George
Judah Cohen, who died a few years ago.
Samuel Cohen had come to N.S.W. on
business for his father, but had experi-
enced such a terrible voyage, lasting six
months, on his way out that he stayed
rather than risk another sea journey, and
proceeded to lay the foundations of the
huge Cohen fortunes. He was even then
a man of substance. There was an early
schism and another synagogue was estab-
lished in Macquarie-street. It was the
amalgamation of the two congregations
later that brought about the erection of
the Great Synagogue. Incidentally, the
Druitt-street synagogue at its opening had
the musical services of the composer Isaac
Nathan, sheltering in Australia from
arrest for the debts into which his extrava-
gant life in London had landed him.
# * * *
“Listening-Insect”; Ministries of In-
formation the same the world over, is
it? In a Tokyo broadcast the speaker said
that the entry of U.S.A. into the war
would bring ruin to civilisation. “To
whom,” he concluded, “will history award
the responsibility for its downfall?” Then
there followed the familiar strains of
“Paddy MacGinty’s Goat”!
“F.S.”: A girl who loved singing and
who had a lovely voice sought an audi-
tion, so that she could earn money with
her voice. “That’s very nice, dear,” said
the judge ; “but why do you sing like
that?” “Because I like doing it,” she
retorted. “Well, you won’t get any posi-
tion that way. What you want to do
is to get an American gramophone
record, play it until it’s worn out and
practise till you can sing like it. Then
you’ll get a job anywhere.” And he was
right. Singers and musicians follow the
current U.S. fashion as completely as the
girls who go to the movies and then get
themselves done up by their costumiers,
coitfeuresses and beauticians exactly like
Betty Grable, Joan Crawford or Judy
Garland.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Having been taught in
my youth that it is more blessed to give
than to receive and that the right hand
should not know what the left hand
doeth, I fail to understand the publicity
given by the officials of the Lord Mayor's
Hospital Appeal Fund in Melbourne to
a man who obviously doesn’t want it.
This individual walks in annually at about
the same date, quickly hands over an
envelope to the clerk and departs —and
the envelope invariably contains a £lOO
note. Up to date the amount he has
donated is £lOOO. This year he turned
up a few weeks earlier, evidently because
he had heard that the hospitals are in
sore straits, and the girl at the counter
nearly caught him red-handed. The young
woman was able to report that he was
tall, 65 to 70, well preserved and wearing
a well-cut grey suit and felt hat. How
does she know that if she had caught him
that wouldn’t have been the end of his
donations?
» * * «
“El V.”: An incident last week shows
how Australia’s great resources are being
wasted by the inroads of civilisation, and
the extent to which the great and undu-
lating order of Hirudo medicinalis is
neglecting its opportunities. “Four
Leeches Urgently Needed to Save Man’s
Sight” shrieked the evening papers, and
for a time the question whether the
annelid quadruplets would appear seemed
to be almost more important than whether
Hitler really was a carpet-biter. The
sigh of relief heard in several tripe-
factories when the worms turned up in
a taxi sounded like Bunnerong power-
house blowing up. And yet there used
to be leeches. Governor Macquarie re-
cords that in December, 1810, at Kurra-
jong, a. number of the- species climbed up
Mrs. Macquarie and bit her on the leg.
The date is important in that this is the
first record in Australian history of a
Governor’s lady being bitten on the leg.
There, also, still are leeches. The mail
that doesn’t bring a recipe or two for
removing them from cow’s teats is re-
garded by the man who runs The Bulle-
tin’s land page as a dud. There really
should be more leeches about Sydney.
Look at the opening there is for them
in summer at Bondi and Coogee.
* * * *
“D.E.”: There has been an odd revival
of interest in the Warwick egg “that
hatched out the Commonwealth police.”
Joseph Silver Codings, now a Minister,
has revealed that he was “walking about
Warwick when the egg was thrown” and
“knew the man who threw it.” Actually
there was more than one egg ; “he had
two or three shots before he scored a
hit.” Tiring of his bad marksmanship,
the thrower “finally walked so close to
Mr. Hughes that he practically placed
the egg on that gentleman.” Somebody
insinuated that Joseph Silver himself was
the man, but he denied it, handsomely
admitting, however, that eggs had been
violently deposited on his own person.
Rounding off the story, he proudly de-
clared that he had “never squealed.”
“Zake”: The tropic air of Kenya seems
to breed homicide germs. A few months
back the colony reverberated to the blasts
of publicity when a belted earl got
bumped off and a knight was charged
and acquitted of murder. Now a septua-
genarian missionary who is a walking ad.
for the V-for-Victory campaign —he
rejoices in the handle of Vladimir Vasali
Verbi—has been sent along by the Mom-
basa magistrates for trial on a charge
of doing-in his ma-in-law. Passing over
the natural bucking-up of our humorists
over this vindication of one of their most
time-honored themes, the appalling
thought remains that even at 70 a man
may still have to be parrying, gallantly
but hopelessly, the strong verbal thrusts
of his missus’s mother.
* * * *
“Bo”: Goebbels is constantly being
boosted as the prince of all propagan-
dists and therefore of all liars. To this
belief 1 refuse to subscribe ; to me the
cadaverous doctor is the dullest of dull
dogs. With relief I turn from his stodgy
tripe to the quaint fancies of Messrs.
Lozovsky and co. There is a touch of
genius in the disclosure of the
“Kresnaya Zvesda,” a Red Army news-
paper, that the Germans in Riga have
ordained that Latvian mothers must
cease suckling their offspring and that the
lacteal food thus saved be surrendered at
special stations, whence it will be sent
to nourish future Nazi cannon fodder in
the Reich. I hoped for the description
of some grim-visaged, heel-clicking Hun
trying to get an adapted milking machine
attached to the torso of a squealing, kick-
ing Latvian peasant mother who pos-
sessed arms like a boilermaker’s and hips
that you measured with a mattock-handle.
But, no.
* $ * s
“Obelist”: The Australian attitude
towards wine is wholly wrong, as “Hack-
saw” remarks (B. 8/10/’4l). The other
week some friends invited me to share in
a barrel of claret, on which freight from
Adelaide to Hobart was paid. My lot cost
me Is. 2d. a bottle—cheaper than beer. It
was a sound wine, rather potent, but
when diluted with about the same quan-
tity of water a most palatable drink. The
palate for light wines deserves encourage-
ment, but there can be no hope of our
cultivating a palate if we rely on the
public house or the wholesaler for our
wines. What kind of wine could one buy
at Is. 2d. through either source?
sfc * *
“C.Q.”: It happened in the lounge of
a bayside hotel in Melbourne one Sun-
day evening. A full private on leave
was feeling an urge to stoush someone
when three officers in home - service
uniform walked in. The private abused
them ; challenged them to come outside,
singly or altogether. At that moment a
cobber walked in and took note of the
situation. “I wouldn’t try to take them
on,” he whispered. “There are three
good reasons.” “What reasons?” “Well,
last time I saw the chap on the left he
was wrestling at the Stadium. The fellow
on the right held the boxing blue ribbon
of the A.I.F, in 1914-18. The colonel in
the middle used to hold the bayonet-
fighting championship of the British and
Australian armies.”
“Rhoach”: Beware, “Mac Hoots” (B.
17/9/’4l). A son of Erin is looking for
the fellow who suggested that “Gaelic
is only spoken by a few natives in the
Highlands, and by no one else.”
* * * *
“Kung Ho’s” farewell to his fangs:
The manner of their going was a symbol
of the new age of painless comfort which
has arrived in this long-agonised world too
quickly for the blind and howling prophets
of the “new order” to realise that it is here.
My first dentistical memories are of being
lined up on a verandah edge 43 years ago,
string attaching an aching front tooth to a
rafter. A push in the chest, a yell, and the
aching member dangled forlornly where I erst-
while had been. Mothers of large families
wasted no good coin on dentists in the Naughty
Nineties. Next operation was in a mining town
in 1903 —population 7000: “Winch, dentist, may
be consulted second Wednesdays at Hirsute’s
barber’s saloon.” Was pushed through door-
way by stern parent. Keen search failed to
reveal any bolthole, so faced executioner. Was
suddenly pinned to chair from rear by 15-stone
presence which emerged like a steam shovel
from behind a curtain and shouted, “Kape
shtill, ye bloody little omadhaun, beyfore Oi
murther ye, begob!” After two stirring rounds,
enlivened by musical ensemble—me imitating
freight engine crossing long bridge, “anaes-
thetic” navvy holding me down and spraying
the back of my neck with off-cast beer and
language —molar-mangier won and exhibited a
stubborn back one. Have since “had ’em out”
in three Australian and two European capitals,
and had one removed by a heathen Chinee who
stuck a thumb on a nerve and coiled two steel
fingers round a raw stump which followed him
into the open air with the docility of a hungry
poodle There was little pain and less after-
effects than those of old-time cocaine. Last
week, the last round dozen went at a sitting.
Timetable: 4.30 p.m., put on bib; 5.20 p.m.,
back in office, sporting a complete new plastic
set which makes flappers follow me. The fang
funeral was on Thursday afternoon. Today,
Tuesday, I have eaten my first post-op. fillet.
And it is only 150 years since the best masti-
cators the world’s most enterprising dentists
could fabricate for George Washington were of
iron and weighed l^lb.!
WE SEE BY THE PAPERS.
We see by the papers that Curtin and co.
The swish of new brooms are determined to
show
That sweep out a cottage, aloft and alow,
From skylights to scrapers;
They mean to convince us they’re second to
none
In war-winning methods —save possibly one—
Till Hitler is walloped and Nazidom’s done,
We see by the papers.
We see by the papers McKell’s in a fret
Concerning the holes in the income-tax net.
It irks him profoundly that through them they
let
So many escapers
From payment of what he considers their whack
lo a Government sorely embarrassed for jack;
So he’ll very soon tighten the meshes, will Mac.,
We see by the papers.
We see by the papers these turbulent days
Announcements that strike us in different ways,
From earth-shaking battles to softgoods displays
By diligent drapers.
From ’Varsity profs.’ academical views
On war to the varying outlooks on booze
By saints and by sinners—all goes to the news
We see by the papers.
We see by the papers—whatever they throw
On the screen of the things we’re permitted to
know;
And now there’s a break in the space they
bestow
On Canberra capers.
To the call of “The Cup” ’twill be pleasant to
swing,
And the odds that are like to be roared by the
Ring
Will next represent the most prominent thing
We see by the papers.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Colonel Bungstarter”: One of the
very finest ziffs seen in Australia for
many years was that attached to the
Honorable Ch. O. van der Bias, leader
of the Netherlands Indies press delega-
tion. Slightly divided at the apex it swept
nobly upward to reveal a touch of red
underlip before burgeoning into magnifi-
cent cheek hackles whose upper fringes
draped the ear-lobes. And with their wild
luxuriance there mingled unpruned
moustachios. Awarded 850 points (pos-
sible, 1000) by the selection committee
of the Australasian Beaver Club, the
exhibit would have reached record
figures had it been bright red in color
and surmounted by a totally bald head.
* * * ♦
“George the Garrotter”: Blimey, these
cops is gettin’ too bloomin’ clever!
I see be the papers where the Scotland
Yard narks is tryin’ to discover if it’s
possible to find fingerprints on a human
body, the one they’re workin’ on bein’
a woman found dead in a bomb-ruined
house at Hampstead. Bits of her skin
likely to carry finger-marks are to be
cut away, an’ the experts will have a go
at photygraphin’ ’em. Crikey, it’s gettin’
that way it won’t be safe to throttle no-
body no more, ’less a man wears gloves ;
an’ if them flamers can find prints on
human skin what’s to stop ’em findin’
’em on the inside of a glove? You’d
think these here police’d have somethin’
better to do than go round tryin’ to make
things tougher’n what they are.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: She had a face and figuie
worth looking at, was dressed in the
height of fashion and minced slowly
along Sydney’s most expensive shopping
area, gazing with a blase air at the
fashion displays. Her whole manner indi-
cated wealth, education, travel, and she
met the admiring glances of airmen and
soldiers with a detached frigidity. Later
that same day I was down near the Quay
on a bit of business with a fishmonger
and was served by a lass in a brown
smock and apron whose face and hair-do
were vaguely familiar. You’ve guessed
it. She kept the flash clobber in a locker
on the job, and during her luncheon
hour, fully-rigged, cruised the coasts of
fashion. A bit staggered when I re-
marked that I’d seen her before, she
admitted that she got a “hell of a kick”
out of it.
v jjc *
“Pmania”: Sydney is rapidly develop-
ing an acute “shortage” phobia, the latest
being a penny shortage. Banks, business
houses and the more influential two-up
schools are rushing the lowly brown at
a guinea the quid’s worth. The blame is
laid on the extra odd penny added here
and there to the price of beer and cigar-
ettes, but that should keep the coppers
circulated. The trouble lies wherever
large swags of them are being cornered,
and the innumerable penny-arcades that
are blossoming forth seem to be the
logical dead-end for a tidy amount of
coin of the realm —they keep it locked
up for a week or so,
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: In a Sydney court a
few days ago a Jewish refugee hawker
had it out with his landlady, also a
Jewish refugee. His case was that he
had protested to the lady about the
sandwiches she ciit for him and she had
punched him in the mouth, breaking one
of his teeth ; the lady maintained that
the man had rushed her in the kitchen
and she had put up her fists in self-
defence. The magistrate dismissed the
case, but he must have smiled at the
hawker’s complaint that his landlady
“didn’t put enough ham in the sand-
wiches.”
* * * *
“K.”: Revolution is coming. Many Big
City concerns have bowed to the demand
by typists that this summer they shall
appear stockingless. For those lucky ones
with shapely limbs it will be a boon ; but
for girls sporting hairy or spindly shanks
or whose skin under Sol’s influence goes
fiery-red, peels and then goes back to
white again, ad infinitum, it won’t be so
lov-er-lee. One of Sydney’s flapper papers,
deeply concerned at the imminent
absence of “ankle glamor,” rushed around
to a draper’s and received the assurance
that, although fewer stockings were
now being made, they would last longer
than the former “sheers,” now unprocur-
“ Listen, cobber—will y fix me up a seat at the captains table?”
“That the Neverfail Explosive Company? Well, I got a complaint!"
able, as they were of heavier weight. Were
they capable of giving vent to it the
collective horselaugh from Australian
womankind would have wrecked the
joint.
♦
“Lao-dah”: Much more interesting
than the 300 pictures hanging on the walls
of the ornate reception-rooms of the
Hotel Australia in Melbourne were the
expressions on the countenances of per-
sons privileged to exhibit in the show of
the Contemporary Art Society. Every one
of them looked as confident and sure
that their pictures should be there as if
they were all Rembrandts. Not a doubt
appeared in any of their faces as to
their attainments. For a moment I was
almost convinced myself. Hadn’t the
Vice - Chancellor of the University
deigned to be chairman, and the Minister
for China, cultured representative of an
older culture, consented to do the honors?
Weren’t all the fashion, the intelligence,
the critical cognoscenti and the wealthy
patrons tumbling over each other to get a
look at the pictures and hadn’t an anony-
mous donor offered £5O for the best
painting and hadn’t the judges, in a
strange jargon culled from the schools
of Europe, announced that at least two
of the works were outstanding, original,
progressive and revolutionary examples
of the new lyricism? But I made a
quick recovery. It occurred to me that
Rembrandt was kicked out of polite
society for painting “The Night Watch”
and died in poverty and obscurity, that
Corot never sold a canvas until he was
50 and was consistently refused by all
the salons, and that Van Gogh sold only
one painting in his lifetime.
* * * *
“Kingy-eye”: Nicknames in the A.I.F.
and amongst Australian soldiers who
fought in S. Africa have always been
pretty apt, unflattering to the recipient
and commendably true —as they always
are in any walk of life in this country —
but the best I’ve ever heard of was
bestowed over half a century ago at The
King’s School, Parramatta, on a boy who
afterwards became a prominent Liver-
pool Plains (N.S.W.)
squatter. As he is long
since dead, it doesn’t
matter breaking it now.
George “souvenired,”
“commandeered” or “bor-
rowed” another boy’s
watch, so his school-
fellows promptly christ-
ened him “Procrastina-
tion.” He is still remem-
bered amongst his few sur-
viving contemporaries as
“Procrastination
and was never able to rid
himself of the nickname.
Incidentally, the pen-name
at the top of this par. was
bestowed over 100 years
ago upon T.K.S. boys by
the town lads of Parra-
matta, when they com-
posed the couplet:
Kingy-eye, cocky-eye —
Couldn’t kill a butterfly.
* *
“Spokeshave”: With
the bourgeoisie, including
bishops, taking up the
cudgels in defence of
“Christian” Russia, and
former Leftist critics of
capitalist imperialism rally-
ing to the defence of
Churchill, and old maiden ladies writing
to Melbourne “Argus” saying that they
always knew that the Bolsheviks were
nice, kindly people, Melbourne is begin-
ning to resemble the International Settle-
ment in Shanghai before
the China “incident.”
When a film was put on
at the cinemas there was
always something the
Italians or the French or
the English approved of
and the Germans or the
Danes or the Cubans
didn’t. If the censor didn’t
succeed in pleasing all
parties drunken sailors or
soldiers raided the theatres,
and if he did succeed
everything of interest was
cut out of the picture and
nobody wanted to see it.
Then, while the various
factions were fighting in
the interests of their
own conceptions of
European decency, cul-
ture and right-thinking,
the Chinese Government
made the magnificently
ironic commentary of ban-
ning the film “The Ten
Commandments,” on the
ground that the low morality it depicted
was offensive to Chinese standards. The
rest was silence.
* * * *
“F.S.”: “L.H.P.” (B. 15/10/’4l) is led
to ponder on the continued popularity of
“The Messiah” inasmuch as Handel lifted
airs of some of his most famous choruses
from Italianate love duets. Well, none
of Shakspeare’s plots was original; there
were many “King Lears,” “Hamlets” and
“Romeo and Juliets” before he wrote
one ; and he lifted whole speeches from
Plutarch’s Lives and other sources.
The architects of the Renaissance used
Roman and Grecian columns and even
statues in their buildings, and the Farnesc
Palace was built from the ruins of the
Colosseum. The Gothic architects
looted Roman ruins. It is the use they
made of their material that was im-
portant. Modern architects and artists
try to be unique and individual, and hate
to be reminded of their debt to the past;
but they succeed only in being rather more
old-fashioned than their grandmothers.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”: One feature of the report-
ing of this war, particularly since
the Germans went into Russia, is the
absence in the dailies of any account of
how the thing is really being fought.
“Fighting is proceeding at several
points”; “the position on the central
front has deteriorated” ; “Marshal Voro-
shilov’s armies are still attacking on the
Leningrad front” ; “German forces on
the Viazma front clashed with fresh
Russian reinforcements” —I can read all
that and much more like it; but, to me, it
conveys about as much as the N. S.
Wales Premier’s Budget. What I want
to know, and, I venture, what most other
straphangers, rentpayers and other f.a.q.
citizens want to know, is not how the war
is being fought in terms of High Com-
mand communiques, phases of strategy
and talk about the advances of armies
and divisions, but how it is being fought
by the individual men who make up those
armies, what their reactions are, how they
are living and fighting and killing each
other. I had always thought that it was
a policy of newspapers to inject some
“human interest” into their columns
wherever possible ; but the reports of the
war in Russia —surely a fertile field 101
such interest —seem to be devoid of that
ingredient. I suspect that the reason
lies in the fact that, in elevating them-
selves to super-strategists and authorities
on everything under the sun, the press boys
have lost touch with the common herd.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: It was at a “celebrity”
concert in Melbourne. The subscriber
was fumbling in her bag. Presently she
drew out a couple of tickets and bent
over to her next-door neighbor. “Excuse
me,” she said. “I’ve had these two tickets
sent to me by a friend. Could you tell
me if Judas Maccabeus is a pianist or
a violinist?”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Longstaff, on his return to
Australia after a Ulyssean exile, always
had a bottle of tiptop wine for his friends.
It was a legacy from his hard-up days.
A Longstaff picture at a show was bought
by a jovial wine merchant, but when the
artist went along to collect the merchant
had gone bankrupt and could not legally
give the artist a cheque. But an inven-
tory of his wine stocks had not yet been
taken, and it was suggested that the
account should be paid in wine with no
niggardly cheeseparing as to quality or
quantity. The bottled stuff was taken to
Longstaff’s place in the Dandenongs and
bricked up ; Longstaff had already de-
cided to go to the Boer Wai, and he
thought the liquor would be impioved
by the time he returned. It was.
THE ARCHDEACON’S UPPERCUT.
[Tribute to a Canberra exponent of muscular
Christianity (B. 15/10/’4l.)]
’Twas Kipling’s cattleman, we’re told.
Whose method with the hardest case
Was first to knock the scotter cold
And then to “lead him up to grace.
Yet he was trained to bash and clout
Ere he abjured his sinful rut.
How rare it is to hear about
A parson who can uppercut!
In pulpits no one doubts they’re rich
In devastating vocal blows
Designed to queer Apollyon’s pitch
And spoil the shape of Satan’s nose.
But seldom are they counted deft,
When fellow-humans at them butt,
To operate a dirty left
Or counter with an uppercut.
How few who point the heav’nward track,
Where’er their cure, whate’er their creed,
Can be relied upon to pack
A hefty punch in time of need!
Times there must be when words are weak
Insulting language to rebut.
Some might have turned the other cheek,
He merely loosed an uppercut.
It sort of brings to memory,
Like some faint echo from afar,
The brand of Christianity
That Kingsley labelled “muscular.”
When verbal logic fails to strike
Conviction in some stubborn nut,
Assuredly there’s nothing like
A squarely-planted uppercut.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


■'TOTOj'
d
%
w,
E SAT DOWN AND THOUGHT ABOUT THE COUNTRY MAN AND
WHAT HE REALLY NEEDED IN A RADIO . . . THEN WE DESIGNED
AND PRODUCED THE FAMOUS
Mullard67
m
To the country family, radio means
far more than entertainment. The
country home looks to radio to
bring news; market information;
weather reports, as well as the
finest entertainment offering. For
years the country man has asked
for a battery-operated radio that
will do this, and do it well; and
now such a receiver has been built
—the Milliard 67.
The Mullard 67 embodies a feature
unique in Australian-built Battery
Receivers—an “R.F.” stage. As a
result, this Model G 7, a battery-
operated radio, gives the country
man performance equal to an A.C.
radio operated from electric mains.
Dual-wave, it gives extraordinary
performance on the short-wave
band, in addition to peerless broad-
cast reception. In fact. Model 67,
a brilliant, powerful and beautiful
radio, is a fine addition to the
range of Mullard Master Radio.
Write for special brochure and
expert test reports to your local
Radio Dealer, or direct from:—
MULXARD -AUSTRALIA PXY., LTD,, 3G7-371 KENT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: MJ4688 (4 lines). Telegrams; “Mulvalve,” Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Dunstan, who presented his Budget on
July 30, knocked 35 p.c. off the Victorian
relief tax. McKell came in on May
16, anchored by an election promise that
he would abolish N.S.W. relief tax
altogether. He took nearly five months
to wrestle with the situation, and the
result is a muddled measure which looks
like extorting more from N.S.W. tax-
payers than income tax and relief tax
extracted from them in 1940-41, and
which should delight Dunstan and Play-
ford. Their States already owe much to
the exertions of N.S.W. tax-harpies.
McKell’s exceedingly gradual income-
tax has been fairly described
as “the most complicated ever enacted
in Australia.” Though some concessions
have been granted to people on £4 a
week and under, many others whose
obligations ended when their employers
deducted relief tax as unpaid collectors
will have to put in income-tax returns.
That will mean a substantial increase in
cost of collection, with another 200 or
300 taxgatherers uneconomically em-
ployed most of them no doubt of
military age.
Challenging a statement that his Coun-
try party is mainly a graziers’ concern,
Fadden protested that the critic had done
it wrong.
Among members of the C.P. are thou-
sands working in country towns and rural
workers; and wheatgrowers form a sub-
stantial part of the basis.
Which possibly explains (1) why the
party chose a city accountant for leader ;
(2) why it has lost so many N.S.W. Federal
and Assembly electorates in which rural
workers and country-town dwellers pre-
dominate, and (3) why the member for
the principal Victorian wheatgrowing dis-
trict, who belongs to Dunstan’s Country
party, helped to heave it out of office at
Canberra.
As in 1918, the life of the Maoriland
Parliament is to be extended for a year.
Labor knows it has lost ground since
Fraser succeeded Savage; the Opposi-
tion fears that the change in the electo-
rate’s sympathies isn’t nearly sufficient for
the gratification of its own ambitions;
members don’t want the risk and expense
of mounting the hustings, and the people
realise that a party fight would be an
impertinent interruption of the struggle
for preservation. So the feeling against
a war-time election was beautifully
unanimous.
Communists Ratliff and Thomas are
to be released from internment provided
they and the Sydney Trades and Labor
Council enter into bonds “guaranteeing
the performance of the undertaking by
each man.” The bonds have to be “satis-
factory” to Army Minister Forde and
Attorney-General Evatt. No mention of
Justice Pike’s tribunal, which found itself
unable to recommend what the new
Government has decided upon.
Announcing the decision to release
Ratliff and Thomas, Forde briefly re-
viewed the case and concluded, “Although
no further charge was either alleged or
proved against them, they were placed
under military detention.” The facts are
that both of them, after release from
gaol, to which they were committed for
subversive activities, refused to give guar-
antees to refrain from future subversive-
ness —until Russia was invaded, where-
upon they graciously informed the Aus-
tralian nation that they were ready to aid
the “fight against Fascism.” Somebody
ought to try to sell Forde the Post Office
clock.
Evidently Gus Kelly hasn’t forgotten
that he belonged to a great companion-
ship which recognised no provincial boun-
daries. Addressing a meeting called to
consider the dreadful chaos into which
the N.S.W. hospital “system” has drifted,
the Old Digger, now State Minister of
Health, said, in a burst of frankness;
“I may lose my job, and the Health De-
partment its identity, but the time is
coming when the Commonwealth must
take over our service in its entirety.”
True as to public health ; but the time is
coming when the Commonwealth must
take over all national services in their
entirety.
Supporting Kelly, Sydney “Sun” re-
marked that it was a blunder “to leave
the control of the national health to
“No, sir, it can’t be the same egg as the one you objected to, but it may have
been laid by the same hen.”
seven authorities instead of vesting it in
one.” It was a blunder to leave the con-
trol of anything national to the six provin-
cial authorities.
The war reached a critical phase last
week, but Victoria’s Leg. Assembly
found time to debate an amendment
to a bill making it compulsory for
schoolchildren to salute the flag, ex-
pulsion being the penalty for refusal.
The amendment provided that chil-
dren should not be expelled for the
political or religious views of their
parents. Probably half a dozen children
are involved, and if they salute the flag
for fear of expulsion they will feel guilty
towards their parents, and if they don’t
they will feel guilty towards their
country. So all that the bill will do is to
surround the emblem with unfortunate
associations for them. Either way the
Empire is expected to survive.
Menzies is not alone in his opinion
that the War Advisory Council, as it
has hitherto performed, is worse than
worthless. Cameron has been opposed
to it from the beginning, and his con-
tention that it is unconstitutional has
never been answered. Unconstitutional
or not, Curtin is credited with the notion
of converting it into the equivalent of
the Maoriland War Cabinet. Of that
experiment, Adam Hamilton, one of the
two Opposition members—Coates is the
other—said recently that it is “in full
control of our Dominion’s war effort,
both at home and abroad.” An Oppo-
sition paper smartly replied that “our
Constitution is based on collective reso-
lutions and collective responsibilities, but
here we have two Cabinets, and one can
reach important decisions without any
responsibility resting upon the other.”
Foil’s political stocks have slumped
so heavily that they would be quoted
at any price if he had to face a double-
dissolution election. A senior to both
McLeay and Mcßride, he put up for the
leadership of the Senate Opposition
against McLeay and for the deputy-
leadership against Mcßride, and finished
a long way behind both Macs from South
Australia. Foil’s administration of the
Information Department settled him.
Premier McKell, still brooding on the
reception he got from the other gentlemen
concerned in the loan business:
If ever a State was discredited, this
State was discredited by the Loan Council.
I found on all sides suspicion and distrust
as far as New South Wales was concerned.
There was amazement when I told the Loan
Council I intended to balance the Budget.
The other Premiers [three of them are
Labor] were looking for the trick.
The chances are that they will be still
looking for the trick if McKell produces
the surplus he has promised. The Oppo-
sition has found a box of tricks in his
taxation already.
Mr. Curtin is urging Australians to
cut out buying luxury goods, but hasn’t,
so far, defined them. What he should
realise is that Australians want from their
Governments not advice but action. There
are gaudy displays of luxury goods in
shops, and in some cases they are adver-
tised in a way which, to put it mildly,
is no aid to recruiting ; but so long as
the goods are there and are so advertised,
and so long as people have the money,
they 11 be bought. The voice of a Prime
Minister hasn’t a chance against spec-
tacular window-dressing and newspaper
advertisements.
There are sober exceptions to the
papers which boisterously demand “offen-
sives in the west.” Melbourne “Age” is
one and another is London “Daily Mail.”
Said the “Mail”; “There is a touch of
hysteria in the campaign for invasion
anywhere and at any price which could
prove dangerous.” It is dangerous.
Craiser”; Victoria’s Forests Commis-
sion is cutting a 100-mile firebreak
through the densest part of the State’s
forests from the Upper Yarra watershed
to the Rubicon, in which area 70 lives
were lost in one conflagration. The
enterprise is estimated to cost half a
million. Minister Lind gives the hearten-
ing information that of the 916,000,000
super, feet of timber available for salvage
after the 1939 blaze, over half has been
marketed. But is any of the cost of the
firebreak to come out of this war wind-
fall? No ;it is all to come out of loan
funds.
McKell was Lang’s assistant at the
Treasury for two years, 1925-27, and
when he weighed in with his Budget Lang
approved of it. But the Big Fellow’s
sentiments suffered a sea-change when
the Income-tax Rating Bill was produced,
and out he came with these wounding
sentences:
I agree with the Opposition that the wages
tax has not been abolished. I will do
nothing at all to embarrass the Govern-
ment, but I would not Jet the Opposition
get away with the libel that this is a trick.
Jf the bill goes through as it is we will
be forced to admit it.
The startled silence that followed was
broken Landa, of Bondi, who yelped
that Lang s remarks “do not represent
the views of; myself and many other mem-
bers of the Labor party.” Landa was an
obsequious member of the “Lang Is
Right ’ mob when Lang was wrong.
About seven months ago one Godfrey
Blunden surveyed Federal Labor members
liom the press gallery at Canberra and
dismissed them in this superior fashion:
Their average age would be, I suppose,
about 55. Less than hall are of Noncon-
formist background, including three lay
preachers and an agnostic or two. The
others are Catholics, ranging from the
devout to the desultory renegade. With
two or three exceptions they are men with-
out intellectual attainments or even educa-
tion.
The same Blunden now orders “our new
Labor Government” to “make Britain
understand that we want still greater help
given to Russia,” and to “see” that the
Stalinists’ “Far Eastern forces are pre-
served and haven’t compromised with
Japan in the face of our weak, contempt-
ible attitude towards them in their hoar
Who and what is Godfrey
Blunden? Field-marshal, R.A.F. marshal
or admiral of the Fleet? Greater than
any of these—a “roving reporter” for
Sydney “Telegraph.”
Brief note from Canberra;
Curtin’s best chance of survival as P.M.
hes m slackness on the other side. Some
or his opponents have a very poor record
of attendances. They nearly broke their
necks trying to get to Canberra, and they
nearly break them trying to get away from
the dashed place.
From “F.S.”;
Australian dailies made fools of themselves,
as usual, oyer the Jap airline to Timor. Some
ot them visualised it as one leg of a pincer
movement, on the Hitler plan. But what can
the Japanese do when they get their line?
Qantas already has landing rights on the island
.calls there, and there would be
no difficulty in keeping an eye on anything
that was going on. Similar scares were endemic
in . Singapore 30 years ago. Every Japanese
who bought a rubber plantation was believed
to be building a secret gun emplacement to
bombard Singapore. In view of subsequent de-
velopments there since the base was established,
the notion that an odd gun or two hidden
amongst the lubber-trees could do any harm
except to their owners, sounds fantastic in the
extreme. But it was solemnly believed.


"If YOU wERE IN THIS OUTFIT, YOU'D GET YOUR FUN FREE!"
MEANS OF ESCAPE.
“Drastic Commonwealth taxation of entertainments is mooted."


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
PERSONAL ITEM S
Archbishop Head, of Melbourne, has
made a queer mixture of the duties of
Major-General E. F. Herring by a recent
appointment. As successor to General
Iven Mackay, the major-general is com-
mander of the 6th Division of the Aus-
tralian Army. As Chancellor of the
Diocese of Melbourne in succession to
Edward Mitchell, K.C., he will be re-
quired to act as trial judge in all disputes
relating to doctrine and church law, con-
duct investigations into breaches of
church discipline and make reports to the
Archbishop. It is the highest ecclesias-
tical office available to a layman, and a
vast knowledge of church and civil law is
necessary to the holder. As well as hav-
ing a D.S.O. and an M.C. (earned with
the B.E.F. in France and Macedonia in
the 1914-18 war), Major-General Herring
is a K.C., an M.A. and a B.C.L. (Oxon),
and a barrister-at-law of London and
Melbourne. He was Victoria’s Rhodes
scholar for 1912.
Lord Huntingfield, who was Governor
of Victoria from 1934 to 1939, has
been appointed Governor of Southern
Rhodesia. He was one of the most in-
conspicuous Governors Victoria has ever
had, but he caused some confusion. Local
officialdom did not know how to pro-
nounce one of his family names —
Arcedeckne —until his Ex.’s arrival. Then
it turned out to be Archdeacon.
The commander of the R.A.F. unit in
Russia is a Maorilander, Wing-Com-
mander Gynes Ramsbottom Isherwood,
born in Blenheim and educated in Nelson.
He was a theological student when he
first took an interest in flying. The in-
terest persisted, and in 1930 Isherwood
went to England and joined the R.A.F.
He was stationed in India, Egypt and the
Sudan before Hitler let slip the dogs of
war.
C. J, W. Gillen, assistant secretary of
the Department of Munitions in Mel-
bourne under Essington Lewis, has been
mixed up with official finance almost
from his childhood. In 1902 he started
at the Treasury in Melbourne, and when
Duntroon was founded he became
accountant there. During the 1914-18
war he went to New Guinea as a
C. J. W. GILLEN.
soldier, and there they made him a
major. Then he went back to Duntroon,
was assistant district finance officer at
the Sydney Barracks and later d.f.o. in
Brisbane. He returned to Melbourne as
accountant at Army H.Q., and when
Hitler’s lava flow started he was
appointed finance member of the Muni-
tions Supply Board, which developed
into the Department of Supply and
Development and then into the Depart-
ment of Munitions. Born in 1887 at
Canterbury, Gillen was educated at the
Balwyn State school and South Yarra
High, followed by a brief period with
Robert Harper’s. He was president for
four years of the Bondi Soldiers’ Club.
Jack Beasley was Federal leader of Lang
Labor during the wild period of depression
politics, and many people still have that
picture of him in the back of their mind.
Labor, until now, has not figured much
(Modelled by Frith.)
J. A. BEASLEY.
in the Australian scene since the down-
fall of Lang and Scullin. In the interval
Beasley, now on 46, has mellowed a lot
without losing any of his keenness in
observation and debate ; he possesses one
of the most alert minds in Canberra,
with an outlook candidly Australian. He
became a member of the Advisory War
Council in 1940. Leader of N.S.W. Labor
(Non-Communist), he found office as
Supply Minister in Curtin’s Cabinet,
which should suit him eminently ; he is
one of the few Ministers to have held
a Cabinet job previously. Father of four,
Beasley lives in his electorate (West Syd-
ney).
Flight-Lieutenant Alan Rawlinson, of
Ivanhoe (Vic.), has been awarded the
D.F.C. He is with a famous Middle East
squadron, and his contribution has been
three enemy fighters shot down in
April, another three in June, and
121 operational flights, which included
enterprises like the blowing up of a large
ammunition train. Before he joined the
R.A.A.F. he had a long athletic record
in swimming and football and was cham-
pion of the East Melbourne Harriers’
Club. He joined up (with an A flying
license) in 1938, became a pilot-officer
in 1939 and a flying-officer the same
year. He is 23.
Brigadier Clive Selwyn Steele, who gets
a D.S.O. for saving a situation at Pharsala
Bridge, Greece, when an aerial bomb
exploded a truck of ammonal and the
German dive-bombers tried to take ad-
vantage of the resultant confusion, was
born in Melbourne in 1892 and com-
missioned in 1912. He went overseas as
chief engineer, Corps of Engineers, Ist
Australian Army Corps, A.I.F. He is a
consulting engineer in peace-time.
This year’s president of the N. S.
Wales Returned Soldiers is Colonel
Arthur Wellesley Hyman. A lawyer
by profession, he fought through
the 1914-18 war, coming out with
rank as major and a staff appointment.
He has been president of the branch
before. He is honorary solicitor to Syd-
ney’s Great Synagogue and a member
of the N. S. Wales Jewish Board of
Education.
Wing-Commander Lawrence James
Wackett, manager of the huge Common-
wealth Aircraft Corporation, has had a
varied career. He had 2j years of
Government schooling at Townsville,
his birthplace, a year at Duntroon,
where he was one of the
first students, and a
course at Melbourne
University, leaving it with
the degree of Bachelor of
Science. He got his
D.F.C. with the A.F.C.
in France in the 1914-18
war, where he was one
of the first fighting pilots.
Then he set himself to
designing fliers in Aus-
tralia. Four years ago
he became the first em-
ployee at the C.A.C.’s
new factory at Port Mel-
bourne. Last month the
5000 workers turned out
60 machines worth
£600,000, making every-
thing, up to the complete
aero engine. Wackett’s
son Wilbur is a test pilot.
George Sylve s t er
Viereck, author, editor
and self-admitted Ger-
man propagandist, who
has been arrested in the
U.S.A. on numerous
charges, including one
of withholding informa-
tion about his propa-
gandist activities, is a
voluminous writer and
poet. One of his books,
My First 2000 Years —
The Autobiography of
the Wandering Jew, was
once under the ban of the Australian
Customs. It purports to give experiences
during successive reincarnations, mostly
erotic. Viereck is alleged to have received
£13,000 p.a. for his efforts.
Frank Boatwright, Mayor of Laun-
ceston (Tas.) for the third time, is in-
terested not only in business but in social
welfare, church work and sport. His
name is pretty well known wherever
bowlers meet; he has “skipped” in every
State in Australia and once led an Aus-
tralian team in Maoriland. Australian
Rules football is another of his pets —
he is patron of Launceston Club. Boat-
wright is rector’s warden of St. Paul’s
and has been superintendent of its Sun-
day school nearly 25 years.
Brigadier G. A. Vasey, who gets a
C.B.E. for his able direction of the 7000
Australians engaged in Crete, comes
from Melbourne. He served with dis-
tinction in the 1914-18 war, went to the
Staff College, Quetta, and then had a
long spell of army administration in
India. In September, 1939, he was
G. Army Training, at Melbourne
H. The citation refers to his deter-
mination in holding together a cohesive
force in co-operation with the com-
mander of the M.L. brigade, “thus driv-
ing back the Germans and ensuring an
orderly evacuation.”
Dr. Hsu Mo, the Chinese Minister to
Australia, now settled down at Canberra,
is a lawyer by profession. He is 49, and
has been a Judge in various jurisdictions,
including the Shanghai Provisional Court,
and also Professor of Law at Nankai
University. From 1928 to 1931 he was
Director of European and American
Affairs in the Foreign Office, and from
DR. HSU MO.
1932 to the date of accepting his present
appointment was Vice-Minister of
Foreign Affairs. He speaks English
fluently. His wife, son and two daughters
accompanied him to Australia.
Into the Dark Valley:
In Perth, octogenarian Alf Chandler,
founder of the secession movement and editor
of the “Sunday Times” for some years—he was
previously sub-editor, and a Coolgardie press-
man in the roaring days of the fields. Though
a passionate Westralian patriot he was born
in Victoria and his family had old N.S.W,
associations: 120 years ago his father played
the flute in the choir (or quire) at St. James’s
Church, Sydney. A line old man was Chandler,
good-natured, and ardent in temperament even
when stricken in years. He had a poet’s eye
and heart, and wrote graceful verse.
At Heidelberg (Vic.) Military Hospital, at
58, Charles Barnett Story, V.D., commandant
of Bonegilla A.I.F. camp. In between teaching
in Victorian State and high schools, he had
been a soldier since he was 18. In the 1914-18
war he commanded the 37th Battalion and was
wounded at Passchendaele. From 1920 to 1921
he commanded the 58th, and from 1921 to
1922 the 59th. “Essentially a front-line officer”
is how the Diggers described him. A son is a
lieutenant in the Second A.I.F.
At Wellington (M.L.), aged 80, Arthur
Samuel Ballinger, prosperous merchant and one-
time champion rifleshot of Maoriland. Sixty-
four years ago, as a boy, he attracted attention
by bringing down pigeons and kakas on the
wing. He was one of the M.L. team whose
doings at Bisley in 1899 are still remembered,
and he won the N.Z. Champion Belt three times
in succession, thus retaining it.
In Adelaide, at 69, E. J. Stacy, an unusual
parson, who was mining and commercial editor
of the “Advertiser” before going to Broken
Hill and to Fremantle as a preacher, and then
returning home to become secretary of the
Congregational Union of S.A.
At Auckland (M.L.), aged 66, Commander
Harry Rockford Hughes, whose seafaring career
ended with 29 years of cable work. He shared
in the hunt and recapture of Von Luckner. A
son is in the R.A.F.
In Melbourne, at 63, C. L. Butchers, Regis-
trar of the Pharmacy Board of Victoria, author-
ity on legal aspects of pharmacy and honorary
member of the Pharmaceutical Society of
Britain. Butchers was editor of the Austral-
asian “Journal of Pharmacy” and a director
of the Drug Trade Defence Council.
Rinaldo Massoni, known to all Melbourne’s
Bohemia as the proprietor of the Florentine
Cafe in Bourke-street. He came from Italy
to Melbourne as a surgical-instrument maker,
but his eyesight failed him and he went into
the restaurant business on the Continental model
at the old Latin in Exhibition-street, opposite
His Majesty’s Theatre. In its early days the
Latin was the resort of mummers, and it was
not impossible on the same night to hear a
singer warbling both at the theatre and (be-
tween the acts) at the Latin. Later Massoni
raised dining and wine-drinking to a fine art
in his Bourke-street cafe. He was a naturalised
British subject and had no regard for Musso.


/
-fkiUU ml Komam /Q
OF YOUR OWN
AMAZING
CONTINENT
L
Ch
ftst
s
L
>
33
m
\V
Z
0
'M
W ;/ - •'■ • v':'. .
I
J 8
BY
(9h/>
Your chance to own
THE NATIONAL EDITION OF
These Remarkable Works!
You must know Idriess to know Australia. These books are
living history! They will bring you hours of absorbing enter-
tainment whenever you dip into them ... today or in years to
come. It’s armchair adventure at its very best, so put these
fascinating books in your library now. Enjoy them now!
IN
BEAUTIFUL
LIBRARY
VOLUMES
Bound in fine green cloth . . . tastefully decorated . . . titles
in embossed gilt on black lacquer panels.
3737 PAGES. Clear print on Antique Book Wove paper.
417 ILLUSTRATIONS. Fine action photographs and draw-
ings heighten the realism of Idriess’s vivid prose.
RUMS
FMF.R
I Jl
woeoeeoee<*ff«
Wm
pMMMMKag
£ 11
7 ' '
■■
Lasseter’s Last Kide.
A vivid and dramatic
record of Australia’s
most absorbing
mystery.
6
Drums of Mer.
A fascinating picture
of the life of a fast-
vanishing savage cul-
ture.
Over the Range.
The thrilling record
of an expedition into
the wild country
north of the King
Leopold Ranges.
Flynn of the Inland.
The pathos, tragedy
and humor of the
“outback.”
The Yellow Joss.
28 short stories—
many of them excit-
ing facts stronger
than fiction.
m
Madman's Island.
Personal terrifying
experiences written
from notes made to
save himself from
going mad.
**
The Desert Column.
Idriess’s own grip-
ping war diary while
in Palestine, Sinai
and Gallipoli.
Man Tracks.
A record of the
romantic patrols of
the Mounted Police in
the Far North.
Men of the Jungle.
A fascinating story of
natives and white
men amid the tower-
ing forests of the
N. Q’land jungle.
The Cattle King.
The true story of a
mighty ruler of the
cattle ranges Sir
Sidney Kidman.
o. ;« SS
v K.
MmM.
Gold Dust and Ashes.
The true story of the
white adventurers and
their cannibal adver-
saries in wild New
Guinea.
Forty Fathoms Deep-
A collection of unique
tales of under-sea
adventure in the
search for pearls.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
am !■ W .W i H M ,Bi 1.
ORDER
FORM
Please send me the NATIONAL EDITION of lon L. Idriess’s
works in 12 volumes, for which I enclose 10/- deposit and agree
to pay eight further monthly payments of 10/-, making £4/10/-
m all ‘ ( T he price for cash within 30 days is £4/4/-.)
NAME.
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Freight is extra, but in no case
will it exceed 5/-.
ANGUS c. ROBERTSON LTD.
89 CASTLE RE AGH ST. SYDNEY


ABORIGINALITIES
“Jeff”: Dad had let-up for breath in
the lurid telling of privations in the old
pioneering days. Before he could gather
up steam again, the visiting sportsman
took the floor. “Yes! I’ve known what
it’s like to be hungry,” he said dolefully,
“During the depression I had to eat my
pet parrot.” Dad grew inquisitive. “What
did it taste like, if y’ don’t mind me
askin’?” he inquired. “Oh, bonzer!”
replied the sportsman. “Just like turkey,
chicken and wild duck. That parrot could
imitate anything!”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: If our blackout poli-
ticians want to do something really effec-
tive in the way of notifying bored citizens
that the performance is about to begin,
why don’t they make it compulsory to
keep curlews on all occupied premises?
The nearest mechanical noisemaker to
this rural abode is the asthmatic steam
whistle of a sawmill seven miles away,
and far out of human hearing range.
Whenever it blows every curlew in the
district turns on its alarm-wails for ten
minutes at least, and I defy any non-deaf
person to avoid hearing them. Were my
suggestion adopted, curlew - breeding
would rapidly assume status as a new
primary industry complete with boards,
pools, armies of clerks and inspectors,
and all the usual appurtenances. Heavy
protective taxation would prevent foreign
competition, and in no time we would
be destroying vast quantities of surplus
curlew in order to prevent prices from
dropping. There might even be a Minis-
ter for Curlews. Should any of our
numerous Governments desire to make
a start at the job I’m willing to present
them free of charge with every specimen
of the melancholy fowl on this property
provided they’ll send their own curlew-
catchers to collect them.
, ' atura * a ” : There is quite a lot of
difference between what “O. Filter” (B.
24/9/ 41) calls a gilgie and what “you
Easterners call a yabbie.” A resemblance
is there, but the east Australian yabbie
is really a cray- or crawfish, so named
because, like the fowl, it has a craw or
crop which serves as a receptacle for
recently-eaten food and invariably con-
tains sand or small stones. The W.A.
gilgie, on the other hand, favors the
prawn tribe, being without a crop and
consequently eatable entire, even when
freshly taken from the water. The gilgie’s
nearest relation dwells in New Guinea ;
even a variety found in South America
has more structural kinship than the
eastern Australian fresh-water crustacean.
Which leads observers to think that the
western gilgie was once a sea-roving
variety-r-hence its wide distribution.
* * * *
“Propalong” : “You young fellers these
days wouldn’t know a buckin’ horse if
y’ seen one,” said old Joe. “It was dif-
f’r’nt when I got me first job in South
“Great Scott , what a queer-looking couple !"
Oss. The TE prads was spread over
the biggest horse-run in the world them
days. Well, they give me a black horse
to ride. Got on him in the yard an’ he
starts* rootin’ high an’ strong, droppin’
’em over the shoulder, an’ pretty soon
the crupper broke an’ the saddle went
oyer his head, the girths catchin’ round
his legs an’ bringin’ him down pretty
hard. Well, I flew on to him bareback,
an’ he stuck in some beauts. When he
found he couldn’t shake me he just set
back an’ flew the eight-foot gate like a
bird. As he rooted across the flat I
noticed he was blowin’ an’ I reckoned
he’d soon chuck it in. But all of a
sudden he propped, grunted, lay down
and begun to roll. When he gits up I
was still with him. Strike me roan if
he doesn’t git to it again, fresh as ever,
an’ kept it up nearly all the mornin’.
Then I gits the meat-hooks to work an’,
spurrin’ and’ leanin’ on one rein, I steers
him on to a real patch of gibbers. After
a bit he stops to roll, takes one look at
them stones, an’ goes on rootin’ instead.
Well, nearin’ dinnertime he chucks it
in an’ I canters him back to the yards.
Me legs is a bit sore an’ me liver’s shook
up a bit. So I says to the overseer,
‘Whatinell d’y’ mean by puttin’ a man
on a flamin’ outlaw right frum the start?”
“Outlaw?” he says. “What d’y’ mean?
The blasted gins ride him bareback after
the horses.”
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Kangaroo-shooting may be
a good school for marksmanship, but the
high-powered rifle has almost com-
pletely killed good shooting. The Queens-
land brumby-shooter goes out nowadays
with a ,22 h.p. or some such weapon,
complete with telescopic sights. With a
great muzzle velocity and an extremely
flat trajectory at his disposal, the “marks-
man” has to do little but lie still and
squeeze steadily. That is target-shooting,
and the more target-shooting a man does
the worse shot he becomes if his target
is stationary. The old Bisley running-deer
targets were a different matter. You fired
at a “stag” which ran for about 20 yards
at 12 miles an hour. A heart shot, the
bull, counted four points ; the remainder
of the chest, an inner, thi;ee; legs or
neck, the outer, two ; a haunch shot cost
you half a crown. You couldn’t score
on such a target by lying prone or aim-
ing in advance at a fixed point; success
depended on the ability to aim as the rifle
rose, and to fire as the butt touched the
shoulder. That sort of shooting is the
only really practical method. And yet
in the army, where a man’s life may
depend on his accuracy at a moving
target, the prone position and the clumsy
double trigger-pull are still retained.
* * * *
“Domino”: He was voluble and noisy.
He apparently knew everything there was
to be known about cows. As every
milker was brought in his loud-voiced
criticism was heard all over the saleyard.
He had spoiled the sale of several cows
and the auctioneer was exasperated. The
climax came when Strawberry arrived, to
be immediately condemned by the expert.
“She’s only got two good teats,” he an-
nounced loudly; “she’ll never rear a
calf.” Angrily the auctioneer turned on
him. “Why won’t she?” he demanded.
“Your mother reared one.”
“Zake”: The quality of “Doubting T.”
as a fisherman is held up for the hilari-
ous dissection of all anglers by his con-
fession (B. 15/10/’4l) that he uses a
No. 8 gut for whiting! Well, well! One
can visualise the gallant “D.T.,” after
strengthening his No. 8 with a steel-wire
cast in case the ferocious whiting bite
their way to freedom through the gut,
threading a big worm on to his 12/0
hook and hurling his line far out over
the sandflats at the top of the tide. Then
as the man-eating whiting “hits” he braces
his feet against the gun’l for the terrific
struggle which will ensue, until at last,
exhausted and with his hands cut to
tatters, he hauls his captive inboard.
Dangerous but wonderful sport, this —
in the West, of course. On the eastern
seaboard we, effete creatures, consider
a No. 3 gut ample for the biggest whiting
ever hatched.
* * * *
“Narrin”: It’s the closed season for
ducks here on the Murray, and this year
it looks like being more of a real closed
season. An occasional band of the brave
men who slaughter nesting birds sneaks
out, but the picnic parties which used of
a Sunday to pot a few ducks when the
fishing got slow and the motor-cycle
mobs with their pea-rifles are mostly miss-
ing. The flood of 1939-40, although it
provided good tucker, was hard on the
bird population. Many nests in the
lignum and in low hollow stumps were
drowned out. This year may help to
restore the balance. Adolf is doing some
good to Australia’s bushland—the scarcity
of petrol will certainly benefit our native
birds and animals.
* * * *
“Maginnis Magee”: A young C. of E.
clergyman in an outpost of Queensland’s
cattle country called at his church one
morning to find a woman with nine
children waiting for him. She greeted
him with “Good day, mister, these are
all me kids. None of ’era’s been
christened, and we’d like to get ’em all
done now. We ain’t too well orf, but
me ’usband, ’oo’s down the street, and is
cornin’ up fer the business, says ’e’ll give
y’ a bob a ’ead if y’ll do ’em.” The job
was done.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: The 80ft. high hollow
bloodwood, dead for years and almost
branchless, took fire at the ground level
when a grass-fire swept past it one hot
morning. The fire slipped into the middle
of the dry giant through a gap in the
bole and, fanned by the current of air in
the shaft, rapidly got going. By mid-
afternoon steam was pouring in white
clouds from the top of the trunk. But
all the fire remained in the bole of the
tree. Just on dusk a great tongue of
flame, travelling right up the tree, shot
out of the top for 20ft., while simul-
taneously from knot-holes flames and
sparks poured out. For two hours the
firework display continued, then it ceased,
and a tree that would have taken a week
to burn out if it had been lying on the
ground was nothing but charcoal and a
few billets of charred wood.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Forty years ago there were
plenty of eels in an inland-flowing Aus-
tralian stream (B. 17/9/’4l), fine big fat
ones and of excellent flavor, as deponent
can longingly testify. It is one of the
Macintyre head-water tributaries coming
out of the Ben Lomond massif in New
England to join eventually the Darling
stream, than which nothing can be more
inland-flowing. They weren’t any fancy
species of eel either, but the good old
Anguilla australis, which had done all
the amazing youthful travels from abyssal
Pacific depths to the lofty New England
range—to be exact, to its eastern side,
at the upper waters of the Macleay.
Thither my old friend Henry Thompson
would periodically repair with traps,
cream cans and a buckboard in order to
give them a lift across the watershed to
his place 40 miles away, some to become
the most delicious eel-pies and jugged eel
that I’ve ever tasted, the rest to be turned
loose in the creek. Apparently they never
travelled far down it, nor did any show
traces of spawn even after growing to
3ft. and more. Henry has been dead
these 20 years, but I wonder if any of
the eels still survive.
* * * %
“Oldtimer”: Any Aboliars observed
any Indian hawkers about the back coun-
try lately? Twenty years ago it was a
safe bet on spotting one on a country
road, his black van and pair of neddies
ambling along at leisurely gait. Cheer-
ful fellows, they were generally welcome
at farmstead, station and camp, their
horses always well cared for and them-
selves clean and gentlemanly. To the
lonely farm woman they came as a break
with their silks, cutlery, china, linen, toys,
etc. Unhurried over transactions which
might last a halLday, they would as
often as not make camp until morning,
whereat the kids would eye their myster-
ious rites. The motor-car which brought
the farm within an hour or so of town
spelt their death-knell. The last I saw
had made a valiant effort to keep abreast
of progress; his merchandise included
lipstick and scanties, a saxophone and a
steel guitar. But he handled them gingerly
and wore an apologetic air. He was last
seen driving out from Jerilderie towards
Cobargo (N.S.W.). Perhaps, realising the
truth out on the plain, he did some sort
of a yogi trick, for the only evidence of
his fate was a willy-willy hurrying north
through Cobargo next day, crying softly,
“Eheu, you want -the G.B.D. razor and
the Bengal pipe? I buy the fat rooster,
baas.”
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Mention of a blunder-
buss in a recent Bulletin reminds me
of a fine brass bell-mouth owned by ojd
Kinkelly, Kin was timberman at a North
Murchison (W.A.) goldmine, one of his
perquisites being the odd ends cut off the
mine timber, nice stove-lengths of stringy-
bark. But with the approach of winter
Kin noticed that his woodheap was too
rapidly diminishing; the approaching
famine was due, he conceived, to the
midnight activities of the neighboring
Murphys. So after a little thinking Kin
got down the old blunderbuss and loaded
with a good charge of powder, a wad
of greasy paper, topped off with a barely
liquid mixture of hard field peas and red
oxide, which colorful substance ran out
with the washings of the pyrites house
by the ton. Taking ambush that covered
his woodheap, Kin waited. Around mid-
night there came a stealthy approach.
He permitted the intruder to select a
couple of logs, waited till he turned away,
then let him have it. After the first sprint
of a thousand yards Murphy put his
hand around to the part that was stinging
the most, and withdrew it colored red.
Blood! He was shot, perhaps mortally.
Ten minutes later he staggered into the
police station and collapsed. It wasn’t
until old Dr. Brennan was brought from
his “warrum” bed that the case was
properly diagnosed.
THE GALE.
It came upon us sudden ; six solid hours it blew
As if a thousand devils had gallivanted through
The portholes of Perdition; in all me years o’
sail
I never seen such damage or met with such a
gale.
Although I’d been in tea ships an’ came through
one cy clone.
I’d say it was the father of all the wind that’s
blown
Behind the Flyin’ Dutchman; an’ uncle to the
breeze
That drove the men to murder when Jonah
sailed the seas.
Of anything unbolted it never left a trace—
It caught the bos’n’s whiskers an’ tore ’em off
is face;
It blew a blinkin’ birthmark from off the bos’n’s
mate,
An’ flattened out the anchor an’ pulled the
ringbolts straight.
Waal, fust we lost the foresail—an’ it ’ad just
been bent —
An then er upper tops’l to Helen Glory went.
Er c.ecks was full of water, which poured in
briny streams
From bowsprit-heel to starn-post an’ opened up
er seams.
Then over goes the pigsty, an’ no one chucked
the pig
A hfebdt as ’e left us; for, in that whirligig
Oi nppm cloth an’ timber, we ’ad no time to
save
The Old Man’s near relation from ’is appointed
grave.
Next all the blinkin’ lifeboats is
smashed to smithereens—
Which left no pleasant prospect
by any sort o’ means
Before a Christian sailor with
knowledge facin’ ’im
Of nothing in the locker an’ forty
miles to swim!
An’ then the old tarpaulin upon
the main ’atch tore,
An’ then the cargo shifted. But
what ’ad ’urt us more
Was losin’ of our cuddy, in which
the cook ’ad been
Preparin’ of our breakfast last
time that ’e was seen.
In thirty-nine south latitude—east,
sixty-six degrees,
A-floatin; on ’is galley, the Bible
on ’is knees,
We found the cook at midday;
which time the gale ’ad passed,
An let us rig a stunsail upon a
jury mast.
Aye, whole and hale we found •
’im; an’ praisin’ of the Lord.
We got a lifeline round ’im an’
’auled ’im safe aboard:
An’ while we manned the windlass to pump ’er
partly dry,
That cook found pork and biskit to make a
Sunday pie!
She ’ad a list to larboard would make your
air turn grey,
But like a log we rolled ’er at last to Table
Bay:
In all me days of travel, in all me years o’ sail
1 never seen such damage or weathered suJh a
gale.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


”We can glue it together when We get it inside."
“The 0.D.”: On a horse several sizes
too large for her, Johnson’s missus came
up to our road job. “If you wouldn’t
mind,” she said, “Mr, Johnson would
like a couple of you to come over and
give him a hand after you knock off.”
Assuming Johnson wanted a lift with
something heavy we promised and she
went home. That was about 3 p.m. At
5.30 we arrived. Johnson was standing
in about 2ft. of water in the windmill
well, 60ft. deep. Mrs. Johnson had been
able to let him down on the windlass, but
could not get him up. “Why didn’t you
tell us?” we said. “We’d have come
straight away.” She looked embarrassed
and went inside. We hauled him up.
“She’s very sensitive,” he explained. “I
had a dirty old torn shirt on an’ she didn't
want you blokes here till she’d washed,
dried an’ ironed another one an’ lowered
it down t’ me. She’s a good little sort, so
I try t’ please her. What about a cup
o’ tea?”
* * * *
“Taylor Ville”: How many men will
own up to a fear of the dark? There
are many bushmen who, bred to lonely
places as they are, can answer that ques-
tion better than the city man who never
sees an unlighted sky. I know men to
whom the curlew is a curse at night.
If they had time for introspection
they might consider themselves allergic
to the weird crying ; as it is they know
they just can’t stand the blanky row.
Other imaginations fall before the dingo’s
howling, especially in a lonely camp at
night after a day of being trailed by the
hungry dogs. There are riders who won’t
for any money camp at the old Blanche-
water homestead (S.A.), now part of
Mumpeowie. Most men who have
camped alone and far out know the feel-
ing that comes when the tight hemisphere
of darkness closes in on the firelight,
and, unseen but close at hand, something
starts an unknown crying. In a few
months on my own at a “haunted” camp
I’ve wasted quite a number of cartridges
at such inexplicable noises.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Greenhide, stringybark
and fencing wire have all received their
meed of praise, but nobody enthuses
over Nature’s handiest gadget—the forked
branch. Ever since Adam sharpened the
butt-end and improvised the first plough
it has been in constant and varied use.
It carries the ridgepole of your primitive
dwelling, supports the runners of the
chaff-bag bunk, holds the crossbar that
swings a kerosene-tin over the fire, and
in larger form may be used as a make-
shift bearing for a windlass bole or a
sawhorse. When Strawberry develops a
flair for wriggling through wire fences
a forked branch fastened with a piece
of wire under the neck, yoke-fashion,
is a certain check on her trespassings.
In addition, it makes a powerful wire-
strainer if a hole is bored through the
thick end, the wire passed through and
the forks turned hand over hand, thus
rolling the wire around the butt. Mum
realises its value after she has broken
the prong off the clothesprop. Finally,
how could the young idea keep the
sparrow population within bounds with-
out a forked stick to make a shanghai?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In those days the mixed
train for Pinnaroo (S.A.) left Adelaide
about 7.30 a.m, and Mat, going up for
a harvest job, asked the houseman in the
Pirie-street pub to call him in time for
the train. For three successive mornings
Mat failed to get his call. On the fourth,
waking himself and tearing into his
clothes, he just managed to reach North
Terrace in time to heave himself and
baggage into the moving guard’s van. All
day long the train trundled and stopped
and shunted over the 140 or so miles, and
about sundown struggled wearily
into Pinnaroo. Mat fell out on
the platform, got the kinks out
of his joints and the dust out of
his eyes, then turned to the guard
and said, “Blimey, mate, y
needn’t have hurried ; I ain’t due
on the job till Wednesday.” The
guard looked at him bitterly. Go
on,” he said ; “you can afford t’
be funny. I got t’ take the ruddy
thing back yet! ”
* * *
“Specker”: A couple of curious
blokes, seeing what looked like
an overturned boat in the Der-
went, off Taroona beach (Tas.),
rowed out to have a look at it.
Then the derelict gave a heave,
spouted foam, clouted the water
a terrific smack with its tail and
moved away. Not wishing to
argue with a 60ft. whale, the boat-
men hurriedly backed water and
got back on the beach. The whale
and a mate, probably stragglers
from a school making down
south, cruised about the river for
mree days, providing the locals with
a bit of excitement. The pair didn’t know
it, but while in the Derwent they were
under the care of the police, who warned
anybody against attempts to destroy them.
* * * *
“Maryvale”: The city cove blew in to
the Downs and, after talking to everyone
who came into the pub, announced that
he intended to settle on a small farm in
the district. Old Charlie got busy right
away trying to sell him his first cow.
“I got a snifter Jersey you can have for
a score. She’s a good cow —gives twenty
quarts a day.” “When do you milk her?
asked the city bloke. “Oh, at four
o’clock in the morning and again at”
began Charlie, when the Queen-street
cocky interrupted him. “If she’s such
a good cow,” he said, “what’s she doing
up at that hour?”
* » * •
“B. A. Ker”: Some six months ago
the kids found an injured peewee nestling
beneath an ironbark, and with strangely
unwonted humanity restored the bird to
his happy home. Last week, working
near the same tree about sundown, my
attention was attracted by the continual
piping of a peewee. Investigating, I
found a broken-winged, fully-grown bird
trying to climb the trunk. With feet and
beak gripping the rough bark while the
good wing worked overtime, the cripple
ascended in short zigzagging bursts
until the branches —at least 20ft. from
the ground—were reached. Taking par-
ticular notice every evening since, I’ve
found that the bird invariably goes
through the same performance always
roosting in the tree that was its birth-
place.
* * * ♦
“Eques”: Denny’s quiet old horse was
found standing over his body at the
20-mile gate, and the old story was
written as plain as could be. Many a
quiet horse has been led through a gate,
and has stood while his boss bent oyer
behind him to fasten the gate. The click
of the chain or catch has frightened the
steed and the rider’s head has been just
where it shouldn’t have been.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Few whites realise that
the nulla-nulla, which they regard ex-
clusively as a club for hand-to-hand fight-
ing, is also used by Black Brother as a
missile. Thrown end-over-end like a
bullet from a smooth-bore barrel, the
nulla-nulla would lose a lot of its effec-
tiveness. I saw one boy who could throw
it straight. His method was to select a
bit of claypan or other bare ground
about 12ft. in front of where he stood.
He threw the club on to that, and that
distance didn’t give the weapon time to
turn in the air. It rose from that sur-
face in a straight line and, with only
a tremor in its flight, held its course.
Any wallaby or ’roo hit by that end-
heavy club immediately ceased all worldly
worries.
* * * *
“Domino”: Things are getting tough
on the land. Took a contract job
with a cocky and agreed to “find”
myself. Not having much experience of
self-tuckering I landed with an over-
supply of sausages. On the second day
the cocky came down to the hut to find
out how I was doing. “Not so hot,” I
informed him; “I’ve had snorks for
breakfast, dinner and tea.” He pondered
this statement for some minutes, and
then asked how many sausages I had left.
I told him I had three of the so-and-sos.
Followed more head-scratching delibera-
tion and hasty calculation; finally he
announced “I’ll tell you what I’ll do—
I’ll give you two eggs for your three
sausages!”
* . * » •
“P.0.M.C.”: Baldy, the linesman,
nourishes two aversions—work and his
foreman. Having by circumstance to
endure both, he shirks the one and takes
rises out of the other. The foreman is
a punter, always ready to lend an ear to
whispers from the right quarter. Con-
sequently, when the usual lunch-hour dis-
cussion on spring events warmed up,
Baldy tossed his crusts to a dog and took
his cue. “Met a bloke yesterday who’s
down from Brisbane with a decent team
of neddies,” he informed us. The fore-
man paused in his consumption of a
fowl’s wing and pricked his ears. “This
cove’s made a lot of money with ’is
nags,” Baldy went on appreciatively.
“Brought ’em down in easy stages
through the New England district, an
ev’ry flamin’ time ’e started ’em ’e col-
lected.” With that Baldy got up and
tipped the dregs from his billy down a
drain, but the foreman displayed acute
anxiety to leam more. “Running them
down here, I suppose?” he inquired.
“Yairs; they’re on a merry-go-round,”
Baldy drawled.
* * * *
“Dip”: Cures for elbow-bending were
under discussion and Roaming Joe
warmed to the subject. “Don’t believe
in ’em,” he stated; “they always cause
more trouble than they’re worth. Take
the case of my old mate Harry. He was
steadily drinkin’ himself into a coffin
and we tried every cure we could find in
newspaper ads., but all they did was give
Harry such a crook taste in his mouth
that he’d spend a coupla days at the pub
tryin’ to wash it out. So I tried a stronger
method, ‘Look, Harry,’ I kept telling
him, ‘if you don’t ease up on the hops
your innards’ll drop out.’ Harry just
grinned, so when he came home one night
as plastered as ever I put him to bed
and slipped a sheep’s heart and liver
between the sheets with him. Next morn-
ing he came out to me with a face like
chalk and his two hands hangin’ on to
his Plimsoll. ‘ ’Strath, Joe,’ he moaned,
‘it’s happened just like you said!’ I put
him back to bed and let him go all day
thinkin’ that’s what had happened. Late
in the afternoon when I reckoned he’d
had enough shock to cure him of booze
for all time, I told him what I’d done.”
“And did that cure him?” we asked.
“Gripes, no,” said Roaming Joe, “the
silly coot drank himself to death m a
week trying to get over the shock!”
“ You're disqualified !”
COONABARABRAN.
In the town of Coonabarabran, out on the
Castlereagh,
There’s seldom much excitement as day drifts
after day.
The drovers come from Baradine and go to
Gunnedar,
And sometimes there’s a train comes in and
sometimes there's a car.
And the old clock at the crossroads is oft a
week behind,
For there’s time to spare in Coona. and the
townsfolk never mind,
And the rugged Warrumbungle peaks stand
wreathed in blue and grey,
Guarding lazy Coonabarabran, out on the
Castlereagh.
Now the fame of Coonabarabran lies in the
Castlereagh
And its place in song and story, where the
bushmen’s pens portray
AH the tales of camp and station. Through the
laughter and the tears
Runs the river with the lordly name that knew
the pioneers.
And though the place lies sleeping now among
its quiet trees*
It had its day of glory —aye, it has it memories.
And they’ll tell you of that distant hour should
you by fortune stray
Into sleepy Coonabarabran, out on the Castle-
reagh.
O’er the bridge at Coonabarabran, across the
Castlereagh,
There raced one morn a shouting youth a
message to convey,
And as took its import in the people
madly ran
In a wild stampede, excited, every woman,
child and man.
And they gathered on the river side and tasted,
saw and drank.
For dinkum, real wet water rolled along
between each bank!
The old hands’ eyes grow wistful when they
tell you of the day
That they had in Coonabarabran when flowed
the Castlereagh.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note al
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a de-
gree, if passage is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting. Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ness under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a:
Bpeclal remedy for the kidneys and will give
quick and lasting benefit. Old and yorrg
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS with perfect safety.
&
US
\!
rs
S'
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St.,
234 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
2933
Ideal for Hard Country Wear
A heavy Scotch Zebu Brogue, made with welted
heal and good quality leather back linings. Stocked
in full and half sizes. PRICE 45/-.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Myer Emporium (Melb.).
, Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total.t serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’31.. 154,296 9 p.c. 5 p.c. 152,550 1,746 207,829
’32.. 206,275 9 „ 6 „ 167,069 39,206 247,035
’33.. 217,724 9 „ 6 „ 167,705 50,019 297,054
’34.. 226,460 9 „ 6 „ 168,083 1 19 qn o
To tax reserve, £46,000 . . J 12,377 o 0J ’ 401
Unexplained addition, £16,251 •• 325,082
’35.. 261,462 9 p.c. 7)p.c. 194,237 67,165 392,847
’ 3G " 28 T 9 o 6G taff%und, 8 £3000 U :! 82 } 75)082 467,929
°7 ’ °To °staff^fund, ' £3OOO 2 °.’. 21 ° j 97,801 565,730
’38.. 319,369 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 I
Written off freehold, £20,006 } 74,159 039,889
To staff fund, £5OOO .. J
’39.. 305,080 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210)
Written off freehold, £20,000 1 59,870 699,759'
To staff fund, £5OOO .. J
’40.. 322,260 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210)
Written off freehold, £20,000 1 77,050 776,809
To staff fund, £5OOO ..
’41.. 289,473 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 ]
Written off freehold, £20,000 - 49,263 806,072
To staff fund, £20,000 . . J
f Including employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
This is the largest department store in
Australia. Including the two subsidiaries
—Myer Emporium (S. Aus.) and Myer
Woollen Mills—there is £7,086,955 in-
vested in the organisation according to
latest balance sheets.
Factors contributing to the co.’s suc-
cess have been able and enterprising
management, large-scale, keen buying,
manufacture of much of its own require-
ments (in addition to the woollen mills,
the co. has over 30 workrooms in Mel-
bourne alone), the position and layout
of the store, a well-trained staff, extensive
service to customers in all directions, and
forceful selling methods by means of
wide and informative advertising.
War conditions have increased the
volume of money available for spending,
owing to outlay on defence contracts,
Britain’s purchase of surplus exports at
satisfactory prices, absorption of workers
into defence industries and into the fight-
ing services, and wage lifts. And the
more war expenditure is financed by
credit expansion rather than taxation of
current income and savings the greater
will be the apparent prosperity. The
greater also will be the rise in prices
and in the cost of living—both, in the
long run, pernicious forms of taxation
that hit hardest those who cannot pass
on increased costs.
During the 12 months to the end of
July, Myer’s turnover continued to swell
•—the workrooms were unusually busy,
partly owing to restricted imports, and
the woollen mills found it difficult to
cope with the full volume of commercial
orders because of prior defence needs.
The S. Aus. subsidiary made further
progress and again paid 9 p.c. The
percentage of gross earnings and exes, to
turnover remained fairly steady, suggest-
ing a tight hold upon controllable exes.
The slip of £32,787 in net earnings was
due entirely to provision for taxation
(£200,000, up £102,500). In addition, the
co. paid to the Government in sales tax
£450,000, customs duties £105,000, child
endowment £35,000, and land tax, etc.,
£45,000; a total of £835,000, whereas
only £289,473 of the year’s earnings was
available for shareholders. The £289,473
was enough to pay the pref. and staff-
partnership divs. (together £64,960) and
show 13 p.c. on the £1,725,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 14.9, 13.9, 14.7,
14.7, 13, 11.3, 9 and 8.9 p.c. back to
1933. The div. was kept at 6 p.c. and a
3 p.c. bonus again added, making 9 p.c.
for the year. After writing £20,000 off
the book value of property and sending
£20,000 to the staff fund, £49,263 was
put on the shelf, making the tangible
support for capital £806,072 goodwill
(£250,000) is not treated as an asset
herein.
The financial position further im-
proved :
1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages. . ~ 516,650 411,500 408,000
Sundry creditors.. 778,441 998,659 1,422,929
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. . . 2,105,195 2,084,566 2,084,560
Plant, vehicles, etc. 269,786 235,327 216,850
Shares in other cos. 441,309 441,309 441,309
Stocks .. .. 1,093,863 1,437,167 1,818,063
Debtors . . . . 706,997 702,535 846,878
Cash, etc 25,314 45,108 93,614
To add £144,343 to debtors’ balances
and carry £380,896 more stocks —well-
bought merchandise is one of the most
valuable assets a co. can hold these days
—the board went outside for an extra
£421,370. When the books closed more
or less liquids exceeded outside liabilities
by £1,368,935, an improvement of
£152,975.
As for the future, all that can be said
definitely is that the co. is well equipped
to earn whatever profits are to be had
from this class of business.
At 30s. 3d. (325. 6d. a year ago) the
ords. return 5.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 335. 9d. (355. 6d. a year ago)
yield 5.3 p.c. The net tangible cover
(consolidated figures) is £5 14s. Bd. prefs.
and 345. lOd. ords.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
t — Dividends— ~
/ Prefs. * —,, Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
To tax reserve, £16,547 .. .. 99,830
Unexplained addition, £5925.. .. 105,755
Portion goodwill sold, £5588 . . 111,343
1932.. 48,919 11,222 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 132,939
Added goodwill, etc., £Bl6 .. .. 132,123
1933.. 44,096 10,463 1697 6) p.c.= 18,565 145,494
Intangibles disappear, £3292 . . 148,780
1934.. 56,836 13,500 2141 9 p.c. = 25,705 164,276
1935.. 76,170 13,500 2190 10 „ „ 28,562 196,195
To contingency reserve, £5OOO .. 191,195
1936.. 89,907 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 222,569
To contingency reserve, £6OOO .. 216,569
1937.. 93,240 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 251.276
Added intangibles, £1443 .. .. 249,833
1938.. 94,432 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 285,732
Added intangibles, £37 .. .. 285,695
1939.. 94,951 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 322,113
Added intangibles, £4150 . . . . 317,963
1940.. 92,580 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 352,010
Intangibles disappear, £751 . . . . 351,261
1941. . 84,002 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 378,230
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October, 1931.
With its group of prosperous sub-
sidiaries, this old-established co. has an
Australasian business in widely-used
products and equipment for brewers,
bottlers, bakers, hotelkeepers, restaurateurs
and soft-drink makers, etc., manufactur-
ing many of its own requirements and im-
porting others. Earnings of the pups,
of which Australian Seal Pty. and Cham-
pion’s Vinegar (Aust.) Pty. are healthy
examples, are taken credit for only to the
extent of divs. declared, and the “Wild
Cat” would be surprised if the parent’s
conservatism doesn’t spread to its off-
shoots. Chances therefore are that the
position is more attractive than the
published accounts indicate.
The co. trades under its own name in
Sydney, Brisbane and Auckland only ; in
Vic., S. Aus. and the Speck business is
done as Harrison, San Miguel, and in
Westralia F. A. Henriques is the trading
co. Only once in the 15 years of expan-
sion and consolidation since the public
was invited in have ord.-holders been
passed by ; that was in the dim days of
1931, when only 9.7 p.c. was available
for them. In each of the past half-dozen
years they have had 15 p.c. with wide
margins, and war appears to have had
little adverse effect on the scope of
trading, despite some interruption to
overseas supplies.
As usual, the parent shows latest earn-
ings from all sources in one line at
£84,002, after writing moderately-valued
plant down a further £11,338. The fall
of £8578 reflects the taxgatherer’s fatter
participation in profits rather than loss
of custom. Still, there was enough to
pay the prefs. and show 23.9 p.c. on ord.
capital, against 26.9 and 27.5 p.c. for the
two preceding periods, and the 15 p.c.
div. again presented no difficulty. With
£26,220 added last term, the pile of net
reserves has grown £261,853 over the past
decade, despite the heap of competition
meantime attracted.
Here are other comfortable aspects of
the parent’s finances:
iqqk 1930 1040 1941.
Paid capital, £457,520 £457,520 £457,520 £457,520
Sundry creditors 44,909 127,290* 147,632* 179,441*
Freeholds .. 209,083 254,940 277,739 287,451
Plant, etc. . . 34,463 44,720 42,870 42,137
Shares subsid. 1 99 , ... ( 251,357 251,113 250,569
Loans subsid. J • i24 « 01b ( 29,140 24,617 28,829
Stocks . . 82,231 122,670 157,279 139,021
Book debts. . 57,082 70,630 93,311 105,650
Mortgage . . 51,130
Cash, etc. . . 94,130 169,873 146,640 197,942
* Includes provision for taxes, staff benefits and
contingencies.
More elbowroom was required last
term, and £9712 was added to freeholds,
steadily mounting of recent years. The
cash holding was strengthened by £51,302,
which suggests that the lift of £31,809 in
liabilities had something to do with the
contingency provisions contained therein,
including taxation. Breaking up of the
composite item would no doubt be in-
teresting ; like shareholdings valued at a
quarter-million, the entry is at present
inscrutable.
Investors with an eye to well-protected
immediate divs. and the possibility of
later benefits pay 655. for Mauri Bros,
ords., at which the return is 4.6 p.c. The
150,000 9 p.c. prefs. yield 5.2 p.c. at
345. 3d. There is also a £21,900 10 p.c.
issue which is seldom traded. Book value
of the cover is visibly 465. 6d. ords.,
£5 11s. sd. 9 p.cs. and £3l 6s. 3d. 10 p.cs.
West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.
Nominal
Net , Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1931.. 57,196 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 38,160 19,036 74,360
Specific reserves written back, £13,636.. 87,996
1932.. 61,369 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 38,100 23,209 111,205
1933.. 47,515 8 „ 8 „ 38,160 9,355 120,560
1934.. 52,979 8 „ 8 „ 38,160 14,819 135,379
1935.. 68,616 8 „ 104 „ 47,585 21,031 156,410
1936.. 69,884 8 „ 104 „ 47,585 1 9sn 17 , fiQn
Prelim, exes, written off, £4019)
1937.. 74,177 8 p.c. 104 p.c. 57,387 16,790 191,480
1938.. 74,439 8 „ 104 „ 63,419 11,020 202,500
1939.. 71,565 8 „ 9| „ 56,821 14,744 217,244
1940.. 56,259 8 „ 7 „ 44,946 11,313 228,557
1941.. 72,084 8 „ 9-1 „ 56,821 1 in9fi o 2 ,o S2O
Superannuation fund, £5OOO . . j
t Subject to goodwill, £298,931.
The co. has Perth’s daily news field
to itself. It took over from the trustee
of knight Winthrop Hackett’s estate in
1926, paying £298,931 for goodwill, of
which all but £60,111 has since been
recouped from accumulated earnings.
The stable now houses the “West Aus-
tralian,” morning daily with roots in the
thirties of last century; the “News,”
evening broadsheet acquired with the
issued capital of Perth Newspapers in
1935; and two weeklies, the “Western
Mail” and “Broadcaster.” A half-interest
is also held in W.A. Broadcasters, operat-
ing three radio stations, and the
co. is a party to the expanding newsprint
venture fostered by metropolitan dailies
at New Norfolk (Tas.).
Though the West has missed most of
the benefits conferred on the “effete” East
by defence spending, economic activity
was well maintained last term, notwith-
standing lighter cheques for wool and
(particularly) wheat and the lag in gold-
production, effects of which are more
likely to show up in the current term.
The sharp reverse in 1940 earnings was
because of unrecovered advances in costs
during the initial nine months of war.
Restoration of net earnings to 1939
dimensions followed restriction of news-
print supplies to 65 p.c. of pre-war ton-
nages, which brought economies in pro-
duction, and revised advertising charges.
Returns from property and other invest-
ments (£19,680) turned in £4929 more,
too, and, after allowing £43,000 (up
£18,000) for taxation, net improved by
£15,825 to £72,084.
After handing the prefs. their 8 p.c.,
that was enough to show 12.1 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 9.1, 12, 12.5,
14.6 and 16.4 p.c. back to 1936. Div.
was restored to the 9} p.c. of 1939, leav-
ing £10,263 to put by after passing £5OOO
to a staff fund. Continuance of that rate
from the ords., covered by 17s. 9d. in
net tangibles, would yield 5.7 p.c. at 325.
Because of its effect on advertising space,
further limitation in paper to 35 p.c. of
base-year tonnages as from Oct. 1 may
not prove so beneficial to earnings as
last year’s ration.
Conservative valuation of plant and
comfortable finances show up in these
figures:—
Paid capital— 1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Pref. . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £ 100,000
Old. .. 377,000 527,800 527,800 527,800
Debentures, etc. 152,251
Overdraft .. 71,002 29,694 -
Other liabilities 7,385 32,300 23,764 24,259
Freeholds . . 299,033 296,087 314,682 314,682
Plant, etc. . . 107,385 80,084 60,023 46,883
Stock.. .. 27,159 41,991 93,801 49.657
Shares . . 96,754 99,804 121,311 137,651
Sundry debtors 42,004 46,207 47,012 40,190
Consols, cash, etc. 60,125 60,807 28,159' 87,821
As stocks were used up last year the
money found its way into the bank, the
cash holding lifting £59,662 and the over-
draft disappearing. Coincident with
expansion of £16,340 in the shares item
is an alteration in nomenclature to in-
clude “sundry investments.” The share-
holdings are mainly scrip in “News,”
whose figures, for clarity, might well now
be incorporated with those of the parent.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1931.. 37,730 6 p.c. = 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6 „ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
1933.. 41,017 6 „ „ 30,000 11,017 163,624
1934.. 48,638 7 „ ~ 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7 „ „ 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8 „ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ ~ 40,000 25,089 231,269
1938.. 50,047 74 „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7 „ „ 38,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7 „ „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ ~ 38,500 5,408 269,620
The Imperial purchase deal has elimi-
nated much of the speculative element
from woolbroking, and though not all
the staple is being shipped it is being
promptly paid for. Chief factors now
affecting these cos.’ earnings are costs
and seasons. The latter weren’t so favor-
able last term, total wool realisations in
N.S.W., where Winchcombe’s does three-
fourths of its business, being 6 p.c.
lighter; in Queensland the fall was
9 p.c.
As a result, Winchcombe’s turnover in
both States was 19,740 bales lighter, and
the same cause also affected cattle sales:
Wocl
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1932 .. 214,126 481,507 21,901
1934 .. 206,277 442,0 fg 20,447
1935 .. 233,840 426,674 25,457
1936 . . 210,640 365,724 28,736
1937 .. 238,473 458,439 32,725
1938 ~ 213,801 423,573 44,919
1939 .. 207,354 395,256 29,272
1940 .. 259,596 434,870 28,500
1941 . . 239,856 504,617 17,346
Still, the number of sheep put under the
hammer was the highest yet recorded,
and the produce section benefited by the
remunerative prices of rabbit-skins. The
decline of £9318 in declared profits
mainly reflects “additional provision con-
sidered prudent” for taxation. On capi-
tal the £43,908 ran out at 8 p.c., com-
pared with 8.7, 9.1 and 13 p.c. back to
the high prices of 1937-38. Div. stayed
at 7 p.c. Considering the wide range of
influences determining the value of the
sheep’s staple, distributions have pre-
served noteworthy stability over the past
decade.
Extension to Newcastle, where most
leading brokers are now installed, was
the major development last term. Free-
holds lifted £56,549, but the spacious
modern woolstore was completed too late
to give much assistance to its keep:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £500,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Liabilities .. 510,121* 528,308 568,622 513,336
Freeholds . . 200,624 200,624 200,624 257,173
Plant . . 10,108 16,477 16,452 17,493
Stocks •• 37,474 33,387 65,775 71,642
Advances, etc. 1,001,552 1,046,789 1,107,380 989,041
Investments and
cash . . 11,321 11,351 11,851 16,856
Consignments . 310 38,415
* Including £6190 share moneys in advance.
Repayment of £118,339 of advances
enabled the outlay to be met and the
debt cut back by £55,286. Since the close
of accounts, the Central Wool Committee
has distributed a final 16 p.c. of gross
proceeds among participating growers in
respect of retention and equalisation


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated Dv
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street. Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout: ■
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Form a Group! Join a Group! Buy War Savings Certificates.
III's VIRGINIAS
TASTE BETTER BECAUSE
THEY'RE MADE FROM
BETTER TOBACCOS I
m
wm
mm
ST
nnw
mnn
Wmi
10 for 7d.
20 for I/ 2
Also flat fiW es
wm
mmm
fay//}
mmm
WHNK
IPw
Si
laii
OT
ITMITS
/ § r§- m
'jMM THREE SENiEUS . Y-
HI M\RG\N\fc
B CIGARETTES
I K
Jf V
k/jr product
* THREE SEVENS *
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
VISCACELLE-WR APPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
moneys. Depression experience was that
advances were of flexible character.
As for the current term, the clip all
round will be lighter. But the extension
to Newcastle should bring more into the
home, and at 255. 3d. for the pound ords.,
which return 5.6 p.c., the market appar-
ently expects 7 p.c. to be maintained. The
cover is 295. lOd. per pound of paid
capital in net tangibles. What may
happen later will depend partly on the
price we can sell to a war-tshattered
Europe (largely a matter of our own
costs), the level of post-war stocks and
the advances made by synthetic fibres.
“Peta”: If the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment really wants copper, and still
more copper, it might call for an inves-
tigation of the Silver Valley field, near
Herberton, N.Q., which started, largely
by German prescience, on the old Lance-
lot mine. The Germans thought well of
it, and later a Broken Hill expert, when
the field was in the hands of prospectors,
reported on the lack of capital and the
possibilities of the new-found flotation
on ores that carried silver, lead, zinc and
copper. The old Lenette is still producing
an occasional parcel, but, in the hands
of a few Government-aided prospectors,
is up against the impossible. Like Tan-
talus, they see 2000 tons of ore in the
backs and can get only a trickle of it
out at a time, and so the month’s record
goes down as 14 tons of 8 p.c. copper
ore. This mine has had sloping widths
of occasionally 14ft., and might average
half that all over. On a grade of 12
p.c, copper and 9oz. silver, a couple of
prospectors formerly produced 260 tons
of metallic copper in three years, so what
might company development do if capi-
tal can be attracted? But no one appears
to have thought about it, and the pros-
pector has no actual approach to big
mining interests.
* * * *
The pother and delay in getting mining
titles to the bauxite deposits at Tam-
bourine (S.Q.) have had an airing in
Parliament, where Pie, M.L.A., has com-
plained of the strangulation of attempts
at development. Better-grade bauxite has
been found since the initial discoveries,
some results showing 50 p.c. to 60 p.c,
free alumina.
* * * *
The maiden div. of 6d. from Snowy
River Gold Dredging lifted the market
for the ss. shares to 9s, Adelaide-
controlled but Maoriland-operating, the
co. is now winning around 2500 z. gold
a week, which is three times as much as
in its initial months’ dredging and
not so very far behind results exhibited
by the big fellows on the South Island’s
West Coast. The extent of the rich patch
being dug hasn’t been indicated, but
yields like that can’t be expected to
average out over the life of the property,
which, handling 1,000,000 c.y. annually,
is in the vicinity of 15 years.
=F * * *
Prospects of Wiluna (W.A.) have
further brightened, and the Happy Jack
shaft at the north end of the co.’s exten-
sive holding is to be deepened from
1100 ft. to 1300 ft. Early in 1939 R. F.
Binns —then London consulting engineer
and now a director —reckoned the end
was 30 months off. At the annual meet-
ing the following December chairman
F. H. Hamilton advised considering the
mine as a salvage proposition, despite
exposure of additional ore since Binns’s
bleak report. Early this year the mine
was declared barely 18 months ahead of
the mill. Now further unexpected wealth
has been opened up in the Happy Jack
and main workings. After looking far
and wide in the West for a second string
to its golden bow, co. is reported to have
taken an option on the Mt. Charlotte-
Hannan’s Reward group at Kalgoorlie,
for which £220,000 is said to be wanted.
* * * *
North Kal.’s standard profit for
British excess-profits tax hasn’t been
finally decided upon, but, subject to any
special release for wasting assets, is ex-
pected to be in the neighborhood of
£136,000 stg. The large excess now being
earned above that figure, with Croesus
block producing, automatically passes to
the Chancellor. Development last term
produced “substantial increase” in reserve
ore, proving the downward continuation
of the North Kalgurli or Main West lode
and disclosing new makes. Practically
every corner of this efficient producer's
property is ore-producing.
Digging-up of rich ore in the south
drive on No. 8 level is manna from
heaven to Norseman (W.A.), which has
gone to a 50 p.c, premium after not so
long ago being 20 p.c. below par. Whether
the discovery will prove the bonanza it
looks has yet to be determined ; values
of 500 oz. a ton in a 9in. seam were men-
tioned, and loz. 14dwt. over a full width
of 42in., excluding seam. Subsequent
faces showed somewhat less coarse gold.
* * * *
Tindals’ (W.A.) June quarter profit was
£A10,314, compared with £A7920 for
the previous three months. Enlargement
of the plant is proceeding.
* * SK *
If a deal goes through, gold won in
the option period by Yellowdine Gold
Areas from its Evanston interest (W.A.)
will be applied by the vendors towards
the purchase price of £15,000.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H. Bn's.: Tableland Tin has 240,000 £1 ords.,
120,000 shilling deferreds, and 80,000 prefs. paid
to £l. The deferreds are deferred as to repay-
ment of capital only, otherwise ranking equally
with the ords. The prefs. are entitled to a first
8 p.c. div. and then equal participation with
all other classes of shares, plus priority as to
capital. Tire show is rather heavily capitalised,
but ords. or deferreds at below 10s. should be
attractive in view of the good-looking nature
of the property. Taxation, if the big dredge
starts in war-time, may be a temporary but
heavy burden.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE THREAT TO INDIA.
(Condensed from cm American “Harper’s Magazine
article by Anup Singh, director of the Research Bureau
of the India League of America.)
The war is at the very gates of India. For the
first time since 1858, when Britain took over the Gov-
ernment from the East India Company, the country
is facing a real danger from abroad. Any British
reversal in the Middle East, and the Axis troops may
easily gain a foothold on the Persian Gulf, bringing
India within striking distance. Through Iran or
through Russia, should the latter collapse, the north-
western frontier passes that have lured invaders from
Alexander down may feel the thrust of Hitler’s
mechanised hordes.
India has always been the hub of the British
Empire. Since the war her strategic position has
assumed a new significance. Now that the passage
through the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal has
become hazardous, the Imperial Air Line uniting Eng-
land with Australia via Bagdad, Karachi, Calcutta,
Singapore, and with the Far East through India and
Siam, remains the vital link in the Empire. With
Japan’s growing hold upon the Pacific and on the
riverways and coast of China, the land route through
Burma for possible aid to China is becoming increas-
ingly useful.
India is rapidly growing to be the arsenal of war
supplies. The entire Indian woollen mill industry has
been taken over for British military requirements.
Some 125,000 pairs of army boots per month for
Britain come from India, and her millions of jute
sandbags cushion the historic buildings of England
against air attack. She produces 2,000,000 tons of
pig iron and 1,000,000 tons of finished steel per year,
and about 72 per cent, of all the steel and iron for
her own needs. Her iron-ore reserve is the largest in
the world. India manufactures nearly 90 per cent,
of her peace army needs of rifles, machine-guns, small
arms, ammunition, propellers of all sorts, six-inch
guns, six-inch howitzers and anti-aircraft guns. New
aircraft industry has recently been established under
American supervision. The Indian branches of
General Motors and Ford have expanded their plants
to supply 25,000 a year additional motor vehicles for
military purposes. Shipyards are building naval
vessels, torpedo-boats and sloops.
India is also a huge reservoir of man-power. To
India Britain must turn more and more for this supply
if the war continues. There were 160,000 Indian
troops at the outbreak of the war, which have since
been increased to 500,000, trained and equipped in
India, and there are besides 50,000 British troops.
Further recruitment proceeds apace. [General Wavell
recently announced that 750,000 Indians were under
arms, with recruits still flowing in fast.] The Indian
air force has been quadrupled since the war. Indian
troops are everywhere today defending the outposts
of India. In the Middle East they have acquitted
themselves splendidly. Crack British and Indian troops,
almost half of India’s army, traditionally poised on
the frontier in apprehension of the Russian Bear, may
now be called upon to come to the rescue of the once-
dreaded foe.
The tragedy of the situation is that, in spite of its
vast contributions, the country is not fully alive to
its own danger. It has often been said that a united
India is behind Britain in this war. That is true only
in the sense of an overwhelming anti-Nazi feeling in
India, but this feeling is not channelled into willing
aid for Britain. The political situation is far from
happy.
After holding back for over a year Gandhi finally
launched his Individual Civil Disobedience in Sep-
tember, 1940. The Indian Nationalists’ refusal to aid
Britain at the outbreak of war was a protest against
Britain’s dragging India in without the latter’s consent
and against Britain’s refusal unequivocally to declare
her future intentions about India. They refused aid,
but did not interfere with war efforts. On July 27,
1940, after the fall of France, the National Congress
offered to participate in Britain’s war efforts and to
abandon non-violence in case of external aggression,
provided a Provisional National Government repre-
senting all parties were set up for the duration and
a pledge were made to |rant India self-government
within a specified time after the termination of the
war. This momentous reversal was prompted by the
apprehension that India’s very safety was in danger.
The offer to compromise meant the triumph of realism
over ethical idealism.
Gandhi was quick to perceive that if Congress
could discard non-violence now in the case of any
new aggressor, what would restrain it in future from
discarding it against Britain if expediency warranted
it? He pleaded against the compromise.
Britain failed to grasp the opportunity. The
Viceroy offered to take a “certain number of repre-
sentative Indians” into his enlarged executive council,
and some on the war advisory council; reiterated
Dominion status as India’s goal, and promised India a
Constitution drafted by a body representative of the
principal elements in India’s national life. The Con-
gress protested that its desire not to embarrass Britain
at a time of peril had been “misunderstood and
despised.” The reference to principal elements in
India was interpreted as meaning the “bejewelled
Maharajahs, belted knights, European industrialists
and commercial magnates, big landlords, Indian indus-
trialists, representatives of the Imperial Services and
a few commoner mortals.” Congress looked upon the
expansion of the Viceroy’s council as of no value, since
the Indians would still be in merely advisory capacity.
The Moslem League expressed satisfaction, but re-
fused, on the ground of inadequate representation,
to participate. The Congress Working Committee
rescinded its previous resolution of compromise, and
invited Gandhi to lead the movement as the
generalissimo.
Gandhi sought freedom of expression to state the
Congress position to the people. The Viceroy re-
minded him that, even though conscientious objectors
in England may profess their faith in public, they are
not allowed to dissuade others from aiding in war
efforts. Gandhi challenged the Government to vindi-
cate its claim that the people of India were willingly
in the war by allowing them to express themselves.
The conversations broke down.
Gandhi called upon his trusted followers to court
prison by defying the British ban upon speeches
against war. The new movement was dramatised with
the arrest and four-year sentence of Jawaharlal
Nehru, “India’s gaolbird.” Nehru reminded the
Court that no individual had ever been a more
vehement opponent of Nazism than himself, but that
unless India were given freedom at home she could
not go abroad fighting for others’ freedom at Britain’s
bidding. His arrest was a signal for many more to
follow. Several months ago the number of arrests
had reached many thousands. Thus the political party
that carried the polls in eight out of eleven provinces
in British India before the war remains at logger-
heads with the Government at this moment. Gandhi
himself is still at large.
There are other danger spots. The Hindu-
Moslem tension has been aggravated by Mohammed
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
AT BAY.
Ali Jinnah’s persistent and vociferous demands for
carving India into religious blocks. He has banded
together under him the more reactionary of the Indian
Moslems. Happily there are certain elements among
the Moslems themselves who reject the plan. But,
midst political turmoil, the alluring promises of
fanatics to the poverty-stricken masses that partition
is the panacea for their ills constantly make new con-
verts. It is reviving among other communities hidden
dreams of their past grandeur.
The Princes are enthusiastically behind Britain in
the war, as they were in the last one. But they are
now facing unrest. The Indian Army remains loyal
to the Crown, but, to make it national and to bring
it closer to the people, the leaders of India have asked
for years that the army be officered by Indians. Some
small beginnings have recently been made in this
direction.
The North-western Frontier presents another diffi-
cult problem that must be tackled. It is well fortified
and its defence is being rapidly reinforced. It is hilly
and highly inaccessible, and the temperature of 121 deg.
F. in the shade will try the mettle of any newcomer.
But in this region the traditional hostility of the tribes
against Britain has never been fully overcome. Tribal
raids upon British territory, though less frequent,
still continue. Unless these tribesmen are won over,
they can create serious trouble in certain contingen-
cies. It is rumored that Afghanistan, the buffer State
between Russia and India, is honeycombed with
German technicians.
Interminable discussion goes on in India over the
question of British war aims. Britain has recognised
India’s theoretical right to freedom, but when is it
to come? Eden promised Syria freedom after the
war, but made no reference to India, and the impli-
cation of this omission was not lost on India. Britain
may have to offer something tangible.
For the first time Britain and India face a common
danger. If Britain needs India, so does India need
Britain.
« * * * *
(From an article in London “Fortnightly Review”
by Sir William P. Barton.)
Is there any hope of ending the deadlock and
attracting political support to the Indian Government
and its war effort? A proposal put forward by a
group of Indian National Liberals is that the Govern-
ment should be handed over to Indian politicians
who would be responsible to the King-Emperor
through the Viceroy, and not to Parliament or the
Central Legislative Assembly, for the period of the
war, full Dominion status to be conferred afterwards.
It is felt that if such an opportunity were offered to
political India, combined with an appeal in the name
of the King-Emperor to the whole country to rally
behind the throne for the defence of India against the
growing threat of invasion, warring factions would
unite and work together to throw the whole weight of
India into the war effort.
This optimistic view seems to give too little con-
sideration to the existing political situation. Consider
for a moment the psychology of Congress. You have
a body of men who disbelieve in non-violence and
yet chant the litany of the creed because only by
doing so can they have at their disposal the mystic
appeal of Gandhi, the political ascetic, without which
they would lose the support of the masses. Half of
them proclaim that British imperialism is, if anything,
more loathsome than Nazism ;
they are only held back from a
campaign of violence by Gandhi’s
influence; the other half are
mainly concerned to expropriate
British business interests. Could
we hope that men who are de-
liberately hampering Britain and
her allies in a life-and-death
struggle, for India as much as for
themselves, would bring an im-
partial mind to bear on this pro-
position for a union between
themselves and their opponents?
It seems highly improbable. In
any case, as a preliminary to an
agreement Congress would accept
nothing less than independence,
which in itself would keep off the
Moslems. The issue, in point of
fact, lies between Congress and
the latter. Unless they can agree
the whole thing is impossible.
Non-Congress Hindu poli-
ticians are equally hostile to the
Moslems. The communal award,
which Moslems regard as their
Magna Charta, must go ; these
Hindus expect Britain to deny to
the Moslems a separate State, to
insist on their accepting majority
rule. It seems hopeless to expect
Hindus to give way on these
points; Moslems will fight to a
finish rather than concede them.
Even if by a miracle a truce could
be patched up it is doubtful if it
would stand the strain of action.
A breakdown would leave the
position worse than at the start.
The alternative of expanding
the Viceroy’s Council into a War
Cabinet by the inclusion of repre-
sentative Indian statesmen is
worth trying out. It would be
necessary to give Moslems equal
representation with the Hindus;
the Princes would co-operate ; the
Hindu Mahasabha, in the face of the growing threat to
the North-west Frontier, would in all probability join
the Ministry. Congress would almost certainly stand
aloof, but would hesitate to challenge authority sup-
ported by a strong body of non-official Indians in
the Central Government.
* * * *
C From London “Times.”)
Whatever troops India may have sent to outer
bastions like Egypt and Malaya, she bears only the
normal cost of a specified number, which the Gov-
ernment of India agreed to maintain in peace-time
specifically for external defence. This liability is
naturally much less than the extensive liabilities under-
taken by the Dominions. In the Dominions troops
raised and sent abroad operate at the charge of the
Dominions ; for India the liability proposed by the
Chatfield Committee has remained the limit of her
financial obligations in respect of operations beyond
her frontiers, except for a single payment of one
crore of rupees (£750,000) towards the extra cost of
maintaining troops overseas.
But growing burdens are falling on the Indian
taxpayer. The strength of the forces and other
measures needed for local defence have multiplied
enormously since the Chatfield Committee reported,
and the cost falls on India. The expansion of the
Army, Navy and Air Force involves heavy expendi-
ture chargeable to Indian revenues. A great army is
being raised. Provision has been made for creating
new armored and mechanised cavalry regiments, field
artillery regiments, infantry battalions, engineer units,
more motor transport sections, and all the highly-
trained and specialised ancillary troops needed for
modern war. Schools for advanced training in all


listen to tthe old lady of threadneedle street
Sponsored by
f 9
atul&
2UE. WED. & FRI., 7.45 p.m. A Dramatic Programme of Outstanding Merit.
WINES
branches of military knowledge and in the use of
modern weapons have been greatly increased.
Elaborate measures for frontier defence have
been adopted. A.R.P. work is undertaken throughout
the country and an Indian observer corps has been
formed. In local naval defence a big shipbuilding
programme has been launched, and the recruitment
and training of officers and men for the new con-
struction is well advanced. The Indian Air Force and
its reserve organisations have been expanded, and
earlier deficiencies in equipment are being overcome ;
the first aeroplanes to be made in India will soon
lake the air.
America’s Great Illusion.
(Condensed from a New York “Life” article in which
Walter Lippman discusses the results of the isolationist
influence on U.S. foreign policy.)
The American people are making the greatest
military effort in their history. They are mak-
ing it because they find themselves in imminent danger
of standing alone in a hostile world. They are pre-
paring for war because they know they must work
and fight their way out of this peril. We are encircled
by an alliance of great Powers of Europe and Asia
held in check only by the desperate resistance of the
British and the Chinese and Russians.
These are the consequences of the foreign policy
that we have followed. Its net result is that we find
ourselves surrounded by war and surrounded by
enemies, feverishly trying to prepare ourselves against
dangers we have not had the wit or the courage to
forestall.
The ultimate responsibility is upon all of us. We
are free men and we are responsible for what has
happened. But the historic fact is that for more than
20 years a Senate minority, exploiting the rule which
permits unlimited debate, has exercised a veto on
every President and on all the majorities in every
Congress. The effect has been to compel every Admin-
istration to adopt a foreign policy of isolationism.
The isolationists have pre-
vailed. They, not Wilson, deter-
mined the treaty of peace which
ended America’s part in the other
war. They wrote the Neutrality
Acts. They opposed the repeal of
the arms embargo before the out-
break of the war, thus gravely
weakening France and Britain and
delaying by many months the de-
velopment of an aeroplane and
munitions industry in this country.
They have resisted every foot of
the way the development of aid to
Great Britain and China, and the
programme has been so much de-
layed by their obstruction that what
would have been a mighty contri-
bution 12 months ago is no longer
sufficient.
The strategy of defence im-
posed upon us under isolationist
leadership is based upon the same
deadly error which has wrecked all
the free nations of Europe. It is
the illusion that the defensive is
stronger than the offensive.
It is evident enough now why
the illusion of the impregnable de-
fensive captured the imagination of
the democracies. What the people of England, France
and America remembered most vividly of the war of
1914-18 were the bloody offensives on the Western
Front, in which infantry was hurled against barbed
wire and machine-guns and then massacred by the
defenders. It was this memory that caused the French
to feel that if they built the Maginot Line they could
never again be invaded.
What the Germans remembered most vividly were
not the three and a half years of bloody stalemate
but the final three months when, with tanks and air
superiority, the Allies did break the German front.
Long before Hitler was heard of the German Army
was studying the lessons of its defeat, and the stra-
tegical genius shown by the Germans in this war is
based upon the real, rather than the imaginary, lessons
of the other war.
Thus, while the democracies built Maginot Lines,
the Germans organised armored divisions ; while the
democracies manufactured defensive pursuit ’planes,
the Germans manufactured bombers; while the
democracies taught their people to think of passive
defence, the Germans got themselves thoroughly
ready for the offensive. Nor was it only in strictly
military affairs that the Germans took the offensive.
They pursued an offensive foreign policy, designed to
separate and encircle the democracies one by one
and then to compel them when conquered to assist
in the offensive against the next victim.
Thus Germany, which until five years ago was
disarmed and encircled, had managed, before a shot
was fired in open warfare, to break up the world
coalition, to separate Russia from France, to envelop
Italy, to destroy Czechoslovakia, to isolate Poland, to
make an alliance with Japan and to encourage the
United States to go on thinking that nothing which
happened across the ocean or on it could matter.
It was this ruthless political strategy which set the
stage for the military victories of the German Army.
The passive defensive which the isolationists have
imposed upon this country is based on the notion that
an armed circle can be drawn around the United
States, and that behind the protection of our two
oceans we can never be successfully attacked.
It is a false theory. It arises from an underlying
military fallacy that a nation can be defended suc-
cessfully by standing guard at the frontier, waiting to
be attacked and then repelling the attack. This is a
certain invitation to military disaster. For if a nation
tries to stand guard on its whole frontier all the time
it can never be very strong at every point. The enemy
is free to concentrate an overwhelming force at the
weakest point. To defend the Western Hemisphere
by a passive defence not only means patrolling at least
15,000 miles of sea frontier, but it means that when
the attack is launched the fighting will occur in
American waters and at the expense of American ship-
ping and American ports.
The theory of the passive defence combined with
the policy of political isolation means, therefore, giv-
ing the enemy every possible advantage: a nation
guided by such a policy deprives itself of allies and
permits its enemies to form alliances. Having prac-
tised isolation, it finds itself encircled. Such a policy
is sheer folly.
We are now repairing our mistake. The price is
a gigantic military effort, the conscription of our
—New York “Times.”
“IT’S ONLY A WORM."
young men and the regimentation of our industry and
of our lives ; before the peril is overcome the price
may be a long and difficult war.
Germany is a great Power on land but, unless she
wins this war and subjugates Britain, Germany is
without power on the sea. Britain and Japan are island
empires. We alone have a great navy based upon the
resources of a continent —a combination which Hitler
dreams of but which only the American nation actu-
ally possesses. This power, once it is fully mobilised
and rightly directed, will give us the means to repair
our mistakes.
But the bravest men, the most brilliant com-
manders, the best ships and ’planes and tanks will not
restore the security we had in 1918, and have now
lost, unless the American people and the American
Congress rid themselves of the illusions and the fal-
lacies and the obsessions which destroyed our victory
in the other war and prepared the disasters which we
have now to overcome.
U.S.—“Popgun Arsenal.”
(Condensed from New York “Life.”)
In 42 hours between midnight September 14 and
late afternoon September 16 an extraordinary armada
of merchant ships—114 freighters, tankers and tramps
of British, Norwegian, Dutch and Icelandic registry—
rose from the sea and slid into New York harbor.
The arrival of this unheralded fleet was an event of
profound significance for the world ; for many of the
selfsame ships had anchored in New York harbor
some 50 days earlier. It meant that, despite the enor-
mous delays attendant on convoying, Allied merchant
ships had reduced the round-trip Atlantic run to
seven weeks. It meant that Britain’s dock facilities,
rebuilt and refitted since the terrific bombings of last
winter, were working at a new fast tempo. It meant
that Atlantic sea lanes were safer for shipping than
ever before.
If the war hinged on these factors alone, the
prospects for Britain would be bright indeed. The
missing factor is the cargo this great flotilla will take
home. President Roosevelt recently submitted to
Congress an accounting of the uses to which the
lease-lend appropriation of $7,000,000,000 had been
put.
“ ’Planes, tanks, guns and ships have begun to
flow from our factories and yards,” he wrote, “and
the flow will accelerate from day to day, until the
stream becomes a river, and the river a torrent, en-
gulfing this totalitarian tyranny which seeks to domi-
nate the world.” Over $6,250,000,000 of the
$7,000,000,000 kitty has been allocated. Over
$3,500,000,000 has been contracted for. Lumping
lease-lend and cash-and-carry shipments together, the
President announced that since war began the British
Empire had received from the U.S. $4,400,000,000
worth of goods.
He might have added that in this period
Britain had received only 6000 U.S. ’planes—
a mere two months’ output in Germany —of which
many were trainers. And he might have underlined
the fact that, of $7,000,000,000 appropriated for lease-
lend purposes, only $190,000,000 had actually been
exported. Of this $190,000,000, over $118,000,000 con-
sisted of agricultural supplies. At the most, it
appeared, only $72,000,000 worth of war materials
had reached Britain under the Lease-Lend Act since
March. As the sad and sobering import of the
President’s figures sank in, it became apparent that
the torrent of arms which he envisaged in his lease-
lend message was as yet no river, no stream, but still
a wretched, inadequate trickle.
*****
{Raymond Clapper in the New York “World-Telegram.”)
The fact that we have delivered relatively little
lend-lease aid to Britain is well covered up in Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s report. The figures, in terms of
appropriations, allocations and transfers, are large.
In terms of deliveries they shrink like a pair of wool
socks in the laundry.
About 200,000 tons of lend-lease food have
arrived in England. That is equal to two and a half
days’ consumption. No reference is made in the
report to the fact that for a time 25 per cent, of the
eggs we sent arrived in England unfit to eat. Under
our lease-lend programme we have allocated an
amount of food equal to about 5 to 6 per cent, of
England’s annual consumption. Yet lend-lease has
been operating half a year and we have sent just
about H per cent.
Of needed types of ’planes we have sent barely
token quantities. I refer to heavy bombers and to
high-altitude fighters. Britain badly needs more tanks,
even though she is producing several times as many as
we are. So far as the British are concerned, ours still
is a popgun arsenal.
The British may have no legitimate kick if we do
not go to war. But they have a legitimate kick if we
fail to deliver the goods as promised. We have not
set ourselves an impossible task. It is only that we
have dawdled at it, cluttering it up with compromises,
with red-tape, with delays amounting to weeks in
even getting orders through the White House and into
the hands of the contractors.
Sea War Survey.
(Condensed from an article by Lord Strabolgi in London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
From the very beginning of the war an indepen-
dent campaign has been waged at. sea which, though
affected by the land fighting, has, nevertheless, been
separate from it. The sea operations for the inter-
ception of German and, later, Italian ocean-borne
trade have been assisted by pre-emption, or the pur-
chasing of goods in neutral markets in competition
with enemy buyers, and by the Black List system
under which neutrals trading with the enemy are
refused insurance, bunkers and other facilities. While
the so-called Battle of the Atlantic is waged by the
Germans, the battle of the blockade of Germany and
Italy has been in progress in all the seas and oceans
of the world.
While this attack and counter-attack on seaborne
commerce have been in progress, the naval position has
been greatly altered by the land campaigns. Thus,
the conquest of France by the German armies was
equivalent to a naval victory for the Nazis. The inter-
vention of Italy still further altered the balance.
Nevertheless, the predominance in surface warships
capable of fighting in the line of battle remained
with Britain.
Germany started the war with only two vessels,
the battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, fit to
lie in the line of battle. The “pocket” battle-
ships, though useful for commerce raiding, are not
strongly enough protected or armed to engage any of
the 15 capital ships with which the British Empire
entered the war. Britain lost two capital ships, the
Hood and the Royal Oak ; but the line of battle has
been strengthened by the four new super-dreadnoughts
of the King George V class, with a fifth completing.
Germany has lost two of the three pocket battleships,


and the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau have been immo-
bilised and damaged at Brest. German shipyards added
the super-dreadnoughts Bismarck and Tirpitz to the
line of battle. The Bismarck has been sunk. Two
more battleships of this class, the Friedrich der Grosse
and Hindenburg, are still under construction, but, even
if air raids on the German shipbuilding yards have
left them undamaged, they are not expected to be
ready during this year. Of Germany’s three heavy
cruisers at the beginning of the war, the Admiral
Hipper is believed to be badly damaged, and the
Prinz Eugen is immobilised and almost certainly out
of action at Brest. A sister ship, the Bliicher, was
sunk during the Norwegian campaign. Two other
heavy cruisers, the Seydlitz and Lutzow, may be com-
pleted this year. The German fighting surface fleet,
therefore, at the beginning of the attack on Russia
consisted of the super-dreadnought Tirpitz, the pocket
battleship Admiral Scheer, possibly two heavy cruisers
and three or four light cruisers.
Italy’s entry into the war brought a great acces-
sion of strength at sea to our enemies. Two new
super-dreadnoughts of the Littorio class had just been
completed and commissioned, and, together with four
old but reconstructed battleships of the Conte di
Cavour class, made a respectable line of battle. In
addition, Italy had seven heavy cruisers, armed with
Sin. guns, 12 extremely fast light cruisers, 90 destroyers
and a flotilla of at least 100 submarines. But at the
invasion of Russia the Italian line of battle had been
reduced to two of the old Cavour class. Four out#of
the seven heavy cruisers have been sent to the bottom.
Italy has suffered heavily also in her light cruisers,
destroyers and submarines. One of the Littorio class
battleships and two of the Cavours were sunk or put
out of action for a long time at Taranto. The second
Littorio class battleship was heavily damaged and
believed to be sunk, and three of the heavy cruisers
were destroyed, in the action off Cape Matapan. A
fourth heavy cruiser, the Gorizia, was sunk by a
British submarine. As illustrating the decline in
Italian sea power, no attempt by the Italian Navy,
apart from one abortive submarine attack, was made
to interfere with our operations in Greece, to support
the German attempts at invasion by sea of the island
of Crete, and, most remarkable of all, no effort was
made by the Italian warships to prevent the full sup-
port given by the Royal Navy to the British land
forces during all the prolonged fighting in Libya.
As a purely sea affair, the operations of the
British Fleets in the North Sea, Atlantic and Mediter-
ranean have resulted in a working control of the sea
routes. While German surface raiders are able to
escape into the Atlantic, thanks to the Nazi occupa-
tion of the Norwegian coast, all enemy long-distance
commerce has been prevented. Occasionally a block-
ade runner gets through ; but, apart from this, the
import and export trade of Germany and Italy outside
European waters has practically ceased to exist. The
coastwise shipping under German control in the North
Sea and Channel is continually subject to heavy and
damaging air attack.
Modern conditions, however, have adversely
affected the possibility of exercising sea power to the
full by the superior navy. The possession of land
bases is now of far greater importance than in past
wars. Modern fleets are limited in their range of
operations by their fuel supplies. The oil fuel of the
destroyers is particularly limited, and yet these smaller
warships must accompany the battleships to sea to
act as anti-submarine screens. Major repairs, again,
must be carried out in well-equipped dockyards. Ger-
many’s victories on land have placed at her disposal
harbors and naval bases on all the west coasts of
Europe from the North Cape to the Pyrenees. There
is reason to believe that German submarines have the
use of Casablanca and Dakar in French territory on
the north-west coast of Africa. Prior to the French
capitulation, the Royal Navy made good use of the
French naval bases both in metropolitan France and
the French Empire. Except for the Syrian bases and
the African harbors controlled by General de Gaulle,
all these are now at Germany’s disposal. By reason of
Irish neutrality the highly-important strategical
harbors in the south and west of Ireland are
also denied to the Royal Navy. The increase in
numbers, striking power and range of aircraft has
not only circumscribed the areas in which our ships
can operate, but has deprived us of the full use of the
important dockyard and arsenal at Malta. If it had
been possible to use Malta freely, General Rommel’s
Panzer divisions would have had great difficulty in
reaching Libya from Italian and Sicilian bases.
Germany’s land conquests, combined with the
number and strength of the Luftwaffe, have also
affected the whole strategy of the war in another
important theatre. The occupation of Greece, the
conquest of Crete and the capture of the Greek islands
off the Turkish coast, dominating the entrance to the
Dardanelles, have profoundly altered the naval position
in the Aigean. Not only does Turkey feel herself
isolated, but it is difficult for us now to send mer-
chant ships through the Dardanelles to the Black Sea,
when it is particularly desirable that material help
should be sent to Russia.
If the exercise of our sea power on classical lines
has been hampered by the enemy operations on land,
including the occupation of so many important bases
for aeroplanes and submarines, our own land opera-
tions in Africa have helped our Navy. The conquest
of the so-called Italian Empire in East Africa has
brought our navy a double advantage. The Italian
naval bases on the Red Sea and Indian Ocean have
been eliminated as bases for commerce raiders without
the necessity of large naval forces to blockade them.
And the President of the United States has now been
able, quite legally, to declare the Red Sea a non-
combat zone and to authorise American shipping to
sail to Suez with munitions and other warlike stores.
Every American cargo steamer used in this way
relieves British tonnage.
The two greatest tasks of the Royal Navy
remain. They are to prevent the invasion of Britain
and to check the cutting off of our seaborne commerce.
From the naval point of view the defence of these
islands against invasion is easier now than immedi-
ately after the collapse of France, owing principally to
two causes. The Royal Air Force is now far stronger.
Unless it can be beaten by the Luftwaffe, and the
most serious attempts made last September failed
miserably, it is difficult to see how a successful in-
vasion could be accomplished. The Admiralty has
always accepted the doctrine that in favorable
circumstances large raiding parties may be landed on
the shores of these islands. We can now include air-
borne divisions in the raiding parties. So long as we
hold working command of the seas round our coasts
we will be able to prevent the reinforcement of such
raiding parties to such an extent as to develop into an
invasion of conquest. A division or two landed ashore
would have a nuisance value, like the air raiding. To
land, and, even more, to supply with its needs, an
army of sufficient strength to overcome the very
large forces now maintained in these islands would
appear impracticable so long as we can dispose of
anything like our present preponderance in naval
strength. Nevertheless, it would be imprudent to dis-
count the risks of invasion, and our dispositions must
be made accordingly. The danger, I suggest, is of
overinsuring our defences at home.
A far greater peril exists in the Battle of the
Atlantic, Some of the German U-boats were detached
for service in the Baltic against the Russians. It is
probable that long-range aircraft were changed over
from commerce raiding for the same reason. Fortu-
nately a number of U-boats have been sunk in the
Baltic, and German losses in the air over the Russian
fronts have been heavy. Nevertheless, a German vic-
tory in Russia would enable these U-boats, aeroplanes
and surface warships to return to the Atlantic front.
As for new building, the figures are kept secret.
—London “Daily Mirror.”
BOTTLED UP.
In the last two years of the Great War we built at
the rate of 1,000,000 to 1,250,000 tons a year —and
we should be able to do as well now. But in the next
12 months we would be imprudent not to allow for
the loss of another 4,000,000 tons of world shipping.
Add to this the damage to merchant vessels not actu-
ally sunk, the damage to our ports by air bombard-
ment, the inescapable delays of the convoy system,
and it is obvious that we will be seriously embar-
rassed through merchant-ship losses unless there is a
favorable turn to the campaign at sea.
What improvements can we hope for in this
sombre situation? The heavy warship-building pro-
grammes put in hand before the present war, and
after it broke out, are bearing fruit. Despite our loss
of small craft in various operations, the number of
our escort vessels and anti-submarine craft is steadily
mounting. Our heavy and sustained bombings of the
German submarine building yards and the French
bases used by the U-boats should slow down the
enemy’s activities. The increase in the numbers of
our own defensive aircraft, and especially of long-
range fighters, should be an added protection for our
shipping within range of enemy air bases. We can
hope for a very great expansion of merchant ship-
building in America.
The ever-increasing help of the American Navy
is bound to have an effect. From the Clyde to New
York via Iceland, which track is not far north of
the normal Great Circle route, is just over 4000 miles.
Less than a quarter of this route will be unprotected
by United States warships. The run from Iceland to
the west coast of Scotland can be covered by our
flying-boats ; and our smaller war vessels, being nearer
their bases at each end, will be put to less strain.
*****
(Condensed from an article by Admiral Sir Herbert
Richmond in London “Fortnightly Review.”)
With the struggle in Russia thoughts turn
naturally to the Black Sea. If Germany should obtain
command of that sea, and cut off and acquire to her
own use the resources of Southern Russia and the
Caucasus, the advantages she would derive are only
too plain. As early as 1885 it was recognised that the
command of the Black Sea would be an important
factor in the defence of India against an overland
attack.
The position which Germany has established for
herself in the Aegean double-locks the door to the
Black Sea against British naval forces. As the guns of
the Gallipoli forts say “No” to the passage of ships
through the Straits, so the swarms of aircraft in
Greece and several of the islands emphasise that
“No” in the approaches. Thus Germany made a sound
preparation for her attack on Russia. Her occupa-
tion of Greece and the islands served the double pur-
pose of commanding the approaches to the Straits
through which aid might be sent by the sea Power to
Russia and placed her in a position to threaten
Turkey.
ijc * * *
(From a New York “Times” article by Hanson W.
Baldwin.)
Britain’s blockade of Europe, particularly that
phase of the blockade concerned with the destruction
of Axis and Axis-operated merchant shipping, is
assuming increasing importance. The Axis, since the
war began, has lost a total of about 3,600,000 tons of
shipping, or almost half the total amount of shipping
lost by British, Allied and neutral Powers. Such
losses are of great importance. Water transport plays
a major role in the distribution system of Europe, and
particularly today, with land transport and river sys-
tems overburdened, strained, damaged or blocked,
coastal trade routes are more important than ever.
The British attacks upon Axis shipping in the
Mediterranean have been particularly important in this
respect, and if Germany conquers Russia and attempts
to exploit Russia’s raw-material and industrial strength,
they will become ever more important. For land
transportation systems connecting Russia and Ger-
many are strictly limited in capacity, and Germany’s
ability to exploit Russian resources would depend in
large measure upon her ability to utilise seaborne
transport.
Thus, the war of attrition at sea is a two-way war.
It is not only the German attacks upon the British
lifelines that matter, but British attacks upon Axis
shipping also.
Japanese in Thailand.
(Condensed from a survey by Frank Gervasi in
American “Collier’s Weekly. ”)
Nine years ago Siam became Thailand, the “Land
of Free Men.” It is still the land of free men, one
of the handful of truly independent nations in all
Asia, but its future as a sovereign State is dubious.
The Japanese population of Thailand has increased
steadily since 1935, when statistics listed 67 lapanese
residing in Bangkok, none elsewhere. Bangkok’s
Japanese census by the end of last August ranged
between 300 and 3000. A partial reason for the influx
of Japanese into Thailand is the fact that, with world
markets and credits closed to Japan, Tokyo has had
to turn increasingly to Thailand for money and raw
materials and food. This has meant the expansion
of the staffs of Japanese trading firms operating in
Thailand. A number of new agencies selling
machinery and manufactured goods of all kinds have
sprung up, and along Bangkok’s business streets can
be seen Japanese signs freshly painted.
At least six of Thailand’s seventeen newspapers
have come under the direct “Axis influence.” They
receive German Transocean news and Domei Japanese
wire services, and try as it might the British Reuter’s
Newsagency can’t compete with the enormous volume
of pro-Axis propaganda which the Axis pours into
newspaper offices free of charge.
To meet the Japanese in Bangkok is to receive an
object lesson in how they have spread themselves
in the Far East. In Bangkok, Japanese are 3000
miles from home as the Japanese air service flies.
The Japanese maintain a daily passenger-’plane ser-
vice into Bangkok from Tokyo, and daily it dumps
from 12 to 24 new arrivals. The best the British and
Dutch can do is two services weekly.
From Thailand the Japanese obtain rice, rubber,
tin and teak. They also obtain money in cash and
credits. Thailand produces an exportable supply of
1,600,000 tons of rice yearly. Added to a 1,200,000-ton
supply insured by the occupation of neighboring Indo-
China, Japan will have all the rice it needs to feed
its far-flung armies and its people at home. Thailand’s
40,000 tons of rubber will at least help to keep Japan’s
armies shod, while there is ample teak in Thailand’s
hills to cover the decks of whatever warships Nippon
intends to build for the rest of time.
Whether Japan will be able to obtain all Thailand’s
tin is another matter. Most of the country’s •tinmines
are owned by British capital. Only one mine is
owned and operated by Japanese. Thailand’s tin out-
put is worth about 15 per cent, of the country’s total
exports, which are valued at about $80,000,000, more
than 50 per cent, of which is accounted for by rice.
Tin is Thailand’s second most important export, but
while the country controls rice production and export
the tin that is dredged up from river beds is British
property. The rice industry is nationalised and the
tin industry is not. Japan can be deprived of Thailand
tin by the simple process of the British refusing to
sell to the Japanese.
So far that’s the way it has worked out. But in
precisely such situations advance agents demonstrate
their utility. By “influencing” the right people in
Thailand’s Government it is possible that decrees will
be forthcoming nationalising the tin industry. In that
event the Thai Government would seize the tin output
and pay the British mineowners what it pleases for
ore, selling to the Japanese at a huge profit, as it does
now with rice and rubber, which are purchased by the
Japanese at from 20 to 40 per cent, above normal
market prices. Thai rubber, for instance, which is
of inferior quality, is so high-priced on Thailand’s
rigged market that American buyers won’t even look
at it. . T
Economically Thailand is important only to Japan,
but geographically it is vitally important to the entire
world.


Today's Engine
IN TOMORROW’S CAR
The life of your engine cannot be judged by its year or
model, but on its capacity to do its job .. . and to keep on
doing it.
Cars of the oldest vintage can still be good cars and per-
form faithfully, providing the engine has been able to with-
stand the wear and tear of constant use.
The secret of engine efficiency is to reduce friction to the
absolute minimum and the answer to that is lubrication.
Not just oil, but Purr-Oil the finest and most perfect
lubricant known to science.
These are not times for chancy experiments or slaphappy
methods.
If you’re going to keep the new car new or keep the old car
on the road, then don’t gamble with oil insist on Purr-
Oil the perfect lubricating oil, selected and refined to the
highest standard by the Independent Oil Industries Pty.
Limited.
Independent Oil
Industries Pty.,
Limited
PURR
OIL
Federal
Road,
Glebe
Marketers
the famous SPECIAL PURR-PULL and PURR-KOLL Motor Spirit.


HELP SUMMER PRODUCTION-FEED
TRI-CAL-OS
TRI-CAL-OS is Sterilised BONE FLOUR,
a pure bone product without admixture
of any other substance, and having a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime. It is specially pro-
cessed to ensure maximum digestibility
and assists stock to make the most of
dry summer fodders. Tri-cal-os is the
most reliable form of calcium and phos-
phorus for all stock feeding.
Obtain all particulars about Tri-cal-os from
-•'1
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O, Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box
758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
dsf
Tel., Warren 10.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebu Crass in America.
“F.H.F.” (Argentina): Over here we
have been struggling for a long time with
the difficulties of acclimatising British
beef stock. You have the same troubles
in Northern Australia. They are not due
to variety in feed or anything' save
climate.
In the high inland plateau of Mexico
I have seen herds of pure Herefords car-
ried successfully. On the great Parker
Ranch in Hawaii I recently saw 35,000
head of first-class, high-grade Herefords
which had been bred up from a scrub
base—the ranch runs from sea level into
country nearly 14,000ft. high on Mauna
Kea ; and in Hawaii there are no cattle
diseases, flies or ticks. In the low-lying
tropics it is another story. The cattle
go to pieces, and I am convinced that
the infusion of zebu blood is the best, if
not the only, corrective.
The million-acre King Ranch in Texas
has evolved and fixed a new breed known
as Santa Gertrudis, w'hich is built with
three-eighths Brahma-Guzerat blood and
five-eighths Shorthorn. They throw true
to type. The animals are large, cherry-
red, something like Sussex, but they have
bigger dewlaps and ears and a fold of
skin on the underline. They are entirely
desirable for the block. They carry no
hump and have lost the slanting Indian-
type quarters of the Brahmas. When I
visited the ranch in 1939 there had been
a five-months’ drought followed by good
rain a fortnight before I arrived. There
had been no mortality. The cattle were
all in the pink of condition-.
I he heifers are served to calve at three
years. I saw many, fat with no fall in
condition obvious, as I should have ex-
pected in northern Argentina among first-
calvers. The average calving amongst
50,000 cows is round 80 per cent., and
there are no losses. However, superb
management has its part in this. The
greatest care is taken not to over-
stock the light mesqir'e country
which comprises the bu/K of the
ranch. Young steers sell as fatteners
and find their way to the markets
of the Middle West via the Corn Belt
feed-lots. The Santa Gertrudis breed has
turned King Ranch from a losing pro-
position into a money-making concern.
Some Santa Gertrudis animals have gone
to N. Queensland under the auspices of
Dr. D. R. Kelley.
Argentina has always kept a strict ;
control over the quality and type of its
stock. Permission was for long refused
to bring in Afrikander or Brahma-
Guzerats. However, the Pereda family ,
have been allowed to import three bulls J
and 10 cows from J. D. Hudgins’s stud, j
Hungerford (Texas), and I feel that their
coming marks the beginning of a new .
epoch in Argentine cattle type. J
1
Beating Cattle Tick. i
“Cow Punch”: The N.S.W. Depart- 2
ment of Agriculture, satisfied that it has 1
eliminated cattle tick from the Copman- (
hurst country and from Urunga to Graf- e
ton, is now concentrating on the Grafton- 2
Maclean strip. Stock will be dipped every
14 days from November 1 to stop larval i:
ticks picked up in the paddocks from \
maturing, and the process will continue as p
long as is thought necessary—20 months t
is a tentative estimate. ii
The battle against tick has been going 4
on for more than 25 years. Wages and a
equipment in that period have cost
N.S.W taxpayers £3,500,000. That sum
will grow each year by £l2s,ooo— plus a
Federal grant of about £60,000 —says the
department, “until the tick has been com-
pletely eradicated from N.S.W.”
In addition to these sums are the direct
losses suffered each year by the beef and
dairy industries from redwater mortality,
tick anaemia, lower yields and unthrifti-
ness of stock. So long as there is a single
live tick there is always the danger of an
outbreak of tick-fever and many stock
deaths. In the first six years after its
appearance in Queensland, tick-fever
killed nearly 2,000,000 cattle, and direct
and indirect losses amounted to several
millions of pounds. Tick ranks next to
the blowfly as the worst external parasite
of stock in Australia.
Without the control methods prac-
tically the whole of coastal eastern Aus-
tralia would be unfit for cattle.
"Well leave that one, Ma, seem Were pickin up the Sweeneys an their three kids ."
Nodule Worms.
“Bungaree”: Nodule sheep worms are
appearing in districts previously free of
them. A wet summer or autumn will in-
tensify the trouble. Outbreaks have been
reported as far north as Hughenden (Q.)
and as far west as Winton (Q.) and on
the Monaro and some scattered points
in south and south-west N. S. Wales.
Control of nodule worms depends on
knowledge of habits and ability to sui - -
vive outside the sheep. The eggs will
hatch and the larvae survive to be picked
up by sheep only in spring, summer
and autumn, when the ground is moist.
If the worms are expelled from the sheep
during winter, the sheep should then
enter the spring free from nodule worms,
and so should the pastures.
When the larvae enter the walls of the
intestines they form the nodules, inside
which the worms remain for varying
periods up to six months before emerging
to the rear of the intestine to start breed-
ing. From intake to maturity is about
40 days, but a heavy infestation may kill
a sheep within a week or two, as when
western sheep are brought suddenly on
to infested country.
While in the nodules on the bowel
walls the worms cannot be reached by
any drench, but as soon as they emerge
a dose of phenothiazine will kill them. A
subsequent dose is necessary to reach
worms which were inside the nodules at
the time of the first dose.
Drenching during summer is merely
a temporary measure to reduce the num-
ber of worms in the sheep and needs a
rotation of pasture to ensure results,
otherwise the sheep pick up a fresh lot
and the trouble goes on.
Give the first dose of phenothiazine
to young sheep in late autumn, the second
at least a month later. For grown sheep
and breeding ewes one dose of pheno-
thiazine in midwinter may be sufficient;
two —the second about end of August—
make it a certainty.
For symptoms, look for a general
falling away in condition, combined with
weakness and scouring. The soft drop-
pings will contain much mucus and some-
times blood. As the trouble increases
the sheep humps its back, moves stiffly,
and the tail is stuck out at an angle.
Importance of treating the animals
while young is emphasised, otherwise a
series of even light infestations will
damage the wall of the bowel by the
formation of nodules—“pimply gut”—
which as they increase add to the diffi-
culty of evacuation. Intestines of sheep
from nodule-worm country are useless
for sausage casings and catgut.
Lice in Pigs.
“Huxave”: Brushing by hand and
use of oiling posts have disadvantages.
Ease of application to all types, from
suckers on the dam to mature boars, is
essential. Cost of oil, time and labor
must be reduced to a minimum. Keep a
supply of neatsfoot oil mixture avail-
able. It should be thin enough to spread
quickly and cover the skin evenly, pleas-
ant to smell and leave no stickiness in
the hair. Use a spray pump with a fine
nozzle.
Emulsifying the oil makes it go further.
Dissolve two teaspoonfuls of washing
soda or four teaspoonfuls of soap powder
in two quarts of water. Add a quart of
neatsfoot oil. Stir well. Two applica-
tions are the thing. The second, 10 or
14 days after the first, deals with young
lice which may develop after the first
oiling.
Oil the brood sow 14 days before
farrowing and again a day or two before
the event. This gives the litter a clean
start. Stud boars should be oiled from
time to time. The same method of oiling
gives good results when preparing pigs
for show.
Ware Wet Wheat.
“Yan King”: Weevils will worry silo
managers during the coming harvest.
Prematurely stripped, unevenly ripened
and damp grain mixed in the silo with
clean, dry wheat causes heat pockets.
Bagged or in bulk, it is paradise for
weevils.
The doubtful stuff in one miller’s lot,
too early stripped, was put in silos.
Some, apparently carrying excessive
water, went into the bagged stack. When
the stack was opened two trucks of Ford
on the bottom were weevil-riddled ;
directly above them was a line practically
free and directly above it more Ford as
badly riddled as the bottom lot. The
rest was all right.
Make sure the wheat is ripe and forget
the fatheaded notion of rushing in to strip
the crop and beat everybody else to the
silos.
Erosion.
“Ben C.”: Farming at Molong
(N.S.W.), C. Reid and Son have the fairly
deep-red soil of the central-west of the
State, which three years ago was
beginning to erode badly. Good
wheat crops came off it in earlier
years, the place being almost totally
devoted to wheat on the old wheat-
fallow system. Then the yield began to
drop and the soil to vanish, and a new
system was evolved which results in about
200 of the 930 acres being sown to wheat
each year, the farm carrying an increas-
ing number of sheep on its extending oats
and sub. clover pastures.
The rotation is: Wheat on fallow, plus
31b. of sub. clover seed an acre ; stubble
not burnt. From harvest to October
under sub. and rotting straw, then fal-
lowed, sown to wheat and harvested;
stubble may be burnt. Then oats for
hay or grain ; stubble not burnt. Then
oats sown on stubble for grazing, fal-
lowed October, wheat and sub. clover
sown autumn and rotation starts again.
Thus all the wheat is grown on fallow
ploughed in spring—a sufficient fallow
for the district, which has a 24in. rain-
fall.
Wheat sown each year is 300 acres as
against 450 acres under the old system.
There are 300 acres of oats a year, about
half for grazing and the rest for hay or
grain. Sub. clover is always sown with


ds
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO BING-BAKKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/C tin, posted.
A .MAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS heavily fob a whole year
Yields 20011) s. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., SYDNEV
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
M. A. Rose & Co. Pty. ltd.. King St., Sydney
BLOWFLY
STRIKE
PREVENTION
Until recently there has been no treatment that
could be thoroughly relied upon to prevent
strike or re-strike. Now, the State’s leading
graziers and hundreds of smaller holders, too,
are finding the answer in Way-Bio strike pre-
ventive.
Way-Bio is the scientific treatment of many
different species of Eucalypts in a special plant
designed for the purpose, wherein the com-
piling of their active principles has produced
the most positive of all strike preventives. You
can use Way-Bio to prevent strike or re-strike
and to save sheep already struck. It kills
maggots, heals raw patches without scald or
scab-formation, is non-poisonous, contains no
harsh mineral oils, and is harmless both to
sheep and fleece.
Way-Bio costs less than one penny per sheep
treated. That’s time and money saved, so order
Way-Bio from your nearest stock agent or
large store now, or write to the Manufacturers,
W. K. Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and
Sydney.
I
G
h g'.
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
fiflDlfllllOll VALVES
will give full tone realism to your radio
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
73 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement ot Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
ABSOLUTELY
Hk SAFE and
I SILENT
3
tail
■ ■ k
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
LANE'S
GENUINE
'P&tmiL
BLUE FLA M E
KEROSENE STOVE
F:
f ij
WL
J
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water
Double Rooms from 11 /-
SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquet*, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
a cover crop and used as a short-term
soil-builder in the rotation.
Burning of stubble is avoided, since
stubble acts as top-cover and as cover for
both the sown and natural soil-binding
clovers. Burning once or twice in six
years should check any spread of the
fungoid wheat diseases.
The Reids worked the steeper parts
and the contours. Proof of the good
work came in January this year when,
following the 1940 drought, over 14in.
of rain fell with the turn of the calendar,
7in. of it flood rain, damaging bridges,
fences, roads, etc., and bare and fallow
paddocks. On the Reid place “not a
bucketful of soil was lost.” The stubble
cover, the soil-building and -holding
clover and the contours handled the
downpour with ease.
Hints for the Farm.
“Valerin”: When using disc imple-
ments on the farm, finish out ends and
corners with a mouldboard plough. It
will prevent gullying.
“Yeno Ham”: When selecting maize
for seed, choose ears that are heavy in
proportion to their size when dry. Go
for soundness, weight, plumpness and
good bright color rather than depth of
grain. Reject ears with wide furrows
between the rows of grain. Medium hard
grain of smooth to medium rough dent
is less likely to carry infection of root,
stalk, cob and grain rot disease than
soft, rough-dented types. Straight, regu-
lar rows are only a fancy show point.
Don’t select ears in which the grain is
split, discolored or showing external sign
of disease. Ears that show a shredded,
stringy or discolored especially pink—
stalk attachment should be discarded, as
should ears that shell grain with a stringy
tip cap.
“Haywire”: To preserve rope dip it
dry into a bath containing 20 grains of
sulphate of copper per quart of water
and after allowing it to soak for four
days dry it. The copper may be fixed in
the fibre by passing the rope through a
bath of boiled tar, drawing it through a
small opening to press back the excess
tar and suspending it afterwards on a
staging to dry and harden. Another way
is to soak the rope in a solution of 100
grains of soap per quart of water after
the copper treatment.
“Brecko”: Westralian farmers feeling
the shortage of sulphate of ammonia
maintain fertility by growing leguminous
crops and ploughing them under. Roots
of all such crops must be inoculated with
bacteria to enable them to draw on the
atmospheric nitrogen supply. Hundreds
of pure cultures of nitrogen-fixing bac-
teria are supplied to farmers each year
by the W.A. Department of Agriculture.
Outback Occasions.
No. 6.
The Patriotic Meeting.
The occasion when Father became a
racehorse owner is one none of us will
forget for a long time. There had been
a lot of different kinds of horses on our
place from time to time —you only had
to hear Father describe them when the
wagon got bogged or something to know
that —but it was the first time we’d had
a racehorse.
It was because of the war. Some of
the men wanted to make money for the
Comforts Fund, and they agreed to get
up a picnic race meeting, and Mr. Grace
made a speech in which he called on
everybody to help in any way they could,
and said he would begin by giving a
diamond bracelet as the trophy for the
main race of the day.
Mr. Grace and Father were good
friends, and after the meeting Father told
Mr. Grace that a diamond bracelet was
worth a lot of money these times and
perhaps it would be better if he gave
something else. Father insisted that he
knew a lot about diamonds and that Mr.
Grace was letting himself in for some-
thing. Mr. Grace got very thoughtful
and said they’d better write down to the
city and get a price for a bracelet. He
said that after making the offer he
couldn’t pull out, because everybody in
the district would chip him about it.
So Father wrote to the city, and when
the answer came and he rang up Mr.
Grace and told him the jewellers had
nothing - under £125 Mr. Grace said
“Crikey!” and an hour later he came to
our place to have a yarn with Father.
Father and Mr. Grace had been boys
together and always helped each other,
and they planned a plan to get over the
difficulty of the bracelet. Mr. Grace said
he wouldn’t have minded £25, but £125
was over the odds.
So Father put it in the local paper that,
in order to help the patriotic race meet-
ing, he intended to enter a horse himself,
and was anxious to buy a good galloper.
About three days later a little, dried-up,
leathery man with two teeth and chewing
a bit of stick rode up on a big bay horse.
“This is Challenger,” he said. “Heard
you was lookin’ for a good sort of a
norse.”
Father walked all round the horse and
patted its neck and looked at its mouth.
Then he picked up its feet and looked at
them. Then he stood back and squinted
at the horse with first one eye and then
the other. “What’s he by?” he asked.
“Boxer out of a Tarcutta mare,” said the
little man, “an’ you know what Boxer
was.”
Father had never heard of Boxer, but
he nodded. Mother, who knows Father,
watched him for a moment, then she
whispered to us “My gracious, Father’s
in again,” and went inside. Father said
to the little man “What’s he worth?”
The little man got down, rubbed his
hand down Challenger’s flanks, spat,
looked quickly at Father and round the
farm buildings, then said, “Well, mate,
he’s worth fifty nicker. I could pick up
a nandicap or two with him at the un-
registered. But seein’ it’s t’ help the
boys in the trenches I’ll let him go for
t’irty.”
Father pondered, what time he studied
the little man closely. Then he said, for
Father has a kind heart, “Look. How
long is it since you had a decent feed?”
The little man flushed, then he turned
away and fell over on the ground. We
got him inside, and one way and another
learned he hadn’t eaten for three days,
having spent his last shilling on oats for
the horse. So we stabled the horse and
fed the little man, whose name was Joe,
and he and Father talked.
The upshot was Father gave £l5 for
Challenger and entered him for the
Bracelet, Joe to ride him. Then Father
went over to see Mr. Grace and they
planned more of their plan. There were
nine horses entered for the Bracelet, but
Father and Mr. Grace managed to per-
suade four of the owners to withdraw
because they said Father’s horse could
run six furlongs in 1.18, and what was
the use of trying to beat that?
Well, by the time the picnic day came
round they’d got another to pull out,
and there were four runners left. There
was a big crowd there and a couple of.
bookmakers, and they had Challenger
the outsider at 6 to 1. This made Joe
wild and he looked at the other mokes
and spat and said to Father, “Challenger
can eat ’em. He’s a norse an’ a narf
aginst that mob.” So Father put some
money on Challenger and then he and
Mr. Grace disappeared.
The four lined up for the Bracelet. It
was a flag start and they got away well,
with poor old Challenger battling along
last. When they’d done about two fur-
longs Mr. Grace suddenly bobbed up
and fired a d.b. gun just ahead of them
alongside the track. The leader shied and
bolted into the scrub and the second
horse propped, but his jockey went on
some of the way. The third horse veered
a bit, but kept on and Challenger belted
along just behind him. They turned into
the straight, and then Father bobbed up
and shot off a gun, and the leader reared
and danced about, but old Challenger
just went on and won easily.
There was a devil of a row about
Father and Mr. Grace, but they said
they didn’t want to see valuable horses
ruined by snakes and they’d known there
were snakes about and had shot just in
time, and they produced three dead
snakes to prove it. Those snakes were
pretty dead, too, because one of them
at least had been killed the night before
in our chaff shed, but we didn’t say any-
thing. The bookmakers didn’t mind pay-
ing, they said, but the stewards declared
it no race, and so Mr. Grace was saved.
He was so pleased he gave £l5 to the
funds on the spot.
Next day Joe left us. Father got him
away as quickly as he could, because he
didn’t want anybody else to find out that
Challenger was stone deaf.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2id. per line.
First place for a Queenslander, who says some very pertinent things about
Headline News.
The Press, Gentlemen!
“It’s a rotten state of affairs,” said the
president of Maryborough (Q.) R.S.L.,
referring to the absence of Maryborough
men in an A.I.F. draft that left that city.
He scathingly commented that he had
seen 23 young men in a billiard saloon,
all eligible to join the A.1.F., but not
one of them in it. Thinking citizens in
other towns have made similar remarks,
and newspaper editors have been inspired
to write leaders about the lag in recruit-
ing.
But few are conscious of the cause.
My city publishes a daily newspaper
that serves territory carrying over 100,000
people. Its sincerity of purpose in appeal-
ing to eligibles to fill the gaps is unques-
tioned ; but this is how it goes about it
(captions taken from three consecutive
issues); “German Blitz Fails Miserably ;
Russians Hurl Nazis Back” —“Soviet’s
Successful Counter-offensive; Tremen-
dous German Losses” —“Revolt in Europe
Spreading Surely” “Italy’s Peace
Feelers” —“R.A.F. Masters of Air ; Nazi
War Production Crippled” —“Luftwaffe
Over England ; Two Houses Damaged”
—“Tobruk Raids; Enemy Routed”—
“Strike at Darwin” —“Moulders Still
Out” —“Building Trades’ Slopwork Meet-
ings”—“Rail Men Want War Loading”
—“Strike in Brisbane Shipyards.”
When responsible daily newspapers
caption war news in that manner it is
futile to deplore the lag in recruiting.
What is required is for someone with
authority to remind newspaper editors
that paper-sales catchcries won’t win the
war. As long as newspapers convey the
impression that there is no cause for
alarm, a decline in business is inevit-
able at recruiting depots. —N. H. (Q.).
Conscription
I look at it like this: I’m a young
man, 25, healthy, in a good job, single and
without responsibilities. I should be at the
front somewhere, you say. Yes, I sup-
pose I should. But would all you who
reckon I should be behind a gun pay
taxes if you weren’t compelled to? Of
course you wouldn’t, even though you’ll
admit that this country would be in the
devil of a mess if the Government had
to depend on voluntary contributions of
money to carry out its work.
It’s the same with fighting. Most of
the eligibles who stay behind do so for
exactly the same reason that a very large
percentage of Australians wouldn’t pay
taxes unless they were forced to. You
can work out whatever the reason is for
yourself.
As it is, I’ll stay in Australia and put
up with compulsory taxation and com-
pulsory training without serious objec-
tion. And if the Government finds the
guts to compel me to fight—well, I reckon
I’ll do that too without serious objection.
—Simon Crusher (N.S.W.).
The average married man with a couple
of kids, while perhaps not being anxious
to force others to go to war, would find
in conscription a solution to his own per-
sonal problem. If he is fairly young and
fit, concerned as to the future and aware
of the need for everyone to get into the
fight somehow or another, he finds him-
self torn between a desire to enlist and a
fear to leave his family. The history
Of the care of the families of deceased
soldiers has not been a happy one, and
few men believe that anybody else can
look after their loved ones as well as
themselves.
Under conscription, all this would be
resolved, simply because the married
father would have no choice. He’d be
taken if and when his turn came, but
not before others with lesser responsi-
bilities had been drafted. Under existing
conditions, no thoughtful man, with or
without dependants, is going to rush head-
long into uniform without a serious
weighing-up of all factors. Under con-
scription the problem would cease to
exist. — Billoh (N.S.W.).
Militia Training
In 1911, when compulsory training was
first introduced, parades were held at
night and Saturday afternoons each
week. Intensified drill soon welded a for-
midable citizen army into shape, and at
the outbreak of the 1914-18 war there
were thousands of young men trained
and ready to go abroad. I was one of
them and gained sufficient training for
an early embarkation order on joining up.
Being an Old Digger, I might be con-
founded as to the relative fighting
methods of the past and present wars,
but I do know that most present-day
trainees learn no more than we did in
pre-1914-18 days. So why waste public
money and curtail production when the
same training gained in camps could be
obtained in spare-time lectures and
parades in the drill hall? Four nights a
week and alternate week-end training
should be sufficient to educate the militia-
man in modern warfare. As for pay, we
received 9d. a parade.— Jeff (Vic.).
Australia WAS There
In “The Feint at Libya” (B. 25/6/’4l)
Mr. Spender was quoted as saying in the
House that “there were no Australians
involved in the operations.” He was
wrong. Australian troops were engaged.
Mr. Spender seems to be in the habit
of making such loose statements. Per-
haps he thinks some of us Australians
really belong to a Chinese labor corps.—
Y. D. (Abroad).
After the War
In B. 1 1 10/’4l an A.I.F. man wrote
from abroad that the A.I.F. had resolved
that when it gets back home returned
men are going to have a big say in the
political and economic life of Australia.
Time will tell whether this resolution
will be better kept than that which the
A.I.F. of 1914-18 made in similar circum-
stances. Meanwhile the writer and his
comrades might think hard on these
figures based on information contained
in the 1941 Australian Who’s Who:
None of the seven members of the
Australian War Cabinet elected this week
is a returned man. Of the 19 members of
the new Government, all but one or two
were of military age in 1914-18, but only
one served in that war (the Boer War,
strangely enough, is well represented); of
the 10 members of this State’s (Q.) Cabinet,
at least eight were of military age in 1914,
but only one is a Digger; of the six State
Premiers, only one is an ex-A.I.F. man.
It is impossible to estimate accurately
what percentage of union leaders and
business heads served in 1914-18, but cer-
tainly 10 p.c. would not be an under-
estimate. Doubtless many, perhaps all,
of those who did not serve had ample
reason for not doing so ; many others,
no doubt, offered themselves and were
not accepted ; still more did useful and
indispensable work at home. Still, in a
nation in which one-fifth of the males
of fighting age, and almost one-half of
those unmarried,, volunteered, the small
proportion of returned men who have
reached front rank in the political and
economic sphere is significant.
While the writer and his mates ponder
on those facts, older men might do some
pondering themselves on whether Aus-
tralia would have been so ludicrously un-
prepared for war in September, 1939, had
Federal Cabinets from 1918 to 1939 con-
tained a majority, or even a strong
minority, of returned men. —D. (Q.).
Munitions v. Housing
Over a year ago I suggested the com-
monsense military method of solving the
house shortage in Melbourne’s munitions
suburbs by building hostels for bachelors
and women, and married quarters that
would be removable after the war is over.
But young Mr. Holt, then Minister for
Labor and National Services, did the con-
ventional thing and offered a scheme under
which munitions workers might build
their own homes for a deposit of £6O.
As was predicted, the workers don’t want
them, and quite naturally. After the
war is over they may have to look for
jobs elsewhere, and they don’t want a
domicile hanging round their necks which
has to be paid off in 35 years.
The new Minister for Labor might look
into the matter, especially in Melbourne,
where the problem is most acute. To
see the results you have only to travel
on a bus, train or tram in the early morn-
ing which is returning munition workers
to their distant domicile in some subur-
ban backyard. They look washed out
and exhausted ; some are asleep and few
can hold their heads up, and none of
them is particularly interested in read-
ing their dailies which are full of dia-
tribes against their laziness and greed.
Melbourne is said to have a shortage of
30,000 houses, but those responsible—the
State Government, councils, Housing
Commission and Federal authorities —
are still blithely fighting one another as
to how the offensive should be conducted.
—L. L. (Vic.).
“Kidstakes Year”
The past year of the war should be
marked down in Australian history books
as the “Kidstakes Year.” Everybody in
the place is being kidded by press and
politicians as to his or her part in what
is referred to as anything from a “splen-
did” to an “incredible” war effort. About
the only time when it isn’t kidstakes is
when it is applied to men of the fighting
services, for whom no words are
adequate.
But it makes me tired to read day
after day about the “magnificent efforts”
of workers in war factories. How they’re
toiling day after day to turn out material.
Nobody mentions that they’re getting
good pay for it, plus overtime for every
hour they work over the 44. There was
an outbreak of sympathy about the
“strain” war work was inflicting on war
workers, a deduction arrived at by ponti-
fical blokes who get their knowledge of
such things from university courses in
economics and alleged efficiency experts
which had their genesis in America. It is
a far worse strain to be under fire in
the North African desert or the wild
Atlantic, but we hear little about that.
Every time there’s a spate of appli-
cations for war loan we hear more of
these “magnificent” efforts. What’s mag-
nificent about a man dubbing in a couple
“Now, ’ Erbie, none of y'r careless War talk—the enemy listens."
of hundred at 3? p.c. to provide the nation
with the means of buying a gun to pro-
tect him and his cash? Then there are
the ladies. Newspapers show them get-
ting out of bed in pink pyjamas or decor-
ating a stall in a street fair, and theirs
becomes a “magnificent” effort.
There’s a lot more, but it’s time this
kidstaking stopped. A whole lot of people
are going about under the impression
that they’re going great guns against the
enemy when the plain truth is they’re
doing little or nothing more than they
would be doing in peace-time. Aside
from the fighting men, the only class
whose effort earns the titles ranging from
“splendid” to “magnificent” are the mer-
chant seamen. In a true perspective their
contribution might even outdo that of
the warriors.
A little less kidstaking and a little more
realism are needed before this country is
pulling its full weight. This is written
by one who has done nothing except pay
taxes and buy a few war-savings certi-
ficates.—Q. U. E. (N.S.W.).
How They Grow
One of the first jobs Curtin’s new
Ministers might do is to find out whether
they have any jobs.
During the last war we used to think
George Pearce was a bit of a nark be-
cause he made a fuss about the “oner-
ousness” of his work as Minister for
Defence, But it was onerous and he did
his job.
In 1918 the Commonwealth had on home
service an inspector-general and several
officers on the military side, one of whom
was actually a colonel, and there were six
State commandants, mostly of colonel’s
rank. At headquarters, outside the inspec-
tor-general, nobody earned more than £BOO
a year except the civil secretary, who
averaged over the Whole war years about
£9OO. There was a Navy Minister, of
course, but he was rather a matter of
pride than of necessity, because as soon
as war broke out the R.A.N. went under
Admiralty orders. There were *no other
war departments. Up to March, 1918,
about 400,000 men had been enlisted for
overseas service and there were about
85,000 compulsory-service men provided
for.
A glimpse at the last Commonwealth
Estimates shows Defence Co-ordination,
Army, Navy, Air, Supply, Information,
Labor and National Services, Aircraft
Production, Home Security'and Munition
outfits apart from several sub-
departments under the Prime Minister,
Commerce, etc. —which are described by
the Budget as “Defence and War” Minis-
tries.
Thus there are 10 Ministries where in
the last war there were two, although
there are far fewer men overseas.
These shows are not puny growths
like those of the last war. Archie
Cameron wormed their strengths out of
the Prime Minister in Parliament a few
weeks ago. The Defence Department
secretariat (104 employees on Sept. 3,
1939) has grown into the Defence Co-
ordination Department with 243 all
civilians. The Army Headquarters has
become an Army Ministry—growth, 298
to 1487. Air Force Headquarters staff
of 292 has grown into an Air Ministry
staff of 2017, and the Navy Office has
795 at work against 301 when war broke
out. Totals for these concerns alone
4542, of whom 2450 are civilians.
The unspectacu-
lar handful of
brigadiers and
colonels who ruled
the Army inside
Australia in the
days of TB, when
by hard toil and
stress of actual
battle overseas two
fighting Australians’
—M ona s h and
Chauvel —had be-
come acting-lieu-
tenant - generals,
have given place
on the headquar-
ters —home service
—s t a ft’ to three
lieutenant-generals,
nine major - gen-
erals, seven briga-
die r s and 16
colonels. Also, the
one Defence secre-
tary at £9OO has
given way to one
at £2OOO and sev-
eral in the £l3OO-
- range, with
a number of assis-
tants drawing
bigger screws than
the top administra-
tive dog of 1918.
Only the R.A.N. has not shown a ten-
dency to inflate its higher-paid office staffs


like an Italian Mardi Gras balloon.
Keelhaul Kate (N.S.W.).
Immigrants ?
I’m a bit of a crank about Australia
and its wonders as a country for white
men to live in. I’ve never been out of
it, but from what I’ve heard and read
and seen on the films I’m convinced that
there’s nothing on earth can come up
to it. Before anybody starts thinking I m
sitting pretty on a couple of thou, a
year, let me say I’ve starved on outback
roads and in city streets, worked darned
hard most of my life and never had
enough money. Yet I’d sooner carry the
bluey here than have a cushy job in any
other part of the world.
I’ve a theory that this paradise gets
hold of a man, whether he’s native-born
or imported. There’s something about it
definitely attractive to Europeans, some-
thing about the tucker and the climate
and the room that must have a special
appeal to men from crowded and poverty-
stricken nations. Let Australia once mark
a man and he is hers.
Lately we’ve been getting prisoners of
war. Most of them are young and im-
pressionable. They are being sent out
to camps where there is plenty of good
tucker and fresh air, and they must see
something of the place, both from the
ships when off the coast and from the
train when travelling through it. All the
prisoners are Fascists or Nazis, cults that
can get a pretty solid grip of a young-
ster, but which wouldn’t stand up two
minutes to the onslaught of Australian
ideals backed by Australian environment.
What we should do when the war is
over is persuade the enemy Governments
to let their nationals held here as prisoners
make a choice as to whether they’d like
to stay. That way we would probably
get a good few immigrants straight after
the war. Sounds absurd, does it? Well,
are there better farmers in Australia
than the German farmers of the Victorian
and S.A. wheat and fruit country, the
N. S. Wales North Coast and Riverina?
Are there better Australians than their
offspring?— Biter (N.S.W.).
Board Almighty
In the House the other day Major-
General Rankin, M.H.R. for Bendigo,
took up the cudgels for a certain Mr.
Brown who has a “petrol reselling busi-
ness” in Bendigo.
An officer of the Liquid Fuel Control
Board of Victoria “charged Mr. Brown
with serious irregularities in regard to
the sale of petrol.” Only two of the
five members of the board dealt with
Brown’s case before it was referred
to the Commonwealth Fuel Control
Board. Moreover, Brown was denied
access to “a copy of the figures from
which the board’s officers submitted a
statement alleging irregularities” and to
“a copy of the shorthand notes taken by
the board.” Now “the board has with-
drawn his license to sell petrol, with the
result that he is losing an income of £25
a week and is forced to suffer the humilia-
tion of being treated as criminal.”
Yet “there was an error of addition
involving 1414 gallons in the board’s own
statement,” and another party “dis-
posed of 1745 gallons in the name of
Mr. Brown, although he did not receive
that quantity and did not pay for it.
The board now admits this.” And
“four drums of petrol were, sold to
a consumer and paid for in September,
but were not taken from Mr. Brown’s
premises. They were included by the
board’s inspector in the returns for
October.”
Thus the member for Bendigo, and
perhaps the foregoing assertions can be
answered. But who is going to answer
this: “Owing to some oversight ,* the
Minister for Supply and Development
has no power, under the National Secu-
rity Act, to reverse any decisions made
by the Liquid Fuel Control Board.” —
Oliver Filter (N.S.W.).
The Heart of Queensland
If Mr. Curtin adopts Mr. Fadden’s
avowed object of “reducing luxury to the
minimum and eliminating extravagance”
what is going to become of our poor old
bloated State capitals? In a walk down
the three or four hundred yards of Bris-
bane’s Queen-street between Victoria
Bridge and Petrie’s Bight, I counted 13
hotels and wine bars, five picture shows,
three racing clubs and 25 soda-fountain
bars. But the main industry of Queen-
street is undoubtedly lottery-ticket selling.
I counted 35 licensed sellers of tickets
in the Government lottery before my
patience gave out.
Queen-street, incidentally, is frequently
referred to by politicians as “the commer-
cial and business heart of Queensland.”
—Smilax (Q.).
Rationing
I manage a country picture show. One
of my cobbers has a petrol-service station
which showed him a Sood living up to
some months ago In the. last week
or so he has had to apply for relief in
the matter of monthly instalments on
equipment because of petrol sales drop-
P* n § to a fraction of what they had been
normally when he undertook his obliga-
-9
j n m y business there is a natural wide
q£ advertising _i think our theatre
is one of the most consistent large adver-
tisers local daily paper . But some
months Q j was told by the newspaper
ma r that because of restrictions on
he have tQ limit the space
to me, especially for any special
which o£ten mean the difference
a bare and enough to put
jd towards renovations et c. Still, I
<■»* is part of the “war
L What does hurt is the tact that every
morning a large truck which cannot do
more than eight or nine m.p.g. races into
» from Brisbane) with
»u,sr B bu»^
using probab*
three times “ truck,
a so arrives wtth a city afternooin pajKr,
also packed with the doings of Flossie,
etc ,
The news (such
pohlan papers is much more concisely
treated in the little local F*Pf r ’ ,
stead of fatuous society doings, c g
“Aid, give us a local anaesthetic , Joe, and get on with it."
notes and so forth one finds human in-
terest in the mention of Bluey, who is
overseas, and the fact that his wife is
successfr’ty running his business or farm,
or that she is in the local hospital making
Bluey even more anxious to do his bit
for his added family and the country he
lives in.
Surely the metropolitan papers could
do what London papers did —ration their
newsprint by reduction of outside circu-
lation, thus leaving a little more paper
for the country paper and saving a good
deal of petrol.— Hanidson (Q.).
The Jury
The amendment of the Jury Act
(N.S.W.) is long overdue, and the Attor-
ney-General’s statement in the House
(9/10/’4l) that the job is to be tackled
makes good reading. He did not state,
however, what amendments were in-
tended, but, as he spoke in reply to a
suggestion by Mr. Sheahan (Yass) to
make it compulsory for jurors having
business and other associations with
parties to advise the Court, it seems that
amendments covering this aspect of juries
will be introduced.
Another matter that badly needs atten-
tion is the question of jurors’ qualifica-
tions. Under the existing legislation, sub-
ject to certain exemptions, to become
eligible for jury service a man must
possess one of the following qualifica-
tions: (fl) a yearly income of at least
£3O from real estate or partly from real
estate and partly from personal estate ;
( b ) a clear real or personal estate of at
least £3OO value; (c) ownership or
tenancy of real estate of a value of at
least £lOO per annum.
Those qualifications are purely arbi-
trary and can have no bearing on the
fitness or otherwise of a person to serve
as a juror.
Such obvious disabilities as old age
and incapacity by disease or infirmity
do not necessarily debar a person from
jury service. Persons over 60 years of
age are granted exemption provided they
claim it. Those incapacitated by disease
or infirmity are exempted, but there
appears to be no means of deciding
whether a person is physically capable ot
jury service, and certainly no provision
is made for a medical examination in
case of doubt.
The only people absolutely disquali-
fied from jury service are certain aliens,
criminals and women.
As we flatter, ourselves that we are a
democratic people, why shouldn t eveiy
person, male or female, between the ages
of 21 and, say, 65 years (subject to any
necessary exceptions) be made liable to
serve on juries provided they are physi-
cally fit and in possession of sufficient
intelligence —a qualification which is cer-
tainly not provided for under the present
Act? — Macaw (N.S.W.).
The Anti-Menzies Campaign
Will someone please explain to me the
actual reasons for the fall of Robert
Menzies? The “S. M. Herald” has been
most persistent in its efforts to convince
its readers that he is “unpopular with the
general public,” but has never given a
reason for the alleged unpopularity. As
one who mixes daily with the crowd
pubs, horse- and dog-meetings, the nine-
teenth hole of several golf links and a
first-grade cricket team —I have yet to
hear anyone speak disparagingly of
Menzies.
During the election campaign the
“S.M.H.” and other Sydney papers had
no use for Menzies, but his meetings in
the Sydney Town Hall and elsewhere in
the city always had overcrowded, enthu-
siastic audiences, which appeared to be
enthralled by his eloquence.
What crime has he committed since
then? Instead of his “unpopularity with
the general public,” there seems to be a
unanimous opinion that he is the brainiest
and most capable of our public men.
That view seemed to have been supported
by distinguished people overseas Mr.
Churchill, President Roosevelt, Mr. de
Valera and Mr. Mackenzie King. Yet he
returned to find himself suddenly set upon
by a cabal which, repeating the “S. M.
Herald’s” catchcry “unpopular with the
general public,” succeeded in depriving
the Commonwealth of the services of
one of its ablest sons. —K. E. F. (N.S.W.).
Taxation
No reasonable individual objects to
necessary taxation, but the term “neces-
sary” is the snag. In this State (W.A.)
work on the Henderson naval base was
abandoned after some hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds had been spent. Either
the base was needed for the defence of
the Commonwealth or it was not. If
needed, why was it abandoned ; if not
needed, why was it started? Naval war-
fare has not changed so greatly that the
relinquishment of Henderson became
necessary.
Then there was the Southern Cross
aerodrome —£20,000 admitted to have
joined the ranks of wasted millions.
Reason given for closure of the works
connected with the proposed ’drome was
that the desert dust got in the engines.
Then how is it that the airways use, and
have used for years, desert landing-
grounds? The Southern Cross ’drome
was ill-considered, and some excuse had
to be made.
Then there was a group-settlement
scheme operating in W.A. The cost was
over £6,000,000, but the affair was a
failure, and £4,000,000 was “written off.”
The balance may have to be written off
also, but the bled-white taxpayer still
continues to pay the interest, and the m-
terest on the interest— Dunagain (W.A.).
p oe try
Says » Meta » (g 24/9/’4l), “Poetry
has too long been regarded purely
a$ an aft i nstead G f as intellec-
tuaj f ood f or a ll classes.” Of
course poetry is an “art,” and, as the
appea i 0 f a jj art j s to the artistic tempera-
menk bow can we re g a rd art as intellec-
tual f OQ j j or a [j classes ? Are all men
po ssessed of artistic temperaments?
Again, “poetry should be for the
masseSj written in their language.” But
the poe j or writer cloak fine
thoughts in any lingo? Most bad poetry,
g ke prosej springs from genuine feel-
ing. Even the kids write “poetry,” and
though most of us can understand what
"Ll poetfy”?
And wasn . ( it oscar wi | de who wrole
re g ard t 0 a “ rea j poet”: “The wheels
0 f cbar j ot ra i se the dust as a cloud
around him”?— Zend Avesta (Q.).
“Meta” says that “the average man,
from choice, would read poetry, but he
has no choice in the matter.” What
about Shakspeare, Burns, Lawson and
Dennis, who became so popular in an
age when poetry did not have to compete
with the radio, talkies, Tin Pan Alley
“music,” and other modern diversions?
Rightly or wrongly these days, the works
of these old poets are mainly used as
English exercise pieces to be
drummed into school-
children’s defenceless minds.
Over the last five years I
have lived at boarding-houses
and hotels. I have visited
libraries, called on friends;
but rarely have I met any
person who takes up a book
of verse, even a book written
by poets supposed to be popu-
lar. Ask for poetry at the
average circulating library
and see there how supply
meets demand.
Most people are not
genuinely interested in poetry,
but are on the right page
when they “turn to the sport-
ing news.” You can’t force
down my throat the ridicu-
lous argument that the masses
are starving for good poetry,
and that when some poet
writes stuff that “Meta” and
co. can understand the Golden
Age of Poetry will be on us.
-F.J.B. (Q.).
For the Community
Earnest teachers often advise us that
we must educate for democracy. Earnest
history books draw tremendous morals
from the disunion of British tribes or
kingdoms in the times of the Romans
and Danes. No one seems to have
thought of bringing the history-book
teaching up to date by correlating the two
counsels. And yet the real and apparent
weakness of democracy is the disunion of
the individuals who today represent the
kingdoms of Alfred’s time.
Really to understand the meaning of
“democracy” one should sit down and
work out just what it would cost, in time
and energy, to be entirely self-sufficient.
Add to that cost the effort necessary to
be always on the defensive against aggres-
sion and invasion of one’s rights and
property ; of conveying one’s own moral
and intellectual experience to one’s
children ; of performing, in addition to
the tasks of physical existence, a thousand
social services for one’s family and self.
One should then begin to realise a little
the interdependence of the members of
a modern community. Our modern way
of life is so new and so strange that we
have not yet begun to understand how
little we are fitted for it. Only with an
appreciation of our duty to others, and
of our dependence on others, can we
begin to fit ourselves to take our places
among the “people” who rule.
The fate of democracy is said to be in
the balance. The people themselves will
decide its fate. It will be safe only when
the average man and woman realise just
how little of the articles they use and the
services they exact proceeds from them-
selves and their efforts ; when they under-
stand that they are merely tiny cogs in
the vast machinery that feeds, clothes
and governs a nation. Such a realisation
is a hard thing for individualists like
poets or swagmen or the present writer.
But it must be faced.
As usual, the children will decide the
matter. They must be educated in the
concept that life in a civilised country
is not for one’s self and one’s own selfish
pleasure ; that the strength of a nation
depends directly on the extent to which
the individual is willing and able to live
for the community. — Propalong (S.A.).


Want to make yonr cai
more dependable?
Worn-out spark plugs waste fuel,
cause loss of speed, loss of power,
loss of your car’s depend-
ability. Provide your car
with the spark plugs rac-
ing champions prefer
Champions and ensure
good hot sparks under all
driving conditions. They
pay for themselves in the
fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor,
Can. Toledo, USA,
Sillment seals Champions against troublesome leak-
age, at the shoulder and past the center electrode ,
common to ordinary spark plugs. This patented fea-
ture corrects rough, uneven and xuasteful engine op-
eration caused by leaky, overheated spark plugs.
%
&
mm
'"""'wvv
sags
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton Eso •
Wm A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq. ’
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving:
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’mess
Our Service Department
Wants
This page is set apart lor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
"Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are "not admissible.
Woman, 39, educated, used to running large
home and garden, would like position in similar
situation where own mistress. Bank reference
required.—2651.
Wanted for basalt sheep property in North
Queensland, married couple or married working
manager; no objection one child. Must have
good working knowledge of stock, windmills
and improvements.—2646.
Outback photographer wants details and
prices of dark-room equipment (particularly
deep tanks) suitable for D. and P. service.—
2645.
To buy copy of Such Is Life, by Tom Collins.
—2657.
To buy “Hot Discography,” by Delaunay,
“Rhythm on Record,” by Schelemen, also
gramophone records of Golden Age, Chicago
Style and early negro bands. —2654.
To buy Why I Fight, by J. T. Lang. —2653.
To buy books, Trees on the Farm, The Be-
ginner in Bee Culture, also issues of “Wild
Life” Magazine 1940-41. —2647.
Words of a monologue “Pouring the Beer
Down the Sink.”—2505.
Words of “The Wild Colonial Boy.”—2581.
Information Sought.
What is the difference between a prisoner of
war and a prisoner of State, and what is the
difference in treatment during detention ? —
2655.
A prisoner of war is a combatant captured
by the enemy. His treatment is determined by
international law and the Hague Convention. A
prisoner of State is the prisoner of the nation
whose laws hold him, and his treatment is de-
termined by the local laws of that nation. The
term is usually applied to distinguished
prisoners held for political or security reasons.
* * * *
A man who Jived to 112 in England attributed
his long life to Yoga, a system of Hindu
philosophy. Any particulars about it? —2550.
It is an occult Indian system of physical,
respiratory and mental concentration designed
to enable the practiser of it to control the
forces of Nature, develop occult powers and
achieve unity with the “universal spirit of
Brahma.”
* # * *
What are the units of currency in the fol-
lowing countries, with Australian equivalent :
Britain, U.S.A., Canada, France, Germany,
Greece, Italy, Russia, China, Japan, India,
Singapore, Hong Kong ? —2442.
Currency Australian
Country. Unit. Equivalent.
Britain Pound .. 25/-
U.S.A Dollar .. 6/2
Canada Dollar .. 5/7
Russia Rouble .. 1/2
Japan .. .. .. Yen .. 1/7
India Rupee .. 1/10
Straits Settlement .. Dollar .. 2/11
Hong Kong .. .. Dollar .. 1/7
Shanghai Dollar .. — /41-
In France the unit of currency is the franc;
Germany, reichsmark; Italy, lira; and Greece,
drachma. For obvious reasons no dealings are
possible at the moment.
* * * *
Brief description of the engraving and litho-
graphic processes for printing postage stamps,
and what difference is there in the appearance
of stamps printed by these processes ? —2430.
In engraving plates for stamps, the die is
first cut on soft steel, which is then hardened
and transferred by pressure to a roller of soft
steel. This in turn is hardened, and from it
impressions are taken on the metal plate to be
used. Other expressions used for practically
the same process of preparing plates for stamp
printing are “engraved in taille douce,” “line
engraved,” “steel plate” and “collogravure.
In hand engraving the design is engraved direct
on the printing plate. In all these processes the
ink is received and held by the lines of the en-
graving which are below the level of the plate.
Slightly damp paper is pressed hard on to the
plate, forcing it into these depressed lines, where
it takes up -the ink. Consequently on an en-
graved stamp the ink always stands out above
the level of the paper. Being very cheap, the
lithographic process is commonly used in print-
ing stamps. The design is “transferred” from
the original die or plate on to the surface 9f
a specially prepared block of limestone, in
greasy ink. The stone is wet with a slightly
acid fluid, which repels the greasy ink used for
printing except on the greasy lines of the design
on the stone. A fine lithographic print some-
times resembles an engraving, but the lines of
the design are not raised on the face nor de-
pressed on the back, and the impression usually
has a shiny, greasy appearance, caused by the
sliding pressure used in printing.
* * * *
Any information about the extraction of
papain front pawpaws? —229l.
Papain is produced industrially by collecting
the latex which exudes from three or four
longitudinal scratches made on the green fruit
of Carica papaya while it is still on the tree.
The wet latex, which contains about 85 p.c.
water, is dried in the air or a vacuum oven at
45deg. C., then powdered and sold as papain.
The yield of dried latex is about 0.1 p.c.
relative to the green fruit. The fresh latex is a
very powerful proteolytic reagent (/.<?., capable
of splitting proteins into simpler compounds),
and becomes easily inactivated by the air or
oxidising agents. This deterioration occurs
during or soon after drying, and is faster in
air than a vacuum and particularly rapid in
dilute solutions. Part of the original activity
can be restored by the use of reducing agents
such as hydrocyanic acid, hydrogen sulphide,
sulphides and sulphites. On continual exposure
to oxidising conditions the activity is lost and
cannot be restored, so that the commercial
product loses its activity within a few months.
Experiments have been made to eliminate this
deterioration by the addition of various re-
agents and so produce a higher class product.
The most successful was the addition of sodium
chloride and partially drying the latex to form
a paste with 35 p.c. papaya solids, 20 p.c.
sodium chloride and 45 p.c. water. This grey
paste was very reactive and had a considerable
stability. There was no appreciable loss of
enzymic activity on exposure to air at 30deg.
C. for 14 days. It has also been kept in
sealed metal tubes and lacquered tins for 50
days at room temperature without appreciable
alteration and less than 10 p.c. in 190 days.
Weight for weight the papain pastes have about
half the activity of the best dried latex, although
they were made from less than one-fourth the
amount of wet latex. For practical purposes
it appears that productivity of a papaya plant
in terms of proteolytic enzyme may be roughly
doubled by this means.
* * * *
Is there any method of spraying cement on to
a bitumen surface? What is the minimum
thickness of cement which will stand ordinary
wear and tear? —2468.
Usually a thin layer of cement mortar is laid
only on concrete, preferably within an hour or
two of laying such concrete; in such cases
the thickness need only be 4in. and composed
of one part of cement to two parts of sand,
or mixed sand and small stone of equal pro-
portions. The provision of such a surface on
an existing bitumen one is quite unusual; but
it might be reasonable to provide this type ot
surface, provided the thickness is, say, 4in-
* * * *
What are the uses of barytes or heavy spar '
Is it used for war purposes? —2330.
Principal uses of barytes are in the paint
industry, where it is used in the finely-ground
form as a pigment and for the manufacture
of lithopone, a barium-zinc pigment. Smaller
quantities are used as a filler- in the textile,
floor covering and rubber industries, and a
small quantity is used in the chemical industry
for the manufacture of barium salts. Barytes
is not used directly for war purposes.
* * * *
(1) What is meant by the substance of tin-
plate ? (2) How is it arrived at ? (3)
What is meant by 1C, ICL, IX, DX, etc.?
Where could one obtain a book explaining
these matters in detail? —2475.
(1) The “substance” of tinplate refers to
both the weight and thickness of a particular
size of sheet; for instance, the substance of 29.9
1C is 1081b. and 0.315mm. gauge for a sheet
20in. x Min. (2) Gauge and dimensions natu-
rally influence weight. (3) These terms refer
to the thickness of the sheet according to the
standard of Birmingham wire gauge. For ex-
ample, IC is approximately 30 wire gauge;
IX 28 wire gauge; DX 26 wire gauge. Litera-
ture on the subject may be obtained at the
Public Library of N. S. Wales, Macquarie-street,
Sydney, or at the library of Sydney Technical
College. If you reside in the country, com-
municate with the Country Reference Section of
the Public Library of N. S. Wales. A trade
booklet known as “Lysaght’s Referee” con-
tains a table of standard weights and sizes of
tin plates, in which gauges, substances, sizes
and other information regarding tinplate are
shown. A copy might be obtained on applica-
tion to John Lysaght (Australia), Ltd., Sydney.
* # * *
What method is employed to harden or
temper steel after it has been heated; also,
can iron be hardened to any degree by temper-
ing? Is there any advantage in plunging steel
into oil instead of water to harden it? —2314.
Hardening is the process of heating steel to
temperatures round 1350deg. F. to 1600deg. F.
and then quenching, or reducing the temperature
suddenly by plunging the steel itno a bath of
liquid at about room temperature. This pro-
duces a very hard but also a very brittle steel.
The tempering process, which follows quench-
ing, consists of reheating the steel to much
lower temperatures than before and again
quenching, the object being to retain as far
as possible the quench hardness but to reduce
the brittleness. Hardening usually applies only
to plain carbon steels having 0.6 to 1.4 p.c.
carbon, and to alloy steels. The steel should
be heated slowly and cooled rapidly. The final
temperature reached before quenching is im-
portant, depending on the carbon content as
follows: —
Hardening Temp.
P.c. Carbon. Deg. F.
0.65-0.80 1550-1450
0.80-0.95 1460-1410
0.95-1.10 1390-1430
1.10 or over .. 1380-1420
The steel is quenched on a rising temperature
and liquids used vary from 5 deg. aqueous
solutions of caustic soda or of common salt
and pure water to a variety of vegetable,
animal and mineral oils. In general the solu-
tions are the most drastic, producing great
hardness and extreme brittleness with a strong
tendency to cracking. Water is intermediate,
and the various oils produce moderate hard-
ness and brittleness with few cases of cracking.
They are all used at about 70 deg. F., and the
steel is best plunged into the liquid with its
long axis vertical and is moved vigorously up
and down in the liquid. If it is intended to
temper a piece of steel after hardening, it
should not be allowed to cool below 220 deg.
F. on quenching. This is achieved by practice
and timing. Tempering is then done by heat-
ing the piece in an oil bath immediately after
quenching. The bath should be at 200-300 deg.
F. when the steel enters it, then both oil and
steel may be heated together. For relieving
strain the steel is held at 300-375 deg. F. for
30-60 minutes, to reduce brittleness at 375 to
500 deg. F. for a like time, and to toughen the
steel considerably at 500-650 deg. F. If tough-
ness is particularly desired it may be increased at
the expense of decreased hardness by holding
at this upper range for longer periods. After
such tempering or toughening the steel is
cooled quickly by quenching in water or oil
to room temperature. To get the best results,
a knowledge of the composition of the steel
and a careful control of temperature are
essential. Iron will not respond to heat treat-
ment.
• * * *
What are the laws of cricket regarding the
use of a substitute in first-class matches?—
1908.
A substitute shall be allowed to field or run
between wickets for any player who may during
the match be incapacitated from illness or
injury, but for no other reason, except with the
consent of the opposite side. In all cases where
a substitute shall be allowed the consent of the
opposite side shall be obtained as to the person
to act as substitute, and the place in the field
which he shall take.
Brief Answers.
G.I.K.: Commonwealth “Hansards” may be
obtained from Government Printer, Canberra.
State “Hansards” may be obtained from Gov-
ernment Printers in the capitals of the respec-
tive States... .F.L.: Tobacco manufacturers are
unable to use second-hand tins for hygienic
reasons. At least one of the States has passed
legislation forbidding the use of second-hand
material. Inquiry addressed to the Salvage
Commissioner may reveal a use for second-
hand tobacco tins... .L.M.: Only commercial
traffic was by paddle steamer and barges, which,
once important, is now practically non-existent,
except for a few tourist steamers. There is
fair traffic still on the lower Murray C.J.L.:
Your views as to the effect of the moon on
weather are substantially accurate A.A.W.:
Best Australian timber for axe, pick and
hammer handles is undoubtedly spotted-gum
( Eucalyptus maculate), which occurs along the
coast from southern N.S.W., near the Victorian
border, northward to Q’land. Handles made of
spotted gum can be bought at hardware stores.
. ...H.W.G.: Austin Distributors, Ltd., 460
Bourke-street, Melbourne... .J.W.S.; A few
likely names are: Bealiba, “redgum creek”;
Derribong, “green trees”; Quandeine, “plenty of
large trees”; Ullamulla, “white gum-trees”;
Tarpeena, “red gum-trees”; Wandearah, “big
trees”; and Dugalup and Nabelnup, _ both
meaning “a gully with running water”....
C.H.McI.: The meatworks at that place are
still open, and are operating at full capacity.
D.L.H.: None that can be recommended.
T.L.R.: For forms for that type of wmk,
two-inch battens are generally used with a width
of from four to five inches according to the
thickness of the proposed construction. The
battens are laid edgewise on the foundation
and firmly nailed to stakes. If part of the
pathway is to be curved, that part of the
forms should be made by using strips of thin
wood, taking care that sufficient stakes are
provided to prevent the form being forced out-
ward by the tamping of the concrete....
C.8.C.: Using the anchor cannon, a break of
499,135 (unfinished) was made in England by
T. Reece in 1907... .H.R.P.: Certainly would
not recommend that expenditure at this stage.
. ...S.P.T.: Area of Ulster is 5237 sq. miles.
....P.N.E.: Such a reaction indicates the
presence of copper... .F.W.C.: The fare is un-
altered; weekly ticket, 3s. 6d L.N.P.: To
make gooseberry fool, put a quart of green
gooseberries into a saucepan with a little water
and about half a pound of sugar. Simmer
until the fruit is reduced to pulp, and rub
through a sieve. Then add gradually half a
pint of cream or custard; put in a cool place
and stir it every now and then until c 001....
L.N.S.: Kentledge is permanent ship-ballast,
generally consisting of pigs of iron... .W.A.E.:
Rudyard Kipling, W. B. Yeats, G. B. Shaw,
Rabindranath Tagore and John Galsworthy are
British winners of the Nobel Prize for literature.
. ...T.T.G.: Nicolo and onicolo are alternate
terms for the same large brass reed instrument.
It was common in the seventeenth century, but
has been superseded by the bassoon.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped, blame and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —•
R.M.W.:
By day and by night they brave Nazi hell
With the coolness and courage we all know so well;
Their houses are bombed and their hospitals, too,
But they still raise their thumbs and say “Tiggerty
boo!”
C. -
Remember, you Anzacs lighting overseas,
l our cause is high and just,
Not like the infernal Hun
Who’s come to take your homeland.
Whose fighting is not done
For you, the Anzacs will be fighting
Till the battle you have won.
D.
Changing guard at Canberra city
Was not inspiring or even pretty.
... .A.A.R.: You are better on false teeth than
flowers, but neither are remarkable. .. J.R.:
It’s dogged as does it; but not doggy....
G.M.: Decided some months ago that that
one was too colorful... .J.M.K.: One line,
then, so that you can get it off your chest:
“Darwin is a rotten place”... .A.G.E.H.:
Liked the barber’s nose better than the lilies.
. ...T.G.W.: That’s better... .P.C.C.; More
meat, please; you bubble and squeak too
much P.S.: Come on in, then:
When a man has got to earn his keep
(And paper really isn’t cheap)
It’s tough to find your written word
Has gone and got the blasted bird.
. ...J.H.: Practically all the verses are written
to the same unfortunate formula; vague and
woolly introductory lines, marring the vivid
conclusions... .J.E.Q.: Your Pegasus is also
somewhat cold and “mech’nis’d”... .E.W.K..
Try a woman’s paper... .N.N.: Close
R.F.K.: Inversions and poetic tags spoil it.
. ...T.P.W.: Much too flat for a recruiting
verse... .L.W.: A string of rhetorical ques-
tions isn’t a sonnet T.1.P.: Labored
M.J.: Spare and bare D.C.: “Time” won’t
stay... .M.M.: “I would that I had feathered
wings.” Honestly, now, would they improve
your appearance? C.S.W.: Well, you’re a
trier T.H.S.: A grin in it T.F.S.:
Thanks; but it’s miles away... .E.J.M.:
“Would it be worth putting ‘The Little Girl
from Next Door’ into music?” Certainly; or
into the pond... .M.J.F.: “My heart is popping
like a soldier’s pistol.” The poem has popped
off in sympathy R.A.J.: Tut K.E.C.:
Like measles, it’s bright in spots.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.D.L.: Sense of humor and drawing life-
less W.R.A.: Spoonerism allied to blotchy
drawing is a horrific combination T.Y.;
Stiff, but not without promise Mary N.:
Mary, your linework is all contrary
C.N.R.: Present it to your wife’s mother
W.M.C.: Your placing of shading gave it a
grotesque effect Bert C.: Dave’s moustache
makes Marshal Budenny’s look like an attenu-
ated zonker... .G.N.: A firmer line and a bit
more confidence and you should succeed.
W.M.: If that’s your best, switch your
hobby to beer or fretwork or something.
E.T.: Boundary-rider wearing shorts, Poona
helmet, field glasses and carrying stockwhip is
cantering back... .R.T.N.: The bathing belle
talking to the elongated lifesaver with the coir
mat where his chest should be must hav» a
bust of about 96in V.G.: Not interested in
child with elderly face and wearing corrugated-
iron pants trying to force obese dog into
hollow log.


BRANDAUER*
PENS
:
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BBAMDA.OKK * CO, Ltd, BIKMUiGHAM. ESO
MEN!
BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY,
B 21
Clan o
TONIC
T. JONES E CO.
CHEMIST, 310 George Street, Sydney.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked
I
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
English Frame .. . . 45/-
C. E. KITCHINGS
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
SMOKE-OH!
“Judge says the in-law is often the cause of
divorce.”
Now if we could only outlaw the in-
law!
•F »F *F *F
“The turquoise is a stone which super-
stition says will change color if your lover is
mean or faithless.” — Woman’s paper.
Much the same superstition is attached
to a gold ring that turns green.
•F *F *F *F
“Cabinetmaker has solid butt maple bed-
room suite, also blonde.”
— “S.M.H.” For Sale ad.
Fair enough ; but does she object?
•F *F *F *F
“And there, in the candle-lit room, Peter
and Christina plighted their trot.”
— Story , woman's paper.
It was when they started trotting in
double harness that Peter wanted to bolt.
“One effect of the poor attendance was the
large number of vacant seats.” — Suburban paper.
Another was that a lot of people didn’t
turn up.
•J*
“The bride was given away by her feather.”
— Woman’s paper.
The ’groom won’t be left any to fly
with.
■J* 4* 4*
“Tokyo police question Britisher. No charge
made.” — Cable heading.
Not even entertainment tax?
“The whole film runs as smoothly as silk.”
—“Music Maker.”
Probably it’s got a threadbare plot,
•J* 4* 4* 4*
“Few musicians possess the commercial acumen
necessary for conducting the monetary side
of their activities.” — “Music Maker.”
Can’t hold on to their notes.
•F *F *F *F
“Leaping into Myra’s room, he sprang over
the bed, and a moment later vaulted through
the open window.” — Short story.
The bounder!
I know why tram-guards furtively return
Dud coins to me; why cardsharps
mark the deck,
And butchers lean on scales. I’ve yet to
learn
Why barbers brush those short hairs
down my neck.
P. O. M. C.
“He had met her in a cafe in Hong Kong.
A lovely, exotic creature, she had drifted sen-
suously to his table, delicately holding a cigar-
ette, and had asked him for a light.”
—Short story.
Another of those matchless beauties.
•f*
“No distinctions on hospital ship.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.
All in the same boat.
+ 4- *
“Men with the tall, commanding appearance
of policemen invariably have an advantage over
weaklings.”— Physical culture magazine.
Not if they’re trying to get sly grog
in Darlinghurst!
4- ►!* *1- 4*
“With a leap of 5ft. 5in. P. Street (Cran-
brook) lowered the under 16 years high jump
record by a quarter of an inch. tt
—“Sunday Telegraph.
He could have saved himself a lot
of energy and lowered it considerably
more by doing, say, an easy 3ft. 2in.
•I* *!• *1* •!*
“The garden fete held at Mrs. ’s in aid
of the local auxiliary was a great success. Over
£15 was taken on the cake stall. The district
ambulance attended.” „ T ,/\
—North Coast ( N.S.W.) paper.
We’ve had cakes like that, too.
Prosaic.
Could I hut wield a poet’s pen,
I might in fitting language rave
About thy charms, my sweetheart, when
I vow myself thy humble slave.
Let poets rave, if that’s their taste.
But when without romantic fuss
My arm’s around thy ample waist,
Why, prose is good enough for us!
CLEM LACK.
Husband Pride.
“The average woman likes to be proud of
her husband.” — Woman’s paper.
“Yes,” said Maria, with quiet pride,
“Aitchem is recognised as the best man
in his line in Sydney. He might be mak-
ing ten thousand a year if he had only
accepted an offer made to him a year
ago. But he refused it as a matter of
principle.”
“Ten thousand a year! He must be
doing very well to turn an offer like that
down,” said Mrs. Catt, surveying me
doubtfully.
“Oh, well,” I said, trying to water it
down, “it wasn’t exactly ten thou”
“Now, Aitchem, you know very
well” Maria cut in sharply, and
didn’t give me a chance afterwards to do
any watering-down. I heard all about it
afterwards on the way home.
“You idiot,” she stormed. “Haven’t
you any brains at all? Why did you
want to make a liar of me when you
know very well Swindle and Crook did
make you an offer”
“Yes, but it was on commission only,
and”
“And you must contradict me after all
the lies those other women were telling,
swanking about their fool husbands. You
do make me mad.
H.M.
Attraction.
’Tis not those dark and lustrous eyes
That make of me an easy prize,
Nor yet your lovely hair and face,
Your shapely limbs, your flowing grace.
Ah, no ! It is the way that you
Can cook a good old Irish stew!
T. W. NATHAN.
“As She Is Spoke.”
“Harriman said ‘agreed’ if the item concerned
was to come from the United States. 1 said
‘Okay’ if England was producing the goods.
—Lord Beaverbrook, discussing their interview
with Stalin at the Three-Power Conference in
Moscow.
“And now,” continued Joe through his
interpreter, “I take it that there will be
a minimum of delay in supplying these
items.”
Lord Beaverbrook deftly rolled his
cigar to the other side of his mouth and
barked out of the vacant slit: “It’s a
sure-fire cinch, buddy. You can slam
your last nickel down on it that we’ll
give it the woiks. How come with you,
Harriman?” *
“Oh, quaite, quaite,” endorsed the
U.S. representative.
“Now as regards payment, Fm
afraid” began Joe.
“Forget it, bo,” burst in Lord Beaver-
brook. “Our tight li’l isle ain’t so tight
as all that. Sure we’re wise to your
set-up. Keep your bucks. It’s worth a
million grand to us guys to keep you
putting these Teu-tons on the spot. Just
keen pushing your demand notes in for
all the goods you want and don’t worry
“Quick Joe, hide thish —theresh me old Liquid Fuel Control Board
standin' at the door.”
any about agitating your peter. That
okay with you, Harriman?”
“Oh, unquestionably, your lordship!”
“Boy, are we doing swell! I’ll shriek
it to the woild that this’ll gum up Adolf.
Well have your goods to skedule, yes
sirree. That goes for you too, Harri-
man?”
“I hasten to assu-are your lordship.
And delaighted to have made your
acquaintance, M. Stalin.”
“Sure, Joe,” said Lord Beaverbrook
gustily as he waved his cigar with one
hand and clapped the Soviet dictator
heartily on the back with the other.
“Well be seeing y’. Now we gotta
scram!”
K.
Serials to Come.
“Although broadcasting is comparatively an
infant art, it is already having a powerful effect
on writing, chiefly through the enterprise of the
commercial stations. Newspaper serials in par-
ticular are coming under its influence, authors
now bearing in mind their subsequent adapta-
tion to broadcasting.” —Wireless paper.
Some day, perhaps, mittened ladies of
our “best” suburbs may read something
like the following in the pages of our
most respectable daily.
The Shrieking Skeleton.
[Synopsis: Professor Dalgleish Dingbatte, a
mad scientist, has by the use of atomic waves
animated the skeleton of an enormous African
gorilla. Through the sinister influence of his
son-in-law, Sir Sigismund Blowfly, an un-
scrupulous share-fancier whose ambition is
to gain complete control of the country’s
finances. Professor Dingbatte orders the skele-
ton to strangle the president of the Stock Ex-
change. A reign of terror follows, and by the
time seven brokers have been mysteriously
throttled the city’s financial life is in a state
of chaos. The police chief, baffled, calls in
Plantagenet Perk, famous amateur detective and
chief sub-editor of the “Daily Howl.” With
Dolores Dizzy, a beautiful girl reporter, he sets
out to solve the mystery.]
Now Read On !
As Plantagenet sank back into the seat
of his big Backhard (£854, including sales
tax, chrome spittoons, footwarmer and
streamlined anti-knock engine) he hitched
up his trousers, which had just been
cleaned and pressed by Greasegone Dry-
cleaners, Ltd. (3s. 6d. sac suit, Is. 4d.
pants only), revealing his camel-hair un-
shrinkable, super-toed socks in the latest
three-tone vertical stripes, obtainable at
all stores at 2s. lid. a pair or three pairs
for Bs. 6d. He ordered the chauffeur to
drive to the Stock Exchange.
The gloomy building was deserted save
for an armed policeman who was guard-
ing the liftwell, which the police chief
ing the liftwell. He saluted the amateur
detective respectfully.
“Which room did Stephen Whump, the
latest victim, occupy?” Plantagenet asked.
“I couldn’t say, sir,” returned the
policeman as he lit a Binnacle cigarette
(11 for 7d. they don’t burn your
epiglottis).
“I never knew the force to know any-
thing,” muttered Plantagenet savagely as
he began his search.
Twenty minutes later, his fingers on
the hair trigger of his Bolt automatic
(“It never jams” call at Mack Sum-
mons’s and see their full range), Plan-
tagenet was still hot on the trail of the
murdered man’s office. It was then that
his keen brain became aware of a peculiar
thing although each door was num-
bered, every name had been removed !
“The work of the murderer!” hissed
the detective,
“But why should he Want to do that,
Plant?” asked Dolores as she paused to
powder her retrousse nose (had she used
Wand’s astringent powder base, 2s. 6d.
large jars, Is. 9d. small, which keeps
powder on “from dawn to dusk,” this
wouldn’t have been necessary).
“Why, to put us off the scent, my dear.
How, if his name is not on the door,
could we trace which room the mur-
dered man occupied?”
“But wouldn’t the directory on the
ground floor show it?” asked his assis-
tant, raising her beautiful eyebrows
(plucked at Former’s beauty salon by
the latest hydraulic process ; fallen arches
repencilled Is. 6d. per inch).
With a disgusted “Tch! tch! ” at his
own lack of thought the detective turned
to walk down the 17 flights of stairs to
the ground floor to look it up. But he
had taken only two steps when his eagle
eye fell on a cigar butt in the passageway.
Picking it up by his handkerchief with
great care so as not to disturb any pos-
sible fingerprints he sniffed it.
When he came to Plantagenet’s head
was in Dolores’s lap and her hot tears
were falling on his nose.
“Wh-here am I?” he asked feebly.
Quickly Dolores dabbed her lovely
eyes with her Cheops pure Irish cambric
lace-edged handkerchief, obtainable with
any initials at 18s. a dozen. “You —you
went out to it,” she said in blushing con-
fusion. “I —I thought you were dead.”
Plantagenet Perk looked at his assistant
with eyes suddenly grown tender. He
held out his arms weakly. “Miss Dizzy
. . . Dolores . . .my love! I never sus-
pected,” and the next moment his lips
were crushing hers. As he came up for
breath half a minute later there was no
faintest sign of vermilion on his lips,
thanks to the Ontostop lipstick, obtain-
able in Cupid’s blush, cyclone red and
oxblood, 4s. 6d. a tube, that Dolores
wisely used.
Plantagenet struggled to his feet, “Dar-
ling,” he said as he squeezed her little
hand, “our love must wait. Remember
our Case!”
Whipping out his magnifying glass (a
Precision Instruments product) he bent
it on the half-burned band of the cigar.
“A Flor de Hum,” he muttered. “I re-
call now that Stephen Whump had a box
of these given to him when he gave an
address on Contango and Backwardation
to a businessgirls’ luncheon last week.
We are getting somewhere now.”
As Plantagenet was placing the exhibit
carefully in his pocket the door of the
room immediately behind them opened
silently and the figure of a giant gorilla
skeleton was silhouetted sharply. Slowly
the terrible creature reached out its long,
powerful, prehensile paws. Then as
Dolores tucked her arm in Plantagenet’s
an awful demoniac shriek broke from
the skeleton, and it lunged forward.
[What will happen tomorrow? You must
not miss this thrilling instalment.]
BO.


/~v
1
mm*:'
Pi
THAI I BIAZEHS !
Adventurers in the true sense of the term,
they blazed tracks across mountain ranges
and inhospitable deserts. Some made fortunes
overnight. Others toiled hard and long, with
little more than an enduring hope to sustain
them. In the days of the early gold diggers,
the National Bank was established, and, ever
since, it has made available a wide range of
facilities, stimulating and encouraging trade
and industry in their process of development.
With growing resources and a wealth of
experience, the Bank is ready and able
further to assist in sound enterprises to develop
the resources of Australia.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
100—16—41
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors • THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Australia’s Finances
The Commonwealth Bank, in the
board’s annual report, stated that short-
age of men is now being felt in many
industries, particularly in the metal,
engineering, textile and boot trades.
Agreements have been reached providing
for the dilution of labor in some new
trades, and provision for technical train-
ing is to be “greatly extended.” Trade-
union unemployment was down to 3.6
p.c. in May. Since June, 1940, about
120,000 more people have been given
jobs, those absorbed by factories totalling
90.000. When enlistments in the services
are taken into account, the strain on
Australian man-power is obvious,
especially where skill is called for. There
is no place for mere office-holders or
sand-shifters in the present state of
affairs.
The central bank board refers to “the
heavy demand for war production,” and
to “some reduction in the supplies of
certain classes of goods for civil use,”
Back in June it was announced from
Canberra that the Eastern Group Supply
Council, Delhi, had ordered 2,250,000
blankets, 2,000,000 singlets, 2,270,000
jackets and pullovers, 1,000,000 pairs of
boots, 4,800,000 pairs of socks, and a
large quantity of greatcoats and uni-
forms; also 1,500,000 flannel shirts and
5.000. woollen yarn, with spread
delivery. These were only a portion of
the orders received. Clearly a big tax
on our productive capacity has been im-
posed, and apparently more orders may
come. The bank says that, owing to the
almost total absorption of Australian un-
employed, “further expansion in muni-
tions output must come mainly through
reduction in civil output.”
In order to attain a maximum pro-
duction of munitions with a minimum
of disturbance to civil life, stricter con-
trol of capital issues has been enforced,
non-essential expansion being blocked.
Building has been restricted, and the
trading banks have agreed to encourage
essential war industries rather than the
non-essential. There are reports (un-
official) that cash-order cos. will find it
difficult to get bank accommodation in
future.
Getting back to official data, the Com-
monwealth Bank board points out that
the prime problem of war production is
to get hold of real resources of men,
materials and machinery, “and no method
of finance can avoid this. Financial policy
can only help by making the transfer as
smooth as possible, and by distributing
the sacrifices involved by individuals as
equitably as possible. If the transfer of
real resources to war use is accompanied
by an equal transfer of purchasing power
from individuals to the Government, the
ultimate loss to the economy and the
sacrifices involved for different classes of
the community are likely to be less than
if the transfer of resources is brought
about by inflation.” In other words, the
bank is of the opinion that taxation and
limited borrowing are a far more useful
and reliable method of financing war
expenditure than any of those other
means which appear to shift the burden
of war expenditure from the community.
Shipping still constitutes a major
worry to Australia’s export industries, as
well as on the imports side. Wool is
sold whether shipped or not, and in the
last season there was little carryover of
wheat. But in the coming season there
will be some difficulty in shipping the
surplus crop, and it will be impossible
to ship the usual quantities of meat,
butter, eggs, fruit or wine. An agree-
ment in respect of the surplus of some
of these commodities has been reached
with Britain. Canning and drying are
being introduced where possible in order
to save shipping space, and quantities of
produce are being stored in Australia.
Advances made by the Commonwealth
Bank to finance exports or to assist in-
dustries prevented from fully exporting
their surplus, plus advances to the Gov-
ernment and to the trading banks in the
purchase of London funds, have had the
effect of making the banking system as
a whole very fluid. At the end of June,
for example, the spending power in the
hands of the public was £64 million
greater than at the outbreak of war.
Of this figure, £l9 million represented
extra notes in the hands of the public.
During 1940-41, the bank board states,
Australia was able to meet from its own
resources £2B million of the £43 million
charge for overseas expenditure on the
A.I.F. This was partly the result of an
inflow of capital. Apparently, then, the
balance of payments was favorable to
the extent of £2B million after paying the
interest bill, but it was swallowed up,
and £l5 million besides, by the cost of
keeping the A.I.F. in the field.
The Australian note issue rose nearly
£7,000,000 during the last financial year.
Most of the extra notes went into the
hands of the public. A similar state of
affairs exists in Britain, Canada and
Maoriland, and the central bank attri-
butes it to war conditions. In Australia
there was a period of note-hoarding
brought about by fears of “conscription
of capital.” That phase should have
passed off by this.
Australians are earning more than
they can spend on themselves with-
out causing prices to rise. In
Fadden’s Budget speech, apparently
relying on data supplied by experts in
the Treasury, he referred to the prob-
ability of a national income of £lOOO
million in 1941-42, and mentioned that
the consequent increase in private in-
comes and savings would be due not
only to war production but to the “sub-
stantial surplus of export income over
civil imports.” He explained that “this
surplus, like war expenditure, helps to
swell incomes received in Australia with-
out increasing the amounts of goods
available for civilian spending. For both
these reasons there will be an excess of
incomes over the goods and services avail-
able for purchase by the public.”
While it is reassuring to hear
that Australia’s favorable balance of
payments, excluding A.I.F. charges,
is becoming “substantial” —it was
quite noticeable in 1940-41 and
while the civilian is unable to make use
of these London funds owing to import-
ing difficulties and conservation of our
overseas resources, the "fact remains that
the war, which caused their accumulation,
has also created a special demand for
them —on national account. That the
civilian is unable to use them in the usual
way doesn’t mean that the Government
can’t; its war effort, plus financial re-
strictions, has sterilised these funds from
a civilian viewpoint only. If left lying
idle as a latent source of civil spend-
ing the funds have inflationary possi-
bilities.
• •••«*
For this reason, and because they were
created by war circumstances, surplus
funds in London and Australia should
be diverted as directly as possible to the
war effort. It is not as though they are
more than our war bill. The excess of
incomes, both from home and overseas
sources, over what those incomes can
be fairly spent on this year being so
much greater than last year, the Gov-
ernment has every reason to ask that
the excess be diverted to the war effort
either by further taxation or greater bor-
rowings, plus stiffening and extending the
controls over capital investment and
spending. By using real savings for war
finance the danger of inflation will be
greatly reduced and the after-effects of
war waste will be minimised.
The Fadden Budget, which erred on
the side of taxing too lightly, was thrown
out by Parliament in unusual circum-
stances. Mr. Coles said he “had very
little against the Budget”; apparently
he just didn’t like the Government.
Labor’s Budget was to have been pre-
sented to Cabinet in draft form last
Friday, and, if approved, would reach
Parliament when it resumes on Oct. 29.
There is talk that Labor will let off the
lower-income-earners, from whom Fadden
proposed to collect a considerable sum
in the shape of post-war credits, and
impose heavier entertainments tax, as
well as “probably resorting to the use of
national credit much more freely.” The
trouble with the use of national credit
is that it doesn’t take away savings from
the public—and that is what is obviously
wanted at the present time, when the
public has so much to spend and so little
to spend it on. Even the new Prime
Minister seems to be thinking along these
lines; unless people buy less non-
essentials, taxes will have to go up,
he says. Never were the Australian
people, especially the workmen, better
fitted to make a contribution to a struggle
such as we are now engaged in. Labor
is enjoying a boom at present for which
other people are paying.
Before his defeat Fadden told the
House that his financial proposals for
1941-42 counted on the drawing-off of
million from persons earning under
£8 a week. Those earning under £8
were in receipt of £560 million a year,
which was up £7O million since the out-
break of war. The proposed levy would
amount to only 1.9 p.c. of the incomes
involved —less than 6d. in the £—and, of
the total levy, £6,500,000 would be re-
payable after the war. In Maoriland, as
this paper pointed out many times
before Fadden brought the matter up,
there is a flat-rate tax of Is. in the £ on
all incomes, without exemption and with
no post-war repayment. Canada and
Britain have also called on the lower-
income ranges for help in their struggle
to get war funds. The under-£B-a-weeker,
because he represents more than 70 p.c.
of the total national spending power,
cannot be allowed to escape all the added
burdens which this war has forced on us.
« # * ♦
McKell’s Budget reveals itself as more
of a bag of tricks every time he tells a
little more about it. First of all he
seemed to have received a shock when
he found himself in office with a promise
of abolishing the wages tax to honor.
Though unemployment in N. S. Wales
had fallen to the record low level of
4.5 p.c. at May 31 last and has since gone
lower, McKell has decided that he needs
all the revenue previously raised by the
“wages tax,” and he is “abolishing” this
only to the extent of giving it other
names and a different incidence, and
reducing the general exemption from
£250 to £156. He started off by
trying to justify as “logical” the
abolition of rebates of tax paid by
companies when their profits reached the
hands of shareholders ; he spoke a lot
of this “logical” humbug, but the fact
remains that by cutting out rebates of
tax on divs. he is imposing a minimum
tax of 3s. (up 6d.) in the £ on income
from companies and imposing double
taxation when the rate in shareholders’
hands 3s. This tax is simply
an expediency without any basis of fair-
ness in it. When the Commonwealth did
the same sort of thing as a war measure
it begged nobody’s pardon and made no
specious explanations; in that case
nobody objected, because it was essen-
tially a rough-and-ready emergency
action.
A new principle in McKell taxation
is the calculation of the rate according
to the gross income before allowance is
made for concessional deductions. Sub-
ject to the anomalies arising from new
company taxation, etc., up to £l5OO rates
are slightly lower than the com-
bined taxes previously paid. About
110,000 people on lower incomes will
be relieved of wages tax at a cost
of £525,000, says McKell, and deductions
for dependants will be raised from £5O
to £6o—cost £225,000. Income from
other States will be taxed to the extent
that other State taxation is under
the N.S.W, rate, and an inter-State
seller of goods in N. S. Wales will pay
additional tax, up to the N.S.W. rate,
on profits earned in N.S.W. but subject
to the taxes of another State. There is
to be an undistributed-profits tax of Is.
in the £ where a co. distributes less than
half its taxable income. After mentioning
that “dividends paid wholly and exclu-
sively from interest on Consols, capital
profits and goldmining profits” are exempt
at present from tax, McKell says that he
believes that “divs. should be treated
quite apart from the co.’s profits, and
taxed in the hands of recipients the same


CAN TAKE IT .
The spirit of freedom which grips the hearts
of our fighting men gives them power to
accomplish the “impossible” in the air, on
the sea and on the land. Their cause is a
worthy one . . . and they risk all for it.
AUSTRALIANS
CAN MAKE IT
In every factory from which comes food, clothing,
equipment or munitions for the Services, men
and women alike are speeding their efforts. The
same spirit of freedom and fairness has gripped
their hearts. Their cause is a worthy one, too,
for they have chosen the task of giving our sold-
iers , sailors and airmen the weapons of victory.
COMMONWEALTH
ROLLING MILLS
LTD.
PORT KEMBLA
PTY.
KEMBLA ROAD
THE ARMCO - LYSAGHT ORGANISATION
MANUFACTURERS OF STEEL SHEETS
m
p ::
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
e
m*
99813
8/1 JO * 0 Z *POI JC| 01
PREVEN
SORE
as other investment income.” A conveni-
ent but illogical belief, it is on all fours
with much of the rest of the Budget.
So far as one can gather from the dribs
and drabs of information released by
McKell announcement of his new
measures has been spread over weeks,
with the actual rates of tax presented
only last Thursday—l94o-41 wages
income will be taxed at least twice
by the N. S. Wales Government.
Already wages tax has been paid at the
source by wage-earners during 1940-41,
but the only allowance to be made in
respect of 1940-41 assessments when they
come forward next year will be the U.R.
tax paid between July 1 and Oct. 31
of 1941-42, plus the new-style deductions
that will take place afterwards. Actually
the McKell Government will get little
more immediate revenue from this
method, but it seems as though many
taxpayers will be made liable for an
additional year’s tax, with payment de-
ferred 12 months.
To investigate a little further McKell’s
new method of assessment, if he takes
1940-41 wages, which have already borne
tax at source, in order to calculate the
tax payable some time early next year,
how will the wage-earner leaving Aus-
tralia for, say, New Guinea get on?
Once he leaves N.S.W. such a person
becomes free of further Australian
taxation provided he has paid all his dues
before leaving. Under the new system
it appears that McKell will say, “We
want further tax from you for 1940-41
—something about as much as you have
paid already.” In any case, people re-
maining in Australia will have two assess-
ments made on the one lot of income,
and McKell has vaguely stated that where
their income is a fluctuating one, with
their 1941-42 total much below the
1940- figure, a “relief board” will be
established to deal with such cases of
hardship. Which is a clear admission
that in ordinary circumstances income
for 1940-41 is to be taxed twice. The
tangled web of tricks in the McKell
Budget will require a lot of unravelling
by such boards if anything like justice
is to be done to the taxpayer. If the
Premier straightforwardly made a provi-
sion that the second assessment on 1940-
41 income was an advance estimate of
1941- tax, subject to later adjustment,
no boards would be necessary. Copies of
the taxation bill are scarcer than hen's
teeth away from Macquarie-street.
4c * * *
Late information on Curtin’s Budget
is that heavier tax rates on the higher
incomes and companies will come into
force, the compulsory loan scheme will
be dropped, and that indirect taxation
will be increased. The Prime Minister
is asking for voluntary reduction in
public spending rather than doing some-
thing definite about it, and is relying on
indirect means of war taxation (except in
the case of higher incomes) wherever
possible. However, he seems to be taking
some sort of a stand against wholesale
use of “bank credit” for finance, though
going further than Fadden proposed.
* * * *
Shares dipped as a result of the “Pacific
situation” at the week-end. B.H.P. was
down to a very low level. What with
international developments and Labor
politics this stock has been forced down
to the point where it offers a return of
4.1 p.c. If anything “breaks” in. the
Pacific Australia will have more than
usual reason to thank the energy and
foresight displayed by B.H.P. over a
period when Labor and most other poli-
ticians were fast asleep in matters relating
to defence or anything resembling it.
« * ♦ *
After having made a few observations
about housing conditions at Whyalla
(S.A.), Dr. Button, Moderator of the
Presbyterian Church of Victoria, awoke
to find that, after what he really said
had been handled by the daily press, he
had “attacked” B.H.P. Nobody was more
surprised than the Moderator himself
when he learned that he had started an
offensive. Writing to a Sydney paper
whose opposition sheet had attributed to
the doctor an “attack from the pulpit,”
he said;
My remarks about Whyalla housing have
been widely, but wrongly, interpreted as
an “attack” upon the 8.H.P., and hailed
or reprobated accordingly. I have not in
any way “attacked” the 8.H.P., nor have I
the least sympathy with the extremist criti-
cisms so often urged against that company.
I have ungrudgingly acknowledged the
great work it is doing for Australia, its
generous treatment of its employees, and
its efforts to provide houses, though that
is not its primary responsibility.
Dr. Button went on to say that he was
critical of the S.A. Government in not
providing local government for the town
of 7000 people, and that he wondered
why the Commonwealth hadn’t done
something about housing. A shortage
of housing is certain to exist at Whyalla,
but former Clydesiders now helping to
establish an Australian shipbuilding in-
dustry are tolerant in the matter ; they
realise the difficulty of building a model
suburb in a desert under war-time con-
ditions. Some workers, too, don t like
living under ‘model conditions. But
few will object to Dr. Button s remar s
as he really made them.
Owing to the effects of “the worst
drought ever experienced in New Guinea”
rubber output (503,8271 b.) of Koitaki
Para Rubber was 36,1491 b. lower than in
the preceding year. Because of higher
prices total revenue for the year, includ-
ing stock movements, was up £5096 at
£35,3 1 5 - r«m ta ; ion f, C 7 mo?e
rose by £5839 to £17,407, rather more
than offsetting the increase in income ;
drought increased the cost of feeding the
native labor, and all stores are now rising
in price. However, it was a lift of £4701
in administrative exes., including taxa-
tion, that had the most unexpected effect
on profits. The net figure fell from
£12,156 to £6755, and the ord. div. was
dropped from p.c. to 10 p.c., calling,
with pref. requirements, for £765 more
than was earned. Drought still con-
tinues, which is particularly unfortunate,
as the plantations would otherwise be pro-
Cueing a recor d quantity of rubber, and
p r j ces are more satisfactory than they
have been for several years. There were
1083 acres of rubber in production at June
“ lasi, with a bit more than that planted
but n °t producing. Given reasonable
seas °™ and prices, shareholders should
s °°“ be 8m to reap rewards from the
steady expansion of the past six years,
Wool f (he new dj has been
upraised to the extent of 820,419 bales
Kf, . . » 100 -v T It ,
rf £13 » 198 »520. Nearly
£10,000,000 has been already paid to
growers and another £3,000,000-odd is
due them. Average appraised prices per
pound greasy are: N.S.W., 11.64 d.; Vic-
toria, 11.8 d. ; Queensland, 11.59 d.; S.A.,
10.76 d.; W.A., 11.08 d.; Tasmania,
10.43 d.; Commonwealth, 11.55 d.


THE SERVICE MAN
Odessa, Taganrog, Moscow.
“Ek Dum”: The German campaign
along the Russian battle front has pro-
ceeded with ruthless efficiency, and, stub-
bornly as the Russians have fought, *it
cannot be said that the invaders have
suffered a check of any importance in
the ultimate fate of the battle.
The position on October 11 was that
Leningrad was penned in and bom-
barded, but the activity on the German
side was limited. Von Leeb’s southern
army had driven across the Valdai Hills
to the neighborhood of Rshev, 75 miles
north of Vyazma.
On the main Moscow-Warsaw road,
the Germans were past Vyazma, which
seemed to be encircled, with another
large belt of country to the north and
south, and well on their way across the
hills to the entrance to the Moscow river
valley. Bryansk, centre of the great star
of railways to the south-west of Moscow,
and the manufacturing city of Orel,
directly east of it, were in enemy pos-
session. Tula, an industrial city 100 miles
south of Moscow, and Kaluga were not
actually in German hands, as some
sources suggested, but were threatened
by the methodical approach of Marshal
von Bock’s armies. So was Kursk, now
at the linkage point between Timo-
shenko’s central and Budenny’s southern
armies, if that linkage had not already
been broken.
Southern operations consisted in con-
tinued pressure on Odessa by the besieg-
ing Rumanians and mopping-up opera-
tions in the Hungarian sector beyond the
Dnieper mouth, where Azov and Poltava
spearheads had linked hands and cap-
tured Russian forces—the enemy asserted
that they numbered 109,000. Pressure on
the Perekop Isthmus leading to the
Crimea was being maintained.
The German forces beyond this at
Mariupol and northward were sending
out feelers towards Rostov, and their
spearheads further north around the
mushroom city of Stalino were pushing
exploratory fingers into the inner skin of
the Donetz industrial area to discover
what it was made of.
There was, however, no serious
attempt at an advance anywhere save on
the central 300 miles of arc inside which
lay Moscow, now tortured nightly by
heavy aerial bombardments. The Ger-
man High Command obviously sets
much store on synchronisation. The even-
ness with which the whole line has ad-
vanced since the beginning of the war
cannot be ignored.
Before the present battle began, each
one of the eight German armies em-
ployed had its front approximately 480-
500 miles from the nearest point of the
German or other frontier from which it
had come.
Up to October 12 German claims for
the results of the central battle were that
it had passed its decisive point; that
Marshal Timoshenko’s power to offer de-
cisive resistance had been broken, that
his frontal armies along the main
Warsaw-Moscow road had been cut into
pockets and were in process of annihila-
tion. The High Command claimed to
have taken 200,000 prisoners. The
geographical situation of the battle and
the swiftness of the advances at the ex-
tremities of the central sector lent color
to the German claims and left little hope
that the surrounding of Moscow ulti-
mately could be prevented.
The weather in the first October week
had mellowed into the usual dim, bright
Russian middays, fading into early twi-
light. There were naturally many varia-
tions along a front from Murmansk to
the Black Sea, 1500 miles long as the
crow flies. Murmansk is in about 70
degrees north latitude, well inside the
Arctic Circle. There the long Arctic
night already has set in. Leningrad sits
on 60 degrees north, comparable to the
north of Scotland. There but four or
five hours of real daylight remain. But
the Crimea corresponds in latitude with
Tasmania.
Early in the week it began to snow or
rain along most of the line, and there
were signs that winter would come down
like a lion instead of on its usual Russian
plan of laughing days alternating with
light, white storms. Even in the Ukraine
it snowed. Leningrad on October 18
lay under a silver cloak.
Neither weather nor resistance seemed,
however, to delay the invaders’ plan. By
October 19 they were claiming that the
battle on the central front (i.e., Timo-
shenko’s) had yielded 658,000 prisoners
and 1241 tanks and 5396 guns captured
or destroyed. In previous weeks they
had claimed 784,000 prisoners in the Kiev
and Dnieper-Azov battles.
Their advances at the horns of the
Kalinin-Orel arc showed that they were
not meeting with substantial resistance in
that region, though what there was was
stout, even desperate, as they admitted.
On October 15 the Russians reported
that the Germans had burst through
some defences on the Moscow road.
“Pravda” declared that the battle there
had assumed gigantic proportions. The
main part of it was taking place between
Borodino and Mojaisk, which was 100
miles further along the highway than the
Germans had been at the furthermost
points of penetration 10 days before.
Borodino is at the jumpdown into the
valley of the Moscow River, on which
Moscow lies. It has defensively well-
placed heights and ridges between the
Moscow River headwaters and those of
the Kaluga to the south, which gave
Napoleon a great deal of trouble. Mojaisk
is 12 miles nearer the capital, and about
75 miles from it by direct line. The
German High Command affected to
laugh at the resistance here, despite the
Russians’ claim that they were launching
heavy counter-attacks. Timoshenko’s
main forward forces, the Germans de-
clared, had been “annihilated.” German
motor columns were pouring up the road
to new positions from the Vyazma region
four abreast.
Northward, the battle on Timoshenko’s
right wing was assuming a new and dan-
gerous complexion. At the previous
week-end the German troops closest
the Moscow-Leningrad railway had been
near Rshev; now there were Panzers,
backed by large forces of infantry, 75
miles north-east, at the gates of Kalinin,
on the Leningrad railway, 100 miles or so
from Moscow. The significant fact about
them was that they had come not from
the western (Rshev) direction, but from
the north-west, down the eastern foot-
hills of the Valdai Hills parallel with the
railway. They could scarcely have done
this without putting the whole Ilmen-
Ladoga front for 300 miles in jeopardy.
Here, at Kalinin, was the region of the
joint between Voroshilov’s and Timo-
shenko’s armies. Their fronts’ meeting
point was originally 70 miles north-west
of the town. At the same time, the
thrusters round Rshev were trying to
break south to the Moscow road.
Timoshenko had been compelled to
detach much needed forces from his cen-
tral sector to try to salvage the Kalinin
position.
At this stage, snow and rain had begun
to fall in the Ukraine. The Russians
apparently had established new lines east
of Mariupol, and operations there,
towards Taganrog, had lost their explora-
tory character and suggested that the pre-
liminary phases of a new battle were
opening there.
A new German air attack began on
Thursday to blast the communications of
the central and Ukraine fronts.
Both sides, along all fronts, were
feverishly reinforcing. At the beginning
of the war the German forces are known
to have consisted of two armies in the
north (Von Leeb), three in the centre
(Von Bock), two under Von Rundstedt,
with whom the Hungarians were bri-
gaded, and the 11th German Army and
the Rumanians, under General Antonescu,
in the extreme south.
After the penetration of the Dniester
bridgeheads the Rumanians devoted
themselves to the investment of Odessa,
the 11th Army being detached from them
and used to strengthen Von Rundstedt
for his big Dnieper drives. In the first
week in August each front was reinforced
by one Panzer army, and Italians were
gradually brought in to be brigaded with
Rumanians and Hungarians.
Meanwhile the Russians appear to have
been built up to a peak of about 300
divisions—say, 3,500,000 men. Strengths
have fluctuated since through heavy
losses, and there must have been con-
siderable transfers from front to front.
For the great central battle it was re-
ported that the Germans had brought a
fresh 250,000 men from France during
the first week alone, and Russian rein-
forcements poured up from the rear.
Another three days, from Oct. 15, saw
the position far worse than it had been.
The Russians claimed that the German
advances had been slowed up by savage
fighting. But the delays were explain-
able by the increasing congestion of the
front as the main objective was ap-
proached, and by the fact that, having
approached at the middle of the segment
to a point at which their heavy artillery
menaced the outer suburbs of the capital,
the Germans were now about to move
their main efforts in the centre to the
horns of the arc north and south with
a view to encircling the city. They also
needed to bring accomplishments in other
sectors parallel in their plan with those
on the Moscow front.
On the evening of Oct. 16 the enemy
announced that his artillery was heavily
bombarding the industrial portion of
Leningrad, over which a deep silence
seemed to have fallen. And that same
night General Antonescu announced:
“This morning the last defences of Odessa
fell and our troops are in the city. This
is the proudest day of my life.” The
German announcement from Hitler’s
headquarters spoke of unspeakable chaos
on the harbor, wrecked ships, whole quar-
ters of the town in flames, of a panicking
confusion of Russians beaten out of exist-
ence by the Luftwaffe as they sought to
escape by sea, of the “enthusiasm” of the
people, glad to be rid of “the brutal rule
of the commissars,” and of “the senseless
fury which led the Soviet Army to blast
out whole blocks of buildings.” Only
the keels of ships were visible, it said, in
the harbor.
The Russian account was very different.
While admitting the loss of Odessa, Mos-
cow said that the port had been “evacu-
ated on strategic grounds, according to
plan, by a decision of the Soviet High
Command,” and that the troops in the
city had been “transported by sea to other
sectors.”
The fall of Odessa was the signal for
the opening of the new Ukrainian ad-
vance, and for an intensification of the
aerial bombardments on the Kharkov
and Moscow fronts, mainly aimed against
the movement of troops in any direction.
By Sunday night (Central European time)
the Germans had announced the capture
of Taganrog, a seaport of nearly 200,000
population, lying near the north-eastern
extremity of the Azov Sea and east of
the line of Moscow.
With this capture direct rail commu-
nication between Rostov and the
Caucasus oilfields and Kharkov is gone.
The outskirts of Taganrog are less than
a dozen miles from the Caucasian oil
pipeline feeding into the Donetz indus-
trial area. Rostov (pop. 500,000) is only
65 miles away. The Azov spearhead lies
embedded under three-quarters of the
length of the southern skin of the indus-
trial Donetz area.
The southern battle for the moment
has become the most important. On its
success or failure depends whether the
Germans can maintain their operations
as a single battle from north to south,
each movement in each zone synchronis-
ing with the other.
On October 15 there had been the first
suggestion of an intention by the Rus-
sians to abandon Moscow as a capital.
Tokyo announced that the Japanese Em-
bassy had been ordered to move to an
unspecified destination. The moment
Odessa fell the U.S.S.R. Government
began to move, and along with it all the
other embassies —to Kazan, on the Volga,
the Germans said.
All useless hands were steadily evacu-
ated as the trains would take them —a
horrible journey, since the German Air
Force continued to bomb everything on
rails. But on Sunday Stalin issued an
order of the day in which he said Mos-
cow would never be surrendered.
Towards the week-end there was men-
tion of Russian counter-attacks. The
Russians claimed to have recaptured
Kalinin after a five-day battle, and to
have retaken Orel. They admitted that
the Germans had broken through in the
Vyazma area in one place on the Rus-
sian left flank. The Germans reported
that in this area and Bryansk Soviet
armies had been “annihilated.” They
declared that 83 Soviet divisions had been
mopped up, and that the troops which
had done the mopping up were now
released for other operations which would
compel the Soviet corps blocking the
direct path to Moscow to feel “the full
weight of the German fist.”
Their ring of attacking forces, they de-
clared, ran south of Kalinin and east of
Mojaisk. Their nearest approach to Mos-
cow appeared to be 50 miles from the
heart of the city, now under martial law.
They were bombarding both Kaluga and
Tula and had obviously disorganised the
outer industrial ring of Moscow.
In the far north the Finns were open-
ing new attacks along the Murmansk
line. And, though the Russians announced
successful sorties across the Neva and the
sinking of some German transports in the
Baltic, the main factor at Leningrad
seemed to be the sullenly increasing
rumble of the heavy guns pounding
Peter’s gallant city.
Nobody, Russian or British, attempted
to minimise the dangers of the position.
M. Maisky appealed for the pooling of
all British and Russian political and
economic resources. The sad fact remains
that, if the Donetz and Moscow basins
fall into German hands and the Germans
succeed in reaching Baku, Russia will
have few developed resources outside
man-power to pool. Mr. Bevin, British
Labor Minister, acknowledged that
“things are really desperate... .a terrible
task is facing us,” He said that “so long
as Russia sticks it out Britain and the
United States are determined that she
shall not be beaten for lack of material.”
Germans are being told that they are
on the crest of a wave of victory and
are being urged to put forward every
ounce of energy towards the new and
final campaign which is to smash the
British Empire in the spring of 1942. But
wasn’t that to have been done in the
summer of 1940?
In the Mediterranean Zone.
“Ek Dum”: General Blarney, a man
of few words, uttered fully 200 at once
when he warned the A.I.F. in the Middle
East that “there is a greater trial before
us than anything we have yet faced.”
He told the boys to master their weapons
and the art of movement at night to save
casualties, and stressed the need for
modern soldiers to develop their indi-
viduality to the highest point. “Indi-
viduality,” he said, “is your greatest
soldierly quality.” He added that Tobruk
had shown that the A.I.F. could meet the
Germans and beat them.
There are other signs of awakening
hostilities in Libya: ceaseless reconnais-
sances, both infantry and tank, on both
sides and raiding of ports and convoys.
A large R.N. squadron, including an Aus-
tralian cruiser, has made a sweep of the
western Mediterranean without finding
quarry, but the adventure gave Rome a
chance to exercise its imagination. Rome
Radio torpedoed one battleship and one
10,000’ton cruiser, each squarely amid-
ships, from 800 yards’ range, and one
of Dr. Goebbels’s private U-boats claimed
to have sunk a British destroyer near
Gibraltar. Not to be outdone, Rome
Radio’s private U-boat then sank a British
destroyer near Gibraltar. Whether it
was the same destroyer it did not say.
The Admiralty admits that the Italians
made an air attack on the R.N. Sweep
squadron, but reports “All torpedoes
missed.”
With the "Babblers'" Battery.
“Blue Diamond” makes his affidavit
from Tobruk:
When we first came we found many old field
guns left by the “Eyeties” in their hurry.
These pieces had warm welcomes from the
infanteers, who have formed “scratch” crews
and are enjoying the time of their lives with
them. We have efficient gunners, including
some English. They have established O.Ps.
in the infantry lines. They conduct good
shoots, with scientific precision, but they have
come to admit that they have nothing on the
infanteers.
One of the infantry outfits has for its bat-
tery commander a sanitary corporal. No. 2
in the crew is a cook. The remainder are a
transport Sergeant, one batman and a second
cook.
When the meal for the day is cold bully beef,
and cooking is off, the Babblers’ battery often
take its favorite Italian field howitzer for an
airing.
Recently they found their pitch jumped by
the “real” gunners, who were endeavoring to
get the drop on several enemy vehicles and
some troops on the skyline.
The crew, with resignation, walked across
to the observation post to examine the methods
of the forward observation officer, whose guns
were a long way to the rear. He was not
having much luck.
Ultimately he was heard to say “Oh, let
it go, we can’t reach it.”
Then up spoke the sanitary corp.:
“Mind if we have a go, mate?”
The f. 0.0. looked down from his O.P. and
said: “Delighted, old boy! Go ahead!”
The gunlayer (cook No. 1) got down on his
knees behind his howitzer and squinted through
the barrel.
“Give ’er a couple of turns, Joe” —this to
the batman. The batman rotated the rusty
elevating wheel.
“0.K.! That ought to do her; plonk one
in.”
Three-quarters of a hundredweight of shell
was “plonked” in by the transport sergeant
and second cook. The breechblock closed, and
all stood well aside.
The sanitary corp. yelled: “Look out, blast
yer,” and jerked the lanyard.
A tremendous explosion, a cloud of dust, and
the gun jumped one foot upwards and six
feet backwards, proving the wisdom of the
warning issued by its commander. All eyes
peered towards the horizon, watching for the


burst. The f. 0.0. called out: “Increase range
by 500 yards, less four owe degrees.”
This translated became: “Cock ’er up a bit
and two telephone poles to the left, Joe.
It was easy enough to swing it to the left,
but there was some difficulty in “cocking er
up a bit.” This, however, was ingeniously con-
trived by the batman, who levered up the front
wheels and packed them with stones. The
second shot was fired with the same eclat as the
first. T „
The f. 0.0 shouted: “By Jove—marvellous
shooting—you’ve hit a vehicle!” And they
certainly had, as a huge red flash and a dense
column of black smoke testified.
Encouraged by this early success, the crew
gave an exhibition of rapid gunfire and pumped
the heavy shells into the target at a great rate.
The f. 0.0. finally announced that the target
had dispersed and that its remains were “going
like hell” behind the ridge.
The battery returned to camp in triumph—
the cooks to their stew, the sanitary corporal-
commander to . . . his tent.
Maoriland V.Cs.
“Ek Dum”: Lieutenant Charles Hazlett
Upham and Sergeant Albert Clive Hulme,
of the N.Z. Expeditionary Force, have
each won the V.C. for “conspicuous
bravery in Crete.”
Sergeant Hulme is a married man
with two children and hails from Nelson,
North Island. He is in Rotorua Hos-
pital recovering from his wounds. Upham
is a 35-year-old, unmarried civil servant
from Christchurch.
On May 22, two days after the Ger-
mans began their onslaught, Upham com-
manded a forward platoon in an attack
on Malemi ’drome. He and his men fought
their way through 3000 yards of hell, un-
supported by guns and hampered by the
fact that for the whole way the Ger-
mans had established defence in depth.
Three times sections found themselves
up against insuperable obstacles. The
first was before a lively machine-gun post.
Upham went forward with a pistol and
grenades, and after his personal Blitz had
finished the scattered Huns were easy
meat.
The second section found its trouble in
the shape of two well-served m.-gs. estab-
lished in a house. Upham crept up,
dropped a grenade through a window and
ducked under a rain of fragments as one
of the m.-gs. and its crew drove through
the walls and roof. The section cleaned
up the other m.-g.
The way was cleared at the third block
by Upham’s creeping to within 15 yards
of a m.-g. post and blowing it to glory
with a grenade.
With all the other companies that day,
his own gallant remnant retired, he
carrying one wounded man to safety
under fire, then, with another officer,
rallying bearer parties.
To recall a company which had become
isolated, Upham and a corporal had to
make their way through 600 yards of
enemy-held territory, killing a couple of
Germans on the way. He rescued the
company, which otherwise would have
been taken prisoner to a man.
In the next two days Upham and his
company were continuously under fire,
he was blown over by a mortar shell,
and was wounded in the left shoulder by
shrapnel and in the left foot by a bullet.
Attacked on May 25 with heavy
mortar and m.-g. fire, he left his platoon
under cover while he crept forward to
observe the lie of the land. He returned
and led a charge, in which 40 Germans
were killed by bullet and grenade.
On the order to retire, he sent the
platoon back, while he himself went to
warn other troops that they were being
cut off. Two Germans firing on him,
he fell and shammed death. He crawled
to a suitable vantage point, laid his rifle
in a fork with his one good arm and
killed the advancing Germans, the nearest
of whom was so close that he hit the
muzzle of the rifle as he fell.
Five days later, though worn out with
incessant fighting and loss of blood,
Upham climbed a steep hill with two rifle-
men and a Bren. Decoying the attacking
enemy into the open, he shot 22 of them
and dispersed the rest.
Sergeant Hulme was in the same
Malemi battle as Upham. For three
days he carried on a private war in a
pocket, organising aggressive parties and
personally attending to snipers.
On May 25 he rejoined his battalion
in time to take part in its counter-attack
on Galatos village, where a large party
of Germans was spraying death from the
school and holding up proceedings.
Hulme crawled forward to the school
and delivered a helping of grenades.
On May 27 he bagged five snipers
harassing the flank of the battalion, and
his next day’s work consisted of pene-
trating the enemy lines and killing the
crew of a heavy mortar. He worked
down the enemy flank and added three
snipers to his bag, making 33 in all since
the battle began.
Severely wounded in the shoulder while
trying to get his thirty-fourth, he was
ordered to the rear, but insisted on
directing traffic and organising stragglers
till he dropped.
By special order of the King, who had
read letters from his mates sent through
the Red Cross, a third Maorilander was
granted a V.C. under unprecedented con-
ditions. Ordered to retire in Greece,
Sergeant John Daniel Hinton shouted:
“To hell with this. Who’s coming with
me?” He charged point-blank at a Ger-
man armored column, was shot at heavily
—and missed —at a few yards’ range,
wiped out a gun crew with a couple of
grenades and led a bayonet charge which
held the Germans until overwhelming
reinforcements arrived. He was wounded
in the abdomen and taken prisoner.
Gort in Flanders.
“Ek Dum”: General Gort’s dispatches
add little to the story of the battle for
France and Belgium, but confirm the
impression of shocking shortages, vast
confusion in the French Army and a
subordination of the British Army to
French command which proved to
amount to something approaching mad-
ness. Also, there seems to have been
gross interference with the military com-
mand by politicians.
The equipment situation was appalling.
Against at least five armored German
divisions the B.E.F. was left to pit itself
with seven cavalry regiments equipped
with four-ton tanks, a regiment of obso-
lete armored cars and two battalions of
infantry tanks. All these vehicles save
23 of the infantry tanks were armed only
with machine-guns.
The attention of the War Office had
been directed to shortages of guns, of
almost every type of ammunition. On
May 10 there was not an armor-piercing
shell in the whole outfit.
In accordance with the plan for an
advance on the Dyle River, the B.E.F.
crossed the Belgian border on May 12,
the Lancers reaching the river that night.
Gort then heard of the development of
the thrust by two German armored
divisions against the ill-fated 9th French
Army in the corner of Belgium nearest
France along the Meuse —that army was
virtually wiped out. He asked the War
Office in vain to expedite the dispatch
of the Ist Armored Division, then being
prepared for overseas service. It did not
come, and the C.-in-C. worked almost in
the dark as to opposing forces, since his
air component had been reduced to 50
machines. A demand squadrons
more was met belateclly with one
squadron.
By May 18, with the enemy at Amiens,
it was obvious that the Panzers were
certain to break through to the Channel
coast and likely to cut off from the B.E.F.
most of its reserves and replacements.
The “picture was no longer of a line bent
or broken but of a besieged fortress.”
Cabinet in London ordered Gort to
“break through to the French Army to
the south” —a plan “not practicable in
the circumstances.” By May 22 only
10,000 British troops were holding the
85 miles of canal from Gravelines, be-
tween Calais and Dunkirk, to Millon-
fosse, and the anti-tank guns were barely
enough to cover crossing places on the
canal. The day before, the C.-in-C.,
having risked all his reserves to help the
French in the south, agreed with his three
corps commanders that they could not
now hold out more than 24 hours.
On May 24 Mr. Churchill > wired that
he and Reynaud were “convinced” that
the impracticable Weygand plan for an
offensive southward was still capable of
execution and the only hope of restoring
the situation. How far the two P.Ms.
and Weygand were out of touch with
facts was shown by the relay to Gort
of Weygand’s statement that the French
7th Army had advanced successfully and
had captured Peronne, Albert and
Amiens.
The statement was ridiculous, as facts
proved. There were not, at that stage,
enough cohesive remnants of the 7th
French Army even to hold themselves
together.
By May 26, with a French headquarters
decision to withdraw to the Lys, the last
hope of a counter-offensive vanished, and
on May 26 the Secretary for War tele-
graphed that the point had been reached
at which, subject to Gort’s own opinion
of the situation, “the safety of the B.E.F.
must predominate”:
The only course open to you may be to
fight your way back to the west, where all
the beaches west of Gravelines will be used
for evacuation.
On the evening of May 26 Gort made
his plans. Hampered by roads choked
with half-crazed refugees hurled back
from the point at which they had found
the Germans like a wall across Nor-
mandy, he began to retire to Dunkirk,
which, already heavily bombed, was
reduced to a ruin enveloped in the
smoke of burning oil tanks and littered
with the remains of broken lorry columns,
with the harbor inside the sluice blocked
to all save small ships. The troops were
sent to the dunes along the east.
The Belgians caved in and left an
open gap of 20 miles between Ypres and
the sea, through which the Panzers might
pour in a flood at any minute and blast
the scarcely-protected beaches.
On May 28 an enemy armored spear-
head reached Nieuport and established
a bridgehead in the town. Some of their
men attempted to infiltrate the British
positions disguised as nuns and civilians
and as refugees driving stock. A gallant
forestalling action blocked a main attack
and gained “a few vital hours which,
against all expectations, made it possible
to embark practically the whole force.”
General H. R. L. Alexander was left
in France with 20,000 men. But 211,532
fit men and 13,053 casualties were
embarked at Dunkirk and the beaches,
besides 112,546 Allied troops. A greater
thing the Royal Navy and auxiliary ser-
vices under its control have never done.
“So ended,” says Gort, “the campaign
of 22 days, which proved that the offen-
sive has once more gained the ascendancy
in modern war when undertaken with
an army equipped with greatly superior
material power in the shape of air forces
and armored fighting vehicles.”
The B.E.F. did not fail in anything.
The command and personnel carried out
something very like a perfect military
operation, and their failure to withstand
the enemy attacks was not their own. It
was due to “the enemy completely break-
ing through on a front many miles away
from that held by the 8.E.F.”
The British did not break even when
the Germans hurled against their rear
five of the 10 Panzer divisions they were
using in the campaign.
Japan Changes Horses.
“Fong Tsz”: There is nothing Ger-
many would like better than to see
Britain and Uncle Sam with another
enemy to reckon with in our Near North
while Marshal Keitel prepares for a
spring campaign. That a war with Japan
would be a sea war which would keep
a considerable portion of the British
and American navies out of the Atlantic
would greatly add to its attractions from
a German viewpoint.
Towards the middle of the week
Japanese, official and unofficial, became
more belligerent in tone towards the
outside world, and there followed the
resignation of the Konoye Cabinet. This
was accompanied by statements by a
military spokesman that the people were
prepared to meet any eventuality, and
by a naval spokesman that relations with
America were extremely critical and that
the Navy had “made final preparations
for the worst.” Before the new Cabinet
was chosen there were swift changes in
Japanese senior military commands.
On October 17, advised by seven
former Prime Ministers, the Emperor
appointed Lieut.-General Eike Tojo,
Prince Konoye’s War Minister, as
Premier, and promoted him. General Tojo
selected a Cabinet which leant strongly
to militarism. He appointed Mr. Shigenori
Togo, Ambassador to Germany in 1937
and to Moscow till last year, as Foreign
Minister.
The change of Government caused
general concern. It followed almost im-
mediately after the announcement of the
news that the U.S. destroyer Kearny had
been hit by a torpedo from a U-boat but
had been able to proceed under her own
steam —it transpires that there were 21
casualties among the personnel.
U.S. naval authorities ordered all
United States ships in Asiatic waters to
put into friendly ports immediately—
some of the U.S. tankers on their way
to Vladivostok are in Asiatic waters. The
order was issued despite the fact that
Mr. Wakasugi, Japanese Minister in
Washington, had told Mr. Sumner Welles
that Japan wished to continue peace talks.
Mr. Curtin issued a warning that “there
were new ominous portents which threat-
ened to bring the conflict to our very
doors.” He said Australia was “not a
party to any policy of aggression, nor
had she been, nor would she ever be
guilty of any act of aggression which
would lead to a breach of the peace.”
And the Government was “alive to all
eventualities, and precautionary measures
for Australia’s defence had been taken
some time ago.”
Japan is the only country which is
even dimly likely to make an aggressive
move. The possibility must be strongly
guarded against in view of Japan’s mem-
bership of the Axis. But somebody should
quietly tell a few yelling editors and com-
mentators that there is enough danger of
a fight without irresponsible urgers on
the sidelines.
On Oct. 14 the Australian Spitfire
Squadron, R.A.F., held its most success-
ful shoot over the Channel and brought
down five out of the Coastal Command’s
score of 20 machines. Paddy Finucane
and Keith Truscott finished off two each ;
the fifth went to a sergeant who is not
an Australian. The squadron was peace-
fully escorting bombers when it spotted
the German 20, all Messerschmitts, and
“dived on them as one man.” The
Messerschmitts were intent for the
moment on the bombers, and to some
of them the arrival of cannon shells was
the first indication that anything was
amiss. Apart from the enemy machines
definitely destroyed, several were seen to
be badly damaged. But Finucane is now
out of action; doing a Blondin act
ashore, he fell, and will be a casualty for
some weeks.
* * * *
Naples suffered a heavy raid on Thurs-
day night. Objectives were mainly the
Alfa-Romeo motor works, the Arsenal,
airframe works, docks, railways and
engine sheds. Vesuvius looked a dull
spot after the visitors had left,
* * * *
Berlin claimed at the week-end that
between October 12-18 Britain lost
126,000 tons of merchant shipping and
three destroyers, including 60,000 tons —
seven cargo ships, three tankers and two
destroyers—during a battle of several
days between U-boats and bombers and
a convoy in the Atlantic. It appears to
be news to the Admiralty, which admits
the loss of an escort vessel, the Fleur
de Lys.
* * * *
Total British Army casualties on all
fronts are announced by Lord Croft,
Under-Secretary for War, at about
100,000. They include 13,000 Australians,
6000 Maorilanders, 7000 Indians, 600 S.
Africans and 500 African native troops.
* * * *
The A.I.F. in Malaya had a two-day
visit last week from Marshal Brooke-
Popham before he came on to Australia.
After the inspection he said that all
the hutted camps have the normal army
comforts facilities and some have recrea-
tion halls. The men, he declared, were
living under active-service conditions,
laying down their own field positions and
digging trenches without waiting for
sapper units. All hands and the cook
who were not digging were tree-felling
and helping to timber their dugouts and
make them into homes-from-home.
“Magnificently keen, the lot of them, and
in fine fettle,” was 8.-P.’s verdict.
♦ * * *
According to Lieut.-General Mackay,
“many men of the N. S. Wales Ist Bat-
talion caught in Crete are probably
wandering free in the hills and may yet
make their escape.” The Ist was sent
to the widest-flung north-east outpost at
the Verria Pass on the Salonika road,
and on the retreat to Servia Pass it
became separated from its brigade and
found itself in Crete (the rest of the
brigade went to Alexandria). There its
luck was out again. It was posted to
the centre of the island. No word of
the evacuation could be got to it and
it had to be left behind. General Mackay
remarked that the A.I.F. men had suf-
fered from the rarefied air of the Greek
mountains and sometimes became so
exhausted that they had to requisition
Greek mules and donks to carry equip-
ment. It shows the need for acclimati-
sation and for having plenty of seasoned
reinforcements on the spot, especially if
there is to be campaigning in the high
country along the Caspian Ranges. The
Greek mountains for elevation are a
circumstance beside the northern Iranian
ones.
* * * *
“Rudder”: The Aircraft Construction
Minister announces that in 12 months’
time Australia will be independent of
materials from the outside world for air-
craft production. That is “save for cer-
tain proprietary lines and alloys.”
j* # * *
“X.T.”: Some weird weapons are
coming to light. The British Home Guard
has adopted the German flammenwerfer,
a hose which sprays fire instead of water
as a tank stopper. And the Molotov
cocktail, which used to be any old beer
bottle, has been promoted from the p.b.i.
to the artillery, in the shape of glass
shells which are fired from the Northover
mortar-projector. The shells are supposed
to “stop any tank.” Russian war pictures
suggest that some tanks take a lot of
stopping.
* * * «
“Ente Marid”: The French National
Council, appointed to draft a new Con-
stitution, has recommended that France
should remain a republic. Meanwhile
Petain has ordered the continued deten-
tion in fortresses of pre-debacle politi-
cians and soldiers pending their trial by
the Supreme Court at Riom; and charges
now have been framed against them.
Nearly all the unhappy men have now
been prisoners for 16 months.


For Sale.
FOR SALE; Psychology of Sex, Havelock Ellis,
4 vols., as new, £2/10/-. —308 Advt. Dept.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
HERBERT ERNEST HALL, Deceased, who
died on 22nd October, 1937, and is be-
lieved to have been a son of William or
William Henry Hall and Hannah Hall
(;nee Lyons).
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales in Equity dated 19th
September, 1941, and made in a suit (No. 1390
of 1941) intituled “In the matter of the Estate
of Herbert Ernest Hall, formerly of Waterloo,
in the State of New South Wales, Retired Store-
man, deceased, intestate, Between the Public
Trustee, Plaintiff, and William Henry Hall, De-
fendant,” whereby the following inquiry was
directed, namely: Who were the statutory next-
of-kin of Herbert Ernest Hall deceased at his
death entitled to share in the distribution of his
estate and whether any of them have since died,
and, if so, who are their respective legal per-
sonal representatives. Notice is hereby given
that all persons claiming to be entitled under
the said inquiry are to send by post prepaid
to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, New South Wales, so as to reach
him on or before 22nd January, 1942, their
full Christian and surnames, addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims,
or in default thereof they will be excluded from
the benefit of the said order unless the Court
or a Judge thereof or the Master in Equity
on application otherwise orders. Claimants are
to attend personally or by their Solicitor before
the Master in Equity at the Supreme Court,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on Wednesday, the
18th February, 1942, at eleven a.m., being
the time appointed for adjudicating upon the
said claims. A claimant not residing in New
South Wales must send with particulars of his
claim the name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notices to the claimant
can be sent.
DATED the 13th day of October, 1941.
S. H. HENDERSON, Solicitor for the Plain-
tiff, 2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1735 of 1941.
BETWEEN ALLAN THOMAS RIDDELL
Petitioner and
GLADYS ANNIE RIDDELL Respondent.
TO GLADYS ANNIE RIDDELL.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALLAN
THOMAS RIDDELL has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without any just cause or
excuse for a period of three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the ninth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-two and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
DATED this Tenth day of October, a.d.
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Australian Composers
The A.B.C.’s night of orchestral works
by Australian composers at Sydney Town
Hall could scarcely be called an un-
qualified success. Bernard Heinze con-
ducted ably and painstakingly, and
undoubtedly the band did its best for
the local lads (and one lass). But these
works (though a perspicacious English
critic dates them not later than 1904 in
style) mostly follow what is regarded as
the modern manner of composition, in
which indefinable yearnings emerge from
a vague and hazy atmosphere in the form
of a sweetly sad recitative enlivened by
brief rushes of excitement. Works of
this sort by European and even English
composers have attained some measure
of fame when sufficiently often performed
and sufficiently often acclaimed by in-
fluential critics, but full understanding
of them is limited to the few.
Clive Douglas’s “Symphonic Fantasy”
and Robert Hughes’s “Song of Summer”
made no particular impression. Of
Miriam Hyde’s “Fantasy Romantic” for
piano and orchestra (the composer as
soloist) it seems fair to say that the
music for the leading instrument is not
particularly pianistic, and might have
been executed by any one of half a dozen
other instruments. Brewster Jones’s sym-
phonic poem “Australia Felix” is, it is
understood, based on bird calls, but the
work challenges none of the great pas-
torals. Roy Agnew’s “Breaking of the
Drought” (Dorothy Helmrich in this
represented a voice crying in the wilder-
ness) emphasises the dreariness of drought
all right, but there isn’t enough jubilation
at the end to atone for the agonising
prelude. Two quite well-known works,
Frank Hutchens’s nicely-scored “Ballade
for Orchestra” and Alfred Hill’s vigor-
ously patterned “Maori Rhapsody,” closed
the proceedings and saved them from
insipidity.
It may be cruel to say it, but the only
Australian composers who have anything
like a universal appeal are the song-
writers. Quite a lot of good tunes have
been knocked out by William G. James,
Mary Brahe, Edith Harrhy and others,
and a night of their works should be
worth while.
* * * *
Sydney Philharmonic, buttressed by
other choirs, had another go at its old
warhorse, “Elijah,” at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night. Vern Barnett
conducted, and the outstanding feature
was the fine singing of Harold Williams
as the prophet. Choruses were willing,
orchestral backing so-so, subsidiary
soloists fair.
• * * *
The crowd that packed Melb. Town
Hall for the Philharmonics’ rendering of
Handel’s “Judas Maccabeus” could not
have been more silent during the first
half of the proceedings. But there was
loud appreciation in the second part for
Stanley Clarkson’s rich bass, Heddle
Nash’s expressive tenor, Thea Phillips’s
clear soprano and the mezzo-soprano of
Amelia Scarce. Miss Scarce made a
notable impression; she showed none of
the beginner’s apprehension and used a
singularly pleasant voice with feeling.
Handel’s lengthy oratorio had been
abridged for the occasion, but there were
some arid patches between “Sound an
Alarm” and “Father of Heaven,” the
priest’s song. In “See the Conquering
Hero Comes” the chorus rose to the
occasion. Anderson Tyrer conducted
and Frederick Earle was at the organ.
The spadework was done by choirmaster
Dan Hardy.
* * * *
What is described as the “N. S. Wales
Junior Orchestra and Choir,” a band of
about 50 instrumentalists and 75 singers,
ranging in age from eight to 21, trained
and conducted by Carl Sauer, gave a
charity concert at Sydney Con. Hall on
Saturday night. Mozart’s best-known
minuet and trio (from the E flat Major
Symphony), Offenbach’s barcarolle and
other tuneful pieces were orchestral
offerings, and the choir among other con-
tributions sang Mr. Sauer’s arrangement
of the Twenty-seventh Psalm, Both
instrumental and choral departments
made a good impression.
ARTBURSTS
It was a nice thought of the Victorian
Nat Gallery trustees to remember that
Australian artists have been hard hit
in the present crisis and to set out to
assist them with a £9OO competition, but
it was unfortunate that they made the
“subject-picture” stipulation. Judging by
the exhibition, the result has been to
make modest painters pretentious and
pretentious ones more pretentious.
Artists who have yet to learn a lot about
painting well a simple cup and saucer
essayed to catch the judges’ eyes with
very ambitious compositions. The few
gentle notes struck by less presumptuous
artists are lost in the prevailing uproar.
E. Buckmaster wins £5OO for “The Jolly
Swagman,” H. S. Power draws £2OO for
one of his teams of horses, and John
Sydney Wheeler, with vision of Marie Bremner, Don Nicol and Eric Bush —
“Kissing Time,” in its last nights at Sydney Royal and due at Melbourne His
Majesty’s on November 1.
Rowell gets £2OO for something that isn’t
up to his own exhibition standard.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The style of hat which the
Contemporary Art Society of Melbourne
is affecting in its third annual exhibition
in the ornate precincts of the Hotel Aus-
tralia is, in present writer’s considered
opinion, 1920. There is the young man who
gums cubes, squares and cones on a piece
of canvas; the one who colors triangles
and circles with the alleged innocence of
childhood ; the one who goes in for twirls
and wiggles, and the generous pigment-
user whose funeral will be gratefully at-
tended by all the leading color merchants
of the city. In other words, the Contem-
poraries are hopelessly old-fashioned.
There is neither freshness nor vitality in
them —only imitation.
AT THE TALKIES
target for Tonight,” at Sydney
Mayfair, is an English documentary film
dealing with the operation of an R.A.F.
bomber unit. Intended originally as an
R.A.F. instructional film, it follows in
detail the complicated working of the
R.A.F. machinery set in motion when a
’plane returns, with photographs, from
an observation flight over Germany, and
culminates in the return of British ’planes
after bombing the target pictured in the
photographs. The parts are played by
R.A.F. personnel doing their usual jobs;
running time is a little over an hour, and
every minute of it is interesting.
Why something along these lines should
not be made here is beyond comprehen-
sion. Surely a medium-to-full-length
film dealing with the training course
or any other aspect of the R.A.A.F.
or other services, besides making
interesting and good entertainment, if
properly handled, could present a picture
which would be a better recruiting stimu-
lus than any quantity of Martin-place
shows and “feminine-angle” posters.
♦ * * *
Also at Sydney Mayfair is an old Eng-
lish chestnut, “The Middle Watch,” this
time presented with Jack Buchanan as
the captain in troubled waters. Jack is
the misogynist captain of a British battle-
ship, leading a peaceful existence in a
colonial port; after one night (now at
sea) with numerous unexpected guests
aboard —two young females, one elderly
aunt, one elderly and portly admiral and,
with the coming of the dawn, one
admiral’s wife and daughter—the be-
leaguered captain renounces his convic-
tions and marries one young female, all
of which goes to show what the Navy
can do in a pinch.
* * * *
The suspicion that Bette Davis was
capable of nothing but turgid tragedy is
thoroughly scotched in the current offer-
ing at Sydney Regent, “The Bride Came
C.0.D.” It’s all about a scatterbrained
sassiety wench about to elope by ’plane
with a jazz-band leader when she is kid-
napped by the pilot of the ’plane who
is on a thousand dollars or more if he
returns her to her father unmarried.
Naturally the ’plane crashes in the desert,
naturally Miss Davis reviles pilot James
Cagney as the worst criminal unhung,
and naturally by fadeout she has been
thoroughly tamed by Mr. Cagney’s pug-
nacious charms, by the sole inhabitant of
the remains of an old mining town near
by, and by falling into almost every
cactus bush within sight. A good quota
of guffaws and nice work from Miss
Davis, Cagney, Eugene Pallette and Harry
Davenport.
Support at the Regent, “Charlie Chan
in Rio,” has that inquisitive Oriental
solving the mystery of the murder of a
wench he had come to Rio to arrest for
murdering somebody else somewhere else.
From that comparatively simple situation
the doings steadily become more and
more involved until the inexorable Mr.
Chan gets his nose on the scent. One
device —a drug which sends its victims
into a coma from which they answer any
questions put to them—is used two or
three times in the fillum and is definitely
not according to the rules, but fortu-
nately Mr. Chan plays fair and avoids
using it for the final denouement.
* * * *
Thomas Mitchell and John Qualen
have turned in some good work together,
and in their latest, “Out of the Fog,” they
run true to form, with Ida Lupino and
John Garfield also showing up well.
Story is the old one of a spirited girl, fed
up with a humdrum existence and turn-
ing for some sort of excitement to the
company of a loutish petty criminal. The
roles are made to order for the players —
the Lupino takes headstrong-wench parts
in her stride, Garfield manages the
petty racketeer roles just as easily, and
both show enough character to make their
work interesting. Mitchell is the Lupine’s
father and Qualen is his friend and
partner in fishing trips. Photography of
the gloomy waterfront setting is always
tiptop and makes the atmosphere; from
start to finish there isn’t a scene with a
suggestion of sunshine or brightness.
Directing on the whole is so good that
it is a fair target for some minor criti-
cism. The director has a go at juggling
drama and tragedy with contrasting spots
of humor, and it is slightly overdone
throughout; in a dramatic scene wherein
Mitchell and Qualen take Garfield out
in their fishing boat with carefully-laid
plans for tossing him overboard, the
juggling gets out of hand and the entire
scene is more comic than tragic.
* ♦ * *
Current item at Sydney Capitol,
“Where Did You Get That Girl?” is
worth noting for the appearance of Leon
Errol as a Scot carrying on a hock-shop
business under the sign of three tartan
balls. It is also worth noting as the
333rd appearance of the yarn about the
trials and tribulations of an aspiring jazz
band. Uncle Errol lends the band its
instruments of torture, and it breaks into
a recording factory to make a permanent
record of what it calls its music ; on the
same night a couple of cracksmen burgle
the factory safe, the band bolts, leaving
the record of its doings behind, and the
police are then on its trail —whether be-
cause of the noises on the record or the
busted safe is not definitely stated. That
it all works out satisfactorily goes with-
out saying—the noises on the record are
acclaimed as the greatest musical hit of
the week, the real criminals are appre-
hended, and the band and Uncle Errol
are thereafter in clover. On the same
bill is Gene Autry in “The Singing Hill,”
which may be taken as a warning or an
inducement, according to taste.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Excuses and tales of ill-luck in running
are inseparable from a big race, and
half a dozen trainers of beaten horses
left Remington convinced that Velocity
was a lucky winner of the 1941 Caulfield
Cup. Velocity certainly escaped the
scrimmaging and bufferings of the race,
and he secured a perfect run along the
rails in the straight, yet it is hardly fair
to detract all merit from the win.
Velocity had to be a true stayer. He had
to possess the courage to beat off his
rivals in one of the most magnificent
finishes ever associated with the Caul-
field Cup, and he raised that last effort
which gave him victory when Reading
came at him again in the last 20 yards.
Velocity is another Cup winner who
was sold comparatively cheap as a
yearling. His trainer, S. B. Ferguson,
bought him at the 1939 sales in Sydney
for E. J. Kennon, a member of the
V.A.T.C. committee. Kennon then
sold a half-share to a friend, H. G.
Allen, and Ferguson has trained the
horse throughout his career. Velocity
will now attempt to emulate The Trump
(1937) and Rivette (1939), both of whom
won the two Cups double. He finished
so solidly at a mile and a half that the
extra half-mile of the Melbourne Cup
should not trouble him.
Lightweight jockey J. Purtell, who rode
Velocity, was a little fortunate to secure
the mount, but his good luck only com-
pensated him for his misfortunes in 1939.
Purtell had been engaged for Rivette
in both Cups that year, but a broken leg
prevented his riding the mare. Two
months ago Purtell was offered the ride
again on Rivette, but he could not give
that mare’s trainer, H. Bamber,an immedi-
ate answer. Next Purtell was engaged for
Sun Belle, and when Sun Belle was with-
drawn the Sydney trainer George Allen
sought his services for Rimveil. Less
than ten minutes before Allen contacted
Purtell, the jockey had accepted the en-
gagement for Velocity from the ultimate
winner’s trainer, Ferguson.
Reading, sold for America a fortnight
ago, carried film-magnate Louis B.
Mayer’s colors for the first time, and
only his own waywardness cost him suc-
cess. Reading was almost out of control
during the race. He lost lengths at the
first turn, and his apprentice rider, J.
Thompson, said after the race that Read-
ing not only lugged out again at the
six furlongs but that he tried to savage
Rimveil in the straight. Apparently
Reading is as good as ever, and if he
can be cured of his unfortunate tempera-
ment he will be a good investment for
his new owner in California.
• •••**
Reading has already returned £lOOO of
his purchase price, and the Moonee
Valley Gold Cup on Saturday gives him
the chance of becoming an immediate
bargain. Reading will carry 9st., a rise
of 21b. on his Caulfield Cup weight, but
Triggerman, whom he beat on Saturday
and may be the greatest danger at
Moonee Valley, rises 151 b. The Moonee
Valley turns certainly will give Reading
a greater chance to run off, but the Cup
pace will not be as severe as that of the
Caulfield Cup and he should settle down
better.
No matter how good he may be a
horse with nearly ten stone cannot afford
to strike the slighest trouble in any race,
let alone a Caulfield Cup, and Beau Vite,
for all his w.f.a. greatness, was hopelessly
out of the Caulfield Cup after half a fur-
long. He was knocked by horse after
horse in the scramble for the first turn,
and at the nine furlongs was giving the
leaders a start of 20 lengths. Munro did
not knock him about when he saw his
chance was hopeless, and as Beau Vite
came unscathed from his ordeal his
Melbourne Cup backers still have hopes.
Some Victorian racing men doubt
whether Beau Vite races as well in Mel-
bourne as in Sydney. He has failed in
the two big handicaps he has contested,
the 1940 Melbourne Cup and Saturday’s
Caulfield Cup, but misfortune dogged him
in both, and the Melbourne Cup, which
usually is run more leisurely than the
Caulfield Cup, will give Beau Vite a
chance to disprove the contention.
Remembering the wild kicking and
general disorder which marked the 1940
Caulfield Cup, officials placed rails at
the start of this year’s Cup to split the
horses into divisions. One or two horses
were unruly, but instead of disorganising
the whole field they caused only those
in their own division to move away, and
the task of the starter, Rupert Greene,
was simplified. The start was almost
perfect, despite the big field, and Mel-
bourne racing officials probably will con-
tinue the innovation when there are over
20 runners in a race.
Sydney jockey E. Bartle, who secured
the mount only after High Caste was
scratched, was criticised rather harshly for
his riding of Rim veil. Rimveil was
rushed from a fair way back in the field
to the lead inside two furlongs from
home, but Bartle was the victim of cir-
cumstances. Had he delayed his run he
would have been embroiled in a scrim-
mage when the early leader, Retnuha,
dropped back suddenly. Bartle saw the
danger and went quickly to extricate
himself. Had Rimveil won it would have
been lauded as a master stroke, but most
racing men talk from results only, and in
defeat Bartle was made the scapegoat.
Best Caulfield Cup performance among
the beaten horses was that of Trigger-
man, who finished fifth. Triggerman was
one of the sufferers in the interference
which Bartle escaped on Rimveil, and
he dropped back slightly coming to the
turn. It made a difference, for Trigger-
man was in a nasty position in the
straight, and the post was too close when
he did extricate himself. Triggerman
will run in the Moonee Valley Cup on
Saturday, and the small course will suit
him better than did Flemington. His
trainer, F. Dalton, hopes for better luck
in Melbourne with Triggerman than he
had with Silver Standard a few years ago,
and as Triggerman has settled down per-
fectly to the altered conditions in Vic-
toria Dalton should not return empty-
handed to Sydney.
Melbourne bookmakers gambled
against Ajax’s half-sister Hesione in the
Mona Nursery, but from the start of the
race they had no hopes of escaping a
big payout. Hesione had won the Gim-
crack Stakes at Randwick so easily
that had the Mona Nursery been run in
Sydney it would have been impossible to
back her. At Flemington on Saturday
5 to 4 could be laid on her, and some
Sydney punters who were having a bad
day evened themselves. Hesione jumped
the first tan crossing on the long straight,
but settled down quickly and raced right
away in the last furlong. Hesione has
not run fast time in her two races, but
she has all the Ajax speed, and on any
form this spring Melbourne has no two-
year-old to beat her in the Maribyrnong
Plate.
*•••••
Hesione’s stablemate Silver Crown
was backed like a certainty in the Gwyn
Nursery, but inexperience beat him.
Silver Crown is not as good as the filly,
but he has speed and led his field for over
two furlongs. When W. Cook used the
whip on him the colt did not grasp
what was expected of him and dropped
back, but he came again in the last 100
yards to finish a fair third. Silver Crown
is raced by Misses W. E. and H. F.
Kellow, daughters of C. B. Kellow,
who owned the sire, Hall Mark, when he
won the 1933 Melbourne Cup. Silver
Crown carries the same gold and green
colors and will not disgrace them.
Even in Melbourne the Sydney
jockey D. Munro has a huge following,
and his presence, perhaps more than
form, made Royal Peter a warm favorite
for the first Burwood Handicap division.
Royal Peter responded gamely to Munro’s
vigor in the straight, but he was not good
enough and finished only fourth. How-
ever, he had to be used up a little in the
early stages to get fairly close to the
leaders, and he impresses as the type of
young horse who will do better at a
longer distance than a mile when he has
more chance to become balanced.
Early this spring Status Quo, an attrac-
tive colt by Laureate’s sire, Law Maker,
was hailed as a likely Derby proposition,
and arrangements were made to take him
to Sydney for the AJ.C. classic. Status
Quo, however, did not develop as quickly
as expected. The cold weather in Mel-
bourne was blamed, but after a series of
failures Status Quo finished brilliantly to
win the second Burwood division at
Flemington. Now he will take his place
in the Victoria Derby field. He looks and
races like a stayer, and even if the classic
be too hard for him he will win fair races
later in his career.
Two three-year-olds,Dapper andKelos,
were backed to beat the older horses in
the Windsor Handicap, and their failures
proved again that, outside two or three
colts, the three-year-olds in Australia this
year are only moderate. Dapper, who
gave promise a year ago, did show up
for a few furlongs, but Kelos was never
prominent and beat only two home. The
winner, Distinction, is trained by Jack
Holt, and lacked the market stability
usually associated with horses from that
stable. One of the first bets about Dis-
tinction was £3OO to £lOO, but he started
at 10 to 1. Someone’s judgment was
astray, for Distinction always appeared
a winning possibility and finished
strongly to beat Industry by a length
and a half. Industry is regaining some
of the brilliance which made him one
of Melbourne’s best two-year-olds 18
months ago, and he should win a race
before the spring carnivals end.
Hawkesbury R.C. meeting at Rosehill
attracted a large attendance. Rosehill
gave Hawkesbury the course free, and the
two clubs gave the profits from the totali-
sator to the Red Cross Fund. Fields
were not large, but the turnover was
£12,746 for six races. Two favorites
were successful, and three other winners
were well backed. An outsider in Radio
Star gave the books a good send-off in
the first race.
Never at better than 5 to 2 Valve
closed at 6 to 4 for the Quality Handi-
cap, and after being last at the half-mile,
and still one of the whippers-in at the
end of the next furlong, he put in such
a great finish that he won by a length
from Sobersides, who was Trade Mark’s
nearest follower entering the straight.
Flying Knight, after jumping away
smartly, could not hold his position, but
though he was badly placed at the bend
he finished fourth. Broadcaster did not
improve upon his recent efforts, nor did
Overbold, who, though he looks bright,
appears to have totally lost form. Valve’s
appearance is not a recommendation, but
he is very much better than he looks.
The Hawkesbury Grand Handicap field
was well bunched after going three fur-
longs, but then Santa took up the run-
ning. At the half-mile Sologram went to
the front, but, though he led into the
straight from Santa and Sedunum, he was
beaten immediately after. Then Sedunum
took the measure of Santa, and went on
to win from the fast-finishing Tuhitarata,
who definitely proved he could get a
mile and a quarter. His inability to take
up a better position at an earlier stage
of a middle-distance race upset the cal-
culations of his backers, even though in
shorter races he had not shown himself
a good beginner. Tuhitarata’s rider ex-
plained that in consequence of having to
avoid the heels of Bonnie L., who shifted
about a lot, he was unable to make his
run earlier.
An outsider in Radio Star accounted
for the colts and geldings’ division of the
Two-year-old Stakes. Mardevon was
the early leader, but though Jungle King
looked the winner when he turned for
home clear of Dinkum Aussie, Radio
Star and Mardevon he was beaten by
Radio Star in the last couple of strides.
The winner, who was bred at the Angle
Stud, is by Excitement from Radio, by
Marconigram from Skylike, and was a
340gns. yearling. Jungle King is by
Harinero from Causina. Young Valais
(Madagascar-Princess Cadena) made a
promising showing, and Dinkum Aussie
has pace. He is a shapely youngster by
Hua from the French mare Sabran, and
is owned by L. B. Mayer.
The Marne got another advertisement
when Easy Mark won the fillies’ division
of the Two-year-old Stakes. She com-
menced smartly, and, though passed by
Flying Shuttle and Hunky Dory, came on
again to win from Flying Shuttle. F. W.
Hughes, who bred Easy Mark, also owns
Medola, who ran third. She is by Law
Maker from Miss Meadowes. Circus Girl,
who shaped fairly, is a half-sister, by Picca-
dilly, to High Rank and Noel Soldat; and
Margery, who was nearest the place-
getters, is by Hall Mark from Desde-
mona, whose dam Dame Lybia was a
sister to Lord Nolan, a Melbourne Cup
winner.
A furlong from home in the Three-
year-old Handicap there was little
between Linemond, Kimbell and Steal
On, but the last-named outstayed the
other two. With two wins in five weeks
Steal On has made a good beginning this
season. Henchman cut up badly. Admit-
tedly he did not get the best of runs, but
at no part was he doing sufficiently well
to be a winning possibility. Silverelda
should shortly pick up a race. The
Feldspar colt Basalt, who was a Derby
runner, was one of the field, but gave no
trouble notwithstanding he had only 7.6.
He may be better suited by a longer
distance.
Merrimba generally gallops well at
Rosehill, and in the Rowley Handicap he
scored his third win at that track. He
and John Dory practically monopolised
the betting on the race, and it was good
picking on the part of backers. When
Merrimba took the measure of Bel
Oiseau shortly after turning for home he
looked like a comfortable winner, but he
eventually had to be ridden right out to
squeeze home a head in front of John
Dory. Bel Oiseau was a moderate third,
and outside the three mentioned nothing
had a winning chance from the top of
the straight. However, Rhythmic, who
was fourth, may not be long in return-
ing to the winning list at a mid-week
meeting.
* * * *
Velocity’s form at three years pointed
to him as a possibility for one of this
season’s big handicaps, and though he
was well beaten with 9.2 in the Herbert
Power a week earlier a drop to 8.3 in
the Caulfield Cup made all the difference.
Favored by his inside position at the bar-
rier he was always in a handy position,
and won as a result of outstaying Read-
ing and Evergreen. Rim veil and Trigger-
man were close to the place-getters, and
the latter is said to have struck a little
trouble when another runner suddenly
dropped back on him at the straight
entrance.
• #••••
Several runners indeed are supposed to
have been unlucky, but, as a rule, it is
unprofitable to attach much importance
to excuses. As Rimveil, Reading and
Evergreen were in front of Velocity near
the winning-post he must be given full
credit for his win.
In a recent issue I pointed out that
Velocity, who had shown he could stay,
appeared to be much better treated in
the Melbourne Cup with 7.11 than in the
Caulfield Cup with 8.3, but that if he
could win the latter his penalty would
not deprive him of a good chance of suc-
cess in the Melbourne Cup. If figures
always worked out correctly there would
seem little hope for many of the horses
he beat last week. With his 101 b. penalty
he will carry only 41b. more. Reading,
if he should remain for the Cup, is
up 31b., Evergreen (third) down lib. and
Triggerman (fifth) up 111 b. As Ever-
green weakened slightly at the end of a
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
(Our Melbourne Representative .)
St. Albans Handicap: Regency,
1 ; Silver Crown, 2; Souris, 3.
Broadmeadows Steeplechase:
Campaspe, 1; Benduli, 2 ; Laveur,
3.
W. S. Cox Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Sun Valley, 2 ; Tranquil Star, 3.
Moonee Valley Cup: Reading, 1 ;
Katanga, 2 ; Triggerman, 3.
Dundonald Handicap: Dapper,
1 ; All Love, 2 ; Distinction, 3.
Phoenix Handicap: Shutone, 1 ;
David Innis, 2 ; Amiable, 3.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Macarthur Stakes (colts and geld-
ings) : Jungle King, 1 ; Young
Valais, 2 ; Radio Star, 3.
Lady Fitzroy Stakes (fillies) ;
Oriole or Easy Mark, 1 ; Corro-
boree, 2 ; Flying Shuttle, 3.
Spring Flying Handicap; Sethia,
1 ; Merrimba, 2 ; Trade Mark, 3.
Cumberland Handicap: Mis-
chief, 1; Santa, 2 ; Cable Boy, 3.
Novice Handicap: First Move-
ment, 1 ; Cadger, 2 ; Condignity, 3.
Parramatta Handicap: Sobersides,
1; Mustapha, 2 ; John Dory, 3.


Missing Friends.
ARTHUR PERCIVAL WATSON.
LAST heard of over six years ago at Walcha,
near Tamworth. The above is requested to
communicate with QUEENSLAND TRUS-
TEES, LIMITED, of 395 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, when he will hear of something to his
advantage. Anyone knowing his whereabouts
or whether he is dead is requested to com-
municate with the abovenamed company.
HOLDSWORTH.—The descendants of TOM
HOLDSWORTH, the son of Richard Holds-
worth and Hannah, his wife (formerly Black-
bum), who is believed to have come to Aus-
tralia from Lancashire some time before 1875,
are requested to communicate with MESSRS.
McMASTER, HOLLAND & CO., Solicitors,
Federal Mutual Charmbers, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
mile and a half, an extra half-mile will
scarcely be to his liking.
Photographs show that True Flight,
who ran sixth, was not very far from
the leading bunch at the winning-post,
but a drop of only a pound seems insuffi-
cient to give him really good Melbourne
Cup prospects. The same applies to
Tranquil Star, and as Rivette goes up
31b. it appears safe to pass her by, even
though she is a proved two-miler. His-
torian made a poor showing, and, despite
a drop of 51b., it is difficult to stand him
over the longer distance. Saul was an-
other disappointment. He will have 91b.
off his back in the Melbourne Cup, and
carries 21b. less than when he won the
Australian Cup, in which he gave 91b. to
Velocity, who dead-heated Tidal Wave
for third. From seventeenth in the Caul-
field Cup to first in the Melbourne Cup
is a big step, but there may still be hope
for Saul.
Beau Vite’s complete failure can be
overlooked. His outside position, in con-
junction with his 9.12, disposed of him.
Naturally Munro did not knock him
about towards the end when he had no
chance of winning, but if before the
Caulfield Cup his Melbourne Cup pros-
pects were really bright they still remain
so. Of those beaten by Velocity he is one
that must still be seriously considered.
Melbourne Cup candidates which did
not run on Saturday included Maikai,
but perhaps it is to the three-year-olds
more than to the older horses we have
to look for dangerous rivals to those that
shone in the Caulfield Cup. Galliard did
nothing of account in that race, and not-
withstanding his second in the A.J.C.
Derby it is difficult to share his trainer’s
enthusiasm concerning him. Laureate
and Skipton are preferable, notwithstand-
ing the former’s lapse in the Caulfield
Guineas. He finished strongly in a fast-
run A.J.C. Derby, and 7.6 should not
(rouble him. Skipton is expected to be
suited by two miles, but the Victoria
Derby will tell us more concerning him
than is already known. It will be the
same with Status Quo, a winner on Satur-
day. Like Laureate, he is a son of Law
Maker. At present Velocity, Laureate,
Beau Vite, Reading, Lucrative and Saul
(despite his poor Caulfield Cup effort)
impress me most as Melbourne Cup
hopes.
* * # *
Hesione has won so easily at her two
starts that “as good as All Love” is said
of her. Time in races does not prove
everything, but Hesione’s five furlongs in
the Gimcrack Stakes took 1.1, and her
four and a half furlongs in the Mona
Nursery 55£. The latter was much the
same as Home James’s 1.1 for five fur-
longs in the Gwyn Nursery, but a long
way behind All Love’s 58* for five fur-
longs at Randwick and Flemington. The
Maribyrnong Plate will be the true test
for Hesione, as in that she will meet the
best of the colts as well as the fillies.
Meanwhile the “Mr, Seven” syndicate
(which includes Sir S. Hordern and E. J.
Tait) is well satisfied with the position.
A. W. Thompson, the breeder of Hesione,
as well as a member of the syndicate, did
not go to Melbourne to see her run on
Saturday.
* * * *
Backers of Royal Peter for the first
division of the Burwood Handicap at
Flemington found fault with Munro for
being wide out a good portion of the way,
but he said it was unavoidable. Art
Union, winner of the race, is by
Brueghel from Jenny’s Bag (dam of Car-
dinal Puff), and as a yearling was sold
for 650gns. It was a close thing on
Saturday, W. Cook squeezing him home
a neck ahead of Vermont.
* * * *
It is unusual for a bookmaker to admit
that the outlook is satisfactory in connec-
tion with the “two Cups” double when
the first leg is won by a fancied horse.
However, a prominent Sydney book-
maker is credited with stating that
double-layers got so much “dead money”
out of Kindergarten when he was with-
drawn from the Caulfield Cup owing to
going amiss that they can look forward
to the result of the Melbourne Cup with-
out any anxiety. At one period Velocity
was second choice for the first leg of the
double, but subsequently the demand for
him weakened, and at 12 to 1 he was
fourth favorite on Saturday. Northwind,
at 66 to 1, was the last winner to give
the books a real turn-up in the Caulfield
Cup. Last year Beaulivre won at 10 to
1, and Rivette at 3 to 1 in 1939.
* * * *
F. Dalton has not been lucky in big
races in Melbourne, but he is said to
be hopeful of Triggerman’s success in the
Moonee Valley Cup. If Reading runs
Triggerman will have a stiff task, seeing
he will be meeting the former on 131 b.
worse than Caulfield Cup terms. With
only 21b. more than he carried in the
Caulfield Cup, Reading will be meeting
everything that finished behind him in
that race on such advantageous terms
that he should add the £2200 and £lOO
gold cup for first to the £lOOO he has
already earned for his American owner.
Reading’s former owners now have cause
to regret selling him before the con-
clusion of spring racing. If Tranquil
Star is started for the Moonee Valley
Cup in preference to the W. S. Cox Plate
she may do better than in the Caulfield
Cup, and of Reading’s new opponents
the most dangerous may be Katanga,
Yours Truly and Son of Aurous.
* * ♦ *
The result of the Caulfield Cup natu-
rally caused some alteration in Melbourne
Cup prices, and in Sydney on Monday
the order of the most-fancied horses for
the latter was as follows:
Beau Vite, Velocity.
Lucrative.
Laureate, Saul, Skipton.
Evergreen.
Reading,
Maikai, Triggerman, Pandect.
Chatoona, Positron, Rivette, Son of
Aurous, Tranquil Star, Yodvara.
* ♦ » *
Kindergarten is reported to have made
a splendid recovery from the leg trouble
that put him out of action in Sydney,
and it is now considered probable he
will be a runner for the w.f.a. races —
King’s Plate and Clifford Plate —at the
Auckland R.C. meeting in December and
January. If he approaches anything
near his best form wins should be easy
for him. There is no special mention by
Maoriland turf writers of there being
anything exceptionally good likely to
come to light among the three-year-olds,
and the fact of Gladynev, with 8.6, being
third top weight of the New Zealand Cup
acceptors does not say a great deal for
the older division.
• • ♦ •
It is probable Yaralla made a mile
record for a three-year-old at Randwick
when he won the Clibborn Stakes in
1.35|. The course was in great trim
throughout the A.J.C. meeting, but, even
allowing for improvement in the track,
upholders of the merits of old-time race-
horses would find present-day followers
of racing hard to convince that it is over
2|sec. faster at a mile than, say, even 30
years ago. Generally forgotten now, but
for some time a two-year-old in Charles
Stuart held the Randwick mile record
with 1.38, that being his time when he
beat Gladsome and Famous in the All-
Aged Stakes. It was his last race at that
age, and it must have proved too much
for him, as he did not win anything at
three years.
* * * *
There have been 51 races at Randwick
this season, and the percentage of win-
ning favorites has been fairly high. Nine-
teen absolute favorites were successful,
two winners shared favoritism with a
beaten runner, and in another case the
winner and two others were in equal de-
mand. Backers’ best day was September
27, when five of six favorites were suc-
cessful, and on September 24 four of
six won. Five winning favorites were at
odds on in the 51 races, and naturally
they did not benefit small bettors to any
extent. There was not one day of the
eight on which a favorite or part favorite
did not win, but, in the way of bright
spots for the books, double-figure win-
ners included Bangster, Fiery Cross and
Duke Cullen, 33 to 1 ; Triggerman, 20 to
1 and 12 to 1 ; Highborn, 15 to 1 ; and
White Feather, 10 to 1. Dashing Cavalier
started at 10 to 1 for the Metropolitan,
but he was too well backed for his
double-figure price to benefit the books.
* * * *
In the 1939 Caulfield Cup Rivette and
Maikai were first and second respectively
in the Caulfield Cup, and were similarly
placed in the Melbourne Cup. Last year
Beaulivre was first in the Caulfield Cup,
Historian third and Maikai nowhere. The
three were Melbourne Cup runners, and,
while Maikai was second, Beaulivre was
fifth and Historian a long way back.
Maikai carried 9.4, against 7.11 when
beaten by Rivette the previous year,
* * * *
Maoriland horses, apart from Beau
Vite, did not shine at the A.J.C. meeting.
Foxsen, Serenata, Monte Christo and
Duvach did not act up to their home
reputations, and their failure went fur-
ther towards upholding the idea that
Maoriland’s handicap division of last
season was below the standard of many
previous years. Duvach, winner of eight
races last season, did better than any of
the others mentioned, and is to remain
in Sydney. G. Price had to decline taking
her, owing to the difficulty of getting
stable labor, of which there is now an
acute shortage. In her second win last
season Duvach, in receipt of 151 b., beat
Kindergarten in a six-furlongs handicap
at Auckland. Her longest win was at
seven furlongs.
Owner “S. Aries” stated subsequent to
his purchase of Reading that he was not
responsible for the report that the horse
was to be sent to America. Since then
“Aries” has sold Reading to L. B. Mayer,
and now it is practically certain Reading
will race in America. Presumably the
Santa Anita meeting, which commences
in December and ends in March, is to
be the scene of Reading’s first appearance
in America, and as between the con-
clusion of the V.R.C. meeting and the
running of the Santa Anita Handicap of
$lOO,OOO there is an interval of three
and a half months that, in conjunction
with a sea trip of about three weeks,
will give Reading time to freshen up
without losing much condition. As Read-
ing is a “front runner” he will appeal
to American racegoers, and, even if he
is not quite ready for Santa Anita, other
valuable mile and a quarter handicaps
are numerous during the coming year, so
he will not lack opportunities at a dis-
tance at which he now shines. In addition
to the big race another rich event at
Santa Anita is the San Juan Capistrano
of $50,000. In the circumstances it would
not be surprising if there was a winning
contingency associated with Reading’s
sale.
* * * *
The Aga Khan is among those owners
who are optimistic concerning the future
of racing in England. At the recent sales
at Newmarket he was the buyer of a
brother to the St. Leger winner Sun
Castle, the price being 8200gns. The Aga
Khan, who went to Switzerland some
time ago, had only one horse in training
in England this year, but is likely to
have a large team during the coming
one. Shortly after the Aga Khan went
to Switzerland it was announced that he
was “broke,” so far as ready cash was
concerned. However, he has evidently
made a good recovery, and at all times
his “broken” condition was enviable. He
is credited with being one of the world’s
richest men.
* * * *
In the “New St. Leger,” run at Man-
chester last month, it was only in the last
couple of strides that Sun Castle (10 to
1) beat the favorite, Chateau Larose,
with Dancing Time a length further
away. The 12 runners included the
Derby winner Owen Tudor, who was
never dangerous. Sun Castle was ridden
by a French jockey named Bridgland, who
escaped from France after the German
invasion, and is now a member of the
Royal Air Force. It will be of interest
to supporters of Bruce Lowe’s Figure
System to learn that Sun Castle repre-
sents the No. 22 family.
£ *
At the Saratoga yearling sales in
August the 577 yearlings sold repre-
sented 132 different sires. Of the latter
31 were English- or French-bred, and
they were responsible for eight of the
11 colts that made from $18,500 down to
$7500, and six of the seven fillies that sold
from $10,500 down to $5lOO. Ameri-
cans claim that their horses are the best
in the world, but yearling buyers there
are as keen as those of Australia for
“imp.” after a sire’s name.
* * * *
Weight-for-age races are few in
America, and those over a distance are
not favored by owners or trainers. One
of these is the Saratoga Cup, 2} miles.
It was run on Aug. 30 at the recent
Saratoga fixture, and if Whirlaway had
remained in he would probably have had
a walkover. His withdrawal resulted in
a field of five, the largest since 1935.
The winner turned up in a four-year-old
mare named Dorimar, who won in 2.58 f
on a fast track. The first mile and a
quarter was cut out in 2.5 f. Then the
pace slackened, the last six furlongs
taking 1.16|. First money was $9850
(approximately £A3070), second $2OOO,
third $lOOO, fourth $5OO.
Jp * * #
At American courses, where specula-
tion is confined to the tote, ample pro-
vision has to be made for bettors. In the
gaddock at Arlington Park (Chicago) there
are 203 selling and 197 pay-out windows.
At Aqueduct (New York) there are 237
sellers’ windows and 185 cashiers. In
Sydney one thing that has told against
the totalisator at the average Saturday
suburban meeting is shortage in pay-out
windows.
# % # *
It is stated by an Irish sporting paper
that the Germans really “bought” some
horses in France. The French Derby and
Grand Prix winner Pharis was one.
That horse was to have met Blue Peter
in the English St. Leger of 1939, but was
sent back to France on the outbreak of
war. The Germans gave M. Boussac the
equivalent of £lOOO for him, but if the
owner of Pharis had been able to sell him
to go to America it is probable he would
have received at least £25,000. However,
Boussac had cause to congratulate him-
self on the Germans giving him that
£lOOO. They could have taken Pharis
for nothing.
• * * *■
Relative to the yearling sales at
Saratoga (New York) in August a writer
in the “Blood-Horse” said “there was a
notable absence of the somewhat reckless
spirit of last year’s Saratoga’s bidders.
Even the wealthiest patrons set out to
buy their choices as cheaply as possible,
trying to make a $lOO raise do the work,
and the old-time method of annihilating
opposition with big raises was gone,
almost entirely. Possibly some of this
-came from the flat elimination of syn-
thetic bids, effected by the discovery in
early summer that New York had some
laws governing auctions. There were per-
haps a half-dozen announced starting
bids, a very few reserve prices set, and
otherwise bids were actually bids.” The
expression “synthetic bids” is excellent,
and don’t we know them in Australia?
* * * *
Tote betting has a stronger hold in
Melbourne than in Sydney. The turn-
over for the three days of the V.A.T.C.
meeting was £299,128, against the A.J.C.’s
£272,131 for four. At Randwick there
were 24 races, and at Flemington 19. On
Saturday the machine badly beat the
books in four races, but the odds were
exactly the same about Velocity. For
the first division of the Burwood Handi-
cap, the machine return for Art Union
was slightly over 38 to 1, against his
closing price of 25 to 1 in the ring.
* * * *
Stud companions in Veilmond and
Brueghel were well advertised at Flem-
ington on Saturday, Velocity and Art
Union scoring for the former and
Hesione for the latter. Veilmond did not
win a Derby, but, though successful in
the A.J.C. and V.R.C. St. Legers, his
best staying effort was probably his third
with 9.11 in the Sydney Cup won by
Johnnie Jason. This year his big win-
ners in addition to Velocity are All Veil
(Newmarket Handicap) and Rimveil
(Epsom Handicap). The last-named also
won the Villiers Stakes last year. Veil-
mond was bought by A. W. Thompson
from the late E. Moss for lOOOgns., and,
now 14 years old, is standing at 50gns.
this season. At the last autumn sales in
Sydney the highest price realised for any-
thing by Veilmond was 350gns. each for
colts from Highness (Silvius-Lady Can-
berra, by Claro), Monastery (Cistercian-
Foalsfoot, by Galeazzo) and Jean Ryl-
stone (Fernkloof-Miss Rylstone, by
Charlemagne II) respectively.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Wild Men
Hockey Bennell (10.3) v. Ron Mc-
Laughlin (10.6 J) at Leichhardt (Sydney)
ended with both men hanging by their
legs from the ropes, their shoulders rest-
ing on the floor of the ring, their fists
still feebly flailing. Afterwards there was
more of the all-in, rough-and-tumble
stuff that’s the signal these days for
seconds and sundry policemen to hop in
to “restore order.” The referee had left
the ring “both disqualified,” he
announced later.
Previously both combatants had been
hustled through the ropes—Bennell twice,
McLaughlin once ; and both had been
warned repeatedly—for hitting low, for
rabbit-punching, for holding on, for
pretty near everything. Once they got
warmed up the referee had about as
much control over them as a stockman
minus horse and whip has over a mob
of wild steers.
Yet it began quietly enough, Bennell
building up a handy lead on points be-
cause of his cleverness and quickness in
defence and a left that kept stabbing at
McLaughlin’s peeper. Presently Mac
started rushing in and crowding. Hockey
took to it also, and the show deteriorated
rapidly. The final tangle in the ropes
came in the eleventh. By that time,
counting cautions and all things, there
wasn’t much separating them. The scrap
was supposed to be for the welterweight
title which both boxers claim (Westbury
says it’s his).
Fred Irvine (9.5) and Abie Hanlon
(9.4) had a ding-dong set-to in a four-
round prelim. The decision, a draw, was
correct. Both boys should go further.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
BILLABONG” Centrifugals
PUMP
WATER
BY THE ACRE
Or/iTni
WRITE
TO
THE MAKERS
JOHN DANKS S SON Pty. Ltd.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE,
AND AT 324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
•x.
xxx ; ;x- ■
■m
mmm,
■s,: ; j
" 'W
XSf
W;
The
stronger
the edge, the
longer its life
Seen under a lens, every Gillette blade has a steel shoulder
or buttress behind the cutting edge, rather like the blade
of a chisel. This construction, the outcome of three stages
in the sharpening process, gives such strength behind the
cutting edge that you obtain many more
smooth shaves than the ordinary blade will give.
The edge of many a blade is damaged by
careless unwrapping before it is ever used.
So carefully is the Gillette blade packed that
the cutting edges are not permitted to touch
even the inner wrapper , as you will see by
holding it up to the light; if you will take
equal care in handling it, you can get many
more shaves per blade.
n
GILLETTE
SHOULDERED
EDG F
USE
GILLETTE
AND SAVE STEEL
WAR SAVINGS jj Gillette Sets 2/7i to 47/-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7,
.CERTIFICATES,
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., xBi Clarence Street, Sydney
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Arnold Wienholt’s Adventures
“Ente Marid”: After a year the fate
of Captain Arnold Wienholt, D. 5.0.,
M.C., whose name will live in the history
of the Abyssinian wars, has been deter-
mined. Wienholt was a stocky, bearded
figure, son of a pioneer Queensland
squatter. Born in ’77, he was sent to
Eton, where Winston Churchill became a
(lifelong) friend. At 21 he raised a troop
of horse to serve in S. Africa, and when
the Great War broke out he was in the
front of the queue.
Before he got away himself he un-
obtrusively used his money to help some
fine Queensland horsemen, who had been
rejected for the first A.1.F., on their way
to London, to try their luck with the
R.H.A. and British cavalry regiments.
Their records justified his expenditure.
He landed a post in Intelligence, first
in West Africa, then in German East
Africa, was captured but escaped 300
miles, unarmed, through wild lion
country.
He sat for Moreton in the Federal
House for a while after he returned, and
had two terms for Fassifern in the
Queensland House —the last ended in ’34.
The outbreak of Musso’s war against the
Ethiopians found Wienholt in Abyssinia
as a correspondent who presently became
an active partisan. The Italians grabbed
him, but he escaped, spent three years
fighting a losing battle for the Abys-
sinians and was discovered in 1940 with
“Mission 101,” organised to stir up the
Abyssinian hornets’ nest. The chief
organisers of this scheme were his friends
Sandford and Orde Wingate —a young
man, Colonel Dan, bearded like himself,
and one of the most remarkable of mili-
tary characters. Sandford, a canny Scot,
had gone to Abyssinia in his youth as
legation gardener, and was now a full
colonel; Wingate, a “regular,” had made
his name in Palestine.
There were other Australians in the
Ethiopian service seconded from the
A.I.F. —Sergeants Body, Brown and
others. A dozen of them officered the
backbone of the actual organised force.
They were described by an awed corre-
spondent as “big hulking men, with vil-
lainous red and blonde beards and steel-
grey eyes, who had reverence for nothing,
so that the Italians feared them like the
plague.”
Wienholt, however, was their lonely
advance guard. From Khartoum in July
he disappeared on a donkey with a
handful of native soldiers into the wild
fringes of the mountain country east
of Gallabat. Occasionally he sent out
for supplies.
Bush telegraph said that he had been
killed in an ambush on September 10.
Bimbashi J. E. O. Hood went out and
at Mutabia village, in the Gumz coun-
try, learnt that the Italians had forced
the local tribesmen to help in an attack
which was made by 18 Italian soldiers
and 20 armed tribesmen. Wienholt and
his seven native soldiers took to the bush
but were never seen again.
They found his blanket. They found
one of his boots. They found a skeleton.
One of the natives said he had been shot
in the side.
He was a man who looked a little
greyer every time you saw him, but there
was an adventurous fountain of youth
bubbling up inside him, and it is difficult
to believe that he will never again come
limping and laughing in from Africa —
a lion-mauling gave him the limp—with
his curious smile, a new batch of stories
and new bits of philosophy.
He was a rich man —he left £212,000.
He had great ability and independence
of character which might have given him
any public position he chose in the Com-
monwealth. But he was impatient of
cities and of the trivialities of politics.
In Africa they called him “Allan Quater-
main.”
“Dungeness”: A self-styled “Razor
Gang” of young hoodlums at the Palm
Island (N.Q.) abo. settlement has been
giving the authorities trouble. Instead
of taking court proceedings in Townsville,
the Abo. Department ought to send
Jerry Jerome up from Baramba with a
free hand to settle matters. A stickler
for law and order, the fine old ex-pug.
would knock sense into any number of
saucy young Binghis in short order.
There is no nonsense of the kind at
Baramba —Jerry sees to that!
* * * *
“Parap”: Army Minister Forde
announces that all A.I.F. men who have
been in the N.T. for at least eight months
are to have 24 days which includes
travelling time —in their enlistment dis-
trict. The troops will like that. Whether
it will make them like Darwin any better
remains to be seen.
* * * *
“Philp”: Eric Harold Chater, g.m. for
Guinea Airways in New Guinea, and a
particularly able man, met an untimely
fate at Lae. He got in the way of an
aeroplane propeller and was picked up
dead. Chater, who had a good record
with the R.F.C. in the last war, came
to Australia in 1923 to take up land,
b o ZVhad »£ hour ” with
ager o£ the Melbourne Aero Club, and
joined up with Guinea Airways in 1933.
They made him g.m. at Lae in 1936.
* * „ * , , „
“H.U.K. ’: One of the chaps who se
share tickets in lotteries was hauled up
the other day, lined £lOO and oideie
to pay £lOOO in taxation attei pleading
guilty to making a false income-tax
return for 1935-36. The return showed
net income of £6791. It was actually
£8164. It was remarked that procee -
ings had been taken in respect of one year
only, and darkly hinted that the Taxation
Commissioner would deal with other
years. The amounts are what is interest-
ing. They show how very, very fortunate
it is to be a “Lucky Ferdinand undei
easy-going Australian Governments.
* * * *
“801 l Tearer”: Queensland cotton crop
is likely to be about 12,000 bales. The
estimate was for 15,000, but the weather
upset that. The Cotton Board had hoped
to have 100,000 acres under crop next
year, but again the weather is butting in,
and if the present “dry” lasts another
month prospects will be pretty poor,
* * * *
“Liop”: Lieut.-Commander G. G. O.
Gatacre, R.A.N., who won a D.S.C. in
the Bismarck hunt while serving in
H.M.S. Rodney, was born at Wooroolin
and educated at Brisbane Grammar and
Jervis Bay Naval College. He is 34.
* * * *
“Smilax”: Who was it said “If you pay
a good wage you’ll get a good job’’?
Brisbane aldermen are the highest-paid
batch of city dads in the Empire, if not
the world. But when Lord Mayor
Chandler proposed measures to deal with
the water shortage —so serious that com-
plaints have been made of lack of water
for drinking, and there is talk of the
city’s health being endangered by a
sewerage holdup—nothing could be done
because the council was without a
quorum. An adjournment was ordered,
but when the council resumed it was still
without a quorum, and there was another
adjournment for a week. Meantime
householders were implored not to use
hoses and to go easy on the bath water.


Women'S LetterS
From Melbourne
Orchids almost blushed to be seen at
the Caulfield Cup. The pampered blooms
had a bad time over the Sydney races,
getting ticked off for appearing in such
ostentatious and expensive quantities, and
they seem to have taken the matter to
heart. For the moment anyway they
are staying at home in the hothouse.
Only a few were at Saturday’s meeting,
and they looked guilty. There was lily-
of-the-valley, but not so much as in other
years ; most women went flowerless and
dressing was practical for every
frivolous get-up there were a hundred
coats and suits. Even hats had their
wings clipped considerably, with veils as
a common thought for those who came
out for the second race when the weather
looked less sinister. (Hopes were ful-
filled, the sun shone and the wind dropped
to a degree of comfort.)
Mrs. E. J. Kennon (her better half
owns one half of Cup-winner Velocity)
wore black and silver foxes for protec-
tion. She loves all horses apart from
the racing species, and has a soft spot
for Clydesdales, pride of many a lorry.
Also with a personal interest in the Cup
(though her hopes of True Flight were
only as high as a couple of tote tickets)
was Mrs. Stanley Mills, of Perth. She
wore a brown suit with honey color
blouse in hand-woven linen and was with
pal of many a Cup season, Mrs. Herbert
Benton. Also in brown, sway-back coat
with Arctic fox collar was Mrs. Patrick
Massey (better known as Bessie Byrne),
on holiday from India. An inky-blue
suit with a festive air in cut and stitchery
of the bolero was worn by Sue Gullett,
and a black suit with the pleated skirt
that’s a light-hearted note of the season
was the choice of Mrs. Peter Gebhardt.
Unless more events materialise out of
thin air it will be a quiet Cup Week.
There are no bright ideas for parties,
patriotic or otherwise, falling upon one
another’s necks and tripping up the toes
of one another’s committee workers. The
only welfare dinner-dance so far beckon-
ing with swing music upon the horizon
is for Cup Eve at the Australia by the
Silver Wings Auxiliary in aid of an air
ambulance.
The Silver Wings people have taken on
a job and they don’t turn a hair at an-
swering inquiries about the price of their
proposed machine of succor (they think
they might get it for £3000). Their pro-
gress up to date is encouraging—£600 since
March, mostly from mickle-makes-a-
muck.le dos, snowball bridge parties and
the like. Mrs. Barry Thomson, Mrs. M.
Patkin, Mrs. B. Kosky and Mrs. S. Levy
are among those pushing the Cup Eve
fixture. Mrs. Thomson says that son
Jack Barry Thomson is now in Canada
playing opposite Ruth Chatterton in
“Pygmalion.” He writes that Ruth’s a
marvel, still looks 25, is agreeable to work
with and is very popular with her audi-
ences.
Those who went forth bright and early
to do their week-end shopping at the
Travellers’ Aid market fair at No. 9
came away with string bags bulging and
(figuratively speaking anyway) with sides
of lamb slung over their shoulders. Late-
afternoon arrivals bought arum lilies from
Mrs. Lewis Clifford’s stall, for by then,
except for the parked-and-paid-fors, not
a flower or vegetable showed its head,
and there were only crumbs for the birds
upon the cake stall. Second choice was
for knickknacks, not to be looked at
mirthfully. An antique and gift stall
raised £7O. By the end of the day nothing
had been heard of a box of eggs still
travelling around the country for Mrs. E.
McDonald’s produce stall. She’s not per-
turbed about the lost property, for, unless
it starts on inter-State journeys, it should
turn up in time to be of use in the
Travellers’ Aid Hostel kitchen.
To a dance for an airmen’s mess came
Wing-Com. Counsell and sister Florence,
Mrs. R. T. Vincent, Squadron-Leader
Brewster and a dozen or so more who
arrived in the spirit of after-dinner well-
being. Some people cut out their meal
of the day, drifting on soon after the
races to find appetites up in arms about
10. The party was a cabaret cocktail
do from seven till midnight, and solved
the problem of dress —optional. The girls
had various ideas but the men but a
single thought, either uniform or no
boiled shirt. Patronage was given by
Group-Captain and Mrs. U. Ewart, she
in turquoise. Organising quartet con-
sisted of Miss E. Frankel, Helen Drum-
mond, Nancy Phillips and Joyce Hopkins,
on the job in evening apparel.
Knowing all the questions and answers
about background and aspect, the Con-
temporary Art Society captured an in-
teresting personage, Chinese Ambassador
Dr. Hsu Mo, for the Melbourne opening,
and for the housing of the pictures a domi-
cile lush with carpets in the gold room
of the Australia. The mere word “con-
temporary,” with all its provocative asso-
ciations, pinches the ears of the crowd,
and the place on the first day was seeth-
ing with the inquisitive and the intense
(both pro and con). One small child
present wailed dismally “I wanna go
home,” but his was not the general com-
ment. Many spectators found the show
a lot of fun, or, at least, a pick-me-up,
from lethargy (whether plain Scotch or
dynamite, depended upon temperament).
Dr. Hsu Mo and some of his com-
patriots were shown the exhibition later
in the afternoon (they having spent the
interim at a table in the far corner of
the lounge, whither drifted a stream of
well-known citizens and painters of vari-
ous persuasions). Dr. Hsu Mo’s opening
speech was an agreeable piece of oratory.
He spoke without notes, choosing his
words with care from a broad vocabu-
lary. He thinks that all art is progres-
sive and “contemporary” art is indicative
of the future.
A scroll of parchment growing ever
longer is maintained at the entrance of
the exhibition —therein are signatures
protestant against the official academy
and hands-offithe-Gallery viewpoint. The
room is so packed with pictures that they
reach from carpet to ceiling and cover
every pillar and steam-heater. Red
seals left over from Sydney make
for an air of glowing success. To the
fore on the opening day were president
John Read and Michael Keon, expressing
his convictions with a canary-yellow
crochet tie.
Inset from Spencer Shier, Lynette
Dickenson, who is one of the ticket secs,
for Ivor Novello’s “I Lived with You,”
the histrionic-cwm-social event of Cup
Week. Also concerned with tickets are
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson (in Sydney at the
moment for a brief holiday), Gwen Izzard
and Mrs. Keith Halley. The Players
formerly associated with Gregan Mc-
Mahon are producing the season for two
nights at the Princess. On the 4th seats
will be obtainable at gala prices, rang-
ing down to two bob ; on the sth tops
can be had for 10s. Lynette’s mother,
Mrs. George Dickenson, and Mrs. Ten
Buxton will supervise the selling of sweets
in the foyer. Mrs. W. Croughey is look-
ing to the programmes, and Mrs. A.
Wenzel and Mrs. Harley Styles are up to
their eyebrows in lucky envelopes. The
season is in aid of a movement that gets
under any skin, no matter how tough,
the Fund for Prisoners of War.
Tin-cans, bits of old window blinds, a
battered hat, vintage 1930 —the contents
of such a scrap-heap may be seen trans-
formed into dogs, horses, woolly lambs
and roll-along toys at the “Kindergarten
Children at Play” session at Myer’s next
week. Inaugurators are Mrs. Earl Moser
and a dozen or so of her friends, both
American and Australian, who six months
ago started toy-making as a source of
supply to the Free Kindergartens. They
think that other people might like to learn
the art (they say it’s so easy it’s a joke),
hence the display, which is also a boost
for the kiddies. Big attraction at all ses-
sions will be the color film of Free Kin-
dergarten children taken with a heap
of patience by W. W. Norman —photo-
graphy is his hobby when he gets away
from his line in real estate.
Golden-headed Charis, youngest
daughter of Emeritus Professor W. A.
Osborne and Dr. Ethel Osborne, is en-
gaged to Bill Pelling, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. E. Pelling, of Kangaroo-road,
Murrumbeena. The couple had no bother
in making up their minds, though they
knew one another only slightly until
Chans took a clerical job at Kraft
Cheese, where Bill is office manager,
some three weeks ago. She left just in
time to miss the flutter of interest
through newspaper announcements. She
has no ring and says she’d rather have
a frigidaire. Flat-hunting has begun, for
the marriage is to be soon. While Bill
excels at tennis and golf (as do his sisters),
young Charis rides with the best of them
in shows and gymkhanas. She slipped
through her family’s fingers regarding a
university course with Osborne tradi-
tions of honor and glory in medicine and
chemistry.
From Sydney
The schoolchildren of this State are
right behind the flag and give their
pennies to prove it. Last week a cheque
for £5OOO was handed to Premier McKell
from the N.S.W. Public Schools’ War
Service Auxiliary. Seven-year-old Ronald
Frazer and six-year-old Nina Bull pre-
sented the cheque at Federation House.
They were both overcome by shyness,
and Mr, McKell was overcome by
emotion. He said he knew that Mr.
Churchill, to whom he would send the
gift for the children in bombed areas in
Britain, would be deeply touched. Alto-
gether the schoolchildren of the State
have raised £lB,OOO for the auxiliary.
In the shade of the mulberry-tree near
the tennis court, the Garrison Band
played music alternately blithesome and
spiritedly patriotic last Saturday after-
noon at Elaine, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax’s
home. The occasion was the Metropoli-
tan Group’s Fair, which added another
£3OO or so to the*C.W.A. patriotic funds.
The wife of Premier McKell verbally un-
locked the doings at noon. Her outfit
was smart, grey, and very becoming. Mrs.
Fairfax entertained members of the
executive committee to lunch, and Mrs.
Basil Foulds, the sheepskin vest wizard,
was of the company. Produce and flower
stalls, garden hats and shallow flower
baskets were among the day’s delights.
Mrs. H. J. Brady, her raspberry-red
sheers dotted in white, was one of the
day’s active workers. C.W.A.’s president,
Mrs. Jack Garry, was present.
Being poor, benighted Australians (and
there are some who seem to think
we are just past the gum-leaf orchestra
stage), most Sydneyites enjoyed the
concert of Australian composers’ works.
This was conducted by Bernard Heinze
last week in the Town Hall. Lady
Gowrie paid our music-makers the com-
pliment of being present. Her “Aide”
for the night was Mrs. Hope Gibson,
who had dined cosily with her at
Admiralty House. Roy Agnew, whose
“Breaking of the Drought” was on the
programme, was in hospital at Hornsby,
so could only listen in ; but Mrs. Roy
was in the audience.
Tomorrow night the Trocadero will
simmer with movement, shimmer with
bright lights. In other words, the A.I.F.
Ball will be in full cry. Madeleine With-
all, already famed as secretary (for love)
of the Wool Trade War Fund, is an active
worker for the ball, and is one of the
committee’s vice-presidents. The ball is
in aid of the Distress Fund of the
Returned Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen’s
Imperial League, Furlough House and the
Anzac Buffet. Falk photograph.
Interesting arrival in Sydney last week
was the Ranee of Sarawak, wife of Sir
Charles Vyner Brooke, who until a few
weeks ago was known as the White Rajah
of Sarawak and was absolute ruler there.
The country has now a revised Consti-
tution. The Ranee is bright of look and
manner and, what is rare among women,
does not trouble about the changing
fashions. In fact, she claims to have
enough clothes to last all her days. Her
skirts are sarongs, her jackets are badjus,
and with these she wears scarves known
as tudongs. She was one of the early
buyers of flowers at the fifty-fifty shop
run by the Alexander Gordon lady for
Red Cross Prisoners of War and Welsh
victims of bombing. All last week she
entertained and was entertained. She
saw Palm Beach at the week-end in com-
pany with the Claude Plowmans. Today
there is a lunch party in her honor at
the Pickwick Club. The U.S.A. Con-
sular Wilson Flakes were among her
hosts.
The ship was manned and dressed
when C.U.S.A.’s Navy Club was launched
by Admiral Grace on the troubled waters
of our times. But, like the ark of old, if
the waters had not been troubled it
would never have been launched at all.
The idea of the club is to provide com-
forts, spiritual and material, for the men
of his Majesty’s ships, no matter what
religion. The address is 5 Young-street,
and at night two brightly-lit anchors will
lead to the door.
The new club was one of the oldest
of the city’s woolstores. It has been
thoroughly reconditioned throughout its
three floors. The ground floor is a
spacious cafeteria, painted in ivory tones.
Each long window has two curtains, a
dark blue and a white. These are alter-
nately embroidered with a white buoy
and a red anchor. Here are portraits of
the King and the Queen and of Sydney’s
Archbishop Gilroy. In the recreation-
room, complete with billiard table and
games equipment, there are furnishings
of gay cottage weave. The lounge will be
supplied with writing materials and
magazines.
Everywhere were enormous bowls
spilling over with spring flowers. The
air was heavy with the scent of lilac and
red roses. Mrs. Du Val, who had
dropped £lOO into the hat, was there, her
ensemble a cool-toned black and grey.
Mrs. H. Daly, organiser of the club,
whisked here and there ; Mrs. Hamilton
Kirkland, Miss Kate Egan, Mrs. John
Woods (daughter Mary Kathleen, already
in uniform, handing out the programmes
to official guests), Mrs. Grace (with her
Admiral), all in blue, Mrs. Walter Burfitt,
C.U.S.A. Administrator Monsignor Clark,
Minister for Transport O’Sullivan, Mrs.
C. J. Pope, the Commodore Muirhead-
Gould couple, Mrs. Dodds and Mrs. K.
Prior were among the hundreds who mur-
mured approval of the work.
It is told that not so very long ago Mr.
Menzies, then Prime Minister, was visit-
ing some old friends when the school-
girl daughter arrived home. The two
were soon chatting together, and Mr.
Menzies, failing to make out the em-
broidered letters of the school crest on
the small girl’s hat, asked what they
were, “Oh,” said the schoolgirl, “the
words are Latin. They mean ‘Labor
conquers all.’ ” Mr. Menzies sighed
comically, and replied “Ah, well, we’ll
soon know all about that.”
The party where the members of the
Royal Art Society made merry last week,
and heard, as the conditions lay down,
the announcement of the results of the
Wynne art competition, was one of the
best attended on record. The Fellows
of the society, gold palette in buttonhole,
moved about carrying chairs or cups of
coffee or just greetings to visitors. Mrs.
Erik Langker’s plum-colored velvet coat
and cyclamen frock were a nice color
scheme. In the group also was Erik’s
sister, her black-and-white chiffons swing-
ing a graceful cape. Of exquisite hand-
made lace was Mrs. David Karmel’s
short coat. Lightning sketches by F. A. L.
Butler, especially one or two hits at news-
paper criticism, were approved with loud
laughter.
Mrs. Roland Foster got together num-
bers of admirers of the Women’s Hos-
pital, Crown-street, last Thursday. For
this alliance of music and tea two flats
were called into use. Mrs. Roland's
own home spread the mighty tea, while
that of friend Mrs. Mclllree upstairs was
used for the music. A programme to
delight the ear of all but the most blase
was given by Keith Priscott (a student
from Maoriland), the lyric-toned Pat
Pringle, Julie Van de Klei, Doris Eason
and Rachel Voller. Mrs. Robert Dixson,
president of the Women’s Committee of
the hospital, was the guest of honor, and
was presented with a bed (doll size) as
a reminder of the Edgecliff-Woollahra
auxiliary’s interest.
Alice Dey last Saturday afternoon at
the Congregational Church, Pitt-street.
Sydney, became Mrs. Kenneth Wilber-
force Tribe. Husband is one of the firm
of Boyce and Boyce, solicitors. Both
Alice and Kenneth are university gradu-
ates, and they met for the first time en
route to England the year war was de-
clared. The bridesmaid, Joy Sibree, and
the best man, Robert Greenway Hender-
son, are also graduates of Sydney Uni-
versity.


MURPH TAKES THE ODDS
By A. C. HEADLEY.
MURPH looked at his newly-issued army boots
disconsolately. “Anyway,” he said, “they
, oughter build up our legs.”
“Yeah,” I agreed, “but joining the army to
build up our legs wasn’t the original idea. 1 seem to
remember something about blokes getting five bob a
day and not knowing what to do with it!”
“True,” says Murph. “I’ve been talkin’ to a few
of the boys. There’s no sense in getting their dough
a bit at a time. We’ve got to get ’em organised. An’
there’s ways and means.”
I left it at that.
FOR the next couple of days Murph was wander-
ing around' with a frown all over his face, and 1
began to think that joining the army hadn’t been
such a great idea after all. For some reason all the
fatigues about the place seemed to be wished on
Murph and I. Murph particularly resented the idea of
separating potatoes from their jackets. “It’s women’s
work,” he said. “Blokes that go to fight for their
country shouldn’t have to do it.”
“If you hadn’t asked the sergeant what the hell,
you wouldn’t have been doing it,” said I.
“Sergeants,” said Murph, “ain’t human.”
There was something rankling in his heart. I
could see that, and 1 almost felt happy when about two
days later I caught him on the brink of a fight with
a bloke about his own size. Murph had wandered
into another company’s lines, and when I got there this
other bloke was telling him what he’d like to do to him.
“You,” said Murph scornfully, “and how many
others?”
“I won’t need no ’elp,” said the other.
“Garn,” said Murph, “you couldn’t beat time.”
By this time there was a fair-sized ring of khaki
around them, and the bloke conversing with Murph
started to strip off his tunic. The mob brightened up
when it began to look as though the thing was coming
down to the right basis.
“Me,” said Murph. “I don’t need to take me
coat orf ; I could beat you with a strait-jacket on.”
All of a sudden the other cove’s left connected
with Murph’s nose. Murph blinked, and sailed in
with the force of a maddened rhinoceros. The next
moment he was sitting down and blinking some more,
and this other chap was standing over him and ask-
ing him to get up so that he could do it again. I
started getting ashamed of Murph. All he did was
sit there with one hand clamped over his wrist com-
plaining that it was broken.
The crowd began to drift off, but Murph kept
sitting. “He hit me,” he said, “before I was ready.”
“When a bloke’s got his coat off and his fists up
you’ve always got to be ready,” I told him.
Murph frowned. “You know wot I’m goin’ t
do,” he said. “I’ll challenge ’im to a real fair dinkum
fight.”
I grinned. “If gettin’ a fist against your nose
ain’t fair dinkum I dunno what is.”
Murph’s forehead telescoped over his eyes.
“What I mean,” he said, “is a fight in a ring with
gloves and seconds and a referee, a fight when a bloke
don’t get hit when he ain’t lookin .”
“If I was you,” said I, “I’d challenge him to a
game of dominoes.”
“1 gotter ’ave ’is blood,” said Murph simply.
AT that time I thought it was all in the heat of the
moment, but next morning before reveille Murph
was out of his nap and running up and down along
the centre of the hut. In about two ticks the sound ol
his boots had everyone awake.
“It’s the cafard.” said one bloke. “I read about
it in one o’ them Foreign Legion books. Blokes go
mad with it. Then they desert an’ they get shot.”
“You gotter be careful,” said another ; “if they
bite y’ you don’t recover.”
Murph plodded up and down the hut. I crawled
out from beneath the blankets and grabbed him by
the arm. “Listen, Murph,” I said, “it’s me. You
remember me, don’t y’?”
Murph gulped a mouthful of air. “You’re makin’
me break me trainin’,” he said.
I blinked.
“I’m trainin’,” said Murph, “for me fight with
that bloke Baker from C Company.” And he started
to trot up and down again.
When he came at the same business next morning
I thought that I’d better get him in leash before the
rest of the mob rose in a body and annihilated him.
“Listen, Murph,” I said, “how long does this
training go on before you issue the challenge?”
“It was what I was gonner talk t’ y’ about,” said
Murph. “I want you to go over an’ tell him that I’ll
meet him in the ring whenever he likes. You can
tell ’im, too. I’m willin’ to back meself for anything
he likes.”
“Listen, Murph,” I said, “just bang your head
on the ground and try and shake your brains back
to normal. You can fight as much as you like, but
when you talk money that’s serious.”
Murph’s lips made a straight line. “Johnno,” he
said, “you don’t have to worry, because I’ll belt the
ears off him.”
“And what’ll he be doing?” said I.
“Listen,” said Murph, “I thought you were my
cobber.”
I went over to arrange the match.
“Nothin’,” said Baker, “would suit me better.”
He called to a few of the blokes from his company
to tell them all about it. The way they laughed made
me sick.
“You can tell that gorilla of yours we’ll cover
all the dough he likes to put up,” said Baker.
“You make me feel sorry for y’,” said I, and I
went back to Murph.
“I got eleven quid,” he said. “What’s yours?”
I cut it in half. “Four,” I said, “and I think we
ought to keep it for a rainy day.”
' • “With an opportunity like this,” said Murph,
“there won’t be no rainy days.”
I had a mental picture of Baker standing over
Murph and telling him to get up. But Murph finally
kidded me into taking the dough over to the other
camp to find someone to cover it.
They seemed to be waiting for me as though
they wanted to shake me by the hand. As soon as I
mentioned money they started to shove it at me thick
and fast. By the time I was finished I had our fifteen
and the covering fifteen in my pocket and they were
clamoring for more.
“Good,” said Murph when I told him. “Now
what y’ gotter do is go back and cover another thirty
with that thirty.”
“Listen,” I said, “you can’t use that. Only half
of it’s ours. Wot d’y’ think’ll happen to us if you
lose?” •
Murph surveyed me wearily. “Listen, Johnno,’
he said, “I ain’t goin’t’ lose.”
I went back to get the thirty. C Company seemed
to be behind Private Baker to a man. They scratched
around a lot, getting bits from here and there, but
they got it.
And then I learned what it was all about. Private
Baker was standing around watching me take the last
of the thirty. When it was done he moved closer.
“I got somethin’,” he said, “which might int’rest y’.”
He dived into his pocket and yanked out a medal.
“Take a look at this,” he said.
I took a look. On the front was a pair of boxing-
gloves. With a sinking feeling I turned it over. There
was an inscription: “Presented to Donald Sleeman,
heavyweight champion of N.S.W.”
I swallowed. “Sleeman?” I said. “What’s it all
about?”
Baker grinned. “It’s the name I used to fight
under.”
When I got round the corner of the hut I made
a dash to find Murph. “We better put in for a trans-
fer to another unit,” I told him.
“What’s eatin’ y’?” said Murph.
“It’s on account,” said I, “that I’ve discovered
that Baker was once the heavyweight champion of
New South. He fought under the name of Sleeman.”
Murph opened his mouth, closed it and opened
it again.
“He’s what?” he said.
I told him slowly. “You might get out of it,” I
said, “by breakin’ your arm or somethin’.”
Murph gave a snort. “I don’t care who he is.
It’s a matter of me honor. And don’t you worry:
1 been trainin’.”
1 went off to look in the mirrors just to get the
satisfaction of seeing my hair go grey.
~r HE fight was set down for Thursday night. When
* it was time to go along with Murph my knees
were getting so that I couldn’t keep them together.
Everything was fixed up in the big entertainment
hut. There was a ring and one of the officers was
going to act as referee. Baker was in his corner
already and every few minutes he’d stand up and shake
his hands to the cheers that came from C Company.
Murph didn’t get any cheers. The boys were
remembering the way he used to wake them up each
morning to do his training. But he climbed into the
ring looking as though he could have beaten Joe
Louis.
At last the referee called them together in the
middle of the ring. Murph came back to his corner
and patted me on the head with his glove.
“I ain’t got no fears,” he said.
“You needn’t worry,” said I, “I’ve got enough for
both of us.”
The ref. blew his whistle and they came out
shaping up to each other. For about a minute they
circled around each other and it looked as though the
fight was developing into a draw. Suddenly Baker
threw out a left and I began to show a bit of interest.
Murph caught it on his glove, and in the same instant
slipped in a quick punch to Baker’s body. Baker
bent .oyer, and the next moment Murph’s uppercut
rolled him over on to his back. With my eyes wide
open I stared while the referee counted out the slow-
est ten seconds in history. Before I was capable of
realising it, he was holding Murph’s hand up in the
air and the fight was over. I stayed where I was,
shaking with the relief of it. Murph came over and
got me out.
uyOK see,” said Murph later, “doing it that way
1 we get three to one for our money.”
“That’s all right,” said I, “but what about if you
hadn’t got him with a lucky one?”
Murph grinned, thrust his hand into his pocket
and pulled out a tenner.
“Wha’ d’y’ think I’m giving you this tenner
to give to Baker for?”
Light dawned. “You mean”
“Yeah,” said Murph modestly.
A couple of wrinkles ran into my forehead. “I
don’t get it,” I said. “He could have picked up much
more than a tenner by cleaning you up.”
Murph grinned. “When you give him the dough
ask him can I have me medal back now that he’s
done with it,” he said.
A fantastic notion came into my head. “Murph,”
I said, “did you ever fight under the name of Slee-
man?”
Murph eyed me sadly. “Listen, Johnno,” he said,
“buyin’ a boxin’ medal in a pawnshop don’t make a
bloke a boxer and a swimmin’ medal don’t make ’im
a swimmer.”
“Murph,” I said, “you’re a genius.”
Murph bowed. “Johnno,” he said, “this army life
is makin’ a man of me. I told you all we had to do
was co-ordinate the five bobs.”
"Struth! Fish sauce!"


THE TWELVE MILE PUB
“Hey, Waiter , you've forgotten the chips."
By J. A. CHRISTOMAR.
TWELVE miles higher up the valley is the town, or
what remains of it. You come in that way
now, down the mountain road which branches
off the Main Southern just beyond Matupa.
Years ago when the town was alive there was only
a bridletrack that way and little better leading in
from the other end of the valley the way all the
thousands of people who built the town and later
left it came. It was a gold town, but it’s dead now,
a skeleton with a few tatters of the weatherboards
which clothed it still hanging to the uprights of one
of the pubs. The gold was all alluvial stuff, pretty
rich while it lasted, but it soon went. A little above
the town, at the foot of the hills and just back off
the road, there’s a timber camp. It’s the trucks from
there have cut the road about so much. You’re well
advised if you’re cutting down to the coast not to
come through the valley at all, but to take the turn-off
further along over Tumbledown Dick. That’s a good
tarred road, and you’ll get some pretty fine views of
the ocean. There’s nothing much to see in the valley—
it s all been taken up now by a couple of big men
who are trying to grow sheep where cow cockies
would do better—and there’s only the one pub. That’s
the Twelve Mile, and it’s just a pub.
It’s back off the road about thirty yards, but
you can’t miss it; there’s not another building within
miles either side. The fence on that side of the road
goes back around it, leaving about an acre clear. The
red-brown clay, worn down till it’s like cement, goes
right up under the hitching rail and verandah roof
to the worn step at the bar door. The pub
was built about the same time as the town, and it’s
the same style of thing—low and long in front and
narrow-gutted; the bar’s at one end and there are
three rooms at the other; back and sides are slab-
built, but the front’s weatherboard; Mick Sheridan
whitewashed the place once.
The bar’s pretty dingy, but somehow the beer
alway seems cool enough. There’s a fly-spotted picture
of The Barb on the wall at one end and a later one
of Carbine at the other. Dick Ferry, who owns the
place now, put in some kind of a carbide lighting
plant about fifteen years ago ; it takes up most of
the back room and it doesn’t work too badly.
First thing you’ll ask the bloke behind the bar
after you’ve got a mug is why he doesn’t move the
place up nearer to the timber-getters—that’s what
they always ask, too —but he won’t know. He’ll tell
you he’s taking a horse down to an unregistered
meeting at Delegate or somewhere, and that he’s only
helping in the bar for a day or two to tucker the nag,
or that he’s a shearer waiting for the shed to open.
That’ll be right, too. There’s always somebody like
that there. That’s how Dick runs the place. A couple
of times he’s had bagmen doing the job. None of
them ever stays long enough to get hold of the story.
But Dick Ferry can tell you. You’ll usually find
him these days sitting in the sun up against the back
wall, smoking his pipe and dreaming. Mick Sheridan
gave Dick the place when he knew he was dying, and
that’s probably the reason why Dick keeps it going
the way he does; whoever’s helping him out in the
bar when his own time comes will get it.
Though he’s apt to wander off a bit on to a lot
of other things he remembers about Mick Sheridan,
Dick tells the story pretty well. He ought to, for he
must have heard it often enough. They say old Mick
never wanted to talk about anything else.
Mick Sheridan built the place. He must have
been getting on for his forties when he got the idea;
he was over eighty when he died and Dick Ferry can’t
be far short of that now. Mick was in Sydney when
the rush came. He'd been out on the Bathurst field
and he’d cleaned up some three hundred quid or so.
He was wondering what he was going to do with it
and thinking pretty earnestly of a trip back home.
Suddenly he decided he’d open a pub out at this new
find. He’d be first in, and he’d make it the finest
pub anywhere outside of Sydney. The trip home
could wait a couple of years.
He put pretty near all he had into getting a wagon
and stocking it. Then he set out to get it here. He
had two hundred miles to come to the top of the
ranges looking down into the valley, and he did it in
three weeks ; pretty fast going with the load he had.
Three times on the way he met blokes going back
who’d struck it rich quickly, and all of them wanted
a drink. Mick wasn’t selling any. He was too scared.
His heart was set on getting that pub, and he’d even
sworn off opening a bottle for himself till he got
here. He was too frightened of what might happen.
Dick Ferry can tell you in Mick’s own words and
with a pretty feeble imitation of Mick’s brogue the
horrors of thirst he reckoned he put up with.
Two of the blokes offered to buy the wagonload,
lock, stock and barrel. Mick turned them down.
He wondered about going back for more, but he
knew that if he failed the once he’d fail again. He
wanted that pub, and he couldn’t have a pub without
his stock-in-trade.
There was only a track leading down into the
valley then, and in some places where you can still
see it it seems to take a series of jumps down the side
of the mountain. Mick had a look at it when he got
to the top, then he lashed the load on extra tight, took
the wheels off the wagon, fitted some pretty stout
saplings for runners and slid her down that way. It
took him four days, but he didn’t lose a bottle.
At the bottom he put the wheels back on again
and started off with only thirty miles to go. By all
his reckonings it was a Monday then. He allowed
himself eight miles a day and get there on Thursday.
He banked on running up some sort of a shack on
Friday and opening to business on Saturday. On
Wednesday about midday one of the polers put a
foot in a pothole and snapped its leg just above the
fetlock. Dick Ferry says that by Mick’s account he
cursed first, then sat down on a rock and laughed.
It was midsummer and pretty hot, and Mick reckoned
he was as good as there now; anyway, Dick says
Mick decided the poler had done a fair job and
deserved to be honoreid. He dug out a bottle of ale.
There was quite a fair amount of traffic along
the track to the field those days. The next bloke
happened along before Mick had emptied the bottle,
but there wasn’t enough left for two and the beer
was warm. Mick dug a bit deeper and got out a
bottle of Irish whisky. After a while he harnessed up
again, pulled the wagon to the side of the track and
camped under it for the night.
There was only twelve miles to go, but Mick
never got there —not with the wagon. He built a
shack around it at the Twelve Mile and for a long
time they reckon the tray of the wagon served as a
bar counter. The present building came later, but
Dick Ferry says he remembers the remains of the
wagon still in the bar when first he came through the
valley on his way to a milking job down further. Just
like Mick Sheridan, he never got where he was going.
They seemed to cotton to each other; Dick “helped
out” in the bar, and eventually took over.
If you should go down through the valley ask
Dick if he happens to have a bottle of that Irish
whisky Mick Sheridan brought down in his original
load. He might have and it’s good.
THE PERI
By WILL LAWSON.
ON a warm February day in the year 1871,
H.M.S, Basilisk, a steam vessel of 1031 tons
and 400 horse-power, was steaming steadily
northwards along the Barrier Reef, a little
north of the Palm Islands, and inside the reef. The
ship's big paddle-wheels churned the blue waters into
foam, leaving a broad wake. About six bells in the
forenoon, a lookout hailed the poop: “Sail on the
starboard beam, sir!”
Instantly the sleepy ship came to life. The officer
of the watch levelled his glasses eastward, ranging till
he found the tiny speck which the lookout had dis-
tinguished in the glittering blue of the waters.
“What do you make her, Mr. Longmore?” asked
the captain.
“A fore-and-aft schooner, sir, and coming along
very untidily—sails and sheets all slack. Can’t make
it out, sir.”
“Hard aport!” the captain ordered. “We’ll take
a close look at her. I’m wondering how she got
over the Reef,”
As the big warship thrashed and thundered nearer
to the little ocean wanderer, those on her poop could
see a white rag waving from the schooner’s rigging;
soon they had approached close enough to read on
the white bows, which surged into rollers, then tossed
high, the name Peri. On her decks lay twelve men; a
thirteenth clung in an upright position to her port rig-
ging and waved the rag. All sail was set, but nobody
was steering and the schooner lumbered and yawed
about, with the south-east trade wind pushing her
along, willy-nilly.
“Lower the jolly boat, Mr. Longmore,” the cap-
tain ordered, “and bring those men on board. Better
leave a crew to sail her.”
The jolly boat laid alongside the schooner. One
by one, the twelve apparently dead men were lifted
into the boat and the thirteenth assisted from his post
by the rigging. All were Kanakas.
The tall, frizzy-haired Kanaka who had been in
the rigging was given stimulants and food, and after
some hours he was able to tell the story of the vessel’s
wanderings. His name was Mooroowee, he said, and
he came from Fiji.
“Schooner no good,” he kept repeating. “Too
much walkabout, I bin t’ink—too much.”
“Where is her captain?” he was asked.
He pointed into the sea. “He go dead alonga
mate an’ sup-carg—all go dead, belong sea.”
'"THE Peri had been lying in Rewa River, in Fiji,
when the schooner Nukalow arrived with 180
Kanakas kidnapped from the wildest islands —Tanna
boys, Mallacoola boys, men from Guadalcanal Most
of them were hired out to planters in Fiji at £lO to
£l5 a head, but it was arranged for the Peri to take
80 of the Kanakas on board and carry them to other
islands. This was done, and the Peri sailed from
Rewa River.
The eighty Kanakas were allowed the freedom of
the deck. When one day out they complained that
there was not enough food. More rice was given
them, but their insolent manner had incensed the
supercargo so much that, when they were preparing
their meal, he seized the pot in which rice was cook-
ing and threw it overboard.
Before he knew what had happened, the super-
cargo had himself been thrown overboard by a dozen
angry Kanakas, and before the captain and mate
could draw their arms they followed him. The Peri
moved on under full sail, none knew whither.
Of the native crew of the schooner only two
could steer, Mooroowee and another. They kept the
vessel on the wind, as she had been going, while the
wild Kanakas rifled the cabins and holds, eating and
drinking all they could find.
After a couple of days the necessity of rationing
both water and food became apparent. There was a
fight between the Kanakas and the crew, who, under
Mooroowee, tried to lock up the food and water.
Five men were killed and thrown overboard.
In the light winds the schooner wandered where
she willed, with, occasionally, one of the helmsmen
at her wheel. Nobody trimmed her sheets or tried
to lay a course. She got into the south-east trade
wind and that sent her on her way, sometimes sailing,
sometimes drifting.
When the food and water were finished, the
Kanakas demanded more from Mooroowee and his
mate, then chased the two up to the mastheads and
kept them there for two days. Then a severe rain-
squall hit the schooner and some water was collected
in a sail, which pacified the Kanakas so that they
allowed the marooned men to come down from the
mastheads.
One morning a man was found dead. How he
had died none knew; but he was eaten. After that
other men died mysteriously, while the schooner
floundered along before the push of the south-east
trade. For 1800 miles she travelled in this way, steered
only at times, till at last she drifted over a sunken
reef at high tide right up to H.M.S. Basilisk. Only
thirteen of her company were now alive, and they
very near to death. When they recovered they were
placed in their schooner again, and naval ratings sailed
them into Townsville, from which port eventually they
were returned to the islands.


( WkaL fading^
DILIOUS
/7AD r Morses Indian RootPilis
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling!
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
Du Morse’s
IS)
9
Cl
l
*
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7 i per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd,, 23 Lang Street. Sydney, N.S.W..
or 6 Parish Street. Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
r
V
* For local office, address
see Page 6.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-).
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/- /
3 months . 4/-
/ .<o°
post free. A \i’\ v ,\V
jv.M
* VM
° ...•■' of
£
o v


a
X&uev m otu&F
W
rl
2/
rf
///
//'
y*wm
s,»*
i : J
A
mm
mMM
il&Vvtt-!-;
wa%
C^eOEW^S^l®-r
from Malt' and l?* *&. .mU V*
th« dtltcale fl^. r -..
'NIT: 1
produce ??■■ ■•■
MMiKM
7 *?■ rs|
Form well studied, judgment
well used, money well placed and
a bumper return assured from the
winner! ... A result that is never
in doubt when Gilbey followers
back their fancy against the
S- t field.
/'/£?&
■f. ...... ' / ■
Z/?, ’"■
m
m
5>
\
X
k
v'
GILBEY
r//£ c//v o
