

METAL MANUFACTURES LTD. X T r“ a
N.S.W.
of Nonferrous
Metals and Alloys
min'. * - ;
■
.
/ ! <S i 4» "* ,JS» Si •» »75f
I ~ X~; J-— 5 t#** -rxvr- •
k | [1 * •- »£r* ASi’s f£
■i
■
■• ■
:,.w
&
GENERAL VIEW OF PAPER LAPPING SECTION.
For the manufacture of local and
trunk type paper-insulated lead-
covered telephone cables for the
Postmaster-General s Department,
special lapping and quadding
machinery is installed.
CABLES
TUBES
T
JL HE story of the Company is broadly one of steady
progress, and it has made a substantial contribution
to the development of Australia. Commencing with
the assistance of relatively high protective duties, it
has brought itself into a position where it is able to
carry on with a considerable less degree of protection.
The reputation of its products has always been care-
fully guarded, and its trade-mark “Kembla” is an
asset of which it may be justifiably proud.
'■
JS
. ;
m
r~
mm
M
■i-.
-
[-V'Ay-i X, «a**.-;
V
>■ • ■ ■-v : -
A FLYER ON A TELEPHONE CABLE LAYING-UP
MACHINE SHOWING LAY-PLATE AND CLOSING DIE.
INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT TELEPHONES
There are about 39 million telephones in use throughout the
world, using about 168| million miles of telephone wire.
Australia has about three million miles of telephone wire in
use, and about nine telephones per 100 of population, occupy-
ing seventh place in this respect amongst the nations of the
world.
In the large cities of the world, Washington with nearly 39
telephones per 100 of population heads the list. The numbers
per 100 people in the Australian capitals are: Melbourne
12.45, Sydney 11.73, Adelaide 10.75, Hobart 10.67, and
Brisbane 10.49.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3180.
Wednesday, January 22, 1941.
Russia Signs Again
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
ot HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S’.B. 341
The Red Page
France Under the Germans .
Any time is a good time to read De
Maupassant. The present, while mystery
shrouds the life of the common man of
France under the German occupation, is
a particularly good time to read those
eight of his stories which —perhaps acci-
dentally—give a complete picture of the
life of the ordinary man, both the in-
vader and the invaded, after the German
victory of 1870. The German is still the
German ; the Frenchman still French ;
and every one of De Maupassant’s scenes,
in spirit if not in actual detail, must now
be being re-enacted.
If England were invaded nobody would
have any guide as to how the people
would react. Most likely they’d go
hopping mad with rage and stay hopping
mad. But the French, like most Euro-
pean nations, have experienced invasion ;
they know what to expect and what to
do, and tales such as De Maupassant tells
of the Prussian invasion are probably
being recalled in every village, com-
menting upon and illuminating each in-
cident of the new defeat. Here is De
Maupassant’s formula for towns about
to be occupied by the enemy:
A profound calm, a frightful, silent ex-
pectancy had spread over the city. Many
of the heavy citizens, emasculated by com-
merce, anxiously awaited the conquerors,
trembling lest their roasting spits or
kitchen knives be considered arms.
All life seemed stopped; shops were
closed, the streets dumb. Sometimes an
inhabitant, intimidated by this silence,
moved rapidly along next the walls. The
agony of waiting made them wish the
enemy would come.
According to this description of the
occupation of Rouen, the French fell
into a dazed state, strikingly similar to
the “daze” which is said to have fallen
upon the nation after its capitulation last
year. De Maupassant gives the most
convincing account of the phenomenon,
and shows how natural and inevitable a
reaction it is:—-
Behind closed shutters, eyes were watch-
ing these victorious men, masters of the
city, of fortunes, of lives, through the
“rights of war.” The inhabitants, shut up
in their rooms, were visited with the kind
of excitement that a cataclysm, or some
fatal upheaval of the earth, brings to us,
against which all force is useless. For
the same sensation is produced each time
that the established order of things is
overturned, when security no longer exists,
and all that protect the laws of man and
nature find themselves at the mercy of
unreasoning, ferocious brutality. The
trembling of the earth crushing the houses
and burying an entire people; a river over-
flowing its banks and carrying in its course
the drowned peasants, carcasses of beeves,
and girders snatched from roofs, or a
glorious army massacring those trying to
defend themselves, leading others prisoners,
pillaging in the name of the sword and
thanking God to the sound of the cannon,
all are alike frightful scourges which dis-
connect all belief in eternal justice, all the
confidence that we have in the protection
of Heaven and the reason of man.
Then, as now, the frost thawed ; life
began to make sense again, the people
began to live.
It was occupation after invasion. Then
the duty commences for the conquered to
show themselves gracious toward the con-
querors.
After some time, as soon as the first
terror disappears, a new calm is estab-
lished. In many families, the Prussian
officer eats at the table. He is sometimes
well-bred and, through politeness, pities
France, and speaks of his repugnance in
taking part in this affair. One is grateful
to him for this sentiment; then, one may
be, some day or other, in need of his
protection.
This is the pleasant side of invasion.
The enemy who, as an individual, is a
good enough fellow becomes a sort of
household pet. Rich, pretty Madame
Carre-Lamadon in the story from which
these extracts are quoted—De Maupas-
sant’s superb “Ball of Fat”—would be
more than willing to have an affair with
the German officer, not only because he
is handsome, but because he is a Ger-
man, and a German lover,
an enemy, would be a new
experience.
And it is not only the
wealthy French who are
prepared to make the best of invasion
and to make friends with the invader.
They found themselves in a square, with
a church at one end and some low houses
on either side, where they perceived some
Prussian soldiers. The first one they saw
was paring potatoes. The second, further
off, was cleaning the hairdresser’s shop.
Another, bearded to the eyes, was tending
a troublesome brat, cradling it and trying
to appease it; and the great peasant
women, whose husbands were “away in
the army,” indicated by signs to their
obedient conquerors the work they wished
to have done: cutting wood, cooking the
soup, grinding the coffee, or what not. One
of them even washed the linen of his
hostess, an impotent old grandmother.
The Count, astonished, asked questions
of the beadle who came out of the rectory.
The old man responded:
“Oh! those men are not wicked; they
are not the Prussians we hear about. They
are from far off, I know not where; and
they have left wives and children in their
country; it is not amusing to them, this
war, I can tell you.”
Invasion, these passages suggest, could
be tolerable to the French. But that is
not so. Ultimately, the stories show, it
becomes intolerable. De Maupassant’s
plots, all built upon the inevitable con-
flict between conquered and conqueror,
show five factors, one of which must
always cause an explosion, sooner or
later. The greatest trouble-maker is the
threat of violence, always present while
the rule of force supersedes the rule of
law, making every man, both French
and German, at once nervous and
dangerous. Then, in whatever order of
importance circumstances may dictate,
are: the growing anger of the inhabi-
tants as the costs of occupation mount,
as tribute is extracted and as properties
are looted and destroyed ; the problem
of women ; the insolence of individual
Germans, brutal in authority; the
moments when the citizen, driven by
indignation, becomes a patriot, proud and
reckless.
Here, probably, is an exact picture of
the state of France today:
There was, nevertheless, something in the
air, something subtle and unknown, a
strange, intolerant atmosphere like a pene-
trating odor, the odor of invasion. It
filled the dwellings and the public places,
changed the taste of the food, gave the
impression of being on a journey, far
away, among barbarous and dangerous
tribes.
The conquerors extracted money, much
money. The inhabitants always paid, and
they were rich enough to do it. But the
richer a trading Norman becomes, the
more he suffers at every outlay.
Therefore, two or three leagues below
the town, following the course of the river,
mariners and fishermen often picked up
the swollen corpse of a German in uniform
from the bottom of the river, killed by
the blow of a knife, the head crushed by
a stone, or perhaps thrown into the water
by a push from the high bridge....
Hatred of the foreigner always arouses
some intrepid ones, who are ready to die
for an idea.
Although the introduction to “Ball of
Fat” is De Maupassant’s most impressive
analysis of the pattern of invasion, the
story itself is not so much an illustration
of his ideas about the Germans as a
character study of the plump little pros-
titute who would not give in to the
Prussian officer and of the snobs and
prudes who first encouraged her to yield
and then scorned her for doing so. It
is a human, not a political story. Yet
there are incidental vignettes of great
political significance: Madame Carre-
Lamadon’s complete lack of patriotism;
the prostitute’s ineradicable hatred of all
Prussians; the subservience and fear —
which would certainly lead to hatred be-
fore long—of the menfolk before the
Prussian ; the portrait of the officer as
one of those insolent individuals whose
conduct must wreck all propaganda and
all the confidence —affection, even —built
up by better-natured compatriots.
When the Frenchmen bid good night
to the officer he turns his back without
answering. When a deputation beseeches
his clemency he doesn’t rise to greet
them or show any recognition of their
presence—“lt was a magnificent display
of natural blackguardism transformed
into the military victor.” Those little
personal affronts would provoke assas-
sination and revolt more quickly than
any academic appeals to patriotism.
As in “Ball of Fat,” it is the bad Ger-
man who makes his presence on the soil
of France unbearable in “A Duel”—the
story which De Maupassant opens with
the metaphor that has been quoted in
reference to the present occupation: “The
country was panting like a wrestler under
the knee of his successful opponent.”
Travelling in a railway carriage through
France are a Prussian officer, a Frenchman
who is going to join his wife and daugh-
ter in Switzerland, and two comic Eng-
lishmen with an intense and impartial
curiosity about the situation between
their fellow-passengers. Uncomfortable
in the presence of the German, the
Frenchman “made a show of reading his
newspaper. He sat crouched in a corner
like a thief in the presence of a gen-
darme.” The Prussian begins to talk to
the Englishmen, boasting of German suc-
cesses, He glances at the Frenchman
and says, “If I were in command I’d take
Paris, bum everything and kill everybody.
No more France.”
This is a wholly credible situation,
probably a commonplace of invasion.
And, of course, it is not to be borne.
After the German has baited the French-
man long enough, out of blackguardism,
out of boredom and out of a desire to
show off before the Englishmen, there
is a fight, followed by a duel in which
the Frenchman kills his tormentor. The
comic Englishmen take off their caps,
wave them three times over their heads
and shout “Hip! Hip! Hurrah!”
In “A Jolly Fellow,” the enemy is the
traditional stupid, well-meaning “good
German.” But he is the cause, and the
victim, of a tragedy all the same. The
“jolly fellow,” an innkeeper, is jolly
enough to pass for the best of sorts in
normal times. He likes a joke, and,
underneath, he doesn’t like Germans. So
as soon as he discovers that his German
doesn’t understand French, he christens
him “Pig,” “There, eat that, you big
pig! ” he says as he stuffs the great chasms
of the German’s appetite. He takes his
German everywhere with him, showing
off his “Pig” to all the neighborhood. It
is a great joke, and the German is pleased
to be surrounded by so many smiling
faces. Then the truth of the situation
comes out, the German attacks the inn-
keeper with his sabre, but is killed with
a pitchfork.
This is the threat of violence, implicit
in every incident of the occupation, trans-
lated into action, and it makes no differ-
ence that both the innkeeper and the
German were good fellows at heart.
Once the threat becomes an actuality,
havoc is let loose ; there is no end to
the chain of violence. De Maupassant
ends the story with an implied comment
on its political aspect: the innkeeper
escapes detection, but “an old refugee
policeman, who kept an inn in a neigh-
boring village and who had a pretty
daughter, was arrested on suspicion of
being the murderer and was shot.”
One of the reasons for De Maupas-
sant’s bringing in the “pretty daughter”
here and for his several stories about
Prussians and French prostitutes is
doubtless that De Maupassant liked writ-
ing about pretty women and about har-
lots. Yet his insistence on sex in this
instance is a highly significant comment
on invasion, for it was, and must always
be, the cause of many troubles. Most of
the Frenchwomen, like Ball of Fat, are
goiqg to loathe the conqueror: most of
the conquerors are going to loathe being
loathed.
De Maupassant’s Irma, of “Bed No.
29,” who, forced to become “the wife of
the Prussians”.and infected with syphilis,
sets out deliberately to spread the disease
among the enemy, is a figure by herself,
an isolated symbol of the universal
desire for revenge. The Jewess of
“Mademoiselle Fifi,” who stabs a Prus-
sian count, is more typical of the ordi-
nary run of women who have to do with
the invader. The story, built up with
the most brilliant psychological accuracy,
is a perfect commentary on the question
of Frenchwomen and the invader. The
Prussian officers, bored beyond endur-
ance, watch the rain beating on the win-
dows of the chateau at which they are
billeted. “Mademoiselle Fifi,” the
polished, evil little count, amuses them
for a moment by shooting out the eyes
of a portrait. He makes one of his
“mines” and blows up some of the bric-a-
brac, But they are still bored. They
send to a neighboring town for some
women. At dinner everything is as gay
as can be, the men joking crudely and
making love to the girls, and they re-
sponding because—Germans or no Ger-
mans —it is their trade, and they are
powerless, and they are drunk. The
officers begin shouting out toasts. “To
our victories over hearts!” shouts one.
“To our victory over France!” shouts
the little count.
The whole atmosphere changes. Drun-
kenly patriotic, the Germans begin to
boast that all France, all the French-
women, belong to them. The women
remember that, though they are prosti-
tutes, they are still French. There is
violence in the air again. The Jewess
taunts the Germans. “You shall certainly
not have any Frenchwomen. I, I am
only a strumpet, and that is all that
Prussians want!” The count slaps her
face, and she stabs him.
The anglers of “A Fishing
the simplest of all these tragedies, are
two more who find that, in the last
ditch, they are Frenchmen and patriots,
that patriotism when a country is occu-
pied means death, and that they are will-
ing to accept death for France. The two
cronies, one a watchmaker and the other
a storekeeper, go fishing outside Paris
while the war is still raging. One of
them knows a colonel of the French
army, and they are given permission to
pass through the lines. They know the
Prussians are not far away, but they hide
their nervousness with jokes. They hear
the cannon firing and, impartially, criti-
cise the folly of all Governments that
make war. The gunfire, they say, has
nothing to do with them. The fishing
is good.
Then a detachment of Prussians cap-
tures them, and they are taken before an
enemy officer. He declares that obvi-
ously they are spies: why else would
they have been allowed to pass through
the French lines? They must know the
French password. If they will tell it him
he will spare them ; otherwise it’s the
firing squad. The friends say good-bye
to each other and are shot. Their bodies
are thrown into the river. The Prussian
officer orders their fish to be fried for
his meal.
Two other stories, “The Horrible,” in
which a Frenchwoman is mistakenly shot
as a spy, and “The Madwoman,” in which
a woman, sick and mad, meets a miser-
able death because the Germans mistook
her misfortunes for defiance, are further
illustrations of the certainty of tragedy
under invasion.
The point of all these stories is not
just that they picture France as unhappy
under German domination. It is that they
demonstrate that the inevitable minor
irritations and the inevitable major trage-
dies must in a very short space of time
become quite intolerable. They must
exasperate a nation to the pitch of mad-
ness. And the French people, on the sure
evidence of their revolutions, do not
tolerate the intolerable.
Various Verse
And Now the Day Is Lost.
And now the day is lost
Remembered hours in sorrow
Rise from the night and creep
To rest with me . . . but most
Will vanish with tomorrow,
Will steal away with sleep.
Still falls the coldest light;
Intensest dark and endless
Can break not, or disguise.
She comes, and through the night
Is here in death, and friendless:
And dead tears in her eyes.
N.S.W.
WILLIAM ROLLESION.
On His Seventy-first Birthday.
Gently my ship glides down into the west,
A few eventless days will ertd her roving;
Calm and sedate her passage, smoothly
moving
On to her home and haven, berth and rest.
The open seas are passed now, and the still
And silver waters, indolently dreaming,
Receive her weary keel, while, dimly gleaming,
The last lone lightship winks under the hill.
No more in perilous oceans will she sail,
No more her timbers, barnacled and
shrunken.
Creak and complain, as when like some poor
drunken
Reveller she plunged and staggered in the gale.
Alas, how few of all my company
Remain who faced the fates with gallant
bearing,
Yet here and there a ghostly sail appearing
Still holds the homeward course along with me.
MAORILAND.
Arnold Wall
The Presences.
The poplar comes to my window
And my lover comes to the door.
And the dark-haired girl and the green are
One shadowy visitor.
Leaf by leaf the poplar
Leans nearer to the pane,
Night by night the other
Enters my earth like rain.
What is a man but midnight,
A dark and solemn space
Where a tree may set her branches,
A girl her being’s grace?
At the deep-leafed core of the poplar
He leans and drinks his fill,
And a lover tastes of shadows
As secretive and as still.
So in my silent spaces
The gracious phantoms gleam,
Dear in that hollow midnight
Where all is vague as dream.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—pIain facts open dealing
"THE SENIOR STORE”
iK
v s
V
r
/
0
D
w n
The Trade Marh
that stands
for real
foot comfort
$
K
r \
Half Yearly Genuine
SALE
of Dr. REED’S
HEALTH SHOES
HIGH-GRADE
CALF SHOES
Easy comfort and a smart ap-
pearance are nicely combined
in this style. And there is a
choice of Tan Calf, Black Box
Calf and Glace Kid. There are
medium or extra wide fittings,
also a neat extended shape.
Full and half sizes. At
Anthony Horderns', Replace-
ment Price, 35/-. SALE, 31/6
m
rAv*
$
m
m
m
''//
(////
W>
v**
\
00,
Ulu
(Ojiii
UUUfI
mmmys
•«*
Or
'//
Of/
m
(On
tin
mw,
JililfHlh*
CIRCULAR VAMP OXFORD SHOES— A firm
favourite with the utmost comfort in their
footwear, this Box Calf Circular Vamp Ox-
ford is neat and serviceable. Full and half
sizes. At Anthony Horderns', Replacement
Price, 35/-. SALE PRICE 31/6
GLACE KID DERBY BOOT— What a treat for
sensitive feet! Soft Glace Kid Derby Boots that
are made to fit comfortably and well. No toe
cap, and built on an extra wide fitting last.
Welted soles. Full and half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns', Replacement Price, 35/-. SALE, 31/6
BLACK BOX CALF BOOT—Comfortable
fitting boots of soft Black Box Calf or
Glace Kid. Made with toe caps; and
there is a complete range of full and
half sizes. A boot we recommend for
comfort! At Anthony Horderns', Replace-
ment price, 35/-. SALE PRICE 31/6
/
Study this offer and realise the PLAIN FACT that it's definitely
to a man's advantage to buy shoes NOW, because of the certainty
of increased prices in the future.
Seven special features of Dr. Reed's Nu-Matic Cushioned Footwear
include:—
• Finest materials made into comfortable shoes to fit the foot.
• Designed to give new foot health.
• Prevents flat feet and builds strong arches.
• Protects the feet from perspiration.
• Relieves pressure that produces callouses and corns.
• Gives that cushioned feeling.
• They are exclusive to Anthony Horderns'.
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Add ress:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A BIRD IN THE BUSH
“Changed me mind, ole sport—Til have an ice-cream instead."
By M. CASSON.
MISS MARSHALL went through under the
peach-trees, holding her skirt up from the wet
paspalum, calling crooningly “Dicky, Dicky!”
and over again “Dicky, Dicky, Dicky!”
Quite a touch of poise about Miss Marshall.
Stepping daintily, her voice rising on a trained note,
enunciation a shade affected. One of the oldest families
on the river ; aristocracy by the effluxion of time. Also
by virtue of the great house on top of the red-soil
hill down the river, though no Marshalls afe living
there now. For a tidy stretch of years Miss Marshall
has been living alone here in town.
“Dicky, Dicky!” she called down through the
backyard orchard, bending her tall head and clipped
crop of henna hair to dodge the boughs. “Sweet,
sweet. Dicky, Dicky, Dicky!”
“What’s the matter, Miss Marshall?” lan Veit
called up through the back gate.
“Oh, lan, do come and help me find him, dear,”
Miss Marshall called back. “Dicky, Dicky, Dicky!”
Well, he’d asked for it. Kicking himself, the boy
pushed the gate open.
“It was those wretched cats, dear,” Miss Marshall
told him as he came closer. “They knocked the cage
down, and they got out, but I caught the lady one.
It’s the gentleman one that got away. Dicky, Dicky,
Dicky! ”
“Did he fly this way?” the boy interrupted.
Dicky, Dicky was embarrassing him.
“I don’t know which way he went, dear. He
won’t go far, will he? No! I could get another
one, couldn’t I? But it wouldn’t be the same, would
it?”
“How d’ y’ know them apart?” the boy asked.
“The lady ones and the gentleman ones, dear?
Why, there’s all the difference. As different as you
and me, dear.”
“The cats’ll get him if you don’t,” the boy de-
clared, self-consciously reddening., “Or them butcher-
birds will.”
“Wouldn’t that be cruel, dear? Oh, Ido hope
we find him. Look! Is that him?”
“Choko,” the boy asserted. The vines ran wild
over the old trees, even to the tops of the tall-growing
bananas near the side fence, the creamy-colored globes
strung along like fancy lanterns.
“I don’t know whatever I’ll do if I don’t find
him,” Miss Marshall chattered. “They’re wonderful
company, aren’t they? He was such a lovely whistler.
Dicky, Dicky!”
“Ian!” The call came through the trees from
the back. “That’s mum. I’ll have to scram,” the boy
said, and made off.
“You’ll come back and help me find him, won’t
you, dear?” Miss Marshall called after him.
He could hear her still calling “Dicky, Dicky,
Dicky!” as he went in through the Veits’ gate. “How
a dame can be as nuts as she is and still live beats
me!” he declared to his mother.
“That’s enough of that talk, lan. How many
times have I told you not to talk like the pictures!” •
“Aw, she gets on my works! Dicky, Dicky,
Dicky! She’s nuts, mum.”
“You shouldn’t talk like that if she is, lan. Has
she lost her canary?”
“The gentleman one.”
Mrs. Veit packed him off to the butcher’s for the
breakfast meat. She had her own opinion of Miss
Marshall. It was colored by protective instinct and a
measure of superiority, Mrs. Veit having got herself a
mate. That henna hair, as she’d told Alf more than
once, wasn’t real, but it did make a woman look
younger. If Miss Marshall had had a few kids, she
wouldn’t be slim like that, either. Able to get herself
up like a girl, and thirty-eight if she was a minute.
Miss Marshall’s voice, calling “Dicky, Dicky!”
came closer through the backyard-orchard trees, caus-
ing Alf Veit to poke his half-shaved face through the
bathroom door and ask “What the hell’s that all
about?”
“She’s lost her canary,” Mrs. Veit informed him.
“The gentleman one.”
“That’s about what she wants, if you ask me,”
Veit pronounced.
“Shut up, Alf, she’s coming.”
Mrs. Veit stepped down to the back gate and
called out “Have you lost your bird?”
“I’m wet up to the knees, dear.” Miss Marshall
came through into the laneway between the gates,
“It was those wretched cats. They knocked the cage
down, and Dicky got away. Do you think he’d have
gone over to Mr. Ratcliff’s? He might, you know,
dear ; he knows him.”
Ah, so that was how it was. Still after him. Mrs.
Veit felt more comfortable and friendly. “I think it’s
the very thing he would do,” she said. “Why don’t
y’ go an’ ask Ratcliff if he’s seen him?”
“Oh, Mrs. Veit, do you really think I should,
though? After all—well, you know.”
“But I know for a fact she is his niece.” She
watched the too-fixed, too-clear grey eyes appraisingly.
“There, I knew she was!” Miss Marshall’s eyes
opened even wider, became even more staring. “But
I did do the right thing, didn’t I, dear? You can’t
be too sure about that sort of thing, can you? Yes,
I’ll go and ask him. Thank you, my dear. It’s going
to be hot, isn’t it?”
| T was less than a hundred yards to the house where
* Dick Ratcliff lived, but she went back in through
her own gate. Watching after her, Mrs. Veit saw her
break into a skipping run, and felt at once sorry, con-
temptuous and envious. Dick Ratcliff had insisted to
Alf that it was his niece he had living with him,
despite what the town was saying.
“Niece, me fat aunt!” was Alf’s verdict to Mrs.
Veit, who, as well, had her doubts about Dick Rat-
cliff falling for Miss Marshall, niece or no niece. But
no doubts troubled Miss Marshall. Going up the
steps of her doll-size cottage, she stopped in front
of the box-cage hung on the wall, crooking a finger
in through the wires. “Did he fly away and leave my
pretty? He’ll come back, won’t he? Sweet, sweet!
Pretty, pretty, pretty! Richard’ll find him for you,
precious.”
Head half-turned before the oval mirror, she
brushed her henna mop, shaking it like a short-cut
mane, “I am pretty, aren’t I?” Pouted lips, straight
nose, fixed grey eyes, her face looked back at her.
She touched the upper lids with pencil, colored the
lips a mauve tint, toned the cheeks a faintly yellowish
hue. Pleased with this effect, she went out through
the peach-trees.
She saw Dick Ratcliff bending in the side garden
in his shirtsleeves, and called out to him “Richard!”
Not exactly an Adonis as he came along the path.
Gone somewhat to beef. Braces over his shirt, with-
out collar or tie. A critical eye might have thought
he looked a bit gross.
“Hullo,” he said. “What’s up?”
“It’s those wretched cats, Richard. They knocked
down the cage, and Dicky got away. I thought when
he knew you, Richard, he might come here.”
“Ain’t seen him,” Ratcliff said, “but I’ll keep an
eye out. I’ll tell Mary t’ watch out, too.”
“Thank you, Richard.” She dwelt just a little on
the name. “It is kind of you. Oh, let me see now!
I have to go down the river today. 1 won’t be back
before about five.”
“I’ll bring him round this evenin’ if I catch him,”
Ratcliff assured her, coming closer to the palings.
She shook her henna crop. “I’ll be expecting you,
then.”
“Anyway, if I don’t I’ll come round and tell y’.”
“Then I will be expecting you, Richard.”
“Sure, sure.” She thought he winked. “I’ll be
round.”
The doorway framed a blue kimono, and the
younger woman called out “Good-morning, Miss Mar-
shall. Your breakfast’s ready, Dick.”
“Your uncle’s so good, dear,” Miss Marshall said
in a high voice. “It was those wretched cats, you
know. They knocked down the cage, and he flew
away. Your uncle’s going to look for him. Aren’t
you, Richard?”
“If the cats don’t get him first,” the younger
woman called back. “There’s a lot of cats about here,
aren’t there? After what they can catch.”
How true, Miss Marshall thought, thinking for
a moment “No, she’s not his niece. But that was silly.
Of course she was. Mrs. Veit would know.”
“You know, dear,” she said, “you’re very like
your uncle. Those brown eyes. Did anyone ever
tell you?”
The younger woman laughed. “You’re the first,
Miss Marshall.”
“She ain’t so good lookin’,” Ratcliff put in. This
time Miss Marshall was sure he’d winked.
“Do try hard, Richard, won’t you?”
She felt a twinge of doubt, seeing Ratcliff brush
against the kimono, but what Mrs. Veit had said and
her own idea of a resemblance reassured her. She
went along through the gate, and up through the
peach-trees, holding her skirt higher, calling with a
new gay note “Dicky, Dicky, Dicky!”
THE day was already heating up. She felt the
warmth, like molten fluid, flowing through her
clothes, through her flesh, through her body. “Pretty,
pretty,” she half-whistled, passing the “I
am pretty, aren’t I?” she said to her face in the oval
mirror. She began changing for her trip down the
river ; taking off her wet shoes and wet stockings ;
undoing her skirt; packing the three dresses for Miss
Henderson in the suitcase.
“Yes,” she kept saying. “Yes, yes, yes.” She
said it over and over, as if fixing it in her mind,
memorising it, bringing her whole being into tune with
it. “Yes! . . . Yes! . . . Yes!” As if there must be
no such word as “No” in the vocabulary of her
thoughts.
“Yes,” she said to the bus-driver when he took
her bag ; “thank you, yes.” “Yes,” she said to Miss
Henderson ; “a little tight on the hips. I can do that
here. Yes.” “Thank you, yes,” she said, getting down
from the bus late in the afternoon and going into
Stacey’s Big Store. “Yes, I want a canary cage. That
one up there. The blue one. Yes.”
“Look what I’ve brought for him,” she said,
swinging the new cage in front of the old one on the
wall. “He’ll come home to you now, won’t he, my
pretty? Yes, he will, precious. Yes.”
She changed into an ankle-long house-wrap, half-
transparent, white, sprigged over with tiny bunches
of russet berries, near the color of her hair. She put
blue sandals on her bare feet, showing the pink-tinted
nails of her toes.
Into the blue cage she put a fresh lettuce-leaf,
a long red chilli; filled one of the glass containers with
birdseed, the other with water. Going out, she held
it up again in front of the box cage. “Yes, there’ll
be room in it for both of you, won’t there, pretty ?
She hung it, with its door wide open, on the
second peach-tree, over from the green garden seat.
There it dangled, inviting.
Crossing her legs over on the seat, with the wrap
falling open to the button at the knee, she rocked to
and fro, making chirping bird-calls, calling crooningly
“Dicky, Dicky, Dicky!” Saying between calls
“Richard.” Saying the name over, softening its harsh
sound.
The sun set lingeringly over the hills beyond the
river. Night came closing round, settling in. The
grey shape of a flying-fox made a parachute landing
in the trees. Miss Marshall waited, the cage on the
tree, and in her heart, hope.


WHEN JIM WAS DIFFERENT
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE house was not a bad one, in such a town of
wood and iron and impermanent plasterboard,
but it was pretty flimsy and drab. It was a copy
of the brick and stucco shapes that adorn fashion-
able suburbs ; but it was smaller, and the asbestos
walls and iron roof showed it up as an imitation.
There was a big yard around it, but no garden except
a dying fig-tree and a square, plank-edged bed in which
nothing at all grew.
Inside it was fairly comfortable, but there was
generally red dust in odd corners. Mary had hated
it when she first saw it, and she had never been able
to become interested in it. On this Saturday afternoon
there was a brisk wind sending ribbons of dust twirling
along the street, and she had not worried to sweep up
all day.
She went into the yard and chopped a few sticks
of wood to start a fire for Jim’s tea. The axe was
heavy and blunt, its handle splintering near the
head, and she hated the work, feeling that Jim should
have done it. She hated even more the lack of privacy,
the big yards and low fences which meant that any
of the neighbors for three or four houses on each
side could see her chopping wood. There was no
privacy in the whole town, and everyone must know
that Jim was going to pieces and how the pair of
them were living. She whacked viciously at the wood,
with her hair falling down over her eyes and sweat on
her forehead. The woman next door came on to her
back verandah, watched for a moment and then called
out, “Don’t do that, Mrs. Peterson. I’ll send Joey
over to break up an armful for you.”
Tears of shame and self-pity burned in Mary’s
eyes. She bent over the axe, afraid she would give
herself away, but she had to say something. She
started to gather up the pieces of wood.
“Don’t worry,” she called. “It’s only a few sticks
for kindling. I’ve finished now.”
The woman came to the dividing fence and leaned
on it ready to talk. She was comfortable and motherly,
and for a moment Mary felt weak and tearful, ready
again to break down and confide in someone. A cork-
screw of sand, the beginning of a willy-willy, danced
through the yard, tugging at her skirts as it went and
making her drop the wood as she grabbed at the gar-
ment with both hands. She laughed foolishly.
“It’s brutal weather,” said the woman next door.
“You’d think the wind’d make it a bit cooler.”
“The wind only brings dust,” said Mary. “I don’t
mind the heat so much —it’s the dust.”
“It’s hard for a woman here,” her neighbor said.
“But you’ve got a better chance than a miner’s wife.
Your husband’ll get a transfer one of these days, and
you’ll be sent somewhere nice and green, where there’s
no dust at all.”
“Oh, if only he would!” said Mary passionately.
She remembered greenness so vividly that the tears
almost started again. She remembered their garden
at the coast, and the solid little house that had been
her pride, and all the friends she had had, and how
different Jim had been, too. It all hinged on him, she
thought despairingly. If he’d be like he was then
she’d put up with anything, even chopping the wood.
But, of course, she’d never had to chop the wood then.
“It’ll come,” said the woman next door cheerfully.
“Wait till you’re my age, Mrs. Peterson. The bad
times in your life seem funny and interesting when
they’re over and done with.”
But Mary didn’t want to be the age of the woman
next door, with most of her life over and done with.
She wanted everything, and Jim in particular, to be as
they’d been just a year ago. She went inside aching
with the memory of the happiness she had had then,
and lit the fire in the little wood stove.
For a while she was busy, getting the vegetables
on and poking the fire into a good blaze, but all the
time she thought about when Jim and everything was
different. When the tea could look after itself she went
through to the bedroom, and got out the snapshot
album she’d kept ever since before she first met Jim.
She looked at pictures of herself taken when she
had just left school, and, turning the leaves, at picnic
pictures and yachting pictures and tennis pictures, most
of them with both Jim and herself in them. It made
her feel worse, but she couldn’t stop. Why couldn’t
Jim always be as he had been then?
She should have got up and swept out the house,
but she couldn’t stop crying over the old pictures
and feeling sorry for herself. Outside the wind in-
creased, dust swallowed the town and the house
and tongues of it licked in under the doors and spread
on the linoleum, but Mary lay weak and tearful, think-
ing about the past when Jim had been different.
DOWN in the main street, where the pub and the
bank were the only solid buildings in the town,
the dust was thick, too, but nobody noticed it much.
The kerb was lined with cars of every kind, from the
roughest sort of prospector’s utility to the latest eight-
cylinder sedan. Everyone was in from the district
surrounding the little one-mine town, and someone
had struck it rich, so celebration was in order. There
were liquor and optimism and good-fellowship in
plenty at the pub.
They were a democratic crowd around the bar,
the local bank manager, and the boys who worked
on the mine, and the manager of the State battery,
and the storekeeper, and the newsagent, and the pros-
pectors in for the week-end, all getting mixed up in
indescribable but hilarious and friendly confusion.
High hopes bubbled out of them as the beer soaked
in, and they all had fortunes waiting around the
corner, in claims or shares or holdings in syndicates.
Their eyes gleamed as they spoke, and if the bank man
had a moment of panic during a lull in the talk, hop-
ing that the inspector was a long way away, that was
no one’s business but his. Everyone was in the run-
ning one way or another —even most of the toilers on
the mine, who had good contracts in soft dirt.
Of course, there were only two prospectors in
the mob who had really struck it, and had a signed
option with a fat deposit as a basis for their optimism,
but none of the others were more than the length of
a pick-head away. They were on a leader that couldn’t
fail, and the lie of the land proved that, when they
did strike it, it was going to be the lode that the Sun-
light people lost in 1898. Or if it wasn’t that—if their
leader had fizzled out altogether and their store-bill
had grown to frightening size—they were celebrating
a move. And the move was worth celebrating, too!
They’re cursing themselves for not having been out
Yandarrie way months ago, and they tell the mob
about the magnificent stuff they got there in T 5
only, of course, at that time Bordertown was shut up
and dead, and there were no supplies and water, and
a long, dry summer sent them in. It’ll be different
now with the Border thriving again, and they’ll be
back here just to buy for the boys in a few months,
you can take their word!
“Hell!” someone says. “I worked the same dirt
five years back. Tom was tellin’ me he found one o’
me old pegs, an’ used it. The same damn’ block, to
a foot or two!”
“I’m pegged out right up against him,” says some-
one else. “On the line o’ reef, too. If they take up
his option I’m a cert.”
“Can I interest you in a silver-plated canteen set of knives and forks ?”
Among this crowd, Jim felt excitement and envy
and a tremendous scorn for his safe job in the rail-
ways. It mightn’t be as easy as it sounded, he thought,
but it was having a lick at something. It made him
restless, discontented with low pay and regular hours,
doing small, routine tasks. He wished he had the
courage to break away, but he couldn’t. He and
Mary had never managed to save much, and she
wouldn’t stand for it anyway. Among the shouting,
seething mob, he felt strange and out of it at first, but
when he’d drunk enough and got talking he felt better.
He hadn’t done any of the things they were telling
about, he’d only married young and worked hard in a
lousy Government job, but he was just the lad that
could have. It was hard to drag himself away. All
the life and optimism of the town was here, anyway.
The mob grew noisier, and Jim grew happier, and
after a while Slogger Priestly and a couple of his
cobbers came over. Slogger was big and brown,
with no coat, but an expensive silk shirt and well-cut
slacks. He had two big trucks carting ore in from
the Breakaway, and both of them were working two
shifts. Slogger did twelve-hour stretches himself, but
when he came in to have some fun he did it properly.
He always had a thick bankroll, and Jim envied him
his independence and his money. Today he was com-
plaining, but it didn’t sound dinkum. He made it
sound as if he was as pleased with himself as anyone
very well could be.
“Jim here’s the lucky one,” he announced. “Proper
meals an’ a proper house, an’ proper hours an’ propei
pay, an’ a missus an’ everything. Who wouldn’t swop
my humpy out at the Breakaway an’ all my worries
for that?”
Jim grinned half-heartedly, and felt more envious
than ever. Slogger dragged a note out of his pocket,
and thought to hell with the instalments on the trucks
anyway; a man had to have some fun when he was
working all day and all night to keep a lousy finance
company going. The crowd was milling around, and
drinking and singing and shouting, and Jim was pretty
well under the weather, too. It was time he went off
home, but there was another round on the counter,
and he could see red dust cascading down the street
outside. It was swirling on the floor and beginning to
hang in the air in the pub, too, but it would be worse
outside, and it was bright and comfortable in the bar.
It got dark and the dust kept blowing, making
angry red rings around the street lights. Flappers and
some of the lads of the village appeared on the pave-
ments, parading up and down, waiting for the pictures
to start. After a while the doors opened, and the
gusty, dusty street emptied. A few of the cars backed
out from the kerb and went charging through the flying
sand, bound for distant leases, but the celebration at
the pub continued, noisy and all mixed up and un-
steady now. Tall talk about high hopes went the
rounds. Jim decided that he might as well be hung for
a sheep as a lamb and stayed where he was, pretty
drunk, envying everyone else, and regretting the quiet
years that lay behind him.
WHEN he got home it was pretty late, and Mary
wasn’t there. There was a note to say that she had
gone to the pictures, and the food she had cooked for
tea lay cold on the dead fire. Jim didn’t want to eat,
but he felt aggrieved about it all the same. All the
way up the road he’d been working out in a fuddled
way how he was going to handle the row, and now
there wasn’t any row. There wasn’t even Mary ; only
some cold, soggy potatoes and three greasy sausages.
The dust had drifted under the doors and lay in
pools. The plates and knives and the bread and the
butterdish were powdered with red and the place looked
as if it hadn’t been lived in for a week. He lurched
through to the bedroom, and the counterpane was
gritty, too, and hadn’t been smoothed since Mary had
lain on it that afternoon. The light jumped, as it always
did, and it hurt Jim’s eyes. Mary’s album was lying on
the bed, and he lay down with his clothes on and
started to examine it.
He was pretty drunk and the figures in the snap-
shots danced under the dancing light, but he could
spot himself and Mary, too, in the pictures. He jeered
at himself in some sports outfit, and then his eyes
focused properly on one of Mary. She’d been younger,
sprucer, merrier when that was taken, he thought.
Why didn’t women stay the same? Thinking about
the dust all over the house, and Mary away when
he came home tired and a bit sick, he started to feel
sorry for himself. Things were bad enough without
her changing like she had. He thought of her now,
lean and snappy and always complaining.
Outside, the dust-laden wind howled among the
houses and the mine building, and a loose sheet of
iron on the roof started to buck and flap. Turning the
leaves of the album backwards, Jim grew more and
more interested in Mary as she had been, before they
were married, when he had first met her. Drink and
misery welled up in him as he thought about it all,
and he felt weak with grief and ready for tears. It
was bad enough to live all the time knowing how he’d
failed and envying everyone who was careless and free
and full of high hopes, but he might have been able
to put up with it if only Mary had been as he d ex-
pected she would be, if only she hadn’t changed!


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ƒ
Seppelt's
THE STATOPMERS' HALL.
The western and north-western imme-
diate vicinities of St. Paul’s Cathedral
are, as has been correctly but crudely
remarked, “soaked in the literature of
the English-speaking race.” Here will be
found Paternoster Row, still a great mart
for book publishers. Behind the
Cathedral Chapter House is Amen
Corner, in the enclosure beyond which
reside many of the Cathedral authorities.
In Stationers’ Hall Court, the space be-
tween Ludgate Hill and Amen Corner,
is Stationers’ Hall, the hall of the
Stationers’ Company, one of the “lesser”
City Companies, being forty-seventh on
the list of precedence. The company,
not as important as formerly, incorpor-
ated by Philip and Mary in 1556, includes
printers, booksellers, stationers or
dealers in paper, etc., and bookbinders.
The object of incorporation was actually
an attempt to take away the liberty of
the press, the intention being to make
all members Court tools, to prevent or
detect and punish authors, printers and
publishers of all books which might be
written against the political-religious
situation existing, or propagating the
principles of the Reformation. During
Charles IPs reign the' charter was
“amended” in the “suppression sense,”
but by an Act passed in William and
Mary’s time it was removed. Under
the Copyright Act (1842), terminated
December 31, 1903, the Stationers’ Com-
pany established a new register in which
“Books and Fine Arts” could be regis-
tered. A copy of every work registered
has to be filed at the Stationers’ Hall,
the value of such entries being in proving
the existence of a work on a given date
in case of infringement. The value of
the registry of copyright publications is
obvious. In the reign of Elizabeth, the
Hall, formerly a residence, was purchased
by the company and rebuilt of wood,
destroyed, however, in the Great Fire
of 1666, to be reconstructed of brick with
square casement windows, surmounted by
ovals. Later the front was cased with
stone, and the windows arched and
sashed. Several fine pictures and statues
adorn the Hall, the sides of which are
wainscoted 12 feet high and panelled in
oak. King James I in 1603 granted the
Company of Stationers, by letters patent,
the privilege of the sole printing of
almanacks, primers, psalters and psalms,
in metre or prose, with or without music.


The Bullletin
Vol. 62 —No. 3180.
Wednesday, January 22, 1941.
THE CHANNEL ICEBERGS.
“Mein Gott, Herman, der vater iss too varm.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Whstralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
RUSSIA SIGNS AGAIN.
What cables described as “a new Russo-German Pact
of Friendship, covering questions which have arisen
during the year,” was signed in Berlin on January
10, and if it were possible to kill wishful-thinking
credulity regarding the “Mighty Soviet” the last nail
must thereby have been driven into its coffin.
The new pact “renews the previous pact”—that
is, the 1939 agreement which alone made Germany’s
launching of the war possible. By that previous sign-
ing Soviet Russia—boosted for years as the friend of
democracy and as the idealistic upholder of peace—
shared with Germany the tragic responsibility and the
black guilt for starting this war. However much
Soviet apologists try to disguise it or explain it away,
that is the plain historical truth. What is extraordi-
nary is the extent to which Soviet apologists managed
to disguise that truth between the two signings. There
may be a temporary lull in their activities now, but
there is nothing more certain than that they will be
heard from again as soon as they judge the time ripe.
Despite the Soviet record —from that first signing
which joined the Soviet as an equal partner with Ger-
many in launching the war ; the coward’s stab in the
back of Poland, timed to complete the destruction and
the enslavement of that country, Britain’s dependent
ally, at the minimum cost to the Soviet; the brutal
onslaught and miserable performance against Finland ;
the enslaving of the Baltic States on terms which are
hidden by Soviet censorship but can well be imagined ;
and so on, with other sharing of such of the loot as
Germany deigned to throw in its direction, up to the
signing of the “new pact”—despite that contemptible
record, and all through it, the fostering of wishful
thinking regarding the Soviet has gone on. Even in
the few days from the beginning of this year to the
new signing there was a spate of misleading claptrap
in cables. At the very time the signing was taking
place at Hitler’s dictation in Berlin cables were on the
way with their overfamiliar burden. “Russo-German
tension in the Balkans is no myth” was the wrapping
on this fools’ fodder.
This time it [the alleged “tension”] has not been
created by the Nazi propagandists to raise the hopes
of Europe’s anti-Nazi forces. Its basis is real.
It was further declared that, as a result of the alleged
“tension,” Russia had “moved powerful detachments
to the Turkish frontier in the Caucasus.” These troops
were “reported to include Russia’s 16 best divisions—
the only completely mechanised divisions the Soviet
can at present put into the field.” It must have been
mortifying to Sydney “Daily Telegraph” to put that
last part into print, the “D.T.” having assiduously fos-
tered the notion of the Russian Red Army as “the
greatest fighting machine the world has ever known,”
to say nothing of its advocacy of a Russian alliance.
That cable for the benefit of the incredibly credu-
lous and wishful was sent on January 10 from Lon-
don, where, it might be thought, even such publica-
tions as the “Daily Express,” which printed the rub-
bish, would have a sense of realism by now. The
Sydney counterpart of the “Express”—willing as ever
in this curious business —ran it under the heading:
“New Russo-German Tension in Balkans.” Four
days earlier the other Sydney daily had a cable (these
cables, of course, go all round the map) loaded with
similar wishful Soviet hogwash forecasting “sensational
developments in the Balkans shortly.” To those still
credulous enough to swallow that sort of swill—
despite the number of times the rubbish has been
served up and belied, and despite the plain facts of the
Soviet record —there were certainly to be “sensational
developments,” though not in the Balkans. The
quarter for them was Berlin, where Hitler—who has
known all along just how many divisions “the greatest
fighting force the world has ever known” could put
in the field, and how it would perform there—was
seeing to the final signing of the pact terms he dic-
tated to Molotov in Berlin.
It would probably still be hoping too much to
expect that the ingredients mentioned in the new pact
must have brought the last credulous simpleton in a
newspaper office to his senses. Certainly they should
have brought readers of pro-Soviet nonsense to theirs.
By the “new” agreement Hitler, for the time being,
allows the Soviet occupancy of the Baltic States and
the other portions of the loot already shared out. As
far as Soviet internal conditions will permit, there is
to be a further expansion of trade between the virtual
allies, Germany to deliver industrial equipment (likely
to be less readily available from the rearming U.S.A.
than hitherto) in exchange for raw materials, oil and
foodstuffs, particularly grain. The German News
Agency, referring to the relative portion of the agree-
ment as “the greatest grain deal in history,” adds that
Germany will also receive “petroleum, ores and great
quantities of cotton” (the last presumably American).
The Soviet, in short, will go on doing what it has
done throughout the war —as far as its own miserable
internal conditions permit, it will continue to supply, or
pass on to, its partner in the crime everything possible.
That is plain and simple enough. Evidently believing
that it is still possible to delude people in countries
that are at war with its partner, Moscow sets up
“Izvestia” to provide its boosters abroad with the
apologist analogy of the U.S.A. supplying Britain on
similar terms. Apart from the fact that the U.S.A.
and Britain did not sign an agreement to launch a war
and share the loot, there is nothing wrong with the
analogy and no need for snuffling apology. In fact,
the clearer it is understood that that exactly states the
respective relationships the better. What the “new
pact” should have killed is the fostered notion that
the British side can put its hope in the Soviet turning
on its partner. What needs to be grasped finally is
that that is just as unthinkable as the idea of the
U.S.A. turning on Britain.
Lest the “new pact” itself should fail to make
that clear, Moscow “Pravda” adds to the snuffle that
“despite enemies who try to drive a wedge between
us, Soviet Russia intends to pursue a peaceful policy
towards Germany.” To make the position plainer still,
“Izvestia” weighs in with its characteristic mixture of
hypocrisy and bombast:
The fact is that stabilised economic relations
between the world’s two greatest countries constitute
the main pillars of peace in the world.
That, if anything possibly can do it, should make
it clear even to simpletons that crawling to Moscow is
a shabby waste of effort. Certain of the changes in
the British Government make it unlikely that the “new
pact” and its explanations will lead to the recall of Sir
Stafford Cripps, though his position seems a waste of
money. It would be more sensible to recall him, and
couple with it the silencing of such belly-hardened
Moscow crawlers as Mr. D. N. Pritt, K.C., still busy
in invasion-threatened Britain clamoring for “friend-
ship with the Soviet” and a negotiated peace, and
otherwise performing their familiar service of causing
trouble and disturbance.
It is not inconceivable that the place from which
such people take their directions would be agreeable
to a peace that was sufficiently damaging to the posi-
tion of the British Empire, while easing the Soviet
fear of Germany. It suits it better, however, to see
both countries waste themselves in a long destructive
war, and the surest line of policy to expect from it is
one that keeps that consideration in mind. In the
event of Germany suffering a disastrous defeat —as it
would if Hitler were mad enough to try invading
Britain —then, and not till then, could the Soviet be
expected to change sides. That is always a possibility,
though perhaps not one to inspire any greater admira-
tion for the Soviet.
Unionism, Sane and Insane.
Three days after a section of the Sydney ironworkers
and boilermakers, “as a challenge to the Government
of this country,” decided to ban overtime defence work
“until Federal income tax and State wages tax are
lifted,” and two days before the bosses of the N.S.W.
Sheet Metal Workers announced the same decision,
P. J. Trainer, secretary of the Westralian State A.L.P.
executive and senior vice-president of the Federal
A.L.P. executive, spoke strongly about “mischievous
elements causing trouble in Eastern States,” and
warned the Westralian workers that the “mischievous
elements” were “endeavoring to expand their influence
westward.”
There is a close liaison between a pernicious
influence originally imported to this State from N.S.W.
and known Communist influences. We know of the
infiltration of disruptive and disloyal elements whose
proper place is the internment camp. We can assure
these fly-by-night workers in a misguided cause that
we will not tolerate for a moment any such subversive
activities in Westralia. The moment this underground
pressure attempts to assert itself in this State, immediate
action will be taken to expose its treachery.
In Westralia, though not in N.S.W., there is no
separation between the political and industrial wings
of the Labor movement. Like the rest of their fellow-
citizens, the Westralian workers have always been
splendidly loyal to Australia and the British Common-
wealth. Some of the best battalions in the old A.1.F.,
notably the 11th and 16th and the 10th Light Horse,
came from the State which had the greatest per-
centage of enlistments, and already the new West-
ralian Diggers are emulating the achievements of the
1914-18 men. Except for the rabble of Communists,
an astonishingly large proportion of whom came from
N.S.W., Westralians are solid for the war; and, as
Mr. Trainer has so well said, no subversive check to
the war effort will be tolerated by the leaders of Labor,
whether they are to be found at the Trades Hall or in
the Government offices.
But why should there be such a difference in
N.S.W.? On the issue that dwarfs every other, why
should the leaders of Westralian unionism and the
controllers of these N.S.W. metal-trade unions be
Poles apart? There was no such division in times past.
In the days of Donald Macdonell and Henry Lawson
N.S.W. unionism was Australian through and through,
and Australian sentiment inspired all its proceedings.
Even now the great majority of N.S.W. unionists are
indistinguishable from their mates in other States in
deeply-felt convictions as in appearance, and thou-
sands of the very men who at the call of “solidarity”
or something are so ready to listen to imported fire-
brands have done splendid war work for Australia.
Their turbulence is an effect of the stormy political
and industrial environment in which they have
grown up.
It was an evil day for N.S.W. unionism when the
imported I.W.W. agitation arrived. Contemptuously
rejected in other States, the I.W.W. leaders were
treated as heroes and martyrs in N.S.W., and Right-
Wing Laborites exerted themselves in their sorry
cause, to be repaid with rank ingratitude. The I.W.W.
helped to stir up the disastrous 1917 strikes, which
lowered the reputation of N.S.W. unionism in all
other States. When the I.W.W. disappeared Moscow-
maniacs stepped into its place. They captured the
Sydney Labor Council, previously quite a steady-
going concern ; and, though in the process of years
they failed egregiously to get Communist candidates
elected or to win any of the numerous strikes they
started, they did a power of mischief in many ways.
In 1918 they and their friends, while professing,
as now, to abominate the enemy, had raised the cry of
peace (“The Allies cannot beat the Central Powers”).
After the war they were reinforced by immigrants from
England and Scotland, men cancered with hatred of
“capitalism” and “British imperialism” and ready for
anything, short of violence endangering their own
skins, that Moscow prescribed. Having doubtless been
informed that there was no field for their peculiar
talents in other States, these persons all made for
N.S.W., and, helped by the inertia of rank-and-file
unionists, a surprisingly large number of them cap-
tured key positions in important unions. There they
remain, changing as Moscow changes, exploiting every
grievance that arises or that can be vamped up, defy-
ing industrial arbitration when it suits them to defy
it and “challenging the Government of this country”
at every point of its defence policy, from the national
register to the production of war materials. “Arms for
Spain! ” was their cry when Moscow posed as the head
and front of the opposition to Nazism and Fascism ;
now, if they dared, it would be “No arms for Aus-
tralia ! ”
The members of this pestilent gang have acquired
Australian citizenship, but they could never be Aus-
tralian in spirit if they lived in Australia a thousand
years. They have Australian-born associates, of course
—often vain young men, brought up on a bookish
diet of French Revolution, who see in the Russian
Revolution its living counterpart—and their evil work
is assisted by subordinate union officials, who, though
not themselves Reds, seek safety and the bubble repu-
tation by shouting with the louder mob. They get
plenty of publicity in Left Wing papers or papers
which employ the cocksure and gullible Left Wing
writer and let him have his fling. And they have no
mean skill in exploiting the meanness of the kind of
employer who shelters behind the tariff, taking all
that it gives him and giving as little as possible in
return. But the employer they hate most is Broken
Hill Proprietary. Not because B.H.P. is a bad em-
ployer (that it never has been), but because it is enter-
prising, efficient, successful and Australian.
Langism was also an asset to the Reds. After
the collapse of the Communist ticket at the 1925
N.S.W. election, they began courting Mr. Lang, and
after the expulsions which led to his defeat in 1927 he
welcomed their favors. He took for his principal
adviser a 1925 Communist reject, and listened com-
placently to that worthy’s assurances that he was
“greater than Lenin.” The more he was praised by
militants the more his head swelled, and in a fatuous
moment he proclaimed in 1931 that the time for revolu-
tionary striving had passed—“the Revolution is here.”
His Red associates applauded his mad legislative and
party-splitting performances, but when it was clear
that he had outlived his usefulness to them they
dropped him and captured the control of the party
organisation, being assisted in this manoeuvre by
moderates whose patience he had exhausted. But
they spoilt their own plans for consummating their
victory in the constituencies by their eagerness to pro-
claim their devotion to Moscow. Their insolent Hands
Off Russia resolution alienated their new allies and
resulted in their having to contest the Commonwealth
election as a third “Labor” party and take a bad
beating—generally with the loss of the deposit—in
every electorate they challenged. But because of their
influence on union executives and Labor councils,
their control of propaganda and their cunning exploita-
tion of the loyalty of the unionist to his mates —no
man likes to be thought a “scab” and every man
dreads the savage punishment meted out to those
branded with the vile word —they are still mischievous,
still dangerous, and the Government has suffered their
insolent disloyalty too long.
The best thing that could happen to N.S.W. union-
ism would be for the A.W.U. to regain its old posi-
tion as the first among equals. For reasons partly
political, partly industrial and partly personal (Spence
and Macdonnel had very inferior successors) the old
union lost this position after the Great War ; but, with
support from other anti-Communist unions, its leaders
might regain it, although this would require the ditch-
ing of outworn jealousies. Where, as in Westralia and
Queensland, the A.W.U. has retained its supremacy
Labor-unionism is sturdily Australian in thought and
action.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Foes Within the Gates.
The first A.I.F. casualty lists arrived when work-
stoppers were stirring up trouble in defence industries.
Their publication led to “Communist and pacifist
organisations” ringing up grief-stricken relatives and
harping on the horrors of war and the blessings of a
Nazi-Fascist peace —a truly fiendish form of propa-
ganda for which the perpetrators deserve to be flogged.
It chanced that at this moment the Government issued
a new lot of National Security regulations designed to
deal with liars, work-stoppers, horror-merchants,
sedition-mongers and others whose activities are cal-
culated to “interfere with the national effort by dis-
ruption of the morale of the civil population or of
his Majesty’s forces,” to “cause unlawful resistance”
to the laws, or to damage recruiting or training or the
production or carriage of war materials or supplies.
There is nothing in the regulations that hasn’t
already been promulgated in Britain or Maoriland, but
the familiar howls of rage came from Ward, M.H.R.,
and his friends. Two of the loudest howlers were
union secretaries who were often seen on Communist
platforms when Communism was all for war to the
knife with the Nazis (it never mentions them now),
and who were presented by a Great Daily as exponents
of “Labor opinions.”
War is a calamity which imposes the sternest
duties on a democratic Government. Its paramount
duty is to save the nation, and if this necessitates sus-
pending peace-time privileges and immunities, sus-
pended they must be. The safety of the Common-
wealth is the supreme law. It is necessary not only to
fight the enemy abroad but to strike down enemies
at home. This the Australian Government has not
done. It went through the form of suppressing Com-
munism while leaving Communists free to continue
their poisonous propaganda and weaken the war effort
in various subtle ways. A license has also been given
to thoughtless fools to wag their jaws injuriously.
These soft-handed methods must cease. The Gov-
ernment was returned as a war Government, and
govern it must with the sternness that war demands
or make way for a Government that will.
In Britain, the Government has not hesitated to
seize the person of a member of Parliament —a soldier
wounded in battle and the son of a soldier —and keep
him in custody as a disaffected person. In the U.S.A.,
Lincoln suspended Habeas Corpus and supported a
general who, by virtue of a military proclamation,
grabbed an Ohio politician and passed him into the
enemy’s lines for having, in a speech, “declared dis-
loyal sentiments and opinions with the object and pur-
pose of weakening the power of the Government.”
Justifying the arrest and punishment, the President said
that the politician was “damaging the army, upon the
existence and vigor of which the life of the nation
depends ; he was warring upon the military, and this
gave the military Constitutional jurisdiction to lay
hands on him.”
Must I shoot a simple-minded soldier who deserts,
while I must not touch a hair of a wily agitator who
induces him to desert?
Thoroughly imbued with a reverence for the guaran-
teed rights of individuals, I was slow to adopt the
strong measures which by degrees I had been forced to
regard as indispensable to the public safety.
Mr. Menzies (and Mr. Fadden) will have to realise, as
Lincoln did, that no Government can make war
thoroughly unless it resorts to “strong measures”
wherever and whenever the occasion calls for them.
A Rosy Future.
Hooray! The Sydney Government, which has “accu-
mulated” a deficit of £35,967,500, may balance its
accounts this year. Anyone catching the Treasurer on
the street is at liberty to find some pub not banned by
beer strikers and shout the man a drink.
Mr. Richardson —that’s the Treasurer’s other
name—announced what his Government’s oldest and
staidest newspaper supporter called “marked improve-
ment in the State finances for the first half of the finan-
cial year.” Revenue so far has fallen short of expen-
diture by a little more than £3,000,000, exultantly
noted as less than half the deficiency “experienced at
this time last year.”
This, says “5.M.H.,” is a favorable omen for the
taxpayer, and it hopes that, as income tax is still to
be collected, the present rate of improvement should
bring the deficit to £1,500,000 or less by June. No
sooner were the words out than it was announced that
the Commonwealth Government intends to establish
a child-endowment scheme. This, cried Mr. Richard-
son joyfully, will save the N.S.W. Government
£1,300,000 a year. It will also spare it the cruel neces-
sity of levying income tax (the second) on gross
income, but nothing has been said about that.
Anyhow, it will be a great year for the N.S.W.
Treasurer if the confounded taxpayers don’t start
howling for reduction of taxation, if Canberra con-
tinues to be benevolent, and if the jolly old railways
keep on getting more freight and passengers as a result
of the petrol rationing. Of course, there is bound to
be a reduction from motor registration revenue ; also
possibly a lot of publicans won’t be paying income-tax
next year, a lot of wheatgrowers certainly won’t and
the recent ukase by the British Minister for Food
against important N.S.W. food exports will have an
effect. And there are always Mr. Mair and his
asparagus plans and his guarantees to film companies
against losses (with no share in profits, if any) and the
setting up of committees to investigate the possibility
of breeding beavers.
Perhaps that first cheer was premature. Perhaps
Mr. Richardson had better start preparing an excuse
just in case the thing doesn’t work out the “S.M.H.”
way.
Mr. Spender and Mr. Matsuoka.
Returning from Egypt, satisfied that A.I.F. equipment
is “100 per cent, efficient” (nobody else questioned it),
Mr. Spender tarried at Singapore long enough to
broadcast a speech. He said too much, as he generally
does, being a pretty good starter but a bad finisher,
and his references to Italy (the mildest were that Italy
is “not a first-class Power” and “shows signs of col-
lapse”) were clumsy in the extreme, considering the
attempts made in Britain to effect a division between
the Italian people and their Fascist rulers. But the angri-
est criticism of his speech was reserved for his remarks
about Japan —remarks which he doubtless considered
helpful and with which many Australians agreed.
“We have no quarrel with Japan,” the Minister
said. “We are neighbors, and will be neighbors for
all time ; and it would be a disaster of the first magni-
tude if any conflict arose between us. But it must not
be overlooked that Japan has seen fit to make a pact
with our enemies.” If he had stopped there it would
have been enough, but he doesn’t know where to stop ;
so he “could not help but think Germany has made a
dupe of Japan.” His colleague Stewart (External
Affairs) rushed in with his own assurance that Aus-
tralian relations with Japan are “cordial” ; and “S. M.
Herald” turned savagely on Mr. Stewart.
The “no quarrel” and “disaster of the first magni-
tude” sentences evoked bitter protests from a Singa-
pore paper and a Chinese Ambassador in London.
That gentleman said they were “badly timed” since
his Government had £5,000,000 to spend in countries
like Australia, “under the export credit granted by
Britain.” He asserted that “Australia might now be
unhappily placed if China had been unable to tie up
the Japanese Army and the bulk of the Japanese
Navy,” and he was “certain” that “a statement” which
might be construed to mean that “Australia does not
regard Japan as an aggressor or is still pursuing an
appeasement policy” was “received as badly in
America as it was received favorably by the Japanese,
who are delighted by such kindliness in a world where
they have almost no friends.”
According to the Sydney “Sun,” “Russian, American
and Chinese journalists made anxious inquiries in official
quarters at London about Mr. Spender’s statement” and
were told that it was “solely a matter for Australia.”
It is not clear that the Japanese were “delighted,”
but their reactions were certainly not unfavorable. Mr.
Matsuoka, the Foreign Minister, granted “an exclusive
interview” to an A.A.P. Special—the same who in the
previous week informed Australia that it would be
“justified in taking the gravest view of the situation in
the Pacific.” Going back on his tracks the Special asked
whether it appeared to Mr. Matsuoka that “there is
more danger of war in the Pacific than ever before.”
The reply was “No, provided none of us loses his head.”
The world has become more or less hysterical. Let
us keep our heads cool. We can gain nothing by war.
All the participants will lose in the end. Look back
on the war of 1914-18 —has any country proved the
victor? Let us see then that this disaster is not repeated
in the Pacific.
There was more in the same strain, and in answer
to another question the Foreign Minister gave a defi-
nition of “southward expansion.” He said it meant
“peaceful, economic expansion (no conquests, no
oppression and no exploitation)” in the East Indies,
Thailand, Burma and Indo-China. Not Australia or
Maoriland —“you can take care of your own interests
without our assistance.” Mr. Matsuoka sent “my best
wishes to the people of Australia.” He concluded with
a compliment to John Greig Latham, saying that,
though he could not find a man with such a record
to represent Japan in Australia, he was sending Mr.
Kawai, “a diplomat whom I might have sent as Ambas-
sador anywhere tomorrow, to mark our friendship.”
The mention of Burma has been objected to, as
was only natural. Indeed Japanese policy sorely
puzzles this generation. Possibly it would not have
puzzled our forefathers. During eight years of the
Napoleonic wars, a hectic period of alliances actuated
by fear or greed or both, Britain found itself at war
or in a state of war with Prussia, Austria, Russia,
Sweden, Spain and Saxony, previously during part of
the eight years its allies against France. Our fore-
fathers did not lose their heads. They kept up a steady
pressure on the dictator who was their main enemy,
and were content to let events determine the definitive
actions of their other enemies. And things worked out
all right in the end.
Jehovah's (and Other) Witnesses.
The pre-war habit of handing out commercial broad-
casting licenses in the most casual fashion bounced
back on the Commonwealth Government in the case of
the banned radio stations, 2HD Newcastle, 4AT
Atherton, SKA Adelaide and SAU Port Augusta.
All four paid out Jehovah’s Witness stuff, and the
banning succeeded the sentencing of several Jehovah’s
Witnesses—one was a 2HD announcer —for refusal to
take the oath of allegiance when called up for home
service.
Mr. Hughes, having cut the four radio stations
off the air, either wouldn’t or couldn’t give the public
any definite reason for having done so, beyond the
statement that the Navy Department had reason to
believe that one of them had broadcast “something
that may have been of assistance to the enemy.” He
was very careful to point out that it was not believed
that the action had been intentional. One or two of
the station managers declared that they were not con-
trolled by Jehovah’s Witnesses, who had simply bought
time on the air as did other hirers of the ether who
had something to sell.
Mr. Hughes next announced that, having accepted
conditions laid down by the Navy Department, the
stations would be allowed to resume broadcasting. He
would not, however, “disclose the conditions of
reopening until he had further communication with
the managements.”
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the
Cabinet, sitting in Sydney, declared Jehovah’s Wit-
nesses an illegal organisation and the P.M. announced
that the four stations would remain banned until their
ownership was investigated.
A few days before, Mr. Menzies had told press-
men that the closing of the stations was purely an
administrative matter for the P.M.G. The P.M.G.
placed the responsibility on Mr. Hughes’s shoulders
as Minister for the Navy. Mr. Hughes attended the
War Cabinet and War Council meetings in Melbourne,-
but illness kept him away from the Sydney meeting.
The ban on the Witnesses was not accompanied
by the usual police raid. Because of the Ministerial
way of doing things 18 hours elapsed between the
verbal announcement of the ban and the publication
of the “Gazette” notice. Long before the 18 hours
were up, Witnesses developed feverish activities, par-
ticularly at their Sydney headquarters. Newspaper
reporters who sought interviews told of a great
burning of documents and of fast cars racing away
loaded with other documents, while a guard armed
with truncheons barred all approach to the premises.
Extraordinary proceedings by an organisation which
claims it has done nothing to be afraid of, though no
more extraordinary than the Government’s handling of
the whole affair.
What Mr. Menzies said to Mr. Hughes afterwards,
or what Mr. Hughes said to Mr. Menzies, has not
been made known. But it must be deuced embarrass-
ing to have a colleague who can’t forget he was once
Prime Minister and can’t remember that this is 1941.
"Killed in a Tunnel."
Three men —all fathers of families —were killed and
11 of their mates injured when a partly-excavated
railway tunnel on the interminable Sandy Flollow-
Maryvale construction works fell in on them as they
worked. The fortitude of the survivors and the fever-
ish and risky efforts of the rescuers were familiar
aspects of such disasters to toilers in Australia.
It was the second N.S.W. railway-tunnel tragedy
within five months. Last August an unheralded train
ran down workers in a tunnel near Woy Woy, killing
three and injuring several others. There were reper-
cussions which were heard in Parliament.
In his finding on the Woy Woy case, the coroner,
after hearing evidence that the train was an un-
scheduled one and that the men working in the dark
tunnel were dependent for their safety on a flagman
800 yards away, declared:
These men were the victims of a system that some-
times sets earnings and profits above human life.
When union officials ask for safety conditions it
should not be thought that they are putting one over
the boss.
These remarks prompted Mr. Carlton (Lab., Glebe),
himself an ex-railwayman, to launch an attack on the
Minister for Transport, Mr, Bruxner, though, as far
as the Government railways are concerned, he is a
mere figurehead. Mr. Carlton alleged that, for reasons
of economy, no attempt had been made to provide
a simple telephone line between the flagman and the
hidden workers, that the engine had neither pilot
nor headlight, and that the driver had no knowledge
of the men’s presence. He wound up by charging the
Railway Department and its Ministerial head with
“having sacrificed human life.”
Mr. Arkins (U.A.P.) called the attack on Mr.
Bruxner unfair, but agreed that “The evidence shows
that neglect, and almost criminal neglect, caused the
accident.” He was confident that the Minister would
seek out the responsible persons and deal with them.
All of which failed to restore the dead and failed
to prevent the latest accident. Newspaper accounts say
that the partly-dug tunnel was propped with girders
and was considered safe. A theory was advanced that
recent heavy rain may have softened the ground. It
may have, but workers who have to run these risks
and the general public are far from satisfied that
proper safeguards are being taken by the department
which has plastered the country with “Safety First”
signs and which is always bragging about its efficiency
and its paper surpluses.
Official Bores.
“Nakhoda”: I see the Department of Information,
now bossed by Senator Foil, has discovered that the
outside world is dismally lacking in information about
this country, and Mr. Foil proposes to repair the
omission by establishing a bureau for disseminating
its propaganda in New York. He even wants the
important business to continue after the war.
Before the last war the outside world knew little
about Australia and cared less, unless it was interested
in cricket. I went up to Singapore as a young man
very proud of my country, and discovered that many
of the Englishmen I met were surprised that I was white
and spoke the English language. They no longer thought
like that after the war. Not because there was an
expensive Department of Information in Singapore
disseminating the truth about Australia, but because
of the exploits of the Anzacs. If this country is better
known after this war it won’t be because of the Depart-
ment of Information; it will be because of the
achievements of its soldiers, airmen and seamen.
America is known by its Hollywood. A Depart-
ment of Information official informed a teachers’
conference in Melbourne that there was a deplorable
amount of anti-American sentiment in Victorian State
schools, and he ascribed it to the movies. He might
have gone on to say; “Then what’s the use of my
department?” but he forgot that bit. The U.S.A.
has had its Departments of Information, its Consuls,
diplomatic agents and official spokesmen galore trying
to interest Australia in their country, but they haven’t
been able even to correct the unfortunate impression
left by the movies.
The reason is that officialdom only succeeds in
boring people, as Australian officials of the Depart-
ment of Information would bore Americans. They
certainly bore Australians.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Cauboy”: “Now, of course, it is all
too close, too much jumbled in my mind
to select and balance my impressions,”
said Noel Coward in his farewell broad-
cast to Australia. “I look at my diary
hopefully, and find only scurried phrases
such as ‘Friday, arrived such-and-such a
place, civic reception, Lord Mayor very
nice, wart on forehead ; visited aeroplane
factory, seemed fiercely efficient; Red
Cross party Government House, Gover-
nor and wife charming, garden lovely,
shook hands with several hundred
people ; matinee, theatre, audience fine,
sang all right, but a bit woolly ; drove
to camp, troop concert, Diggers terrific,
too many officers’ wives in front seats,
long drive home, bed, exhausted.’ ”
Sounds exactly like a synopsis of a
Coward play.
“Tuart”: In his farewell broadcast
Noel Coward referred to “the sublime
complacency” with which a Perth digni-
tary had congratulated him on his good
fortune in being privileged to visit the
western State. Very few Westralians
gave more than one guess at the identity
of the unnamed potentate. Jimmy
Mitchell, the Lieutenant-Governor, was
always the robust patriot. It is on record
that he once pronounced the soil of his
native State good enough to eat, and, by
way of proving it, scooped up a lump of
loam and swallowed it, with every symp-
tom of lively satisfaction. He is a fine
old boy all the same, and if he chose to
eat a scrap of Westralian earth as a sign
of pride in his native country, what does
it matter? Bands of surly Communists
are continually eating foreign dirt in
servile obedience to Moscow.
* * s. «
“Harold Hardupp”: Has anyone heard
of a “party breaker-up”? A King’s
Cross dweller met one the other night
just when he had decided that if the riot
in the flat-building across the road didn’t
stop soon he’d go mad. The big fellow
offered to break up the wild party for “a
dollar.” The price of peace was paid. After
a violent flare-up the row across the road
faded out quickly and silence ensued.
The man who worked the trick says his
method is to gate-crash a rowdy party
and start an argument. When things
begin to look ugly the revellers who don’t
want to be mixed up in trouble get out,
and others who want to keep some of
the arguers out of a fight have to go
too to induce the probable fighters to
go with them. The “breaker-up” says
it’s a poor night when he can’t find at
least one party at which the neighbors
would like his services.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I suspect that Shelley isn't
the only poet who could be quoted to
show the proper pronunciation of
“aerial,” the word so maltreated by radio
announcers (B. 15/1/’4l), but what’s the
use? Not long ago I pointed out that
Tennyson rhymed “ally” with “die,”
whereas the present generation had
shifted the accent back to the first
syllable. Somebody replied that 19
people out of 20 did say “ally” nowa-
days, and that contemporary usage settled
such questions as these. So that “aerial”
will probably continue to be sounded like
“ariel,” whatever objections precisians
may urge. Yet the modern generation
and its apologists are far from consistent
in these matters. If the first syllable in
“ally” is to be accented, then “alliance”
ought to be pronounced as if it rhymed
with “dalliance.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Melbourne youth missed his
last train to the suburbs. Seeing a motorist
fast asleep at the wheel in a parking
area in Swanston-street, the enterprising
lad got in beside him, edged him out of
the driving position and proceeded to
drive himself homewards. When the
owner woke up he found himself speed-
ing along Punt-road. He promptly
tackled the intruder and subjugated him.
A return journey was made via Russell-
street police station.
* * * ♦
“R. Volt”: Unless they have happened
to have for pilots a Kingsford Smith or
a Lindbergh, aircraft have too short a life
to acquire a reputation. The Qantas liner
Melbourne is an exception. She carried
the first airmail from Brisbane to Singa-
pore when the England-Australia service
was inaugurated in December, 1934. She
plied up and down on that picturesque
airway for the subsequent four years.
Then the Empire flying-boats took over,
and she was put on to the Qantas routes
in the N.T. and Queensland. Tired of
those monotonous pastures, she has been
taken off and recommissioned as a flying
classroom for the R.A.A.F. in Mel-
bourne. She has flown a million miles
without a mishap.
“If you men wait till Commodore Commander Jones and I get our overalls.
We'll help you to extricate it.”
“F.S.”: The Melbourne composer
Hubert Clifford, who was reported to
have finished a symphony in a London
air-raid shelter while a raid was in pro-
gress, was following an august example.
When Napoleon’s troops were bombard-
ing Vienna, Beethoven wrote to a friend
that the sight of corpses in the streets
and the infernal din of the cannon so
distressed him that he had acquired a
residence deep in the walls of the city,
had got an old piano put into it and with
his ears stuffed with wool was engaged
on a new opus. It is one of the cheer-
fullest of the nine symphonies.
* * * *
“J. Want”: E. S. Grew, who went with
Phil May on an American tour for the
“Daily Graphic,” writes a few reminis-
cences of Phil’s Bulletin days. Here’s
one: —•
As the outcome of some murderous
affray several men had been condemned
to death and were to die towards the end
of December. On Christmas Eve The
Bulletin came out with a Phil May
cartoon in which he had so drawn the
coming execution as to make the gallows
appear like a row of crosses. Written
underneath was “Peace and Goodwill To-
wards Men.” A newspaper agitation led
to the reprieve of some of the men, and
May obtained permission to go with the
governor of the gaol round the cells to
tell them of it. He said that none showed
any sign of relief, or of any feeling what-
ever.
If Phil really told it that way his memory
must have been pretty bad. Actually
what happened was that just before
Christmas, 1888, Justice Windeyer sen-
tenced to death six youths found guilty
of an attack on a girl on Mt. Rennie,
which stands still, an ugly mound, near
Sydney Showground gates. “Hop”—not
Phil—used the occasion for two cartoons.
In the first (B. 18/12/’88) he showed
Windeyer sentencing a lot of villains
as follows:
I now sentence you to be flogged or
hanged by the neck until you are dead
or to make a voyage to Melbourne or
Brisbane on a vessel belonging to one of
our coastal lines of steamers —in either
case may the Lord have mercy on your
souls.
The following week, on Christmas Day,
his cartoon consisted of a drawing of
six contorted figures hanging on a gal-
lows on top of Mt. Rennie, with a cross
against a star in the background inscribed
“Peace on Earth, Goodwill to Men.” But
it didn’t get the youngsters off. Four
were slowly and terribly hanged through
the bungling of Nosey Bob. The youngest
was 17.
• * * *
“T.T.”: The expression “on the water
wagon” has passed into the British idiom
without 999 out of 1000 of its users know-
ing where it comes from. It is 31 years
old, and was coined by a Salvation Army
commissioner named Mclntyre, who
recently celebrated his seventy-fifth birth-
day. Mclntyre, in New York in 1909,
hit on the idea of sending out a water
wagon to collect drunks from the streets
and bring them along for strong coffee
and good advice. Many were thus called,
and some few at least, in Mclntyre’s
phrase, decided to “stay on the wagon”
for the remainder of their days.
* * * *
“Spoiler”: A writer in a Sydney news-
paper is scornful of “the Tommy Brass-
hat” who met some Australian wounded
after Bardia and reported that their
main anxiety was to get back into the
fray:
Every Digger of the last war knows that
no evacuated front-line soldier ever burned
with anxiety to get back to it before his
legitimate stay away was up. If you met
a fellow who told you that you knew you
were listening to a self-confessed liar.
But Bean in The Story of Anzac declares
that wounded men from Anzac “vehem-
ently” desired to return to the front
as soon as possible, and quotes letters
from men to their officers begging that
arrangements be made to get them back.
As Bean puts it, the men had mates
back in the line and wanted to be with
them.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The conversation at a Mel-
bourne cafe table turned on the dis-
comforts and perils of Christmas camp-
ing. One sturdy suburbanite had nearly
been bitten by a snake, only it turned
out to be a blue-tongued lizard. Another
had had a cup of hot tea spilt on him,
and a third had cut his foot on a broken
bottle on the beach and thought that the
local council ought to do something
about it. One of the diners sat silent
and seemed unimpressed by this list of
disasters. “What have you been doing?”
suddenly remarked one of the Jeremiahs.
“I haven’t seen you about for a long
time.” “Ah,” said the other sadly, “I’ve
been leading a very sheltered life lately.”
“How’s that?” said the first man. “I’ve
spent the last six months in London.”
* * * *
“K.P,”: Brisbane is providing a notable
example of the manner in which
diphtheria can be controlled and pre-
vented by inoculation. In 1933, with a
population of 299,782, the city had 819
cases of what was then the most serious
and fatal of all children’s diseases. In
1940, with a population increased to
around 334,000, the number had dropped
to 241 in spite of the fact that 1939 began
with every indication of a commencing
outbreak such as had previously occurred
regularly at about five-year intervals.
Systematic public warnings to parents by
the City Medical Officer enabled immuni-
sation work to be intensified, and the
threatened epidemic did not eventuate.
The only factor which allows diphtheria
to exist nowadays in any Australian city
or large town is parental apathy or preju-
dice. Immunisation is free from any
risk, pain or even inconvenience to the
child ; it is best done during the first year
of life, and the protection conferred is
absolute throughout the most dangerous
years.
* * Hs *
“C.Q.”; A man at Box Hill (Vic.)
found a link with Melba when digging in
his garden the other day. It was a token,
rhomboidal in shape, made of a pewter-
like metal, identifiable as a communion
token similar to those used in the John
Knox Free Church 70 years ago. The
finder’s house is built on what was once
part of the David Mitchell estate. David
was, of course, Dame Nellie’s father.
Mrs. Mitchell, when she was Miss Dow,
was a member of John Knox Free
Church choir.
* He H* *
“El V.”: Rot me, sir, but I do not
wonder that old England is going to the
dogs when they make all this flather
about one general’s
wife going to the
front because she is
lonely. Damme, sir,
when I was a cor-
net in the Bundel-
cund Fusiliers in
1805 we were all
lonely, but it would
have been a brave
general, sir, who
would have stopped
us taking a bit of
comfort with us.
In the campaigns
against Tippoo
almost all of us
provided ourselves
with a nice little
anodyne against
loneliness, though
some of us were
chary about taking
our wives after we
discovered what a
way young Arthur
Wellesley, of the
33rd, had with ’em.
On the Peninsula,
again, though The
Peer—he was no
longer Arthur Wel-
lesley and had got
married ostenta-
tiously left Kitty at
home, there was
scarcely a man
jack in the ranks who did not
bring his family with him in the
best sepoy fashion. Some of ’em
lived behind the battle lines for years,
though our wimmen were not as
numerous as the French, one of whose
generals complained to his conqueror
after he had been beaten: “You have an
army. We had a bordel ambulant .”
Generals were not exempt from romance
—what about Harry Smith and his
charmer whom he picked up after some
Spanish siege and who afterwards gave
her name of Ladysmith to a town that
stood a siege? And what about my old
comrade Floyd, of the 19th Dragoons,
leader of the most famous cavalry unit
of the Seringapatam wars? Was he any
less a soldier, damme, because his wife
once gave him the twins to hold as he
was taking the salute at a parade?
Hs sfc * He
“Craiser”: For the last month or so I
have watched a gang of workmen laying
about 60 yards of electric-light cable in
Melbourne. In the process they have un-
earthed mysteries going back to the city’s
beginnings —gas mains, water pipes,
sewerage conduits and heaven knows
what else. A water main was punctured
with a pick during the proceedings, and
the excavation was flooded, necessitating
a suspension and salvage operations. If
this could happen under peace condi-
tions and with a surplus of labor, how
much more difficult must repairs be in
oft-bombed London, which is a city built
on other cities, ad infinitum.
AT CANBERRA.
“The proposal that barmaids should be employed
at local hotels is being bitterly opposed by the
Canberra Advisory Council.”
At Canberra, where our brotherhood
Of outsize statesmen meet (or should)
To labor for the country’s good,
It sort of jars
Upon their sense of dignity,
It hurts their civic pride, you see,
The bare idea that girls should be
Employed in bars.
At Canberra, ’twould seem, they think
That busy joints where glasses clink
And thirsty souls their tankards sink
Till naught remains
Should be emphatically spots
Where only Jacks should serve the tots,
Or Toms or Bills—and never Dots
Or Joans or Janes.
At Canberra they like their ales
Drawn from the pumps by sturdy males
Who scorn to expedite their sales
By any wiles
In which the gentler sex engage
To charm the hearts of youth and age,
E.g., coquettish badinage
And witching smiles.
At Canberra —well, that’s enough
To show they’re made of sterner stuff
Than most. They take their quantum suff.
Of rum-and-shrub,
Of Scotch-and-soda, stout and gin
With no inducements feminine.
And till to weaken they begin
A.nd stern resolve is wearing thin
There’ll be no place for Hebes in
A Canberra pub.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“D.E.”: The latest stunt in flapper
journalism is to hire radio comedians
to dish up a daily or weekly column of
pure fun. One of these worthies waddled
into print with a variant of a dirty old
bar-room joke:
New Year’s Eve has gone ... I can
show you the scars, and all the good reso-
lutions ; more gin ... a man must think
of his wife and kidneys.
Even that sort of writing seems to
have been too great a strain on the radio-
comedian intellect; anyway, there was a
swift descent to jazz-joint imbecilities:
Where does Jo Fallon, slick-witted
young man about town, sleep? ... or at
Prince’s. He is putting on weight. What
a photographer. What personality . . .
what poise and what charm ... all this
and heavy too.
Looked in at Bill, the Oyster King's.
It’s a real place these days.
Paid Romano’s my first visit. The whole
place is sumptuously furnished. Asked the
head waiter where the wash-room was. He
said “Don’t look now . . . but you’re in it.”
Which shows that it is one thing to be
mildly amusing at a microphone, where
you’re not expected to be original or to
refrain from bursting your sides at
your own stuff, and another thing to
be humorous in cold print.
* * * »
“C.Q.”: As an example of an artist
triumphing over her conditions it would
be hard to beat Elza Jerram, a little girl
of eight who has been laid up with in-
fantile paralysis for four years in the
Austin Hospital, Heidelberg (Vic.). She
spends eight hours a day in the respirator
and has to be constantly massaged. None
the less, a year or so ago she tried to feed
herself with her toes when her nurse hap-
pened to be absent. Soon she developed
such dexterity in those members that she
asked for a painting-book and brushes.
Now, with her canvas clipped up in front
of her, and her left foot acting as a sup-
port for her right, she paints away
assiduously.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus” on a Melbourne suburb:
“Toorak deserves and expects representatives
of a high order,” says a writer in the “Argus.”
I fail to see why it should, any more than
Flinders or any other electorate. If any place
deserved extra consideration on the merits of its
products, Creswick might, sinde it was the birth-
place of the Lindsays and, for some reason or
other, of a disproportionate number of other
distinguished Australians. Bendigo and Ballarat
might, since they have produced most of our
notable singers and musicians. Dean’s Marsh,
Marjorie Lawrence’s birthplace, has also some
claims to distinction. But Toorak hasn’t pro-
duced anything, as far a£ I know. People go
to live there after the/ have made pots of
money, and lots of pebple live there without
being able to afford it Iso that their wives can
have a Toorak postmark on their letters. All
save a few very affluent residents of Toorak
pay enormous rents /for cramped little flats
when they could live spaciously elsewhere at
half the cost, so that they can be in the
vicinity of pseudo-djuchesses who are not even
aware of their existence.
**) * *
“0.T.”: Under/ the bold headline “The
Land Army in Action,” the “social sup-
plement” of Sydney's oldest daily news-
paper came to flight with illustrations pur-
porting to show/ how uniformed women
are proving theib value as rural workers
in Queensland. One picture showed two
lovelies, with ctistly make-up and hair-
do, “inspecting”(a crop on a farm, though
whether they cojuld tell it was asparagus
or maize wasn’y stated. Below them were
seven ladies, /hilly accoutred in tailor-
made riding gear, leggings, etc., “water-
ing their hordes.” The cream of the col-
lection was\ [a large central picture of
“one of the |£and Army girls asleep be-
side her saddfle.” She hasn’t a hair out
of place ; her/ make-up is just right; she
lies on a colored blanket with her fair
head pillowed (on the saddle. Whether
“Only a couple of Italian destroyers, sir. We didn't think you'd Want
to be called!"
she is on guard against a grasshopper
invasion or is merely awaiting the dawn
tocsin to be up and to the cow-bails isn’t
clear, but she is unwittingly doing a great
work, for she and her sisters have light-
ened the burdens of the back country and
taught it how to laugh again.
* * * ♦
“Astra”: Strange indeed must be the
workings of the minds that believe in
the guff about astrology poured from
radio and printing press. Latest mani-
festation is a claim by an astrologist—
you send him a shilling for the good oil,
with the date of your birth —that certain
of his disciples were advised just before
the 1940 Melbourne Cup that “the vibra-
tions associated with the number five
might be to their advantage.” He quotes
two thankful letters. Both writers say
they took his advice about No. 5 and
got 100 to 1 Old Rowley, the winner.
Yet the outsider carried No. 11 saddle-
cloth. I’d have thought the star-wor-
shippers’ cash would have gone on the
nag with No. 5 saddlecloth, but then my
mind isn’t disciplined by astrology—at a
deener a time.
* * sfc H*
“Fi. fa.”; A curious—and for the British
Home Office troublesome —situation has
arisen from a Court of Appeal decision
in a traffic regulation case. The appellant
had been convicted and fined for infringe-
ment of a road traffic sign. His counsel
had raised the point that the police
had not proved that the sign had
been lawfully placed on or near the road,
or that it conformed in size, color and
description with the regulation under
which action had been taken. The police
prosecutor convinced the magistrates that
such proofs were unnecessary under the
principle that the law takes no account of
trifles. The Court of Appeal decided
that such trifles mattered quite a lot, and
quashed the conviction, the result being
that all previous convictions of motorists
for similar road-traffic-sign offences can
be regarded as illegal and the fines
recoverable by law.
* sH H* *
“Mac Hoots”: When I am 85 and the
writing of paragraphs has made me a
sufficient fortune on which to retire, 1
am going to buy me a shooting-stick, a
pair of field-glasses and a butterfly net
and go out to the country and study the
habits of bird-watchers. I know nothing
more charming than the antics of these
innocent creatures in their native habitat.
One specimen, who nests in the cele-
brated sanctuary of London “Times”—
he is also a moth-watcher—offers this
astonishing paragraph in the middle of
the Blitzkrieg : —
Though winter moths are on the wing,
we see much less of them since the war
began. It was their habit on mild nights to
sit for hours on the outside of uncurtained
windows, their flimsy greyish wings pressed
flat against the glass, their eyes agleam
with red or green reflections of the light
within. And every street lamp drew them
like a magnet. The blackout must have
saved the lives of thousands of these small
grey moths, who now go fluttering through
the darkness with no danger of being
diverted to their doom by the fatal lure of
unshaded lights.
The item is headed “The Course of
Nature: Lives Saved Through the Black-
out.” What can Hitler hope to do to
an England that remains so guilelessly
but so magnificently English?
* * * *
“K.P.”: Pre-war industrial surveys in
Britain put a bad kink in the “weaker
sex” delusion with which the innocent
male is so frequently and usefully bam-
“ Don't let anybody see them, bottle-oh —the old man's leading the beer
strike!"
boozled. Women
bricklayers
in the Midlands
pack and knead
wet clay in
moulds, a much
heavier job than
bakers do in
dough - kneading.
Women carry
loads of bolts in
pans to their
benches for press-
ing. The load
is left to the
worker’s discre-
tion, and in some
cases was found
to equal 93 p.c. of
the carrier’s body-
weight over
lewt. for a lass
of 9st. In the tin-
plate and tile in-
dustries a fair
daily lifting and
carrying average
is 10 tons. A
woman shoveller
in a Glasgow
chemical works
lifted 25 tons in
each 10-hour
working day in
shovelfuls to a
height of 2ft.
6in. The British Army standard for
shovelling loose earth works out at about
17 tons for an eight-hour day. The work
did not appear to injure their health in
any way or to affect local birthrates.
Other observations showed that women
work more evenly than men, and often
turn out a greater output over extended
periods, although individual operational
average might be lower. Also, ye brawny
males, size for size, their muscles are
stronger, and they control them better.
The fact is that the female of the species
is the more durable animal of the two.
Childbirth and even the later months of
pregnancy involve sustained muscular
effort and strain which no male body
could stand up to.
» * * *
“Colbun”: An unsolved Dr. Johnson
mystery was what he did with the peels
which he used to put in his pocket after
squeezing the juice of Seville oranges
into the drink he made for himself at the
Literary Club. Boswell surprised the Great
Cham at the job of scraping some fresh
peels and cutting them into small pieces,
but Johnson refused to satisfy the Able
Scot’s curiosity. Long after his death a
letter from him was found amongst the
papers of Miss Boothby, in which he
mentioned that powdered orange-peel
taken in a glass of port was a remedy
for indigestion. A more likely explana-
tion of the apparent eccentricity is pro-
vided by the recent discovery that the
peel of citrus fruits contains a vitamin
which relieves the irritation of a form of
skin disease from which Johnson un-
doubtedly suffered, and of which he was
ashamed. He probably got the idea of
trying it from the beneficial results ob-
tained from lemons and oranges in the
prevention and cure of scurvy amongst
ships’ crews after the disastrous losses in
Anson’s expedition of 1740. The orange-
juice drink may have been intended for
the same purpose, but the peel vitamin is
what does the job in such cases as his.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A party to an action which had
dragged on for weeks and was costing
him a pot of money went to his solicitor
and suggested that the interim opinion
of the eminent barrister who had been
briefed by his side should be requisi-
tioned. “You want a conference?” said
the lawyer, smiling. “Right,” and reach-
ing for his hat he tootled his client off
to the great one’s office. They were shown
into a handsome room with walnut panel-
ling and rich antique furniture and left
waiting. After half an hour the distin-
guished legal light came in, shook hands
affably with his friend’s client, asked him
how he was getting on in his business,
how his wife was, how many children
he had and what he thought of the way
the war was going, incidentally making
some gliding comments on the case which
neither revealed nor concealed whether
he knew anything about it. Then, point-
ing to a picture of a racehorse, he asked the
litigant if he knew anything about horses.
“You don’t? That’s a pity. It is a most
absorbing study. Well, good-bye! Glad
to have met you.” Stumbling into the
daylight, the client said to his solicitor :
“Very charming man, Mr. X ; but when
are we going to have the conference?”
“You’ve had it,” replied the Gent. One.
MATING TIME.
“A single day saw over 500 weddings in Sydney
—a record.”
’Tis “in the spring a young man’s fancy lightly
Turns to” who isn’t there but knows
the rest?
But if I apprehend the poet rightly
The often-quoted sentiment expressed
By him who ever held the world should try to
Evolve a scheme whereby all war should
cease
Was obviously intended to apply to
The piping times of peace.
With all the world at war, there seems no
reason
Why men and maids who’ve found their
destined mates
Should be restricted to the vernal season
For either plighted troths or altar-dates.
Whether they click where winter winds are
biting
Or landscapes wilt beneath the scorching
sun,
No time can touch the present for uniting
Two hearts that beat as one.
Ring out, you wedding bells! And Heav'n
send you
A quantum suff. of all that life provides,
May all the luck that you’ve been wished
attend you,
New-rated Benedicts and war-time brides!
The outlook’s dusty, but, however dark it
Appear, you’ve brought one gleam to light
the gloom;
A brisk upheaval in the wedlock market,
A matrimonial boom.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


o
lOf.rlOd. 20 for 1 «
E 1869
CRAVEN
' IjcuU appreciate tkefa
vevtil&iy/
00 i
f
POLITICAL POINTS
No sooner had Mr. Menzies announced
the ban on the Judge Rutherford disciples
than a Sydney “D.T.” reporter galloped
out to the sect’s headquarters. He claims
that he was thrown out by a guard armed
with truncheons, that hundreds of docu-
ments were being burned at the place
and other hundreds carried away to un-
known destinations in fast cars. Allowing
for journalistic zeal, it still seems a
peculiar performance for a body which
constantly asserted that it was not en-
gaged in subversive activities.
The War Cabinet blundered badly
when it allowed General Blarney’s wife
to join him in Egypt because, as the lady
put it, she was “lonely.” Thereby it
brokd a very salutary regulation and
set what is going to be a distinctly
awkward precedent if the traveller decides
to remain in Egypt—she has been asked
to come back. Also it started Syd-
ney parochialists screaming again about
“Melbourne influence in the Cabinet,”
though, with six Ministers from N. S.
Wales and only four from Victoria, that
should be a thing of the past.
If Dr. Evatt goes back to the West
it won’t be to help Mr. Indignant’s can-
didature for Swan or any other Federal
seat. Storming to the last, Mr. Indignant
was expelled last week for contumacy.
He is not without sympathisers, but
sympathy counts for very little in Labor
politics.
The sickest man in England these days
must be Sir Oswald Mosley, that sorry
imitation of an imitation Caesar. Still,
it is a mistake to keep him in gaol. He
should be offered his liberty condition-
ally on his giving his Blackshirt turn,
complete with retainers and spotlight, in
public air-raid shelters. It would be
funnier than anything in the Chaplin film.
Two years ago Denford, the N.S.W.
Ironworkers’ secretary, of overtime-strike
notoriety, was threatening to declare the
defence industries “black” if Cameron,
then P.M.G., did not restore the Sydney
Labor Council’s broadcasting license.
Its 2KY had been blackguarding all and
sundry, beginning with Cameron himself,
its favorite term for its aversions being
“Nazis” —a word now seldom heard from
the same quarter. Cameron did not
restore the license until he had received
a very humble apology and profuse
promises of amendment. His way of
dealing with Denford and his gang was
very much better than that of Mr. Holt.
Mr. Holt seems rather too fond of fox-
trotting his way to conciliation.
The British Minister for Home Security
has signed an order conscripting every
male civilian in Britain as a fire-fighter to
serve without pay. Every man must put
in 48 hours a month on the job. So
far, there has been no talk of striking
against this overtime, perhaps because
British workers are too mule-headed to
hear the voice of Moscow amid the
crashing bombs.
In lonely isolation at Canberra, W. M.
Hughes was about to put the four banned
broadcasting stations back on the air
when he was startled by an angry voice
from Sydney. The voice was that of
Menzies, and it said that the stations were
not to go back on the air until they pro-
duced evidence of hona fides, and that
in the meantime Jehovah’s Witnesses
would go off the map. But because
Lord Gowrie was travelling or because
every Minister has become a law to him-
self or something, this was not gazetted
for 18 hours, which meant, of course,
that boss Witnesses were given 18 hours’
warning to get rid of anything that they
didn’t want to be seized. Amidst bursts
of ribald laughter, Billy was heard to
the effect that the Witnesses had been
“spreading disaffection and disloyalty
since the outbreak of war.” He had pre-
viously insisted that they were harmless
cranks.
Moving-picture people have kindly
taken control of the A.R.P. in Sydney.
The new Chief Warden—there is a new
one every few months —is a moving-
picture man, was appointed by the
Mayor, who made his money in the
moving-picture business, and is receiving
a salary from moving-picture people—all
very generous, of course; and it was
brutal of some nark to suggest that the
“The two dictators had another meeting over the week-end. There was no official
statement of what they discussed.”
“Well-a, Adolf, it is lika this”-
job should be a charge on the rates and
should be given to “a constructional
engineer from London.”
Found guilty of having sold 200 forged
petrol coupons, representing 1000 gallons
of petrol, a Sydney used-car dealer got
off with a, £3O fine. He had sold the
coupons for £6, a rate that would bring
in a good profit and soon cover a £3O
fine. The fact that he could sell that
many to one buyer shows that there must
be stacks of the things finding a ready
sale. Had the man forged a cheque for
a like amount he would probably have
got gaol, but apparently anyone who
trafficks in forged Commonwealth prop-
erty with the deliberate intention of de-
feating a war measure necessitated by the
vital importance of petrol and the ter-
ribly dangerous job of carrying it by sea
need fear no more than an s.p. book-
maker up for the first time.
No one can touch the Japanese ques-
tion without editors falling on him in a
mass. Spender suffered this experience
when he said that Australia had “no
quarrel with Japan,” and Stewart when
he applied the term “cordial” to Aus-
tralian relations with the Japanese. Now
the entire Japanese press is at Secretary
Hull because he interpreted “the so-
called new order in the Pacific” as
“domination by one country to the ex-
clusion of the interests of other nations.”
Sneering at the M.L. Labor Govern-
ment, a sheet published in Sydney un-
consciously gave it a pat on the back:
After the strike had been in progress for
several weeks, with the workers as solid as
the day they downed tools, the Govern-
ment threatened them that their union
would be deregistered, so would all unions
supporting them, and the Government
would confiscate all moneys collected for
their aid and ban their meeting halls.
In face of these “threats” the strikers
decided to go back to work. Which sug-
gests that it mightn’t be a bad idea if
Maoriland annexed Australia for the
duration.
An organisation calling itself the
North Sydney Council of Unemployed
and Relief Workers has been issuing a
free paper called “Progress.” After giving
“Our Alternative to the Budget,” which
includes suspension of interest, Govern-
ment seizure of all incomes over £lOOO
a year and nationalisation of war indus-
tries and financial institutions, the paper
advises its readers to “Hold stop-work
meetings on the job to discuss it.” The
rest of the editorial portion is mostly
thinly-disguised Red propaganda. W. M.
Hughes ought to look in his own
electorate for some of the subversive
elements he spouts about.
A long way after Federation:
To Tenterfield (“the birthplace of Federa-
tion”) went N.S.W. Premier Mair and his
deputy, Bruxner, to “open” a meatworks 10
miles from the Queensland border. The gentle-
men from Sydney stressed the necessity for de-
centralising works so as to keep people in
the country ; and Bruxner referred to his de-
partment’s arrangements for transporting the
meat to Sydney. Nobody mentioned that all
the stock slaughtered that opening day and
on hand to be slaughtered had been fattened
in and imported from Queensland, and any-
one would be safe in wagering that there will
be more Queensland-fattened cattle killed at
those works than N.S.W.-fattened cattle. And
the meat will probably be carried at concession
rates “to assist a country industry”; in any
case, Queensland pastoralists will get the
benefit of southern prices. That was never
contemplated by Big-City interests. Not that
Tenterfielders mind. The ratepayers of the
shire think so little of State boundaries that
they have a resident of Queensland as their
president.
Making his first speech as Minister at
Tokyo, John Greig Latham laid down
some terms for a formula of peaceful
relationships that might profitably be
pasted up in editorial offices in two
countries:
(1) Australia is completely and unre-
servedly with Britain in this war, but has
no quarrel with any country in this hemi-
sphere, and there is no reason why there
should be any such quarrel. (2) Relations
between Australia and Japan have been
uniformly friendly; there has been a little
trade trouble, but there would be trade
trouble between friendly nations until all
are angels. (3) Japan, like Britain, the
Netherlands and the United States, had de-
clared for the maintenance of the Pacific
status quo; if Japan acted in accordance
with that announcement, there was no
reason why peace in the Pacific could not
be maintained.
He added that “there are certain circum-
stances which are making Australian-
Japanese relations a little more difficult
than they are ordinarily,” and suggested
that the Japanese should get their
“geography books right, so that your
schools will know that Australia is not
part of Asia.” Australia, for its part,
“wanted to live in amity with its neigh-
bors and to trade with and learn from
them.” Plain, honest and fair all round.
There is to be a meeting of the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council at Canberra
next week. Commonwealth and State
Ministers will there discuss “methods to
control the planting of new areas with
grapes, in the interests of the Australian
wine industry.” In view of what’s hap-
pened to the industry, any man who
wants to plant new areas with vines isn’t
a subject for the A.A.C. He should go
to an alienist, and if the A.A.C. approves
of any more planting it should go with
him.
At the beginning of September there
were five ex-Premiers in the State Par-
liaments at Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane. Now there are only Lang
and Hogan, Stevens met his Water-
loo in the electorate that bears his
old enemy’s name; Argyle is dead
and Moore is not standing again.
M. for Aubigny since 1915,
the year of the first Labor victory
at the polls, Moore shouldn’t be too
old, at 64, to carry on for another few
years, but he says he has had sufficient.
There has been a disagreement among
the champions of democracy in Asia,
where the Chinese National Military
Council at Chungking had to suppress a
revolt of the Fourth (Communist) Army
and arrest its General and Chief of Staff.
News, of the fighting caused “disappoint-
ment fn foreign diplomatic circles” in
Chungking, and the Soviet Embassy has
“been the scene of much diplomatic
activity.” \
The McKell (“official”) Labor party in
N. is taking the doom of the Mair-
Bruxner menage for granted, and is put-
ting up a candidate for every seat at the
next elections. \ Its present strength, after
faction fights, expulsions and splits, is
26, nearly a third of the House, against
34 U.A.P., 21 tJ.C.P., eight Lang Lab.
and one Independent. There is a third
Labor party in the State, but it has no
members. McKeiH’s collection of candi-
dates includes a V.C. (Currey), a batch of
ex-members, legal ripen, a farmer or two,
and a couple of representatives of Bung.


“POOF, IT’S-A NOTHING- GIDDA-UP QUICK, MUSTAPHA.”
“My royal war drums sound nightly along the frontier.”— Ex-Emperor Haile Silassie.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE OUTLOOK FOR 1941
The Past Year a Guide to the Future.
All Important Financial News.
January Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862,
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON. T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst,. Gen. Manager.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Rabbi L. A. Falk, who came to Aus-
tralia nearly 20 years ago as assistant
minister to Rabbi F. L. Cohen, but before
that had mixed a lot with Australians
when he was Jewish chaplain in Pales-
tine during the 1914-18 war, is again in
uniform as a chaplain. His eldest son
is a “loot” in the A.1.F., another is in the
R.A.N., and the third is in the militia
counting the days till he can join his
A.I.F. brother. The young men have
spent all but their earliest infancy in
Australia.
Lieut. Claude Robert Nethercote was
the first Victorian officer to be killed in
action. He was born at Kew 24 years
ago and educated at Benjeroop State
school. In the A.M.F. when the present
war broke out, he got a commission in the
A.I.F. and was in one of the first convoys
to leave for the Middle East. His father
fell in the 1914-18 war.
A marriage that has caused great
interest in S.A. is that of Robert Melrose,
head of the State’s great pastoral clan
of that name. At 78 he was considered
a settled bachelor, but the loneliness of
his station in the hills behind Mount
Pleasant has told its tale. The bride is
his secretary.
Albert Eli Lind, Deputy Premier of
Victoria since 1937, Commissioner of
Lands, Minister of Forests and President
of the Board of Lands and Works since
1935—they work them harder in Victoria
than in the Ma State —is a young man
of 62 with 20 years’ Parliamentary experi-
ence behind him. Still “Snowy” to Gipps-
landers, Lind left Barrakee, near Marl-
ton, at the age of three in a horse and
dray, and was to pioneer a selection at
Mt. Taylor, eight miles from Bairnsdale.
He has stud Jerseys on land once declared
useless for dairying. In earlier days Lind
was an enthusiastic oarsman, and rowed
on every rowable river in Victoria,
A. E. LIND.
starting with the Mitchell, the Barwon
and ihe Latrobe, and finishing on the
Yana, where he represented Bairnsdale
in the first Bairnsdale four. In the com-
ing months bushfires will be his main
preoccupation. He has done much to
prevent fires and interest a lethargic Par-
liament in their prevention. He gets
plenty of firefighting practice on his
Parliamentary vacations.
Norman Bourke is a Queenslander
through and through. He began work as a
jackeroo out west, later managed prop-
erties and nowadays owns pastoral areas
out Cloncurry way. He is also a director
of several Queensland cos. (Moreheads
and the E.S.C.A. are two of them), and
is ex-president of the United Graziers’
Association. But in conversation with
NORMAN BOURKE.
him you’ll find him talking about the
Aerial Medical Services (the “flying-
doctor” service) more than anything else ;
he is president of the Queensland sec-
tion, which contracts for a minimum of
45,000 miles a year with Qantas Air-
ways, and the mileage is always ex-
ceeded. Bourke is 66, and has never
played golf or bowls.
Charles John Cerutty has passed on
at Caulfield (Vic.), and Ministers think-
ing of handing in a bill for expenses or
toying with pensions schemes need no
longer keep an ear cocked for his inevit-
able roar of rage. Auditor-General dur-
ing the spend-and-be-damned-to-it period
from 1926 on, Cerutty was a savage
critic of Parliamentary extravagance.
He’d had the experience to lend force to
his arguments. He went into the Vic-
torian public service as a Treasury clerk
in 1888, 18 years after his birth in Sale,
and climbed through all the long stages
as accountant and secretary to number-
less committees before he got to the top.
Lord Wakefield, dead at 81, had all the
sporting instincts as well as the shrewd
business sense of a good Liverpudlian.
Beginning as an oil broker, he learnt all
that the Yankees had to teach him about
lubricating oils and then went into the
business and beat Uncle Sam at his own
game all over the world. He made a
fortune, enjoyed the fun of making it,
and loved giving it away. No airman
bent on a jaunt needed to ask twice for
lubricant and assistance. Cobham,
Kingsford Smith, Ulm, Amy Johnson,
Mollison and many more benefited by
his generosity. In his later days he de-
veloped a hobby of presenting historical
records of great navigators and fighting
admirals to national collections —he gave
the National Library at Canberra a bit
of the Endeavor and some relics of
Phillip.
C. L. Martineer, who has been selling
stock by auction for more than 50 years,
is the oldest hand at Homebush (N.S.W.)
saleyards. He has lost count of the
numbers he has knocked down, but the
sheep total would exceed by a million or
so the human population of Australia.
He was born within a mile of the site of
the Homebush saleyards.
P. R. T. Wills, Queensland’s new Com-
missioner for Railways, was born at
Westwood, in the Rockhampton dis-
trict, 60 years ago, and began work as a
junior clerk in the traffic manager’s office
at Rockhampton in 1898. He was
appointed secretary to the department
40 years later, having meanwhile had
a host of service jobs. A noted
cricketer in his time, he played his last
match four years ago in Central Queens-
land, scoring 50 not out and clean-
bowling 11 of the opposition for 21,
three with successive balls.
A. E. Moore, C.P. member for
Aubigny (Q.) since 1915, Premier from
1929 to 1932, and subsequently leader
of the Opposition until 1938, has
called it a day and retired from
politics. Born at Napier (M.L.) in
1876, he came to Queensland in 1898
after school and farming experience in
Victoria, and soon took an active
part in local-authority work. A fine
speaker and sound debater, honest in
act and purpose, he did not fit in with
machine politics. Somewhat aloof in
manner, fje could not be called a popular
figure even in his own crowd, but he was
respected on both sides of the House.
Dr. C. P. O’Toole, the Melbourne
doctor who threw up a practice to step
into Dr. Keith Sweetman’s shoes as
flying doctor at Wyndham (n. W.A.),
has been kept fairly busy. In the space
of seven weeks he flew 3000 miles and
knocked at 20 doors in the Outback.
His cases included melancholia, dog bite,
cerebral haemorrhage, fractures and child-
birth, and some of his patients he flew
back to the base for further treatment.
If any man deserves a spot of leave
it is J. W. Nichols, of Darwin, who is
spending his furlough in Melbourne,
although there is never any risk of mono-
tony or lack of variety in his official duties.
Should he feel bored in his capacities
of Clerk of Courts, Sheriff, Regis-
trar in Bankruptcy and Public Notary,
he can always turn to a job of registering
births, deaths and marriages, licensing
hotels or registering business undertak-
ings. If time still hangs heavy on his
hands he can occupy it by conduct-
ing a Prize Court if the Navy should
happen to catch the material, taking affi-
davits or acting as bailiff. As returning
officer he also runs elections of the Terri-
tory’s voteless representative. Fifteen
other jobs of sorts fill in any spare time.
Nichols has been at most of them since
1925.
Passed on in Adelaide, at 79, Edwin
Ashby, known throughout Australia
for his ornithological and botanical
studies and collections. He built up a
unique collection of native and exotic
shrubs, cacti and succulents at his Black-
wood (S.A.) home. A contributor to
scientific periodicals, Ashby was a Fellow
of the Linnean Society, London, and a
life member of the British Ornithologists’
Union—he was English by birth.
Gregan McMahon’s next production in
Melbourne will be a three-act play,
“Point in Time,” by journalist-novelist-
businessman Ambrose Pratt. In it a
Chinese, a philosopher of the old school,
masquerading as a houseboy, discusses
Western civilisation and Christianity with
a Chinese general who is threatening to
blow up the mission where the play is
enacted. As director of Australian tin-
mining enterprises in Malaya, Pratt has
had plenty of opportunities for studying
the Oriental mind. His literary tastes are
wide. He has written 30 novels, two
works on economics and many brochures
on industrial and engineering matters.
His play goes to New York after its
Melbourne debut.
Clive Baillieu, appointed Director-
General of the British Purchasing Com-
mission in U.S.A., is a son of W. L. Bail-
lieu —the family name is as well known
in London as it is in Melbourne. He
was born in 1889 and educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar, Trinity, Melbourne,
and Magdalen, Oxford, where he won
his blue in a winning race against Cam-
bridge. Admitted to the Bar in Mel-
bourne, he enlisted in the 1914-18 war
and emerged a lieut.-colonel with an
0.8. E. Since then he has handled a mort
of business between Australia and Eng-
land. Shootin’, golf and tennis are his
recreations. A knighthood came his way
in 1938.
Half a century’s service with a Govern-
ment department has just been completed
by Edgar John Field, chairman of the
Marginal Areas Committee. Born at Nara-
coorte (S.A.) in 1874, son of an old-time
police inspector, Field joined the Lands
Department at 17, becoming its secretary
in 1917. In April, 1939, he retired and
was appointed to his chairmanship, a
position which he still holds. An 1.5.0.
rewarded his efforts in 1933.
Noel Monks, the Melbourne pressman,
was with the British troops in Flanders
and at the evacuation of Dunkirk. Last
year he published Squadrons Up, an
account of R.A.F. doings in France, and
it turned out a best-seller. After running
into eight editions it is to be published in
Australia.
Neilson Mills, who controls Burrabogie
merino stud, Hay (N.S.W.), began his
career as sheep judge at shows when he
was 17 years old. He has spent a lifetime
in the sheep business, and was managing
director of Charles Mills (Uardry), Ltd.,
for 24 years. When a division was made
in the sheep, land and other assets of that
firm Neilson Mills, in partnership with
his sister, took 56 per cent, of the Uardry
stud sheep to establish Burrabogie stud.
At one period he sent teams to Sydney
sheep shows, and won five grand cham-
pionships. He manages the adjoining
Wahwoon stud.
CHAMPION DE CRESPIGNY,
S.A.’s new knight.
Murals and battle pictures which he
painted for the Australian War Memorial
in Canberra are being touched up
by Louis McCubbin, director of the
National Gallery, Adelaide, since 1936,
who has been granted leave for the pur-
pose. McCubbin joined the A.I.F. in
1916, and at the beginning of 1918 was
appointed an official war artist. He made
more than 200 sketches and studies in
oil, water-color and pencil, mostly in
France and Egypt. Two years after
the war the Federal Government com-
missioned him, with the late Web Gilbert
and Wallace Anderson, to undertake a
series of battlefield models, the work of
sculptor and painter in close collabora-
tion, and forming one of the chief
features of the National War Museum.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
in
n
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Columbus was actually the man to
discover America.”— “World’s News.”
But the first to admit it.
4* 4* ,4* 4*
“Wool from Fish.” —“Radio Call.”
The most attractive feature should be
imperviousness to shrinking.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At the hurdle near the seven furlongs Jean
Friar blundered, throwing her rider (I. Rohloff)
out of the saddle,” —Racing report.
True to label.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The decision of the Australian War Cabinet
to provide an armored crop on modern lines,
capable of striking in the Waved manner,
hard and swiftly.”—“ Courier-Mail.”
But surely the man on the land has
quite enough to contend with in the shape
of droughts, floods and plagues of vermin
without that, and, as one farmer put it,
“We don’t want the crops striking; we
leave that to the city fellers.”
“After four years Vial left his island home,
but he was glad to return. Twenty years later
he is still on the atoll, the only man there.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
No wonder! Life’s uneases
Are unknown on this isle.
Where every prospect pleases,
The only man is Vial.
H. M.
“Lions reach maturity at seven years of age.”
— “World’s News.”
Lionesses probably remain at that age
indefinitely.
*l* *4- *s*
“The Judge’s view was that the woman was
Kilner’s wife without question.” — “Telegraph.”
What a wife to have!
“Good saw doctor wanted. Hospital.”
— “S.M.H.”
Must be a major operation.
4* 4* 4* 4*
When a man comes home three sheets
in the wind he usually finds his wife a
wet blanket.
“British warship dodged Italian torpedo.”
—Cable.
Next we’ll hear of an Italian torpedo
dodging a British warship.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Undertakers’ Prices Will Increase.” — “D.T.”
So people who would like to get out
of the world to escape the H.C.L. are
faced by the high cost of leaving.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Music is the universal language.”
—Musical mag.
Swing must be the pidgin version.
Party Dress.
The invitation said it was
A celebration party,
Which would, it gave assurance, be
Bohemian and arty.
‘‘Just wear your working clothes,” it said,
“When partywards you toddle.”
She did, and what a hit she made —
For May’s an artists’ model.
GUY W. WARREN.
The Biter Bitten.
“Mr. Cupid is seeking a divorce from Mrs.
Cupid, of Cambridge, Massachusetts.”
— “World’s News.”
When playful Cupid flung a dart at
some unlucky tender heart that very
often was the start of lots of trouble.
And when the pair began to fight o’er
things, from cash to fancied slight, young
Cupid, scornful of their plight, with
mirth bent double. But Justice caught the
little cad! An Aussie abo. gave the lad
a boomerang (the first he’d had). So,
sighting quarry, he tacked an arrow on,
took aim, then flung it far—but back it
came and stabbed the lad at his own
game. And now he’s sorry. He still
flings darts to pass the time, but fainter
does his laughter chime, for life to him
seems one long crime (she nags him
stupid). And dizzily, as last resource
(for he’s a modern sprite of course), he
just aims to fling Divorce —at Mrs.
Cupid.
ELM.
Bad Turns.
“Wanted, entertainer-waiter.” — “S.M.H.” ad.
This idea of waiting and entertaining
requires initiative and courage—
especially courage.
The idea of standing on my head and
wiggling the menu at customers with my
feet only produced a few ribald re-
marks about the size of my boots.
I tried desperately to amuse one cus-
tomer with sleight-of-hand, but when I
produced a rabbit from apparently
nowhere he was not amused. “Get out,
y’ mug,” he snarled. “I could do that
any day with the chicken soup you get
in this joint!”
During a lull in my rushing hither and
yon with orders I essayed a little
juggling. Snapping up hot potatoes from
the plates of diners, I paraded the room
with a graceful arch of potatoes con-
tinually in motion. I even worked in
a few plates and a coffee-pot by way of
variety. That was my Waterloo. A
slight error in timing, and the coffee-pot
landed on a bald pate three tables away!
During the shindy that followed I
put on a disappearing act, the most suc-
cessful turn of my career as an enter-
tainer-waiter.
D. McM.
Arcadian Revels.
“It would be well to pitch the inside of tubs
made from liquor casks. The liquid soaked
into the wood may have an effect on the
plants.” —Gardening note.
So that explains it.
Goaded by Maria, who wanted some
place to put a couple of daphne plants,
I got an old cask, sawed it in half and
“For what We are about to receive. ...
filled the halves with soil without any
idea that preliminary precautions were
necessary.
It was solely because I hate to disturb
Maria when I come home late that I was
wending my way past those tubbed plants
to make a backrdoor entrance, when one
of them slapped me heartily on the back,
and before I had recovered from my
astonishment the daphne had me in its
arms. It whirled me round in one of the
wildest, most abandoned dances I have
ever known, and then released me to
send me spinning into the embraces of
the other plant. It was the maddest of
bacchanalian revels: I was whirled this
way and that, and always the tendrils of
some plant or another was wrapt about
me in embrace,
I passed from astonishment through
the wildest exhilaration to consternation
when the face and form of Maria
materialised from nowhere.
“Aitchem!” she said. But it was the
way she said it.
It was quite in vain for me to tell her
that by some mysterious process those
plants had got drunk. She said it was
me, and there was nothing mysterious
about the process. If I had only known
that about the effect of liquor left in
casks on plants planted in them I might
have argued the point with her. That
is, of course, if she had given me a
chance.
H. M.
Musicale.
When Laura first commenced to sing,
Her loud, unearthly wails
The sounding welkin used to ring.
Oh, how she loved those scales!
Her voice has now her fortune made.
The only time she wails
Is when her portly figure’s weighed.
Oh, how she hates those scales!
C. W. H.
Getting Them Together.
“When Federal Ministers held their first
Cabinet meeting in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly in Sydney several Ministers expressed
annoyance at the inconveniences and lack of
accommodation.”— "Sun.”
Of course, Federal Cabinet meetings
must never be held in the Canberra palace
unless every other sizable building in the
Commonwealth, from the Melbourne
morgue to the Chinchilla (Q.) mechanics
hall, is unavailable. The Bulletin seer
has been prompted to gaze into the office
crystal, to record an occasion in 1991
when the Federal Cabinet, owing to a pre-
vailing building shortage and the Parlia-
mentary recess operating for so long that
Molongloside will be partially reinhabited
by the blacks, is forced to hold a meeting
in the old N.S.W. Legislative Council
building. The props which have so long
supported the ancient edifice against the
ravages of the white-ants have become a
forest, and the paperhangers have been
brought in in the hope that their efforts
will result in the walls of the structure
being considerably strengthened.
“The big atom-powered limousine slid
into the Macquare-street kerb and the
Prime Minister alighted. As he pushed
open the gate the loose bit of paling that
was holding it together flapped back and
jambed his fingers. Picking his way
across the maze of potholes in the asphalt
yard he reached the front door, where an
attendant in a uniform that used to be
black was poring over a ‘S.M.H.’ s.p.
supplement.
“ ‘Where is the room in which the
Federal Cabinet meeting is to be held?’
the P.M. asked.
“The attendant scratched his head. T
think it’s the fourth on the right in the
third passage to your left after passing
the scaffolding just past the Opposition-
leader’s room. Or else it’s the eighth
room in the second passage. Anyway,
you can’t miss it —you’ll see all the kero-
sene-cases arranged in a circle. We had
instructions to make you extra comfort-
able, so we’ve put sugar-bags on ’em. If
you can’t find it ask one of the car-
penters on the permanent repair staff ;
they’ve been here so long they can find
their way around in the dark.’
“A few minutes after the P.M. had
started out the Treasurer appeared at the
front door, and, chock-full of confidence,
turned into the Chinese puzzle of pas-
sages. As he stepped briskly along a
dingy, narrow hallway lit only by a slit
of light from where a broken tile had
come through the ceiling he trod on a
borer-riddled board and disappeared in
a cloud of dust. It was early next morn-
ing that a policeman detected faintly
hoarse cries for help, and eventually the
Treasurer was rescued from the cellars.
“In the meantime the Minister for
Customs had arrived. He had heard
about the L.C. building and, being a
thorough, methodical man, had in-
structed his secretary to have a plan of
the building drawn up. But it had by
mistake gone to the chief Parliamentary
draughtsman, a fellow not so hot on
perspective, but willing to have a go at
anything. At intervals throughout the
afternoon the M. for C.’s shrill ‘Cooee!’
could be heard ringing out, and it was
not until late that night that he was
located by a search party organised by
his wife.
“The Minister for the Interior was
next. An ex-M.L.C, he knew the
ropes, or at least where you were least
likely to trip over them. Picking his
way unerringly through the tortuous
passages he made straight for the office
of the foreman of the White-ant Exter-
mination Squad. He’d know what
room, if any, had a light in it you could
read by, or a non-collapsible ceiling.
“The M. of the I. had barely vanished
into the dim recesses when the P.M.G.
strode in. The attendant was missing, so,
peering uncertainly along the passages,
he tossed up to see which way he’d go.
Heads it was, and he turned to the right.
Half an hour later he met the P.M. as
he climbed down a ladder to get instruc-
tions from a hod carrier. Together they
set out again.
“After groping around in almost
Stygian darkness somewhere near the
old record rooms they joyously greeted
a torchbeam coming towards them. Be-
hind it was the Minister for Commerce,
and at last, hours after the meeting
was timed to take place, the trio stag-
gered, weary but triumphant, through a
doorway to emerge in the rear court-
yard. The P.M.G., a stout-hearted fel-
low, proposed that they go round to the
front and start again, but the P.M., with
a shudder, adjourned the meeting to the
bathroom of his hotel the next morning.”
Bo.


ABORIGNALITIES
‘No need to tally, mate — I've been countin' sheep all me life."
“Bad Australian”: “If I ’ad me way,”
said the man with the cauliflower ear,
“I’d make it ’ot fer the profiteerin’ cows
wot keeps jumpin’ the price o’ beer.”
“It ain’t only the price,” remarked the
prawn-pedlar. “Ev’ry time y’ weighs
out fer a pot or a bottle y’re bein’ ’ad,
the stuff bein’ nearly all water.” He
curled a forefinger around the bottom of
his glass and continued. “All above me
finger is water, y’ un’erstan’, an’ wot’s
below ain’t worth considerin’.” Here the
first complainant hauled off and punched
the speaker hard. Big Jack grabbed him
and roared: “Wot d’y’ mean be dongin’
a inoffensive bloke like that?” “Inoffen-
sive,” gasped the aggressor. “W’y, stone
the flamin’ crows, didn’t y’ ’ear ’im tryin’
t’ put me orf me beer?”
“Aratta”: “These beer strikes,” Sam
said, “remind me of Jhe time one of them
temp’rance-letcherer chaps comes up t’
Bangybangy. The Mechanics’ Hall is
packed; there’s the usual muster of
wowsers, but most of ’em is blokes
who like their drop. They ain’t there
t’ be converted, though ; they on’y come
eriong becos it’s a free show an’ helps t’
fill in the evenin’—Grogan’s pub bein’
closed —an’ they’re hopin’ some of the
rowdies might start up a bit of fun. The
letcherer is a long-faced, skinny coot who
don’t look much of an advert, fer keepin’
away from the booze. He’s in the middle
of givin’ ole Demon Drink a pastin’ when
he’s handed a note. He opens it out an’
reads it. Then he wags it about in the air.
‘Friends,’ he yells jubilant, ‘this will tell
you t’ what lengths the enemies of tem-
p’rance will go. This note I’ve jist had
handed t’ me ses that at this moment the
man who keeps the local hotel has placed
two barrels of beer on his front verandah
an’ is givin’ away free drinks t’ any mis-
guided person who wants ’em.’ Next minit
there’s a mad rush for the door, an’ the
place is three-parts empty in a tick. I’m
out first, though, with a good lead ; I
wanted t’ make sure of gettin’ the half-
dozen pots Grogan had promised me fer
writin’ an’ deliverin’ that note.”
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: South-east S.A. is the
place for underground water supplies.
Thousands of square miles of this
district consist of flats carrying a
few inches of loamy topsoil over
a foot or so of clay; below this
is a belt of rubble, and under that
again comes a deep bed of the so-called
Murray rock, a sandstone as porous as
a sponge and filled with water that seeps
slowly seawards. This water-bearing rock
is seldom more than 10ft. from the sur-
face, and a bore or well sunk for a few
feet into it taps an inexhaustible supply ;
I’ve seen a 6in. centrifugal going for days
without lowering the level in a well by
more than a foot.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Hogan, humping the
curse to Ned’s Corner in pouring rain,
came on an abandoned homestead, of
which only a tumbled brick chimney and
an old square ship-tank remained. Hogan
got through the manhole into the tank.
It was hot in there and a bit odorous
with dead mice, etc., but it was dry. He
covered the manhole with a tree branch
and settled down. After a restless night
he woke to a grey dawn and flooding
skies, and no sooner got his eyes open
than his “bedroom” spun round, teetered,
tried to turn over and righted itself with
a lurch. Hogan shoved his head out the
manhole to find himself afloat in the
tank on a flooded billabong. When he
tried to get out he discovered that the
confined space had caused his body to
swell. There was just enough water to
float the tank, which drifted drunkenly
towards the deep water of the Murray,
with Hogan alternately struggling, yelling
for help and trying to keep his prison
from turning over. Sometime during the
morning he collapsed inside the tank, and
was still out to it when two horsemen
arrived with ropes, beached the tank and
tied it securely to a tree. They were
about to leave when one happened to
glance in and spot the reviving Hogan.
“Blimey!” he marvelled. “There’s a
bloke in it!” “Bloke be blithered!”
wheezed Hogan. “I’m a sardine. Go
an’ get a tin-opener an’ get me outa
this.” They got him out by pouring cold
water over him until he shrank, a pro-
ceeding that put him in the Wentworth
hospital with rheumatic fever. He’s had
a horror of confined spaces ever since.
* * * *
“Mei”: Now that midsummer is
making us all appreciate afresh the water-
bag, let us spare a thought to the
man who first brought it into use.
Lands Commissioner Mitchell, son of
Sir Thomas, the explorer, made the first
by rubbing fat on the outside of a flour-
bag. It was sufficiently effective to en-
courage further experiments, and even-
tually canvas was chosen as the most
useful material.
“Caballer”: As a newchum, I went
straight into the tropical scrub on the
Atherton Tableland (N.Q.), and not for
four years did I see a sheep, a
rabbit or wheat. We had our own fauna
in that scrub —cassowaries, tree-climbing
kangaroos and white-tailed rats. Even
in Atherton itself there were many who
looked askance at the white-tailed rats.
As big as threequarter-grown rabbits, the
same color as the ordinary rat, but with
a milk-white tail, they hunted in packs
of 20 or 30. They can bite open tins
of condensed milk, and will gnaw through
a kerosene-case in two minutes. My
mate and I, camped along the Johnson,
lost a good part of our tucker to them,
and one night, having left his pipe on the
table, they carried it off, as they will any-
thing that has been handled and used. It
was the last straw. “I’ve kept the blanks
in tucker for weeks,” he roared, “but if
they’re going to start smoking I’m
finished!”
* * * *
“Bokko”: We, too, would have that
disregard for pain (B. 1/1 / ’4l) if we had
had the same training in youth as do the
abos. Among the tribes withstanding of
pain is an essential part of a lad’s up-
bringing. In the Centre they have been
known to compete with one another in
letting red-hot coals rest on their fore-
arms —some allowing them to stay until
they have burned themselves out, leaving
holes going deep in the flesh. That news
about the modern dentist’s chair being
borne as stoically as any pain inflicted
under tribal conditions knocks one
anthropological theory sky-high. That
is, that the pain of tooth-avulsion and
other —to us —brutal initiation rites is
borne unflinchingly not from stoicism
and courage but because in the high
spiritual exaltation of the moment it is
not felt. I defy anyone, even the most
mystic-minded abo., to feel spiritual exal-
tation in a dentist’s chair.
* * * *
“W. ’Ope”: Young Wally acquired a
pedigree racin’ dawg. The local lads
offered no end of suggestions on its train-
ing and care. The idea of cleaning the
p.r.d.’s toenails was accepted without
question, but when one bright spark ad-
vised the hopeful owner that the
“champ.’s” teeth must be brushed regu-
larly it was too much. “I don’t clean me
own damn’ teeth, so I’m certainly not
goin’ to clean ’is,” he protested.
* * *
“L.McK.”: The shearing contractor,
anxious to cut-out quickly and get on
to another and bigger station, had been
urging his team on, resulting in their
“skimming the wrinkles” and leaving the
sheep with a fair overcoat. Then seeing
old Wilson, the owner, approaching, he
tried to head him off. By way of a dis-
tracting opening he inquired affably,
“Where are you sending your wool this
year, Mr. Wilson?” Old Wilson con-
tinued to gaze at the sheep with a jaun-
diced eye. “Well,” he said acidly, “by
the look of them sheep, I’ll be sendin’
most of it back to the paddick! ”
* * * ♦
“Merrangbaur”: “Mirages is funny
things,” said Bert the Barman. “We goes
out one Sund’y an’ it’s ’ot as them noo
taxes. There ain’t a breath of air stirrin’,
an’ the bay’s that steady y’d think you
was in Bourke-street. Our rods is tied
down, an’ we’re layin’ orf in the cabin
coolin’ our throats down, when old
Shandy’s line starts to jerk. Shandy just
can’t resist a bite. Out ’e crawls, an’ near
gets sunstroke landin’ that fish. ’E’s busy
baitin’ ’is line again when ’e ’appens to
glance round the sky. ‘Gripes, ’ave a
Captain Cook at this!’ ’e ses, like a kid
wot’s just found sixpence. I sticks me
’ead out an’ ’e’s pointin’ to a queer-look-
in’ thing movin’ dead slow across the sky.
‘That ain’t no cloud! ’ ses Shandy ; ‘that
there’s one of them mirages.’ ’E’s right,
too. There’s a flamin’ boat floatin’ along
calm as y’ like, upside down. It’s that
clear y’ can see blokes aboard ’er.
Shandy’s terrible pleased with ’imself.
Y’d think ’e’d discovered the Flyin’
Dutchman or somethin’. ‘Might be one
of them pocket battleships the ’Uns is
sneakin’ round in,’ ’e ses. Dunno ’ow
big ’e thinks a pocket battleship is, but
this ’ere’s a flamin’ launch. Shandy ain’t
satisfied though. ’E rummages in a locker
an’ digs out an’ old pair of race glasses.
’E finishes up standin’ on ’is ’ead with
me ’oldin’ ’is feet while ’e tries to read
the name on ’er bows. ‘Well,’ I ses, when
’e comes right side up again, ‘is it a
raider?’ ‘No, it ain’t,’ ’e ses with a silly
look on ’is face. ‘lt’s us!’ ’E wouldn’t
’ave no more beer that day.”
* * * *
“Groper”; In B. 25/12/’4O “Old-timer”
says he knows of only one town with two
pubs next door to each other. The
Bohemia and the Wentworth in Perth
(W.A.) and the Pier and Gordon’s in
Bunbury are next-door neighbors.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: A dismayed chorus
from within the hen-house sent me run-
ning in that direction. 1 had been get-
ting few eggs, although their flaming
red combs and keen appetites indicated
that the hens should have been laying well.
Then I saw the cause —a long, blackish-
green streak tore out and scampered up
a big ironbark. Fifty feet up he stopped,
and I remembered savagely that 1 was
out of rifle ammunition. My dogs
barked at the foot of the tree, but I
didn’t want to spend an hour hewing
down the giant. Then out of nowhere
came three butcher-birds which made
swift, deadly swoops on the goanna,
front, rear and middle. He scrambled
further up, then came down again like
lightning, right to the ground, where the
dogs settled him. I blessed those birds.
But that was yesterday. Today I caught
sight of one of them flying out of the
kitchen with a hunk of steak.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: For the most original
way of stealing sheep I back a mid-
Murray method. Reaching the river
frontage, I was staggered to see a woolly
moving across the stream in a strange
manner towards the southern bank.
There, dripping wet, it stood and
shuffled as though hobbled, so I swam
across to investigate. It was caught
in a rabbit-trap to which a line
was attached. Further investigation
showed that the trap had been set on
the watering bank on the N.S.W. side,
and the sheep pulled across a hundred
yards of river by a cruel blighter of a
sheep-stealer in Victoria.
* * * *
“Abergowrie”: I’ve seen many an
amateur dingo-stiffener despair as he
viewed the tempting bait that had merely
been turned over with an exploratory
nose. I make certain of warrigal by dig-
ging a shallow hole, dropping the bait in
and then, getting hold of my dog’s front
legs, scratching the earth over the bait
with them. Next time the wily one comes
along he will find the scent of the dog
clinging to the freshly-disturbed earth. It
never misses.
* ♦ *
“Red George”: I offer as the origin
of the bunyip (B. 1/1 / ’4l) —the diproto-
don. Certainly the dip. wasn’t a man-
devourer like “Bloughton’s” crocodile, but
in Centralia, where the dip. ended his
days, there is the very bunyip-like legend
of the kudimukra, the water-devourer —
and the diprotodons that, with the gradual
drying-up of the great lakes of Centralia,
converged on the last of the disappear-
ing waters must have seemed to the
abo. of thousands of years ago to be
devouring the waters. That the abo.
was present in those days seems prob-
able from the late Dr. Basedow’s iden-
tification of certain carvings in the
Flinders Range (S.A.) with the tracks
of the diprotodon. In the legend many
of the Kudimukra died through being
bogged in the mud of the lakes they were
emptying—and there diprotodons have
been found, around the edges of Lake
Kallabonna, with their ancient skeletons
still bogged fast in saline mud. As the
legend spread from tribe to tribe it most
likely gathered trimmings—as do war-
time rumors until, by the time the
legend reached s.-e. Australia, the bunyip
had become a man-eater.
PEGASUS.
The Muses owned a winged horse,
Whose feats mythologies discuss.
You must have heard of him, of course,
The admirable Pegasus.
I’ve wished, full many a time and oft,
He hadn’t vanished up aloft.
Carbines and Gloamings leave me quite
Cold. Useless, these, at any time
To those who fain the lyre would smite
And build the purchasable rhyme.
No wonder-horse, for blokes like us,
Can take the place of Pegasus.
What though Eclipses and Phar Laps
And Ajaxes will ever be
Names to be breathed by horsy chaps
With something like idolatry,
Whatever fame their record guards,
They’re little good to struggling bards.
But Pegasus went up and on
Into poetic realms serene.
He only paused on Helicon
To sink a mug of Hippocrene,
The ultra-lucky chap who had
A mount on that engaging prad.
I sit and puzzle what my song
Should be about, with furrowed brow,
And wish some power would bring along
(Though nobody can do it now),
To save me all this fret and fuss,
A ready-saddled Pegasus.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m grape-snatchin’
f’r an old bloke what lived on his own
at Merbein,” said Mat. “His only mate
was a pet magpie, an’ he used to talk
to it like you an’ me talk to each other.
The maggie used to go orf down the
river among the bush maggies while me
an’ the old bloke snatched the berries,
but he always came back at night an’
roosted on the head of the boss’s bunk.
Well, we’d just got all the fruit on the
rack when a cold change an’ rain comes
up. We cover the rack an’ retire to the
house. About dark the old chap gets
worried, no maggie havin’ showed up.
By nine o’clock he’s in a sweat, walkin'
round the house an’ callin’ ‘Pie, pie,
come on, pie!’ But no pie comes, no
warble greets his call. I managed to get
a bit o’ sleep, but the boss is still awake
at dawn, an’ then he goes out to search.
Bimeby he comes back, wet through an’
carryin’ a half-drowned magpie with a
broken wing. There’s about half a bottle
o’ rum in the house, an’ the boss gets
this down an’ starts to feed it to the
maggie with a spoon. LSy cripes, shiverin’
an’ wet as he is, he pours the lot into
that flamin’ bird. Y’ know,” finished
Mat, rather reverently, “he must ’a’
thought a lot of that maggie. I couldn’t
’a’ done it.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Will Lawson’s snippet of
Murray history (B. 15/1/’4l) makes me
wonder if he ever heard how old Charlie
Hunt, in the Invincible, got astray one
night in the 1917 flood and when dawn
came found himself threshing through
unknown waters. He followed the cur-
rent slowly, keeping two hands on watch
for stumps and shoals, and about noon
spotted an old whaler and his dog adrift
on a piano-case. He got them aboard
and then asked the whaler “Whereabouts
is the river?” “Blinked if I know,” came
the reply, “but this is the road to Mallee
Cliffs.”
« * * *
“Naturala”: One of the puzzles of this
planet, and one also that demonstrates
its great age, is why some animals, after
having attained to the dignity of a life
on land, should return to the sea. Take
the turtle. Without question it and the
tortoise are of the same family, born of
an ancestral reptile which, through much
travail and modification, crawled out of
the water and for a very long period
lived exclusively on the land. Then, for
some as yet undiscovered reason, mem-
“Can’t speak to un since ’e been told ’e do look like Wins on Churchill!
“ That’s all the scrap I can let y' have —I got to get this tub back to Sydney !”
bers of the family returned to the water,
there to subdivide into four broad species
—the fresh-water turtle, the hawksbill,
the green turtle and the loggerhead. We
can be sure that the turtle once lived ex-
clusively on the land by its nesting habits.
Fish and species of shark deposit their
eggs in the water, and in the water the
young are hatched. But the turtle, hav-
ing attained at one stage to the laying of
its eggs on the land, can never take its
eggs back into the water. So, periodi-
cally, it returns to the peak point in its
ancestral evolution and crawls ashore to
deposit its eggs. Failure to do so would
mean extermination of the species, for
by no chance could the turtle egg hatch,
or even survive, in the water.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Give a youngster every-
thing he asks for and he will grow
up with no independence and with never
a friend worth having. Watched a decent
young couple who’d had a foster-child
foisted upon them, and right from the
start the intruder grizzled for what he
wanted till he got it. Once successful,
he never let up ; and while his over-
worked hosts were kept poor and had to
defer their own domestic hopes the young
glutton grew up and, far from repaying
his debts, left one day in a petulant tan-
trum. Saw him again lately. He was
sleek and well-dressed, but he had
stumbled upon another industrious pair
and was cadging with all the shameless
laziness that had marked his youth. This
time, however, there was nothing doing.
They knew his sort and simply sat down
and ignored him ; and not till that bronze
cuckoo finally flew off in disgust did the
blue wrens resume feeding their brood.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Paddy Campoven’s tribe
was only a remnant of the once-great
Bibbulmun nation, but they still re-
membered a few tricks of their fore-
fathers. Night-fishing with the torch and
spear was one. The spear was easy ;
a slender shaft of lancewood, fire-
hardened at the point, barbed, and with
almost a needle sharpness. The torch was
a masterpiece. The dry, rushlike fronds
of the blackboy, scientifically Xanthorrea,
burn with a furious flame, almost
magnesiumlike, but are gone inside a
few seconds. Taking a handful of dry
fronds sufficient to make a cable about
Hin. in diameter, the lubras bound it
round and round with green rushes,
leaving at the top a plume or brush
sufficient to start a good light. So, with
the torch burning, rush after rush
snapped in turn, releasing just enough of
the dry fronds to keep a good flame
going. Such a torch lasted only a few
minutes, but materials were inexhaustible,
and with a good supply on hand the
lubras could keep a flame burning over
the shallows, enabling the bucks to spear
mullet, catfish, crabs, anything in the
fishy and edible line that came innocently
towards the light. And, as each in turn
was impaled, a quick lift and a jerk
brought them up and sent them flying
ashore, where the more elderly members
of the tribe, together with the picca-
ninnies, bagged the catch. And a good
haul it invariably was, for the catfish
alone provides a never-failing harvest in
most waters of southern W.A.
* * * #
“S.T.S.”: S.A. Government has found
time to alter officially about 40 place-
names in the State. It is an odd gram-
matical fancy, for the change consists
merely of dropping the “s” where a hill
or flat, gully or gap bears the name of
some old-time proprietor. Thus Norton’s
Summit, the residence of Premier Play-
ford, now becomes Norton Summit; but
who is to benefit by the change is not
easy to see.
* * * *
“Clinton Cape”: As a continent Aus-
tralia is the world’s insect paradise. Other
continents may excel m varieties,
but Australia is unsurpassed in
numbers. Take the ants. No spot,
be it ever so remote in the desert,
is without them. What they live
on is a puzzle, for in such places
even grass seeds are scarce, and
there is no other possible fodder.
When one camps at night they seem
to smell one’s presence, for in next
to no time they will be scouting
around the rugs seeking a chance
to get in the nips. But the real
cavalcades and torment are the flies.
It is always a puzzle to the desert
wanderer what these fiendish bat-
talions found to feed on before a
man arrived. For they are always
there in myriads, and every place
over thousands of square miles will
be the same. Strangely, settlement,
although it provides garbage and
increases water supplies, brings
about a rapid decrease in
flies. Likewise the survivors seem to
lose their vicious persistency. A settle-
ment fly is readily discouraged from
alighting by a mere wave of the hand,
but not the bush or the desert fly ; it
needs to be knocked off. The desert
variety will crawl up one’s nose and into
one’s ears and have to be dug out.
******
“Pick”: As a provider of sanctuary
for Scrubland’s smaller denizens the white
gum stands on its own. Susceptible to
the onslaughts of white ants, dry-rot and
borers, with age the tree usually becomes
completely hollow. Rabbits and bandi-
coots occupy the hollow roots, possums,
squirrels and ringtails the branches. The
rabbits and bandicoots prolong the
hollow roots by tunnelling obliquely to
the surface, thus providing an escape
tunnel for rodents, toads, tree-frogs and
a host of smaller fry that squirm their
way through the passage.
* * * *
“Thorn”: “I’ve been in some tough
spots in my time,” Ned remarked. “Once,
out in the gibber plains of the Centre,
I’d had nothin’ but stunted mulga an’
speargrass to eat for a week. But I didn’t
mind that so much. It was me dog that I
was worried about. He was falling away
to a shadow and wouldn’t eat that.” “I
suppose he died,” I remarked. “Not on
your life,” Ned replied. “I cut his tail off
and stewed a bit of it every day for him
until help came.”
» * * *
“Mug Wump”: “Murlonga’s” minor
miracle of a wire fence controlling rain-
fall (B. 1/1 / ’4l) would be a major
miracle if it were so. What he saw can
be seen on almost every station in sheep
country. The explanation is that one side
of the fence is a working paddock, the
other side a grazing area. If long green
grass bends gently to the breeze in the
grazing paddock, short stubble eaten
level with the earth is the only possi-
bility for the working or holding pad-
docks.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Press reports of a
171 b. flathead, 3ft. Sin. long, taken at
Brunswick Heads (N.S.W.), set Brisbane
anglers shaking their heads. There was
no need for disbelief —one of 151 b. and
3ft. lin. was caught a few days later at
Tin Can Bay (Q.). As for other Queens-
land fish, a 3i-lb. whiting was landed at
Keppel Island, a sea-bream at Cal-
oundra, a 211 b. tailer at Moreton Island,
an 841 b. jewfish at Noosa Heads, a 1551 b.
Spanish mackerel off Cooktown, a 5001 b.
groper in the same waters. The biggest
fish taken on rod and line was a 13241 b.
white pointer shark caught off Mooloo-
laba by F. Z. Eager. There are bigger
ones left in the same locality, particularly
about autumn.
* * * *
“Flight”: The best pantomime in bird-
life is undoubtedly the brolga trying to
lead a stranger away from the nest. Some
birds are pretty good at this; the brolga
and his missus are stars. The nest is just
a bare place on the ground—in channel
country, out on the downs, anywhere at
all. There are a couple of dirty eggs, or
maybe a peeper just chipping the shell.
The brolgas nearly turn themselves in-
side out in their efforts to lead the in-
truder elsewhere. They have fainting
fits; they spread their wings, drooping
them till the tips touch the ground, and
stagger in the last extremity of sickness.
They reel and lurch, stand on a tripod
formed by the tip of the bill and their
two feet; fall over, pick up with diffi-
culty, and wheeze in panting breaths. In
spite of the absurd antics, the job of find-
ing the nest is easy. When the birds go
into silly antics you know you’re headed
straight for the nest; when they ease off
and appear unconcerned, you’re off the
scent. Watch them. They’ll guide you
there as surely as if you were led by the
hand.
SMOKING FLAX.
This is a worthless song to sing, but a song
from the heart no less.
For a man may sing from a heart that’s full or
out of his emptiness.
If the fruit of his heart be void of good when
the hot sun dries and cracks
He’ll sing a song of the broken reed that’s one
with the smoking flax.
Though he have no wound but the wound he
took from the word that was passed long
syne,
From the pitch he touched that had kinship
not with the breath of the sweet pitch pine;
Yet out of the fume comes a song to sing, be
he pleased with the song or no;
But better the chant that the cobbers sing as
they cozen the flax to grow.
For he who sings of a broken reed or sings
of the smoking flax
Should think on the song of the threshing floor
and the sough of the hoppered sacks;
And the man who sings to his Diesel bride has
something that he may tell
To me who sing of the severed cord and the
pitcher smashed at the well.
MAORILAND.
C. R. Allen.


DON'T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become you”
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour how. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence.
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
The Symbol o /
Security!
(raimn
‘vnvaxsav
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon.
Robert C. Wilson.
(Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd ;
Manager: J
Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
. G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834. j
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID rrp £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL, ~ M 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edwa*d R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert 3. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office; 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bradford Cotton Mills
, ——Dividends ~ To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,514 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,340 4,174 5,099
1936.. 21,591 6 „ 124 „ 12,645 8,946 14,045
Surplus revaluation assets, £22,406;
reserves capitalised, £21,500 .. 14,951
1937.. 26,966 6 p.c. 15 p.c. 18,525 8,441 26,892
1938.. 24,871 6 „ 124 „ 19,384 5,487 32,379
1939.. 29,001 6 „ 12| „ 22,976 6,025 38,404
Capital assets reserve, £105,379 .. 143,783
1940.. 48,499 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 33,310 15,189 158,972
Before the outbreak of war consider-
ably less than a tenth of Australia’s
cotton textile requirements were imported.
Since then all our mills have expanded
their plant capacity and output. The
most progressive have been Davies, Coop
and Co., a Victorian concern, and Brad-
ford Cotton, which was formed in Syd-
ney by the Keighleys, formerly of Brad-
ford, who set up their plant in Australia
some time before the depression. Brad-
ford Cotton’s progress has so far been
solid and unbroken.
The co. concentrated its activities
in its Sydney mills until the begin-
ning of 1939. It made particular head-
way following the introduction in May,
1935, of duties on British cotton tweeds,
denims, drills, etc. A large proportion
of output was comprised of these softer,
spongy types of cloth of the coarser
kinds. Profits were entirely satisfactory
to shareholders, partly by reason of the
fact that from the outset of operations
the management aimed at maintaining
the book value of assets at as low a
figure as possible, thus keeping capital
account in modest dimensions. The
public became interested in 1935, from
which point the introductory table takes
up the story.
Soon after the introduction of the new
tariffs the ord. div. rose from 10 p.c. to
12| p.c. Between the 1935 and 1938
balance days paid capital rose from
£115,906 to £202,742, the increase
including £21,500 of bonus scrip distri-
buted in the 1937 term, when a 15 p.c.
div. was declared out of earnings equal
to 22.8 p.c. on ord. capital. Next term
earnings weren’t quite so good, and on
the enlarged ord. share-register they fell
to 16.5 p.c., the div. dropping to \l\ p.c.
It is over the past two years that the
greatest expansion in Bradford’s affairs
has taken place. In the first half of
1939 a pup, C. and D. Mills, was formed
to turn out canvas and duck, two
materials the country was very short of,
for civil and military requirements. Soon
after, Sanforising Services of Aus-
tralia was formed to exploit the
sanforising process of pre-shrinking
cotton cloths. Not a great deal of capital
was required immediately with these two
cos. But the acquisition of most of the
capital of Austral Silk and Cotton Mills,
Melbourne, soon afterwards involved the
issue of 93,167 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
43.000 ords. in exchange. Control of
Austral Silk helped Bradford out greatly
on the yarn side —the mill is principally
occupied in spinning cotton yarn.
Next development was the purchase of
the factory of Barnet Glass Rubber at
Footscray (Vic.) from Dunlop-Perdriau
for scrip. A new spinning and weaving
plant has been put into the buildings.
The Dunlop co. received 34,000 f.-p. ords.
immediately, and a further issue is to be
made (£20,000 is still owing) about the
middle of 1941, About the same time
239,964 ords. were offered to share-
holders at par in order to finance
general expansion. Capital issue since
Dec., 1937, by Bradford have been as
follows:
Feb., 1938, 53,750 ords. to shareholders.
April, 1939, 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. to share-
holders.
Mid-1939, 43,000 f.-p. ords. and 93,167
prefs. to shareholders in Austral Silk and
Cotton.
Dec., 1939, 34,000 f.-p. ords. to Dunlop-
Perdriau and 239,964 ords. to share-
holders.
Issued capital is now £633,039, £153,104
of it in 6 p.c. prefs. A final call on the
last issue of ords. isn’t due until June 30
next.
During the very active 12 months to
June 30, 1940, Bradford’s gross profits
(£81,271) rose £23,564, of which increase
administration exes. (£27,756) took £6925.
Provision for taxation, contingencies and
bad debts was £12,180 higher at £20,055.
Austral Silk paid the co. a div. of
£15,040 ; thus Bradford’s net profit was
£19,498 higher at £48,499, and equal to
16.1 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
16.2 p.c. in the preceding term. The ord.
div. was cut to 10 p.c., and £15,189 was
carried to reserves, now £158,972, includ-
ing £105,379 placed to capital assets re-
serve as a result of the Austral Silk deal.
The great expansion last year shows
up in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £202,742 £222,742 £541,517
Liabilities .. 26,765 59,545 60,300
Freeholds . . 49,068 54,292 134,981
Plant, etc. . . 117,938 140,964 152.726
Shares in other cos. ■ — 13,000 230,719
Advances, other cos. 341 72,258
Stocks . . . . 66,906 100,097 120,542
Debtors . . 28,672 31,644 44,456
Cash, etc. . . 16,957 43,070
In view of the transformation of the
financial structure during the year, com-
parisons of movements in trading assets
are of little value.
The remarkable thing about last year’s
trading was that earning power was main-
tained on the increased capital, even
though some of the assets acquired were
wholly or partly unproductive during the
term. The sharemarket at the present
stage takes a cheerful view of the posi-
tion and pays 41s. 6d. for the f.-p. ords.,
obtaining a yield of 4.9 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. An interim is due in Feb-
ruary.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends
Href. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930, . 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
1932.. 45,061 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 56,585
1933.. 47,137 27,790 5 „ „ 15,000 4.347 60,932
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 p.c. = 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21,000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 42,260196,013
1939.. 94,007 27,790 9 „ ~ 27.000 39,217235,’230
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..215,230
1940.. 94,779 27.790 9 p.c. = 27,000 39,989 255,219
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..235,219
This is Adelaide’s biggest departmental
store, and a very progressive institution it
is, too. Public investment interest is con-
fined to the prefs. (100,000 A and 297,000
B, both 7 p.c. cumulative), the ords.
(300,000) being held by Myer Emporium,
Melbourne, which bought control from
the Marshalls in 1928, paying 30s. each
for two-thirds of the holding, the balance
being taken at par later. Trading policy
has been moulded on lines similar to the
parent’s, and many lines previously im-
ported have been gradually replaced by
products from the co.’s own workrooms,
which means much in these days of re-
stricted imports, exchange-control and
high tariff charges.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was more money
about, industrial activity in S. Aus. con-
tinued to expand, and the Government
didn’t mop up much of the extra funds
either. So it was a good year for the
retailer, though his costs continued to
climb. This co.’s sales were “well main-
tained,” and the percentage of gross
profit to turnover was kept within “aver-
age range,” which can be taken to mean
that the co.’s goods were keenly priced.
After making what looks like liberal pro-
vision for depreciation and other contin-
gencies, and setting aside £36,000 (up
£6000) for the taxgatherer, the board
wrote net earnings £772 better at £94,779.
That was more than three times the year’s
combined pref. requirements, or enough
to pay the prefs. their contract rates and
show a juicy 22 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 22, 23, 20, 16.8, 13.1, 8.4, 6.4
and 5.7 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was
kept at 9 p.c., and of the £39,989 that
remained £20,000 was struck off the book
value of premises, leaving visible reserves
at £235,219, an improvement of £185,190
over the last decade.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
figures was a sharp growth of £226,570 in
stocks, a precaution against rising prices
and other difficulties, especially in con-
nection with imported goods:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities .. 243,283 262,317 182,921 329,366
Freeholds, etc. 553,014 598,169 591,892 563,679
Fu r n i t u r e,
plant, etc... 105,666 88,492 79,450 64,771
Stocks .. 284.454 340,406 346,950 573,520
Book debts . . 117.110 132,065 129,255 118,410
Cash .. . . 10,414 46,092 26,497 26,099
To meet the outlay an extra £80,525 of
deposits (£139,208) was gathered, the
amount coming to trade creditors
(£151,071) was increased by £62,026
and £3896 was added to the overdraft
(£39,087). On fixed assets £42,892 more
was written off than was spent, which
suggests that the board might have been
able to show a bit more profit if it had
wanted to. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£388,663)
was £68,882.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook in S. Aus., as in most other
States, is not very bright, and income,
sales and other taxes and Government
borrowing promise to narrow private
spending a little, while costs will be diffi-
cult to curb. Still, the co.’s stock posi-
tion should be a big help to profit-earn-
ing, and the margin between last year's
earnings and distributions leaves nothing
to fear so far as shareholders are con-
cerned.
The A and B shares, which have a
steady market at 28s. and 275., return
5 p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively at the
prices stated. The net tangible cover is
£9 6s. sd. As, £2 14s. Id. Bs and 545. Id.
ords. The ords. are not listed.
Amalgamated Textiles (Aus.), Ltd.
To He— Re—
Sept., Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 8,968 Nil 1,515
Unexplained reduction, £125 .. .. 1,390
1932.. 1,337 Nil 53
Profit.
1933.. 21,768 5 p.c. = 14,759 7,009 7,062
Unexplained reduction, £282 .. .. 6,780
1934.. 9,733 3J p.c. = 11,028 5,485
1935.. 17,624 5 „ „ 14,704 2,920 8,405
Unexplained reduction, £73 .. .. 8,332
1936.. 12,513 Nil 12,513 20,845
1937.. 7,183 5 p.c. = 14,709 13,319
Forfeited shares, £ll4 .. • • . . 13,433
Plant, etc., written up, £64,041 .. 77,474
Written off freeholds, £11,116 . . 66,358
Nov., Loss. Deficit.
1938*. 125,652 Nil 59,294
Forfeited shares, £142 .. .. 59,152
Tax refunds, £4575 .. .. .. 54,577
From tax reserve, .£1405 .. .. 53,172
Sept., Profit.
1939't. 6,367 Nil 6,367 46,805
Loss sale property, £1457 . . ■ • 48,262
1940.. 31,569 ' Nil 31,569 16,693
*l4 months, flO months.
The figures prior to 1938 are misleading,
owing to successive overvaluation of
stocks, which accounted for £117,620 of
the £125,652 loss disclosed for that year.
The actual net result of the 10 years’
trading to the close of accounts in 1938
was a loss averaging £4BOO p.a. In the
clean-up, freehold was written down by
£11,116 in the books and goodwill
(£10,517), which the “Wild Cat” had
never treated as an asset, was rubbed out
of the accounts. But the book value of
plant, etc., the chief earning asset, was
written up by £64,041. These adjust-
ments, which had no effect on earning
power one way or the other, left £59,294
of the capital unrepresented by tangibles
in the books at the end of November,
1938. As the “Wild Cat” remarked at
the time, “no harm would have been
done had all the deadwood been pruned
out of the accounts, and another cut
made in capital”—£ls6,los (6s. Bd. per
share) had been lopped off in 1929 in an
effort to put the co. on an even keel.
Since the close of last accounts share-
holders have agreed to make a cut of
2s. 6d. in each of the 441,269 issued
shares, reducing their face value to
10s. lOd. each. That will make avail-
able £55,159, enabling the deficit at the
end of September last to be wiped out,
and leave £38,466 for reserves and/or
such other adjustment of the accounts
as may be considered necessary. It will
also reduce paid capital to £239,021, on
which a 5 p.c. div. would call for
£11,951, or not much more than one-third
of last year’s declared net earnings.
Further, under existing conditions it
should open the road to the payment of
regular divs., and has already enhanced
the market value of the shares. It won’t
affect actual earning power, but it will
cause profits to take on a healthier look
in relation to capital.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, business bounded along,
thanks to defence contracts, which also
eased the pressure of competition in the
ordinary market. Amalgamated’s output
increased 7 p.c. in the first half
of the period and 21 p.c. in the
second half. The mill profit prac-
tically doubled, reaching £62,259. Selling
exes. (£14,506) and administrative
charges (£14,927) took £3296 and £l6lO
respectively of the gain, and an extra
£B5B was set aside for the taxgatherer
(£1258). Only “special” income tax was
provided for; it is not yet known
whether last year’s earnings will be sub-
ject to war-time profits tax. Reduced
freight, light, power and water charges
helped to keep exes. down. Considering
the co.’s contribution to the policy of
decentralisation, it deserves all the assist-
ance that can be given to it in this direc-
tion.
There was thus a sharp leap of £25,202
in net earnings, which reached £31,569,
equal to 13.2 p.c. on £239,020 of capital.
That leaves out of the reckoning a loss
of £1457 on sale of some cottages which
has been charged against capital in the
table. No. div. was paid, money being
wanted in the business. The amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books at Sept. 30 was £16,693.
Here is the position as the published
accounts show it:
Sept,, Nov., Sept., Sept.,
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £294,179 £294,179 £294,179 £294,179
Overdraft . . 51,143 61,894 53,330 58,705
Sundry creditors 14,640 55,100 51,851 44,394
Freeholds . . 83,276 72,235 72.235 66,035
Plant, etc. .. 77,335 135,627 130,501 123,829
Stocks . . 187,184 117,620 98,555 119.436
Book debts . . 40,906 26,242 50,267 71,398
Cash, etc. . . 1,589 1,560 1,398 1,388
Practically all the money that became
available went into stocks (up £20,881)
and book debts (up £21,131). While
£5375 was added to the overdraft £7457


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. k G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
ƒ
FOR
COULD BE USED
JOB LIKE THIS!
mm
m
HIGH
A
resisting T
RUST .pos^ ssES
B A *
GR
IMS***** 1
*
MICAG
rEB *
ECON°
pEG
more
★
NGTE
STRE
Z 54-2120
C MOWN above is a new type of dam constructed at'
** the head ot the Narrabeen Lakes by private enter-
prise. Designed to hold six million gallons of water, it
stands as a striking tribute, not only to its originator, but
to the extraordinary strength and rust-resisting proper-
ties of Lysaght's Zincanneal. To obtain similar strength
and resistance to corrosion In any other building
material, the cost would have been more than four
times the figure quoted for the Zincanneal structure!
What greater proof could be offered of the economy
and wisdom of using Lysaght's Zincanneal for all pur-
poses of water conservation? Specify it when ordering
new tanks or similar equipment.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYD^ EY ~ MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
was snipped off the amount coming to
sundry creditors. The year’s improve
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£89,123) was £44,084. The position
appears to be more healthy than for
some time.
What the future holds for the business
remains to be seen. Under war condi-
tions good profits can be expected, and
no harm will be done if divs. are kept
down and the position further strength-
ened. The intention is to commence
payments to shareholders with an interim
for the March half of the current term.
The testing time will come with the post-
war readjustment period. One of the
co.’s greatest difficulties is heavy over-
head, owing to the situation of the mills
—one at Orange, another at Albury and
a third at Goulburn —which turn out
worsteds that compare favorably with
the products of competitors.
The market prices the now f.-p.
10s. lOd. shares at Bs., as against ss. 9d.
a year ago. At the higher figure the
return would be 6.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. At the end of Sept, last the
net tangible cover was 12s. 7d. per share,
book value.
On the Bendigo field in 1940 North
Deborah took the lead among the div.-
payers with £94,000 to its credit, against
£79,000 from Deborah. Central Nell
Gwynne, the 1939 leader, ran third with
£65,000. Ironbark South returned £30,000
to its shareholders, and Monument Hill
was the other show that reached a five-
figure distribution —it paid out £lO,OOO.
Total of divs. for the field was over
£280,000, against £116,750 in 1939. The
1940 figure was the best since 1904. The
revival at Bendigo has followed on,
firstly, developments at the Hercules, on
the Sheepshead line of reef, then on the
Nell Gwynne, and now on the Deborah
line. North Deborah at present is the
most spectacular mine, turning out 28dwt.
ore. Central Nell Gwynne’s divs. come
out of 7dwt. stone. On the Deborah line
two cos. north of the producing area and
five south of it are looking for extensions
of the richness. The Bendigo field turned
out over 52,0000 z. last year, and the
Wattle Gully, at Chewton, contributed a
further 11,2500 z.
* sH %
If time proves chairman R. B. Saw to
be correct, prospects of the hitherto dim
Coolgardie Brilliant are shining. Values,
he says, have been proved for a length
of 800 ft. at the 150 ff. level, mining and
metallurgical problems have been solved,
co. has left the gambling stage, and at
the existing rate of treatment something
like £l5OO a month will be available for
distribution when the time comes. Saw
adds that to pay shareholders 6d. a
year would take only £lO,OOO. Second-
ing Saw’s optimism, managing-director
Horley reckons that as the result
of the past year’s development there
is 30,000 tons of payable ore in sight.
The market values the mine, plant, ore
reserves and prospects at about £35,000.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold production to the end
of 1940 was 46,779,058 fine ounces. An
addition this year of 1,250,0000 z. is
aimed at. In the last four years seven-
figure yields have been recorded, the
highest being 1,214,2380 z. in 1939. Last
year’s figures from the various fields
were: East Coolgardie (Kalgoorlie),
591,9550 z.; East Murchison (including
Wiluna), 139,4850 z.; Murchison,
133,9290 z.; Mt. Margaret, 83,3950 z. ;
Yilgarn, 63,4910 z.; Dundas (including
Norseman), 60,5680 z.; Coolgardie,
40,3280 z.; North Coolgardie, 23,5430 z.;
Broad Arrow, 22,2430 z.; Pilbarra,
19,1650 z, ; Yalgoo, 57990 z. ; Peak Hill,
14840 z. ; Phillips River, 141 loz. ; Kim-
berley, 7680 z. ; North-east Coolgardie,
7570 z. ; Ashburton, 718 oz.; Gascoyne,
240 z. ; miscellaneous, 19660 z. Because
treatment began on the Phoenix (old
Bayley’s Reward), and as a result of a
full year’s output on Tindals, production
on the Coolgardie field rose from
26,0760 z. in 1939 to 40,3230 z. in 1940.
Closure of the Lancefield helped to force
production on the Mt. Margaret field
down from 108,4380 z. to 83,8950 z. East
Coolgardie, in which the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile is situated, showed a rise
in 1940, due to the North Kalgurli’s
Croesus Proprietary plant coming into
operation and slightly higher outputs on
some of the big mines there.
In 1940 the De Bernales group pro-
duced 146,768 fine ounces, a total value
of £1,451,390. The respective results of
cos. were;
Tons. Fine Oz. Value.
Great Boulder .. 450,498 93,202 £925,697
Yellowdine .. 5,173 18,918 185,557
Emu .. .. 47,050 11,880 116,660
Comet .. .. 6,096 7,954 78,097
Gladiator .. .. 27,788 7,684 75,435
Phoenix .. .. 26,486 7,128 69,944
It is hoped that the group’s yield will
be substantially increased during 1941
owing to increasing production. Treat-
ment of tailings on the Beryl mine will
start in March, and treatment of mine
ore in June. The number of men
directly employed on all the mines
totalled 1636 at the end of 1940.
* * * *
“St. Helens”: Someone recently spoke
of the difficulty of getting news about
Helens Hill (N.Q.). The Hill is a most
extraordinary piece of country, being a
solitary knob rising from a plain to a
height of 750 ft., running roughly north
and south, with sundry spurs, etc. Work
commenced on the Eureka lease in May,
1939, V. Crothers and the Lee brothers
opening up the lode. The deposit here
was of a loose and erratic nature, no
shooting being necessary. Rich values
tailed off into hungry chlorite ore as a
rule, and the values were expensive to
find again. All workings to date are
located on the western side of the
hill. Tinstone of a very low mineral
content can be got at the northern end,
richening as it works along the hill to
the south, where the Eureka lease is
situated. This is crossed by a heavy, wide
and dense iron lode of considerable pro-
portions, but is very low in tin values.
The lode is really a continuation of the
one found in the Victoria claim, but is
altered in composition, that in the Vic-
toria being of a chloritic nature. I am
inclined to the belief that all the tin on
Helens Hill is of glacial origin, owing to
the absence of defined lodes (apart from
the iron lode) and the very broken and
scattered nature of the ores. Doubtless
more tin will be got from the locality,
but to get a big, payable quantity will
take capital and hard work.
# * * *
“Khillis”: Broken Hill Prop, is ship-
ping an alluvial testing plant to Hidden
Valley, on Running River, Kangaroo
Hills (N.Q.) tinfield —an area classed by
one warden as the Cinderella of mining
fields. The area is practically on the
Gregory Highway, about 30 miles from
the railway, and 70 miles from Towns-
ville. The field, of which the “township”
of Ewan is the centre, was officially
credited in 1939 with an output of 136
tons tin oxide, value £21,284, and the
output for 1940 would be about the same.
The figures include both lode and alluvial,
the former being most important. Deep
leads are worked around the Fifteen
Mile, and there is a little ground-sluicing
around Hidden Valley. About Ewan
the Sardine and other mines are regular
producers, while copper and wolfram
also figure in the return.
* * * *
After a long period as the chief gold-
producer in the State, underground opera-
tions have been abandoned at New
Deloraine (S.A.), says the half-yearly
review of the Mines Department.
There remains an accumulation of auri-
ferous tailings to be treated, and the new
Bonython laboratory (where the C.S.I.R.
and School of Mines conduct joint inves-
tigations) has reported on methods of
dealing with them. Steps are being taken
to erect plant to treat the tail-
ings, which, because of copper content,
are not amenable to cyaniding. From the
Commonwealth’s £lOOO grant to S.A. for
fostering gold production, 3s. a ton is
being advanced to producers whose ore is
crushed at Glenloth, Mongolata and Tar-
coola ; 2s. at Mount Torrens and Peter-
borough ; and Is. for parcels on which
the special concession is claimed for low-
grade ore, valued at less than 255. a ton.
* * * *
A. F. Scammell, one of the principals of
Fauldings, the Adelaide manufacturing
druggists, is in on the ground floor with
eight mineral claims on a magnesite de-
posit (estimated by Asistant Government
Geologist Ralph Segnit to contain 50,000
tons) just out from Copley, on Quorn-
Alice Springs railway, 354 miles north of
Adelaide. Segnit says many large blocks
of magnesite are strewn over the surface
and can be thrown direct into trucks for
carting away. The field was reported on
as long ago as 1918, but magnesite wasn’t
so important then. Still, under the names
of Dyers’ show and Mount Perkins mine,
it was sporadically worked. The metal
magnesium is now made chiefly from
magnesite. Magnesium is used in mak-
ing alloy metals for aeroplanes, and is
also used in incendiary bombs and flares.
Magnesite itself is the chief refractory
substance for lining furnaces, especially
open-hearth furnaces for making steel.
It is easy to see why the B.H.P. is inter-
ested in the stuff.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.R.: Haven’t analysed the accounts so
exhaustively since. Will do so as soon as
practicable. Meanwhile, the scrip appears worth
holding... .J.H.: Associated Pulp, Bradford
Cotton, B.H.P 0.E.: Woolworths, General
Industries, J. C. Ludowici.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
ENGLAND UNDER FIRE.
(Condensed extracts from a long general descriptive
article by H. M. Tomlinson in the December “Atlantic
Monthly.”)
While we were waiting to hear if the fabulous
power which reduced Rotterdam to rubble and bones
had now made London desolate, there was an en-
couraging fact to keep us company. It was the only
one we had. But in the long run it might prove to be
the cardinal fact. In more than one way Dunkirk
was a revelation. Outnumbered there, our men in the
sky lightly maintained the tradition of those seafarers
who once on a time, with a smaller fleet of better
ships, mishandled in confident abandon the maritime
tradition of great Spain.
Do not think that parallel from 1588 is a solace
far-fetched. There are virtues of the unpredictable
human spirit, as well as vices, which will never become
obsolete, in any new era. And, when condemning a
democratic people for senility and slowness, remember
also that many of them will be young, vivacious,
honest and simple souls, undisturbed by a legend of
an implacable bogey.
* * * » «
Our men in the sky, we had seen, had a confi-
dence in their craft which sent them lightly against the
dreaded German air force, to shoot it down, two and
three to one.
Some of those men we know, and what we know
of them makes still more mysterious their perform-
ances aloft. Down on the earth, at table, or idle while
off duty, they perplex us. We look for signs of their
singular aptitude, as that of Valkyries, but nothing
shows except the poise of ownership, shyness and good
humor. I notice, when with them, that the subject of
flying should be avoided. Talk of anything but that.
1 can but guess that when they are above the clouds,
and out of sight, they are transfigured. They have a
secret. I should like to watch them up there, changed
into the Dawn Patrol.
One of these pilots, a youngster of our acquaint-
ance, after France had surrendered was worried be-
cause 15 messmates had been left in a Biscayan port.
He went to his superior at his aerodrome in central
England. “Let’s get them out of it, sir.”
Out of it? What was he talking about! The
enemy was there by then ; nothing could be done.
Something must be done, protested the junior, and
explained what he would do. His superior then also
went mad, dropped discretion and superiority, and
allowed “a big old bus” to be emptied of everything.
Even its machine-guns were removed. Both set out
into the blue. “What will you do if we meet the Jer-
ries?” asked the senior while over the sea, for they
had no arms. ‘“Dive on the beggars,” said the pilot.
But they had a clear run. They found their men, who,
so the narrator told us, were as cheerful as if victory
were at hand. “I think,” said their senior, looking at
his watch, while merry-making proceeded, “we ought
to be going.” This the boys could not dispute, as they
saw the Germans were beginning to arrive. “Then,”
explained our informant, “we packed in the whole
15 with a shoehorn, and got ’em home to lunch. They
were hungry . . . No. Nothing happened.”
*****
We know, having his own word for it, that it is
Hitler’s will, irrevocable as ever, to blot us out; but
the odd fact is that, though we have witnessed in
horror his methods when blotting out other people,
it is rare to meet a man or woman at home who has
anything more than a puzzled look, or a smile, for the
threat of the abolition of our ancient establishment.
What, push over those hills? How blot us? Mop up
the sea? Naturally it is difficult for a Briton, if his
home is where the funnels of ships are as common-
place as chimney-pots, to believe that a great army
fully furnished can be shipped overseas and landed as
easily as tanks cross a frontier ; the sea is wet, and
that doubter perhaps knows a thing or two of the
mystery of stevedoring. He wonders how stevedoring
would be managed under gunfire. He thinks such a
problem must puzzle even Hitler.
*****
One gazes round the horizon of another morn-
ing, which is undefiled—so far —quite unable to judge,
with all one knows of war and peace, where next the
infernal plague will break out.
It is in that moment of pause and doubt, while
feeling the impartial geniality of the sun, smelling
wood smoke, noticing absently the sprightliness of the
swallows, so strangely unconcerned, and the stillness
and aloofness of the elms, and hearing the voices of
children at play, that a hate of the Nazis falls over the
mind like the sudden chill of a cloud across the sun —
a shadow one would put off, if one could, but cannot.
Those men, fouling life, driving dirt into thought,
rendering even the morning light unreal! Because of
them, the very laughter of innocence at play is dis-
maying, for tonight it may be blotted out. For what?
This hate of the obscene—hardly felt in the last
war, I can affirm —must be reckoned with. I spoke
today to a young soldier, a simple man, who was in
the retreat to the sea. His own part in it did not seem
to interest him, but he did recall, low-voiced, some
wayside scenes in a deliberate hunting down of home-
less civilians by German ’planes, which flew low, play-
ful with machine-guns on helpless crowds. A Belgian
child by the roadside stirred among the dead, and this
youth went to help her, and raised her. Her arm fell
off. He does not fear invasion. He wants it to come.
I left him cleaning his rifle by a beach.
He is wrong? Yes, I suppose he is; and so am I.
Hate is wrong. But that child’s arm fell off. She
opened her eyes to see who touched her and then died.
So what can we do? Tell me that. Is innocence to
perish because of one man’s horoscope? Is its laughter
to be silenced for that? Shall we allow an insensate
fool to put out the light, and thereafter sit in darkness?
If hate, though of what is foul, is unlovely, yet the
prospect of continuous darkness, unrelieved by a gleam
of reason, in which cruelty is absolute, seems a good
deal worse. I cannot justify hate, but would say
merely that we hate a prospect in which life loses all
the values for which we care.
* * * * *
Recently a relative wrote to tell me, in wry words,
that he practised with his bayonet on dummies erected
in the cloisters of abbey ruins where monks once illu-
minated missals and early texts of our faith and origin.
The golf course is a land mine, the public park is cul-
tivated into a surprise for visitors we do not want, and
the bathing beach is altered to scarify an ichthyo-
saurus, should it try to land. No church bells may
ring for prayers. The chimes are now the tocsin.
*****
Man is the most adaptable of all animals. In the
heavens, suddenly, the detonations begin their larks,
dammit, right over the Sunday dinner. It is advisable
to leave that on the table, and descend to the dugout.
Your neighbors will be there, also without their
dinners, but with cards and gramophone. During the
hours of work, though, only perfunctory attention is
given to the siren. Mustn’t waste time! But what a
cold hatred of the Nazis accumulates! “They shall
pay for this! ” decided the aged shopkeeper in the by-
street when she came out to rescue from plaster and
broken glass what was left of her stock. Many of us
are in full sympathy with her, for one reason or
another. “Last time,” mused an onlooker, “the Kaiser
THE SAND IS RUNNING LOW.
(The United States Congress is discussing an Aid for the
Democracies Bill.)
ran into Holland. Where will Hitler go?” It was then
seen, with complete satisfaction, that he has nowhere
to go. For we are all aware that this ruin of a con-
tinent need not have come about, but the Nazis had
resolved, with religious fervor, to make it. “Right,”
as once defined by the German Minister of Justice,
“is what is in'the interests of the German Volk ; wrong
is what harms it.”
After that, there was no more to be said. There
was but one thing to do. Could it be done? Last
June not sufficient reason existed to show that it could
be. Today the test is past. It is being done. Our
men have taken the measure of the Nazis. The British
air force was comparatively small, but it has already
destroyed the legend that German propaganda had
created of the invincibility of Hitler’s air fleet; and his
army, at present, is still standing where Parma’s stood.
In this war of the spirit against machines cruelly
directed, the machines encountered at first but a
broken spirit, and flew on in triumph. They encoun-
tered, over the English Channel, a spirit debonair
and resolute, well equipped, and the German Armada
was showered from the skies.
I do not know how to write of those men who,
few in number, went up on wings to avert Nazi
dominion of Christendom. Who could do that, in the
uproar of a war continuing? It has been called an
epic story, a theme for a poet when, in a time to come,
he looks back in tranquillity ; but I do not know how
the silent gratitude of many humble and contrite hearts
can uprise in the splendor of great verse. For our
youth in the air not only saved the day for us ; it
stemmed what seemed to be the oncoming of an age
of darkness. How picture that?
Meanwhile, those same fliers are giving the Nazis
an experience from which Germany has been free
for over a century. Germany, at long last, is now in-
vaded. Hitler’s conjuring has brought that about. The
destruction Berlin designed for others is already near-
ing her precincts. What Berliners rejoiced to hear had
been done to Rotterdam and Warsaw is now approach-
ing Potsdam. I do not want to exult. That, too, is
hateful. There is cruelty enough in the world without
adding to it. Nor could anyone exult after witnessing
what may be seen in my own neighborhood. One day
we chanced on wreckage by the roadside, an ex-
traneous mass which had crushed a hedge of white-
thorn and guelder-rose. A ploughman, with a horse
on a lead, stood by the wreck gravely, bareheaded.
His cap was in his hand. It was the crumpled metal
of a German bomber, its colors and outline grotesque
in that rustic lane ; and tangled with its jagged metal
were the bodies of three young Germans. The plough-
man merely looked at us, and made a sorrowful ges-
ture. He pointed to the field. “Another there,” he
said.
We found there was. It was one of ours, doubt-
less the one that had brought down the bomber. But
that smaller machine, a Spitfire, was perfect. It had
landed in a difficult place with precision. Then its
wounded crusader had climbed out of it to rest. There
he was, with his head on arm, as if asleep.
Soviet Russian Weakness.
[ln The Bulletin of January 8, two days before
the signing of the “New Russo-German Pact of Friend-
ship,” there was a page of “Uncabled Additions” expos-
ing the true state of affairs in the much overboosted
Soviet Union. Curiously, leading U.S. newspapers have
long declined to be parties to or dupes in that boosting,
which is more than can be said for their counterparts
in this part of the world. Additional U.S. comment
on Soviet conditions is here given, the first item con-
densed from a New York “Herald Tribune” article.]
Enough information reaches the outside world to
make clear certain facts about the difficulties in the
Soviet Union’s economic life which
weaken its position in international
affairs. The few returning travellers
paint a vivid picture of Russian listless-
ness, of poor living conditions even for
Russians who are accustomed to living
badly, and of a deteriorating morale in
all walks of life which makes it question-
able if the Soviet Union can hope to play
an active role in Europe in the near
future.
Judged completely by itself, the Red
Army presents a picture which would
make an opponent hesitate before attack-
ing the Soviet Union. If, however, the
army is taken as merely one small part
of the Soviet front, and the civilian popu-
lation and the Soviet industry taken as
the other parts, the weakness of the Soviet
military machine in war is clear. Russian
transport, which has always functioned
badly since the Soviet revolution, remains
an unsolved problem and a dangerous
liability in war. Soviet war industry is still
unable to produce many machine tools ;
the confiscation of more than half the
machine tools on order in the United
States by the American Government for
its own uses was a blow to the Soviet war
industry which was far greater than the
dollar values of the tools indicated. The
American moral embargo on aviation
gasoline and machinery to make it also
cripples the Soviet military machine.
Perhaps the most dangerous factor
in the disruption of the home front,
which might bring a breakdown and even
eventual fall of the Communist Govern-
ment in Russia, is the morale among the
Soviet workers. Foremen and factory
directors will take no responsibility be-
cause they may be accused of sabotage if
anything goes wrong in the carrying out of their orders.
Workers have long hours, and their money can buy
little, for there is a lack of consumption goods in
Soviet-stores. The population is even shabbier in the
large cities than it was a few years ago. The people
have lost the hope for a better life which carried
them through their work, and a general apathy has
taken its place. The apathy of the workers has been
met by sterner laws, but these have not yet produced
much effect. This is not a spirit that leads to revolu-
tion, even if such were possible in peace-time. How-
ever, in war-time it might bring about a general col-
lapse of the Red Army’s rear. For these reasons it is
too much to expect that the Soviet Union can in any
way escape from its collaboration with Nazi Germany,
or risk a war with Germany except in self-defence,
until the German armies have been very much weak-
ened or completely crushed on other battlefields.
*****
(From New York “Sun")
Vladimir Zenzinov, an old comrade of Kerensky,
is back in New York for his third visit with the firm
conviction that Russia, because she fears Germany,
is but a jackal in the hands of the Reich. The fear
he attributes chiefly to the appalling weaknesses which
have cropped up in the Russian economy, forcing the
Stalinists to back down twice in the face of German
ultimatums.
Deliverance in Egypt.
[When the latest airmail to hand left America,
Bardia was yet to fall, but American newspapers were
already hailing the successes in Egypt as a deliverance.
The item here condensed from the New York “Times”
is given as a typical example.]
The extent of the astounding British triumph in
Egypt can be measured only in relation to the fears
that were openly expressed in London three months
ago. At that time the British were afraid that they
might lose the Suez Canal, and Mr. Churchill himself
hinted that Hitler might yet stand “at the gates of
India” before losing the war in the end. The British
Army in Egypt was heavily outnumbered, the navy


was “strung out and terribly thin,” and the Royal Ait
Force was not yet strong enough to win over distant
battlefields.
All this has now been changed in the Near East,
and with the lightning speed of which the Germans
have long claimed a monopoly. The British have
driven Mussolini’s troops from Egypt, capturing scores
of thousands of prisoners and vast stores of material.
There remain the immense power of Hitler’s
Germany and the desperate gambles which Hitler may
attempt in the spring. Nevertheless, the British vic-
tory in Egypt is a deliverance of immense importance.
The threat to Suez is now destroyed, perhaps for ever.
The Italians are on the defensive in Libya and Albania,
their morale at home still further shaken, their influ-
ence within the Axis all but ruined. Not the least
encouraging aspect of the British success is the fact that
it was won by an army of free allies —an army of
British, New Zealanders, Australians, Free French and
others, leagued together for the liberation of Europe.
In this first convincing proof of what an army of free
men can do, the British may yet have given the world
a foretaste of the greater deliverance to come.
War Tests the Democracies.
(Condensed from an American “Mercury” article by
Herbert Agar.)
Over and over we are told that the surest road to
Fascism is to fight a war against Fascism. The stories
of France and England contradict this argument. Ever
since the war began in earnest, England has grown
steadily more democratic. A revolution has taken
place in the hearts of her people. No one could have
foreseen so vast a change in so short a time. The
miracle imagined by Chesterton has come to pass:
Smile at us, pay us, pass us; but do not quite forget.
For we are the people of England, that never have spoken
yet....
There are no folk in the whole world so helpless or so wise.
There is hunger in our bellies, there is laughter in our eyes;
You laugh at us and love us, both mugs and eyes are wet;
Only you do not know us. For we have not spoken yet.
They have spoken at last, the people of England. They
have made this war a people’s war, for freedom and
for the dignity of the unknown men. They have
pushed the important and stupid men aside and have
found their wanted leaders, and they are now eager to
fight. This growing democracy is shown politically
in the new dignity of Parliament and in a National
Government that is truly national; it is shown eco-
nomically in the emergency power the Government
uses over property as well as over the lives of willing
men ; it is shown spiritually in a comradeship not pre-
viously seen in the half-feudal British Isles.
The story of France is also unsatisfying for those
who seek to prove that war kills democracy. France
is “Fascist” today not because she fought the war, but
because she did not fight the war. It is almost true
that the plain people of France were prevented from
knowing about the war —the real war, as opposed to
the war reported in the muzzled French press. As
Samuel Grafton writes in his book All Out! : —
The censorship was used to create a false France for
popular consumption, a France that was “safe” from
the enemy without having to spend its substance to
win safety, a France whose Maginot Line was complete
in the newspapers, if hardly begun along the Belgian
frontier, a France which had (so the censored press
proclaimed) even won the favor of Italy. On March 8,
1940, the “Times” of London was to report solemnly
that “French military opinion” had come to the con-
clusion that there would be no German spring offensive
because “any German advantage in the air is badly
offset by a disadvantage in tanks, and the two must go
hand in hand.” The French people were induced by
their Government to live in a dream world in which
Nazis had no tanks.
France has become “Fascist” because the French
people were not allowed to fight for freedom. Eng-
land has risen to such heights that these days will be
known for ever as her bravest days, because there was
enough freedom in England, enough civil liberty, so
that her people could not be kept from knowing that
the hour of decision had come. The plain man, who
“had not spoken yet” when Chesterton wrote, was
given a chance to speak before the silence of totali-
tarian night could be imposed upon him for Hitler’s
thousand years. And the plain man spoke for freedom.
When the people “know why,” it becomes the
people’s war, and the people will not quit. If their
stupid leaders have given them no better defences than
half-built Maginot Lines or shrunken oceans, the
people may be defeated. But so long as they “know
why,” they will die fighting, and therefore their cause
will be reborn. The only cause that dies for ever is
the cause that no man is willing to defend.
In the last war people believed that freedom must
be defended, and because they believed they died
generously. But those who lived, whose task it was
to go on serving freedom after the last gun had spoken,
did not remember that all good things are threatened
every day and must be rewon with every sunrise. We,
the survivors, behaved as if freedom had been con-
quered once and for all in the mud of Flanders. Before
the fighters were demobilised America had betrayed the
fight, refused the obligations for which her friends
had died. The moral is not that all wars are useless,
but that peace is a struggle as exigent as war.
Out of the betrayal of 1919 came the great
heresy of the twenties: the story told and retold by
professors and journalists that “war settles nothing.”
Democracy has perished over most of the earth’s sur-
face. That is not because the war was futile ; it is
because the post-war days were sinful. By winning the
war we earned a chance to make democracy prevail.
We did not take the chance. That is not the fault of
the war. It is the fault of the people who survived
the war, who did not see life seriously, who thought
the joyful orgy of armistice day could be prolonged
year after distasteful year.
If we had remembered why we fought, if we had
realised the pit of horror that lies under our half-built
civilisation, we would have served the peace with the
same devotion that we gave the war. Because we did
not do so. Hitler was a historical necessity. Because
Hitler, the result of our sins, now straddles the world
like a colossus, we must win a second war. By win-
ning it we give ourselves a second chance to live up
to our pretensions. Nobody can prove that we in the
U.S.A. will take the chance. But Hitler has shown us,
as the Kaiser’s Germany never did, the full ugliness
of the alternative.
It is ironic that Americans, of all people, should
be beguiled by the theory that war settles nothing. War
gave us the chance to leave the British Empire. We
took the chance and made use of it. War gave us the
chance to acquire the Mexican Empire. We took the
chance and made use of it. War gave the North the
chance to erase the slave-civilisation of the South and
to impose the banking and the tariff systems that suited
the new industrialism. The North took the chance
and made use of it. War gave us the chance in 1918
to work our hearts out for a better world for
man. We neglected the chance and lost it. The
record does not prove that war settles nothing.
It proves that war settles exactly what it is in-
tended to settle. It settles who is to have charge
of the immediate future. The war-won oppor-
tunity is often thrown away ; but one thing we
know —if Hitler wins he will not miss his chance.
Today’s war will decide whether the twenti-
eth century belongs to the Nazis or to the people
who still dare aspire to freedom. Whoever tells
us that all wars destroy freedom is helping
Hitler’s fight. Whoever tells us that no wars de-
cide anything is repeating a troublesome lie.
Finally, it is not true that war must kill
democracy. America’s was born in war, and Eng-
land’s is renewed in war today. Above all, it is
not true that America can keep her soul if she
stands idly and watches the world rot.
In Germany Today.
(Condensed from a London “Times” article by
a neutral correspondent who had lately been
in Germany .)
It is not easy today to probe the heart of a
German of the Third Reich, but the living re-
quirements of the common man are well known
to be small. Talks even with old acquaintances
in Germany do not yield much result in these
times. In what they say you recognise phrases
from the newspaper or the wireless, and it is
seldom you can find an individual voice break
through. This is partly due to terror of the Ges-
tapo and partly to the inability of the masses to
withstand seven years of propaganda and preserve
individuality of reasoning power.
If you hear a word of opposition, you may be sure
you have an Austrian before you, or perhaps a Sudeten
German, for these have not yet been so thoroughly
cowed as have Germans of the Reich proper. But
such tones are not frequent. People console them-
selves mostly by the reflection that the war is a matter
for Hitler, that he knows best, that in a fortnight it will
all be over. Apparently they do not realise how long
they have been talking about this fortnight. To the
well-trained masses a single day may appear as a thou-
sand years and a thousand years as a day. If one
meets criticism at all, it does not concern Hitler per-
sonally. That he may be responsible in any way for
present conditions does not apparently strike the aver-
age German at all.
Direct enthusiasm for the war can be observed
but seldom. Little is known of what is happening in
the war. As a rule soldiers do not come home on
leave; their relatives seldom get to know whether
they are alive or dead, and it is forbidden to wear
mourning for a fallen soldier. Material cares appear
to engage the thoughts of people more than what the
Fiihrer and his associates have on hand. When watch-
ing newsreels at the cinema and the desolation of
enemy lands, with the “manly” German airmen smil-
ing sadistically as they point to their work, the people
remain quite passive, no clapping, no ovations, nothing
of the chauvinistic passion one might have expected
from the propaganda orgies of the press. It is as if
they are oppressed by their own experiences of the
terrors of bomb-raiding and cannot easily forget them.
Yet, although real enthusiasm is absent, it would
be wrong to conclude there is any spirit of capitula-
tion or defeatism. The German has, either by nature
or upbringing, a perverse tendency to submit to and
“enjoy” privation, to obey without reflection. Obedi-
ence gives him a good conscience, whether he is serving
a useful purpose or not. These leanings have been
cultivated by the Nazi regime, which has at the same
time exploited his proneness to a sort of philosophical
idealism. The State is for the German something of
intrinsic value, almost a mystic personality. It is the
god Moloch, entitled to require everything from his
citizens without the obligation to give anything in
return. But just on account of the German’s peculiar
mentality—which an outsider can never fully compre-
hend, however much he may try—it is impossible to
predict how he will react to the war winter. There
must be a limit somewhere, beyond which he cannot
be herded, but where is the limit?
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
Much satisfaction has been felt in Canada over
confirmation that the British drive in Egypt was made
possible by the use of Canadian-built army trucks.
These light trucks, built to Canadian design, were ac-
cepted by the British early in the war as most efficient
for troop and supply transport. In recent months they
have been sent in a constant stream to the Near East.
It was in these trucks that Empire troops, including
detachments from Australia, New Zealand and India,
crossed the desert swiftly to the attack on Sidi Bar-
rani.—New York “Times” Ottawa correspondent.
*****
By closing the gates of Gibraltar and Suez,
Britain cut off a large part of Italy’s agricultural
imports, says N. William Hazen, Associate Agricul-
tural Economist, in “Foreign Agriculture,” a United
States Government publication. All Italian imports of
coffee and meats, about 70 p.c. of normal imports of
cereals, and 65 p.c. of fats and oils have been shut off.
Of agricultural raw materials, rubber and jute are
completely cut off, with 95 p.c. of normal imports of
raw wool, 80 p.c. of raw cotton and 75 p.c. of hides
and skins. In addition, some of these products nor-
mally imported from countries bordering the Mediter-
ranean have been prevented from reaching Italy.
Cotton from Egypt and olive oil from Tunisia, Spain
and Greece have not been imported since June 10,
1940. In other words, a total of about 95 p.c. of
normal Italian imports of raw cotton, fats and oils
has been cut off. — New York “Sun.”
* * * * *
Anticipating a protracted war, the British Ship-
ping Ministry has moved to build new ships in the
AUTHENTIC GREEK MASTERPIECE (CIRCA 1940).
U.S.A. as well as to acquire available over-age vessels.
The House of Commons has been informed by the
Minister of Shipping that 60 cargo steamships have
been ordered in the U.S.A. It is likely that the British
will depend increasingly upon the construction of new
vessels in the U.S.A. to offset the very heavy toll of
German sea attacks. The extent to which such a ship-
building programme can relieve a prospective shipping
shortage will depend primarily upon the speed with
which the new vessels can be constructed. In this con-
nection, the marked reduction effected in the period
of time required to build ships for the U.S. Maritime
Commission programme is significant. The most recent
ship delivered left the ways slightly less than six months
after the keel was laid. It thus appears possible to
launch a British shipbuilding programme under which
vessels built would actually begin to leave for Britain
by the late summer or early autumn of 1941. — New
York “Journal of Commerce.”
* * * * *
Forty American fliers are making regular mass
deliveries of American bombers to England without
molestation from Germans, taking the ships across
the icy North Atlantic at high altitude in approxi-
mately 10 hours, one of the pilots, George R. Hutchin-
son, has disclosed. He asserted that regular deliveries
had been made since early November and that none
of the pilots had encountered German opposition.
Seven high-speed Lockheed Hudson bombers were de-
livered in the first flight. His own ship made the fast-
est time for the trip—eight hours and fifty minutes
from land to land and ten hours from the take-off in
North America to the landing in Britain. The ’planes
take off from an airport in “British North America,”
each carrying a pilot, a co-pilot and a radio operator.
About 60 pilots and 30 radio operators, including
Americans, Canadians and Britons, were participating.
On the first flight the seven bombers started away in
formation, led by a British officer, but after five and
a half hours’ bad weather and severe icing conditions
forced them to separate. Although scattered the rest
of the way, all of the ’planes landed within an hour
at a designated British airport. Since then mass de-
liveries have been made on regular schedule. The crews
are paid monthly salaries and make about one flight a
month. They return by boat, with a round-trip thus
requiring about two weeks. — New York “Herald
Tribune.”
*****
In a nation-wide survey just completed by the
American Institute of Public Opinion, the following
question was asked: “If England offers to pay its
World War debt to the United States by giving us
islands or land near the Panama Canal, would you
approve of our accepting this offer?” Those express-
ing an opinion voted: Yes, 88 p.c.; No, 12 —New
York “Times.”
* * * sf: *
It is a good thing to remember that the United
States is getting a great deal in return for what it is
doing to aid Britain’s war effort. Major-General
James E. Chaney, who recently returned to New York
from an observation trip to England, points out that
the United States Government is receiving for nothing
from the British Government technical information
and scientific data “worth hundreds of millions of
dollars.” Without this information, based on war
experience, which the Government passes on to de-
signers and manufacturers, the U.S. should today be
arming with obsolete weapons.— New York “Sun.”


FULL SPEED AHEAD!... In our war industries, full speed
ahead is the order of the day. To keep going at full
pressure ... to accelerate essential production ... these are
the watchwords of industry... and, in providing the finance
for this development, the Bank of New South Wales is
taking its full share of responsibility in speeding up the
Empire drive to victory.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, SOU Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place. Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost. Esq., Launceston.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
New Guinea Goldfields
This co. can claim to have been floated
on the old price of gold, if that is any
satisfaction to its shareholders. The
opening-up of little-known New Guinea
was the lure that brought the money in.
But divs. have never flowed as freely as
the waters of the Bulolo or Edie Creek.
It has been no second Placer Develop-
ment,
Though still a market disappointment,
the co. did better last year. It was
formed in 1929 and paid far too much
for the Edie Creek leases it acquired. It
had an issued capital of £4,472,300 in
1934; next year three-quarters of the
top-hamper was cut off and thrown over-
board, the £1 shares being reduced to ss.
The £3,354,217 lopped off went mostly in
reducing mine properties by £2,891,728
and extinguishing prospecting and devel-
opment account, then £439,549.
In 1935, after the overhaul, mining
properties appeared at £828,577, buildings
and plant at £315,038, and prospecting
and development at £58,630. At Sept.
30, 1940, mine account was still at that
figure, plant had been reduced to
£284,409, and prospecting account figured
at £95,986. Ore development account
of £112,062 appeared in the 1940 figures ;
thus extra capital outlay showed up in
the books at about £120,000 over the
period, and p. and 1. account had been
built up from £211,293 to £476,854. The
net increase was mostly represented by
cash and semi-liquid assets. In the mean-
time £167,712 in divs. has been paid—
£336,005 was handed out in previous
years.
But shareholders have done very poorly
even in relation to the reduced capital
account of £1,118,083. They have alto-
gether received £503,717, with another
£167,712, labelled “return of capital,”
coming on Jan. 27. That totals £671,429
altogether. The market at present prices
the ords., ex 9d. a share capital return, at
2s. each, which is equal to £447,233 for
the whole share issue, or slightly less than
four times last year’s earnings after pro-
viding for Commonwealth excise, royalty
and ore-development redemption.
The co. owns rights over about 15
square miles of reef and alluvial ground
“Mix up another bag. Bill —’er left molar's got a ’ole in it, too!"
on the Edie Creek field, New Guinea. In
addition to alluvial equipment, there are
the Golden Ridges mill on the lower area
and a 20-head stamp battery and cyanid-
ing plant on the upper area, both hand-
ling about 3000 tons monthly.
Profits from the various sections are
here compared:
Net receipts— - 1939 1940
G. Ridges ..£36,242 £40,083
Edie Creek .. 17,325 11,130
Alluvial .. .. 8,025 42,277
Koranga.. .. 5,594 18,517
Tributors .. .. 22,510 25,875
Sundries .. .. 5,239 4,500
£94,935 £142,382
Depreciation . .£16,919 £17,426
Administration .. 10,786 11,445
27,705 28,871
Net profit .. £67,230 £113,511
Before striking profits £51,693 was visibly
written off development redemption,
against £28,069 actually spent during the
year. Another £8866 was written off
redemption account from an undisclosed
source ; thus the net reduction in this
account (£112,062) was £32,490. Depre-
ciation allowance of £17,426 was up £509
compared with the preceding year.
Total income, including interest and
sundry revenue of £4500, was £104,721
higher at £426,320. This was mainly be-
cause of a leap of £67,323 in revenue
from the alluvial workings, where
throughput rose 141,679 c.y.:
Gold -—Silver —■
Treated, Dwt., Dwt.,
C.y. Oz. C.y. Oz. C.y.
1938.. 89,470 6,963 1.55 5087 1.13
1939.. 270,775 4,916 0.36 3744 0.27
1940.. 412,454 10,811 0.52 8086 0.38
Gold recoveries increased to an average
of 0.52dwt., against 0.36dwt., and the
total from 49160 z. to 10,81 loz. Silver
recoveries lifted from an average of
o.27dwt. to 0.38dwt., and the total from
37440 z. to 8086 oz. Working costs, in-
cluding royalty, realisation exes, and
Commonwealth excise, but excluding de-
velopment redemption, were 2s. 9.8 d. a
yard, against 2s. 5.3 d. in the preceding
year.
The co. is now getting the benefit of
development and plant extension on its
alluvial holdings, on which large sums
were spent in the preceding year. Sluic-
ing at Kaili 4 was continued in better
values, and there was little trouble from
floods in the Bulolo. At the Upper Edie
deep-lead deposit a second gravel pump
started in Jan., 1940, and helped figures
along. In addition to the co.’s own pro-
duction from these areas, tributors pro-
duced 73630 z. gold and 49380 z. silver,
compared with 78390 z. gold and 53510 z.
silver in 1939. The co.’s profit from
tributors was £25,875, up £3365. Its share
in the working profit of the Koranga allu-
vials was £18,517, an increase of £12,923.
Alluvial ore reserves are estimated at
877.000 c.y., averaging between 4s. and
55., mostly on the Bulolo and Edie Creek.
Koranga reserves are estimated at
7.008.000 c.y., going Is. a yard, with a
further large yardage probable.
The co.’s reefing properties, which
were the mainstay of the preceding year’s
earnings, contributed a little more
than a third of last term’s increased work-
ing profit. Output from the Golden
Ridges mill was up, but the Edie mill
throughput fell away:
- Gold • Silver
Treated, Dwt., Dwt.,
Tons. Oz. Ton. Oz. Ton.
Edie Mill —
1938.. 39,973 12,192 6.1 41,351 20.7
1939.. 37,727 11,191 5.9 53,279 28.2
1940.. 35,868 9,737 5.4 57,204 31.9
Golden Ridges—
-1938.. 15,053 2,629 3.5 2,999 3.9
1939.. 29,152 12,932 8.1 15,765 10.8
1940.. 31,042 14,236 9.2 16,271 10.4
Recovery from the Edie mill was 85.8
p.c., compared with 86.5 p.c. At Golden
Ridges last term’s' figure was 92.2 p.c.,
compared with 92 p.c.
With Commonwealth excise and N.G.
5 p.c. royalty taken in—the co. is slugged
for both —working costs at the Ridges
mill were 50s. 3d. a ton last term and
545. Id. at the Edie mill. That leaves
out development written off. Common-
wealth excise paid during the year
totalled £27,853.
Including Karuka, Edie ore reserves
are 48,114 tons, with 31,556 tons “pos-
sible.” Upper Ridges ore, including
Anderson’s Creek lode, totals 75,491 tons,
with 15,000 tons possible.
The co. had £327,712 of surplus liquids
and semi-liquids at balance day, of which
the return of capital takes £167,712.
A widespread recovery occurred in last
week’s sharemarket. Many leaders didn’t
participate—B.H.P., C.S.R., Electro. Zinc,
Woolworths, Henry Jones and
North Broken Hill were quiet—
but in other cases rises were sub-
stantial. British Tobacco was up
Is. 9d. in two days, A.C.I. was
in demand, Australian Cement
soared to 40s. (though Kandos
tended to weaken), and Austra-
lasian Paper had an outstanding
rise. Bradford Cotton, Davies
Coop, Yarra Falls, Warrnambool
Woollen, Valley Worsted and
H. B. Dickie were more sought
after than on sale, and Mt. Lyell and a
number of Malayan tin stocks were
bought at lengthening prices. Sungei
Bidor was particularly strong. Arahura
Gold fell back heavily, and there were
as many falls as rises in this section of
the market.
The industrial-share index (Sydney)
reached 133.04 on Jan. 15 ; next day it
slackened slightly, closing at 132.88. On
Jan. 17 it was up to 133.02.
* * * *
Olympic Tyre Co. reports that produc-
tion for the half-year to Dec. 31 was con-
tinued at full capacity, apparently on
tyres. New capital raised in January,
1940, is being well employed. The manu-
facture of insulated cables by the co.
during the half-year was partly experi-
mental, and it did not contribute to earn-
ings. Demand for cables, both civil and
military, is increasing, however, and a
new factory is being built on a site ad-
jacent to the present works. Interim div.
stays at 7 p.c., the same as last year,
when a final of p.c. made I4j p.c. for
the term. At 375. the fully-paids yield
7.8 p.c;
From Jan. 15 the list price of tyres rose
4 p.c. and the discount to the trade was
cut down by 2\ p.c. That was on manu-
facturers’ stocks. Retailers’ stocks re-
main at the old prices until sold.
* * * *
As anticipated here, North Coast
Steam’s interim div. is at the rate of 10
p.c. p.a., the same as the final for 1939-
40, when 9} p.c. went out for the full
term. Buyers at 455. can’t find a seller
in sight. At 465. 6d. the return would
be £4 7s. per cent.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s new issue at par
has been fixed at 22 for 100, the same
ratio as the five for 23 mentioned here
in recent issues. , The scrip was still
available at 465., cum rights, last week,
returning £3 19s. per cent, on a p.c.
div. basis after exercise of rights. Those
on the books on Feb. 14 are entitled to
participate, and the scrip will become
fully paid on March 31, 1942. Calls are
of ss. each.


<h»\/ Cu GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
6
f
f
"qU™
FOR COMFORT AND DURABILITY
No. 163.
"TUMBA"
“PRIDE OF THE ROAD.”
A M
£lO/19/6
(COMPLETE)
A high-grade
Saddle with
narrowest
possible grip
and comfort-
ab 1 e no n-
chafing seat.
Fi r s t - class
materials used
throughout.
N.S.W. freight on
saddles Paid for Cash
with Order. Our Catalogue
is Free! Send for one.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOMH
395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEYI
rxaca
ƒ
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe, and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
f
T.JONES t CO.
CHEMISTS, 319 Georee Street, Sydney.
14
YAUXHAiL
for
I
as*
the Ideal Car
is
m
Everyone knows Vouxhall 'l4' has always been an outstandingly
economical car . . . two automobile club tests averaged 33.29
m.p.g. In addition Vauxhall "14' THE HAPPY MEDIUM CAR
gives you this economy without sacrifice of 5-6 seater comfort
and roominess. It is the one Happy Medium car that combines
the advantages of a big cor with the economy of a small car.
The Vauxhall ‘l4' overhead valve 6-cylinder
engine is a masterpiece of engineering giving swift
acceleration and astonishing top gear performance;
the 6-phase carburettor (exclusive to Vauxhall)
is the only carburettor specifically designed to give
a wide range of mixtures and so step up perform-
ance and cut down petrol consumption at the same
time; ‘XT' independent springing, also exclusive to
Vauxhall, is the most efficient type yet evolved
because it adjusts itself automatically to every
type of road; Lockheed hydraulic brakes ensure
safety at all speeds; the trap-door thermostat
reduces engine wear and makes starting easy;
3-speed synchromesh gears give silent, easy chang-
ing and the 5-6 seater turret top all steel body
is built by Holden. Get the car that suits you
best—a Happy Medium Vauxhall ‘l4.’
Vauxhall ‘l4’ models; Commercial Convertible
Coupe, £334; Sports Convertible Coupe, £339;
Saloon, £359. Use the Convenient, GMAC Payment Plan
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
VAUXHALL DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
The VAUXHAU
tO H.P. ‘« YVtRN
The V»uxho« Wv«'" ul ‘ S ,
easily the most P£ t
light car on th Vauxha ii
lion market- lQble in
WyVern o o oular models-
three popular
a* sr.
»?*»'ZSTSSS-
and arrange
stration.
874
VAUXHALL
As English as England
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Though industrial production in the
U.S.A. reached an “all-time high” in
October, there were slightly less than
7,000,000 unemployed in the States at
that time. And that is a vast improve-
ment on the figure of a couple of years
ago. The First National Bank of Boston
summarises the position in the steel in-
dustry as follows:
The steel industry on a tonnage basis is
operating at the highest level on record.
Orders are accumulating as shipments are
running below incoming business. Con-
sumers are making longer commitments in
anticipation of lengthening deliveries.
Domestic demand is well diversified, with
an increasing proportion of tonnage for
defence purposes. Export business con-
tinues unabated and still higher purchases
from Great Britain are expected in view
of the recent bombing of the British in-
dustrial centres. Despite the heavy de-
mand for steel products, no general price
rise is expected for the first quarter.
While some plants are being taxed to full
capacity, it is believed that the industry
as a whole will have adequate facilities
to take care of the present emergency.
“Business is brisk.” But the bank reports
that the boom now apparently under way
is not a healthy one, and calls for con-
trolling measures. Building costs are
rising, and about 83 p.c. of the country’s
office space is occupied. Woollen mills
are working harder than at any time since
the Great War, defence orders account-
ing for more than a third of the current
business. Cotton consumption in October
was the highest on record, and cloth
prices have advanced substantially. For
the 12 months to Sept. 1 U.S.A. exports
were 37 p.c. higher than in the preceding
year. The favorable trade balance for
the later period was 1,400,000,000 dollars,
the highest for 19 years—nearly all be-
cause of Britain’s war.
* * * *
The Australian trade balance continues
to go to the pack. For the first six months
of 1940-41 merchandise exports rose only
£464,000 sterling, compared with an in-
crease of no less than £10,284,000 in the
value of imports. On balance, the figures
were £9,820,000 worse than for the first
half of 1939-40—an adverse balance of
£4,002,000, compared with a favorable
balance of £5,818,000 in the preceding
period. Here is a tabular comparison:
1939-40. 1940-41. Increase.
£stg.ooo. £stg.ooo. £stg.ooo.
Exports .. 53,106 53,570 464
Imports .. 47,288 57,572 10,284
Balance .. +5,818 -4,002 -9,820
The figures exclude gold.
Shipping difficulties, Canberra tells us.
are responsible for the weak move in
exports. Prices are up considerably
owing to our war contracts with Britain.
Importation of essential machinery for
war work is partly responsible for the
growth in import costs, but it would be
interesting to know to what extent prices
have been sprung on us since war began.
Import prices are not available so readily
as export costs.
* * ♦ ♦
The public debt of the Commonwealth
and States at June 30 last totalled
£1,341,054,244. Since then there has been
a public loan of £28,000,000, and another
£50,000,000 is expected to be asked for
by June 30. The Budget relied on loan
funds of £98,600,000 being raised in 1940-
41, portion of the total to be found over-
seas. The interest cost of the public debt
is £47,557,033 a year, treating the Aus-
tralian and English pounds as the same
money unit. The average interest rate
is now £3 15s. Bd. per cent. There is
£75,000,000 maturing in a 4 p.c. loan on
Nov. 15 this year. At present it could
probably be converted at 3 p.c. The last
conversion (Dec., 1938) was put through
at £3 17s. 6d. per cent. In 1942 loans
calling for repayment or conversion total
£23,000,000. The reckoning in 1943 is
only £13,300,000, but in 1944 it will rise
to £48,000,000.
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits were up to
£245,686,000 on Nov. 30, almost the same
figure as a year earlier. There was a
decline in the middle of 1940, the total
for July being £236,562,000. The fall in
May and June—the Blitzkrieg months,
when “conscription of wealth” was being
forecast by people who should have
known better—was nearly £7,000,000, and
the Commonwealth Bank’s note issue had
to be increased to accommodate the ner-
vous and misguided who planted their
money under the fireplace and in the
garden. Up to October the amount of
subscriptions to war-savings certificates,
less repurchases, was £12,099,000. The
gross figure has since advanced to beyond
£17,000,000. The rate of interest is 3J-
p.c., compounded. If war-savings certi-
ficates were not available deposits in the
savings banks would probably be con-
siderably higher than they actually are.
* * * *
Protection has meant “protection” in
a double sense to Australia. Had it not
been for the policy of fostering manu-
facturing industries as well as encour-
aging land production this country
wouldn’t be making a quarter of the
showing now evident in this war. We
might have had the population and the
fighting men without our factories, but
we certainly wouldn’t have had the
equipment. When old inhibitions and
restrictions as between Empire countries
are broken down we will progress a
great deal further. The Bulletin has
been a staunch supporter of Protection
for more than 40 years. It was a voice
in the wilderness, with the exception of
David Syme’s “Age,” during the first 20
years; then the Great War forced the
position, the depression and shortage of
foreign exchange ultimately caused a
further expansion, and the present con-
flict has brought remarkable growth to
the steel, engineering and defence in-
dustries.
* * * *
The index of real wages as computed
by the Commonwealth Statistician aver-
aged 1211 in 1939, against 1209 in 1938,
1178 in 1937 and 1162 in 1936. It was
toward the end of 1937 that the “Redda-
wage” bumped up the standard of living.
For the first quarter of 1940 the real-
wage index stood at 1209, and for the
second at 1184. There was a fairly steep
rise in living costs between March and
June, and it is the relation of money
wages to these living costs that constitutes
the real-wage index. Since the drop to
1184 money wages have been lifted
twice; on Aug. 1 the average Federal
basic wage rose 25., and on Nov. 1 it
went up a further Is., though this was
only noticeable in Perth and Hobart.
Between June and September living costs,
as computed, rose very little, so that the
1938-39 standard of real wages has prob-
ably been re-established. Since the be-
ginning of 1934 the cost of living has
risen 18.5 p.c., but the Arbitration Court
has more than compensated workers for
the rise. And since Feb., 1934, trade-
union unemployment has fallen from 21.9
p.c. to 7.4 p.c.
* * * *
Once again, protracted negotiations
between Union Theatres and Hoyts for a
sort of merger are “off.” No other
class of business has ever been able to
carry on its affairs with so much uncer-
tainty to shareholders as the “Australian
film industry.”
* * * ♦
Non-Metallics, Ltd., a Sydney (1939)
flotation, is after more capital to further
its activities in the mineral-earth busi-
ness. It is milling kaolins, barytes, talc,
etc., at a factory at Granville. Its aim is
to add to the variety of non-metallic
earth products. Originally it acquired a
magnesite deposit at Thaddungra
(N.S.W.) and a dolomite deposit at Cud-
gegong, but in its first period of opera-
tions the co. was more interested in mill-
ing ores than mining them. Additional
areas have been acquired since, some in
other States. The proposed new issue is
32,000 ords. of ss. each at par, six for
ten. At June 30 last paid capital was
£9290 in 46,668 ss. shares paid to varying
amounts. Trading having only recently
commenced, no divs. have been paid.
War conditions have established a ready
market for the co.’s products, which for-
merly were largely imported. The year to
June 30 next should be some guide to
profit-earning possibilities of the co.
under present favorable circumstances.
The scrip is listed on Sydney ’Change;
last sale was at ss. 6d.
* * * *
Australasian Paper ords. were very
strong last week. After a period of idle-
ness around 345. they moved up swiftly
to 365. 6d., the highest quote for some
years. The co. is extraordinarily active,
and the inference is that it is doing extra-
ordinarily well. An interim div. is due
in March. Whether it will be any better
than 8 p.c. is a moot point. Some new
capital was raised last May, and in any
case taxation has increased substantially.
The operating co. (A.P.M.) is entrench-
ing itself solidly, whatever immediate
benefits to shareholders amount to. Its
Gippsland pulp mill is getting a thorough
tryout owing to the shortage of overseas
pulp, and the experience and research of
the present period should be invaluable
later on. Uses of brown paper and card-
board are increasing daily, and science
is continuously at work on wood-pulp
derivatives. There is good scope for
A.P.M.’s expansion in the future.


SPORITNG NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT CAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosehill attracted an attendance of
10,500, and some of the races were well
contested. Dyne’s win at 20 to 1 in the
first division of the Maiden Handicap
gave the books a good start, but what-
ever they gained over that race they
returned with interest when the longest-
priced winner of the next five was 3 to
1. Speardale, another 20-to-l chance,
gave them much-needed relief in the last
race. The tote turnover was £13,364, an
unusually large sum for Rosehill.
Yours Truly was going like a winner
throughout the Rosehill Handicap.
Second along the back, he was always
galloping comfortably, and in the straight
easily disposed of The Kite, who filled
his customary role of pacemaker. Kurra-
wid was third, and at no part looked like
doing better, while Pierce finished so far
behind the main body that there is little
hope of his winning in the near future.
Edible, after losing many lengths at
barrier-rise, merely cantered home at the
rear of the field. In several of his other
races Yours Truly did not shape like a
weight-carrier, but in such a moderate
field he made light of 9st. It was his
second win at Rosehill, and fourth in
Sydney.
Even with a 7st. minimum 9st. appeared
a big weight for Session in the Flying
Handicap, but, backed down to 6 to 4,
she completely outclassed her opponents.
She led from the first hundred yards,
those nearest her at the half-mile being
Lord Seremond, Veiled Threat and Many
Ways. She slipped right away from her
followers a little further on, and, though
Glorious went into second place at the
turn, she had no chance against Session in
the run home.
Good Morning got up in time to take
third place from Novice, with whom
Veiled Threat and Table Talk were nearly
level. Veiled Threat’s rider handled him
fairly early in the race, but was of no
assistance to him at the finish. Novice
and Table Talk were well backed, but did
not run up to expectations. Lord Sere-
mond showed pace for a few furlongs,
but died away some distance from the
winning-post.
In winning the Quality Nursery Owl’s
Rest was responsible for an unusual per-
formance. She was well clear of Tanda
and Prepare coming to the turn, and then
ran so wide that she went almost to the
outer fence. Tanda then shot up, and,
with Owl’s Rest wide on the outside, it
appeared to many of the spectators that
the former and Two’s Company were
fighting it out. However, Owl’s Rest
won by a neck from Tanda, who was
little more than that ahead of Two’s
Company. Owl’s Rest is Maoriland-
bred, being by Jericho from Owlscombe,
by Autumnus from Glenowlet. Gold-
brook ran no better than at Randwick
the previous week, and, at 1300gns., he
is up to the present one of the unlucky
yearling purchases of last season.
Dyne’s form at Randwick in the race
won by Addition did not suggest she had
a possible chance of winning the first
division of the Maiden Handicap, and
that she did so was merely further proof
of what a race and a subsequent gallop
will occasionally do for a horse in a week.
As she started at 20 to 1, her improve-
ment must have surprised her connec-
tions almost as much as it did most race-
goers. Trade Mark, Eager Fox and Air
Link were having a great tussle halfway
down the straight when Dyne joined in
and quickly disposed of them.
Innisfail, after being slowly away and
then colliding with Veiled Beauty, was
one of the leaders at the straight entrance.
It was not surprising in the circumstances
that he weakened in the run home.
Caprice, who was fourth, is a Hall Mark
filly. She will improve with racing, as
will The Chef and Air Link. The last-
mentioned two are in B. Payten’s stable.
Last season Air Link scored two seconds
and two thirds, one of the former being
in a race won by Martheus at Randwick,
and in last year’s Quality Handicap at
Rosehill he was a close third to Fearless
Fox and Roxford. Dyne is a half-sister,
by Marconigram, to Astrid.
Crowon had an easy win in the second
division of the Maiden Handicap, for
which he was a warm favorite. O’Raklo,
a Lo Zingaro colt, displayed a lot of
pace, but, though he led to the turn,
stopped quickly when tackled by Crowon,
who beat the second horse, Canvasser,
four lengths in time a half-second faster
than Dyne recorded in her division. Day
Star (Medieval Knight-Miss Refraction)
was one of the front lot most of the
way, but did not finish as strongly as
Petasus, who cut her out of third money.
Haridelle did a little better than in her
recent races, while Connette (Constant
Son-Brunette) can be classed as promis-
ing. Neither Drava nor All Praise showed
marked improvement, and Triton ran
badly. There was support for Dionne,
but she was never dangerous.
• •••*«
Over the last half-mile Wee Woo did
not leave the result of the Novice Handi-
cap in doubt. Commencing well, she was
in charge at the six furlongs, and, lead-
ing into the straight, she did not after
look like being caught. Coming from a
long way back at the three furlongs
Pennywise did well to get second, and
the luck of the race was against Ginger
Hugh, or he would have given his backers
a better run. He was involved in an
early scrimmage, in which El Kenny lost
his rider. Decelea did a little better than
in her last race or two, but not much
that is favorable can be said of any of
those which followed the place-getters. In
height Wee Woo is ponyish, but she is
strongly built and, like many other “little
’uns,” can evidently handle weight. She
is by Wee Warrah, several of whose
progeny have shown pace.
Speardale, last in a small field on a
soft track at Menangle less than a fort-
night earlier, ran up to his best form in
the Carlingford Mile. He was eighth at
the turn, but finished strongly to win from
Bestop and Miss Heroic. The last-
named led inside the final furlong, and,
though she weakened at the end, should
shortly return to the winning list, as will
Masterpiece.
Asnazu, starting second from the out-
side, was quickly in a position that made
him a winning possibility, but his weight
palpably stopped him in the run home.
Beaucaire did well enough to give him a
chance at a mid-week meeting, while
nothing made a poorer showing than the
hot favorite, Rylstone. His condition was
excellent, but up to the straight entrance
he was never ahead of more than two
other runners. As he works well, he
must have trainer Payten completely
puzzled, and the chestnut’s owner now
has a long way to go before he gets a
return of the four-figure price he gave
for him and the money lost at his last
two starts. However, it is not a hopeless
case.
Formerly regarded by most racegoers
as a rogue who would do his best only
when he felt in the mood, imported
Keelie belied his reputation when he led
throughout the mile and a half of the
Anniversary Handicap at Flemington on
Saturday. With successive wins in the
Bagot and Anniversary Handicaps, worth
£l3OO in stakes alone, he is making the
most of his opportunities before the
recognised good stayers return for
autumn racing, but it is not improbable
that he will be able to hold his own with
those horses. His next race—if his con-
nections be satisfied with his weight—
will be in the Williamstown Australia
Day Cup next Monday, after which he
will probably be set for the Australian
Cup. He has been nominated for the
latter race, but, having been in work for
some time, there is the risk that he might
train off
.'.. . . •
Keelie won the Anniversary Handicap
in much the same style as the Bagot. He
was taken to the front early, slowed the
field down and sprinted away at the top
of the straight to win decisively from
Lanarus and Marauder. He was ridden
admirably by De Valle, and the only sur-
prise associated with his win was his start-
ing price of 4 to 1 after 9 to 2 had been
bet. Bagot Handicap running pointed to
him as the logical favorite. A veterinary
surgeon had attended him during the
week, but the trouble was not serious.
Keelie pulls hard, and the bit cuts his
mouth at times. That was the reason for
the vet.’s call, and it is unlikely that it had
anything to do with bookmakers’ genero-
sity on Saturday. Keelie was a winner in
England before being bought by Victor
Plumb, and, being a good-looking and ex-
ceptionally well-bred horse by Camer-
onian (English Derby) from Lovely Peg,
he should have considerable stud value
later.
Trainer Roley Trihey defended Com-
panion after the latter’s recent win at
Ascot —defended him against critics who
had branded his horse unreliable. Punters,
however, found Companion “guilty” after
his inglorious showing in the Anniver-
sary Handicap, for which he started
favorite at 5 to 2. Meeting Keelie only
slightly better than when he finished a
long way behind the English horse in the
Bagot Handicap, he was beaten some dis-
tance from home, and again finished at
least 10 lengths behind him. Apparently
he reserves his best form for Ascot.
Lanarus improved on his latest form to
run Keelie to a length and a quarter, but
no excuse was possible for Marauder’s
failure to do better than third. Marauder
had the run of the race, but revealed no
dash towards the finish, and was beaten
easily for second money. Now in his
ninth year, it is questionable whether the
Australian and King’s Cup winner can
be improved. Owner Wallace Mitchell
stated on Saturday that Marauder’s form
in the Anniversary would determine
whether he would race again.
Irish-bred Scarlet Toi justified his
favoritism by beating Industry and
Border Lass in the Tooronga Handicap.
His job was made easier when Industry
lost two or three lengths at barrier-rise,
but probably he would have won in any
circumstances, and he might develop into
a better proposition than his half-brother
Soltoi. John Wren won several races with
the latter, and determined to buy another
member of the family. He arranged this
through the British Bloodstock Agency,
but Scarlet Toi, now a five-year-old by
Scarlet Tiger from Primtoi, was not a
very attractive-looking individual when
he landed in Australia. He was only
about 17 months old at the time, but was
very much on the weedy side, and several
holidays have been necessary to build
him up. He is not massive even now, but,
according to trainer Dave McNamara,
stands about 16.2 hands high.
Scarlet Toi is engaged in all the prin-
cipal autumn sprints, and, although he
will meet stronger fields in those races
than he beat on Saturday, he has raced
only comparatively lightly and impresses
as sure to improve. Better suited by the
Tooronga Handicap straight six than he
had been by the Ascot track a week
earlier, when third to Pamelus, he hit the
front over a furlong from home and was
not in danger of defeat subsequently. In-
dustry, with two successive seconds at
Flemington, deserves a change of luck,
and Border Lass, whose race on Saturday
was her first since August, also should
repay following. Border Lass’s appren-
tice, H. Peplow, was having his first
mount in a race and created a favorable
impression.
Most interesting runner for the Too-
ronga Handicap was Damalis, who is
attempting a comeback after almost three
years’ absence from the racecourse.
Damalis won weight-for-age races at Wil-
liamstown and Flemington in the autumn
of 1938, but he developed trouble in the
forelegs, and went into retirement appar-
ently broken down. Offered for sale
several months ago he was sold for 100
guineas, and the indications are that
owner-trainer H. Cousens has obtained a
bargain. Damalis has given no trouble
since he resumed training, and he showed
up well enough in seventh position on
Saturday to suggest that he might do
better at his next appearance.
If trainer L. McCann has his way,
Silver Light, winner of the Holiday
Stakes, will be placed aside until the
spring instead of fulfilling important
autumn engagements. McCann believes
that the Pantheon filly will stay, and that,
if given time to develop properly, she will
be a big danger in the rich spring races
for fillies. Winner at Ascot a week earlier,
Silver Light was .always well in the
market on Saturday, and, although In-
trepid appeared to have her measure a
few strides from the post, she fought
back gamely to win by half a head.
Intrepid seemingly is not quite as good
as his Mentone win suggested. Leicester
Square was a very close third, and,
although he has been expensive to his
connections, there is still hope for him.
Silver Light’s \.l\ for the 5? furlongs
clipped a quarter of a second off the
course record, but the Holiday Stakes was
the first race run over this distance at
Flemington for about 20 years. A bar-
rier was re-erected at this point so that
there would be no alteration in the dis-
tance of the V.A.T.C. Oakleigh Plate,
which will be run at Flemington this year.
Beaten out of a place in a weak field at
Warrnambool three days earlier, Fort
Belvedere’s defeat of Telergy and Our
Boy in the Rowena Welter was a shock
to form followers. Apparently few
people outside the stable were aware that
Fort Belvedere cannoned into the rails
in the Warrnambool race, for which he
started favorite, as 20 to 1 was bet against
him in isolated places on Saturday. Even-
tually he firmed to 7 to 1, and, capably
ridden by one of S, Murphy’s apprentices,
R. Dean, who claimed a 71b. allowance
in a race restricted to steeplechase
jockeys, a lucky rails-run assisted him to
success in a close finish. Fort Belvedere
was having only his third race for
Murphy, who recently leased him for a
year, and maybe he will return to the
form that enabled him to finish third to
Maikai and Catalogue in the 1939 Wil-
liamstown Cup.
Without reflecting on the improvement
Murphy has worked in Fort Belvedere,
Our Boy was definitely unlucky. Start-
ing at odds-on, he lost several lengths as
a result of interference near the seven
furlongs, was forced wide at the turn and
then, after looking all over a winner when
he hit the front in the straight, ruined
his chance by veering towards the out-
side of the track. He was beaten only a
neck and a head, though many onlookers
were of opinion that Royal Jubilee had
finished third. As Our Boy was wide out,
and Royal Jubilee much closer to the
flat rails, however, only the judge was in
a position to decide.
Followers of Lou Robertson’s stable
recouped their Our Boy losses through the
agency of Tetianui in the first Koakaribb
Trial division. Unluckily beaten at
Moonee Valley at her previous start,
Tetianui was backed from twos to even
money on Saturday, and, gaining a lucky
run in the straight when the leader,
Bevera, veered away from the rails, she
won a keen finish from Trebleworth and
Palencia. A four-year-old by Manfred
from Mortar, Tetianui has raced only
lightly, and seems sure to improve.
Star Boarder compensated for his
narrow defeat at Ascot a week earlier by
winning the second Koakaribb Trial divi-
sion. Apparently his connections had no
fears about his ability to run a mile, as
FOR RAND WICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT”
Novice Handicap: Crowon, 1 ;
Ginger Hugh, 2; Innisfail, 3.
Bondi Handicap: The Miller, 1 ;
Red Pete, 2 ; Veiled Threat, 3.
Widden Handicap: Twofold, 1 ;
Beau Port, 2 ; Kimbell, 3,
Valicare Handicap: Astrid, 1 ;
Owl’s Rest, 2 ; Melfleur, 3.
Challenge Stakes: Trimmer, 1 ;
Gold Salute, 2 ; Waireka or Pan-
chio, 3.
January Handicap: Sioneel, 1;
Marengo, 2 ; Breeze, 3.
Paddington Handicap; Brazen
Lad, 1 ; Mabson, 2 ; Glorious, 3.
SECOND DAY.
Adrian Knox Stakes: Session, 1 ;
Stylish, 2 ; Dawn Mary, 3.
Anniversary Handicap: Marengo,
1 ; Feminist, 2 ; Yours Truly, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
By “SENTRY.”
Niddrie Handicap: Flatterer, 1 ;
Leicester Square, 2 ; High Song, 3.
Tweedside Handicap: Phocion,
1 ; Triumvir, 2 ; Goldsmith, 3.
Cranmallan Trial: Neatherlea, 1 ;
Jerry Cronin, 2 ; Request, 3,
William Reid Stakes: Mildura, 1 ;
Chatsbury, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
Caldermeade Handicap: Denis
Girl, 1 ; Bathing Beauty, 2 ; Grand-
son, 3.
Warrook Highweight: Bankshaw,
1 ; Fort Belvedere, 2 ; Royal Jubi-
lee, 3.


HAVE YOUR NEXT SUIT
MADE OF
f\ve
COOLANA is one of the famous
Crusader Clotfis. It is speci-
ally manufactured to give you
supreme comfort in summer. The in-
creasing popularity, year after year, of
Coolana proves that it is just the cloth
for which Australia is waiting . . . For
all its extreme coolness, airiness and
comfort, Coolana gives you just the
same remarkable wear and service
as all other Crusader Cloths . . .
Remember the name <—» COOLANA!
In a Coolana Suit you
are air-conditioned I
w.
YOUR TAILOR has the New Coolana
Pattern Book and will be pleased to show
it. You will find a pattern to meet your
taste exactly. He bas tbe full range of
Crusader Pattern Books showing weights
and designs for all
seasons and climates . . .
And no Crusader Pat-
tern is Ever Sold Out I
f
CRUSADER CLOTH IS GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
he was backed from 6 to 1 to 7 to 2, and
justified that confidence by leading all the
way. He veered towards the centre of
the track in the straight, but drew away
to win easily from Colonel and Swetten-
ham. Latter was having his first race
since April last year. Past experience has
taught punters to regard him as “a trap
for young players.” Swettenham has a
long list of “convictions,” and a winning
turn for him is long overdue. Star
Boarder, a three-year-old colt by Gay
Lothario from Star Sapphire, is raced and
trained by Roy Shaw, and was ridden by
the latter’s apprentice, L. Armfield.
Faulty jumping, plus 11.9 on a track
with the sting out of it, contributed to
Winterset’s defeat into third place in the
Hawthorn Hurdle. He had a lead of
about eight lengths after going six fur-
longs, but was beaten when Coylton ran
past him about three furlongs from home.
Winterset weakened to finish a moderate
third, and Coylton went on to win from
the faster-finishing Metabus. Coylton de-
served his success, as recently he lost a
race on protest to The Stork at Moonee
Yalley. L. J. Hynes made a special trip
from Sydney to ride Coylton, and
handled him in quite his best style.
* * * *
Yours Truly has not fulfilled expecta-
tions that caused a high price to be paid
for him after his New Zealand Cup win,
but he has at least proved useful, and,
at five years, he is not too old to pick
up a really good race. He is consistent,
and, though he has done a lot of racing
during the past few months, could not
have looked better than on Saturday last
at Rosehill. He has started 16 times
this season for two wins, two seconds
and four thirds, and has more than paid
expenses. In prize-money his Summer
Cup second and Tatt.’s Cup third re-
turned £325, which would nearly equal
two wins at average suburban meetings.
His two wins this season carried £370.
He may not win the Anniversary Handi-
cap, but he has at least a reasonable
chance of adding to his minor place-
money account.
♦ * * *
Session continues to improve, and the
only fly in the ointment for P. Miller
is that, though he owns the best three-
year-old filly of the season, he did not
breed her. Against that he has the satis-
faction of having bred All Love, the lead-
ing two-year-old filly up to the present.
It was thought Session’s 9st. might
worry her towards the finish of the Rose-
hill Flying Handicap. The reverse was
the case. The further she went the better
she galloped. With some buyers there
has been a prejudice against Marconi-
gram fillies, but Session and Dyne further
assisted to dispel it on Saturday.
The Adrian Knox Stakes now looks
soft for Session, and perhaps we may
see her making a try for the A.J.C. St.
Leger, which has not been won by one
of her sex since Lady Valais in 1924.
Since that time the best by a filly was
Jocelyn’s second to Winalot in 1928. The
time record for the race is still the
2.59| put up by Lady Valais. Of course,
Session may not be a true stayer, but
in the Oaks she defeated Tranquil Star,
who ran second to Lucrative in the Vic-
toria Derby. Admittedly Session’s suc-
cess in the Oaks was in a great measure
due to Munro’s horsemanship, but the
probabilities are the autumn will see her
better at all distances than last spring.
* H= * *
Between races at Rosehill on Saturday
High Caste and Tidal Wave had a dash
over five furlongs, and made excellent
time without being unduly exerted. It
would be difficult for anyone who had
not seen High Caste race to believe such
a bulky customer could be a high-class
racehorse. He looks particularly bright,
and it would not surprise me if in the
autumn he shows himself better than at
any previous time up to a mile and a
half. In handicaps he will get a lot of
weight, but his 9st. in w.f.a. races will
come easy to him. At the Caulfield meet-
ing he will run in the St. George Stakes
and Futurity Stakes.
* * * *
Casket King, who was well in the
market for the first division of the
Maiden Handicap at Rosehill, is a good-
looking colt by The Buzzard from Dor-
shire. He never got in it, but as he had
not raced since last June it was expect-
ing a lot of him to win, and his failure
was excusable. Trained by G. Price, he
had evidently been well boomed by some
frequenters of the Randwick training
tracks, his opening price being 5 to 2.
• * • *
Double lists indicate that Gold Salute
will start a hot favorite for the Chal-
lenge Stakes and Feminist for the Anni-
versary, though the result of the January
Handicap may affect betting on the
Anniversary to some extent. Th e odds
going about the combination of Gold
Salute and Feminist are ridiculously
short at present, and the latter looks like
being at a prohibitive price for the Anni-
versary if Gold Salute wins the sprint.
During his short spell Gold Salute did
not lose much condition, and his track
work of the last week points to his being
quite as well as when racing in Mel-
bourne in the spring. In 9.12 he has a
big weight, but The Hawk won with 10.3.
Beaulivre has been slipping along
smartly over short distances, and he may
also be a starter. He is actually better
treated than his stable-companion Gold
Salute, but he may be scarcely as for-
ward in condition. Waireka, another
of G. Price’s team, is a certain starter,
and will be ridden by A. Knox. Trimmer
has done as well as his trainer, F. Russell,
could wish, but the latter is now in
doubt as to a rider. He thought he had
secured Munro, but it has since been
given out that the rider named is to be
on Gold Salute. Munro, however, stated
on Sunday that he had not made a defi-
nite engagement for either, but it is cer-
tain that whichever he rides will be the
gainer.
Trimmer is in receipt of only 41b. from
Gold Salute, but, as he is a good weight-
carrier and should be improved by
his race at Christmas, I am making him
my choice. Waireka looks all the better
for her recent racing, but the presence
of smart beginners in Gold Salute and
Trimmer will not help her. Neverthe-
less she should run well. Caesar and
Flying Knight may both have enough to
stop them. Red Thespian is sure to run
his usual honest race, but that may not
do more than land him in a minor place.
Petruchio’s last run was not impressive,
but there is the chance of the lower
scale assisting him. Panchio is again
doing well, and has only 41b, more than
when he won the Chisholm Handicap.
Nothing has been heard of Tuhitarata,
but as he is prominent in the double
lists presumably all is going well with
him. Many Ways was not seen to advan-
tage at Rosehill, and the winner may
be Trimmer or Gold Salute, while
among those lower down the list Waireka,
Panchio and Petruchjo should run well.
A small field for the Anniversary
Handicap is certain, and sticking to form
it is difficult for backers to go beyond
Feminist, Marengo and Yours Truly.
Feminist has worked in such taking
fashion during the past fortnight that her
chance must be really good, notwith-
standing she will be meeting Yours Truly
41b. and Marengo 51b. worse than in
Tattersall’s Cup. However, in the belief
that Marengo will stay better than in
that race 1 shall give him preference.
The January Handicap should thor-
oughly wind him up, and he may dis-
prove the idea of some good judges that
Harinero’s progeny do best on a light
preparation.
Bourbon, at his best, might be a win-
ning proposition, but it is no certainty
that he will be better than when he raced
recently, and, on Rosehill form, Kurra-
wid does not read like beating Yours
Truly, though he will meet him 61b.
better. Tusculum ran disappointingly
at his last two starts, and, as I have
already written, it seems little use going
beyond Marengo, Feminist and Yours
Truly in trying for the winner.
Article has been running well at pro-
vincial meetings, and the style in which
he won the Trial Stakes at Ascot last
week pointed to him as a probable
winner in better company. He is by
Diatical (son of Pantheon and that bril-
liant sprinter Aries) and his dam is
Arctic (Finland-Anote), whose nine-
year-old son Fernridge recently won the
Perth Cup. It is probable that Article
will also stay. Once .used for military
duties, an attack of strangles put Article
out of that business, and caused him to
become a useful racehorse.
♦ * * *
Last week in touching upon the fact
that the Government did not think there
was any necessity for place-betting by
bookmakers on Sydney’s racecourses, I
inadvertently wrote “starting price.” The
context, however, showed what was in-
tended. Incidentally, I understand the
bookmakers were not consulted in respect
of the representation made to the Gov-
ernment, and, furthermore, the idea of
having to do business on a “win and
place” does not greatly appeal to many.
* * * *
A glance over the A.J.C.’s list of men
with trainer’s licenses and permits cannot
do otherwise than suggest what a hand-
to-mouth business it must be for many.
They may have two or three horses in
their stable, but the fees they receive do
not permit of profit, and their names rarely
appear in the winning list. Even trainers
with big teams and receiving £3 10s. a
week for each horse must get a full share
of wins to show a decent profit, which
gives an idea of how difficult the position
must be for those with a small number
of horses and in receipt of £2 ss. at most
for any of them. It is said that even
with some Randwick trainers it is pos-


sible to place horses at £2 10s. There is
no hard-and-fast rule in such matters,
and if they take them at that it is their
own business. Without horses trainers
cannot win races, and the more they get
the better their chances, notwithstanding
they may have a lot of scraping to do
in order to meet current expenses.
“Hope” plays a big part in racing, and
every trainer who has a horse or two
looks forward to the day that will give
him one out of the common. I have often
heard it said, “It would pay So-and-so
better to try something else,” but the
average man who has spent his early
days in a racing stable is rarely fitted for
any other calling.
* * * *
Surprise is often expressed that owners
do not start their horses more than once
in an afternoon, especially at short dis-
tances. It has paid some who have
done so at provincial meetings during
the past few months. At Richmond last
Thursday Theorize won the second
division of the Windsor Randicap, 5£
furlongs, and also the Nepean Handicap,
six furlongs, the last race of the day.
Theorize is by Bullhead from Theory
(Tressady-Formula), who ran second in
a Gimcrack Stakes, A.J.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes and Adrian Knox Stakes,
* * * *
The Australian buyer who wished to
give £5OOO for the Maoriland colt
Kindergarten must have been well ad-
vised concerning him. Last week
Kindergarten won the valuable Welling-
ton Cup, \\ mile, with 8.6 —61b. oyer
weight-for-age —the minor places going
to Serenata, 7.9 (New Zealand Cup
winner), and Belle Cane, 7.9, a three-year-
old filly by Beau Pere.
Kindergarten was made favorite im-
mediately after the appearance of the
weights, and it is probable he retained
his position until the day of the race. His
sire, Kincardine, did stud duty in England,
but did not sire anything of note, and it
is stated he was sent to Maoriland more
as a travelling companion for another
stallion than any particular belief that the
change of climate would have marked
beneficial effect upon him. Anyhow he
has sired an exceptional colt in Kinder-
garten, and Maoriland is a gainer by
another English discard. Others of note
were Musket, Soult and Beau Pere. Re-
verting to Kindergarten’s win, it is worth
mentioning that he carried only a pound
less than Beau Vite. when the latter was
beaten by Old Biff in the corresponding
race last year. Kincardine was not repre-
sented either last year or this in the Wel-
lington yearling sales catalogue.
* * * *
Sydney entrants for the Oakleigh Plate
are not numerous, but include Beaulivre,
All Love, Gold Salute, Reading, Trimmer,
Caesar and Panchio. It was thought Fly
would be nominated, but evidently her
owner is satisfied to go for something
easier with her. At Caulfield Caesar
would not have had much chance at five
and a half furlongs, and even down the
straight track at Flemington that dis-
tance may be short for him, Melbourne’s
best in the race are Aurie’s Star, Pamelus,
Manrico and Pure Gold. Imported Dhoti
is engaged, and a return to his two-year-
old form would make him a tough pro-
position in a race of this class.
* * * ♦
Popularity in racing is fleeting, and
people who were loudest in praise of
M. McCarten a couple of years ago were
among those who recently voiced the
opinion that he had “seen his day.” The
last fortnight has changed all that. Wins
on two rank outsiders at Moorefield and
three wins at Ascot last week have caused
him to be proclaimed “as good as ever,”
and he had to ride really well to win a
couple of his races at the last-mentioned
meeting. One good thing about McCarten
is that he is not unduly elated by race-
goers’ praise or depressed by condem-
nation.
* * * *
B. Payten has come to the conclusion
that there is no such thing as “easy
money” at mid-week meetings. He was
represented by Guardsman and The Elk
at Ascot last week. The latter, starting
favorite for the Jumpers’ Flat Race on
the strength of his excellent track work,
never looked a winner; and though The
Elk flattered his backers for a long way
in the Ascot Handicap the distance was
beyond him. However, it is not unusual
to see horses run well at Randwick and
then fail on mid-week courses when their
prospects look particularly bright.
* * * *
It is difficult to understand, but attend-
ances at mid-week meetings in Sydney
have increased in marked fashion com-
pared with a few months ago. Horse-
owners and trainers are gleefully looking
towards increased prize-money, but, in
view of the possibility of a lean time
later in the year, clubs may not go far
in that direction. Nor can the book-
makers indulge in the old cry of “No
money about.” Unfortunately for them
they are not benefiting owing to the con-
sistent success of well-backed horses ; but
when their turn comes it is probable they
will be able to raise the old complaint
anent the shortage of money.
* * * •
This year’s Anniversary Handicap field
does not promise to be large enough to
permit of betting taking a wide range,
but, as in several previous years, that
does not preclude possibility of the suc-
cess of an outsider. In the last 13 seasons
the race has been won by only one
favorite —Topical. Last year Mildura
was generally voted a certainty, but he
was beaten by that consistent mare Gold
Spark. A. Knox has done better in the
race than any other jockey likely to be
riding next week, his winners being Topi-
cal and Satmoth, Winners and favorites
from 1928 are as follows:
1928 Tibbie, 8.9 (J. Toohey), 9 to 2; Honan,
7 to 2, third.
1929 Lucy Thrice, 6.11 (A. Parr), 10 to 1 ;
Leadight, 4 to 1, second.
1930 — Donald, 9.6 (A. Davidson), 12 to 1;
Jeypore, 3 to 1, unplaced.
1931 — Inducement, 7.7 (J. Pratt), 10 to 1;
Dalston, 4 to 1, unplaced.
1932 Satmoth, 7.7 (A. Knox), 8 to 1; Denis
Boy, 7 to 4, unplaced.
1933 — Topical, 7.4 (A. Knox), 4 to 1.
1934 — Clever Fox, 8.4 (J. Pratt), 5 to 1; Sat-
moth, 2 to 1, unplaced.
1935 Miss Nottava, 7.11 (E. Britt), 20 to 1;
Regal Son, 5 to 2, unplaced.
1936 Mr. Kerry, 8.6 (J. Pratt), 4 to 1;
Curator, 4 to 1, third.
1937 Mananui, 7.11 (J. O’Sullivan), 6 to 1;
Oro, 7 to 2, second.
1938 — Hope, 7.10 (R. Parsons), 6 to 1;
Panaster, 5 to 1, third.
1939 Edible, 6.11 (C. Findlay), 14 to 1, and
Allunga, 9.5 (D. Munro), 11 to 2, dead-
heat; Bringa and Desolation, 4 to 1
each, unplaced.
1940 — Gold Spark, 7.0 (J. Duncan), 8 to 1;
Mildura, 6 to 4, second.
* * * *
Australian jockeys continue to play a
prominent part in racing in India, but
not Australian horses. Respirator was
the only Australian runner in the Vice-
roy’s Cup, and, quoted at 30 to 1, he was
seventh of the 12 runners. Like the
winner, Baqlava, he is trained by A.
Higgins,
* * * *
Entries for the Newmarket Handicap
and Australian Cup closed yesterday, and,
bearing on penalties, the winner of any
handicap flat race, no matter how small
its value, can be rehandicapped up to
101 b. for either race,
* * * *
It is stated by a Maoriland exchange
that the price recently paid by G. Tan-
cred for the four-year-old Sir Amyas was
1500gns., and it was added that he was
cheap at that figure. I am unaware
whether J. T. Jamieson ever saw Sir
Amyas race, but he must have had sound
reason for forming a good opinion of
him, as it was probably on his recom-
mendation that Tancred became his
owner. Last season Sir Amyas was
lightly raced, but this season his seven
starts have given four wins, a second, a
third and a fourth. His last two wins
were at ten and nine furlongs respec-
tively, and he ran the latter distance in
1.52| with 9.1. The company was not
very high class. Sir Amyas is by Paladin
from Beulah, by Tractor from Bonnie
Lake, by Sunny Lake.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C. is taking advantage of
the occupation of its track by the mili-
tary, and is regrading the course proper
from the home turn to the winning post.
A crown has built up some distance from
the rails as a result of the filling necessi-
tated by racing and gallops. The com-
mittee decided upon levelling the track
some time ago.
* * * *
E. Bartle generally does well at the
summer meetings at Randwick, and in the
last 13 years he has ridden three winners
of the Challenge Stakes, the only first
favorite of these being Captivation. Dur-
ing the same period J. O’Sullivan has had
two wins, and D. Munro one. Com-
mencing with 1928, winners and favorites
have been as under;
1928 Greenline, 8.12 (E. Bartle), 7 to 1;
Whitta, 3 to 1, third.
1929 Whitta, 8.12 (M. McCarten), 4 to 1;
Violian and Margarethal, 4 to 1, un-
placed.
1930 — Venetian Lady, 8.1 (D. Munro), 20 to 1;
Remora, 7 to 2, second.
1931 Casque d’Or, 8.2 (J. Pratt), 6 to 1;
Panola, 9 to 2, unplaced.
1932 — Golden Gate, 7.3 (A. Knox), 12 to 1;
Tom Pinch, 7 to 2, unplaced.
1933 — Captivation, 7.11 (E. Bartle), 6 to 4.
1934 — Air Queen, 7.4 (A. Britt), 6 to 1.
1935 The Marne, 7.10 (S. Weiss), 20 to I;
Regular Bachelor, 5 to 1, unplaced.
1936 — Heritor, 6.7 (M. Curby), 14 to 1; Gay
Blonde, 3 to 1, second.
1937 Silver Rose, 7.2 (J. O’Sullivan), 12 to 1;
King’s Head, 3 to 1, second.
1938 — Hammer Head, 7.9 (A. Harvey), 10 to 1;
Brown Baroness, 3 to 1, second.
1939 — Bradford, 8.3 (J. O’Sullivan), 7 to 2.
1940 High Caste, 8.12 (E. Bartle), 9 to 2;
Waireka, 5 to 4, unplaced.
The California Horse Racing Board
recently decided it was possible to be
too drastic where “rung-in” horses were
concerned. One was detected at Agua
Caliente, and was branded “ringer” on
the near hind quarter. It was a pity the
individual who attempted the fraud was
not similarly treated. However, the
action taken was not generally approved,
and at a meeting of the board a resolu-
tion was passed that “No horse shall be
branded or otherwise punished for in-
fraction of racing rules in California.”
The above rule raises the question
whether a “rung-in” horse could even be
disqualified, but the board may have its
own interpretation of punishment.
* * * *
The timing of races received attention
from the earliest days of the sport in
Australia, and then, as now, a new record
was always productive of a deal of com-
ment. In 1856, when the first “Racing
Calendar” was published by C. H.
Nichols, of “Bell’s Life in Sydney,” times
for most of the important races were
given. In those days “big racing” took
place at Camden, among towns now
never heard of in a sporting sense. There
was a three-day meeting there in
October of 1856, and Dora, in winning
the Forced Handicap, ran the mile and
a half in 2.48, which, the “Calendar”
stated, was “the quickest race ever run
in the colony.”
At the same fixture Veno, owned by
G. T. Rowe, beat Cooramin in the Cam-
den Town Plate, of £lOO. It was a heavy-
betting race, and Veno outstayed Coora-
min in 6.1 for the three miles. Earlier
in the year Cooramin won the Queen’s
Plate, of £lOO, three miles, at Home-
bush. There were 12 runners, and 20 to
18 was laid on Cooramin, who had an
easy win in 6.4.
M.Q. and Rafferty
“Ngaoi”: Although Maurice Strick-
land was dropped in the seventh round of
his fight with the Alabama Kid at
Palmerston North —it was a solar-plexus
punch—he had no difficulty in getting off
the canvas or in keeping the negro at
bay with stinging lefts to the head. The
head was the only target offered by the
crouching coon. Throughout the fight
his skull received a battering, and it is
questionable whether a European cranium
could have survived such punishment.
Considering that he had been out of
action for some time Strickland gave a
sound display. He was always confident,
and why shouldn’t he have been? Not
so long ago he was rated fifth on the list
of world heavyweights.
A Strickland-Richards contest is pro-
posed, but there are difficulties in the
way. Naturally Richards would want to
take his money out of the country, and,
as matters stand, this is impossible,
but Strickland may go to Australia. If
the thing does come off, Strickland will
have the same physical advantages over
the Australian as he had over the negro,
and in this observer’s opinion he would
defeat Richards in similar fashion.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM PERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.')
One of the most peculiar putting styles
I have ever seen belongs to Sam “Slam-
ming” Snead, the “hillbilly” golfer from
West Virginia. I played with him, John
Bulla and George Dawson at Pinehurst
in the pro.-amateur game. Sam had six
one-putt greens, stretching from the third
to the eleventh, and was five under par
when suddenly he went “cold” and three-
putted the last three greens from distances
under 18ft. on perfect turf.
This is common with Snead since he
took his now-famous eight at the last
hole to lose the 1938 open title
by a stroke. He goes along serenely for
a month or so and then breaks down on
his short game. He is a highly-strung
fellow.
To give some idea of the scoring on
the difficult Pinehurst course. Clayton
Heafner and his partner, Ed Kenny,
had a best-ball of 28 against a par of
36 for the first nine holes; they re-
turned in 33 for a 61, to win the event
easily. Snead and Dawson were 66 in
second place and Buffer and I 68.
Seventy was the lowest individual score
—by Snead,
Pinehurst is the only American course
I have seen that closely resembles our
Australian championship links. Built in
rolling sandy country and cut out of a
pine forest, it was included in every list
made by the professionals last year when
they named the 10 leading American
courses. At many holes one could
imagine one was playing around
Kingston Heath, Royal Melbourne, Com-
monwealth or Metropolitan clubs in Mel-
bourne. Parred at 72, it is no harder
than these Victorian courses.
Jimmie Thomson, winner in 1934 of
the Melbourne centenary championship.
carried his drive at the 17th hole of the
Colombia Country Club in Washington,
landing it on the green 295 yards away.
The hole lies uphill fairly steeply all the
way, with the green 30ft. above the foot of
the fairway, and the breeze was blowing
into Thomson’s face when he drove.
Another prodigious hit was Snead’s drive
at the fourth at Pinehurst; it left him
with only a 60-yard chip on the 475-
yard hole. The fairway slopes slightly
up where the balls land, yet Sam’s ball
carried nearly 300 yards before getting
the downhill roll over the slope. While
there are many big hitters in American
golf, Thomson, I believe, is the longest,
with Snead a very close second.
So popular is the Pinehurst Country
Club- —one of the oldest in the country—
that fees and subscriptions brought in
£20,000 last year. I doubt if any club
in the world can beat that, but Pine-
hurst has three great 18-hole courses to
attract players, and is the finest golfing
resort of its type I have ever seen. No-
thing in Australia compares with it; it
is like having the Lakes, Kensington and
La Perouse courses banded together
under one club.
Two important events are played
annually at this club; the north and
south open in April, and the mid-south
open in November. The latter is a pro-
fessional event (prize-money, 2000
dollars); the other title is worth 5000
dollars.
Golf is popular at Langley Field, the
huge U.S. Army Air Force base on Vir-
ginia’s Atlantic coast at Chesapeake Bay.
During a visit there recently I met and
played with General Krogstad, Chief of
the Air Force. He told me that the
authorities were in process of building an
18-hole championship course there to
meet the needs of the growing personnel.
The general, a keen golfer, did a 79 that
afternoon —a good score for a man in his
middle sixties. There are many fine
golfers at the Field, including Lieut.
Montgomery, who scores par fairly con-
sistently.
I had a game with tiny Bobby Cruik-
shank on his James River course near
Richmond. The little Scottish veteran,
who has lived in the United States for
many years, has a remarkable record
in the open championship. Dur-
ing his career he has been second
once, third three times and fourth three
times in the American classic. Retired
from competitive play, Cruikshank is
attached to the two finest clubs in the
States —the Country Club of Virginia,
with two 18-hole courses, and the Gulf
Stream Club in Florida.
Cruikshank stands barely sft. in height,
yet he uses a driver two inches longer
than mine, which is an inch and a half
longer than standard. The club face is
nearly twice as deep as mine. He handles
it as if it were part of himself. It cer-
tainly goes to prove that each player
needs clubs to suit his own individual
taste.
Ins and Outs
“T”; saw \y g. Grace several
times when I was a boy,” said Neville
Cardus in an A.B.C. broadcast:
I think he visited Australia only once,
and that was in the season of 1891-92,
when he would have been in his thirty-
third or thirty-fourth year.
W.G. was born on July 14, 1848, and
visited Australia twice —in 1873-74 and
1891-92. He was skipper on each occa-
sion, and headed the batting averages
with 711 at 35.55 in 1873-74 (his brother
G.F. was second with 398 at 33.22) and
921 at 32.89 in 1891-92. He also got a fail-
number of wickets on each trip. Forty-
eight years ago I saw him make 50 on the
Melbourne Cricket Ground against the
Australian Eleven. Through the long
vista of time I can still see the big black-
bearded man and hear the roar that went
up when Bob McLeod clean-bowled him
with an off-break.
jf » • *
“Wodgil”: Pepper, the burly all-
rounder who plays for Petersham and
N.S.W., has enlisted in the A.I.F. Cheet-
ham is already abroad, so the State will
have the—er—nucleus of a representa-
live side if it should be challenged
by any English county or club with
a sufficient number of players m
khaki. In the last war N.S.W. had a
really wonderful eleven on service
abroad: Macartney and Kelleway, two
of the best all-rounders in the world ;
Cotter, Jack Gregory and R. J. H. Massie,
three of the best fast bowlers; Collins,
Taylor and Oldfield ; Trenerry, Docker
and Bull. Given time to get into form
that lot could have been backed witn
' confidence to beat any other service team
formed out of a State, county or club.


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
Enrolment for Military Service for Home Defence
NOTICE is hereby given that, in pursuance of Australian Military Regulation 141 A, all male inhabitants of Australia:
(a) who were, on 13th December, 1940, unmarried or widowers without children, and
(b) who were born between Ist July, 1906, and 30th June, 1921 (that is, those who reached the ages of 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, , >
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 33 years during the period Ist July, 1939, and 30th June, 1940), and
(c) who reside in the Metropolitan Area as defined in Schedule 1 hereto or within a distance of 10 miles reckoned by the nearest
practicable route from any of the towns prescribed below in Schedule 2, ,
are required, unless within any of the classes of persons specified below, to enrol for military service in the manner hereinafter escn
within 30 days after 25th January, 1941.
CLASSES OF PERSONS EXEMPT FROM ENROLMENT.
Persons who are in any of the following classes are NOT required to enrol: —
(a) Persons who are not British subjects;
(h) Persons who have not resided in Australia for six months;
(c) Persons whose bona fide residence is not within the Metropolitan Area as defined
in Schedule 1 hereto or within » distance of 10 miles reckoned hy the nearest
practicable route from any of the towns prescribed in Schedule 3 hereto;
(d) Persons who are enlisted in, or appointed to, the Naval, Military or Air Forces;
(e) Persons who have already reported for military service after having been called
upon to do so subsequent to 30th November, 1939;
(f) Persons temporarily absent from Australia;
(g) Persons who are members or officers of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or
of a State;
(h) Judges of Federal or State Courts or Police, stipendiary or special magistrates
of the Commonwealth or of a State.
ENROLMENT COMPULSORY ON CEASING TO BE EXEMPT.
All male Inhabitants of Australia who were on 13tb December, 1940, unmarried or
widowers without children and who are within the age group specified above hut who
are not required to enrol within thirty days after 25th January, 1941, by reason that they
are within one or more of the classes specified above, must enrol within thirty days after
they cease to be within those classes.
METHOD OF ENROLMENT.
*.;. e is*. .-.ssa.-s rsasaw •« I x ; S£rsr
be obtained from any Area Officer or Post Office on or after a ""ounOs of reserved
iMSK rSSmSXS tnKSL«a
Regulation’s should apply for such exemption on the enrolment lorm.
MENT FOR THREE MONTHS.
NOTIFICATION OF MARRIAGE OR CHANGE OF ADDRESS OR OCCUPATION.
Any person who, after enrol ment-
(a) marries, or
ffl fiSIK: JS»SSSn; "™«~ to be employed In . re.eeved occnpn.lon
:i ss sm&s gss^j&Js&srsss.
FAILURE TO NOTIFY SUCH HAPPENING INVOLVES A MAXIMUM PENALTY Ol
£2O OR IMPRISONMENT FOR THREE MONTHS.
SCHEDULE 1.
METROPOLITAN AREA.
The whole of the Metropolitan Area, being defined by a line from Barrenjoey, thence in a Westerly direction
thence in a South-westerly direction to a point 10 miles West of Parramatta, thence in a Southerly direction to a
thence in an Easterly direction to a point 10 miles South of Miranda., thence to the sea coast.
to a point 10 miles North of Hornsby,
point 10 miles South-west of Liverpool,
SCHEDULE 2.
PRESCRIBED TOWNS.
(The Area numbers of area in which towns are situate are indicated see Schedule
TOWN. AREA.
Aberdeen 2B
Adaminaby 3
Adelong 50A
Albion Park 34
Alectown 548
Alstonville 41
Arcadia 18U
Ardlethan 56A
Ariah Park SCA
Armidale 33
Ashford 35
Attunga 33
Austinmer 34
Baan Ha a 33
Baltimore 548
Hallina 41
Bangalow 41
Baradine 211
Barellan 56A
llargo 3
llarmedman 56A
Barraba 33
Bateman ’9 Bay 3
Bathurst 54A
Batlow 56A
Baulkham Hills . . 20/19
Beekom SCA
Bega 3
Bellata 33
Bellingen 13
Belmont 2A
Bemboka 3
Bendemeer 33
Bendick Murrell . . . 5(iA
Ben Lomond 33
Bentley 41
Bermagui 3
Berovvra ISA
Berridale 3
Berrima 3
Berry 34
Bethungra 56A
Bexhill 41
Binalong 56A
Binda 3
Bingara 35
Binnaway 2B
Binya 56A
Blackheath 20/19
Black Mountain 33
Blaektown 20/19
Blayney 54A
Bodalla 3
Bogan Gate 548
Boggabilla 33
Boggabri 33
Bombala 3
Bonalbo 41
Bonslmw 35
Bonville 13
Boolaroo 2A
Boomi 33
Boorowa 5(iA
Bowning 3
Bowral 3
Bowraville 13
Braidivood 3
Branxton 2B
Bredbo 3
Breeza 33
Bribbaree 56A
Broadwater 41
TOWN. AREA.
Broke 2B
Brooklyn 18A
Brushgrove 41
Bugaldie 2B
Bukkula 35
Bulalulela.il 13
Bull! 84
Bundanoon 3
Bnndarra 33
Bungendore 3
Burraga 54A
Burren Junction .... 35
Burringbar 41
Byron Bay 41
Camden 3
C am p belli o vvn 3
Canberra 3
Candelo 3
Canowindra 30A
Capertee 54A
Captain’s Elat 3
Caragabal 50A
Carcoar 54A
Cargo 548
Carrathool 568
Carroll 33
Casino 41
Cassilis 2B
Cathcart 3
Catherine Hill Bay .. 2 A
Central Tilba 3
Cessnock 2B
Chinderah 41
Ciarencetovvn 13
Clones 41
Cobargo 3
Cobbitty 3
Coff’s Harbour 13
Coledale 34
Collarenebri 33
Comboyne 13
Condobolin 548
Condong 41
Coolac 56A
Coolah 54A
Coolamon SOB
Coolongolook 13
Cooma 3
Coonabarabran 2B
Coonamble 548
Coopernook 13
Cootamundra 50A
Copmanhurst 41
Coraki 41
Coramba 13
Cowra 30 A
Crookwell 3
Cryon 33
Cudal 548
Cudgen 41
Cullen Bullen 54A
Cumnock 548
Curlewis 33
Currabubula 33
Oalgety 3
Dalton 3
Dapto 34
Darlington Point . . 308
Deepwater 33
Delegate 3
Delungra 35
Denman 2B
TOWN. AREA.
Dora Creek 3A
Dorrigo 13
Douglas Park 3
Drake 33
Dubbo 51D
Dundee 33
Dunedoo 54A
Dungog 13
Dungowan 33
Dunoon 11
Dural , 1811
Duri 33
Eden 3
Edgeroi 35
Ellalong 311
Elong Elong 54H
Eismore 35
Emmaville S 3
Emu Plains 20/1!)
Engadine 34
Erina ISA
Etl along 18A
Euchareena 548
Eugowra 56A
Eumungerie 511?
Eungella 41
Evans Head 41
Exeter 3
Forbes 5411
Forster 13
Frederickton 13
Frogmore 56A
Galong 56A
Galston 1811
Ganmain 568
Garah 35
Gerrlngong 34
Geurie 54 B
Gillenbab SOB
Gilgandra 548
Glenbrook 20/19
Glencoe 33
Glen Davis 54A
Glenfleld 4B
Glenifl’er 13
Glen Innes 33
Glenorie 1811
Glenreagb 13
Gladstone 13
Gloucester 13
Goolgovvi SCA
Goolmangar 41
Gooloogong 50A
Goonellabah 41
Gosford 18A
Goulburn 3
Graben Gullen 3
Grafton 41
Grafton South 41
Gravesend 35
Greenethorpe 50A
Grenfell 50A
Gresford 13
Greta 211
Griffith siiA
Grong Grong SOB
Guiargambone 548
Gulgong 54A
Gundagai 50A
Gundy 2B
Gunnedab 33
Gunning 3
TOWN. ABBA.
Gurley 35
Guyra S 3
Gwabegar 35
Hall 3
Hannain Vale 13
Hanwood 56A
Harden 56A
Harwood Island .... 41
Hay 56 B
Hazelbrook 20/19
Helensburgh 34
Hexham 2B
Heron’s Creek 13
Hillston 56A
Holmesville 21!
Huskisson 34
Illabo
Ingleburn 411
Inverell 35
Jamberoo 34
Jerry’s Plains 21!
Jiggi 41
Jilliby ISA
Jindabyne 3
Junee 568
Band os 56A
Kangaroo Valley .... 34
Karuah 13
Katooniba 20/19
Kelly ville 20/19
Kelvin 33
Kempsey 13
Kendall 13
Kentburst 20/19
Kentucky 33
Kiama 34
Kinchela Creek 13
Kincumber ISA
Koorawatba 56A
Kootxngal 33
Krambach 13
Kurrajong 20/19
Kurri Kurri 21!
Kyogle 41
Bake Cargelligo .... 56A
Lansdowne 13
Laurence 41
Baurieton 13
Bawson 20/19
Beadville 54A
Keeton 561!
Udsdale 54A
Bimbri 33
Bisarow ISA
Bismore 41
Bithgow 54A
Biverpool 41!
Bong Jetty ISA
Boomberah 33
Borne 13
Buddenham 20/19
Bue 54A
Byndhurst 54A
Macksville 13
Maclean 41
Maitland 2B
Mallanganee 41
Manduraina 54A
Manildra 511!
Manilla 33
Marrar
Marsden Park
561!
20/19
TOWN. AREA.
Martin’s Creek IS
Marulan 3
Matcham ISA
Matong _
Menangle 3
Mendooran 54A
Merriwa SB
Merriwagga s®^
Merrygoen 54A
Michelago 3
Millie S 5
Millthorpe 548
Milton S 4
Milvale 56A
Minto 4B
Mirrool 36A
Mitchell’s Island .... 13
Mittagong 3
Mogrigny 348
Molong 548
Monteagle 50A
Moorland 13
Moree S 3
Morpeth 2B
Morisset 2 A
Moruinbateinan 3
Moruya 3
Moss Vale 3
Mount George I 3
Mount Victoria . . . 20/19
Mudgee 31A
Mulgoa 20/19
Mullaley 33
Mullumbimby 41
Mungindi 35
Murrumburrab .... 36A
Murrurundi 2B
Murwilluinbah 41
Muswellbrook 2B
Muttama 36A
Nabiac 13
Nambucca Heads ... . 13
Nana Glen 13
Naradhan 36A
Narara ISA
Narellan 3
Narooma 3
Narrabri 33
Narrandera SOB
Narromine 548
Nelson’s Bay 13
Nemingha 33
Newbridge 54A
Newnes 54 A
Newcastle 2A
Newrybar 41
Nlmbin 41
Nimmitabel 3
Nowra 34
Nundle 33
Nyinboida 13
Nyngan 548
Oberon 54A
Orange 548
Ourimbah ISA
Oxley Island 13
Pallamallawa 35
Pambula 3
Parkes 548
Paterson 13
Peak Hill 348
Penrilh 20/19
TOWN. AREA.
Perthville 54A
Picton 3
Pilliga 35
Pokataroo 35
Port Kembla 34
Portland 34A
Port Macquarie 13
Prospect 20/19
Quaker’s Hi-11 .... 20/19
Quamlialla 56A
Queanbeyan 3
Quirindi 33
Ramornie 41
Hankins Springs . . 56A
Rappville 41
Ravens worth 2B
Raymond Terrace . . 2B
Rep ton 13
Richmond 20/19
Riverstone 30/19
Robertson 34
Rockley 54A
Rocky River 33
Rogan’s Hill 188
Rooty Hill 20/19
Rowena 35
Rylstone 34A
St. Alary’s 20/19
Schofields 30/19
Scone 2B
Shellharbour 34
Singleton 2B
Smithtown 13
Somerton 33
South W est Rocks .. 13
Spring Hill 548
Spring Ridge 3B
Springwood 30/19
Stanwell Park 34
Stockinbingal 56A
Stoker’s Siding 41
Stuart Town 548
Stroud 13
Swansea 2A
Tabulam 41
Tallimba 56A
Tahmoor 3
Tambar Springs .... 33
Tam worth 33
Taralga 3
Tarana 54A
Tarcutta SGB
Taree 13
Tat lira 3
Taylor’s Arm 13
Tea Gardens 13
Telegraph Point 13
Tern ora SGA
Tenterfleld 33
Terrigal 18A
The Entrance J3A
The Oaks 3
The Rock SGB
Thirlmere 3
Thirroul 34
Tingha 33
Tintenbar 41
Tomerong 34
Tomki 41
Tomingley 548
Toongabbie 30/19
Toronto £A
Tottenham 518
TOWN. AREA.
Trangie
Trundle
Tuggerah
TuUamore
Tuilibigeal
Tumbarumba a ”‘ s
Tumblong a ”“
Tumut 56i^
Tuncurry j"
Tweed Heads
Eki ./I
Ulan
Ulladulla f*
Ulmarra
Ungarie
Upper Orara Ip
Uralla .
Uranquinty aOJ *
U rung a “
Valla
Wagga Wagga a ®H
Walcha 3o
Waloha Road 33
AA'algett 35
Wallabadah «•»
Wallacia 30/19
AVallendbeen s<>A
Wallerawang SUV
AVallsend 2A
Wamberai ISA
Wardell
Ward’s River 13
AVarialda 33
Warren 54 B
Waterfall 34
Wattamon d arra ... 56A
Waucbope 13
AVee AVaa 35
Weemalah 35
AVeethalle 56A
S4H
Werrls Creek 33
Westdale 33
Whitton 568
Wianggree 11
AVilberforce 30/19
Willow Tree 2B
AA’indsor 30/19
AVingello 3
AV ingen 2B
Wingham 13
Wollombi 3B
Wollongong 34
Wolumla 3
AVongarbon 518
Woodburn South .... 41
Woodstock 54A
Woodville 3B
Woolbrook 33
Woolgoolga 13
Woy AVoy ISA
Wyalong AA’est .... 56A
Wyangala 56A
AVyee 3A
AVyong ISA
Wyndham 3
A'amba 41
Y’anoo SOB
Yass 3
Yenda 50A
A'eoval 548
Yetman 33
Young 56A
SCHEDULE 3.
AREA OFFICERS.
Area No. TOWN.
Name of Area Officer and Address.
2A
2B
13
33
41
35
ISA
188
30
36
NEWCASTLE Capt. W. H. COOP,
Drill Hall, King St., Newcastle
West. ’Phone; Hamilton 1432.
WEST MAITLAND Capt. W. ,T. KINGSMILL,
Drill Hall, West Maitland.
’Phone: Mait. 766.
KEMPSEY
TAMWORTH
LISMOKE
INVERELL
WILLOUGHBY
RYDE
MILLER’S POINT
LEICHHARDT
Capt. S. W. ALDENTON, M.C.,
Drill Hall, Kempsey.
’Phone: Kempsey 150.
Capt. E. J. MOUNTAIN, M.C.,
Drill Hall, Tamworth.
’Phone: Tamworth 367.
Capt. R. C. GIBSON,
Drill Hall, Showgr’d, Lismore,
’Phone: Lismore 1144.
Major G. R. McPHEE,
Drill Hall; Inverell.
’Phone: Inverell 632.
Capt. R. A. CRESSWELL,
Penshurst St. (nr. Victoria St.),
Willoughby. ’Phone: ,TA 4381.
Capt. A. W. IRVINE, M.C.,
71 Ryedale Road, Ryde.
’Phone: Ryde 1533.
Capt. B. BLYTHMAN,
Drill Hall, Argyle St.,
Miller’s Pt. ’Phone: BW 7673
Lt. H. G. A. EDEN,
Drill Hall, Hill & McKenzie Sts.,
Leichhardt. ’Phone: LM 2005.
20/19 PARRAMATTA Capt. G. S. MILLAR,
Macquarie Hall, Macquarie St.,
Parramatta. ’Phone: UW 9389.
Area No. TOWN.
Same of Area Officer and Address,
54A BATHURST Capt. M. B. GAVIN,
Old Police Barracks, Bathurst.
’Phone; Bathurst 700.
548 ORANGE Capt. E. J. ROBINS,
Brill Hall, Orange.
’Phone; Orange 933.
56A COOTAMUNDRA Major E. W. Matthews, D. 5.0.,
Drill Hall, Cootanmndra.
’Phone: Cootamundra 505.
568 WAGGA
4A BUBWOOD
4B MERBYLANDS
1A PADDINGTON
IB BONDI
1C RANDWICK
ID KINGSFORD
17A MANLY
Capt. C. B. DANE,
Drill Hall, Wagga.
’Phone: Wagga 3301.
Capt. H. E. GORDON,
Scouts’ Hall, George St.,
Burwood. ’Phone: UJ2679.
Capt. C. C. BRICE,
Drill Hall, Merrylands.
’Phone: UW 9686.
Major M. L. F. JARVIE, M.C.,
Park Road, Paddington.
’Phone: EE 2550.
Capt. B. FULLER,
Waverley Pk., Bondi R<l., Bondi.
’Phone: EW 5930.
Capt. G. G, GARDINER,
Carrington Road, Bandwick.
’Phone: EX 7211.
Capt. J. E. KEEP,
Kensington Oval, Cottenhara
Av., Kingsford. ’Phone: EX 1533.
Capt. C. O. THOMPSON,
Drill Hall, Pittwater Road,
Manly. ’Phone: XU 1508.
Area No. TOWN.
Name- of Area Officer and Address.
178 NORTH SYDNEY Capt. E. G. HENDERSON,
333 Military Road, Cremorne
Junction. ’Phone: XM 5660.
45A ARNCXIFEE Capt. E. H. S. GUYOT,
Drill Hall, Burrows Street,
Arncliffe. ’Phone: EX 1070.
458
3
53A
538
53C
53D
55
KOGARAH
GOUEIUTRN
Capt. A. S. STEEANSON,
Drill Hall, Kogarah.
’Phone: EW 1305.
Capt. H. C. MANFRED,
Drill Hall, Auburn Street,
Gonlburn. ’Phone: Goul. 045.
MARRICKVIEEE
ASHFIEED
BEEMORE
BANKSTOWN
FOREST LODGE
Capt. H. C. COTTON,
R.A.A. Institute Drill Hall,
Addison Rd., Marrickville.
’Phone: EM 5502.
Et. C. R. BROWNE,
Drill Hall, Liverpool Road,
Ashfield. ’Phone: IJA 4338.
Capt. T. J, PATTINSON,
Drill Hall, Belmore,
’Phone: IJE 1833.
Capt. R. J. E. DOWSETT,
New Telephone Bldg., Kitchener
Pde., Bankstown. Tel. UE 1515.
Capt. H, S. HAMILTON,
Drill Hall, Hereford Street,
Forest Lodge. ’Phone: MW 1047.
34 WOLLONGONG Capt. H. H. E. HAEEETT, M.C.,
Showground, Wollongong.
’Phone: Wollongong 46.
W. H. HILXESS, Lieut.-Col.,
Chief Enrolment Officer.


SAVE MONEY
■ ITS
g|U| THRIFTY
A\3Lto install
» NEW i
sss
a i
CHAMPION
Bring FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
m
Wwk
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
m.
SPARK
PLUGS
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Reunion in Vienna”
If Sydney Minerva will fit up one of
its boxes with blankets and a frying-
pan this showman will gladly take up
residence there for as long as “Reunion
in Vienna” lasts. Which* .should be a
good many weeks.
Maybe, after the third week or so, it
will seem best to sleep through the first
act, for the comic maidservant and the
comic laundryman are stock figures ;
Frank Bradley, building up the portrait
of an inquisitive old man, gives the en-
tirely erroneous impression that the old
fellow isn’t going to be funny later on ;
Katrin Rosselle has a part that amounts
to no more than a vague, sweet smile
floating across the stage; Lloyd Lamble
and Mary Ward, as the great psycho-
analyst and his once-frivolous and now
uncertainly earnest wife, work up what
promises to be a grim domestic drama ;
and the sad relics of Viennese nobility
who drift in to ask Mary Ward to join
them in their reunion, besides conveying
all too successfully the pathos of their
situation, make the play seem remote and
faded. Who, at this date, wants to see a
play about the hardships of the Haps-
burgs and their followers?
But, in the second act, in stalks Edwin
Styles as Rudolf Maximillian,' the wild-
est and gayest of the Hapsburgs, and
from that moment it’s a different play.
The psycho-analyst’s wife has once been
Rudolf’s mistress, and each still cherishes
romantic memories of the other. Behind
the comedy of Rudolf’s pursuit of the
wife is the half-serious purpose of the
dramatist to show how the psycho-
analyst and the wife, both haunted by
this gay ghost, try to exorcise his pres-
ence from their otherwise happy mar-
riage.
After a number of “daring” love scenes
that could —but don’t —fall dreadfully
flat, Rudolf pursues the wife to her home
and there —with Frank Bradley, the
psycho-analyst’s father, hovering hope-
fully in the background—the two men try
to settle the problem of jealousy in a
scene that’s a priceless mixture of the
serious and the ludicrous. Robert Sher-
wood, who wrote the play, solves it most
skilfully, and the immediacy of the
comedy completely removes the must and
dust of Old Vienna.
All three principals turn in excellent
performances. Styles has sometimes
seemed more of a vaudevillain than an
actor, but he shows here a fine under-
standing of his part, bringing out the
pathos and the fineness of Rudolf’s char-
acter as well as his irrepressible, some-
times desperate, gaiety. Mary Ward is
wholly convincing as the sober wife who
can still go gay, and Lamble, who has to
be serious throughout, shows a nice sense
of balance in his big scene with Rudolf,
shading his performance with just enough
“That’s not the shelter, that’s the target.”
humanity both to allow it to fit into the
farce without jarring and to allow the
farce to fit into the bounds of credibility.
Marie La Varre, Gaston Mervaie,
Minnie Love, Claude Flemming and the
rest of the Viennese aristocracy are all in
good form. Two others who help to
make it go with a swing are the musicians
who play at the reunion, making the fes-
tivities genuinely gay instead of dismal
like most stage parties,
« * * *
Threatened changes in the theatrescape
of Melbourne are a new Gregan
McMahon season at the Comedy with
Australian Ambrose Pratt’s Chinese play
as the opening ball of the over, and the
disturbance of “The Sleeping Beauty” at
His Majesty’s in favor of musicomedy
revivals. The melodious “Vagabond
King” will arrive on February 1, with
panto, boy Miss Stenning in the role of
leading lady. At the King’s the Great
Levante is challenging the packing-case
department of Macpherson Macßobert-
son’s chocolate factory to nail him into
an export packing-case and keep him
there for more than 20 minutes.
ARTBURSTS.
Some Melbourne “Modernists”
A show at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, of pictures by 27 Melbourne
painters contains few canvases with sig-
natures known this far north. The work
of George Bell catches the eye because
of the good color sense and technical
competence that peep out from a camou-
flage of affected clumsiness. Colin Mac-
Gowan’s “Drawbridge, Frankston,” is
neatly crude; Russell Drysdale’s “Girl
at a Window” might have been painted
by Cezanne ; Bernard Lawson’s “River
Scene” is inoffensive to any sort of taste ;
Marjorie North, Marjorie Woolcock and
others imitate Picasso, and Peter Purves
Smith does his best to shock with “The
Park,” populated by comic figures. But
there is nothing in these pictures new to
Sydney, which has its own coterie of
“modernists.”
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Mark of Zorro”
We’ll admit that, breaking all rules of
fair criticism, we went along to Sydney
Regent to view this offering in a highly
prejudiced frame of mind —we’ve seen
some of the horrible things Tyrone
Power has done in the name of drama,
and the idea of his figuring in a role
created by the athletic Douglas Fairbanks
senior seemed enough to keep the office
cat off the tiles for a fortnight.
But the Regent people have a way all
of their own. First they treat you to a
battery of smiles from trim little minxes
who provide you with tickets, take ’em
off you again and then sink you into a
luxuriously upholstered pew fit for a
Caliph. From there it’s pretty difficult
to be prejudiced against anything —even
Tyrone. But, and just in case, the man-
agement then turns on a string of selected
shorts calculated to remove the last ves-
tiges of bias or prejudice from the most
exacting filmtaster.
In this case the first was an interesting
item about a bloke who goes shark-hunt-
ing with a bow and arrow; the second
was a cowboy opus, about crooning cow-
boy admittedly, but all done out in tech-
nicolor and serving as a not unpleasant
anaesthetic if nothing else; then came
“Dover Front,” scenes of war-time Dover
and an arresting item on any programme ;
after that was an engaging technicolor
tour of Virginia into which a good deal
of U.S. history seems to have been con-
centrated ; and last, but by no means
least, was Walt Disney’s “The Billposter,”
featuring Donald Duck and his hound in
great trouble with pastepot, brush,
posters, a windmill and an exceedingly
cantankerous goat.
Plainly, at this stage, it was impossible
to hurl bricks at Tyrone. Even so
though possibly we had been inclined in
his favor by the foregoing bill of shorts
—he did seem a little less wooden than
usual. Possibly, because what times he
wasn’t concealed behind a voluminous
mask he was supposed to represent a
rather effeminate young man given to
lace handkerchiefs and conjuring tricks,
Mr. Power seemed to act his part a little
better than usual.
At any rate, we found ourselves not
altogether uninterested in his exploits
when, returning from Spain to California,
he finds that State groaning under a
tyrannical Government and, riding by
night as the avenging Zorro and mas-
querading by day as the effeminate Don
Diego Vega, rids it of its yoke of tyranny.
And, if that should sound overenthusi-
astic, the excuse is offered that the film
also includes Basil Rathbone, Eugene
Pallette, J. Edward Bromberg, a willing
duel and an all-in stoush at the finish.
% * * *
“Twenty-one Days Together”
A John Galsworthy short story
chopped about for screen purposes and
losing much of its narrative value in the
process, this current offering at Sydney
State is, however, redeemed from the
commonplace by the fine, sensitive acting
of Vivien Leigh and Laurence Olivier.
Olivier, as the ne’er-do-well brother and
skeleton in the cupboard of an eminent
K.C., is particularly good, his light,
capable handling of the role standing out
in contrast to the heavy dramatic style
into which, on the evidence of “Wuther-
ing Heights,” “Rebecca” and “Pride and
Prejudice,” he seems to have fallen.
Miss Leigh, as the Russian refugee whose
persecuting husband Olivier strangles,
also turns in a fine stretch of histrionics,
not the least merit of which is her use
of precise phrasing and diction as a clue
to her nationality where a hundred other
actresses would have assumed a heavy
accent.
Leslie Banks, as the K.C. whose career
is jeopardised by his brother’s crime and
who almost moves heaven and hell to
keep it quiet, is as capable as ever; Hay
Petrie, as the ex-clergyman who is
accused of the murder and whose death
on the way to gaol saves Olivier from
confessing to the crime, turns in some
acting that is almost too good for the
role.
The story —of Olivier and Miss Leigh
living a splendid three weeks before he
confesses to the crime—is not altogether
new, and at times it move slowly, but
for this there is ample compensation in
the acting, casting and general atmo-
sphere.
* * * *
“Captain Calamity,” at Sydney Capitol,
is probably some sort of a legpull. It
is quite impossible to believe that experi-
enced filmsmiths like the Yanks could,
with good intentions, turn out such a
poor film. Its chief virtue is color
photography—a new color process with
a color-range limited largely to various
shades of orange. Its most amazing
property, however, is that of changing
a character’s facial hue from brilliant sun-
burn to dead white in a fraction of a
second and for no apparent reason.
Actors and acting are of the same spif-
fing standard. For the heroine they have
resurrected Marion Nixon, and, no doubt
to make her feel at ease, the rest of the
cast turns on the acting technique of the
silent days. The ’ero, one George
Houston, is a gentleman among gentle-
men. Facing up manfully to the villain,
he orders him off his schooner with the
portentous words “You know where the
devil lives? Well, go there! ”
* * * *
Sydney Embassy has the Lane sisters
and their cronies on deck once more
with another of the Lemp family series.
The current effort, “Four Mothers,”
measures up well with previous episodes
and makes fair entertainment of a light
and somewhat sentimental turn. Sup-
port feature, a screen version of Gene
Stratton Porter’s Laddie, is in the same
vein, and the two were lapped up by a
mainly feminine audience.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Touching the threatened
“smellies” (B. 15/1*41). When the movies
first came in the magnates did their best
to keep up the prestige of their trade by
giving their products important, high-
sounding names like motion pictures, but
public taste preferred the “flicks.” In
due course the synchronised sound film
became the “talkies.” Now Hollywood
is trying to stem the tide of lowness by
calling the new odorised film “Dramatic
Zephyrs.” If that awful name isn’t sub-
merged under “smellies” or “the whiffs
or something of that sort, it will be a
wonder.


The comfort of a septic tank without any water supply
THE HYGEIA DISSOL VENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and' overflows into the soil.
Provides one of the amenities of City life.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Efficiency, mechanism and long life fully guaranteed.
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied users.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
V- V
YOU CAN GET STRONG#^/
Complete Home Gy mi none Outfit.
NOW ONLY 20/-, or 2/6 DEPOSIT!
HERE’S an opportunity for you to develop big muscles and
obtain great strength by taking advantage of this astounding
bargain! Now only 20/-, or 3/6 deposit, for this famous £3
value. Complete Home Gymnasium. Watch your muscles grow!
Surprise your friends! Everything GUARANTEED.
The big chest expander alone is worth more than,
you pay for the entire outfit.
Here’s What You Get—
1. —Complete set of Wall Apparatus
attachment.
2. —Two high-tensioned Grip Apparatus
builds strong wrists and' forearms.
3. —Book on Jiu-Jitsu.
4. —Foot Stirrups; for legs, thighs,
stomach.
5. —Complete Muscle Building Course.
6. —Complete Boxing Course.
7. —Rowing Machine Attachment.
8. Three - Strand
Progress ive
Chest Expander
GUARANTEE
MONEY BACK
IF NOT
SATISFIED
mm nm
o
f i
o
, 0%
r ~s
I* r«
'Jf//v
anT-^v'^G-Vto
oQXIN o
course
&M.*
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE
Let us send you this whole wonderful Muscle
Building Outfit, Courses, etc., to try at our
risk for only 20/-. If you’re not satisfied
within 10 days just return the course and
your money will be refunded. We will send
it C. 0.1). if you like. Just pay the postman
a few pence extra for postage, or pay by
instalments of 2/6 per week until 25/- is
paid in full. (No C.O.D. to N.Z.)
GYM. SUPPLIES, Sales Dept. 3i,
21 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs, v ;
I enclose 20/-, or 2/6 as first payment, for
your complete Muscle Building’ Outfit arid Courses,
and in accordance with your GUARANTEE if I
am not satisfied you will refund my money in full.
NAME
ADDRESS
22/l/’4l.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Rabaul in Danger Again
“Kaloa”: Where New Guinea is con-
cerned no warning seems to be enough
for Canberra
On May 29, 1937, a severe earthquake
, , , ~
P y a v °l canic eruption
occurred at Rabaul. The townspeople
had to be hurriedly evacuated and taken
to the old German capital at Kokopo,
several miles round the bay. The inces-
sant moist heat, the rain, the mosquitoes
make such an operation dangerous in
equatorial high latitudes. It said a great
deal for the coolness of the people them-
selves and for the efficiency of the Ad-
“Calling all cars! Calling all cars! Dangerous criminal at large , heading south."
ministration that there were no deaths
and no outbreak of disease, save from
accident —only one white life was lost.
Three days after the first blow the
harbor waters were still boiling, and the
Vulcan channel was being blocked by a
steadily rising volcanic island. On June
5, with the report of the death of the
white man, permanent removal of the
capital was mooted, but on June 8, after
the native casualties had been summed
up as 18 dead and 300 missing and the
darqage roughly estimated at £200,000,
the Administrator expressed his “deter-
mination” to re-establish the capital at
Rabaul. There was pillaging by natives
—in view of the loose rein with which
Brown Brother is ruled in New Guinea
and the wide variety of tribes represented,
it is a marvel that there was not more.
A refugee ship brought many residents
to Australia. “S. M. Herald” reported
that wives were panic-stricken at the idea
of returning to the cinder-covered town,
and were urging their husbands to resign.
It was July 17 before the full casual-
ties could be summed up—424 natives
killed. Dr. Stehn, a Dutch vulcanologist,
was appointed to report. Early in
December he reported that there was
danger of further eruptions.
The Government then decided to find
a site for a new capital in a safe zone.
A committee recommended Lae, on the
mainland of New Guinea, handy to the
goldfields, which are the heart of New
Guinea industry. Mr. Hughes, however,
becoming Minister for the Territories,
visited New Guinea, and proposed to
override the committee by choosing Sala-
maua, some distance from Lae, but
Nature overrode Mr. Hughes by giving
Salamaua a good shaking. That was two
days after the Father, a high mountain
70 miles from Rabaul, went into erup-
tion just a year after the first outburst.
Since then the moving of the capital
has been in abeyance. The Administra-
tion has carried on at Rabaul while a
scientific staff kept one eye on the vol-
canoes and made weekly reports.
All their watchfulness did not enable
them to warn the town that on Jan. 14
—when the chief vulcanologist was hun-
dreds of miles away—Rabaul and the sur-
rounding country would be badly shaken
by a ’quake which reached an intensity
of nine on the Rossi Forel scale —almost
as severe as it is possible to record. It
was pronounced by Riverview as “a
world-shaking type.” Fortunately its
centre was 20 miles from the heart of
Rabaul, but it might just as well have
been in Rabaul.
As it was, more than 100 water tanks
in the town were burst, landslides ap-
peared on the steep hillsides which half-
enclose the town, and fissures showed
in the harbor side. The inhabitants of
Rabaul live literally on the edge of the
volcano —or, rather, volcanoes, which
smoke at their very doorsteps.
The landfalls of eighteenth-century
navigators show that the whole shape of
Rabaul has been completely altered in
the last 200 years. Two large peaks
which towered over the Mother Moun-
tain, whose shadow falls over the capital,
have been blown away, the tops of the
adjoining two daughters have been
blasted off, the land elevation between
and the conformation of the harbor com-
pletely changed. The town itself is built
over a vast hollow, the roof of which
is so shallow that the sound of a foot-
stamp echoes like the beat of a drum.
If the Government retains Rabaul as
a settlement it one day may have a few
thousand deaths on its hands. The
sensible thing is to join Papua and New
Guineas a a single Australian territory
and use Moresby as a temporary capital
until the local inhabitants themselves are
able to agree on a permanent mainland
capital in a safe and centralised zone.
“Dip”: The North Australian Workers’
and the Carpenters and Joiners’ unions
have joined the beer-strikers and declared
Darwin’s four pubs “black” as a protest
against a rise of tuppence in the price of
bottled beer. After Marble Bar, Darwin
must be the most trying town in Aus-
tralia in which to carry on a successful
beer strike ; but the strikers have a case
—or had. In his report for the year to
June 30, 1937, the Administrator, then
new, went into bottled-beer costs, and
found them to be lid. a bottle f.o.b.
Melbourne, 1.375 d. steamer freight to
Darwin, ,304 d. landing charges, and ,sd.
cartage; a total of Is. 1.179 d. a bottle.
This was sold for 25.; profit, 82.1 p.c.
* * * «
“Yui”: Safe and well, though a
prisoner of war in Germany, after being
“reported missing, perhaps killed,” is
Squadron-Leader Malcolm L. McColm.
He is a son of the present lessee of St.
Helena Island—the one in Moreton Bay
(Q.) —and was educated at Scots College,
Warwick, where his father was once
partner with the Earl of Suffolk in a
station property. The young man
entered the R.A.F. in 1938, became a test
pilot and instructor, and joined a bomber
squadron shortly after the outbreak. He
attained membership of the Caterpillar
Club when, before the war, his ’plane
crashed, killing the observer and injuring
the gunner. The Warwick boy bailed out
and landed in a tree, 60ft. from the
ground. He failed to return from a
bombing exploit just after the queer
Christmas truce.
* * * *
“Norther”; Eight persons had to re-
ceive treatment at a northern N.S.W.
hospital because they had mistaken toad-
stools for mushrooms. Somebody should
go round with a stack of labels next
time there is a crop of the fungus.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
A.C.W.:
She stands with face unflinching,
With all her strength in play,
To hold her regal heritage—
A lioness at bay.
Down swoop Nazi vultures
With keen, ear-piercing yelps,
What time the Fascist jackal
Is cornered by her whelps.
W.T.:
Australia heard her calling
And, acting slick, they answered quick:
WeTl save the homeland falling.
We’ll stop their mad Blitz King.
J.A.W.:
As Britain sends her warships and British forces land,
Large nations will be awestruck at Greece’s gallant
stand.
The invading of her country Greece will now forbid
But she’ll never betray the British as our other
allies did.
G.M.A.: Send “To My Love in Camp” to
love in camp H.C.: Might click elsewhere.
N.H.: “Paradox Evolutionary” primitive.
T.M.C.: Ancient hen nesting in w.p.b
A.G.: There’s only one answer to a poem that’s
a string of rhetorical questions L.8.P.; Read
“Banjo” Paterson and then try again F.C.F.:
May be something in it, but it smacks of the
last war and C. J. Dennis... .E. 8.; Sunclay-
schoolish A.L.R.: Pleasant enough, but
packed with cliches... .D.V.R.: C105e....
F. Slight....J.E. (Agent, F.W.K.): Hope-
less... .H.R.N.: Still not up J.H.A.: No,
but it has its moments D.L.T.; Jingly
C.H.S.: We’re tired of Hitler and the devil
G. Flat as a pancake J.H.M.: Perhaps
it’s true, but it’s not a story... .K.H.S.: “You
Can’t Win at Two-up” has been handed over
for consideration by the Religious Editor....
V.G.D.: Even for a “first offence” it’s a
serious one N.D.M.: Has all the qualifica-
tions for a murder mystery, except for the
mystery C.D.J.: “This is one of the fun-
niest stories I have ever heard.” We thought
it pretty good when we first heard it about
10 years ago N.F.C.: “Tilly” tripping gaily
homeward F.S.H.: “How many stories do
I have to send in before I get into print?”
On your present standard, it depends on how
many stories you can write within the next 20
years C.G.S.: See “Salvaging Sal” by S. H.
Courtier in B. 4/12/’4O. .. .F.D.1.: You need
a more substantial plot for a yarn that length.
D.R.S.: Flapper fodder F.R.C.: The
office boy says the editor of his favorite penny-
dreadful might consider “Murder at Mid-
night.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.L.T.: Don’t doubt the resemblance, but
it’s still Chaplin and not Hitler G.S.: Fair
average art-school drawings tied to feeble jests.
. ...J.J.S.: A muddied muddle... .W.E.:
You’re poaching on Scorfield’s preserves....
R.H.: Afraid our readers aren’t interested in
“the illustrated history of the bicycle”... .M.T.:
What is it —horse or camel? .... A.H.K.; Drop
that scratchy style... .T.L.: Not a chuckle....
R.T.W.: Promising; keep trying, and brighten
the gags A.E.M.: That drunk’s been trail-
ing that lobster for so long he’s worn a path
up —and down —The Bulletin stairs L.E.:
Judging by those samples you might have a
future designing postage stamps... .J.W.N.:
Decorative and dull M.L.; The flapper’s got
two right hands T.P.: You made a good
fist of the wire fence, but the sheep look like
pomeranians 5.8.: Try housepainting.


IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going Into middle age note a!
Blowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to he expected to a de-
gree, if passage Is frequent and scanty, ac-
companied by burning and smarting, Nature
may be warning that there is something
wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of
taking the excess acids and waste out of the
blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a day
or about 3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons In your
blood, when due to functional kidney dis-
orders, may be the cause of nagging back-
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffl-
ncss under the eyes, headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give hapny relief and will help the
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
waste from your blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a
special remedy for the kidneys and will giva
ouick and lasting benefit. Old and young
alike can take DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY!
PILLS with perfect safety,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A feature of the week was the impres-
sive memorial service to Amy Johnson.
This was arranged by the Anzac Fellow-
ship of Women, and was held in St.
James’s Church, King-street. Present in
their blue uniforms were 50 members of
the Australian Women’s Flying Club.
With a congregation of 600 they paid
last tribute to one of the most famed
airwomen of the world.
Captain Upton and his officers and
many of the raider survivors were the
guests of the Overseas Club last Thurs-
day. There was a bumper house to say
“How do you do?” and “three cheers to
have you with us.” The clubrooms above
Martin-place have never been so tight
with humans. To cross the room one
had to sidetack like a yacht in a stiff sou’-
wester. But there was no sou’-wester
in that room. Captain Upton, however,
declared that he had known quarters
more humid and more congested. He’s a
Sussex man —something of the quiet
steadfastness of his county’s downs about
him. President of the Sydney branch
Keith Smith made the speech of welcome
and also read out a cable from Edgar
Rice, of the London club, saying how
thrilled the London end was over Bardia.
The spirit of the women who were
caught in this disaster is splendid.
Naturally they don’t want to talk about
their experiences, but the men are loud
in their praise. They turned smiling
faces under becoming hats to the world.
They must be very efficient shoppers, for
each looked as smart as paint. Margaret
Osborne, who writes verse and has
written a poem about the nightmare ex-
perience, combined a dusty-pink frock
and a drooping black hat. Her left arm
was in a black sling. Somebody said to
her: “A friend of mine at Purley had
her windows blown in.” “Oh,” said
Margaret, “we live twenty miles from
London. They wrote to tell me we’ve
had a Spitfire in the garden.” Many of
these plucky women had left England to
see to the welfare of children evacuees.
They were on the return trip when the
raider swooped down.
“Reunion in Vienna” might have been
reunion in King’s Cross, as far as its
opening night at the Minerva was con-
cerned. Everybody you knew seemed
to be in the crush in the foyer. Marie
Ney, whose own show, “No Time for
Comedy,” starts next Saturday at the
Royal, turned up looking like the lady
out of a miniature in spreading black
moire and chalk-pink gloves. Two tall
playgoers were Violet Roche and Ruby
Adams. Dick Parry was there ; so was
Corporal (that’s unless he’s got another
stripe) John Wood, The famed Dr. Nor-
man Haire overtopped most of the men.
Mrs. Lionel Wigmore, from Melbourne,
added to the color medley tailored Per-
sian pink crepes.
First-nighter Bradys were there; so
was Kathleen Robinson, known for her
play-producing in London. Ken Brod-
ziak, whose out-of-town address will be
c/o the Air Force from this week on-
wards, was with a party of friends, among
them Florence Marten, an English girl.
The Bertie Kellys were there to sample
the brew of laughter and tears that was
written about a Vienna that seemed sad
enough for the old regime even before
the Anschluss. Westralian Mary Ward,
who played the heroine with a smooth
finish, wore the dazzling white party
frock in the second act with the dash it
deserved. Frank Bradley’s study of the
simple old father still marvelling at the
brilliant son he has produced, and who
is always being sent off to bed when
excitement blows high, is a peach.
For those who have sufficient money
left after the Budget has sicklied o’er their
resolution with the pale cast of thought,
there are all sorts of new clothes bec-
koning from the glass cases. It’s to be a
winter of what the dress designers call
“high” colors. As far as can be judged
prices are pretty high, too. Royal blues,
bright greens and deep violets occur
again and again. Frocks and coats are
high voltaged with appliqued gold kid,
royal blue sequins, gipsy-like bead em-
broideries. Evening coats of duvetyn
are ground length, blaze with gold on
lapel and pocket, and are spoken of as
“glamorised” polo.
The duvetyn is a French importation,
but the design and make are Australian.
They come in rich mulberry tones, cara-
mels and soft greens. Some hip-length
ones, stiff with gold embroideries on
collar, cuff and pocket, would make
good showing even amid the barbaric
wealth of color in “Petrouchka.” But
the cape, sweeping and full, in the French
military style, is not forgotten. In
Benedictine brown it makes handsome
entry over a dinner frock in caramel.
This partnership of colors is one of the
most popular. Dinner frocks in soft
woollens are featured. Everything is
draped, showing the Egyptian, or the
sarong, influence. Day dresses are on
the up and up ; but dresses for dinner
and after are ground length.
For day wear the jacket suit and the
tailormade are the rivals. The fingertip
coat is once again a favorite. For the
figure that is somewhat retrousse below
the waist, this presents a better back
view. Pockets are on everything. One
suit in butter-soft Angora had its black-
ness relieved with soft brown fur at the
neckline. The same fur edged the
pockets, which were loose from the coat,
and into which the hands could be
slipped, muffwise. Those who are un-
decided about winter color schemes will
be slap among the fashionables if they ask
for the pheasant, the harvest or the Per-
sian tones. There are pheasant blue,
green, ruby, gold, turquoise. There are
Persian lime, lavender, pink, blue and
aqua. There are harvest gold and husk
beige, and there are other weaves catch-
ing the autumn tones.
The fair good looks of Mrs. Ruth
Wilson suited her demure wedding frock
of white marquisette and lace, the wide
and drooping white hat with its long
pale-blue velvet ribbons that would have
caused Gainsborough to give a whoop.
On Thursday afternoon last she became
Mrs. Vernon Baynes at St. Stephen’s, in
Macquarie-street. Her ’groom, who is
lieutenant in the A.I.F. and the youngest
son of Mrs. H. A. Baynes, of North-
wood, was formerly A.D.C. to Queens-
land’s Governor Leslie Wilson. Bride’s
parents, the F. W. Allens, of Point Piper,
celebrated with a cocktail party in their
home. Mrs. Bruce McWilliara was the
bride’s attendant. Jack Minnett was
best man.
Maorilander Marie Ney, very pretty
and just the right size and weight
for the modern stage heroine, is
back in Sydney and looking for-
ward to the opening night of “No
Time for Comedy.” She says this is the
sort of play people will read twice, go to
see three or four times, and if they are
actresses will not grow tired of playing
in. It opens up vistas of the past which
makes nice interplay with the present.
That’s what Marie likes so much in T. S.
Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral.” An-
other play of Eliot’s which Marie is fond
of is “Family Reunion,” which made
holiday pasturage for some of the critics
—more apparently because of its struc-
ture than because of its matter.
The experiment of verse-speaking as
applied to the theatre interests Marie
very much. This is not surprising in one
who made her first appearances in Shak-
speare. The Allan Wilkie companies were
her teen-old school, and no doubt the
flexible voice owes many of its modula-
tions to the repetition of Will’s gracious
lines. “The Lake,” which was specially
written for her by Dorothy Massingham,
is one of her favorite acting parts. News-
paper men and women, invited to meet
Marie in the J. C. Williamson offices,
had also a chance to renew acquaintance
with producer Alex. Coppel, the man
who wrote “I Killed the Count” and the
scenario for “The Stars Look Down” and
“Over the Moon.” Mr. Coppel’s reactions
seem orthodox. He didn’t like Shak-
speare when he was at school, and he
doesn’t play the saxophone.
Miss Ney is going to put new life into
the turban fashion. She seems to have
a partiality for turbans. They’re all
right with her cool, tea-rose sort of face.
But tying up the cabbage rose, the peony
or just the slightly bilious variety, the
turbans are not so smart as the wearers
would like to think. Marie’s husband,
Thomas Menzies, came down from Singa-
port to meet her on her arrival from
Melbourne.
A Queenslander, J. W. Fletcher, is
probably the first Australian to write the
life of a British Prime Minister. His
study of Winston Churchill is now
on sale all over Australia, and all profits
go to the Lord Mayor of London’s Dis-
tress Fund and to the Australian Red
Cross. This book is the outcome
of a lifelong admiration of Winston
Churchill. Mr. Fletcher has books filled
with data on the English statesman and
writer. He believes he has in his library
every book Mr. Churchill has written.
Mrs. Fletcher, photographed by Norton
Trevaire during her recent visit to Syd-
ney, shares her husband’s enthusiasm.
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher, who are well
known in business and pastoral circles
in the northern State, have their home
in Brisbane. They came to Sydney to
see the book through the throes of publi-
cation.
From every point of the compass the
Rangitane Ball was a great success. To
begin with, the committee had a hearten-
ing experience of even greater numbers
than it had expected turning up. There
was friendliness in the air, and the raider
victims talked to one another and were
talked to by all. For the night Margaret
Osborne wore her injured hand in a wide
blue ribbon to match the candy stripes
of her bright frock. Mrs. Sutcliff-Hey,
who had been dentist on a ship from Eng-
land carrying evacuee children, swirled
ground-length black and white check
taffetas. Father Denis Kelly, another
raider sufferer, whose home is in Leeds,
talked in his clear-clipped voice of the
splendid spirit that the captured men and
women had displayed. All the lads
dashed up to him to have a word and
tell him the latest news of sick comrades.
On the wall behind the official table,
where knight Thomas Gordon and his
lady entertained, the name Rangitane in
flowers stood out in letters of red on a
white background. The flags of the ship-
ping houses in the Australasian Steamship
Owners’ Federation made vivid decora-
tion about the Trocadero ballroom, and
frangipanni streamed in fragrance from
the basket of flowers in the middle of the
official table. Altogether it was a nice
do. Vicki Gordon’s dark slimness was
set in sweeping dahlia-red crepes. Sister
Helen, wearing hyacinth-pink laces, was
snug in a hip-length cape of red fox. The
Gordon lady’s crepes were flowered in
iris-blues and purples.
Enid Bayly, the Ministerial P. C.
Spenders, Commodore Muirhead-Gould,
the Sam Walders (her frock a faint shell-
pink), the Tom Churches and George
Davis and his lady gladdened the night;
so did E. A. Eva and his daughter, Mrs.
George Thompson. The S. V. Jones
couple, of the Blue Star line, were at the
table which displayed their flag. The
Ellerman line was represented by the
C. E. Whitakers. Five stewardesses
who were among the rescued en-
joyed the night. Dance secretaries were
Betty Cray and W. Wagstaffe. Commo-
dore Muirhead-Gould was the treasurer.
Harold Williams sang. Bessie Gunthorpe,
Jack Whitehead and juggler Rebla were
others on the bill. But the man who told
you your character from your hand-
writing was the star turn with the girls.
Both the Women’s and the Men’s
Pioneer Societies will be lifting their
glasses to Captain Phillip on January 23-
Strictly speaking, Anniversary Day is the
26th ; but the two clubs are earmarking
the previous Thursday. The Market-
street address will stage a great tea-drink-
ing, and the Men Pioneers will feature a
more robust entertainment. Theirs win
be late afternoon, from five o clock
onwards.
All the joy bells at St. Mary’s in Rydge-
street, North Sydney, are getting ready to
peal their most blithe on January 30 for
Beatrice McGirr and her Dr. Tom Bate-
man. This will be an afternoon wedding,
toasts to follow at Redleaf, Double Bay.
The bride’s frock is being kept as closely
guarded as a new design by Chanel or
Molyneux. But this creeps out. It is to
be of hand-loomed fabric, ordered from
and got out of Paris when its chestnut-
trees still flowered, its fountains still
played for free men and women. Prob-
ably no girl in Sydney has had more
kitchen-, hanky- and linen-teas given in
her honor than the popular Beatrice.
Most of the boys’ choirs that have
visited Sydney have come from other
lands. Two notable examples were the
Westminster and Viennese choirs. Last
week from Melbourne came the Austra-
lian Boys’ Choir. Complete with
director, cook, housekeeper and matron
they have taken up house at Manly, and
have been filling radio engagements with
the A.B.C. Of the choir’s 50 members,
30 are in this group, and they will make
their only public appearance in Sydney
at the Conservatorium next Thursday
night. The Women’s Auxiliary of the
A.I.F, Engineers and Technical Units
Welfare committee will benefit. Every-
thing from Gilsullivan choruses to
oratorio is included in their repertoire.
And they can do something that probably
no visiting youngsters could —they can
sing in Maori.
Delegates and conferrers at the con-
ference of the National Union of Austra-
lian University Students have found a
bit of fluff mixed up with the sterner stuff
of their learned arguments. Before the
opening on Friday by Premier Mair,
Vice-Chancellor Robert Wallace enter-
tained the delegates at dinner at the Uni-
versity, The George Christies, of Wah-
roonga, whose Margaret is hostess to
three of the delegates (Beryl Wilson, of
Melbourne, and Cynthia Johnson and
Rhona Connery, of Hobart), gave a dance
at their home on Saturday night. There
was a tea party at Professor and Mrs.
Dakin’s Pittwater home on Sunday. A
cocktail party at the University was still
another breather from the sea of learn-
ing. Yesterday the Town Hall entertained
delegates and hostesses.
The most celebrated woman visitor to
Sydney last week was Professor Wini-
fred Cullis. She has just completed a
tour of China and the Dutch East Indies
giving lectures on England’s war effort.
The professor is a noted physiologist and
a fine speaker, and in her the Ministry
of Information in London made a splen-
did choice. The professor was the guest
of the Arnold Johnsons, of Rose Bay.
Mrs. H. W. Ponder, English travel-
writer, who has just been appointed sec-
retary to Th. van Roer, head of the
Bureau for the Promotion of Netherlands
Industries in the Dutch East Indies,
served her early days of journalism
on the “Sunraysia Daily,” Mildura.
Interested in irrigation, Mrs. Ponder
first visited Java at the suggestion
of the late Sam Mclntosh, Director
of Irrigation for S.A. Best known
here through her biography of Dame
Clara Butt, Mrs. Ponder is also
the authoress of Java Pageant, the pre-
face of which was written by Dr. Collijn,
Premier of Holland, and presented by its
Dutch publishers to Princess Juliana as
a wedding gift.
Mrs. Gregory Kater’s party at her
Bellevue Hill home has supplied Beatrice
McGirr with enough hankies for the
honeymoon, Jocelyn and Shirley Poynter,
Bea’s sisters Pat and Gwen, Beatrice
Meeks, Pam Roberts, Mrs. John Thomp-
son, Sheila Tonkin and Claudia Beazley
were some of the guests.


SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
River Road, Greenwich, North Shore,
and
Moss Vale.
For girls of all ages from Sub-Primary to
Leaving Certificate Honours. The schools are
ideally situated, excellent cuisine, qualified
mistresses, good examination results. The
school at Moss Vale is in 381 acres, with
special facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tce.j Perth
Engagement.
NEWLAND-FRENCH.—The engagement has
been recently announced of Joan W., second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Newland, of
Murnpeowie Station, via Lyndhurst, to G.
John (of Murnpeowie), elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. R. H. French, of 183 Ring Street, Exeter,
S.A.
Personal and Missing Friends.
NEILSON, Alexander, last seen in Sydney a
few years ago, who fought in the Boer War
and the Great War 1914-18, is requested to
communicate with the undersigned, when he
will receive information to his advantage.
THE UNION TRUSTEE CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
WILL next-of-kin of GEORGE MURRAY
DUNN, Solicitor, formerly of Ireland, but be-
lieved to have died in Victoria, or anyone
knowing anything of him or his next-of-kin,
communicate with COURTNEY & DUNN,
Solicitors, 127 Queen Street, Melbourne?
DUNN.—THOMAS HENRY DUNN, or his
children or his legal representatives, please
communicate with PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Savings
Bank Building, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
re estate of Robert John Dunn,
Melbourne
Chatter
Socially Melbourne is in the doldrums.
Even worthy war workers are on holi-
days, sniffing the ozone or bracing them-
selves up on mountain air. The young,
frivolous and beautiful are away with
their beach bags getting up suntan and
letting their permanent waves run wild
in the four winds. But they have taken
their knitting with them and their air-
mail writing pads.
Soon the Queen Carnival will hit the
town with a rush —so big is the stunt
planned for the Red Cross and Comforts
that nobody in the community will have
much chance of missing getting caught
up in the rush. Preliminary meetings
have taken place, and the Lord Mayor’s
head must have been in a daze when he
answered calls to turn up at all ten of
them —held within a couple of days. The
ten groups are Primary Products, Trans-
port, Essential Services, Sport, Arts and
Amusements, Commerce, Industry and
Munitions, Retailers, Public Service,
Liquor and Allied Trades—for whom
the queens have yet to be elected.
So far Essential Services have the lead
for percentage of population—the dele-
gates who turned up at the first meeting
represented 23,000 other members of the
E.S. community. But the other groups
are not at all perturbed. Many factors
enter into the race besides mere numbers,
quality comes before quantity, and one
never knows who’s going to come gallop-
ing up the straight at the last lap.
Members of the Victoria League Red
Cross Emergency Co. are taking pre-
cautions against losing the ground they
have gained. Those members who slipped
out of sight after doing first-aid or home-
nursing courses are being cajoled back
into the fold for get-togethers on the
evenings of the third Monday in every
month for knitting, and maybe for pre-
paration for more emergencies. Com-
pany superintendent Mrs. C. Hellier
Evans proposes to introduce as an ex-
periment half an hour of entertainment
during the meetings. Subscription to the
League Red Cross Co. is 2s. a year.
Another St. John’s Home Nursing course
commences on the evening of January 30
in the League rooms.
Large heavy bundles, not unlike wool-
bales, for they are compressed in an
affair that resembles a wool-press, are
regularly taken from 246 Latrobe-street,
carried overseas by the merchant fleet
and unpacked by the British Red Cross,
which distributes the contents to air-raid
victims. Since the Melbourne Refugee
Clothing Depot opened at the end of June
over 70,489 garments have been dis-
patched, 16,668 of which were new. From
England comes notification of their timely
arrival.
Sources of supply for clothing are
varied and scattered and include Red
Cross branches and emergency organisa-
tions in Victoria, N.S.W. and New
Guinea, numerous associations like
Rotary, Jewish Women’s Guild, sporting
clubs, schools, bands of workers in stores,
factories, etc., church guilds, patriotic
societies. Guides, housewives, etc.
Procedure within the depot is by steps
and stairs and examination for the rule
of thumb, “Whole. Clean. Warm.” Dis-
cards of “seconds” and lightweight goods
go to local institutions, and the rubbish
is sold as scrap. After further sorting
and tabulating, parcels are made of ten-
of-a-kind, but there are deviations for
goods that don’t pass the censors’ eyes
for cleanliness and good repair. A
laundry does washing and cleaning at cut
rates, but a lot of time and money would
be saved if the donors did their servicing
at home in the first place. In addition a
foursome of women come in once a
week, or twice at rush times, and spend
all day in an odor of tetrachloride, each
of them cleaning between 80 and 90 gar-
ments in a day’s session.
In charge of the depot is Mrs. Leslie
Moran, who has made it her full-time
job. She’s on duty all day, though she
likes to get out for a whiff of fresh air
at lunchtime, served from the canteen,
which pays all expenses of the depot
except laundry. Equally competent and
cheerful is Mrs. A. J. Chambers, who
looks after reception and dispatch. She
also is a full-timer. Mrs. Toone, of
Carlton, is the genius behind the mend-
ing, and she’s invented her own filing
system. There are machines on the
premises, and a big-hearted retired tailor
comes in every day to sew by hand, but
large bundles of mending are distributed
to associations, private houses, etc, Mrs.
Tomlinson, of Preston, who has unpicked
and remade some 300 garments, is an-
other efficient helper; so is Mrs. Winette,
whose backstage work is the procuring
of all the necessary thousands of labels.
Mrs. Walter Warner, of St. Kilda, sells
her super double-hollyhock seeds in aid
of the depot, and so far has accomplished
“Miss Hollyhock,” as one of the mobile
clothes - baskets -on - wheels has been
christened. Greta Tuck, a little brunette
of only 17 who left Grammar last year,
is the hon. secretary on typewriter duty
all day. There are 72 women on the
roster, and James Mclntyre is among the
three men who come in to hammer up
packing-cases. Harry Tanner invented
the press on the wool-baling principle.
All garments sent to the depot are
acknowledged, provided there’s a name
and address card attached. Volunteers
for mending are most welcome.
Newly appointed to the staff of Aus-
tralian National Airways is Jill Daveron,
whose portrait comes from Athol Shmith.
Miss Daveron’s job is to become a public
relations specialist, so she will be sowing
propaganda in all States in favor of air
travel. Her career up till now has run
towards commercial photography, man-
nequin and beauty-salon work, and she
has had some experience of radio.
The British Ministry for Information
made no error in its appointment of an
emissary to speak to distant lands about
Britain’s war effort —Dr. Winifred Cullis
was surely the right woman in the job.
She has her subject in the palm of her
hand, is obviously sincere and puts a
weight of experience behind her delivery.
And just to make the picture complete
she has a sense of humor. There can be
little doubt about her ability, for she’s
that rarity in the British academic world
a woman professor. Although she’s 65,
the University of London has no thought
of her retiring. On her return from her
mission round the world she will again
take over the responsibilities of holding
the Sophia Jex-Blake professorship of
physiology.
Unfortunately Australia saw very little
of Dr. Cullis —much to this country’s
regret. Apart from a general public
interest in her story (a long one ; she pre-
pared 150 lectures) there were many
friends waiting here to welcome her—
friends she made during her visit to the
South Australian centenary celebrations.
But her job, now that she has visited
Asia, is in the U.S.A., and the Clipper
waits for no man or woman.
Dr. Cullis mentioned the physical
improvement in children evacuated
from London to the country. Although
some children were misfits, the major-
ity were adapting themselves to their
new lives satisfactorily, and so in
their turn were their foster parents.
In the picture she paints is also
more proof of the canny way in
which Mother Nature deals with emer-
gencies. But for the raid injuries the
hospitals in Britain would be no more
crowded than usual. People seem to
have got tougher ; everyone is busy ; even
the “cranks” have so many jobs to do
that they just don’t think about being
ill. Dr. Cullis gave figures on maternal
mortality. Such strides has science made
that figures which read 4 per cent, in
1936 are now reduced to 2.68. In the
Royal Free Hospital in London there
have been no maternal deaths for five
years.
An evening that Dr. Cullis will remem-
ber was spent among kindred spirits at
the Lyceum Club. It was a women
grads ’ do, and proved such an incentive
to members of the association that chairs
ran out and there was overflow into the
hall outside the music-room. Dr. Cullis
was happy in her environment. It seemed
that she had the warm feeling around the
heart that’s generated in the company of
kindred spirits.
Among guests present were Dr. Cullis s
hostess in Hong Kong, Mrs. Alabaster,
and her Melbourne hostess, Dr. Doris
Officer. A number of men were present
either professorially and officially or
brought along by their wives; among
them were Dr. Rhoden White, who gave
the Union House its library, the regis-
trar J, Foster, Dr. Gerald Weigall, sen.,
and the A.B.C.’s E. C. Rigby. Present
also were the Walter Leitches, Dr. M.
Eddelston Pope and Dr. Lucy Bryce, who
are presidents respectively of the Sydney
and Melbourne branches of the Medical
Women’s Association, Prof, and Mrs.
Skeats, Profs. Young and Boyce Gibson,
both with their wives; also the newly-
wedded James Barretts and (from the
Observatory) Dr. and Mrs. J. M.
Baldwin, hon. sec, of the Women
Grads. Mrs. R. W. McKellar brought
along her better-half, who is at
present up to his eyebrows in militia
work, and Mrs. H. D. Dadswell,
erstwhile hon. treasurer, was accompanied
by her husband. Present-day treasurer
Mary Bell just managed to get to the
party before setting off, grip in hand, for
a short vacation in Tasmania.
A Dickinson-Monteath camera caught
this glimpse of Barbara, youngest daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Balderstone, of
Mont Albert-road, Balwyn. Fiance Lieut.
John Blanch, A.1.F., shared in engage-
ment felicitations, for he was home on
leave last week from camp in N. S. Wales.
He’s the son of Lieut.-Colonel and
Mrs. J. W. Blanch, of Glenferrie-road,
Hawthorn, and no doubt is as popular
with the troops as he was at school; he
was captain of Scotch and got his univer-
sity blue for rowing. The marriage will
take place when John comes home again
from settling his difference with Hitler
and Musso.
Expanding satisfactorily is the
R.A.A.F. nursing service, which recently
absorbed its first three recruits from S.A.
Senior-Sister Thelma Victoria Franklin,
who trained at Royal Adelaide, comes
with valuable credentials, for she has had
experience in Britain, in Switzerland and
in Ceylon and returned to Australia only
last July. Sister Lynley Eva Dohnt,
who also trained at Royal Adelaide,
furthered her career in Tasmania, and
for the last three years has been assis-
tant matron at Ru-Rua private hospital
in Adelaide, which institution has also
lost its theatre sister, Edith Clarice
Baker. She trained at the Memorial
Hospital and joins the R.A.A.F. with
overseas experience gained in England
and Africa. The service is now in
summer uniform, “drabs.” The nurses
approve of them, for they’re cooler than
“blues.” Regarding the color, which isn’t
so easy on even rose-leaf complexions, the
girls are philosophical, for in a real job
of work beauty is only runner-up to
utility.
N.S.W. is soon to lose one of its
tennis champions, for after her marriage
Thelma Coyne will live in Melbourne.
She and and fiance Maurice Long are
building a house in East Malvern, quite
close to the golf links —they both like
golf. The wedding will take place in
Sydney on January 30 at St. Philip]s
Church, Church Hill. Thelma, who is
the only child of Mr. and Mrs. T. C.
Coyne, of Maroubra, was a member of
the Australian women’s tennis team which
went abroad in 1938. During that tour
Mrs. Harry Hopman (who is to be
Thelma’s matron of honor) was the only
matron in the foursome. Last year
Nancy Wynne married Peter Bolton and
Dot Stevenson became Mrs. John
Waddell. ’Groom-to-be Maurice Long
is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Long, of East St. Kilda. Although
his tennis isn’t in the same line of country
as the game played by his younger
brother Colin, who is now abroad with
the A.1.F., he’s a formidable opponent
on a court. He and Thelma met through
tennis some years ago. Maurice and
Colin are old boys of Melbourne
Grammar, and there’s barely half an
inch of difference in their six feet of
height.
Popular Marie Lansell, second daughter
of the G. V. Lansells, of Bendigo, has
become engaged while travelling in Asia.
No information is to hand as to the
name she uses when addressing her
fiance. The cabled news gives the com-
plete issue of names, Reginald Alexander
Christian Wills. Mr. Wills is assistant
manager of the Singapore “Straits
Times.” Marie, if she lives in the tropics,
will miss the sport at which she shines so
brightly, ice skating, but she’s an adapt-
able person and is quite happy with a
spot of golf, tennis or swimming.
At her own expense Australian soprano
Marjorie Lawrence gave a concert at
Carnegie Hall, New York, last month for
pro-British patriotic funds. As a tribute
to the memory of Lord Lothian she sang
the four “Serious Songs” of Brahms, and,
with Percy Grainger at the piano and a
string orchestra assisting, she gave some
new folk-song arrangements by Grainger.
Whereupon, says the New York “Times,”
“many Australians in the house set up
their natives’ ‘Coo-ee’ call.”
Frances Burke, of the hand-blocked
linens, and Mrs. Sos Robinson, for-
merly of Deniliquin, whose spouse is now
on the dental staff of the R.A.A.F., re-
cently undertook a walking tour. They
had a mixed bag of fun, which might
not have been everybody’s dish, but re-
turned home none the worse for wear.
They took the good ship Weeroona to
Queenscliff, and thence set out per brogue
shoes, tweed skirts and rucksacks for Pt.
Lonsdale, where, though the place was
crowded with holiday-makers, they man-
aged to find shakedowns. The next night
found them in Ocean Grove, where the
best accommodation they could find was
under the fly of a tent. In the morning
they made tracks for Barwon Heads, had
a look round, returned to Ocean Grove
and greeted their canvas camp like a long-
lost friend. Their last night was back
in Pt. Lonsdale. Frances is now work-
ing on a big order for Mrs. Casey in
Washington, who is particularly addicted
to hand-blocked materials and is faith-
ful to designs of Australian origin.
Frances also has an order on hand for a
big hotel and for a hospital of importance.


BRANDALER’rS
m
#
fPENS
_
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRA.NDi.CKE * CO, Ltd, BIRHINOUAM, UNO
THE SERVICE MAN
Wilhelmshaven Is Blasted.
“Nobby II”; After the attack on
H.M.S. Illustrious and Southampton off
Sicily, Germany’s leading naval his-
torian, Captain Waldeyer-Hartz, who has
written some hard things in his time
about both German and British naval
strategy in the last war, declared that
the Luftwaffe was powerless against
British sea power. He added that
he fully adheres to the view ex-
pressed in the United States Senate that
an island people cannot be beaten so
long as it remains supreme at sea. Pie
remarked on the impending completion
of the 35,000-ton Bismarck and Von
Tirpitz:
This is evidence that air attack has not
affected the important part played in war-
fare by battleships.
Remembering Taranto and a few other
places, the R.A.F. at once decided that
Wilhelmshaven, where the Tirpitz and
another battleship and a large number
of smaller vessels are being completed,
needed a thorough combing-over. The
Air Ministry afterwards was able to
describe the visit as one of the greatest
raids of all time. (“We just shovelled
bombs into the furnace.”)
Wilhelmshaven is ideally situated for
raiding. It lies on a western headland
of a wide bay in Oldenburg, something
like Port Phillip, but much smaller,
known as the Jahde. The peninsula is
exactly the shape of the Fiihrer’s nose.
Along the nostril base the Ems canal
runs, and the basins, forts and barracks
are just north of this, making up the tip.
To this terrestrial organ the R.A.F. im-
parted a festive glow by throwing wave
after wave of low-flying bombers across
it on Wednesday evening, January 15.
The two big Bauhaven —construction
harbors —lie just inside the end of the
nose, joined to the sea through the “new
entrance,” along with the great torpedo-
boat and submarine docks.
To the south and n.-w. are a host of
the shore shops of the shipbuilding plant
and the railway yards. The naval bar-
racks, the batteries and the drill grounds
are round the sea edges, and there is a
congested equipment of cranes. Every-
thing is nicely concentrated.
Wilhelmshaven has been raided many
times —twice before on a large scale.
When the R.A.F. left this time the glow
of Adolf’s naval-construction nose could
be seen 130 miles away, and the whole
end of it was a flaming furnace, with
shops, station, dry docks, half-completed
ships and power station, barracks and
canal in the heart of the fire.
There were plenty of other signs that
the air situation is rapidly changing.
Much of the change is due to the new
machines which are becoming available
to the R.A.F., making it possible to spare
fighters and bombers for frequent day-
light attacks on German bases in occu-
pied countries along the North Sea and
Channel.
The night fighters are putting a new
complexion on defence The trouble with
the ordinary fighter at night is that the
pilot picks up the glare of his own lights
and the reflections of ground lights and
of the moving propeller in the surfaces of
his “greenhouse.” It needs special con-
struction to get over this.
The main struggle cannot come until
the weather improves. There were days
during the past week when long-distance
bombing flights were impossible for both
sides. On Tuesday last week the Ger-
mans reported only reconnaissance flights
over Britain. Still, R.A.F. Hudsons dur-
ing Tuesday evening found their way to
Norway and smashed a hangar at Mandal
and dropped a stick or two on Stavanger
aerodrome. On Wednesday night, fogs
and snowfalls notwithstanding, Wilhelms-
haven had its great pounding, while the
Germans broke a peace of 72 hours with
three desultory fire attacks on London,
though not much damage was done, and
Londoners were heartened by the unusual
sound of a nocturnal dogfight in progress.
Two enemy ’planes were brought down
by the new fighters. The worst tragedies
were the destruction of a hospital and of
a men’s hostel.
On Thursday night German operations
were more widespread—Bristol, a south
coast and a south Welsh town were at-
tacked with incendiaries without suffering
outstanding damage. A bomber was shot
down in Scotland, but London had a
quiet night in which the fighters and the
barrage seemed to have attacks well under
control.
Wilhelmshaven had a second lacing
with fire and explosive on Thursday
morning, with another at night to deal
with surviving objectives. Docks at
Ostend, Calais and Boulogne and the rail-
way junctions at Ostend also suffered.
After that snow and fog curtains came
down to shut off Germany from England
and England from Germany, though the
rumble of the big guns opposite Dover
was heard at times.
Figures issued by the Air Ministry sup-
port the remark by Air Minister Sinclair
at Glasgow that the R.A.F. has saved
the country from invasion and from very
grave danger of defeat, and show how
much operations against Germany have
been intensified. Of 1400 raids on Ger-
man and German-held territory, 500 have
taken place since the end of September.
Bombed objectives number 1500, and 270
German towns have been attacked. Duis-
burg-Ruhrort—the greatest inland river
port in Europe —has been battered 35
times, Cologne 55 times and Gelsenkir-
chen, the main oil centre of the Ruhr,
40 times; the great railway junction of
Hamm 80 times.
The British Air Minister, however,
admits that our front-line bombers —as
distinct, of course, from fighters—repre-
sent at present “only a fraction of the
Luftwaffe,” though they are increas-
ing enormously in quality and power.
There are indications that Britain
may have to take the brunt of
the blow by March or April. The
United States Secretary of State, Mr.
Stimson, “cannot overemphasise the ap-
prehension” he feels “as to the possibility
of a crisis within the next 60 or, at any
rate, 90 days.”
The concentration of British works on
the production of defensive fighters
against which no German machine can
hope to stand up may then prove for-
tunate. Dozens of new types are in the
air. Photographs published in Australia
last week show that among them are the
new cannon-armed Spitfires.
The Stukas Arrive in Italy.
“Nobby II”: The Italians were easily
first with their tale of the battle of the
Sicilian Straits. The main matter for sur-
prise about it was that some of their
assertions were true and that the chief in-
accuracy was in the fact that they claimed
credit for the performances of the
Germans.
The Italian communique stated:
Squadrons of Italian torpedo-carriers
and dive-bombers intensely and repeatedly
attacked a British naval formation in the
Sicilian Channel. Two torpedo-carriers
hit an aircraft-carrier with torpedoes and
two heavy-calibre bombs struck a cruiser.
The German air force for the first time in
a fraternal manner and in strict collabora-
tion brilliantly participated in the attack
... .and succeeded in hitting two aircraft-
carriers and a destroyer... .The British
Admiralty planned to unite the western
Mediterranean units with eastern units, but
the magnificent Italian and German fight-
ing men frustrated the plan.
Then, it appeared, two Italian torpedo-
boats rushed into the fray, torpedoed a
cruiser which was seen sinking, caused
fires on two destroyers in a fierce battle
in which the Roman midgets were sur-
rounded by belching cruisers and de-
stroyers, until one t.b. was hit by a British
broadside which merely “damaged the
engines.” A second “salvo” sank her.
The other torpedo-boat sped into the
heart of the inferno to save the crew. The
brutal navy of the nation of shopkeepers,
“gorged with roast-beef and treason,”
made off hurriedly.
According to previous Italian com-
muniques this should have been about
the end of the British Mediterranean
Fleet. Up to Nov. 18, Rome Radio had
inflicted the following salutary damage
on the R.N.;
Damaged seven of Britain’s 19 battleships
so severely as to put them out of action.
Sank four cruisers and put 21 out of
action —the R.N. owned 79 at the begin-
ning of the year.
Sank nine destroyers and damaged 10—
19 in all.
Sank 14 submarines and damaged nine.
Sank five aircraft-carriers —Britain had
altogether 12, including obsoletes, in June.
A claim was made also of the destruc-
tion of 24 merchant ships and of the
damaging of 32 more.
Not satisfied with the heartening bag
in 5i months of war, the ships ruined
being more than equal to the main
strength of the Italian Navy, Italian
official communiques continued on their
career of ruin. On November 12 they
recklessly sank the 22,189-ton French
battleship Lorraine in Alexandria Harbor.
This masterly deed was done the day
after the R.N. Fleet Air Arm cleaned up
Taranto. On Nov. 17 they “partially
destroyed” H.M.S. Hasty, a British de-
stroyer. On December 3 they torpedoed
two British cruisers in Suda Bay;
This brilliant attack must be listed among
the brightest examples of audacity per-
formed by our naval aviation, and it is
hailed with legitimate pride by the Italian
people.
After that a British destroyer submarined
in the Atlantic scarcely seemed worth
mentioning. Every week the Mediter-
ranean became more wreck-strewn.
One of the latest vessels to perish
was a 6000-ton cruiser which was annoy-
ing General Graziani’s victorious Mar-
marican Legions and cohorts off Bardia.
As most of the vessels which the
Italian Navy and the Regia Aeronautica
sink seem to come to the surface next
morning and carry on business as usual,
it was a novelty when the Admiralty
gloomily reported that there really had
been a battle, with some serious damage.
It appeared that during the week ended
January 13 British naval forces which
did not happen to be touring the Adriatic
or pounding Tobruk and its communica-
tions were busy passing British convoys
through Mussolini’s private sea. This,
since Taranto in November, has been as
safe as yachting in Sydney Harbor —so
apparently safe that an aircraft-carrier
and some cruisers were taking their mer-
chantmen through the narrow strait of
Sicily between that island and Pantel-
laria. Leaving aeroplanes out of account,
the convoy would be visible from the
heights on each side with a glass, the
channel being 60 miles wide between
Pantellaria and Cape Sorello.
On Friday, January 10, when the ships
were just emerging from the dawn mists
of the channel about 150 miles from the
“A mans got to do something to get an extra few bob, captain !”
Sicilian air base at Catania, a star shell
burst in the west —the signal from a
cruiser in the convoy that two small
Italian destroyers had been sighted. The
R.N.’s pack rushed for its prey, and it
was good coursing, because the two
Italians had a pretty turn of speed. Two
cruisers filled one with high explosive
eventually. A British destroyer raced
alongside. The Italian went up in a
waterspout and down in a swirl, appar-
ently with all hands. The other Italian —
the one in the Rome communiques which
nosed her way through British wreckage
and shrinking cruisers to save the crew of
her sunken comrade —lit out for the
horizon with the water boiling in her
wake.
At 11 a.m. the convoy in its outer
casing of naval ships was paddling smugly
through the strait under the very snouts
of the long-range guns of Pantellaria,
when two Italian reconnaissance machines
appeared. With its usual bored nonchal-
ance, the Fleet Air Arm chased them
away.
Then two Italian torpedo-bombers
turned up. One of them dropped its
canned fruit among the sardines astern
of a British aircraft-carrier; the other
merely waited to sniff the barrage and
went home, torpedoes and all. The bored
F.A.A. retired to the ante-room.
Nothing happened till the middle of
lunch, when suddenly a squadron of
machines flew out of the north-east and
split into threes. The F.A.A. reached
for its Mae Wests —the yellow lifebuoys
which every flying man wears —looked to
its oxygen, gave a hitch to its parachutes
and made the first moves towards the
usual game of Chase-me-Charlie.
But what was this? These were no
Mussolinis. Nobody could mistake the
sawn-off wings and square rudder effects,
the lumbering spat equipment, the long
Spitfire-looking nose with side gills to the
exhausts.
They were, indeed, none other than
the terrible Stuka family (by Adolf out
of Barbarism) which had smashed help-
less Warsaw, destroyed Rotterdam, de-
stroyed troops, artillery, tanks and any-
thing else destroyable in front of the
plodding masses of the German armies
of France and the Lowlands.
The flack guns of the Fleet went hur-
riedly into action, with the Stukas heading
down, tail-up with care, at full speed,
right into the barrages. They whistled
vertically into the central pool of mixed
vegetables—-every thing from two-pounders
to six-inchers —which were going up,
five flights of them, one after the other,
dropped their bombs, righted themselves
a few hundred feet above the sea, zoomed
upwards and did it again.
Then they left. Presumably whatever
fighters were available on the aircraft-
carrier—the new Illustrious —and at
Malta did not reach the scene of the
attack till the attackers were on their way
home.
At sundown another 11 machines
turned up and repeated the performance.
They swooped fiercely and fearlessly,
often straightening out a dozen feet or
so from the sea and then going off like
sandboys practising wave-hopping. It
was the heaviest, most sudden and most
devastating attack ever made by the
enemy from the air in the Mediterranean.
The targets were good and the defending
fighters were not up.
The first visiting-card to arrive was
dropped in front of Captain Boyd, R.N.,
on Illustrious—which is about 800 ft. long
and nearly 100 ft. wide. It was in the
form of a 10001 b. bomb, which landed
fairly for’ard of the bridge without
doing much damage. The decks of air-
craft-carriers have plenty of protection
under them and plenty of open space
above for a big bomb to spread itself
over. Still, the air was full of fumes and
water from burst pipes and falling metal,
and every few seconds another bomb
came down into the sea and sprayed the
R.N. with old iron and fish, occasionally
falling so close as to make the ship leap
like a hare.
However, Illustrious, though frayed
about the edges, was able to go
on under her own steam, and was re-
ported afterwards merely to need a
“clean-up.”
H.M.S. Southampton was not so lucky.
A 9100-ton cruiser of 1937 vintage, the
nameship of her class, she carried 12 6in.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
OTHERS:
32/6 to 707-
MONEY
BELTS,
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRROBS.
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
•
Free
Delivers
to all
Suburbs.
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
and eight 4in. A.A. guns, and she nor-
mally had a crew of just under 800, and
32 knots of speed. She was so badly
knocked about that it was found neces-
sary to sink her. Loss of life must have
been heavy.
Later, Gallant, a 1335-ton destroyer,
was torpedoed or mined, but managed
to make port.
After all that the Admiralty was still
able to write;
We carried out according to plan the
main object of the operations, which was
escorting a convoy from west to east.
In the south the R.N. was still standing
off Tobruk, getting ready for the full
moon, with its detached flotillas doing
their usual mischief —the submarine Pan-
dora scuttled two 5000-ton Italian supply
ships during the week—running messages,
escorting convoys and keeping the Adri-
atic clean along the Albanian coast.
British command of the seas is cer-
tainly not imperilled ; neither is the
R.A.F.’s command of the African sky.
In the meantime, the news of the Pan-
tellaria battle had reached the outside
world and had been received with mixed
feelings. The German press, despite the
warnings of the High Command, was
shouting with joy at the advent of an
era in which the British Fleet would be
blasted out of the sea by the Luftwaffe.
The American press—generally wrong
on technical matters —and the Australian
peahen press were reacting to the deadly
name of the Stukas.
The only people who were not able to
engage in the silly controversy which
followed, as to whether sea power must
or must not abdicate to the air, were
the pilots of most of the Stukas them-
selves. With them history was repeating
itself.
The Stukas, Junker 878, are deadly in
the same way that a black snake is
deadly—if they can emerge suddenly, like
a snake out of a log, and strike suddenly.
But they are no more deadly in the face
of a prepared force than a snake is in
the presence of a stick. The reliable
“Aeroplane” reported on Oct. 12 that
they had been so manhandled over Eng-
land that they had been temporarily with-
drawn and many “sent to Sicily.”
They were first used against England
on August 16. Seventeen were brought
down by Hurricanes in 30 minutes. On
Nov. 8, over the English Channel, nine
Hurricanes were waiting for 25 Stukas
which had come over to attack a Chan-
nel convoy. In a battle lasting only five
minutes 15 Stukas were destroyed com-
pletely, six more were recorded as “pro-
bably destroyed,” two others were known
to be damaged and only two escaped scot
free. Three Hurricanes were lost; the
others were making their victory rolls
over their home aerodrome less than 30
minutes after they left it.
The aftermath of the attack on the
Navy was somewhat similar in outcome
and suddenness. Before the German
attackers had reached their home aero-
drome in Sicily they were picked up by
British fighters, presumably Hurricanes,
from Malta.
Out of the two squadrons which had
attacked at lunchtime, few could have
got home ; 12 were known to be de-
stroyed.
On Sunday following, the R.A.F. paid
a call at Catania, the German aero-
drome, and another afterwards to photo-
graph the results of their operations.
The pictures showed between 30 and
40 aircraft burnt out on the ground, but
some of them were in such shape that it
was barely possible to identify them as
’planes, much less to determine their
types. The aerodrome itself looked as
if it had developed severe smallpox, one
hangar had been taken to pieces and the
administrative buildings had apparently
been through a tornado.
The raids on the Fleet were followed
by attacks on Malta, bombers escorted
by German and Italian fighters appearing
six times. Slight damage was done, but
there were no British casualties. On
Thursday Junker 88’s and Stukas at-
tempted to smash H.M.S. Illustrious,
which had come into the Grand Harbor
at Valetta for repair. They failed —
though they claimed several hits—and
went home ten machines short. Friday
saw three raids, the final, in the after-
noon, lasting three hours. In this five
and possibly six German machines were
destroyed.
Up till Friday evening their offensive
had cost the Germans 62 and possibly
76 machines. They had done as much
damage to Malta in three days, as the
Italians had done in all the earlier part
of the war, but nothing to that achieved
by the R.A.F. in wholesale attacks which
stretched from Berbera on the Red Sea
to Derna in Libya and north to Rhodes
and Sicily.
Sundown in Africa.
“Ek Dum”: The week’s operations on
land in the Mediterranean were ominous
rather than lethal.
On the Greek front spring is coming
and the campaign is reaching its crisis.
The Greeks have been busy consolidat-
ing the adjustments of their line follow-
ing the capture of Klisura. Valona is
almost within long-distance gunfire of the
Greek outposts. Unless the Italians can
greatly stiffen their resistance the final
trial should come
within a fortnight.
Reports from dif-
ferent sources an-
nounce that Italian
air and land rein-
forcements are being
rushed desperately
to Albania, and the
Italians are risking
some of their greatest
ships to get them
there, without much
success. Greek head-
quarters report the
sinking of the Italian
transports Lom-
bardia (20,000 tons),
Liguria (15,000 tons)
and Sardegna (11,000
tons) since Dec. 29.
In Africa, British
and Australian
forces are closing
fast on Tobruk, in
which there are sup-
posed to be 20,000
men. Lieut.-General Sturdee, Chief of the
General Staff, who has returned from
the front, says the town is “a ripe plum
ready to be plucked, and after its fall it
should not take our forces long to mop
up the rest of Libya and an enemy who
apparently does not want to fight any-
one.”
That the day of decision is coming in
Africa is further indicated by the busy
stir along the Sudanese borders of Abys-
sinia, where heavy forces, largely S’Afri-
can, are waiting their moment. A daring
British mission prepares the way for
specially-trained followers of Haile
Silassie to attack the Italian garrisons
from within the country. These adven-
turers slipped into Abyssinia some months
ago.
The first move towards the invasion of
eastern Italian possessions was made
when the Italians were heaved out at
Kassala, which is just inside the Sudan
border in the same latitude as Khar-
toum and a good point from which to
strike across the western corner of Eritrea
towards Asmara, the Eritrean capital,
a great air centre, and Massawa,
the main eastern sea base of Italy. The
route, however, is a tough one to fight
on. Asmara is 7765 ft. above sea level.
Hurricanes for the R.A.A.F.
“Aileron”: Every week more Hurri-
canes of the older types —machines are
old in model in a matter of months these
days—will be released for use in the
Mediterranean, and preparations are in
train to equip the R.A.A.F.—now flying
Gloster Gladiators —with their first lot.
Like the Spitfire, the Hurricane is an
easy machine to fly. It has a foolproof
stick-control system which gives it an
advantage over the Messerschmitt.
The Messerschmitt has a straight stick
with a gun trigger in the shape of a press-
button on top like the release of an emer-
gency car brake. The stick is apt to get
tangled up with the knees in a whirlwind
fight.
The Hurricane stick is jointed for side
movement only just above the pilot’s
knees. The top part handles aileron con-
trol, which calls for side-to-side stick, so
that it cannot foul the leg.
The trigger of the eight wing guns is
a ring where the knob would be
on a car gear-change, and this is the part
of the stick which the pilot holds when
he is in control of the machine.
Inside the ring, under his thumb, is a
button. Every time he puts it down his
guns fire 150 shots a second up to an
eight-second burst of 1200 shots. The
Hurricane has not so high a ceiling or
speed as the Spitfire, but it is more
manoeuvrable.
The machines being built will have
more guns, including a selection of
cannon which fire an exploding shell.- It
will take only a few hours to make Aus-
tralians proficient with Hurricanes —most
R.A.A.F. men on service have already
handled seven or eight types of machine.
More R.A.F. men trained under the
Empire Air Scheme have arrived in Eng-
land from Canada. They include trainees
from all the Dominions.
« * * Hf
The Bren gun has at last been pro-
duced in the Commonwealth—the first
batch passed their firing trials at Lith-
gow Small-arms Factory. Getting the
Bren into production has been a long
job, but since there are over 2700 opera-
tions in the manufacture—which involves
over 1800 parts, 72,944 tools and gauges
and precision work in which accuracy is
measured down to 1-10,000 th of an inch
—it has not been easy. Also, as in the
case of aeroplane engines, details of the
weapon change constantly with expert-
ence. A month before war broke out
the Lithgow factory received 1400 amend-
ments to drawings from England. How-
ever, it is a relief to know that the work
has been started. A battalion without
Bren guns in these days is like a typist
without a typewriter.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Two training ’planes
crashed at Terrigal (N.S.W.) on Jan. 16
and fell into the sea. Pilot-Officers R. G.
Norris and T. K. Wright were killed, but
Leading-Aircraftman Macpherson was
rescued. The machines were part of a
flight of four which were on their way
from Laverton (Vic.) to the north. Three
of them were seen to be flying in close
formation about two miles off the Skil-
lion. They were making sharp turns
when two touched each other. Norris
was alone in one machine ; the others
formed the crew of the second. Norris’s
’plane dived straight into the sea ; the
other went off in a trail of smoke after
Macpherson had bailed out. It flew
several miles and hit the sea with a terrific
explosion. Macpherson got his para-
chute open only just/in time to save him-
self. Six more men were killed in two
accidents to ’planes at Evans Head
(N.S.W.) and Goodna (Q.) in the week-
end.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Mr. Spender, Minister for the
Army, returned from Egypt full of words
and ambitions, one being to soften the
natures of the rough fellows in the fight-
ing forces by feminising canteen work.
He admitted a difficulty:
The jealousy caused if one wife were on
the canteen staff and another rejected would
be terrific. The whole prospect is a bit
frightening to a mere male Minister; but
the problem is one that must be tackled.
I wish Solomon were on my staff.
Then he added that “the type of corps
I have in mind would be composed of
women with very definite qualifications
for canteen work” ; and he suggested “a
special course of training.” Why the
necessity? Any competent Frothblower
would tell Percy that his “corps” is
already trained, and that what he wants
is a Barmaids’ Battalion. Its recruitment
would make him the popular hero of the
war.
* * * *
The promotion of 21 officers of the
R.A.A.F. to be wing-commanders shows
the growth of the Commonwealth as an
air-defended nation. A wing-commander
is equivalent in rank to a lieut.-colonel in
the Army and theoretically commands
six squadrons. The promotions include
“Tommy” White, who was one of the
first four officers of the A.F.C., and
Squadron-leader Holmwood, who has
been seconded for war duties to the
R.A.F. and is the first R.A.A.F. man to
command a Spitfire squadron. C. O.
Fairbairn, brother of the late Air
Minister, also has been promoted.
♦ * * •
“Nobby II”: Another British freighter,
the Shakspear (5029 tons), put up a great
fight when attacked by an Italian sub-
marine off the Cape Verde Islands. With
the usual small stern defence gun, awk-
ward to use at close quarters, her crew
kept up the battle for three hours until
torpedoed. Immediately a gunner was
killed or wounded another took his place.
Two Italians were killed and others
wounded and the British lost 19 hands.
Italians apparently do not follow the evil
German tradition of leaving their vic-
tims to the mercy of the sea. The sub-
marine captain threw a towline to the
Shakepear’s lifeboat and towed it to Sal
Island, offering on the way to give medi-
cal attention to Captain Bailey, who had
been wounded and burnt during the
fray. The whole 22 members of the
crew went to hospital,
* * * *
Squadron-Leader Hickey, the first
R.A.F. Australian officer to be deco-
rated with the D.F.C. for action
against Italy, died of wounds almost
immediately afterwards. He was a
Sydney lad, a graduate in engineer-
ing, who had his first experience
with the Civil Air Force at Richmond
and joined the R.A.F. in 1931. He had
been in 18 raids over enemy territory
and had led, “with courage and tenacity,”
a S q Uadron which destroyed 30 Italian
macb ines. He had been on the Greek
f rord s i nce the beginning of November.
* * * *
The week to January 5 showed the
fifth-lowest shipping loss for any week
s j nce war began—four British ships
totalling 14,687 tons and no allied or
ne utral vessels. The weekly average for
the whole war period to January 5 was
52,535 tons; for the four weeks to
December 30 it was 65,200 tons, and for
tbe j ast f our 0 f November 73,000
tons. For the last two weeks of Decem-
ber and tbe fl rst wee L j n j anuar y sink-
in gated 31 ,239 tons. Weather
probabl * has had a good deal to do with
it, but the continuous blasting to which
F renc h coast bases have been subjected
, „ it. * • ,
*? * AF - cannot have been w,thout
lts # #
“Aileron”: American writers on air
matters are not so enthusiastic as Aus-
trahan writers about Uncle Sam’s wings.
Thus Major Williams, the aviation editor
*h e Scripps-Howard papers:
.We went right on building so-called
single-seater fighting ’planes equipped with
30 . 3 0 mach ine-guns, and in some cases
a 50-calibre gun or two on top of the
fuselage and sticking right out in the wind-
stream. Of course, we always manage to
push an experimental type of ’plane into the
newspapers and on the screens to remedy
the shameful discrepancy between our
fighting jobs and foreign war ’planes. So
™° b h a ' ’ fi lt s sti - 11
a secret whether the army has five or six
Aircobras.... Another new job is the Lock-
heed P-39, a twin-engined single-seater
fighter....lt’s not so much of a secret
that hardly any of these P-49’s have been
delivered. These are our only cannon
’planes.
That was published on December 20
Australian papers have been holding up
the two machines to admiration for
months,


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J, Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A HAPPY SHAVE
ECLIPSE RAZOR BLADBS—British made —ensure
a happy shave, a shave that leaves the face smooth
and unblemished. The cuttjhg edge of an ECLIPSE
BLADE is 100% efficient, whilst the blade fits almost
any type of Razor. Remember that ECLIPSE
BLADES are of such a duality that they maintain
their keenness for an extended period. *
5 blades 1/6. Obtainable everywhere. ECLIBSU
BLADES are made in i England.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletd
readers.
Tire service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin 19 hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The r *sht of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Educated young lady seeks position as
governess with refined country family. Refs. —
9327.
Qualified accountant-secretary wants work;
taxation or graziers-pastoralists’ accounts. —
9293.
Dentist, skilled operator, mechanic, accus-
tomed sole charge large practice, desires posi-
tion Brisbane. Refs. —9276.
Male accountancy student, nearly 18, seeks
clerical position in merchant’s office or as radio
announcer. Q’land Commercial Junior pass.
—8788.
■ To buy The Moon in Scorpio, by William
J. Woltman.—9249.
To buy numbers of French magazine
“L’lllustration” before 1914. —9210.
To buy (or borrow) They Lived with Me,
by Helen Zenna Smith. —9323.
Used Christmas cards wanted for children
in hospital. Postage refunded if necessary.—
9213.
Information about potters’ wheels for amateur
use, how to make or where obtainable; also
books on pottery-making.—9099.
Whereabouts of Walter Gordon Graham
Smith, supposed to have left for Fiji in
November, 1938. —9211.
Information Sought.
Has a concession on dutiable goods been
granted to men serving in his Majesty’s forces
at Singapore ? —8643.
Dutiable presents not exceeding a value of
£10 from any one individual in any 12 months
will be admitted into Australia free of duty
and sales tax if forwarded from abroad to
persons in Australia by members of any of the
Imperial or Australian forces or reserves, or
by representatives of the Red Cross, Y.M.C.A.,
Australian Comforts Fund or Salvation Army.
The term “presents” is to be taken as includ-
ing articles of adornment, curios, jewellery and
other such articles which would ordinarily be
sent as presents by persons abroad. Cannot
say whether any concession in duty is granted
by the authorities at Singapore in respect of
dutiable parcels forwarded to members of His
Majesty’s forces at that port. Further inquiry
on this aspect is being made.
* * * ♦
What six nations lead in the matter of mer-
cantile marine tonnage, and how do they com-
pare ? —9336.
Fatest available figures are; United Kingdom
(1938), 14,108,268; Netherlands (1938),
12,997,107; U.S.A. (June, 1939), 12,003,028;
Japan (June, 1939), steamers only, 5,629,845;
Germany (June, 1939), 4,492,708; France (June,
1939), 2,952,975.
* * * *
I understand that the Australian Soldiers’
Repatriation Act, 1920, repealed the former
Pensions Act. When did the 1920 Act come
into operation, and what provisions did it
make ? —9204.
It came into operation from July 1, 1920,
and provided a flat rate of £4 4s. a fortnight
for the 100 p.c. pension for all ranks up to
and including lieutenant. The rates for ranks
higher than lieutenant were not increased. The
main additional increases were (1) a pension up
to £4 4s. a fortnight to widows with dependent
children, or, if without dependent children,
whose circumstances warranted the increased
amount. The invariable practice was to grant
the full £4 4s. to widows with dependent
children. (2) A special rate pension of £8 a
fortnight to blinded and totally and permanently
incapacitated soldiers. (3) A special rate pen-
sion not exceeding £8 a fortnight to t.b. soldiers
subject to certain conditions.
* * * *
What is the permissible income allowed to
the recipient of food relief in N. S. Wales with
a wife and two children aged four and five,
and would a military separation allowance of
5s. per day have to be taken into considera-
tion and regarded as income? —9164.
The permissible income for a family of the
size stated is 44s. 2d. per fortnight. A mili-
tary separation alllowance of 5s. per day would
be taken into account and would disqualify
the family from relief.
* * * ♦
Who was the author of and will you please
quote the full verse beginning: —
“They grow not old as we grow old” ?
—8964.
Laurence Binyon’s poem “For the Fallen”
contains the stanza: —
They shall grow not old, as we that are left grow
old:
Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn.
At the going down of the sun and in the morning
We will remember them.
* * * *
Reasons for the names given to (1) Medi-
terranean Sea, (2) Atlantic Ocean, (3) Pacific
Ocean, (4) Indian Ocean and (5) Black Sea ?
—8541.
(1) Mediterranean comes from the Latin
media terra, meaning the middle of the earth.
The name originated in ancient times when the
Mediterranean was the centre of the then
known earth. (2) The name Atlantic Ocean
originated when it was used to designate the
sea that lies beyond the great range of Atlas
in North-west Africa. The name has been
retained with the extension of geographic
knowledge of the actual extent of the ocean.
(3) On November 27, 1520, Magellan, after a
stormy passage in the South Atlantic, swept
into the tranquil waters of the ocean which
he thereupon named Mar Pacifico, the peace-
ful ocean. (4) The name “India” is the
abstract form of a word derived through the
Greeks from the Pcrsicised form of the
Sanskrit sindhu, “a river,” pre-eminently the
Indus, and, watering the shores of India and
the Indies as it does, the Indian Ocean has
taken its name from these. (5) The Black
Sea was known to the ancient Greeks as
Pontus Axenos, but the modern name seems
to have been applied by the Turks, who, being
accustomed to the navigation of the Aigean
with its numerous harbors of refuge, were
appalled by the dangers of this far wider ex-
panse of water, without shelter, subject to
sudden and violent storms and often covered
by dense fogs.
* * # *
Is “license” the correct spelling of that word
when used as a noun ? My dictionary says that
either “licence” or “license” is correct, but
schoolteachers tell me that “licence” is used as
noun and “license” as verb. I notice that
The Bulletin usually spells it “license”
{noun). —8701.
The “se” spelling for both noun and verb,
as adopted by The Bulletin, is permitted by
practically all authorities, and has been
adopted universally in the U.S.A. and else-
where. The distinction between verb and
noun doesn’t seem to be worth making, as
there can hardly ever be any danger of
ambiguity.
* * * *
Are George Formby and Sandy Powell the
same person? Details? —9104.
No. Formby was the son of a famous old
Lancashire comedian named George Formby,
and every attempt was made to prevent young
George from following in his father’s theatri-
cal footsteps, even to the extent that he never
saw his father on the stage. Formby was born
at Wigan in 1904, and at the age of seven
became an apprentice jockey for Lord Derby
at Newmarket. Weight soon forced him to
give up this career, and at 11 he made his first
screen appearance in “Won by the Shortest
of Heads.” Five years later his father died,
and George embarked on a stage career under
the name of George Hoy to avoid any sug-
gestion of cashing in on his father’s reputa-
tion. His first appearance, at the Earlsdale
Hippodrome, was a dismal failure. However,
he soon picked up, and when his name was top-
ping the billboards switched back to his real
name. Then, following a string of successes
in vaudeville and revue, he made his first
screen success, “No Limit.” Since then he
has been seen in “Keep Your Seats, Please,”
“Feather Your Nest,” “Keep Fit,” “I See
Ice,” “Let George Do It,” “It’s in the Air”
and “Gunner George.” No information con-
cerning Powell available.
* * * *
Any information concerning the history and
present system of sewerage in Adelaide? —8359.
In 1878 an Act of Parliament provided finance
for the introduction of the water-carriage sys-
tem of drainage for the city and suburbs. The
construction of the main sewers and the prepa-
ration of land at the sewage farm for the dis-
posal of the sewage were begun at once. The
first sewage was distributed in 1881 on the farm,
where it has been disposed of ever since by a
system of broad irrigation combined with,
during the winter months, intermittent and
downward filtration through prepared filter-
beds. The metropolitan area is divided into
three drainage districts, each with an indepen-
dent sewerage system. They are (1) the Adel-
aide area, comprising the city of Adelaide and
the southern, eastern and northern suburbs;
(2) the Glenelg area, embodying the towns of
Glenelg, Brighton and Henley, and other western
and south-western suburbs; (3) the Port Adel-
aide and Woodville area, embracing the city of
Port Adelaide, the town of Woodville and other
north-western suburbs. The sewage from the
Adelaide area flows by gravitation to a farm
at Islington, about 4± miles to the north of the
city. Sewage from the Glenelg area flows to
the Glenelg pumping station and is lifted to
the Glenelg treatment works near by. Sewage
from the north-western suburbs is delivered to
the treatment works at Port Adelaide by means
of two pumping stations: one is at Portland,
serving the Port Adelaide-Semaphore districts,
and another at Queensbury attends to the
Woodville area.
* * * *
Details of the highest mountains in Victoria ?
—9219.
The highest mountain is Mount Bogong at
6509 ft. above sea level. Then come Mount
Feathertop 6306 ft., Mount Nelson 6170 ft., Mount
Fainter 6160 ft., Mount Hotham 6100 ft., and
Mount McKay 6030 ft. These, as far as is
known, are the only peaks exceeding 6000 ft.
There are 39 peaks between 5000 ft. and 6000 ft.
and a further 40 between 4000 ft. and 5000 ft.
There are many peaks rising towards 4000 ft.
the actual heights of which have never been
determined.
* * * *
Method of cleaning finger marks from cream
wallpaper ? —9162.
Apply fuller’s earth, patting it gently into
the paper till it sticks, otherwise place sheets
of cardboard close to the paper and fill crevice
between with the powder. Brush off and
repeat if necessary.
Any information concerning the N.S.W. Surf
and Bait-casting Club? —9182.
The club had its foundation meeting at the
Spit Baths, November 16, 1939, attended by
26 people. Its first competition, a casting
try-out, was held at Pearl Bay on December 2,
the trial consisting of three throws from
scratch with unrestricted gear. Annual sub. is
10s. 6d. and there are now 119 financial mem-
bers as compared with 22 financial foundation
members. Club officials for 1940-41 are:
President, O. J. Collidge; vice-presidents, L. C.
Hughes and Dr. F. E. Stayner; secretary, A.
R. Hughes; treasurer, V. C. Norris. The club
is affiliated with the British Casting Association.
* * * *
Any figures relating to the decline of the
abo. population in Vic. ? —9357.
At the first colonisation of Victoria, abos.
were officially estimated to number about
5000, but according to other and apparently
more reliable estimates they numbered not
fewer than 15,000. In 1851, when the colony
was separated from N.S.W., the number was
officially stated at 2693. On June 30, 1937, a
census was taken of abos. in Australia, and
Vic. figures were 699, of whom 53 were full-
blood, 646 half-caste. These numbers when
compared with the 1933 census show a de-
crease of 39 in full-blood abos. and an in-
crease of 136 in half-castes.
* * * *
Date and circumstances of the Wonthaggi
coalmine disaster in 1937 P What measures
were taken to aid widows and dependants? —
9358.
February 15, 1937. Thirteen men were
trapped by an explosion of gas and lost their
lives at the Wonthaggi State coalmine. The
members of the party were on a tour of in-
spection of a shaft which had not been in
operation for a week. A fund was opened
for the benefit of widows and dependants of
the victims, and contributions amounted to
£29,122
* * * *
Do canaries require any special treatment
when moulting, and when do they usually begin
to moult? —92l2.
Cyril Kirby, author of Canary Breeding in
Australia, fixes the moulting period between
February and June (inclusive), but in N.S.W.
birds rarely begin to moult until March. As
soon as moulting commences give egg food
twice a week, with fresh green food daily,
removing in a very short while any not eaten.
In addition to the usual supply of plain canary
seed, give a little linseed twice a week and
give the birds their bath regularly every other
day. You will be well advised to get a copy
of Kirby’s book, which can be had from most
booksellers and, if not otherwise obtainable,
from Robertson and Mullens, 107 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne, C.l. It is generally recog-
nised as the standard work on the subject.
* * * *
How can I keep my paintbrushes clean ?
Left in water or turpentine they remain limp
but seem to lose shape. —92lß.
Brushes should never be left in turpentine
only as the spirit roughens the bristles. Do
not stand the brushes on end. Bore a hole
in each brush handle and suspend the brush
in water so that it hangs free but keeps the
bristles entirely under water. The best con-
tainer for brushes is made from a watertight
box with nails driven through the sides, far
enough apart to take one brush on each nail
without touching. The hole bored in the brush-
handle fits over the nail and the water covers
the bristles, which must not touch bottom of
box. When on paintwork, wipe surplus paint
off brush, but do not clean it, and hang in
box. New paintbrushes need special care.
After the first day’s work wipe them free from
paint, dip them in raw oil, smooth out care-
fully and leave lying fiat on a board. After
two good days’ work they can be used as old
brushes. When the job is done, clean with turps
or kerosene, wash with soap and hot water,
dry carefully and put away, either flat or hang-
ing—never on their ends.
* * ♦ ♦
(1) How many Australian boxing champion-
ships did Billy Grime hold? From whom and
when did he win them, and to whom and when
did he lose them? (2) What is Grime’s age?
—9356.
(1) Grime held the Australian feather-, light-
and welterweight championships. He beat
Bert Ristuccia for the featherweight title in
1924; Sid Godfrey for the lightweight one in
1924; and Eddie Butcher for the welterweight
crown in 1926. Hughie Dwyer defeated Grime
for the lightweight championship in 1924, but
Dwyer retired, and the title reverted to Grime,
who held the three Australian titles when he
went to America in 1927. As Grime did not re-
turn to defend any of the championships within
six months, he lost them all by default. Grime
regained the lightweight championship by beat-
ing Billy Jones in 1931, but Norman Gillespie
won that title from him the same year. (2)
He was born at Young (N.S.W.) on April 27,
1902.
* * * *
How to clean a number of bottles which have
contained olive oil? —9214.
Pour into the bottles a quantity of fine,
perfectly dry sawdust and shake each well till
the whole of the inside of the bottle is covered.
Leave for a few minutes, then pour cold water
in and shake well. Afterwards wash bottles
inside and out with a hot solution of washing-
soda and rinse with clean warm water.
* * * 4c
Recipe for (1) confection of senna, (2) for
confection of sulphur? —B9lß.
(1) Infuse loz. of senna pods in one pint
of boiling water in a covered mug, jug or
earthenware teapot; .Leave till cold, strain off
liquor into a saucepan and add to it 11b.
chopped (stoned) prunes. Allow prunes to
simmer very gently on low heat till senna liquid
is quite absorbed, then press into a shape.
When set cut into squares, each square about
one teaspoonful in quantity. Dose: half-square
for small children, one square for children over
10, two to four for adults. (2) Home manufac-
ture of sulphur confection is not advised.
Sulphur tablets (6d. per box) are very cheap,
and can be bought even more cheaply in bulk
from Walcot Pty., 33 Nelson-street, Annandale,
N.S.W.
Brief Answers.
Home-made: To clarify gingerbeer add an
egg-white and the eggshell crushed and both
beaten in a cup of cold water. Add this to
two gallons when cool.... A.C.: Department
of Agriculture, Brisbane, issues booklets on
poultry-breeding. Write direct and ask for
one dealing with ducks... .M.D.: Prefer
not to express any opinion concerning patent
medicines, but that there are such medicines
which effect cures is surely well enough estab-
lished. .. .Panza: You are right. Auckland
(M.L.) City Council nearly 10 years ago altered
the name Bice Esplanade, Tamaki, to Tamaki
Drive A.P.K.: “Ian Hay,” the author, is
really Ian Hay Beith. He is still writing....
Syn.: Area of Queensland is 670,500 square
miles; the State has a coastline of 3236 miles.
P.D.: Much better to get an all-in policy
which insures against burglary, fire and other
risks. Ask your company’s agent... .W.B.V.:
Twenty ounces go to a pint. A useful re-
minder is the rhymed saying: “A pint of
pure water weighs a pound and a quarter”....
M. It is the cellulose and seeds that
make figs useful laxatives. About 30 per cent,
of a ripe fig consists of pure sugar (not cane
sugar)... .Q.E.D.: The letters L.B. stand for
Baccalaureus Literarum (Bachelor of Letters).
. ...S.R.: “One thousand shall flee at the
rebuke of one” is from Isaiah (xxx, 17)....
A.L.: Write to Department of Health, Bris-
bane. You will be given all possible assist-
ance Mrs. S.: When a trustee (in Eng-
land) is in doubt as to the persons entitled
to a fund in his hands or the persons entitled
cannot be found, and in certain other cases, he
may pay the fund into the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice. Such funds are
loosely and commonly referred to as being
held “in Chancery.” There are a number of
persons and firms who advertise that they
trace funds in Chancery, but would suggest
that you see a reputable solicitor and get him
to have inquiries made through his London
agents J.McC.; (1) Yes, provided there
are no windows or doors in boundary side
wall. (2) and (3) These matters are dis-
cretionary for the local council. Cannot say
what they would allow... .G.H.N.: The 1939
Commonwealth Year-Book gives the number
of Government employees in Australia as
365,409 M.H.: No deposit or amount of
money is fixed by law, but any person re-
garded as liable to become a charge on the
State comes under mandatory consideration
and may be refused a visa... .D.P.R.: The
only reason their names appear regularly is
because they contribute suitable material regu-
larly ; if you can do the same there is no
reason why your work shouldn’t see print
N. : Try the latest Commonwealth Year-
Book, obtainable at any good library ; other-
wise write to the Commonwealth Statistician,
Canberra T.F.N.; The lines are “O bloody
Richard! miserable England! I prophesy the
fearfull’st time for thee that ever wretched age
hath look’d upon.” They are from “Richard
HI” G.F.B.; The address “The Place of a
University in a Modern Community” was de-
livered by Priminister Menzies at the annual
commencement of the Canberra University
College. It was printed in booklet form by
the Melbourne University Press and priced at
Is. a copy G.F.L.: Write to Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .V.D.S.: Latest available
figures give Australian imports of Papuan
origin as; Gold bar, dust, etc., £94,137;
rubber, £85,050; coconuts (prepared), £46,084;
copra, £15,929; coffee (raw), £4641. Principal
exports to Papua were manufactures of metal,
£49,158; machines and machinery, £33,652;
tobacco, £27,444; films for cinematographs,
£19,694; grain and pulse, £19,307; meats,
£15,616; timber, £11,406; apparel and textiles,
£8959; oils in bulk, £8012... .T.D.: Get in
touch with the Recruiting Officer, Naval Staff
Office, Edgecliff, Sydney... .F.V.D.: Latest
available figures are for 1937-38. Value of
output of Australian factories for that year
was estimated at £498,779,141, of which
£102,078,550 went in wages; £15,047,705 in
power, fuel and light; £287,243,412 in ma-
terials used; and the remaining £94,409,474 in
other expenditure, interest, depreciation,
profits, etc C.G.: Crops on irrigated areas
in Australia at June, 1938, were cereals,
162,434 acres; lucerne, grasses and green
forage, 175,814 acres; orchards and vine-
yards, 133,914; root crops, market gardens
and other crops, 62,215 acres... .J.T.B.: In
1938 diseases of the heart accounted for 224
deaths per 100,000 of the mean population
of Australia F.C.D.: Marie Ney, the
actress was born at Chelsea, educated at Well-
ington, M.L., and made her first appearance
on the stage of the Princess’s, Melbourne, on
November 4, 1916, as the Widow in “The
Taming of the Shrew,” with Allan Wilkie’s
Shakspearean Company... .D.S.L.: Write to
the Agricultural Department, Perth C.D.S.:
The first Act of Parliament (the Currency Act)
was made in Australia in 1824.. . .H.G.B.:
Invalid pensions in N. S. Wales in 1939 num-
bered 41,887, and 26,606 in 1940. The de-
crease was brought about by transferring
16,638 invalid pensioners to old-age pensions
on June 30, 1940 C.B.D.; In 1939 there
were 2751 permanent German arrivals in N. S.
Wales, and 633 Italian F.B.R.: Coal was
discovered at Newcastle (N.S.W.) in 1796
D.B.S.: Tasmanian gold production (1938)
totalled 22,200 ounces, valued at £195,071
G.H.N.: In 1938 the Union of S’Africa car-
ried 32,861,077 woolled sheep, and 6,256,720
of other varieties J.H.T.: There is no
“Governor of Western Australia.” The Lieu-
tenant-Governor is James Mitchell, appointed
July 11, 1933 H.F.; One uniform time—
“New Zealand Mean Time” —is kept throughout
Maoriland. It is 111 hours in advance of Green-
wich time G.N.D.: British non-combatants
—mercantile marine, A.M.C., nurses, civilians,
etc. —killed in the 1914-18 war totalled 112,720.
F.R.V.: At the 1933 census the population
of Queensland was 947,534. Population of
Australia at the same census was 6,629,839.


6^l
GHTS
LYS
K,
PROOF
Jm«w mam!
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Crimp, Soundness and Tip.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON’T WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS. ”
“Ghanam”: Spinning and felting
quality in wool depends on the number
of epithelial scales or serrations to the
inch. These increase in proportion to
the number of crimps, which decrease
according to the diameter of the wool.
Hence, crimps indicate “quality.”
Serrations can be seen only with a
microscope—they run as high as 2500
or 3000 to the inch. Wool with 30 to
36 crimps to the inch is superfine. Fine
runs from 21 to 30, medium fine from
16 to 21, and strong wools from 12
to 16.
One important factor to be considered
in the overall quality of the fleece is the
condition of the tip—that is, that part
of the wool on the surface which is
affected by weather. The manufacturer
puts it among the noils or wastage. Every
buyer of wool considers “tear,” or the
proportion of wool top to noil in comb-
ing. Tear results from grass seed, which
makes combing hard and more ex-
travagant in material, and from wasty
tip or tender wool.
Greasy wool 50 per cent, clean at
15d. per lb. with 8-to-l tear value —top
to noil—will cost as top 38.62d. per lb.,
allowing 6d. per lb. for combing. Greasy
with 5-to-l tear ratio, bought at
will bring 38.4d. per lb., so that the
greater amount of noil represented by
the difference between 8 to 1 and 5 to 1
means about |d. per lb. to the seller.
Good breeding and careful manage-
ment are the secrets of sound, well-
tipped wool.
Fly-strike Prevention.
“Dungaree”: In N.S.W. last year the
spring blowfly offensive was cramped by
the drought. Odd severe attacks were
directed chiefly against hoggets. Wide-
spread rains have changed things,
however, and sheep are particularly
susceptible to fly just now. They are
weaker after months of poor diet, and
the new green feed is causing scouring.
Immediate crutching is the best policy.
There’s already a demand for Crutchers,
but a lot of damage will be done before
any appreciable percentage of the State’s
sheep can be safeguarded. Crutching is
a relatively slow job. Unless a small
portable shearing plant is available, mus-
tering and driving sheep to the shearing-
shed take time.
Best results can be expected only where
jetting and crutching are complementary.
Jetting may be carried out at any time
without calling on extra labor, and most
jetting plants may be taken to the sheep.
Calcium arsenite has given longest pro-
tection in tests —four-five weeks. Sodium
arsenite is effective not quite so long, but
is cheaper and easier to handle. As it
leaves no undissolved particles of arsenic
in the wool, it is preferable for jetting
where crutching is to follow in a month
or two. The value of the Mules opera-
tion is now widely recognised.
Those three methods are all preven-
tive. The treatment of fly-blown areas
with a dressing will always be necessary.
Don’t choose one that kills maggots in-
stantaneously—a slower medium is less
likely to irritate the exposed tissues of
the animal and thus promote quicker
healing without a hard scab.
Be careful when using an arsenic
dressing on fly-blown sheep. Arsenic and
phenol are both toxic and can kill a
sheep through skin absorption. Boracic
acid may take a little longer to kill
maggots, but is quite as effective and is
better in every respect as a dressing in-
gredient. For dressing rams’ heads
boracic powder, dusted on, gives good
results, but where the skin is broken or
fly-blown boracic liquid dressing is
preferable.
The Nicotine-sulphate Drench.
“Lion”: It is “J.R.D.” (B. 1/1/’4l)
who is “dead lucky” in drenching with-
“Always somethin t' contend with! This time it's burrs!"
out loss. Generally speaking, the amount
of poison that a living body can absorb
depends on body weight more than on
health. Thus “J.R.D.” could give his
large dose of n.s. to a sheep dressing
601 b. without fear, but he stands a good
chance of losing a sheep weighing only
301 b. dressed.
By experiment under ordinary field
conditions, I have lost sheep with a 45
c.c. dose of my formula. To lose one
proves nothing, but experiments with
known doses of 45 c.c. and 50 c.c., par-
ticularly the latter, have killed ( a ) weak
sheep, ( b ) lightweight sheep, (c) occa-
sional heavyweight sheep, which I con-
sider must have had an idiosyncrasy for
nicotine.
After two drenchings sheep become
immune to a certain amount of the drug.
That is why I start on 14-day-old lambs
a; they come through the race with their
mothers, thus gradually building them up
to take larger doses. The greater the dose
given in safety the surer the worm kill
obtained ; but, whereas my formula and
directions are safe in the hands of an
inexperienced operator using n.s. for the
first time, “J.R.D.’s” definitely are not.
By mistake 500 weak sheep were
drenched with his quantity ; the loss was
8.4 p.c.
Again, “J.R.D.” states that setting the
gun as I advocate “imposes a lot of extra
work on the operator,” and yet he says
also that “better results are obtained by
giving bluestone first a few seconds before
the n.s.”—double the work. My method
allows the oesophageal groove to close
during the drenching. Good results can t
be obtained with fast drenching, and yet
“J.R.D.” advocates one shot of 30 c.c.
It appears that “J.R.D.” is a wether
man, otherwise he would be the first to
appreciate that a lamb-breeder would be
running lambs as well as ewes through
his drenching race at the same time, and
with his gun set as I have stated he can
deal with them all as they come, which
saves much time.
I started with a worm-infested prop-
erty on which it was very hard to rear
young lambs. In November, ’40,1 topped
Homebush with shorn lambs at 18s. each
on a 65,000 yarding. Three years ago I
couldn t even fatten a young sheep be-
cause of worms.
Rough Shearing.
, „ „ . , . , ,
Mouton : Rough shearing has be-
come a menace in some districts.
The big sheds are manned by experts,
and usually an efficient boss of the board
is employed, but small graziers must take
what they can get, and often have to wait
weeks for the men. When a start is made
they are afraid to say anything for fear
the sheep will not be shorn before grass
seeds play havoc with the wool.
One of the worst faults is second cuts,
or chaffing the wool. In a S. Austra-
"an shed I saw the table locks nearly up
to the rungs ; on examination, I found
that they were nearly all second cuts,
Only a few hundred sheep had been
shorn. Chaffing is serious, because, under
appraisement, length of staple is vital in
deciding type. If a large percentage of
the fleece wool is reduced in length by
second cutting, a full warp type may be
reduced to half warp.
Another grave fault is the neglect of
the points and crutch, which often leads
to severe blowfly and grass-seed trouble.
Other common errors are breaking
through the thigh wool, which leaves a
large piece of fleece wool with floor lock,
and cutting the wool on the neck instead
of breaking through.
Owners, of course, could do a lot by
insisting on better work. They allow
men to shear more sheep than they are
capable of doing properly, simply to get
the job finished quickly. And contractors
should be forced to engage more learners.
Any “M.0.L.” readers got any views
about that?
After the Rain.
“J.R.D.”: Now that the drought is
broken sheepmen must look ahead to
safeguard the health of their flocks.
Summer rains make conditions ideal for
the spread of internal parasites, particu-
larly the large stomach worm, or barber’s-
pole worm {Hcemonchus contortus ).
A few sheep can quickly infect a pas-
ture. A single female worm will lay
5000-10,000 eggs per day. These are
passed out in the droppings ; then they
hatch out on the ground and the minute
larvae crawl on to grass stems and wait
£. be p ;? ed “ p again by f grazing sheep.
When this happens, the larva makes its
way to the fourth stomach, attains
maturity in three weeks and starts the
cycle again,
Affected sheep soon begin to show
pale skins and a lack of color in the
mucous membrane of eyes and mouth. If
there is plenty of good green feed avail-
able, sheep may not lose condition for
some time—in fact, they may die fat,
from loss of blood. However, if feed
gets scarce or dry, sheep will crack up
quickly, particularly if they are mustered
or driven, so don’t try to bustle them if
they look bottle-jawed or show the usual
symptoms.
The greatest danger of infection is on
heavy carrying country. One single pellet


MaW is mt nm
TO mODtONISE
ITH MASOUmf
THE demands and requirements of Treasurer Fadden
have probably dispelled—“for the duration”—your
dreams of a new home. But there is no need whatsoever
to allow Hitler & Co. to intern you in that home which has
grown a little shabby or a little out-moded. You can
transform it; amplify it; give it new rooms. You can add
or modernise verandahs, carry out a dozen-and-one delight-
ful plans for rejuvenating and glamorising your present
home. Those dingy walls can be charmingly concealed;
those worn floors given new strength and eye-appeal. Be
thankful for Masonite—the grainless, splinterless, steel-
strong boards which can be worked with ordinary tools, bent, grooved, bevelled,
painted, lacquered—treated and finished in any way your heart or mind may
desire. Modernising with Masonite is INEXPENSIVE (many of the smaller altera-
tions you can do yourself), yet the job will last for the duration of your life.
Masonite Quartrboard De-Luxe, Presdwood, weather-defying Tempered Presdwood
and tile-like Temprtile come to you or your builder in boards up to 12' x 4'—the
most versatile all-wood boards ever produced—rightly praised all over the world
as “The Wonder Boards of 1000 Uses”!
Obtainable from most Timber Yards and Builders' Suppliers
MODERNISE WITH
f
MA2-4I
_A_ Masonite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought com-
mercially useless. They possess the advan-
tages of wood without its disadvantages.
Masonite is used for both modernisation and
new construction: ior floors, counter tops
and table tops, ior “tiling", for partitioning
—in fact, for "1,000 uses",
on m
PRESDWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE . . . QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) . . Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
«. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., Kina St. Sydney
of sheep droppings from an infested
sheep may contain over 10,000 worm
eggs. The lighter stocked the country, the
safer it will be, but sheep on improved
pastures or lucerne need careful watch-
ing. Eggs can remain on the ground for
months until warm rainy weather hatches
them. A long dry spell will settle the
eggs, but a few wormy sheep in the
flock will reinfest the new pastures.
A drenching programme must be laid
down, based on a knowledge of the life
history of the parasite. First, get rid of
the worms in the sheep. Double strength
carbon tet. (5 c.c. dose) gives 100 p.c.
results on adult worms, but no drench has
much effect on immature worms. Larvae
take three weeks to mature from the
time the sheep pick them up. It follows
that, if a few days after drenching the
sheep are put into a spelled paddock and
drenched again in three-four weeks, most
of the worms should be cleared out.
A widespread fallacy is that if sheep
are put on to green feed the worms will
be scoured out of them. Actually, the
worms not only remain but increase.
Don’t wait till sheep look wormy
before drenching. Always keep some
drench on hand and use it to prevent
worm infestation. Carbon tet. double
strength (2 c.c. carbon tetrachloride to
3 c.c. liquid paraffin) works out at about
one-sixth of a penny per dose.
The Centre’s Season.
“Tryana”: Last year was one of the
driest ever. A number of stations in the
northern (S.A.) agricultural areas and
the pastoral country had less than sin.
rain, some totals being under 2in. Min-
gary in the north-east had only 88 points.
In most cases yearly aggregates through-
out the State were more than sin. below
normal. Many stations had from 6in.
to Sin. under their average, Macclesfield’s
shortage being 1085 points.
In the N.T., apart from a few deficits,
notably 531 points at Pine Creek, the
year’s aggregates were above average.
Some stations had Sin. more than they
usually gauge. Katherine had a great
year, the total fall being about 14iin.
above average. At Adelaide the total of
1616 points was almost Sin. below the
102 years’ average.
Over the greater part of the pastoral
country drought took heavy toll. At one
or two stations in the north-east the
year’s aggregates were under lin., while
at Oodnadatta the last 11 months yielded
only 49 points. Katherine had a deluge
of 1932 points in January, while Darwin
got 1891 the following month. Heavy
rains also drenched Barrow Creek. Dar-
win got nearly another 9in. in December.
One of the best rains for half a cen-
tury broke the drought in the pastoral
country early this month. Stretching
from Central Australia in the north to
the marginal areas of the upper north,
and from Tarcoola in the far west to
Broken Hill in the east, the rain averaged
between 2in. and 4jn. Some centres had
almost Sin. Creeks ran bankers, and
dams and reservoirs, dry for 18 months,
were filled. Thousands of stock slowly
dying of starvation were saved, and
further thousands on agistment in the
hills and south-east S.A. will shortly be
able to return northwards.
“Straw Walker”: Under the Wheat
Industry Stabilisation Regulations a
wheat farm is defined as “one on which,
at any time during the period commenc-
ing October 1, 1938, and terminating on
April 1, 1941, wheat has been harvested
for grain.” Marginal areas where a State
Government has ordered the cessation of
wheatgrowing are not included. The
usual share-farming practice is recognised
by the regulations. Onus is on owners
of land to register their property for
wheatgrowing, and on growers to obtain
licenses to grow the stuff. Pending
examination of applications, the Com-
monwealth Commerce Department ad-
vises farmers to go ahead with prepara-
tions for sowing next season’s crop on a
normal basis.
Maoriland expects the highest lambing
percentage since 1936 —90.21. The
autumn and winter season in most parts
has been unusually good, both as to
weather and feed. Otago-Southland will
probably show 94.36 per cent, increase.
“Zedo”: Australia is never likely to
turn out flax as well and as easily as the
colder European countries which have
provided the bulk of the world’s supply,
but a gallant effort is being made in
three States to meet war needs and fill
the gaps in English needs left through
the cutting-off of Belgian and Baltic
supplies. The British Government has
offered £96 to £lBO for the line fibre,
according to grade, off 13,000 acres. The
dry season has interrupted operations in
the three main growing States —Victoria,
Tasmania and W.A.—but it is likely that
the yield will be 24,000 tons of flax, worth
over £350,000.
“Canbelego”: Phalaris tuberosa came
through the drought in N.S.W. coastal
areas with an enhanced reputation as a
pasture grass, and responded rapidly to
the rain. Phalaris can be included in
mixtures of grasses and clovers, and
should be sown at the rate of 3lb. or
41b. per acre. Sow on a well-worked
seedbed, using Hcwt. to 2cwt. of super,
per acre. Topdress annually with the
same amount of super.
Outback Occupations.
No. LIII.
REPeLLING INVADERS (1).
You are at breakfast when a large
meat-ant strolls across the edge of your
plate and investigates the fodder. You
flick him away. Next instant another
reconnoitres your saucer.
“These ants are gettin’ thick,” you
remark, disposing of it.
“Neither of those,” replies the missus,
“is any thicker than the 40 million others
about the place. Not that 1 spend my
time examining ants to see if they get
any thicker. I’m far too busy keeping
the food away from them.” When the
missus gets like that it’s best to say
nothing, and you say it.
“Dad,” says young Jack, “is a very
observant fellow. Them ants has been
swarming over the place for weeks. The
cows is everywhere. But they don’t trick
Dad. He sees ’em. Bet y’r life he does! ”
You reach over and pass him one
under the left ear. Young Tom, his
brother, gets up and sidles out of the
kitchen. You address the missus: “Why
didn’t y’ tell me about the flamin’ ants?
I got too much t’ do t’ be countin’ ants.”
“Of course,” says she, “I’ve got
nothing to do.”
“Well,” you insist, “y’ could ’a’ told
me.”
You go outside, pick up the line of
meat-ants and follow it. The nest is
behind the stable. The moment you
step on its edges meat-ants pour out of
the numerous holes and sweep the
ground in battalions, looking for trouble.
You retreat to the shed and look for
the carbon bisulphide. There isn’t any.
You decide on hot water.
With the first two kero, buckets of
boiling water you arrive at the nest and
begin pouring it down the holes. Theie
is steam and some bubbling. Once more
the battalions emerge and go into action.
You stamp about, but they get up your
trouser legs and get to work on your
skin. You retire, conscious of the grins
of Tom and his mother, disrobe, disant
and return to the fray, having decided
the hot water isn’t quick enough.
Then comes the brain-wave. You get
cement and sand and mix a thin con-
crete mixture. With your trousers tied
round your ankles and Tom standing
by to brush off climbers, you pour the
mixture down hole after hole. “When
that sets,” you inform the audience,
“what ants ain’t concreted will have
broken jaws tryin’ to get out.”
Having finished the work, you
straighten your tired back and survey the
ant-nest. Except for an odd wanderer
there isn’t an ant in sight. Even the little
streets through the grass have emptied,
“ft looks,” says young Tom with some
admiration, “like someone must’ve
sounded an air-raid warning.”
“Well, missus,” you say, “there’s the
end of y’r ant bother.”
“Yairs,” says the missus drawlingly.
During the rest of the day you cast an
occasional glance over the ants’ grave-
yard, but even the stragglers have cleared
out. You wonder whether there would
be anything in patenting the idea. Make
some sort of fluid concrete that would
not harden until poured from the tin.
Almost everybody has ants. At a couple
of bob a tin there’d be money in it. You
could advertise it well —“Fordcubbin’s
Famous Fixer,” “Anti-Ant Cement,”
“Kill ’Em with Koncreet.” Gripes, if it
would fix ants it would fix Germans.
How about British ’planes dropping the
stuff over Germany? Wouldn’t old Hitler
look a dag stuck in a hundredweight of
“Fordcubbin’s Famous Fixer”? Gosh,
that’d mean cash, all right, and trips to
England and meeting the heads. Fancy
the missus bowing to the Queen. Fancy
you in a frock-coat
Thus with toil and pleasant dreams
pass the day and that part of the night
not wasted in sleep.
Next morning you are at breakfast
when a large meat-ant strolls across the
edge of your plate and investigates the
fodder. You stare at him.
“It,” remarks the missus sweetly, “seems
slightly thicker this morning, don’t you
think? And is that a bit of concrete on
its back?”
You glare at both the boys, quelling
them, get up and go to the cemented ant-
nest. Those ants have worked overtime.
Bits of cemented earth, pellets and tubes
of concrete lie where they have dragged
them. New holes go down beside the
blocked ones. Here and there an ant,
half-concreted, waves its forward or rear-
ward end in the air while others try to
separate it from the mass.
“Jack,” you roar, “get the tractor and
hitch up the big tank-plough. I’ll ant the
cows! ”
An hour later the ant citadel is ruined.
Ripped up by the big plough, it looks
like a miniature bomb crater. Ants
struggle feebly in the ruins, shocked by
the disaster, while some run aimlessly
about with their eggs looking for refuge.
Satisfied, you go to the work of produc-
ing for the national war effort, your
dreams of seeing the King forgotten.
Next morning you are at breakfast
when a large meat-ant strolls across the
edge of your plate and investigates the
fodder. “I’m sure it’s thicker than
ev” begins the missus as you break
for the door.
Outside the awful truth bursts on you.
A track of ants goes beneath the house,
where, safe from concrete and plough, the
happy meat-ants are building a new city.
From the ruin by the stable a long line is
shifting the furniture, eggs and other
fittings from the broken citadel to the
new.
“If only,” you think, “a man had a pet
ant-eater.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; aJI others at
2|d. per line.
First place for a Sydney man who writes tersely about a very objectionable
form of radio advertising.
Scare Ads.
They’re at it again. “Stop press,”
cries my radio. “A new Blitzkrieg is
on its way. Colossal slaughter at”
Then the whole family jerks its collective
head up and hearts pound unpleasantly
for a space of three seconds until the
radio announcer continues in honeyed
tones, “Blank’s Emporium, where prices
have been slashed to a new level. Their
new winter sale starts to-morrow and
doors open at nine o’clock.”
A breathing spell of ten minutes and
then, “The invasion has started! Mil-
lions die as wave of terror sweeps
through land. Death-dealing vapors
carry all before them.” A convulsive
start, a gasp, and “Woggle’s triple-threat
fly spray will solve your insect problem
at once. Order a bottle tomorrow. Is. 3d,
at all stores.”
A joke’s a joke, and a smart line’s an
extra bonus, but when London’s fighting
for its life —well, it just isn’t funny any-
more. —Scrutator (Sydney).
Distance Lends Illusion
I am the proud possessor of a pencil-
sharpener in the form of a tiny terrestrial
globe. The spherical map shows me that
Australia could be dumped into the
North Atlantic and leave considerable
sea room to spare. For the sake of argu-
ment, suppose it to be there, guarded on
all sides by the British Fleet and Air
Force; immune from enemy attack,
carrying on business and pleasure as
usual, its people calmly viewing as from
a vast grandstand the most terrific battle
ever waged.
It would then be clear to every citizen
of the huge island that his life and every-
thing that makes it worth living depend
on the bravery and sacrifice, the blood
and tears, the tireless labor, the sleepless
vigilance of the citizens of a much smaller
island. It would be impossible to retain
the childish notion that our vaunted war
effort is a generous gift to Britain, the
cost of which must not interfere with our
precious standard of living, our hours of
leisure or our personal comfort.
Of course, we are not in the Atlantic,
but the facts remain much the same as if
we were. We cannot juggle with
geography, but our position on the map
does juggle with the perspective of truth.
In the Pacific we think and behave as if
we were a race apart, strong in our own
strength, a veritable bulwark of Empire,
instead of realising that our very distance
is a danger, rendering the task of our
protectors more difficult by lengthening
the lines of communication and sabotag-
ing the spirit of our leaders and workers
with a false sense of security.—By-Elec-
tion (S.A.).
The Medieval System
“Chikkabiddi’s” lauding of the medie-
val system (B. 8/1 / ’4l) is amusing.
It was not a system but an expedient
introduced on the downfall of the Roman
Empire to give the peoples of Europe,
which, to all intents and purposes, at this
stage meant those of Southern Europe,
some measure of protection against
raiders. It was based on the subjection
of the individual, on serfdom. The serf
forfeited all his rights in order to gain
the protection of his lord. It was only
with the growth of the towns and
national States that political freedom
came.
No system, and least of all the medieval
system, could save Europe from war.
War is perhaps the oldest exercise of
mankind. Up to the present time war
was rather a glorious affair modern
equipment and mass methods of destruc-
tion have taken away that glory and
have left the poor individual not only
fighting his enemy but himself as well.
Up till now he has not been able to con-
quer his natural instinct. Therefore he
blames his system, and looks back to “the
good old days,” but at the same time
takes his environment for granted.
If “Chikkabiddi” and others wish to
go back to the medieval times—and to
accept the economic conditions that these
times carry with them — they can go on
their own. They will have a rude awaken-
,n S> Others, however, will not blame then-
system but while enjoying their present
f ol,tlcal and economic advantages, wil
W 'o make the world a saner place, but
not to change mankind s whole make-up
°J stem of government with one sweep
of the pen. The cause of war is not to
be in , neither is a
foundation for / ac J o nly in the moral-
jly of mankind is the solution t 0 bc
found—W. W. (N.S.W.).
War Effort 7
Kis ' ri S ht . 1 thou « ht »°"8 with
thousands of others, that we should assist
the war effort to our utmost. My eager-
ness to assist led to my being enlisted
to bdp a number of recent patriotic func-
tions. I made sacrifices which I thought
p rG per, and did my best to swell the funds
by personal and financial effort. Experi-
ences. however, have left me wondering,
I can’t understand why it is necessary
to squander money raised by after-
“An the wicked Wolf came an said ‘l'll ’uff and I'll puff and I'll blow
your ’ouse down.' ”
noon and morning teas (ordered from
cafes and the kind one would never think
of buying ordinarily) for every tinpot
meeting of socialites and/or nonentities.
Neither can I reconcile numerous bottles
of imported whisky supplied gratis to
deadheads at a ball, the unnecessary
use of taxis to flit here and there when
ordinary transport would do, and the
dozens of other costly anomalies which
will probably be lumped together with
miscellaneous honoraria as administra-
tive expenses in annual balance sheets.
Until we hear the wailing of real air-
raid sirens and the crash of guns I’m
afraid we’ll never get the spirit necessary
for a sincere all-in war effort. — Kyamba
(S.A.).
Waste
Daily all of us buy goods in packages
which have an inside wrapping, the paste-
board carton itself and an outer wrap-
ping ; and then, when sold, the goods are
wrapped up in more brown paper.
In a time of war the overwrapping of
goods where it is more a matter of swank
than necessity might be treated as wast-
age ; and wasting anything should be an
offence. A lot of our foodstuffs now
bought packeted would be just as nutri-
tious and much less costly if shopkeepers
served them out of bulk containers into
basins and canisters brought by the
customers. In many cases, in what we
pay for goods, 75 p.c. goes for the pack-
ing. The labor of the girls employed in
the packing could be easily transferred
to preparing munitions.
An enormous saving in labor, material
and the incomes of people who must be
hit by increasing prices and taxation
could be effected by providing that only
the minimum of packeting necessary for
the safekeeping of food should be per-
mitted. Whilst that is neglected it is
piffling for a song to be made about the
saving effected in war-usable materials
by cutting the striking sides of match-
boxes in half.—H. M. (N.S.W.).
Half-size Cigarettes
“Kipper’s” idea of heading matches at
both ends (B. 25/12/’4O) prompts me
to suggest another waste-saver for
smokers.
In theatre lounges and other places
there is an appalling waste of cigarettes
when only a few puffs are taken and
almost a whole cigarette discarded. This
waste could be avoided if cigarettes were
manufactured in half their present size.
There are many occasions when one has
time for only a brief smoke, and the
few draws contained in half a cigarette
would sate the craving of the most in-
veterate smoker. — Petermac (Vic.).
Drift to the Cities
Here in the Victorian Mallee we are
experiencing the worst drought on record.
Most of the vegetation has gone, and
whenever the wind blows the dust-clouds
rise. Roads, channels and fences are
drifting over. No wonder thoughts turn
citywards, and that many of the farmers
are seeking employment where wages are
good and living conditions more con-
genial.
I wonder, though, what repercussions
this wholesale exodus from the farms is
going to have when the war is over.
Much of the work and good wages now
obtainable will end with the war. Unless
the Government is able to switch much
of this labor on to new large develop-
mental works somebody is going to be in
for a bad time.
On the other hand, when the drought
ends we can confidently hope for good
years. We now have a stabilised mini-
mum price for wheat. If hard times are
experienced after the war, families on
Mallee farms can produce most of their
essential food requirements.
Bad as things are at present, I would
strongly advise all farmers who seek
employment in the city to make provi-
sion to return to their holdings when the
war ends. —O. J. (Vic.).
Slums and Their Makers
I’m all the way with “Sam Square” in
his plea for slum children (B. 25/12/’4O),
but I repudiate “Sam’s” reference that I
(as included with the rest of the commu-
nity) am responsible for their lot. “Sam”
should address himself to the guilty ones
—the male section of the slum element.
They are responsible for 90 p.c. of slum-
dom, and, further, my considerable
experience has satisfied me that they are
quite content with things as they find
them. Of course, they would accept any
improvement which didn’t cost them any-
thing.
If a man chooses by drunkenness,
addiction to betting, general shiftlessness.
etc., to make himself socially incompetent
and displays a preference for that mode
of existence, should his industrious neigh-
bor, who has to support him, be expected
to regard himself as responsible?
Remember the condition does not seem
a very bad one to the chap who’s in it.
The only thing that can do any lasting
good to such a fellow is a Government
that will teach him the dignity and beauty
of work, and awaken within him the
realisation that he is a man, with all a
man’s capabilities and potentialities.
That is the heart of the whole thing,
and it won’t be touched until all scroun-
gers, urgers, bar-flies, etc., are conscripted
into an industrial army and drilled in
and made accustomed to the discipline
of responsible toil. When that is done
there will be plenty of money to help
the genuinely helpless, widows and
fatherless kids, who are the responsibility
of “S.S.” and me.
If it ever was attempted, the startled
howl would be “An Attack on Free-
dom.” Well, my freedom is being at
tacked when I am conscripted into the
great army of taxpayers who have to
support the blighters who won’t carry
their weight and have no intention of
carrying it. —C. H. (N.Q.).
A Worker Hits Back
If “E.J.8.” (B. 18/12/ ’4O) was slogging
for eight hours a day on the business end
of a pick and shovel, road-mending or
doing his whack with a railway mainten-
ance gang, he would not be so glibly con-
temptuous of the “so-called worker type.”
Any pibk-and-shovel artist could tell him
that contractors insist that a fixed quan-
tity of landscape must be removed in a
fixed time, and frequent spelling indicates
a payoff docket.
The navvy, the axeman and all who
earn their livelihood by the sweat of their
brow are not misnamed
workers. Too much flap-
doodle is talked about the
lily-handed office species (they
draw salaries, you know),
who in many cases would re-
gard it a personal affront to
be called a “worker,” believ-
ing that a white collar,
pressed pants and a veneer of
respectability lift them above
“the worker type.” If the
navvy sometimes misses a
pick stroke to crack a joke
about civil servants and the
white collar brigade, he has
ample provocation.
Despite modern technique,
picks and shovels are still
essential tools in much con-
structional work. Certainly it
is by these simple tools and
men who wield them that
roads, power schemes, sewage
systems, mining and all our
developmental works are
made possible. Nor is it
merely accidental that the
pick and shovel are symbols
of toil in art and literature.
For a real appreciation of
the creative work that has
been done by pick-and-shovel
workers one need only men-
tion the thousands of miles
of highways, bush roads and
rail tracks carved over a con-
tinent. Even “E.J.8.” must admit that
these represent gallons of sweat, tremen-
dous effort and a vast amount of cour-
age and hardihood.
In a young country like ours there
should be no room for snob-values, and
any man whose sweat glands work over-
time on a job deserves prestige.— Chas.
Halbert (S.A.).
Why Engagement Rings?
“Noham’s” plea (B. 18/12/’4O) for the
setting of Australian opals in engagement
rings to replace high-priced and hard-
to-get diamonds is all right, but it causes
one to ask what is the need for engage-
ment rings at all. It makes one howl
to see a couple spend thirty pounds
on an engagement ring and then face life
with a houseful of furniture on t.p. —
Paddy M. (N.S.W.).
Latin
The zealots who still regard the study
of Latin as essential in the school curri-
culum are bringing the same well-worn
arguments to bear in their losing fight
for its retention. They emphasise the
debt that our language owes to the
Romans —one recently actually took the
trouble to analyse Churchill’s speech to
count the words having Latin roots. This
proves or disproves nothing, as a similar
analysis would have revealed many words
whose origin is Anglo-Saxon, which as a
spoken language is no more defunct than


Latin. Certainly no student is debarred
from entering university faculties through
ignorance of our basic language.
I have never yet encountered anyone
who reads Latin for pleasure or could
converse fluently in it, and the 90-odd
p.c. of students who do not proceed from
high school to university forget what they
regard as an unpleasant imposition as
soon as possible after leaving.
Roman history, intelligently taught
from the economic, legal, social and liter-
ary angles, would save much time and
mental anguish without any loss of that
nebulous abstraction called “culture”
which a study of Latin is said to give.
Latin is a medieval survival, an anach-
ronism, an incubus, but nobody has the
courage to call the bluff of the pedantic
antiquarians who insist on its study.
B. Ec. (N.S.W.).
The Education Fetish
We have made a fetish of education,
but its advantages aren’t by any means
universally recognised. G. B. Shaw has
repeatedly told us that he was only
fortunate in one thing, and that was that
he escaped education. Henry George,
author of Progress and Poverty, was of
opinion that education destroys the
mental faculties. Napoleon, Faraday,
Edison and scores of others owed nothing
to the higher education. Where were the
educated men and women during the last
great depression? What assistance did
the educated economists give us? For
the most part their conclusions were
hopeless and despairing.
As a Maorilander I look at the political
figures of my own country. The only
political leaders worth considering were
Ballance, Seddon, Ward, Harry Holland
and Savage —all men who escaped high
schools and universities. Seddon had the
least education of any politician in the
British Empire. And take Australia’s
Henry Lawson. He owed nothing to
“great public schools.” Education is the
eternal enemy of originality,— Herbert
Mulvihill (M.L.).
The Wail of a Tutor
“Parents are the last people in the
world who ought to have children.” I
heard that remark made many years ago
by the headmaster of a famous English
public school, and I did not realise the
truth of it until I went out to teach other
people’s children as a tutor in Australia.
Teachers get partial control of these
children after the parents have finished
moulding them. This is over, and their
characters formed, by the age of seven.
Even then the influence of the parents
still prevails —for one quarter of the year
in the case of boarding-school children,
and for some part of every day in every
year in the case of day-school children.
I have met few parents who admitted
their own obvious shortcomings. I have
met few parents who were not thor-
oughly selfish in their outlook, as well
as narrow-minded, bigoted and preju-
diced. It is the parents who bring up
their children to be devotees of the
picture theatre, to adopt a hostile atti-
tude to anything reasonably cultural, to
be bigoted if they have any sort of reli-
gion, and to be equally bigoted if they
lack sufficient understanding to realise the
necessity for some form of moral training.
1 have been in many homes in Aus-
tralia, teaching children and living with
their parents. In no single instance have
I found any parent who possessed any
sort of moral stability of character. Most
of the parents I have had contact with
have been entirely characterless.
If you want to educate children you’d
have to start with their parents. Of that
I am convinced. — Tutor (N.S.W.).
The Art of Reading
According to the Public Librarian (Mr.
Ifould), only 10 per cent, of the adult
population of N. S. Wales can really
read:
People are taught the mechanics of read-
ing, but they do not really understand
how to do it... .1 know many doctors and
lawyers who do not know how to read
intelligently. We will not have a great,
cultured people in Australia until school-
children are taught to read correctly.
Mr. Ifould was addressing the Teachers’
Federation, and was certainly not exag-
gerating. According to the law, of
course, everyone of us is taught to read
and write, but there are very many
people, even amongst the highly-educated
and professional classes, who read only
with difficulty—they read slowly and with
effort, sometimes with an obviously pain-
ful effort. Certainly they do not read as
easily as they breathe.
The first step towards reading is not
so much ability to read as the training
of the eye to pick up print effortlessly.
It is because people do not generally
realise this that there are so many who
think they can read, but cannot. A really
practised reader should be able to read a
full-length novel at one sitting, and still
be able to enjoy whatever might be en-
joyable in the author’s style. He should
be able both to walk and skip through
the book, and he should be so completely
at home with print that the sound and
the shape of the words are appraised by
him without his ever hav-
ing to pronounce them.
The vast bulk of people
in this country are still in
the “horse and buggy
days” as far as the
mechanics of reading are
concerned. They do not
know that they could
streamline their reading
capacity with practice.
And that is probably why
so many are content to
remain on the literary
flapper-fodder level. They
feel less overawed in its
presence. They do not
know that they could
reduce the art of reading
to the same simplicity as
the art of picture reading,
and that, in precisely the
same way as they take in a
“talkie” dialogue, they could also take in
a whole sentence, paragraph or novel,
and just as effortlessly.— Gerald Dillon
(N.S.W.).
Sydney’s Milk
I, too, am in favor of “raw milk” as
against the cooked or pasteurised variety
(B. 18/12/ ’4O). Pasteurised or cooked
milk is generally days old before it is
sold to the public, either in bulk or
bottled. Further, it is all standardised,
i.e., all mixed up and brought to butter-
fat content of 3.2 p.c.
Any dairyman knows full well that
most cows, particularly Jerseys, Short-
horn milking strains and Ayrshires and
their crosses, produce milk for ‘the
greater part of their lactation period
much in excess of 3.2 p.c. butterfat.
The only exception usually is the Flol-
stein-Friesian breed of dairy cattle, com-
paratively few of which breed are found
in most of the dairy herds of this State.
The public therefore should be able to
buy freely milk with the natural butter-
fat content. Standardisation or anything
like it should not be countenanced.
Why can’t the Government leave the
dairymen to run their own business and
supply their customers with fresh raw
dairy milk? The inspectors necessary to
keep an eye on the dairies wouldn’t cost
as much as transport, pasteurisation,
bottling, etc. — Hygienic Milk (N.S.W.).
The Price of Wool
“R.H.S.” (B. 18/12/’4O) makes asser-
tions that are for the most part mere
assumptions. Present world conditions
could not possibly have been taken into
consideration when the price of wool was
fixed. Those who arranged the present
price stated that under conditions then
existing it should allow growers a
moderate profit. Conditions have altered.
Costs have risen and are still rising as
regards everything connected with the
woolgrowing industry. In fact, the only
thing in Australia today that seems to be
on a fixed price is wool.
The bald statement that woolgrowers
would be in the same position as wheat-
growers has no substantiation in fact.
Wheat is coming in all the time in some
place or another all over the world. The
bulk of merino wool is grown in Aus-
tralia. South Africa is our only serious
competitor.
As to our wool not being in demand,
America is taking a very large quantity
—probably as security against British
purchases. The statement that merino
wool is not needed is refuted by the fact
that the people who wore merino wool
before the war are still in existence, still
wear clothes, and the wool is still avail-
able to them in Britain, America and
Australia. The fact that our armed forces
are using all the crossbred wool should
tend to increase the value of merino wool.
Averaging this and last year’s prices
South Africa is getting a better return
than we are. — Marthaguy (Q.).
The Retail Point of View
“Pip’s” complaint (B. 18/12/’4O) about
retail prices left me cold. A wireless set
priced at slightly less than £3O would cost
the retailer in the vicinity of £2O, so the
£23 “Pip” paid would not be a reason-
able profit. Before he can get good radio
agencies a retailer must employ an A-
grade radio mechanic, so wages must be
taken into consideration, or, if he does
the work himself, he must be compen-
sated for the cost of his training. He
must be prepared to give free servicing
over a certain period and to carry the
guarantee for the 12 months. In nine
cases out of ten in these days he must
take an old set as a trade-in. Add all
this to the cost of rent and the usual
upkeep and expenses of a shop and it
“I’m not easily frightened , Joe, but I reckon an air raid Would scare
me stiff.”
can be clearly seen that the retailer needs
all his £3O if he is to earn a decent living
for himself. — Retailer (Q.).
Uncle’s System
“Eddie Torial” (B. 1/1 / ’4l) has been
let off lightly—so far. When Uncle’s
loan is, say, £2O, the iniquity of the sys-
tem rings a gong. In 10 years, at the rate
of £8 a year interest, that £2O has re-
turned him his original £2O and £6O as
well. I know; I paid it. And he still has
my goods!— Medici Pills (N.S.W.).
The House Fly
Australians could be more careful in
their control of the common house fly,
which, especially in summer, spreads such
diseases as typhoid, tuberculosis, dysentery
and conjunctivitis. Four to six batches of
eggs, each containing as many as 160,
may be laid by a female fly during its
lifetime. The eggs hatch in eight to 12
hours, and in warm weather the life
cycle from egg to adult fly may occupy
only 14 days. Against such a prolific
enemy a well-planned campaign is essen-
tial.
Flies breed in filth. From garbage
heaps, stables and lavatories they
pass into dwellings and on to food.
It is in the interest of the whole
community that the fly population
should be reduced and controlled, but
there is a tendency, even by health
authorities, to neglect the menace. The
somewhat brief references to the house
fly we hear during “health weeks” is in-
sufficient —it is a subject worthy of con-
stant hammering at all times, but more
especially during summer, when the
danger is greatest. Paul Pilgrim
(N.S.W.).
Synthetic Vegetables
Compared with those grown, say, 30
years ago, present-day vegetables are not
in it where flavor and odor are con-
cerned.
The cause is not far to seek. In efforts
to increase yields artificial fertilisers of
chemical compounds are fed to the grow-
ing crops regardless of the effect on flavor
and food values. Over 30 years ago the
average yield of the Tasmanian potato
crop was 2\ tons to the acre. The Gov-
ernment set out to have it increased by
half a ton an acre, and latest figures show
that the average yield is now nearly five
tons to the acre.
This increase from land that has for
the greater part been producing the same
class of crop for nearly half a century
is not natural, and has been secured by
forced artificial means —chemical fer-
tilisers —the varieties and numbers of
which are being added to by experts,
official and otherwise, unceasingly.
In a recent account of a cauliflower
crop grown in this State more than six
different fertilisers were mentioned as
necessary for success. The numbers and
sizes of the crop were stated, but the
flavor, food value and keeping qualities
were not. — Henry Andersen (N.S.W.).
Water Conservation
N.S.W. has just emerged from one of
the most disastrous droughts in history.
In the northern portion of the State
farmers were lucky to harvest enough
wheat for seed. If they are to survive
Government assistance will have to be
provided. Similarly the dairying and
pastoral industries were reduced to a
parlous condition by the ravages of
drought, and their combined losses would
total hundreds of thousands of pounds.
For over six months the N.S.W. railways
have sought to assist the primary producer
by carrying fodder to stricken areas at
the nominal charge of Is. Bd. per ton
the balance being debited to the Treasury
and ultimately provided by the taxpayer.
Combined with the reduced spending
power of the community and the effect
on employment, N.S.W. has good cause
to long remember the 1940 drought—in
terms of £ s. d.
Now that bounteous rains have fallen,
however, and a good season is assured,
the vital question of water conservation*
on a State-wide basis will probably be
once more relegated to the legislative
pigeonhole. Events have shown that
there is no out-and-out “safe” district in
N.S.W. During the past year, even Syd :
ney market gardeners, poultry farmers
and suburban householders felt the crush-
ing effect of a water shortage. No doubt
they will now appreciate to the full the
lot of the battler in the drought-stricken
areas, and be more disposed to heed his
plea for water conservation.
Expense, no doubt, will be the chief
obstacle advanced by opponents of the
scheme, but if the cost were systemati-
cally spread over a number of years the
scheme would pay for itself, and cer-
tainly would not exceed the cost of
several droughts. Water conservation
represents a gilt-edged investment —if we
have to pay, let us have a real national
asset, a virtual drought preventive, for our
money, instead of wasting it annually
on palliative measures, such as bounties
and fodder concessions. A start should
be made immediately in the most needy
districts, and continued until the entire
State can boast a system of co-ordinated
water conservation. — Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Passive Resistance
That form of revolt which consists of
the sullen and uncompromising refusal
of a whole people to co-operate in any
way with their conquerors is making its
appearance, so reports suggest, in Hol-
land and Norway.
It will be no new thing for the Dutch.
They used it against the Spaniard cen-
turies ago, and in the end it moved
Phillip of Spain to describe Holland as
“the country on earth nearest to hell.”
For years it defeated the attempts of the
British to win the friendship of the Boers
in South Africa; what can the most
diplomatic official do when a Dutch
vrouw sits mechanically shelling peas,
fixes her gaze upon vacancy, says not one
word in reply, and acts just as if the
visiting Rooinek wasn’t there?
The conduct of the Italians in the
Western Desert battles shows that others
are of a like mind. Not all the roarings
of their dictator or his pleas and promises
can make the great bulk of those driven
conscripts fight with the desperate cour-
age and resource exhibited by Finns or
Greeks defending a homeland against
aggression.
The Soviet leaders are up against it,
too ; much of the inefficiency and appal-
lingly low morale of the Russian workers
is the direct outcome of the sullen hope-
lessness induced by the dreary treadmill
of life in the Workers’ Fatherland.
That stubborn refusal to collaborate on
the part of occupied countries, without
any form of armed revolt, may yet do as
much to bring down the Hitler regime as
the blows of our armed forces. Tampion
(S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
I l/01/SJ
uuispajd pAiaf gx
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Repair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND
8- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
ƒ
112 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIDJONES
f
Electric Washing
Machines
Small, compact,
240 volts 50 cycles
• Clothes capacity,
21b. (dry).
• Fully portable.
• Double - coafced
green porcelain
enamel finish.
• Water capa-
city, 8 gals.
• Guaranteed one
year.
• Limited number
to clear at £5
AMPL.ION
(A/asia) Pty., Ltd.
882 Kent-st., Sydney
TOBACCO
which is claimed to be the best ever —
and that is the name
“Best Ever”
10/- lb.
Available for cigarette or
pipe for only
Honestly worth 14/- lb.
I can offer you “Zig Zag,” “Repeater,”
“Tally Ho,” “Bafra,” “Papier Ambre” and
“Riz La.”
For all your Smoking Requisites write to
SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST,
est. 3K years.
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Goods sent if desired.
.11l
Try the new Roussel Rupture Appliance Free.
Enables you to do the hardest work with com-
fort and security. Definitely holds, a condition
absolutely necessary for possible improvement
or recovery. Recommended by Doctors every-
where. Satisfaction guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self measure-
ment form, testimonials and 14 days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL. APPT4ANOE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
ƒ
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
i
«
IiEA BN VENT KIEOQUISM
quickly —my new method
leaches it thoroughly in very
short, time. '
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRUjO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SII'ILLING. including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
Indispensable
Philips’
Record Atlas
A completely revised new edition
with 128 pages of coloured maps
and a new gazetteer-index of 26,000
names.
Strongly bound in cloth.
Price 21/-, posted 22/-.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Meib., Victoria.
IT’S HERE— WORLD’S SMALLEST 1911
RE-NU POCKET RADIO
NO Tubes - NO Batteries
NO Electricity
Weigh! only 3oz. Long distance
reception, clear natural tone, no
crystals to adjust, no upkeep.
Can be used in Hotels. Boats,
Beds, etc.; takes few seconds to
connect. 5-year Guarantee;
Price 42/-. Also 1- and 2-Valve
Dynamic Speaker, Battery or
Electric Portable Sets, from £4/19/6;
Interstate and overseas reception guaran-
teed. BE-Nlf, LTD. (Est. 1932 j, opp.
Richmond Sin., Melbourne. 75 other lines.
For particulars, employment offers and
free sample send lOd. stamps, refundable
first order.
f
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
\ou can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
ami thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. .Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING I'IK-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio .Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Streets Sydney.
Ll,..'’*-'V-' I t- v-^
r,t/
a&«
STOP*
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproot with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
J. P. TALTY
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
44in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
ƒ
MAKE YOUR OWN SOFT DRINKS
Much better and far cheaper
than any you can buy. A full
gallon of the nicest and moist
refreshing cordial for the price
of one “deep sinker.” Just
delicious for the hot days. It
sparkles like champagne.
Better for your health than
any bottled drink. Splendid
for the family and highly
f
appreciated by your visitors.' Less trouble than
making a \iot of tea. A trial will surely please.
Obtainable in various nice flavors; lime, raspberry,
lemon, orange. Nine Pence per Packet, or
Three Packets for 2/-, carriage paid, with full
directions.
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co..
299' Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
WNCH£ST£R
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
“GOLF SHOTS”
hy JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
HALF PRICE FOR NEW
BATTERIES.
Buy your battery direct from the
manufacturer at half the usual retail
price. All Marshall Batteries are
fully guaranteed. All types of
batteries for cars, trucks, cycles,
radio, home and theatre lighting
direct to the public at factory
prices. Write at once for 16-page
catalogue on how to choose and look
after batteries.
The Marshall Battery Mfg. Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
DEAF ?
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
B. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T.j
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
CLIMBING
TOMATO
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/0 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
ƒ
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. 75 George St.. Sydney
Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL
DEHORNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-'
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
f
fbwK
f~ .* brings
mstanf relief
TO ACHING FEET.
Based upon recent X-ray dis-
coveries, the “ FOOTIIELP ” brings
new hope to sufferers from painful
foot troubles. This amazing new
invention contains NO METAL
PARTS WHATSOEVER and is as
light as a feather and moulded to measure.
14 DAYS FREE TRIAI
Write to-day for full details and TRIAL OFFER.
Satisfaction guaranteed no matter where you live.
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. Vi 3),
65 York Street, Sydney.
f
ƒ
LAMBS SAVED
By Using: the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One ’hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ium'in Tim 'ii' v.iniT • 100 p.c. efficient—
11 11 mane—Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. _No risk of infection—No losses.
Don t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRI A BA ROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Troni all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daronx Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
TOBACCO
Don’t pay Tobacco Price Increases!
Save the Middleman’s Profit.
WHiTELAW’S FAMOUS IMPORT BLEND
This fine quality tobacco, usually 1/4 an
ounce, is now available to country cus-
tomers at lid. an ounce, despite tile new
duties, in Jib. and lib. packs. Selected leaf,
expertly blended, deep, satisfying and cool,
fresh to the last smoke. Your money back
it not satisfied. Send crossed cheque or
money order.
l ine cut or ready-rubbed pipe
Jib., 7/9 delivered. lib., 14/6 delivered.
JAMES WHITELAW AND COMPANY
14 Spring St., Sydney. Box 3794 T, G.P.O.
Banjo Mandolin
for 55/“
We will send you a beautiful
BAN JO-MANI)OEIN Complete
Outfit with Case, Correspon-
dence Course and Extra String’s
for 55/-.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within “ days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. floods can be
sent C. 0.1).
Send tor Catalogue of
Musical Instruments.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
f
REDUCE
YOUR
ISIVM
The GOVERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will be
Sin. smaller . , . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ƒ
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
22/1/’4l (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department. “The Bulletin ”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


THE
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded
Assets Exceed £30,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £39,000,000
