

YOO
- YOUR CAR -
9
■
You can waste engines just as you can
waste paper or water!
Swiftly, silently and unseen, the demon
“Friction” wears and tears as metal
meets metal, wasting away the life of
your engine.
Keep the Demon Friction at bay with
Purr-Oil. Purr-Oil is a solvatised lubri-
cant of superb quality, selected and
refined by world authorities and marketed
by Independent Oil Industries, Pty.,
Limited, an entirely Australian Company.
Purr-Oil is the safe way of ensuring
maximum protection against wear and
tear.
Don’t waste your engine or gamble with
doubtful lubricants —insist on Purr-Oil
for your own car’s sake.
Purr Oil
SUPPLIED BY THE
MARKETERS OF THE FAMOUS SPECIAL
PURR-PULL AND PURR-KOLL
MOTOR SPIRITS.
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES, PTY., LIMITED. FEDERAL ROAD. GLEBE.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3214.
Wednesday, September 17, 1941.
The New Journalism's War
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
SB. 24,1
The Red Page
CO AST TO COAST STORIES.
Taking up a Red Page suggestion that
it would be a direct practical encourage-
ment of Australian writing and writers,
Angus and Robertson propose annual
vols. of selected Australian short stories
and ditto Australian poetry. These notes
on the —just published—initial vol. of
stories were mostly jotted down in the
course of making the selections.
Title. — Coast to Coast: Australian
Stories, 1941. Evolved from suggestions
made by Gavin Casey, and indicates
the sweep of scene covered in the
book. The Australian scene is
represented in patches from Queensland
round to the Westralian goldfields; city
and bush ; a fairly representative variety
of Australian life, with a glimpse of New
Zealand.
General. Inclusions were chosen,
above all, on their merit as short stories:
a selection of the best short stories
recently written by Australian writers.
Their quality is likely to surprise, for the
reason that for every really good short
story published in newspapers and maga-
zines there are a dozen just so-so,
and, what with these and syndicated
rubbish, the good work becomes
smothered. Here some of it, at least, is
sifted and lifted out, and Australians
given the opportunity of appreciating the
quality of their own writers and sup-
porting them. Because these writers write
about the current Australian scene —all
of them competently, most of them con-
fidently, some of them superbly —Coast
to Coast is a topnotch book for sending
abroad. Because of its natural Austra-
lianism it should be exceptionally good
for sending to Diggers overseas.
Such stories as Marjorie Barnard’s
"Dry Spell” and Gavin Casey’s “Short
Shift Saturday” challenge criticism as
short-story masterpieces ; and there are
others. On the whole, they compare well
vyith the latest O’Brien collection of Eng-
lish and American stories. They have
more in common with the American
stories than with the stories in the Eng-
lish section of that book. They haven’t
(he smooth maturity of the English, but
i hey have more vigor, are nearer to real
life. In this venture Angus and Robert-
son are doing for Australian short-story
writing what Cape has done for the Eng-
lish and American. They have made an
attractive book of this first selection of
stories.
The selector’s guiding definition was
that a short story must achieve a com-
plete pattern, and must have naturalness.
Briefly, that rules out mere magazine
stories, and takes in only stories that have
a real basis in life, presenting one aspect
and another of the human comedy.
Australian women writers are less
afraid of their emotions than are the
men. There is. some danger of sup-
pressed emotion being a besetting sin in
Australian short-story writing. If the
stories in this book, in their general
liveliness and variety, counter that
tendency, they will be an influence to
the good, and a special mark of credit
in that would have to go to the women
writers.
Introduction. Absent; in order to
have nothing come between the writers
and readers. Follow, some notes on the
stories, in their book order:
“Josie,” by Vance Palmer. —Would be
noted in any company for its sensitive-
ness, directness, naturalness, human un-
derstanding. Placed first in the book as
a compliment to this true prose crafts-
man, and in the hope that the not in-
considerable influence of his clear and
strong prose will be further spread.
A little gem of a story. It is
characteristically a piece of Palmer;
of his writing generally. His teacher and
schoolchildren visible and intensely alive
against the dramatic incident of the death
of one of them. Australian writers
generally write remarkably well about
children ; none portrays them more truly
than Palmer. His complete acceptance
of the Australian landscape is another
striking Palmer characteristic ; it is clear
and real without being obtrusive. The
narrative seems to come sometimes from
the child mind and sometimes from the
adult, but the total effect on the reader’s
mind is wholly convincing. The narrative
rides on a continuous undercurrent of
feeling. The story has unity and com-
pleteness. You do not want to ask any
questions about it; it is final. In its
quality of pure naturalness it strikes at
once the main note of the book.
Solemn Mass,” by Dal Stivens.—
City. Modern. Stivens reads like one who
in another environment would probably
be a playwright. His characters seem
an invitation to the actor’s art to interpret
and body them. He accepts the city set-
ting as completely as Palmer accepts the
non-city Australian scene. He would go
further, and override the identifying of
locality altogether: neither of his in-
cluded stories has identifiable Austra-
lianism, and other of his stories seem
to be set in mind-country of hjs own.
This makes them to some extent abstract,
and his characters symbols, but it opposes
parochialism. In this story the woman
and man come out of the Conser-
vatorium, respectively in a mood of awed
exaltation engendered by the music heard
and in a male physical mood untouched
by that influence. Between there and
the woman’s flat, by taxi, is neatly pro-
jected their conflict of moods and wills.
“A Bum Actor,” by Dal Stivens.—
Strongly projected, original comedy.
Again the idea of the playwright crops
up, this story—of an actor whose egotis-
tical loss of confidence in himself has
made him a ridiculous victim of
acrophobia—having the direct impact of
a one-act stage comedy. Stivens severely
dispenses with everything that might tend
to blur his peculiar sort of reality, which,
as a consequence, stands extraordinarily
vivid.
“Marlene.” by Katharine Susannah
Prichard.—Keen feeling for the socially
outcast, especially the abp., betrays her
somewhat into direct preachment, not
successfully disguised by the device of
getting it expressed in the dialogue.
That, however, can be justified in a story
which has the open purpose of social
criticism. A widespread modern tendency
is to allow the preaching to overwhelm
the fiction; the Upton Sinclair style,
spread to a great deal of Leftish fiction.
All that matters is whether the result is or
isn’t literature, and in her subtle char-
acter analysis, her sincerity and depth of
feeling, Prichard, as well as making out
a strong case in sympathy with the half-
caste a bo., and against the treatment
meted out to him, makes literature of it.
The wurlie-camp of half-castes, the two
visiting white women on their horses, and
the landscape, distinctly visible and real.
4 The Bishops Shoot a Godwit,” by
Douglas Stewart—The poet; and this a
poet’s story, leaving a general impression
—shared with the best stories in the book
—of being autobiographical; that is to
say, the re-creation of experience. Domi-
nant is the poet’s feeling for landscape,
which, being that of his native New Zea-
land, is set down with nostalgic aware-
ness, and beautiful it is. This interest in
the surroundings—coast, headland rocks,
seabirds, sea and sky—so dominant that
the fishing and godwit-shooting characters
tend to become dwarfed, so that a
snapper feeding in shallow water, for in-
stance, strikes the mind as larger than
the men and boy. The characters, how-
ever, are clearly portrayed, and correctly
in perspective in the setting.
“A Bargain,” by Kylie Tennant.—
Henry Lawson might have written this
comedic brevity; an extract from The
Battlers, which shared the 1940 Prior
Prize. Tennant doesn’t appear to be a
natural short-story writer, which, if a
valid finding, is curious, considering the
episodic nature of her novels and the
economy of her descriptive style. Among
other sound qualities that she carries on
from Lawson (who had them from
Dickens) is an awareness of the fact that
people are not cut out of one piece of
wood. She sees their variety, and isn’t
afraid of the eccentric. Social criticism
of the most effective kind —indirect, and
thereby retaining an essential of creative
writing. The author’s sympathy is
with her people on the dole, but she
strengthens her statement enormously by
not idealising them.
“The Price,” by H, Drake-Brockman.
—One of the authors chiefly in mind in
suggesting that Australian women writers
are not as afraid of their emotions as
Australian men writers. The point may
not be noticed in this book, since the
flatness which comes from writers allow-
ing life to depress them was held
anathema in making the selections.
Hence, the included stories, by both sexes,
have liveliness and vividness. But any-
one reading a large number of current
Australian stories must notice a colorless-
ness, a pedestrian element, coming into
short-story writing. This particular story
of Drake-Brockman’s may be held to err
in the other direction ; but that is some-
thing inherent in its main character, a
romantic. Climax one of the most vivid
in the book. Setting is W.A. wheat
country, the night scene invested with
an ethereal beauty. The story makes a
statement on the present war, from an
Australian motherhood standpoint.
“Values,” by A. C. Headley.—People
on the dole who race dogs. City slum
setting clearly projected; argot of the
dialogue first-rate reportage; effective
plot. A touch of the author’s plentiful
supply of humor would have improved it.
There’s a slight concession in sympathy
for the women ; none for the men. Why
is it that in Australian fiction generally
Australian women seem to have such a
bad time? This isn’t restricted to bush
stories, wherein, of course, it is a notori-
ous ingredient. Is it a true generalism ;
are Australian womep so badly done by ;
or is it that this makes for easy fiction
writing? However that may be, Head-
ley’s characters are actual and alive, and
the substance of this story is original.
The issue of “values” is between the birth
of another Australian and of a litter of
greyhound pups. Headley knows from
close-up observation what he is setting
down in these “low-life” stories.
“The Parson,” by Myra Morris^—
Again the poet’s sure feeling for land-
scape ; but, though that is clearly de-
picted, her characters have the strength
to override it. Setting probably northern
Victoria ; it, and the rest of the story’s
ingredients, strongly autobiographical—
that is, it reads, not as if it might have
happened, but as if, in all its detail, it
did happen. Short stories may be roughly
divided into two general kinds: on the
one hand, the made-up story, the yarn,
which is a matter of invention ; on the
other hand, the story of pure naturalness,
of character and experience, which is a
matter of creative writing. The emphasis
in this book is all on the latter kind, and
this Morris depiction of a country parson
holding on desperately to his religious
conventionalism in the face of the harsh
realism of his far-flung parish is a
notably strong example of that creative
kind.
“The Plover,” by M. Barnard Elder-
shaw. N.S.W. pastoral homestead set-
ting ; child motif, the girl truly and
sensitively depicted; the landscape as
clear as remembered actuality. The
plover, enclosed with the other birds in
the ex-bush-house, and too intent on
escaping to escape when it has the chance,
strikes the mind as a symbol of far more
than its own frustration. Otherwise a
light but charming story, the prose an
enjoyment in itself.
“Return of the Hunter,” by Frank
Dalby Davison. A superbly well-
managed story. In one story already
mentioned the author’s awareness of the
landscape dwarfs his characters; in
another —Morris’s —the clearly realised
hard landscape is a background for the
characters; in Davison the characters
merge into and are one with the land-
scape, which itself is like an area of
Australia lifted out bodily and set, or
embedded, in the story. A quiet humor
increases the humanness of the charac-
ters. If any story in the book could
specially be held up as a sound example
to practitioners of the craft, this is it.
It seems to give just about everything
that a good short story can give. It is
completely convincing ; most admirable,
perhaps, in the subtlety of its theme.
Davison’s ex-Digger (last war) sniper
shoots in selector country a marauding
killer dingo for which there is a reward.
That—with a scene so real that the reader
stumbles over stones and ducks under
branches—is the actuality. The reality is
that in the free-roving wild dog he shoots
his own self, and it is his own pelt he
carries home to throw to his wife.
Davison stands in Palmer’s class as a
prose craftsman ; in the Lawson tradition
of Australian naturalism.
“He Walks Home With His Wife,”
by Don Edwards. —What inner quality is
there in this story that is so impressive?
On the face of it, it is a monosyllabic
understatement on a theme of frustra-
tion ; yet that peculiar quality is there.
And that despite the fact that neither the
man nor the woman is properly vis-
ible ; nor are the railway station where
he meets her, the streets they go along or
her home in front of which they arrive
really visible. Perhaps, then, it is its
complete abstractness that is somehow
the secret of its peculiar quality. At any
rate, it hangs in the mind ; a fragment,
yet a complete pattern, deceptive in its
simplicity.
“Heat,” by Stewart Howard. —Two
crooks in smoke in a Darlinghurst room
above a wine-bar. A vital depiction
contrasting characters; “White Cargo
motif of heat and environment leadin
them into snarling and then physical co
flict. A tense, raw story, told with gus
and masculine vigor. It has the vividne
of actuality; firmly set down, seve
realism. Howard gets completely insice
his characters ; he is not an onlooker bu
a participant in their mounting tempe
raw reminiscences and all-in fight.
“Choice,” by Henry G. Lamond.
Nature story; dingoes in a Queenslan
setting, depicted with realism, without th
false sentimentality that mars mos
animal stories. Lamond is at his bes
as here, when he keeps humans who! y
out of the picture. Without any que
tion, one of the most truly authentic
Australian nature writers.
“Sunday,” by Margaret Trist. —I
selecting, proofreading, etc., every stor
in this book was read at least half
dozen times ; the phrasing and the warm
quiet comedy of this one improved mos
of any on that acquaintance. A depic
tion of a family churchgoing by force o '
habit; a smiling, gentle satire; it
sunny, human and altogether exquisite
It seems a fragile thing to be abroad a
all in these noisy times, and otherwis
wears an old-mannered air ; yet, its peopl
in their setting are distinctly real.
“Adventure : A Fantasy of th
Ranges,” by Hugh McCrae.—A came
whimsicality, in which McCrae can b
observed working up to let out his gusty
shout of laughter. An anecdote in th
quite inimitable style of fa! and away
the best anecdotist this country has ever
known.
“Dry Spell,” by Marjorie Barnard. —
Telescopes Sydney in allegory from it
earliest to an imaginative future day, a
setting for the most profound theme in
the book. On the surface, a depiction
of this Sydney stripped bare of garden
and leafage by a dry spell, which ha
turned the whole country to dust and
driven the country in on the city. Jn
theme, a statement on Australian civili
sation in the grip of its cultural dearth
Sydney (in part) has never been more
clearly delineated. The story has an un
earthly reality that is very rarely eve
found in prose, but belongs properly to
haunted poetry. Surely a masterpiece.
“The Horse from Bunco wanna-
winnie,” by James Hackston. —That very
rare product, a humorous story natura
in its humor and characters as well as
being good as a story. Hackston does
not depend on mere wordplay or
fantastic situations for his humor; it
comes straight out of the nature of his
characters and his own outlook, and
adds up to true comedy. A book of
Hackston would be well worth pub-
lishing : there is a continuity in his writ-
ing, and the more you know of his people
the better they are.
“Tell Us About the Turkey, Jo,”
by Alan Marshall. —Not many cameo
comedy conversation pieces as clear,
crisp and delightful have been written in
Australia. A clean, open-air gem. It has
the champagne cleanness and freshness
of stepping out into the Australian sun-
shine.
“The Little Girl,” by Alan Marshall.
—Necessarily included (apart from its
own merit) to show, in contrast to “Jo,”
this Victorian writer’s dramatic quality.
Marshall uses, in openings, the modern-
ist economy of words, but once into the
flow of his narrative he writes fine un-
affected prose easily and naturally. Jo
and his brother are most natural very
small boys; the Little Girl is a distinct
original. Both stories are uncommonly
good; “Jo” is a particular peach.
“Short Shift Saturday,” by Gavin S.
Casey.—One of the most expansive, and
one of the greatest, short stories so far
written by an Australian writer. Spreads
over 15,000 words, in which a Westralian
goldfields town, the mines under it, its
people, including its mine-workers at
work and away from work, all come
emphatically alive. As a whole it has
tremendous power. In its parts —its sharp
changes of mood ; its superb descriptive-
ness ; its great masculine vigor; the
packed strength even of its individual
paragraphs; the easy management of
groups of characters ; the steady passage
of time ; the profound grasp of human
nature —it is an achievement of the
greatest rarity in short-story writing,
anywhere.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —And in every act
“THE SENIOR STORE’
A
iliiii
:<<S
\
<N
%
iM
*7
ilfex -*
fi>y
»
>w
//
4
x
"X
"•* .
J
ill
: : :
✓ W:;
D, “Woodrow 99 English
Fine quality English Hats in a medium width, snap
brim style. Greaseproof leathers. Light, medium and
dark Grey, Fawn and Brown. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 40/6
E. “Henderson” Australian
High grade hats in smart snap brim styles, medium
weight, comfortable fitting, silk lined, new season’s
tonings of Greys and Blue. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 25/-
• Mens Hats —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S. W. and seaports in the Commonwealth .
*
ir
■ftehtA-e^^
vWWw<<<«Wj^<-
$m il
*
For 'every, occasion,
brought By Spring/
<s^
r,v
ss\ - JA>,
c«5Cb
1 t
/*! I
“ Ahuhra 99 Australia
2V*
c
>s*
si
S®
vN A
:\
&
X'
i £
A, “ Battersb y 99 London
Pure Fur Felt English Hat ... a light-
weight quality in dressy snap brim style,
2 or 2f in. brim. Light Grey, Blue Grey,
Navy, Green and Brown. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price 35/-
Fine quality hats in a smart range of snap
brim styles, featuring lower crowns and
narrow bands. Also a range of the more
conservative styles. New season’s tonings of
Grevs, Blues, Fawns and Browns. Boomerang
Quality. At Anthony Horderns’. Price. .19/6.
High Quality, silk lined. Price 25/-
C. “Fayrefield"
Pure Fur Felt Hats, smartly styled in a
range of narrow or medium width brims.
Quality trimmings, silk lined. Colors, Pearl,
Mid Grey, Blue Grey, Blue and Brown.
Valiant quality. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price 21/-
Melolite quality. Price 25/-
ANT
r wv
’Phone: M 2401
L (Day or Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, C.P.O.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ŵ
Seppelts
ROYAL AIR FORCE MEMORIAL, THAMES EMBANKMENT.
London possesses no more striking monu-
ment than that erected by the genius of
the late Sir Reginald Bloomfield, R.A.,
on the Thames Embankment, and within
the proverbial stone’s throw of West-
minster Bridge and Big Ben, to the Fly-
ing Men who fell in the Great War,
1914-1918. A quarter of a century ago
aviation was practically in its infancy,
but even so, the men who served their
Empire in this then new arm of military
activity accomplished prodigies of dar-
ing and resource, much as their successors
were to accomplish twenty-six years later,
ft typifies by the eagle with outstretched
wings the spirit of the men, a fitting
symbol truly, then as now. No more
appropriate place for such a memorial
could be found than London, a City the
valour of the airmen saved more than
once, and that despite stupendous diffi-
culties. The spirit of the airmen may,
not inaptly, be likened to the spirit of
London, in that it is unconquerable. The
airmen will win through just as London
has always won through, no matter the
names or character of the person or
forces which endeavored to encompass it.
London, when Hitler set out to subjugate
the world, made clear it would have none
of him, no matter how long and how
bitter the struggle this stern resolve car-
ried. The late Rev. W. J. Loftie, M.A.,
a no mean writer on London, as his books
“A History of London,” “London” and
“The Inns of Court and Chancery”
testify, wrote words concerning London
fully applicable to the Nazi leader,
though their reference was to Charles I:
“Charles learned when it was too late
what a glance at history might have
told him long before, that the side of
London was eventually the winning
side in every struggle, and that in
oppressing the citizens of London
he had ruined his own cause ”


JUST LIKE 1917.
“What a swell platform, buddies, for Lindbergh to spill a mouthful!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. C Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
U.S.A. A STEP NEARER.
One thing is certain about the speech President Roose-
velt broadcast last week—the U.S.A., brought reluc-
tantly along a tortuous road, has been taken one step
nearer to war, depending on Nazi response. If pressed
too far —that is, if there are any further Axis attacks
on U.S. naval ships or merchant ships “engaged in
legitimate business,” and Mr. Roosevelt clearly expects
that there will be —or even if a German or an Italian
war vessel so much as pokes its nose into a defined
vast waste of waters, which has practically been
declared an American lake, Uncle Sam will shoot.
It amounts to a twilight state of war, in which —
if it could be conducted calmly, with the clinical cool-
ness of Mr. Roosevelt’s approach to it —the forces on
each side could be like snipers semi-detached from
the actual war on hand, taking occasional potshots at
each other, engaging in occasional encounters as cir-
cumstances dictated. That would impose no emotional
strain one way or the other on the Axis side, because,
among other reasons, the Axis peoples would hear
only as much about it as was considered good for
them. But it might very soon have violent emotional
effects in America, even though neither now nor here-
after will Americans or their leader be accused of
overhasty action, a point on which Mr. Roosevelt
took special care to clear the American conscience.
Mr. Roosevelt insisted that the move now taken
was dictated by reason, and not at all by emotion.
That is doubtful even of American proceedings up to
this point; and, unless the world has actually become
the “waste land” of one American’s poetic concep-
tion, it would be a hard finding that national emotion
can be ruled right out. The loss of American lives in
any prospective encounter would be almost sure to
make a sudden and dramatic difference.
It is up to Hitler. If he cares to risk American
emotional reaction, believing that always the head
and never the heart will decide everything Americans
do, he can go ahead confident that this sort of sniping
warfare could well go on indefinitely. He has not
hitherto shown himself such an ass in psychology. He
will weigh that risk and know what it means. It is
a testing of him —not to demonstrate redundantly his
guilt on a charge of ruthlessness and designed brutality,
but to expose irrefutably as historical fact that his
design and intentions are what Mr. Roosevelt, inter-
preting the evidence' for the American people, has
declared them to be. Mr. Roosevelt has handed Hitler
a rope, with the purpose and the expectation that he
will take it and hang himself.
Mr. Roosevelt’s interpretation of the evidence —
the German submarine and ’plane attacks on four
American ships and one Panama ship since May—
was that Hitler has determined on unrestricted sea
warfare, not only to the end of stopping American
supplies from reaching the anti-Axis side at every point,
and to the extent even of attacking patrolling Ameri-
can warships, but these attacks are incidental to a
vast design to gain control of the seas, this in turn
incidental to the still vaster design of world conquest.
It seems, on the face of it, an ambitious pro-
gramme, even for a Power which confounded all
expectation by crushing the strength of France like an
eggshell, which brought Continental Europe at little
cost and in quick time under its single control, and
which is now savagely pressing its concept of rule by
force upon Russia. In Mr. Roosevelt’s interpretation
the programme envisages the defeat of Russia, the
destruction of Britain’s sea-power, and finally con-
certed war against America by the Axis Powers com-
bined, To give this possible threat to America an
immediacy which many Americans flatly refuse to
credit, Mr. Roosevelt made revelations of “secret land-
ing fields” lately discovered in Colombia, “within easy
range of the Panama Canal.” He also directed atten-
tion to Nazi “intrigues, plots, machinations and sabot-
age”—“conspiracy has followed conspiracy”—in
Uruguay, Argentina and Bolivia.
Thus, figuratively, he wiped out the barriers which
the! isolationists insist safely protect America, and
brought the war immediately right to the doorsteps
of Uncle Sam’s glass palace. On a cold clinical
analysis, such as he figured himself as making, all
this contributed to make the speech appear less well
balanced than Mr. Roosevelt usually manages, when
the substance of its loading is compared with its
single vital point. In view of the situation and threat
as Mr. Roosevelt elaborated them, the evolved point,
though distinctly sharp, looked thinly out of propor-
tion. If the position is as Mr. Roosevelt interpreted
it, then this is not half the answer —as nobody could
know better than Mr. Roosevelt.
Strictly from the standpoint of America’s own
self-interest —without going into any larger considera-
tions, however warranted —it must appear that if it is
Hitler’s proved design to take control of the seas and,
with other Axis Powers collaborating, eventually of
the world, including America, then nothing short of
immediate, total and open participation in the crush-
ing job would be an adequate American defence
measure now. There might be this outcome —that
such a heavily loaded general situation balanced on
such a sharp particular point makes an inverted
pyramid, very likely, on that sort of balance, to topple
crushingly over at the slightest push, if not of its own
accord.
Though it thus must seem yet another half-
measure in comparison with the enormous size of
Hitler’s ambitious scheme, as interpreted, the step
actually is a very wide one, of first-class historical-
importance, compared with prevailing American
majority feeling against a fighting part in the war.
The sea area into which Axis warships, surface or
submarine, will now venture “at their peril” is that
vast stretch of the Atlantic taking a line down by
way of Iceland. In these waters American warships
and ’planes will now “protect”—which means that
they can convoy and fight for —“all merchant ships,
not only American ships, but ships of any flag.”
American naval vessels and ’planes “will no longer
wait till Axis submarines or Axis raiders strike
their deadly blow first.” In that positively defined
area it will be shoot on sight or on sound.
Probably Axis defiance would not be held by a
strict Court to prove the soundness of Mr. Roosevelt’s
interpretations: it could be found that all that con-
tinued attacks actually proved was that the Axis side
was even more determined to prevent American sup-
plies reaching Axis enemies than America was deter-
mined to see that the supplies got through. If defiance
comes the difference in degree of determination will
be palpable for so long as present arrangements fully
hold. Mr. Roosevelt spoke sweepingly of the “high
seas,” of the Axis ambition to gain “control of the
seas,” and of American historical policy of upholding
the full “freedom of the seas.” But on present
arrangement, pending repeal of the U.S. Neutrality
Act, America has resigned that policy; has restricted
the “high seas” inside specific ocean frontiers. These
frontiers have now been moved a fair step towards,
but. still a long way short of, ports to which American
supplies are consigned.
Parts of Mr. Roosevelt’s speech could be inter-
preted as stretching the term even further —as mean-
ing that American ships would proceed anywhere and
take anti-Axis action everywhere. But that was a
matter for wishful interpretation—it was not definitely
stated, as the defined defensive zone was stated.
It was a foreshadowing, perhaps, of repeal of the
Neutrality Act, which, in its most important applica-
tion, forbids American ships from taking cargoes and
escorting them to Britain. That is possibly the next
step, and a Hitler defiance of the proclaimed Atlantic
defensive zone will surely hasten it.
Clearly Mr. Roosevelt expects defiance from that
quarter; clearly this would greatly strengthen Mr,
Roosevelt’s hand, and quite likely it is what will
happen. It is not necessary to envisage Hitler as
bent on wresting control of the seas from incomparably
stronger forces. That may or may not be feasible.
But that Hitler is determined to prevent American
supplies from getting through is quite obvious. What-
ever other ambitions he may have, that determination
alone will probably decide him in defiance. It will
then be Uncle Sam’s next move —to match determina-
tion with equal determination in seeing the supplies
safely conducted all the way. For the present, the
step that has been taken will see to that for a good
part of the way. It will be loudly cheered by Britain’s
hard-worked naval and merchant seamen, and will
send both the gang in Berlin and America’s diehard
isolationists into convulsions ; and they won’t be con-
vulsions of mirth.
The New Journalism's War.
No doubt the New Journalism still commands the
devotion of Our Girls, but it is clearly a pain in the
neck to fighting services. Though the Navy keeps
its own counsel, there must be frank and frequent
wardroom and messroom damning of newspaper
strategists who are for ever demanding that more
warships and merchantmen and their officers and
crews should be withdrawn from the Battle of the
Atlantic or the Battle of the Mediterranean or both
and sacrificed in crazy sequels to Narvik, Greece and
Crete “to establish a western front.” And many a
member of the glorious brotherhood which, contending
against odds, has kept the Empire free from pollution
by a single enemy hoof would like to have five minutes
alone with the thankless yob who sneeringly sug-
gested that British battleships were kept as “show
pieces.”
What army commanders feel about the imper-
tinences of scribes and radio uncles was indicated by
Major-General Mackay when he returned from the
Mediterranean zone.
Though a man of few words and seldom moved
to anger, he spoke with indignation and contempt of
merchants of the printed and spoken word who in
their heedless folly had conveyed information to the
enemy for which he would have sacrificed a bat-
talion of spies. An ass braying from 8.8. C. revealed
to the Italians the exact position of Sixth Division
headquarters. Newspapers weighed in with assur-
ances that our fellows were not only inferior in
numbers to the enemy, but were armed with inferior
weapons.
Now Major-General Gordon Bennett has been
provoked into publishing an outspoken protest against
the kind of journalism to which the men under his
command have been exposed by permission of and, in
one case, with the active co-operation of Australian
Ministers. Their first visitor was the lady from the
“Women’s Weekly” (“fully accredited by the Common-
wealth Government, and with special letters from the
Minister for Information, the Minister for the Navy,
the Minister for the Army and the Minister for the
Air”), who dished up a lot of tripe about the “color-
ful” life soldiers were leading—toying in camp with
luscious tropical fruit, sitting on “delicate carved
chairs inlaid with mother of pearl,” feasting at parties
of “Arabian Nights’ magnificence,” luxuriating in a
millionaire’s swimming pool, doffing plain pyjamas for
“gaudy sarongs,” and hoofing it in the ballrooms of
their “many wealthy hosts” or in cabarets with Chinese
taxi-girls—glamorous, of course.
There followed the party of little editors personally
conducted by Senator Foil. These pilgrims found the
soldiers so white-hot about the “Women’s Weekly”
articles as to render it unsafe for any male person
even to mention them in a soldier’s presence. Their
own impressions of military life in the tropics were
totally different from the lady’s. Indeed, certain little
editors who spent quite 20 minutes in Malaya and
another 10 minutes in Darwin were appalled at what
they saw in both places, and returned to their com-
fortable offices and clubs in Sydney inflexibly deter-
mined that somebody should rise up and do something
about it.
One of the little editors found the jungle Digger
a prey to dhoby itch, “a skin complaint almost as
prevalent as thirst,” and, worse still, to “a tropical
psychological phenomenon called by the Malayan term
‘bloody-mindedness.’ ” The victim looks at his hut-
mates till their faces annoy him; then he “gazes at
the rubber until he feels something go dead inside
him.”
It’s the rubber-trees that get on men’s nerves. Mile
after mile of them, planted with maddening exacti-
tude in long rows that march into a silent infinity.
Smooth, pale tree-trunks, steaming away in tempera-
ture 86 degrees, humidity 86, day and night.
And nobody thought to cut the damn’ things down
before Billjim or the little editor arrived.
For the rest, the little editor reported in choice
Hollywoodese that “there is not one mobile motion-
picture unit in Malaya,” and that “lots of A.I.F.
privates can’t even afford bus fares —when they want
to go places they thumb a ride.” He discovered
also a lamentable dearth of “material for sport, books
to read,” comfortable trains, and, above all, of
“arrangements for the regular billeting of big parties of
our soldiers in hotels, guest-houses and private houses
on the Cameron Highlands.” The air of the Cameron
Flighlands, it seems, is “like that of our Blue Moun-
tains” and “the men should be transported there in
convoys —the Cameron Highlands will take the A.I.F.
out of the sweat and steam.”
Obviously restraining himself by a great effort
Major-General Bennett denied that his men were “fed
up,” and demolished “grossly inaccurate” charges in
plain terms:
In every village where the A.I.F. is quartered through-
out Malaya white women have provided clubs, with
libraries, in which —although not used to such work
on account of the heat —they do cooking as at Sydney
and Bathurst. The men are getting better food than
in Australia. Two more Anzac Clubs are being built
in Malaya, with libraries, writing-rooms, games-rooms
and restaurants, and the Singapore Anzac Club is being
extended. Every A.I.F. camp has its own wet and dry
canteen, and 6 p.c. of the takings go to unit funds.
Prices are moderate; for instance, the best English cigar-
ettes, tins of 50, cost about Is. 4d. Australian.
Transport concessions were arranged for the A.I.F.
a considerable time ago. Diggers can travel 70 miles
by train for less than a Straits dollar (3s. 4d. Australian).
Where there is no train transport, army motor transport
is provided free. There are more than 50 cinemas in
Malaya, and in every town the Diggers are admitted
half price. In the barracks at Port Dickson, a recupera-
tive centre, there is a cinema.
The Comforts Fund and the Red Cross cannot be
praised enough. A hostel with 200 beds is now ready
for the use of Diggers on leave in Singapore at 7d.
a night, and arrangements are being made to open a
special hostel for invalids in the Cameron Highlands.
The main grievance of the Diggers in Malaya
and in the N.T. springs from no mammy’s-boy sense
of deprivations, but is wholly creditable to their man-
hood. They enlisted to fight, as did their mates in
Libya, Greece, Crete and Syria, and they have been
denied the opportunity. And, full of fighting spirit,
they cannot easily reconcile themselves to the fact that
they are doing an essential job where they are, and
that, if they were not there, other Australians would
have to do the essential job in the same places. But
they are intelligent enough to realise that generation
after generation of British soldiers has, with far fewer
comforts and for far longer periods, endured what they
are going through—not only in Malaya, but in Burma,
India, Ceylon, Mauritius, St. Helena, Continental
Africa, the West Indies, Central America, British
Guiana and a score of other steamy places. Had British
policy been controlled by bleating little persons with
girly-girly ideas, such as that soldiers bored with
tropical stations are entitled on that account to be
transferred to some congenial quarter or perhaps
restored in a body to the society of Our Girls, there
would have been no British Empire.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lost, Stolen or Strayed.
That rather exploded politician Mr. Duff-Cooper cast
up at Singapore last week after a very roundabout
journey from London. In the course of his travels he
tarried at several U.S. cities and at Honolulu, and
each pause in his pilgrimage was marked by an expres-
sion of his hostility to Japanese policy. Singapore
found him still eager to talk on this ticklish subject.
“Britain,” he said, “would take a serious view of any
southward expansion by Japan ; Japanese provocation
would meet with strong British resistance.”
There was no occasion for any of these eruptions
of Mr. Duff-Cooper’s sentiments and, considering that
the Americans were then engaged in discussing the
situation with the Japanese, they were singularly ill-
timed. Thanks to these discussions, the Pacific ten-
sion seems to have eased considerably, and it should
be significant that Mr. Roosevelt did not mention
Japan in the world broadcast which was charged with
such significance for Hitler and Mussolini. In any
case Mr. Churchill had defined the British
attitude to the Japanese question in words of which
the entire Empire approved. The Prime Minister
made it clear that his Government left the
whole thing to the Washington Government, and
would support any action that Government might
take, Mr, Duff-Cooper’s issue of Warnings was thus
unnecessary and impertinent.
According to his own account, Mr. Duff-Cooper
has gone to Singapore “to report to the British
Cabinet on the desirability of appointing a represen-
tative in the Far East similar to Mr. Oliver Lyttleton
as Minister of State in the Middle East.” This repre-
sentative is to “centralise political activities in the
Far East and avoid referring matters to London.” If
it is decided to set up a Ministry of State at Singa-
pore, Australia and Maoriland may be represented—
on the Minister’s staff.
Mr. Lyttleton, who has now established himself
at Cairo, has given a London “Times” correspondent
“some explanation of the functions of the novel and
interesting position to which he has been appointed.”
“The first duty,” the “Times” man reported, “would
be to relieve the Commander-in-Chief of some of the
tasks, notably the political tasks, with which General
Wavell was burdened.”
Henceforth he would undertake all negotiations with
the Free French authorities and the Emperor of Abys-
sinia, together with the supervision of occupied enemy
territory. His second and principal duty would be con-
nected with the supervision of supplies to the Middle East
forces. When a large convoy arrived it was sometimes of
the utmost importance to decide which vessel and which
supplies should be granted priority in unloading. It
would be his task to organise adequate services for this
purpose. He would also give a ruling in matters where
the interests of all three services competed.
There was no mention of any Australian being
associated in these “functions,” even in a minor posi-
tion on Mr. Lyttleton’s staff. Yet an Australian
general was appointed second-in-command to General
Wavell; and Australia’s fighting services are well repre-
sented in the region under Mr. Lyttleton’s poli-
tical control. Moreover, considerable Australian sup-
plies must be going to Mr. Lyttleton’s principality.
Lost, stolen or strayed, a thing known as
Dominion status. Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
the missing quantity or dream or shadow of a dream
may or may not be rewarded on communicating with
the Prime Minister’s office at Canberra or Wellington.
Stagnant Country Towns.
What some of these State Premiers would do if they
couldn’t blame every ill on the poor old Federal Gov-
ernment is a mystery. Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan finds the
drift to Melbourne “appalling” and promises a
Minister for Decentralisation to cope with it. Along
with Mr. Lienhop, M.L.C., he declares that the drift
is “due largely to the Federal Government establish-
ing most war industries in the cities.”
Dr. Evatt, M.H.R., touring the Wimmera and
Mallee with Mr. Wilson, M.H.R., was horrified at the
stagnation he saw and evidently ascribes it to the same
cause. But the drift has been going on for many years.
Between 1921 and 1938, Melbourne increased its
population by 252,721 to 1,035,600. The increase in
the rest of the State (population, 838,160 ) was only
84,131. Between 1927 and 1938 Geelong, Ballarat and
Bendigo lost population 2250, 2480 and 3880
respectively, Castlemaine, Wonthaggi and Ararat also
lost, and Hamilton, Mildura, Warrnambool, Sheppar-
ton, Colac, Echuca, Horsham, Stawell, Sale and Wan-
garatta gained only sufficient to prevent the popula-
tion in each case remaining stationary. No doubt the
rush to munitions works is now operating against
these towns, all of 4000 or more. What has hap-
pened to lesser places can be imagined.
Thus The drift was in full flood long before the
war, and politicians who have discovered it so suddenly
convict themselves of ignorance of their own country
or of lack of vision. The same thing has been going
on in Westralia, and, to a minor extent, in Queens-
land. A healthier movement is in progress in South
Australia, thanks very largely to Mr. Forde’s aversion
B.H.P.
Meantime Big-city Water Boards, transport
departments and others are planning works to accom-
modate vastly increased populations after the war,
somebody or other estimating 7,000,000 for Sydney.
The year is 1970. If there is to be a return to pre-
war conditions, heaven knows who’ll be living in the
country then.
The Army Minister has announced plans for new
military camps to cost £1,500,000 or so, and the
Minister for the Air foreshadows the expenditure of
the best part of a million in Queensland, mentioning
an air-force training establishment in Maryborough
and a flying school at Bundaberg. This is all to the
good. Since it is certain that Australia will have to
maintain substantial fighting services after the war, it
will help to arrest the drift if camps are placed in
districts of military importance remote from capitals
and designed to hold permanent defence units. And
there will have to be more R.A.A.F. bases inland and
more naval stations in ports hitherto neglected.
To Keep That Keepit Dam.
Chronically soreheaded since the Loan Council cut
over 8y millions off the 16-odd millions he had
demanded in the most difficult war-finance year “to
honor my party’s election pledges,” Sydney Premier
McKell passed last week from chagrin to threat. The
threat came as a climax to “another heated attack”
on the Loan Council’s “cut in the allocation to
N.S.W.” It was to the effect that, unless the Govern-
ment responsible for the war effort came down with
“an increased allocation,” work on the Keepit Dam at
Gunnedah would be discontinued. And Mr. McKell
claims that the Keepit Dam is of “vital national
importance,” so much so that “immediately the war
finishes” it will provide “jobs for returned men.”
Perhaps it will and perhaps it won’t. Anyway,
if this angry Premier’s description is warranted there
is no occasion for stopping it, much less for pointing
a paltry provincial pistol at the Government which
is fully occupied with the war. It is asserted that
“about 200 men and their dependants will be affected”
if work on the dam ceases. The “about 200” could
be kept on the job if Mr. McKell and his Ministers
and the officers of both Houses and the Assemblymen
made a timely sacrifice of part of their excessive
salaries.
Including their allowances as members, Ministers
divide £23,420 p.a. The Speaker draws £1675, the
President of the Council £l2OO, the Leader of the
Opposition £1125, the Chairman of Committees in
the Assembly £lll5, and the Chairman in the other
shop £7OO. Each of the 90 Assemblymen collects £875.
And all the gentlemen ride free on the Government
railways and tramways and have postage-stamp allow-
ances (£3O per head), and all the Ministers and the
Leader of the Opposition are supplied with secretaries.
And for Ministers and their retinues there is a motor-
car service which costs round £15,000 p.a.
From December 1, 1932, to June 30, 1938,
Ministers divided £16,724 p.a., and the Assembly
salary was £670. Then Mr. Stevens, who was break-
ing his neck to become Prime Minister, brought in a
spectacular Budget which included the increases to
the present rates —they were dated back four months.
That Budget was his finish in political life ; he pre-
dicted a surplus of £7785 and had to do some desperate
borrowing before he could show a loss of £2,895,000,
which was succeeded in 1939-40 by a loss of £2,567,700.
So the Ministerial and Parliamentary rises were grossly
unjustified by the state of the finances then and since.
In the last war Assemblymen received £5OO p.a.
and Ministers and officers were paid on the same
scale. They should get no more now, for they
very little to do ; in fact, there is not enough real
work in war-time to keep any State Parliament em-
ployed for more than a month in any year—and a
month means 12 or 13 six-hour days. Mr. McKell
himself can find time to write a weekly newspaper
article in which he gives copious advice to all and
sundry, especially the Commonwealth Government.
A voluntary return to the 1914-18 salary-list and
regimen in the secretarial, press-agent and motor-car
lines would provide enough to keep the “about 200
men” fully employed until their nationally important
job cuts out. And it would give N.S.W. taxpayers
the exhilarating feeling that they had been privileged
to become spectators of a world’s wonder.
Reorganise New Guinea!
In ignorance or contempt of scientific history, the
Germans placed their New Guinea capital at the
foot of a line of volcanoes on Blanche Bay. Dampier’s
landfalls show that in a couple of hundred years
almost every mountain in the vicinity blew its head off.
During the Australian military occupation and
afterwards Nature gave a number of demonstrations.
In one, a B.P. vessel was piled into a main street, and
in others buildings were shaken down. On May 31,
1937, matters came to a climax.
A new volcano reared itself up in Blanche Bay
and began to spout. The town was covered in a thick
pall of smoke and ashes. It was evacuated with the
loss of only one white life, though in districts away
from the town many natives were killed. Damage
was estimated at £200,000. Women were reluctant
to return, but the Administration was “determined”
to do so.
A Dutch vulcanologist with a world reputation,
Dr. Stehr, reported Rabaul unsafe. A committee was
appointed to decide on a site for a new capital. Why
it was necessary is one of the great mysteries of gov-
ernment at Canberra. The League of Nations being
already moribund and Australia being saddled with
financial, administrative and defence responsibility for
New Guinea, the sensible and economical thing to
do was to merge the New Guinea and Papuan civil
services and Legislative Councils and make Port
Moresby the capital of both territories. Any objection
on the ground of isolation long ago died, since both
territories are well served with aerodromes and any
town in the mandate can be reached in three or four
hours from Moresby.
The committee, however, recommended Lae, on
the New Guinea “gold coast.” It is a healthy site,
high, with deep water alongside, though with no harbor
in the proper sense. Mr. Hughes, then Minister for
the Territories, at once went to New Guinea and
“inquired personally.” He decided, over the head of
the committee, on Salamaua, which is on a spit, with
swamps behind it. He said the transfer would cost
£500,000. Salamaua celebrated by going into a terres-
trial waltz —“earth tremors,” though Mr. Hughes said
they were only “ripples.”
Tavurvur volcano, only three miles from Rabaul,
has been active since June 6 —that is, 3+ years
after the decision to move the capital was taken and
over four years since the last eruptions. A pall of
dust and smoke hangs perpetually over Rabaul and
the air is rank with fumes. So the capital is to be
moved to Lae at last, and if it was to cost £500,000
three years ago it will cost a lot more if Parliament
sanctions the expenditure.
Parliament now has a chance to step in and
settle the status of New Guinea once and for all by
formally annexing it. Papua and New Guinea should
be joined. Moresby, centre of the defence of both ter-
ritories, should become the capital. And it should then
be possible to give the joint territories representation
in the Federal Parliament.
The Outcast.
There is a lost and lonely figure wandering around
Parliament House, Canberra. Sometimes it slips into
the bar, downs a furtive drink and tries to get the
ear of a politician. Its advances are sidestepped or
ignored and it oozes out again, to wander among the
garden beds or drift disconsolately through the darker
corridors.
Just what the figure wants nobody seems to know,
largely because nobody has taken the trouble to con-
sult it. One or two who’ve studied its appearance
from ambush describe it as somewhat wistful, a little
nebulous, but at the same time most persistent, like
a drunk who feels some sense of injustice but isn’t
sure what it is.
At getting into places where it isn’t wanted it
seems to have fictional detectives and secret-service
men beaten hollow. Locked doors and windows no
more bar it than a lightning fence bars a crossbred
sheep. It has been surprised in the Prime Minister’s
bedroom, in the Opposition Caucus, in all sorts of
secret places where the nation’s leaders hide them-
selves from the public gaze. At such times it has
anxiously sought to put a plea for recognition of
whatever claim or claims it is trying to advance, but
is hurriedly and no doubt rightly bundled off the
premises, only to bob up again, as wistful and per-
sistent as ever.
They’ve tried jugging it on a vagrancy charge, but
it slips out of clink as easily as it slips into P.Ms.’
bedrooms. Shots in the night have suggested attempts
to murder it by harassed members, and dark parties
have been seen heaving something in a bag into the
Molonglo. But next morning there it is again.
Its identity came out in the bar of the Civic,
where a pressman spotted the pathetic figure and
bought it a drink. “Thanks,” it said ; “makes y’ dry,
bangin’ round here.” “Look,” said its host, “what’s
your game? What are you after?” The figure sighed.
“All I want is somebody to recognise me,” it wailed.
“Orright,” said the pressman, “I’ll recognise you, if
if it’ll make you happy. But what’s your name?”
The figure, pleased, at once assumed larger pro-
portions. “I’m the Future,” it said. And, catching
sight of a Cabinet Minister in his car, it set out after
the car, still optimistic.
A Case for Outlawry.
“El Verdugo” is indignant:
One thing I hope to see abolished by the Peace Conference
is the now-fashionable type of war propaganda.
The 1914-18 war had its atrocity stories, but they were
redeemed by a certain fat dignity of presentation. There
was no fishwife-screaming, as there is today, and has been all
along in Berlin. . .
In atmosphere I find the new publicity nauseating; m
effect, it must be futile, except as a spur to the other side.
And that goes for Goebbels and his venomous rant.
The British handling of the Dunkirk incident was a per-
fect example of what propaganda should be. Official spokes-
men and writers, from Mr. Churchill to Mr. Masefield, were
equal to the heroic occasion. No Nazi can speak of Dun-
kirk even today without frothing at the mouth. And, gener-
ally speaking, official Britain has provided a model which
does away with the need for us to copy foreign models.
The truth is told even when it is unpalatable and conceal-
able. When there is palliation or temporary concealment, it
is for a military purpose. The old standards which made
Britain “the best of actual nations,” as Emerson wrote a
century ago, have been preserved.
Contrast the method born in Moscow which is infecting
the minds of newspaper and other “authorities” in Britain and
Australia. The enemy is abused in a stream of raging invec-
tive. The background is a fabric of clumsy rubbish which
defeats its own ends and must be costing a heavy, unneces-
sary loss of innocent Russian life.
Nothing could enrage an enemy army more or induce it
more surely to maltreat the civil population than loud assur-
ances that every Russian citizen, man or woman, is a guerrilla
fighter who carries concealed arms or lurks in woods and
hedges to kill German soldiery in defiance of international
law. The stock tale of Moscow a few days ago was about
a boy of 12 who produced a hand grenade and blew up six
German officers and men and himself. Another tale was of a
“children’s summer school” which, calmly carrying on in the
midst of the battle of Smolensk, captured a German machine-
gun unit. This kind of thing is an open invitation to the
invaders, being the invaders they are, to shoot every Russian
civilian on sight.
The tales that hundreds of German soldiers and officers
desert and immediately write manifestos denouncing Hitler
as a murderer and their comrades in arms as savages must
breed a spirit of revenge in the regiments of the alleged
deserters. So must the stream of “love letters found on dead
soldiers” in which German wives and sweethearts are supposed
to urge their husbands to steal fur coats for them from the
“dirty Russians.”
The messages read over Russian radios to the wives of
dead soldiers, too, are only likely to inspire a greater fury
in the enemy. It is, of course, Moscow’s own business; but the
disquieting fact is that British and Australian papers approve of
these methods, as they approved of the attempted assassination
of Laval, though assassination has never been a British political
or military weapon. (Apropos, Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baurne
“commends” to “critics” a paragraph, from the London “Star”
which prescribes “bullets for Lavals, not forgetting Italy’s own
Laval.”) What would be the reaction of Australians if the
Germans began to broadcast on A.B.C. wavelengths to wives
of dead A.I.F. men?
Mrs. Smith Tell other wives that Fadden has formed
the A.I.F. into an army of bandits and plunderers
We are convinced that as long as he was living with you
your husband didn’t commit any act of thieving or other
disgraceful act, but he has not fallen on the field of honor.
He has died the death of a highwayman.
What would be the effect when the dead man’s battalion met
the enemy?
Moscow propaganda is getting newspapers into the habit
of condoning distortion and suppression of news, of con-
cealing distasteful truths, thus lulling the community into a
state of false security.
Every time press and radio boost a non-existent Russian
triumph, they are discounting Australian recruiting propa-
ganda and leaving an impression that the need of the Com-
monwealth for men and munitions is less than the reality.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Number three from the right—take that grin off y’r dial!”
“D.E.”: A minor war is in progress
between the Sydney afternoon papers, and
I never begrudge the fourpence they cost
me. In some respects the combatants are
very much alike. Both sprinkle their
pages with photographs of cheeky young
women insufficiently clad; both are
devoted to comic strips, Hollywood, the
latest in leg-fashions and “costless credit,”
and in their attitude to political parties
both are impartial and neuter. They
differ mainly in size and make-up and in
presentation of news of the other war, to
which they give nearly as much space as
they give to the horses and dogs. Where
the “Bun” sees Japan On the Brink, the
“Tirralirra” descries Bright Prospects of
Settlement in the Pacific. When the
“Bun” was on the point of conceding
Leningrad to the enemy the “Tirralirra”
not only hurled him back from that city
but took Smolensk. And so on. It has
become one of Sydney’s favorite amuse-
ments to scan the rivals’ posters for their
screaming contradictions of one another’s
“head! ie news.”
* * * s
“Bo”: One of the best spy yarns of
the last war was John Buchan’s Green-
mantle. A message left by a murdered
British agent read “Kasredin. Cancer.
v. 1.” That cryptic note sent Major Dick
Hannay on thrilling adventures through
Germany and Turkey to scotch a Hun
plan to rouse all Islam in a holy war
against the British. The “v. 1.” he eventu-
ally deciphered as yon Einem, referring
to Hilda yon Einem, arch-spy, murderess
and fanatical Fatherlander, who was the
leading spirit behind the plot. Buchan
brought her to a sticky end via a Russian
shell around Erzerum. Now Fact bobs
up to support Fiction. Berlin announced
the other day that a spy, Baroness von
Einem, went to the headsman. But
evidently she wasn’t playing the German
game.
* * * *
“Ex-Vic.”; Women conductors aren’t
new in Melbourne (B. 10/9/’4l), though
it’s the first time they’ve been seen on
the trams. Seventeen or eighteen years
ago bus companies employed them on
the Caulfield and' Malvern runs. They
wore chauffeur outfits, long buttoned
coats, jodhpurs and leggings and caps.
But they didn’t last long. Perhaps Mel-
bourne wasn’t ready for revolutions then.
“Youanmi”: Westralia has had women
conductors (B. 10/9/’4l) on the Perth-
Fremantle omnibus services for several
years, and the young women, in their
cream-and-blue or cream-and-green uni-
forms, do their job quite satisfactorily.
There was some disorganisation when
they were introduced because drivers kept
marrying conductors ; the omnibus ser-
vice became known as the best marriage
bureau in Perth. Another point which
might interest the Melbourne city
fathers: Westralia is a chivalrous State,
and it was a common sight to see home-
ward-bound businessmen offering their
seats to the skirted conductors and the
young women refusing with considerable
embarrassment.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: An Adelaidean ex-
pressed surprise on this page that Sydney
folk don’t install private tanks. The city
used to have them. When Castle-
reagh-street was still a residential and
boardinghouse area (which is less than
50 years ago) all the houses there had
tanks. An anti-mosquito campaign led
to their abolition. The argument was that
the tanks were mosquito-breeders and
that the water drained from city roofs
was dangerous for other reasons.
He * * *
“F.S.”: Mr. Spender announced the
other day that he was contemplating
appointing an official artist to Malaya.
All I can say is that whoever is appointed
will have a gigantic job before him if he
wants to paint the Malayan scene cor-
rectly. The first artists who came to
Australia painted gumtrees to look like
oaks and pine-trees ; they did not see the
color that was there, but only the color
they were used to. The landscapes of Buve-
lot in the National Gallery of Victoria
don’t look in the least like Australia, and
it took at least 70 years before a few
of our artists succeeded in divesting them-
selves of their European prejudices and
seeing Australia more or less stark. If
an artist is sent to paint Malaya and
only takes his preconceptions there, he
will no doubt make coconuts and warin-
gins and ricefields look like coolibahs
and wheatfields and he might just as well
not go. A good photographer would at
least give us the facts.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: A General Booth monu-
ment is mooted in Maoriland ; but could
any sculptor do justice to that wonderful
nose? 1 saw the General only once, and
tried hard to follow his speech; but his
nose fascinated, hypnotised, appalled me.
It destroyed all power of criticism.
Labouchere, of “Truth,” who had a dust-
up with Booth over the administration of
funds and came off second-best, wrote:
“His nose must have been specially
created. It is to Booth what a trunk
is to an elephant.”
* * * *
“Etiwanda”: Another young man
ruined by milk (B. 10/7/’4l) was court-
ing the daughter of a Murray Valley
grape-grower by whom he was employed.
There was talk of wedding bells and a
share in the block. Then some bloke
in the town announced he was prepared
to buy home-clotted cream at fancy
prices for his fancy confections, and the
boss bought six Guernseys. The swain
joined joyfully in the dairying business,
and every morn and night large, shallow
pans of scalded milk were stood to set.
Then came mystery. Of a morning the
level of the pans would be down inches,
though there was no break in the thick
surface of cream. “Snakes,” said the
boss and sat up with a gun for three
nights. His vigil stopped the fall in
levels, but the mystery wasn’t solved.
When the vigil ceased the levels fell
again. One day the boss was suddenly
struck by the improved health and weight
of his prospective son-in-law and an
awful suspicion hit him, to be confirmed
when, watching, he saw the wretch sneak
into the milk-room, poke a hay straw
into a pan and suck like an induction
pump. “So I sacked the cow an’ warned
him orf me girl,” he said later. “A
feller that’d pinch a man’s milk isn’t
the sort for my family.”
“The Tip”: At the N.S.W. school
which is shaping the mind of my eldest
the announcement of the ban on caning
was debated vigorously behind the
shelter-shed and in other places, the kids
having heard it over the air. Aware of
this the head called a general muster and
said, “Most of you know that Mr. Evatt,
the Minister for Education, has ordered
that the cane is not to be used any more
on boys who play up in class or use bad
language and do wrong things. Some of
you might be inclined to think you can
now do what you like, so I just want
to point out that, though the cane is
stopped, nothing has been said about
kicking in the pants. Dismiss.” Dis-
cipline never faltered at that school,
though my eldest was extremely puzzled
by the grin on the master’s dial when
he delivered the warning.
“Avon”; I see that the N. S. Wales
Minister of Education has been induced
to modify his ban on caning—quite a
lot of teachers don’t care to relinquish
this means of discipline. In my experi-
ence the necessity for the cane rises in
direct ratio to the size of classes. In the
Maoriland city school where I absorbed
the three R’s 50 years ago the number
of boys in a class varied from 20 to 80 —
the vast majority of the school seemed
always to be crammed into the third and
fourth “standards,” and, though these
were divided into upper and lower
division, each division still crowded a
big classroom. From the infant classes
up to upper second and from lower fifth
to seventh, life in that school was fairly
happy. But the nippers in the third and
fourth endured a reign of terror. It
seemed it simply wasn’t possible for the
master to keep order without half a
dozen canings an hour, and the day when
half the class wasn’t posted on the black-
board for “keeping in” was a red-letter
one. But when I visited that school
many years later, and it had no class of
over 30, one of the masters told me
he had never had a cane or a strap
in his possession, and never felt the need
of such aids to discipline.
« * ♦ *
“Morimoto”: The question of the re-
marriage of widows, which has up to the
present been frowned on in Japan, has
been brought to the front by a poll in
which 58 p.c. of the women voted
yes. The prejudice against a second
marriage is partly because of the
doctrine of reincarnation and partly be-
cause of the principle of ancestor-
worship. When a woman has given birth
to a man-child she has discharged her
most important function. The function
of the son is to offer sacrifices and pray
for the welfare of his male ancestors in
the hereafter. A widow has no particular
function except to serve as housekeeper
for her sons. But the necessity for more
population after the campaigns in Chi"a
tends to wreck some of the most ancient
Japanese institutions.
* * * *
“Super”: Tell “Polonius” (B.
30/7/’4l) that his memory is astray about
the location of the “Old Vic.” That
old Sydney theatre was situated further
along, nearer King-street, on the oppo-
site side of Pitt-street to Her Majesty’s
and opposite the “Evening News” office ;
the rear was almost immediately
behind the Royal Hotel in George-street,
kept by Oscar Asche’s father. The arcade
must be thereabouts today. I took a
small part in the last pantomime pro-
duced in the Old Vic. by J. L. Hall and
the Wisemans ; “Lurline,” Fanny Wise-
man in the name part. A harlequinade
followed that I have never seen equalled,
but then Renno was mechanist. ■ Clint’s
transformation scene I still remember.
Others in the cast were Sam Poole and
Joe Tolano (pantaloon, for years with
Rignold); J. L. Hall was clown. The
“Old Vic.” was destroyed by fire several
months later during a season by Grattan
Riggs in Irish dramas. Grattan sleeps
at Zeehan, Tasmania.
« # * *
“Craiser”; A Melbourne draper sent
a bolt of cloth to a Mallee farmer’s wife.
A long time afterwards he got the article
back with an indignant letter complaining
that it was badly damaged. The cloth,
in truth, was full of holes, and analysis
revealed the cause. The draper refused
to accept responsibility, and wrote point-
ing out that the cloth had obviously been
attacked by silverfish and that this could
not have happened in his establishment.
“It couldn’t have happened in mine,
either,” retorted the farmer’s wife. “We
live at least 20 miles from the nearest
river! ”
* * *
“Mac Hoots”: By the sacred bones of
the greatest Mac Hoots of all (he fell at
Culloden, poisoned by the bite of his
own bagpipe) I would like the blessed
worrld to make up its mind about the
Gaelic. Remember when that Star of the
Pinks Egon Kisch was in Australia
having his dictation test and some
heathen or other maintained that Gaelic
was a dead language, spoken nowhere in
Scotland today? Well, that was a
dommed lie, because I myself, with my
own two ears, have heard a crofter
woman or two speak the Gaelic over
on the west coast of the Highlands.
But now here’s Sydney “Sun” gone right
off its rocker to the other extreme:
The children today have English drilled
into them at their schools, but Gaelic re-
mains the major tongue of the masses, and
it was only in Gaelic that Scott attained
his highest height. Rabbie Bums is more
than suspect of having been somewhat
Anglicised and cultured, and reverted to
rough Gaelic to catch the ear of his
countrymen.
Mark my words, Sydney “Sun”: the
Gaelic, a language completely distinct
from English, and sounding sometimes
like a soft wind in the wheat and some-
times like chronic catarrh, is spoken by
a few natives in the most remote dis-
tricts of the Highlands, and by nobody
else. Scott wrote in almost pure English,
Burns in an English colored by the Scot-
tish dialect; and it costs me tuppence
I can ill afford to read the nonsense you
print.
SEPTEMBER.
“Grey winter has gone like a wearisome guest”—
One can’t be forgetting
The sentiment Kendall so aptly expressed
In a musical setting.
Like a guest—and the simile framed by the pen
Is hard to improve on —
Who never occasions such pleasure as when
He’s getting a move on.
“September, the maid with the swift, silver
feet” —
(More Kendall). It’s rum how
The steps of the cop who is pounding his beat
Seem springier, somehow.
The liquor that’s malted more merrily flows
In pints and in schooners;
And the maid disinters from their winter repose
Her last season’s “Spooners.”
The footballer fades from his favorite fields,
Like foam from the surges;
The fellow who walks to the wickets and wields
The willow emerges.
From now, where his bunce ’twixt the books
and the totes
The punter disposes,
The welkin will ring to the roar from the throats
Of Ikey and Moses.
In underwoods green there are blossoms and
buds
White, pinkish and blue ones;
Spring lamb’s on the counters, and even the
spuds
(They’ll tell you) are new ones.
The chicken becomes in these genial days
Less hard to dismember.
Hats off to the poet who minted the phrase
“Resplendent September”!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“ 'Oppit, you —y' cant loiter round here!”
“L. Luvus”: This war will be won on
tea. I have had frequent occasion lately
to interview one or other of the civil ser-
vice nabobs and sub-nabobs who have
sprouted everywhere in Melbourne and
who occupy suites of rooms in almost
every second building, and tea has either
just been served or is being served, and I
am always invited to have a cup. Most out-
standing example is an enormous, brand-
new institution full of glittering glass and
metal, rubber flooring, business appli-
ances of all sorts, doors marked
“controller” and “sub-controller,” and
corridors along which flit men with files
under their arms, messengers bearing dis-
patches and marcelled and manicured
young ladies who all look as if they had
been recruited for the war effort exclu-
sively in Toorak. When I passed through
its majestic portals, I thought that by
some mistake or other I had got into a
cafe. Drawn up in serried ranks were
two-storeyed trucks with spotless table-
cloths on them neatly stacked with cups
and saucers, and a bevy of uniformed
damsels, who also looked as if they had
come from Toorak, were getting ready to
speed the morning’s issue of the indis-
pensable beverage to every portion of the
building.
* * * ♦
“Spare Corp”: “Golden Mile” (B.
3/9/’4l) may be right about the visibility
of candles in mine shafts. But the
liability of even a match flare to be seen
at a great distance on the surface has
been proved. In a convoy of transports
in the 1914-18 war a demonstration was
given to the troops while in safe waters.
At intervals a single match was struck
on each of the vessels of the convoy.
That test satisfied every Digger in the
convoy. The match flares sprang up like
stars in the darkness, visible even to the
furthest ships, some of which were miles
apart.
* * * •
“Chevroford”: I was walking along
Collins-street, Melbourne, when I en-
countered a crowd of at least 2000
surveying a fountain display that beg-
gared Versailles. A lorry had decapi-
tated a water hydrant, and part of the
spout was soaring halfway up a tall busi-
ness building and the other half was
cannoning against the roof of a verandah
and ricochetting into a row of shops,
causing damage to the extent of hundreds
of pounds. Officialdom was present in
great numbers, employees and bosses
were trying to check the flood, a young
man fell into the water and dislocated
his shoulder, and there were other
dramatic incidents which kept the crowd
excited. Half an hour went on and still
the display continued. It appeared that
nobody knew how to turn the flow off.
Agitated Board of Works officials were
studying maps spread on a dry spot on
the roadway, and their embarrassment was
patent. In view of the fact that under-
neath Melbourne is another Melbourne
crammed with electric light, power, tele-
phone and telegraph cables, gas mains,
sewer pipes and whatnot, I couldn’t help
wondering what might happen in an air
raid, and my respect for London went
up a hundredfold.
* » * *
“P.0.M.C.”; Setting his kit of tools,
tucker-bag and blowlamp on the kerb,
Baldy raised the cover of a deep,
perfectly-dry P.M.G. manhole, hopped
down with a kerosene-tin bucket and
started bailing vigorously. A couple of
loungers peered inquiringly into the man-
hole, gave each other an astonished look,
smiled archly and beckoned a woman
from the verandah of a near-by cottage.
The woman came to
the fence, exchanged
quick glances with
the loungers, then
hurried indoors and
’phoned the police.
Five minutes later the
P.D. car arrived.
“Well, what the hell
do you think you’re
doing?” a first-class
constable demanded
sharply of Baldy.
“Bailing,” growled
Baldy as he stooped
and scooped up his
bucket yet again.
“Oh, yeah?” the
copper drawled with
heavy sarcasm.
“Where’s the water? ”
Baldy was mild but
firm. “There ain’t no
water; I’m bailing
gas.” The constable’s
jaw dropped. “Well,
put a tarpaulin round
the hole next time!”
he snapped. “People
round here think
you’re crazy.”
“F.S.”: Walt Disney’s attempt to inter-
pret great works of music in terms of
moving pictures recalls Bernard Hall’s
endeavor to interpret
great woFks of painting
in terms of human beings.
Young people, dressed in
the appropriate costumes,
grouped themselves on
the stage of the King’s
Theatre in Melbourne
and tried to look like the
“Blue Boy,” the “Mona
Lisa” and other classics,
with the assistance of
J.C.W. electricians. Artis-
tically the effect was and
couldn’t help being disas-
trous, but the response of
the audience was instan-
taneous because it in-
stantly identified the stiff
figures on the stage with
the familiar pictures by
certain features they had
in common, such as a
hat or a bodice. They
weren’t horrified at Hall’s
clumsy besmirching of
great art, though no
doubt they would have
been if he had included the Rokeby
“Venus” or Rembrandt’s “Susannah and
the Elders” in his tableaux.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Complaining bitterly in a daily
of the lack of public enthusiasm con-
cerning a recent A.I.F. march through
Melbourne, a theatrical manager suggested
that radio commentators posted at various
points and acting as cheer leaders would
buck the crowd up. I don’t think so. I
once sat at the back of a theatre with
the manager surveying a new show. The
theatre was half-empty, the performance
was rotten and applause non-existent; but
every time the very low comedian uttered
a wisecrack the manager brought his
hands together and clapped like mad.
The only effect on the audience was to
increase its discouragement and boredom.
The theory of Melbourne’s Lud Mayor
that the people of the city have their
feelings but are bad at expressing them
won’t hold water. The fact is, the show
was rotten. Melbourne people read the
papers and go to the pictures and are
used to vastly impressive displays of
mechanised might. The Melbourne
march was a long procession in which
mechanised might was conspicuous by
its absence, possibly out of respect for
the paving. Some soldiers were armed
and some were not, some wore helmets
and some slouch hats. The inclusion of
wounded returnees threw the crowd into
a conflict between pity and martial pride.
Moreover, the parade was associated with
a drive for the Red Cross, and a lot of
people think that the army shouldn’t
be used as a begging agency.
* * * *
“Anon”: Not only newspaper artists
go astray when they depict men at work.
Show any smith the farrier depicted on
the back of the ten-bob note and he will
tell you the beak of the anvil should be
on the left of the smith, not on his right.
Furthermore, the hammer is of the wrong
shape and weight for shoeing work. It
should have a knob end and be of about
2\\h. size, not 51b. to 61b. as drawn.
With such a heavy hammer no farrier
could fulfil his duty.
* * * *
“Vici”: Clementina studied first-aid
earnestly, attended lectures and practised
bandaging on the family to mutiny point.
But all was forgiven when she came top
of the class at the examination. The
trophy was a beautiful ficst-aid case. Dad,
in prideful mood, stood the price of a
holiday at a popular resort. With first-
aid case at the “ready” Clementina
stepped out on the first morning to look
for trouble. Some freak of chance pro-
vided the opportunity of her dreams —a
car smash a hundred yards down the
street. No greyhound could have beaten
her dash till, nearing the scene of the
accident, she remembered the book and
slowed down to “cool, calm and col-
lected.” The crew of the motor ambu-
lance that arrived a few seconds later
to collect the crashee, with blood stream-
ing down his face and white coat from
a deep scalp wound, turned their atten-
tion next to Clementina, who was revived
and “treated for shock.”
* *
“X.S.”: There is a legend that at
banquets of the legal fraternity the prin-
cipal toast is drunk “to the man who
draws up his own will.” Point was given
to the jest in a recent will case in Mel-
bourne. A testator, who left estate
valued at £27,000, bequeathed a third to
a Gippsland deaconesses’ home, stipulat-
ing that the trust should be free from any
control by “the Bishop of Sale or any
other ecclesiastical authority.” The
deaconesses’ home at Sale is a Church of
England institution, but the Bishop of
Sale is a Catholic, the C. of E. dignitary
in that locality being known as the Bishop
0 f Gippsland. Although in this case the
layman’s mistake has brought little fruit
t 0 t be profession, far less serious slip?
have resulted in years of litigation. The
ar tist Turner drew up his own will and
j e ft t be bulk of his fortune of £120,000
f or the relief of impecunious artists of
legitimate birth. There was a flaw in the
WO rding with regard to the legitimacy of
tbe parents, and the impecunious artists
England, legitimate or illegitimate,
never got a penny of Turner’s money —
tbe lawyers got the lot.
* * * *
“Lever de Rideau”: Gregan McMahon’s
death left a hole in the contemporary
drama in Melbourne. The future of
his Players seems to have been left
t 0 the dailies, which are speculating
as to whether the two plays under re-
hearsal will make their bow before the
footlights and who will be the producer,
The Repertory co. should have elected a
spokesman who would have assured the
pu hli c and subscribers that the show will
go on whatever happens. Instead “it is
hoped” that the programme for this year
w j b b e carried out, but further activity
wi jj rest w j t h the subscribers, who will be
j nv |ted to express their views at a meet-
ing to be ca n ec i shortly. That means that
an i mpor t a nt decision will be left to a
lot of society peo ple who don’t know
w hat they want and have no views on
drama save those which McMahon
gave them.
« JH * MA » discourses on a Sydney
„ , landmark ._
H Q £ Qf the most ' picturesque houses in or
about Sydney stands at the extreme end of
Kirribilli Point on the north side of Port Jack-
son, next to Admiralty House, the local resi-
dence of the Governor-General. Kirribilli House
erected about g 6 years ago by Adolph Feez ,
a merc hant of the period, and was subsequently
bought by Samuel Terry, who left it to his
granddaughter, Mrs. Taylor. It passed through
the hands of various owners down the years,
and when - t was tbreatened with demolition m
1920, to make room for blocks of flats, was
bought by the Commonwealth Government,
which used it as a lodging for the Governor-
General’s staff. This use of the fine old place
was discontinued in 2930, a nd it is now leased
to a pr i va t e tenant. Possibly, no residence on
Port Jackson has a finer site or commands a
lovelier view, unless it be its next-door neighbor
immediately opposite, on the south side of the
harbor.
“I may be Wrong, Prendergast, but shouldn't you face the other way?
THE SHORT-MINDED BEGGAR.
“N.S.W. Premier McKell, in the course of un-
other heated attack on the Loan Council, said that
vital public works would be halted unless representa-
tions by the State Government to the Commonwealth
for additional loan moneys were successful.”
For a chap who’s unable to smother a sneer
At the practice of biting the Commonwealth’s
ear
And stressing the need for additional pelf,
When anyone tries it —excepting himself,
For a fellow who rails at and scornfully rates
South Aus. and Tasmania as “mendicant
States,”
Because of the regular handouts they’ve had,
Don’t you think you’re a bit inconsistent, ray
lad?
To “put in the nips” is an act you condemn,
Yet you’ve little to learn, I might venture, from
them
In that plausible art; nay, I lean to the view
They might pick up some pointers, per contra,
from you.
Even heated assertions will hardly suffice
To prove what in others you reckon a vice
In you is a virtue, a trait to commend.
It’s a tough proposition to swallow, my friend.
There are various methods of begging, agreed.
Some bring home the bacon by flaunting their
Some gain their objective by menacing growls
And others by noisy, importunate howls.
But, whatever the means they employ or design,
They’re all of them ranged in the mendicant
line,
A chastening fact which should save them as
well
From slinging hard names at each other, Mc-
Kell.
It will serve little purpose to fume or to fret.
“We want many things we’re not likely to get,
And we’ve wanted them badly for years” —is a
bit
I recall from a hoary old music-hall skit.
So, when next you feel tempted to mutter a
curse
On those in control of the Commonwealth purse
And a groan at the grip that they keep on their
mom,
Remember, McKell, there’s a war to be won.
Wake up and paste that in your cady, my son!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or call for free
Booklet.
14 Castlereagh St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Ge'ddes, Public Trustee.
&n? . . .
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt, A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways’
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHELL HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: BW4IBI.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
w
AN INEXPENSIVE STATION SADDLE
THE
“STOCKRIDER”
£6/12/-
(COMPLETE)
This saddle is
exceptionally
good value for
the money and
suitable for
station work.
It has a com-
fortable pigskin
seat with a
narrow waist, firm capped
pads and raised thigh pads.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles
paid for cash with order.
WITHER*. STEVEHSOM ETJ
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
According to Fadden, Menzies received
the first offer of the London mission
and Page was the second choice because
he knows all there is to know about rural
production. Questioned about the mis-
sionary, Churchill obligingly said: “I
think our conversations will range over
the whole field.” To anyone who knows
the doctor that should mean apples,
barley, beef, butter, canned fruit, cheese,
condensed milk, dried fruit, flour, honey,
lamb, lucerne, maize, mutton, pears, pig
meat, sorghum, sugar, wheat, wool and—
if Winnie is still conscious—the war.
Tootling round his home State on a
sort of “local-boy-makes-good” tour,
Fadden stopped long enough in one place
to say something about “the position”:
It was brought about without my lifting
one finger to bring it about. Mr. Menzies
was the victim of circumstances.
He’d have been closer had he made it,
“The position was brought about with-
out my lifting one finger to stop it.”
Concerned at the prospect of Reds
getting control of their organisations by
working the Russian-sympathy stunt,
A.L.P, executives and the like are looking
with hostile eyes on the Soviet Friendship
Leagues that have shot up. The Q.C.E.
and the Victorian A.L.P. executive have
forbidden Labor adherents to join these
shows as Labor adherents. Because
Maurice Blackburn is regarded as an
idealist with no guile in him he has been
permitted for the present to retain his
association with the Soviet Friendship
League, but by doing so he risks the
party nomination for Bourke —and almost
any other Labor man could win Bourke.
His Soviet Friendship League has re-
ceived a half-hearted promise of “whole-
hearted support” from the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council. Delegates num-
bered 157, and if the dissentients had
mustered another two votes the whole-
hearts would have been in a minority of
one.
“We must move closer to Labor.” —
Fadden on a tour of Queensland. “There
are many ways in which I believe Labor
can give us most valuable collaboration.”
—Foil, with Fadden on a tour of Queens-
land. Little Sir Echo!
Confessing that the present situation
was “appalling” and would lead to injury
of the State, Victoria’s Mr. Dunstan told
a deputation that he would recommend
appointment of a Minister for Decen-
tralisation. So another grand department
is to be created in Melbourne to stop
the drift to the city.
Mr. Wilson, M.H.R., has received a
commission from Mr. Powell, of the
Westralian Wheatgrowers’ Union —he is
to “insist on the Federal Government
using its constitutional powers to provide
debt-free money to finance the war and
all national services.” If Mr. Powell’s
nostrum were tried he might live long
enough to find a wheat cheque for £lOO
worth fully a tenth of what it’s worth
now.
If Comrade Losovsky can be withdrawn
for a moment from his war-bulletin work,
he will be thrilled to hear the change that
has come over the Federated Ironworkers
since June 22—or since Comrade Thorn-
ton’s head stopped reeling. Comrade
Thornton’s paper has come out with a
stern condemnation of “strikes and stop-
pages which have no real purpose and
which only weaken the organisation.”
We have had a number of examples of
this sort of thing in the last few weeks.
We have had strikes for more bonus pay-
ments, strikes to retain overtime and strikes
of a handful of men which have turned
hundreds out of work.
We also had “a number of examples” of
“this sort of thing” before June 22, but
perhaps they were highminded.
Canadians have become bitterly critical
of Mackenzie King, and, addressing a
meeting of Canadian soldiers in Britain,
he was howled down, Australians can
only judge the gentleman on the score
of his attitude to Dominions participa-
tion in British war councils, and that is
dreadfully disappointing. On his return
to Canada he “expressed increased oppo-
sition to the idea of an Empire War
Cabinet, and said his opinion was shared
by the majority of British officials.” No
doubt it is, and the point might have
been worth noting in 1855. But in
1941 it looks sinfully paltry.
After letting masses of apparently in-
spired press stuff go uncontradicted.
“If you took more of our surplus primary produce in your ration you’d be as
sound as a bell”
Fadden denied that his Government pro-
posed a vast extension of bank credit.
That is better; but as he said afterwards
“We must move towards the principles
and policy' of Labor” doubts will linger
till the Budget—or some Budget—is an
accomplished fact. Meanwhile Fadden
could ponder with profit on what the
Chancellor of the Exchequer said at
Edinburgh; the last British Budget was
expressly designed to prevent inflation.
And though the “tune-in to Britain”
business has been carried to excess in
some matters, John Bull remains a model
to Australia in two things his one-
Parliament system and his methods of
finance.
Moved by a minor politician named
Sanders, who says a refugee doctor cured
him, and by its own sentimental notions
the Sydney Government talks of “amend-
ing” the Act which restricts registration
of refugee doctors —there are 48 in Syd-
ney alone—to specialists, Mr. Kelly had
better be careful not to let sentiment
carry him too far. That way lies trouble
in large quantities.
It rests with the homecoming Fraser
to decide whether or not the general
election due in Maoriland will be held.
Opposition-leader Holland believes that
it will and protests that “it will be an
uneven fight”:
The Government has taken away the
radio from us, it has taken away the petrol
from us and it has imposed a censorship
on newspapers. Its own organising is done
by trade-union secretaries, and they con-
tinue to have their petrol supplies. It will
be a stiff fight and an unequal one.
After which unpromising preamble, he
said “I believe we will win through; and
we will try to give the country the Gov-
ernment it deserves and wants.”
Victoria has a State Emergency Council.
The Commonwealth Government threw
a spanner in its A.R.P. works by refusing
to shut off the lights in munition fac-
tories during a projected blackout —
“experimental,” of course. As an alterna-
tive it suggested a Sunday instead of
a week night. The S.E.C, got on its high
horse and refused to alter its programme,
meanwhile trying to make Melbourne
raid-conscious by threats of terrific pains
and penalties for non-fulfilment of A.R.P.
restrictions. Having looked under the
bed and not found a man there, Mel-
bourne is unimpressed, especially as
petrol rationing and disorganised trans-
port offer a much greater menace to a
million people in an air-raid than an
odd light or two in a suburban dwelling.
Victoria’s railway department claims a
profit on its 1940-41 operations—the first
for 16 years. It is only a small thing—
£26,s93 —and it is invisible to the
Treasury, which sees instead a loss of
£159,000, but the department is not going
to be robbed of its infant by any other
department even if the other department
swears that it is only a dream-child. Tax-
payers who go into these things moodily
recall that £25,684,000 was written off
Government railway capital in 1937,
though the interest bill remains and has
to be met by them in money that is only
too real.
A lo t of people, watching Dr. Evatt,
M.H.R., cantering round the Wimmera
and Mallee with Wilson, have
professed to see in it a bid for Wilson's
support for a Labor Administration, an
inference being that Wilson’s implied sup-
port would help Labor in an election.
But why should Wilson want an election?
Unless the parties were returned in ex-
actly the same strength, which is unlikely,
he’d cease to be important to anybody.
If the soreheaded McKell cuts out re-
bates of the 2s. 6d. in the £ tax on divs.
he won’t merely be getting double tax ;
he will deprive the Commonwealth of
war funds. From a div. income of £2194
the State will collect an additional £lB6
at present property rates, and this will
increase the deduction for Federal pur-
poses. The Commonwealth will get £93
less in tax, and the taxpayer will pay a
net £93 more. Yes, McKell promised
‘ hundred per cent, co-operation in the
war effort.”
The Sydney Government’s Western
Lands' Bill was altered for the better by
the Leg. Council, which insisted that dis-
possessed leaseholders should be com-
pensated, that overstocking charges
should be dealt with by a land board and
not by the Minister, and that lessees
should be able to grant agistment with-
out the Minister’s permission. The
McCahills are now threatening to
“reform” the Leg. Council. Both Houses
should be reformed—out of existence.
As a preliminary to the annual con-
ference of N.S.W. local governing bodies,
to be held at Newcastle, the president,
I. R. Firth, gave the newspapers his
annual report, which recommends that
the State Government should surrender
to the Commonwealth its control over
local government, public health, housing
and district development.
Arguments for such a change grow each
year. We feel sure that the constant
failure of the State Government to deal
with these matters is because it is unable
to find the necessary money.
Before anyone could say that it was a
question of party politics, Mr. Firth
added that two previous conferences had
favored abolition of State Parliaments.
So will this one.
In the paltriest provincial spirit the
State Labor crowd in Sydney has ad-
dressed a letter to Federal Labor which
repeats what McKell has been whining
for a month, with surly and inaccurate
additions:
Although there are four Labor Govern-
ments, and although the party has a major-
ity of members in the Federal House, the
Federal Government was allowed to reduce
the N.S.W. loan estimates, thereby retarding
the defence effort.
What defence effort? Certainly the
Federal Government hasn’t prevented the
introduction of gate-money footbrawl on
Sydney Sundays. And where is this party
majority in the Federal House? There
are 36 Labor members with votes and
38 non-Labor members with votes.
Can’t these provincialists count?
S.P. betting has become a social
disease, chiefly because of the P.M.G.’s
Department. That concern licenses radio
stations which have made the broadcast-
ing of races a national disgrace, and it
gives bookmakers all the telephones they
want and no questions asked. Now, with
the Victorian Dunstans making what
looks like an honest effort to arrest the
disease, the P.M.G.’s Department “has
agreed to limit the number of telephones
to bookmakers,” which means law-
breakers and tax-dodgers and exploiters
of the weak and foolish. What a con-
cession !


THE OFFICE STAKES.
“The Government must move towards Labor standards and principles.”—Mr. Fadden at Brisbane.
“Keep going, Jack, and we’re home and dry.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised . . • ■ £1,250,000
Capital Issued . . • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . • • • ■ - • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE S't. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.O.S.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Km
m
w
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE KEYNES PLAN OF POST-WAR CREDITS.
THE COAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
Bui You Mus! First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that therO
Is something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubed
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
in your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
ness. Frequent or scanty passages with
smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before It is too late. Millions of users tha
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does —take DOAN’S
DACKACHtJ BIDJiBI FIBBS '
PERSONAL ITEMS
Clarence Gauss’s successor as U.S.A.
Minister to Australia is a lot more like
the average Australian’s idea of an Ameri-
can than was his reserved predecessor.
Nelson Trusler Johnson arrived wearing
a broad-brimmed sombrero, a V badge
in his lapel, and a soft shirt, stood a bit
of joshing from the reporters with the
utmost good nature, and admitted that
peaceful Canberra would be a happy
change after oft-bombed Chungking,
where he has spent the last three years.
But despite his easy manners the new man
stands high among American diplomats
and has a long, deep and wide experi-
ence of Asia. As a youngster of 20 he
was a student interpreter in the Chinese
Embassy, has since been Consul in half
a dozen great Chinese cities as well as
Consul-General-at-Large, was adviser on
Asiatic problems to the 1921 Naval Con-
ference, and just before his appointment
12 years ago as Minister to China was
an Assistant Secretary of State. He was
here in 1925 when on a tour of Pacific
consulates. For the last six years he has
been Ambassador to China. His wife
claims descent from George Washington.
In the U.S. Minister’s entourage are
two military attaches, Colonel Van Sant-
voord Merle-Smith and Lieut. R. Odell,
and two naval observers, Lieuts. L.
Hutchinson and Sajnuel Weller. Fine old
English name that!
A. G. Barrett, appointed Wing-Com-
mander in S.A. of the Air-Training
Corps, has had unusual all-round experi-
ence. He enlisted from Victoria for
artillery service in the last war before he
was 21, but transferred to the Flying
Corps in France ; has managed the S.A.
branch of the Barrett and Burston malt-
ing business since the cease-fire, and for
four years has been in the Mayoral chair
of Adelaide. A.G.B. was christened
Arthur, but has always been called
“Bob,” to distinguish him from his father
A. 0., the Melbourne art patron and
former amateur champion walker. He
is that rarity among mayors an excellent
radio speaker.
Lieut.-Col. Norman H. Whitfield, who
since August 1 has been Director-General
of A.I.F. recruiting, is in private life a
company manager. He enlisted in 1914
Director-General of A.I.F. Recruiting.
at the age of 17, and saw service in
Gallipoli and France ; by 1916 he had
a captain’s commission and the M.C. and
bar. He was wounded three times and
gassed. He joined up again in Septem-
ber, 1939, and was D.A.A.G., Bth Div.,
A.I.F. After service in Malaya with rank
of major, he returned to Australia to
assume his present rank and duties. He
was for many years captain of the Lakes
Golf Club, and this year is president.
James Ralph Darling, headmaster of
Geelong (Vic.) Grammar, believes in
communal effort, and one of the most
spectacular fruits of his 10 years’ labors
is a new yacht club building—students
built it for themselves last term.
This year boys with technical training
have volunteered to construct a new
building for the carpentry and mechanics
school which was burnt down. It will
measure 150 ft. by 30ft. Darling was
born in Kent and educated at Repton
College and Oxford. He saw this coun-
try for the first time when he guided the
English public schoolboys’ tour to M.L.
in 1929. He is secretary of the Head'
masters’ Conference of Australia.
Downie Stewart, of Maoriland, who
has been out of Parliament for some
years, has come back into the political
limelight for a moment with a strong
plea against an election in war-time, on
the ground that if there is one “we will
find ourselves in the same lamentable
plight as Australia, with no stable Govern-
ment and with an internal conflict that
must delight our enemies.” Stewart, who
was permanently lamed in the 1914-18
war, is one of the few political “intellec-
tuals” the Dominion boasts —his friends
of the Reform Party say he would have
had more success if he were more of a
politician and less of a theorist. But in
his 19 years in the House he held port-
folios for 12 years, and even had a spell
as Acting-Priminister. He’s 63, and last
year published a Life of William Rol-
leston.
William Bland, former chief of Port
Pirie (S.A.) and Port Adelaide fire
brigades, has signalised his retirement
from 40 years of fire-fighting in an un-
usual way. He ran his motor-launch
from Port Adelaide round the coast to
Encounter Bay, and so in at the
mouth of the Murray, on the back-
waters of which it will become a
houseboat and a home. Only one
boat in a blue moon has negotiated
the river mouth in the past, and
even now that it is harnessed by
barrages this can only be done in
floodwater.
A. E. Monk, chosen by half a
dozen State Trades and Labor
Councils to represent Australian
workers at the conference of the
International Labor Organisation in
New York, holds the record for
official jobs in the Labor move-
ment. Born in 1901 he started in
1919 as a clerk in the Gas Em-
ployees’ Union. In one recent
year he was successively president of the
A.C.T.U., the Victorian Labor party and
the Melbourne Trades Hall Council, and
he beats James Barrett’s record for sitting
on committees. He is moderate in every-
thing but his way of ejecting obstreperous
Reds from platforms when someone
had to do it.
Back from Benghazi and other places
Flight-Lieut. John R. Perrin, D.F.C., here
depicted by Counihan. He got his decora-
tion for one of the epics of this war, an
aerial duel when two Australian ’planes
spotted nine Stukas dive - bombing
British troops near Mersa-el-Brega, south
of Benghazi. Perrin destroyed one and
then had to engage a powerful formation
of Me. 110’s alone, his companion hav-
ing been shot down. He brought down
one, but, with his petrol tank blown away,
he had to make a crash landing and bolt
for a tree with the Germans pouring
Flight-Lieut. J. R. PERRIN .
hundreds of rounds of ammunition on
him. Except for a few weeks in hospital
after this adventure, Perrin fought
throughout the Libyan and Syrian cam-
paigns. He is back in Australia to give
R.A.A.F. trainees the benefits of his fight-
ing experience and knowledge of tactics
and air combat. He is 24, was born in
Melbourne, educated at Melbourne High,
was an insurance clerk for a while,
entered Point Cook in 1938 after three
attempts to get into the R.A.F., and a
year later was posted to the R.A.A.F.
squadron to whose distinguished record
he has made so signal a contribution.
An Australian soldier has been pro-
moted while a prisoner of war in Ger-
many. He is Lieut. now Captain—
I. O. G. MacCormick. He was educated
at Scotch College and Melbourne Univer-
sity and rowed in the school crews. He
joined the A.I.F. at the outset.
Karl Reginald Cramp is about to
retire from the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment after more than 40 years’ service,
during which he has been lecturer at
the Training College, examiner at head
office and inspector of secondary schools.
Among his many publications are A
History of A ustralia and State and
Federal Constitutions of Australia. For
many years he was president of the Royal
Australian Historical Society, and he was
chairman and organiser of the Historical
Exhibition that marked N. S. Wales’s
150th milestone.
Gone into the Silent Land:
In Sydney, at 86, Tom Courtney, a Sydney
“D.T.” man for half a century and a trenchant
leader-writer when daily-paper leaders counted.
Tom was a power in N.S.W. politics. He lived
to see a paper bearing the same name as the
journal he loved run a ticket of “outstanding
candidates” and crash horribly.
In Sydney, at 86, Rev. John Walker, D.D.,
Moderator of the N. S. Wales Assembly in
1902-03 and Moderator-General in 1918. Eng-
lish-born, he commenced his Australian ministry
in 1881. He was a chaplain in the last war.
In Sydney, at 78, Walter Bethel, sometime
chief clerk of the N.S.W. Education Department
and head of the Child Welfare Department.
Retiring after 51 years’ service, his interest in
early Australian history ceased to be merely a
hobby. A stalwart of the Australian Historical
Society, Bethel delighted in digging out of the
past interesting details which he turned into
very readable newspaper articles.
In England, at 85, Sidney Royse Lysaght,
managing-director of Lysaghts, the galvanised-
iron people, and nephew of John Lysaght,
founder of the Empire-wide business. S. R.
Lysaght was a writer of fiction and drama, and
a scholar of authority in many fields.
In Wellington, M.L., at 85, John Lee Barni-
coat, born in Nelson and for 46 years with the
Union Bank of Australia. The youngest bank
manager of his time, he was in control of the
bank’s Greymouth branch at the beginning of
the West Coast gold rush. His father, J. C.
Barnicoat, M.L.C., arrived in Nelson from
England in 1842.
In Randwick (Sydney) Hospital, at 51, Cap-
tain “Monty” (Harold Montague) Sanders, chief
officer of the Amra when a boat from that
ship captured a launch containing Von Luckner
and five of his associates after the stranding
of the Seeadler. Sanders later was chief of
the hospital ship Kanowna. Most of his sea
service was with the A.U.S.N. He had a shore
job at Port Kembla when his last illness got
him.
In Brighton (Vic.), at 70, Brigadier-General
William Kinsey Bolton, carpenter, Government
servant, Anzac and Senator. He commanded
the Bth Battalion in Gallipoli, being at the
Landing and Cape Helles. Invalided home, he
became a Victorian Senator in 1917, but failed
of re-election in 1922. Then and afterwards
he did useful work for the Diggers.
In Elsternwick (Vic.), at 80, Dick Toutcher,
A.N.A. veteran and M.L.A. for Stawell and
Ararat (1897-1934). Dick helped Deakin in his
fight for Federation, and Peacock in his anti-
sweating campaign, and Peacock made him
Minister of Education in 1924. It was Dick’s
sole experience of office and it lasted only 81
days.
In Brisbane, at 83, George Marchant, manu-
facturer of soft drinks and philanthropist. He
anticipated Lord Nuffield in endowing homes
for crippled children. Returned soldiers and old
people shared in his benefactions, which ran
into six figures.
In South Morang (Vic.) the wife of A. J.
McLachlan, sometime Vice-President of the
Executive Council, P.M.G. and leader for the
Lyons Government in the Senate. Death has
been busy among wives of Commonwealth
politicians; in the course of a few weeks Frank
Brennan, M.H.R., and Ministers Anthony and
Harrison, as well as A. J. McLachlan (there
are two McLachlans in the Senate), have lost
their helpmates.
A very steady-going Minister is Shirley
Williams Jeffries, who has been Attorney-
General and Minister of Education and
of Employment and Industry in S.A. for
the last eight years. He was born in
England, but educated in Adelaide, quali-
fying for the Bar at Adelaide Uni. He’s
a pillar of Methodism and on the boards
S. W. JEFFRIES.
of Wesley and Methodist Ladies’ Col-
leges. Made his mark in tennis and
football in his younger days. He’s now 55.
Now believed to have been killed in
action, after having been reported miss-
ing, is Squadron-Leader G. R. Taylor,
D.F.C., of Middle Brighton (Vic.). He
commanded a flight of heavy bombers
over Europe in August. He was 23 and
went on active service at the outbreak.*
He was a son of George Taylor, editor
of Melbourne “Sun.”


Jfeiu
Hi
4S>2
**««
'sir; • . i M,s eo
. fit&f
3 *0,.
w *p
4tH.<
i«on,
JaNne
iii
/^StaS* 6
AfUsJS**
Score-hoard . . •
OF A WAR-TIME TEST
Most Australians will get a sense of satisfaction out of the sporting spirit
which prompted this group of workers to put up a score-board against their
own efforts in the production of Anti-Tank Guns, and the sense of humor
which prompted the phrase “One extra for Musso!”
These men, and thousands of others in big and little factories throughout
Australia who are now making war supplies instead of peace-time goods,
know that speed is essential in war production, and they’ve put their backs
into the job. Working as a team flat out to win, they have successfully
made war equipment never previously attempted in Australia. And, although
they lacked much of the specialised equipment and tools available to over-
seas manufacturers, they have made these things at a speed that will stand as
an all-time record.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd., whose factories in the various Australian
States are chiefly engaged in war work, is proud of the splendid efforts of
the “teams” in its own factories and in the hundreds of other factories with
which it is associated in war production.
Who Develops Industry Serves Australia.
GENERAL MOTORS —HOLDEN'S LTD.
Factories and Plants at ; fishermen's bend and south Melbourne (vio, woodville, Birkenhead and beverley (S.a.>
PAGEWOOD and WILLIAM ST. (N.S.W.), BRISBANE (QUEENSLAND), MOSMAN'S PARK (W.A.)


ABORIGINALITIES
“ You've been examining the witness for three days. Now give someone else a look —/ mean a chancer
“Tooloogan”: Old Bill had been a
“gummie” for over eighteen months, and
when he collected his upper-and-lowers
from the travelling dentist there was no
prouder man in Saltbush. His sparkling
dentures were revealed in a flashing but
self-conscious smile. The first day he
got them we were mending a crossing
on Thompson’s Creek. When we knocked
off for dinner under the shade of a she-
oak Bill removed his crockery and stood
it tenderly on a flat stone while he
champed his corned beef sandwiches on
his horny gums. “Y’r tatts a bit hard to
chew with, are they. Bill?” asked one
of the mob. “No, they ain’t,” said Bill.
“But they corst me a tenner, an’ I’m
damned if I’m goin’ to take a risk on
wearin’ ’em out too soon!”
jj» jjj
“B. A. Ker”: If “The 0.D.” (B.
hasn’t ever had the erroneous
assertion jammed down his neck that a
blue-tongue’s bite will leave a recurring
sore, I envy him. Through challenging
the fallacy I’ve got myself into more
arguments than through opposing the
popular theory that to let a snakebite
victim sleep is to sign his death warrant.
But Bluey isn’t the only slandered
reptile. The venomous “wood adder” that
is so summarily dispatched when he
crawls out of the back log on to the
hearth is, despite his sinister appearance,
a harmless little gecko. And who could
convince the average bushman that a
bandy-bandy, or moonlight snake, is one
of the least venomous of all Australian
snakes, when tradition says the bite is
fatal, with the victim taking a fit for
every ring on the reptile’s body? As
for a goanna’s bite, the fact that he eats
carrion could cause a contaminated
wound, but I’ve never seen first-hand
evidence of the breaks-out-every-year-at-
the-same-time sore, nor do I know a
reliable person who will vouch for the
truth of that popular fancy.
* * * *
“Cheraps”: Yabbies don’t only travel
considerable distances over dry ground ;
they also travel underground by tunnel-
ling. Digging a fair-sized pit in a back-
yard in Busselton (W.A.), about five feet
down I came across the end of a neat
tunnel about Ijin. in diameter. I fol-
lowed it for a few feet and unearthed a
sizable yabbie, truculently ready with
his nippers to take me on. I let the old
warrior go and sank the hole another
five feet without striking water or even
mud, so I’m still wondering how far
the adventurous crustacean had travelled
or intended to travel when I crossed his
path. The ocean was about half a mile
away, the Vasse River, half a mile in the
opposite direction, and a small swamp—
generally dry about 500 yards from
where I was digging.
* * * *
“Propalong”: When, as a lad and a
newchum, I first went bush that part
of my teaching which most impressed
me was the endless cautioning against
danger. Never stand in front of a horse
to bridle him ; always keep back at his
shoulder when saddling; always un-
buckle the near-side hobble strap first —
if he strikes you don’t have to dodge
flying chain ; never ride behind another
man in mulga ; always stir your tea with
a stick from a tree —those on the ground
may be coated with strychnine for
rabbits; don’t camp in ironstone country
if you can help it; never drop your
reins on a horse’s neck while you make
a smoke I saw a man crippled for
neglecting that one: these are fair
samples of bush commonsense. All of
which goes to explain why a cattle-
station doesn’t need a permanent grave-
digging gang ; and why the careless bush-
man, catlike in his lazy good nature, is
feline in his habitual avoidance of
danger.
# * * ♦
“Zake”: So “Doubting Tummas’s”
lily-white hands couldn’t stand the awful
strain of a 51b. fish pulling a No, 8 gut
line through them, eh (B. 3/ 9 / ’41)? Over
in eastern waters we consider a five-
pound redfish barely out of the squire
stage. Any self-respecting angler could
land one such on a No. 4 or No. 5. As
for a No. 8 gut, I’d like a quid for every
141 b. “old-man” that I’ve pulled in with
one. I saw a 601 b. jewfish landed with
a No. 7 on an 8-0 hook in Cowan Creek
(N.S.W.). And finger-burning shouldn’t
worry any fisherman wielding a gut line
from dinghy or launch even with a
weighty fish on when all he has to do
is keep dipping his line under every so
often as he plays his catch. Nobody
but a mug would try to skull-drag a
snapper straight in on a gut line. A
gentle application of the brake after giving
him his head wouldn’t cut a woman’s
hands. Admittedly cord lines are burners,
but a bit of adhesive tape over the first
joint in the forefinger eliminates that
trouble. It’s a sign of the aleck among
anglers I’ve mixed with to go snapper
fishing with a No. 14—why, stuff like
that put on a reel with all the braking
gadgets that the Zane Grey type of angler
affects would pull up a galloping horse.
There is a difference between fish-
murdering and fishing.
« * * *
“Mac G.”: Our northern N.S.W. dis-
trict has a plague of rats, and Bill
from up-the-road was holding forth
on the subject: “’Struth, you’ve never
seen anything like ’em,” he grumbled.
“Last night they were so bad in the
bedroom that the missus ’ad to get up
and crack the stockwhip to keep ’em
away from me hair!”
* ♦ * ♦
“L.J.T.”: “A. Perist” (B. 20/8/’4l)
says “the bee at best is a blind slabber;
feeling the bulk of flesh beneath it drives
its sabre home.” Granted. But the bee
does not get away with it. The herculean
effort to withdraw its sting, always with-
out success, results in rupture of the
muscles of the bee’s body, causing its
death. It is never killed by its fellows
because it returns without its sting.
* * * *
“Moonta Bloke”: I won’t argue with
“Poli” (B. 20/8/’4l) about what the
saw-doctor, or the boss, or even what
my back might say about sawing that
log on top of the pile, but I’d like to
get in just this: If he shoved the log
along partly off the pile, chocked it, and
then put the saw through, wouldn’t he be
sawing at just the same height as the blokes
in Oswald Pryor’s picture? And that
seems to be his main quibble —height!
When a man gets out with a crosscut in
the karri or jarrah forest he frequently
finds himself confronted with a fallen
trunk over which he may barely be able
to see. But he doesn’t run around look-
ing for a box or something to stand on
—he and his mate get going with the saw.
After a while it will get low enough for
comfort. If the log really is too high to
permit of sawing from the ground, then
some sort of a staging is rigged. As for
a pile of mine poles—a mate and I have
gone right through such until we were
finishing the last couple sawing down on
our knees. And that was the real hard
work —where a Cousin Jack saw-horse
would have been real handy.
* * * *
“T.0.M.”: Anybody identify this fowl,
seen in our horse paddock? About as
big as a curlew, but with shorter legs and
neck, a red topknot and a strong, pale
yellow beak. Eyes bold and predatory,
with a touch of red under each, feet
strong and the claws wide. General color
seems to be white, with dark tips to the
wing and tail feathers. The tail is cocky
and the body has a generally erect
appearance, like that of an Indian runner
duck. The bird can run fast and has a
very labored flight. Issues a harsh note,
not unlike wood-duck crying.
* * * *
“Ben”: The old cove slouched into the
police station in a western N.S.W. town.
“I want the dole or some tucker. I'm
hungry,” he stated. “What? Can’t you
get work?” asked the constable. “There’s
plenty about.” “Work!” snorted the old
fellow; “do y’ think I’d be askin’ for
tucker if I cud get work? ’Corse I
can’t get work. My day is done. I c’d
see it cornin’ when the horse went out
for them there motor-cars. This is the
end for us, I says to me mate Bill ’Opkins
—he’s in the profession, too —them there
motor-cars are goin’ to put us out of
our jobs. After all the years we spent
learnin’ the trade. It’d break yer heart.
And Bill, he says” “Just a minute,”
interrupted the perplexed policeman,
“what is this profession of yours, any-
how?” “Profession,” he replied simply ;
“why, I’m a charcoal burner!”
* * * *
“Capricorn”: The sinking as an orni-
thologist of poor “Sailor Bill” (B.
27/8/’4l) was quite unfair. His critic,
“0.P.,” is the one who should be sunk.
For “5.8.” was quite correct in calling
his bird a “stone curlew,” though it
might have been a “stone plover,” as his
critic asserted, because the stone plover
and the stone curlew are one and the
same fowl. In accordance with our inane
Australian practice of calling every native
thing by half a dozen names, and so
leading ourselves at last to believe that
we mean half a dozen different things,
this bird is also known as thick-knee,
scrub curlew, cry-by-night, willaroo and
kweeluk, as well as, of course, Burhinus
magnirostris. Of all these names, willa-
roo and kweeluk are the only appropriate
ones ; and kweeluk should be the one
chosen, since (at any rate in the northern
parts of the continent) it has the widest
currency. Of course, the bird is not even
a remote relation of that from which it
got its commonest name, the European
curlew. Binghi believes that kweeluks
are spirits that take care of little children.
At night the birds patrol the bush on
the watch for the souls of babies that
have strayed away from their sleeping
bodies. When that familiar excited chorus
of cries breaks out suddenly it means
that a baby’s soul has been found and
is being sent back to the camp. [Weight
of evidence vindicates “Sailor Bill” —he
floats again.—Ed.]
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Old Tom came round the
other day, looking worried. “Y’ know,”
he began, frowning over his tobacco,
“I’m a bit tangled about me sheep-
station. Reckon I’ll be lookin’ for a nice
little run, ’bout five-six hundred miles,
soon. But this flamin’ war’s got me
worried. All these here young blokes
that’re learnin’ flyin’ won’t be satisfied
on the ground afterwards. The blanky
air’ll be like a swarm o’ bees, ’n’ a man’ll
want double monkey straps on ’is saddle
when he goes out on a flamin’ crock.
Just what the blazes’s goin’ to happen
with lambin’ ewes? I’m goin’ tMook up
them rightaway laws, an’ I won’t buy a
flamin’ yard o’ fence till I find out how
much air a man owns above his land.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Sometimes,” said the
big fellow, “a man just won’t believe the
evidence of his own eyes. I’m toilin’ f’r
a cocky up in the wheat country one time,
middle o’ summer, an’ after about a
month of it I knocks off one Saturday
and tells the boss I’m sick o’ cold mutton
an’ spuds, tea an’ lukewarm water, an’
if he wants t’ retain me services he better
hand over a few quid an’ let me find
the nearest pub f’r a coupla days. He
thinks this over a bit, then writes a
cheque an’ shows me how I can make a
pub be takin’ a short cut across the
scrub. He reckons it’s about 10 miles
that way an’ 15 round be road. So I
heads inter the scrub, but only does about
a mile when I hears a yell an’ there’s the
boss cornin’ after me. He catches up
and says he reckons he’s sick of them
things, too, an’ if I don’t mind he’ll join
me. Well, we push on, an’ about three
hours later, just on dusk, with sore feet
and sandy throats, at a time when beer
tastes its best, we come out t’ a clearin’
an’ find the bloomin’ pub has just been
burnt down. There ain’t a soul in sight.
So we reckon the heat’s got us kinda
queer, so we draw off inter the scrub an’
snore off. About two hours later _ I
wakes up an’ makes for that pub again.
But it’s still burnt down an’ I goes back
an’ tells the boss. We spend most o’ the
day dozin’ an’ watchin’ the ruins, an’
in the end we has t’ believe it an’ makes
home again.” I laughed. “Yair,” said
Mat, “it’s safe t’ laugh now, y’ cow, but
you’d have bin takin’ a risk any time
within two years o’ that day.”
THIS HOUR.
Now in this hour the deep scrub seems to burn
And blaze with birds: fire of rosellas, red
As wild-pea blossoms; and the glistening turn
Of mountain parrots, green as flames that spread
From driftwood of old ships; tongued ruby
flare
Of robins, and the yellow-embered glow
Of honey-eaters, thrusting in the fair
First waxen heath-bells where they palely blow;
Blue wrens a-smoulder, while, above it all,
The cockatoos drift in a smoke-white pall.
I leave the hut where in the draughty wall
Of unbarked logs the death-watch ticks, until
It seems a little human heart that must
For ever beat there, never growing still,
Deep in its tiny tomb of arid dust.
I cross the clearing, passing where slim sticks
Of tawny bracken ripple in my wake.
The rosy sky stoops low warmly to mix
Ripe daffodil with mauve and crimson-lake
In blanched cold pools where aloe-green frog
spawn
Is seed spilled from the broken fruit of dawn.
Now in this hour I cup my hands to hold
The filtering light that, sparkling like iced hock,
Spills through the boughs and drips in liquid
gold
From my curled fingers. Warm as sun-touched
rock.
Gay fans of fungus spread their tapestries
Of clarion color, clear as a thrush call,
Where dogwoods, chained by daylight, are not
trees
But werewolves, whimpering for night to fall.
Down yonder gully scrub-deer come at dusk
To seek with velvet lips for honey-dew
That lies along veined leaves, when like a tusk
Of ivory the little moon gleams new.
A passing cloud has drawn a shadow caul
Across the hill’s face, and the gums are eyes
Peering and gleaming through. Great black-
woods sprawl
In pools of onyx shade along the rise,
Where native bread, those sour unleavened
loaves
Spawned of bush mould and crusted brown as
cloves,
Lies in the deep earth-ovens till noon rakes
Her saffron embers over it with care,
Laughing to see the glow her hot flame makes
Among the fragrant fuel of grasses there.
All of this richness is a store to keep
Clutched to my heart in hours void of sleep
On long, black, bitter nights, when luscious
spring
Seems but a pipe-dream visioned while the brain
Is languorous with opium of rain
That beats the hut roof and the blind, dark
pane.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“M 8”: There was a shattering roar,
the horses took to their heels, so did the
cattle and most of the chooks, every
dog on the place started barking and
from the implement shed poured a thick
cloud of black smoke. Mum gazed at it
calmly, heard a second and louder roar
burst forth, then she said “Dad’s started
the tractor.” Next minute the machine
splintered the shed door, did a half-turn
round the yard, carried away a corner of
the garden fence, stopped and shot back-
wards into the lucerne stack. Mum
watched critically. “Oh,” she said, “he’s
got it stopped. Jim, call him for break-
fast.” And, without turning a hair, she
made the tea.
* ♦ * •
“Old - timer”; Old Mallee Mac.
had a daughter and four sons. His
neighbor, Salter, had a son and five
daughters. One night Mac.’s daughter,
then in her eighteenth year, went wander-
ing round the crop to see how the Yan-
dilla King was standing up to the drought
or something, with the result that Mac.
looked like becoming a grandfather with-
out benefit of clergy. The girl confessed
that young Salter knew something about
all this, whereupon Mac. went raging
over to Salter’s and demanded a lawful
union between the families, Salter’s heir,
consulted, twisted one foot over the other,
stood carefully close to the door and
finally admitted that nothing would suit
him better, since there wasn’t a girl in
the Mallee could hold a candle to Lil,
and she’d do him, too flamin’ right, only
they’d been frightened to ask their elders
about it. Mollified, Mac. beamed on his
relatives-to-be, but couldn’t help remark-
ing “All the same, Salter, anybody with
a fine boy like that oughter keep an eye
on him. He might ha’ got tangled up
with some rough sort o’ tart an’ then
what’d y’ do?” Salter sighed. “It’s all
right for you,” he said, “but I got five
fillies in the ropeable stage. You try
keepin’ them inside the fence an’ see
how much time you’d have left f’r the
colt.” Mac. cast an appraising eye over
the blushing five, then went thoughtfully
home.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: Being in my right mind
and a person of some balance and fully
aware of the penalties of making false
statements, I hereby declare before “Red
Earth” (B. 10/9/’4l) and whomsoever
else it may concern that on a summer day
of the year 1917 one large and lively
eel was delivered by the pump at Tapalin,
17 miles below Euston, River Murray,
and captured in a concrete irrigation ditch
on the said Tapalin by the deponent.
And I further declare that said Murray
River has an “inland” fall.
* * * *
“Propalong”: A man might “feel
something” (B. 20/8 / ’4l) with half a ton
of beef charging up from behind. But
how about those men whom the beef
doesn’t charge? A grey-haired old chap
who was a regular chaperon of Kidman
cattle on the trains helped us to truck
some 6T6’s at Wilmington (S.A.). The
old blokes were quiet enough they’d
spent most of their lives on the road —-
but there were one or two fizzers. Also,
there were pedestrians, which no bush
steer can stand, and passing cars outside
the yards, and pretty soon most of us
had whizzed up the rails with our wheels
rattling. But the old chap stayed with
’em, moving about quietly, armed with a
little stick that might have annoyed a
rabbit, telling ’em, “Whoa the boys...
Whoa, ol’ sons,” in a gentle murmur.
Did they charge him, or, as might have
been expected, just roll him out like pie-
crust? Not they. Every beast went wide
and respectfully. Old John Brookes, for
long manager of Mundowdna, Kidman’s
depot station in upper S.A., had the same
ability. Old and grey, he’d poke about
in a sea of red-eyed, horn-clashing, spum-
ing fury, unharmed when the youngsters
had long before gone to roost with the
sparrows.
* * * *
“Simon Crusher”: Went fishing the
other day in a small launch and took
along a cobber and his dog. A smelly
motor and a choppy sea combined to
turn the cobber’s stomach over, and it
wasn’t long before he made for the side.
Presently I noticed his tyke stretched out
in the bottom of the boat looking
miserable, and within a few minutes it
had parted with its last feed. I learned
later that mal de mer wasn’t the hound’s
only travelling weakness —it invariably
became violently ill in trams, buses or
cars, and nearly passed out once on a
long train journey. Most dogs I’ve struck
are strong in the stomach.
* ♦ * ♦
“Capricorn”: The fitting of a handle
to a stone axe (B. 27/8/’4l) was the
simplest part of Binghi’s task in axe-
making. Where most of his skill and
toil was required was in the manufacture
of the blade. The job he made of that
naturally depended on the kind of stone
at his disposal. If he lived where he
could get quartzite only, or some such
rock, then he had to work it by chipping
and flaking, and be dependent to a great
extent on luck to turn out the job he
hoped for, because in the midst of it he
might encounter an unseen flaw that
would make a complete mess of it.
If he lived near good tough igneous rock
—diorite or basalt or granite—then he
had nothing to do but sit down for a
week and grind out the shape he desired,
provided he also had something harder
to grind it with. If he was a salt-water
man he would have a very delicate job
cutting a head out of the thick, tough
base of a clam-shell. Before the coming
of the white man there was a great trade
in axe-heads and other implements
throughout Australia. It is still possible
to find on the sites of old camping-
grounds in the wilds implements made of
stone that have come from the four
comers of the continent, axe-heads, adze-
heads, spear-heads, pick-heads, knife-
blades, and scrapers of all sorts, some
as beautifully and delicately chipped and
shaped as the finest examples to be found
“Smith, I'm gonna recommend you for the V.C.”
“Go on, now—I bet you’ve got a boy in every port.”
in the world’s museums as representative
of man’s handiwork at the close of the
Stone Age, and others as crude as any-
thing man was ever known to make.
♦ * * *
“Centre”: That English actress who
journeyed to the Alice and thence to
Palm Valley (B. 20/8/’4l) showed more
intelligence and enterprise than the vast
bulk of Australians, whose idea of break-
ing new ground is to rush to Sydney or
London or some similar wen. And the
cycads would be only a secondary part
of the show. What she gazed on was
the Livistonia palms, giants of 70 and
80 feet —unless some maniac has since
been permitted to get busy with an axe.
And Palm Valley itself is part of the
greatest of Australia’s lost rivers, the
Finke —the Larrapinta of the abos.
Those Livistonias are unique, a species
on their own, yet another living fossil,
miraculously preserved amidst a wilder-
ness of aridity. And there is nothing
unhappy about contemplating them;
rather they stand as an inspiration to
future generations of Australians, show-
ing what the Centre was in the past, and
to what it might be made to return by
a comprehensive system of river damming
and water conservation.
* ♦ * ♦
“Narrin”: Because of the war-time
dearth of young men the Siding’s dances
had degenerated to rather weary euchre
evenings. The same coterie of female
dragons who had censored the dances
sat along the wall, peering, whispering and
knitting furiously. Their pet aversion
was Stan, who attended regularly from
force of habit. Long, lean, a bachelor
and thirtyish, Stan was a twofold afflic-
tion to the mothers who had daughters
at home and sons in the army. He had
an unquestionable reason for not joining
up, but he never
thought to publish
it, and he was not
surprised when one
day his mail con-
tained five packets of
white feathers. How-
ever, he appeared at
the next card con-
versazione, as quietly
cheerful as usual.
During the evening
he manoeuvred old
Herb, the hall chair-
man, to within a few
feet of the dragons,
and, yarning, drew
out his prehistoric
cherrywood and be-
gan cleaning opera-
tions with a handful
of Leghorn plumage,
a very smellful pro-
cess. Drawing a
gurgling feather
through the stem, he
remarked to old
Herb, “Y’ know, I
can’t stand fowls,
but someone round
here’s been pretty
decent. I got a whole
parcel o’ feathers,
just the right size f’r
pipe cleaners, the
other day,” The
chooks who had
shed the feathers kept to their own dust-
baths after that.
* * ♦ *
“Blue”: The Swede drove out of town
for some duck-shooting on Saturday
afternoon, and about nine o’clock a pass-
ing motorist made a brief stop at the
store to inform us that the duck>shooter
was stranded about 15 miles out and
wanted a gallon of juice sent out. A
well-dressed chap just getting into a flash
sedan overheard it and politely offered
to drop the petrol if the storekeeper
would fill a can. The Swede’s credit was
good, so the juice was handed over. It
was just on midnight when the dis-
gruntled duck-shooter clumped into the
store and asked a pointed question. We
haven’t seen the flash motorist since.
* * * *
It was Uncle Mick’s first con-
tact with Melbourne since Blue Spec won
the Cup, and he bowed to the family’s
adjurations that while he was “down
there” he must go and see Aunt Emily.
He nobly did his duty, and when he got
back Mum asked him how he’d got on.
“Oh, all right,” drawled Uncle Mick,
“except f’r one thing. Y’ see, I got there
on Sunday afternoon. Before the other
visitors she had left she put tucker on.
She had some gingemuts, and y’ know
how I like them. Well, I helps meself,
and then I notices a little fork arrange-
ment on me plate. Some o’ the others
are usin’ ’em, so I decides to give it a
fly. Spare me days, I take a poke at the
biscuit, but it just slid around me plate.
I had another shot, but it wasn’t no good ;
so here goes, I ses to meself, and put a
bit of weight behind it. Gripes, that
bloomin’ fork just doubles up like a piece
of tin and the gingernut lobs right over
in the fireplace. Be the holy smoke,
you’d have laughed if you’d seen Sis’s
face.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The Murray River boat
Struggler was pushing up stream with
her barge lashed alongside. At Gol Gel
landing she took on wood and Monty the
Milker and his mate. Big Tom, both of
them well plastered. Somewhere about
Tapalin they sobered up and learned they
had a job. At Euston they helped load
the barge with wool, and fruit from
King Carter’s orchard, got a sub. on their
pay and went on the beer again. Late
that night the Struggler was beating
downstream at a good bat, the barge 50
yards behind on a taut towline. Monty
was on the barge with another hand, Big
Tom on the boat. Tom, drouthy, went
below looking for the bottles he and
Monty had brought aboard, but couldn’t
find them. A little later Monty nearly
fell in the river as Tom loomed up on
the steering stage and said, ‘Hey, I’m dry
as a wooden god. What about crackin’
one o’ them bottles?” “How the hell did
you get here?” Monty demanded, “Never
mind about that; lam here,” came back
Tom. The bottle was duly cracked; so
was another. So passed the night. Next
morning, when both were near normal,
a hail came from the Struggler. They’d
missed Tom. Tom stood up and then,
catching sight of the towline and sud-
denly realising how he had got from the
boat to the barge during the night, he
lay down again. It took another bottle to
bring him round.
THE SHIP OF DREAMS.
When I was young it was told to me,
If hopefully I waited,
A ship would come sailing over the sea
With gold and silver freighted.
Wherefore, it followed, I’d daily trip,
Lighthearted and fondly dreaming,
To beach or headland, to view that ship,
Her sails in the distance gleaming.
All vain was the quest that I pursued.
As youthful dreams prove ever,
Though ships a-many I viewed, I viewed
My ship of Fortune never.
And yet, though the days are dead and
gone
Wherein I watched and waited,
I still would have her sail on and on
With hopes for others freighted.
Across the seas may she ever sail,
That ship beyond believing,
Though naught she be but an idle tale,
A tale of wishful weaving.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F, Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PROTECT THAT WHICH TOO HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
( Incorporated in Victoria)
Z O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J,
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.Q. J
Q, H, Shipway.
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 37,713 8 p.c. = 24,133 13,589 122,345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 .. 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,U73
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075.. 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £10,000.. 206,083
1930.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
To inner reserves, £19,469 .. .. 204,831
Share premiums, £10,375 .. .. 216,206
1937. . 100,585 9 p.c. ~ 60,616 39,969 266,176
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 .. .. 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 •• .. 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 .. 221,640
1938.. 111,373 10 p.c. = 74,000 37,373 269,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 267,013
To inner reserves, £lO.OOO .. .. 247,013
Share premiums, £12,250 .. .. 259,263
Written off Investments, £12,250 .. 247,013
1939.. 115,281 10 p.c. » 76,250 39,031 286,044
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 284,044
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 274,044
1940.. 115,9'04 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,404 812,448
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 287,448
1941.. 116,989 lOp.o. = 77,500 38,489 325,937
To inner tax reserves, £25,000 .. 300,937
The buyer who picked up the pound
shares at 295. in 1940 or at 31s. 6d. earlier
this year can see a nice profit if he cares
to take it. Trouble would then be to find
an investment with equal prospects. The
enterprising management continues to
reach out along sound lines as exchange
and shipping facilities permit, profits are
unimpaired, and there may be more milk
in the coconut than is apparent in the
published figures, a shroud being kept
over the accounts of a long string of
subsidiaries in which the parent has
£497,004 (book value) invested in shares
and £94,982 by way of advances.
Newest pup in the kennel is W. R.
Carpenter (Canada), Ltd., formed last
term to crush copra at Vancouver (8.C.)
for the Canadian oil market, and now
to expand its output. The project enabled
Carpenters to resume buying copra in
all territories in which it is interested on
full pre-war scale at a time when the
outlook for Islands traders had a dusky
complexion, while diversion of ship-
ping since the end of June has fur-
ther reduced South Sea stocks and
benefited spending power generally. On
the copra side in New Guinea, where
the parent’s own varied activities (the
backbone of things) are concentrated, the
Commonwealth Government has become
a buyer at from £4 to £4 10s. a ton on
the plantation.
But the co.’s ramifications are now too
wide to be vulnerable to the product of
the coconut alone, which the board has
said it regards mainly as a medium of
exchange. Among other things the
U.K.-Pacific shipping line, operated
by W. R. Carpenter Overseas Shipping,
is invaluable. Though one of the
vessels taken over by the British Ship-
ping Ministry has been lost by enemy
action, it was fully covered by insurance,
and the two vessels bought to replace the
initial ships of the line are still in the
co.’s own service. Also, the Government-
subsidised New Guinea air service “con-
tinues to be operated satisfactorily” by
Lockheeds, and Southern Pacific In-
surance, now paying 7 p.c., consolidates
its position each year. How W. R. Car-
penter (London), which handles the busi-
ness of the group in Britain, is faring
these days is not indicated.
Two of the pups showed losses last
term that were more than covered by
undistributed earnings of the others, and
after visibly charging £16,493 (£626
more) for depreciation and paying un-
specified taxation, profits of this holding
co. are shown practically unchanged at
14.9 p.c. on capital, compared with 15.1
p.c. in 1939 and 15, 14.9 and 11.5 p.c.
for the three years before that. Keeping
the div. at 10 p.c., with an eye to the
future the board strengthened finances
by another £38,489, of which £25,000 is
being whisked to tax contingencies, mak-
ing £231,500-odd openly sent to inner
reserves since 1934.
These figures give a close-up of a
decade’s expansion, mostly financed from
the co.’s own funds:
1931. 1989. 1940, 1941.
Paid capital.. £301,667 £775,000 £775,000 £775,000
Liabilities .. 7,383 152,278 169,885 169,254
ffSldTplal, 16 ’° 75 1 357.350 326.618 342,471
etc. .. 750 j
Investments, etc. 118,114 527,686 528,693 529,693
Stocks . . 1,238 104,434 75,541 67,846
Debtors, etc.. . 261,774 208,926 309,614 331,115
Cash, etc. .. 46,460 23,666 64,617 37,816
Apparent expenditure of £15,853 more
than written off on fixed assets last year
was met from surplus earnings. Includ-
ing shareholdings, that left the surplus
of more or less liquids little changed at
£797,216.
At a buyer’s quote of 355., the shares
would show an income of 5.7 p.c. from
current divs., which should be comfort-
ably maintained, granted freedom from
large-scale hostilities in the Pacific.
Written-down value of the backing is
275. 9d. per pound of paid capital.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 14,275 10 p.c. = 17,380 73,578
1932.. 13,064 7 „ „ 12,320 744 74,322
1933.. 20,929 10 „ „ 17,600 3329 77,651
Written off. £5O 77,601
1934.. 18,251 10 p.c. = 17,596 655 78.256
Share premiums, £BBOO .. .. 87,056
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 .. 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 1 91011
Staff fund, £lOOO S 1945 ’
1937. • 25,578 9 p.c. 21,780 1 9700 91 ioq
Staff fund, £lOOO ) 2798 24)109
1938 • * 9 p.c. = 21,780 1 375 2 4,484
To staff fund, £5OO )
1939.. 27.554 9p c = 21,780 1 4274 28>758
To staff fund, £l5OO j
1940. . 26,206 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) oo iqi
To staff fund, £lOOO f 34 6 32)184
1941.. 25,085 9'p.c. = 21,780 ) 24 qk 34 SRQ
To staff fund, £l5OO j 5 34)589
This Melbourne “dry” hotel —it began as
a coffee palace in the 1880’s —is centrally
situated, has a moderate tariff and has
always been a popular rendezvous for
both inter-State and country visitors. The
Victoria adjoins Melbourne Town Hall,
fronting Little Collins-street, and accom-
modates about 900 people. It consists
partly of freehold and partly of lease-
hold. The lease, which runs out in 1993,
carries a nine-storeyed building, erected
in 1927, and provision has been made
to recover the outlay through a sinking
fund. The freehold section was rebuilt
in 1934.
During the last 23y years shareholders
put up £135,100 of fresh capital, which
brought with it £74,800 of share pre-
miums, and £80,900 of bonus scrip has
been scattered. The average rate of div.
was 17.3 p.c. for the years to the close
of accounts in 1931, and 9 p.c. for the
next decade. But the past, especially
the booming 1920’5, cannot be accepted
as a reliable guide to an uncertain
future.
Last term there was plenty of money
about, and men from the camps and their
relatives helped to swell the demand for
city accommodation. After deducting
trade exes., which remain on the up-
grade, the co.’s gross earnings (£59,134)
were £1453 better. Including an extra
£4453 for taxation (£18,653), other exes,
took all the gain and £521 besides, leav-
ing the net result at 10.6 p.c. on capital
as against 10.8, 11.3, 9.3, 10.5 and 9.2
p.c. for the five preceding terms. The
div. was kept at 9 p.c.
Reduction of the debt, incurred mostly
on account of 1934 rebuilding, continues
to the benefit of cash and investments
and the interest bill:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Capital . . £193,600 £242,000 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities .. 117,141 83,591 70,862 62,538
Freeholds .. 264,637 240,654 236,884 231,443
Leaseholds . . 102,692 97,805 96,538 95,962
Plant & furniture 39,757 17,655 16,663 13,939
Stores .. 952 1,041 1,944 1,662
Debtors . . 101 289 208 254
Investments & cash 1,819 12,810 11,554 13,646
When the books closed, the outside debt,
which consists of a mortgage of £43,452
(down £12,621) and £19,086 (up £4293)
coming to sundry creditors, exceeded
more or less liquids by £46,976, an im-
provement of £lO,lBO over the twelve-
month.
The market prices the f.-p. 10s. shares
at 16s. 6d. as against 15s. 3d. a year ago.
At the higher price the return is 5.4 p.c.
on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
11s. sd. in net tangibles.
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 18,577 8 p.c, = 16,998 1,579 28,737
1932.. 19.649 7 „ „ 15,603 4,046 32,783
1933.. 16,898 6 „ „ 13,864 3,034 36,817
1934.. 21,598 6 „ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund, £l5OO 41,534
1935.. 23,314 5i p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £lOOO 49,082
1936.. 17,819 5J p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,601
Staff fund, £5OO 51,101
1937.. 30,106 p.c. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO 62.037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
1939 1 .. 24,869 6 „ ~19,360 1 . . QO , fiQ
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..] 4)499 70)269
1940.. 32,482 6 p.c. = 19,552 I, n . Qn on rqq
Staff fund, £2500 . . I. f 10 ’ 430 80)699
1941.. 26,881 5 p.c* 18,486 \ r one caj
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. | 5)895 86)694
This is one of the excellent co-operative
organisations performing stout work for
the land man by marketing his produce
at economical cost. Rapid progress
followed the taking over of John
Bridge’s northern business in 1920, and
halfway through the last term the co.
further added to its stature by absorption
of Sturmfels P.P. Co-op. by an exchange
of scrip on a pound of paid capital basis.
Support has been partly attracted by
Articles which limit the div. to 7 p.c.
until 20 p.c. of commissions is rebated.
Actually, these rebates of recent years
have been 25 p.c. of wool and fat-stock
charges, and 20 p.c. on store stock, prop-
erties and produce, the amount involved
last year being £16,505 (up £2457).
The co. now handles over a quarter
of the Queensland clip, or half as much
again as any other broker. It is also
the principal cattle consignee and second
in the matter of sheep:
Year Wool, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
1934.. 82,556 40,567 91,170 £2,841,731
1936.. 136,249 34,629 123,095 2,757,074
1936.. 98,278 28,479 82,881 2,538,797
1937.. 118,355 35,155 73,746 3,775,628
1938.. 109,626 34,344 109,492 3,170,570
1939.. 122,709 37,361 83,309 2,865,275
1940. . 152,270 28,249 84,392 3,269,662
1941.. 165,382 32,647 81,746 4,124,373
Seasons were adverse, particularly in the
south, during the first half of last year,
aggregate Brisbane wool receipts falling
from 640,463 to 588,028 bales, while
heavy rains brought serious sheep losses
in the second half. But because of the
expansion referred to, full benefit of
which will not accrue till the current
term, the only department of the
Primaries’ business to suffer setback was
the sheep agency, and turnover recorded
a sharp spring of £854,711. Most of that
was probably due to inclusion of the
equalisation wool payment for season
1939-40, not received till last term.
Weightier outgoings left the net result
£5601 lighter at 7.2 p.c. on average capi-
tal, as against 9.9, 7.7, 7.2 and 10.7 p.c.
back to 1937. Div. was cut from 6 p.c.
to 5 p.c., and another £2500 passed to
employees’ funds.
Any capital profit or loss on the
Sturmfels deal was adjusted through
inner reserves:
lff3o. 1935. 1940. 1941
Paid capital.. £211,147 £272,407 £880,821 £877,949
Liabilities* .. 222,693 622,402 481,068 581,552
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 111,987 199,721 199,401 262,634
Plant, etc. . . 11,281 81,328 40,878 46,085
Advances .. 358,889 628,906 683,776 708,335
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 787 101,579 602 75,397
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Capital advanced £47,328 and the debt
by £100,484, three parts of which was
held in cash when the books closed.
Together, cash and advances, which
appear to be mainly against self-liquidat-
ing produce, etc., covered outside liabili-
ties by £200,180, a decline of £3129.
Wool-store additions are in progress.
Seasonally, current term has for the
most part opened satisfactorily.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
1981.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1982.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions, £21,083 ~ 28,933
Profit.
1983.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 19,042
1934.. 9,319 2i p.c. = 7,292 2,027 21.069
Taxation, £5OOO .. . . .. 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c, = 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 .. .. 20,989
1936.. 30,019 BJp.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 „ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
1938.. 36,871 9i „ „ 28,375 8,496 40,948
1939.. 37,121 10 „ „ 29,868 7,253 48,201
1940.. 21,319 8 „ „ 23,895 45,625
1941.. 21,579 6 „ „ 17,920 3,659 49,284
Though competition has lost none of its
keenness, the public is consuming the
co.’s pies and other fare in growing
quantity, both in the co.’s own tearooms,
of which 45 (including three pleasure-
grounds) are scattered in and around
Sydney, and over the counter. Lengthen-
ing employment and payrolls and pro-
gressive modernisation of eating-houses,
two more of which are to be similarly
treated, have both helped. Still, the
benefits to income haven’t offset war-
time cost of provisioning and running
the restaurant business, and there doesn’t
seem to be any more butter on the co.’s
bread than is apparent. In two years,
taxation alone has lifted £19,584, the
latest slug (imposed November) being a
5 p.c. sales tax on cakes and pastry.
Though two branches were closed last
year and transport difficulties, which the
board hopes to overcome, made agency
connections hard to maintain, gross earn-
ings (£297,092) went ahead £17,095. But
only £260 represented additional profit.
The rest was absorbed mainly by taxa-
tion (£29,460, up £10,101), £4600 added
to wage bills by basic-wage adjustments,
full effects of which haven’t yet been felt,
and £1254 more for depreciation
(£14,978). On capital, the £21,579 called
profit ran out at 7.2 p.c., as against 7.1
p.c., 12.4, 12.3, 11.2 and 10 p.c. back to
the end of a lean period in 1935.
“In view of existing uncertainty”—
further tax imposts appear lurking around
the State as well as the Federal corner,
among other things—another two-point
cut was made in the div. (6 p.c.). On
that basis the pound shares at 235. 6d.
returned 5.1 p.c. The cover is 235. 3d. in
net tangibles.
With new building restricted, last term’s
depreciation was applied to reduction of
the rather bulky debt, the excess
(£138,836) of liabilities over more or less
liquids being cut back £16,682:
1929. 1935. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. £272,050 £291,666 £298,682 £298,682
Mortgages .. 289,760 130,228 127,744 126,644
Overdraft .. 30,666 21,220 23,799 5,275
Sundry cred.* 51,278 49,368 72,230 74,532
Freeholds .. 676,428 297,426 296,527 295,660
Leaseholds .. 12,586 6,861 20,173 16,121
Plant, eta. .. 96,325 94,500 112,982 104,977
Stocks .. 29,481 6,788 19,781 20,906
Cash, debtors,
etc... .. 25,788 41,072 48,474 45,709
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,988 77,348 79,105 79,105
* Including provision for taxation.
Plant (£BOO5 lower) is reported in a high
state of efficiency, and that should mean


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * V
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
He can show you how to get
the “last ounce” out of your
petrol ration and top perform-
ance all the time from your
Producer Gas unit!
His advice is yours free and behind that
advice there’s years of training under the direction
of Ford Motor Company of Australia.
He offers you —
/A "PRECISION" check on the petrol con-
sumption of your engine and expert advice
on how mileage can be increased.
0% An engine economy tune up —at amazingly
moderate costf Similar tuning has already
WU increased the petrol mileage of hundreds of
other transport operators by up to 25%. When
miles mean money your FORD DEALER can be your
most profitable assistant.
3 Up-to-date direction on the purchase, fitting
and operation of Producer Gas units. Ford
Motor Co. of Australia has made an excep-
tionally comprehensive survey of the Producer Gas
units manufactured in this country, and the results
of this thorough investigation have been made
available to all Ford dealers. For the latest informa-
tion on substitute fuels and the problems you may
encounter SEE YOUR LOCAL DEALER and obtain
the benefit of his motor engineering knowledge
and friendly unprejudiced advice. He has the facts
you want!
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
FACTORIES AT GEELONG, SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
F198.24H
M
CRAVEN A puM,
tmei varies- they be „
ahveufs smeciittkeslt!
10 for 10d. 30 for 18
o
4*
*1?
E 1867
PREVENT
much. Shareholdings comprise mainly
Lucullus Pty., to which the Melbourne
end of the business and a slice of the
debt was passed in 1930. Also scrip in
City Property Estates, Pearson’s Fish
Cafe, Sargent’s (Wholesalers), which does
the buying, and Sargents (Newcastle), an
associate with seven branches in the coal
metropolis. Precisely what all these turn
in N.S.W. company law doesn’t require
the board to divulge, but “subsidiaries,”
representing a book investment of
£18,991, netted £452, as against a £2256
deficit the previous year.
City Electric Light
The co.’s half-million debenture issue,
term 10 years, met a kindly reception.
The 4i p.c. interest offered is a good
yield, returning 1 p.c. more than that
obtainable from the long-dated portion
of the last Commonwealth loan and
comparing favorably with the income
obtainable from similar public-body
securities in the market. Secured by a
first mortgage on the Brisbane power-
house freehold and a floating charge over
the whole undertaking, the issue is
being made a trustee security in the
northern State. The money is wanted
to meet demands on the reticulation made
by war-time industry, and the last balance
sheet shows principal and income covered
and 5 times each respectively. Sup-
port for the issue, which has been under-
written by J. B. Were and Son, members
of Melbourne ’Change, will be afforded
by a sinking fund of £1 p.c. p.a., avail-
able for purchasing the securities on the
open market. Under legislation enacted
a couple of years back, City Electric is
centre of a scheme for co-ordinating and
extending the supply of current over
10,000 square miles of country stretch-
ing from Gympie in the north to the
N.S.W. border. Share issues have financed
past expansion.
Chewton has joined next-door neighbor
Wattle Gully G.M. on the div. list with
a 6d. distribution. The two ventures are
the only survivors of the late Chewton
(Vic.) revival to have passed anything
but call notices on to shareholders. Chew-
ton appears to have developed a fair
tonnage of ore in the intermediate levels
below 688 ft., which is about the depth the
flat west-dipping reef in Wattle Gully
was very productive, and, though the
future is not yet assured, there are
chances that the existence of payable
stone associated with a major easterly
dipping fault above No. 8 horizon may
enhance ore prospects. At Wattle Gully,
which has a production exceeding 120,000
tons for some 55,0000 z, gold and divs.
of £243,000 to its credit, net earnings for
the latest six months are £7365 down at
£31,131, of which £27,000 was paid away
in six 6d. divs. Throughput and re-
coveries were affected a bit—like the
West, Vic. mines are feeling the labor
position—but the co. continues the State’s
most consistent producer with a grade
around 7dwt. and prospects shiny.
* * * *
Adelaide-controlled Snowy River Gold
Dredging, one of the largest of the
“mosquito fleet” on the South Island’s
West Coast (M.L.), has got away to a
good start. Net earnings for the initial
5y months’ dredging, including running-
in, came to £9213 (Bd. a share). Gold
recoveries have since improved from an
average 81oz. to 170-200 oz. a week, and
with nothing in the way of debt the
board is in a position to distribute profits
as they are earned. Just how long present
values will be continued has to be seen.
A new area has added a fifth to the co.’s
acreage, originally estimated to contain
12\ million c.y. of mostly Bd.-12.7d. wash
(gold at £7 10s. net, as against £8 3s.
now being received). Capital is in 280,000
ss. shares, at a 50 p.c. premium in the
market.
* * * *
Renison Associated Tin Mines, N.L.,
formed January, 1934, to acquire a group
of tinmines at Renison Bell, on the
Speck’s West Coast and which Lem-
priere’s helped along, is now actively
developing the Cable, Railway, Battery
and Reid’s lodes, ore from the last being
hauled by locomotive three miles to the
mill. Main ore supply is derived from
tin-bearing metamorphic intrusions into
the Dundas slates which characterise the
district. Mining is mostly by opencast,
with adits to facilitate ore-handling and
mullock removal. Plant comprises 20
head of stamps, with Harding’s ball mills,
grinding pans, concentrating tables and
Minerals Separation type flotation cells.
Owing to a high percentage of sulphides
(pyrrhotite, marcasite and pyrite) flota-
tion of the entire mill pulp prior to
gravity concentration was found most
efficient, and a table extraction of 72
p.c. attained. Grinding to -200 mesh
has been found necessary to liberate the
fine cassiterite. Final flotation of the
gravity tails produces a tin concentrate,
and the new flotation unit is being
enlarged to deal with the whole of the
mill tailing. Anticipated extraction is
85-90 p.c. Capital is £50,000 in 4s. shares.
* * * ♦
Latest half-yearly ore estimate of
Paringa (W.A.) is 474,412 tons, grade
4.83dwt., an advance of 12,725 tons on
the previous computation, gold content
fractionally lower. That puts reserves
nearly five years ahead of the present
mill, with a longer future indicated.
Persistence of payable values in the main
lode channel on the 800 ft, level, now be-
ing opened up, is the encouraging feature
in the Paringa mine, where crushing
material is being broken at 300 ft., 520 ft.
and 640 ft. over widths up to 20ft. and
more. In Croesus mine, one of the pro-
mising new acquisitions, 600 ft. of good-
grade ore has been driven on at 400 ft.
Improved metallurgical practice is also
reported,
* «c » *
Towards the end of 1940 Carbine Gold
Mines (W.A.) gave £ll,OOO in cash and
30,000 paid shares for the Bellevue, at
Ora Banda. Now it has taken an option
over the Foundation lease, adjacent to
the Bellevue, which is still being worked.
Foundation is reported to have a reef
outcropping on the surface for 1200 ft.
“showing values all the way.” A 176-ton
crushing from one part of the workings
is said to have returned 27dwt. a ton,
samples taken from another part 48dwt.,
and working costs are estimated to be
low. Purchase consideration is £5600,
* * * *
Mt. Magnet (W.A.) field is bent but
not broken by the closing-down of the
London-controlled goldmine of that
name. It still has Hill 50, Swan Bitter
and other shows to rely on. Mt. Magnet
is one of the oldest centres on the Mur-
chison, and has had many ups and
downs in the past.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) announces a tenth six-
penny dividend, payable October 8. The
new £25,000 share-issue will become div.-
participating after Oct. 17.
« * * *
Claude de Bernales, whose four-million
Westralian goldmining group has failed
to earn a dividend with gold at eight
guineas stg. an ounce, is advocating a
gold price double that figure in the
avowed interest of post-war reconstruc-
tion. For Great Boulder Prop., which
hasn’t paid a dividend since the advent of
the British excess-profits tax, he is also
appealing to the Chancellor of the
Exchequer to change the base tax year
to 1939.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
THE ATLANTIC MEETING.
[The aim here is to give a representative coverage
oi American reactions to the historic meeting “some-
where in the Atlantic” of Mr- Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill (on Mr. Roosevelt’s initiative), and to the
eight-point “peace aims” subsequently announced. The
importance of the meeting was perhaps most heavily
emphasised by the sort of comment it provoked in Ger-
many and Italy. The German propaganda machine
ground out: “The whole world realises the eight points
are a ridiculous outcome of so important a meeting.”
Gayda, referring to the stated aim “the final destruction
of the Nazi tyranny,” said that if this aim “were really
maintained the World War would last 10 years or more.”
This aim, he said, was a “revelation of the imperialistic
and aggressive spirit which guides Churchill and Roose-
velt-” The American comments here condensed from
a wide range of sources were published immediately
after the announcement of the joint declaration, prior
to Mr. Churchill’s speech dealing with the meeting;
they can be accepted as fairly representative of the
America which Mr. Roosevelt addressed last week.]
Declaration and Its Background
(From New York “Times”)
The nautical setting for the conferees —they
shuttled between the cruiser U.S.S. Augusta and the
battleship H.M.S. Prince of Wales —fitted into their
personal backgrounds. Mr. Roosevelt, a collector of
naval lore since his youth, had helped ready the
United States fleet during the first World War, when
he served as Assistant Secretary of the Navy. Mr.
Churchill had been First Lord of the Admiralty in
1914 and again in 1939 after the outbreak of the
second World War. The face-to-face meeting of the
two leaders capped more than a year of contact by
emissary—including Harry Hopkins and Wendell
Willkie—and by transatlantic telephone.
The timing of the secret parley was regarded as
significant. It came as Adolf Hitler’s Germany, after
almost two years of unchecked success in battle, found
herself confronted with a formidable two-front war.
Russian defence had cast doubt on the legend of Nazi
military invincibility. British bombers were giving
the Reich an increasing taste of destruction from the
air. Occupied Europe was stirring with unrest. On
the other side of the globe, a firm Anglo-American
line seemed to be in the drawing against a Japan once
more on the march.
The meeting seemed symbolic of a new and tre-
mendous effort by the democracies against the aggres-
sors. There was little doubt that a farseeing course
of Anglo-American co-operation on the various war
fronts had been charted.
Summarised, the “peace aims” to which the two
leaders put their signatures—Mr. Roosevelt’s was above
Mr. Churchill’s —were:
1. No territorial or other aggrandisement by the
United States or Britain.
2. Territorial changes only through self-determination.
3. “All peoples” have a right to choose their own
forms of government; those forcibly deprived of the
right should have it restored.
4. Free international trade,
5. World-wide co-operation to secure “improved
labor standards, economic adjustments and social
security.”
6. “After the final destruction of the Nazi tyranny,”
assurances of a secure peace, of “freedom from fear
and want.”
7. Freedom of the seas.
8. “Abandonment of the use of force,” disarming
of aggressor nations and lightening “for peace-loving
peoples the crushing burden of armaments.”
In the language and principles of the eight points
could be seen the thoughts and voices of both states-
men, Perhaps the staunchest opposition to a listing
of war aims came from Britain’s Prime Minister.
Tenaciously he clung to the conviction that the first
objective of his Government must be the crushing of
Germany, the lifting of “the curse of Hitler from the
brow of mankind,” Argument over “peace aims,” Mr.
Churchill held, would divide British opinion, detract
from national unity and thereby from the primary
goal of destroying Hitler.
Mr, Roosevelt, on the other hand, showed more
concern over post-war problems. Last January he
spoke of a world in which the “four freedoms”—
freedom of expression, freedom of worship, freedom
from want, freedom from fear —would be assured.
* * * * *
(Arthur Knock; New York “Times”)
In achieving an international conference at sea
President Roosevelt carried through an interesting
and dramatic plan that has been steadily in his mind
since the rise of Hitler began to threaten the peace of
the world. Though what the President always con-
ceived as a peace conference materialised as a war
conference, the setting and the scene follow his original
idea.
In 1936, when he was a candidate for a second
term and international relations were going from bad
to worse, the President’s first sea conference plan
began to evolve. As he saw it then: After his re-
election perhaps a small group could meet somewhere
at sea or in some quiet port, such as is found in the
Azores, and lay enduring foundations for world peace.
The group he mentioned in conversation with friends
always included the then King of Great Britain,
Edward VIII; the President of France, Hitler and
Mussolini, Occasionally he wondered aloud whether
it would be possible to have present also Stalin and
the Empqror of Japan. But everyone with whom the
concept was discussed promptly said that, of course,
Stalin could never be personally introduced to a gather-
ing in which Hitler and Mussolini would agree to
appear.
In August, 1936, an outline of this Presidential
plan or hope was published in the New York “Times”
as one of the most interesting ideas that an American
President had ever entertained, and as a possible pre-
scription for world peace.
In 1938 and 1939 the President, who had never
been able to see any practicable way to put his sea-
going general peace conference into operation, began
telling friends of another idea. It was a meeting with
Hitler somewhere in the Atlantic in an attempt to work
out a formula whereby Germany could be satisfied
without war. The President told at least two persons
that he had tried to send discreet feelers to Hitler
through Mussolini, but had had no luck with them.
* V * * *
Comments on the Declaration
(New York “Times”)
This is a war of personified forces, leaders per-
forming as nations, human wills and passions blown
up into storming armies—and Franklin Roosevelt and
Winston Churchill incarnate in their own persons the
force of democracy. In the play of would-be gods
and self-elected giants, they are figures representing
the only two great Powers left in the world that speak
with human voices, in the name of people.
Behind the President and the Prime Minister, in
the background of the momentous decisions taken in
the fields of policy and high strategy, there was a
third power at this conference —the power of destiny.
In the apocalyptic struggle that envelops the planet,
the United States and Great Britain have no choice
but to act together. This is the fate and the fact, the
immense and inevitable fact of Anglo-American part-
nership that overshadows even the eight-point state-
ment of war aims made by the two leaders. Yet
this in itself is a document of great importance.
This joint declaration, without precedent in Anglo-
American history, will guide the efforts of the United
States and the British Commonwealth of Nations until
both the war and the peace are won.
Two decisions of immense importance are im-
plicit in the declaration. The first is concerned with
—New York “World-Telegram.”
ANOTHER ENCIRCLING MOVEMENT!
the future of the German nation, the die cast against
“dismemberment” as a method of maintaining peace,
The German people are assured that once “the final
destruction of the Nazi tyranny” has been accom-
plished Britain and the United States “desire to see
no territorial changes that do not accord with the
freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned.” To
the extent that British and American statesmanship
can make the good faith of their promise apparent to
the German people, they will rob Hitler of his greatest
weapon—the present belief of the German people that
the outcome of this war means life or death for the
German nation. And to the extent that Germany’s
power of resistance is broken by the enormous air
superiority which Britain is certain to achieve, and
the truth then dawns upon the German people that
they cannot and will not win this war, the degree of
their faith in this Anglo-American promise will become
a factor of immediate political importance.
Even more sweepng in its implications is the
assurance given to tormented and war-weary people in
every corner in the world that the great power of
Britain and the United States will be pooled in the
work of post-war reconstruction.
# * * * *
("Wall Street Journal” Washington correspondent.)
_ . ~ T t o ,
Basic idea in Washington is that the U.S. will be
m the war—all the way in. It underlies the Roosevelt-
Churchill war aims * The U.S. acted like a full-
fledged British partner. It underlies defence pre-
parations—big ones like keeping troops in service,
creating a four-million army, building embarkation
points ; and little ones like censorship plans and
reserves of overseas Blitz equipment. Itsanassump-
tion to be weighed in business and private planning,
Congress wouldn’t declare war today, barely let draft
extension squeak by, manhandles the army s request
for offensive equipment. But Congress won’t cast the
die. British pressure and Axis victories push the war
closer to America. Britain wants the U.S. in. Axis
world-order plans may shove the U.S. in.
*** * f *
(New York "Daily News.”)
It appears that Mr. Roosevelt, who suggested the
meeting, has sold Mr. Churchill on the “four free-
doms” —but with a notable omission. Nothing is said
about freedom of religion, to be enjoyed all over the
world after the Nazi tyranny is finally destroyed.
There remain only freedom of speech, and freedom
from fear and want. This neglect to say anything
about freedom of religion is in deference, we take it,
to our new ally, Joe Stalin.
The agreement is a sort of treaty, as we read it,
between the United States and Great Britain. We
have small doubt that Mr. Roosevelt, sincerely and
idealistically, envisions a happy and ordered world,
with everybody in it living according to democratic
rules, and with himself as President of the whole lay-
out and Mr. Churchill as his Prime Minister. We
fancy Mr. Churchill has a somewhat different mental
picture of the rankings of the two rulers of the new
Utopia. That is what we are being led to fight for —
a Utopia.
* * • * *
(New York “World-Telegram”)
This programme, based on the hope and expec-
tation of victory, must be implemented by action.
As far forward as imagination can project itself
the future of the world looks bleak enough to dismay
the most determined optimist. Even a sudden peace,
on whatever terms, might aggravate rather than miti-
gate the economic miseries of the globe. That America
can escape a heavy share of the hardship is no longer
possible. Even its ability to avoid direct entangle-
ment in war is by no means certain.
Mr. Roosevelt has great resourcefulness and great
daring. Under his leadership the country has been
committed to a degree of participation in the affairs
of the other hemisphere. At the same time
he is pledged also to keep American troops
out of the wars of that hemisphere. The
immediate future may determine whether
those two commitments can function side by
side.
But that 203-to-202 vote in the House in
extending army service does not sound like
any mandate for another A.E.F.
* '-f * *
(Ludwell Denny; New York “World-Telegram ”)
An Anglo-American alliance to defeat
Hitler, followed by an Anglo-American armed '
peace for world freedom and economic
security, is the essence of the joint declaration.
Neither Mr. Roosevelt nor Mr. Churchill
has authority to commit his country to the
political and economic changes involved in
their pledge. Only Congress, as restricted by
the Constitution, and Parliament —not to men-
tion the Dominion Parliaments—can do it.
On the basis of the past Congress is un-
likely to consent to such participation in
world responsibilities as the declaration
defines. Nor will Congress reverse the tariff,
monetary and other economic policies which
have helped prevent equality in trade and
raw materials.
Nor is there any evidence that the British
Parliament and British capital would be any
quicker in relinquishing the Anglo-American
monopoly or semi-monopoly on most of the
world’s raw materials, trade routes, markets,
credit and gold.
* * * *
C lsolationist New York "Journal-American.”)
President Roosevelt has committed the
United States to an eight-point programme
of co-operation with Great Britain and her
Allies —including Communist Russia —in the
conduct of the present war and in establishing the
conditions of peace thereafter.
The President has done this entirely on his per-
sonal responsibility, without consulting either the
American Congress or the American people, and, of
course, without the specific consent or approval of the
Congress or the people.
This is a grave assumption of authority and exer-
cise of power by the President.
It may mean war for the United States, in the
face of the known fact that a preponderant majority
of the American people do not want war.
It clearly means political and economic alliance
—if not actual military alliance—with Great Britain,
for which the American people have no desire, and
with Communist Russia, for which the American
people have utter repugnance,
* * * „ N * *
. , , {Ne r w York , 1 } , ,
Their formula for a putative peace could have
been developed without one having left the White
House or the other having ever departed from Down-
mg-street. It would impose an impossible strain upon
credulity to suppose that they did not take advantage
of this opportunity to reach understandings respecting,
or ® xam Pl e , developments in the Far East, the in-
creasing tendency of Vichy to yield to Nazi wishes,
the security of Singapore, the status of Martinique
anc j Dakar, joint and several responsibilities in Iceland,
strategic dispositions of their maritime resources in
the possible event of war in the Pacific as well as in
t he Atlantic.
* ’ * * * *
(Walter Lippmann; New York "Herald Tribune.”)
jt will be said by his critics that the President
exceeded his powers in committing the United
States to a collaboration which extends beyond this
W ar into the post-war world. They are mistaken. He
has, indeed, made a great commitment, but so did
President Monroe when, after negotiations with Great
Britain, he committed the young and feeble republic
to the defence of the Western Hemisphere against the
allied absolutisms of Europe.
The action of Monroe was audacious to the point
of recklessness. Yet it was right in its conception of
the American interests, right in its basic understanding


■
mam-- 4
zkm
■
■
~ . . . .. .
* ,
RPC
ŵ
£xii>c
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
of the fact that this interest could be maintained
because in essentials the British interest was the same.
Because it was rightly conceived and rightly founded
in the realities of world politics, the Monroe Doc-
trine, which began as a Presidential declaration, has
stood the test of time and is universally accepted, even
by men who, if they had had to vote on it when first
presented, would surely have objected violently.
This joint declaration, because of the practical
and necessary collaboration which it advertises, will
also stand the test of time and come to be universally
accepted in the U.S.A. For there is no turning away
from the fact that the independence and the security
of the English-speaking peoples require their close
and unbroken collaboration.
*****
(New York “Herald Tribune” comment.)
The declaration of “common principles” consti-
tutes a broad plan of the democratic future —a posi-
tive future, worth hoping for, worth working for and
worth fighting for. It is both a promise and pledge —
to the enslaved millions of occupied Europe, looking
for a hope which will justify the perils of revolt; to
the Germans, unhappy amid the slaughters, hates and
privations in which their maniacal regime has in-
volved ’them ; to the people of Britain, grim in their
endurance of the struggle, and to the people of the
United States who may still be asking what this world
conflict means to them.
The result is a powerful statement of a plan for
democratic victory, the announcement of a hope
around which all men may rally and the implication
that behind this plan and this hope there is the joint
economic and military power capable of realising
them with whatever action circumstances may demand.
*****
(Major George Fielding Eliot; New York ‘‘Herald
Tribune.”)
Hitler knows now the terms upon which he can
have peace ; they are terms to which he can never con-
form, being what he is. The weapon upon which he
had counted most is stricken from his hand. He
cannot afford the derision with which any peace he
could bring himself to offer would now be received.
The issue has been too sharply drawn between his
world and ours, the contrasts too mercilessly empha-
sised. His hope was to sow confusion in the hearts of
simple, peace-loving folk: his knell will sound as
those plain men and women everywhere read the words
of the Roosevelt-Churchill statement and take this,
its simple message, for their guide —that the world
cannot exist half slave and half free. Henceforth it is
our system, or theirs. It is we, or they.
* * * * *
Britain “Jolted”
{New York “World-Telegram” writer Raymond Clapper,
visiting London, and reporting from there.)
England was jolted hard by the close vote of the
American House of Representatives on the bill ex-
tending the service of the troops. The British public
has had a wistful idea that we were on the way into
war. This idea had been growing rapidly of late.
Many who knew by word of mouth that Roosevelt
and Churchill were meeting expected an American
declaration of war as a result.
At the height of that rosy expectation came the
one-vote escape of President Roosevelt from defeat
not on the question of going to war but only on the
matter of extending by 18 months the term of the
American draft army. England was stunned. I don t
think I have spoken to anyone here who has not men-
tioned it and asked in bewilderment how it could have
happened. . ....
Then came the eight-point Roosevelt-Churchill
statement as another blow. It said nothing about
America going to war. The sense of letdown was
acute. Upon landing at Rockland, Me., Mr. Roose-
velt said the United States was not closer to war as
a result of his meeting with Churchill. So there is
no longer any reason for the British public to nourish
false hopes about the imminence of American entry
into the war.
Not only the British public but high officials of
the British Government had allowed themselves to
become overoptimistic, but before Churchill left for
the meeting with Roosevelt American officials had
made it emphatically clear to him that he must not
expect any war commitment from Roosevelt. The
political situation in the United States was carefully
explained, and the practical difficulties in the way
were emphasised.
*****
Nation-wide Comments
(The following brief comments are condensed extracts
from other U.S. newspapers.)
There is in the Eight Points, as there was in the
Fourteen, a promise of consideration for the van-
quished as well as the victors. Two decades ago the
victors broke their promise, then fell fast asleep. This
time, if the Axis is beaten, it might be well for the
victor to keep faith, but to carry his pistol on his
hip until the future is safe. — Boston “Globe.”
*****
The statement is unimpeachable. Nobody favors
territorial aggrandisement. But with the free world
still so far from “the final destruction of the Nazi
tyranny,” which is essential for the establishment of
these principles, it may be questioned whether the set
of pious objectives which emerged from the Roosevelt-
Churchill meeting may be regarded as a sufficient jus-
tification for the political and physical risks
the conference must have entailed. — Baltimore Even-
ing Sun.”
# * * * *
To say the least, it is an inspiring document when
measured against the blighting policies which have
been shaped and put into effect as a result of meetings
at the Brenner Pass —Washington “Evening Star.”
* * * * *
All told, the impact of this unprecedented meeting
will be to brush the scum off of American and British
thinking. Henceforth, we know, and so does the world
know, that America stands committed.— Louisville
“Courier-Journal.”
« * * * *
The declaration will prove “momentous” only if
its noble purposes are implemented, and its fine ob-
jectives made sure of attainment, by the muster of
armed forces strong enough and well enough equipped
to beat off brute aggression by land and sea and air.
New Orleans “Times-Picayune.”
*****
An empty gesture unless America is prepared to
go all the way in helping win the war. — Galveston
“News.”
*****
Their joint utterance some day may rank as one
of the great and historic statements of mankind.
America’s Fourteen Points of 1918 almost became
a great utterance [but] we lost heart and decided we
did not mean it. If we lose heart again, it will be
another forgotten paper covered with once-glorious
—Wilmington “Morning News," U.S.A.
KITTEN TODAY, MANEATER TOMORROW.
words. If we mean it —if we will fight for it it can
and will come true. — Cleveland “News.”
* * * * *
Mr. Roosevelt pledged himself to the destruction
of Hitler and the Nazis. In the circumstances in
which this was done Mr, Churchill would insist that
it was the pledge of a Government, binding upon the
country. The country repudiates it. Mr. Roosevelt
had no authority and can find none for making such
a pledge. He was more than outside the country. He
was outside his office.
The American people can rest assured that Mr.
Churchill was paying little attention to the rehash of
the Wilsonian futilities. What he wanted to know
was: “When are you coming across?”— Chicago
“Tribune.”
* * * * •
The Roosevelt-Churchill statement is notice to
Hitler that peace can come only on recognition of the
rights of humanity and of groups of human beings
called nations. The meaning to the United States is
that the President has pledged all we have and are to
defeat Hitler. — Milwaukee “Journal.”
*****
It is interesting to note that no penalties are to
be imposed such as those which followed the World
War. This feature may do something to allay the
fears on the part of some 6f the German people who
have been told by Hitler and his associates that they
must fight to victory now because defeat would mean
their enslavement. — Sioux Falls “Argus-Leader.”
*****
It will be interesting to hear what Congress thinks
of the President’s action in entering into an “alliance
with Great Britain without consulting the Senate.
President Roosevelt avoids consulting the Senate by
ẃ


because all imports to that country from overseas
are controlled by the British blockade and navicert
system.
The Germans, until the invasion of Russia, were
at liberty to buy their needed war supplies in North
and South America under various neutral cloaks, and
import them to Germany either by Vladivostok or
Dairen. Their chief difficulty always was the lack of
shipping, and now, of course, this is enormously inten-
sified. The American export-licensing system, which
seemed rather tentative at first, has lately been ex-
tended so as to become itself a form of economic
warfare.
Meanwhile, despite leaks, stocks not only of Ger-
many but of all continental Europe are being ex-
hausted. Conquest after conquest has multiplied Ger-
many’s economic problems and made further con-
quest necessary. The Russian invasion is the most
eloquent possible proof of this. Even if she had
eyerything in Europe, the Middle East and parts of
Russia, she would still be without rubber, tin and
numerous equally essential products. Nothing less
than the entire world can solve this economic prob-
lem, and the whole question is whether it shall be
solved Germany’s way, which is by the enslavement of
non-German peoples, or according to the principles
hitherto held by Western nations during periods of
peaceful sea-borne trade.
A brief examination of the German position with
regard to essential supplies will show that economic
warfare, in spite of all these spectacular conquests,
has proved a consistently effective weapon, and still
is today.
The main supplies for Germany which have been
seized in transit by the British blockade are petroleum,
cotton, skins, hides, tin, rubber, copper, gums and
resins, chemicals, oilseeds and foodstuffs. Exact
official figures in metric tons are available on all such
seizures since the war began, but the importance of
economic war lies not in what has been captured en
route to Germany, but what has been prevented even
from starting. Judged on this basis, the total punish-
ment inflicted upon the German economy has been
immense. The last year of so-called peace was per-
haps somewhat deceptive, since Germany was then
straining every resource to pile up stocks for war.
Even so, 1938 provides a graphic illustration of what
Germany can no longer do. In that year, she imported
777,800 metric tons of crude oil, mostly from
Venezuela, the United States and Mexico ; 1,357,102
metric tons of benzine ; 22,159 metric tons of kero-
sene ; 1,467,566 metric tons of Diesel oil; 388,034
metric tons of lubricating oil; 405,690 metric tons of
fuel oil; and 520,773 metric tons of tar and pitch.
These huge figures represent the effort made to
accumulate those reserves which have kept the German
army going these 23 months —and will last some un-
specified further time, but not for ever. They are
accompanied by equally huge figures for other essen-
tial materials. In certain materials, such as bauxite
and iron, the conquest of Europe has eased the situa-
tion for the Germans, but over a greater range of
essentials nothing but sea-borne trade can provide
what they need. Even a completely conquered and
plundered Russia could not provide it all.
Some important stocks were obtained by con-
quest-tin in Holland, for example. The food situa-
tion inside Germany was greatly eased for some
months by plundering conquered countries. However,
the result has been to create serious food shortages
among all subject peoples without permanently im-
proving Germany’s own rations. Slaughtering cattle
in Denmark and confiscating fish from Norway are
devices which automatically defeat their own pur-
pose. They kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Already there appears the necessity for Germany to
release some of her own stocks to sustain the con-
quered peoples whom she looted last year.
Similarly in European industries, since deindus-
trialisation cannot be accomplished overnight, Ger-
many is at present obliged to keep the whole machine
going somehow. Deportation of hundreds of thou-
sands of conquered people from one country to
another on forced labor is no solution to the problems
of such a country as Belgium, for example, or
Northern France. These densely-populated industrial
areas cannot be turned into cabbage patches in a few
months, and if they were they could not support then-
populations. For the soundest political and military
reasons, Germany is obliged to provide them with
some kind of sustenance, which means continuing their
industries from available raw-material stocks. Under
the present economic warfare, this turns each new
conquest on the continent of Europe into a liability,
after its confiscated or “purchased” stocks are used up.
Rumania has been the biggest haul the Germans
have made so far, because it produces 6,200,000 metric
tons of oil every year. This is about enough to run
the German military machine six months, going full
tilt. It is about one-quarter of what Europe normally
requires to keep going in peace-time. It is, therefore,
by no means enough, even on the unlikely supposition
that the Germans can get every drop of it in the first
year. Transport and man-power are economic prob-
lems of the utmost importance, particularly in the
Balkan area and inside Germany itself. Every effort
is apparently being made to develop artificial substi-
tutes for essential products, but nothing has yet been
invented to supplant either oil or men on the largest
scale.
The ultimate result of economic warfare, I believe,
after examining a great deal of evidence, must be to
cause the total collapse of the Nazi system, if it is
accompanied by intense bombing of German industrial
centres. Such bombing is already possible, and will
become much more feasible in a few months. The
enslaved and overworked inhabitants of Germany
itself have, according to everybody who has lately
been there, no enthusiasm for the victories of the
German army. This form of warfare, plus bombing,
will do to them what it did in 1918 —turn them against
their masters.
But I said “the ultimate result.” The immediate
result is another matter. Since Europe cannot possibly
ẅ
—New York “World-Telegram.”
BOOK-ENDS.
States now are fearful of total world conquest and
can give you the complete pattern of it.
Here, we suggest, is blindness of the extreme oppo-
site kind, known to the psychiatrist as hysterical
amblyopia—that is, a loss of vision induced by fear.
This myth of invincibility has become a powerful
German weapon.
Battles one after another are presented to view,
with glimpses of superhuman precision and efficiency,
and as you add them up the effect is terrifying. You
are bound to concede that in battle the Germans have
outthought and outfought the defenders, save only
in the air battle over Britain, and that is not finished.
But remember, you are looking at battles and not at
the war.
If you look away from the battles and at the
war itself you will see that, for all his dazzling and
scientific Geopolitik, Hitler’s grand strategy or design
for war has utterly collapsed. Take it in the largest
possible outline. What do you see? Leave out the
Italians, who are a liability, and the Japanese, who are
staggering and elusive, and some little bought people
who do not count, and you have —what? Eighty
million Germans against the world. It is a picture.
Less than one-twentieth part of the human race sepa-
rately hated and feared and subject to vengeance.
Hitler never dreamed of finding himself in that
situation. In his Mein Kampf his most bitter denun-
ciation of the regime that lost the other war was that
it made the wrong alliances. He wrote that to escape
the fate of extermination in Europe the German
people would have to take care never again to “make
enemies of everybody in the world.” He would not
make that mistake. He would make strong alliances.
As he looked about, he could see only two pos-
sible allies in Europe. They were England and Italy.
As he weighed these two, one against the other, Italy
went out. It was England above all, England only,
because there was no longer “a necessary English
interest in crushing Germany.” He could dream of
dividing the world with England ; he could not imagine
fighting her. The “catastrophic self-deception” of the
German regime in 1914, he insisted, was to under-
estimate British power and mistake the English fight-
ing character.
Then he made the same blunder. He had to take
Italy, after all. The jackal was no substitute for the
lion. Facing the lion, as he never meant to do, with
only the jackal behind him, he made his pact with
Stalin. But of Russia he believed and had written in
w


Sc Hu
*5
g ER V
3 =
3 =
sa
TT
= =
■ =
3 ~
r ~
= =
= =
• -
1
1
i
SCHUTE BELL BADGERV LUMBV LTD.
Announce ENLARGEMENT
of WOOL STORE, Harris St., Pyrmont
To meet our increasing wool business we are
building extensive additions to our present wool
store, which will provide ample storage and
additional show floor space, with all modern and
best lighting facilities, for the appraisement of the
coming wool clip.
1 BENT STREET. SYDNEY
TeUqroms: Schufe Bell. Sydney. Telephone: 8W4341.
| 12-1-41 |
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS
FAT 8C STUD STOCK AUCTIONEERS
STORE, STOCK AND PROPERTY
SALESMEN
t
©
“NATIONAL” GAS PRODUCERS
TAXIMAN’S REMARKABLE TESTIMONY
•NO TROUBLE WITH STOPPING AND STARTING at MP H
• ONLY REQUIRES CLEANING EVERY 1200 MILES—TRAVELS AT 60 M.P.H.
• EXCELLENT ON LONG RUNS, TOO—SAVING £5 PER WEEK
• DOES EVERYTHING ASKED FOR
Mr. G. E. Dixon, taxi owner, writes; —
“1 would like to show my appreciation
of the excellent result's obtained since
fitting a ‘National’ unit to my taxi cab,
by submitting to you a commentary on
its general performance.
“J have covered six thousand miles
since having it fitted this over, a period
of five weeks (1200 per week).^
“I find no trouble in working city
ranks, so far as starting the motor is
concerned, because it has never failed
me up to periods of 20 minutes waiting.
We are always able to get away on a
full head of gas.
“Before procuring the unit, I was
doubtful as to whether it would be able
to cope with the heavy demands asked
of it on taxi work, but I am happy to
say it does everything asked in this
respect.
“As regarding running costs —I was
using approximately 70 gallons of petrol
weekly prior to fitting (that was with a
day driver and myself) at a cost of
£B/10/- approximately. My full costs
now on charcoal are down to £2/16/-
per week, i.e., 4J to 5 gallons of petrol,
10/-, and 14 sacks of charcoal at 47-
equals £3/6/-, which is a net saving
of £5 per week.
"I find that if the hopper and filter
systems are cleansed once a week (1200
miles) it is sufficient.
“There is no undue sway of the car at
high speeds; as a matter of fact, it
holds the road much better with the
extra weight, and allows me to take
bends on country roads at 35 miles per
hour, with ease. Its top speed, when
warmed up, is 60 miles per hour with
a full load of six persons. The car is a
1940 28 h.p. De Soto.
“The possibilities of its performance
on long runs and hills can be judged
by a trip run two weeks ago. I left the
City for Gosford at 12.15 p.m., and
(including a hold-up at Peat s Ferry and
crossing) arrived at Gosford at 2.2 p.m.;
running time, 77 minutes; distance, 50
miles. Petrol consumed, about 1 pint,
charcoal 1 \ bags, which covered return
journey cost in all 6/6.
FOR FONG RUNS OR SHORT RUNS—FOR MAXIMUM POWER AND FUFF THROTTLE
• efficiency:
THE ‘'NATIONAL” STANDS ALONE!
i\nfpnTATF T)FT TVERIES PROMPT FITTINGS AND EXPERT SERVICING ._ Trr
“nationaij n«
INCORPORATING WISUARi PAIEN IS,
Make your FIRST cost your LASTi
FIT YOUR CARS AND GAS PRODUCERS-
Write .r 'P hone “ NATIONAL fuel engineers,
N R.M.A. HOUSE, 3 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone: 87753-87754 ..
. ‘ v: .-Vi
W
<0
m
m
1
m
V
m
No. 1 Quality:
Unlined . . 40/6
Lined .... 43/-
Super-Suede Quality:
Unlined . . 55/-
Lined .... 57/6
yy Hats
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS
AND STORES.
There’s unmistakable character in these
English Woodrow Hats. Even after
many months of hard wear in all weathers
you’ll still be proud of your Woodrow.
From the dress-conscious young man to
the governing director there s a Woodrow
style and colouring that presents the best
hat-buying value obtainable.
iphe Wo r jd
may be in bad shape,
but that doesn’t mean your hat
has to be . . .
T N fact, that's one of the admirable things about
Britishers: they retain their own sense of values.
In the face of calamities that overwhelm less
phlegmatic races they're still acutely interested
in the hang of their trousers and the shape of
their hat.
It's a trait that's often puzzled foreigners.
And it's worth remembering that, though you
can't put the world to rights all by yourself,
you're playing a part in the old tradition when
you refuse to let the shape of the world condone
the shape of your hat.
R. HUNT & CO.
314 George Street .


m h»m ma&
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
rj
~ . .;.« V*.
ŵ
SPECIFY " LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
w
to make single crosses, and in these the
vigor lost in inbreeding is regained and
may even outdo that of the original
plants. Single crosses are uniform in
character and appearance. After they are
thoroughly tested for yield and agronomic
qualities they are crossed again in all
possible combinations to produce double-
hybrid seed, which is again tested before
being released to growers. This testing
is important. Sometimes a hybrid will
suit only a limited area.
Seed from a hybrid crop isn’t any good
for further sowing; the resultant crop
will fall heavily in yield and show all
sorts of queer mixtures. Fresh seed has
to be obtained every year, so that plant-
“Will youse blasted kids leave that ’orse alone?”
breeders have to keep on crossing and
selecting to obtain the right hybrid seed.
It will be some years before large quan-
tities of hybrid seed are available in
N.S.W. «
Lime Deficiency,
“J.R.D.”: Who told “R. Ney” (B.
3/9/’4l) that cereal hay contains suffi-
cient lime to meet normal animal needs?
j n n.S.W. cereal hay is notoriously low
in lime and animals fed on it will quickly
lose condition unless the deficiency is
made up. Prime lucerne hay has suffi-
cient lime and is also rich in protein,
which cereal hays lack,
Phosphoric acid deficiencies can safely
look after themselves. If they are re-
garded as protein deficiency and steps
taken to correct that by supplying a
concentrate like bloodmeal, meatmeal or
peanutmeal, they will disappear. Suc-
cessful economical feeding depends on a
correct balance of lime and phosphorus,
though it can stand a ratio of two to one
either way. Exceed that ratio and the
stock go off.
Breeding stock need better feeding than
dry stock. Young animals pinched in
early growth remain stunted. Green
herbage and sweet grasses are the best
natural feed. Dried-off pasture may keep
wethers in condition but it lacks some-
thing that other stock require. Science
is trying to explain these deficiencies and
how to counteract them. The difficulty
is that practically every grazier’s feeding
problem differs.
Weed Killing.
“Huxave”; Sodium chlorate is outing
arsenical compounds as a weed killer.
On the east coast it acts better as a foliage
spray, but inland is a soil steriliser.
For most weeds a weak solution, £lb.
sodium chlorate to lOgal. water, is suffi-
cient, and lOOgal. of solution an acre is
usually enough. For heavy growth, in-
crease to 150 or 200 gallons, and for
deep-rooted, tough perennials, the strength
of the solution should be increased to
11b. sodium to lOgal. water. Deep-rooted
weeds usually need two or more spray-
ings when they are making growth. An
ounce of glue to lOgal. of spray makes
it cling to foliage.
The spray acts quicker when the air
is moist, and rain after spraying speeds up
the destruction. As a soil steriliser, dry
or in solution, sodium should saturate the
base of the weed. Early winter applica-
tions are best.
Sodium chlorate kills all plants and is
dangerous to stock. Clothes, boots or
woodwork sprinkled with it become in-
flammable and, once dry, can be ignited
by sparks or friction.
Wear rubber boots and mix the stuff
in the open in metal vessels.
Sunflower Seed.
“Pallam”: Australian farmers can
usually develop the machinery necessary
for handling new crops. Noel Barrett,
the Narrabri (N.S.W.) man who has done
good work with Mitchell grass, has found
a way to harvest sunflower seed, and
R. Doolin, out in the new North Star
wheat country, announces that he also
has a machine for the job.
Barrett sowed his sunflowers in March,
but thinks that a little too late for his
district. He used 71b. of seed an acre
in 2lin. rows and got a fair crop not
seriously bothered by frost. He believes
a thinner sowing might have been better.
The sunflowers held their seeds well, birds
and shattering causing very little-loss.
Barrett greatly enlarged the reel on an
old International reaper-thresher, using
three bats instead of six and adjusting
the speed with a larger sprocket. The
concave was dispensed with. The steel
shield under the canvas was removed to
stop stalks jamming there, but standing
stalks then stabbed the canvas, so an
iron bar was dragged to knock them
down.
Maize could be harvested by the same
machine, though Barrett suggests the seed
might need drying. England has drying
machines for grains, and he made one to
English plans. It allows furnace gases
mixed with cold air to be blown through
the grain, and was efficient for various
damp grains. But it cost him £4OO.
Doolin used a Sunshine header for his
sunflowers. He grouped the fingers in
pairs, with about an inch between each
pair, and extended the comb about 4ft.
with 4in. by lin. pointed battens bolted
to the standard comb. This stopped the
heads falling to the ground when the
stalks were cut. The beaters in the drum
were fitted with rubber to stop them
breaking the seed, and the outfit did a
good job.
Nobody should rush into sunflower-
growing without thought. The market is
limited to about 2000 tons a year, mainly
for bird-seed. The oil aspect is un-
certain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Yeno Ham”: Although he opposes
dehorning of stud stock, that hardy
veteran George Grey, Greyleigh, Kiama
(N.S.W.), patron of the Australian Illa-
warra Shorthorn Society, says he favors
removing the horns from cows in ordi-
nary commercial dairy herds. He says
that handfeeding of big herds is simpli-
fied if the cows are dehorned, and the
stock are much more contented.
“Bundalinga”: Canary grass is a quick-
growing annual winter pasture to supple-
ment rye grass and substitute for oats.
The grass sometimes reaches a height of
Sin. to 12in. or more five weeks from
sowing, when it is ready for grazing.
Most satisfactory rate of seeding is 301 b.
per acre, broadcast and disced in to
about 2in. Results are'better when the
soil is compacted by the use of a heavy
roller.
“Mt. Boppy”: When establishing
clovers, even a shallow scratching of the
soil gives far better results than are


Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON.
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
ẁ
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good ior maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd.. Melbourne.
Victoria
William Adams & Co, Ltd., Adelaide. S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
ẃ
ẅ
FORM A GROUP! JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES.
w
mmmmwmiHwip
EMioftsj iUDIP
THE EASILY MIXED ARSENIC POWDER SHEEP DIP
Manufactured by.
Vic. Distributors.
Qld. Distributors.
S. A. Distributors.
Elliotts & Australian Drug Pty., Ltd., 35 Bligh Street, Sydney.
D. G. Officer Pty., Ltd., 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Taylors, Elliotts Pty., Ltd., 154 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
A. M. Bickford & Sons, Ltd., 42 Currie Street, Adelaide.
obtained when the seed and fertiliser are
merely broadcast on the ground. Returns
will be quicker if the seedbed is culti-
vated. First country to be improved
should be that where vigorous surface
working is possible. Country without
natural plant cover requires more atten-
tion to surface cultivation than country
well grassed but devoid of clovers. Grass
tussocks form a natural seedbed for
clovers,
“H.C,”: The 1941 Queensland cotton
crop may yield 12,500 bales, worth over
£900,000 to the State. In recent years
there have been, yields of over 7001 b. of
seed cotton per acre, returns averaging
£7 10s. to £lO per acre. Better yields
and quality are being got through
rotation. Maize and sorghum are both
good, but Rhodes grass is regarded as
No. 1 rotation in dairy-and-cotton coun-
try. The grass is rich in protein. Old
cultivations, sown to Rhodes grass
for three or more seasons, appreciably
increase the yield of both cotton and
butterfat per acre. Cotton-growing
under irrigation is steadily increasing. In
1940 the Queensland Government installed
no fewer than 50 irrigation plants
throughout the cotton districts.
“Goulburn”: Watch rubber parts of
the milking machines. If the machines
are not properly washed the fat in the
milk will cause the rubbers to soften.
Softened rubbers become centres of con-
tamination, and milk which comes in
contact with the rubber will be affected
in the same way, so watch the milk pipe-
line, the airline and the vacuum tank.
Replace rubber pipes and inflations that
have softened.
“S.D.”; Silverfish can live for six
years, can go without food for nine
months and one female may lay 56 eggs
in a year. Where they can be got at
mix 4oz. of pyrethrum powder and a
quart of kero., shake well and let stand
12 hours. Then strain through fine muslin
and add fluid oz. of methyl salicylate.
Use as a spray. For a poison bait mix
4oz. of flour with part of three pints of
water to make a smooth paste, then add
4oz. sugar, }oz. salt, loz. finely-powdered
sodium fluosilicate, glycerine and the
rest of the water. Apply the paste, while
hot, to squares of cardboard and place
them in the silverfish haunts. They’ll
do for years.
“Jayem”: D. C. Pryce, Toogoolawah
(Q.), a native of N.S.W. South Coast,
has been judging dairy cattle at shows
throughout the Commonwealth for 63
years. He managed dairying operations
for the Scottish Australian Investment
Co. at Talgai West (Q.), and then looked
after dairy farms totalling 4000 acres on
the Darling Downs for Nestles. In 1916
he won 42 prizes with 36 head of cattle
at Brisbane Show, taking the largest
cheque for prize-money ever paid to one
individual by the Queensland Royal
National Association. In recent years
Pryce has been running his own farms.
“Huxave”: Noxious in N.S.W., mint
weed (Salvia reflexa ) is spreading from
the Darling Downs. A rank poison, 21b.
of the dried matter killed a sheep and
a young bovine in three days. It is an
annual, 3in. to 4in. high, and is recog-
nised by its small blue and lilac flowers.
Crushed, it exudes a strong sagelike odor.
Prevention of seeding is best method of
control.
“Ben C.”: Using what is apparently
a Yankee version of the skim-plough, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture has
evolved a method of ploughing in places
like the Oklahoma dust-bowl and other
erosive parts which doesn’t turn the
stubble and weeds in but leaves them
on top of the soil to hold it. “A plough
that runs beneath the surface without
turning the soil over” is the American
description, “It is a different type of
plough from the turn [mouldboard]
plough and runs almost level. It is set
so that the shares really pry the soil up,
loosening it rather than being forced
directly through and turning everything
over.” It is claimed that the stunt pre-
serves about three times as much of the
rainfall as do normal ploughing methods.
Most of the American wheat-country soil
is fairly loose and friable. How the
machine would go in heavy clay stuff,
or in the mallee with its underlay of
stumps and limestone, is a problem.
Outback Occasions.
No. I.
THE DOGS AND THE MOON.
The occasion of the full moon, the
frosty night and seven dogs is something
that few bush-dwellers have missed. It
begins when the wind drops about 4 p.m.
Every cloud has been driven from the
sky, there is a pale, golden stillness over
everything, the blue wood smoke from
the kitchen chimney goes straight up like
a carved pillar. Over against the west
the trees stand in silhouette, not a leaf
stirring. The evensong of a magpie spills
its liquid melody over all, and the air has
just that chill, steely touch that makes
you want to breathe it in deep.
The sun goes down rapidly to the rim
of the world and then hangs, half-sunk,
for long minutes, while far in the east
faint shadows collect and come forward
and go back and there is a far axe sound-
ing where somebody cuts his back-log
for the night. Then the sun is gone and
four stars are in the east above the
shadows and the ground crackles a little
underfoot, and you can smell mashed
potatoes and frying chops and you hurry
to get washed.
About nine o’clock you go out and
have a look round while you feed the
working horses. The world is a fairy-
land of moonlit glory, the moon itself,
great and bland, hangs in the clear sky
and there is no wind and nothing stirs.
The roof gleams white and high, very
high ; pinions beat as black swans pass
over. You wonder if that means rain,
then hurry inside because it is cold and
go to bed, thinking what a bonzer night
it is for sleep.
An hour later you are awake again,
for the seven dogs are singing. Not in
unison, but in a sort of follow-my-leader
concert that leaves no break in the theme,
no surcease for the ears. Hurriedly get-
ting out you throw up the window, put
your head out and roar that they’re a
lot of crimson mongrels, and if they
don’t sit down you’ll come out there in
a minute and, by cripes, you’ll give em
something.
Six of them stop. The seventh is
over behind the woolshed and can’t hear
you. He howls on, but suddenly stops
as he realises he has the stage to him-
self. With a grunt you get back to bunk.
Ten minutes later the dogs, having de-
cided that you don’t like their singing,
begin barking. Not at once, however.
Ruff gives an experimental yap or two
and, when nothing happens, Lady lets go.
Then Spieler, greyhound with the voice
of a lion, opens out. In a few seconds
they’re all at it. You climb out again,
rush to the window and roar. Silence,
except for Darkie, who shouts back at
you from behind the woolshed.
Darkie gives up talking to you and
begins to hurl taunts at Spieler, who
promptly replies. In ten minutes they’re
all at it again, some barking, some howl-
ing.
“My stars,” you pray, pulling on
your boots and overcoat over your
pyjamas, “I’d give a lot t’ know why
these flamers howl on moonlit nights an’
a lot more t’ know why I can’t sleep
through it like other people.” You cock
an eye at the missus, but she slumbers
on, a look of perfect peace on her face.
You get the stockwhip and go out into
a scene of unearthly beauty. The whole
world —except the blasted dogs—sleeps
under the white blanket of the frost. The
moon is like a heavenly lamp in the bed-
room of the sky. Only the stars are alive,
flaring down at you as though wondering
what you’re about. You step off the
verandah into a puddle of icy water and
salute the night with appropriate lan-
guage, then, pulling yourself together, you
advance on the clamoring dogs. Ruff is
on his haunches near the woodheap, his
muzzle to the flaring stars, giving it all
he’s got. The first cut of the whip chops
a splendid arpeggio note in two, Ruff
yelps and vanishes. Every other dog
goes dumb and vanishes.
Standing there, breathing clouds of
vapor, you realise you’ve blundered.
Instead of rushing out like that you
should have come calmly, got the dogs
one by one and tied them up. Now
they’ve scattered and you won’t get near
one, because all know that whip, an
when you retire they’ll probably stait
again. No man has ever yet devised any
threat, cajolery, punishment or gag that
will stop dogs on a frosty, moon-drenched
night once they start. There is nothing
else to do but go back and muffle your
ears under the blankets.
There, as the warmth slowly creeps
back into your bones, you wonder. Are
there dogs on the moon that bark when
it’s full so that earth dogs can detect the
vibrations of sound? Is it the canine
way of feeling the stark, lonely beauty of
the night? Do they cry for their lost
freedom, for the days before the first
dingo crept into a primitive fire and put
his head under a man’s hand for ever?
Or is it just plain cussedness because they
know you’re in bed? You’re still won-
dering when they start again, this time
well up the paddock away from whips.
Sleeping and waking, sleeping and wak-
ing, you somehow get through the night.
And in the morning the missus says,
“You seemed a bit restless last night,
dear. Were you worried about any-
thing?” «
“Who, me?” you say, with a sickly
attempt at cheerfulness. Then you make
for the top haystack and four hours’
solid sleep.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4 Jd. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
Many thoughtful contributions to this page come from South Australia. One,
on the subject of escapists, goes on top this week.
ŵ
skill to hand out than a penny or shilling
postage stamp. It lies upon the pur-
chaser to fill them in according to regu-
lation and send them on, trusting to
circumstances if they are delivered soon
or never.
But, no; arrive at a post office after
3 p.m. and you are unemotionally in-
formed that the Money Order Office is
closed till 10 a.m. next morning. The air
mail does not close till 5 a.m. next
morning, but, no matter » you must either
send on your letter minus the canteen
orders or hold it back for several days.
This kindly consideration for post office
employees might well find a correspond-
ing thought for the men overseas. —
Adsum (W.A.).
Conscription
On September 3, 1939, I wanted
immediately to join the army. The war
seemed a direct challenge, the issue clear.
The army didn’t want men ; it had trained
and semi-trained militia men with a leg
in, and the other list was long. On
October 3, 1939, I wasn’t so very keen,
although I still felt I should join. I tried
the Air Force.
On January 3, 1940 —still in civvies,
dissatisfied with my job and the progress
my application had made: the war then
being at a stalemate, the issue was be-
coming clouded. On April 29, 1940, I
was sworn in, still keen to go overseas.
Several weeks later I was posted over-
seas. I passed through Sydney Heads
with a neutral feeling, neither eager to
go nor eager to stay. Another month and
I wouldn’t have wanted to go overseas.
So it is with thousands. Thousands
now walking the streets going about their
normal routine existence tried to join
the army in the first six months of the
war. Now it is too late to recruit them
as volunteers; recruiting propaganda
leaves them cold—it is old and stale;
life is good and secure.
Failing conscription, anew conception
of recruiting propaganda is needed based
on the important fact that the war is
two years old. That for two years we
have had sensation piled upon sensation,
horror on horror, lie on lie, shock on
shock, so that we have become once
again inured, complacent, not able to dis-
cern what once seemed a clear issue.
Men have put off joining the services for
two years, and it will be infinitely harder
to touch them with propaganda hence-
forth than it was in the past.
Imagine a man who realises well
enough his duty to his country, his eligi-
bility for war service and its dangers,
but who has merely shirked facing up to
it for two years, and try to design a
recruiting message to make him raise his
head from out of the sand. If you can’t,
we must have conscription.—C. W. B.
(N.S.W.).
Poets and the War
I welcome “F.J.B.’s” criticism of my
item on poets and the war (B. 3/9/’4l)
because for one thing it shows that some-
body is interested in the subject. All the
same, if my statements are “difficult to
reconcile” some of F.J.B.’s are equally
so.
I saw little of “squalid poverty” in
three separate pad-flogs round eastern
Australia, hungry most of the time,
penniless all the time and carrying a
broken arm part of the time. Perhaps
I didn’t see it because my eyes were
dazzled by the great spirit I found, by
the roads themselves and the bush and
the wheat and the sun coming up with
its warmth and the everlasting Austra-
lian grin and the everlasting Australian
conviction that “Phar Lap would win
again, sooner or later.”
I shrewdly suspect that blokes like
Day Lewis, Auden and the others held
up by the “Argus” as shining examples
never went short of a feed and got their
knowledge of life from college and uni-
versity. You don’t find many blokes
who’ve roughed it ready to spout half-
baked Communism and disillusion. And
the average man does read poetry from
choice, so long as he can understand it.
How else could Shakspeare, Burns, Law-
son, Dennis and “The Banjo” have be-
come so popular? I know excellent verse
is being written here, but it isn’t the sort
of stuff the “Argus” was bleating about.
I’d like to see Lewis and co. tackle a
theme with the courage and beauty of
expression with which Douglas Stewart
tackled “The Fire on the Snow.” And
of course the best of our stuff “com-
pares more than favorably with contem-
porary English verse,” which is why I
tackled the “Argus” and its poetical gods.
In fine, “F.J.8.” has completely missed
my point, then come round to it. That
point was that local versifiers oughtn’t
to be misled by pallid Pinks and cults,
that their inspiration should not be the
Day Lewises, but their own country and
its people. No Pink, no devotee of a
cult, could even suspect inspiration where
I very much suspect it truly lives, in the
red heart of an optimistic people.—
C.H. S. (N.S.W.).
Army Medical Standards
All newspaper men who saw the arrival
of the first batch of German prisoners
in Australia agree that, on the whole,
they did not measure up to A.I.F.
physique and that a big percentage of
them would not have been passed by
Australian military doctors. This report
is flattering to the A.I.F, but not so
flattering to our army enlistment methods.
The truth is that Germany uses every
male of fighting age who is organically
sound and of normal health in some
branch of the armed forces, and the suc-
cess of her armies in the field would seem
to suggest that her fighting strength has
not thereby been weakened.
In Australia, where the smallness of
our numbers demands that every man
should be trained to bear arms in an
emergency, there are far too many well
authenticated cases of strapping young
giants being refused enlistment because
of varicose veins or myopy ; of athletes
refused for strained muscles, and of men
who have tramped scores of miles to
enlist being rejected as “flatfooted and
unable to march.”
The pity is that these minor disabilities
not only debar enlistment in the A.I.F.
but also debar from home defence train-
ing, militia recruits being subject to prac-
tically the same standards as the A.I.F.
And, on top of all, the Army Educa-
tion Directorate is now elaborating a
“psychology” test to prevent enlistment
of “misfits.” —W. K. D. (Q.).
Women in War
Can’t agree with The Bulletin’s
attitude (B. 27/8/’4l) to the Women’s
Home Army and to the sending of
V.A.Ds. overseas. From personal ex-
perience in the last war, when I met
large bodies both of V.A.Ds. and the
Queen Mary’s Army Auxiliary Corps in
France, I not only applaud the decision
but consider that it is overdue.
If it is feasible to send Army Nurses
abroad, why not the Voluntary Aids to
assist and amplify their work? They
carry out those hospital duties that would
otherwise have to be performed either by
other large numbers of professional
nurses (thus depleting to a serious degree
civilian hospital staffs) or by uniformed
men, presumably fit and well, who went
abroad to stoush the Hun and not to
scrub sickbay floors and carry trays.
Any Digger who experienced the inside
of a military hospital last time can testify
that there is no place for thrill-hunters
or glamor girls among the Voluntary
Aids. The work is tough and exacting.
Anyway, why thrust it all upon “women
from Great Britain”?
As to the Women’s Home Army, the
original Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps
was set up in Britain in 1917 to meet a
pressing man-power problem. The same
reason appears to be behind the present
decision. Typewriting, telephone switch-
boards, messroom waiting, are jobs nor-
mally performed by women in civil life,
and there is no reason why women
should not do them for the home estab-
lishments and allow those men who
volunteered with the object and hope of
being sent abroad to achieve their objec-
tive.
There is no harm in such women be-
ing enlisted for a specified period, bound
on oath to loyal service, disciplined,
quartered, rationed, restricted in move-
ment. Great Britain had 60,000 women
attached to the army alone in the last
war under such conditions, and thought
enough of the experiment to have the
complete organisation set up, on a bigger
scale, before the outbreak of this one.
Of course, there is an alternative, and
a good one —conscription, under which
there would be no man-power problem, no
anomalies and injustices, no unequal
distribution of patriotic duty.—Wash-
ington (Vic.).
Correction
Recently a Bulletin paragraph con-
cluded with “Isn’t Percy a dear?” Hav-
ing recently been astonished by the news
that Mr. Spender is sanctioning a weekly
journal for the army, and having nearly
drowned myself in saliva after contem-
plating the rates of pay allotted to the
Women’s Army, 1 am forced to conclude
that the par. should have ended “Isn’t
Percy dear ?”— Propalono (S.A.).
Information Broadcasts
What small use the Department of In-
formation broadcasts are is entirely spoilt
by their presentation and setting. A
three-minute “Stop That Talking” tabloid
is put on, and very prettily done, too, but
the effect is negatived by the next item,
which is announced without a moment’s
pause to let the message sink in: “Push
back your carpets, folks, for a spot of
jitterbugging with Lou Armstrong’s coon
sextet.”
In the same way recruiting appeals miss
when sandwiched between Friday night’s
Turf Guide and the relay from the
stadium; “What game fighters these boys
are! Five thousand fans are yelling
themselves hoarse.”
As for “Winning the War in Your
Kitchen,” if Victory is really assisted by
eating bacon and butter instead of beef
and jam, then for the Lord’s sake take
beef and jam off the market and don’t
just talk about it. —D. (Q.).
“Eat More Lamb”
Although we are exhorted to “eat more
lamb and help win the war,” the N. S.
Wales Government, by ordaining that
butchers’ shops are not to open till 8
a.m., seems to have taken a step more
calculated to further reduce consumption
of meat.
It has been common for households
within a reasonable distance of a
butcher’s to buy meat for breakfast.
Some butchers even delivered for that
meal to customers who had a standing
order. The new opening hour renders
either practice out of the question.— Tom
(N.S.W.).
Grading Meat
Consumers and producers would get a
better deal if meat were sold by grade
as it is in the U.S.A. People who can
afford it are willing to pay premium
prices for beef of higher quality, and
“ Mister — here's your 'at!”


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
those whose incomes necessitate economy
want to get the highest grade obtainable
for the price paid.
There are seven grades of beef in the
United States, graded on the basis of
characteristics that determine its value
and that provide the best indicator for
the customer. The degree of marbling
(intermingling off fat through the lean),
texture, grain and color apparent in the
cut surface of the lean are considered
the best indicators of quality.
Government standards have been
developed for the grading and standard-
isation of beef sold in U.S. retail shops,
and the grade stamp, found on all the
main cuts, takes much of the gambling
out of buying beef. The grade stamp not
only indicates the quality of the beef
it is a safeguard against the sale of in-
ferior meat at high prices.
Grading and stamping of meat by
Government experts in Australia would
be some guarantee to consumers that they
were getting the quality for which they
were paying, and the system might help
to narrow the margin between what the
consumer pays and the producer receives.
It would, at least, have a stabilising effect
on prices.—Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Drugs, etc.
An old professional crack at physicians
was to accuse them of making their
living by pouring drugs of which
they knew nothing into bottles of which
they knew little. Since the departure
of the slick young traveller who lectured
me for half an hour upon the therapeutic
miracles worked by his concern’s pro-
ducts, I’m wondering whether it isn’t
applicable today, at any rate with respect
to drugs.
It is a lot easier to write “Bilgeaq.
Cone., Tabs. 50,” and the rest than the
old-fashioned prescription. But one knows
the worst about the prescription as re-
gards results, immediate and remote.
Even the old-style patent medicine could
usually be depended on as made from
such stock formula as the famous aloes-
soap-ginger pill.
Now we have preparations with dan-
gerous habit-forming possibilities. Others
are potent depressants. Most of them
must return great profits to the manu-
facturer. Few are capable of doing all,
or even much, of what is claimed for
them by high-power salesmanship and
advertising.
Thirty years ago the Commonwealth
and State health authorities formulated
drug standards. They were embodied in
State Health Acts, and the powers are
still available. An Australia-wide check-
up on the whole subject is needed and
might well receive early and active
attention from the National Health and
Medical Research Council. —K. P. Q.).
Government Railways
Few things annoy me more than the
constant bleat in The Bulletin about
the pore taxpayer who has to make good
huge rail losses, the impression given
being that all unfinancial services have
been forced on the said taxpayer against
his will by a despotic and obviously
lunatic Commissioner.
The Ungarie - Naradhan (N.S.W.)
branch is a typical non-paying line built
at a cost of a quarter of a million to
open up some half-million acres of wheat
land. Earnings are below £2OOO, costs
£5OOO, total loss to the department
£14,500 p.a. Costs are fixed by awards
and cannot appreciably be reduced.
Earnings cannot be increased. Scrapping
the line_ would leave an interest bill of
£11,300 p.a. and no wheat.
Was the line built at the instance of
the local taxpayers? Certainly. Did they
expect it to produce revenue? Naturally
not. Did they worry about that? Not
they. Why then the sympathy?
N. S. Wales has another 50 such lines,
plus 10 whose profit is insufficient to
meet interest charges. Every mile was
built after strong representations by
bodies of taxpayers, and mostly against
advice of rail heads. Together they run
a deficit of £2,000,000, towards which
all taxpayers, including those who evafle
their responsibility by not using the
system, contribute £BOO,OOO p.a. The
balance is carried by railway customers,
which means high freight-rates and
suburban fares and is obviously unfair.
Scrap these 4200 miles if you like.
The interest bill remains £2,000,000 p.a.
Wheat can be imported, sheep confined
to drought-free country, beef- travelled
another 300 miles on the hoof and all
those lesser industries which depend on
the rail eliminated. As an idea it may
have its points, but seeing that the rail-
way is owned, controlled, worked and
used as well as paid for by taxpayers it
might be a better idea to find some new
expression to fit those denizens of
George-street to whom State railways at
any price are Public Enemy No. 1. —
L. I. B, (Bombasa, 8.E.A.).
Waste Paper
If my interpretation of the paper-
salvage campaign is right, “Mug Collec-
tor” (B. 27/8/’4l) can go on collecting
and receive his butter in even bigger
cartons with an easy mind. The Aus-
tralian paper industry has done a good
job in making us independent of overseas
supplies and providing our post-war
economy with another strong indigenous
industry. It has adequate natural re-
sources for manufacture of most of the
lines, and the rescuing of every possible
scrap does not present the same dire
need that obtains in Great Britain, where
paper represents an enormous import
item.
Paper salvage in Australia is now, I
take it, largely a splendid bit of fund-
getting opportunism by charitable bodies
(patriotic and hospital), which are utilising
their golden chance in a way that other
public bodies would do well to copy.
Metal salvage, of course, is an industrial
necessity.
Salvage from waste to the utmost
degree was practised by a number of large
English borough councils long before war
came to stimulate thrift. I cannot now
quote figures, but some large commu-
nities raised astonishing amounts out of
the collective ash-can, and ratepayers de-
rived the benefits. I commend the idea
as a permanent peace-time effort —it would
be at least one safe and manageable post-
war plan.— Vouvray (Vic.).
Maoriland’s Population
Maoriland has long prided itself on
one of the lowest deathrates in the
“ ’Ands up, you scabby Fifth-Columnist !”
world and the lowest infant mortality.
But other figures aren’t so flattering.
The present rate of pakeha natural
increase is only 8.47 per thousand of
population. That position is favored
greatly by the low deathrate; the birth-
rate being 21.19. The natural increase
was 31.19 in 1870 and has declined ever
since. Increasing limitation of the size of
families has much to do with this. A
significant fact is that, whereas 53 p.c. of
total first births occurred within the first
12 months of marriage in 1914, this pro-
portion dropped to 39 p.c. by 1939. The
average duration of marriage before the
first child is born is now nearly two
years.
The Maori, birthrate is 46.20, whilst
the deathrate is 19.92. The growth of
the Maori population in the past decade
has been a remarkable factor in M.L.
Taking the last census (1936) there were
52,000 Maoris under 21 and 38,980 over
21, compared with 540,100 and 1,009,821
for the pakehas. Thus the Maoris will
continue to increase on account of the
large number of potential parents, but
the pakeha tends to reach the stage when
the natural increase will drop owing to
an ageing population.
Like Australia, M.L.’s population—
except the Maoris —is flocking to the
Big Wens. Urban population now ac-
counts for nearly 60 p.c. of the total, as
against 40 p.c. in 1881. Rural popula-
tion has dropped correspondingly. The
Maoris have little use for giant human
rabbit warrens. They flourish on the
land of their ancestors and not in the
cities.
Maoriland and Australia show the
second-lowest t.b. deathrate in the world.
But as the proportion of people over 40
years grows in M.L. so does the cancer
deathrate. That scourge now causes over
11 p.c. of the total deaths, being ex-
ceeded only by heart diseases.
European gifts to the Maori include
the total of 44 p.c. of their deaths due to
t.b. Prior to the arrival of the pakeha
that disease was unknown.
If the pakeha wishes to justify his hold
on the Dominion he had better emulate
the Maori and help him cut his t.b. death-
rate at the same time. — Tinopai (M.L.).
Overpopulated ?
“Australia is overpopulated and birth
control is the only way to adjust it,”
wrote “Blue” (B. 16/7/’4l). Over-
populated with seven millions! It re-
minds me of “Too old at 21.” Actually the
curse of Australia has been the refusal
sponsored by the unions, to allow any-
one into the country until all their mem-
bers are in employment. This dog-in-the-
manger policy has kept our population
practically stationary for more than a
decade when it might have doubled it-
self by the immigration of millions of
decent British and North European
workers and their families. What a dif-
ference it would have made to Pacific
politics had we a population of 15 mil-
lions instead of seven! Indeed 15 millions
should only be a start in the grand pro-
ject to shift Britain from its dangerous
proximity to the Mad Continent to the
island Utopia ready for her in the
Pacific.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Egg Boards
Why have we come to such a pass
that we cannot cultivate the humble egg
without supervision of a board? It seems
a comparatively simple process—you feed
the hen, it lays an egg, you sell the egg.
The trouble seems to start here. But how
can boards or anything else successfully
interfere with the law of supply and
demand, especially as regards natural
products? Why shouldn’t there be a
downright fixed price for eggs? It would
be a simple matter for legislation.
If the cost of producing eggs starts
to rise the producer tells us that we must
pay more. We cheerfully do so, at the
same time advising him that the con-
sumer has the final say—if the public
won’t eat eggs at a given price it is not
a bit of good our buying them from him.
If the cost goes down, the consumer
again steps in and demands cheaper eggs.
We in turn inform the producer that the
public is kicking about the price—it must
come down or no sale. Thus quality,
quantity and price are all governed by
demand or the consumer. Where is the
need for a board in that set-up? Where,
in the name of commonsense, is the good
of a board? Can it make the hens lay
more eggs, can it make the consumer eat
more eggs?
The apparently insoluble problem is
the glut and scarcity periods. But if there
are more eggs than people want, why
should it be regarded as the logical thing
to reduce the price? Does this make
them eat more? Perhaps, but only be-
cause of the prevailing system, which has
educated the consumer to hop in while
things are cheap and make a welter of
it. If there were a standard price it
would simply mean that a proportion of
eggs offered for sale would not be sold,
but all sales would realise a reasonable
price.
While the practice of increasing the
price of any commodity when it is scarce
and reducing it when it is in abundance
is allowed to function unchecked instead
of a rational system based on the cost
of production, no amount of boards can
help the situation. —R. H. G. (W.A.).
Plays and the Public
In denying a report that J.C.W.
properties had been sold or leased to an
American movie firm, John Tail re-
marked, as I read, that his concern
has frequently talked about using its
theatres for pictures on occasion, the
idea having been forced on it by the
Federal Government’s attitude on dollar
exchange, which prevents it getting the
latest New York shows.
Why do entrepreneurs always blame
their conditions and never themselves?
I could mention a dozen shows produced
in the last few years in Melbourne back
streets by amateur companies which are
better theatrical fare than is currently
presented on the commercial stage. If
the amateurs, who have no money, can
get them, why can’t the Firm? If the
retort is that they are not what the public
wants, I would reply that the public never
knows what it wants but is astonishingly
easy to educate to want something that
producers want and believe in.
Take the case of Shaw. When he
wrote his first intellectual drama the com-
mercial entrepreneur said that the public
would not stand plays of ideas. Shaw
stuck to his guns, and eventually the
public was crowding to see Shaw in every
capital in the world, and Shaw is now the
most played and most read playwright of
the time and of all time. Again, they
said he would never go on the screen,
but his “Pygmalion” went so long in
Melbourne that the entrepreneurs began
to say that the difficulty was to stop it.
And now there is “Major Barbara.”
Why doesn’t the Firm put on the best
of Shaw and some of the finest plays of
Ibsen with good Australian companies?
Also plays by Eugene O’Neill, Gals-
worthy and some of the most brilliant
and intelligent of modern dramatists? If
it believed in itself as much as Shaw be-
lieved in himself, its belief would be
conveyed and the public would go.
The Firm apparently doesn’t believe in
itself —it believes in that hypothetical
monster public opinion, which is an in-
vention of entrepreneurs. So Australian
buyers go to London and New York and
pick up “popular” successes, many of
which are flops.— Cauboy (Vic.).
City and Country Life
I daresay the majority of Australian
city-dwellers prefer city life (partly
because they have known no other), but
there are many men who would much
rather see their children grow up in the
healthy country air, if it were reasonably
possible.
But with most country towns showing
a decline in population and many farmers
facing penury after years of toil, what
inducement is there for the family man,
city-bred and holding a city job, to quit
the Great Wen? Granted that the fruit-
grower and the wheat-farmer are excep-
tionally unfortunate because of the war,
drought and other calamities, the position
of the average man on the land does not
compare for security with that of the
average office worker or city shopkeeper.
Opening a business or finding a job in
a country town is out of the question
for most city men, for obvious reasons.
So they stick to the work they know and
the job they can do, and put up with
restricted playgrounds for their kiddies
and the prospect of a city existence for
them, too. It’s the safest way they know.
The matter could be remedied by a
Government strong and far-sighted
enough to make decentralisation a means
of national development. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Fruit for Tobruk
The following extract from a recent
letter written by a member of the Tobruk
garrison speaks for itself: “We have been
getting a certain amount of canteen stuff
lately. Chocolates, cigarettes, tobacco
and some beer. I don’t know why they
don’t get more tinned fruit out to us. We
have to pay 2s. a tin for it when it comes.
They should be able to do it for less
than that. Packing costs would be much
lower than for beer, and although the
boys don’t say no to beer they would
sooner have tinned fruit available to
them at a reasonable price and more fre-
quently. This is not only my own
opinion but also that of some hard
drinkers when they can get it,” — Plain
Jane (N.S.W.).


Want yenr car
to accelerate
more quickly?
No pleasure in driving a car with a sluggish,
unresponsive engine due to inferior or worn-
out spark plugs. Install new Champions and
enjoy the smooth, top performance provided
by full, hot sparks and complete
combustion- They will soon pay
for themselves in the fuel they
save. Factories, Feltham, Eng,
Windsor, Can.
Tbledo,
USA.
U
r a
%
jij”.
-SjJ
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Champions against
troublesome leakage, at the. shoulder
and past the center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark plugs. This
patented feature corrects rough, un-
even and wasteful engine operation
caused by leaky, overheated spark plugs.
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To buy The Australian Horse from Paddock
to Park, by McGillivray.—2383.
Collector of handwriting (not autographs)
wishes to get interesting samples.—2299.
To buy book containing stump speeches “On
Mosquitoes,” “On Bachelors” and “The
Mountebank.” —2251.
To buy Bushman or Buccaneer ? —2178.
To buy a copy of A. G. Stephens’s “Book-
fellow” for 15/3/’20.—2250.
Information Supplied.
Youanmi: The sage who fishes out the
answers for the Service Page was fishing in
troubled waters for that brief biography of J. F.
Archibald (B. 10/9/’41). He printed the com-
monly-accepted though erroneous story—and
one to which Archibald himself lent support—
that “Jules Franpois Archibald was born at
Warrnambool (Vic.) in 1856; his father was an
Irishman of Scottish extraction and his mother
a Frenchwoman of partly Jewish descent.”
Ninety-nine people in one hundred support that
account, but the facts are that John Feltham
Archibald was born at Kildare, near Geelong
(Vic.), on January 14, 1856; his father was
Joseph Archibald, police officer, born at Dublin,
Ireland, and his mother was, before marriage,
Charlotte Jane Madden, born at Cambridge,
England.
Information Sought.
I have seen reference • to the “Library of the
Indian Office.” Any figures regarding the
number' of books in this library ? Is it a col-
lection of English or Asiatic books?—- 2385.
The library contains some 12,000 manu-
scripts, including over a thousand volumes of
Arabic documents in a general collection, and
nearly 3000 taken from the Mogul archives
upon the . fall of Delhi, when some 2600 Per-
sian manuscripts were taken also. There are
3000 Persian manuscripts in a general collec-
tion. The library also comprises Pali, Bur-
mese, Sinhalese, Malay and Javanese paper
and palm-leaf writings. Of printed books there
are 14,000 vols. in Eastern languages or sub-
jects, and 42,000 on the European side.
* * * *
How is tobacco prepared for the different
forms in which it is sold? —2397.
Tobacco leaves are first dried, then cut into
small pieces, moistened and compressed, and in
this form the product is known as cut or “shag”
tobacco. When moistened with syrup or treacle
and pressed into cakes it is known as Cavendish.
Twisted into string form it is “twist” or “pig-
tail.” For cigars, the midribs of the dry leaves
are removed and what is left is rolled into
cylindrical shapes. For snuff, the tobacco leaves
are moistened and allowed to ferment, then
dried, powdered and scented.
# * * *
hat’ exact^y ’ arc fl otsam an d jetsam ? —
Flotsam is a legal term applied to goods lost
at sea and found floating on the water. Flot-
sam does not belong to the finder but must be
delivered up to the rightful owners, or, if no
owner appears within a year and a day, be-
comes forfeit to the Crown. The finder is,
however, entitled to a reward proportionate
to the value of the goods. Jetsam is a term
in navigation law signifying goods thrown into
the sea in order to lighten the ship in danger
of wreck. Such goods belong to the Crown
m default of other claimants.
Details of the Tichborne case? —24oo.
The Tichborne case was the longest trial ever
known in the English courts. It was begun
on May 11, 1871, when Arthur Orton, claim-
ing to be Sir Roger Tichborne, commenced pro-
ceedings to establish his rights to the Tich-
borne estates worth £24,000 a year, and lasted
until March 6, 1872, having occupied 103 days.
The claimant was nonsuited and arrested on
a charge of perjury. He had been under
examination 22 days, and the speech ol Sir
John (afterwards Lord) Coleridge extended over
26 days. The proceedings cost the estate over
£90,000. The claimant’s trial for perjury and
.forgery was begun on April 23, 1872, and lasted
off and on until February 28, 1874, when Orton
was sentenced to 14 years’ imprisonment. He
was released on ticket-of-leave in 1884, and
some years later made a written confession of
his guilt,
* * * m
Directions for making watertight concrete for
a tank? —239s.
All parts of the structure should be strong
enough to resist the head of water, internal or
external, to which the concrete is to be sub-
jected. Use clean, well-graded aggregates and
a relatively rich mixture; a 1-2-3 mixture or,
better, a Use the minimum amount of
mixing water that will give a workable plastic
consistency— not more than five gallons to the
paper bag of cement when the fine aggregate is
dry. Mix the concrete thoroughly until the
mix is a uniform color. Place the concrete
carefully in layers 6in. to 12in. deep, spading
or rodding it thoroughly to prevent the for-
mation of stone pockets or voids and to give a
good surface. If possible, place the concrete in
one continuous operation to avoid construction
joints. If placing is interrupted be sure to get
a good bond between the fresh concrete and
that placed previously by cleaning joints
thoroughly and placing a 1-1 mortar mix on
the joint. Keep the concrete covered and damp
for the first 10 days. The floor should be
placed and well compacted, after which the
side forms shou]cl be fi]led Special care
should be taken to work the concrete around
the blocks used for supporting the side forms
and to see that no dirt from earth walls falls
jnto the con cretc. Connections should be in-
serted at a proper height for a pipe to the
house pump, for a leader from the downspout
and f or an overflow
v %
, . , . „ , „ ~
c # , .J r s ln ihs called The Candle
5 f . .. C ' ow ' l Thorns 7—2113.
The Candle Snuffer is Eupomatia laurina,
? hardy evergreen which grows to 12ft., and
das ' ar 8 e shiny leaves and white flowers. The
Crown of I horns” is Euphorbia splendeus,
a s P re ading soft-wooded shrub which rarely
gr ,ows higher than 3ft. The limbs are covered
with thorns, few leaves and clusters of crimson
lowers. Needs a hot position to give best
results, is easily propagated from cuttings and
dlllves wed m large earthenware pots,
* * * *
* s someone at present compiling a dictionary
°f Australian slang? —23s2.
Yes. Sydney J. Baker has been collecting
Australian slang and idiom for six years, and
this year the Commonwealth Literary Fund has
given him a grant to complete the work. He
invites persons all over Australia to send him
contributions care Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
* * * *
Is acetylene gas suitable as a fuel for internal-
combustion engines ? —2380.
The cost would appear to be higher than
that of either petrol or coal gas, but it is
considered to be a feasible proposal. There
are difficulties to be met with in the question
of construction, especially with regard to the
metering of the charge. Acetylene has been
used for some years by those interested in
motor-cycle racing. Here again the control of
mixture strength was one of the many
difficult problems encountered, and occasionally
a charge would be taken into the cylinder
which would detonate with explosive violence,
shattering the cylinder head and endangering
both rider and bystander.
* * * *
Biographic details of William Bede Dailey?
' — 2382,
Dailey was born in Sydney in 1831, educated
at Sydney College and at St. Mary’s school,
trained for the law and called to the N. S.
Wales Bar in 1856 (Q.C., 1877). At the end of
1856 he entered politics, succeeding Henry
Parkes as member for the City of Sydney in
the first Parliament under responsible govern-
ment. Represented Cumberland boroughs in
the second Parliament and Windsor in the third,
but resigned the latter seat. Was Solicitor-
General for three months in the second Cowper
Ministry. He was one of the 21 new members
appointed to the Legislative Council in 1861,
but almost immediately he was offered the post
of Commissioner of Emigration, with Parkes as
lellow-Commissioner. They reached England
m August, and in the following June Dailey
resigned the post and returned to Sydney.
Though he represented Carcoar between 1862
and 1864, and was a member of the Legislative
Council from 1870 to 1873, he did not take up
politics seriously for some years. In 1875 Robert-
son put Dailey back in the Council and made
him Attorney-General in his third and fourth
Ministries. Dailey resigned from the Council
in 1880, again abandoning politics for some
years until the coalition under Stuart, which
ended the long rule of the Parkes-Robertson
coalition, persuaded him to reappear in the
Council and become Stuart’s Attorney-General
1883. In October, 1884, Stuart fell ill and
Dailey became Acting-Premier. Following the
news of Gordon’s death, Dailey offered Britain
a contingent for service in the Sudan. This
offer excited great enthusiasm in England and
Dailey gained renown. He refused a knight-
hood and the Chief-Justiceship, but consented
in 1887 to be made a member of the Privy
Council —the first Australian to receive the dis-
tinction. Died at Sydney, October 28, 1888.
* * * *
Directions for using Cyanogas to deal with
soil insects in lawns? —2399.
Treat immediately when an attack is first
noticed. Use Cyanogas A-Dust dissolved in
water at the rate of 16oz. to 50 gallons of
water. The solution may be applied by sprink-
ling cans, by a boom from a water-cart
or by a power sprayer. Immediately after
application follow up with a hose and water
the solution well into the soil. Sprinklers
should then be set on the area treated for from
three to six hours. The solution is particularly
effective if it can be possibly applied during
ram. Should not be used on very young grass,
under two months old, and should not be
applied in hot sun during the middle of the
day. Above all, the preparation is poisonous
and should be handled with every care.
* * * *
(1) Where did the North Australian buffalo
originate ? (2) How was it introduced to Aus-
tralia ?—. 2393.
(1) Bubalus buffelus is a species of cattle
native to India which has spread in a semi-
domesticated form to Italy on one side and
the Malay Archipelago on the other. (2) Three
buffaloes were imported from Timor to Mel-
ville Island in 1825 by the commandant,
Maurice Barlow. Since they throve and the
cattle from Sydney did not, another consignment
of 15 was imported in 1827 and 16 more in
1828, out of which eight were sent to Raffles
Bay. In 1829, however. Collet Barker reported
against further importations, declaring that they
were too poor to kill on arrival and too poor
to retain in captivity when once ashore. In
1838 the Port Essington settlement was
garrisoned and buffaloes were again imported
from Timor, so that, when in 1849 that settle-
ment was abandoned and North Australia left
for a time to itself, there were several buffalo
herds in existence. Those on the mainland,
following their instinctive desire for water, left
the Coburg Peninsula for the swamps of the
lower Alligator Valley and increased rapidly.
In 1857 the beginnings of anew herd were
made by accident. The barque Florence Street,
chartered to bring buffaloes to Sydney to
supply an exceptional demand for meat on the
diggings, loaded up at various points on the
Malay Peninsula and Burma, and on her re-
turn was caught in a typhoon and driven ashore
in Cambridge Gulf. Most of the beasts she
carried were drowned, but some escaped to
shore and established themselves in the water
meadows of the lower Ord.
Brief Answers.
J.L. ; (1) Yes. (2) No, not unless your wife
has divorced you. (3) If you mean by “sepa-
rated” divorced, no. (4) You are still married
and liable for the maintenance of your wife and
child unless she has in the meantime divorced
you... .H.W.M.: (1) You should appeal to the
Minister against the Commissioner’s decision.
See your local C.P.S., who is also Deputy-
Registrar of Old-age Pensions, and get his
advice. You might also get your Federal
member to make some inquiries. (2) No. (3)
No. He appointed a public defender to assist
poor persons charged with criminal offences.
C.H.W.: The agreement, being a wagering
contract, was null and void, and neither party
can recover his winnings from the other at
law. Apart from the legal .aspect, consider it
“no bet,” as there was no .complete agreement
on the conditions of the race or as to forfeits.
In any case, B apparently did not complete the
course R.8.P.: (1) Mittagong Shale Pro-
ducts, Ltd., Mittagong, N.S.W. (2) The Mines
Department does not undertake assays of coal
or oil shale unless samples are taken by its own
officers. Private analysts are Orr and Welch,
80 Hunter-street, Dixon and Byrn, Rieby-lane,
and Cooksey, Newman and Cos., 17 Bond-street
—.all Sydney... .1.G.: To wash floors and spray
crevices with kerosene has sometimes been found
a cheap, effective remedy. Otherwise get in
touch with Buzacott-Wolseley, 7 Market-street,
or Houghton and Byrne, 2 Bridge-street—both
Sydney... . A.W.T.: Apply to Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne... . R.D.8.: The kingdom
ot Bhutan is a semi-independent native State
m the Himalayas, between Tibet on the
north and British India on the south, with
Sikkam on the west. Agriculture is the chief
industry, principal products being rice, Indian
corn, millet, lac, wax, various kinds of cloth,
muS rk elephants, ponies and chowries....
.. ..D.F.T.: The order in which the colored
balls are potted in snooker is yellow, green,
brown, blue, pink and black, and they carry
•*> 4,5, 6 and 7 points respectively
5.H.0.: Should be possible to have a copy
made. Take it to a reliable firm of photo-
graphers... .P.8.K.: Quite feasible, and the
steps you outline seem the best way to go
about it... .X.Y.Z.: Sorry, cannot furnish
material for debates... .8.K.R.: Nor recipes
for alcoholic drinks T.P.S.: Write to the
Victorian Department of Agriculture 5.8. N.;
Neither. The atrium was the central court of a
Roman house, uncovered in the centre, usually
with a marble tank beneath the opening to re-
ceive the water from the gutters of the surround-
ing r00f... .C.D.L.: Take six soft herring roes,
wipe them in a cloth, and coat lightly with
flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Then egg
and breadcrumb them, and fry them in hot
butter Serve on fingers of hot buttered toast
garnished with slices of lemon P.R.D.: By
an Act of Congress approved by the President
1931, the words and music of
Ibe Star Spangled Banner” were designated
as the U.S. National Anthem. The words were
written in 1814 by Francis Scott Key, a lawyer.
They were sung to the air of “Anacreon
m Heaven”....P.G.M.; Recognition of the
Franco regime in Spain was confirmed by a
vote of .->44 to 137 in the British House of
Cqmmons on February 28, 1939. Chamber-
Jam, then Prime Minister, read a telegram from
Burgos saying that the new regime was not “dis-
aCto T. acce Pl an y foreign intervention”....
G.A.K.: No, you lose on that one. George I,
George 11, George 111, George IV, William IV
and Victoria were of the House of Hanover,
Edward VII was of the House of Kent and
George Vof the House of Windsor GM H •
There is also a Toledo in the U.S.A., on the
Maumee River in the State of Ohio C.M.M.:
The epaulette was worn by English army
officers until 1855, but now is confined to naval
officers... .8.J.P.; The crinoline of the nine-
teenth century was a partial revival of the
farthingale, fashionable in the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries.,. .T.AV.A.; The term
doublet is applied to a lens which has two com-
binations or separate lenses (usually similar in
construction) mounted at opposite ends of the
lens tube, one lens correcting aberrations of
the 0ther....J.8.H.: Yes, both of the same
origin, ichthyosis being a skin disease in which
the surface is dry, rough and scaly....
W.D.P.: The last recorded executions for witch-
craft in England were in 1716, when a Mrs.
Hicks and her daughter, aged nine, were hanged
at Huntingdon.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. 'Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS
wilt be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused;
G.D.: —
Ob, foolish men that puff and strut
And noses lift on high,
You’re out to kill a brother—
But you shall not get by.
P.H.K.:
Oh, Hitler, Mr. Hitler, you’ve a funny little face;
You’ve got whiskers on your top lip and your hair
is a disgrace,
W.M.F.: “Down and Out” it is F.8.W.:
Somewhat rhetorical G.H.: Ffomely, but
rough... .C.C.: Thought you’d never stop sigh-
ing and kissing S.A.R.: Keep that doggerel
on the chain or somebody will shoot it
J.E.H.: “In my heart no nimbus has ever
run.” You’re lucky. Lots of people have an
operation for ’em W.P.: “I can ’ear the
bark a-flappin’ on the gum-tree by the creek;
I can ’ear the dingoes howlin’.” ’Owlin’, please!
T.H.S.: Why not try your hand at para-
graphs?... .D.C.M.: Keep at it... .1.D.: “My
conscience does for ever at me tear.” And
well it might... .J.C.: “My friends have all
told me to try The Bulletin.” There are fires
burning for the friends of poets E.K.;
Promising; try a woman’s paper P.H<.:
Parodies need to be very good E.H.8.; Have
very little blasted inclination to illustrate
chopped-up prose with blasted trees W.L.:
Not here The Three Musketeers: Tut.
... .D.A.W.; Still not up.... G.1.H.: It hasn’t
improved with the years 1.0’D.: Slight
P.H.K.: Broadcasting counts as publication,
and we don’t reprint G.C.: One among
dozens.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.J.: Looks like a cross between the Guyra
bunyip and a box of eggs M.8.N.: Is your
district peopled exclusively by misshapen
dwarfs?... .C.K.: First time we’ve seen lashes
sprouting from the centre of the eyeball
R.W.: The stilted attitudes settled it....
J.R.R.: Feeble scratchings S.W.: Don’t ladle
the stipple on so much, and check up details.
M.P.: Bunch of yawn-provokers Bert
C.: Still puzzling over the slavey’s reply....
H.L.: “Could you set a marketable value on
these?” Certainly; a ha’penny a gross
P.L-M.: Don’t want geometrical studies....
GJ.C.: Where in this country have you seen
a jackeroo in smock and scarf? C.S.F.:
Fellow in armchair, erect, would need to bend
down to shake hands with the Irish giant
F. 8.: Figures rather resemble elongated pillows
strewn over the lawn... .K.C.R.: Lady with
misplaced chins and mangy eyebrows talking
to spotted policeman didn’t appeal to us.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfm
r v
i*k
!?>
J 4
C’I=III=EEIIEI7
•M 6
S*
ft
SMOKE-OH!
“This author has no use for a nom de
plumb.” — “Sun.”
And that’s straight!
<s* 4*
“It was a campaign in which, for the first,
and perhaps the last, time in this war ot
machines, British cavalry charged with drawn
sables.” — Melb. “Age.”
The enemy realised immediately it was
a black outlook he faced.
•I* 4* 4* , 4*
“Louis XVI was gelatined during the French
Revolution.” — Orange ( N.S.W .) " Leader.
As his courtiers said afterwards, Louis
was a bit stiff.
“By nine votes to three council gave its
approval to hold the Saturday afternoon pro-
cession on Tuesday night.” — Suburban paper.
Thus eliminating the football and race
competition.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Wanted, black lace evening dress for woman
tall and has bust 40.” — Advt.
She shouldn’t breathe so deeply.
4 • 4» 4* 4*
“Some Barbers Undercut.” — “D.T.” heading.
Certainly some of them make our face
feel like a raw steak after they’ve
finished.
ẃ
“Grill again!”
“Yes, dear — I’ve had a TERRIBLY heavy Washing day."
“Prince Konoye Keeps Secret Still.”
—Daily paper heading.
Perhaps the sake he’s been getting from
the pub hasn’t had enough kick in it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This fine fish dish is made of many different
fish.” —Cookery note.
Many different fish make a fine fish dish,
And a fine fish dish gives variety.
But ‘‘a fish dish made of many diff’rent
fish”
Soundsh more like a tesht of shobriety !
Tosspott.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Under the treatment Mrs. - lost three
stone of superfluous fat. Today she is as fat
as a fiddle. — Advt.
The part you push under your chin or
the other end?
“Her heart began to race as his wicket gnn
began to spread.”—' “Woman s World.
His charms bowled her over.
4* 4» 4*
If you tell someone, it’s ‘ news. If
you hear someone else telling someone,
then it’s “gossip.”
* *
“Investigator .Sees Chinks in Home Front.”
— “Courier-Mail.
Whaffor!
Incredible.
She doesn’t nog me when I’ve had too
many rums or beers.
Nor think I’m selfish, good-for-nothing,
vain or very mean;
She doesn’t weary me with all the gossip
that she hears.
And when I’m late she never wants to
know where I have been.
She darns my socks (and likes it) and on
Sunday morn she brings
Me tea and toast in bed and wakens
me with tender kisses.
In brief, she is an angel ( though she
hasn’t sprouted wings)
And, though all husbands reckon I’m a
liar, she’s my missus!
P.O.M.C.
Going the Pace.
“Where woman shouldn’t go.”— Dorothy Dix.
She shouldn’t go to town and buy the
dearest clothes that catch her eye, nor
bust on various movie-shows the money
that her husband owes for rent and
groceries and such. She shouldn’t go
to races much. She shouldn’t travel any-
where where money-spending is a snare.
But if she does go there and here, and
gathers bills from far and near, then,
when she stops her costly roam, she cer-
tainly should not go home.
D. VORCE.
Declaration.
No more your ruby lips allay
My thirst for kisses. In your eyes
The lovelight now has died away.
And you have ceased your soulful sighs.
But though you now are cold to me.
And life’s no more a happy song,
I’ll get you back again. You see!
I won’t be broke for very long.
T. W. NATHAN.
Terrors of Hollywood.
“Bitter feud between actors.”
— “World’s News.
All film fans know of the bitter feud
between Rudolf Darling and Claude
Hansum. It started when Rudolph stole
a big scene from Claude, and Claude
retaliated by stealing Rudolph’s wife. As
she was Rudy’s thirteenth wife, every-
one reckoned this was unlucky for
Claude. Rudolph got square by a diaboli-
cally cunning move. He had his side-
levers marcelled as well as his hair, and
his being thus tonsorially eclipsed put
Claude to bed for six months with a ner-
vous collapse.
It broke out again on the set of “Get
This Straight! ” when Rudolph got
Claude’s fist straight in the eye. It was
a brutal blow, nearly knocking Rudolph’s
mascara off. Rudolph lashed back with
a savage “You beast!” and then the
property man separated them. After
replacing his make-up, Rudolph dis-
played heroism by refusing to hold up the
shooting of the expensive film, but went
right ahead until it was time for Claude
Hansum to step into the scene; then
Rudolph promptly rushed at him and, in-
ẅ
HARP O'MARDS.
Art and Politics.
“The Minister for Education said that he
wished there were more artists in Parliament.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
An artist should feel at home in Parlia-
ment. There are always brushes on the
floor of the House, complaints of being
“framed,” highlights of abuse and things
viewed from queer perspectives. And
what an opportunity for an artist to let
himself go on an ambitious still-life
entitled “Parliament at Work!”
Politicians are not so short on art as
you’d think. Give them the oil about an
impending election and they rush about
the place painting glowing, rose-tinted
pictures of the prosperity and abundance
that will result from their return to Parlia-
ment. And just to show how versatile
they are, they can draw, with the grim
fidelity of a Hogarth, the black ruin and
desolation that will attend the election of
their opponents.
There is good reason to believe that
the influence has spread to Federal Parlia-
mentary circles. “Art for Art’s Sake” is
the obvious motto for the new Prime
Minister.
D. McM.
A New Enterprise.
“Recent British attacks have been aimed at
enemy ships carrying reinforcement sup-
plies from Italy to North African ports.
* —Sydney “Sun.
It has long been known to the British
Intelligence Service that the Axis has been
faced with an increasingly serious sand
shortage in the Western Desert, A con-
fidential dispatch from the Libyan com-
mander, General Maria Havatomato,
which was intercepted by a British agent
disguised as a mandolin-string artificer-
sergeant, implored the Duce immediately
to send sufficient sand to replace that
lost through being blown into the stew,
consumed in the spaghetti sandwiches,
whirled away in duststorms or thieved by
the cursed Australians.
The British agent let the dispatch go
and intercepted the reply. In this the
Duce roared the general up for his laxity
in not making the troops strain the stew
carefully, also for not keeping a stricter
guard against the Australianos. As for
the duststorms, Musso. threatened to
deprive the general of six months supply
of perfumed moustache oil if he again
failed to exercise, as befitted one charged
with the sacred duty of upholding the
glorious prestige of Fascism, an iron
control over the elements.
Under this dire threat General Hava-
tomato set his troops frantically to work
to prevent what little was left of the
Libyan sand from disappearing. But to
no purpose. Within a month every wop
iii North Africa had circles under his
eyes through having nothing to dig hip-
holes in, a gibber bed being a poor sleep-
inducer.
The desperate nature of their predica-
ment was at last brought home to II Duce
by the Q.M.G., who pointed out that the
million pairs of sandshoes issued to the
Libyan army would prove a dead loss if
the troops had no sand to run on. Being
made of ersatz rubber, the shoes would
come to pieces within half a mile if they
had to traverse rock in the event of a new
British drive.
The Great Dictator immediately sent a
request to the Fiihrer for permission to
send some sand to North Africa. But a
typographical error made his message
read “reinforcements and supplies” in-
stead of “reinforcement sand supplies.”
Remembering that only a week before,
when he had asked for Italian troops to
garrison Iceland if and when he captured
it, Musso. had begged permission to
decline on the ground that his grand
opera battalions might lose their voices
in the Arctic climate, the Fiihrer flew into
an ungovernable rage and nearly choked
over the fringe on the reversible rug he
started to chew. It wasn’t until Musso.
dramatically announced that he intended
replacing the Michelangelo in the
Palazzo Venezia with the work of_ a
greater master, a present-day Austrian
who was also a world conqueror, that
Adolf, mollified, gave his permission.
Difficulties at once confronted the
Conservator of Fascist Sand Supplies,
Signor Potbelli. It could have been got
from the Egyptian side of the desert only
that the British were using it. Deposits
of natural grit in Italy were scarce, and
what there was had mostly gone to Ger-
many in the spinach that Italy had grown
in large quantities for the Reich.
Musso,. at once ordered the Regia
Scientifica to bend its collective brains to
the task, and soon the results were seen
in the enormous sheer legs erected over
Mt. Vesuvius. Huge sandstone rocks
were hauled up to the top by Fascist
labor battalions. They were then lowered
into the hot lava and soaked until soft
enough to be bashed into sand by the
Bowyang Divisions.
The Fascist Grand Council also de-
clared that all loyal citizens were ex-
pected to give up their concrete paths,
tubs, steps, etc., as scrap, or else. The
ballila corps was given the honor of
separating the sand from the cement and
gravel after it had been put through the
crushers.
The occasion of the first shipment of
sand ever to be loaded for North Africa
was the signal for great rejoicings
throughout Italy, and Musso. in a speech
boasted that Fascist enterprise had
evolved yet another export commodity
that would more than counterbalance the
war-time loss of tourist trade.
Declaring that militant Fascism
snapped its strong fingers at the effete
British Navy, Admiral Emilio Dog-
wallopa ordered the sand to be loaded
on the fastest ship in the merchant fleet
and sent it across the narrow strip from
Sicily to Libya at 30 knots on the first
pitch-black night. At it sneaked along-
side the Mole in Tripoli harbor early the
next morning a figure could be seen
battling down to the waterfront. It was
General Maria Havatomato. As he came
on board he beamed.
“Ah, you gotta da supplies of da
guns, da ammo., da tanks, da oil, da
macaron’, eh?”
When the nature of the cargo was con-
veyed to the General he hurled his cap
on the deck and leaped on it.
“Sapristi, you-a da eediot!” he raged.
“Da weend he blow frorma da east all-a
day yesterday and-a my hut eet ees dis-
appear under half-a da Egypt. Corpo di
Bacch’! ” _
BO.


WANTED!
MILLIONS FOR THE
NEXT WAR LOAN
Investors! Don’t put your money into non-
essential channels, but invest in a way that counts.
Invest in the next war loan now. There’s no need
to wait for the opening date to be announced
—your subscription will be accepted now and
interest will start from the date of the invest-
ment. Application forms, containing full details
and conditions, are obtainable from any bank or
stockbroker.
INVEST IN THE NEXT
WAR LOAN NOW!
THAT*
4
A
ẁ
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Fadden’s Warwick Egg
Priminister Fadden, in what Sydney
“Telegraph” described as “the first official
indication of probable Budget expendi-
ture,” at Warwick (Q.) has shown a cer-
tain skill in dodging and doubling back
on his tracks. His adaptability to cir-
cumstances is dazzling. On June 8, as
Treasurer, Mr. Fadden spoke of a £250
million war expenditure in 1941-42, up
£64 million on the previous year’s figure.
On August 8 “S. M. Herald” stated:
“Figures given to the Cabinet by Mr.
Fadden showed that the Budget gap
has grown from £6O million to
nearly £9O million since he reviewed the
Federal finances at the Premiers’ con-
ference on uniform taxation in May.”
This led to Suggestions that the war ex-
penditure, proposed had increased to £2BO
million.
Although Mr. Fadden repeatedly de-
precated speculation about the Budget
terms —he showed great reluctance to
crossing any of Canberra’s bridges before
he got to them—the first figure of £250
million was freely accepted to start with,
and the later additions, though of a less
definite nature, were also widely talked
about, leading eventually to suggestions
of a Government defeat unless the Budget
gap was financed by expanding bank
credit. The exit of Mr. Menzies took
place about this stage. Then the papers
began to talk about a Fa'dden Budget
the “liberal terms of which would win
any election.”
In spite of this history, Sydney “Tele-
graph” gravely referred to Fadden’s speech
at Warwick as the “first official indica-
tion,” etc. The anti-climactic egg hatched
by the Prime Minister discloses a proposed
defence expenditure of £225 million.
Apparently the idea behind it all is that
the best way to balance a weighty and
prickly Budget is to saw a hunk off it.
Without casting a single wondering look
behind the two Sydney morning dailies
featured it as a “huge” war Budget,
though it wasn’t nearly so huge as they
had said it would be, and at least £25
million lower than Mr. Fadden had
intimated.
The Prime Minister said at Warwick,
“It is a Budget that will make my politi-
cal ancestors turn in their graves.” It
might. The proposed expenditure on war
of £225 million was said by Fadden to be
equal to “more than 30 p.c. of the
national income.” That is according to a
Sydney “Herald” report. It is all non-
sense. Three times £225 million is only
£675 million, whereas Australia’s national
income is in the vicinity of £925 million.
There is a clear suggestion that Fadden is
trying to make his sawn-off war effort
look as “huge” and awe-inspiring as
possible without running the risk of
asking for so much extra in the way
of taxation that some afternoon news-
paper or credit crank will get annoyed.
Compared with 1940-41, this year’s
proposed war expenditure is up £39
million, but still represents no more
than 25 p.c. of the national in-
come, or £32 a head, compared with
£26 10s. a head under the previous
Budget, Both this year’s and last year’s
figures include overseas expenditure, in
the past largely financed by Britain. To
the extent that Britain provides us with
supplies and finance now our immediate
burden is reduced, Australia’s £32-a-head
war effort compares with a £36 lOs.-a-
head show in Canada. In addition,
Canada is doing work equal to £22 a
head on behalf of the British Govern-
ment. Far more war taxation is being
levied in Canada than in Australia —65
p.c. of the effort is coming from taxes. In
Maoriland £4l a head is to be spent on
war, though Britain will advance £lB of
this.
The Australian Prime Minister empha-
sises that nothing like all of the £225
million will be raised by taxation. He in-
sists that heavy taxation would mean “de-
flation.” Still, he isn’t “going mad on
inflation.” But he is being “firm”—he
says so himself —on the matter of tem-
porary borrowings of a compulsory
nature in the shape of post-war credits.
They are included in his “plan.”
In spite of Mr. Fadden’s talk about
the Budget “hugely outweighing any-
thing that preceded it and possibly any-
thing that might succeed it,” there is full
and ample evidence of a backing-down
from previous ideas of what the Austra-
lian war effort should amount to in 1941-
42. In the circumstances the exhortations
to “contribute as you have never contri-
buted before” have a rather theatrical
ring, especially when followed by “there
is every difference between liberal finance
and inflation,” and a denial of “sugges-
tions in the Queensland press that there
is no possibility of my compromising
on the Budget in Parliament.” So
having backed down to the tune of up-
wards of £25 million, the Prime Minister
leaves the steps clear for further back-
ing down.
On July 5 the Sydney industrial-share
index stood at 124.02, the index of 34
representative ord. shares (covering
pastoral, retail stores and industrial) at
117.64. Back in November, 1940, these
respective indexes had been up to 134.02
and 127.30. Late in January approxi-
mately these levels were regained. The
Greek campaign crashed the market, and
until recently there was no life in share
prices. But such has been the activity
over the past few weeks that the de-
pressed July figures have been replaced
by buoyant indexes; on Sept. 10 the
industrial indicator stood at 136.28 and
the representative index at 129.84. We
have to go back to January, 1940, to get
better prices. At that period, when the
war was being regarded as “phony” and
the policy “business as usual, or better,”
industrials went to 136.54.
* * * *
At 395. last week B.H.P. fully-paid
ords. were the equivalent of 70s. before
the 64-for-100 capitalisation of share pre-
miums in 1940. That is taking into
account the rights to the cash issue made
early in 1941. Before the 1940 share-
premium capitalisation B.H.P. shares
went as high as 84s. 6d. (in January,
1940), so last week’s price represents a
substantial drop, especially when the
“smaller” nature of the shares and the
great strength of other sections of the
market are taken into consideration.
There is another aspect to be considered,
too ; though there was actually a slight
reduction in total divs. following the
capitalisation, since the par issue of this
year the reduced rate of 1\ p.c, has been
maintained on both the old and new
shares, so that the investor at 395. obtains
a yield of £3 17s. per cent., compared
with under 3 p.c. when the old shares
were at 84s. 6d., or £3 11s. per cent, on a
70s. basis. Back in March of this year
B.H.P. fully-paids, ex rights, sold as high
as 425. 6d., on which present quotes repfe-
sent a 3s. 6d. reduction. Because B.H.P.
hasn’t raised the prices of its products
nor increased its profits or divs. since
war began, and because of Mr. Forde’s
peevish demand for Government control,
the sharemarket in its present enthusiasm
for almost every other stock is giving
B.H.P. the go-by. For long holding,
especially in the post-war period, keen
investors have a fancy for B.H.P.
« * * ,
J. and A. Brown-Abermain Seaham
Collieries has declared a final div. of
5 p.c., making 7\ p.c. for the year, thus
u •., ■ , ■
beanng out suggestions made on this page
some weeks ago The sharemarket has
been expectant, too, and stood at 17s. 6d.
before the announcement-up 2s. on the
closmg quotation for July, and 3s 6d.
above the lowest price of the year Later
last week sellers weren t in sight at below
18s, 3d. Before the affair in Greece the
scrip had lifted as high as 16s. 9d. Coal
cos. have been doing better lately, though
the industry can’t be called prosperous,
Adelaide Steam owns over 526,000
shares in J. and A. Brown; its shares
have also been firming.
* , !
Austral Oil Drilling Syndicate, recently
granted a loan of £50,000 by the Com-
monwealth and Victorian Governments,
is to float a new co. with a nominal
capital of £500,000. Its object will be
to carry out the recommendations of
Leo Ranney and L. O. Fairbanks, the
U.S.A. oilmen who investigated Lakes
Entrance oilfield (Vic.) and advised drill-
ing for the oil horizontally from the
base of shafts sunk to the oil sands at
a depth of 1200 ft. The Americans didn’t
regard the field as a petrol proposition
but as a source of good-quality lubricat-
ing oil. Austral Oil says that the cost
of carrying out the recommendations will
be nearer £150,000 than £lOO,OOO. The
promoter won’t ask for cash provided
the Commonwealth doesn’t ask for tax
on vendor’s shares. It is hoped that the
services of Ranney and Fairbanks can
be retained. The £50,000 Government
loan terms provide for a pound-for-pound
contribution by the co., repayment of the
loan before divs., and use of the money
for field work only.
♦ * ♦ *
One Sydney broker in particular got
a shock by the unusual situation that
developed in the market affairs of Natural
Gas and Oil last week. He bought 1000
shares on the morning call at 2s. 9d.,
and previously he had been a keen dealer
in the scrip. At the noon call ’Change
chairman F. E. Tilley announced that
Natural Gas had been given Treasury
permission to issue up to 100,000 new
shares at par (25.), and that applica-
tions had already been made for
25.000 shares. The price on ’Change
fell sharply, but there was a re-
covery to former prices later when
Natural Gas made an explanation. It
seemed to imply that someone who had
taken up scrip when the market was
below par was going to be permitted to
take further scrip now that it was above
par. The market, in paying a 9d, pre-
mium for the shares after this announce-
ment, appeared to take the view that it
couldn’t walk down to the office of
Natural Gas and buy the shares over
the counter. As explained here last
week, it is only since the possibility was
suggested of using the co.’s gas as a
substitute motor fuel and in lieu of
imported gas oil that market interest has
been strong enough to make a new issue
attractive to speculators.
* * * *
It is a matter of interest to share-
holders in Australasian Paper and Cum-
berland Paper to go into the question of
rationed newsprint. The Australian kraft
paper and cardboard industry depends
for its raw material on imported pulp,
Gippsland eucalypt pulp and waste paper.
The Gippsland pulp mill has ah output
of between 30,000 and 40,000 tons a
year, while A.P.M.’s output of paper and
board altogether runs to something like
120.000 tons p.a. Approximately the dif-
ference between the 40,000 tons and
120.000 tons is made up by imports of
pulp and the use of waste paper, etc.
The waste paper now available is prob-
ably less than a third of what it used to
be. To what extent it figured before isn’t
known, but it was important. However,
no complaints have so far been heard
from the direction of A.P.M., and the
shares in Australasian Paper soared to
38s. 6d. last week.
* * * *
Dalgety’s Wool Review gives final
figures for the 1940-41 clip. It was a
good year, but not the “record” that
some people seemed anxious to confer
on it. Proceeds totalled £60,937,986,
down £4,300,000 compared with the pre-
ceding season, which was a record. The
clip totalled 3,611,923 bales for 1940-41,
compared with 3,669,400 bales. Record
clips have had a good deal to do with
recent record returns. In the 1927-28
season Australia’s clip was only 2,673,000
bales, but the cheque ran to £60,873,662.
The clip reached 3,000,000 bales in 1931-
32 for the first time, and has never since
fallen below it in spite of adverse seasons
of late. In 1940 there were over
121,000,000 sheep in the Commonwealth,
also a record figure, up 10,886,000 in two
years. City men have been putting money
into sheep properties on a considerable
scale.


I m fOR WfAK M£N AND WOMfN 8
Loss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
310 George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
WBLfTS
/- v \
&k
6
m
G*»
A
i>
s
«*»»
Olympic
de£u&
Wherever the Australian Fighting Forces operate, an
Olympic product is “on the job”.
Twelve hundred Craftsmen of the Olympic Tyre
& Rubber Co. Ltd. are proud to be helping to keep
their comrades in the front line fully equipped.
avt
CALVANI2EP IRON
for water catchment purposes ..
|| USTRALIA needs all the zinc that is
available for the making of munitions.
In order to meet this national emergency,
therefore, John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
has found it necessary to restrict supplies
of Corrugated Galvanized Roofing Iron
to those who require this quality for the
catchment and storage of drinking water.
In all other cases, Terne-Coated Iron is
now being supplied. Plain iron sheets
are also restricted, but to a lesser degree.
£\ LTHOUGH introduced to the public and
“the building trade for the first time- Terne-
Coated Iron is not new but has been widely
used throughout America and the Continent for
many years past. It has also been used lor many
years by the metal trades of Australia in the
manufacture of petrol tanks, oil and paint drums,
etc. Its hard wearing tin and lead surface
possesses particularly good anti-corrosive
properties and can be painted without "weather-
ing." There is, of course, no loss of strength
or rigidity and all sizes and gauges are available.
\7
2
ORB
FOR AL L
OTHER. L/EES
LYSAGHTS
OFFER
or.
w
Lysaght (AUSTRALIA) Pty., Ltd.
T 76 SYDNEY— MELBOURNE— BRISBANE— ADELAIDE FREMA N T L E
By Saturday of last week the Sydney
index of 34 representative ord. shares
had risen to 131.18, compared with a
lowest of 116.50 this year and a lowest
of 102.91 and a highest of 129.73 in the
preceding year. Considering the present
exceptionally depressed price of B.H.P.
and the low level at which British
Tobacco, Henry Jones and steamship
issues, etc., stand, the suggestion
from those comparisons is that the
market as a whole is far higher than
would appear at first sight. And this
is very true of such stocks as A.C.1., the
paper cos., cotton textile concerns, coal
cos., Mort’s Dock and other engineering
shows. Barrier mines, Electrolytic
Zinc and chain-store shares are still well
below the high levels of early 1940. But
in the main it is too buoyant a market
at the moment to be relied on to any
great extent. Shares need to be bought
selectively, with full regard to taxation
involved and with an eye to post-war
possibilities, and not forgetting the chance
of further depressing stretches before the
battle is won. For that reason quiet
stocks of good quality, like 8.H.P.,
Adelaide Steam and Zinc Corp., should
be given particular attention ; chain-store
scrip also has its points. All these issues
have their merits in the event of any
further war-time inflation.
* * * *
It seems that Mr. McKell, the N.S.W.
Premier, who opened his mouth so wide
at the last election, is finding abolition
of unemployed-relief tax easier to talk
about than do about. It also seems that
he has not given up his idea of abolishing
rebates of tax paid by N.S.W. companies
before their divs. reach the hands of
shareholders. When McKell took office
he blithered a lot on the subject; his
excuse for the abolition was mostly
humbug:
Under the New South Wales law unjusti-
fiable anomalies exist. A shareholder in a
company, for example, is not called upon
to pay State income tax (except super tax)
on dividends, unless additional tax results
after deducting the company rate of tax
(2s. 6d. in the £) on the dividends, from
the tax otherwise payable.
The rate of State tax for individuals
does not reach 2s. 6d. in the £ until the
income amounts to £3935, so that a person
receiving dividends amounting to £3935
would be free of ordinary income tax, and
would be liable only to the super tax of
Is. in the £ on the part of the income in
excess of £2OOO.
As this paper pointed out at the time,
company shareholders (through their co.)
pay 2s. 6d. in the £ income tax even
where they are not taxable personally.
Their dividends would be greater, obvi-
ously, if the co. in whose profits they
own an equity were not taxed at all.
Partnerships don’t have to bear taxation
until the income is shared out among the
partners ; there is no flat-rate tax before
each partner’s share is ascertained. But
in the case of companies 2s. 6d. in the £
is payable even where shareholders are
not individually taxable at all, and only
where the taxpayer’s own rate of tax is
2s. 6d. or more does he get a full rebate.
McKell proposes to introduce double
taxation by abolishing the rebate alto-
gether. His argument in favor is one of
desperation rather than logic or fairness.
* ¥ * *
In the course of his peregrinations
around Queensland the Prime Minister
gave out some figures of interest. He
said the national income in 1940-41 was
£925 million, and in 1941-42 it was ex-
pected to reach £lOOO million. He con-
firmed statements made in these pages
to the effect that a redistribution of in-
comes, as a result of the Menzies Gov-
ernment’s war effort, had taken place,
largely to the benefit of the wage-earner.
Since the outbreak of war up to the end
of June 30 last the national income had
grown by £135 million, and by limiting
incomes from profits, interest and rents
the Commonwealth had passed over the
greater part of the additional income to
wage-earners and farmers. In 1940-41
workers’ incomes (at £520 million) were
about £7O million more than in 1938-39.
Mr. Fadden referred to the diversion of
“at least one-third of Australia’s popu-
lation from civil to war-time activity” as
“a great industrial revolution and a trans-
formation of our economic and social
life.” He said that the greater national
income was due to an increase in export
prices, prices generally, and an expansion
in employment. He spoke of the possi-
bility of an increase of 230,000 in the
number of war workers in 1941-42. At
the end of 1940-41 there were 420,000
in the services and on war work. Up
to that time 140,000 unemployed had
been given jobs. Most of those still un-
employed were unemployable.
* * * *
The day of the Budget presentation has
been fixed —Sept. 24. Parliament will
assemble a week earlier. Mr. Fadden
says that as much of the Budget require-
ments “as practicable” would be found by
taxation. Practicability will apparently
depend on political as well as financial
factors. “Civil expenditure will have to
be diverted to the war effort as much as
possible,” the Prime Minister admits;
that in itself points to taxation as the
really practicable way of financing the
war fund. No man, no firm, no com-
pany will be allowed to profiteer, he says.
It is an extremely confident type of state-
ment considering the nature of the
problem.
* * * *
The big rise in North B.H. and South
shares last week followed news that the
U.S. Metal Reserve Co. was negotiating
with Australia for the purchase of lead.
Lead in the U.S.A. is at about twice the
price being paid by Britain for Australian
lead (there are duties), and reports
are current that the U.S. wants
all surplus Australian production.
There was a rise of 3s. 3d. in North
shares in two days. Zinc Corp. scrip,
which had previously lifted in a big way
on London buying, didn’t participate in
last week’s rise.
* * * *
Myer Emporium (Melbourne) has
maintained its ord. div. at 9 p.c. Trading
was much better. Net profit was £329,473
after providing £160,000 for taxation and
£106,264 for depreciation. In the preced-
ing term profit was £322,260, taxation
£97,500 and depreciation £101,574.


THE SERVICE MAN
Approaching a Crisis.
“Ek Dum”: On the night of September
8 Berlin announced that Marshal von
Leeb’s forces had taken Schlusselburg, at
the mouth of Lake Ladoga, 25 miles east
of Leningrad. It was asserted that the
capture had been accomplished with only
10,000 infantry. The spokesman added
that German engineers had built a bridge
across the Neva in 13 hours, and had
junctioned with the Finns, coming down
the Viborg road.
Other Finnish forces, it was asserted,
were on the Svir River, which joins the
southern ends of Lakes Ladoga and
Onega, and were threatening the Lenin-
grad power supply. The same Finns had
cut the Murmansk-Moscow-Leningrad
railway and the great Stalin canal, which
crosses Russia and cost £80,000,000 to
dig. The last hope of the Soviet Fleet
to escape from Kronstadt had been
destroyed. Kronstadt was already under
fire ; Leningrad was cut off from the rest
of Russia by road, water and rail; parts
of the city were under artillery fire; the
main ring of defences had been pierced at
one point. All this, it should be
emphasised, was the German story.
Moscow was silent about Schlussel-
burg. Moscow spokesmen, however,
declared that the Germans were making
no impression on Leningrad’s defences
and that railway communication with the
rest of the country was still open, and
supplies being brought in continuously.
Concerted attempts to bomb Leningrad
were complete failures, though single
machines occasionally got through.
During the previous week the press
had devoted great attention to a Russian
counter-offensive on the central front in
which Marshal Timoshenko’s army group
was declared to have smashed large Ger-
man forces. The geographical estimate
of the situation was summed up at first
in the statement that a large number of
villages and immense quantities of tanks
and armament had been taken, but the
focus of the action presently came to be
“the important town of Yelnia, 45 miles
south-east of Smolensk, which the Ger-
man High Command considered vital in
its drive on Moscow.” “Pravda,” organ
of the Communist Party in Moscow, said
that Yelnia was “taken by the Germans
in July after the capture of Smolensk.”
To August 7 Moscow insisted that
Smolensk was still in Russian hands,
admitting a little later that it had been
captured “several days ago.”
Yelnia revealed itself as a small town
on the line between Smolensk and the
important metal districts north of
Bryansk. Bryansk may be accounted
a vital key position in any German en-
circling drive on Moscow from the south.
Capture of Bryansk would paralyse the
Russian railway operations in the first
outer southern ring of Moscow defences.
The advance of the Russians at first
seemed to be confined generally to about
14 miles in depth. Losovsky described
the operation as “an offensive.” He was
asked whether Smolensk had been re-
taken ; he replied “That answer will be
given in due course.” The Yelnia
victory, he added, was “much more than
a local success and must have repercus-
sions along the remainder of the front.”
“Pravda” wrote that in the Yelnia
battle the Germans “fled in panic” over
country which had “been strewn with
corpses during their advance.” The
Russian counter-attack had been “irre-
sistible” ; the German casualties, particu-
larly those inflicted by artillery, were
“enormous.” The Germans “brought up
fresh divisions regardless of the slaughter,
and after eight divisions had been
smashed the entire German formation,
amounting to a substantial army group,
was surrounded.” Its communications
with the rear were “through a neck only
five miles wide, and the Russian guns
covered this with dead.”
At this juncture a line and a half of
cable reported a Russian action at
Chausy. Chausy is 100 miles south-west
of Yelnia, and to get there the Russians
must have definitely occupied three or
four big towns between it and Yelnia,
though these towns had not been men-
tioned. If the defenders were at Chausy
in any force they would have been on
the flank of the German drive from
Gomel, and the position of Hitler’s
Gomel armies would be just about un-
tenable, unless they wished to find them-
selves very quickly in a neat pudding-
cloth tied up in the east by Budenny,
on the south by the Red Armies defend-
ing the north of Kiev, and on the west
by the Pripet marshes.
The Germans gave few details about
Russian campaigning for three or four
days, concentrating in their news bulletins
on the “desperate” war they were waging
on British coasts and shipping, and on
military objectives from Suez to Scot-
land ; also on the “inactivity” of the
R.A.F., which had become “discouraged,”
it seemed, by heavy losses in fruitless
attacks on Germany and the north of
France.
When Russia was mentioned it was
with a sad accent. The difficulties caused
by rain were dwelt on. The “Volkischer
Beobachter,” the Nazi party organ, said
the fighting was “like that on another
planet fundamentally different from
anything we knew or experienced in the
west”;
Russian soldiers and their officers never
react normally, and continue to fight even
in hopeless conditions. German soldiers
know, through experience of the cruelty of
the Russian soldiery, their brutally-imposed
discipline, and apparently unending sup-
plies of war material, why the Fiihrer was
compelled to deal with Russia. The German
people must not expect a quick end to the
Russian campaign.
Other German papers took the same
tone with suddenness and unanimity, but
the misery was laid on so thickly that
a “Times” correspondent remarked sar-
donically that Herr Gdebbels’s propa-
gandists were “dwelling on Germany’s
difficulties, in the hope of deceiving the
Russians and the outside world,” thus
persuading Britain and the U.S.A. to
slacken the dispatch of help to the hard-
pressed Soviet armies.
On Sept. 11-12 Moscow reported the
Germans as “falling back before immense
and terrific attacks along a 200-mile front
in the centre,” wtith the spearheadi 50 miles
south of Smolensk. Piecemeal casualties
on a large scale were published by both
sides, but mainly by the Russians, who
had “pushed several Panzer divisions into
a river.” A new Russian counter-assault
was reported near Vilikiye Lukie, 150
miles south of Lake Ilmen. There “more
than 12,000 Germans were killed and 340
tanks and armored cars, 140 guns and
400 lorries destroyed.”
The day before, Moscow had brought
its version of the fighting at Odessa and
round Leningrad up to date; “Lenin-
grad’s defenders have smashed through
the Fascist hordes, thus defeating the
attempt at encirclement.” After breaking
through, the Red Army had “linked with
the main body of their comrades.” Soviet
forces had “launched a powerful counter-
attack aimed at turning the German flank
south-east of Leningrad.” The Germans
admitted the “break-through.”
Moscow said that the Rumanians be-
sieging Odessa according to Rome,
Hitler has wished his Italian “reinforce-
ments” on the poor devils —had lost “half
their strength, 240,000 men.” The 3rd
and 15th Rumanian divisions had “ceased
to exist except in name” ; the 6th division
had lost 9000 men, the 15th 7000 men,
and four other divisions had been routed.
Every day Russian marines sallied forth
and left the ground carpeted with Ger-
man dead. Industries and war factories
were carrying on as usual. The Luftwaffe
had no chance of getting through the
Flak defences. The “strip of agricul-
tural land 10 miles wide” between the
enemy and the town was in full cultiva-
tion and supplying abundant food. The
besiegers were “no nearer to taking
Odessa than in the beginning.”
With the wide Dniester on the west,
the northern approaches to Odessa are
divided by a series of lakes and swamps
which present attackers with many nasty
problems. It was difficult to believe, how-
ever, that with main sources of power
and water reservoirs in enemy hands
Odessa industry and agriculture could
be carrying on to any extent. Moscow
nevertheless insisted that the facts were as
stated, despite German claims that Odessa
was taking serious punishment and that
it would be captured “when we need it.”
To complete the picture of the fronts
and of Russian successes, Moscow an-
nounced on Sept. 11-12 that Budenny’s
men had forced their way across the
Dnieper above the captured city of
Dnepropetrovsk, had established them-
selves on an island, and were making
other crossings and threatening to drive
back the Germans with counter-attacks
along the south-Ukrainian front.
8.8. C. reported a desperate assault on
Leningrad from the air—“the greatest of
the whole war.” Mr. Churchill an-
nounced that hundreds of British ’planes
were being sent to Russia and that many
had already arrived. Three days later
it came out that the R.A.F. had delivered
a complete wing (normally three squad-
rons), with all its ground establishment.
Rome Radio alleged that British ’planes
had been shot down on the Leningrad
front. The Leningrad Red Army com-
mand declared that, despite the waves of
200 ’planes which the Luftwaffe had tried
to send over, only isolated machines had
pierced the defences —“the first we have
seen.”
General von Leeb issued an order of
the day in which he demanded the cap-
ture of the city in a few days. It was
apparently designed to warn the inhabi-
tants that unless there was a quick sur-
render there would be a merciless resort
to the methods of mass slaughter from
the air used at Warsaw and Rotterdam.
Generally speaking, the whole picture
of the front as drawn by Moscow, and
supported to a great extent by the Ger-
man reports, suggested that up to Sept.
12 the Russians had made real and
general progress. A “Times” correspon-
dent (Sept. 11) vouched for Russian gains
on the central front, saying they were
“so momentous that they almost justify
the hope that the tide is turning in
Russia’s favor.” These gains, the corre-
spondent concluded, “have assured Mos-
cow’s safety this year, while making a
successful German drive across the
Dnieper improbable.”
Unfortunately, a drive across the
Dnieper came, and the tone of 8.8. C,
changed from confidence to gloom. The
Crimean road and rail run only a few
miles from the Dnieper, so that the es-
tablishment of German bridgeheads east
of the Dnieper would cut or seriously
menace communication with the Crimea.
Combined with other events, the move-
ment had a sinister appearance. On
September 13 Moscow stated that the
enemy had taken Chernigov, about 50
miles south-east of Gomel (this meant
that the Germans held a new and vital
bridgehead on the Desna River, only 80
miles north of Kiev), and that Soviet
forces had routed two tank corps and
“defeated and destroyed two German
tank divisions and two infantry divisions
60 miles south of Bryansk”— i.e., at Tub-
cheysk in the Desna Valley.
Thus, while Marshal Timoshenko was
declared to be pushing forward the spear-
head of a great advance almost 170 miles
nearer Germany than Bryansk, very
heavy forces had been fighting for that
vital centre, almost in its longitude, and
on a front over 100 miles long.
This news was followed by a warning
from London that Kiev was now in
danger of encirclement, that both Odessa
and Leningrad were seriously threatened,
and that widespread German air
offensives were in progress which seemed
to presage attack on the Crimea and the
Don region.
Berlin suddenly claimed the capture of
a small town called Konotop. If this
was true, it meant that the drive from
the “joint” at Gomel which had engulfed
Chernigov, had moved swiftly another
60 miles eastward and gobbled up the
junction of the important Minsk-Kharkov
and Kiev-Kursk lines.
The great city of Kharkov (800,000
population) was only 150 miles from the
German front. The German grip was
drawn a little more tightly round Kiev,
and that city’s main direct railway com-
munication with Moscow was cut or
seriously threatened. The enemy was
within only 150 miles of the great iron-
field of Kursk, mentioned (B. 3/9/’4l) as
a likely and dangerous objective—it is
slightly west of the parallel of longitude
on which Moscow stands.
Late on September 15 Moscow ad-
mitted that Russian forces, after days of
hard fighting, had abandoned Kremen-
chug, an important industrial centre
(pop. 70,000), which lies on the north
side of the Dnieper, about 100 miles west
of Dnepropetrovsk and only 45 miles
from the Kharkov-Kiev railway. The
Germans had crossed the Dnieper from
the south and were menacing Kharkov
from a second direction. Kiev was
enveloped on three sides and another
gateway to the Donetz Basin had opened.
Marshal Budenny, faced with the task
of warding off a direct thrust at the
Crimea, the Donetz basin and the Cau-
casus —a thrust which had been strong
enough to cross the mile-wide Dnieper
swollen by the bursting of the Dnieper-
stroy dam—had two strong and swiftly-
moving forces fastening on his right flank.
Marshal Timoshenko, locked with his
foes, had his strength so occupied and dis-
persed as to be unable to relieve Budenny
on his left. On Sept. 15 8.8. C. declared
that “the movement in the Russian centre
would need much development before it
could have any effect on the general situa-
tion.”
At the week-end, the battle for Lenin-
grad had entered a new phase. The
enemy said that from Friday morning on-
wards his attack was virtually non-stop
and that he had already pierced some of
the main defences —but he had said that
a week earlier. On Friday, the Lenin-
grad command declared that it had
broken into the German invasion lines as
far as Luga, 50 miles s.-w. of the great
city. That was the focal point of the
enemy’s approach and the point from
which he was best able to reinforce.
It is served by parallel lines of railway
back to his bases. It would have been
expected that any serious break-through
could have much more easily been made
east of the city, where the invaders had
not had time to establish themselves.
On Monday morning, British sources
made no secret of the seriousness of the
Russian position, and of the knowledge
that the Germans would use every re-
source to capture Leningrad and Kiev,
if not Moscow, before winter set in.
As for the R.A.F. units about Lenin-
grad, 8.8. C. said on Sunday night
(London time) that British machines had
previously been flown by Russian pilots,
but that our own men had now arrived.
Small as the force is, it gives the British
Empire a direct and personal interest in
the battle of the Russians for their home-
lands, but it is questionable whether much
more can be done. Mr. Herbert Mor-
rison said on Sunday that Britain had
already sent as much arms to Russia as
was compatible with the safety of the
United Kingdom, and his colleague Alex-
ander said that Russia was getting sub-
stantial British naval help.
U.S.A. and the Sea War.
“Nobby II”: The remarkable thing
about the German war outlook is its
obsession with England and the sea.
Every German short-wave broadcast,
whether in German, English or any other
language, ends with the words:
England declared this war. England has
always stood for war. Germany’s victory
will end this once and for all.
It has been curious to note the growth
of this German respect for Britain’s sea
war. Greece and Crete may have been
successes from a German point of view on
land and in the air, but the Germans
show a thwarted realisation that it was
sea-power which prevented them from
becoming British disasters. The same
applies to Dunkirk. The Germans’ drive
into Libya has failed through British
strength on the sea —they know it and
acknowledge it in their fashion.
Their venture in Russia has made no
difference. Never have they believed that
beating Russia would win the war for
them.
During all the enemy’s victories over
Budenny in the Ukraine, the war round
the British coasts had pride of place in
German communiques. There has been
more rejoicing in Berlin over the sinking
of a few ships in an Atlantic convoy than
about the capture of hundreds of thou-
sands of Russian prisoners or thou-
sands of square miles of Russian territory.
Two German papers have been permitted
to note the lack of enthusiasm with which
these successes were greeted.
In the last week the armies of Von Leeb
have been engaged on a military task
without parallel—the closing in on the
resistant defences of one of the four or
five largest cities in the world, holding
3,500,000 civilians and at least 1,000,000
picked troops. These operations from a
military viewpoint have been highly suc-
cessful, but German communiques mainly
have dealt with the alleged failure of the
R.A.F. in its attacks on Germany and
with the sea war. It is alleged that air
attacks are being made day and night
round the British coasts, and that shipping
has been so devastatingly blasted that the
seas of Britain are “marine graveyards
strewn with splintered wreckage.”
This is the official antidote for the
gradual strangulation of the U-boat cam-
paign by the R.N., the Sunderlands and
Catalinas and Ihe Coastal Command in
general, and particularly for the withering
blast which is sweeping the remaining
Axis shipping out of existence at the rate
of more than 15 per cent, per month.
Over 400,000 tons was sunk last month
alone.
Mr, Churchill turned the iron in the
wound in his speech on September 9.
He mentioned the “extraordinary rise in
the destruction of German and Italian
ships in the last three months,” due to
the “very brilliant tactics” of the Coastal
Command, bombing squadrons and our
own submarines:
The sinking of British and Allied shipping
by enemy action during July and August
did not amount to much more than one-
third of the German and Italian shipping
sunk —remarkable, since enemy ships only
have to dart across narrow strips of water,
or slink along the coast under air protec-
tion, while we carry on a gigantic world-
wide trade, requiring never less than 2000
ships at sea and never less than 400 in the
war zones.
British submarines during 1941 had sunk
or seriously damaged 17 enemy warships,


Missing _Friend.
ESTATE OF WILLIAM SCOTT, late of Wel-
lington (N.Z.), formerly a labourer, but latterly
a hairdresser and tobacconist (known in boxing
circles as “Nugget” Scott, and who at one time
worked on the N.S.W. Railways and the
Woronora Dam). Would any person knowing
the whereabouts of the parents, brothers, sisters
or next-of-kin of the above-named, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington?
INFORMATION is required as to DONALD
LLOYD FINEY (a son of Stephen Fmey and
Annie Maria Finey, both deceased, and late
of Alawoona, South Australia). Served in Great
War, on Fruit Block at Glossop (S.A.) in 1920-
1921, last heard of in Griffith (N.S.W.) in
July, 1937, in Picton (N.S.W.) in May, 1938, and
Penrith (N.S.W.) in September, 1938 Particulars
required by FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
EXECUTORS and TRUSTEES LIMITED,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide (S.A.).
Divorce Notices.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA
NEW SOUTH WALES REGISTRY.
No. 38 of 1941.
ON APPEAL from the Supreme Court of
New South Wales.
BETWEEN REGINALD ALFRED WAG-
HORN (Petitioner) Appellant and
MIRIAM DOROTHY WAGHORN (Respon-
dent) Respondent.
TO MIRIAM DOROTHY WAGHORN late ot
Bay Street Rozelle in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Appel-
lant REGINALD ALFRED WAGHORN has
filed a notice of appeal in this Court from the
judgment of the Supreme Court of New South
Wales in its Matrimonal Causes Jurisdiction
given on the Twenty-ninth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one which dis-
missed the Appellant’s petition for a dissolution
of his marriage with you on the grounds ot de-
sertion AND TAKE NOTICE also that it has
been ordered that service of the notice of appeal
on you be effected by this advertisement. A
copy of the notice of appeal may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) J. G. HARDMAN,
District Registrar, High Court of Australia,
Sydney.
M B. GILES, Solicitor for the Appellant,
10 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1186 of 1941.
BETWEEN FRANCIS MILTON EATHER
Petitioner and
MARGARET MAY EATHER Respondent.
TO MARGARET MAY EATHER of Kurra-
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRANCIS
MILTON EATHER has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the propei
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Seventh day of November One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of September One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J C PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
St. ' James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 830 of 1941.
BETWEEN DAISY ENID CHRISTINA
FOWLER Petitioner and
CHARLES FOWLER Respondent
TO CHARLES FOWLER late of “Newstead
Tarana near Bathurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DAISY ENID
CHRISTINA FOWLER has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Fifth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of ember, 1941.
(1.5.) c. k. body,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH & CO., Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
some of which were U-boats, besides tor-
pedoing an average of 15 enemy supply
ships a month—los in all.
Almost nightly, 30 to 40 enemy air-
craft drop mines in British sea lanes —
the now-conquered magnetic mine, the
devilish acoustic mine which explodes
when its tremblers are set in motion by
the sound of engines, the delayed-action
mine. Even the acoustic mine is now
nearly mastered, but, as Mr. Churchill
said, “not much is heard of the 1000
ships and 10,000 men who toil ceaselessly
to keep ports and sea lanes clear.”
Mr. Roosevelt on September 11 out-
lined the details of the attack on the
U.S. destroyer Greer in clear daylight v
of another attempt to attack a U.S. war-
ship in July, when the periscope of a sub-
marine was clearly seen; of the previous
sinking of the Robin Moor ; of the bomb-
ing of S.S. Steel Seafarer in the Red
Sea on September 7, when all hands were
saved ; of the sinking in the N. Atlantic
of the American-owned 1700-ton Sessa
(sailing under the Panama flag), and the
loss of its crew of 27 save for three. He
said:
The time has come to say: “You shall
go no further.”... .No act of violence will
prevent us from maintaining the bulwark
of defence, namely, supplies to Hitler’s
enemies, and the freedom of the high seas.
No matter what it costs we will keep open
the lines of legitimate commerce.
He said that Uncle Sam had not sought
and would not seek a shooting war, but
U-boats were the rattlesnakes of the
Atlantic and challenged U.S. sovereignty,
and the time had come when America
must be defended; “the time for active
defence is now.”
In waters deemed necessary for defence,
American warships won’t wait for Axis
raiders to strike first. Our patrolling ’planes
and ships will protect all merchantmen
sailing under any flag engaged in com-
merce within our defensive waters. From
now on Italian and German vessels entering
waters necessary to American defence do so
at their own peril.
That policy must affect the whole
Atlantic Ocean accessible to U-boat,
surface-raider and air attack particularly ;
and the whole of the seas in which
American naval ships happen to be for
the time being.
Whether U.S. merchant ships will be
armed remains to be seen; but certainly
no sea raider will be safe in the vicinity
of an American merchant ship if there
is a U.S. patrol about, and any German
battleship which dares western Atlantic
waters, as did Scharnhorst, Gneisenau,
Von Scheer and Bismarck, will risk sink-
ing by U.S. as well as British warships,
equally with U-boats. Mr. Roosevelt
considers them all “pirates” in waters
outside their own ponds.
The decision is doubly important be-
cause the defence of the British islands,
the support of Mediterranean and Middle
Eastern military operations and the pro-
tection of Singapore keep heavy British
ships as a general rule close to home ports
except when on specific missions. But
from now onward vital routes from
Canada will have all-the-way cover by
heavy units on a much more effective
scale than hitherto —and this applies to
ships “under whatever flag” outside those
of Germany and Italy—and trade
through the West Indies and Panama —
that affects Australia —and the zigzagging
traffic to the south and round the Cape
of Good Hope and the Horn have an
added security.
Power rests solely in American Con-
gress under the Constitution to declare
war, to define and punish piracies, to
grant letters of marque and reprisal, and
to make rules concerning captures on
land and water. In passing the Aid to
Britain Bill, Congress last March ex-
pressly safeguarded its power to declare
war.
The President, however, has power as
commander-in-chief of the navy to give
such instructions as he thinks necessary
for the protection of U.S. territory and
ships, and of the historic policy of U.S.
freedom of the seas.
His current action is merely a develop-
ment of former measures, but it could
have gone no further without an open
declaration of war on Germany.
"WAR INVENTIONS."
The Sydney Division of the Institution of
Engineers, Australia, has appointed a sub-
committee for the purpose of assisting people to
place ideas relative to military, naval or air
force requirements before the proper authorities.
Although only recently convened this sub-
committee has already considered a number of
proposals covering a wide field and including
anti-tank devices, aerial bombs, rocket-propelled
projectives, automatic mines, aeroplane instru-
ments, marine propellers, searchlights, etc.
Ideas requiring detailed investigation have
been forwarded to the proper authorities for
further dealing.
Anyone desiring the assistance or advice of
this sub-committee should forward full par-
ticulars of their device in writing to the Secre-
tary, Sydney Division, Institution of Engineers,
Australia, Science House, Gloucester Street,
Sydney, stating also whether the device is
covered by an application for Letters Patent.
From Spitsbergen to the Line.
“Nobby II”; The Navy was even
busier than usual last week. It began
by taking Canadian, British and Nor-
wegian troops on a Cook’s tour to Spitz-
bergen, where it was found that the Hun
had learnt nothing from the Lofoten
raids and was again taken by surprise.
Spitzbergen is between 74 and 81 north
latitude, about 350 miles off the Nor-
wegian coast. Its islands have an area
of about 24,000 square miles, and before
the war it exported an average of about
700,000 tons of coal a year from six
mining camps, which carried a population
of about 3300, of whom 2300 were Rus-
sians. The islands had had immunity
from German interference because of the
Russian interests there, though German
mining experts visited them after the
occupation of Norway, and Germany
was getting the coal production via Nor-
way. Naturally the attack on Russia
changed the position.
The British force was under command
of a Canadian officer, and Canadians
were first ashore from the warships and
troopships, of which there was a formid-
able convoy. The troops had been told
that they were “going out for exercises,”
and operational orders were issued only
a day before the islands were reached.
The initial landing was made under air
and destroyer cover in small boats. While
the British units came to arrangements
with the Russians and landed explosives
and stores, the Norwegians landed at
their principal town.
For several days the invaders wreaked
havoc among the mines, which were
blown up, the machinery wrecked, and
everything which could be of use to the
Germans, including the meteorological
station, destroyed.
The Norwegians were then taken
aboard to prevent their suffering the re-
prisals which followed the Lofoten
Islands raids. So King Haakon’s forces
will acquire about 700 hefty recruits and
Germany will get no more coal or oil
from Svalbord and its surroundings.
There was no sign of the enemy, but
the Admiralty confirms the fact, already
reported unofficially, that Vian, of the
Cossack —who has risen from commander
to rear-admiral since war broke out-
turned his greyhounds on to a gang of
German troopships and escorts which
were bound for Kola Peninsula to take
part in the assault on Murmansk. The
German gunnery ship Bremse, 1460 tons,
a destroyer, an armed trawler and one
other vessel are known to have been
sunk.
An E-boat and a 4000-ton German
freighter were sunk in the Channel by
R.N. units on Sept. 8 and an armed
trawler set on fire.
Elsewhere British submarines made
good bags —the Italian tanker Maya
(4000 tons), sneaking into the Black Sea,
a lighter daringly sunk by gunfire in
Benghazi harbor and a large Italian
schooner. A seaplane escorting the Maya
was brought down and the convoy of
Which it was a member dispersed.
The Italians admitted the sinking of
the liner Esperia (11,398 tons) in a convoy
off Tripoli recently.
The Admiralty announced that 200
Axis vessels, totalling 651,000 tons, had
been sunk in the Mediterranean between
June 11 and August 31.
Nevertheless, German Radio has never
been so full of the “heroic deeds” of the
U-boats and air patrols. It claimed the
sinking of a small Icelandic vessel en
route to America and a number of un-
named vessels round the British Isles, and
the smashing of a big convoy of 40 ships,
strongly guarded by corvettes and de-
stroyers, which had been attacked for
four days in the Atlantic. The Germans
declared that they sank 28 British vessels
of 168,000 tons in the convoy. The
Admiralty admits the loss of eight small
ships. The attacks were by U-boats and
Focke-Wulf bombers. The little Branden-
burg (1473 tons) left the convoy to rescue
survivors and her commander has been
posthumously commended by the Ad-
miralty. On the same day the Admiralty
announced the arrival of “the biggest con-
voy to date, which has brought millions
of pounds’ worth of valuable cargo, hav-
ing crossed the Atlantic unscathed.” An
earlier German yarn was that four mer-
chantmen and one tanker had been sunk
in the Red Sea or in Suez and five other
vessels severely damaged. The sinking
of the U.S.S. Steel Seafarer was admitted,
but the other casualties appeared to be
mythical.
The first raider for some time to appear
in the Pacific sank the Dutch freighter
Kota Nopan (7322 tons) about 1000 miles
out from Panama Canal.
The auxiliary naval vessel Tonbridge,
Lieut.-Commander D. E. Brown, has
been reported lost, with some casualties.
“Ek D.”: There will obviously be
something doing presently in the Middle
East. Vast supplies and reinforcements
are reaching the British Imperial forces,
which number 750,000, Mr. Churchill has
said. Air offensives and attacks on ship-
ping continue on both sides. The R.A.F.
and F.A.A. range daily from Sicily and
Tripoli to Corinth, and the Germans
claim to have made raids as far afield as
Suez and the Red Sea. Palermo (Sicily)
had a particularly heavy raid which
damaged the dry dock and shipping.
General Smuts arrived from S. Africa a
little while ago to confer with the com-
mander of the S. African forces, and
General Auchinleck has inspected the
N.Z. and S. African troops in the western
desert. Major-General Morshead, O.C.
A.I.F. in Tobruk, has been in Cairo con-
ferring with Lieut.-General Blarney and
Major-Generals Lavarack and Herring.
* * * *
The R.A.F. in Britain began last week
with a destructive raid on Berlin. Heavy
bombers have since dealt with ports up
and down the coast, industrial centres in
western Germany, Axis shipping and Brest,
where the German battle-cruisers still lie.
One raid pushed as far afield as the in-
dustrial districts of northern Italy, par-
ticularly Turin, home of the Fiat works,
which saw some of the new bombers for
the first time. A few raiders operated
round the British coast.
* * * *
A month ago the Bulgarian Govern-
ment addressed a note to the Soviet
Union complaining that Russian-type
’planes had dropped bombs in Bulgaria,
but admitting the possibility that the
bombing might have been done by
machines supplied by the U.S.S.R. to
the Greeks. Moscow replied to the effect
that the allegation was insulting and
provocative. The argument has de-
veloped, and last week the Sofia Gov-
ernment arrested a number of Com-
munists and declared partial mobilisation
“to combat subversive activity.” Moscow
had previously complained that the Ger-
mans were preparing to use Varna and
other Bulgarian Black Sea ports as bases
from which to operate against Russian
territory. As Admiral Raeder, the Ger-
man naval C.-in-C., has been in Sofia,
there may be a good deal in it. At any
rate, Bulgaria has been warned.
* * * *
No time was lost in delivering the first
cruiser tanks ordered from the U.S.A. in
June. The initial deliveries are already
in use by our Eastern Command.
* * * *
“X.N.”: Australia has begun to turn
out the 25-pounder gun-howitzer, adopted
by the British Army in place of the 18-
pounder —something between the old
105 mm. (4.134 in.) field gun and field
howitzer. The combination is trailer-
mounted, quickly convertible and fined
down for lightness, speed in transit,
adaptability and general suitability for all
conditions of modern warfare. Its rate of
fire is 25 shots a minute — 2\ times that
of the pre-war 105’s. It should be a vital
factor in dealing with Panzer attacks,
since it provides the punch which made
the 18-pounder and short 75 ineffective in
France.
General Mackay told the Australian
workers who made the first 25-pounders
—and a very good job, too —that the in-
vasion of Crete would have been beaten
if the forces there had been well equipped
with those weapons. As it was, the
British-A.I.F. artillery on the island had
consisted mainly of captured Italian
weapons.
* * * *
Instructive “battles” were fought round
Broken Bay (N.S.W.) when a test “in-
vasion” was staged. R.A.N., R.A.A.F.
and land forces were all in evidence. The
landing force consolidated itself, but was
heavily counter-attacked and driven off
to the satisfaction of Eastern Command.
It has long been recognised that, the
broken country about Sydney would
make a land attack difficult if the de-
fenders were well equipped.
* * * ♦
The R.A.A.F. now has five squadrons
on active service abroad, all equipped
with the most modern craft. By June next
year its oversea strength should be 23
squadrons. R.A.A.F. personnel exceeds
60,000.
* * * ♦
“Aileron”: Australia has a special in-
terest in the fact that a Lockheed Hudson
captured a U-boat in the North Atlantic.
With Lockheed bombs falling round it,
the U-boat began to trail like a wounded
snake, and Germans waved shirts from
its conning tower to still a shower of
bullets from the diving Hudson. Weather
was rough and visibility bad, but for
3i hours the Lockheed played ring-roses
over its prize. Then a Catalina arrived
and gave the Lockheed pilot time to un-
limber his stiff neck ; then came a war-
ship—and that was that.
* * * »
Lieut. G. Vincent, fresh from Tobruk,
where Corporal Edmonson, V.C., was a
member of his platoon, speaks:
It has been a revelation to see Sydney
and the round of pleasure which marks life
here. Nobody seems to know there is a
war on and you all go on in luxury and
comfort. In Tobruk, the boys are under
fire day and night. You sleep when you
can—in your boots because you may be
called out for a patrol any minute, and on
the hard ground. Generally, it is only in
the morning you can snatch rest; at night,
never. I don’t know what the boys over
there would say to conditions here; the
money that is spent on racing and sport
which might be devoted to a better purpose
to help those who are fighting for you. I
don’t know what they would say about
master hairdressers introducing marcel waves
for men. And the strikes —I don’t know
where you would be if they had strikes over
there because somebody had arrived a bit
late with the bully beef. But you may
rest assured that there will be no strikes in
Tobruk.
Vincent, who is a Weslralian, is recover-
ing from wounds. He remarked that he
“was getting out of Sydney back to
Tobruk” the moment the Medical Board
would let him go.


“■ — - j wnp-
Ml
We SAT DOWN AND
THOUGHT ABOUT THE
COUNTRY MAN
AND WHAT HE REALLY
NEEDED IN A RADIO .... TH EN W
DESIGNED and PRODUCED THE FAMOU
Milliard
■
m
M
ULJ LO
To the country family, radio means
far more than entertainment. The
country home looks to radio to
bring news; market information;
weather reports, as well as the
finest entertainment offering. For
years the country man has asked
for a Battery-ojferated radio that
will do this, and do it well; and
now such a receiver has been built
—the Mullard 67.
The Mullard 67 embodies a feature
unique in Australian-built Battery
Receivers —an “8.F.” stage. As a
result, this Model 67, a battery-
operated radio, gives the country
man performance equal to an A.C.
Kadio operated from electric mains.
Dual-wave, it gives extraordinary
performance on the short-wave
band, in addition to peerless broad-
cast reception. In fact. Model 67,
a brilliant, powerful and beautiful
radio, is a fine addition to the
range of Mullard Master Radio.
AVrite for special brochure and
expert test reports, to your local
Radio Dealer, or direct from: —
MUIXABD-AUSTRALIA PTl’., LTD., 367-371 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: MJ4688 (4 lines). Telegrams: “Mulvalve,” Sydney.
ŵ
THREE MEN
SAT ROUND THE FIRE
The night was bitterly cold. They
were strangers drawn together by
their common need of warmth and
shelter, swapping yarns and waiting
for a break in the weather. When
it came they went separate ways
and two of them forgot the casual
meeting. But the third was a writer.
The chance contact, the conversa-
tion, the stories they had told, set
lire to a dozen trains of thought.
Habit and training had made him
keenly aware of the romance, the
significance, of the commonplace.
This brief experience would result
in perhaps half a dozen stories, to
be sold at a handsome profit here
and overseas.
YOU might have been that man.
You, too, can get this new, en-
thralling angle on life and make
money with your pen! Men and
women in remote country districts
are earning a second income writ-
ing stories articles radio pro-
grammes —because the Australian
School of Journalism has taught
them how to think for subjects, how
to develop their ideas, how to sell
their work.
We would like to present you with
a delightful free book telling you
of the celebrated writers who have
prepared this sparkling new Course,
of the big opportunities which await
you, of the highly specialised tuition
which can set YOU on the highroad
to success. Write to-day, men-
tioning “The Bulletin, to: —
The Australian
School of Journalism
80 Swanston St., Melbourne.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
While all was comparatively quiet on
the Sydney film-front last week—a
Sydney pillar of the church evoked a
flicker of interest by taking a crack at
Shaw’s “Major Barbara”—there was con-
siderable excitement in other parts. In
Brisbane, “militant trade unions” ex-
pressed their intention of moving for the
suppression of “anti-Soviet” films, evi-
dently because a Hollywood piece called
“Comrade X” had disturbed some
. £ „ . . ~
supporters of the Soviet when it was
screened in a Brisbane film-house. Sup-
porters of the Soviet must be thin-skinned
—the film is prefaced by a foreword,
approved by Russian Ambassador
Maisky, to the effect that “it is just good
fun.” Meanwhile in Berlin, “it is
reported,” they deal more drastically
with dissatisfied audiences. There, noisy
objectors to a “particularly gruesome
..„-j* A u « e m
picture were liquidated by fire from
Nazi Black Guards. In Washington, too,
there was action on the film-front.
Charlie Chaplin has been called upon
to give evidence before the U.S. “Senate
sub-committee investigating propaganda
in films” regarding “The Great Dictator.”
Finally, Hollywood, doubtless alarmed
to see other fronts hogging all the pub-
licity, cables that Errol Flynn had been
taken to hospital suffering from nervous
exhaustion and that Bette Davis had been
bitten on the nose by a poodle and
would take 14 days to recover.
* * * *
“Little Nellie Kelly,” at Sydney St.
James, looks a bit sick in the very
early stages, with Judy Garland as an
Irish colleen caring for her good-for-
nothing father and spouting Hollywood
brogue with a strong American accent,
fading, after the first couple of words,
into pure Amurrican. George Murphy,
as her wooer, spouts the same strange
tongue, despite his name. Things take
on a pallid hue as the various ones con-
cerned initiate a migrate-to-America
movement and get in some good work,
vigorously back-patting their adopted-
knd-to-be. Then (safe now in America)
Judy is cut off in her prime. Georges
< ear - staln ed visage occupies the screen
£or °, ne ?,' 8 , ’ n* f “
a natural death. It stirs restlessly again
when Jud returns as her OWI / da ° lin ’
darter , and with her Douglas McPhail,
who doe sn’t look out of his teens and
run s to a promising baritone. There-
after the film struggles to life and finishes
off as full of beans as a two-year-old.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Sydney Minerva’s latest, “No Exit,”
has plenty of movement, both at the
Minerva and on public vehicles where
passengers take the advertisement literally
and seek another way out. It’s all about
a bet between a fiction writer and his
friend to prove that murder by a com-
petent person is easy. The audience was
satisfied with it, though it seemed to prove
that you can’t begin a play as a straight-
out comedy and change halfway through
to a straight-out thriller. It went well up to
the break, when the comedian was killed
off ; after that it dragged until the final
five minutes, when it finished with a nice
flourish. Richard Parry, as Jim Wilding,
didn’t seem sure of what the authors
wanted of him ; he could give comedy
and romance, but tragedy nearly beat
him. Charles Kilburn (Tony Anstey),
on the other hand, had only to be villain-
ous, and villainous he was, with ease,
dexterity and precision. Leslie Victor’s
detective was the best thing in the show,
and Barrett Lennard was the perfect silly
ass. Myra Morton’s best bit as Laura
Anstey was in the death scene, and
Yvonne Banvard romped cheerfully along
as the housekeeper.
* * * #
Compelled, more or less, to rely on
its own musical resources without im-
ported “celebrities,” Sydney is doing not
too badly. At last week’s A.B.C. sym-
phony concert Dr. Edgar Bainton, of
the Conservatorium, who was conductor,
steered the band through a really im-
pressive first performance of his own
symphony. Though the work is in D
minor, there is plenty of brightness and
vigor in the thematic material. The idiom
is essentially English, and therefore much
easier to follow than that of most other
contemporary symphonic compositions
which have been heard in Sydney. As
he has proved in previous orchestral,
choral and pianoforte essays, Dr. Bain-
ton has originality and individuality, and
these characteristics pervade his latest
work, which in nature suggests a histori-
cal pageant. The resources of the modern
symphony orchestra are handled in a
capable and effective fashion.
* * * *
The fifth chamber music concert of
the 1941 season at Sydney Con. brought
forward a worthy performance of Beet-
hoven’s Quartet, Op. 59, No. 3, one of
the famous Rasoumovsky set, by George
White and Robert Miller (violins), Wil-
liam Krasnik (viola) and Osric Fyfe
(’cello). To these were added clarinettist
Edward Simson for a warmly sympathetic
reading of the Brahms quintet. Szyma-
nowski’s Quartet in C, much less familiar,
pleased the listeners mainly because it so
obviously pleased the players.
* * * *
One of the best Mozart performances
Sydney has heard was that of the
Concerto for Two Pianos and Orchestra
in E Flat (K 365), in which Frank
Hutchens and Lindley Evans, old com-
panions in such exploits, thoroughly
enjoyed themselves as the pianists, with
a worthy backing from the band. Mottl’s
arrangement of formal dance measures
by Gluck (an interesting attempt to sug-
gest what a composer of 170 years ago
might do with a modern orchestra) and
two Debussy nocturnes completed the
entertainment.
* * *
With the kind of concerto usually
selected at the “celebrity” concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall, everybody knows
what to expect, but nobody knew what
to expect when Raymond Lambert made
a solo appearance in the first perform-
ance in Australia of the Concerto No. 3
in C Major, Op. 26, of Prokofieff. But
a packed house was more than ordi-
narily kindled by the pianist’s long, sus-
tained and able effort, especially in the
strange whimpering andante. Under
Bernard Heinze’s baton the orchestra
wasn’t too obtrusive, and it gave a well-
disciplined performance in the Sixth
Symphony of Schubert and the familiar
“Magic Flute” overture of Mozart.
Tschaikowsky’s “Romeo and Juliet”
brought the evening to a particularly
pleasant finish.
* * * *
Friedman continued his excursion
through the works of Chopin at Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week, and an
enthusiastic audience followed the Polish
pianist with breathless interest, even
through the huge bundle of 24 preludes
which he played without a pause at the
end of the first part of the programme.
The butterfly passages, heavy splashes
of dark color, little musical sighs and
melodious sobs came off his fingers
almost too easily.
* * * *
The ghosts of “Ruddigore” started
starting out of their frames for the first
time in Melbourne in 1928, and the opera
has since become a regular in the Gil-
sullivan repertoire. The ancestral spooks
commenced walking again before the
usual crowded house at His Majesty’s oil
Saturday. Verbally “Bluddigore” isn’t
the happiest of Gilbert’s efforts, and funny
man Menzies has one of his most languid
roles. Nor, contrary to the advertise-
ment, is it “spectacular,” unless words
have lost their meaning. But musically it
is one of the happiest of Sullivan’s
achievements, and the co. was in good
singing form, particularly Miss Gardiner.
ARTBURSTS
The Contemporary Art Society’s show
at David Jones’s Market-street store,
Sydney, was visited last week by the
Trustees of the N. S. Wales National
Gallery, who bought Rah Fizelle’s
“Morning,” a rather posterish semi-nude,
and a very small painting by William
Dobell, “Portrait of a Woman Dozing.’*
Both painters take a conventional view
of human anatomy and their pictures
would not be out of place in any sort of
company. Most of the other exhibits
seem to have been intended to shock or
amaze rather than to win friends and
influence people,
* * * »
Septimus Power has unloaded another
consignment of his favorite livestock at
Melb. Athenaeum, but so far has
Melbourne drifted into modern fashions
th *h e intelligentsia is likely to cast
a lacklustre eye on the huge canvases of
horses, dogs and turkeys which formerly
enchanted them. In some of the little
sketches there is a suggestion of an artist
seeking something, but for the most part
Power is satisfied to repeat the formula
used on former occasions, and he
does it so exactly that it is difficult for
*ne observer not to feel that he is looking
a * a previous exhibition,
*_* * *
S.A. Society of Arts has kept the flag
flying through the winter with good one-
man shows. Rex Batterbee painted the
vivid and surprising reds of Centralia.
Noel Wood sent studies of lush-green
vegetation from his tropic island. Travis
Webber, now one of S.A.’s best, had
masterly landscapes. And T. H. Bone,
Victorian born, is steadily making a
liame > is hung in several galleries.
* * , * , * ,
show of war photos, at the Metro-
P olltan . Gas Co. s a uditonum m Mel-
°^. rne is a striking commentary on the
noß ° n that it is a good thing to send
P amters to the war zone. The
ca meramen have caught the war-god in
ev f l iX as P^ c t trampling London into
' sending ships to the bottom, and
j llB v * c t lrns snatched from him in
un( heds when the Bisrnaick was sunk
Bl * ltlsh seam^ n - , The manual artl , st
cannot even paint a landscape completely
truthfully because his light is changing
e minute and he hasn’t a ghost of a
char f ce of inti a faithful Strait of
M ars in his tantrums,


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Tattersall’s Club had a meeting that
pleased secretary T. T. Manning, as well
as the members of the committee. There
was an attendance of 32,000 —inclusive of
about 2000 soldiers —and a tote turn-
over of £47,998, against £37,057 last year.
A feature of the day’s racing was trainer
B. R. Payten’s wins with The Bailiff,
Evergreen and Connette. W. Cook rode
each.
Freckles displayed all the pace ex-
pected in the Tramway Handicap, but,
though clear of Session and Flying
Knight at the home turn, he was out-
stayed over the last furlong by Evergreen,
who gave him a substantial length start
from the top of the straight. Nothing
in the field looked in better condition
than Reading, but, sour at the barrier and
hurdled off with Duvach, he ran badly.
The last bit again stopped Session, but
Panchio, with 91b. more than his Epsom
impost, made a good showing, while
Irish Sea, even with additional weight,
should have no difficulty in picking up a
race in slightly weaker company. The
race was run in which, as the
distance covered was seven furlongs
22} yards, worked out better than the
Randwick record of 1.23 for seven fur-
longs.
• •••••
It was recognised that the six furlongs
of the Canterbury Stakes the previous
week did not suit Beau Vite, but the style
in which he fairly ran over High Caste
and Lucrative at the finish of the Chelms-
ford Stakes was surprising. Murmuring
did the pacemaking, but High Caste and
Lucrative led into the straight, with Dick
Whittington, Murmuring and Beau Vite
following in that order. A furlong from
home it was palpable High Caste would
beat Lucrative, but Beau Vite, running
up to his best form, decisively settled
both, and cut out the nine furlongs and
27 yards in 1.51, against Marengo’s course
record of 1.50 for nine furlongs.
Gundagai, favorite for the Spring
Handicap, was not one of the first half-
dozen at any part, and Triggerman, taking
charge when the field settled down, was
not after headed. At the turn it looked
as if either Pandect or Fearless might
overhaul him, but he then shot away
again, and scored by three-quarters of a
length from the latecoming Goose Boy,
who made up a lot of leeway. Pandect
was never further back than third from
the six-furlongs post, but lack of recent
racing told against him. Red Pete was
fourth, after being in a good position
throughout, but was never really danger-
ous, nor was Binnia Hero, but in running
fifth Haridelle put herself in the light
of a possibility for a middle-distance race.
Berrima and Glaucus cut at each other
from the start of the Hurdle Race, but,
though the latter led at the half-mile,
Gold Pan, who moved up from fourth
place with a sharp run approaching the
turn, was too good for him after turning
into the straight. Punarua, who appeared
to be going comfortably in third place
for about a mile and a quarter, was in
that position at the winning-post, but
was unequal to troubling the first two,
The time, 3.11, was only a half-second
outside the course record for a mile and
three-quarters, and on Saturday the dis-
tance was 40 yards greater. Unless the
lameness shown by him after the race
proves serious, further wins for Gold
Pan are in sight. He is up to weight,
and stays.
The Bailiff had little in the way of
form to recommend him, but in sending
him out equal favorite with Rapture for
the Novice Handicap backers displayed
excellent judgment. Gold Rush and Pan
Pipe led in turn for the first half-mile,
and there was not much between those
two and Rapture, Dark Warbler and The
Bailiff turning for home. The last-named,
however, finished too strongly for his
opponents, winning by a length from
Duke Cullen, who, after getting into
trouble, beat Dark Warbler a head. The
fact of starting from the extreme out-
side told against Dark Warbler. Un-
placed runners in Haripur, Goldbrook
and Rapture shaped well, and will fare
better. The Bailiff is a good-looking
three-year-old colt by Double Remove
from Biddy Menda (Rossendale-Royal
Abbess) and, bred by P. Miller, was sold
as a yearling for 400gns.
• • • * *
In the Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap Connette gave trainer B. Payten
his third successive win of the afternoon.
She actually finished better than Veiled
Threat, after the latter had come from
the rear of the field at the half-mile to
take up a prominent position in the
straight. It was also only after turning
for home that Connette joined the lead-
ing division, and though she did not shine
when she recently tackled a middle dis-
tance she is certainly a good miler.
Chatoona beat Trade Mark for third, the
latter leading into the straight. Mer-
rimba gave his backers an indifferent
run, as did Broadcaster, both dying away
in the run home.
• • • • • *
Katanga narrowly missed giving
Payten his fourth win of the day. When
he made his run inside the last furlong
in the Welter Handicap it seemed fairly
certain he would dispose of Omapo, but
the latter held him off. Benefited by the
race Katanga will be very hard to beat
at his next appearance. Roxford, Brazen
Lad and Breeze were the early leaders,
but though Roxford hung on well to get
third the fin i sb reS olved itself into a
match between Omapo and Katanga,
John Dory was fourth, while Levraut,
though backed, failed to raise a decent
ga llop, and it was the same with High-
born.
Skipton won the Moonee Valley Stakes
on Saturday in a style which stamped
him a likely Derby colt, but the real sen-
sation of the race was All Love’s failure
to gain a place after attempting to lead
throughout the mile. It was only the
second time she had finished out of the
money in 12 starts, and her defeat was
costly to the public.
All Love outsped High Title and Kelos
in a test of early brilliance, but, although
she seemed to be going comfortably
enough with a clear lead about two fur-
longs from home, she showed little fight
when challenged by Tea Cake entering
the straight, and finished fourth, about
two lengths behind the winner. Even
allowing that she was penalised 91b., All
Love seemingly is not quite as good as
when she ran away with the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, but her rider, S. David-
son, had excuses to offer. He stated
that the filly received a kick at the bar-
rier, and, being strange to the track,
hung out most of the way. In the circum-
stances, Davidson expressed satisfaction
with her form.
The race may improve All Love, but,
whereas it was previously thought she
had a mortgage on the important spring
races for three-year-old fillies, those
events now bear a somewhat more open
appearance. Primavera, who finished
four lengths behind All Love in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, came from
a long way back to beat her for third
money on Saturday, and their next meet-
ing, in the Edward Manifold Stakes, one
mUe, at Flemington on October 4, will
hold considerable interest. Primavera
meets All Love 41b. worse in that race,
but, win or lose, she has come right into
the picture as a definite Oaks prospect.
She is by Windbag, and gives the impres-
sion that \\ mile will be within her scope.
Alcmena and Kelos, other fillies who
contested the Moonee Valley Stakes, will
need to improve to defeat All Love and
Primavera in the Edward Manifold or
Wakeful Stakes.
• ••••*
Skipton’s defeat of Tea Cake was an
impressive performance one which
caused his rider, N. Creighton, to remark
that the colt had come from novice to
championship class in one run. Tea
Cake looked all over a winner halfway
up the straight, but Skipton, who was
conceding All Love at least 12 lengths
at the end of three furlongs, unwound a
brilliant finish to beat Tea Cake half a
neck. Skipton, a son of the Melbourne
Cup winner Marabou, has raced only six
times, and, as winner of his last three
races, is one of the most promising young
stayers in training. He was bought by
J. J. Kitson for 250gns. as a yearling, and
presented by Kitson to his wife. Kitson
himself is part-owner of Lugano, now in
Sydney for the A.J.C. Derby, and Skip-
ton was left in the same race, but he is
not to go to Sydney. His next race will
be the Caulfield Guineas, followed by
the Victoria Derby and probably the
Melbourne Cup.
One of the most spectacular plunges
in months misfired when Rex Buzz was
defeated half a head by Carlton in the
Budgeree Handicap. Weight of money
forced Rex Buzz’s price from tens down
to favoritism at 3 to 1, but, although he
looked like winning when he slipped
through to take the lead the turn, he
just failed to see the job through. Sun
Belle, who, with Contact, appeared to be
hampered when Carlton veered in, battled
on gamely for third money, ahead of
Swettenham, but Snow White failed after
appearing to have had every chance.
Carlton won rather impressively after
being a long way out of his ground at
the half-mile, and the form has brought
him into more prominence for the Caul-
field Cup. He has already been backed
at long odds for that race, in which he
has only 6.13, and will firm further if
he shapes well in better company at his
next start. He is a big four-year-old
gelding by Curialis from Silver Wind,
and, as Saturday’s race was only his
second since his dead-heat with Sun
Valley over a mile at Flemington in
June, improvement is probable. N. Per-
cival, who rode him 41b. overweight at
7.4 on Saturday, has been engaged to
ride him in the Toorak Handicap and
Caulfield Cup.
Percival upset another plunge when he
landed Manstar winner by half a head
from Panka in the Nulla Nulla Handicap.
Panka was backed from sixes to favorit-
ism at threes, but Manstar, who had
made the early pace with Billie Burke,
slipped away entering the straight and
lasted just long enough. Panka would
have won in another stride or two. Both
the first and second horses improved on
their form in the Whittier Handicap at
Flemington a week earlier. They finished
behind Aurie’s Star in that race, but the
latter, who met them on better terms on
Saturday, weakened after making a short-
lived dash at the top of the straight, and
was cut out of third' money by Pannade.
Manstar’s success compensated for the
earlier failure of Contact, who races in
the same interest, and, with three wins
and a second from his last five starts, he
is a decidedly useful proposition for
owner L. Wight. Pannade ran on well,
but nothing finished better than Bill-
poster, who came from a bad last to
run sixth.
Form said little for Pandini’s chance
in the Corroboree Maiden, but, fairly
well backed at long odds, he outstayed
the 7-to-4 favorite, Cofredor, and won
by a head. Corredor is reputed to be as
good a track galloper as Velocity, but it
would be difficult to estimate the dif-
ference betwen them on public form. He
looked a certain, winner when he hit the
front about two furlongs from home and
went further ahead in the straight, but
was a very tired horse right at the finish.
A 600gns. yearling, Corredor has been
very expensive to his connections and to
backers in general. Pandini, who cost
325gns. as a yearling, is a five-year-old
gelding by Pantheon from Nagoya.
High Wave recorded his second win
from his last three starts —he fell in the
other —when he easily defeated Beau
Spear and Ken in the Boomerang Hurdle.
He wound up with six lengths to spare,
and seems sure to do well in better com-
pany. High Wave is raced on lease by
R. McDonald from Westralian P. A.
Connolly, and gave his young lessee-
trainer his third win in the few weeks he
has been training. Thuna was his other
winner. Dorset, always favorite, led all
the way to win the Mt. Cotterell Steeple-
chase from Bunnegal and West Haran.
A six-year-old, he is young as ’chasers
go, and invariably runs well at the Valley.
* * * *
Of Epsom Handicap candidates that
ran in the Tramway Handicap Evergreen,
Freckles and Panchio were seen to most
advantage. Evergreen finished so strongly
with 7,13 that even a rise of 51b, may
not prove a serious matter for him in the
Epsom, whereas, while Freckles drops
121 b., the way he weakened in the Tram-
way left doubt as to whether an extra
furlong would be to his liking, even with
his light weight. One thing in his favor,
however, is that he is unlikely to have
any trouble in gaining a good position
early in the piece—Evergreen may not —
and that, in conjunction with his 7.5,
should be helpful at the end. During the
next fortnight more is to be asked of
him in his work than previously.
It is difficult to say anything in favor
of Flying Knight or Session, third and
fourth in the Tramway Handicap. They
respectively carried 71b. and 51b. less
than they will have to put up in the
Epsom, and neither came home in a
fashion that suggested they had prospects
of turning the tables on Evergreen and
Freckles. Panchio was more impressive
than either Flying Knight and Session.
He was behind them at the winning-post,
but, carrying 91b. more than his Epsom
weight, was much closer to them at the
finish than at the top of the straight. It
looks as if he will get the mile, and his
owner is one of the lucky division.
After Reading’s effort on Saturday it
savors of betting on a double to back
him, the first leg being to catch him in
the humor. His defeat of High Caste at
Canterbury put him a long way in the
Epsom, and his Tramway run went
towards putting him out of it. Winnipeg’s
effort said little for his Epsom prospects,
and Chatoona will meet Connette 61b.
worse than when she beat him in the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap. In
addition to Evergreen and Connette,
Payten has another acceptor in Katanga,
and as they are in different owner-
ship there is the possibility of the three
running. Katanga has 41b. less than when
fourth in last year’s Epsom, but I think
that he will be better suited by a longer
distance. He weakened at the finish of
the mile in the Welter, but while each
race he now receives may slow him down
slightly as a sprinter he will probably
improve as a stayer.
John Dory, meeting Katanga 71b. worse
than Epsom terms, was fourth in the
Welter, but may not commence fast
enough to be a danger in the more im-
portant race. The longer distance of the
Chelmsford Stakes helped High Caste to
find his legs better than at Canterbury,
but, as bearing on the Epsom, his second
with 9.11 was not exactly impressive.
The lightweights will make it hard for
him in the early part of fluff race.
There have not been any rumors detri-
mental to Rimveil’s welfare, and, as he
holds his place in the betting quotations,
it is reasonable to suppose all is going
well with him. Visitors in High Rank
and All Veil are among the few promi-
nent Epsom candidates that have to be
seen out, and on their home form both
must be respected. High Rank, as I have
previously written, is getting only 21b.
less from Rimveil than in the Doomben
Newmarket, and if as well as then there
is no reason why he should not again
beat him.
* * * *
Dashing Cavalier, Red Pete, Binnia
Hero, Hope and Gundagai did nothing
in the Spring Handicap to flatter their
Metropolitan backers. As Dashing Cava-
lier had only 21b. more than he will have
to put up in the latter he should, at least,
have made some sort of a showing. Trig-
german’s win did not put him much ahead
of Pandect, who is likely to make the
greater improvement in condition before
Metropolitan day. In a good position at
the top of the straight Pandect tired
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Generous Gesture,
1 ; Duke Claro, 2 ; Glittering Flame,
3.
Camellia Stakes; Amiable, 1 ;
Air Link, 2 ; Rimveil, 3.
Rosehill Guineas: Yaralla, 1 ;
Chatham’s Choice, 2 ; The Bailiff,
3.
Rosehill Spring Handicap: Aris-
tocrat, 1; Malagigi, 2 ; Red Sails, 3.
Hill Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Lugano, 2.
Highweight Handicap: Roxford,
1 ; Brazen Boy, 2 ; Teddy Rion or
Gallop, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(Before acceptances.)
Banyan Hurdle: High Wave, 1;
Merridale, 2 ; The Stork, 3.
Yarraman Handicap: Millais, 1 ;
Vermont, 2 ; Royal Peter, 3.
Leslie Stuart Stakes: High Road,
1 ; Operatic, 2 ; Panka, 3.
Mentone Cup: Positron, 1; True
Flight, 2 ; El Golea, 3.
Dandenong Welter: Shutone, 1 ;
Manstar, 2 ; Grandson, 3.
Hampton Handicap: Dream Girl,
1 ; Gusher, 2 ; Dockment, 3.


LANE'S
WQ
N 0 P *I*ING
NO PUMPING
p.utss j
0000
\eteW
Co^P
•t.e''
vP
blue V|f
FLAME
KEROSENE STOVE
LIGHTS
5U> y ®
Gos
ViVe
f ONLV ONE FUEL
—Kerosene
Nq
Jr *p
Osh
e ph
°C«
' U^QQW/Afl
AI \ L
ABSOLUTELY SAFE and SILENT
SEE VOUR LOCAL STORE
before reaching the judge’s box, and was
cut out of second place by Goose Boy,
who is better than supposed prior to
last week.
Triggerman is improving with racing,
but he evidently does his best work when
he makes his own running, and an all-
the-way win in the Metropolitan will be
difficult. However, the fact of his trainer
ending Epsom and Metropolitan doubles
with him before his recent wins is proof
that he has faith in him as a stayer.
Remarc, who ran in the Tramway, did
not give any indication that he was re-
turning to his form of last spring. One
of the few Metropolitan absentees of
any note during the afternoon was Aristo-
crat, but he continues to do well in his
work.
At the time of writing 1 am unaware
whether Beau Vite is to run in the Metro-
politan, but, if he does, a win for him with
71b. more —a rise of 21b. on the w.f.a.
scale—than he carried last year is quite
on the cards. The extra distance, as
compared with the Chelmsford Stakes,
may help Lucrative, but it certainly will
not be against Beau Vite, who will meet
him only 41b. worse than on Saturday.
Veiled Threat did not quite satisfy
some of his Metropolitan backers. He
could not hold Connette after appearing
to have her measure near the finish of
the Three- and Four-year-old Handicap, in
which they met on exactly Metropolitan
terms. However, a drop of a stone in
weight and an easier pace in the early
part should help Veiled Threat in the
longer race.
* * * *
Chelmsford Stakes runners included
five A.J.C. Derby candidates, and they
were completely outclassed by the older
horses. Murmuring showed pace for six
furlongs, then faded out, and Dick Whit-
tington finished fourth, but, while the
older horses had 101 b. penalty, he had
an allowance of 71b., which was reduced
to 51b., consequent on his rider being
21b. overweight. Galliard, who also had
an allowance, did not show Derby form,
nor did The Champion, who failed to
do as well even as in the Canterbury
Guineas. Laureate swerved away at
barrier-rise, and, being badly left, was a
long last throughout.
Up to the present our Derby horses
appear a moderate lot as stayers, and if
Lugano is as good as suggested by his
Melbourne form Victoria may add an-
other to its A.J.C. Derby victories. I
was nearly forgetting to add that, though
there is a wide margin between a Novice
Handicap and a Derby, The Bailiff’s
showing was so good for a comparatively
inexperienced colt that h:s rise to classic
form in even such a short period as the
next fortnight is not entirely beyond the
bounds of possibility.
* * * *
Saturday’s racing at Randwick naturally
had some effect on Epsom and Metro-
politan betting. High Caste weakened
for the mile, and, though on the same
mark as Freckles and Evergreen on Mon-
day, was scarcely in as much demand as
either. With most of the books the order
of the fancied horses was as follows:
EPSOM HANDICAP.
Freckles, Evergreen, High Caste.
Rimveil.
Amiable.
High Rank.
All Veil.
Panchio.
Reading, Session.
John Dory, Tuhitarata.
METROPOLITAN.
Beau Vite, Lucrative.
Veiled Threat.
Pandect.
Aristocrat.
Katanga, Reading, Triggerman.
Connette, Gundagai, Red Pete, Dashing
Cavalier, Remarc.
* * * *
It is possible for those backers who
are pinning their faith to High Caste
for the Caulfield Cup to be nearer
the mark than those who are standing
him for the mile at Randwick with 9.13.
In the Caulfield Cup he has the 9.7 he
carried into second place in last year’s
Williamstown Cup, run at Flemington.
Remarc, who had only 7.4, was too good
for him on that occasion, but this year
that horse has 8.3. It is also worth noting
that High Caste is in the Colin Stephen
Stakes as well as in the Epsom Handi-
cap on the opening day of the A.J.C.
meeting, and that leaves the doubt
whether he is a certain runner for the
latter. Since his Williamstown Cup
defeat High Caste has won a mile and
three-quarters w.f.a. race in fair time at
Flemington.
« * * *
Melbourne has six first acceptors for
the A.J.C. Derby, and as Lugano and
Murmuring are not in anything else at
the meeting it seems as if they will be
hurried home after the first day’s racing
at Randwick to run in the Caulfield
Guineas, which takes place a week later
than the Derby. The last two Caulfield
Guineas were won by High Caste and
Lucrative, who were beaten in the A.J.C.
Derby. It looks as if All Love will have
to improve greatly upon last Saturday’s
form to win the Guineas, which has not
gone to a filly since Midilli in 1920.
* * * *
There are some optimistic entries for
the Randwick Plate. Mag Mort stays
well over hurdles, but he has yet to do
anything suggestive of being within cooee
of w.f.a. form on the flat. Enderby has
shown himself useful, but on the best he
has shown he has a long way to go to
join the w.f.a. division. It will be a sur-
prise for racing men if Hope, now in his
ninth year, improves upon everything he
has accomplished in the past, and that
will be necessary to take him up to
w.f.a. class. There is, of course, the pos-
sibility of something causing one or two
of the best horses to drop out, and £l5O
for second or £BO for third would be
helpful in paying expenses.
* .n * *
L. B. Mayer, owner of Beau Pere and
several Australian-bred mares, was one
of the nine owners who, in July, were
questioned by the California Racing
Board in connection with the alleged
stimulation of their horses with caffeine
at the Hollywood Park meeting. As the
urine test did not show that Mayer’s
horse was stimulated with caffeine or
anything else, he was exonerated. Mayer,
however, was so upset by the charge that
it was reported he might go out of racing,
but his engagement of a trainer for three
years disposed of that rumor.
* * * *
Some Australian buyers have fared
badly in the purchase of yearlings, but
their experience is only the same as that
of others who have given high prices in
England and America. The latest instance
is that of Miss D. Paget with Colonel
Payne (Fairway-Golden Hair). In 1937
she gave 15,000gns. for him, the highest
price ever paid at auction in England for
a yearling. As a two-year-old Colonel
Payne had one unsuccessful run, and 1
do not think he started at three years.
At four years he won two races, each
worth £122. Last year he won one race
of £lOO. He has only one minor placing
to his credit, and in first money has re-
turned a total of £344. Colonel Payne’s
breeding leaves nothing to be desired,
but, despite his high price as a yearling,
his racing record will tell against him,
“and his stud opportunities will, in the
main, be limited to mares owned by Miss
Paget.
* * * #
The best can fail. Three-year-old
Whirlaway, regarded as the “wonder
horse” of America this season, was sent
out at 4 to 1 on in a field of six for the
Classic at Arlington Park (Chicago) on
July 26, and was comfortably beaten by
Attention (10 to 1) in 2.2 f for the mile
and a quarter. Whirlaway was within
half a neck of Attention entering the
straight but was a length and a half be-
hind at the winning-post. Attention, who
received 51b., is by the great racehorse
Equipoise, who died nearly three years
ago.
The success of Attention was specially
gratifying to “Salvator,” probably
America’s soundest writer on breeding.
When Equipoise was retired “Salvator”
upheld his stud possibilities, notwith-
standing that many of the Figure System
authorities contended that it was against
Equipoise that he was a No. s—in5 —in fact,
he was practically certain to be a failure
because of that. However, there are
upsets in everything associated with
racing and breeding, and Equipoise was
a success. Many of his two-year-olds
have won, he has a crack three-year-old
in Attention, and, a few days before the
latter beat Whirlaway, Equipoise’s four-
year-old son Equifox won the Arlington
Handicap and the Equipoise Mile, the
latter being named in honor of that horse.
The Arlington Classic carried approxi-
mately £A13,400 and a gold trophy for
first. Although the field was small,
£A37,270 went through the totalisator on
the race.
* * * *
The success of Skipton in Melbourne
draws attention to the fact that his sire,
Marabou, is advertised at a 25gns. fee
this season. Marabou is located at Red-
bank Stud, Scone.
♦ * * »
Some owners in India do things in a
big way. M. C. Patel, who trains for the
Maharajah Gaekwar of Baroda, recently
took out 61 training tickets for Poona
for that owner. Arabs, Indian-bred,
English and Australian horses are in-
cluded in the team. F. Bullock is train-
ing 28 horses at Poona, L. Hewitt 12 and
A. Higgins 25.
* * ♦ ♦
Mindful of what racing means to them
it is surprising some Australian breeders
do not give it greater support. They
seemingly reckon that when they supply
horses for other people to buy and race,
and perhaps have two or three trained
on their account during a year, they
have done all that can be expected of
them. One good point about American
breeders of prominence is that, as a rule,
though they sell many horses, they also
race a good number.
* * * *
At one time horses engaged in any
race at a Maoriland meeting were sent
out many minutes before the advertised
starting time in order to stimulate tote
betting. A recent change in the Rules of
Racing permitted of alteration in that
respect, and at the recent C.J.C. Grand
National meeting at Riccarton (Christ-
church) the horses were sent to the post
only five minutes before the advertised
time for starting each race. The pro-
cedure gave so much satisfaction that it
will be adopted at the New Zealand
Cup meeting. The stakes for the four
days of the Cup fixture will again be
£16,300.
* * * *
The death took place in England a
little while back of baronet George
Thursby, who, as an amateur rider, was
second on John o’ Gaunt in the 1904
English Derby, and was similarly placed
on Picton in that race two years later.
He was also on John o’ Gaunt and Sir
Archibald in the Two Thousand, in
which they were second. Although he
did not win, his record in classics was
outstanding for an amateur. Thursby
also rode under National Hunt Rules,
and trained a team.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Patrick Cleans-up Morgan
Any doubts left after their two previous
encounters were conclusively and finally
laid when Vic Patrick comfortably out-
pointed Tod Morgan at Rushcutter Bay
last Thursday night. With youth to the
tune of the best part of 20 years on Vic’s
side, few could have entertained much
honest hope for Tod in these recurrent
bouts. What real interest there may have
been in this third engagement ebbed out
with a rush as soon as Tod’s name was
strung up, with his weight 9.KH, and
therefore no involvement of the light-
weight title Vic took off him on a points
verdict at their previous meeting.
The big crowd, which had come along
on the understanding that it was to be a
title scrap, showed its feelings by count-
ing the affair out when, in the mid-stages,
it became somewhat duller than the rest
of it. These feelings would not be wiped
out by the subsequent news that Vic had
been “sportsmanlike” in Aot claiming the
£5O penalty due from Tod for being over-
weight. Feeling that it had been “had,”
the mob punctuated the mauling pro-
ceedings with frequent expressive terms
of contempt. There was much more ex-
citement over a performance in the
bleachers before the prelims, started than
at any later stage. Investigation found a
cove there alone and unassisted drinking a
bottle of whisky—maybe for a bet, or
maybe because his name was McTavish,
and he’d got it free somewhere, or, of
course, it may have been that he liked it.
The mood of the crowd remained good
through eight novice bouts and four
prelims, largely of the slather and whack
order, with more slather than whack.
With the announcement that the title
wasn’t at stake feeling turned audibly to
resentment, which nothing in the scrap
itself contributed to allay. From the
start Tod went in, and thereafter kept it
at close quarters, making dullness duller
with spoiling tactics. Thus it became
mostly a mauling match, Tod claiming
Vic’s right and jolting his own right under
Vic’s ribs ; Vic busy with left jabs and
short left hooks and uppercuts. Tod
may have won three rounds out of the
fifteen. He fought most of the time with
a lump 'as big, actually, as a hen-egg
over his right eye. He is nothing like the
Tod he used to be, otherwise he’d have
walked in.
If this showing was a fair yardstick,
Vic has a long way to go yet before he
acquires class. He may have been merci-
ful ; he was always a mile ahead on
points, and, again, Tod, though he should
give the game up, is still foxy and awk-
ward to fight. These considerations may
have excused Vic’s apparent crudity.
One thing is certain—scrap addicts
would need some persuading to go along
in large numbers to a further meeting of
the pair, and henceforth are likely to be
sceptical about advertised title fights till
the numbers go up.
* * * w
Alan Westbury emerged from some-
where or other to put Terry Reilly well
and truly through the hoop at West
Melbourne on Saturday night. Terry’s
boko was so badly damaged that the fray
was called off in the fifth round. Alan’s
weight was stated at 10.104: to Terry’s
10.3 y. Provided Alan can make the
welter poundage he should enter into
arrangements being made to decide the
Australian title. It could be decided
easily by Hockey Bennell meeting Ron
McLaughlin and the winner meeting
Westbury.
Footbrawl
While 60,000 of the faithful waited at
M.C.G. for the Carlton-Melbourne semi-
final, the Melbourne side was being
shampooed what time an orchestra leader
played lowly on a mouth-organ to soothe
players’ nerves. Old hands who snorted
something about sissies changed their
tune when Melbourne galloped away to
an easy win, 16.13 to 11.16.
As in Essendon v. Richmond, the
winners piled up a substantial lead (7.5
to 2.2) in the first quarter. Melbourne
had the edge in the air and in forward
play and, whether the shampoo or the
harmonica or both were responsible or
not, it was much cooler in tricky spots.
Carlton forwards threw away chances
with silly short passes.
By half-time it was a one-horse race.
Melbourne had 9.8 to 3.5, and 13.11 to
6.9 at the final change. Carlton gets
another chance next Saturday against
Essendon, the winner to play Melbourne
in the “grand” final.
The V.F.A. competition has resolved
itself into Coburg, Prahran and Port
Melbourne. Coburg beat Preston by
16.21 to 11.21 on Saturday. Prahran and
Port are to meet next Saturday, the loser
to play Coburg. They had 10,000 at the
Coburg-Preston match.
* * * *
Hard-rucking forwards and hard-
tackling backs gained the Sydney Rugby
Union premiership for Eastern Suburbs.
The honest side beat University by nine
points to six—two tries and a penalty goal
to two penalty goals. It was dour, solid
football, brightened only by the two
dashes that brought East’s tries.
All through the season East employed
the same methods. It met ’Varsity on
four occasions ; was beaten 9-8 the first
time, then won 6-5, 14-10 and 9-6. Its
policy was always “prevent the others
from scoring and keep plugging on.” The
team owes a lot to its coach lessep, the
old international, who has played repre-
sentative football for two Dominions.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Another murder play at the Minerva
brought theatre fans to pack the whole
house. Producer Alex. Coppel’s be-
trothed, Myra Morton, played the lead-
ing girl. The men have all the good lines,
and the girl, by association of ideas with
the white frock worn so gracefully by
Myra in the first scene, might be said to
be a sort of Greek Chorus. The second
act should stir the most hardened addict
of mystery literature to shudders. Marie
Burke, who will play lead in the next
Whitehall-Minerva production, “Robert’s
Wife,” was in the audience. Carleton
Kelly, in uniform, was there with his
wife, his mother and other members of
the Kelly family. They love the theatre
as much as do the Bradys, who were in
their usual places. Dr. George Duncan
and his wife were taking a night off
from continued sickness in the family.
In the foyer guests of the Quist-Keigh-
ley wedding still spoke of bride Sylvia
Keighley’s radiance ; of the gold miniature
Davis Cup that had topped the cake and
the silver cups that had circled it;
of the sprays of real orange blossom
sported by the best plan and the grooms-
men ; of the deep wine-red velvet and
orchids worn by the bride’s mother ; and
of the sympathetic and fluent notes of
Thelma Houston Foster during the
ceremony. Mrs. Harten, of New York,
wore one of the new vogue cowgirl
frocks. It was in two tones of apricot
and white, and had silver-nail motifs.
It was covered by a sweeping cape
of black velvet. Mrs, Silk, from
Melbourne, was ope of the well
dressed. Knight Sam Cohen brought
a family party. Mrs. Penfold Hyland
and daughter Rada were in the stalls.
Philip Lewis, over from Melbourne, was
another of the much-greeted.
The Legacy Club certainly has a winner
in its exhibition of war photographs taken
by Major E. Paterson, an engineer, who
fought through the last war, and is now
in the Middle East helping to win this.
It was opened last week by Assistant-
Minister Dickson. On the walls of David
Jones’s auditorium, told in vivid, living
pictures, is the story of the common
round of everyday as known by the men
of Bardia. Major Paterson’s wife, to
whom these photographs and hundreds
more were sent on tiny films, had them
enlarged and she now acts as a friendly
guide at the exhibition. Listening to her,
you realise that her husband’s letters
must have been as interesting in content,
as delicate in detail, as his photography.
Here are long lines of mechanised
transport; near by two small, sure-footed
donkeys make their way. Here are splen-
did-looking Australian soldiers at work,
at play and just resting. Here are
minarets, tree-lined roads in Cairo,
glimpses of the Nile. Here’s staff work
being done under camouflage netting. In
the glass cases let into the walls of the
auditorium are a collection of the photo-
graphs of Australia’s generals and majors,
among them Brigadier Stan Savage, who
founded Legacy.
Socially Americans have been in the
news all the past week. Notable arrivals
in Sydney were U.S. Minister Nelson
T. Johnson, his wife and the Legation
staff. The Johnsons have a happy,
easy manner, and it may be said
here and now that any man who is sure
enough of himself to make his first
appearance in the high-crowned sort of
wideawake hat Mr. Johnson adopted is
sure of a welcome in Australia. His
military attache. Colonel Van Santvoord
Merle-Smith, brings a family and a benign
look ; assistant attache Lt. Odell brings a
neat waistline and a smile flashing with
the teeth for which Americans are famed.
The Johnsons have two young children,
Nelson and Betty. They will all make
their home in Canberra. Those who
know their Dickens will be interested in
meeting a modern, American Samuel
Weller in the person of the naval
lieutenant on Mr. Johnson’s staff.
Lieutenant Hutchinson, another naval
observer, and Mrs. A. C. Martin, army
clerk, complete the suite.
There must have been two thousand
or more Chinese, men, women and chil-
dren grouped about the Trocadero last
Sunday to greet the just-arrived Dr. Hsu,
China’s new Minister to Australia. The
doctor appears to be as small as Billy
Hughes and just as vital. He has a
pleasant, carrying voice, and he spoke his
greetings to his kinsmen in Mandarin.
Then he obligingly translated it into Eng-
lish. Most of those present seemed to
understand the English better than the
Mandarin. For that is the language of
courts and diplomacy. To all the
addresses the assemblage listened tensely,
but gave few handclaps. One burst came
when Dr. Hsu introduced one of his
staff as speaking Cantonese. And there
was a real show of enthusiasm when the
new Ambassador told of China’s will to
final victory.
Usually at such gatherings there is a
picture of Sun Yat Sen which the guests
salute with three bows. On Sunday the
whole assemblage began by bowing three
times to China’s flag which hung at the
back of the official table. Its symbolism
is contained in a red ground for good
fortune and blue and white in the corner
for the blue sky and the sunshine. Mrs.
Hsu does not speak English, but daughters
Mary and Helen do. One is a student
of music, and the other has been taking
arts at the Shanghai University. She
hopes to complete her course at Sydney
University. They are both attractive and
intelligent looking. Mrs. Cheng, whose
husband was described as an expert in
publicity, is, like her husband, a graduate
of the University of London.
Mrs. Roy Buckland, an ever-to-be-de-
pended-on worker for the Industrial Blind
Institution, is deputy-president of the
“Down Argentine Way” party which is
already tipped as a winner in the frolic
stakes of October’s Race Week. The
rum-punch served throughout the even-
ing is to be mixed by an adept, and every-
thing Spanish except duennas and onions
will make the Trocadero an alluring
address on October 9. Photograph by
John Lee.
A great deal of color but not much
gaiety was the way the Girl in the Flat
Opposite summed up the third show of
the Contemporary Art Society. This is
being held in David Jones’s in Market-
street, and the opening by Education
Minister Clive Evatt brought out quite
a shoal of young men. Mr. Evatt in his
speech predicted that Australia is on the
eve of a great cultural renaissance. But
it seems to most of us that bombers
across the seas and the Budget nearer
home will have to cease from troubling
before the G.P. will really be able to do
much in the way of buying. Mrs. Evatt’s
small, slim figure was dressed in black.
Her black gloves were wrist-length, her
hat foreshadowed spring. It was small,
fragile, of blue net, and wore a blue veil
pendant.
Artist Rah Fizelle is to be congratu-
lated not only that the Gallery has bought
his “Morning,” but that he has captured
Beauty. Rah made a good speech,
too. Among those who came to gaze or
applaud were Captain Neil McEacharn
and his very smart wife. Her long black
coat was fitting and collared lushly in
silver fox. The Lyceum’s Mrs. Metcalf
and Mrs. A. G. Thomas were there. Mrs.
Alfred Varco, Mrs. Erik Fischer and
Lynette Dickenson from Melbourne did
the rounds. Mrs. Sterling Levis told a
group that included Mrs. Muscio, Mrs.
A. Weinholt and Mrs. Preston about the
table-setting competition in David Jones’s
on the 25th for the Sydney Hospital in
which she is interested. Everybody liked
Toby Williamson’s “Room in Kent
Street.” Toby, by the way, has just
become engaged to architect Gilbert
Hughes (now attached to the Air Force).
Remember the piano recital tomorrow
night at History House. Maorilander
Peter Cooper is the performer.
What with all these women qualifying
for men’s jobs, the Archbishop of Canter-
bury had best look to his laurels. Jose-
phine Marks has arranged the coronations
of more queens during the last 12 months
than any two princes of the Church have
done in a lifetime (reign of Henry VIII
excluded). Miss Marks, who, by the way,
cleared £2O at her hat parade for Sydney
Hospital, is now making plans for the
coronation of the queen at the Grecian
Ball. This will be held at the Trocadero
on October 16.
From Melbourne
Some enlightening information was
divulged at the meeting in the Princess
Theatre of Gregan McMahon subscribers,
called together for preliminary discussion
about the future of the repertory move-
ment. The doors of the office had been
sealed (temporary premises are in Carrie
Haase’s adjoining studio) and papers
taken into legal custody, but some facts
and figures were available which told a
clear story of the high costs of produc-
tion and other worries that lay on the
shoulders of Mr. McMahon, who died
intestate. As in trust for the Players
only £320 remains, the proposed seasons
of “Candida” and “Grouse in June,” to
cost £BOO, have been abandoned for the
time being. A new company will be
inaugurated from the remains of the old
one, and all present at the meeting
pledged themselves to become subscribers
and to canvass their friends.
On the committee elected are Alec
Pratt (chairman), “Mac’s” brother,
Mortie McMahon, Dr. Alfred Hart,
Alfred Peters, Fred Trotter, Phoebe
Marks, Carrie Haase, Lynette Dickenson,
Paddy Wilkinson, Claude Thomas, Clif-
ford Dodd and Collins Hilton. Sugges-
tions were made about candidates for
producer, and it seems certain that pros,
will figure in the company. Alec Pratt
was an excellent chairman, all for a spot
of humor when occasion allowed. The
tone of the meeting was friendly and
openminded and never sentimental.
“Susan and God” has earned comment,
mostly in the daily papers, usually com-
mendable, from ecclesiastics of various
creeds —now Susan in her turn is doing a
job for one of the religious bodies, the
chosen beneficiary being the Whitefriars
Novitiate at Doncaster. The gala night
of the 150th performance will take place
on September 24. By that time there may
be some more changes in the cast, but
this should not detract from the produc-
tion. Ticket secs, are Vi Jones, Mrs. J. J.
Cox and Lucille Mehan, and prices are
as usual.
Inset from Dickinson-Monteath, Mar-
garet Wilson, recently engaged to Dr.
John Francis Rutter, elder son of Dr.
and Mrs. J. H. Rutter, of Yarram, South
Gippsland, Margaret, who is the elder
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Arthur M.
Wilson, of South Yarra, is doing an arts
course and plays tennis for the Univer-
sity. Wedding plans are as yet uncertain,
for Dr. Rutter expects a call up to the
Navy as soon as he’s concluded his term
as resident at the Alfred.
Back to the days of childhood, of
pigtails and potato-growing in finger-
nails, went the audiences at Friedman’s
Chopin concerts —exceptions, of course,
being the students of today who take
their music seriously and the intelli-
gentsia, tried and true, who carry around
whole scores in their heads. The ordi-
nary mortals, while enjoying the Fried-
man technique, remembered the times
when they practised Chopin with either
hatred or joy—they might have shut their
eyes and drifted into reverie but for the
blinding lights: Mr. Friedman had them
all on full blast right through the con-
certs. Audiences were appreciative, in
size satisfactory, in dress democratic.
Noticed at the second concert were
many faces familiar alongside instruments
in the Symphony Orchestra ; also Prof,
and Mrs. Heinze, Thea Phillips enjoying
the programme from the main body of
the hall, Dr. and Mrs. Ivan Maxwell
and the F, W. Jandreys, Mrs, J. sprucely
groomed in all-black plus a bit of gid-
diness about her hat. In evening attire
were Mrs. Edward Stevens in the front
row ; Elsa Stenning on the eye of what
is now a season of working nights at the
Tivoli; also Meida Manly, in black frock,
white fur jacket and white bow in hair.
Among mammas with children was Mrs.
Clifford Rosefield, looking well in black
gown and orchid coat and accessories.
Small daughter with her, enjoying a bliss-
ful late night out of bed, wore white
muslin, white gloves, long hair and blue
bunny wool jacket.
Recently engaged are Joy Parsons and
John Liston. Joy, versatile in revue, who
is the elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. N. Parsons, of Adelaide, returned to
her home town last week after a short
visit to Melbourne. John, who is an
A.I.F. lieutenant, is the only son of J. J.
Liston. As he doesn’t know when he
can get leave or where he will be
stationed in the future, plans are all in
the air, but hopes of the future bride and
’groom are high that the wedding will
be in Adelaide and soon. It will be a
quiet ceremony and Joy, unless she
changes her mind, won’t wear bridal
regalia.
En route from Turkey back to her
native U.S.A., Elizabeth Burnham, who
has been looking at Australia and
Y.W.C.A. activities in two States. She
saw Canberra and compared it with an-
other capital-built-to-order, Ankara. The
buildings in Ankara are more massive,
there are fewer garden areas but the
streets are as wide, there are plantations
of trees and the immediate hinterland is
not unlike that of Canberra. Ankara,
too, is a political city, deliberately
planned by Kemal Ataturk on a distant
country site ; it’s a night’s journey from
Istambul in an up-to-date train, with
comfortable sleeping cars.
Miss Burnham found Young Turkey
absorbing an excellent and practically
free education. In return most boys and
girls must, for their first jobs, go any-
where the State sends them. There’s
equal pay for both sexes and taxes are
high—a teacher, for instance, in a good
job pays one quarter of his or her income
in income tax. In all sizy towns and
some villages there are schools, or
“People’s Houses,” the only cost to the
pupils (from small children to great-
grandparents) being materials for work.
The American Hospital in Istambul
has been an impetus to the nursing pro-
fession, Miss Burnham saw women in
country districts wearing Turkish trousers
and veils which they might draw over
their faces on sight of strangers, but
otherwise veiled women of history and
legend are no more. At the Y.W., or
rather the Service Centre, in Istambul
(for no name of religious significance is
permitted), English is generally spoken,
the girls all managing to learn a little.
Miss Burnham picked up a few words of
Turkish, which she says isn’t really easy,
though study is simplified since the
Roman letters of the Ataturk reforma-
tion.
Off to Queensland, Mrs. Isobel Green,
who, although she doesn’t claim scientific
letters after her signature, knows what she
wants among replenishments for the
Aquarium, including corals, plants and
sponges. She has arranged transport per
ship’s tank for the captives and an inter-
view with the Fisheries Department in
Brisbane —so the fish are as good as
caught. Townsville, Magnetic Island,
Cairns and the Tablelands are on her
three weeks’ itinerary.
Welcomed back to Melbourne after six
years, Mollie Douglas, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. H. C. Douglas, of Camberwell,
who extended her Truby King qualifica-
tions and travelling experiences generally
with a refresher course at Cromwell
House in London, a dietetics course, staff
work at Stonefield, Blackheath, and
many private cases, one in India, through
which country she journeyed up to
Tibet. Her sister Barbara, now on active
service in Egypt, was, during Mollie’s
tenure, on the nursing staff at Stonefield,
the vegetarian maternity hospital where
in 20 years no mother’s life has been lost.
Mollie isn’t very enthusiastic about the
experimental efforts with babies reared
from birth, not on milk but on vege-
tables (juices and grated), on mashed
bananas, peanuts, dates, etc. —but the
infants make their debut in this world in
seemingly sunburned skins, and very
attractive they look thus. A big moment
for the diminutive Miss Douglas happened
when the Queen sat in the chair next to
her and chatted about the programme at
a Myra Hess shilling concert at the
National Gallery. While in Calcutta Miss
Douglas visited the well-established
clinic for European mothers and babies
run by a Plunket nurse from M.L., Vida
McLean, with co-operation from a doctor
and a dietitian. There are also other
baby health clinics in India for Indian
and British mothers and children.


Another reason why the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
Rk f
'mm
'
i
C )
m
m
mm
Mi
k.
gr* iPfe
167 ambulances already supplied by Red Cross toForces
The Australian Red Cross Society
has already spent over £BB,OOO on
ambulances for the services. 78
for the A.I.F. 9 for the British
Red Cross. 43 for the Military
Forces in Australia. 35 for the
Royal Australian Air Force. 2
for the Royal Australian Navy,
The Red Cross co-operates with
the Navy, Army and Air Force
Medical Services in seeing that
Australian sailors, soldiers, air-
men and nurses are at all times
supported by every medical ser-
vice and personal comfort. The
provision of ambulances is only
one of the many free services
on which Red Cross funds are
spent in order to help save lives.
These services must go on!
Give HELP . . .
. . . IT’S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the^sttjdiaii_Red_€ro^
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different »/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Ketail and
Air lusts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.!
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee,, Perth
m
&
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Wayinouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch; 406 Collins St.. Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
“Civics” in Brisbane
“Tuiop”: Brisbane’s Lud Mayor
Chandler, having jammed in a rush trip
to Sydney between the advent of Ameri-
can sailors and equipping the Town Hall
with loud-speaking apparatus, got off his
Budget speech in an atmosphere reeking
with dissension. Privileged by council
law to deliver the speech without inter-
ruption, he attacked Tait, a C.M.O. col-
league, who had sharply criticised both
the new rate and the spending pro-
gramme, and Tait came back at him later.
Then they really got down to it, to the
great delight of the Labor crowd and
sundry onlookers.
The Budget gives a rate reduction of
id. for the second half of the financial
year, estimates a surplus of £20,793 but
forecasts an increase of £21,570 for city
works. Revenue, including last year’s
surplus, is expected to be £4,376,274 and
expenditure £4,355,481. The council got
the right to borrow £470,299 through the
Loan Council, and Aid. Chandler an-
nounced that he had obtained the “first
part” in a southern capital, though how
much or on what terms he did not dis-
close. There was a lot of talk about
keeping men at work and maintaining city
services and so forth and
Any alderman who tried to decrease ex-
penditure and lower the rate further must
accept full responsibility for the discharge
of employees which inevitably would fol-
low.
Alderman Tait, when he got his chance,
appealed to his Maker to “help the rate-
payers, who are carrying the highest taxa-
tion and rates in Australia.” He re-
minded all hands that Commonwealth
and State were short of money, and re-
minded Lud Mayor Chandler that his
Budget, shorn of the £204,000 surplus
included from the previous year, actually
showed a deficit of £183,625 —the first
deficit since 1936. Whereupon the C.M.O.
men fell on Tait, Labor fell on the
C.M.0., the Lud Mayor shrieked about
secret letters and wrong procedure. The
astounded city was still gasping when
this went to the post.
“Brisser”: The word “lie” has been
banned from all future Brisbane City
Council discussions. This is to remind
the aldermen of how a country councillor
got over such a hurdle. “I’m not sayin’,”
he remarked, “that the president is a
liar ; all I say is that he handles the truth
carelessly.”
* * * *
It was here mentioned (B. 3/10/’4l)
that on April 13, 1910, the young Artie
Fadden waited in a Mackay (Q.) street
to see posted the election figures that
made Andrew Fisher P.M. Evidently with
the reference in mind, the now-mature
Artie Fadden told a Queensland Parlia-
mentary luncheon party that he did more
—he went round delivering Labor dodgers
in Mackay. So he began his “move
towards Labor” long ago.
“ They're all the same, sarge; I want one turned up at the side.”
“Nine Mile”: In the Supreme Court
in Darwin Judge Wells wanted to know
why the fathers of illegitimate half-caste
children shouldn’t be made to pay for
their maintenance. A Native Affairs De-
partment man remarked that there would
be considerable difficulty in proving
parentage. The Judge didn’t think so ;
“the same difficulty occurs in the case
of a white woman,” he said. With due
respect I think his Honor is a little opti-
mistic. White women in such cases are
generally anxious to blame the other
party to the manoeuvre. Your dusky
sinner is apt to be evasive or mendacious.
Still, like Judge Wells, I should like to
see the fathers made to pay for their
illegitimate half-caste offspring.
* * *
“N M.”: When it was asserted that
Kangaroo Point military hospital, receiv-
ing wounded Queenslanders from abroad,
: ° _ . -tariiiuinn
lacked operating equipment, sterilising
plant. X-ray apparatus pathology plant
and accommodation, and that men were
being bedded at the Showground until the
old Immigration Department buildings
were made available, Mr. Spender pro-
mised to ask Mr. Foil to inquire into it.
Mr. Foil has npw asked Mr Spender for
arSreenslopes and-this should Appeal
to Mr. Spender —reported that accommo-
dation for V.A.Ds. at Kangaroo Point is
insufficient. After that Mr. Foil told the
press that delay in selecting hospital sites
had got “undue publicity,” criticism was
“unfounded,” he was “delighted” that
“our workmen” could build such “magni-
ficent establishments,” there had been
“wrong impressions,” and missing facili-
ties would be made good. In other words
everything could be left to Mr. Foil and
then everything would be all right.
* * » »
“Winton Willie”: In western Queens-
land and across to the Barkly Table-
land (N.T.) cattlemen are on their toes
watching for fires. Though many blazes
have been caught in time, an outstation
on Alexandria Downs (N.T.) was prac-
tically burned out of feed ; it took 60
men to beat a fire on Rocklands, near
Camooweal; and in other parts “thou-
sands of square miles of grass” have
been destroyed. With the weather warm-
ing up before the summer rains it’s
the worst time of the year for fire. Any-
one who has seen the downs country
out that way with the tall golden-brown
Mitchell grass and the scrubby red Flin-
ders—both as dry as tinder and stretching
without a break for mile upon mile as
far as the eye can see —can imagine what
a racing inferno can be started by a
stray match or a campfire carelessly
scattered and not smothered with sand.
* * * *
“Sing 9”; The Forgan Smiths refuse
to reduce motor registration fees, though
S.A. and W.A. have cut them 25 p.c.
Statistics show that cars went off Queens-
land roads last month at the rate of
more than 30 a day. The Premier claims
that this was because of petrol rationing
and not because of registration costs.
He’s only half right. In my case I’m
reduced to two gallons of juice a month,
which, on present petrol quality, is about
17 miles a week. I don’t mind that,
being convinced that the Federal Gov-
ernment wouldn’t do itself out of the 9d.
a gallon tax unless it had to ; but regis-
tration and insurance costs, due next
month, would cost me £15 —mine is a
small car—roughly ss. 9d. a week, and
petrol and general upkeep, say, 25.,
making nearly Bs. a week to travel 17
miles. Count me out, Foghorn!
* * * *
“Norther”: Gus Trost, of Toowoomba,
is the sort of man who would appeal to
that Sydney candidate for the Senate who
declared that population, not politicians,
would save Australia. Gus, who is 93,
has heard 18 children call him dad. He
has 101 grandchildren, 208 great-grand-
children and five great-great-grand-
children ; 325 of them are still alive and
kicking.
* ♦ * *
“0.T.”: To “encourage” farmers to
conserve fodder and water, a Queensland
Assemblyman named Sparkes is urging
his Government to allow the cost of
conservation to be deducted from income
tax. Since when has it become neces-
sary to bribe farmers to perform an
essential duty? On the same line of
reasoning, storekeepers, manufacturers
and householders would be entitled to
claim deduction for laying in stock,
whether of raw material or household
goods.
sfe *4« *
“P.A.D.”; North Queensland’s deadly
climate claimed another victim when
lames Gordon passed on at Bowen. He
was only 95. Coming from Belfast in
1865, he became a sheepman on the
Burdekin. No job was too tough for
him to tackle —he took a seven-ton boiler
up the Normanby Range, with three
horses between the shafts and 28 more
hauling in four lines in front of them.
Brunton Stephens’s verses on the Chinee
cook “who had a single virtue” which its
name was “rabbit pie” had their own
appeal to Gordon. Hostile Burdekin
abos. speared his Chinee cook.
* * * *
“Kiloue”: Fire destroyed the B.P. store
at Salamaua and did over £50,000-worth
of damage. At one stage it looked like
lighting the N.G. Goldfields premises and
the freezing works. All that was left of
the B.P. building was the concrete strong-
room.


FERNS
“Come on, Henry — let's make up and be friends .”
By MYRA MORRIS.
EVERYBODY in the township knew that Miss
Platt loved ferns. Whenever a bazaar was
held in the little red hall alongside the church,
somebody on the flower-stall would be sure to
say We must keep a pot back for Miss Platt . . .
A maidenhair or a fishbone, it doesn’t matter.’’
Whatever it was, Miss Platt would be sure to
buy it. Ferns were to her what drink is to the
drunkard. She could never have enough. She had
begun modestly with a sickly little root of maiden-
hair stuck in an earthenware teapot minus the spout,
Now the whole end of the back verandah was crowded
with ferns that spilled out over the path and multi-
plied themselves over and over in receptacles that
stood about near the door or hung suspended from
beams and branches. Before he died her nephew
Jim had made her a five-tiered wooden stand that
accommodated dozens of fern-filled terra-cotta pots
and half-kerosene-tins with painted curled-back edges.
There were crisp holly ferns, fishbones, delicate carrot
and lace ferns, and pale, tremulous maidenhair in
half a dozen varieties. From the roof elkhorns and
staghorns thrust down green vigorous antlers, and,
mounted on wooden boards were nailed to the wall
n e beginning Miss Platt would have preferred
a garden a proper garden with old-fashioned flowers
hke stocks and snaps, and in the summer gladioli
with tall flowering, scarlet spikes. But there was no
chance of that. Two enormous pines took up all the
space in front of the house. Their roots ran every-
where like hungry little rivers, and their needles, weav-
in * a sl A l P p " y ? a " n . Carpet underneath soured the
earth. At the back it was no better The fowlyard
took up most of the room and what was left lay m
the shadow of an ancient, drooping pepper-tree that
seemed to rain a perpetual shower of pink, gauzy
berries and tiny twigs.
It was an untidy tree, so that Miss Platt was
always sweeping, sweeping, sweeping, and the ground
round the verandah steps was worn away by her
broom into little hollows. She was a small woman,
bent over at the waist, with white hair drawn tightly
over a rosy scalp, and sucked-in parchment cheeks.
Her clothes, mostly dingy black running to unrelated
little bows and high necklines, had the look of a past
period. The musty pock-marked weatherboard cot-
tage at the end of the grassy township street was her
right setting. She had come to it in middle-age to
housekeep for her nephew, who had left it to her
when he died
Inside the house was the smell of cheap furniture
cracking with age, and beeswax floor-polish. Every-
thing was as it had been in the beginning. There
was pampas-grass in the hall; wool-worked cushions
on the horsehair chairs ; the clumsy home-made
frames round the photographs on the walls were
studded with small, varnished pine-cones. The table-
cloth in the living-room swelled into hard chenille
tassels at the fringe, and there were stringy chenille
curtains at the doors. Light entered dimly through
small-paned windows like sea-light drifting eerily
through the mouth of a cave. The place had remained
static, untouched by the passing years, stranded and
dry above the very wash of time itself.
MISS PLATT was watering the ferns on the morn-
ing that Mr. Magill brought the wood. Water-
ing thoroughly from end to end of the fernery was
an involved process, and Miss Platt, because she en-
joyed it, always made the operation last as long as
possible. She was dribbling water from a half-filled
dipper when the lorry backed noisily into the yard,
its driver looking round the edge of the narrow
cabin. He was a fat fellow with a large, red, good-
natured face and the bossy, important manner of a
busy man. He hailed Miss Platt cheerily,
“The wood, missus! Put it under the pepper
same as usual?” He started to heave the wood out,
spindly branches and chunky pieces of gum matted
with yellowish bark,
Miss Platt watched him with satisfaction, her
mouth working. She always liked it when a new
load of wood came in. She would poke about and
pick out little twisty pieces that gave a rustic look
poked at the back of fern-boxes, and tear the bark
off in great wide slabs that were excellent for lining
wire-baskets.
“You brought plenty with bark today?” she asked
anxiously. “And a, bit of moss perhaps?”
“Lord love you, enough bark to line a coffin,”
sa i d Magill, laughing. “Look at it! And this!”
]-j e b e g an scrape great junks of moss like pale,
drying seaweed off the floor of the lorry, and Miss
P]att stoodj dipper in handj sn iffi ng the wet, earthy
sme ll of it appreciatively
„ ni make a cu of t Mh Magil |,” she
sajd prim , yj and darted in(o , he house before he had
t j me b) answer _ Four times a year Mr. Magill brought
her a , oad of wood> and four times a she made
him a of , lac! the crockery on a Jjttle
b|ack ja d tr and carrying it across the
verandah
This morning Mr. Magill took his cup right out
i]]to , he broad swathe o£ sun from the pepper .
(ree and s(ood wi , h his stock , wide apart drink .
. his tea jp , as ;f it had been beer . Miss
plat( went Qn wateri her tongj pa l e -skinned face
ben( absorbed| over her ts
. ' , 0 „ r™
Fer , ns “ mln S on al ‘ r,gh ’ M i ss Plat,? , Th ' re
* as a “ al ” ost imperceptible note of patronage in Mr.
Magllls blustering tones.
_ Oh yes, thank you. Life crept into Miss Platt s
lh >n bird-voice as she warmed to her subject. She
waa havm 8 suah success growing new ferns. It was
easy - Yo“ saw the tiny brown spores lying
freckles a ' the backs ,°f the fr ° nds '. T ou to ° k
«» h P of , fe ™ a " d P ut “ ™ earth “ lxad u P f wllh
old decayed leaves, and up sprang the tiny ferns,
eactl one P er ec • • •
Mr. Magill, wiping his mouth with the sleeve of
his shirt, was regarding Miss Platt’s ferns with a
remote, detached look. “You’ve never seen ferns,
missus, he said deliberately,
Miss Platt looked up, startled,
“ what 1 sa y is > Y° u ’ ve ne ver seen ferns,” went on
Mr. Magill, his red face serious. The real Mackay
is! Ferns growing thick as grass down the gul-
lies, sprouting out of the hills! Make this outfit look
I'ke a sick dog! Ferns in pots! Bah!
Miss Platt was staring at him.
“You never seen a proper fern-gully?”
Miss Platt shook her head helplessly,
“Photos.,” she said ; “and once I went in a motor-
car to the Dandenongs! ”
“Pictures,” spat Mr. Magill with contempt. “The
Dandenongs. This ’ere I’m telling you about is along
by the Gellibrand and not more than thirty mile away
from where you’re standing. It’s close by where I’ve
got my wood stacked now. Something beautiful. A
deep gully with enough ferns to hide an army. You
sit in ’em, walk in ’em, bathe in ’em! There’s a little
creek down under”
Miss Platt stood listening politely, her eyes wan-
dering. She was not really impressed. The ferns in
Mr. Magill’s gully didn’t seem real to her. She could
not believe in them. They were like ferns in a dream.
She bent sideways and touched one of her tall fish-
bones with a stealthy, almost caressing, movement.
“These!” said Mr. Magill with a scornful sweep
of the arm. He made as if to spit, then smiled instead.
“Tell you what, you come out with me and see for
yourself. I got to bring back another load for Swan
at the pub straight off. An hour there, an hour back
and a jiffy to get the stuff on. What say?”
Miss Platt felt flustered and unhappy, shying away
like a frightened horse from the idea of doing some-
thing that was not included in her usual routine. It
was kind of Mr. Magill to make the suggestion, but
somehow she had got out of the way of going any-
where. Once a week to church, once a week to the
Ladies’ Guild in the hall, little morning excursions
down to the bank or to Timms’s general store at the
end of the township, that was all. Going out meant
a hat and gloves and poking the loose money into
her handbag.
“Come on,” roared Mr. Magill. “See some real
ferns growing before you die. Get your hat!”
Miss Platt waVered, her long, thin face flushing
and paling. Excitement touched her. To see ferns
growing the way Mr. Magill said they grew! Thick
and rich and rampant with nothing to hold them in.
Something to remember always. She’d take a little
trowel, she thought. “I’ll come,” she said meekly.
SHE sat with him in the narrow cabin, her black-
gloved hand on her knees, Jjer small old-maid’s
feet held in tight beneath her. The wind, coming
from everywhere, thrust under her flat-crowned
hat and blew wisps of hair in her smarting eyes.
Flecks of sun, hot for early spring, slanted through
on to her dingy black, picking out the tones of green
and rust that belong to an old cock’s feathers. The
lorry moved with a harsh, bumping sound that made
conversation impossible.
They rattled out of the township, quiet and ten-
derly green with its grassy gutters and entanglements
of budding elms, labored up the country roads that
curved, away to the forest. The trees were thin sap-
lings, close together like organ pipes, black as coal,
sprouting succulent emerald shoots.
“Fire’s been here sometime,” shouted Mr. Magill.
“All them trees!”
Miss Platt nodded indifferently. “Where are the
ferns?” she asked feebly, but the noise of the engine
drowned her voice.
A few more ups and downs, a few more hair-
raising curves, trees taller, thicker, their trunks pale-
mauve, the color of a rain-washed twilight. Miss Platt
began to feel uneasy, to think with comfort of the
familiar backyard under its drifts of pink, gauzy ber-
ries, of the ferns snug in their pots and saucers.
“You get down here,” said Mr. Magill, drawing
to the side of the road and pulling up with a jolt.
Miss Platt got down from the lorry like an
obedient child. She looked small. and lost there
against the background of soaring trees, and the
jungles of dripping' stems and branches, and the
creepers that coiled everywhere in strange, nameless
shapes.
“Be back in ’arf an hour,” shouted Mr. Magill,
leaning out, his face red and satisfied. “You got
your trowel? That’s ri’! Mind the snakes.”
The lorry groaned, wheezed and moved off with
gathering speed. Miss Platt took a few tottering steps
after it, her arms waving, then came back feeling
ashamed. She stood at the edge of the hollow, look-
ing over with a scared face. Down there was the
gully. She had forgotten her outdoor glasses, but she
could see quite clearly the ferns climbing the matted
wall of the slope. Tall, isolated tree-ferns with feathery
splayed-out ribs looking like giant umbrellas. Ferns
huddled all together, their lacy fronds tangled and
twisted, shimmering with the water that poured over
them like trails of little silver ants. Down at the
bottom where the stream ran there would be coral
fern, and maidenhair with its bunchy roots in the
water. Miss Platt could feel in imagination the shiny
black-brown stems, brittle as a beetle’s back, breaking
in her fingers. Cautiously she began to descend, dodg-
ing the white-flowered brambles that swooped at her
trembling knees.
The rough path tramped out by timber-cutters
and men from the road camps who fished the stream
for trout was not too steep for comfort. It was not
the path that finished Miss Platt. It was everything.
Everything! Letting herself down gently she sat on
a blackened stump, her fingers pressed against her
pounding temples. Her limbs seemed paralysed with
the dead weight of fear. She ought never to have come,
she thought in terror. She felt as if she were in the
throes of some awful nightmare that would not lift.
She was in a world of horrible, unfamiliar shapes
that appeared to be closing in on her. The ferns were
not the ferns that she knew. They were monstrous
figures, ugly, evil, that had the strange writhing move-
ments of animals. The wind touched them and their
crisp leaves rustled together tittering and gibbering
like parrots clicking their beaks together. It was silly
of God to let ferns grow like this, untidy and dis-
orderly. They got out of bounds and became impos-
sible. Their proper place was in nice red pots, in
wire baskets, nailed on wood, growing out of neat,
painted walls ...
Miss Platt shut her eyes and opened them again.
The ferns, the trees, the musky silver from the bottom
(Continued on next page.)


of the gully seemed to be rising up, rising as if they
were being lifted on a soft, invisible tide of water
that would sweep like a green implacable flood over
her unresisting body. She began to crawl upwards on
her hands and knees, crawling through a cold, green
slime of silence that was choking her lungs. If only
something could break that menacing silence ; even a
scream —even her own scream. Miss Platt heard the
scream and shut her mouth tightly over it.
SHE was sitting quietly on the roadside brushing the
last scrapings of mould and mud from her skirt
when the lorry pulled up. She climbed into it thank-
fully. There was something comfortable and every-
day in the sight of Mr. Magill’s red, perspiring face,
in the smell of petrol and sun-blistered paint.
“You never got no ferns,” shouted Mr. Magill.
“I lost my trowel,” said Miss Platt in her thin,
uncarrying voice.
“I suppose you couldn’t see for looking,” roared
Mr. Magill with a wink. “I bet you seen a sight that
knocked you hollow.”
Miss Platt nodded and smiled, her lips set close
together, and did not speak again. Mr. Magill let her
down at her gate, and she thanked him vaguely. With
the light, hurrying step of a girl she ran round the
side of the house to the back. There they all were,
the elkhorns, the staghorns, the maidenhair, the fish-
bones in their terra-cotta pots, just as she had left
them. Miss Platt breathed a long, sobbing breath of
relief. It was almost as if she had expected to find
them different, as if some mysterious change might
have come to them in her absence. She was thank-
ful to be home again, home to her beloved ferns, after
that wild, frightening place. Picking up the dipper
she trotted inside to put the kettle on for tea.
INTRODUCING MURPH
By A. C. HEADLEY.
I’D been following the picnic meetings around the
bush until they began to get themselves mixed up
with the Lord Mayor’s Fund and law and order
began to think that the money the yokels were
passing out to discover which pea was suited to which
shell could be better devoted to a more worthy cause.
They wanted to use the stuff the Taxation Commis-
sioner loaned them to buy V-for-Victory badges. It
was beginning to look as though good honest specu-
lation was doomed. So I decided to return to the
city, where the real yokels live and a man can always
sell bootlaces or borrow sevenpence for a feed.
At the pub I packed my bag, forgot to kiss the
barmaid good-bye, paid my bill with five bad two-
bobs, and caught the train. I was just at the stage of
hoping it would pull out before the pubkeeper tried
to foist the bad florins on the unsuspecting popu-
lace when the door of the carriage was torn open in a
way that made the wheels on the other side leave the
rails. I took a look at the intruder, who was a
big bloke, '■
He was slumped down on the seat. His chest was
moving like a piano-accordion. You could hardly have
said that he was handsome. He had a bottom lip that
saved him from having a chin, and a nose that was
the same shape as his ears. You could almost see
the straw in his hair, and I began to think that my
journey back to the city might be more pleasant than
expected.
After a moment he opened his eyes and blinked
around the carriage.
“Gee,” he said, “I thought I was gonner miss it.
I ’ad to run along the line to make sure. It’s a good
thing I ’ad me ticket.”
At that moment the train started to move.
“You cut it pretty fine,” I said.
The big bloke grinned. “It’s because I been sayin’
good-bye to me people. I’m orf t’ join the army.”
“You’re lucky,” I said. “I tried to join three
times, but I was rejected because of me heart. I’d
give me soulcase to be able to join up.”
The big bloke looked sympathetic.
“It must be crook,” he said.
“Crook ain’t the word for it,” said I. “I wake
up at night sweatin’ all over when I think about it,
and sometimes I can’t eat and I can’t sleep for worryin’
about not bein’ allowed to do me duty. If it wasn’t
for me bad feet I’d be in like a shot.”
The big bloke wrinkled his brow. “I thought
you said it was y’r ’eart.”
“Sure,” I said. “It’s me heart that causes all the
trouble to me feet. It’s the circulation.”
“Gee,” said the big bloke, “it must be crook.”
It was then he started telling me the story of his
life. It seemed that his old man had died and left
him a property, and now he had sold it and was
going to join the army. The way he told it took about
half an hour, but those were the two things that
seemed the most important. For himself he seemed
more interested in the way his Aunt Alice made black-
berry pies, and how to stick knives into cows that got
into the lucerne paddock. His name, he told me, was
Murphy, but everyone just called him Murph.
“Listen, Murph,” I said, “we’ve got a long trip in
front of us. We oughter do somethin’ to pass the
time. I wish I had a pack of cards. We could play
old maid or somethin’.”
“Cripes,” said Murph, “it’d be real good.”
“It’s a pity,” I said, “that we’ve got no cards.”
We both went back to staring out of the window,
and I was wondering how long it should be before I
remembered the pack of cards that had been given to
me by a traveller for malted milk. Murph suddenly
started in on an apple. “I got a couple,” he said. “Y’
*can ’ave one if y’ like.”
“They don’t agree with me,” said I, “but I think
I’ve got a bite of somethin’ in me bag, if you happen
to have an opener.”
I started to dive through my bag, and suddenly
my hand accidentally struck the pack of cards. I hoisted
them out to the light of day. “Well,” I said, “isn’t that
luck? I’d forgotten all about them. We’ll be able to
amuse ourselves after all.”
“Gee, that’s lucky,” said Murph. “Wot’ll we
play?”
“There’s old maid,” I suggested.
Murph looked doubtful. “It’s a bit sissy,” he said.
“D’y’ know ’ow to play strip Jack?”
“I don’t like it,” I said, leaving it to Murph to
work round to something decent.
“There’s grab,” he said; “that’s real excitin’.”
“I’ve got to consider me heart,” I said. “I can’t
stand no excitement.”
“Yeah,” said Murph, “I forgot,”
A BOUT ten minutes later I was showing Murph
*nhe three-card trick.
“It’s a hard trick,” I said, “and not many people
are much good at it. All y’ gotter do is tell me where
the queen is when I throw the cards down.”
“That’s easy,” said Murph; “I on’y gotter follow
it.”
I threw the cards down.
“There it is,” said Murph, “the middle one.”
Murph was right. It was amazing how Murph
was right those first few times. That’s probably why
he was so anxious to bet me that he could pick it
every time. Seeing that I wasn’t a betting man it took
him a long time to convince me that you couldn’t
actually call threepence a time betting. When he won
the first time I said that he ought to give me a chance
to get my money back and increase the bet to sixpence.
When he won that I made it a bob, and at the end
of half an hour he was betting in half-notes.
That was when I should have come into my own,
but somehow or other Murph just continued along
stabbing his finger at the right card. The only thing
1 could put it down to was astounding luck and him
being so dopey. No normal person could have failed
to lose money the way I was handling it.
“Gee,” says Murph, “I think you’re silly to bet
that I can’t pick it. There was a bloke once that
showed me ’ow it was done.”
You could have knocked me down with a pole-
axed steer.
“Is y’r ’eart troublin’ y’?” said Murph.
“A momentary twinge,” I explained. “Seeing that
you know all about that game I think we ought to try
another. Can you play poker?”
Murph scratched his head. “That’s the game
where y’ gotter get three of a kind.”
“That’s the game,” said I, warming to the subject.
“It’s very simple.”
“I’ll give it a go,” said Murph.
Half an hour later I was down another three quid,
and Murph was talking about changing the game to
strip Jack, It was almost more than I could bear.
Somehow the cards I intended for Murph didn’t seem
to reach him, and all he seemed to do was rake in
my hard-earned shekels.
“Listen, Murph,” I said, when I was down to my
last ten bob, “I think I’ll have that apple you were
talking about.”
By that time we were only about half an hour
away from the city, and I’d had just about enough of
Murph. It sickened me the way he talked about how
lucky he was.
“I’ve always been like that,” he said. “I’ve always
been lucky.”
Then he pulled his train ticket out of his pocket
and looked at it. “It was lucky I thought o’ buyin’ it
early,” he said. “If I ’adn’t I’d probably ’ave missed
the train, and I wouldn’t ’ave won so much money
orf y’.”
That was one way of looking at it, but it didn’t
help me to forget the dough that had passed between
us. Murph just sat back and looked, satisfied all over
his face, which meant that he looked twice as satisfied
as a normal man, and tossed his ticket in the air and
wiggled his ears.
“I’ll be able to ’ave a good time,” he said, “before
I join up.” And it was at that moment that he threw
his ticket a little too high and a little too close to the
window. The next second he was leaning out of the
window and watching it spin away. It made me feel
a little better.
Murph came back from the window with a
strained look on his face. “Cheese,” he said, “I’ve
gorn an’ lost me ticket. The wind must’ve took it
from me grasp. Wot’m I gonner do now?”
“It looks,” said I, “as though you’ve gotter pay
another fare.”
“Gee,” said Murph, as though the thought was
digging into his soul.
A S the train was pulling into the station Murph
started to take his bag down from the rack. “Gee,”
he said, “I might get into trouble for losin’ me ticket.”
“Yeah,” said I hopefully.
The train eased up and he climbed off. He started
to move towards the gate where the ticket collector
was. I wandered along to take a look at the fun. He
reached the ticket cove, and next moment he was being
directed to the station-master’s office, and the ticket
collector was telling him that he’d heard that tale
before.
As I followed him, a bloke called out to me. It
was a bloke called Jamieson, who must have caught
the train from the same station as Murph and I. I
only knew him by spending one night teaching him
to play poker. He was also the son of the local mayor
and he was going to join the army. Maybe those things
didn’t mean anything, but when I heard Murph two
minutes later telling the station-master that his name
was Jamieson, and that he’d bought a ticket that morn-
ing and he was prepared to pay for a ’phone call to
see whether what he was saying was true, I began to
put two and four together.
“Yes,” he said, “me name’s Jamieson, an’ I bought
a ticket this mornin’. They know me at the station.”
I stood there and wiped a hand across my brow.
I was beginning to wake up. I watched the station-
master go to the ’phone and put in the trunk call.
“Listen,” said Murph, “I’ll go out and sit on the
platform to wait for the call to come through.”
He came out and sat down. It was my oppor-.
tunity. I moved over and sat next to him.
“ ’Ullo,” he said, “I been talkin’ to the station-
master. He’s ringin’ up t’ verify that I bought a ticket.
I gotter wait fer the call.”
I grinned. “What you’re waitin’ for,” I said, “is
to see whether a Mr. Jamieson bought a ticket. I
thought your name was Murphy.”
Murph put a finger to his lips. “Sssssh,” he said.
I grinned. “I just met Mr. Jamieson,” I said. “I
was talkin’ to him. He’s a friend of mine, and maybe
I oughter tell the station-master about it and ask him
to obtain a description when he inquires whether Mr.
Jamieson bought a ticket. Do you realise that your
fines would mount up to more than you won from
me? There’s a charge for false pretences ; there’s
another one for giving a false name ; another for
travelling without a ticket. You could' easily get six
months.”
Murph gulped. “You couldn’t do it,” he said.
“You’re me friend. Didn’t I give .you an apple?”
“Didn’t you take my dough?” said I.
“Gee,” said Murph, “I forgot we was only playin’
for fun. I got y’r money right ’ere for y’. I’d ’ave
been real worried if I’d gorn away takin’ it with me.”
“0.K.,” I said, “I’ll ease your worries.”
Murph passed over the dough, and at that moment
the ’phone in the station-master’s office rang. We
went to the door to listen. The station-master was
talking.
“Yes,” he said, “Mr. Jamieson did buy a ticket
. . . Good . . . thank you.”
He turned around to Murph. “Yes, Mr. Jamie-
son,” he said, “it’s all right. They’ve verified the fact
that you bought a ticket. I’m so sorry that you’ve
been detained.”
“That,” said Murph, “is quite all right.”
We walked off the platform together, and when
we were past the barrier Murph gave me a grin. “I
think,” he said, “that it calls for a drink.”
HTHREE drinks later I asked the question that was
1 worrying me.
“Listen,” I said, “what was the idea in telling the
station-master that your name was Jamieson? Why
couldn’t you have told him truth? They would
have remembered you buying the ticket just as well
as they would have Jamieson.”
Murph gave a grin. “No they wouldn’t,” he con-
fessed, “because I didn’t buy a ticket. I didn’t even
have one. All I do is find out the name of someone
who is makin’ the same trip. It’s easy.”
I stared. “Yeah,” said I, “but what about the
one you lost out of the window?”
Murph grinned again. “That,” he said. “That
was just a piece o’ cardboard. Gripes, I ain’t bought
a train ticket fer years.”
A quick suspicion took hold of me. “And the
poker?” I said.
Murph tossed off his beer and bowed modestly.
“It’s me profession,” he said.
“Murph,” said I, “you wouldn’t like a part-
ner” —
Murph rubbed a hand across his chin. “I wouldn’t
mind,” he said, “but I’m joinin’ the army.”
I stared.
“Why?” I asked.
Murph put his glass back on the counter. “Listen,”
he said, “there’s thousands of blokes in the army.
Some of them are makin’ five bob a day an’ some of
them are makin’ more, and there ain’t many ways
they can spend it.”
I swallowed the rest of my beer.
“Murph,” I said, “let’s join the army.”


Mainly Mail-Order
ŵ
CYPRUS
15-jewel. The i-deal
watch for active service.
With military strap.
Guaranteed 60/-
Military Colour Patch
Brooches ........ 2/0
Also R.A.A.F. and R.A.N.
Brooches, from .... 2/6
DIAMOND
&• WATCH
SPECIALISTS
112 MARKETS!
SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVID JONES
ẁ
ACCUMULATOR
HANDLAMPS
Ideal for farm use, the Block
plateless lead-acid accumulator
is a revelation in efficiency 1
9 No plates to buckle
• No sulphating
• Won’t run clown.
Extra powerful bull’s-eye gives
70 hours’ continuous light.
Strong bakelite moulded case,
chrome plated fittings. Eight-
weight, lasts for a lifetime,
almost unbreakable. Capacity 2v. 80 a.h.
Suitable for use by Fishermen, Campers, the
Alaiv-on-the-Land, etc.
Complete outfit, including Block Plateless
Accumulator, Uncharged, 19/6. Freight extra.
Weight when packed, 91b.
St.: Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
STOP™ Rupture
Worries/
Mark® LoeaHon.
of YOUR RUPTURE
w
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THU ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27. 84 PITT ST., SVDNJEV.
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Hinders Hane,
Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
THIS BEAUTIFUL
BANJO-MANDOLIN
(Complete), Including
FREE HOME COURSE
can be yours for only £1 deposit
and 3<) fortnightly payments
of 4/-.
With the easy-to-follow and
complete FREE HOME IN-
STRUCTIONAL COURSE you
will soon be playing all the
popular bits to the delight of
yourself and friends.
The instrument is sent Freight
FREE and C.O.D. if desired.
THE TALKERIES
ifil Castlereagh St., Sydney.
ẃ
| CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
1
J. P. TALTY
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4iin. to Cin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
ẅ
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, radio, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
WNCHZSTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
WHY s r CORNS AND BUNIONS
RUBBER
Nothing is so painful as a Corn or Bunion, or
so easily removed if done the right way. Our
Magic Antiseptic Corn and Bunion Remover
removes the com or callus instantly. You do
not have to pare or cut the corn, just rub it
gently with the Remover and all hardness,
callousness and the soreness is taken away. Does
not make the corn sore. No pain, no danger
from cutting. No nasty stuff to put on for a
week. Just a simple, scientific and antiseptic
instrument that will last a family for years.
Removes corn in less than a minute. Posted
to Any Address on receipt of One Shilling postal
note or Stamps of any State. Try one and
tell your friends. THE UNION M. & A. CO.,
2119 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturtou” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturtou” is unique in that it is the oidy
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write fur
particulars and SO days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDL, L.i.8.5.T.,
sth T'loor, The Block,
428 George Street, SYDNEY.
If your dog’s coat is dull,
loose or ragged—if he is listless, won’t
eat or is out of sorts —start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will soon he lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat.
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
CONFECTIONERY
ONE GUINEA (21/-) will bring you
21 Selected Recipes.
Each one of the following list Can be manu-
factured at under 6d. per pound.
Caramels
Butter Scotch
Cocoanut Boughs
Marzipans
Licorice Allsorts
Cocoanut Ice
Ju
Honey Chews
Cocoanut Jacks
Toffee (Assorted)
Fondants
Barley Sugar
Honeycomb
Milk Chews
JEtc.
Retail, all the above lines are 2/- per pound
and upwards, thus showing 300% profit.
Every recipe guaranteed.
COM>I ON WEALTH CON I' ECXION EH V,
H High St., Northcote, Nl6, Victoria.
“Aberdeen” Cow Rugs
SPECIAL OFFER.
No. 32 —Heavy Twill Jute, unliued, 7/8 ea.
No. 32P—Heavy Twill Jute, waterproof,
unlined, 9/8 each.
From all leading: stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTL, LTD.,
SYDNEY.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON !
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR, \
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES
Let Norm. Scott., the singing stockman,
teach yon!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 3/6 a Week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 396 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
UW CIV electric fence
DIU OIA CHARGER.
Standard Model, £O/13/0. Battery Extra.
Be luxe Model, £S/11/(i. Battery Extra.
The new Be Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGEE WIRE FENCE CO.,
307 George Street, SYBNEY.
Get rid of
domsBEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHE Ml CAE
/ DEHOBNEK
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
/ wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves.
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
Post Free.
SANDOVERS, Hay Street, PERTH
i- S
m V
(mini#
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables ub to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy fin extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, Jib. 9/3 delivered; lib. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
I LAMBS SAVED
By Using- the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback—fatten
weeks earlier. Ho risk of Infection—Ho
losses. Don’t julge this instrument by other
machines, TK\ A DAROUX!
-In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. Prom all
ageiits or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIGHX, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
w
FAT, FLAB —
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The'GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
iat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR-NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
\ Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing: to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . ■ .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Bums for 10
hours on 1-} pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd ,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
t
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly In very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
rnLL Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
r-rv
CLIMBING
TQM'A-TO
I SAFEST
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism.
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted.
ŵ
N.S.W.
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small. In 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBABKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free,
SEED CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
ẁ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 6.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
17/9/’4l (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your ‘‘Wants” to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 6.


ẃ
