

. . . are smartly styled, well made and
attractively priced. They offer you
sovereign value for a pound note.
Made in all the new shades of Grey,
Blue, Fawn, Brown and Green
In 2|in., 2£in., 2|in. and 2|in. Brims.
Obtainable at all
progressive Hatters* and Mercers
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3194.
Wednesday, April 30, 1941.
Gallipoli and Greece
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Bandwltwq
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fret
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
THE MODERN GIANTS.
Nothing could sound more forbidding
than Some Modern Writers: Two
Courses of Sydney University Extension
Lectures by Members of the Department
of English; printed and published by
the Australasian Medical Publishing Co.,
Ltd., Sydney; and nothing could look
more forbidding than the severe grey
booklet in which the lectures are im-
prisoned ; and nothing could be more
unwise than to be scared off by the
format or to imagine that the essays
because they come trom the University
are dull and academic.
Some Modern Writers is not only
surprisingly lively collection of critica
writings ; it is an extremely valuable one
For anyone wanting an introduction to
the more difficult of the moderns —Pound
Joyce, Edith Sitwell and T. S. Eliot —
this is just the thing ; clear, simple, un
pretentious, written for the most part in
moods varying from tolerance to toleran
scepticism, and showing everywhere
wide knowledge of the accepted authori
ties on the moderns. For anyone already
acquainted with what W. B. Yeats
Ronald Bottrall, T. S. Eliot and Ezra
Pound have said about Ezra Pound
with what F. R. Leavis, Wyndham Lewis
C. R. Jury, Ezra Pound and T. S. Eliot
have said about T. S. Eliot; and with
what Edith Sitwell, Edith Sitwell, Edith
Sitwell and Edith Sitwell have said about
Edith Sitwell, the book is still valuable
because the various lecturers are not
afraid to explore on their own account
to draw conclusions and to make critica
decisions.
Besides Pound, Eliot, Joyce and Miss
Sitwell, the book deals with Charles
Morgan and A. E. Housman. Neither
of these really fits into its scheme, which
is to explore what is new in contem-
porary writing rather than to approve
what is good. It would have been better
to have tackled Hemingway in prose
and Auden or, if a traditionalist were
to be admitted, Yeats in poetry.
At the end of his most illuminating
study of Housman, lan R. Maxwell sug-
gests that Housman is entitled to be con-
sidered with the other moderns, “because,
in Pound’s phrase, he has ‘made it new.’ ’
That is scarcely justifiable; nor is it
fair to say that critics who deny Hous-
man’s “modernity” on the ground that
he has never been in the swim are merely
believers in mob rule. It is highly sig-
nificant that Housman is not in the swim.
Certainly he “made it new” as far as his
own verse went; certainly his pessimism
appeals to the contemporary mind. But
he isn’t and never will be an “influence”
in the sense that Eliot has been ; he is
modern and influential only in the remote
way that Euripides is modem and in-
fluential. His poetry is a literary “sport”
belonging to no particular epoch but to
all time.
Charles Morgan, because he equals the
revolutionaries in stature and may con-
ceivably lead a return to traditional con-
struction and dignity in prose, is less of
an interloper. It is good to see him
discussed as an important novelist, for
the wild men and the tough guys usurp
too much of the contemporary limelight.
H. J. Oliver discusses him very fairly,
paying full tribute to the strength of his
construction, the subtlety of his charac-
terisation, the brilliance of his intellect
and the beauty of his prose, but also
taking due notice of his weaknesses of
over-writing and metaphysical remote-
ness. As an example of Morgan’s
tendency to the highfalutin, Mr. Oliver
quotes from Sparkenbroke a passage in
which Mary is allowing Piers to drink
from her cupped hands:
She held out her hands, brimming. His
head was bent below her, he upon his
knees. She felt the cool overflow run back
upon her wrists; the pressure of his
hands, cupped also, supporting hers; his
lips’ movement which, by rapturous trans-
mission, seemed to lay the touch of feathered
wings upon her breasts; and suddenly her
hands were parted.
The conclusion seems to be that the
novel needs somebody with Morgan’s
craftsmanship but with the gusto of
Joyce or Hemingway. A. J. A. Waldock’s
essay on Joyce is excellent as far as it
goes and refreshingly enthusiastic about
Ulysses (all argument about the method
laid aside, Ulysses must be recognised as
a good book to read; pre-eminently,
though Professor Waldock doesn’t stress
this aspect, a comedy, a book that really
makes you laugh); but unfortunately it
doesn’t go into Finnegans Wake. It’s
hardly possible to discuss Joyce now
without grappling with that monstrosity,
and Professor Waldock deals so com-
petentty with Ulysses that one would
have been glad to see him tilt at the
other. Not that, in this commentator’s
opinion, anybody is ever going to bring
that dragon to heel. The most enthusias-
tic review it ever had was in one of the
London monthies, and the reviewer there,
asked by a contributor if he had really
managed to read the thing, admitted that
he hadn’t. He said he was going to
read a little bit every night and he
didn’t doubt that he’d get through it in
time.
E. J. Dobson, who writes on T. S.
Eliot, is another who hasn’t brought his
lecture up to date. He deals with The
Family Reunion inadequately in a
postscript, taking James Agate’s trivial
parody as fair criticism. Admittedly The
Family Reunion is likely to be a poor
stage piece (for one thing, as has previ-
ously been pointed out on the Red Page
modern audiences aren’t going to stanc
for the Furies popping about behind the
drawing-room curtains), but Mr. Dob-
son does it an injustice in dismissing it
as “purposeless and rather meaningless
and hardly likely to increase Eliot’s repu-
tation.” It’s an extremely interesting anc
important attempt to write a modern
version of the great crime-remorse-
punishment theme of the Greek trage-
dians, an attempt to bring the classic
drama to the contemporary stage; and
in spite of Agate’s choosing to regard
a perfectly clear piece of writing as “pur-
poseless and meaningless,” it is further
important as an indication that the remote
Eliot of The Waste Land (“Those who
consider the difficulties of the poem worth
elucidating....”) has recognised that the
poet should come to terms with his audi-
ence.
Apart from the half-baked postscript,
Mr. Dobson writes well about Eliot and
adds something sensible to the usual criti-
cism when he stresses the importance of
Eliot’s personality—his coldness, his re-
moteness, his donnishness —in assessing
his final value as a poet:
The pity of it is that a man with so
highly developed a power of expression
should have so limited a range of things
to express. He has the poet’s mastery of
language, but not altogether a poet’s turn
of mind. He is too self-conscious; his art
is self-concious and literary. He is too
much aware of the tradition of English
poetry that lies behind him; he thinks too
much of his own place in the tradition.
R. G. Howarth, who submits one of
the best essays on Pound this commen-
tator has seen, makes the mistake of
taking Edith Sitwell far too seriously. “It
may not seem necessary to view her seri-
ously,” he apologises at the end of his
lecture, “but she is very earnest about
it, and has imposed on many.” It is
always worth remembering that the best
thing Edith Sitwell ever wrote was the
prose work on The English Eccentrics, in
which she showed an intense interest in
and admiration for the freakish and the
fantastic, especially when deliberately
cultivated as a fine art.
Mr. Howarth approaches her work
with an entire absence of humor. Quot-
ing from the nonsense poem “When Sir
Beelzebub” the lines
Nobody comes to give him his rum but the
Rim of the sky hippopotamus glum
Enhances the chances to bless with a benison
Alfred Lord Tennyson crossing the bar laid
With cold vegetation from pale deputations
Of temperance workers (all signed In Memo-
riam)
Hoping with glory to trip up the Laureate’s
feet,
(Moving in classical metres)
he comments, “Here no disrespect is
meant to Lord Tennyson”! Quoting
from “Aubade”;
Cockscomb hair on the cold wind
Hangs limp, turns the milk’s weak mind.
Jane, Jane,
Tall as a crane,
The morning light creaks down again—
he comments—Miss Sitwell having ex-
plained that this is a joke—“ Just why a
joke seems necessary at this point, or
what the force of it is, one really cannot
see. If ‘Jane, Jane, tall as a crane,’ has
been seriously intended, then, having
repressed the involuntary grin and read
on, one is quite prepared to find grave
matter in the peculiar last couplet.”
Reading Edith Sitwell (especially when
the poem comes from a book labelled
Bucolic Comedies ) the thing to do is not
to repress one’s involuntary grins ; the
reader is meant to grin. “Perhaps,” Mr.
Howarth goes on, “the jest lies in attri-
buting mentality to milk, which is well
known to be quite incapable of think-
ing.” Hasn’t Mr. Howarth ever seen sour
milk? And doesn’t it look weak-minded?
It really is a waste of time trying to
sift the sense from the exaggerations of
Edith Sitwell’s technical writings on
poetry, but presumably it is necessary to
prove that, so Mr. Howarth deserves
thanks for plunging into her “dark” and
“light” vowels, her “dewy” consonants
and all the rest of it. Miss Sitwell (see
her introduction to the excellent Edith
Sitwell’s Anthology) does suggest a
method for a refined appreciation of
sound-values, but it’s quite impossible to
discuss her purely personal reactions to
various vowels and consonants without,
as Mr. Howarth does, falling into a hope-
less bog of queries, expostulations and
contradictions.
Mr. Howarth’s Ezra Pound article is
another matter. Not only does he collate
and sum up all the important overseas
writings on the cantos, but he has the
courage to dive into them and endeavor
to follow the two “themes” —the meta-
morphosis of Dionysus and the descent
of Odysseus into Hades. His text is the
neat “Pound is ultra-modern in technique,
anti-modern in thought,” and he sug-
gests that where Pound deals with the
modern world he is—figuratively—deal-
ing with the hell into which the hero
descends. His criticisms of the parts and
of the whole are reasonable; and his
bibliography offers the interesting in-
formation that Pound’s middle name is
“Loomis”: Ezra Loomis Pound. It has
a ring about it; an air, a je-ne-sais-quoi,
like Pound’s poetry.
Submarine Drama.
On the morning of May 23, 1939, the
United States Navy’s submarine Squalus
struck trouble during diving tests off the
New Hampshire Atlantic coast, and
settled down on a thick blue-mud bottom
in 240 ft. of water. It was her nineteenth
dive, the last of a series in preparation
for the Naval Board tests. The Squalus
was a splendid new ship, worth £860,000,
and fitted with the latest safety devices.
While travelling on the surface air was
supplied to her Diesel engines through a
31-inch diameter pipeline, and for breath-
ing purposes through an 18-inch pipe,
both opening in the deck abaft the con-
ning tower. Both induction pipes were
closed by valves when the ship submerged
and changed over to the battery motors.
There were 59 persons aboard when
the ship began her dive. Everything
functioned perfectly—as everything had
done on each of the previous dives. The
instruments showed that the hull was air-
tight ; therefore it was watertight. At 50ft.
Lieutenant Naquin, commanding the sub-
marine, prepared to level off at about
63ft., when suddenly there came over the
telephone to the control-room the frantic
warning “After engine-room flooding!”
and almost immediately “Forward engine-
room flooding!” then “Take ’er up: the
inductions are open!”
Naquin gave the order immediately;
“Blow the main ballast!
“Blow safety-tanks! Blow bow bal-
last ! ”
For a second or so the Squalus made
the attempt to rise, then the stern slid
downhill fast and she was on her way
to the bottom. Half a dozen men
scrambled through the bulkhead doorway
leading from the after battery-room to
the control-room. One of them, whose
duty it was to close the doors in an emer-
gency, slammed it to in face of the rush-
ing water, though he knew there were
others still somewhere in the after part
of the ship. Another risked drowning
by leaping down into the battery-pit to
pull the main light switches, thus avert-
ing the possibility of an explosion. When
the Squalus rested on the mud, down
at a slight angle by the stern, there were
twenty-three men in the control-room
and ten in the forward torpedo-room.
Of the twenty-six others they knew only
that they were somewhere aft; perhaps
safe ip the after torpedo-room, perhaps
drowned.
There on the bottom of the sea the
thirty-three men trapped in the forward
compartment had many things to give
them hope of rescue. Their approximate
position was known ashore, wirelessed
just before the Squalus began her dive ;
they had smoke bombs, which could be
released to guide the searchers; they
could send up a marker-buoy containing
telephone connection; they were all sup-
plied with “Momsen Lungs,” in which, if
necessary, they could attempt an ascent;
there was an escape hatch for’ard, to
which divers from the rescue ships could
attach the latest of submarine rescue
devices, the “McCann Rescue Chamber” ;
there was a sufficiency of food and water,
compressed air enough to last them three
days, absorbent to kill exhaled carbon
dioxide ; the “Momsen Lungs” could be
used as gas masks should chlorine gas
come from the action of the sea water on
the batteries. But they were in complete
darkness except for their torches; they
suffered agonies from the intense cold,
and they were at a depth from which a
successful rescue had never previously
been accomplished.
The mobilisation for their rescue organ-
ised all the resources of the U.S. Navy.
The remarkable story of its complete
success is told by Nat A. Barrows, who
“covered” the rescue and salvage of the
Squalus for the “Boston Globe,” in his
Blow All Ballast (Harrap). It is a ster-
ling piece of dramatic reporting.
Less than four hours after the Squalus
had come to rest on the floor of the
ocean another submarine, her twin, the
Sculpin, had sighted one of her smoke
bombs. Rescue ships, loaded with gear
and manned with the best available
divers, were already on their way.
The Sculpin found the marker-buoy
and her commander spoke by telephone
to an officer in the forward torpedo-room
of the Squalus—spoke for a few moments
till the line holding the buoy parted. For
four hours two ships dragged back and
forth over the area before their lines
could again locate the lost submarine.
Inside, the trapped men were all the time
beating out messages in Morse with ham-
mers on the hull, hoping the sound might
be picked up. When the submarine was
found, the rescue attempt had to be post-
poned ten hours till th® slow-travelling
salvage vessel arrived. It required six
hours more to get her moored properly
in position and everything in readiness.
Twenty-six hours after they began
their dive, the men in the Squalus heard
the boots of the first diver clatter on the
deck above them. He fixed a downhaul
wire for the escape chamber on to the
hatch opening. Another two hours, and
the two men inside the chamber on its
first descent were bolting it to the hatch.
Their greeting to the men of the Squalus
was “Hello, fellows, here we are! ”
The first load of survivors from the
wrecked submarine (seven men) reached
the surface after twenty-nine hours on
the bottom. Nine men came up in the
second trip by the bell, and nine in the
third. The fourth and last trip was to
bring up the remaining eight survivors
from the for’ard part of the submarine.
The bell became stuck on its line half-
way to the surface, then slipped back to
the bottom.
Divers went down again. At that
great depth, subjected to such tremen-
dous pressure, their mental processes
were slowed till they resembled those of
young children. Great concentration was
needed to think at all clearly, to remem-
ber what it was they had to do. Two of
them were unable to attach another wire.
While one of them was still suspended
on the way up for “staging,” the bell was
at last hauled to the surface by hand.
Naquin was the last to board the rescue
ship. It was forty-two hours since the
disaster to the Squalus. All those known
to have been alive then had been got
out safely. Less than a day later, the
after escape hatch of the Squalus was
opened, to reveal compartments filled
with water. Those twenty-six others of
her crew had been drowned at the first
inrush of the sea.
The end of the rescue was but the
beginning of the salvage. That job, in
all sorts of weather, lasted 112 days.
The story, though it lacks a little of the
vital drama of the rescue, is an absorb-
ing one.
Practical Business Economics: A.
Clunies Ross (Angus and Robertson).
Mr. Ross, who has an entirely commend-
able theory that “no man is entitled to
wage, profit or interest unless he can
point to a service performed for the
community,” writes clearly and interest-
ingly about the financial side of business.
He dodges a lot of vexed questions in
regard to prices and currency—possibly
because there’s no answer to ’em. His
method of balance-sheet analysis is
sound, and his notes on company law,
banking and income tax should be help-
ful to many.
The Christ at Chartres: Denis Saurat
(Dent). Written to show that the “ancient
heresy” of Patripassianism—that is, that
Christ is the Father ; the crucifixion is
the creation of the world —still lives in
odd corners of the French countryside.
Thus, one man says that time begins
with Christ; from His birth time and
creation flow in all directions “back” into
b.c. as well as “forward” into a.d. in
ever-widening waves, like sound when a
gong is struck ; suffering and evil are
the pains of Christ’s eternal crucifixion,
the birthpangs of creation. Another man
tells of the “direct intervention” of Christ
in a telepathic experience ; another has
a reincarnation theory, suffering worked
out over many lives ; another tells of nine
visions that brought him to Christianity.
A short book, finely made.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — avoiding all that is false.
“THE SENIOR STORE’
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
GENUINE AUTUMN
SALE
mm
SAVE MONEY AND BUY
SUPERIOR QUALITY
FURNITURE ON OUR
FAMOUS EASY TERMS
Why wait until you have the ready cash to buy the furniture
you need? This quality Furniture, made in our own work-
rooms by expert craftsmen is now offered at Sale reductions,
and in addition it is available on Easy Terms. On a small
deposit it will be delivered to your home . . . and the balance
may be paid in convenient monthly instalments. Write for
further particulars.
£24'io'- Bedroom Suite
This four-piece figured Walnut Bed-
room Suite consists of a bow front
robe, with full hanging space.
Right hand side fitted with drawers
£1919'-
and shelves. Roomy Dressing Table has rimless
mirror filled with four drawers. Fitted Lowboy and
Bedstead complete the Suite. Anthony Horderns'
Price, £24/10/-. Sale Price
circular
4ft. 6in.
Regular
£l9/19/-
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT, 40/-; 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS
OF 21/5.
e
wmmm
■
«s»
n
m
m
U
.....
• ••■ v V- •• ■
■ ” ■ ■ ■ '/■
slip"
£l2'is- Cocktail
Cabinet, now
e9'io'-
Beautifully figured and highly polished Wal-
nut Cocktail Cabinet that is distinctive and
modern in design and is adaptable to any
modern furnishing scheme. Ample bottle
.. space and shelves. Regular Price, £l2/15/-
EASY TERMS: Deposit, 19/-: 6 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF 29/3.
£3817'6 3“Piece Fabricoid Lounge Suite
The "Woverley" three piece fabricoid covered Lounge Suite
is soundly constructed and well sprung throughout. It
consists of a full size Settee and two Easy Chairs with loose
spring filled cushions which are covered in either tapestry
or velvet. Regular Price, £3B/17/6. Sale Price .... £36/15/-
uO
CD
CO
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT. £3/13/6; 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/19/6.
'PHONE: M24OI—(DAY AND NIGHT)
è
• Furniture —Third Floor. Delivered free only within our
delivery area.
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE RED CEDAR TABLE
By D. L. ROGERS.
IT was a round table, one of those old-fashioned
ones set on a carved, three-footed pedestal of
solid wood. A bit heavy, but good for a couple
of lifetimes of use and big enough to seat six
people without crowding too much. Mum took a
fancy to it as soon as she saw it —it was there in the
house when we went on to the Allison place to work
the dairy on half-shares.
“Just what we need,” Mum said. “Just right for
us.”
There were five of us —Mum, Dad, Rory and
Carrie and myself—and the table we had was big
enough for ten besides being ready to fall to pieces
at any time.
“I’ve always had a fancy for a round table,”
Mum said.
The way she beamed over it you’d have thought
she was a connoisseur with a genuine antique. It was
a much better piece of furniture than anything we
had or any of the other stuff in the old Allison house,
but that didn’t make it
anything out of the box.
Carrie reckoned Mum
kidded herself into liking
the table so much because
of wanting to make the
best of things. Perhaps
Carrie was right. Making
the best of things has
always been Mum’s long
suit, and probably that
table was the only thing
she could find straight off
to work up any enthu-
siasm about. She didn’t
get any help from Carrie
or Rory or me. All we
would do was walk about
finding fault.
We didn’t want to go
on to the Allison place.
We had been doing all
right where we were,
working Dan Johnson’s
dairy on shares, and it
suited us down to the ground ; besides, we were all past
the kid age when shifting was just another game, and
we thought we were settling down, putting out a few
roots. We had never stayed so long in the one place
before. We got along well with old Dan, and there was
no sense in shifting. It was just like the old man then
to £et a bee in his bonnet over the Allison place and
put in a word for it when he heard that the Rawsons
were leaving and Hogan was looking for a new tenant.
Hogan was the owner then. The younger generation
of Allisons had given up the land and gone into busi-
ness in the town and down in the city.
Even Mum didn’t know that Dad had put in for
Allison’s until everything was cut and dried and an
arrangement signed with Hogan. He had mentioned
the place a few times, and boosted it a bit once or
twice, but we didn’t take any notice of that. We
thought it would pass over like all his other fads if
we kept our mouths shut and didn’t start to argue.
He didn’t say anything about putting in for it, though,
or we might have argued,, especially Rory.
First thing we knew, old Dan came over one
day while Dad happened to be in town and told us
we could leave whenever we liked. Old Dan was
huffy, said he had a new tenant who would suit him
just as well, if not better.
Mum got huffy, too, thinking he was giving us
notice instead of the boot already being on the other
foot. “I don’t see what reason you have for putting
us out like this, Mr. Johnson,” she said, for all the
world like a bantam hen in a paddy. “You’ve never
had no cause for complaint with us, I’m sure.”
“Puttin’ you out!” roared old Dan, going red in
the face. “Gripes, missus, didn’t Charlie hisself give
me notice a week ago! ”
Well, there it was! Of course we were all wild,
but that didn’t make any difference when the thing
was done. Mum wouldn’t speak to Dad for a few
days, but she started packing all her things in the big
case she had kept for years.
Rory was wildest of us all. He was as mad as
blazes. You’d only need to see the color of Rory’s
hair to know how mad he can get once he starts.
‘Work for Hogan?” he raged. “I’d sooner hump me
bluey all over Australia looking for a job. Not that
there’s any need of that. I can easy get a job at cane-
cuttin’ when the season starts.”
You can do as you damn’ well please,” said the
old man. “I don’t see what you’re makin’ such a
hell of a fuss about. The Allison place is the best
in the district, A hundred per cent, better than this
one. We’ll make a little fortune in no time.” He’s
always going to make a little fortune in no time, is
the old man. “As for Hogan, you just leave it to me
to look after Hogan.”
“Yair!” said Rory. “You might do it if you’ve
got Ole Nick on your side, but you’ll still be flat out.”
Still, after a while he cooled down, Mum and
Carrie smoodged him over, and he agreed to stay on
with the rest of us at least till the cutting season
began. He wouldn’t be needed so much then, any-
way, with the cows going off their milk for the
winter. He insisted that he wouldn’t work for Hogan,
but we said he probably wouldn’t see much of Hogan,
anyway. None of us knew much about Hogan except
that he was a queer sort of old codger with a couple
of big properties and more money than he knew
what to do with. Even Rory knew little about him.
He’d just taken a dislike to him on sight.
We rooted ourselves up again and shifted out
on to the Allison place. “We’ve just got to make the
best of things,” Mum said. “Anyway, I never did
"... .and remember to follow through!”
think Dan Johnson was as fair with us as he could’ve
been.” Old Dan had been as fair and square as any
man can be in share-farming. But there was Mum
making the best of things with a red cedar table and
damned little else.
'T' HE Allison place was a good place that had gone
to seed. All the buildings, including the house,
were in need of repair ; the paddocks were dirty with
lantana and burr ; the fences were rotten.
“Just needs a bit of money spent on it,” said
Dad. “I’ll get on to Hogan about it. Rawson
couldn’t ’ave cared a damn, that’s all.”
He could still see his little fortune in it, and in a
way he was right. The herd wasn’t bad and the
country was good country, both for grazing and
growing. After a look over the creek flats and the
smooth hills sloping away from them, the old man’s
talk of bumper crops of potatoes and corn and cotton
didn’t seem so overoptimistic as it had done. The
land was good and the old man is a wizard at grow-
ing things. It just needed a bit of money spent on
it, that was all.
“You just want to keep a few silkworms and
you’ll be self-supporting,” gibed Rory. “Only you’d
better keep your silkworms out in the barn. They
mightn’t like the damp here in the house.”
It was raining, and you couldn’t seem to stand
anywhere without getting a drip down the back of
your neck. Mum and Carrie seemed to spend most
of their time pushing stuff about because every time
the wind changed the rain came in through a different
window where the glass was missing. They tacked
hessian up, but the wet came in everywhere just the
same.
“Never mind,” said Dad. “Just wait till I can
see Hogan about it.”
We didn’t have to wait long, We had been on
the place four days when Hogan came over the first
time. He couldn’t get his car across the creeks, so
he had to ride ; but I daresay if the creeks had been
in full flood he would have swum them rather than
let another day pass without seeing what we were
doing. Hogan, we soon realised, didn’t trust anybody.
We were all sitting round the red cedar table
having smoke-oh when he arrived. There wasn’t much
we could do outside with the rain coming down in
bucketfuls. It wasn’t bad inside, rather warm and
comfortable in spite of the drips. Carrie and Mum
had got everything fixed, and I think we had all begun
to feel as if we were settling in. Mum had polished
the table until it shone, and there was a nice sort of
cloth on it and a basin in the middle to catch a drip.
We could tell ourselves it was home.
We didn’t know Hogan was at the back door
until he spoke, he came so quietly.
“Well, it’s a good thing to be some people,” he
said.
It was a harmless enough thing to say. Any-
body might have said it, so that there was nothing in it.
Only Hogan said it as if there was something in it.
He had a high, drawly voice that sounded mean
whatever he said. Apart from that voice, and a way
he had of watching you like a cat over a mouse, he
wasn’t so unprepossessing as Rory made out. Not
until you got to know him.
He didn’t shake hands with anybody. Mum
offered him a cup of tea and he said “No, thanks.
Three meals a day are enough for me. What I say
is, you can’t work if you’re always eating.”
That made Mum stiffen a bit, and Rory scowled.
You’d have thought it would’ve made the old man wild,
too, but he just laughed and passed it off. Rory gets
his red hair from Mum’s side of the family, anyway.
Hogan asked a few questions and then sat there
watching us. After a while he said “That’s a nice-
looking table, that round one. Belong to you?”
Of course he knew damned well it didn’t. You
could have bet your life that Hogan knew what was
on that place when we went there, down to the last
nail and bolt.
Dad said where we had found it. “The missus
just give it a bit of a shine-up and there it is, good
as new.”
“Ah!” said Hogan. Then, after another pause,
“It’s a good table all right. A bit too good to be
using every day, I’d say. Might get knocked about.”
“We’re willing to buy the table from you, Mr.
Hogan,” Mum said, her mouth tight. “It should be
worth about thirty shillings.”
“Ah!” Hogan looked at all of us and at the
table and at the roof where the drip came through
and outside at the rain and back at all of us again.
“Well, you wouldn’t get a table like it these days.
Wouldn’t get the timber in it. I reckon it’d be worth
—now, let me see —six pounds.”
For a minute nobody said anything. We looked
at Hogan to see if he was joking. He wouldn’t have
got more than thirty bob, or, at the most, two pounds,
for that table anywhere. Even if the timber was
good, people just don’t buy that kind of table any
more.
“Like hell!” exploded Rory. He got up and
went outside on to the verandah. ’
“Break it down a bit, Mr. Hogan,” the old man
protested, still quite jovial and pally. “Make it two
or three quid and we might do it.”
“I said thirty shillings,” Mupi said, and anyone
with half an eye could see that that was that as far
as she was concerned. She might have been willing
to offer a bit more if Hogan had been a different
sort of bloke. She liked that table. But she wasn’t
going to be -taken for a mug by Hogan. “Thirty
shillings, Mr. Hogan.”
• “Ah!” said Hogan, and he looked round and
over and through us again. “Well, if we put it over
in a corner of the big barn and cover it with corn-
sacks it shouldn’t come to any harm. I wouldn’t
want it to be knocked about. I might get a buyer
for it any time.”
“Now, come on, Mr. Hogan” Dad began,
but Mum cut in on him quickly.
“That’s all right, Dad,” she said. “The table can
go over into the barn. Mr. Hogan can take it over
right now.”
“Now, Mum” began the old man again, but
Mum had already whipped all the gear off the table,
Carrie helping, and was telling me to give Mr. Hogan
a hand. I shoved the table over towards Hogan so
that he had to catch hold of it, we managed to get it
out through the door with only a few extra scratches
on it, and we carried it over to the barn in the
pouring rain, Dad following behind like a mute at a
funeral. Dad and I got soaked to the skin, but Hogan
had a raincoat.
“You don’t want to take any notice of the
missus,” said Dad, still trying to smooth things over.
I could have kicked him. “I’ll give you three pounds
ten for the table.”
“And sell one of my own steers to pay for it,”
said Hogan. “The table isn’t for sale now.”
I could have kicked Hogan then only I felt that
it served the old man flaming well right. Mooching
back to the house through the rain I wondered if
maybe I couldn’t have a burl at the canecutting with
Rory.
Rory left that evening. He wasn’t to be smoodged
over any more. He and the old man had a real


bust-up this time, and the old man told him he
needn’t set foot in the house again, and Rory said
that was all right with him. Maybe the old man
didn’t mean it, but Rory certainly did. When he left
1 very nearly did go with him, because he reckoned
on doing some droving with Mick Schultz before the
cane season started, and I knew I could shine better
in that line than Rory. But somehow I couldn’t get
mad enough with the old man to say I d leave. I
couldn’t help thinking he was just an old goat and
everybody’s mug and you couldn t just leave him in
the lurch.
T'HE table stood there in the barn, shrouded in
cornsacks, all the year we were on the Allison
place. Seeing it there day after day gave us a sort
of personal grudge against the thing. Carrie and I
called it Hogan’s pal, and Mum called it That Thing
in a way that showed she didn’t like it any more.
She was making the best of things with the old one,
which was more rickety than ever and had a woeful
squeak into the bargain.
“We’ll get a new one as soon as we get a bit of
money in hand,” said Mum.
But that year we didn’t seem to be able to get
any money in hand. The heavy frosts that winter
knocked the old man’s small crops ; he didn’t have
time to try any winter feed what with one thing
and another, and then the spring rains hung off so
long the cows started to get poor and dry off ; we had
flood after flood in the summer when the rains did
come ; and, to cap it all, our poddies contracted some
sickness we couldn’t place and were dying off.
Hogan grumbled constantly. We could have
taken the bad season all right—we had taken them
before —but Hogan’s whingeing was a bit too much.
Mum and Carrie and I had had enough. We said
that if the old man wasn’t going we were. So when,
next time he was in town, old Dan Johnson asked
him to go back on to the old place again Dad agreed.
“As a favor to you, Dan,” he said as if he’d
had a dozen offers.
And next thing there was Mum packing all her
knick-knacks into that same old case she had had
for years.
Only Dad was sorry to leave the Allison place.
“It’s a good place,” he said wistfully. “We could’ve
made a little fortune out of it if things’d gone right.”
“Things never go that right,” said Mum.
Mum was glad to be going. She didn’t care what
happened as long as we went.
When we were shifting the old table we knocked
a leg off it, just to make it worse. “Never mind,”
said Mum. “We’ll fix it up for the time being. Or
we might make one out of my old packing-case. It’s
strong, and I hope we won’t be wanting it again. We
could get a new table out of that pig-money Mr.
Hogan owes Dad if we didn’t want the money for so
many other things.”
THE pig-money wasn’t so easy to get. Dad had to
keep running into town in the old utility, wasting
time and petrol. Hogan had a different excuse each
time.
The fourth time Dad went into town he didn’t
come home till dark. Mum was beginning to worry.
We were having our tea when we heard the engine
and saw the lights turning in to the track. I went
out on to the verandah and the old man called to me
to go down and give him a hand.
“A hand with what?” I knew he hadn’t had to
buy anything big in town.
“Come on down here and don’t ask damn’ silly
questions,” he growled.
Mum and Carrie came out on to the verandah,
too. I went down and peered into the back of the
truck.
“Take hold of that side,” said the old man.
By that time I could see what he had, “Like
hell I will!” I said.
He had brought home the red cedar table. Hogan
had palmed it off on to him instead of the pig money.
Mum wouldn’t speak to him for about a fort-
night, and Carrie followed Mum’s lead, so the old
man was properly hipped. He couldn’t see what the
fuss was about. It was a good table. “Wimmen
are queer!” He looked to me for sympathy,
but I had to side with Mum and Carrie, though V
couldn’t help grinning to myself sometimes when I
looked at the table. It was out in a shed again. Mum
wouldn’t have it in the house.
After a while the row blew over and the old man
was let out of Coventry, but still Mum wouldn’t have
the table in the house. We all just acted as if the
damned thing didn’t exist right there under our noses.
The old man never mentioned it. Then one day while
Mum and Carrie were over visiting the Harrisons
Dad got out the utility, loaded the table into the back
of it and drove off in the town direction. All he said
to me was that he’d be back later.
That was early in the afternoon. By nine o’clock
that night he still hadn’t come back. Mum was
starting to think of all the awful possibilities. She was
ready to cry. “Maybe we have been a bit down on
him lately,” she said.
I said, “We might as well all go to bed. If I
know anything, the old man’s found a buyer for that
table and gone on a spree with the proceeds. He
hasn’t been on a spree for a long time.” I went to
bed. I was nearly asleep when 1 saw the lights and
heard the truck coming up the track. I sat up in sur-
prise. I hadn’t expected the old man to come home
that night.
The engine was cut off and a voice called out
“Hullo, there! Anybody home?”
It was Rory! He came up grinning like a
Cheshire cat. It was the first time we had seen him
since he left the Allison place.
“I’ve got the old man in the truck if you want
him,” he said. “Drunk as any heathen, the old So-
and-so! Dead to the world,”
We brought the old man up and put him to bed.
Mum went through his pockets and got what was left
of the red cedar table. It wasn’t much,
That was the last we saw of it. I don’t know
yet w h° bought it. The old man didn’t say and
nobody ever asked him. Everybody tacitly agreed to
forget it.
"Why don't you salute your superior officer?"
“ We're not speaking."
THE WESTERLY
By WILL LAWSON.
may think I’m drunk,” said the ex-third
\ J mate, “but I can remember the old Southern
y Belle, Captain McCooll.
C “A fine old wooden, four-masted barque,
she was. Cornin’ from Hilo with a million and a
quarter of Hawaiian kauri for Sydney, deck-load
piled high as a seaman’s sins.
“We were ending a good passage with Norah
Head abeam, wide out, and North Head looming
ahead, like a bloomin’ monyment, as Horny Miller,
the A. 8., said. The nor’-easter was taking her along,
and in three hours, we reckoned, we’d be alongside
some Sydney beer. The Old Man was happy, walking
about his quarter-deck like an admiral, conning her.
Suddenly he sings out ‘Set your t’gallan’s!’ and his
voice was louder than any foghorn. Seventy-five feet
from the deck on the t’gallan’-yard you could hear
him whisper.
“She had all she could carry ; but she was a ship
that held herself, never rolled too far. Eleven knots
we were making. But she only leaned a bit more
under those sky-banners—and rolled. ‘He’ll take the
masts out of her,’ the mate said to me. And what a
sight she made! None of the steel and iron packets
that came after her could sail like that. She was
dancing, just dancing, under that power of canvas.
Hoppy, the carpenter, was doing a hornpipe on the
deck amidships, gammy leg and all, and singing
‘Sydney gals their hair is ginger, caliente gals they are.’
“Broken Bay went past, us drawing inshore all
the time, with North Head bigger’n a cathedral. In
an hour we’d be in Neutral Bay. With the wind
she had she’d sail right up to her anchorage. Next
the Heads was opening to us, and all hands on the
lee-braces, singing ‘Whisky, Johnny,’ and ‘Ranzo!’
swinging the yards as the wind came abeam.
“Then like a lady’s sigh the nor’-easter faded out
and down came a westerly, a bolt out of the blue
skies, right in her teeth.
“‘All hands shorten sail!’ McCooll bellowed.
“I was up aloft as quick as any of ’em —short-
handed we were —and laying out on the t’gallan’-yard
with two others —Horny Miller one of ’em —and grab-
bing in lumps of sail, while the ship lost way and
rolled —rolled her gunnels under.
“ ‘She’s settled,’ Horny sang out, while he
reached out for more canvas to shove under his
stomach, with his legs stuck out on the footropes like
a dead cow’s. ‘No beer today.’ The wind tore at the
sail, and it looked bad, dangerous, with the rocks so
near, and we knew it was as bad as it could be when
the Old Man shouted ‘Wear ship!’
“‘Tarnation!’ Horny yelled. ‘Funny how things
go. We’re reckoning on a bellyful of beer an’ it’s
goin’ to be sea water, all we can swallow. Look at
them rocks!’
“Bird’s-eye view of them we had, plain as plain,
and we picked out the spot where she’d hit. But she
still had a bit of steerage way. While we watched,
wondering what would come next, blow me, round
she came, dragged by her headsails and rolling her
keel out. We could hear the big rollers pouring over
the rocks, then dragging out again.
“Suddenly McCooll yelled ‘Let go everything!
Square away!’
“And we let go everything, except ourselves, while
the boys on deck tailed on the sheets and snugged her
home ; and the Southern Belle shoved her nose down
and tore away for New Zealand with the westerly tear-
ing our socks off, yelling and blowing like a million
Chinese devils, and the land fading astern.”
NO ESCAPE INTO BEAUTY.
Beauty still has her being. Moonlit trees
Drip silver down the black cloth of the night,
Boughs milky-white
Tremble beneath the weight of bees,
Wet sands mirror the lone gulls’ flight.
The rose puts on her gaudy dress
No less
Because death rides the wind.
The high uncaring song of birds
Beating the listening earth like golden rain
Holds not one muted semitone of pain
Though youth itself lies slain.
Where are they gone, the sharp delights of these —
Birds, flowers and trees,
Mysterious and lovely still ?
O lost enchantments now, for we ourselves
Are changed! Beauty no longer has the power to
thrill
Our hearts, to ease
Each human ill.
There can be no escape
For us who see in every leaf
The shape
Of useless grief;
Upon the frail, ephemeral bloom
The dust of doom !
No sweet escape from dark reality this way
While ■ sightless eyeballs gape
At the inhospitable skies.
And the clean, gold-washed day
Is torn with children’s cries.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
lime €viellcmneJd andlouqucfi
Seppelts
ST. LAWRENCE, JEWRY.
When the Nazi minions of the air “got”
the Guildhall it was considered remark-
able that the church almost adjoining had
escaped. Nineteen forty had barely run
its course before the edifice dedicated to
St. Lawrence met with a similar fate.
This church possessed much of interest
among City churches. It had the richest
exterior among Wren’s creations, and
was the most expensive of them, costing
£11,870, a formidable sum at the time
it was built. The plan was said to
resemble a gridiron, a reference doubtless
to the legendary martyrdom of the saint.
The previous structure having been de-
stroyed by the Great Fire of 1666, the
latter was constructed in 1677, though
not fully completed until 1707. The
interior contained some fine wood
carving. The altar-piece was decorated
with and the holy table sustained by
cherubims, beautifully carved in oak.
The door cases were also noted for the
superb carving work put into them.
Externally, the east end of the church
faced Guildhall Yard, and was adorned
with four stone columns and two pilasters
with their entablature and pediment of
the Corinthian order. The steeple, a
tower, lanthorn and small sphere, ter-
minated by a vane in the shape of a grid-
iron, is all that remains. Sepulchral
monuments within the building were
numerous, and some possessed quaint
epitaphs. Thus, that on the tomb of Sir
William Stone, alderman, began:
“As the Earth the Earth doth cover,
So under this Stone lies another.”
Another which always arrested attention
was on the tomb of a child
named William Bird, who died October
2, 1698:
“One Charming Bird to Paradise is flown,
Yet were we not of Comfort quite bereft,
Since one of this fair Brood is still our own,
And still to chear our drooping Soul is left.
This stays with us, whilst that his flight doth
take.
That Earth and Skies may one sweet Consort
make.”
In this church was preached annually the
sermon before the corporation of the
City, prior to the election of a new Lord
Mayor.


The Bulletin
Val. 62 No. 3194.
Wednesday, April 30, 1941.
GREEK TRAGEDY.
“Thou art not conquered; beauty’s ensign yet
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
And death’s pale flag is not advanced there.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Whstralia : 33 Barrack. Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25,;
3 months. Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
GALLIPOLI AND GREECE.
For those with souls above commercialised sport,
Anzac Day was heavy with foreboding. The thoughts
of Old Diggers turned, not only to comrades who fell
in the last war or have been gathered to their fathers
since, but to the Young Diggers serving abroad ; above
all, to those who, after the dauntless stands they made
in a campaign that was hopeless from the beginning,
and after the slow agony of a retreat in which they
were scourged almost incessantly by dive-bombers,
were about to embark from another cruel land. And
too well the Old Diggers knew that the bloodless
miracle of the Gallipoli evacuation could not be re-
peated. They had heard through the ether or read that
morning the enemy vaunt that “11 transports, filled
with evacuated soldiers, were sunk and 15 other ships
damaged on April 21-22 between Greece and Crete”
and that on the five preceding days 92,000 tons of
British shipping were “destroyed in Greek harbors.”
Old Anzacs versed in the history of their cam-
paign in the Aegean brooded on mournful features
which have been repeated in that of the New Anzacs.
In both cases the enemy was forewarned —in 1915, by
fruitless naval attacks which, as Liman von Sanders,
the German general commanding the Turks, wrote,
“allowed us four good weeks before the great Eng-
lish disembarkation,” and, in 1941, by the necessarily
slow arrival of troops under the eyes of German agents
and spies, who knew to the last detail their numbers
and dispositions. And each campaign was an out-
come of what Charles Bean called Mr. Churchill’s
“brilliant restless intellect and passion for adventure.”
In the attacks on the Dardanelles forts,
“Churchill’s alluring vision of the power of the naval
gun, which had enticed Kitchener into the undertaking,
had proved false.” It was “a case either of a great
military expedition or of a withdrawal. So through a
Churchill’s excess of imagination, a layman’s ignor-
ance of artillery and the fatal power of a young en-
thusiasm to convince older and more cautious brains,
the tragedy of Gallipoli was born.” These words of
our Official War Historian won’t need to be altered
much when his successor writes the tragedy of Greece.
The Empire can never forget what Mr. Churchill
did in the dark European summer of 1940. The pity
of it that it should have been forced to remember that,
where Continental campaigns are concerned, he is
still the man of 1915!
Nothing pertinent was heard from Mr. Churchill
last week, and no criticism of hjm appeared in any of
the newspapers which are under his spell. But Mr.
Menzies was vocal in an unusually persistent and
emotional way. In one effort he implored the Labor
members of the Advisory War Council to come into a
national Government —this while admitting that they
had not been asked for their advice about the adven-
ture in Greece because there had to be taken “a de-
cision of the highest possible order of secrecy.”
So much was this so that the discussions in London
were confined to the War Cabinet, and not extended to
Ministers generally.
Which doesn’t say much for “Ministers generally.”
And in a speech broadcast to Australia Mr. Menzies
stated that “the momentous question of whether we
should go to Greece was discussed at the first War
Cabinet meeting that I attended in London,” and was
“the subject of many communications” afterwards.
“If we had refused to go into Greece,” he pleaded,
“we should legitimately have been subjected to a
storm of criticism all over the world and have lost
our own self-respect.”
This plea cannot be accepted. Many of the men
dispatched to Greece were drawn from camps in Britain.
In those camps there are far greater numbers of
Canadians and millions of Tommies, all waiting for an
invasion which may never come. (The threat
of invasion indeed looks more and more like
a gigantic bluff, designed to trick Mr. Churchill’s
England into exhausting itself in the raising
and equipping of armies destined for more descents
on the Continent, instead of giving preference to the
production and manning of the vital things, ships and
’planes.)
Anzac Day found Mr. Menzies still harping on
the subject in the same strain:
If there are any sitting in chairs today who say
“Should Australia and New Zealand have sent the flower
of their manhood to fight for Greece?” I must answer:
“The Greeks did not hesitate. They did not sit in
armchairs.” Nobody could be standing anywhere today
with his head high if we had failed to accept the
challenge.
“We,” “we,” “we” —always “we.” The British
Government gave a guarantee in April, 1939, in the
terms announced in the House of Commons that
month:
His Majesty’s Government has come to the conclusion
that, in the event of action being taken which clearly
threatened the independence of Greece and Rumania,
and which the Greek or Rumanian Government con-
sidered it vital to resist with all its forces, his Majesty’s
Government will feel itself bound at once to lend the
Greek or Rumanian Government all the support in its
power.
In B. 19/4/’39 this was described as “an exten-
sion of a policy which has so far been useless and is
obviously dangerous.” Mr. Hertzog was quoted as
having questioned the, accuracy of a statement that
“the whole Empire has approved of the British
guarantee to Poland.” He was then Prime Minister
of South Africa, and he declared that “the Dominions
have been informed of European developments, but
have not been asked to approve of any step taken by
Britain.”
The position is similar to that of the Locarno era —
the Dominions are not bound by European commit-
ments.
“That, no doubt, is the constitutional position,”
it was here stated, though the fact was stressed that
“Australia and Maoriland” could not and would not
try to “contract out of a British war.” As Mr.
Churchill himself said last week, they have “perfectly
separate independent rights.” They are countries, not
colonies. When the independence of Greece was
“clearly threatened” by Italy, Britain itself did not send
soldiers, though it helped with seamen and airmen,
that measure of assistance presumably being “all the
support in its power.” Our Australian and M.L. Gov-
ernments chose to accept a bad British decision,
arrived at —it is now lamely admitted —in ignorance of
the strength of the mechanised divisions and bombers
that the Germans had assembled for a drive in North
Africa, involving a dangerous division of forces in the
face of the enemy, and necessitating, when the thrust
towards Egypt developed, the hasty recall of British
troops bound for Greece.
As a result, the forces that eventually reached Greece
were not so strong as had been intended, and some of
the support which the Australian Government had been
assured our troops would receive was not available.
And it has not been stated that the admiral who
would have to take the army to Greece and bring the
survivors back if the campaign were a failure or the
air-force commander who would have to protect it
against clouds of dive bombers was a party to the
fatal decision.
As in the last war, British Intelligence has let the
Empire down very badly. The rot has extended to
the Department of Information and 8.8. C., and last
week Mr. Duff Cooper’s offsider, spurred to say some-
thing by indignant press objections to the dearth of
news from Greece, and to 8.8.C.’s fatuous presenta-
tion of the stuff available, was actually heard implor-
ing that concern to reserve its bedtime stories for
appropriate hours. Told that a Churchill speech
would be broadcast at six o’clock on Monday morn-
ing, hundreds of thousands of Australians tuned-in at
the appointed time, expecting to hear an announce-
ment on the subject nearest their hearts ; only to be
bitterly disappointed. Australians and Maorilanders
were nevertheless conscious of being spectators of a
great human tragedy, in which their sons were actors.
With mournful pride they realised that, in circumstances
which must have been desperate from the first scene,
those sons had shown courage, moral as well as
physical, in its very highest form. As in 1915, that
supreme valor will move the nation to give increased
energy and strength to its unfinished task, and will
be an inspiration to it through all its history, “to the
last.”
Another Man Who Was Right.
When Mr. Lyons died Mr. Cameron was The Bulle-
tin’s nomination for Prime Minister. He still is. Mr.
Menzies is a very clever man, but as a war leader he
has limitations which have been felt all along, by
supporters as well as opponents. He is an Australian
Asquith, and he will fall as Asquith did, and for
much the same reasons, Asquith, it will be remem-
bered, sanctioned the Gallipoli expedition.
Mr. Cameron is a different type. There is a
Highland ruggedness in his composition. He is
utterly fearless and uncompromising. He has the
clearest head and the stiffest back in Parliament. And
though no orator, as Mr. Menzies is—or can be when
aroused—he expresses his stern convictions in lucid
and weighty English. Quick on the uptake, he is
never at a loss for terse and pungent sentences when
challenged by a newspaper critic or tackled in debate.
This South Australian farmer hates cant, humbug
and popularity-hunting. He is incapable of suffering
fools and male flappers gladly and has no use for
sentiment in war, especially the sort of sentiment
that impelled the Minister for the Army to maunder
about the right of interned enemy aliens to have
extravagantly costly appeal courts set up for their
benefit, with a procedure that places the Government
and the service chiefs on the defensive. He is all for
concentration on the war till it is won, and would
make short work of anyone or anything that stands in
the way. He gave up the leadership of the Country
party, and with it the Deputy Prime Ministership,
because he refused to place the war second to inter-
minable discussions of the tinpot grievances with which
party men plagued him. Saying “a parish pump-
handle is not a weapon of war, and I refuse to allow
it to be thrust into my hands,” he left the party to its
own petty devices and confused counsels, taking final
leave of it in a letter so crushing that his accommo-
dating successor did not dare to reply. Then Mr.
Menzies left him out of the Cabinet.
He had been a very good Minister for the Navy.
One of his last jobs as such was to recognise the ser-
vices of merchant seamen by extending to them and
their dependants the rights conferred on soldiers, air-
men and naval seamen in the Repatriation Act. He
knew what was due to the merchant seaman, who has
been employed by others in this war as if there were
no limit to what the human spirit can endure.
Mr. Cameron has always had a bad Press. Though
anything but a wowser, he doesn’t drink, smoke or
gamble ; and the new school of newspapermen prefers
the kind of Minister who will drink with “the boys”
and take a turn on the jazz floor with a “socialite” or
recruit his flagging powers at the races, especially as
that kind of Minister is apt to be more communica-
tive than dour clansmen. But these Cameron idio-
syncrasies might have been pardoned if he had not
broken in on the press pastime, all the rage before
and after Munich, of lining up the Democracies
(Russia always included) against the Dictator Powers,
and proving by simple addition and subtraction —
there being so many more Russians, Czechs, Ameri-
cans, British, French, Belgians, Yugoslavs and the
like than male inhabitants of the Dictator countries
—that the war would be a walkover. He made no
secret of his opinion that this was dangerous non-
sense.
On May 9, 1939, when the Russian-alliance
craze was at its height and Britain was handing out
guarantees to every country that would take them,
he had the courage to say in Parliament that there
was “no community of interest or identity of objec-
tive” between Britain and Russia, “a country that is
anti-Communist and one that is Communist” ; that
there could be no way of helping Poland save by
attacking Germany on the Western Front, “a prospect
to which no statesman either of Britain or of this
country could look forward with equanimity” ; that
“we are in the unfortunate habit of looking upon the
Yugoslavs as a complete homogeneous community
comparable with our own, whereas they are nothing
of the sort,” and that Rumania was “a reed on which
neither this country nor Britain can afford to lean.”
On the general subject of Baltic and Balkan alliances
he said that since “one of the principles to be observed
should be the concentration of your greatest possible
force at the weakest point in the defences of your
enemy,” and since such allies “would demand ships,
aeroplanes and, above all, munitions and the transport
necessary to take those munitions to them,” they would
bring “not strength but weakness” to any alliance. He
has been anathema to the Stunt Press ever since.
The war came and it began to rain boards,
committees, co-ordinators and what not. Mr. Cameron
stood it as long as he could, which wasn’t very long ;
then he pointed out to his chief that “war is waged
by commanders, not by committees” ; that “the organi-
sation of armed forces, supplies and transport” had
been “sacrificed to the organisation of boards, com-
mittees and co-ordinators”; that “the division of
Cabinet into a War Cabinet and an Economic Cabinet
of practically equal strength” was ridiculous, and that
the “co-ordination” for which the Government was
striving, in its fashion, was “the vain pursuit of a
phantom ; it will ultimately make the fixing of re-
sponsibility for shortcomings an impossible task.”
After he left the Ministry he published his memo-
randum to the P.M. ; and, though nearly all the news-
papers ignored it altogether, it must be accounted a
very able State paper. Paragraphs are subjoined:
My conception of a successful war-time Government is one
in which war objectives and general policy are determined by
Cabinet as a whole and a small sub-committee —the War
Cabinet —makes those hour-to-hour decisions demanded or
any Cabinet under the stress of war, but within the genera,
limits of objectives laid down by Cabinet itself.
The War Cabinet must also provide the driving power
to keep the war machine in order. Therefore, Cabinet itself
must co-ordinate national policy, and inside Cabinet such is
the chief role of a Prime Minister.
I firmly believe that selection for Ministerial rank depends
upon these principles: Firstly, a man’s capacity to do the job
allotted to him; secondly, that the Minister, when appointed,
will bring support to the team.... The conduct of the war
demands accuracy and speed in making decisions, unswerving
purusit of objectives and ruthless administration in order to
attain those same objectives. No amount of outside advice, re-
search, assistance or experience will compensate for the ineffi-
ciency or shortcomings of misfits in a Cabinet. The greatest
of all qualifications for war-time government is possession of
that natural intuition and war-wariness which is something
with which a man is born.
I would apportion responsibility thus:
General policy and objectives .. .. .. Full Cabinet
War measures and decisions .. • • • • War Cabinet
Administration and maintenance of objectives.. Prime Minister
Boards, committees, etc., generally to a Minister, as ■in
Commerce; in odd instances, to the War Cabinet or to the
Full Cabinet. . .
Reduction to a minimum of questions for Cabinet submission.
Men, land and capital must be used to the full. Time is a
vital factor in war; hence the need for priorities, quantities,
types, kinds and places to be related to time. The questions
we must answer I place in this order:
What is our objective?
What forces will we need?
What supplies will they require?
When and where will they be required?
What supplies will the civil population require?
What supplies can we afford for others?
What are our deficiencies?
What improvisations or adaptations can be made to
meet them?
Answers to these questions will provide us with a clear-cut
policy for the future conduct of the war.
Mr. Menzies and the Labor leaders had other
views. The Advisory War Council was formed. A


patchwork Budget, hastily altered to meet Labor ob-
jections and full of anomalies, was adopted, and com-
promise became the order of the day. When, the
P.M. having gone overseas, Parliament was summoned
for a few short sittings, at which a makeshift child-
endowment scheme, never mentioned in the Menzies
policy speech, was whirled into law, the House bore
every appearance of having been transformed into a
mutual-admiration society, except that Mr. Cameron
and a few other members remained aloof. The
member for Barker had already objected strongly to
the delegation of Cabinet functions and responsibilities
to the Advisory War Council, “an absolutely uncon-
stitutional body,” and predicted that trouble would
follow. He denounced the Department of Informa-
tion as “mischievous” and “unnecessary.” It came
out that Labor members of the Advisory War Council
had been of the same opinion until they became
Advisory War Councillors ; then, as Mr. Fadden put
it, “the strongest critics of the department now agree
that its establishment was a wise action.”
Mr. Cameron: If the Government thinks that Parlia-
ment will shelter behind the recommendations of a body
like that, which has no constitutional powers
Mr. Fadden: We are not sheltering behind it. We
confirm its opinion.
While events in Greece were speeding to their
dreadful conclusion Melbourne “Argus,” which has
no sympathy with Mr. Cameron or his views, com-
pleted a study of how the war administrative machine
“works” since the Advisory War Council was tacked
on to it. “In some cases,” it reported, “there is dis-
cussion by War Cabinet, followed by confirmation of
its decision by Full Cabinet, and then reference to
the War Advisory Council, the process being repeated
if the War Advisory Council insists on substantial
amendment. At all these meetings the Prime Minister
must preside. At times he must feel that he has been
taken for a ride on an administrative merry-go-round.”
In effect, “instead of a spur, the War Advisory Coun-
cil is becoming a brake, because it is introducing into
the machinery of national administration another
cause for delay at a time when rapid decisions and
immediate implementation are necessary.”
Two days after the “Argus” article was published,
Dr. Evatt revealed that the Labor representatives on
the Advisory War Council were “informed of the
decision of the Commonwealth Government to send
our troops from North Africa to Greece,” that “great
and dangerous enterprise, involving the fate of so
many Australians,” after the decision had been made
and was being put into effect. Mr, Fadden admitted
it, saying that “the decision was one of high policy
and rested with the Cabinet.” In other words, there
was a sudden and secret return to the doctrine of
Cabinet responsibility. Cabinet had to decide ; but,
seeing that Cabinet set up the Advisory War Council,
and sought its advice about such matters as the De-
partment of Information, why shouldn’t Cabinet have
sought its advice about the sending of the A.I.F. to
Greece?
Parliament is to be summoned again, and the
new Gallipoli has made drastic changes in the Cabinet
and in the direction of the war effort inevitable.
Whether the Administration is taken from one side
of the House or from both sides Mr. Cameron’s
talents should be employed. Events have altogether
justified his views of alliances and Continental adven-
tures and his conception of the functions and respon-
sibilities of a Government engaged in war.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Canadians Are Different.
On March 5 Gayda, the Italian, informed the world
that a division of Canadians had arrived at Salonika.
This was published in Australian papers the follow-
ing day and referred to in B. 12/3/’4l in an article
headed “Setting a Trap?” Therein it was pointed out,
with overmuch reliance on the events of the imme-
diate past, that “Britain is not likely to be caught in
a trap or to risk another Gallipoli,” and that “the
Black Sea entrances, the Adriatic and the JEgean are
the places which should be sealed.”
No doubt Dominion troops did arrive at Salonika,
but they could not have been Canadian, unless (as is
most unlikely) they were recalled. They may have
been Maorilanders. Canadian and N.Z.E.F. uniforms
are not so very different. Possibly Gayda corrected
himself in a speech or article which has not reached
these parts.
Last year Canadian troops were sent to Norway
and to France. In the Toronto “Daily Star” of April
7, it was stated that “there has been no request to
send them anywhere since, except a small detach-
ment to Gibraltar” ; and, the Canadian Government
approving, the “small detachment” was sent to The
Rock.
On April 1, Mr. Ralston, the Minister of National
Defence, had stated in the Canadian House of
Commons that “Canadian troops in Britain cannot be
and are not moved into other fields of operation
without the approval of the Canadian Government.”
The Canadian corps in Britain is under the command
of Lieut.-General McNaughton, who is styled
commander-in-chief. There are other Canadian troops
there —“men in training and so forth” —for whom
General Montagu, senior combat officer at Canadian
military headquarters, is responsible to his Govern-
ment. By virtue of a Canadian order-in-council,
these officers “may designate any portion of the
Canadian forces in the U.K. to act there in combina-
tion with the British ; and General McNaughton has
detailed the Canadian corps to act in combination
with the British under Sir Alan Brooke, Commander-
m-Chief of the Home Forces.”
“Speaking generally,” Mr. Ralston said, “the
Canadian forces in Britain are responsible to the
commander-in-chief of the Canadian corps, and to
the senior officer at Canadian military headquarters,
in so far as troops are not in the corps, and through
him to the Government of Canada. The commander-
in-chief has a perfect right to refer to the Canadian
Government at any time he is asked to carry on an
operation, if it should be thought fit. He is respon-
sible to the Canadian Government if he carries on
an operation without consulting the Government.” The
Minister emphasised the fact that “the approval of
the Canadian Government, not merely ratification,
is obtained when Canadian troops are moved out of
Britain.”
The rights of Canadian soldiers serving abroad
and the responsibilities of their commanders are laid
down in a Visiting Forces Act, passed in 1933. Under
that Act Canadian troops in Britain may serve either
“together with” or “in combination with” British
forces. “ ‘Together with,’ ” the Toronto “Daily Star”
explains, “means that there is separate leadership ; ‘in
combination with’ means that there is a supreme
British commander.”
Troops in training naturally serve “together with”
the British ; that is, under their own separate command.
But where the visiting forces are called upon to engage
in actual operations, they are likely to serve “in com-
bination” with the British. This, however, is a matter
for the Canadian Government to decide by order-in-
council.
As to their employment elsewhere, the Canadian
Government “has the say” as to whether they should
go. But “once they have embarked for active ser-
vice, its order-in-council provides that they auto-
matically come under the British command. That
is, while they have their own leader, the supreme
authority rests with the British commander, and they
serve under him in combination with the British
troops. This is an automatic provision and not at the
discretion of General McNaughton, as would be the
case while in England.”
It has been made painfully evident that Aus-
tralia has nothing even remotely resembling that Visit-
ing Forces Act. A measure like the Canadian should
be introduced and passed, after proper debate —not
a parody, such as accompanied the hurried adoption
of the muddled child-endowment scheme —during the
proceedings necessitated by the tragic campaign in
Greece. A queer position would have arisen if
Canadians had been sent to that country and placed
under the supreme command of a Greek general, as
were our Australians and Maorilanders. Obviously
the Canadian Act and order-in-council did not con-
template such a contingency.
A Premier Speaks.
In a two-hour “policy” speech at Albury (N.S.W.)
the Sydney Premier put forth as fine an argument for
the abolition of State Parliaments as has been heard
in recent years. Of course, he wasn’t aware of it,
but his audience must have been, for it heard him
almost in silence, and its feelings were summed up by
a soldier, who rose and declared:
I think you ought to just fold your tents and sink
into oblivion, the lot of you.
Mr. Mair went over all the old, familiar ground,
holding up the Opposition as a shocking example,
promising things that should have been done years
ago and other things that can’t be done. Then,
to prove the value of a State Parliament in time of
war, he outlined what his particular one had con-
tributed to the war effort:
The railways and tramways workshops are making
arms and munitions and other material; the Main
Roads Department has built and is building strategic
roads and producing maps and photostats; the Public
Works Department is building aerodromes and camps;
the Forestry Department is testing timber for war pur-
poses ; the Police Department is on the track of
Fifth Columnists and other noxious insects. There
has been help with the training of mechanics, with
the graving dock, in surveys and N.E.S. work, etc.
A stranger might have thought that N. S. Wales
was a friendly neutral or something, instead of an
integral part of a nation at war. All that Mr. Mair
boasted about would have been done by the Com-
monwealth if the Sydney Parliament had never been
heard of, and probably done at less cost and in less
time.
Like its five unwanted contemporaries, the Sydney
Parliament has failed to justify its existence in any
way. Without it and the other five the Common-
wealth would feel like a horse when useless and un-
necessary gear is thrown off the load. Anybody who
can find anything in Mr. Mair’s speech to justify the
continued existence of State Parliaments deserves a
free pass to Paradise —such a faith could deserve
nothing less.
Border Disorders.
“ Trade, commerce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation,
shall be absolutely free.”
—Section 92 of the Commonwealth Constitution.
Reports from the Riverina indicate that a species of
madness has broken out among the usually-staid agri-
culturists of those parts. Men have been observed to
put a couple of bags of wheat, a bale of wool or a
pig in the utility, cross the border into Victoria and
rampage up and down the roads within a radius of
50 miles of the spot where they entered.
From Victoria —land of a strange and alien
people, whose laws are not as the laws of N. S. Wales
—come travellers in cars who career through the
N.S.W. countryside with loud whoops of joy. It
appears that, after a four years’ struggle by a gallant
Victorian, Mr. Bailey, the two nations have agreed to
dispense with the need for private motorists to obtain
special permits when crossing the border; thus the
Victorian eager to fish in the waters about Wagga
may travel unhindered.
But N.S.W. nationals may not do the same.
Their country has no compulsory third-party insur-
ance ; hence the N.S.W. traveller who would enter the
strange land to the south must (a) take out a cover
in Victoria, or ( b ) get a cover in his own State, or (c)
buy a cover at the border.
West of Victoria lie the South Australians. Their
country is a closed book by ukase of the great dic-
tator Transportstrangulation, and, though the doughty
Victorian champion Bailey has been at them for four
years, the S. Australians are “still considering” it.
All this progress is going to the heads of the
dwellers in southern N.S.W. A man can now put an
orange in his car, cross the border and travel for 50
miles with impunity because “he is a primary pro-
ducer carrying primary products.” But let him see to
it that the 50 miles is not exceeded, for beyond that
range waits a dire fate. Still, as hundreds of N.S.W.
people can now examine the northern limits of the odd
nation to the south, something has been gained.
Hire cars and taxis may also travel within that
50-mile radius. So may the storekeeper whose post is
within 25 miles of the border, and who wishes to
deliver goods. If he wishes to pick up goods he is
limited to a 20-mile radius. No trace has been found
of three Albury storekeepers who were caught buying
butter in Wangaratta.
Picnic parties may now travel 20 miles across the
border by motor bus without fear. If you own a car
used for “the purpose of carrying passengers or goods”
you can travel up to 50 miles in the foreign country
across the border for ss. a month. If you wish to
make a special trip beyond that limit, it will cost you
10s. a month.
A late message from a point south of Rutherglen
asserts on unimpeachable authority that a man caught
carrying a load of furniture has been hanged as a
warning at the junction with the Shepparton road. Told
that the man was carrying his own furniture, the
officials coldly inquired: “What’s that got to do with
it? He picked the goods up 22 miles from the border.
Up he goes.” And, the report concludes, up he went.
Aliens as Officers.
A regulation under the National Security Act, dated
April 2, gives the Governor-General power to appoint
“such aliens, not being enemy aliens,” as the various
defence boards recommend to be officers of the A.I.F.
and other overseas and home forces, and to issue com-
missions to them. That might be all right, with
proper safeguards, if we were short of officer material,
but the regulations continue:
An alien may be enlisted in the Military Forces, the
Naval Forces or the Air Force without being re-
quired to take and subscribe an oath or affirmation
of enlistment in accordance with the Form set out in
the Third Schedule of the Defence Act 1903-1939, etc.
Otherwise, the Act is made to apply to the new
recruits “as if they were British subjects.” An enemy
alien “means a person who, not being a British sub-
ject, possesses the nationality of a State at war with
his Majesty.”
Nothing is said about hostile States which are
under the thumb of Germany, but which are not for-
mally at war with Britain, nor is anything said about
Russians or national minorities of countries not at war
with Britain which have betrayed or thrown over their
own countries.
The next thing will presumably be more aliens
tribunals to allow foreigners refused commissions or
enlistment to have their cases inquired into in any
State which they select.
And the experience of Archie Galbraith Cameron
may deter anybody else from protesting in Parliament
that Australia can provide all the officers it needs from
its own splendid men.
A.R.P. in Melbourne
“C.Q.”: Melbourne has made considerable prepara-
tions against the possibility of air raids. Buildings
suitable for shelters have been earmarked to the
number of 550; they are capable of sheltering 70,000
people. There is an A.R.P. personnel of 2500 who
cover 11 areas and 221 sectors. Short of getting
actual experience they have been fairly well trained.
Equipment is said to be sufficient, except in the fire-
fighting department.
Some 1500 women have been trained in various
capacities and an anti-panic squad has been estab-
lished to take the place of the London street warden.
Women pharmaceutical chemists have volunteered for
gas reconnaissance, and there are telephonists, service
clerks and plotting officers in the skirted battalion. In
a test mobilisation the other day all personnel were
ready to go to their posts in 30 minutes.
The only thing lacking is shelters for the 130,000
people who can’t be accommodated in the city build-
ings. There is one in the Fitzroy Gardens which was
built by the City Council as an earnest of good
faith and intentions. Whether it has been reserved
for the most important persons hasn’t yet been stated.
An Anderson shelter was built on the pavement in
front of the Town Hall for a few weeks as an example
to suburbanites to go and do likewise in their back-
yards, but it was removed when ill reports of the con-
traption came from London.
J. D. Sutherland, the district warden for Mel-
bourne, says that everything is virtually ready for an
air raid when the Commonwealth Government pro-
vides the money for the shelters. They will cost
several millions. The Commonwealth Government
shows no immediate signs of rushing along with the
money, possibly because it thinks the State Govern-
ment will justify its existence that way. The State
Government isn’t doing anything about it, possibly
because it thinks the citizens might get so apprehen-
sive that they will hold a button day and build their
own public shelters.
I am only a humble citizen, but it seems strange
to me that the criticism of the authorities in relation
to a matter of such national significance should come
from a subordinate official.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Yu”: The claim that Americans don’t
know much about Australia and Aus-
tralians is blown out. A New York mes-
sage, telling how some newshounds were
hunting through Californian hotels in the
mistaken belief that an Australian Minis-
ter had arrived, mentions them as
“searching for an Australian statesman
and his retinue of secretaries.”
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Mars is a greater stimulant
to inventiveness than Peace. Because
mail liners are required for war purposes,
the British Post Office has developed a
new system of aerial-mail delivery to the
troops in the Middle East and elsewhere.
The letter-writer indites his message on
a special form which is micro-photo-
graphed by the postal authorities down
to minute dimensions. At the receiving
end the film is enlarged and delivered in
an envelope at a cost of threepence.
Ordinary letters weighing over a hundred-
weight are thus diminished to 4500 film
negatives weighing less than 111 b., which
can be stowed away in a ’plane quite
easily. A similar system has been in
operation in Australian libraries for some
time past for exchanging copies of rare
books, scientific journals and other
printed matter with foreign countries.
The entire issue of the London “Times”
) since its foundation can be stored in
about the same space as a pound of butter
and read with comfort at ordinary type
size on the projecting apparatus by any
student who has the enthusiasm to do it.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Just before the out-
break of war a young Melbourne artist
went to London looking for fame and
fortune. Nothing was heard of him by
his friends in Melbourne, although they
wrote him several letters. After this
year’s resumption of the Blitzkrieg they
became apprehensive, and sent him a
cable inquiring as to his doings. “Came
here to get my A.R.A. Got my A.R.P.
instead,” was the laconic answer.
* * * *
“Jachris”; There’s a new sport in
Sydney—tracing the nimble sevenpenny
packet of fags to its lair. It’s a great
game, too. You take up the running
early in the month, when stocks are
plentiful, and map out the likely coverts.
It’s quite all right to bring down a single
every now and again then, but laying
in a supply isn’t altogether in keeping
with the best traditions. Over the last
fortnight the fun really starts —most of
the normal nesting places are cleaned
out then—and the hunt is on. For a
few days you can still be particular as
to what brand of quarry you’re after ;
they’ll still be found lurking somewhere.
Over the last week it’s advisable to make
sure of everything you can get. If you
chance on a nest keep it a close secret;
there’ll be plenty of others in the hunt
to clear it out.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Some alien refugee practi-
tioners haven’t waited for registration.
Finding a lack in a district they have set
up their shingles and called themselves
“Mr.” One in particular, a Jew who
possesses high German degrees and has
done post-graduate work at Vienna, has
satisfied the local population so well that
they have made him lodge doctor, while
his wife has become one of the most
active members of the local C.W.A. The
alien doctor, however competent he may
be, works under serious disabilities. He
can’t legally charge fees, issue death certi-
ficates or deliver babies. In the latter
case he has to call a registered medico
from another district.
# * ♦ *
“Wodgil”: There is no one like Billy,
and he is never better than when he is
"Didn't you see the notice ‘Beware of the Bull'?”
correcting those dull dogs the historians.
Hear him harking back to a classic
combat:
on the historic plains of Ther-
mopylae, where the gallant deeds of the
Greeks of old settled the destinies of the
civilised world for more than 2000 years
“The plains of Thermopylae”—magnifi-
cent! The historicides’ version is that
Thermopylae is a pass which Leonidas,
with 1400 Greeks, defended heroically
but vainly in 480 B.c. against the hosts
of Xerxes, the Persian, he and his 300
Spartans_ making their last stand on “a
round hill which can still be identified.”
It was on the plain of Marathon, those
fellows insist, that Xerxes really got
what was coming to him ; there, 9000
Athenians and 1000 Plataeans licked
50,000 Persians in a battle that did really
“settle the destinies of the civilised
world.” Napoleon was no admirer of
Leonidas. “Pooh, a bad general,” he
said when somebody mentioned Ther-
mopylae to him. “He was turned!”
* * * »
“Avon”: Maoriland’s hundreds of
thousands of cyclists thought they had
struck a slice of luck when, some weeks
ago, blackout regulations were imposed
at night. The Fernlander awheel hates
the necessity of showing a light at night
almost as much as he loves riding on
footpaths, and a regulation prohibiting
light-showing was hailed with delight.
But joy was short-lived. A batch of
Gisborne cyclists haled before the beak
for pedalling around unilluminated
pleaded the blackout law in vain. The
Bench, in an awestruck tone, said that
the offence was a breach of borough by-
laws, and implied that defiance of that
authority couldn’t be sanctioned by any
national legislation. So now the M.L.
cyclist at night must dodge bobbies
whether he’s lit or unlit.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: I rather like re-reading a
good story again, especially if I have
half-forgotten it, but it irks me to have
it served up as fresh, i.e., as something
that hasn’t appeared in print before. Yet
this is just what some Australian weeklies
are not above doing. I used to think
that such yarns—serials as well as short
stories —were deliberately “lifted” from
their overseas sources, but I have since
learned that they are duly paid for, there
being agents in Australia who are em-
powered to dispose of and get the best
price obtainable for what, after all, are
second-hand goods to be presented as
new. There would be little to complain
of, perhaps, if the stuff were prefaced
with some such admission as “By
arrangement with the ‘Saturday Evening
Post’ ” —or in whatever journal it first
appeared. Not only is such acknow-
ledgment neglected but the word “Copy-
right” is boldly inserted at the end.
*r
“Rowdy”: Alleged that the city of
Buenos Aires is contemplating a cemetery
for dogs on the ground that the dog is
man’s best friend. A South American
newspaper contends that, on the contrary,
man is the dog’s best friend, allowing
that, while there are instances of dogs
dying on the graves of their dead masters,
there is no report of any man dying on
the grave of his dead dog. Possibly this
is because few dogs have properly-laid-
out graves at which their masters could
die, a point worth considering by the
cemetery-makers of Buenos Aires, who
might yet find the place cluttered up with
the defunct bodies of inconsolable dog-
lovers. Anyhow, if the cemetery is estab-
lished it should give the starving poet a
new lease of life composing suitable in
memoriam verses for the dearly beloved
canines.
* * * *
“Sienna”: The committee that chose
140 examples of Australian Art to send
to the U.S.A. and Canada seems to have
done a fair job of work, though it is not
quite clear by what criterions it judged
either Australianism or Art. The “new
art” enthusiasts complain of poor repre-
sentation, but at least they are repre-
sented, and by such sincere and reputable
practitioners as Roland Wakelin, George
Bell and Arnold Shore. Among the
painters it wasn’t found expedient to
represent are Rupert Bunny, Charles
Wheeler, H. A. Hanke and the late W. 3.
Mclnnes and Charles Bryant. Norman
Lindsay just scrapes into the list with
one pen drawing. He’s eminent in that
field, it’s true, but any survey of Aus-
tralian Art that excludes his oils and
water-colors can’t be considered fairly
representative. There are four Gruners,
four Heysens, five Lamberts and three
Streetons, so there was no question of
limiting each artist to one example.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A man walked into the Mel-
bourne Hospital and reported that he
had just swallowed two florins and a
penny. Asked why he had made this
remarkable meal, he explained that.
having a hole in his pocket, he was
carrying his wealth in his mouth when a
motor-car horn suddenly honked behind
him.
* * * *
“K.P.”: I confess to a measure of
sinful pride when the two Bowyang kids
changed almost miraculously from miser-
able, peevish brats to healthy, normal Aus-
tralian youngsters after their diet was
remodelled to provide them with enough
Vitamin V. But Bill Hawkins’s cramp
in the leg was not so good as a triumph
of modern medicine. An old trouble, it
was spoiling his sleep badly at a time
when he needed all the restful slumber
he could get. Any really effective dope
was too risky and Bill was growing restive
over the failure of a whole flamin’
’orspital t’ cure a simple thing like that.
The day after old Jack Burns came to
occupy the next bed he was scathingly
sarcastic. “First bit o’ relief I’ve ’ad,”
he announced. “Not on account of no
’orspital treatment neither, but thanks t’
me noo friend Doctor Burns ’ere.”
“Doctor” Burns grinned toothlessly
through his whiskers and piped up: “Told
’im the old trick—pinch ’ard with y’
finger an’ thumb jest in front uv that
there big tendon back o’ y’r ankle soon
as y’ feel it cornin’ on. One uv them
Indian ’awkers lamed it t’ me out west.
Alius cures a cramp in the leg.” It does,
too. I’m going to ask my new colleague
for some more tips.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A significant outcome of the
war has been the complete disappearance
of Adolph and Adolf as given names in
birth registrations from Australian
families with a tradition of German
ancestry. So unpopular has it become
that an adult South Australian Adolf has
changed himself into Andrew by deed-
poll. As yet no tendency is apparent
towards labelling innocent babes with the
names of famous generals or the scenes
of their victories. Winstons, with a few
Winstonas for girls, are distinctly on the
up-grade, but such monikers from hap-
pier Libyan days as Tobruk, Bardia or
Solium would deter the most thoughtless
of parents, and Bug Bug is simply impos-
sible in any respectable family.
* * * *
“Goldbug” on a feature of early Syd-
ney’s trade:
One of the most remarkable features of Syd-
ney at the beginning of the nineteenth cen-
tury was the number of jewellers’ shops in the
principal streets. Receivers of stolen articles of
plate and jewellery in England regarded Sydney
as a safe market for such trifles, since agents
for their disposal might easily be found amongst
the compulsory inhabitants of “Botany Bay.”
Mr. Justice Therry tells a story in his
Reminiscences. “A lady,” he says, “the wife
of an officer, wore a valuable gold comb, which
was snatched out of her hair on coming
out of the opera one night in London. Two
years afterwards —about 1825 —the lady joined
her husband in Sydney. On the first day she
walked out she was attracted by the display of
brilliant articles in a jeweller’s shop. The first
that caught her eye, prominently displayed, was
the identical stolen comb. She communicated
the fact to her husband, and they visited the
shop. Terms were proposed, either that the name
of the consignor of the property or the property
itself should be given up. The shopkeeper did
not hesitate for a moment. He gave the comb
up rather than mention the name of the party
who sent it to him, probably aware that, on
the disclosure of how and where he obtained
it, all the other articles in the shop similarly
obtained might be subjected to a compulsory
surrender.”
TWEEDLEDUMS AND TWEEDLE-
DEES.
Listen to the verbal thrustings on the floors of
halls and hustings.
Acrimonious jacket-dustings from vituperative
lips,
All denoting the infection of a general election
With the usual collection of two crowds at
deadly grips,
Listen to the clang and clatter of the stale
old party patter!
You might think it didn’t matter what’s
occurring overseas
When strong men our State are stumping, set-
ting lots of hearts a-thumping:
Who’s to do our parish-pumping—Tweedle-
dums or Tweedledees?
You may possibly discover if of eggs you’ve
robbed a plover,
Or a woman of her lover, that you’ve caused
distress acute,
But they’re not in competition really with a
politician
(Government or Opposition) apprehensive of
the boot.
All his dialectic forces, his rhetorical resources,
He’ll employ in his discourses to prevent his
being beat.
And the rival who’d frustrate him —how ex-
plosively he’ll slate him
Who essays to separate him from his salary
and seat!
What though dangers dark and deadly all
around us and ahead lie,
Such a devastating medley as might set the
soul on edge,
Who would have the freeman flouted and in-
continently outed
From his hard-won right undoubted, his pre-
scriptive privilege?
While the factories fill commissions for a host
of requisitions.
Tanks and aircraft and munitions needed in
these parlous days,
We’re engaged in the production, with no aid
but platform ruction,
And employed in the construction of a fleet
of M.L.As.
Once again we have the clamor of competitors
who hammer
In their points amid the yammer of divergent
yells and shouts,
And of cut-to-pattern dinnings that the Ins
have had their innings
And should relegate the skinnings of the plum-
tree to the Outs.
Listen to the glib discourses aimed to prove
that swapping horses
Is the silliest of courses in such testing times
as these!
Hear the periodic crash of voices and the cut-
and-slash of
Tweedledums who’d make a hash of their
opposing Tweedledees!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Now We re in the navy We must go the whole hog.”
“S.T.S.”: The acting talent running to
waste in S.A. has two more examples.
A boy of 17 who had stolen several
pounds’ worth of the High Court’s post-
age stamps was described by a medico as
“having a split personality—leading an
honorable religious life and on the other
hand acting dishonestly and apparently
untroubled in conscience. He has ex-
pressed a desire to take holy orders.”
Released on a bond. A youth of 20,
with several charges against him, had
invented a Scotch title and estate to
which he must succeed at 21. He backed
this with visiting cards, “Lord Angus,
Braemar, Scotland”; a cigarette-case
engraved “Lord Angus, from cousin
Joan,” and sundry cables ; then he warmed
to his work, producing a detailed list of
properties running into millions and inci-
dentally making a will which leaves
£300,000 to one Adelaide friend. It was
“just a prank at first,” his counsel said,
but then he “had to get money to keep
up appearances.” Dramatic to the last,
he fell heavily on getting a sentence of
a mere six weeks’, and was carried out
of court unconscious.
* s{; 4c »
“Jamwood”: I see by the papers that
the founder of Pelmanism has failed
for a large sum. He sold the rights of
his memory-training system, the merits
of which have been vouched for by a
shoal of celebrities, for six figures, but
got into hopeless difficulties with the
revenue commissioners because he
couldn’t remember to pay his income-tax.
It reminds me of the old story of the de-
jected wretch on the verge of a nervous
breakdown who consulted a contempor-
ary specialist. “What you need is
amusement,” the quack said. “Laugh
and grow fat, my boy! Go and see that
fellow who’s making all the people split
their sides that wonderful clown
Grimaldi.” “Doctor,” the patient
croaked, “I am Grimaldi.”
* * * *
“T.”: In Libya and in the Balkans
the enemy has made great use of motor-
cycles carrying men armed with
machine- and sub-machine-guns. Which
recalls a Bulletin article published two
or three years ago suggesting the militar-
ising of the Australian motor-cyclist. It
was pointed out that Australians
pioneered dirt-track racing, in itself no
bad preparation for the sterner contests
of war, and that on Australian roads
and tracks there could be found as tough
and daring and resourceful a lot of
goggled adventure-seekers as could be
seen anywhere in the world, 80,000 of
them. But the politicians weren’t in-
terested.
“Strict Veg.”: Heroic sufferings of a
patriotic civilian population in war-time,
as revealed in the correspondence
columns of the Melbourne “Argus”:
Is there an inflexible law, Lexis Lengis
Leggis, governing the length of bridge-table
legs? One charitable man at our recent
local party not only doubled but redoubled
in the effort to put his length below table-
top level. The extraordinary and ludicrous
discomfort that is suffered, especially by
those seated on forms, is most exhilarating
to the onlooker.
No doubt it would be to the troops
abroad, too.
* * * *
“Kava”: The shades of eminent fight-
ing Polynesians of last century must be
grinding their teeth in disgust at the de-
cadence of their descendants. On
January 24, 1939, Makea Nui Tinirau,
paramount chief of the Cook Islands,
was gathered to his fathers. The matter
of succession was debated for over a
year, and on February 7, 1940, Judge
Ayson, of the High Court of the Cook
Islands (having apparently decided there
is no Salic law in the Pacific), gave judg-
ment in favor of Takea Rio Love, a mar-
ried woman, stating his reasons to the
extent of 100 pages. From this decision
appeal has been made to the M.L.
Supreme Court on behalf of Mr. and
Mrs. Tuvaine Rangatira, and the appeal
will be heard about June next
if all goes well. It has been
stated by counsel that a small
mountain of documents has
accumulated in the case, and
that there is still a great deal of
evidence to be taken. The Cook
Islanders would have found a
chief inside a week in 1840, per-
haps with a small mountain of
skulls as an aftermath.
* * *
“Cauboy”: I read that a great
theatrical renaissance is pend-
ing in this country and that the
people will at length recognise
how much transcendent talent
exists amongst the native-born.
I don’t think there will be any
renaissance until the public, just
as much as entrepreneurs, gets
rid of the flunkeyism which grows
ecstatic over some celebrity from Europe
or America and is completely indifferent
to an artist who bears the Australian
label. This flunkeyism extends even to
inter-State exchanges. A Victorian singer
who had been living in retirement was
induced to take the leading role in a
musical comedy in Melbourne. It was
announced when she would arrive from
Sydney. Several busloads of her ad-
mirers were sent down to Spencer-street
station to greet her, and sundry impor-
tant personages were induced to take
an innocent part in the proceedings. In
due course, smothered in flowers and
delighted to be once more in Melbourne,
the star arrived, to be hailed with shouts
of applause from the multitude of un-
sophisticated citizens. But she had got
into the express at Seymour only that
morning, having been taken there in a
car from the Melbourne suburb where
she had been living for four years!
* * » •
“K.P.”: London’s new Westminster
Hospital has a 6in. concrete shield laid
over the roof and the walls of the two
top floors to keep out incendiary bombs.
Bomb-proof gas-decontamination accom-
modation is located in the basement,
of sufficient strength to resist collapse
of the whole building above, and there
is a 50ft. well for storing the radium
stock during air-attack. The Ameri-
can Hospital in Paris is similarly
constructed and also has separate
covered entrances to permit access when
the usual ones are blocked by debris.
The safest shape of building for resist-
ing air attack is a tall narrow cone, and
architects are working to adapt such a
shape to hospital use. A grim practical
detail is a large increase in mortuary
space and its location in the least pro-
tected part of the buildings to conserve
space for the living. Equipment is also
affected, as experience shows that eight
times more dressing materials are needed
for the average person wounded in an
air attack than in peace-time wounds
because of the extent and multiplicity of
injuries. Red Cross notions during
Daddy’s war look a bit silly nowadays.
* ♦ * ♦
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Little Dr.
Goebbels and his slangwhangers have a
long way to go before they equal some
of the last-war German newspaper
efforts. Thus the “Kdlnische Zeitung”
in Sept., 1914, addressing a few kind
words to Great Britain:
There will be no such country in existence
at the end of the war. In its place we shall
have Little Britain, a narrow strip of island
territory peopled by loutish football-
kickers, living on the crumbs that Germany
will deign to throw to them. Whatever
this war may bring in its train, certain it
is that the laughable and childish military
system of Britain will shortly fall to pieces.
Then the once-mighty Empire, with her
naval strength represented by the few old
tubs which Germany will have left her,
will become the laughing-stock of the
nations, the scarecrow at which children
will point their fingers with disdainful
glee.
Goebbels ought to look up the “K.Z.”
files before his next effort.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Here is something which may
buck up the writer at present unrecog-
nised. Richard Aldington tells it in his
reminiscences. Before he gave up Eng-
land for the U.S.A., “an American, editor
of the ‘Outlook,’ asked me to write an
article telling his readers about young
writers, and picking out those that I
thought would make a name. I made a
choice which I modestly think wasn’t
bad: James Joyce, T. S. Eliot, D. H.
Lawrence, Aldous Huxley, ‘H.D.’ and
Marcel Proust. The editor wrote back,
‘Can’t you think of somebody who has
been heard of or who is ever likely to
be heard of?’ On my protest, an eminent
literary authority also decided that my
writers never would be heard of, and the
article was rejected.” And that was in
1919—only a trifle over 20 years back.
* * * *
“Gee”: “T. the R.’s” verse “Per
Ardua Ad Astra” (B. 23/4/’4l) reminds
me of a yarn told by a cobber in the
Air Force. For the first few days in
camp the new recruits heard nothing
but the old army cry of “You’ll be
sorry I” Wherever they went it was
thrown at them by any old hands who
happened to be around. Then came the
day when an officer asked Bill, one of
the last recruits, what the motto on his
badge meant. Bill, not being a Latin
scholar, thought hard for a few minutes
and then had an inspiration. “It means
‘You’ll be sorry,’ sir,” he said brightly.
* ♦ 4 : *
“El V.”: What I admire about Sydney
“Sun” is the handsome way in which it
is always ready to devote a bit of free
space to advertising our soldiers, even
when it has to stoop to innocent deceit
to do it: —-
Dear Dorothy Dix, —
On New Year’s Eve, I, as the corporal,
rescued a girl from 12 boys who were with
me and who wouldn’t let her and her
friend go. She then asked me to help
her find her friend, and we did. We sat
talking and met again by arrangement. I
admire her very much. Do you think we
are right in meeting one another? She
can’t get out of her mind the way we met.
Please guide us.
“WE TWO.”
Answer: —Why not? If you are both
free, let romance do the rest. Cupid is a
cunning little chap. He arranges these
things.
Of course, I know that Dorothy lives
in N’Yark, where she was once a popular
sob sister who could always be relied on
to find and describe the twisted corpse
for her yellow journal syndicate. I know
that she wrote the foregoing primarily for
her own circle, in which, no doubt, it
is quite de rigueur for ladies to be cap-
tured by the soldiery on New Year’s Eve.
But I do think that the “Sun” might ex-
plain this and the fact that Dorothy’s
wisdom comes to them by courtesy of
one of these Yankee syndicates which
the “Sun” patronises in preference to
Australian writers.
* * H= *
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb’s drunk went
missing from Friday until late on Sun-
day night, when he wandered blissfully
up the street to his home. There his
relieved wife promptly put him to bed
and doctored him with coffee and other
things. “Where have you been? What
have you been doing?” she demanded
when he was able to grasp things again.
“Eh?” he said. “You’ve been missing
since Friday; this is Sunday,” she de-
clared. Slowly he took this in, then shak-
ing his head said, “By cripes, what a
bonzer time Eve had.” She shook him
awake. “Yes, but where? How?” He
blinked, swayed and said, “Haven't
slightesh idea; burra man who’sh goin’
it fr’m Fridee t’ Sundee mush have good
time. Mush have!” And, convinced, he
fell back on to his pillow.
“I don't like the looks of things, Mrs. Brown.”
“Is that meant to be pers’nal?”
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
I know some barbers who declare
The title which their craft bespeaks
Should show their role is dressing hair,
Not merely shearing chins and cheeks.
My fav’rite undertaker, too,
Dislikes the term which tells his mission,
Or until lately used to do.
I now must dub him a “mortician.”
In other spheres you’ll see it so;
Old words that never raised a fuss
Before into the discard go
As just a bit invidious.
They seem to grate on ears polite,
These homely cuts of speech wherein
There lurks a trace, however slight,
Of some plebeian origin.
But still, what need to call a spade
A spade when no one will dispute
The same idea can be conveyed
By some more toney substitute?
What’s in a name? We’ll all agree
Presumably with Shakspeare there.
So who should feel surprise when she
Who’d be a stewardess at sea
Becomes a “hostess” in the air?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ê
ë
ē
CRAVEN
dflfc
••
m
are so hum* It smoother
ĕ
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS «os
ė
POLITICAL POINTS
Westralia has been getting very few
war contracts, and it may be true that
the war has hit it harder than any other
State. One legitimate grievance is that
the British Government is taking 100 per
cent, of the profits of London-registered
goldmining companies above arbitrary
fixed limits. Still, in view of what has
happened this last fortnight, it is astonish-
ing almost to the point of incredibleness
that the war Government should have
appointed a committee consisting of a
Minister, a member of the War Council
(Curtin) and a professor to “survey the
State’s economic position and report at
the end of six weeks.”
Curtin was not among the Advisory
War Councillors who met in Sydney last
week when things looked so blue. After
a strange silence he sent word that he
was coming—“dragged back” by “pro-
pagandists and controversialists” from
“important work” in the West. War
strain must be playing the deuce with
his sense of the relative importance of
things.
There is to be another Commonwealth
by-election (the third since the general
election on Sept. 21), Jack Price, M.H.R.
for Boothby (S.A.), having followed
Green and Gregory over the Great
Divide. His totally unexpected passing
leaves his party without a Whip and his
Government without a majority, but it is
not in Curtin’s nature to take advantage
of circumstances so caused. Price was
a good fellow, and he retained Labor
friendships after leaving his old party
with Lyons. War worry in which there
was personal anxiety—a son is an airman
—must have hastened the end.
“Menzies Is With You, Churchill! ” It
was only too true.
Relying on a Ministerial statement pub-
lished in “Hansard,” The Bulletin stated
that two Commonwealth and eight State
members were in the A.1.F., and that, to
the end of March, only Haworth, M.L.A.
for Albert Park (Vic.), had received the
call to go abroad. There was nothing in
the par. to suggest that any of the others
wouldn’t go when summoned ; enlistment
in the A.I.F. is itself sufficient evidence
of patriotism and willingness to serve
anywhere. Friends of H. B. Turner,
E. M. Robson, H. J. P. Bate (N.S.W.) and
J. J. McDonald (Tas.), all Ms.L.A., have
since written, somewhat indignantly, that
they, too, are in the A.I.F. overseas. Two
protesting letters came from politicians.
As regular readers of “Hansard” they
should know whom to blame.
“It is a time to become blood-minded,”
shouts Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume, some-
time of the Sydney “Sun” and now of
“Terewth”; and Ehrenfried tells
Churchill straight that he “faces new
decisions that the Empire will demand
that he make.” Ehrenfried nominates
one:
Risk a million men, who after all are
soldiers, to establish a real second front
against Hitler somewhere between Norway
and Bordeaux.
At 60 tons a man rt would need a trifle
of 60,000,000 tons of shipping. Britain
has fully 15,000,000 tons available for
all imperial purposes.
There are friendly Japanese. One of
them is Masatoshi Akiyama, who, on
leaving Australia after two very trying
years as Consul-General, said he could
foresee only increasingly amiable rela-
tions between Japan and Australia. “The
recent tension in the Pacific,” he added,
was “largely the result of suspicion” ;
and “there should be no mutual suspicion
between Australia and Japan.” Mr.
Akiyama even praised Australia’s war
effort (“magnificent!”), while mildly criti-
cising the waste of paper and tins. So
passes a man who has done a good job
for his country, and has left the impres-
sion on the Commonwealth that he
always strove for peace.
W. J. F. Riordan, M.H.R. for Ken-
nedy, has been admitted to the Queens-
land Bar. At the admission ceremony it
was said that for four years and a half
he had “successfully applied himself to
the study of the law amidst the distracting
and exacting claims of Parliamentary
life.” Granted that the young man has
been laudably industrious, said claims
can’t be so very distracting and exacting.
There is a fine impartiality about the
unopposed returns in N. S. Wales. Those
re-elected are Weaver, the Speaker
(U.A.P., Neutral Bay); Booth, a co-
“Looking worried, hein ? But we’re partners, ain’d we?”
operationist (Lab., Kurri Kurd); Kelly,
an Old Digger (Lab., Bathurst) ; Young
Diggers Turner (U.A.P., Gordon), Rob-
son (U.A.P., Vaucluse) and Arthur
(Lab., Hamilton), and Lazzarini (Lab.,
Marrickville). Lazzarini is the son of a
Florentine.
Yeates, the Queensland M.L.A., must
have been reading The Bulletin. He
suggests that the Commonwealth
Treasurer should take “at least 25 per
cent, of prize-money” from Government-
controlled lotteries in three States, and
reckons that this will bring him
£1,400,000 a year. It might be more,
especially if a fourth Government-con-
trolled lottery were added. Certainly it
is iniquitous for a war Government which
is taking 10s. in the £ from earned in-
comes to let lottery prizes of £lOOO to
£20,000 go untaxed.
Namoi and Castlereagh are two
Assembly seats which N.S.W. Labor may
fairly expect to gain. In 1938 Colin
Sinclair, sometime Minister of Lands,
held Namoi by a small majority (396,
with 14,636 effective votes polled), and
he was probably the only Agrarian who
could have done so. He is not standing
this time, and the position in Namoi
looks desperate. Yeo, Sinclair’s Minis-
terial successor, got in for Castlereagh
by a majority 29 smaller than Sinclair’s,
the number of effective votes being
13,725. Now Yeo has fled to Liverpool
Plains, leaving H. E. O. Campbell to hold
the fort in Castlereagh. It seems a rather
hopeless job, though Campbell is a better-
than-average C.P. candidate.
Though it is certain that the state of
parties in the new Queensland Parliament
will be Labor 41 (two seats down), C.P.
14, U.A.P. four, and Independent three,
the election is still unfinished. Because
floods prevented hundreds of people in
Gregory from voting on March 31,
booths were open again in many polling
places on April 19 ; and then five were
found to be unreachable islands totally
surrounded by floodwaters. But it is clear
that Dr. Watson Brown will be defeated
by Labor candidate Devries. The doctor
captured the seat very unexpectedly at
a by-election after the death of Speaker
Pollock.
Going to Brisbane after the Loan
Council meeting, Fadden said the State
encumbrances (no, he didn’t say that) had
had his uniform-income-tax proposals
since January; and, according to the
custom of these tribulations, they have
been sleeping on them ever since. Time
doesn’t matter to these futilities, and
neither do such considerations as com-
mon justice to the taxpayers.
Fadden’s ideas of income-tax reform,
as revealed by Cooper, the Queensland
Treasurer; —
(1) Tax rates to be those of Victoria.
(2) An intermediate scale between present
maximum and minimum rates to which
all State rates would be adjusted.
(3) State Governments to increase their
taxation rates to the highest level prevail-
ing and lend the extra money obtained to
the Commonwealth.
All three are unsatisfactory, but the last
is the worst. The idea of asking blood-
sucking provincial Governments to in-
crease their bloodsucking so as to extract
forced loans for the Commonwealth
could occur only to a Fadden. The only
logical remedy for an evil which should
never have been allowed to arise is one
Australian income tax, part of the pro-
ceeds to be reserved for education and
legitimate unemployed-relief expenditure.
When it was all up with the mad ven-
ture in Greece “S. M. Herald” printed
a distracted cable from the manager of
its London office. The gentleman
addressed his cable to “you in Australia,”
and some of his sentences were so
agitated that imaginative readers could
almost see him shiver:
You are almost as near to the decisive
theatres of the war as we are in Britain....
It is no good thinking in terms of months.
The Empire’s greatest ordeal is a matter
of days, almost hours. The call is for
practically every waking minute to be de-
voted to the production of munitions,
tanks, armored vehicles, anti-tank weapons
and aircraft.
Aircraft last, and ships nowhere! The
Empire could get better advice from
any bellman.
Some idea of the way marketing
boards can spend money in a short time
was given in figures presented by J. F.
Murphy, of the Commerce Department,
to the committee investigating the Apple
and Pear Board. To 31/ 3 / ’4l, he said, the
board’s expenditure totalled £2,994,258,
made up in round figures as follows:
Advances, £1,400,000; “presentation”
and marketing costs, £1,500,000; ad-
ministration, £73,700 ; publicity, £12,700.
Proceeds from sales amounted to
£2,411,587, a loss of £582,671. After
which a prominent but private market
man alleged that the board had disrupted
the existing marketing system and would
lose £2,000,000 on its 1941 operations.
Worse than the plagues of Egypt is
the plague of vote-hungry politicians
now infesting the Australian scene. Some
idea of what is going on was given by
Phillip Goldfinch, now in the Depart-
ment of Munitions; “I have been
pestered,” he declared, “by Ministers,
politicians and others to place war con-
tracts in their electorates.” Shouldn’t
Ministers and lesser politicians be sub-
ject to discipline in war-time?
“This drift to the cities is deplorable,”
said Premier Dunstan, opening a Beech-
worth (Vic.) hospital, “and an endeavor
must be made to alter the Federal Gov-
ernment’s policy.” Dunstan has been ill
and is deserving of sympathy; all the
same his aptitude for passing the buck
is unimpaired. “The Federal Govern-
ment’s policy”!
A blatherskite named Hughes (no rela-
tion to Billy) who “leads” an alleged
Labor party (no connection with Mc-
Kell’s), has had the face, as “leader,” to
demand “the immediate recall of Aus-
tralian troops and naval units in view of
the increasing gravity of the Pacific situa-
tion.” Why should the Pacific situation
be increasingly grave? Hasn’t Molotov
signed a pact with Matsuoka, and doesn’t
it contain an anti-war clause? Accord-
ing to the noisiest of the Hands-Off-Russia
boys, the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact did.
McKell has undertaken to abolish the
N.S.W. wages tax “and revise the entire
field of State taxation” if his party gets a
majority next Saturday week. As S.A.
could tell N.S.W., this doesn’t mean that
incomes of £4OO upwards will be taxed
less. All the same, thousands of worried
businessmen and office accountants, now
unpaid assessors and collectors for two
Governments, will agree that one State
income tax would be less of a nightmare
than two.
Told that trustees of Melbourne Air
Force House had refused to accept a
donation of £lOOO from his Government
because they had £3OOO in hand and
considered it enough, the Melbourne
Premier, who hasn’t a Melbourne man in
his party, gasped that he had “never
heard of such a thing.” It is feared that
a bad precedent has been established.
The aim of the Dunstan-Cain Ministry
in Victoria, as outlined by Dunstan in
the north-east, is “to make life in the
country more attractive by building more
hospitals, better schools and roads.” The
knowledge that country people can 1
sick in comfort should stop them yearn-
ing for the fleshpots of the Yarra.


CONQUEST BY PROXY.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. .. £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
LEND-LEASE AND OUR EXPORTS—
HOW MUCH WILL IT PINCH?
A Month’s Financial and Mining Developments
May Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 2f- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, tho
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes and!
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay! Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Dead very suddenly at Adelaide, Jack
Price, M.H.R. for Boothby and U.A.P.
Whip. He was a son of onetime S.A.
Premier Tom Price, and was Labor
M.H.A. for 10 years (1915-25), Agent-
General for three years (1925-28) and
Labor member for Boothby 1928-
31 ; then Depression problems dis-
rupted the Scullin Cabinet, and he
turned U.A.P. A likeable chap who did
his best for his constituencies, he looked
good for many more years till the blow
fell. He was 59.
Raynes Dickson, passed over at 69 in
Melbourne, was eminent in two circles.
He was one of the city’s legal lights as
senior partner of the firm of Raynes
Dickson, Kiddle and Briggs and as a
commercial man of outstanding ability
he had his finger in a whole raft of
business enterprises, from the Carlton
Brewery to Royal Insurance and Central
Theatre Co. He was administrator for
many years of the Howey Estate,
whose holdings include the corner of
Collins-street opposite the Town Hall on
which the Manchester Unity lifts its lofty
modern Gothic towers. Buildings cost-
ing over a million were erected on a
piece of land which cost the original
Howey £l5O at Melbourne’s first land
sale. Raynes Dickson was a city coun-
cillor from 1933 to 1939, and a former
president of the Taxpayers’ Association.
He was schooled at Melbourne Grammar
and Trinity College (Melb. Uni.), and was
a graduate of Trinity, Cambridge. He
was admitted to the Bar at the Middle 1
Temple, London, in 1894. A son is a
lieutenant in the R.A.A.F.
Driven his last team and signed off,
Norman Alexander Richardson, one-
time “King of the Mules,” at 85. Adel-
aide-born, he opened up the north and
nor’-west of S.A. as mail contractor and
landowner. He bred mules on most of
his holdings, hence the sobriquet. First
mail contract was to cart 300 tons of
material for re-wiring the North-South
telegraph line. He took the first draft
of mules overland to Coolgardie. In later
times he was mayor of Port Augusta for
seven years. His presidency of the Port
Augusta and Flinders Jockey Club ran
for several more years. He wrote a
book. The Pioneers of the Nor’-west.
Australians continue to make good in
London, despite the Blitz. Dr. F. C.
Oliphant, a Melbourne medico who
arrived in the Hub just before Hitler
erupted, has just been given the high
Diploma of Child Health from the Royal
College of Physicians. He is an old St.
Patrick’s College boy who qualified in
medicine at Melbourne University. He
then became medical superintendent of
St. Vincent’s. His London job is medical
registrar and pathologist at Woolwich
Memorial Hospital.
Bill Wilson, the 6ft. New Englander
who is president of the N.S.W. Shires
Association, can be found at almost any
meeting of any public body within a 10-
mile radius of Glen Innes. He has been
21 years a shire councillor, is on the local
Land Board, the Closer Settlement Ad-
visory Committee, the P. and A. Society
and the P.P.U. On his Furracabad
property he has made a name for him-
self as a Clydesdale breeder and has
judged the big horses at city and country
shows. Just now he is after a seat on
the Fire Brigades Board.
Frith has made John McEwen look far
more pugnacious and sturdy than he is.
He is a long, meditative-looking, youngish
Minister, whose air of mild preoccupa-
tion when he first came into the Reps.
earned for him among his colleagues the
affectionate sobriquet of “Black-eyed
Susan.” A Victorian born, the studious
stoop of his shoulders was acquired
before the last war during a term in the
Commonwealth Crown Solicitor’s Office.
After a period with the A.I.F. he be-
came a farmer and a leader in the
co-operative movement of Victoria. He
sat for Echuca as a United C.P. man for
JOHN McEWEN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
his first term in Parliament, then
won Indi, which he still holds. He was
a successful Minister for the Interior,
very diligent and painstaking and a hard
and incessant worker. After a brief
tenure as Minister of External Affairs
he succeeded to the Air Ministry last year
through the sudden death of J. V. Fair-
bairn.
Two Collins-street specialists, Dr. J. F.
Chambers and Dr. Z. Schwartz, have
both been killed at Tobruk. Dr.
Chambers had two years with the A.I.F.
in the 1914-18 war. He was a leading
bio-chemist and metabolist and his papers
on his subject were a feature of overseas
medical journals. Dr. Schwartz was edu-
cated at Wesley, graduated from the
Melb. University, practised for a while
in India and then did post-graduate work
in Europe. The eye was his special sub-
ject, and he was one of the principal
founders of the Intermediate Clinic of
the Vic. Medical Eye Service, which
caters for sufferers with limited incomes.
Jim Grahame, Tom Tierney and
J. Alex. Allan, old contributors to The
Bulletin, have been surprised to find
their work is known overseas. The New
York Public Library has written to G. J.
Garner, of Whitcombe and Tombs, ask-
ing him to forward copies of their works
to the library. The New York people
have also asked for volumes by Dr. W. A.
Morrison and J. K. Moir, as well as for
one by Paul Grano. All the publications
asked for have been issued by the Mel-
bourne Bread and Cheese Club.
Still buzzing about Adelaide, at 84, is
dapper little Edward Lucas, who was in
the S.A. Legislative Council from 1900
to 1918 and was S.A.’s Agent-General
in London for seven years after that.
He knows a lot about home-front work
in two wars, having been vice-chairman
of the State Recruiting Committee and
a member of the State War Council in
the 1914-18 affair. The Navy League,
in which he has long been active, is his
favorite form of war work in this one.
He rose Sir Edward at Buckingham
Palace in 1921. Born in Co. Cavan,
young Lucas arrived in South Australia
in 1878.
Died at Penang, F.M.S., Charles Alma
Baker, aged 84. He was born in Oamaru,
M.L., and apprenticed to tailoring, dis-
liked it and became a saddler, and finally
found his feet as a surveyor. He married
a daughter of knight Frederick Whitaker
(Premier of M.L., 1863-64), and settled
in Malaya half a
century ago. He
acquired tin and
rubber properties
and became
wealthy. During
the 1914-18 war he
presented three
aeroplanes to the
British Govern-
ment and raised
funds to buy 90
more. In the last
year or so he has
given £30,000 for
the purchase of
aircraft.
Brigadier-General
Cecil Henry Foott,
C. 8., C.M.G., who
led the Anzac Day
march of 22,000 in
Melbourne, is the
son of a poet. His
mother was Mary
Hannay Foott, who
wrote Where the
Pelican Builds His
Nest” ; she and his
father, Thomas
Wade Foott, came
from County Cork.
Their son was born
at Bourke (N.S.W.)
in 1876, and was
educated at Bris-
bane Grammar.
He drafted himself from an engi-
neering job into the Queensland Per-
manent Artillery in 1896, and from then
on remained a soldier. He was Director
of Engineers in Australia from 1909 to
1911, and passed through the Camberley
Staff College (Eng.) in time to serve
on Gallipoli as D.A.Q.M.G. of the
Ist Division. In 1918 he had risen
to be Chief Engineer of the Australian
Corps in France, and got six mentions in
dispatches and many foreign orders. He
was A.D.C. to the King in 1927, and
commanded the 4th Division, A.M.F.,
from 1929 until his retirement in 1931.
Like Cincinnatus, he contemplated spend-
ing the rest of his days growing apples
and pears on his Beaconsfield orchard.
Then the war gong sounded again, and
he came out to be commandant of the
volunteer defence force of returned men,
which he headed in the march on Friday.
One of the youngest wing-commanders
in the R.A.F. is Thomas Gray Young,
of Auckland, M.L. He has just turned
30. He joined the R.A.F. in 1934 just
after graduating in engineering at Can-
terbury College. He got his step to
squadron-leader two years ago.
Adelaide University, which runs the
Urrbrae Agricultural Institute on a subur-
ban estate bequeathed to it by Peter
Waite, has given H. C Trumble a step
up as Prof, of Agronomy, a post
formerly filled by A. E. V. Richardson,
who has left to look after even bigger
things in scientific and industrial research.
Trumble, a Melbourne University man,
of the famous cricket family, has been
on the staff of Urrbrae since its
foundation.
Taken his last curtain in Sydney, at 70,
Hugh J. Ward. Born in Philadelphia, he
broke into the show business as a tap-
dancer and comedian, and made his first
Australian appearance at Sydney in June,
1899, as star of “A Stranger in New
York.” Between 1903 and 1906 he toured
Britain and the U.S.A., returning to Aus-
tralia in the latter year to collaborate
with George Willoughby in stage pro-
ductions. After two years of that Hugh
joined J. C. Williamson and Co., and
was associated with the Firm, on and off,
till 1922 —he was managing director
when he finally pulled out. In the 1914-
18 war period he was an energetic
organiser of entertainments for patriotic
causes, his services being recognised by
the Australian and Belgian Governments.
He was a director of Sydney Hospital.
Both as actor and manager he proved
himself a first-class showman.
Ward had one unsatisfied ambition.
He wanted a title ; and knighthoods have
been given to showmen whose good
works and services to the Australian
theatre were much less conspicuous. But,
evidently because he was American-born
(though he became naturalised), he died
plain Hugh J. Ward. Sometimes the
fountain of honor plays in the wrong
direction.
“Cauboy”: Magnanimity is a charac-
teristic of theatrical folk, and Hugh J.
Ward had it in excelsis. When a director
of J.C.W. in Melbourne he happened to
stroll into the Tivoli at eleven in the
morning when a new musical comedy
was under rehearsal. After watching for
a while he shouted in anguish: “It won’t
do. Let me have a go!” Hugh D.
Mclntosh, who had been of the same
opinion ever since the imported producer
had started struggling with the thing, was
delighted, and handed the scrip to his
commercial rival. Ward took it, rewrote
it and showed how to produce it, and a
certain flop was turned into one of the
Tivoli’s biggest successes. Hugh was
very proud of his son, Mel B. Ward, who
started with his father as a dancer and
ended up as a conchologist and a world
authority on the flora and fauna of the
South Seas.
George Ziesing, appointed Adelaide
City Coroner during Lieut.-Col. Arthur
Blackburn’s absence overseas, is a city
lawyer. Born at Port Augusta (S.A.) in
GEORGE ZIESING.
1894, Ziesing was educated at C.B.C.
and Adelaide University, where he re-
ceived his final certificate in law in 1919.
Before taking up private practice in 1923,
Ziesing was assistant Parliamentary
draftsman. A stretcher-bearer with the
4th Field Ambulance during the 1914-
18 war, he plays a prominent part
in Raymond Leane’s Volunteer Defence
Corps these days.


NO MATTER WHICH WAY
YOU LOOK AT IT
whether you are a man or a woman,
business man or farmer, employer or
employee, your only hope of a brighter
future is to CHANGE THE GOVERNMENT!
u
k
■
I
o*.
■
#'
3
msm
m
■ -
BPB*B
IBBS B
n
«#**
Hi
By misappropriation of wages tax;
by allowing over 25,000 people to
remain unemployed in spite of multi-
plied taxation; by neglecting vital
public works and allowing primary
industries to stagnate; by ignoring
the crying need for extended social
services and health facilities . . . the
wealth-controlled Mair-Bruxner Gov-
ernment has betrayed the people of
New South Wales. Defence contracts
have been allowed to pass to Victoria
and the pressing needs of the State
have gone unheeded.
MAIR AND BRUXNER HAVE LET YOU DOWN
By returning a Labor Government you
will ensure a policy of sound develop-
ment in city and country districts alike;
the establishment of new industries in
country towns; the undertaking of vital
public works for absorption of the unem-
ployed; the exploration of new markets
for primary produce; the extension of
social services to areas where they are
most required the wiping out of
profiteers and profiteering; and no more
domination of the farmer by wealthy
city monopolies and racketeers.
Vote for your Official Australian
CANDIDATE
AUTHORISED BY W. E. DICKSON, M.L.O.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Nobody knew whence
the yellow mong. came. We got up one
morning and there he was, hanging round
the cookhouse with an ingratiating grin
and a wary eye on us and our dogs. The
latter, having that insular attitude toward
strangers engendered by isolation,
promptly set out to murder the mong.,
who vanished in the general direction of
Broken Hill. Next morning he was back
again. Again the dogs took after him,
but with less enthusiasm. On the third
morning their chase seemed more
impelled by curiosity than pre-
meditated slaughter. In a week
they’d stopped chasing and the
mong. was just beginning to think
he’d found a haven when the boss
decided to get rid of him. He was
captured, put in a chaffbag with a
limestone boulder, conveyed to the
river and heaved in. Just as the
destroyers turned away a head
broke the water and the mong.
swam ashore and raced up to his
would-be assassins, displaying
enormous pleasure at seeing them
again and enthusiastically shaking water
over them. This got at the streak of senti-
ment in every bushman, and they made
representations resulting in the stray being
allowed to stay if they could prove him
useful in any way. A week later the
mong. killed a chook. The boss aimed
a s.b. 12-bore at him and pulled the
trigger. The breech exploded, took off
most of the boss’s left ear and stunned
him. When he came to the mong. was
licking his face and, on seeing him sit up,
went into transports of ecstasy. So the
boss dubbed him “Christian” and gave
him a home for life.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: That eminent ornitholo-
gist Senor Eduardo Scorfield, discoverer
of the only albino emu egg ever laid
south of the Equator (B. 23/4/’4l), would
be doing a great service if he forwarded
the object to the Australian Museum in
Sydney. One of the worst features of
the emu-egg collection there is that every
darned one of them is a dark green color.
Viewed on a rainy day they are apt to
give city-bopnd bushmen the willies and
make them head for the open and the
nearest rum cafe. Presence of the pure
white ovum Sqorfieldis would attract such
a gathering that the editor of Aborigi-
nalities would wonder what had become
of the eminent scribes who assault him
week by week with their masterly
effusions. A white emu egg would silence
the best of ’em.
* * * *
“Alwyn”: Alice, who despite the bur-
den of over a century and a half of life
can still shuffle a sedate measure nightly
at Wirths’ Circus, was originally the lady
of the Jumbo and Alice partnership at
the London Zoo, and became one of the
central figures of one of Phineas T.
Barnum’s shrewd deals. Phineas T.
offered a lump sum for Jumbo, stipulat-
ing also that he take the difference in
gate money between the 14 days sub-
sequent to the sale and the same period
previous to it. The authorities, glad to
be rid of a troublesome elephant, agreed.
Barnum then worked up a great press
campaign based on Jumbo’s alleged
affection for Alice, and the public rose
magnificently to the bait. Barnum took
as his share from the gate more than he
paid for Jumbo. Alice continued to carry
her daily human freight—Edward VII
was as a small boy one of her “regulars”
—until she went on circus tour to Maori-
land, where she was acquired by her
present owners.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; Though “Nigel D.” (B.
23/4/’4l) believes that he caught bats
in a black hat thrown among them be-
cause the creatures thought the hat was
a handy black hole, I don’t. In that
same Cabbage Garden, in a spot in-
fested with boxthorn hedges and herds
of sproggies—for the heads of the latter
we used to get Is. a dozen from the local
council—we used to wait till the sprogs
had settled for the night in the hedges,
then sneak up and scare ’em. As they
rushed forth we hurled hats, tins, sticks,
etc., among them on the principle that we
must get one or two from so many.
That’s how “Nige” got his bats.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Australian defence authori-
ties may soon expect some agitated mes-
sages from seaside resorts reporting
strange submarines making mysterious
smoke signals to presumed enemy agents
on shore. They will be humpbacked
whales making their leisurely autumn
migration from cold Antarctic seas to
warm, sheltered nurseries in the lee of
the Great Barrier and northward to the
Louisades. In families of six or so they
lounge along, now and then diving to
strain out a mass of small sea creatures
on their baleen mouth sieves and gulp
down the rich mouthful. Emerging, they
send up a double puff of misty breath-
vapor, visible for miles across a calm
sea. The heavy gravid matrons sedately
follow the old bull; the younger set range
out on each side to meet their boy and
girl friends in massive flirtations and pon-
derous showings-off of personal attrac-
tion. In the next four months the bounc-
ing 25ft. infants will be born, suckled at
vast dugs and carried on mother’s back
until they are old enough to learn to
swim and dive. The younger set will
feed and flirt, the fathers of families will
feed and loaf until the time comes to
call them all together for the southward
trek to the rich sea-table set for them all
by each Antarctic summer.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Captain Cook made no
mistake when he named Mt. Dromedary
(B. 16/4/’4l). Viewed from the ocean
the big hill certainly resembles that
animal. The second hump that “Clooter”
noticed represents the head.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp had long intended
to buy his wife a new stove, but there
were always so many other things on the
farm that demanded priority; in the
meantime, Mrs. Jupp managed as best
she could. There was always a well-
cooked meal on the table, Bill knew, even
though he might forget—as he often did
—to get the wood up. So when the dairy
inspector called Bill confidently invited
him to dinner. But as the two men
neared the house a cloud of smoke bil-
lowed from the kitchen door. Mrs. Jupp,
coughing frequently, was dishing up the
meal. Bill and the inspector sat down
to underdone mutton, hard potatoes and
half-raw pumpkin. “I’m afraid you’ll
have to excuse the dinner,” Mrs. Jupp
apologised. “There seems to be some-
thing wrong with the stove.” The in-
spector was glad to get out of the smoke-
filled kitchen after he had coughed his
way through the half-baked milk pud-
ding that followed. Bill saw him on his
way, then returned to the house. “You’d
better order the stove you want, Mum,”
he said. “I’m sorry about the dinner.”
Mrs. Jupp nodded. As Bill plodded off
to the harness shed Mrs. Jupp dumped
the unused green saplings at the back of
the woodheap, then went in, lightly hum-
ming a ditty, to the washing-up.
* * * *
“See Serpent”; I, too, didn’t believe
that snakes ever performed their own
excavation work until I saw this. It was
firm sandy loam into which a sleeper had
been sunk in a gateway on our n.-w.
N.S.W. station, and it was here that I
came upon Joe as he reared up and struck
the ground with his head. Next time he
stuck his head in the shallow depression,
then ruffled his scales and wriggled, and
the dirt flew from his underside in a
shower. This was repeated until the hole
was Sin. deep. It might have made quite
a deeper one only for an accident that
befel it suddenly just then.
* * * *
“Sailor Bill”: Was out with my seven
fox-terriers when they chased a native
cat into a narrow hollow log about 25ft.
“What are you faintin' for?”
long. The log was only a rotten shell,
and the dogs, four at one end and three
at the other, started pulling it to pieces.
Suddenly the cat rushed from the open-
ing where the four dogs were. They gave
chase, and about 100 yards from the
log caught and killed it. The dogs at
the other end, unaware of this develop-
ment, were still tearing in at their end
when the other four, having left the cat
where they killed it, came to them. The
three dogs instantly left the log and ran
to where the native cat lay. I have now
to be convinced that dogs can not com-
municate with one another.
* * * *
“O. B. Server”: The mob were argu-
ing about various attitudes of slumber.
“Yair,” said Johnno, “a man might trap
a few mossies an’ centipedes with his
open mug through dossin’ on his back.
All the same, I’d rather chance it than
take the risk o’ snoozin’ on me stummick.
Not after wot happened to ‘Sleepy’ Ban-
ners. Him an’ Joe Hawkins an’ meself
was workin’ a bit of a claim once out
from Marble Bar. We’d bin sluggin’
hard all the mornin’, an’ about one
o’clock ‘Sleepy’ reckoned ’e’d ’ad enough
an’ ’d have to have a sleep or drop. Me ‘n’
Joe reckoned a rest ’ud do none of us no
harm, neither. ‘Sleepy’ got out ’is water-
proof groun’ sheet which ’e always car-
ried on account of ’is rheumatism, ’n’
lay down in wot shade there was, an’
before a bluey c’d flick ’is tongue he was
snorin’. Me ’n’ Joe plays crib in the
hut for about an hour, an’ when we
comes out there’s ‘Sleepy’ still lyin’ face
down on ’is groun’ sheet. We started
work, expectin’ ’im to wake up. ’E never
moved. Joe goes over an’ finds he’s
wriggled out.” “Smothered, had he?”
asked “Angles” Andrews. “No, drowned,”
said Johnno, “in a pool of ’is own sweat.”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Thoreau once remarked
that all mankind would beat a pathway
to the door of the man who invented the
world’s best mouse-trap ; and his country-
men strove to follow his teaching by
flooding the world’s markets with traps
for rats and mice. It has remained
for an Australian to advance rat-traps by
a good step nearer to the ideal. He has
achieved it by pure reasoning. In the
American patterns the bait is secured to
the trigger and the rat escapes uninjured
if he can contrive to eat or remove it
without springing the trap. Being an ex-
tremely intelligent animal he frequently
succeeds. The Australian, by an in-
genious lever of bent wire, makes the
bait easily removable, but directly it is
moved or removed the trap goes off.
* * * ♦
“Nor’-west”: Reading that par. about
the bloke who lost himself near Camoo-
weal and had to eat his pigeons raw
because of inability to start a fire (B.
2/4/’4l), I marvel that so many whites
m a similar situation seldom attempt the
aboriginal’s methods of fire-making. Ad-
mitted that I have never met the white
who could ra ; se a spark by means of the
pointed stick spun in a countersink on
a bed-piece—which method seems to re-
quire the knack of pressing downwards
and spinning at the one time, while the
white man’s tendency is to spin and lift
—I can myself start a flame by the sawing
method. The first essential is some sort
of a knife. Then take a length of dry
sapwood, say a foot or so. Split this
down about half its length. Wedge split
open. Fill loosely with tinder, dry grass,
bark —anything. Now the saw. The abo.
uses the knifelike edge of his woomera,
though merely because it is handy. Any
piece of dry hardwood that is heavy
enough and long enough will do. Pare
one side down to a long knife-edge. Lay
knife-edge at right angles across the split
in the first piece. Mark, and then cut
two small notches. These serve as a
guide to keep the saw from wandering
and also give increased friction surface.
Start sawing briskly and it won’t be long
before the tinder begins to smoulder.
After that it is easy.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “I’m workin’ f’r a cocky
one time,” related Singleton Sam, “who
wus always claimin’ to be sufferin’ from
some complaint or other. One mornin’
after hearin’ him chiackin’ one of his
kids who was complainin’ of toothache, I
made up me mind to cure him. We wus
workin’ in a paddick a coupla miles from
the house, an’ at smoke-oh he was sittin’
on a log, moaning, when I sneaked be-
hind an’ jabbed a pin I’d placed in the
end of a stick in his fattest part. He let
out a yell an’ jumped three feet in the
air; an’ when he looked round I’m busy
beltin’ at a snake I’d killed the day be-
fore. Panicky, he gets me to drive him to
the doctor’s. I takes me time harnessin’
the sulky, and then I gets close to givin’
him a floatin’ liver by pickin’ all the
ruts and boulders in the road. The doc.
couldn’t find anything, o’ course, an’ tole
him he must ’a’ sat on a splinter or some-
thin’. I never knew till then what a
crook disease fright can be.”
TO THE FOREST.
From sand’s clean edge bare to salt-strengthen-
ing sea,
Cave-anxious cliff and tenuous lagoon,
Sky-bracing hills are lifting up the moon.
And trees have laid my loneliness away.
Heron and swan and tern give place
With plover’s guarded cry,
The wide flight of majesty,
Austerity’s sharp grace,
To all the little half-heard wings
Of diamond-bird, the stirring olivine
(His breast a golden flurry), wood-robin,
Dear minah’s carillon that rings, and rings.
Against the wind’s hard coming stand the pines,
Rapt in a vow of silence with the sky,
Save where the clearing edges to a sigh,
And forking pathways cool their scented tines.
The pines, like northern shepherds, guard our
hills
From that pale dingo, drought, who stalks
unseen
Over the treeless paddocks of the plain,
Ranging men’s greed and shallow, stubborn
wills.
But these are alien comfort, standing fast
Between our folly and our late recall
To stewardship of earth, the tall
And rich-clad levies of our northern past.
But myriad, outlasting, ancient troops
Invest the mountains with the strength of glory:
Hoar eucalypts are gathered on the slopes,
Their raggedness our runes of history.
For here the bark was stripped for frail canoes,
’Neath this one crouched the wurley of a night,
This one saw marriage and a tribal fight,
These branches held the dead, paid spirit dues.
They are so old, though like to half forget,
And so forgive, our petulant child’s way,
Our slaughter, and our bonfire holiday,
Our easy spending of our children’s debt;
Remember gently still our first steep fears
When barred against the morning light they
stood,
Guarding their secrets from our hardihood,
Daring our young assault, our strength and
tears.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Wang”: “I’m camped one night in
a tumbledown hipsy on the side of the
road near Bangawallop,” said Dan, “with
a timid-lookin’ spectacled little chap I’d
met up with durin’ the day, when a
thunderstorm broke. We was on ironstone
country, an’ the thunder seemed to roll
right down to the ground, shakin’ the
crib like a jelly, with the lightnin’ fair
sizzlin’ about us. I’d been in a few in
my time; but this was the worst I’d
ever struck, an’ it had me more than a
bit scared, I don’t mind tellin’ y’. An’
through it all that little coot sat there
grinnin’ across at me in the light of the
candle, never turnin’ a hair. A shatterin’
crash outside —it’s a 150 ft. bluegum that
missed the hut be ten yards—sent me
hoppin’ a foot in the air; but Specks
never flicked an eyelash. ‘Struth!’ I ses
to him. ‘Ain’t y’ scared?’ ‘Scared?’
he ses, laughin’, ‘What of? This? Bless
y’, man, no. I’m used to this sorta
thing. Have been f’r years.’ ‘Go on,’ I
snaps, a bit peeved at him f’r crackin’
hardy, as I thought. ‘What part of the
bush have y’ been where y’ve struck
anythin’ worse than this?’ ‘Nowhere,’
he ses. ‘This is the first time I’ve ever
been outa town. Y’ see, I on’y nicked
orf from the wife last week! ’ ”
* * * *
“Aussie”: The foxes were plentiful
on the outlying parts of the run, and
Choom, with the boss’s borrowed gun and
the station’s pack of dogs, set out to bag
his first. After hunting some time the
dogs put up a big fox. The hunter fired
and, lo! Reynard bit the dust. Jubilantly
Choom tore up to recover the treasure
before the dogs could rip the pelt.
Swinging the fox over his shoulder he
started for the homestead, whistling
away. Then from him suddenly came a
mighty yell as the fox with a final effort
sank its teeth into the rump swinging
by its down-hung head. Choom spent the
next three weeks in hospital.
* * * *
“Jeidisee”: Binghi gave waterways in
general and swamps in particular a very
wide berth after nightfall owing to their
being the happy hunting-grounds of the
bunyips who howled their wrath at all
who ventured near. A recent camp on
the Riverina (N.S.W.) has induced in me
a certain respect for Binghi’s fears. Appar-
ently our visit synchronised with some
of the bittern’s domestic upheavals, for
one night those shy swamp birds alter-
nated with the deep throaty booms some
particularly blood-curdling notes quite
compatible with what could have been an
orgy of throat-cutting. Once we got a
really good view of a pair who were
stalking “yabbies,” and rather good-
lookers they were with their buff-brown
plumage. Owing to their preference for
those despoilers of irrigation canals and
for hoppers, the bittern has among
Riverina dwellers the same relative posi-
tion at one end of the ladder of popu-
larity as the State politician “enjoys” at
the other end.
♦ * * *
“Dungeness”: Benevolent persons who
rejoice over the spread of civilisation
amongst the poor benighted heathen will
be gratified to hear of the good work
attempted by Hinetepa and Sasere, of
Sangara village, Papua. Conducting a
whirlwind canvassing campaign on ap-
proved go-getter lines, they raised £127
for starting a co-operative store. Their
enthusiastic fellow-citizens put up a
special building, and it was soon stocked
with a fine array of goods from Port
Moresby. The self-sacrificing promoters
undertook to manage the business with-
out wages; sales boomed, and share-
holders, watching the money rolling in,
looked forward to a future of indepen-
dent ease. Then the District Magistrate
happened along and noticed two defects
in the otherwise admirable financial
undertaking. The promoters certainly
drew no wages, but they fed and clothed
“Come on out, Jake , an let the ferret ’ave a go.”
themselves and their families from the
stock. Also, they sold all goods at the
prices originally paid for them. Calling
a meeting of shareholders, the D.M.
pointed out these small oversights, and sug-
gested that they sell the remaining stock
and divide the proceeds. The promoters
admitted handsomely that they had over-
looked such minor details in the rush of
business, the shareholders accepted their
explanation and liquidation was effected
with goodwill on all sides.
* * * V
“P.”: The hawksbill turtle, the tortoise-
shell of commerce, was once plentiful as
far south as Rottnest. Now the searcher
would be lucky to find one south of the
Montebello Islands, a good 1000 miles
to the north. Seals, too, which a cen-
tury ago covered every islet and reef
from Kangaroo Island right around to
Geraldton, have gone from the same
region. Mutton birds also. Pigs ate them
out. When Yankee whalers worked Aus-
tralian waters, skippers from Nantucket
and Nova Scotia used to ship a few breed-
ing sows and a boar. Released on the
mutton-bird islands off W.A.’s south and
west coasts the pigs found plenty of food,
scoffing sea-bird eggs and rooting into
the sandbanks after the mutton-bird
squabs that then hatched out by the
million. Thus there was always plenty
of fresh pork for Silas and Hank —the
only limit being when the porkers ate
the last egg and the last squab, and then
themselves perished from malnutrition.
Which explains why all sea-bird life is
scarce along the coasts mentioned.
* * * *
“Bobalink”: Speaking of blokes hav-
ing their rest disturbed by the yowling
of cats reminds me of a mate who would
rock with laughter at the sound of the
feline chorals. Reckoned his old man
had been a Scots comedian who punctu-
ated his turn with wee bit skirls o’ the
pipes. With true Gaelic economy, the
kid and his mother sat in the front stalls
every night, the kid being instructed to
laugh his loudest when the old man was
on; the cue was his parent’s striking
of a few bars on the pipes. Use had be-
come second nature, and as the familiar
sound —or what seemed like it—whisked
his mind back over the years the urge
to laugh always proved too strong to
resist.
• * * «
“Sawyer Bill” puts the last dirt-filled
log on to the controversial saw;
Listen to one who has been operating a
Canadian breaking-down bench and cutting up
all kinds of logs for 30 years. It is only when
you break down a log that you see what is
inside it. Unquestionably white-ants are re-
sponsible for 95 p.c. of the dirt and digested
wood that the saws uncover. In a big tree as
much as 6cwt. will be found. It is all due to
the termite’s age-old method of covering up
its nefarious operations from the gaze of its
many enemies.
* * * *
“Nilcardup”: Though Binghi may
have had fire, shelter and clothing (B.
11/12/’4O) he sometimes suffered
severely during prolonged rain. The
wild life of the Westralian forest had a
curious knack of disappearing in bad
weather, while the continuous downpour
washed out tracks of game. Swamps
too, filled to the brim, slimmed down
the chance of gathering a supply of
fresh-water mussels or a few gilgies.
Hungry and forlorn, the hunter might
wander the dripping forest for days
without sight of fur or feather. It was
during such spells of starvation that
cannibalism was occasionally resorted to,
but the elders had another expedient.
Taking the soft inner bark of the wattle
or some similar tree and rolling it into
small balls, the men punctured the large
veins of their arms, the blood being
absorbed in the fibre balls, which were
then given to the boys to eat —a form
of sustenance which, while it gave the
stomach something to bite on to, was
also very sustaining. Binghi generally
was a poor faster; a week without food
and he would become almost on the
point of collapse—probably because his
body as a rule carried but little fat.
* * * *
“Uckle”: The Bulletin itself con-
firms, though probably unintentionally,
“Clooter’s” assertion (B. 16/4/’4l) that
the cameraman is looking for busters and
not for good jumping at shows. In its
illustrations of high jumping at the
R.E.S. each horse is shown falling,
“Prepare to receive the enemy , Dig. —’ere’s yr missus!”
rearing or knocking the bars down.
Although the jumpers on occasion
cleared over seven feet—and that should
be worth illustrating— not one clean
jump was recorded pictbrially.
* * * «
“Jim D.”; “A fine stout bee well laden
with pollen had just finished a drink.”
So it was written. But pollen-gathering
bees don’t carry water. Honey-collecting,
pollen-gathering and water-carting are
separate branches of field industry. Bees
keep strictly to the jobs allotted them.
I have also seen mention of bees circling
and rising. This is done only in thickly
timbered country. Where there
are no hills or trees to nego-
tiate bees will fly low, no
matter how far off the nest
may be.
* * *
“E d j u d i n a”: Scratching
around north-east of Mt. Mar-
garet (W.A.) Long Ned always
excited the camp’s hilarity by
tying the bottoms of his pants
with string before rolling up in
his rug. “When you’re dossing
on the ground you never know
what might crawl up the leg of
your strides,” he said. Came
a night when a tragic whisper
interrupted the snores. “Ned!
There’s a snake crawling up my
leg.” It was young Duffy, and
Duffy had always laughed loudest.
Everyone sat up, but nothing could
be done except wait until Joe either
crawled out through the neck of
Duffy’s flannel or settled down some-
where on his anatomy. As the serpentine
progress continued upwards Duffy lay
petrified, sweating with fear, only speak-
ing in the faintest whisper ; for well he
realised that a bite on his body, where
the application of a tourniquet would be
impracticable, would almost certainly
prove fatal. At last he announced that
his visitor had settled down on his chest.
The tender lifting of his rug disclosed a
bulky mound right where Duffy had in-
dicated. Long Ned was equal to the
occasion. Cautiously undoing the one
button at Duffy’s neck, he slipped a razor
into the cloth, drawing a long rip across
Duffy’s chest and well down his side.
The same at the shoulder. “Get the dog
and hold him just so that the snake will
sight him when I whip up this flap of
flannel. But be ready to let him go on
the instant.” It worked just like that.
Like a flash Ned whipped up the flannel.
Like a flash the disturbed snake reared,
then launched at the growling dog. Fol-
lowed a wild swirl of dog, snake and
Ned with a stick. After all was over we
found that Duffy had fainted.
* ♦ * *
“Anthropo”: The aboriginal’s faculty
of bearing pain with little apparent dis-
comfort is due to his nervous system
being keyed to a much lower pitch than
that of the Caucasian. He is a Stone
Age man, perhaps a hundred thousand
years behind the white. Nearer to the
animal, to put it bluntly. And no animal
feels pain as does a human. The fact that
the animal brain is less developed proves
that. Reinforcing the initial Stone Age
anaesthesia came the practice, through-
out the ages, of deliberately-inflicted pain,
having as its objective the survival of the
fittest. Insensitiveness to pain can be
seen in the way the primitive aboriginal
woman accepts the act of parturition.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: Early European arrivals
in south Westralia found the country
beautiful and the native ugly. The native,
when he became
vocal enough, re-
torted that it was the
new arrival who was
hideous with his white
skin, thin lips, sharp
nose and, most hor-
rible, blue eyes. Brown
eyes and black the abo.
could tolerate. The
appearance of a pure
blonde was enough
to send a mob stam-
peding. Yet though
Nature has such
strange diversifications
of the human face,
she seems to have set
a single standard of
beauty as regards the
body. A Venus is a
Venus be she black,
brown, white o r
yellow, and from all
men, of her own race
and others, she will
receive her meed of
admiration. Among
the thin-legged abo-
riginals Venuses were
rare, yet they existed,
and still exist.
REST IN PEACE.
Old Jimmy the Joker has gone to rest,
His camp in the bend is still,
His fire is dead in the black of night
And his dogs lament on the hill.
He was full of life when the dawn came up.
And his heart was blithe and gay,
And his whiskers shook as he cracked his jokes
Up and down the town all day.
For the mob was in from Tiltunga shed,
And the gang from Danyo Creek,
And we freely spent, as our kind will do
At the end of a toilsome week.
And Jimmy the Joker, he made us laugh,
And we paid for our laughs with drinks.
But all of a sudden he gasped and fell
And was gone in a brace of winks!
We carried him off to his humble bed,
With reverence laid him down
And softly we muttered a last farewell
As we made for the reckless town.
Old Jimmy the Joker has gone to rest.
You can hear his snores from here,
For we’d got sick of the garrulous pest
And thoroughly doped his beer.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
m
gas
vmM
mt :&*?■. t- ~ '£, -. ■,
r - .v" * & < v.
i < <• ' ’ .-. > ■y*
»£L, ** * J ’ . 5 :■ <.:.:
9!*i
m&i
The sooner you plan
Your Future, the better
that Future will be!
Life is a joyous adventure for most people, but there are two
hazards that every young couple faces. It is well to look them
in the eye:
(1) That the husband will die too soon, leaving the wife and children
to fend for themselves; and
(2) That the husband will live beyond his earning years, and will
spend his old age in want.
By joining the A.M.P., and making use of its service to its members,
you can forget about these hazards. You can laugh at them. Protect-
ing your wife against the risk of your death, and protecting your own
old age at the same time, you can grow in financial strength as you
grow in happiness.
What is needed is that you make the decision: The Society cannot
help you till you join it. Ask that a representative be sent to talk
the matter over with you. Ask to-day; or, if you prefer, ask that a
copy of a free book, "Peace of Mind,” be sent to you. It is a very
readable book. Ask for it to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
m
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF
AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
{lncorporated in Victoria')
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd ;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J
Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
. G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- De-
Mar., Loss. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1931 695 10,261 t Nil 73,958
Written off shares in other cos., £68,447.. 142,405
1932 125 Nil Nil 142,530
Written off shares in other cos., £17,348.. 159,878
1933 358 Nil Nil 160,236
Profit.
1934 4,946 Nil Nil 155,290
Reserves.
Written off ord. capital, £319,077 .. 163,787
Written off shareholdings, etc., £157,238.. 6,549
1935 75,530 75,353§ Nil 177 6,726
1936 76,391 20,796 10 p.c. = 55,262 333 7,059
1937 101,089 20,799 121 „ „ 79,646 644 7,703
1938 101,375 20,825 12* „ „ 79,646 904 8,607
1939 103,528 20,851 12J „ „ 79,646 3,031 11,638
1940 100,564 20,851 12* „ „ 79,646 67 11,705
1941 132,110 20,851 12*,, „ 79,646 31,613 43,318
t3£ p.c. § Arrears from Sept. 30, 1930, to Feb. 28,
1935.
That table, which relates to the holding
co.’s accounts only, can’t be accepted
as a reliable guide to the business as a
whole, which is the largest thing of its
kind in Australasia, being well spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland.
The two operating concerns are Metters
and K.F.B. The pair turn out stoves
(the line on which the business grew
up), baths, gas-heaters, enamel goods,
builders’ hardware, radiators and other
electrical equipment, etc. Under peace
conditions the governing factor in earn-
ings is conditions in the building trade.
War has provided a new source of de-
mand in the provision of equipment of
1 one kind and another for the defence
services. But execution of these orders
has not always been easy, because of the
dilution of skilled labor, especially for
precision work, owing to enlistment in
the services. This difficulty, however, has
now been largely overcome by legislation
connected with reserved occupations.
Turnover of the subsidiaries continued
to expand last year. But costs and taxa-
tion went up with a rush. Owing to a
larger but unspecified provision for the
latter, there was shrinkage of £12,039 in
the combined net earnings of the two
operating cos.:
’ To
Dec., Loss. Dividend. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 68,466 Nil 82,966
1932.. 17,348 Nil 65,618
Profit.
1933.. 6,470 Nil _ 72,088
Unexplained reduction in capital,
£182,361 254,449
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£97,428 157,021
1934.. 81,280 76,288 4,992 162,013
1935.. 96,189 78,021 18,168 180,181
1936.. 131,677 100,176 31,501 211,682
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 206,682
1937.. 142,269 100,347 41,922 248,604
Assets realisation res., £5023.. 253,627
1938.. 165,559 100,347 65,212 318,839
Unexplained additions, £5879.. 324,718
1939.. 152,847 100,347 52,500 377,218
Unexplained addition, £6lB .. 377,836
1940.. 140,808 131,612 9,196 387,032
The £140,808 of profit claimed was suf-
ficient to pay the holding co.’s pref. div.
(£20,851) and show 18.8 p.c. on its ord.
capital, compared with 20.7, 22.7, 19
and 17.4 p.c. for the four preceding years.
Despite the drop in net earnings, an
extra £31,265 was handed to the holding
co. in divs. (£131,612), leaving £9196 for
reserves, making them £387,032. The
increased distribution was due partly to
the capitalisation of. an inter-company
debt of £30,000 and partly to a lift in
the rate of div. The holding co., how-
ever, kept its div. steady at \2\ p.c.
In the holding co.’s books the £30,000
was passed through the p.*and 1. account,
added to reserves and offset by a like in-
crease in the book value of shares in
subsidiaries. The adjustment does not
affect earning power of the organisation.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures of the two operating cos.:
1934. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £722,170 £792,170 £792,170 £822,170
Sundry
creditors . . 159,682* 257,253* 131,365 176,101
Tax reserve .. 97,991 162,108
Freeholds .. 303,128 341,625 314,176 318,101
Plant, etc. . . 288,524 384,693 400,119 410,530
Stocks .. 306,946 412,767 485,047 569,967
Book debts . . 178.864 201,123 242,875 279,790
Shares other cos. 27,350 27,631 24,630 24,630
Cash .. .. 586 753 837 16,498
* Including tax provision.
To carry an extra £84,920 of stocks, add
£36,915 to book debts, £10,411 to plant,
£3925 to freeholds and strengthen the
cash holding by £15,661 the co. went
outside for an extra £44,736. There was
an improvement of £92,760 in the more
or less liquid surplus (£690,154, excluding
shares in other cos.).
As for the current term, defence con-
tracts should help to maintain earnings.
But the market, with one eye on the past,
is doubtful as to what the less-immediate
future might hold for the business, and
prices the holding co.’s f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords.
at 165., at which figure the return is
9.7 p.c. on a \2\ p.c, div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 225. 6d. yield 6.2 p.c. The
net tangible backing is £4 Is. 2d. prefs.
and 17s. lOd. ords., chiefly in fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.f
£>£/£>£, £
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 . . 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 . . 823,421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 . . 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939.. 160,077 62,299' 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
1940.. 152,653 73,520 22,533 \ r , „ nn , . co
To tax reserve, £lOOO } 86,600 1,097,482
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1929, £8333 ; 1930,
£3958 : 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375; 1933, £4375;
1934-35, £5OOO ; 1936, £5500 ; 1937, £5OOO ;
1938-39, £2708 ; 1940, £2917.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.!
£>£ £ £ £
1931.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48,268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
drawn upon, £238 . . 812,690
1938.. 227,462 65,096 86,381 75,985 888.675
1939.. 238,067 76,590 84,343 77,134 965,809
1940.. 253,750 88,130 86,631 ) . so , 9q „
To tax reserve, £2500 ] 70,489 1,042,2 ‘ 8
* Includes divs. to shareholders: 1926-35, £7500;
1936, £7000; 1937-38, £7500 ; 1939-40, £5OOO.
t Apart from capital and tax reserve.
First complete year of war finds the
45-year-old Metropolitan, which has
made solid progress this past decade, in
a strong position to meet whatever con-
tingencies may arise. It is marked by
further reduction in expense ratios, main-
tenance of bonus rates, a very satisfac-
tory rate of interest and strengthening
of the basis of actuarial valuation, includ-
ing adoption of the latest mortality tables.
In the O.D. the anticipated basis of
interest-earning has been lowered from
3 p.c. to 2\ p.c., and the I.D. expectation
from p.c. to 3 p.c., bases which “prac-
tically ensure maintenance of bonuses on
the present- scale,” the chairman says.
The long view is certainly encouraging.
In the short run, however, bonuses will
largely depend on the extent to which
interest rates continue to dip and the
co.’s war death-strain experience, a mat-
ter for conjecture at the moment.
The more stringent bases of valuation
increased the actuarial liability under
policies by £45,200 —in other words, the
protection for policy contracts was
strengthened by that much. Hence the
reduction of £1484 in the combined
0.D.-I.D. surplus shown in actuary
Cooksey’s latest triennial investigation;
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931.. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934.. 28,543 19,747 48,290
1937. . 36,910 13,242 50,152
1940.. 33,597 15,071 48,668
In the O.D. £2995 of the surplus is being
reserved against suspended mortality;
the remaining £30,602 belongs 90 p.c.
to policy-holders and 10 p.c. to share-
holders. The unchanged bonus rates
recommended range from £1 10s. p.c.
on O.D. whole-life and endowments one
year in force to £2 p.c. on those five
years or more old. On I.D. contracts
which become claims in the current year
increments to sums assured will be 10
p.c. for 15-year-old policies, plus 1 p.c.
for each additional year.
Metropolitan confines its business-
writing to the three eastern States and
South Aus. Sharing in the general ex-
perience, the office put £31,135 less new
business on the books last year—£73s,32o
altogether, £234,083 (down £27,580) in
the O.D. and £501,237 (£3555 less) in
the I.D. But total income sprang £8258
to £406,402: net premiums (£317,201,
including consideration for annuities,
£5OO, down £12,343) lifted £3485, and
interest, rents, etc. (£89,201), contributed
£4773 more.
Mainly because of heavier maturities,
however, the claims experience (£161,650)
was £22,761 higher, while outgoings
(£109,164, including £7917 handed share-
holders) swallowed £3281 more, too.
After sending £3500 to tax reserve, the
year’s accretion to funds was thus £21,283
lighter at £132,089, or 32.5 p.c. of in-
come, as against 38.5 p.c. in 1939. Apart
from the assurance funds (now
£2,045,489), policy contracts have the
support of £100,290 of sundry reserves
and the £50,000 of share capital.
On the mean assurance funds alone,
last year’s interest return, deducting £2982
paid in taxes, was 4.45 p.c., so there is
a comfortable margin over the rates
assumed here for bonuses, etc. A slight
decline from 4.63 p.c. in 1939 reflects
the lower yield now obtaining from
Consols.
Deducting taxes and divs. to share-
holders, and allowing 3 p.c. as considera-
tion for annuities, exes, absorbed 16.7
p.c. of O.D. premiums and 38.3 p.c. in
the 1.D., as against 17 p.c. and 40 p.c.
respectively the previous year, and 25.9
and 48.9 p.c. in 1929.
Pursuing safety-first tactics, the board
is a staunch supporter of Government
loans, conservatively valued in the books:
1939'. p.c. 1940. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£262,276 12.6 £268,803 12.1
Govt, securities . , 1,237,858 59.7 1,399,737 63.2
Shares other cos . . 24,907 1.2 35,381 1.0
Mortgages . . . . 332,475 16.0 298,695 13.5
Loans on policies . . 131,112 6.3 140,774 6.4
Book debts . . 57,371 2.8 55,083 2.5
Cash . . . . 29,138 1.4 15,129 0.7
Last year’s surplus earnings, with £33,780
previously out on mortgage, found their
way into this investment channel. Dur-
ing the year the co. moved into its own
freehold in Adelaide, where all available
space is well let.
Permewan, Wright, Ltd.
To Re— Re—
jan-, Loss. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931 . . 2,735 4 p.c. = 6,250 92,480
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO ~ 87,480
To staff fund, £9lB ~ .. 86,562
1932 . . 1,870 Nil 84,692
Written off, £3285 .. .. .. 81,407
Inner reserves disclosed, £366 .. 81,773
1933 .. 366 Nil 81,407
To staff fund, £B3l .. .. .. 80,576
Written off, £9000.. .. 71,576
Profit.
1934 . . 6.097 4 p.c. = 5,000 1097 72,673
To staff fund, £843 .. .. 71,830
1935 .. 9,053 5 p.c. = 6,250 -2803 74,033
To staff fund, £933 .. .. 73,700
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 0042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 . . 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8004 80,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO . . 90,825
1938 .. 22,380 10 p.c. = 15,000 7380 104,205
S'hare premiums, £5OOO .. .. 109,205
1939 .. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
1940 .. 2,701 2 „ „ 4,000 113,187
1941 .. 21,483 8 ~ „ 16,000 5483 118,670
To staff fund, £1403 .. .. 117,207
With nothing in the way of outside in-
vestments to help stabilise income,
seasons and prices are the main factors
affecting the earnings of this steadily-
expanding station-supply, carrying and
agency business, which has been trading
in the back-country of Victoria and
N.S.W. for over half a century. With
the opening of a new store at Albert
(N.S.W.) last term —the premises at
Hamilton and Leongatha (Vic.) and


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Kassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Auvt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—A DVT.
* ♦ « *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks, —Advt,
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(Incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
SEVENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 31st March, 1941, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The amount of Net Profit for the year ended 31st March, 1941, as
set out in the Profit and Loss Account is . . . . . . . . £66,519 14 3
Plus the balance brought forward from the previous year . . . . 33,483 12 9
£100,003 7 0
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 5£ per cent, per
annum was paid on 6t'h November last . . . . . . . . 34,3 75 0 0
Leaving available . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £65,628 7 0
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-
year ended 31st March, 1941, at the rate of per cent, per
annum, payable after the General Meeting on 7th May, 1941 . . 34,3 75 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . . . .. £31,253 7 0
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 7th May, 1941, at
12 o’clock noon, at which the shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director.
Mr. William Steele retires in accordance with the Articles of Association, is eligible
for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
Branches of the Bank have been opened during the year at 192 North Terrace,
Adelaide; Enfield, and Keswick.
The Shareholders will be asked to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year
and to fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD. Chairman of Directors.
O. L. ISAACHSEN, General Manager.
Adelaide, 1 7th April, 1941.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(Incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability).
BALANCE SHEET, 31st MARCH, 1941.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised (250,000 Shares at
Reserve Fund ( £972,816/12/9 in
Government and other Securities
and £27,183/7/3 used in bu5i-
£10,363,731 8 3
Contingent Inabilities, consisting of Letters of
Credit, etc., £325,140/17/-.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion and Cash Balances
Australian Notes and Cash with
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Reserve Fund Investments, consist-
ing of Government Securities,
£>61,291/19/5, and other
Securities, £11,524/13/4, at or
£52,627 13
709,402 1
Liabilities of Customers on Letters of Credit, etc.,
as per Contra, £325,140/17/-.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
From 25th March, 1940, to 31st March, 1941.
To Dividend in May,
1940 .. ..£34,375 0
To Dividend in
November, 1940 .. 34,375 0
To Balance 31st March, 1941
0
0
- £68,750 0 0
65,628 7 0
£134,378 7 0
By Balance. 25th March, 1910 .. £67,858 12 9
By Net Profit, including- Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, De-
preciation upon plant £2074/18/-.
Taxation, Contingencies, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted and
deducting Expenses at Head Office
and 63 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc., and Directors’
Fees £2500 60,519 14 3
£134,378 7 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date .. ..£1,000,000 0
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and Approved
Securities.)
£1,000,000 0
0. L. ISAAOHSEN, General Manager.
By Balance 25th March, 1940 . . £1,000,000 0 0
HOWARD W. LLOYD
E. W. HOLDEN
W. STEELE
£1,000,000 0 0
Directors.
AUDITORS' CERTIFICATE.
We report that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is property drawn up and exhibits a true
and correct view of the State of The Bank of Adelaide’s affairs on 31st March, 1941, according to the
best of our information and explanations given to us and as shown by the Books of the Bank submitted.
We have obtained all information and explanations required by us.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and other Securities of the Bank
on hand at the Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches, other than London, have been
taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
In our opinion, the Register of Members and other records which the Bank is required to keep by
the South Australian Companies Act 1934 or by its Articles of Association have been properly kept.
Adelaide, 17th April, 1941,
KENNETH W. NEILL 1
R. B. WILTSHIRE !•
Chartered Accountants (Aust.) J
Auditors.
I, OSCAR LIONEL ISAAOHSEN, General Manager of The Bank of Adelaide, DO SOLEMNLY AND
SINCERELY DECLARE;—.
That the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used partly in the business and partly in
Government and approved Securities.
That the accompanying Statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, true in every particular.
That the names, addresses and occupations of persons who are the Directors of the Bank at the date
of this statement are:—
S'lß HOWARD WATSON LLOYD (Chairman), College Town, Accountant.
HON. EDWARD WHEBIWALL HOLDEN, B.Se., M.I.E. (Aust), M.L.C., Kent Town, Company Director.
ALBERT EDWIN HAMILTON, M.8.E., Adelaide, Accountant.
WTLLIAM STEELE, Millswood, Company Director.
STANLEY McGREGOR REID, Millswood, Accountant.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of
the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1930.
0. L. ISAACIISEN.
DECLARED at Adelaide, in the State of South Australia, this 17th day of April, 1941, before me:
C. W. BARNES, a Justice of the Peace in and for the iState of South Australia.
We, Howard W. Lloyd, Edward W. Holden and William Steele, of College Town, Kent Town and
Millswood, respectively, being Directors of The Bank of Adelaide, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that in our
opinion the above Balance Sheet is true and correct and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Adelaide this 17th day of April, 1941.
HOWARD W. LLOYD
K. W. HOLDEN
W. STEELE
Directors.
Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) were also en-
larged—there are now 21 branches in
Victoria and 20 in N.S.W. A new unit
to be opened at Pilliga (N.S.W.) will
square the tallies.
Drought broke with the co. heavily
stocked up with feed early in the ’4O
term, and, with good grass growth
throughout the year, there were sharp
falls in values and loss of turnover.
Hence the meagre showing. But the dry
conditions which developed again in the
last term brought strong demand for feed,
and British wool and mutton purchases
did other earnings no harm.
After providing for all debts con-
sidered bad and doubtful, gross earnings
(£172,048) leapt £48,464. Of the growth
of £29,811 in exes. (£150,694), deprecia-
tion (£10,047) accounted for £3991 and
the tax reservation (£17,000) for £14,200.
Allowing for £129 previously dropped
into reserves, the net result was £18,782
better at £21,483, or 10.7 p.c. on the
£200,000 of capital, compared with 1.3,
12.7, 14.9, 14.4 and 10.8 p.c. back to
1936. Div. went up from 2 p.c. to 8 p.c.,
final being at the rate of 9 p.c p.a., and
after passing £1403 to the staff fund
reserves benefited by £4OBO. Including
£1234 undistributed by P.W. Proprietary,
a trading subsidiary, the profit percent-
age lifts to 11.3 p.c.
Over the past half-dozen years the
board has gone extensively into debt to
assist its growing clientele ;
1934. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £125,000 £175,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 38,025 218,142 216,719 209,804
Plant & property 66,093 118,621 137,183 136,472
Hook debts . . 103,646 226,089 230,671 228,823
Merchandise,. 58,490 141,626 141,479 166,527
Shares other cos. 6,900 11,899 11,899 9,799
Cash, etc. . . 0,528 16,192 13,755 12,414
When the books closed there was 13s. 3d.
of outside money at risk for every pound
belonging to shareholders. Part of the
debtors’ item, however, appears to be
against produce, etc., and so self-liquidat-
ing. Including stocks (£25,048 higher),
the more or less liquid surplus (£197,900)
was £27,714 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Not quite certain of the outlook for
mutton- and wheat-raisers, or how
petrol restrictions and growing costs
will affect the business, the market
pays 235. for the scrip (225. 6d.
a year ago), the return from 8 p.c. divs.
being 7 p.c. The net tangible cover is
31s. 9d. Seasons in the two densest-
populated States are generally satisfactory
at the moment.
Plans for establishing a large copper
refinery at Mt. Morgan (N.Q.), at an esti-
mated cost of £llO,OOO, are based largely
on Mt. Morgan blister, production of
which was stepped up considerably for
war needs before the present abnormally
long wet season caused a temporary set-
back. The plan is linked with the re-
opening of the Great Fitzroy mine, near
Rockhampton, ore from which Mt.
Morgan will treat at its plant. In the
Fitzroy there is 450,000 tons of proved
p.c. copper ore, plus several ’weights
of gold per ton. An estimated reduction
of 40 per cent, in refining and market-
ing costs would particularly assist this
show. The scheme, if brought about,
would also take in the blister produced
at Chillagoe, chiefly from Cloncurry ores.
* * *
Roma Blocks No. 4 bore buoyed many
with hope before the recent disappointing
test when the drill superintendent re-
ported lift, of sand, showing oil con-
tent, at a depth of 3540 ft. This was con-
trasted with a 2ft. sand, showing con-
siderable oil, at 3447 ft. in No. 1 bore and
which, in fact, was reported to have pro-
duced more than 1000 gallons of crude
oil when tested. Apparently No. 4 was
assumed to be in a continuation of the
same sand, and with the additional thick-
ness there hopes ran high. It by no
means seems certain that correlation of
strata was sufficiently detailed to permit
that deduction. Actually, there were at
least three oil horizons in No. 1 in a
thickness of about 70ft., so that the de-
cision now to deepen No. 4 after the
unsuccessful test is not without prospects.
There was only a small margin between
the oil sands and a granite bedrock at
3558 ft. in No. 1, and much will depend
on the contour of this bedrock as it
affects No. 4.
* * * *
“Matte”: There is no news of produc-
tion from the old Grasstree mine, that
promising show in the power-alcohol
centre of Sarina (C.Q.). Forty years ago
it had a 10-year spin as the Zelma, then
closed down because salt-water disagreed
with the battery plates. The Zelma is
within sight of Pacific combers. The
present group made a great success
of it a couple of years back, and a good
tonnage was sent to smelters, all averag-
ing well over loz. fine gold a ton. New-
man, of Malaya and elsewhere, then had
a look and went away favorably im-
pressed with the big ore-body. But vast
earth falls from the old opencut and sub-
sequent flooding have settled devel apment
for the past year or more. The mine
is now under exemption because of these
misfortunes, and it is evidently only a
matter of time when it will come again.
* * * *
Mine revenue of South Kal. (W.A.) ad-
vanced £A26,360 in its latest (53-week)
year,; but cost-increases absorbed the
lot, leaving the working surplus, deduct-
ing just under £25,000 expended on de-
velopment, little changed at £A52,000.
Difficulty in keeping up the supply of
mill-feed (119,680 short tons), poorer ore
values and rising costs combined to re-
duce the surplus to £16,600 for the first
half of the term ; but all-round improve-
ment here lifted the second half’s result
to £35,400. Earnings of this honey-
combed old producer have been up and
down like that of recent years, partly
owing to the difficulty in developing
good-grade stopes to sweeten up the
general run of South Kal. ore, which in
itself is of a grade which leaves but a
small margin for profit. During 1940
principal developments occurred on the
cross-lode at the No. 19 level, where
220 ft. of ore, Bft. wide and worth sdwt.,
was exposed. This lode is also exposed
at the 15 and 16 levels. At the 16 level
another cross-lode further south was dug
up, showing 95ft. of ore, 6ft. wide, worth
13dwt.
* * * *
A loss of £2299 is shown by Burbidge
Gold Mines, N.L. (W.A.), last year. But
production, not commenced till June,
didn’t get into stride until the end of the
period. An option of purchase over one
property was exercised in October, and
another since the end of December. Co.
now holds 10 blocks. No complete sur-
vey has been made of ore reserves, but
“mining and treatment results of
sampling of ore the co. is now working
on suggest that estimates of previous
option-holders that there were several
hundred thousand tons of 2.7dwt.
to 3dwt. ore available are not likely to
prove far out.” But in goldmining it is
dangerous and often disastrous to take
any guess or unconfirmed estimate of ore
reserves on trust.
* * * *
Westralian-controlled Porphyry Gold
Mine (1939), N.L., hopes to make a suc-
cess of mining an Edjudina property
which a Perth-Adelaide concern failed
to make pay. Since August cyaniding of
old tailings has been in progress, and,
assisted by a Government loan of £6OOO,
the crushing plant has been reconditioned
and the treatment of 3000 tons of 4dwt.
ore a month is aimed at. The show, sul-
phide from the surface, is being mined
by opencut.
* * * *
Cheerful and depressing news from
the Inspector of Mines about some of
the smaller gold fry at Norseman
(W.A.):
Empress. —Should develop into a high-grade
producer in the near future. The continuation
of the Blue Bird reef was cut at an underlay
depth of 382 ft. High-grade quartz of an aver-
age width of 20in. has been opened up for
some distance in the north drive, and short
lenses of high-grade quartz have been exposed
in the south drive.
Groundlark. —Has been a constant small pro-
ducer for some time. A payable 24in. reef has
been opened up for a length of 250 ft. down to
the 110 ft. level. Winzing in good average-
grade ore is in progress below that level.
Copeland. —A constant producer for some
months. Then it was announced that the whole
of the payable ore had been taken out, and
the co. went into liquidation. Plant has been
sold and moved to other mining centres.
Norseman Developments. —The Northern Star
is very low grade, and unless gold content
improves its life will be short.
Norseman Associated. —About 1000 tons of
ore averaging 3.sdwt. was taken out and treated
from Mt. Barker during the year. There now
appears to be only a small tonnage left. Three
months will probably be the remaining life of
the mine.
* * * *
New Milano, at Mt. Monger (W.A.),
is credited by the local inspector of
mines with a continuity in length and at
depth of its main gold-shoot. Also with
an exposure of rich ore for a length
of 100 ft. at No. 4 level and in a winze
below that level. Ore reserves were com-
puted in September at 8000 tons of 15dwt.
average value, and have been slightly in-
creased since then. Treatment plant is
being slowly extended, and a substantial
rise in throughput is expected this year.
Co. has options on two adjoining blocks,
has purchased the Leslie mine, a mile
north of New Milano, and has taken an
option over a lease north of the Leslie.
All are stated to have rich shoots within
their boundaries.


W"" '
T 00&
P'A'4
V 2
HI
jj
ê
i|i
JT collects moneys, distributes
moneys, and safeguards them.
Rigid adherence to the principle
of interdependence underlying this
threefold purpose has been found
the safest and soundest Banking
system. Had a better one been
possible, business needs would have
demanded it long ago. The
National Bank is always ready to
assist sound enterprises, consistent
with a policy of adequate protec-
tion of the funds of its depositors.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
95—16—41
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE. MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Threats to Our Trade
What The Bulletin pointed out with
regard to the Lease-or-Lend Bill in its
issue of 26/3/’4l is becoming apparent
in other places now. It was said here
that “Australian exporters may feel a
pinch as a result. If a greater flow of
American products to Britain is about
to begin and tightness of dollar exchange
disappears, Australia may find that
Britain, out of necessity, will buy in the
nearest market on a greater scale than
ever. It probably takes a freighter 10
days to cross the Atlantic, against two
months to travel to or from Australia.”
The Lease-Lend arrangements may
prove a major item in Australia’s internal
economics, and on April 21 the Aus-
tralian daily papers carried cables from
London on the subject. The Lease-Lend
Act, it was stated, will apparently give
Britain access to unlimited quantities of
wheat, fruit and other products without
immediate payment. The U.S.A. is re-
puted to have “embarrassing surpluses”
of some commodities, and letting Britain
have them on credit would be a way out.
Washington, it is said, can afford to
finance exporters, and Britain’s war ex-
penditure has reached such enormous
proportions that a refusal to trade on
these terms is unlikely from the U.K.,
even if it means strangulation of trade
with the Dominions further afield. In
comparison with U.S.A. goods, stuff
from the Dominions is said to be “expen-
sive in every respect.” “It must be
paid for, and must be carried further in
precious ships.”
Australia’s war burden thus threatens
to increase in another direction. Taxa-
tion in 1940-41 has been estimated at
about 20 p.c. of the national income. In
1941-42 that national income may fall
by reason of shipping and trading diffi-
culties, and at the same time taxation
. ma Y be increased. In any case,
diversion of production to defence pur-
P oses can be expected to be on a greater
sca ‘ e > an 4 that really means taxation,
whatever it may be called,
A London daily-paper correspondent
says that Britain is understood to want
a H butter available in the Dominions
which can be shipped, but is urging that
cheese be sent instead of butter later on,
a $ it doesn’t require refrigeration en
route. Refrigeration problems will also
a PPIy to meat that isn’t canned. Canned
fruits are considered uneconomical cargo,
but dried fruits are wanted. Imports of
Australian wine into Britain are growing
smaller and smaller,
If Britain’s purchases of Australian
produce are now to be reduced generally,
we may find that external revenue from
all products except wool will show a fall,
Wool production has been sold to Britain
for the duration of the war, whether
shipped or not. But few, if any,
other products have been sold on those
terms. Lead and spelter have been dis-
posed of in limited quantities and at
adjustable prices for the duration, but
most of our other production has been
sold on yearly contracts. Butter has been
our fourth-most-important export of
recent years (wheat and gold run second
and third respectively). In 1939-40 total
wool exports were valued at £54,000,000
Australian; other exports (gold excluded)
ran into £90,000,000 Australian,
Britain didn’t take all these exports,
but it was our most important market.
Also, since a shipping shortage is one
reason for the anticipated decline in our
exports to Britain, restricted transport
may curb our exports to other coun-
tries. It is clear that there are possi-
bilities of a shrinkage in our sterling in-
come, and that the same precautions
applying to dollar imports may soon be
resorted to in the case of sterling imports.
In any case, if it becomes unnecessary
for Britain to lift so many cargoes of
vital supplies from Australia as hitherto,
the volume of shipping inwards, no less
than outwards, will shrink. Thus trans-
port difficulties, as well as exchange prob-
lems, will affect imports. Heavier demands
than ever will be made on Australian
resourcefulness generally, especially in
the manufacturing industries and our
economic departments. The last-named
will have the problem of financing any
unexportable surpluses of land produc-
tion on their hands. It isn’t necessary
to do it in exactly the same way as the
Apple and Pear Board tackled it at the
beginning.
Australia, which has suffered very little
disturbance to its economic life as a
result of the war up to the present time,
may find things different in the second
half of 1941. But if these difficulties are
unavoidable —and we can rest assured that
all parties will discuss them fully—then
“we can take it” the same as Britain has
taken its knocks. The burden will
have to be spread with some approxi-
mation of equality, and factories and
factory-workers may have to carry
heavier taxes in order to help the man
on the land in his unfortunate plight.
A Melbourne man who is a large share-
holder in Tableland Tin (N.Q.) is com-
plaining of the method used by the co.
to raise the additional capital considered
necessary to complete construction of
No. 2 dredge. Shareholders have agreed
to the issue of 80,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which participate fully with the ords. and
deferreds after they receive their mini-
mum 8 p.c. The Melbourne man said
he suggested to the co. two or three
times that it be put to the shareholders
of Tableland Tin that the nominal value
of all shares be increased by anything up
to 10s., thus increasing the calling-power
of the directors by more than the required
amount without disturbing the existing
ratios of profits-participation among
shareholders. This means of raising new
funds is common amongst Victorian no-
liability cos., but has rarely, if ever, been
availed of in N. S’. Wales. Which is per-
haps the chief reason why Tableland’s
directors didn’t favor it. Tableland’s
pref. issue, as it stands, has many attrac-
tions to outside investors, though it will
stand somewhat in the way of divs. to
old shareholders. But new capital had to
be got in to protect old shareholders’
interests in any case.
* * * *
The £2,000,000 loss estimated by P. S.
Macdermott, N.S.W. fruitgrowers’ secre-
tary, to be accruing on the 1941 apple and
pear crop will be a tax on the people,
arising indirectly as well as directly from
the war. The Apple and Pear Board m
1940 incurred a loss of £750,000. This,
seemingly, wasn’t so directly due to the
war ; there was a great deal of confusion
in the board’s operations to begin with.
For 1941 compensation payable to
growers will be higher than in 1940, and
there will be no return from exports,
worth £1,000,000 in 1940. For the first
quarter of 1941 the board sold
£2,411,587-worth of fruit, and its exes, of
£2,994,258 included advances to growers
£1,421,043, marketing, etc., £1,486,754,
administrative exes. £73,724 and publicity
exes. £12,737. A loss of £582,671 was
shown for the quarter. Macdermott, who
supplied the figures to the press, says
operations of the board “have seriously
disrupted the existing marketing system.”
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s interim div. is at
the unchanged rate of p.c. p.a. The
new issue doesn’t participate. On a
1\ p.c. div. basis, and assuming that calls
are made as forecast, the difference in
div. between old and new B.H.P. shares
amounts to Is. l|d. It will drop to 4^d.
on May 2, when the books close for the
present div. A second ss. is payable on
the new scrip on July 31. The final call
is due on March 31, 1942.
* * * *
The reason for the particular weakness
in shares in New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated is the belief expressed by the co.’s
managers, Bewick, Moreing and Co., that
the broad lead lode which has been
sought for some time enters the co.’s
property at a greater depth than first anti-
cipated. A report from 8., M. states
that diamond-drill-hole No. 14, which was
put down from the bottom of the boun-
dary winze, shows that the overwall of
the lead lode crossed the N.8.H.-Zinc
Corp. boundary at No. 18 level, which is
2600 ft. —a vertical depth of about 300 ft.
below the position originally expected.
This change in ore location makes it
necessary to extend N.B.H. development
work to a greater depth before substan-
tial production is possible. Results of
diamond-drilling have revealed some
evidence of the reversal of pitch of the
ore-bearing formations, but, in the rela-
tively small area explored, it has failed
to confirm the favorable opinions ex-
pressed by geologists. Nearly all explora-
tory work has been confined to the
1000 ft. length along the strike, adjoining,
the Zinc Corp. property. Other explora-
tory work will go ahead later.
* * * *
Canberra has always been renowned
for its talkers, however bad they may
be ; it is less famed for its doers. For
the past week or two we have been sub-
jected to clouds of words dealing with
the war situation; it is the Empire’s
grimmest, darkest, blackest, most desper-
ate, most heroic and most noble hour,
according to Canberra. But what is Can-
berra doing about it? Appealing and
appealing and appealing! It is high time
a decision was made as to what is wanted
from Australia in order to beat Germany
as quickly as possible and plans put into
operation without delay. A Government
must govern more strongly than ever on
occasions like the present. The Budget
for 1940-41 was very good in its first
form ; the “compromise” with Labor for
the most part was a vacillating disgrace.
The next Budget will have to go further
than the last, even though spending this
year is behind estimates. If a certain
quantity of production is considered by
experts to be necessary for our defence
efforts, and the same or other experts
consider it to be a reasonable physical
possibility, then, in addition to our pro-
viding the money, industry will have to
be policed in order to ensure the pro-
duction. It is no use sitting down, talk-
ing and throwing straws in the wind to
test the direction of “public opinion.”
The Australian people want to win this
war; that is the only “public opinion”
that is worth while. A strong man or a
strong Government could turn the minor
currents of “public opinion” any direc-
tion thought desirable.
• •••••
Because the Nazis have introduced some
production method or other it doesn’t
mean that we shouldn’t adopt it or im-
prove it for our own purposes if it suits
us to. Democracy can survive under
strong and resolute forms of government;
in fact, it needs that form of government
to survive. If total-war methods are
necessary to fight totalitarians, then we
should adopt total-war methods within
the framework of our own democracies.
Both the British and Australian Govern-
ments were freely given the powers to
deal with all problems of men and money
about this time last year.
In August, 1940, the Prices Commis-
sioner, Professor Copland, spoke to the
Economic Society in the following terms:
It is ridiculous to assume that we can
enter into conflict with past-masters in the
art of total warfare and to imagine that
we can retain and enjoy the comforts and
semi-luxuries of peace-time. Yet at present
determined efforts are being made to pre-
vent these economic adjustments from being
effected.
We are gradually moving towards the
Nazi conception of total warfare. We have
no alternative, even if we must pass through
controversy, doubt and disputation. The
greater part of modern warfare is behind
the lines, and the job of any leader is more
difficult than in any previous war, because
modern fighting forces cannot be main-
tained without a great disturbance of the
whole economic life of the country.
For the first time in history Govern-
ments are endeavoring to fight the war
without inflation. We have expanded credit
to some extent. One lesson that the Ger-
mans have given to the world is that in-
flation can be controlled if the rest of the
economic system is also controlled. The
Nazis controlled everything, and behind
if they were able to make a successful ex-
pansion of credit to the end of 1938.
One shouldn’t have to be an economist
to understand that. Behind our total
effort should be the aim to cut out all
bungling and inefficiency, especially in
high places. Australians are great workers
when they know and appreciate the ob-
jective of their work. But bungling—and
we have tons of official examples—
obscures the view of the objective.


.Q 30V1B
% Hsiiiaa
c JB^jisaa
3AVHS HJ.OOWS
0009 '° / V<£
The "CRESSBROOK"
.
■
r
■Jv?,
wm i
i
' ■?/• f nsfWtyhsfwi^,,
"ini nwwiiliinaii'
£l4/19/6
COMPLETE
A handsome
saddle of the
“Kemp” type
with the pads
running u p
almost level
with the head of the
saddle. Note how
the flaps and skirt are
combined and sewn direct
to the seat, giving a
narrow non-chafing grip.
N.S.W. Freight on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
WALTHER *. STEVENSON IT?.
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Think of
your pocket
cis well as
your throat
5
the secret is I* l6
333’s blend
choicest
Virginia
tobaccos
CORK TIPPED DPLA,Nt .
9-7 d., 18-1/ 2
AUo flat fifties, square
Hundreds and round
Vi
m
? p H£ss
CIGARgy
tes
AVjsoiufe/ti
T V f» their*
Oh
?</
Cop K
SP-
SS
tipped
*
SSSSBs« 8SW ‘ w
1106-4'^
Shares Get Cheaper
After retreating in short steps for
several days, a sharper break occurred
in the Australian sharemarkets on April
22. On the 24th (Wednesday of last
week) there was another recession, but
not so noticeable. On Thursday there
was a steadying near Wednesday’s prices,
in spite of the announcement of the
surrender of the outflanked Greek armies.
An atmosphere of gloom had previously
been produced officially and in the press
that the release of a few facts about our
precarious position on the shores of the
/Egean failed to intensify. Though there
had been much comment and criticism,
up to this stage only the vaguest official
news had been available. The market
appeared to have prepared itself for
shocks, especially among some of the
front-rank stocks. These, on the whole,
showed sharp to severe falls, whereas
slower-moving issues of good quality were
less affected. We may soon see a posi-
tion where marked-down stocks start to
recover, with the decline of the steadier
stocks still proceeding at a moderate
pace.
Quite as serious as the Greek affair,
from an investor’s viewpoint, is the
position of our exports. Shipping facili-
ties are likely to be severely restricted ;
if so, equality of sacrifice will require
that losses by landmen shSll be spread
over the whole community. Taxation
may be increased to do this. Sugar
shares have fallen because of the export
surplus in the industry, and silver-lead
scrip has flopped.
On April 3 the Sydney industrial-share
index stood at 131.59 and the index of
34 representative shares 124.76. By April
16 the industrials had declined to 128.62,
the 34 cos. to 122.09. After touching
127.58 and 122.06 respectively on April
21 there was a slump to 124.72 and
118.59. Dealings closed last week at
122.41 and 116.50. At this point some
market leaders were showing slight re-
covery ; other issues were declining. As a
comparison more interesting than useful,
it may be worth recording that on June 19,
1940, when France was failing, the Syd-
ney industrial share index collapsed to
107.52 and the index of 34 cos. to 102.13.
This collapse was unjustified from any
point of view.
There has been, as stated, heavy
marking-down of some stocks and lighter
falls in others. Here is a comparison of
prices over three weeks;
April 3. April 24.
Bank N. S. Wales .. £26/16/- £25/17/-
Tooth 53/6 50/-
Associated News .. 12/7 11/6
Huddart Parker .. .. 47/- 46/-
Australasian Paper .. 35/9 33/9
Associated Pulp .. .. 29/6 30/3
Aust. Cons. Industries .. 42/6 37/6
Australia Hotel .. .. 20/3 19/6
Bond’s Industries .. 32/- 27/-
Bradford Cotton .. .. 41/6 40/-
British Tobacco .. .. 48/- 44/9
Broken Hill Prop. .. 42/- 38/3
Dunlop Perdriau .. 21/3 19/6
Electrolytic Zinc .. 53/3 48/6
Felt and Textiles .. 39/3 36/6
General Industries .. 17/3 16/6
G. J. Coles .. .. 64/3 58/6
Henry Jones .. .. 51/- 48/3
Howard Smith .. .. 21/- 20/3
Kandos Cement .. .. 32/6 30/-
Lustre Hosiery .. .. 22/10 21/-
Meggitt .. .. .. 30/6 29/6
Wests .. .. .. 9/8 8/6
Winchcombe, Carson .. 24/3 23/9
Woolworths .. .. 16/11 15/6
W. R. Carpenter .. 33/6 32/9
Yarra Falls .. .. 43/6 41/6
Mt. Lyell .. .. 29/- 26/6
New Broken Hill .. 13/3 10/3
North Broken Hill .. 39/- 34/3
Loloma 24/9 20/-
Austral. Amalg. .. .. 8/6 7/9
Peninsula .. .. 19/6 18/-
The fall in bank shares hasn’t been
heavy. The drop in brewery scrip has
been rather more pronounced. News-
paper shares receded fairly substan-
tially, while shipping issues have been
as steady as any. Howard Smith has had
a mild decline. Stability has also been
noticeable in nearly all textile issues
except Bond’s Industries and Felt and
Textiles. The former was forced up to
a speculative price, and the latter is a
widely-spread, popular stock likely to re-
flect market humors, though until lately
it has been extremely firm. The drop
in this case was 2s. 9d., and to those who
like the stock there is an opportunity
to pick up the scrip at the lowest price
of the year.
Yarra Falls shares moved down from
435. 6d. to 41s. 6d, Bradford Cotton’s
recession from 41s. 6d. to 40s, was
moderate. Australasian Paper ords. at
335. 9d. were down 25., while Associated
Pulp shares, which fell away following
announcement of the new issue to its
shareholding cos., have actually firmed
over the past three weeks.
A mong the front-rank stocks the
market break has been most pronounced.
Australian Consolidated Industries ords.,
previously unusually strong at 425. 6d
became exceptionally weak at 375. 6d.
Former optimistic buying, it seems, has
IS* lts ,/ ea n ctlons a here -a f ßroke “ H I U
Prop old shares dropped from 425. to
iL “if 10 ! 5 ? 0 Sr C K ords ; Sl i d
I™ 1 ” s ; 3d. to 48s. 6d. All these stocks
Norm R v ° n H M 1 pn fh m haV !
N™ S S r m a ‘, 34S - 3d - a " d
m? S (a long -' erm PrOP °'
G J Coles ords have crashed 5s 9d
• th'rpp m B ' iTtw i
in three weeks. Most of the fan occurred
the position in Greece started to
" g wLl, .T h f been , a s , ubs ‘ an, , lal l all
lw?tT thS ’. ?o °,- f d - V 15 , S - 6d - ‘ he
shares look particularly interesting.
Loloma registered a substantial fall,
but Malayan tin stocks, though down
generally, haven’t suffered with particu-
lar severity this time—probably because
they have been under an “international”
cloud for months.
To people with liquid funds the
present occasion is again one for buying
at reduced prices. Whether last week’s
quotes represented bedrock so far as the
Mediterranean situation governs it no one
can say. But he would be a foolish person
who sold B.H.P. scrip at last week’s prices
unless ready cash was wanted badly.
In 1936 the USA turned out
46>0 00,000 metric tons of steel ingots
and caslingSi Germany (including the
Saar) 19000 0 00 tons and Britain
12 000 0 00 tons. For a very long time
Germany had been a great ' r produ cer
of steel than Britain, though on a per
„ basis th ictu ’ e wou f d look m J re
Britain's way. What Germany and
Britain are / oducing in the way J f steel
now we don't know, but the enormous
importance of the U.S.A. steel industry
in the present struggle is apparent from
the fore B oin g figures, and it can be stated
that U.S. steel output is far in excess of
]936 , eve|s Germany's Wg steel.produc-
j capacity and its access to Norwegian
and Swedish iron ore are, unfortunately,
a source of strength to it.
* * * *
Holders of Bond’s Industries shares,
after hurriedly reducing their selling limits
f rom about 335. to 295., have declined to
accept a buyer’s price of 255. Beyond
announcement of a half-yearly debenture-
interest payment at the rate of £5 Bs. 6d.
per cen t., no statement has recently
emanated from the co.’s office.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“GUILTY MEN.”
fit has become fashionable for shallow-minded
Leftist journalists to make the English Conservatives
—Mr. Chamberlain in particular—the scapegoat for the
war. This survey by the editor of London “Nineteenth
Century”—here necessarily condensed from a very long
article well worth reading in full—finds the Utopian
pacifists of the Left equally “guilty” with the appeasers
and suggests that the policies of such indefatigable
publicists as H. G. Wells and Norman Angell are likely
to lose the war and the next peace, as the policy of
disarmament lost the last peace.]
If we examine recent publications on the subject
of the war and of the peace that will follow, we shall
find those that emanate from the political Left far
outnumber all the others. Socialism and inter-
nationalism are very vocal —patriotism is almost silent.
The representative political literature of our day
is shallow, ill-informed, ill-considered and in its effect
defeatist, as we shall try to show. There are excep-
tions —the excellent Oxford Pamphlets, for example,
and Professor Carr’s Twenty Years of Crisis.
Most of the authors we have under consideration
are middle-aged. Some have reached old age. The
youngest, Sir Richard Acland, was born in 1906, Pro-
fessor Laski was born in 1893, Sir Norman Angell in
1874, Mr. H. G. Wells in 1866. It is, perhaps, of
some significance that, apart from Sir Richard Acland,
who was then barely breeched, none of these appear
to have undergone any mental development at all
since the end of the last war. Sir Norman Angell, in
Why Freedom Matters, adds nothing of interest to
what he has written many times before. Professor
Laski, who wrote some good books once, spins out
monotonous platitudes about freedom, democracy and
that prospective “European revolution” which has
become so fashionable. Mr. H. G. Wells seems to
have lost the great gift he once had for the vivid por-
trayal of incident and character, and has developed an
apparently irrepressible loquacity.
These writers are obscurantists. They mention many
problems—-war and peace, armaments and disarma-
ment, economic planning, national sovereignty and the
like. But they propose solutions so easy that the
problems are problems no longer.
The public to which they address themselves has,
on the whole, remained uncorrupted by “popular”
books. The allurement of simple solutions, that are
not solutions at all, is one of the principal causes of
modern mass-movements, of Fascism and National
Socialism, as well as of Marxism and of the Utopian
pacifism which has done so much to bring the Second
World War about. The authors we are considering
share the responsibility for the war, seeing that they
have been amongst the promoters of Utopian pacifism,
which, through disarmament and “collective security,”
helped to reduce the armed preponderance of the
victors over the vanquished in the last war and so
enabled the Germans to achieve the ascendancy they
needed to attempt the conquest of Europe.
All the authors in question have been consistently
wrong about international affairs ever since the peace
that ended the First World War, if not longer.
But the complacent assumption that they have
always been right, and are right still, pervades
their books. They assign the blame for the disasters
of our age to various abstractions—to reaction, to
capitalism, to “privilege,” to belief in national
sovereignty, and so on. And yet it is their world that
is in ruins. All they stood for has been defeated. But
they can see no flaw in what they stood for and still
stand for, although the completeness of the defeat is
sure evidence of a fatal, a fundamental, flaw.
The answer to Professor Laski’s Where Do We
Go from Here? is “To Utopia!” But Professor
Laski’s Utopia, like all the others, is flat, colorless,
unbeautiful and devoid of both imaginative and prag-
matic insight. In his essay “The Need for a European
Revolution,” which he has contributed to a composite
volume entitled Programme for Victory, he appears
to be wholly unaware of the terrific implications of
his theme.
He shows no insight whatever into the revolu-
tionary movements of our day: for example, he writes
that “the essence of Fascism, whether in its German
or its Italian form, is the use of the outlaw by privi-
lege to defend itself against the demand of the masses
for justice” (p. 5). Fascism “in its German form,”
that is to say, National Socialism, is precisely what
Professor Laski thinks it is not. It is itself “the
demand of the masses for justice.” A peculiar sort of
justice, certainly, and productive of appalling injus-
tice, but “the masses” are not always reasonable in
their demands, their conceptions of justice are some-
times primitive, and when they resort to action they
often achieve the opposite of what they wanted to
achieve.
No honest observer will deny that National
Socialism was and still is a genuine mass-
movement, and one of the biggest that ever existed
—the Bolsheviks were a small minority when
they came into power, whereas the National Socialists
had a prodigious popular backing. But it does not
suit Professor Laski and others of the Left to treat
National Socialism as a genuine mass-movement,
though they cannot deny its magnitude, for to do so
would be to impugn the inherent righteousness of the
masses.
It becomes necessary, in contradiction with all the
evidence, to create the myth of “privilege” or of
“capital” which, as it were, hired National Socialist
gangsters to prevent the rise of the genuine masses.
But the fact is that the “capitalists” who supported
National Socialism during its rise to power were rare
exceptions. The movement did not depend on their
money, but on the contributions paid by its numerous
members, on the sums collected at meetings, and on
the sale of newspapers, books and pamphlets.
Nowhere is the myth stated with cruder ignorance
than by Sir Richard Acland in Uriser Kampf. “In
Germany,” he writes (p. 89), “the big industrialists
financed the Nazis into power to beat down the
workers’ standards of living.” Sir Richard also repeats
another myth that finds favor amongst simpletons of
the Left, namely, that the German industrialists wanted
war. “Hitler prepared for war not only because it
was in his nature, but also because it was necessary
for his backers” (p. 89). We invite Sir Richard to
name one leading industrialist who wanted the war.
The same myth is repeated with regard to the last war.
Professor Laski writes that it was “a struggle for
markets between the rising power of Germany and
allied empires threatened by German economic con-
ditions” {Where Do We Go from Here? p. 16). The
financial and industrial leaders in all countries were,
for the most part, against the war. The “allied
empires” were not “threatened by German economic
conditions”—indeed they were not threatened at all.
Economic, financial and imperialistic motives were no
more than very subsidiary causes of the war.
It was only when the success of the National
Socialists was as good as certain that large numbers
of “capitalists” went over to them. National Social-
ism was not only a mass-movement, it was also a
revolutionary movement and not a device to keep the
revolutionary masses down. Indeed, there were no
“revolutionary masses” in Germany outside the ranks
of National Socialism. What Professor Laski, Sir
Richard Acland and others of the Left have to say on
this subject is nothing but shallow propaganda.
Professor Laski finds it “difficult to believe” (p.
31) in the “sincerity” of the British and French Gov-
ernments when they tried to conclude a pact with
Russia in 1939. No amount of “sincerity” could
have produced the desired pact, and Professor Laski
—New York “Post.”
THE INNOCENT ALLY.
produces no evidence of what he calls “insincerity.”
He finds it “difficult to believe” them sincere because
he does not want to.
Of France he says that “swift defeat broke the
will of a high command which, to recover any pros-
pect of resistance, would have had to appeal to the
revolutionary will of the people” (p. 41). This is
conventional socialist claptrap. The French troops,
indeed the French nation as a whole, were little less
defeatist than the high command. Who is defending
what is left of French independence now? Who is
resisting Hitler revolutionary will of the
people . Or Marshal Petam and General Weygand.
One might be disposed to think that these
books are harmless, even if worthless. That is
not so. There is one matter that calls for special
attention, namely, what the authors have to say about
war-aims and about the peace that must follow the
war. There is so much open or latent defeatism
amongst them that the Right appears to be almost
entirely free from it by comparison. Defeatism is
the child of the internationalism and the appeasement
that brought the war about. Every appeasement was
an invitation to aggressors. The policy of the Left—
“disarm and fight the world”—was just as unrealistic.
As for Russia, there was little to choose for un-
realism between the Left and the Right. The Left
expected the Russians to join any prospective alliance
against the Germans and, in the event of war, to fight
on the side of the “democracies.” The Russians care
nothing for “democracy,” in fact they hate and fear
it. That they would suffer total defeat and that their
despotic Government would be destroyed if they were
to fight the Germans was a prospect which, obvious
though it was, the Left did not, or would not, perceive.
The Right hoped that Germany would attack Russia
and that the conflagration would be diverted east-
wards.
The one policy that neither the Government nor
the Opposition followed was the policy of prepared-
ness, which would have made Great Britain and the
Empire strong enough to defeat any conceivable
coalition of hostile Powers.
All the authors we have been considering sup-
ported one of the two policies that helped to bring on
the war, and opposed the one policy that could have
averted it. And they have learnt absolutely nothing.
Professor Laski demands “not a Carthaginian
peace” but “a peace of genuine negotiation” {Where
Do We Go from Here ? p. 120). His superficiality
and his gift for misrepresentation come into full play
once more. A “Carthaginian peace” is not the only
alternative to a negotiated peace. A “Carthaginian
peace” is, in fact, nonsense ; a city can be destroyed,
as Carthage was, but a nation of 80,000,000 living in
the heart of civilised Europe cannot be destroyed. But
a peace by negotiation will be lost in advance. If
there is to be negotiation, it would be best to make
overtures at once. And on what basis does Professor
Laski propose to negotiate?
He does not say, but only emits a series of plati-
tudes about “the construction of right,” the “dawn of
an equal fellowship between men.” He exhorts “the
German and Italian peoples to throw off the outlaws’
yoke” (by “outlaws” he means their present rulers);
he blandly preaches revolution, as though war were
not enough.
Of the books we are considering, Sir Richard
Acland’s is the silliest. Indeed, nothing quite as silly
has come our way for a long time. It ends with an
apostrophe to the German people, whom Sir Richard,
like Professor Laski, wishes to liberate “from every
tyranny.” If one were to judge by this and the other
books, one would suppose that England went to war
largely for the benefit of the German people, poor
dears!
Sir Richard, too, wants revolution. Like Mr.
Wells and Professor Laski, he thinks it essential. It
is true that every revolt against the Germans will, if
sufficiently well-timed, contribute towards final vie-
tory. But these authors do not want national
revolts against the Germans only ; they want
political and social revolution throughout
Europe, England included. They do not seem
to realise that revolution is a very serious matter.
Once it begins, no one knows how it will end
and whither it will lead. It is quite uncontrol-
lable. It is often crueller and more destructive
than war. General revolution —and even a revo-
lution in Germany alone —might prolong the
war, instead of shortening it, and might precipi-
tate further wars. It might promote a full alli-
ance between Germany and Russia and operate
most dangerously against the vital interests of
England and her Empire. It might mean the
reign of anarchy for a generation or more.
But of such possibilities these authors are
quite unaware. Their shallow minds have merely
seized upon the idea of a European revolution
which has become so fashionable on the Left,
and they use it as an excuse for outpourings of
completely fatuous verbiage. There is some-
thing peculiarly ignoble in their utter lack of
genuine seriousness, and of any deeper humanity,
and in their irresponsible babblings about war,
revolution and the tragic destinies of men,
women and whole nations. They seem to be
unaware of the terrific drama that is approaching
its climax and of its fearful implications. Their
one concern, it would seem, is to inflict upon
mankind the crankery of which they are the
exponents.
They all, in so many words, demand the
“liberation of all mankind,” words that end
Professor Laski’s book. How can “all mankind”
be “liberated” without sanguinary upheavals and end-
less ruinous wars? But they also want disarmament.
Who will be the gainer if they get what they want?
Germany, of course, for, if the armed ascendancy of
England be eliminated, Germany will again be able to
organise for war and make a third bid for the mastery
of the world.
Sir Norman Angell’s solution of the “German
problem,” which is the problem of war or peace in
Europe, is “a certain shift or change of political think-
ing that cannot be brought about by any means
other than freedom of discussion, intellectual liberty,
a certain measure of political nationalisation” {Why
Freedom Matters, p. 62). Sir Norman Angell wants
“the newer policy” and asks how it can become
operative. His answer is “by an act of faith.” Faith
in what? We are left without an answer. We ven-
ture to make a suggestion that will serve as well as
any of Sir Norman Angell’s —or, for that matter,
Professor Laski’s, Mr. Wells’s, Sir Richard Acland’s
—proposals, namely, that on a given day all the in-
habitants of the globe decide to be nice and to remain
so. Of the nature of war, of its daemonic character,
and of its intractability, these authors have no
conception.
What are the people of England fighting for?
For nothing other than the notions entertained by Sir
Norman Angell and his fellows-authors —at least ac-
cording to these authors. That the English are fighting
for England never once occurs to them. The English
are not fighting for abstractions. Nor are they fighting
for the prevalent political system, however well it may
suit them, any more than Drake, Hawkins, Sir Walter
Raleigh and Sir Philip Sidney fought for the political
system of their day, which happened to be a despotism.
The war-aim of the English is to free their native
land. They are fighting for their all. And they know
it. But the “primary war-aim” —according to Mr.
Wells {The Common Sense of War and Peace, pp.
113-114) —is “the changing of Germany”: “We may be
inclined to believe that every German is something of
a Junker, we have to remember he is also potentially
a reasonable man.” The Germans, in other words,
must become nice, reasonable people. That is why
they are being bombed and blockaded —so that they
shall grow nicer and nicer every day until they are so
nice that they will be ready to negotiate a lovely


QUESTION:
Lobster, Lobster, tell me do,
What is best to drink with
you £
e
ANSWER:
Gourmets everywhere agree
Guinness goes down best
with me.
UINNESS
There’!
è
nothing like
with Lobster
Sole Supervising Agenis for Australasia:—
SWIFT & COMPANY, PTY„ LTD., 26-30 Clarence St.. Sydney . . . B 7377
peace and collaborate in the “liberation of all man-
kind.”
“Without the honest co-operation of Germany,
disarmament on a large scale would be impossible,”
so the memorandum continues. But how can we be
sure that German co-operation will be “honest”? By
an “act of faith,” perhaps? If people will only believe
that the Germans will be nice, reasonable, honest and
peaceful, then they surely will be. If people would
only close their eyes and just believe. That is pre-
cisely what so many people. Professor Laski, Sir
Norman Angell, Mr. Wells and Sir Richard Acland
amongst them, have done for years past. Hitler and
the Second World War are the result.
Berlin to Baghdad.
(From an American “Foreign Affairs” article by Philip
Willard Ireland.)
With the intensification of the war the completed
Baghdad Railway has become important as a means
of supplying, from the port of Basra, those Near and
Middle East regions now cut off by the closing of
the Mediterranean to commerce. Traffic through
Basra and on the Baghdad Railway is steadily in-
creasing. At Basra there now call every month five
to eight ships from American ports, as well as numer-
ous Japanese, Dutch, British, Greek and British Indian
steamers. The facilities of the port, geared to handle
about 5000 tons daily, have been taxed to the utmost.
Ships formerly had to lie in the Shatt al-Arab for
several days before coming to the wharf ; but this
difficulty has been overcome by a reorganisation of
the port facilities.
Delays are also incurred in moving freight by
rail to and from Basra because of the lack of adequate
rolling stock. As yet the transhipment of goods to
Syria and Palestine is far from having reached its
full possibilities, largely because of the high cost of
transport across the desert, added to the war-time
maritime rates to Basra, the freight rates on the
railway, port dues, transit dues and handling charges
at Baghdad. Taken together, these charges tend to
make the cost of many articles almost prohibitive
in these countries.
The ever-tightening hold of Germany on south-
eastern Europe has naturally stimulated speculation
as to whether the Baghdad Railway may not serve
either as a sort of Burma Road for sending British
aid to Turkey, or as a highway for German expansion
toward the oil fields of Iraq and Iran.
As a belligerent against Germany, Turkey would
require large supplies of materiel particularly
machine-guns, tanks, trucks and ’planes—since her
present equipment is not adequate for her 750,000
fighting men. As long as Great Britain retains her
dominant position in the Mediterranean, she may
be able to provide convoys to Izmir (Smyrna). In
case Izmir were cut off, Mersin and Alexandretta,
both connected by short branch lines with the Bagh-
dad Railway, might then serve as avenues of supply,
though neither is well-equipped to handle heavy
cargo. Ships must lie out at sea, particularly at
Mersin, where in rough weather loading and unload-
ing are impossible. Thus it would seem that, if
Istanbul and Izmir become impossible or too danger-
ous to use, supplies could best be shipped into Turkey
via the Baghdad Railway.
The difficulties which would interfere with this
use of the Baghdad Railway as Turkey’s principal
window on the world seem to be; the lack of rolling
stock; the long distances involved; the change in
gauge at Baghdad ; the bottleneck at Basra ; and the
fact that trains must pass through three different
countries. Trouble might come from the French
forces in Syria. However, in case such interference
should take place, it seems probable that Turkey,
with British support, would annex those parts of
Syria, including Aleppo, through which the Baghdad
Railway runs.
The difficulties would become still more formid-
able if the British should decide to move additional
troops into Iraq to protect the oil fields there and in
Iran [British troops are now reported to be in Iraq],
for the task of supplying these troops would still
further strain the combined resources of the railways
and the rivers. Should Turkey enter the war against
the Nazis, she would immediately be faced with the
problem of how to protect the coal supply of her rail-
ways. The capture of her coal deposits, located prin-
cipally on the Black Sea between Zonguldak and
Ergeli, would almost irreparably cripple her railways.
In Iraq the locomotives use oil as fuel. In Syria they
operate with coal, and this would have to be supplied
either by Turkey or from overseas through Basra.
Will Hitler in the near future venture down the
route of the Baghdad Railway? It is no secret that
the Germans would be very happy to acquire the 16
to 20 million tons of oil annually produced in the oil
fields of Iraq and Iran. They also have every reason
for wishing to cut the British fleet off from this supply
and to destroy British naval power in the Eastern
Mediterranean. To attain these objectives the Ger-
mans would find control of the Baghdad Railway to
be invaluable, since there are practically no roads
suitable for military traffic through Anatolia, parti-
cularly in the Taurus and Amanus Mountains.
Even if the German Army should obtain control
of the Baghdad Railway and force its way into Iraq
and Iran, it would discover that possession of the
oil wells in those countries would not in itself satisfy
Germany’s oil-hunger. There are no available means
for moving the oil by rail to Istanbul or Samsun.
Turkey probably owns fewer than 200 tank cars,
while the Iraqi Railways have less than 40. The only
way to get oil out of Mesopotamia is therefore through
the pipelines to Tripoli and Haifa. Unless Germany
expects to divert tank cars from Rumania, she can-
not count on oil from the Near East until the British
have been driven out of the Mediterranean.
"Time” Marches On ...
From Sydney “Sunday Telegraph’s” new
supplement, “published by arrangement with
‘Time,’ the American news-magazine”
(20/4/’4l): —
In London, a weary War Office profanely
hoped that, since Britain could spare none of
her forces to police Irak, a diplomatic miracle
might come to pass.
From Sydney “Sunday Telegraph’s” cable
page, same issue:—
First step to consolidate a new front in
the Middle East against a German drive
through or past Turkey is seen in the arrival of
strong Imperial forces at Basra {lrak) at the
head of the Persian Gulf.
Japan and the Soviet.
[Written before the signing of the Japanese-Soviet
Pact, but foreseeing it and pointing out that it would
suit Stalin to have Japan embroiled in the Pacilic, this
London “Times” article gives the historical background
of the agreement and discusses its immediate and ulti-
mate values.]
The present phase of Russo-Japanese relations can
be traced back to the autumn of 1931, when Japan
achieved her conquest of Manchuria.
Japan had been an object of suspicion to the
Soviet regime ever since the prolonged occupation
of Russian territory by Japanese troops during and
after the Kolchak episode, Eastern Siberia not being
finally evacuated till 1922 and Northern Sakhalin not
until 1925, when Japan first officially recognised the
Soviet Government. These suspicions were fully re-
ciprocated at Tokyo, where the supposed designs of
the Comintern were a favorite bugbear. But there
was little contact between the two countries during
these years, and official relations, while formally cor-
rect, were wholly uneventful.
All this changed when Japan, through the estab-
lishment of the puppet State of Manchukuo, acquired
a long common frontier with Soviet Russia and with
Moscow’s vassal State of Outer Mongolia. “Frontier
incidents” became the order of the day. In the next
six years official cognisance was taken of no fewer
than 184 such incidents. The most famous of them—
a clash on the Amur River in the early summer of
1937 —was the prelude to Japan’s undeclared war on
China, which opened in July of that year. Soviet
Russia got the worst of the incident militarily and
failed to react diplomatically ; and this revelation of
weakness, popularly attributed to the recent purges
in the party and in the army, was taken by Japan as
an all-clear signal to embark on the great Chinese
adventure.
In Russo-Japanese negotiations throughout this
period, Soviet Russia was the suitor for a non-aggres-
sion pact, which was more than once proposed by her
and rejected by Japan. The high-handed seizure by
Japan of the Russia-owned Chinese Eastern Railway
was safely liquidated by the “sale” of the railway to
Japan, or nominally to the State of Manchukuo. Apart
from the recurrent frontier clashes, the other prin-
cipal apple of discord was the fishery rights in Russian
waters which had originally been conceded to Japan
by the Treaty of Portsmouth in 1905. These were the
subject of perpetual friction, of claims persistently
asserted by Tokyo and no less persistently con-
tested by Moscow, and of temporary agreements
which refused to last. One of many attempts to reach
a settlement was rejected by Russia when Japan signed
the Anti-Comintern Pact in 1936.
Soviet Russia had, however, not been idle in
these years. The Amur frontier was fortified, the
track of the Trans-Siberia railway was doubled, the
army of the Far East was reinforced, and a powerful
air force was built up—some of it based on the
Arctic Islands. Since 1937 Japan’s preoccupation with
the Chinese campagin and the partial military recovery
of Russia have gradually tipped the balance in favor
of the Soviet Government. Soviet help to China has
been intermittent but substantial, and Japan has never
been able to secure its cessation.
The most intensive of all the outbursts of frontier
warfare between Japan and Soviet Russia during the
past 10 years occurred in the summer of 1939. in the
region of Nomonhan on the frontier of Outer Mon-
golia, and ended in a fairly decisive victory for the
Soviet troops. Japan admitted no fewer than 18,000
casualties in this two months’ miniature war. A truce
was patched up in September, 1939, after the con-
clusion. of Stalin’s pact with Ribbentrop and the out-
break of war in Europe.
Since that time Germany has not relaxed her
efforts to bring about a detente between the two coun-
tries whose friendship and support she simultaneously
covets ; but the position between Japan and Soviet
Russia is no longer that of the ’thirties. Japan is now
the suitor for a non-aggression pact, has agreed to the
“reconsideration” of the fisheries question, and might
even be prepared to come to terms which did not
include the abandonment by Russia of aid to China.
The fundamental rivalry between the two Powers
in the Far East will, however, remain. Each side has
weaknesses and strong points. Siberia is scantily
populated, especially in the East. But its enormous
size makes it difficult to occupy effectively. Japan has
the advantage in mobile and concentrated forces. But
her shortage of the raw materials of war leaves her
at the mercy of boycott by the outside world, and her
great cities are open to air attack. Russia is probably
incapable of waging war on two fronts. But though
her pact with Hitler is in itself a worthless insurance,
her usefulness to Germany as a source of supply prob-
ably is a real safeguard in the West, at any rate for
the present. Her strategic position in the Far East
is, however, unenviable, with Manchuria thrust into
her territory like a great axehead forming 2000 miles
of frontier, with the Maritime Province dangling help-
lessly at the far side, and with no ice-free port.
Japan, on the other hand, has cast aside her old
friendship with Britain and pursued a policy of open
enmity to British trade and British interests in China ;
and she has cultivated bad relations with the United
States. In making war with Russia she would have
to use as her bases Korea, Manchuria and Northern
China, all regions which are peopled by hostile con-
quered populations, only too eager to find any oppor-
tunity of making trouble for her.
On a long view Russia cannot contemplate with
equanimity the Japan of the Tanaka Memorial—that
alleged forgery of which it must be said “si non e vero,
e ben trovato” —a Japan ruling the whole Western
Pacific littoral. Russia’s hope of commercial expan-
sion lies in trade with China ; and a China free,
friendly and prosperous is necessary for trade. The
rulers of Japan have lost none of their fear and loath-
ing of Communism ; and the existence of Russia is a
permanent obstacle to Japanese supremacy in China —
unlike the mere trading companies and mission-schools
of Britain and the United States, which are far easier
to brush away.
Whether this real, inherent rivalry of the great
Asiatic Powers will preclude a bargain between them,
or whether Stalin will think it worth while to buy
temporary ease and some concrete advantage in Asia
by compounding Japanese felonies is an open ques-
tion. It is improbable that Russia would in any case
offer any obstacle to the southward progress of Japan ;
she has no incentive to impede it, and may even
regard as advantageous to herself the increased ten-
sion between Japan and the English-speaking world
which would ensue from such a policy.
Britain’s War Costs.
(From a New York “Times” article.)
In the first 16 months of the war Britain had to
meet a bill of $4,346,000,000 of gold and dollar ex-
change requirements. Against this she had total gold
and dollar receipts by Empire countries, excluding
Canada, of $2,030,000,000. The balance of
$2,316,000,000 was the amount of the net drain upon
the United Kingdom’s gold and dollar assets.
The major items in this $4,346,000,000 bill are
illuminating. Of the amount $1,380,000,000 went to
pay for British Government war orders in the United
States. This included $660,000,000 for goods delivered,
$570,000,000 for advance payments and $150,000,000
for capital assistance to American concerns working
on British orders. These demands, added to pay-
ments for other imports from the United States, ship-
ping, interest and miscellaneous charges, made a total
of $2,282,000,000 of payments to the U.S.A. by the
United Kingdom. Payments by Empire countries,
excluding Canada and the United Kingdom, were
$483,000,000 ; payments outside the United States re-
quiring gold or dollars were $775,000,000 ; and with-
drawal of capital by Americans and others from
Britain absorbed $735,000,000. A miscellaneous item
of $71,000,000 completes the $4,346,000,000.
On the side of gold and dollar receipts the largest
and most interesting item is $965,000,000, representing
the proceeds of the sale of Empire gold, including new
production and amounts recovered from hoarding.
In drawing upon her accumulated resources to
meet the $2,316,000,000 deficit between her dollar pay-
ments and receipts, Britain gave up $1,746,000,000 of
gold. This reduced her holdings from $2,038,000,000
just prior to the start of the war to $292,000,000 at
the end of last year.


Is this the tank
that yon built?
*
We can’t build enough tanks. But tanks take money—so
invest now in the War Loan. Australia needs your money
as she has never needed it before. Apply at once at any
bank, money order post office or stockbroker. Interest is
2g % for five years or 3|% for nine/fifteen years.
Invest in the
WAR LOAN
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
“Second Chorus”
Rather than scratch away with the
point of detailed criticism at this Sydney
State offering, it’s quicker—and there-
fore kinder —to make one good swipe
with the critical hatchet and say that
Fred Astaire has never been the same
since his old partner. Ginger Rogers,
deserted him and songandance for
weightier film fare. Fred on his own is
good—there’s none better, in fact, in his
particular line ; but he and Ginger were
the very nobs of songandance. Since
Ginger departed for other spheres Fred
has tried such comely wenches as Lynne
Fontaine, Eleanor Powell and, in this
offering, Paulette Goddard, but, what-
ever it was that Ginger had, they haven’t
got it. And without that elusive ingredi-
ent Fred’s films go on serving the un-
fortunate purpose of recalling how good
he was with Ginger.
Such sorrowful reflections apart, how-
ever, and resolutely forgetting Ginger, the
present item is as entertaining as a light
wash of froth can be. Fred and Burgess
Meredith are a couple of University men
persistently managing to. fail in their
exams, in order to remain at the Uni. as
conductors of its orchestra, a job return-
ing them highly remunerative salaries.
Enter Miss Goddard to serve a summons
on Fred for not paying the instalments
on a set of encyclopaedias, and, partly on
the strength of her managing to do so and
partly on her looks, she is appointed
business manager of the orchestra. At
which stage Fred and Meredith suffer the
major tragedy of passing in their exams,
and so being cast on the world to earn
their living.
The rest of it is mainly in the vein of
all such mild comedy fare —lightly amus-
ing antics with Fred and the Goddard
sparring with each other right up to the
fadeout clinch. Fair to middling enter-
tainment.
* * * *
“Under Your Hat”
One of these days homo sapiens will
develop some method of being amused
without being noisy at the same time.
Until then shows like this one at Syd-
ney Embassy will suffer from the rather
unusual fault of being too good. The
laughs come so thick and fast that a good
half of them are drowned in guffaws.
“Under Your Hat” was seen in these
parts a year or so back as a stage show
with Edwin Styles in the Jack Hulbert
role. The story is one of those moon-
struck affairs, with Jack Hulbert as a
popular stage and screen man who is
appointed a secret service agent in a last
desperate attempt to regain a purloined
carburettor. The culprit is a bewchus
Ruritanian adventures, and Jack follows
her to Europe and is followed in turn by
Cicely Courtneidge, his stage partner and
wife, who is thinking more in terms of
Ruritarian wenches than carburettors.
It all ripples along, punctuated here and
there by bright song numbers delivered
in the Hulbert-Courtneidge manner.
* * * *
A light bill at Sydney Capitol includes
“Ride, Tenderfoot, Ride,” a modern
style musical Western, with plenty of
Gene Autry for those who like him. The
other half of the bill, “Give Us Wings,”
is an average tale about a bunch of
aeroplane-mad youngsters who have a
little experience of flying, but lack the
educational requirements for pilots’
licenses. They are picked up by the un-
scrupulous manager of a “crop-dusting”
concern who has a collection of worn-
out ’planes and is quite willing to get the
kids cheaply to undertake this suicidal
work. As depicted in the film it’s a
wonder any pilot would come at it. The
idea is to dust pest-killing chemicals over
crops from ’planes. The crops seem to
be small plots of a few acres surrounded
by tree windbreaks. The ’planes dive
down over the trees at one end, hurtle
along a few feet above the ground releas-
ing a stream of chemical powder and
zoom up at the crucial moment, clearing
the trees by a couple of feet. Then, if
they did clear the trees safely, they turn
round and do it all again. The Dead
End Kids turn in some bright slapstick
comedy, but they nearly undo it with
some sentimental moments.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Scarlet Lady”
Mr. John Hastings Turner’s play, put
on by the Melbourne Little Theatre at
St. Chad’s, South Yarra, is of the sort
which gives itself away in the first five
minutes when it is learned that the im-
possible young idiot, Reginald Gill, hav-
ing drunk one glass of port too many, has
Edwin Styles introducing Georgette — pardon—George Wallace and Morrie Barling
in some artistic calisthenics for the benefit of Jenny Howard, who, however, much
prefers her all-day sucker —“Second Crazy Show,” at Sydney Tivoli.
fallen asleep on the sofa in the drawing-
room of Mrs. Crane while her husband
is away in the city. When the improbable
Mrs. Crane descends from her bedroom
and finds the impossible Gill immersed
in slumber apd decides to spread around
the village the scandal that he has spent
the night with her so that her husband
will realise what an attractive wife he
has and how easy it would be for him
to lose her, the audience knows that no-
thing is about to happen.
If Mr. Turner had written his play
100 years ago he would have written it
like any other early-Victorian comedy.
Freud having lived and died, he can talk
about seductions and people sleeping to-
gether without benefit of marriage in a
way that would have horrified his grand-
mother. The play was, however, well
acted, if a bad play can be well acted,
especially by George Brook as the cheer-
ful young idiot, Frances Dillon as the
designing wife and Frederick French as
the husband.
“Fog,” a curtain-raiser by Sydney Fisk,
was more in line with the Little Theatre’s
objects. Marjorie Archibald is the
neurotic wife of a lighthouse-keeper (Eric
Haydn), and has become so bored and
frustrated with being isolated on the one
rock with the one man, amiable as he
may be, that she has taken to counting
the seconds between the blasts of the fog-
horn. When he goes ashore for necessary
equipment she becomes obsessed with the
idea that the blasts of the horn are driv-
ing ship captains mad and turns it off.
It was emotionally well rendered, but
ended abruptly, and the audience was
left with a merely factual account of a
neurosis, with no indication of the crisis
which must have produced it.
* * * *
“Sally”
Good business is being done at Melb.
His Majesty’s, where the charms of
“Sally” are being surveyed by the largest
and most wildly appreciative crowds that
that playhouse has seen for a decade.
Seven-tenths of the heart-throb goes to
Dot Rankin in the name-part, and the
little Australian dancer, singer and
comedian is generally regarded as in no
wise inferior to the originator of the role,
Josie Melville, and considerably her
superior in her capacity to give quality
to the emotions of the dishwasher who
rises to be a great lady. Most of the
rest goes to Don Nicol as the duke be-
come waiter. He is one of the best funny-
men seen in Melbourne for a long time.
Marjorie Gordon, Hal Thompson and
“Room for Two” are doing well at the
Comedy.
* * * «
Joyce Greer, 22-year-old Melbourne
pianist, essayed a difficult programme at
the Melbourne Assembly Hall last week.
She led off well with four sonatas by
Scarlatti. Then she tackled the Beethoven
sonata in A flat. Op. 110, and gamely
finished the first section with the “Varia-
tions and Fugue on a theme by Handel”
of Brahms. The last was a magnificent
effort.
Australian composer Arthur Benjamin
figured in the second half with a thrilling
scherzino, and a young Melbourne com-
poser, Dorian le Gallienne, nephew of the
poet, provided material for sensitive play-
ing in a nocture and a symphonic study.
Miss Greer rounded the evening off with
a toccata by Matthay, who was her
teacher in London.
ARTBURSTS
A.A.A. Show in Melbourne
The Australian Academy of Art is up
for inspection for the fourth time, this
time at the Melbourne Athenaeum. In
the landscape division, the “Sunlight
and Shadow” of Max Ragless (S.A.), the
“Sunflower Breakwind” of Marjorie
Gwynne (S.A.), Alma Figuerola’s “Back
Beach, Phillip Island” (Vic.), and the
“Golden Landscape” of William Prater
(Vic.) induce pleasant feelings, and a little
still-life by John Farmer (Vic.) looks nice
and unpretentious. But only one of the
aforementioned belongs to the A.A.As.
The true-blue three As. can’t be
said to have justified their claim to being
a national institution. They are not Argo-
nauts in search of the Golden Fleece, but
more like a party on an ocean liner ex-
changing current gossip. The Old Guard
weigh in with portraits in their accepted
manner, and a disquietening feature is
that the young portrait-painters, who are
not A.A.As., appear to be trying to paint
like the A.A.As.
Among the works of sculpture two
items strike the eye. They are the head
of a girl by Lyndon Dadswell (N.S.W.)
and a portrait bust of J. C. Goodhart by
V. R. Greenhalgh (Vic.). Again, those are
not the work of A.A.As. The most im-
portant piece of sculpture by an A.A.A.
is the equestrian memorial to Monash by
Leslie Bowles (Vic.). It is conven-
tional and stiff. Arthur Fleischmann
(N.S.W.) breaks away from one conven-
tion in his “Motherhood” only to fall
into another.
* * * *
Howard Mathews’s Show
Howard Mathews, an assortment of
whose work is on view at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, has tried various
mediums and various borrowed styles.
He is at his best in his most straight-
forward moods. A head, “Lesley,” and
still-lifes, “Camellias” and “Guelder-
Roses,” are excellent swift impressions.
“Seascape, Hobart,” in oils, could be hung
upside down or sidewise without affect-
ing its sense, for it has none, but it
makes a pretty decoration. The same
decorative flair is evident in a monotype,
“Boudoir Decoration.”
* * * *
Francis Lymburner’s Drawings
A show of pen and/or wash drawings
by Francis Lymburner at the Notanda
Gallery, Sydney, was opened by and pre-
sumably had the approval of a high
educational authority. An admirer of
Mr. Lymburner’s work states that it
demonstrates the use of wash and line
to serve a poetic vision rather than to
give a faithful transcription of things
seen. These drawings certainly are not
faithful transcriptions of things seen.
Whether they correctly interpret Mr.
Lymburner’s poetic vision is a matter, it
would seem, that Mr. Lymburner alone
is entitled to pass judgment upon.


PROTECTION
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS,
TENTS, Etc.
No matter how hard the downpour or how continuous the rain,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give you undoubted protection.
The canvas is made from highest grade raw materials by
Scottish workers and the famous BIRKMYRE PROOFING is
recognised as the world's best. Obtainable from reputable
makers. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supplies,
write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“M.H.R. says Australia’s social standard has
lowered.”
Still, he hasn’t yet been issued with a
brass pass.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The mind of the average woman is cleaner
than that of a man.”— Woman radio lecturer.
It certainly changes more frequently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One of the exhibits in the C.W.A. Handi-
craft Exhibition was a petticoat made from a
parachute.”— Woman’s paper.
If petticoats are any clue, the good old
days have gone, ’tis true. A modern petti-
coat is just a flimsy veil for hips and
bust. To make one from a parachute’s
a simple task, no man disputes. But still
it’s true that yesterday, when undies made
a big display, you could have fashioned,
please to note, a parachute from a netti-
coat. Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every child in Adelaide schools will receive
a free apple every day in future.”
—Education Minister.
It is understood that a strong protest-
has been lodged by the B.M.A.
•I* 4* 4« 4*
“Champagne not for Sir B. Stevens.”
■—Melbourne “Age.”
Still, his salary could hardly be called
small beer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Terrific taxation has caused the disappear-
ance of elite society in England.”
—Sunday paper.
Vanishing cream.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“You are taking a risk with the cutworm
if you force these plants for early budding.”
—Garden note.
A clear case of the early bud catching
the worm.
Doctors’ Bills.
“Doctors should be compelled to give item-
ised accounts just the same as any other pro-
fessional men.” —Magazine item.
Then perhaps we might expect a bill
something like this:
s. d.
Opening the door ~ 1 1
Use of waiting-room 2 2
Use of old magazines 1 1
Wear and tear of carpet .. . . 1 1
Asking patient to poke out tongue 3 3
Asking patient to say “ah” at
Is. Id. per “ah” 5 5
Sounding patient’s chest at Is. Id.
per tap 9 9
Writing prescription 4 4
Handing patient prescription .. 11
Telling patient when to call again 2 2
Total £1 11 5
W. P. T.
■‘lt irritated him to see river torrents running
to waste that should be put to use.” — “D.T.”
But all he could do was to stand on
their banks and damn them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although industrial expansion has resulted
in boom-time for some unions, others are
having their roubles.”— Sydney paper.
Names, please!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A dietist says that olives are very rich
in food values.”
That’s the good oil.
•I* *l* v 4*
“He came into her flat, knocked her down
and began breaking the furniture.”
—Court report.
Not only knocked her flat but knocked
her flat about.
+ 4* 4*
“Hollywood is, and always has been, a
women’s city.”— Film blurb.
Talkies simply had to come out of it.
4• 4* 4* 4*
“Those men who spend the greater part of
their lives behind bars—what must their
thoughts be when, during the long watches
when there is none to talk to, they ponder on
the great world outside?”
—Prison reform radio speaker.
They must be wondering where all
the good spenders have got to.
Figures Don’t Lie.
“Those long-winded and formal lovers in
mid-Victorian novels would have bored and
irritated the modern girl.”— Woman’s paper.
The modern miss would scorn and brand
As rot the kissing of her hand.
And tell the chap who tried to put
It into force to kiss her foot.
No long impassioned speech can tell
Her what she wants to know so well
As one revealing glance at what
His bankbook shows that he has got!
D. McM.
The Last Say.
A Great City has three Sunday
papers. One, the “Yellegraph,” decided
to include as a supplement a reprint of
the American “Crime.” So the “Stunt”
promptly hit back by announcing that
after years of the most intricate negotia-
tion it had secured the right to make a
re-hash of the columns of “Newsfreak,”
the great U.S. paper “which gets the news
of events before they really happen.”
Not to be outdone, the third paper,
“Struth,” threw out this advertisement:
“We will not include a supplement from
anywhere. We will go on in the same
old way, our policy being that No News
is Good News.”
ELM.
Snake Yarns.
“One of the women said that the place was
alive with mosquitoes.”— “Sun.”
It sounds very much like Maria. I
walked into the lounge-room the other
day when she was at it.
“My dear! The camping-ground
simply swarmed with snakes,” she was
telling Mrs. Listner. “They were every-
where ! ”
“Well,” I put in casually, “I would
hardly say”
“Aitchem! You know very well that
there were hundreds of them.”
And Maria’s eye warned me to keep
out of it. I did, and allowed Mrs. Listner
to go away thrilled.
It was when our visitor had gone that
the argument continued.
“That’s you all over, Aitchem!” said
Maria bitterly. “Trying to make a liar
of me! You know very well what they
were like at Sandbush Bay.”
Of course I knew. Coming back to
camp from the surf one day 1 had heard
a squeal and saw Maria huddled with
the children on top of a rock.
“Mind!” she had cried fearfully.
“There’s a huge snake just there. It
attacked us, and 1 was only just in time
to get the children to safety.”
For Maria’s peace of mind I had to
kill a harmless lizard.
Maria hadn’t got into her stride when
she told our fellow-campers that after-
noon there were dozens of snakes about
"No use Wasting ammunition on these things !”
the place. That was a week ago, and
now they were there in swarms. Next
week I expect it will transpire that we
weren’t able to move for them.
H.M.
The Expert.
“Clear out man wanted immediately, must
be experienced.” — “S.M.H.” ad.
Dear Sir, —
I wish to offer my services for the
position you advertise. I think I can say
without boasting that I am the most ex-
perienced clear out man this city has
produced.
Realising that to make a success of any
career one must start young, I cleared out
from home at an early age, after clear-
ing out all the moneyboxes I could find.
After such a good start my experience
rapidly widened. In quick succession I
had cleared out three safes, from gaol,
from several landladies and shopkeepers
and with a brandmew car.
The only hitch to my career came
when, in a weak moment, I cleared out
with my landlady’s daughter, but I soon
found that it was I who was being cleared
out. I have since cleared out successfully
from the wife, her mother and three
private detectives.
I am sure you will find me just the
man you want, and, if placed in a respon-
sible position, I can guarantee to show
you quick evidence of my peculiar ability.
I remain, yours faithfully,
J. FLEETFOOT
(per G.W.).
The Art of Acquiescing.
“Initiative for most domestic improvements
comes from the housewife.” — Woman’s paper.
Euphemia had her idea during a lull
while I unravelled the sticky mess of
paspalum that had become entangled
around the handle of the mower.
“I think,” she said, “we should go
in for some fowls. We might as well put
that jungle up at the back to some use.”
Long marital experience rose to
smother my first instinct to argue.
“Righto,” I acquiesced immediately,
instead of after a long wearing-down
campaign. “I’ll get the council’s permis-
sion to erect a fowlhouse. I’ll draw up
a”
“Nonsense!” retorted Euphemia. “The
idea of asking those fools! The Martins
have had one for years and they’ve had
no trouble.”
“That’s because they put it up before
this was declared a residential area. Any
new structure you’ve got to”
“But this won’t be a new structure,”
declared my spouse with true feminine
logic. “All we’ll need is a few sheets
of second-hand iron and some old net-
ting, and you’ve got some old timber in
the garage.”
Thus it was that the fowlhouse came
to be built. Euphemia stocked it with
a dozen Leghorns she got at the markets.
The return for the first week was one
egg which a color-blind butcher-bird
could easily have mistaken for its own.
Eggs were then 2s. 6d. a dozen and the
bran, pollard and wheat cost 2s. Bd.
Euphemia was for going back to the
markets and roaring the corsair up, but
I pointed out that it was a tradition
among backyard fanciers that their birds
only laid when eggs were lOd. a dozen.
On the first Saturday we had them we
dropped over to Euphemia’s aunt’s for
afternoon tea. She insisted on our
stopping for tea and the fowls missed
their first feed.
What with the wife’s afternoon bridge
parties and auxiliary meetings, the kids
forgetting and my being delayed some-
times at the office, as well as various
untoward week-end happenings, those
fowls were soon practised in night
scrounging. To see them hopefully ex-
ploring their domain in the Stygian
blackness with their beaks close to the
ground was a lesson in sheer assiduity.
One Saturday, coming from a late pic-
ture matinee, I opened the gate on the
milling, fluttering covey inside and hurled
the wheat over their backs, but the bone-
headed birds didn’t even hear it, let
alone see it. Apparently all their facul-
ties were becoming affected. I trod on
two of them in the darkness, and, as the
weekly egg ceased to appear, I gathered
that one victim was the only layer.
At the end of a month the remaining
birds were bleary-eyed and had com-
pletely changed their mode of existence,
searching for food during the night and
sleeping during the day. Their noc-
turnal efforts met with little success, ex-
cept at full moon. The p. and 1. account
at that date showed a credit of for
eggs and a debit of Bs. 2d. for feed,
with Euphemia still hopeful.
During a wet spell I developed a heavy
cold and Euphemia volunteered to feed
the fowls ; the first time she had done
so. The fowlyard was a slippery quag-
mire and the inmates soaked to the pin-
feathers. It took her two hours chas-
ing them back from the street, next door
and off her own garden after they got out
the gate she’d left open. Once, being
unable to open the gate for the pile of
churned-up mud and the fluttering fowls,
she tossed the feed through the netting.
Some of it fell on the wrong side, and
next morning five strangled chooks testi-
fied not only to their determined, one-
track minds but to the mistake of buy-
ing netting wire of a mesh large enough
to permit their heads to go through but
too small to allow of withdrawal.
By this time Euphemia was almost
hysterical. Then, three days later, a tall,
gaunt man with a severe face and walrus
moustache, who announced that he was
the nuisances inspector from the council,
told her that unless the fowlhouse was
pulled down within 24 hours he would
issue a prosecution for erecting an out-
building without first obtaining council’s
approval.
Euphemia couldn’t get me to do it
quickly enough. She gave the remaining
five fowls away.
Bo.


CITY TATTERS ALL'S CLUB
GOLD CUP MELTING
RandwicK, Saturday, May 3, 1941
First Race 1.30
City Tattersall’s Gold Cup of £lOOO and a Gold Cup valued at £lOO.
1 Mile 3 Furlongs.
A service of buses will run from King’s Cross and Bondi Junction to
the Racecourse.
Special Trams will run direct to the Racecourse.
All Races will be Described in Running through the Amplifiers.
Admission Tickets for the Saddling Paddock only may be purchased
from Messrs. Nicholson and Co., Callaghan House, George Street
(opposite old building), Sydney.
Official Stand Tickets will be sold on the Racecourse only.
5/- TOTALIS AT OR WILL OPERATE IN ALL ENCLOSURES.
198-200 Pitt Street, E. BYRON,
SYDNEY. Secretary.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS TAHT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT " )
Most improved three-year-old in
training in Melbourne is Sir Locket,
who recorded his third succcessive win
when he defeated Chamberlain and
Cumulus in the Aylesford Handicap at
Ascot on Saturday. Always nicely
placed, he hit the front when fairly on
the way for home, and, stalling off a
strong challenge by Chamberlain,
equalled Keeping Watch’s course record
of 2.8 for H mile 40 yards.
Owner P. Grant Hay has made no defi-
nite plans concerning Sir Locket’s im-
mediate future, but, even allowing for the
big difference between late autumn and
spring form, some keen judges predict
that the gelding might develop into a
Cups possibility. He is bred to stay,
being by Treyford (a brother to the dual
Derby and Melbourne Cup winner Tri-
valve) from the Spearhead mare Queen
Thaura, and has won over 13 furlongs
in restricted company at Flemington.
Sir Locket was bred at Hay’s stud on
Flinders Island, in Bass Strait, and
perhaps his owner now regrets having
sold his sire for £lOO. M. Conway has
made the most of his opportunities since
he became a private trainer for Hay
about three months ago. He had not
held a trainer’s license previously, but
gained considerable knowledge of horses
in Maoriland, where he rode about
100 winners. Later he was associated
with J. Fryer’s stable.
R. V. Kennedy, who trained for Hay
several years ago and won successive
Australian Hurdle Races with Lord
Darnley and Poidale, gave bookmakers
a 33-to-l result with Pretend in the
Strafford Trial Hurdle. Pretend, with a
will of his own and an aversion to the
barrier, exhausted the patience of more
than one trainer before he was sold
for 50 guineas last September. He was
bought by J. Chivell, munition worker,
and Chivell sold a share to Kennedy, with
whom he has been friendly for many
years. Pretend’s first win for them
yielded a prize of £lOO, and they risked
a few pounds on the tote, which paid at
the rate of approximately 66 to 1 for a
win and 11£ to 1 for a place. A five-
year-old gelding by Gay Lothario from
Chica, Pretend won very easily from
Prince Court and Fiftieth Battery, and
it may not be long before he succeeds
in better company. M. Glennon, who
rode him, is a son of the late Martin
Glennon, who was killed in a fall at
Caulfield long ago.
• •••••
Winner at a mile at Moonee Valley a
week earlier, Mollie Con, though fancied
by her connections, upset general calcula-
tions by beating a smart field of sprinters
for the Wokingham Handicap. An inside
run contributed to her half-head defeat
of the favorite, Unishak, but, while it
is difficult to detract from the merit
in her performance, she was definitely
lucky to win. Unishak, usually a brilliant
beginner, was last to leave the barrier,
a good way out of his ground in sixth
position near the half-mile, and forced
to go wide at the turn. Fifty yards from
home he looked all over a winner, but
the earlier exertions told, and Mollie
Con grabbed him in the last stride. Uni-
shak might not be as good as when he
won the Oakleigh Plate last year, but cir-
cumstances were against him on Satur-
day, and he might pay expenses of the
trip if it be decided to take him to Adel-
aide for the Goodwood Handicap.
Unishak’s stablemate Prince Ariel,
starting at 100 to 1 for the same race,
drew attention to his immediate future
by a fast-finishing sixth. He came from
last at the half-mile, and obviously is
progressing well in his preparation for
the Adelaide Cup. He should be hard to
beat the first time he tackles a distance
beyond six furlongs. Beaufiler finished
a good third after having every chance,
but Con Naru may have done better than
fourth had he not met with several
checks in running. Prince Ronald,
winner of four successive races, and
backed from sevens to fives, was never
dangerous, but will do better in welter
company at seven furlongs or a mile.
Atorna, winner of his previous two races,
looked particularly fit, but was beaten
some distance from home.
Phildoll recorded her fourth successive
win when she easily defeated Swetten-
ham and Clever Son in the Plymouth
Welter Handicap. Always favorite on
the strength of three wins at provincial
meetings, she ran to the front approach-
ing the turn, and wound up with over
two lengths to spare. A five-year-old by
Devonshire from Philletta, she is a vastly
improved galloper, and the handicappers
may not yet have her measure. Phildoll
is trained by George Scobie, a nephew
of the late James Scobie, and a former
successful cross-country rider. Swetten-
ham had every chance, but Clever Son
ran home strongly, and is due for a win
shortly. Paramente, backed from tens to
9 to 2, was never dangerous.
Big money was left with bookmakers
when Basalt stayed at the post and took
no part in the Torrington Handicap.
The colt gave such an obstinate display
when attempts were being made to get
him into line that his price eased from
7 to 4 to 5 to 2, and, although facing
the tapes when they rose, he refused to
budge. A section of the crowd yelled
uncomplimentary remarks to rider O.
Callinan when he brought Basalt back,
but the “demonstration,” such as it was,
was entirely unwarranted. Stewards
subsequently informed trainer E. Mc-
Naughton that the colt would be banned
from metropolitan racing if he behaved
similarly again.
Despite Basalt’s antics, bookmakers
had no reason to enthuse over the result.
Naval Revue, backed from fours to 5
to 2, duly justified the confidence reposed
in him. He jumped to the front from the
rails position, was joined later by En-
deavour, but finished the better of the
two to win by half a length. Naval
Revue was inclined to run greenly, and
impresses as sure to improve with experi-
ence. By Drake from Bright Comedy, he
cost 375 guineas as a yearling, and rep-
resents the last of Drake’s progeny sold
at auction. Endeavour can be placed to
advantage, but perhaps Scottish Chief,
who finished third, will improve more
than either the first or second horse.
Scottish Chief, a Gay Lothario colt who
cost 700 guineas as a yearling, did not
race generously in the early stages, and
it was only in the straight that he began
to stretch out freely. He looks the part
of a good horse, and should win his
share of races for E. W. Craig, owner of
The Decoration. The Golden Promise
filly Roseate, who made her racecourse
debut with a promising fifth, might also
be worth remembering.
Owned and trained in the southern dis-
tricts of N.S.W., Beau Lake gave most
bookmakers a “skinner” when he nar-
rowly defeated another outsider, Brazen
Duchess, in the first division of the Mur-
chison Trial Handicap. He finished too
strongly for the grey, who looked the
winner 50 yards from home, while
Kalbar ran on well in third place. P.
Stevens, trainer of Beau Lake, took out
a license only a few months ago, after
two of his brothers, George (leading
Riverina jockey) and Doug (trainer of
many winners), had left for service over-
seas with the A.I.F. Stevens himself has
had considerable experience with horses.
He states that he was associated with G.
Price’s Randwick stables for seven years,
during which time he looked after Veil-
mond, and later was associated with T.
Lewis at Flemington. He has made a
good start with Beau Lake, who is to re-
turn to Wagga for the Cup meeting in
that town on May 7 and 8. Beau Lake
is not engaged in the Cup, but may win
a minor handicap. Sunixa, backed as if
unbeatable for Saturday’s race, tired after
leading for home with Home Secretary.
Leporis, sold last November for
guineas, won another race for his new
owner when he beat Profuse and Man-
talini in the second division of the Mur-
chison Trial Handicap, Leporis looked
like winning comfortably when he had
Star Leaf “covered” about 100 yards
from home, but Profuse eventually ran
him to a head. Mantalini finished
strongly to beat Star Leaf by inches for
third money, and will appreciate a dis-
tance farther than seven furlongs. Master
Craft, backed from 7 to 1 down to equal
favoritism at fours with Deniker, looked
to be going comfortably on the bend,
but revealed no dash in the straight, and
finished fifth, just ahead of Deniker, who
had every chance.
Canterbury Park was unlucky in its
hurried postponement of its meeting last
week, as no matter how fine tomorrow
may be, an attendance approaching that
of a Saturday cannot be expected. From
the first a small field for the Clissoid
Handicap was practically certain, as a
maximum of 9st. gave the top and middle
weights such an advantage over most
of the lightweights that there was little
likelihood of many of the latter being left
in. It is to be hoped the Canterbury Cup
fares better. The club can congratulate
itself on the fact that Gold Salute has
gone to Brisbane. If he had remained
in Sydney it is probable that his 8.2 in
the Canterbury Cup would have caused
several owners to decide that payment
of an acceptance fee of £8 for that race
was inadvisable. Any winner tomorrow
can be rehandicapped for the Cup.
* * * *
Racing is doing a lot for war funds,
and the suggestion of greatly reducing it
before it is really necessary is, in many
quarters, regarded as something of a
vote-catching move. The idea will cer-
tainly appeal to those people who have
always opposed it. Horseracing is prac-
tically dead in many parts of N.S.W.
—greyhound racing, a less desirable
sport, has taken its place—and anything
approaching a drastic cut in the metro-
politan area would throw out of employ-
ment a large number of men who are
useless for any other work than that
associated with horses. Nothwithstand-
ing Germany is doing its utmost to bomb
England out of existence, the Govern-
ment and Jockey Club are going sis far
as possible in providing racing as a re-
laxation. At present, at any rate, there
is no necessity for reducing it to a mini-
mum in any Australian State, and I am
not overlooking the seriousness of the
war position.
* * * *
The win-and-place tote at Ascot last
week was a pronounced success, the
turnover being £5566 10s. for six races,
against £2934 for seven races on the
place machine at the previous meeting.
It looks as if all the metropolitan clubs
will now have to come into line in order
to please their patrons, as well as get the
best possible out of the machine for
themselves.
* * * *
In the dispersal sale of the racehorses
and brood mares in the estate of the late
W. Booth some sold really well. Leila
Vale made 625gns. and her two-year-old
son Melvale (by Melfort) sold for
1150gns. The latter has had only two
runs, and there was a lot of merit in his
effort when he came from a long way
back at the turn to finish third in the
December Stakes. At his next start,
about a month later, he was a 7-to-4
favorite for the Widden Handicap, in
which he had 8.10. He ran only fourth,
but it was by no means bad form, as
those ahead of him were Beau Port
(8.8), Henchman (7.4) and Prince (7.9).
Still, 1150gns. is a stiff price for a maiden
two-year-old, and it is no certainty he
will prove a better purchase than Two’s
Company, who was sold for 650gns. If
Mark Twain is sound he was cheap at
150gns.
♦ * * *
At the A.J.C. autumn meeting only
Double Remove, Chatham, Constant
Son and Veilmond prevented N.S.W.
sires being completely eclipsed by those
of Victoria, Queensland and Maoriland
in prize-money. Thanks to Lucrative and
Tranquil Star, Gay Lothario was well
ahead of every other stallion in prize-
money, Double Remove coming next,
and then Beau Pere, who was in Maori-
land when he sired Beau Vite. If it
had depended upon form shown at Rand-
wick, some sires would have scarcely
fared as well as they did at the yearling
sales. In the appended list I have given
the minor place-money as well as that
for first credited each sire represented
by a winner. For instance, The Buzzard
had only one winner, Yaralla, but
Katanga, another of his sons, scored two
thirds:
Ist. 2nd. 3rd. Stakes.
Gay Lothario .. .. 3 1 0 £8675
Buzzard .. .. 1 0 2 3600
Double Remove .. 2 1 0 3260
Beau Pere . . .. 2 3 0 2605
Manfred .. .. 1 0 0 2250
Heroic ... .. 12 1 1940
Constant Son.. .. 2 1 3 1510
Chatham . . .. 2 0 3 1500
Lord Warden.. .. 1 1 0 1325
Veilmond .. .. 1 1 1 H 45
Lord Quex .. .. 1 0 0 1000
Marconigram .. .. 1 2 1 820
Pentheus .. .. 1 0 0 760
Umidwar .. .. 1 i 0 610
Hall Mark .. .. 1 O' 0 520
El Cacique .. .. 1 0 0 520
Glenariff .. .. 1 0 0 520
Harinero .. .. 1 0 0 520
Scintillation .. .. 1 1 0 460
Rossendale .. . . 1 0 0 380
Of the successful sires Manfred,
Heroic, Chatham, Hall Mark, Pentheus
and Glenariff were bred in Australia
and Veilmond in Maoriland. With the
exception of Umidwar (sire of Burhan
Ali) the remainder were imported by
either Australian or Maoriland breeders.
* * * *
Good fields, either numerically or in
quality, are unusual in hurdle races at
Randwick, but four runners for the £5OO
on the second day probably did give the
A.J.C. committee cause for doubt whether
it was a branch of sport really worth
catering for at all liberally. However,
in reducing the acceptance fee from £5
to £2 for the £650 race in June it is
giving it full encouragement. A hurdle
race adds variety to a programme, and
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Belinda Trial Hurdle; Ti-Trol,
1 ; Jack Farr, 2 ; Virile, 3.
Waroona Handicap; Invidious,
1; Colonus, 2 ; The Trapper, 3.
Bulla Trial Handicap: Radama,
1 ; Dantry, 2; Manstar, 3.
Moreland Steeplechase: Tifone,
1 ; Whernside, 2 ; Laveur, 3.
Glen Elgin Handicap: Kooren-
been, 1; Cumulus, 2 ; Gay Invader,
3.
Magdala Welter Handicap:
Phildoll, 1 ; Contact, 2 ; Procyon, 3.
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill.)
By “PILOT.”
Novice Handicap—First division:
On Account, 1 ; Duke Claro, 2;
Timken, 3. Second division:
Arcadia, 1 ; Royal Robin, 2;
Rondeval or Sheffield Shield, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap
(colts and geldings)—First division:
Drifter, 1 ; Darjoa, 2 ; Sundart, 3.
Second division: Penaire, 1 ; Lid-
worth, 2; Hereford, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap
(fillies) —First division: Glide, 1 ;
Miss Leonard, 2 ; Portia, 3. Second
division; The Hussy, 1 ; Fanvolan,
2 ; Good Company, 3.
Flying Handicap: Irish Sea, 1 ;
Denita, 2 ; Tarn, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Over-
joyed, 1 ; Australasia, 2; Many
Ways, 3.
Trial Handicap: Kestrel, 1 ;
Bellarado, 2 ; Royal Land, 3.


many people appreciate it, but it would
appear that those run over a long dis-
tance have no attraction for owners or
trainers. A two-year-old handicap would
have given the club a better return in
every way than the third day’s hurdle
race. Seemingly the only way to assure
fair-sized fields at Randwick on every
occasion would be to reduce the distance
to less than two miles. In fact, some
owners would be pleased if their horses
were not asked to go beyond a mile
and a quarter. Opinions differ, but as a
rule it would be difficult to say much
that is favorable concerning hurdling at
Randwick.
* H-. * *
B. R. Payten has 11 or 12 yearlings
in his stable, the highest priced of these
being the Double Remove-Lady Silvius
filly (1050gns.), Harinero-Engaged colt
(750gns.) and Hall Mark-Lady Zelteers
colt (550gns.).
* * H= *
Recently a friend from the country was
advocating the establishment of betting
shops, something to which I am opposed.
On my remarking that with facilities
made easier many more women would
be attracted to betting, even though they
were debarred by any Act from fre-
quenting shops, he laughed and re-
marked: “Perhaps that is a reasonable
objection, as, when it comes to betting,
women will go a long way. Where I
come from, as in Sydney, refreshment-
rooms will take soft-drink bottles at a
penny each. Recently a youngster, rush-
ing into one of these and planking down
two bottles, said ‘Give me twopence.’
‘Very well,’ said the proprietress, ‘but
you’ll have to call back for your money.
I’ve got nothing but silver.’ ‘Can’t
wait,’ said the youngster, ‘must have it
now. Mother has got only tenpence
and she wants to have a bet on the next
race.’ ”
Weather played havoc with Easter
racing in some parts of Maoriland, and
naturally attendances and tote turnover
suffered. At the Auckland R.C. meeting,
however, conditions were favorable, and
on the two days £177,790 went through
the machines, against £161,350 a year
ago. Aucklanders, like Sydneyites, are
evidently in a spending mood where
racing is concerned. Dividends are not
published in Maoriland papers, but, as
£5OOO went on Kindergarten for the
Great Easter Handicap, his supporters
probably received a dividend that was
more surprising than pleasing. Those
backers who made up that £5OOO evi-
dently believed that a small profit was
better than none at all.
* * * *
At the Sydney and Melbourne sales
last season 35 yearlings were sold at
prices ranging from 3300gns. down to
700gns., and of these only one, Yaralla,
had done sufficiently well up to the be-
ginning of this month to be a starter
for the A.J.C.’s most valuable two-year-
old races. Some were not entered, and
others have not yet been seriously
trained. They may come to the fore
next season, but the low percentage of
even fair performers among the many
high-priced sold each year is striking.
Most buyers who go to the four-figures
mark are hopeful of a quick and sub-
stantial return, but so far Yaralla’s owner
is the only one of last season’s buyers so
favored.
It is no fault of breeders if their
highest-priced yearlings do not fulfil ex-
pectations—with future sales in view they
naturally wish they would but in
respect of a satisfactory return the odds
seem to be much more in favor of the
buyer who gives 250gns. for each of four
yearlings than the one who puts all his
eggs in one basket and pays lOOOgns. or
more for one. It is easy to recall several
high-priced yearlings whose appearance
and breeding could not be faulted, but
never returned anything approaching the
amount paid for them. Comparatively
few buyers of four-figure yearlings have
had cause to congratulate themselves on
their astuteness. Lucrative, the leading
three-year-old earner of this season, was
a 450gns. yearling.
* * * *
The Queensland Turf Club (Brisbane)
is not receiving the patronage from Syd-
ney owners that was expected and war-
ranted by its liberal prize-money. Present
indications are that the Brisbane AJ.C.
(Doomben) will be much more strongly
supported. Sydney, however, will have
two good representatives in Gold Salute
and Burhan Ali at the Q.T.C. fixture.
Both are suited by a mile and a quarter,
and, with the minimum 7.0 in the More-
ton Handicap, Gold Salute’s 9.4 is of
course equal to 8.11 with the ordinary
minimum of 6.7. Consequent on his
All-Aged Plate win and his second in
the Cropper Plate with 9.5 it is improb-
able Gold Salute would now be as well
treated in any handicap in Sydney as in
the Moreton Handicap. Beaulivre, who
appears quite himself again, is, according
to present arrangements, to compete at
Doomben, and St. Constant is another
likely visitor. As the meeting at Doom-
ben takes place on July 5 and 12, horses
racing at Randwick on June 14 and 16
will have plenty of time in which to take
the northern trip after competing at
Randwick.
* * * *
It must have been a wrench for the
W.A.T.C. (Perth) chairman, E. Lee
Steere, when he decided to have six gold
cups won by his horses smelted and the
gold sold for the purpose of the proceeds
going into the Commonwealth loan free
of interest. The W.A. sportsman has had
replicas made of the originals—a Sydney
Cup, two Caulfield Cups, two Williams-
town Cups, and a King’s Cup—and they
will give him as much satisfaction as
half a dozen gold cups which he is
alleged to have said were hidden away
from one year to another, and in his
opinion were neither useful nor orna-
mental. Trophies are rarely greatly
valued except by the owners of the horses
that won them. In an “old silver” shop
in Pitt-street some years ago there was
a great collection of cups won by promi-
nent horses. When the owners died their
descendants decided there was more to
be gained by selling or pawning them
than in keeping them as evidence of the
deeds of some old-time crack.
ay » * *
G. Price is to train the Talking-French
Model colt bred by A. E. Cooper, and
purchased by Miss O. McCann, of Bris-
bane, for 1200gns. So far this season
Price has not been as fortunate as usual
with his two-year-olds, but he will have
a strong team for the coming one, both
numerically and on the score of breeding.
He * * *
Santa Anita has been something more
than a goldmine for C. S. Howard. Santa
Anita started racing seven years ago,
and during that period Howard’s horses
have won $516,930 (approximately
£A157,000) at that track. At the recent
meeting Howard’s horses accounted for
$174,835 (about £A43,130). The prize-
money for the whole of the 51 days at
Santa Anita in December, January, Feb-
ruary and March was $1,076,765 (about
£A507,540), and the tote turnover
$39,984,394 (a little more than
£A 10,934,000), of which 4 per cent,
(nearly £A438,000) went to the State of
California. The most put through on one
day was $1,698,153 (about £A556,520)
for eight races. With the machine giving
such a substantial return to the State,
it is almost needless to say bookmakers
have little chance of ever getting a foot-
ing at Santa Anita.
Entries for the Kentucky Derby of
$75,000 added money, 1} mile, to be run
on May 3 next, closed on February 15
of this year, and totalled 112. Nomina-
tion fee was $25, and it costs $5OO addi-
tional to start. It is difficult to see that
anything is gained in any way by clos-
ing entries for Australian classic races
from 16 to 22 months before they are
run. Something would be lost to the
clubs in entrance fees if a change were
made, but insufficient to make it a really
serious matter.
* * * *
Camera finishes, on the American
principle of photographing them, have
been of assistance in that country, but
whether there is any crying need for
them in Australia is a matter of opinion.
With the judge’s box placed well back
from the outer rail and a wire from
the box to the winning post as a guide
there is rarely much possibility of
mistake. Judges are not infallible
and mistakes have been made, but
my experience is that most clamor on the
score of alleged errors generally comes
from disappointed backers who have wit-
nessed finishes from ten to a hundred
yards from the winning-post. Practical
men are aware what can happen even in
the last ten yards of a race. At Rand-
wick the only persons in the paddock
who can get in direct line with the win-
ning-post are the judge and his assistant,
and the steward on top of the box.
There is no other position in the pad-
dock that enables a spectator to take in
clearly the line from the judge’s box to
the winning-post.
* * * *
Not only was the favorite, Mioland,
beaten in the $lOO,OOO Santa Anita Han-
dicap, but Bimelech, at odds on, fared
similarly in the Widener Cup, of $50,000,
run at Hialeah Park (Miami), the same
day. As it rained all Friday and there
was a downpour of three and a half
inches on Saturday morning it was not
surprising that Mioland, under his 8.12,
was beaten by the 58-to-l chance Bay
View, who is described by one American
writer as “a scarred, thin-shanked, ordi-
nary-looking four-year-old.” He led all the
way, and as his joint owners, A. Pellerini
and his wife, had $lOO on him, in addi-
tion to collecting nearly $90,000 prize-
money, they had a good win. Later at
the meeting Mioland won the San Juan
Capistrano Handicap, \\ mile, with 9.4
in the track record time of 2.29 y. First
money was $44,310.
The weather was also bad at Hialeah
Park, and the Widener Cup winner, Big
Pebble, was a 16-to-l chance. Jointly
owned by E. S. Moore and his wife, Big
Pebble beat his stable-companion Get
Off by a head. Bimelech, who won a
race on one of the early days of the meet-
ing, was supposed to be back to his best
three-year-old form, but 9st., with the
track against him, saw him finish a very
tired fourth. After the race it was given
out that Bimelech would not be raced
again, but was to go immediately to the
stud.
* * * *
Word from Maoriland is that Kinder-
garten is for sale, but as the price asked
is something over £lO,OOO it is improb-
able there will be a rush for him on the
part of Australian buyers. Kinder-
garten is undeniably good, but whether
he is all that is suggested by his latest
handicap win—the Auckland Easter Han-
dicap, one mile, with 9.11, minimum
7.0 —depends greatly upon the class of
horses at present racing in Maoriland.
Presumably they are up to the average,
but it is improbable the older horses in-
clude any that approach the standard of
Beau Vite. Kindergarten’s deeds will
cause him to be given his full share of
weight in Australia’s important spring
handicaps, and as Beau Vite, Gold
Salute, Beaulivre, High Caste, Mildura,
Lucrative and Tranquil Star will be
among his opponents in w.f.a. races there
will be no “easy money” in any of those.
Kindergarten may be worth over £lO,OOO,
but in view of the probable strength of
the opposition in the spring the buyer
who gives that price for him is unlikely
to get an early return of his money.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes has in a short period put
so much money into horse-breeding and
-racing, and is helping war funds from
his horses’ winnings, that he deserves any
success that comes his way. Last week’s
Ascot meeting gave him a winner in the
two-year-old filly Epic Poem, who is by
Piccadilly from Loquacious (dam of
Feminist) and as a yearling was sold for
55gns, So far Piccadilly’s progeny have
not had marked success, but Epic Poem
looks like continuing to improve. Epic
Poem’s win must also have been gratify-
ing to the buyer who gave 950gns. for
her half-brother, by Midstream, at the
recent yearling sales. As Loquacious has
thrown gallopers to two different stallions
probabilities favor her doing so to a third,
especially as her Midstream colt is of
really good type. He is to be trained by
G. Musson.
* * * *
The coming month’s fixtures in Sydney
are as follows; May 3, City Tattersall’s
Club; May 7, Kensington; May 10,
Canterbury Park; May 14, Victoria
Park ; May 17, Tattersall’s Club ; May
21, Rosehill; May 24, Warwick Farm
(Randwick); May 28, Rosebery; May
31, Moorefield.
* * * *
The owner of Mosaic is said to be
hopeful of selling him to some American
breeder for stud purposes. Mosaic’s
credentials are first class in respect of
breeding and galloping ability, but,
though it was not always so, it might
be hard now to convince Americans that
Australian- or Maoriland-bred horses
equal their own. They don’t mind pay-
ing a big price for an English stallion,
and, though £31,000 was paid in Australia
for Beau Pere to go to America, he was
not only English-bred, but was the sire
of two great racehorses in Beau Vite
and Beaulivre, as well as other good per-
formers. It is not so many years ago
that Windbag and Spearfelt, both Mel-
bourne Cup winners, were on offer for, I
think, about £5OOO each in America, but
no one wanted them. And not so long ago
1 read an article by an American breed-
ing authority in which he stated that
Australia would greatly benefit by the
importation of American bloodstock.
Perhaps, but 29 years ago I. H.
Wheatcroft sent a big shipment from
America to Sydney. It was boomed by
American papers, and its loss lamented,
but it would be incorrect to say Aus-
tralia greatly benefited. Some of the
horses won races, but, so far from the
stallions and mares giving Australia a
great uplift, little is heard nowadays of
any of their descendants. While pro-
found belief in the superiority of their
own stock obtains, it will probably be
hard to sell an Australian- or Maoriland-
bred stallion in America, no matter how
good his racing deeds apd breeding.
* * ¥ *
The present outlook for owners is
bright so far as the Australian Jockey
Club is concerned. The club has the
power of reducing advertised prize-
money if circumstances warrant it, but
last week it was decided that the next
Epsom Handicap and Metropolitan
should be worth £3OOO and £5OOO respec-
tively, while the Sires’ Produce Stakes
carries £3500, Champagne Stakes £2500
and 1942 A.J.C. Derby £5OOO. Breeders
have a lot for which to thank the A.J.C.
in assisting to maintain yearling prices.
A.J.C. profits go to patriotic and war
funds, and last financial year nearly
£13,000 was distributed in that fashion.
In Melbourne, too, prize-money is to be
kept at a high level. The Moonee Valley
Club has announced that next season the
Moonee Valley Cup will remain at £3OOO,
subject to reservations in connection with
the war. Prize-money and entrance and
acceptance fees can be reduced.
MaQ. and Rafferty
Ambrose Palmer having retired, Foots-
cray has taken Al. Basten to its heart.
In his second engagement with Young
Frisco, Basten showed decided improve-
ment. The Oriental himself was in better
shape than when he made his first appear-
ance, and was always dangerous. But,
thinking and punching a bit quicker,
Basten got the decision at the end of the
12th round, and was clearly entitled to it.
Melbourne is having a bit of a boxing
boom. Between 6000 and 7000 persons
were paying customers at the West Mel-
bourne Stadium.
Footbrawl
With the exception of Footscray v.
Hawthorn —’Scray kicked 13.15 to 7.10
—scoring in the first series of Melbourne
League matches was exceptionally high
and results exceptionally close. There
was one point only between North and
Geelong, and North had it —15.18 to
15.17. Three points separated Carlton
and Essendon (Carlton, 15.12 to 15.9),
and Saints had but five behinds to spare
against “Sowth” —12.20 to 12.15.
Fitzroy has an initial lead on percent-
ages: it scored 17.12 to Melbourne’s
13.12. Collingwood failed to get the old
system into working order against Rich-
mond’s Tigers, and went under by 11.11
to 13.17. With teams always uncertain
as servicemen find leave difficult there
may be some surprising changes in
positions.
The Association has been at it for
three weeks. On Saturday Prahran gave
Brighton a dreadful doing, 22.16 to 9.13,
and moved up second to Preston. The
others have all been beaten, and Yarra-
ville, Camberwell and Sandringham
(blotted out 27.21 to 4.15 by Brunswick)
haven’t yet cut a notch.
* * * *
Sydney’s Rugby Union split its open-
ing games between Friday and Satur-
day. Randwick, on top last year, kicked
off against a very young West team and
suffered repeated shocks. With ten
minutes to go the Westerners were lead-
ing 11-ni7, their forwards having proved
decidedly superior. At last the Rand-
wick backs asserted themselves, and, run-
ning up three quick tries (one converted),
they made it 11 all. St. George trounced
Manly 20-3, and the likely-looking Uni-
versity lot downed Parramatta 21-14 after
a hard tussle. Gordon just managed to
touch off Drummoyne (sadly lacking a
goal kicker), 8-6, and East accounted for
North 8.3.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Shot Gun, I ;
King’s Cross, 2 ; Volpato, 3.
Quality Handicap: Harprey, 1 ;
It’s Funny, 2 ; Cradle Song, 3.
Frederick Clissold Handicap:
Trimmer, 1 ; Flying Knight, 2 ;
Rathlin, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Heiron, 1 ;
Gilltown, 2; Hedonic, 3.
First Trial Stakes —First division:
Bruce Wood, 1 ; Paul Muni, 2 ;
John Halifax, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Bestop, 1 ;
Bonny Loch, 2 ; Pimm’s, 3.
First Trial Stakes Second
division; Southerly, 1 ; Fan Dancer,
2 ; On Account or John Mac, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
By “PILOT.”
{Before acceptances .)
Hurdle Race: Masterpiece, 1 ;
Rossjoy, 2.
Youthful Stakes: Fort Morgan,
1 ; Condignity, 2 ; Thrax, 3.
Denman Stakes: Evergreen, 1 ;
Winifred, 2 ; Bona Fide, 3.
Trial Handicap: Picaroon, 1 ;
Beauregard, 2 ; Melorado, 3.
City Tattersall’s Cup: Proud Fox,
1 ; Chatoona, 2; Pennywise or
Feminist, 3.
Club Welter: Sethia, 1 ; Merton,
2 ; War Trophy, 3.


RESULT OF
COMPETITION
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
The recent Competition attracted thousands of entries, from which the Directors
have selected the name
“PINEX”
for the Company’s new Fibre Wallboard.
This was suggested by a number of Competitors, and in accordance with the
rules of the Competition the £3O Cash Prize has been divided equally between
the first ten entries opened containing this name. The sum of £5 has been
despatched to each of the following Competitors:—
NEW ZEALAND: Walter Brazendene, Onehunga; C. H. Colechin, Cashmere,
Christchurch; W. L. Bell, Public Works Dept., Whangarei; Miss V. P. Barrett,
c/o Nat. Bank of N.Z., Palmerston N.; Claude W. Stick, Colac Bay, Southland.
AUSTRALIA: Alma L. Glaskin, Mosman Pk., W.A.; L. R. Edwards, Earlwood,
Sydney; E. E. Patrick, Unley, S.A.; Mrs. J. M. Banks, Yallourn, Vic.; S. H. Ledger,
Nannup, W.A.
The Directors wish to thank all Competitors for their Entries.
PINEX PRODUCTS will be of the highest quality and will be in manufacture
about the end of this year. Shareholders are requested to use the products of
the Company when they appear on the market.
Missing Friends
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
NORMA ESTHER PATERSON and HAZEL
IRENE PATERSON, who are understood to
be residing in Australia and who are daughters
of Percy Bernard Paterson, late of Cambridge
and Amberley, New Zealand, is requested to
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’COEN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns —■
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
i Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
How many inches have the palms
along the garden side of Macquarie-
street added to their height since the first
march of the Anzacs? They rustled,
whispering to one another, under a blue
and sunny sky last Friday morning when
the Anzacs marched again. Up the wide
sweep of Macquarie-street they stepped,
these middle or almost middle-aged men
who were the heroic lads of 1914-18.
They haven’t lost their old dash yet,
though many have lost their waistline.
Well dressed and shabby they swung
along shoulder to shoulder.
Macquarie-street positively clanked
with medals as the men moved to their
places. There were streams of men and
shiploads of decorations. Seeping through
the whole route of the march was the
scent of rosemary. Out streamed the
maroons, the yellows, the violets, the
greens, the blues of the regimental colors.
Bands played, pipes skirled, and the sun
caught the red of bandsmen’s coats, the
reds and blacks, the green of tartans.
There a very junior Red Grosser marched
beside her father. There was movement,
there was comradeship, there was the
irrepressible laughter of the Anzac, 1914
or 1941 model. There was solemn re-
solve, too. That was felt in the great
moment when the marchers reached the
Cenotaph.
The Governor, Lord Wakehurst, led
the march, wearing civilian clothes.
Brigadier-General James Heane was in
command. There were V.Cs., there were
mounted pofice. There were soldiers from
Libya ; and thousands of citizens lined
the ways to cheer and clap these old
and new veterans as they passed.
It is said there were forty thousand
people at the dawn service in Martin-
place. Those who have waited in that
hour when the chill fingers of the linger-
ing night pluck avidly at the earth will
know the tenseness of those packed
humans waiting for the break of day.
Hundreds again this year waited all
night, hugging the shelter of the high
buildings, their memories in the past.
That their hopes are in the future could
be heard in the grey light, as later, at the
Domain service in the singing of “O God,
Our Help.” Then there was the Cenotaph,
a floral torch to imperishable glory. Here
were laurels and poppies and the flower
compositions from soldier and sailor and
Governmental bodies. Here were simple
knots of flowers. Here, too, was a basket
of white roses in memory of Nurse
Cavell.
The big womanly event of last week
was, of course, the C.W.A. conference.
This filled the art gallery in David Jones’s
George-street store with women speakers,
loudspeakers and women listeners. From
practice in the art of addressing meet-
ings, and from first-hand knowledge of
the subjects they tackle, delegates speak
with directness and extreme lucidity. This
keeps the outside listener, as well as the
initiate, interested. All last week, start-
ing from Monday, when their handicrafts
exhibition was opened by Mrs. Mair,
happy-looking delegates, purpose in their
eyes and badges on their blouse or lapel,
have met in trams, buses or just walking
with one end in common, and that was
the C.W.A. pitch, The handicrafts exhi-
bition was in David Jones’s in Elizabeth-
street, the discussions at the George-
siree. store.
The 600 delegates came bearing
treasure. Queensland’s president Mrs.
Farmer brought a cheque for £5OO
from the C.W.A. Sheepskin Vests Com-
mittee. These vests areto men on ac°”e
service, and the Queensland branch has
mnfriWpH finm amm /•
contributed over £lOOO and 2000 skins
!ch were sent to this State to be made
up. Nor were the people in England
forgotten. On the second day of the
conference, in response to a suggestion
to send a mobile canteen to our kin over-
ih^m £60 ° T as / aised m a 5 e t W
hp annn'nnrpf| 0 oov rVsrw’ u ame
ramnnflaop to buy cor F* or
. in tf, are ))ow being
S2S r °T S 1? G™s™nor-
th crtJn • n* advertises itself by
p mng w eel in the window.
Lady Wakehurst opened the conclave,
the nineteenth of the association’s growth,
Lady Gowrie was a visitor during a
morning session. Mrs. F. A. Crawford,
vice-president of Griffith branch, had
the proud duty of taking over from
Premier Mair's wife cups won by the
/-a H ... r
Griffith and the Muiiumbidgee-Lachlan
groups. Harefield branch in the Rivet ma
received one for record attendances.
There were flowers for the retiring presi-
dent, Mrs. J. W. C. Beveridge,
and for the new president, Mrs. Jack
? ar I y ' /-a Hu , be F t E air f ax anc * M*"s.
E. A. Coghlan, chairman of the handi-
crafts committee, were notables of a
week scintillating with organising talent
and commonsense.
Mrs. J. Bernays has a right to smile,
With John Maltman, one of the college
masters, she has organised the Tartan
Fair. This promises to put another thou-
sand or two into Scots College sock to-
wards the purchase of a Spitfire. The
fair will be opened at three o’clock next
Saturday by knight Donald Cameron,
who, incidentally, has more than one-
third of the alphabet in letters after his
name. He will have a guard of honor
of Scots pupils in their Black Watch
tartans. Stallholders are frantically busy
putting price tags on the mountains of
stock for the various ventures. Anybody
who is musical will find an unbeatable
range of records at Mrs. Frank Wright’s
bookstall. Already the treasury is around
the first thousand corner. It is up to all
who have even a tickle of the bonny
purple heather in their blood to go
bounding out to Victoria-road, Bellevue
Hill, next Saturday. Photograph of Mrs.
Bernays by Talma.
The singing of the specially-composed
“Poland, You Will Rise Again,” will lift
the star of hope at the afternoon of music
to be held at Farmer’s on May 2. This
is Poland’s National Day, and this date
will also be observed in this State as
War Victims’ Day. The songs and music
of the stricken land will be featured in
the afternoon’s programme, which starts
at half-past two. Tickets are a modest
two shillings each, and the profits will
buy wool to knit into comforts for Polish
soldiers who are fighting with the British
forces. Mrs. F. Brigg-Cooper and Miss
U. C. King are the organisers.
Even if young Diana Massie doesn’t
romp home with the crown in the Red
Cross Queen competition, at least she
has the satisfaction of knowing she’s
making the pace for the other candidates.
Her committee is bursting with enthusi-
asm and youth, and has already sold
about 3000 of the badges specially made
for her cause. These will be flown by her
supporters. Last week a bright little dance
uncoiled itself at Prince’s for the same
princess-claimant, and 200 at one guinea
a ticket came along to show their allegi-
ance. Dressing was new-seasonish, and
you’d have thought every girl’s daddy
was a follower of the hunt —there were
so many foxes about. Diana herself wore
one in grey over mist-blue crepes. The
Reading lady, who is president of the
committee, wore black laces that sparkled
with touches of diamente. Eve Playfair
and Annette Stogdale raked in the ticket-
money at the door in workmanlike
manner. Mary Allworth’s dryad browns
were lit with gold stars. Marcelle Bishop,
Marcelle Poate and Pamela Darling weie
others in the galaxy.
Mrs. H. F. Benning is the secretary of
the University Settlement Ball which will
turn the Great Hall of the University
into a glimmer if not a glitter (these
war days) of pageantry on Friday night.
No fewer than 29 debs, will be presented
to Chancellor Percival Halse Rogers and
his wife, and those who wish to gaze
are admonished to arrive in good time.
Later the dancing and frivolous part of
the night will be in the refectory. Money
will aid the work of the University Settle-
ment, and its newly-appointed head,
Ebena Isles, will be one of the official
group. Photograph of Mrs. Benning is
by Norton Trevaire.
Minister for the Army Percy Spender
was twice in the spotlight at the opening
of No. 113 Australian General Hospital
at Concord. First he made the speech
of the day, his words being almost blown
out of his mouth by a bitter cold wind.
Then he stopped to speak to a soldier
patient, and behold it was one he had
last met in the hospital at Gaza, during
his Ministerial tour. There were thou-
sands at the ceremony. The hospital is
designed to minister to 2500 patients.
Minister for Health FitzSimons, Minister
for National Emergency Primrose and
his wife, the Red Cross Wilfred Johnsons
and Mrs. Spender were among the many
official guests who were grateful for hot
coffee at the end of the ceremony. Matron
Hope Croll, in charge of the big estab-
lishment, presents a charming smile and
profile to the world.
An engagement that caused a flutter of
interest during the week-end was that of
Jocelyn Poynter to Cedric O’Gorman
Hughes. Marriage date is fixed for to-
morrow.
The feminine part in circus life is in-
deed a busy one these days. Of the Wirth
family, Mrs. A. M. Wirth, senr., still
controls the front of the house ; daughter
Doris manages the entire organisation ;
Eileen, with Mrs. George Wirth, senr.,
supervises the wardrobe department;
Madeline is fairy godmother to the
elephants; Gladys trains and presents edu-
cated horses ; and Rill assists her sisters
in general management. Zetta Abrahams,
head of the Rascalls (tumblers), assists
with the wardrobe, in addition to super-
vising the acrobatic rehearsals; Hama
Uyeno attends to the wardrobe of the
Uyeno troupe of seven springboard acro-
bats, cooks for the troupe, performs on
the slack wire in the show' and generally
“mothers” the whole circus colony when
on tour.
Lady Wakehurst, who is president of
the Junior Red Cross, will be present at
the Junior Red Cross Exhibition in the
Sydney Town Hall on Friday afternoon.
May 2. This year there will be no fancy-
dress pageant, but an attractive pro-
gramme by children, featuring action
songs and dances, will be a feature, and
community singing of patriotic numbers
will be led by school choirs.
Now prepare to cheer. In the Town
Hall vestibule a display of gifts, made
by Junior Red Cross members in all parts
of N.S.W., will be on view. These articles
will be distributed later on among sick
or needy children of servicemen and ex-
servicemen. Care for these families of
soldiers is always the first thought of the
Junior Red Cross, whose motto is “Lest
We Forget.”
On Tuesday night, at the Conserva-
torium, Joan Dawson, who went to Lon-
don to study the piano not long before
the war started, will give her first recital
since her return to Australia. Joan was
awarded an exhibition scholarship of the
Associated Board of the Royal Schools
of Music, London, in 1938. She is giving
this recital to aid the British Children’s
Comforts Fund.
The Greenknowe Sewing Centre
brushed up its always-bright brains
and made a star turn of the White
Elephant stall at its evening fair. On
this were gathered the things from the
home which the owners don’t like very
much and have no use for, but which
are perhaps the very objects someone
else’s soul has yearned for. An elephant,
as high as a beginning mountain, stood
on the terrace of Redleaf, where the
revels were held, to direct the eager to
the stall. The monumental creature was
the work of Mrs. C. du Bois. The home-
made jams were another triumph,
especially the blackberry. That has all
the tang of cold mountain mist and
warm sunshine. Useful, too, were the
small print bags with handles that per-
mitted buyers to carry home the pre-
serves without fear of staining their even-
ing frocks. The Lord Mayor’s Comforts
Fund benefits.
The Scots Spitfire got quite a lift upon
its way from the new Bairnsfather film.
This was lent to the committee and was
shown in the school hall to literally hun-
dreds of parents and friends. A relative
of Bruce Bairnsfather, whose Old Bill
was one of the inspired creations of the
1914-18 war, was at the film showing.
He wore a dazzle of decorations and
made a spirited speech. The new film is
called “Old Bill and Son,” and one of
its highlights is a bedroom scene —but a
bedroom scene with a difference. It kept
the audience simmering with laughter.
The Handicrafts Exhibition of the
C.W.A. gets better and better each year.
Last week the display that attracted all
women was the rug in the making, over
which its designer and maker, Mrs. Lind-
say Smith, smiled, as well she might.
Mrs. Smith has evolved attractive rugs
out of sugar bags. These are hooked
in mingled colors to a design drawn on
a sugar bag of the desired size. The
design is worked in colored strands drawn
from other bags. The surface is soft
and fluffy, and Mrs. Smith says they
wash well. Another interesting exhibit
was the toy making—a flying duck was
created from something soft and yellow,
and completed with an amazing-looking
eye in a few minutes.
One member displayed an ivory silk
shawl which she had woven from the
product of her own silkworms. That’s
the way to do things—cut out the middle-
man altogether. A stool with its seat
woven of rush or grass and a table
with its tapestry top under glass were
among desirable things. So were the
feather flowers in a case just inside the
door and a blue knitted frock, its bell
sleeves bright with a design of rosy
berries.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
MIMS*
W
as
Established 1808 in Reign of George VII.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength nnd prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla; d Branch; Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St.. Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Divorce Notice*.
TO CHARLES ERNEST ALLEN formerly of
Wangaratta in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife WINIFRED
IDA ALLEN has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the grounds of desertion.
Unless you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 15th day of May
1941 the Court may proceed to hear this suit
in your absence. If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file an answer in the said
Office on or before the 28th day of May 1941.
LEWIS WILKS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce).
TO HILDA MAY MAUD TYPE last heard
of at Richmond Victoria and formerly of
Lucaston Tasmania Wife of ALBERT
JOHN FYFE.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charge in the
petition of ALBERT JOHN FYFE of Lucas-
ton in Tasmania praying for a dissolution of
his marriage with you on the ground of deser-
tion In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid an appearance
must be entered at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart on
or before the 30th day of May 1941.
By the Court,
(LJ3.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
OGILVIE, McKENNA & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, Colonial Mutual Life Build-
ing, Corner Elizabeth and Macquarie Streets,
Hobart.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1788 of 1940.
BETWEEN ELEANEAR VIOLET LYNCH
Petitioner
DANIEL LYNCH Respondent and
FRANCIS KYNDE Co-respondent.
TO FRANCIS KYNDE late of 19 Henson
Street Merrylands in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
DANIEL LYNCH has filed an Answer to a
Petition issued in this Court in which he prays
for a dissolution of his marriage with the
abovenamed Petitioner on the grounds that
between the Ist day of February 1940 and the
25th day of November 1940 you committed
adultery with the said ELEANEAR VIOLET
LYNCH at Merrylands in the State of New
South Wales. This notice was ordered to be
published once in a Sydney weekly newspaper
and once in an Adelaide daily newspaper and
that service should be deemed complete two
days after the second of such publications
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an Appearance to the said Answer at
the proper Office of this Court within one
month after the date of completion of service
as aforesaid and in the event of you not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Respondent will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Answer filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 24th day of April, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ERROL V. HICKEY, Solicitor for Petitioner,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
chatter
Diggers of two wars to the number of
22,250 marched on Anzac Day, 1941, in
the most momentous procession for many
years. Old Diggers rose to the occasion
as never before, each one feeling no doubt
that he must not let down pals of the
old brigade, and the ranks were aug-
mented by hundreds of men in uniform.
There were noticeably more bands than
usual—among big processions held since
war broke out the Anzac Day march is
possibly the only one that has had enough
bands. The crowd, too, was larger than
usual, lining a route from the corner of
Bourke and Queen streets to Swanston-
street and along St. Kilda-road. And
there were cheering and waving of flags
and tossing of streamers —hundreds of
children waving from their fathers’ shoul-
ders. A threat of rain in the air gave
to many an old soldier a tip to throw a
coat over his arm. No rain came, but
the Diggers were mindful of other Anzac
Days when they went home soaked to
the skin. The Diggers love their pipes as
much as ever; many puffed away en
route and some smoked cigarettes, but
it was the old briars that looked like
being best friends.
In the darkness just before the dawn
the men of the Ist A.I.F. made their way
to the Shrine for the ceremony that’s most
impressive for its silence and simplicity.
The first finger of light glimmered in the
sky as the Governor placed a wreath upon
the Rock of Remembrance, and there
sounded the “Last Post” and the
“Reveille.” Afterwards 3000 Anzacs filed
through the Shrine.
One hundred thousand was the esti-
mate of those attending the afternoon
service at the Shrine, which commenced
with “Lead, Kindly Light,” and after an
address from Brig.-General Foott con-
cluded with the “Recessional,” after
which crowds waited for some hours for
their turn of access to the Shrine. Wreaths
were piled higher than in any other year.
A League of Nations come true
operates at the International Club.
There in the club rooms at Kurrajong
House women members of many races
work side by side in a spirit of serving
humanity. It is an unwritten law that
politics are never discussed within the
club doors. Members just do their vari-
ous jobs of work, and if there’s satis-
faction in a task well done they must
feel their hearts warming at the results
achieved.
Club members have, through the Red
Cross, shipped 12 crates of warm clothing
overseas. The club sticks to its guns of
serving humanity in general, and no
destination is specified on any crate —to
the Red Cross in London is left the
decision of the goods going to bombed
British victims or to foreign allies
in distress. Interest ran high recently
when news was received from the War
Organisation of the British Red Cross
that a crate of the club’s goods had been
sent to the Finnish Red Cross at Arkatn,
Helsinki,
Clothing sent overseas from the Inter-
national Club is first-class in quality and
workmanship —if anything “used” is
accepted it’s so spruced up that it looks
new. Economy wrinkles are practised.
Old knitted jumpers, for instance, are
unravelled, the wool washed and re-
knitted. Crochet rugs that must be as
gifts from the gods in air-raid shelters
are made from odd ends of wool. Any
scraps are useful, even if only a few
yards in length, and the finished pro-
ducts are not the oddities one might ex-
pect, for there’s a fair flair for color
among some of the members who can
crochet with the best.
Men’s old “creams” are much in re-
quest for making small boys’ shirts—a
lot of cutting down and machining up is
done for children, and five sewing
machines have been lent for the duration.
Hon. secretary Mrs. M. R. McMillan is
general factotum for the wool work, and
Mrs. D. D. Jamieson attends in similar
manner to the sewing. Bridge parties and
other functions are held at regular in-
tervals to fill the club’s Red Cross money-
box. Nationals still keep their hands in
with foreign cooking. For last week’s
afternoon - and - evening bridge party
Danish savories upon black rye bread
were prepared by Mrs. Henning Metes
and Mrs. E. S. A. Bell. Today there will
be a Russian luncheon arranged by Mme.
Kalanowski.
Inset from Spencer Shier, Mrs. Robert
Latreille, one of the ticket secs, for the
Legacy Club Ball to be held on May 15
at the Palais. Mrs. Latreille has worked
in the same capacity for the same ball
on previous occasions when she was Joan
Leitch —her marriage took place some six
months ago. She now holds the fort at
a flat at 48 Mathoura-road, for her hus-
band is a lieutenant abroad with the
A.I.F.
A successful piece of organising by
Mrs. Mortie Robb and Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh was a concert at the Lyceum Club
for the Lady Colvin Auxiliary of Navy
House. At the conclusion of the musi-
cal programme artists and audience
slaked their thirsts in an adjoining recep-
tion room, thence went downstairs to
supper with Commander George Gill,
doing a tactful sheep-dog act rounding
up the strays. Mrs. Robb put her best
foot forward in blue crepe, and Mrs.
Sleigh was on tap in a black creation that
was mostly panniers and pockets. Hus-
band Hamilton, who has no ear for music,
went off to the Tivoli, after a worth-while
donation to the concert.
Among contributors to the entertain-
ment session arranged by Mrs. George
Gill were Betty Paterson, Edith Harrhy,
Edward Goll, Pat Hanna and Stanley
Brookes. Lady Colvin applauded from
the front row. David York Syme was there
with daughter Mary. Captain and Mrs.
Crane supported the function, as did
Mrs. Bob Staughton. Mrs, Leo Quick,
in turquoise, was with Mrs. Lindsay Mil-
dred, in vivid geranium and fur cape.
Also present were Dr. and Mrs. Graeme
Orr (shortly going off for a well-earned
holiday to the Riverina), Mrs. S. B. Myer,
in midnight blue and magnificent orchids,
and Mrs. Alec McNeal, of Perth, who
wore black lace. From the Navy Office
came Lieut. Read and from Navy House
Mrs. C. H. Dickson, who on several days
a week is liaison officer for hospitality
for the boys in sailor suits. Present also
was Mrs. Vernon Smith, another Navy
House supporter —she sews a fine seam
on minute garments, and dresses cute
little dolls which she sells for the Auxili-
ary fund. No Navy “do” in Melbourne
would be complete without some of the
Collins family—Reg and Stan were both
there. They say that brother Dale
is writing in London in between fire-
fighting and doing his job as air-raid
warden.
From Athol Shmith’s studio comes this
picture of Joy Youlden, in a mood of
repose which she doesn’t often attain.
Her forte is comedy through medium of
song and dance acts, her work being well
known through University revues and
various charitable entertainments. In
between times she works on her course
for a Diploma of Physical Education.
She is cast as first fairy in the Tin Alley
Players’ production of “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” —she dances delightfully.
Also she has a part in “Waste and Waists ’
at the Princess on May 28 and 29.
Herewith a pint pot of the best brew
for Norman Gubbins for his solo effort
in raising for the Red Cross £450 in a
district of 400 people. Mrs. Gubbins
assisted, of course, but she had no chance
of catching up on Norman, who was
always a few laps ahead, covered with
dust. The “do” happened in the Western
District hamlet of Birragurra, taking
the form of a gymkhana and country
dance, the dance overflowing through two
halls —the headquarters of the Mechanics
and of the C.W.A. Norman let no chance
slip through his fingers of getting his
people together. He arranged transport
from Geelong and Colac and perked up
the gymkhana by putting the hard word
on some cavalry.
The Lord Mayoral couple comman-
deered the Princess Theatre and filled by
invitations, and no financial commitments
thrown in, every seat from front stalls
to top ledge of gallery. The function was
a gesture of appreciation to those who
had worked hard for the Queen Carnival.
Most of the programme was vaudeville,
with broadcasting identities to the fore
(the Tiv. wasn’t in it with the broad
humor of some of the comedians), with
Vera Hopton’s ballet (the girls go in
heavily for smiles), and the clever acro-
batic tricks of a team called the De
Amours. The National Theatre Move-
ment had in hand the general presenta-
tion of the programme, with William
Carr as producer.
The finale was a film of the crowning
of the queens and the recorded version
of a commentary by Fred Armytage, who
looked a bit hot around the collar when
he heard himself under a gramophone-
needle. He’d compared the queens to
jockeys in a big race, and he meant his
commentary to go at a gallop, but there
were hurdles on the course and in the
script. Finally queens and their retinues
filed on to the stage for some more
speeches and presentations of crown
jewels. Each queen received jewellery of
her own choosing as a memento of her
effort. There were also secret prizes and
further prizes for each candidate’s pass-
ing of one million votes. Final surprise
was a silver salver for Fred Armytage,
who handed the gift to his better-
half. Then came a silver candelabra
for Gladys Moncrieff, who had assisted
each queen and who, all in a day’s work,
stood many hours on end at a Collins-
street stall during a carnival day. Gladys
being in Sydney, the silverware was re-
ceived on Miss Moncrieff’s behalf by
Elsa Stenning, who led the chorus for
“There’ll Always Be an England.”
Conventions of 20 years fell in a heap
recently when the Celtic Club permitted
women to cross its heavily-guarded thres-
hold. How the impossible came to pass
isn’t quite clear, but members are vaguely
suspicious that they have been having
wool pulled over their eyes by their
wives—wives who have been white-anting
the old traditions and sowing seeds of
radical changes. The big event was an
at-home in the clubrooms, with the
president, Roy Cahir, and committee
members dispensing benevolence and hos-
pitality. Mrs. Cahir was there in gown
of orchid crepe ornamental with organza
yoke and sparkle of sequins. She’d been
on deck earlier in the day arranging
masses of flowers in quantities of gener-
ously proportioned vases. Among friends
who assisted was Mrs. Bill McGowan,
who came to the party in sky-blue moire
and accompaniment of frilly-hemmed
petticoat. Her equally blonde sister, Mrs.
Leo Curtis, wore a gown of cream
woollen sheer emblazoned upon the
yoke with jade sequins.
Among others present were Mrs. J. F.
Nelly, wife of the club’s oldest living
past president, affable old-timer W. D.
MacGregor and the club’s hon. social
secretary, James F. O’Neill. Complete
with his better-half was Barney Kiernan,
cheery as always. Present with his usual
repertoire of funny stories was Dr. Stan
O’Loughlin, and with his pockets full of
sleight-of-hand Jack Cussen, Judge’s
associate in the daytime, magician in the
evening. In between times songs were
forthcoming from Herbert Browne and
from the Walsh sisters, maidens with
fresh young soprano voices.
Newly engaged during last week-end,
Sue Dennett and Jim Cecil. Sue is the
only daughter of the Freddy Dennetts,
and Jim, an Englishman who has been
in this country some four years, is the
son of Captain the Hon. Thomas J. A.
Cecil and of Mrs. Cecil, of Sussex. Jim
is a corporal in the A.1.F., the wedding
will take place next month, and if all
goes according to plan the first home will
be at Bathurst.
Australian singer Marjorie Lawrence
has been engaged for a seven months’
opera season at the Teatro Colon, Buenos
Aires. Among other singers of the cast
are Lawrence Tibbett and Alexander
Kipnis.


THE SERVICE MAN
Last Days in Greece.
“Ek Dum”: From the first, except in
the reports of Australian correspondents,
which were very informative, the public
was given an exaggerated idea of the
extent of the imperial forces in Greece.
Newspapers featured stories of the “huge
convoys” engaged in their transport.
According to a “Belgrade correspondent”
Britain sent “seven full divisions and great
numbers of R.A.F. personnel, engineers
and other experts.”
Moscow Radio shouted that there
were 300,000 British troops in Greece.
Associated Press of America vouched for
the presence in that kingdom of “vast
numbers of anti-aircraft guns and tank
guns, great numbers of light and heavy
tanks and flame-throwers,” adding that
“many shiploads of munitions” had been
“landed at five ports.”
Mr. Menzies saw the decision to sup-
port the Greeks as “a noble one”:
Its effect on the Balkan position and on
the progress of the war cannot be overesti-
mated.
General Blarney on April 4 issued an
order of the day in which he reminded
the troops that it was 26 years since the
Anzacs landed at Gallipoli and ended:
We come to them [the Greeks] as de-
liverers, and they welcome us as such.
A Turkish warning that Britain had
only “between 40,000 and 60,000 men”
in Greece fell on deaf ears. As in the
case of Norway, the news from Famous
Correspondents made it sound as if
the British had come to the rescue with
a vast army, and Australians could not
be blamed for deducing that three Anzac
divisions were involved. This was not
the case ; but because plans had to be
altered as a result of the German drive
towards Egypt, there were more Anzacs
than British soldiers in Greece.
The British imperial front line was not
in the first defence line of Greece, but
in the second. The spearpoint was about
340 miles from the Piraeus, the port of
Athens. Behind the expeditionaries, on
their line of retreat, lay, first, rugged
snow-covered mountains; then, 70
miles across, the plains of Larissa and
the Lamia Gulf ranges ; then 150 miles
of tortuous roads and tracks and ravines
through country like that of the N. S.
Wales South Coast, bottlenecked by
defiles and passes running along the sea,
to the Piraeus.
Their second-line positions were con-
verted into first-line positions by the
breaking of the Greek border defence
almost at the first onslaught. In their
retirement they were hampered by
weather from the outset —snow fell for at
least two days in the mountains north of
Elassona. They were threatened on the
flanks. Lateral movement of troops to
plug gaps was difficult. The enemy was
greatly superior in numbers and machine
strength, on land and in the air. He was
able to get at them with his dive-bombers
all along the line of their march. The
Middle East Command had had to divide
its forces, and terrible dive-bombing,
rarely checked, was a consequence.
Yet so excellent was the staff work of
the withdrawal and so active the naval
co-operation that on April 24, a fort-
night after they had first laid the first
Germans low among the cornfields north
of Koziani, tired troops were reported
as beginning to land back in Alexandria.
Such a feat could have been accom-
plished only by men ably commanded
and officered, and themselves tough,
daring, enduring and possessed of initia-
tive.
General Blarney’s second order of the
day, issued on April 22, told part of the
story;
The Anzac Corps and attached troops
have carried out a magnificent withdrawal.
This was forced on us by the danger of
being outflanked on the long line. The
withdrawal was continually harassed by
enemy air-bombing along all roads. Our
losses through all this have been extraordi-
narily light, and we have learned how
very inaccurate air-bombing is. Against
trenches and well-dispersed transport, air-
bombing is most ineffective.
Every man now to his job with strong
determination! Select positions with care,
and so prevent the enemy from coming
down on you from above or infiltrating
along mountain tracks! Close up weak
spots! Dig in and conceal positions!
Drivers, keep long intervals on the roads!
With strong hearts, energy and determina-
tion on the part of every officer and man,
we can hold this position. I call on every
Anzac to set his teeth and be worthy of his
fathers.
There was little need for the last in-
junction. Presenting an arrowhead to
the enemy, the Imperial forces had left
the Koziani country and the northern
fringes of Olympus 150 miles behind.
Still presenting an arrowhead to the on-
coming Germans, they had disposed
themselves across the Saramata Range
north of Phocis, where the mountains
join the Gulf of Corinth to the Atalante
Channel, across a 50-mile neck of land
below Lamia at Thermopylae.
Two main routes run out of Lamia’s
environs to Athens. By the inland one
the distance is 136 miles, but by the
easier one, which runs for a space near
the coast and through the Pass of Ther-
mopylae, it is about 154.
Here, where Leonidas made his stand
against the Persians, the Australians,
according to German admissions, fought
a bloody battle, and then retired, leaving
behind torn up road and rail, blocked
ravines, broken bridges.
The approach to Thermopylae from
Lamia is over some flat alluvial country
by the sea —country like that of Brundee
on the N. S. Wales Shoalhaven. Look-
ing southward as they came, the troops
would pass dose to the junction of the
Sphercheios and Asopos Rivers the
former coming in at the north side. They
are both brawling brooks, their waters
purling along at a great rate. Meeting
to form the letter y in the swampy, well-
grassed meadows, the water takes on an
extra pace and rushes, almost level with
the marshy banks, to the sea. There is
no timber here—one huge tree used to
stand near the junction of the rivers.
Beyond and southward the Saramata
Range looms, looking like the Cambe-
warra seen up the Shoalhaven. The
plain narrows into a passage between
the range and the sea. It gives one the
same sensation as travelling up from Bulli
to Stanwell Park (N.S.W.) would if the
Bulli land were flat and swampy and
treeless and the ocean were a tideless
channel.
The pass is about five miles long.
The southing road crosses the spurs and
foothills of the Saramata Range and
keeps to the sea 40 miles to Atalante.
After that it crosses the Plain of
Phocis to Livadia, on the edge of Helicon,
75 miles from Athens. Thence it is a
rocky highway.
Rough roads and flanking paths run
from the high and turbulent mountains
to the west into and round the Ther-
mopylge Pass. The Germans declare that
it was taken only by a “large-scale attack,
chiefly by Alpine troops,” who would be
needed, since some of the side approaches
climb nearly 5000 feet. The other forms
of attack were supplemented by a con-
centric artillery assault on the prepared
positions of which Blarney spoke.
The Germans added —on the night of
April 24—that their attack had not only
been successful but had brought about
the “capture of a whole British camp
with tents, stores and other accessories,
all in perfect order,” as well as large
quantities of armament.
They declared further that a large pro-
portion of the British forces in Greece
had withdrawn from various ports, some
south of Athens; that only a covering
force was now left in Greece and that
the German Army was close to Athens
and had been ordered to occupy the city
with as little damage as possible.
On the evening of April 23 it was
reported officially in London that the
British front was still intact and rumors
were denied that the left (western) flank
had been turned. Next day Cairo G.H.Q.
reported:
The Imperial force in Greece executed
a further orderly withdrawal, inflicting
severe losses on the enemy.
The German drive southward was
accompanied by all the same sort of
horrors as the attacks in France, though
with results less frightful, since the popu-
lation had been withdrawn at many points.
Still, unopposed by an adequate force
of fighters— to whom the slow, statically-
diving Stukas are bread and jam—they
wreaked great damage to life and
property. They made matters extremely
difficult for the hurriedly-reconstituted
Greek Government, whose intention to
transfer itself to the 9000 miles of Greek
island territory was first hinted at in the
abrupt appointment of the naval c.-in-c.
as Premier in place of M. Korizis, dead
by his own hand.
The Greek armies of the Epirus and
Macedonia surrendered formally on
Wednesday, April 23. Their commanders
had three days before asked for an
armistice without the knowledge of the
Athens Government.
The surrender was signed in a cottage
on the hills overlooking Salonika. A
German spokesman in Berlin declared
that all Greek armies north of Salonika
had been included in the capitulation.
First German estimates placed the num-
bers at between 16 and 18 divisions—
“at least 250,000 troops.” The same day
the arrival of King George of Greece in
Crete, 180 miles by sea from the Piraeus,
was announced. i
The closing phase of the Balkan war,
or, at any rate, of its present phase,
opened on April 24. At midnight Athens
Radio announced:
The final and decisive battle before the
gates of Athens is now under way. The
situation is serious.
Nothing much remained on April 25 but
for the German tiger to digest his Greek
meal and throw the scraps to his jackals.
The Germans entered Athens at 9.30
a.m. on Sunday, April 27. Their com-
muniques told that, after taking the posi-
tions at Thermopylae, defeating the
British troops east of Molos and captur-
ing several hundred prisoners, they rolled
on down the main road, augmented by
others who came over from the long
island of Euboea to the east to meet the
main guard near Chaleis, while fast units
rushed on pursuing the retreating Greeks
and British through Boeotia.
At the same time, they said, the Adolf
Hitler Guard drove westward from
Corinth, about 50 miles from Athens and
at the head of the Gulf of Corinth, and
pushed along the Gulf Railway to the
port of Patras, which they occupied, tak-
ing more British prisoners. Corinth, the
High Command declared, had earlier
been captured by picked parachute
troops.
None of the details were either con-
firmed or denied in Sunday’s Cairo com-
munique. It was merely reported that
“our troops are continuing their with-
drawal.” Other sources stated that Anzac
troops, “hopelessly outnumbered,” fought
like tigers all day Friday against the
horde of Germans pouring down from
the north and the new forces pouring in
on their flank from Euboea, so as to give
their mates in the evacuation a chance.
The fight reached the gates of Athens
itself.
The Germans in their attacks on Greece
did not limit their operations to the land.
They pursued the fleeing young Serbian
king out to sea, and shot one of his Min-
isters in the ’plane carrying them to Pales-
tine. They plastered lonian islands which
looked as if they were in military occu-
pation. They repeatedly bombed the
Piraeus, the Athens suburbs along the
main road leading to it, and Corinth and
Patras and all the small ports from which
evacuations were being made. They sup-
ported their motor-boats from the air
when the latter raced from Kavalla,
apparently to secure Lemnos, Samo-
thrace and other islands guarding the
entrance to the Dardanelles.
They ranged even as far afield as
Haifa, where they lost to A.A. guns all
of a flight of five dive bombers which
mercilessly attacked a hospital ship full
of German and Italian prisoners. One
of the captured pilots admitted that the
orders had been “everything and any-
thing they should find.”
The whole of the Mediterranean from
the Sicilian Straits eastward has been de-
clared by both sides a military area dan-
gerous to shipping. On Tuesday night,
April 22, Rhodes Harbor was heavily
bombed by the F.A.A.
German claims of destruction were as
follows; April 16-20, 92,000 tons of ships
in Greek harbors, plus 22 transports
damaged; April 21-22, 11 transports be-
tween Greece and Crete, all filled with
soldiers, sunk, 15 other ships damaged ;
April 23, five transports of 21,000 tons
sunk, 11 other ships, including a de-
stroyer and two auxiliary cruisers,
“severely damaged” ; April 24, 13 ships
totalling 50,000 tons and one small warship
sunk and 17 other merchantmen dam-
aged, 55 ’planes destroyed on Greek aero-
dromes.
The Greeks reported the bombing of
the Piraeus, the firing of the steamer
Hellas, filled with women and children,
and the sinking of two hospital ships.
There was at this stage neither British
confirmation nor denial of the detailed
German claims.
The Germans had to acknowledge
the stoutness with which the Greeks had
defended themselves ; and in the Salonika
surrender Greek officers were granted a
concession not allowed to the Poles or to
the Yugoslavs—they were permitted to
keep their swords. And the enemy was
unusually complimentary to the Anzacs.
Berlin Radio said that the Anzacs were
born fighters, hardy and tough and re-
sourceful. “They make splendid sol-
diers.” Rome Radio echoed —“Courage-
ous and daring, with a great spirit of
adventure.” German prisoners were full
of praise for the resistance which they
met from the Young Diggers. One who
had been in a superior force which the
A.I.F. cut to ribbons told an Australian
correspondent;
I fought in France and Poland, but I
never knew what fighting was until I met
the Anzacs.
It recalls what the Berlin “Lokal
Anzeiger” said when the A.I.F. landed
in Palestine: “It is a good job they are all
simple country boys who don’t know
what they are to be slaughtered for.”
This Berlin paper must have changed its
opinion.
One feature of the Greek campaign
was the failure of the British Information
Department. Even Mr. Harold Nicolson,
M.P., one of its own sponsors, sneered
at 8.8.C.’s “bedtime stories.” On Sunday
an Australian Information Department
officer was allowed to say that, although
there were “no details yet” of the evacua-
tion of Greece, early reports suggested
that casualties in the Balkan campaign
would “be lighter than expected.”
But Mr. Churchill had nothing but
hopes and generalities to offer at 6 a.m.
on April 28. All that Mr. Spender could
contribute on that day was: “The evacua-
tion of our troops from Greece has
begun, and, as far as this has proceeded, it
has been successful.” He refused to con-
firm or deny American reports that the
majority of the troops had been safely
brought away with their weapons.
Anzacs.
They sang by lonely Galilee
The songs of Bourke and Jindabyne;
Above the plains of Thessaly
The eagles saw the bayonets shine,
And where the peaks of Pindus loom
They heard their jests and laughter ring.
Within their hearts was youth in bloom;
They feared not what the gods might bring.
By Elassona, laughing eyes
Grew dark with tears to see them go,
’Neath skies like their blue Gippsland skies,
Through valleys where wild waters flow
As in our mountain vales they run.
On swaying wheels they rolled and sang —
The songs they learned in Wellington
Through those far Grecian valleys rang.
The gods of old Olympus knew
What men these were who stood that day,
When from the hills the ranks withdrew
And left them in their grim array
To hold the passes; while on wings
In roaring death the bullets sped.
Theirs is no song a craven sings;
For hero Greeks these heroes bled.
Their glory will for ever blaze
In an unquenched and deathless fame;
While there are nights and splendid days
There will be wonder at their name.
The Anzacs! In the mornings bright,
Where old Larissa’s turrets shone,
In the last gleam of dying light
They had one stubborn thought, “Hold on!”
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
From Tripoli to Dessye.
“Ek Dum”: Enemy correspondents in
Africa hinted last week that the German-
Italian offensive against Egypt would be
resumed as soon as the Greek campaign
ended. Some of them exulted in the
thought that it was, in the meantime,
“neutralising British naval units and pre-
venting them from helping in the Greek
campaign.”
Headquarters of the Axis command at
Tripoli must have wished that British
naval units were not “neutralised.” Cun-
ningham battleships turned up at 5 a.m.
on Monday, April 21, and for 40 minutes
pumped everything they had, from 15-
inch shells downwards, into the port in-
stallations and harbor. Three supply
ships in the naval basin caught fire and
one sank. A 15-inch shell hit a fourth
ship, which exploded. Other shells re-
peatedly pounded the Governor’s office,
wharves, naval headquarters and public
buildings and railway plant. Shells hit
another supply ship and a destroyer. The
dust and smoke of the battle made obser-
vation difficult; which is not surprising
seeing that nearly 1000 tons of shells
were fired.
The blast followed immediately on one
of the heaviest air raids Tripoli had en-
dured. Only one land battery was still
firing when the ships withdrew.
Meanwhile, Rear-Admiral Boyd’s air-
craft-carriers on their way to Tripoli had
sighted five large enemy troop-carrying
’planes and had bagged four. The F.A.A.
also shot up three large supply ships
bound for the Balkans. One blew up.
Three British machines were lost in the
operations. Next morning the R.A.F.
made a second heavy raid on Tripoli. It
was announced that H.M. submarine
Tetrarch had sunk a fully-laden tanker on
its way to Tripoli.
At the beginning of the week there
were concentrated attacks on various
parts of Cyrenaica by the R.A.F. Motor
transport and aerodromes were bombed,
and there were exchanges in the air
around Tobruk, where the Germans and
Italians claimed to have shot down a
Blenheim bomber and three fighters. The


Germans used tanks exclusively in their
early attacks on Tobruk last week. The
attacks were beaten off.
Cairo H.Q. on April 22 reported little
activity round Solium ; but the Germans
claimed that a further attack by the
British on that port had been defeated
and that an attempted landing at Bardia
had been repulsed, prisoners being taken.
The British also had prisoners to report
—l7 officers and 549 men taken in
Egypt, to which 8.8. C. announcements
added 33 tanks, and 1500 Germans and
Italians secured in attacks on Tobruk,
and 24 ’planes brought down.
April 22 brought a large force of
enemy ’planes over Tobruk, where the
R.A.F. shot down four Stukas and four
Messerschmitts and lost three machines,
though two pilots were saved. That night
two heavy R.A.F. raids were made in
Libya—Tripoli suffered another pasting,
and Benghazi had a dozen fires from its
helping of trouble. Next day Derna
aerodrome was strafed, the ’planes on
it dispersed and in several places motor
columns were bombed and machine-
gunned. Four enemy machines were
brought down that day over Tobruk ; the
British loss was one bomber.
On Thursday Cairo H.Q. reported that
enemy forces filtering into Egypt were
being driven back into the desert and
into the shelter of Bardia. The allegedly
besieged troops in Tobruk were dis-
covered to have time for cricket and
band music. On two nights the Austra-
lians there had organised sorties which,
for slight casualties, yielded 17 Italian
officers and 430 other prisoners. The
acting official Commonwealth correspon-
dent at Tobruk remarked in a cable
dated April 20 that the “only inconveni-
ence is from the bombing, for which
ample protection is provided in comfort-
able underground Italian-built shelters.”
Regarding the whole of the operations
the correspondent gave it as the opinion
of “well-informed circles” that “Tobruk
will continue to prevent a massive Italian
and German advance eastward, while
the steady activities of patrols in the
frontier area are a constant danger to
the enemy, whose activities are slacken-
ing.”
At dawn on Thursday
another enemy attempt
on Tobruk from Acroma
road failed before it
reached the main de-
fences, though sporadic
forays on the west con-
tinued all day. British
and A.I.F. losses were
nil. Enemy casualties
were fairly heavy; five
officers and 124 men
were captured.
In the evening fresh
enemy detachments
crossed the Egyptian
frontier, but Cairo re-
ported that light mobile
forces were harassing the
advance. When Anzac
Day dawned, the R.A.F.
was again coming home
from one of a stream of
visits to Tripoli, where it
had scored direct hits on
warehouses, the seaplane
base and Government
offices.
In Abyssinia the British
forces at the week-end
were only 20 miles from
Dessye, where the last considerable force
of Italians stand at bay. On Thursday
the South Africans had broken through
the Italian line barring the way to
Dessye, on ranges 6000 feet high. It was
bitter fighting against Bersaglieri and
other picked troops, and involved a lot
of mountaineering under withering fire ;
but the Springboks got through and col-
lected about 1000 prisoners, after a final
and desperate struggle for command of
a difficult gorge.
Air War in the West.
It cooled off somewhat with the pass-
ing of the full moon and with the diver-
sion of German air forces to the Balkans.
London had a comparatively quiet week.
But on Monday night, April 21, Ply-
mouth suffered a savage raid ; the enemy
report was that vast stores and a gas-
works had been destroyed. The Germans
claimed to have raided another port and
aerodromes and to have sunk an 8000-
ton ship in a convoy and a patrol boat
in the Channel, also three British fighters
and a bomber.
The main target of the R.A.F. was Le
Havre, where quayside buildings went up
in the blasts.
On Tuesday night, April 22, the Luft-
waffe was back over Plymouth again, and
the town was described as looking like
one lurid wall of flame, a chaos of
wrecked homes, churches, hospitals and
cinemas. The barrage was so tremendous
that it shook moorland villages 50 miles
away, but it could not ward off the
attackers. The casualty roll was heavy.
There was also a raid on Portsmouth.
The R.A.F., for its part, leathered into
Brest, where the Scharnhorst and Gnei-
senau still lie, and off Norway bombers
caught a 2000-ton supply ship and left
it oozing smoke and steam. They also
damaged a minesweeper.
On Wednesday night Plymouth suf-
fered again, though not so heavily as
before, and bombs were dropped in a
few other places. R.A.F. operations were
widespread. Brest and important elec-
tricity and port centres in Germany and
occupied territory were tackled with good
results, and more sections of Kiel and
Wilhelmshaven were burned and blasted
out and docks and other facilities from
Norway to France received attention.
Two British machines failed to return.
German fighters and bombers on aero-
dromes in northern France were bombed
and machine-gunned, with a loss of two
British machines. The Germans claimed
the sinking of three vessels off Dundee
and a big ship off Sunderland, and
asserted that no military damage was
done in the raids on Kiel and Wilhelms-
haven ; also that one German fighter
shot down four Blenheims in 45 minutes.
At the week-end Berlin had two heavy
raids, and Kiel, Emden, Cuxhaven,
Bremerhaven, Wilhelmshaven, Rotter-
dam and Ijmuiden were attacked. Kiel
shipyards were the main target, and one
of several offensive patrols over the
Channel and the North Sea scored hits
on two of three supply ships near Heligo-
land and another near Rotterdam. A
supply ship sunk and two damaged was
the score in other daylight raids. Five
British machines were missing after the
day and night operations.
Merseyside took the brunt of the
week-end raiding. The Air Ministry re-
ported “some damage; casualties not
numerous.” Parts of north-eastern Eng-
land and Scotland were visited. The
Germans alleged that they had sunk a
5000-ton supply ship and a destroyer.
An earlier claim that deliveries of U.S.
aircraft to England by air had been
stopped because losses had been so
“An' I tell you if We accept Alderman Spadger's plan We'll be the
laughin' stock of the world!"
severe was laughed out of court by Lord
Beaverbrook. That Minister said the only
loss of that sort was the ’plane which
carried Sir Frederick Banting and which
crashed amid timber in Newfoundland.
The Yugoslav Armies.
“Ek D.”: A late air mail brought
details of the Yugoslav armies, published
in various U.S. and Canadian papers on
April 8. There were six corps. The
first, commanded by General Milan
Radenkovitch, was based on Novi Sad
—the Hungarians occupied Novi Sad
less than a week after the war started.
The second was based on Sarajevo, to
which the Government fled when Bel-
grade was threatened. Its commander,
General Simovitch, had just been
seconded to the command of the air
force.
General Ilija Brasitch commanded at
Skoplje—the “Times” correspondent
who came south through that town on
the Vardar in front of the Germans
told how the military departed after
handing over the place to the care of
the local copper, with orders to yield
it without resistance. The fourth army,
mainly Croat, was based on Zagreb. It
gave in almost at once.
The fifth army, under General Vladi-
mir Kutkavatch, was based on Mostar
to protect the long Dalmatian coast.
Little has been heard of it. The sixth,
newly organised under Zhivko Stanil-
slavjevitch, based on Nish and protect-
ing the entrance from Bulgaria through
the Dragoman Pass, seems to have been
the only one which really fought a rear-
guard action —it held up the Germans on
the Morava for four days.
There seem to have been in all about
32 infantry divisions, each around 10,000
infantry, plus six groups of heavy bat-
teries —armed with 4.124 in. and 6in. guns,
and supported by A.A. units. Also eight
other divisions. Battalions consisted of
three companies, plus four sections of 12
light machine-guns, eight heavy machine-
guns and two Hin. anti-tankers. The
air force was the best in the Balkans—
about 1000 machines.
In justice to those who planned the
British venture in Greece, it must be
remembered that they were not provid-
ing that country with a first line of de-
fence. The Germans, fighting against
magnificent defensive positions, had to
wipe out the resistance of 1,000,000 men
before they reached the British lines,
which eventually had to be shifted for-
ward to meet the suddenness of the
headlong rush of Marshal List’s armies.
These scattered like chaff those Serbs
who stayed to fight, and were at full
momentum when they reached the
northern Greek defences. These, thin and
attenuated as they were, put up a far
better showing than the Yugoslavs,
whose army had been ostensibly on a
semi-war footing for several months.
Unordered Recruiting.
“J.W.”: Another drive for A.I.F.
recruits is being made. A few months ago
they were being turned away. Major-
General Lloyd, who left his job as
Director-General of Recruiting because
there was nothing more for him to do,
is to give up his divisional command to
attend to the matter.
On the day this was announced Mr.
McEwen, the Air Minister, piped up with
an appeal for more R.A.A.F. recruits.
He pointed out that 172,000 men had
offered themselves as the result of earlier
appeals, but “the special requirements
of the Air Force and the high physical
standard essential have made it possible
to accept only a small proportion.”
There is a pool of reservists which is
being drawn on faster than the draft can
be replaced.
We urgently need more men to fill home
defence squadrons we are forming and to
man the Empire Air Force which we are
creating.
Wouldn’t it be a good idea to pool all
recruiting? That is, to make all enlist-
ment primarily for general service and
then to allot recruits where they are
most needed or best suited —to the A.1.F.,
to special training units or to the
R.A.A.F. according to their nature and
ability? In Germany no man is allowed
to choose his primary arm.
London “Times” admits that “as tar
as the war has gone a disproportionate
share of the fighting has fallen on Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders.” It is
partly an effect of the tradition that the
soldiers from these Dominions are shock
troops. This is true enough, but repeated
proclamation of the fact abroad and com-
placent acceptance of it at home are apt
to lead to our fellows being overemployed
in hazardous operations. Hughes, if he
liked, could say something useful on this
subject, and the old man should speak
out.
After a week of incessant attacks, on
April 23 Malta had its heaviest raid.
The closely-populated city of Valetta
suffered severely and the whole island
was seeded with bombs. Casualties were
considerable.
* * * *
The Admiralty admits the sinking of
the 16,000-ton P. and O. liner Rajputana,
well known in Australian waters. She
was an auxiliary cruiser ; her sister, the
Rawalpindi, was destroyed off the north
of Scotland by a pocket battleship early
in the war. As a set-off H.M. submarine
Urge sank a 10,000-ton German tanker.
* * * s
Come victory or defeat, the strengthen-
ing of forces overseas, thanks to the
Royal Navy and the merchant navy, goes
inexorably on. Another large body of
A.I.F. troops arrived last week at Singa-
pore, and 1000 airmen trained in Canada
under the Empire scheme (Australians
and Maorilanders among them) have
arrived at a British port to join the
R.A.F., R.A.A.F. and the R.C.A.F.
* * * *
General Blarney has been named
“Deputy Commander-in-Chief” of the
British forces in the Middle East. Some
gesture of the kind had to be made by
the politicians, and Blarney has main-
tained the high reputation he achieved
under Monash; but can anyone remem-
ber who was Haig’s second-in-command?
Or Wellington’s or Marlborough’s?
* * . 4> *
Discussing a report that a large Ger-
man motorised force had left Narvik for
an unknown destination, President Roose-
velt remarked that Uncle Sam “would
not allow either Germany or Italy to gain
a foothold in Greenland.” Reports had
suggested that parachute troops might
have been dropped in the island. The
German embassy at Washington denies
all knowledge of any landing.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Government is still
undecided about methods of breaking the
news of A.I.F. casualties to relatives. All
non-fatal casualties will, as hitherto, be
announced by telegram, and Fadden sug-
gests that local committees, including
clergy and postmasters, could make
arrangements to break the news of deaths.
The great minds of Canberra apparently
have not thought of asking every A.I.F.
man who enlists to nominate somebody
to whom news of death or serious illness
could be communicated in the first place.
* * * »
“T.”: On the morning of April 26,
1915, a young lieutenant-commander
made a feint landing on Bulair, Galli-
poli—his own suggestion. In bitter cold
water he swam two miles to the shore,
“towing a waterproof canvas bag con-
taining three oil flares and five calcium
lights, a knife, a signalling light and a
revolver.” He “lighted the first flare and
again took to the water and swam
towards the east, landing about 300
yards away.” There he “lighted his
second flare and hid among some bushes
to await developments.” Nothing hap-
pening, he “crawled up a slope to some
trenches, which were only dummies.” He
“crawled in about 300 yards and listened
for some time, but could discover
nothing.” Down to the beach, where
he lighted his last flare, and into the
water again, where he was picked up by
“our cutter sometime after 3 a.m.” The
hero of this unique exploit was Bernard
Cyril Freyberg. Wounded nine times in
France with the 29th Division, he came
out a brigadier-general with the V.C., the
D.S.O. and two bars and a C.M. He it
was who, as major-general, led the
Maoriland soldiers in Greece. No won-
der they fought so well, having such a
commander.
* * * *
Britain has added another King George
battleship, H.M.S. Prince of Wales, to
the Fleet. Like H.M.S. King George V,
she carries 10 Min. and 16 5.25 in. guns,
plus heavy A.A. armament, decks
armored against bombs, enough belt
armor to stop any projectile in existence
above waterline, except at medium range,
special torpedo protection and the speed
and ranging capacity of a battle-cruiser.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SAVE MONEY
it's
THRIFTY"
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPIOIW
ore an aid to SAFETY
Good acceleration is a definite
aid to safety. Ability to dart
swiftly out of danger may save
your car from an accident.
Install Champion spark
plugs. They keep your car at
its peak performance. And
Champions save you money
in fuel economy.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
I
Vn v
£
ë
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Married man, ex-soldier, seeks management
of small farm on shares. —1271.
Exp. accountant-secretary, well educated,
writes shorthand and types, seeks city or
country position of trust. Ineligible military
service. Refs. —1269.
To buy Chas. Delauney’s book Hot Dis-
cography.—1270.
To buy issues of “New Yorker” magazine
published within last three years.—1189.
Information Sought.
What effect (if any) on the Australian birth-
rate did the granting of responsible government
have ? And what effect did Federation have ?
And what was the effect on the birthrate of
,1914-18 ? —9490.
The granting of responsible government had
no apparent effect on the Australian birthrate.
After Federation there was a slight improve-
ment in the rate, and the war of 1914-18 re-
sulted in a return to the steady decline which
had been evident prior to Federation. The
most marked effect on birthrates was that of
the depression of 1929 on, which resulted in a
pronounced fall.
* * * *
Information concerning former Presidents of
U.S.A. who, on being elected for a third term,
met their deaths by assassination ? —9922.
Mr. Roosevelt is the first third-term President
—and long may he wave! The three martyred
Presidents were Lincoln (1861-65), Garfield
(1881) and McKinley (1897-1901). Garfield was
struck down in his sixth month at the White
House; Lincoln and McKinley early in their
second terms.
* * * *
Can you suggest a cure for smoking, as I
think I am smoking excessively and lack the
willpower just merely to “knock off” ? —9957.
Any chemist should be able to dispense the
so-called “anti-smoking gum,” which consists
of finely-ground quassia (one part) in a gum
mass (12 parts). Sometimes recommended is
a mixture containing silver nitrate (five grains)
in eight ounces of water, one tablespoonful
three times daily. This renders the taste of
tobacco very unpleasant.
» * *
When was Halley’s comet first visible in
north-west N. S. Wales, say between Moree
and Queensland border at Goondiwindi? —
9764.
The first appearance of Halley’s comet after
British occupation of N. S. Wales was in 1835.
The second apparition occurred in 1910, when
the comet was visible to the naked eye during
May.
* * * *
What is the difference between a banknote
and a Treasury note? Were either or both
ever redeemable in gold? If so, when and
under what conditions ? Position today ? —
9940.
“Bank” notes are those issued by banks,
while “Treasury” notes are those issued by the
Treasury. Prior to the passing of the Aus-
tralian Notes Act, 1910, each of the trading
banks issued its own notes, which contained a
promise to pay the amount of the note to the
bearer thereof. In effect, this was a promise to
pay gold. The notes themselves were not legal
tender. Banknotes ceased to circulate in
Australia after the passing of the Act mentioned,
and were replaced by “Australian” notes, the
first of which bore the promise of the Trea-
surer to pay in gold on presentation at the
seat of government. Australian notes of more
recent issue do not contain a promise to pay
in gold; they are in themselves legal tender
and bear an inscription to that effect.
* * * *
(1) Is the “Commonwealth Year-Book” avail-
able to the public, and at what price? (2) Is
there any smaller book issued by the Common-
wealth Statistician and what is its price? —
9454.
(1) Yes; 5s., post free. (2) The Pocket Com-
pendium of Australian Statistics, Is.
♦ * * »
(I) I wish to gain in weight and improve in
health generally. Is beer or stout a good appe-
tiser? For nourishment and food value, how
does beer compare with barley water? (2) Is
cottage cheese better than bought cheese for
nourishment and ease of digestion ? (3) Please
give a recipe for barley water drink and cot-
tage cheese. —9647.
(1) Both beer and stout are “appetisers,”
though stout, in virtue of its greater acidity,
has a retarding effect upon the digestion of
starchy foods by the saliva. The large quantity
of carbohydrate in these malt liquors renders
them the most nourishing of alcoholic drinks.
A pint of ale contains as much carbohydrate as
bread, and a glass of bottled beer contains
only 16 calories (heat units) less than the equiva-
lent amount of milk, though beer is not as good
a source of energy as milk, .since alcohol is a food
of limited value. Barley water contains practically
no nutriment, being merely a bland and pleasant
drink. (2) Differences in nutritive value and
ease of digestion are unimportant. (3) Barley
water. —Ingredients: loz. barley, -}oz. loaf
sugar, one pint water, half lemon. Wash and
blanch barley and put into a jug. Peel lemon
very thinly, and add a small piece of rind to
barley. Rub loaf sugar on outside of lemon
and add. Pour on water boiling. Place a cloth
on top of jug, leave till cold, then strain.
Cottage cheese. —Use sour milk (skimmed or
whole) or buttermilk. Heat slowly over hot
water until lukewarm (95deg. F.) and casein
begins to coagulate. Let stand in warm place a
few minutes for curd to collect before turning
mass into cheesecloth-lined strainer. Drain
thoroughly, and, if milk is very sour, pour
cold water over curd; bring ends of cloth to-
gether and hang until all whey is removed.
Moisten with cream or butter and season with
salt. One quart of milk makes one cup.
• * ♦ «
(1) From what plant is linseed obtained?
(2) Chief country of supply now and prior to
the war? (3) Does India supply any? (4)
I am told it comes from the flax plant. If so,
is Australia now growing this on a larger scale ?
Can she supply her own linseed-oil requirements
to any appreciable extent? (5) I believe the
price during the last war approached £1 a
gallon. Present wholesale price is 6s. B d. Any
reason to believe much rise above the latter
price is likely in the present war? —1273.
(1) Linurn usitatissimum. (2) and (3) Aus-
tralia has always relied mainly on India, which
produces the world’s best quality commercial
seed. Prior to the war periodical shipments
came from Argentina and occasionally China.
Argentina is the biggest producer. (4) A small
amount of seed is obtained in the cultivation
of flax, usually of inferior yield or quality.
The ordinary commercial seed is grown for seed
solely. Australia is giving considerable atten-
tion to the growing of flax, but the seed will
generally be a flat, pinched seed with a very low
oil content or alternatively a low yield per
acre. High oil content is important for manu-
facturing. The amount of locally cultivated
seed at present available in Australia is insignifi-
cant. Stocks held in Australia are, however,
substantial. (5) Future price depends on many
factors, such as cost of freight, war-risk in-
surance and exchange fluctuations. There is no
reason at present to anticipate any marked in-
crease in price.
* * * *
What is the method of preparing shells for
a museum collection ? —9929.
Shells are polished by removing the outer coat
to expose the pearly nacre beneath. All shells
do not have nacre, so first make sure that
treatment will improve the shell. Clean the
shell of all dirt. Remove coralline and other
growths by scraping with a strong knife or rub-
bing with coarse emery paper. The outer coat
is then removed by acid or lime. Moisten
chloride of lime (bleaching powder) with water
into a thin paste and brush it over the shell
with a small toothbrush. Leave this on for
some hours, but watch it to prevent the action
going too far. If preferred, work only a small
area at a time. When the surface is removed
wash the shell in tepid soapy water and dry
thoroughly. If employing acid it is more eco-
nomical to use it hot. Add 3oz. muriatic
acid to a gallon of boiling water. Small shells
can be placed in a net bag and well shaken in
this, but with large shells the solution should
be brushed on. Some prefer to apply the acid
neat, dipping the brush in water at intervals
and brushing the acid off, working a small
portion at a time. The chief point to remember
is to watch the action of the acid or lime and
to use great care in handling either. With some
shells, such as the common mussel, emery
paper can be used. Commence with coarse
paper and use finer grades as the nacre is
approached. The natural polish of shells can
be emphasised by wiping with a few drops of
boiled linseed oil or machine oil on cotton-
wool.
* * * *
What is the proper method of treating a
tennis net with Stockholm tar? —9714.
There are three ways of tarring tennis nets:
(1) dipping, (2) painting on, (3) steam tarring.
None uses Stockholm tar. Each maker keeps
the process to himself. Stockholm tar is dirty
and won’t dry.
* * * «
Can an invalid pensioner earn any money
at all, and, if so, how much per week? —9788.
A qualification for the invalid pension is per-
manent incapacity for work. In addition to the
incapacity being permanent it must be total.
An invalid pensioner, therefore, who is capable
of earning more than a nominal sum can no
longer be regarded as permanently incapacitated
for work in view of his employment and earn-
ings.
* * * *
What is a rupture, where does it occur and
what are the symptoms? —99o9.
The term “rupture” is used in everyday
speech to signify the herniation or protrusion of
a loop or knuckle of an organ or tissue through
an abnormal opening. Such abnormalities may
occur in almost any region of the body and
in either sex. You probably have in mind a
hernia of the inguinal variety, one of the
commonest of all. It manifests itself by an
elastic swelling in the groin, which increases in
size when the patient assumes the erect posi-
tion or undertakes muscular effort.
Is there any gland treatment to check exces-
sive growth of hair on the body? If so, where
could it be obtained ? —9926.
The latest medical literature contains optimis-
tic reports of the results obtained by the use
of a glandular preparation known as oestra-
radiol. An ointment containing 50,000 units
of oestraradiol benzoate in 40 grammes of
lanoline to make an ointment was applied
nightly in 100 cases, of which 60 were appreci-
ably improved. Obviously the treatment is a
matter for a specialist, and there is some doubt
whether oestraradiol is obtainable at present.
Brief Answers.
0.D.: The first Australian officer killed in
action on Gallipoli was Captain W. R. (Dick)
Annear of the 11th (Westralian) Battalion....
. ...J.H.F.: A persistent oil leak on the sus-
pension unit of a 1935 Chevrolet is usually
the result of the surface to which the gasket
is being applied being rough or warped. Re-
move the shock-absorber cap and carefully
file flat both surfaces to remove burrs or high
spots. Then fit anew gasket coated with Form-
a-gasket. Larke, Neave and Carter, 117 Wil-
liam-street, Sydney, can supply... .8.P.: (1)
If tomato sauce has been properly made and
boiled no coloring matter need be added.
(2) This Chinese recipe is the nearest to your
requirements; Steam a chicken in a saucepan
with one cup water, two chopped onions and
half-teaspoon salt. When tender lift out and
remove bones (which should slip out). Slice
half a pineapple, put it with the juice into the
liquor from the chicken, add chopped celery,
onions and peas (one cup of each) and simmer
20 minutes. Add the chicken, heat up, thicken
with flour and serve hot with rice... .A.R.:
Drying figs entails a good deal of prepara-
tion; impossible to give here in full. Write
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for leaflet “Dry-
ing Figs” S.E.H.: Saffron is merely a color-
ing medium and may be used for cakes as any
essence is used. Merely add as required for
c010r... .P.C.8.: To waterproof canvas with
candles is a tedious business. An easier way is
to mix paraffin wax or beeswax with castor oil
(measure for measure), dissolve wax in oil
over gentle heat and apply to canvas—prefer-
ably in the sun on a hot day—rubbing well in
with stiff brush. A still easier and equally effec-
tive way is to spread out the sheet in the sun,
melt 51b. tallow in two gallons boiled linseed
oil (half quantities will do) and rub while hot
into the canvas. Hang up to dry and repeat,
giving each side two coats. If dried carefully,
between coats this will be supple and water-
proof and should last 10 years. This is
as near the official formula as you can get....
FJ.K.: A porcelain bath once stained can
never be restored to its original condition.
Use one of the good household cleaners or
kerosene mixed to a paste with whiting....
C.A.L.: Armstrong-Holland, 4 Bridge-street,
and McPherson, 51 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
supply moulds for concrete blocks... .U.E.V.:
Woodi-Yalloak, Warrnambool, Toongabbie,
Tingira, Murrawolga and Merimbula are appro-
priate abo. names for a seaside cottage
F.A.1.5.: Asa resident of N.S.W. you would
be liable to N.S.W. unemployed-relief and social
services taxes in respect of property income
only from Queensland sources; and this lia-
bility is being removed. Generally, income
derived by a resident of N.S.W. from sources
outside the State is not subject to N.S.W.
“ordinary” income tax. Interest from Australian
Consolidated Stock is not subject to N.S.W.
income tax or unemployed-relief and social
services taxes Mrs. M.; Aldinga, Bealiba,
Beltana, Yarra, Dugalup and Nabelnup are
suitable abo. names for a cottage in a wooded
valley by a creek M.G.: The trouble would
appear to be sarcoptic mange, a highly infec-
tious complaint. Wash the dog with Jeyes’s
fluid, dissolved one in 80 with warm water.
When dry apply one part powdered sulphur
mixed with eight parts of vegetable oil or
vaseline. This must be well rubbed in every
four days for three times; three or four days
after the last dressing wash the dog as before.
It is highly important that the kennel and
everything, such as combs, brushes, leads,
collars, etc., should be thoroughly disinfected
with a strong solution of Jeyes’s fluid
F.C.8.: Dogs can, and do, have goitre. The
best remedy is Spongia 1. This is procurable
from a homoeopathic chemist. Give two or
three tablets daily. External treatment for
goitre is useless... .R.V.M.: The Samoyed is
an Arctic breed. These dogs are exceptionally
intelligent, healthy and affectionate. An ideal
housedog. Size 20in. to 22in. at the shoulder.
Weight 451 b. to 551 b. Bitches 18in. to 20in.;
weight 361 b. to 451 b. Try Miss E. Bradshaw,
Winifred-crescent, Toorak, Vic., or J. Maike,
28 St. Paul’s-street, Randwick, N.S.W
A. 8.: Suggest fabric crayon, which is made in
red, yellow, blue and black, retailing at 9d.
per stick. Obtainable Swain’s, 123 Pitt-street,
Sydney R. 8.: (1) Apparently it does nothing
to increase either vigor or virility and has no
other rejuvenating effect. (2) Persons operated
upon live no longer than anybody else. (3)
Indirectly the effect is bad in that it is likely
to lead to attempts at increased effort, both
physical and mental, in late life. (4) No.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the' MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
K.J.K.:
Then was the Kaiser
Who faced Britain’s might;
But now, rather wiser,
He chops. His mind is light.
And now comes Hitler!
Well! Time will tell.
He’ll be much littler
When we toll his knell.
. ...E.S.: We have only one answer to five
rhetorical questions masquerading as a poem.
L.V.: “Ardent souls whose ecstasy in zeal
their vigor show.” Come, come! 1.F.: Too
many roses U.McK.W.; Let the ancient
swaggie die in peace... .R.M.P.; ’Orrible dog-
gerel J.M.; Keep at it... .S.W.McC.: It
was probably better as a poster... .D.L.S.:
Sting but no style 8.C.: A pale grin....
E.H.McG.: “ ‘Breathes there the man with
soul so dead?’ —Brooke.” Did you ever read
Walter Scott’s sonnets to the girls of Tahiti?
J.M.W.: Rough going... .R. 5.8.: Thin,
this time W.J.: Sounds juvenile R.J.:
Theme good; treatment sketchy J.W.: End’s
feeble J.H.H.: Once there were coaches;
now there are trains. Yes, we know, we
know 1.M.G.: Both lightweights J.J.:
Operate on the jester’s nose T.1.P.: That
tinkling metre doesn’t help them C.W.W.:
Doesn’t live up to the opening S.McH.
(Fiji): Needs rounding 0ff....D.H.; Try else-
where G.0’8.: Close A.K.F.: “A-cheer-
ing”; “a-marching.” It’s a-coming back
J.D.D.: Take “The Drover’s Dog” to a quiet
place and try swearing at it... .T.L.S.; Weak.
M.C.T.: A woman’s paper might be inter-
ested Fisho: So you went fishing and upset
the rum. Gosh! C.A.H.: Millionaire who
“laughed uproariously” when informed he had
lost £lOO,OOO isn’t convincing Armagh: All
found way to basket... .R.W.: Too long and
too loose, but try again... .N.W.: Story about
carol-singing in the snow belongs to another
hemisphere... .A.M.: Not a bad yarn.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bert C.: Suspiciously un-Australian
M.N.; Art is long, and we fear that for you
life will be too short to master it... .E.W.H.:
Broaden your style and you’ll stand a chance.
J.E.M.; If a woman that size could
balance on those feet she’d make all the laws
of physics look silly... .J.8.A.; Still too stiff
in drawing and scratchy in treatment... .T.W.:
We tried not to think evil of it....F.C.; Until
you learn more of anatomy for heaven’s sake
cover your beach girls in ankle-length skirts
P.W.: Spidery futilities... .F.8.N.: Wooden
females not wanted... .C.T.M.: You’re let off
as a first offender R.H.; Does Maisie really
entertain her friends in that —er —dress?
M.R.: As empty as yesterday’s bottles....
P.C.L.: The dislocated gent, and the rocking-
horse have been disrespectfully interred.


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES CO.. |
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
e
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
66E
St. George’s
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
F OR
all
m
-» i
% SB&S
m
s
883
&: : SS3
Si®
Si®
iCVSACMI
m
KSSSS
I m
mm
liiil
il
ORB
illi
m ?.
■;miy:Wh:A
MimM
mmm
farm wilding
PURPOSES ••
AUSTRALIA
Ls 9— 2178
IH SHED* • FEtO
n e : UH*S
R^ lU sl MS
nIKES • P' 6 PtNS
OVII HOUSES •
f ,«
—«i &HEDS
For the- man on the land there is no more
useful or widely used building material than
Galvanized Iron. Essential for water con-
servation purposes, it is the only practical
type of roof for country dwellings, while for
fencing, walling, building grain silos, pig
pens, troughs, fowlhouses, etc., it has no
equal, possessing the advantages of great
strength and permanence with economy and
ease of erection. In dry bush areas it is
doubly essential, because it is absolutely
fireproof. In your next building job specify
Lysaght's Galvanized Iron: Red Ord rigid
sheets for.roofing, Blue Ord for all general
purposes.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE— ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Good ships have been built in Queens-
land, and, as was stated in the “Australia
at War” supplement, the State is “tack-
ling with vigor and enthusiasm” a sub-
stantial war-time programme “in a
climate once regarded as impossible for
white men.” The difficult and delicate
job of launching a floating dock was con-
summated on Saturday. Deputy Labor-
leader Forde, who was present, praised
the company as capable of building three
10,000-ton merchant ships and “a number
of corvettes” within a twelvemonth, and
as planning to employ 1500 men.
>JC * *
“23-4”: The long chance came off
when a Queensland woman who hadn’t
seen her husband for a couple of years
took a job at a maternity hospital. Work-
ing there, she suddenly noticed the re-
semblance between a new-born baby and
her own child and began to make in-
quiries. These led through the mother
of the new child to the missing husband,
and so to the divorce court and a decree
nisi. Hundreds of babies were born at
the hospital, the injured wife told ’Sonah,
and it was pure chance that she saw the
child that aroused her suspicions.
m * * *
“Balander”: The only white lepers in
Queensland are on Peel Island, where
the lazarette is a group of cottages at
the rate of one to each leper. This has
been an obstacle to modern treatment,
and now Health Minister Hanlon pro-
poses to build a sanatorium. As he says,
given modern facilities for treatment,
leprosy need not mean life--banishment
for the sufferer. Cures have been
achieved at Peel Island, and if the sana-
torium will make them more frequent
nobody should quibble at the money it
will cost.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”; Anyone finding himself in
the vicinity of Roma Blocks No. 4 oil-
bore last week would have been justified
in believing that some film company was
shooting scenes for “The Queen of the
Gusher” or “Oil Be Cornin’ Down the
Mountain.” A rumor got abroad that
production tests at the bore were certain
to reveal oil, and most of Roma found
some way of getting out to the derrick.
Seating accommodation was provided,
and the spectators were allowed to go
up now and then and smell or taste the
slush coming up. So passed a couple of
days, but no payable oil came forth.
The Commonwealth Geological Adviser,
Dr. Raggatt, was on hand, but later he
was seen packing for Canberra. To a
newspaperman he got rid of the follow-
ing bit of wisdom:
It is interesting and important to have
proved that oil has been obtained from
another well in the Roma district, although
it is too early to attempt to assess the bear-
ing of the results obtained on the future
possibilities of the field.
Exactly. All the same, Roma will never
give up hope. It has been expecting to
find gushers on its doorstep every morn-
ing for 35 years or so, and, with
memories of the 1930 excitement and the
oil boom of the late ’twenties still strong,
it will go on expecting and still finding
an odd pound or two for share capital.
• * * *
“Wingella”: Not all our heroic souls
are at the war. When word reached
Borroloola that Horace Foster, of Seven
Emus station, had been accidentally shot,
Mrs. Heathcock, wife of the Borro-
loola constable —before marriage she was
an A.I.M. sister —went off at once to
give what help she could to the injured
man. To reach him she travelled 44
miles up the McArthur River, then 15
miles along the Gulf of Carpentaria (and
that in the wet season, when squalls are
frequent), then many miles up the
Wearyan River, till she reached her desti-
nation. Her only mode of travel was a
blackfeilows’ dugout, manned by abo-
riginal paddlers. Despite her efforts
Foster died from his injuries. Horace
Foster, who had spent a lifetime in
Arnhem Land, knew the aboriginal as
few other white men did.
Many a Queensland fisherman, amateur
and professional, heaved a sigh for the
passing of Peter Tascon, “French Pete”
to all Moreton Bay for half a century
and more. Breton-born and sea-bred, he
came to Queensland in a French square-
rigger and decided to remain there with-
out any tiresome formalities of signing-
off. Shore authorities weren’t sticky about
such matters in the early ’eighties. After
a spell on the Bundaberg canefields man-
aging kanaka labor, Pete worked at
oystering and dugong and turtle fishing
until he got his own boat and settled at
Cleveland. Up to a year ago he was stil]
taking out Bay fishing parties and always
ready to lament the replacement of clean
honest sail by zese smelly buzz-machines
of engines.
* * * *
Dead in Brisbane at 86, Alexander
Corrie, last surviving foundation mem-
ber of Launceston’s Stock Exchange,
foundation member and first president
of Brisbane’s. Tasmanian-born, he
was in partnership with his father as
an insurance and mining broker in
Launceston before going to Queensland
in 1885. Actively interested in charitable
and philanthropic movements and in the
encouragement of local artistic talent, he
was a prominent figure in the civic, com-
mercial and social life of Brisbane for
more than half a century.
* * * *
On another of those Labor wrangles:
It began when Brisbane’s Trades and Labor
Council’s celebrations committee issued an
order: “red, white and blue, in combination, are
to be excluded from the Labor Day procession
in Brisbane on May 5, for the reason that they
are ‘Tory’ colors.” The council secretary,
J. W. Roche, explained that “this does not
mean that national flags, such as the Union
Jack or the Australian flag, should be ex-
cluded. Labor’s color —red—must predominate,
and any vehicle or display which does not
favorably feature Labor or the Labor struggle
would be excluded.”
There followed a storm of protest. The
“Courier-Mail” denounced the ban as “an
insult to a patriotic State and city and a cruel
affront to every man and woman who has a
son or brother fighting under those colors.”
The A.W.U. and the “Worker” announced that
they would not be represented in the proces-
sion. The Tramway Union took a secret
ballot; and the trammies decided against par-
ticipation by four to one.
The A.W.U. has 67,000 Queensland members.
Every State Minister, from Forgan Smith down,
is a ticket-holder. There must have been some
rapid and solid thinking in several quarters.
Those who thought deepest appear to have
been E. J. Hanson, a member of the Labor
Day committee and chief marshal, and H. J.
Harvey, president of the T. and L-C.
Mr. Harvey paced to the microphone and,
conveniently forgetting the “ ‘Tory’-colors”
explanation, gave it out over two stations that
national flags were not to be excluded and that
“the ban had been designed to prevent firms
commercialising the procession.” Mr. Hanson
sounded much better with “let me assure the
public that, as far as I am concerned, any
truck or float can carry all the Union Jacks
and Australian flags desired without fear of ex-
clusion so long as it bears some reference favor-
able to Labor Day.”
Then the A.W.U. removed its ban on the
procession. At time of writing the tramwaymen
are still holding out.
“Wusslean”: “K.P” (B. 2/4/’4l) is
wide of the mark in dismissing Shelley
as “a poseur who regarded being sent
down from Oxford as a good advertis-
ing stunt.” The pamphlet which brought
about Percy’s expulsion from the Univer-
sity, was published under the pen-name of
“Jeremiah Stukeley,” So little did Shelley
court notoriety, according to his friend
Jefferson Hogg, who was expelled for
alleged complicity in the affair that the
youthful poet was much distressed about
the punishment which deprived him of
the right to live in college—the first real
happiness he had known. Further, all
the evidence of those who knew Shelley
is absolutely against the idea that he
was a notoriety-seeking poseur.


LYSAG MTS
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
m
m
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Outlook.
“Ghanam”: In spite of drought the
N.S.W. clip for the season to the end
of June, 1940, was the heaviest in history
and a world’s record over so large a
number of sheep. It worked out at an
average of 9.91 b. per grown sheep. With
lambs the figure was 9.11 b. The best
previous average was B.Blb. in 1928-29.
The present season is almost ended, but
in all States so far wool is merely
dribbling in.
From the look of things in Britain,
it will be a long time before there is
any weakness in demand. The British
Government is conserving wool to the
limit. Firms working on civilian manu-
facture in Britain are restricted to 35
per cent. 1939 capacity, and further re-
ductions are likely. Most clothing fac-
tories in Britain work 85 per cent, on
uniforms and Government needs and the
balance on civilian trade. Uniform cloth
in Britain is all-wool ; artificial fibres
haven’t threatened the pre-eminence of
the sheep.
The U.S. has again become a great
wool buyer. It swallowed the bulk of
last year’s S. American export clips and
most of the Australian and S. African
surplus. Japan bought nothing in S.
America.
Wool should bale heavier and show
fewer faults in the coming season. Feed
is geneially good. But blowfly has to
be reckoned with again, along with all
the normal pests of good seasons fol-
lowing bad ones.
Worms in Sheep.
“Haemonchus”: Seasonal conditions
in northern N.S.W. and southern Queens-
land have resulted in the heaviest stomach
worm infestation for many years. This
has upset theories that a long drought
and scouring on the new green feed
would reduce worms, and many proper-
ties have lost more sheep since the break-
ing of the drought than from drought
itself.
Stomach and intestinal worms remain
in sheep from the time they are picked
up as larvae until they die—either from
natural causes or from a drench. The
female worm reaches maturity about
three weeks from the time the larva is
picked up—it sucks all its nourishment
from its host and lays an amazing num-
ber of eggs per day. The large stomach
or barber’s-pole worm lays 5000 or more
eggs per day, which are passed in the
sheep’s droppings. During a hot, dry
spell practically all those eggs die, so
few survived the 1940 drought. But pas-
tures are reinfested by sheep returning
from agistment and by parent worms
remaining inside the sheep.
Rain and floods this season grew the
heaviest body of grass seen for many
years—so heavy in some districts that
sheep would not face it, but concentrated
on small areas which they kept trimmed
short. Thus 1000 sheep in a 1000-acre
paddock might be grazing on only 100
acres—10 sheep per acre. If only one
sheep in ten still carried but 20 female
worms each acre would be hatching out
1,000,000 eggs each day. It would be
impossible for sheep packed on the small,
short-cropped patches to avoid picking
up hundreds of larvae daily.
Once inside the sheep the larvae make
their way to the fourth stomach and in
three weeks grow to maturity. Three
weeks after the breaking of the drought
things began to happen. As soon as the
npw crop of worms start laying—prob-
ably at the rate of hundreds per day for
the first week, after that at the rate of
thousands the sheep begin to suffer.
They look well at casual examination
but their skins, the mucous membrane
of mouth and eyes, instead of being a
healthy pink or red, will be anaemic and
pale.
It is now recognised as practically
impossible to eradicate worms entirely
from a property, but they can be con-
trolled by drenching and by good man-
agement. Few graziers consider drench-
ing when feed is dry or scarce, yet two
drenchings at intervals of a month in the
early stages of drought would clear the
parent worms out and reinfestation
would be nipped in the bud. Drench-
"Your wife really needs a couple of months in some place where it's quiet.”
ing sheep and putting them back in the
same paddock is only keeping down the
mature worms. It is better to stock
paddocks heavily and to shift sheep fre-
quently into spelled paddocks, particu-
larly after drenching.
Drenches affect only mature worms,
hence the need to repeat the dose after
a period to hit the worms which were
immature at the first attempt.
For the large stomach worm, carbon
tetrachloride (double strength) is 100 per
cent, effective. Bluestone drench (8 p.c.,
loz. dose) gives fair results and is the
cheapest, but it has been shown in trials
that in one sheep in five it goes to the
paunch instead of to the fourth stomach
and is then useless. Arsenic and blue-
stone and arsenic also give good results,
and bluestone and nicotine is widely
recommended.
It is necessary for arsenic drenches to
be chemically pure. Sodium arsenite is
comparatively expensive. Commercial
sodium arsenite will not dissolve
thoroughly in cold water and it is im-
possible to ascertain just how much
arsenic the liquid contains.
Danger from stomach worms is be-
coming less with the advent of winter,
but an even greater danger faces young
sheep—the black scour worm. From
now on all sheep up to two-tooths should
be drenched at regular intervals with
bluestone and nicotine, the most reliable
drench available, and also effective
against stomach worms. It may be re-
garded as the best all-round drench for
all sheep at this time of year.
Nicotine Sulphate Drenching.
“Lion”: My standard dose (in 5 c.c.
instalments) is 30 c.c. for 18 months
and over sheep, 20 c.c. for 12
to 18 months, 10 c.c. for four
to 12 months, 5 c.c. under four
months. “J.R.D.” (B. 1/1/’4l) reckoned
I was lucky to get results with so low a
nicotine concentration and advocated
twice that strength—l6oz. n.s., plus 11b.
bluestone, to water, 1 fl. oz. to a
sheep. He claimed I impose a lot of
work on the operator by handing out
5 c.c. doses. I first tried his formula in
5 c.c. doses on 25 ewes, all ages, selected
from a mob of 500.
These sheep were given 60 c.c. right
through. Two were lost, 17 were carried
out of the yard sick, but all recovered —
some slowly. Most of this mob took the
drench as if it had been water.
In every mob I would lose an odd sheep
or so when using the 60 c.c., but as some
of them were very wormy owing to the
difficult season, and as they were all used
to n.s., I attribute these odd losses to ex-
cessive weakness, small body weight and
nicotine effects even on sheep accus-
tomed to it.
I don’t say “J.R.D.” is wrong in giving
60 c.c. Where he can do so and worms
are bad, his practice is definitely good ;
but I say it cannot be done indiscrimi-
nately—or safely with sheep which have
never had it before.
On the next mob I tried a couple of
races with the gun set for two large doses
of 30 c.c. each, with less harmful effects.
I hold that most of “J.R.D.’s” dose gets
into the main stomach, mixes with all the
food therein, and so reacts more slowly
and not nearly as effectively as the small
shots that I give, which allow the
oesophageal groove to close during the
drenching. Thus most of my dose
goes direct to the fourth stomach, where
body absorption is far more rapid and
gives the maximum kill of worms.
During my experiments over 6000 sheep
were treated and the drenching has
proved 97 p.c. effective. The obstinate
3 p.c. I find it hard to clean up even
with the 60 c.c. dose, and the very worst
of them I have destroyed. Worms this
year have been exceptionally bad in parts
of N.S.W., and I imagine some odd sheep
are constitutionally unable to make a
proper recovery.
It seems to me that “J.R.D.’s” doses
are only safe in the hands of men with
an extensive stock knowledge and on
big, strong sheep, or sheep that are
thoroughly used to the drug.
Lucerne in Dry Country,
“ Alf C . Rele”: Out at Condobolin
(N.S.W.), which is on the outer limit of
the lOin. rainfall belt, a 103-acre pad-
dock has been showing what lucerne can
do in the poorer wheat country if prop-
erly managed.
The paddock was m.b. ploughed in
early August, 1937, cultivated in January
and March, shallow-cultivated and har-
rowed as a seedbed in early May, and
sown about mid-May, 1938, with 2|lb.
of lucerne seed and 401 b. of superphos-
phate per acre, mixed together and broad-
ca§t through a drill, with light trail-
harrows following. Seedbed was good
but dry.
It was a dry period. There was
very little rain on the fallow, none in
March, and from seeding to late June
only light showers. On June 24, 105
points fell, which brought on germina-
tion. Followed a dry spring until iate
October, when nearly sin. eased the
strain, but brought a heavy growth of
weeds, particularly saffron. At the end
of November, 850 sheep were turned in.
Throughout 1939 the paddock carried
a sheep to the acre and cut 40 tons of
silage. Normal carrying capacity of the
country is a sheep to three acres. Then
came 1940 and its drought. There was
no rain for the first three months ; after
that it fell like this:
April, 237 points ; May, 26; June, seven;
July, 27; August, 14; Sept., 240; Oct.,
eight; Nov., six; Dec., 248.
From 1 /12/’39 to 30/11/’4O the pad-
dock had only 5.87 in. There was no
growth during summer, and sheep had to
be kept off till mid-April. From then
until early June 27 horses grazed in it;
they were taken out and 386 ewes and
221 lambs were on it for a week. It can
be imagined what they’d do to 103 acres
in that time. It had to be spelled then
until the 240 points came in September,
when horses and sheep went back.
On the basis of eight sheep eating as
much as a horse, the paddock thus car-
ried 1.3 sheep an acre in a record dry
year. With a normal year’s rainfall it
could undoubtedly have carried two
sheep or better to the acre right through.
After the December rain the paddock
was carrying 28 horses, and they couldn’t
keep the lucerne down.
Dual-purpose Oats.
“A 1 Gerian”: Sunrise, Mulga, Buddah
and other early-maturing oats filled the
need for a crop that would provide early
grazing and later hay or grain in favored


BRITSTAND
GRADE
For every cla<
-DITCifiERS
JS of Ditching and Grading.
m.
W>
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
BRITISH STANDARD
MACHINERY Co. Ltd.
56-58 GARDENERS RD.
(West of Botany Rd.), ALEXANDRIA
Phones Mascot 370-5
-ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE I
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID CP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly In the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!, 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
or
&
9'tH
)
na-jtnd-H- >X v
it*-
i)A
vM*t
iHW
jy;
if®
5^
Ml
//V tONDOM 4
PMnd
L^ l '«
»
%
--.. 'V
-S^:C 4
J&*? ■£ Vi.
2^W
*2
sr
O -o
-p^vv
f°*
suopjog
St may coil a little mete
bat ifi WELL mttk
#
dhe lahgeSl gin diMiUm in the woild
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
The matter is transformed into a sterile solution which automatically runs
off into the soil.
No water supply required.
Approved by the Board of Health.
# NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Provides the comfort and safety of modern sanitation.
Efficiency, mechanism and life
fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. li for illustrated pamphlet.
iygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
è
M
districts, but in the wheatbelt generally
they run to stem too quickly, and graz-
ing quickly reduces the stand.
In wheat country, Algerian oats can
be grazed in spring and early summer,
but hardly give enough bulk for late
autumn or winter grazing. Belar is a
fair grazer, particularly in the Riverina,
and is suitable where a good, quick feed-
off is needed as a change or as a pre-
liminary to other pastures.
Best grazer is Fulghum. It matures
early with a good bulk of feed, and re-
covers quickly to allow more than one
grazing and still produce hay or grain ;
or it can be grazed right through and
still bring out a green pick well into
early summer. It is not a particularly
good hay or grain variety owing to its
liability to lodge and the flagginess of the
hay.
A good idea is to sow separate pad-
docks of Fulghum and Algerian. Grazing
can be managed according to season and
demand ; so can hay or grain require-
ments. One paddock could be eaten out
and the other held for harvest, after
which the stock could go on the stubble
while the first paddock made some re-
covery. In any event, the separate pad-
docks would make it easy to manage the
oat crop from late winter to early
summer.
“Yeno Ham”: When dehorning cattle
don’t try to cut both horns from the one
side. It puts extra pressure on the skull.
Don’t dehorn cattle when they are hot,
as bleeding may be excessive. Keep
freshly dehorned cattle away from horned
stock for at least three weeks after the
operation. If the hollow of the horn
looks very open, plug it with some clean
waste or wool soaked in tar. If cattle
are falling away in condition the cut
takes too long to heal.
“Peapod”: Before returning super, or
lime bags take care to see that they
haven’t been used for carrying noxious
weeds. M.L. farmers have at times
brought in ragwort with their super.,
owing to lack of care by the previous
user of the bag. All bags should be
turned inside out and shaken imme-
diately they are emptied.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXVI.
Beleaguered.
He comes up to the house just before
dark.
“G’day, boss. Any chance of a bit o’
tucker?”
You go in and get the missus to make
up a parcel of bread, meat, tea and sugar.
“Thanks, boss,” he says. “Look, do
y’ mind if I camp in y’r woolshed t’night?
It looks like rain.”
You look him over. The last fellow
that camped in the woolshed went away
and left the rain-water tank running and
you didn’t find out till a week afterwards.
This chap looks all right. He’s clean
and meets your eye well.
“Aw,” you say, “I suppose so ; but
don’t go burnin’ the place down.”
“Thanks, boss. Don’t worry about
that,” he says, making for the shed.
“I don’t like the look of that man,”
says the missus, eyeing his retreating
form.
“Aw, don’t be silly. Just a poor devil
down on his luck. Why don’t you like
the look o’ him?”
“I don’t know,” she says. “But I just
don’t. Women’s intuition, perhaps ; and
there’s a lot of those Communists and
things wandering round the country. He
might be a spy.”
You laugh heartily. The missus purses
her lips and says “Ha, ha, ha! Well,
don’t blame me if we’re murdered in our
beds or something. I don’t dislike people
without good cause.”
You laugh again and forget it. After
tea you go through the papers and listen
to the 8.8. C. Then, having had a hard
day, you retire. The missus drops off
to sleep quickly.
Something keeps you awake and you
wonder what it is. You are dog-tired
and ought to have dropped off at once.
You ate nothing disturbing, and the news
wasn’t any worse than it could be. You
stare into the darkness, thinking about
all sorts of things. Suddenly you remem-
ber the stranger in the woolshed and the
wife’s words about him. “Silly women,”
you think, but then you frown. After
all, there is something in this women’s
intuition.
An hour later you feel a bit worried.
You get up and go out to the kitchen
for a drink. There is a red glow in the
window facing the woolshed. With a dry
throat you plunge to the door. A late
harvest moon is just springing above the
horizon. “Blasted women!” you mutter,
sneaking back inside.
You think more about the stranger.
What good would it do him to burn the
woolshed? He’d only get caught and
sent to quad. Would he, though? Sup-
pose he left a candle burning among
some oily rags, giving himself time to
get well away? He’d take some catching
if he got over the river and into
The more you think of it the more
you don’t like it. You debate with your-
self whether to wake one of the boys.
Then you realise they’d think you were
silly. You listen. Nothing can be heard
except the gentle breathing of your
spouse. You turn over and force your-
self to go to sleep. No go. The wool-
shed keeps coming before you. You see
it in flames. Suddenly you find it hard
to remember whether the insurance
policy covers incendiarism.
“Give meself somethin’ t’ do,” you
mutter, climbing out and making for
the living-room, where the policy is kept.
You can’t find it. The missus must have
put it away. Now you know you’ve no
chance of going to sleep. Then an idea
strikes you and you go back to the bed-
room, slip on an overcoat and a pair of
boots, sneak out of the house and make
for the woolshed.
Halfway there you suddenly ask your-
self what you are going to say to the
stranger. Fellow might get his back up,
being snuk up on the middle of the night.
You decide to go quiet and swing away
in a half-circle so as to come in behind
the drafting yards.
Half an hour later you’re peering
anxiously about the shed, listening for
human breathing. There is no sign of
anybody. Softly you call. Then a bit
louder. Louder still. The dogs start
to bark. You run hurriedly through the
shed. Nothing, “....in our beds....”
says the missus’s voice, and you make
for the house. You near it and see the
wife’s figure on the verandah.
“Jack, Jack! What’s the matter?”
You grab her and force her inside.
“Listen,” you hiss, “I’ve been down to
the shed. That bloke isn’t there. What’s
his game?”
You’ve always admired her spirit in
times of crisis. “I’ll wake the boys,” she
says, and goes to their room. You lock
the back door and shove the table against
it. Jack and young Tom appear, com-
plaining. You outline the general situa-
tion. Jack slips on his boots, races to
the dogs and lets them loose, bringing
Boozer, the pugnacious cattle-dog, to the
house. After a brief debate you decide
not to ring the police but appoint Tom
to stand by the ’phone in case. The
missus, bless her, makes tea. For some
reason everybody speaks in whispers until
Jack says, “Well, when he sees the house
lit up he’ll know we’re about.” This
starts you wondering whether the fellow
will have a crack at the woolshed after all.
Hours drift by. The cattle-dog falls
asleep. So does Tom. Talk dies down.
Out of the silence comes a creak from
the back verandah. You jump two feet
from your chair and rush to the kitchen.
There is nothing there. More time flows
by. Just when everybody is dozing off
heavy feet clump across the front door
and a heavy hand knocks.
You cock the triggers of the d.b. gun ;
Jack wakes Tom. The missus grabs a
flat-iron. Waiting until your forces are
in position, you slowly open the door.
It is the stranger. He looks at you
and at the gun.
“Thought there must be somethin’ up,”
he says. “It was too stuffy in y’r shed,
boss, so I camped up be the dam. Hap-
pened t’ wake an’ see the light, an’
thought I better” His eyes are
candid and full of calm inquiry.
“Oh —er —we —a flamin’ snake got in
the house,” you gasp. “Think he must
be gone. Thanks very much.” You un-
cock the gun.
“Righto,” he says and departs.
Jack gives you a black look, kicks Tom
awake and takes him to bed. The missus
regards you with asperity and says “With
your imagination we ought to be writing
books, not farming.”
You put the gun away and make for
bunk. The dawn is breaking. “Blasted
women,” you think, before dropping off.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
per line.
A New South Welshman’s study of the petrol “restrictions” in operation is first
this week.
Petrol “Economy”?
For the last week I have heard the
broadcast appeals, pleadings, suggestions,
supplications and timid threats of Senator
Mcßride to motorists for further petrol
economy. Today I covered by push-bike
40-odd mites of main road on the fringe
of Sydney, and, white the highway traffic
was not as heavy as in peace-time, its
composition was much the same. With
homely family cars and trucks packed to
Plimsoll and out for a breath of the bush,
I had no argument; but there were still
plenty of flash sports models, usually
with a solitary prospecting mate; still
plenty of 30-h.p. cars with drivers only
running parallel to railways ; still bunches
of motor-cyclists indulging in wild and
wasteful acceleration.
Two huge new semi-trailers, two horse-
floats and two cars with caravans —all
belonging to a crooning-cwm-pigrooting
rodeo show —roared by, and after them
came a couple of middle-aged dames
learning to drive. I also passed two
adjoining golf courses, past which ran a
tram service, and counted 47 parked
cars ; in those still arriving the average
load was two.
If the nation is so desperately in need
of juice, why hasn’t the Government the
guts to say bluntly who may use it and
who may not? Some individual consti-
tuents would doubtless become nasty, but
if a Minister did what was wanted in-
stead of wearing out the knees of his
pants asking for voluntary sacrifice surely
the nation’s ultimate gain would be worth
that risk. And the worthy Senator might
mention the matter to friend Spender,
too. Most of the army cars I see scoot-
ing about have empty back seats; and a
cobber in the A.A.S.C. squirms every
time they send him mites in a four-ton
truck instead of one of the many utilities
available to pick up a couple of bags of
spuds. Having been a haulier for years
he can’t get out of the foolish habit of
reckoning up costs. —l9lB Crock
(N.S.W.).
Erosion
“G.A.M.” (B. 26/3/’4l) would team
a useful lesson by studying the history
of a land largely in the news —Libya.
In ancient times the maritime regions of
Libya were fruitful and populous. There
was a string of flourishing cities along
the coast founded by Greek colonists.
Trees were plentiful. In the heyday of
the Roman Empire Libya shared with
Britain the title of granary of Rome.
Then came the Arab conquest. The
new owners, like “G.A.M.,” didn’t “give
a damn for posterity.” Trees were reck-
lessly cut down and no provision was made
for reafforestation. This, combined with
wasteful methods of agriculture, over-
grazing and political anarchy, gradually
destroyed the fertility of the soil. Steadily
the sands of the interior advanced until,
when the Italians seized the country in
1912, it was, for the most part, arid. They
have done well in reclamation, but it will
be long before Libya again becomes what
it was in the days of Augustus. — Tom
(N.S.W.).
Land Men
“A Trier” (B. 9/3/’4l) is twice wrong
—(1) that he can succeed with insufficient
capital because his father did so, and (2)
that Australia wants as many men as she
can get to go on the land. Not very far
from where I live hundreds of men have
disproved his statements by the agonising
process of slow ruin and eventual dis-
possession. They are practically all men
who tried to do what their fathers did,
but they failed because conditions are
now vastly different.
Now there is no good cheap land avail-
able. Farming plant and materials are
expensive; wages are high; prices for
products are consistently low ; credit is
increasingly hard to obtain because the
experience of creditors has been disas-
trous. The pioneers usually had the
benefit of excellent unpaid labor from
their families; now the sons of farmers
(and there aren’t so many as there used
to be) refuse to work hard for a doubt-
ful future reward when they can get
excellent wages elsewhere.
To “Australia wants all the men she
can get to go on the land” the reply is
“Which land?” The fact is that Aus-
tralia has no good land available for
settlement, hence the tremendous demand
and the uneconomically high price. A
few large estates are being cut up in
certain parts of N. S. Wales, but that is
a mere gesture in face of the clamorous
demand. Elsewhere the movement is in
the opposite direction. Hundreds of men
are being removed from marginal wheat
areas by the Government, and three or
four farms become one.
To anyone who has made a close study
of rural problems there are ample reasons
why men should not be allowed to take
up land with “a couple of hundred
pounds.” Their only chance of acquir-
ing land would be to take over a poor
quality, debt-burdened farm. There they
will eke out a peasant existence at an
entirely disproportionate cost of work
and worry, or they will lose their money
as well as larger amounts of money be-
longing to storekeepers, implement firms
and mortgagees.
The urge to own land is so great in
many people that they will continue to
take these risks so long as they are not
prevented. They should take a warning
from the many dispossessed farmers who
have wasted the best years of their lives
in fruitless toil, and now have to make
their way in the world when they are
too old to begin a new career. — Reefun
(N.S.W.).
The Birthrate
All the letters in the O.F.M. on the
falling birthrate appear to be written by
men, and all leave me wondering why
it seems so important to the writers that
Australia and the white race shall con-
tinue after they themselves are dead and
gone. In view of the fact that men care
and accomplish so little in preparing a
well-ordered community for the babies
to be born into, their concern over the
ultimate destiny of the race seems mere
empty sentimentalism. Yet what pos-
sibility is there of improving social con-
ditions while our standards remain, not
those of services rendered to the commu-
nity, but money, position and fame?
The sentimental “Populate or Perish”
waiters might come down to earth and
consider practical issues. How could the
State even provide the babies with a daily
bath, let alone nourish them after wean-
ing with the quantities of fruit, vegetables
and dairy products which modern science
has proved the reasonable requirements
of their growing bodies? The sin is not
that the country does not produce all
and more than is required, but because
a section of the community can lawfully
maintain itself in a “superior” manner
to its fellows, and so rob the nation’s
children the vast majority whose
parents are not above basic-wage rates—
of the necessity for developing a desir-
able standard of physical and mental
health.
Incidentally, women know why they
want and have babies, but, in their con-
scious minds at least, it hasn’t anything
to do with building a nation. —L. M.
(N.S.W.).
I don’t think we shall be doing much
to increase the birthrate in this country
by the introduction of another “hand-
out” in the form of family endowment.
For many years the German birthrate
fell as steadily as our own until, in 1933,
it was down to 14.7 a thousand of the
population. With the advent of Hitler
came a remarkable rise to 18 in 1934,
and it had climbed to 19.7 in 1938. That
is an increase entirely without precedent.
The Nazis took drastic measures
to reduce wastage by abortion —one of
the strongest factors in the lowering of
the birthrate. But Germans have also
been taught to regard illegitimacy in a
very liberal-minded way. It is the child-
less woman, married or not, who is
regarded as an incomplete member of
society in Germany today.
This might sound very shocking to
some Australians, but if we face the posi-
tion honestly we shall find that the pre-
liminary steps (if I may so call them) are
taken just as often in Australia as else-
where. Here in Australia, however, these
steps are followed by various preven-
tive measures to avoid the natural con-
sequences of the acts. Is this not com-
plete hypocrisy? Would it not be more
honest for us to regard illegitimacy more
liberally, or else to regard the preliminary
steps more seriously? —M. D. (N.S.W.).
The Pressgang
“Enoch” (B. 16/4/’4l) has confused
the pressgang and shanghaiing—filling
ships’ complements by kidnapping. Press-
gangs were never used to man England s
mercantile marine, nor did they kidnap
their victims. Impressment of seamen
was a legal right allowed the Royal Navy
only. A pressgang carried out its opera-
tions openly. Landsmen, ships’ appren-
tices, masters of fishing craft and seamen
over 55 or'under 18 were exempt from
seizure. Any such, if taken, could secure
legal redress. It was generally only
necessary for the Navy to resort to im-
pressment in time of war.
From the end of the Napoleonic Wars
(1815) to the 1914-18 war, the British
Navy was manned entirely by volun-
teers. Improved conditions of service,
especially the engaging of men for a five-
year term in 1853, a period later ex-
tended, made the Navy so popular that
far more recruits offered than were
needed. The Admiralty, however, never
abandoned the right to impress, and in
the Great War it was revived under the
fairer form of compulsory service.—
D. A. (N.S.W.).
Pick Your Job
Things seem to be different this war
from the last. Last time we all joined
up in the A.I.F. and were then trans-
ferred to units as required; now the
young fellows seem to want to pick their
jobs or not go. I noticed last week that
there were thousands of applications for
a few jobs" in R.A.A.F. administration.
Surely men after these positions should
be made to sign up for the A.I.F. before
their applications are considered. Any-
way, a lot of this work could be done
by old A.I.F. men who are turned down
in favor of hefty young bucks fit for
infantry or artillery.— One of ’Em (Vic.).
{Continued on page 38.)
Marketing
Looking to the conclusion of the war,
many people picture a starving Europe
simply crying out for foodstuffs that
we will supply. England, they say, will
be so busy rebuilding that money will be
plentiful to buy our goods. Such an
attitude is misleading, and tends to pro-
duce the opinion that all will be well if
we only hang on meanwhile.
But while Europe will very likely be
starving, there is no assurance that the
Mad Continent will want to trade with us.
If she does there is no certainty that she
will have any cash. We certainly can’t
become a charitable institution for her
benefit. England will need food and will
give the Dominions every consideration
if in return we take her goods. But war
brings many changes, and not the least
will be in the eating habits of the nation.
One of the lessons of the war will be
the value of correct diet. It’s not a ques-
tion of book knowledge but of actual
experience. Too much meat is undesir-
able, and having seen the practical results
from a ration in this respect there is no
guarantee that people will use the quan-
tities previously consumed. Butter, too,
is unlikely to regain its former position
unless it is available much cheaper.
That would only mean less return to the
Dominion farmer. The wool clip is sold
for twelve months after the war. There-
after it will compete in the open market.
That will consist of nations bereft of cash.
We should study these trends and pre-
pare ways and means of overcoming
them. — Peapod (M.L.).
“The Constitution For bid’s”
Section 99 of that half-forgotten pipe-
dream the Constitution of the Common-
wealth “forbids” the giving of any pref-
erence to one State or any part thereof
over another State or any part thereof by
any law or regulation of trade, commerce
or revenue. Section 92 of the same vision
of the past humorously alleges that trade
and commerce between the States shall
be absolutely free. The Queensland
Country Agents’ Association has provided
a couple of interesting examples of the
practical application of such phantasms
in these more enlightened days.
Soon after the war began the Com-
monwealth acquired all cattle hides pro-
duced in Australia, producers to be com-
pensated on a per-pound basis, and ap-
pointed a Hide Board to attend to the
business end of the matter. Queensland
produces more bides than any other
State, but their preparation for use is
mainly carried out in southern States.
The board’s regulations fixed the price
of Queensland-produced hides at Id. a
pound less than that for the N. S. Wales
article. To get the extra penny it is
therefore only necessary to buy cattle in
S.Q. and take them across the adjacent
border to the nearest N. S. Wales meat-
works.
Beef killed in Brisbane is inspected
by a Commonwealth veterinary officer
and must be passed as fit for human con-
sumption before being admitted to sale.
Should any of it be railed into N. S.
Wales an extra 2s. a carcass is charged
for inspection by the State authority there
before it can be sold. The base intruder
thus gets it in the neck for trying to break
into the Ma State meat trade.
The result of these two floutings of the
alleged schedule of Australian rights
“ Bath's ready, skipper !”


Quilt
s
FOR
MONEY-SAVERS
Make sure of your comfort this Winter by
securing one of the Illustrated Bargains below!
ITS QUILT WEEK AT GRACE BROS.
BUY NOW AND SAVE
Remember, you can Lay-by If you wish —2 • In
the £ will secure your Quilt.
■*S.i
&m
; V-
m
253
dg&fS*'
5' G" x 5' DISTINCTIVE
IMPRESSIONS
Satin Kapok
QUILTS
Generously filled with
Purest Javanese Kapok
distinctly covered in
the appealing design
Illustrated. In the latest
tonings of Rose, Green,
Blue.
■ :>
■m
m
m
rv
m
m
b'6"x 4'
SERVICE. PLUS
COMFORT IN
FEATHER
QUILTS
Strong Cambric Coverings.
Neat and attractive floral
designs filled with purified
feathers. Single and Double
sizes.
‘M 24'11
m
BED
DOUBLE
m
Charmingly Designed
DOUBLE BED
FEATHER
QUILTS
Daintily designed cambric
with neatly Ruched Sateen
Panel, generously filled with
warmth-giving leathers.
Double Bed A O/O
mu 4o D
SINGLE BED SIZE
also in this New Style Quilt.
w' lv 37 ; 6
V
m
m
m
m
r:-
m
w
m
m
m
m
m
m
WL
zm
m
Save 23/- on
SUPER DOWN
QUILTS
Twice the Warmth of a
Pair of Blankets yet half the
weight, plus the added
charm that an attractive
quilt will give to your bed-
room. Fancy crepe cover-
ings with Ruched Corner in
the design, as illustrated. In
all shades. Only pure Super
Down filling in these Superb
Quilts.
Usually
m
x \
X \
PR
i
5^
SSK
SUPER BRITISH QUALITY
Plain Unbleach'd SHEETS
Woven from specially selected yarn in a quality that will give
years of Honest Wear. Easily bleached to a snowy \yhite.
Single and Double sizes at Special Bargain Prices.
54 x 90in.
\msmm
NOW
NOW
Value in
LARGE SIZE
PILLOW CASES
t'9^
Made from a Pillow Cotton Woven
to our own Specifications and
Guaranteed lor Wear and Service.
Three Popular Styles at Substantial
Savings.
each 19 x 29
Taped Style
l9 x 29
Housewife Style
each. 20 x 30
Hemstitched
m
In
OH
Guaranteed “Hardwear” Quality
in the Famous
"SLEEPEASY" BRAND
of SHEETS
ALL SIZES AT
SPECIALLY REDUCED PRICES
Every Pair Unconditionally Guaranteed for Satis-
faction or Replacement. Plain and Twill Weaves.
Special Linen Finish.
It will pay you to Lay-by —2- in the £ Deposit
GRACE BROS. PTY. LTD.
BROADWAY, SYDNEY
PHONE
M 65 0 6


averages 7s. a head in favor of Ma,
mostly paid by the Brisbane public in
higher retail beef prices.— Nagheer (Q.).
Meat Prices
Minister for Commerce Earle Page has
expressed the pious hope that a cheaper
breakfast chop will result from the drastic
restrictions on Australian meat exports.
It was in reply to the Master Butchers,
who want to finance a nation-wide meat
publicity campaign from compulsory
levies payable by the producer and re-
tailer on each carcass to the tune of
£35,000 a year—really by the consumer.
Secretary Fallon, of the A.W.U., tersely
commented that neither notion would
provide the housewife with the extra
money to pay present exorbitant retail
prices for meat. He went on to suggest
that if the Commonwealth really wanted
to do something it had every possible
power under the National Security Act.
All that was necessary was to fix reason-
able retail prices for each district, com-
pel their display in a clearly-printed
schedule in every retail meat-vendor’s
window, with a footnote asking customers
to report any overcharge, and to provide
penalties sufficiently drastic to render
profiteering attempts not worth while.
The Fallon suggestion is the most prac-
ticable and sensible yet made in the
matter. Talk of a meat-publicity cam-
paign in the country which consumes
more meat than any other in the Empire
and only wishes that it could afford a
lot more is sheer nonsense. Curtailments
of shipping space have already created a
surplus of meat in all States, and will
eventually result in a glut. It is the busi-
ness of Governments to ensure that the
public gets the benefit of lowered prices
under such conditions, even if they have
to assist the producer to keep going until
better conditions prevail.
Action by the Price-fixing Commissioner
in Queensland —taken at the initiative of
the State Arbitration Court —has shown
that substantial reductions in retail prices
were possible in Brisbane, Rockhampton
and Townsville. It is not sufficient,
though, to limit price-fixing to urban dis-
tricts. Some of the worst meat-profiteer-
ing in Australia is done in one-butcher
rural areas, and present-day price-fixing
authorities are powerless to prevent it.
The Fallon scheme would cost nothing
in policing and affords no opportunity
for the establishment of any expensive
clerk-roosts. And the annual saving from
it in Australian working households
generally would outweigh many times-
all the very dubious benefits that can
possibly come from child endowment. —
Colonel Bungstarter (Q.).
Buying Pictures
“There is nothing so mutable as art
fashions,” said “F.S.” (B. 9/4/’4l),
commenting on the recent writing-down
of past purchases of Victoria’s Nat. Gal-
lery from £4334 to £561. Just so ; but
surely the public is entitled to expect
more from the trustees of a great gal-
lery than a capacity to follow fashions.
If that is all they can do citizens are in
the unfortunate position of having a body
of men buying pictures for them for pre-
cisely the same reason that a girl buys a
hat or puts on lipstick. There is this dif-
ference, however. If you asked the girl
what she thought about the hat she was
wearing, generally speaking, she wouldn’t
say it was necessarily as beautiful as the
most beautiful of past fashions. She
would say it looked smart or was right
up to the minute, and it was what all the
other girls were wearing. But a gallery
trustee or director might be expected to
have a little consideration for the future.
—Skinner (Vic.).
Taxation
Some time ago an analytical mind took
out data regarding direct and indirect
taxation, the indirect being the greater.
On a salary of £320 a year, with four
in his family, he was paying. 7s. in the £
(Is. direct and 6s. indirect). Since that
computation there have been war in-
creases, this time necessary.
To the astonishment of this man he
found that bank deposits were taxed. He
had in 1937 £2OO in the bank at 2 p.c.
interest; rises in prices due to taxation
(Federal, State, emergency, hospital,
security, protection, etc.) have diminished
the £2OO to £l7O on the 1936 buying
values, ’ So he has been taxed on his
deposit to the tune of £3O in three years,
and the diminution of money values goes
on. — Taxationist (W.A.).
Housing Problems ?
The housing problem is not as serious
as “Whitworth” (B. 9/4/’4l) suggests.
The real difficulty is the extortionate rent
demanded for homes that are much too
big for most people’s requirements. Actu-
ally, there is ample room for munition
workers near their places of employ-
ment. Unfortunately, many house-
holders with room going to waste will
not tolerate boarders or share their
homes, while others are cashing-in on the
war effort and exploiting well-paid muni-
tion hands.
The mistake most critics of housing
problems make is assuming that all mar-
ried couples are clamoring for “a home
of their own.” They forget that there
are increasing numbers of people who
regard a home and its impedimenta
as a serious cluttering up of their lives.
Apartment houses and flats are not the
result of any housing shortage, but merely
symbols of a new outlook. The Old
Home over which so many people
blubber and sentimentalise is defi-
nitely passing. Often badly designed,
hard to maintain and, from a woman’s
point of view, a back-breaking proposi-
tion, the traditional suburban home is
not the Arcadian retreat many senti-
mentalists allege. Even those who can
afford to run the larger homes where
labor is employed are going into smaller
places or taking flats because of the work
and labor problem.
A house is a machine for living in. The
modern flat has given people a very effi-
cient design for living. It is easily kept
clean, it has “gadgets,” it can be made
very comfortable—and if it is not satis-
factory one can clear out to a better
hole. When a family cuts its moorings
a house and its furniture can be a major
problem. The new trend is admirably
adapted to the Australian temperament,
for the old shiftlessness and nomad strain
are still active from the early days, Fre-
“Hurry, Jessie , or We'll be late for parade !”
quent changes of address and the numer-
ous removal vans in commission indicate
more than a housing shortage. The old
static life of the suburbs is passing. The
gibe that flats are “temples of sterility”
is mere propaganda of the populate-or-
perish cranks. Obviously, the efficiency
of contraceptive technique is not gov-
erned by domestic architecture. Factors
other than home design are reacting on
vital statistics.
If new homes are to be built, it might
be a good plan to make them efficient
affairs incorporating* many of the ideas
that modern flats have evolved. Roses
round the door, chaos and poor interior
design have been the notion of a home in
the past. — Charles Halbert (S.A.).
Flats
It is something of a paradox that in a
country renowned for its unlimited space
we have a growing trend towards flat life.
Is it lack of ambition or merely laziness
that induces married couples to pay out
heavy rents year after year when less
money a week would pay both instal-
ments and rates on a decent suburban
cottage?
Surely, too, a Government which real-
ises the necessity of raising the birthrate
cannot be in favor of a type of housing
that prohibits or hampers the rearing
of children. Moreover, from a rating
point of view, flats have an unfair ad-
vantage, since a landlord owning a block
of flats, providing perhaps a dozen rents,
pays only the same unimproved value
rate as the man whose individual cottage
stands on an allotment of the same size.
The slum-clearing scheme seems a little
incongruous when huge blocks of flats
continue to be built. Admittedly many
of these are modern luxurious affairs
at present, but what will they be like
in 30 or 40 years’ time? The people
who can afford luxurious apartments
will then be housed in super-modern
flats, while landlords will be only too
pleased to let their old-fashioned build-
ings to any tenants, big families or small.
The greatest curse of London’s slums
is reputed to be tenements. And what
is a tenement but an overcrowded flat? —
B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Alien Doctors
The question of using the services of
more alien doctors to take the place of
our own doctors who have joined the
forces is once again being advocated —
so far mildly—by a section of the press.
One-fifth of N. S. Wales doctors are
serving their country, and the possibility
of an acute shortage will have to be
faced as was done more or less success-
fully in the 1914-18 war. Suitable alien
doctors could be enlisted in the A.1.F.,
whose ranks in other branches of the
army are now open to friendly aliens.
A ludicrous position will arise if our
men alone are to go forth and fight while
aliens, who we are told have just as
much at stake, are given the privilege
of remaining on the home front at a
Government-guaranteed salary of £lOOO
a year.
The possibility of the home-grown pro-
duct regaining his former prestige and
practice seems to be of minor importance
to those advpcating the cause of the
foreigners. There was a record entry of
students this year at the Sydney Univer-
sity, medicine, as usual, holding pride
of place. Thousands of young Austra-
lians at varying stages of their careers
are trying to enter this profession,
and it is to them and our own qualified
doctors that we owe first consideration.
—W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
No Fences
If “Auntie Blah” (B. 16/4/’4l) could
see the stray dogs, cats, cows, horses and
even goats that roam about Sydney
suburbs he would see the wisdom of
fences. Then there are all the stray
drunks, hawkers, insurance and t.p. col-
lectors that even a padlocked gate will
not keep out. Neither fence nor gate
would be an open invitation to these
pests, and a man would have nothing to
fasten the “Beware of the Dog” notice
to. Thieves have not been entirely abol-
ished from the suburbs, and fences do
help to keep the neighbors’ kids off the
flower garden and the neighbors’ fowls
off the cabbages. This garden-city idea
is a splendid one in theory, but until
you change human nature it simply will
not work. Besides, what would a woman
have to lean on when she wanted to
gossip with her neighbor? W. Thorn
(N.S.W.).
Technical Schools
During the last few months every news-
paper and radio in the country has been
making constant appeals for men to enrol
for technical education. They are offered
generous conditions and rates of pay,
and on graduation remunerative positions
in munition works. The war effort of
this country has been badly hampered
by our lack of trained men. And yet for
years past every technical school in Aus-
tralia has been forced to turn away large
numbers of prospective students because
of insufficient accommodation and facili-
ties.
Three months ago this school year
began, and more applications than ever
before were made, for admittance. The
sole result was that a larger number than
usual was turned away. In that three
months the Government has raised no
plan and considered no scheme for allow-
ing all who so desire the benefit of tech-
nical training.
According to Victoria’s Minister for
Education the sum of £745,000 would be
required immediately and a further
£2,700,000 over the next ten years' to put
technical education on a solid, efficient
basis. In the face of our war expendi-
ture the sum is reasonable. In addition
it is one of the wisest investments we
could make, not only for the war, but
for the future of Australian youth.—Pip
(Vic.). _
Strangling Civilisation
Why this talk of the strangulation of
population centres by the “effects of
civilisation”? It’s always easy to find
towns that grow up for particular pur-
poses and then disappear. Those towns
are labelled “ghost towns” by sentimen-
talists whose outlooks are directed to-
wards the picturesque and accidental in
history rather than towards an objective
picture.
Perhaps Echuca and Albany have
"faded. So have a hundred little hamlets
clustered round sawmills on the North
Coast of N. S. Wales or round tinmines
in North Queensland. Anyone with
memory enough for these places could
paint a stark picture of drab buildings,
of walls that gape, of saplings that grow
in onetime main streets, of towns des-
tined for greatness that became forlorn
hopes.
In North Queensland
all that remains of one
flourishing township are
a pile of beer-bottles
overtopping a cedar-built
pub and rotting cases of
timber. An English syn-
dicate planned to make
fortunes from Annam
River tin. The venture
flopped.
In South Queensland,
on Moreton Bay, Cleve-
land was to have been
the State capital, but a
visiting Governor of
N. S. Wales was uncere-
moniously emptied into
deep mud by an accident
of the tide when he was
coming ashore. In the
mountains, all down
through the Northern
Rivers, at places like
Helensville, I’ve seen
remnants of towns.
In Victoria there’s the
desolation of places like
Eldorado. But they don’t
prove the “strangling
effect” of civilisation.
Against them we have to
put towns that grew
. despite the “strangulation by civil-
isation.” In Queensland, Gympie was
once a thriving goldmining centre.
They’re still processing the mullock and
finding gold. They’re still dredging the
river for gold in the sands. But only a
handful are engaged on that, and prob-
ably more is made on ’Change than in
the mines. But Gympie thrives. Its few
thousand people are prosperous traders,
not miners. A few more thousand on
farms round the town turn out sugar-
cane worth half a million a year, and
they have a dairying industry that does
just as much.
On the Rivers (N.S.W.) places like
Nambucca Heads were once famous for
their agricultural industry and river trade.
The river trade has diminished, but farms
along the river are still as good and as
hard to buy, and the local produc-
tion figures today are probably higher
than ever, and more people than ever
are making more money than ever in the
old days.
There are arguments both ways about
dying towns. It boils down to this;
People make towns and people keep them
alive. The best decentralisers are ener-
getic, resourceful, self-reliant people. If
towns exist purely for traders, then when
the particular trade line disappears the
towns disappear, just as Indian, African
or American trading posts disappeared
when the natives became civilised and
ceased to trade or were annihilated by
the traders. But I’ll warrant that within
a day’s travelling of anyone of those
dead outposts there are towns with thou-
sands of people in them where the blood
of industry circulates effectively.
It doesn’t need a great deal of the
pioneering spirit to keep a country alive
and decentralised. And we’ve got the
spirit despite all the Jeremiahs. It was
pretty strong, for instance, in the man I
saw building “a modern milkbar” on
the Queensland north coast at the edge
of virtually virgin scrub with not 100
souls within miles. But I’ll be bound
there will be others trading round to
little outpost in a couple of years if he
keeps going.—J. B. (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
CYPRUS DE LUXE
15 Jewel Precision
£5/10/-
Watch, Stainless
Steel.
m
Specially tested to stand tropical conditions.
Fully Gtd. Waterproof, Shockproof, Dustproof.
Watch Bevair Service. Send for Catalogue.
DIAMOND Vy m mm 112 MARKET ST.
8, WATCH UjllJCptftXlk SYDNEY -
SPECIALISTS OPP DAVID JONES
(TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1J pint.
Price, 67/6 complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Hopson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
é
FLEXITBfiCK
Flex—l-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—switches—crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient—a new layout every time.
• No track sec-
tions to connect
—just roll it
out—roll it up.
• Strongly built—
won’t bend or
buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft.
and one 4ft. sec-
tion) for 12/6,
Plus Postage.
AMPLION (A/siaJ)
Ply., Ltd..
382 Kent St., Sydney
rnirnmm
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN \
ANY DIRECTION
FITS OTHER TRACK/
EQUIPMENT
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
ê
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
qf every descri
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Remin_
tons, Underwood
and many others
for you to choose
from.
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
ë
t"
TIMBER KILLER!
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates BLACK-
BEKBIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
Mr. E, F. Dorrough, “Honeysuckle,” Milmerran,
Queensland, writes: —“Please send six tins of
Timber Killer. Although we had heavy rain the
day after applying the Timber Killer, all trees
up to six inches in diameter and those 18 inches
and over are already dead. It is only ten days
since I did them, and I only put three nicks in
each, and I used the Timber Killer on the hardest
timber to kill.”
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO! (15ft.).
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 Packet.
N.B.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney.
£woL Y'
ē
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to;
OHN H. UISCJKR (Dept. 12B),
65 York Street, Sydney.
'm
' , ’
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolute!?
stockproof with a ■
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
307 North George St., Sydney.
B.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
ĕ
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Ventriloquism
ė
EEABN VENTBELOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
ini/l/ Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanstou St., Mclb.
LAMBS SAVED
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAKOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILEB, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors; HAIN & SEARIGHT,
19' O’Connell Street, Sydney.
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES. OR INFECTION
By Using the
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—•
ę
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
typo or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. 3in. thigh
pads. 4'iin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OP RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
ě
i. P. TALTY
TRY ■CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It easts you nothing to try the
“Century” Kadio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
“Aberdeen” Cow Rugs
e
SPECIAL OFFER.
No. 33—Heavy Twill Jute, unlined, 7/8 ea.
No. 33P—Heavy Twill Jute, waterproof,
unlined, 9/8 each.
From stores, or write for price list.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY., LTD.,
33-37 Regent Street, Sydney.
7
wm
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
lIIHORNIIVG
Get rid of
7 Homs. BEFORE
they shirt!
One application of
CHANDLER'S CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easij,_cheap and humane method. Price,
D, &W. Chandler, Ltd., 0/0
MELBOURNE and all branches. ’p os t Free.
' r*
I'Z'' jKC
/M 'W'
THE POCKET SAW
as a Wood Saw, Meat Saw,
Fret Saw, Scroll Saw, Coping
Saw, Jig Saw, Cross-cut Saw,
Cuts iu any direction, cuts
in any position, cuts at any
ngle. It cuts so
asily that saw
ng is a pleasure
T h e powerful
pring does most
f the work ; yo i
merely pull the handle. No
skill needed. It is just like
having a strong man at the other end of
the saw. It’s a positive joy for a man or
a boy. You never saw a saw saw like this
saw saws. Only 3/6 posted to any address.
Packs into a small box 6i by by | inches.
Obtainable only from THE UNION COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
é
ê
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin. Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
ë
TRIX Model
trie Trains, “00”
gauge, operate
practically t h i
same lines as
Modern Railroad
System.
Amazingly realistic,
Remote Control —Auto
made Coupling and
De—coupling
Run two
trains o n
one track.
100%
uto-
ē
from
“ONLY SUITABLE FOR BOYS FROM 7 TO 70.”
Send sd. in stamps for illustrated catalogue.
AMPLION (A;sia) Pty. Ltd. 382 St ”
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
RINGS OF ★ ★ ★
_ REMEMBRANCE
ĕ
ė
38 /6 A 1 r Force
' Badge in
Enamel on a Signet
Ring of 9'ct. Gold.
State whether Ring is
required for Lady or
Gentleman. Safe
delivery guaranteed.
38/6
9ct.
Gold
Solid
Signet
Ring with any A.I.F.
Colour Patch in British
Enamel. In Sterling
Silver, 18/6. State
whether for Lady or
Gentleman.
Angus & Coote have a great Catalogue in which Free
Gifts are offered. Write for your copy today.
ANGUS & COOTE 5 s °TS k STy
ę
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
30,14,r41 (See Page 32)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss.....
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department , ‘The Bulletin '*
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


1
\-. ■:■■. ••;•:! .. ’,• • ••:. = »:V:- ;/ .;:/•■ V;-:'";';:‘-...'■••■•. v
“ v.' »V, ;•" • ’vC *•.*,,*•*•.• /
V'
*.<'/;
§js
;”V«.
V «
Wmm
mm.
\k
\ct
G°
s 6
Sv r o \. .
''S9° ,-A^'
.<>,<' Ae°
V' _e
S»
' o
"SV
a
o
W
y>*\
i
THE CiN OF GENERATIONS
