

Purpose and
Performance
A LITTLE more than twenty-five
years ago—on June 2, 1915—The
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Newcastle Steel
Works was officially opened. The enter-
prise was established with a definite
purpose-—to manufacture quality iron and
steel for the needs of Australian industry
and thereby supply at reasonable prices
the essential materials for the develop-
ment of the Commonwealth.
From the outset, unwavering determi-
nation and confidence in the Australian
workers’ ability to master the difficulties
of steel production were maintained. This
was backed by a courageous policy of
plant modernisation and extension, which
has culminated in Australia possessing
one of the world’s most efficient iron and
steel works.
Purpose has been backed by perform-
ance, the Newcastle Steel Works to-day
supplying great tonnages of the iron and
steel so vital to the nation’s development
and defence.
m
v :
■Js*
.
■ ■■
m
5S
K
I Above is shown molten steel being teemed
from a Huge ladle into ingot moulds
at the B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.
Iron and Steel Masters, Colliery Proprietors,
Mine and Ship Owners•
Head Office : 422 little Collins Street, Melbourne,
■■‘on and Steel Works; NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
Iron Or© Workings: Iron Knob, S.A. limestone Deposits: Devonport, Tasmania.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.-No. 3183.
Wednesday, February 12, 1941.
In Defence of a King
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
"OCCASIONAL" CRITICISM.
A critic who believes that the stream
of New Zealand literature which
flowed from Jessie Mackay to Eileen
Duggan and Robin Hyde and continues
in the work of the contributors to New
Zealand Best Poems is the last trickle of
the romantic movement, already dead in
Europe and moribund in the Dominion,
was not the most suitable writer the Inter-
nal Affairs Department could have
chosen for its centennial survey of Letters
and Art in New Zealand. For this stream
of lyric verse—apart from Katherine
Mansfield’s short stories, a few paintings
and fewer novels—is the only creative art
that Maoriland has so far produced.
Yet, turning for hope to a group of
poets who he admits are imitating the
younger English writers, and to the stories
of Frank Sargeson, which he admits are
under the influence ,pf the Americans,
E. H. McCormick does so dismiss all
that the romantics have written and are
writing. The “phase of lyrical nature-
worship” is something through which
New Zealanders must “pass.” Eileen
Duggan’s work is “not a beginning but
a refined and beautiful close to a long
chapter in the history of New Zealand
writing.”
If Eileen Duggan’s work marks the
end of the tradition, if the lyric is dead
and the landscape is no longer a sub-
ject for poetry, what will the verse of
the future be like? Mr. McCormick
believes that it must “have a social con-
tent,” the poets must “come to terms with
their social environment.”
That, of course, sounds well. Mr.
McCormick takes the orthodox position
of the contemporary Leftist critic. But
what does it mean? Quotation should
show, but Mr. McCormick quotes
not a single line from the group whose
work he approves. He is more daring
with writers outside the group and praises
the couplet:
1 here is no more richness, no riper con-
summation
Of terrene fate than this conjunction with
earth-form.
Which seems to indicate that the terrene
fate of poetry is to perish in a wilder-
ness of clumsy jargon.
There is, however, no visible “social
content” in that quotation. Mr. McCor-
mick shows more clearly what he wants
from the poetry of the future by praising
among J. R. Hervey’s many fine verses
his “War Refugee” and “Parachute
Fatality.” Elsewhere, the critic rightly
condemns “occasional” verses; but what
are l t | iese two P°ems, good as they are,
but “occasional” poems, exactly similar
in intention and in ultimate value to the
verses of William Pember Reeves, which
Mr. McCormick describes as “‘occa-
sional’ poetry... .minor but historically
interesting”;
Isles nigh -as empty as their deep,
Where men but talk of gold and sheep
A land without a past; a race
Set in the rut of commonplace.
Here, certainly, is verse that “came to
terms with its social environment,” verse
with a “social content.” “Minor, but
historically interesting” is Mr. McCor-
mick’s accurate judgment; and “minor
but historically interesting” is what the
future will say to the “occasional” poems
Mr. McCormick wants to see written in
New Zealand today.
Illogical here, Mr. McCormick is logi-
cal enough in the main to carry his
theory to its proper conclusion in the
death of all poetry in New Zealand,
sociological as well as romantic. His
attitude, obviously, springs from admi-
ration of the work of young English
Leftists such as Spender, Auden and Day
Lewis, and his mind is so conditioned by
war and the fear of war that he is un-
able to conceive of a poetry other than
topical or not written under the influence
of those popular topical poets. New
Zealand’s political future, he says, will
be decided by the war, and on the result
of the war depends any chance of New
Zealand adding “anything great and dis-
tinctive to the tradition of European
civilisation.” “When European civilisa-
tion itself is threatened,” his survey con-
cludes, “one turns for a kind of illumina-
tion, not to the literature of New Zea-
land, but to a mature European mind”:
Between two worlds, one dead, ~
The other powerless to be born.
It is true, of course, that the survival
of New Zealand and so of its literature
depends on the result of the war. But
it is not true that New Zealand poetry
belongs to a world “powerless to be
born,” or that it is so entangled in the
European crisis that only the “mature”
European mind can cope with the situa-
tion. Is this poem of Eileen Duggan’s
a surrender to war hysteria and to
Europe’s superior mind ; or
is it not rather a declara-
tion of Maoriland’s in-
dependence, as true for
the nation as it is for the
poet, proving that a world has been
born? between North Cape and the
War shows what each man’s country is to him.
An, look with me on this great windy sod,
Richer by lines of leaves than Adam’s loam.
Its kowhais fiery drizzle in the spring,
Its paddocks’ green oblivion of grass,
Its alps, those proud desires, arrested sighs
Of earth’s old hopeless passion for the blue—
Oh, some would weep and some go numb and
cold
As an Australian in Antarctic snows.
But we would burn until our souls ramped
flame.
For if I held the freehold of this land
From Cape Reinga to Oreti Beach
I could not feel that it was more my own.
If this survey had been written by some-
one who liked romantic poetry, liked the
lyric and the landscape poem, he would
have found abundant material for en-
thusiastic quotation.
From Robin Hyde, for example:
But the last black horse of all
Stood cropping the green-bud wind,
And the last of the raupo huts
Let down its light behind.
Sullen and shadow-clipped,
He tugged at the evening star
(New-mown silvers swished like straw
Over the manuka).
As for the hut, it said
No word but its meagre light.
Its people slept as the dead.
Bedded in Maori night.
From Eve Langley:
Thus, only to islands in the south’s Greek seas,
She gave her youth ; to wahines walking slow
And pregnant through the gorse’s golden peas,
With rough black hair. They do not need to
know
She loved their unborn wild seed while she
walked, -
And smiled to see them marked upon each dress
Of wild south seal, and listened while they
talked >
In ferny Dorian down the wilderness.
O Light! the earth you loved and rambling,
wave
Rise out of me, despite of me, and cry to you
“Death has returned to us that which, we gave;
Triumph of our wish were you, good-bye to
you.”
From Arnold Wall:.—
O happy trees,
There as you stand, lost, among the dowdy
houses,
Giving your branches to the breeze
That breathes on them and rouses
Music and the murmuring of the seas :
Now, if for a moment only,
The finger of God, lingering, points to you,
As you stand lonely.
In a glory of crimson, yellow and blue.
Never again to glow as you glow now
At the foot of the bow.
From some of J. R. Hervey’s nature
poems ; from the occasional fine verses
of lesser-known writers such as Arnold
Cork or J. R. Hastings, who said of
“The Green Field”:—
Cut, cleared and tended, now it lies
Docile to man while he stands near;
But let him turn, and it will slip
Into the thicket like a deer.
• It would not have been hard to justify
the space that could have been given to
these verses whose “social content” is so
small. In the first place, Mr. McCor-
mick could be asked what exactly is
the social content of, say, the “Ode to a
Nightingale.” Secondly, it can be main-
tained that, in spite of Mr. Semple, there
are still more mountains than bulldozers
in New Zealand, so that nature verse is
as appropriate and as inevitable as it
was in England in Wordsworth’s day.
It is likely that Eileen Duggan repre-
sents not the end of the European roman-
tic movement,, but the beginning of the
New Zealand romantic movement. In
her verses New Zealand at long last is
becoming articulate. And there, if Mr.
McCormick must have it, is the “social
content” of these seemingly remote lyrics.
The Founder of W.E.A.
When Albert Mansbridge has the cour-
tesy to describe The Bulletin as “the
outstanding paper in New South Wales”
it’s a pity not to be able to return the
compliment and pick his The Trodden
Road (Dent) as the outstanding auto-
biography of the year. But its appeal
will be pretty much restricted to edu-
cationists. »
Mansbridge has spent his life in good
works, which never make for dramatic
reading. One evening, when his wife con-
tributed a fighting fund of half a crown
from her housekeeping money, he
founded “An Association to Promote the
Higher Education of Workingmen”; after-
wards, known as the W.E.A., the move-
ment spread throughout the world.'Writ-
ing, lecturing and organising, Mansbridge
devoted his life to the cause, and the
greater part of his book describes his
efforts in England, Holland, Canada, the
U.S.A., Australia and New Zealand. Dur-
ing the Great War he was expert adviser
to the British Army education corps and
later prominent in the Australian Army
School. Among his Australian “students,”
he says, were a Cabinet Minister, a uni-
versity professor and a dean who after-
wards became a bishop.
After the war, Mansbridge extended
his activities and “as the result of a tea-
shop conversation with J. B. Condliffe, of
the N.Z. Expeditionary Force,” founded
the World Association for Adult Educa-
tion. In 1919 he started a movement for
providing libraries for seamen, which led
subsequently to the foundation of a “Col-
lege of the Sea.”
Added to the record of all this ex-
tremely valuable work are portraits of
notabilities who assisted in it and a
summary of Mansbridge’s mainly conven-
tional but deeply sincere views on educa-
tion, politics and religion.
From the point of view of entertain-
ment, Mansbridge has little to offer; an
anecdote here and there, a glimpse of
T. E. Lawrence, a few incidents of his
childhood. He quotes some priceless ex-
tracts from a diary written in 1895 when
he was a lay reader:
March 11. Heard Canon Gore on “The
Sermon on the Mount.” Very much im-
pressed.
March 13. Heard the Rev. J. W. Horsley
on “Drink.” Very much depressed.
April 14. Mission service. I preached
on “Death.” Thirty-two present. Collec-
tion ss. Father and Mr. Alderton much
pleased. A most happy day.
Hitler, Beethoven, etc.
Reviewing Axel Heyst’s After Hitler,
a Red Page writer (B. 15/1/’4l) remarks
that Mr. Heyst seems often to be in con-
flict with himself in his endeavors to
dissect and analyse the Teutonic mon-
ster. This seems to come out in most
attempts to give a complete picture of
the Filhrer. One American psychologist
proved to his own satisfaction that Hitler
was a madman and was suffering from
delusions of grandeur. He forgot that
Hitler is, in case of fact, the real ruler
of Germany, and if it is mad of him to
think so, then we are all mad.
But what sticks out most curiously
from Mr. Heyst’s narrative is that his
account of the origins of Hitler’s obses-
sion to make the German people and
German culture dominant on the planet
would equally well fit most of the
geniuses of painting, sculpture, literature
and poetry. Hitler’s activities are baneful
and theirs were beneficent. - The world
will be worse off for his having existed,
and they leave it better off. But that
does not alter the fact that the great and
beneficent geniuses have been ill-adjusted
to society, just as was Hitler.
A Byron, a Shelley or a Beethoven
doesn’t fulfil society’s standards; neither
does a Richard Hunchback. Byron had
a clubfoot. He could have solaced him-
self with self-pity or by blaming his con-
ditions. Instead, for some associational
reason or other, he could solace himself
only with poetry. We know that Beet-
hoven wasn’t a handsome young man,
and was clumsy and awkward with young
ladies. Before he became a great com-
poser, if he walked into a drawing-room
nobody would have taken the slightest
notice of him. If he had run to self-pity
or blaming the young ladies the world
might never have heard of him. But
owing to some accidental circumstance
or other, music had fortunate associa-
tions for him and he ran to music. Hence
he attained to a competency in this direc-
tion which appeared magical, as is shown
in his letters and in the letters of the
girls who knew him. Eventually kings
and princes were proud to be associated
with him.
Mr. Heyst’s narrative shows that Hitler
felt just as much out of it as did Beet-
hoven. In his youth he was known as
the fool of the village. His solitary life
indicates how difficult he found it to get
on with other people. When he tried
to sell his water-color paintings to rich
Jews in Vienna they kicked him out of
their offices. His father, a small Govern-
ment official, hated but crawled to the
Austrian oppressor.
Adolf could have solaced his unhappy
feelings by sitting about in cafes drink-
ing. Instead, he began to dream dreams
of German domination. It was only
necessary for him to become obsessed
with this idea for it to dominate his life
to the exclusion of all other interests, just
as music dominated the life of Beet-
hoven.
Unfortunately, what Hitler believes
causes the deaths of millions of young
men and the bombing of beautiful cities.
It only depletes the world. What Beet-
hoven believed provided the world with
a magnificent heritage of music. But in
both cases the obsession is the same and
is caused by the same feeling of mal-
adjustment. Only the direction is
different.
Hitler thinks he is fighting for civilisa-
tion and culture. If somebody could
show him that he doesn’t know what
culture is it would be impossible for him
any longer to sacrifice millions of lives
for his dream. Then he would have to
die or go mad, because his belief means
so much to him, just as Beethoven would
have had to die or go mad if he had lost
his belief in music. Hitler, according to
Heyst, often repeats the judgment that
his influence will be greatest and most
deeply felt after his death. This shows
how completely he believes in his mission.
It isn’t true, however. What he believes
is mainly bunkum, and when he dies or
gets dished the deepest feeling will be
one of relief, and he will leave no more
influence behind him than Genghis Khan,
Richard 111 of England or Napoleon.
Nothing Napoleon did is valued today
so much as is some little melody by
Schubert.
FENG-SHUI.
The English Spirit: James Crockett
(Angus and Robertson). “When the Eng-
lish and American peoples have freed the
world and established world peace, when
Freedom, Justice, Truth and Mercy have
at last begun to heal the nations, the
gates will be lifted up, the everlasting
doors be set wide open for the common
man to enter in at and possess his king
dom.” Which indicates that this 62-pag
essay is commendable in spirit but some
what highfalutin in style.
Strawberries in the Jam : Being Inti
mate Notes about Interesting People
Doris Hayball (Sunsphere Press, Mel
bourne). Chatty bits about playwrights
actors, poets, artists, duchesses and what
have-you seen or met by an Australian
abroad. Eighteen of the 27 chapters enc
in exclamation marks. “The Duchess ol:
Northumberland made the presentation
and, oddly enough, the name of the sail
ing vessel in which my forebears came ou
to Victoria nearly one hundred years ago
(taking four months on the journey) was
the Duchess of Northumberland I !!”
Quick Service: P. G, Wodehouse (Her
bert Jenkins). “The prospect of having
to approach Mr. Duff, his dyspeptic
trustee, for the necessary financial assist-
ance with which to get married frankly
appalled that impecunious young peer
Lord Holbeton.” With burglary, a smal
nasty dog, a romantic butler, “Mugsy’
Steptoe, the crap-shooting bruiser, and
all the other ingredients of a first-rate
Wodehouse. Why are all pure, laughing-
eyed, jolly English heroines called Sally?
Youngsters’ Fare, from Ward Lock:
Jill, Lone Guide, Ethel Talbot ; Tatters,
Isabel M. Peacock; Drawing Book
Rhymes and Riddles; Winning Her
Colors, Christine Chaundler; Always
Scout, F. Haydn Dimmock. From Faber
and Faber; Albert, the Camel’s Son,
Madame Hen and Little Horace, Profes-
sor Porky— all by Hugh Heaton, illus-
trated by H. E. M. Sellen, and little gems,
the three of them, the drawings extra-
ordinarily good and the tales in prose
and verse also tiptop.
Chubby and Pip, by Gertrude Hart;
The Pyms at Yarrambeat, by Rosalind
Miller (Hutchinson). Good yams for
youngsters, the Yarrambeat adventures
set in Australia.
The Children of Cherry Tree Farm:
Enid Blyton (Country Life). Charming
tale of the English countryside for
youngsters, illustrated by Harry Roun-
tree, who does his job as well as ever.
A report from the Commonwealth Literary
Fund says that books under consideration or
in course of publication are: “Stolne and
Surreptitious Copies” or “The Origin of Shak-
speare’s Bad Quartos,” by Alfred Hart; “Wash
Dirt,” by James Devaney, a Bendigo gold-rush
story; “Six Australian Poets,” by T. Inglis
Moore; “Native Policy in W.A.,” by Paul
Hasluck; Australian radio plays compiled by
Leslie Rees; collected poems of Bernard
O’Dowd; life and work of A. G. Stephens;
verse of Chris Brennan; collected works of
Price Waning (W. Astley). Fellowships which
the fund has granted since its inception (some
have now expired) went to Frank Dalby
Davison, for writing a book of short
stories and a novel; Xavier Herbert,
for the completion of a novel, “Yellow
Fellow,” about half-castes; Miles Franklin,
for a biography of Joseph Furphy (Tom
Collins); Doris Boake Kerr, for a novel
of Melbourne goldfields; Ernestine Hill, for a
work On “Matthew Flinders—Lover”; Mar-
jery Clark, for a novel of contemporary Mel-
bourne; Marjorie Barnard, for a historical
novel; E. J. Brady, for a novel about Cali-
fornian and Australian goldfields, under the
title “Two Frontiers.” The committee has
entered into an agreement with the universities
for lectures in Australian literature to be an
integral part of English in a degree course.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always
I&SbM-fadli,
famous/low prices
“THE SENIOR STORE”
'
•■■Xrf£JKliSß”' ■■
fEABLY
Special Notice
When ordering under the new regulations it is
necessary to obtain a permit from the district police
and forward it with orders for guns, rifles, and
ammunition. Permits are free.
You will shoot better with these
Precision Suilt tfuHA
£i9/io/- 12 Gauge D. B. B. L.
PIGEON GUN £lB
■' ' '
Wm Gashmore 12 gauge D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, bar action, top lever
cross bolt and side clips, rebounding locks, hammers below line Ox
steel barrels, choke bored chambers tor 24m. cartridges, flat
file cut rib dark walnut pistol hand stock, Deeley and Edge fore-end,
well finished. Specially proved for nitro powders. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price £l9/10/-. Sale Price £lB
USUALLY £47/10/- NOW £45
Special Hammerless Gun
ss *SS3
SR
Chets. Boswell's 12 gauge D.8.8.L. Special Hammerless Pigeon Gun.
Anson and Dooley action, side clips, 30in. stool oarrols, both full choke
bored, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, high flat file cut rib, Greener
cross belt, proved for nitro powders. Walnut stock. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price £47/10/-. Sale Price £45
(Unillustrated )
£9/10/- BAYARD D.B. GUN. £7/10/-
12 or 16 gauge Bayard D.B. Guns with 30in. barrels. Genuine
Pieper Breech Action. A good quality gun. Anthony Hor-
derns Regular Price £9/10/-. Sale Price £7/10/-
£l6/10/- ENGLISH
GUN, HAMMERLESS -
£l5/10/
ŵ
AUTOMATIC REPEATING
and SINGLE SHOT RIFLE
Walther Model No. 1 Automatic Repeating and Single Shot Rifle.
Length of barrel, 20iin„ bead fore sight with standard two-leaf rear
sight, walnut stock, top slide safety, all metal parts well blued. Wbight
s£lb/ Anthony Horderns Regular Price £ll. Sale Price £lO/5/-
Walther Model No. 2, 24|in. barrel, with wind gauge and lateral
adjustment. Weight 71b. Regular Price £l2/10/-. Sale Price £ll/15/-
£lO/5/
For hard hitting performance, for smooth work-
ing mechanism, and for dependable service,
we recommend this 20 gauge English Hammer-
less Gun. Made with 30in. steel barrels. Nitro
proved. Made by Fred Williams of Birming-
ham. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
£l6/10/-. Sale Price £l5/10/-
£9/i5/- Dumoulin Hammer Guns £B^l7^6
12 gauge Dumoulin Hammer Guns, 30in. or 32in. barrels, side clips,
cross bolt. Superior black finish. Chambered for 2|in. shell. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £9/15/-. Sale Price £B/17/6
45/- Browning Mini. Bolt Action Rifle
Browning Miniature Bolt Action Rifl©, about 21 inches
long, standard back sight and barleycorn fore sight,
smooth, straight head stock, easily detached. Cham-
bered for short, long, or long rifle cartridges. Weight
31b. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 45/-. Sale Price
41'
JSione M 2401 Day and Night
Guns—Lower Ground Floor. Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE PIONEERS.
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
A CARNIVAL was at
its height in the city
by the leases, and
Councillor Richard
Willard regarded the evi-
dence of it with satisfaction as he paced along the
main street.
The place had been declining, going the way of
so many smaller goldfields towns, with crumbling
kerbstones and vacant blocks with piles of bricks and
rubbish forming eyesores all over the place. But tem-
porarily it was something like it had been twenty
years earlier. An energetic and clever Town Clerk
had really organised this “Roaring ’Nineties” carnival,
but as a councillor Richard Willard felt entitled to a
share of the credit. Walking along a pavement which
was just wide enough for the number of feet it car-
ried and would overflow magnificently into the road-
way after dark, he felt optimistic.
It wouldn’t last, of course, but for the time being
there was not a vacant room in hotel or boarding-
house, and there were few homes that had not their
full quota of guests. State-wide publicity had drawn
attention to the affection with which all old residents
regarded the goldfields, and had invited them back
for the gala week. The smokestack on the New Rand
(“the tallest chimney in the Southern Hemisphere,
towering over Australia’s richest goldfield”) had been
featured, and the only procurable photograph of the
discoverer had been printed and reprinted on <|odgers,
in newspapers. The discoverer had died, obscurely
and in poverty, about ten years earlier, so he could
not be invited, but the imposing total of half a hun-
dred lesser pioneers had been unearthed and asked to
attend without cost to themselves.
On Saturday the multitude had paced the lawns
of the racecourse, swapping sentimental reminiscences.
On Sunday they had made the grandstand creak and
the fences bulge at the Recreation Ground, where they
had watched the season’s final in Goldfields League
football. Tonight they would flock to the great Inland
City Celebration Ball. And today the municipality
would welcome the pioneers officially.
Richard threaded his way through the mass of
people toward the Town Hall for the function,
pleasantly conscious that he was pointed out frequently
to someone who did not know him by some resident
who did. He carried his stick, using it for saluting
purposes, and was happily aware that he made an im-
pressive figure, well and suitably clothed, with a stiff
white collar and a fresh flower in his buttonhole. His
reflection in the shop windows reassured him as to his
adequacy of stature and dignity of carriage, and,
though it gave him pleasure to see the town as it had
been twenty years earlier, the satisfaction increased
when he reflected that so far as his personal affairs
were concerned he could afford to be superior to such
temporary stimulants for trade as the carnival.
His brother Joseph had been the first of the family
to come to the goldfield, arriving in the first rush but
soon diverting his energies from prospecting to haul-
ing. He, Richard, had come a few years later,
and for a decade there had been real money to be
made in carting supplies and ore and road-metal, in
having men and horses at work on the great water
scheme, and in a dozen other projects. Those times
were long gone now —Joseph had been dead a good
many years—and Richard could congratulate him-
self that, even if it had been his brother who had
laid the foundation of their prosperity, it was he who
had built it up,
Joseph had been a great one for ideas, and a
great one for carrying them out when there were excite-
ment, adventure and fun in them. But Richard had
had the longer view. It was he who had seen to it
that a good part of the profits had gone into building
and property, and after Joseph was dead and the place
began to decline he had ceased building houses and
begun to buy them cheap and sell them for re-erection
in the wheatbelt at exactly the right time. Joseph had
laughed at his caution often, but he had known how
to make a profit from the town whether it was boom-
ing or dying, and Joseph would never have done that.
Through the years his feeling for his brother had
become a mild, tolerant contempt. Now he was glad
to see the place booming for a week and glad that its
flash of the old glory did not affect him.
When he reached the Town Hall, a flock of sheep-
ish and seedy old men and a few old women were wait-
ing to be told where they should go. These were the
pioneers, and as he approached them Richard Wil-
lard considered how he should greet them and decided
on a course of action. He entered their circle with
his* hands outstretched and clasped the fists of several
of them as he passed through their ranks.
“I’m Richard Willard,” he announced. “Coun-
cillor Willard. And I’m very glad to see you all here.
I hope you’re being made comfortable. Is the Mayor
here yet?”
“Indade, an’ he isn’t,” cried a large female pioneer
who was clad in rusty black. “An’ as for why he isn’t,
p’r’aps it’s you that can be tellin’ us?”
A skinny, rickety male pioneer hissed reprov-
ingly at the lady, and she subsided mumbling “Well,
it’s thim invoited us, isn’t it? An’ now to be lavin’
us in the gutter isn’t polite an’ proper-like.”
“Well, well!” said Richard. “Come in, all of you,
and as soon as I can find the Town Clerk we’ll have
seats for you in no time.”
They shambled decrepitly into the foyer of the
main hall. They were a poor lot, thought Richard.
He knew that some of the big, gaunt men would be
impressive with their coats off in attitudes of toil,
but they were embarrassingly lost and futile-
looking in clean shirts in the foyer of the Town Hall.
He went to find someone to take them off his hands
and found the Mayor himself directing the operations
in the banqueting-room.
“A bottle of beer to every two chairs, Jenkins,”
the Mayor was saying. “No. No whisky, except at our
table. It’s beer they’ll like,- eh, Willard? A box of
cigars on each table will do. These old-timers are
pipe-smokers most of ’em.”
Then the Town Clerk arrived, shepherding the
pioneers, and the chairs were soon filled. Councillors
drifted in and collected at one end of the room. A
mumble of talk and an occasional hearty laugh arose
from them, but the pioneers were mostly silent and
fidgety, except for the Irishwoman, who was soon
cackling with mirth at some story she had just told.
THE pioneers regarded the councillors suspiciously
' despite the fact that Pomphrey, the Mayor, was
moving about, rallying them with a stiff, unnatural
sort of joviality. Sayers, a disreputable councillor
"Nah then, Arry; don 't haccept hassistance from the henemy .”
who was little esteemed by
his colleagues, took a seat
among the guests and car-
ried with him two bottles
of whisky, despite the dis-
approving glares of his civic superior. Then the Mayor
scuttled to his seat to prevent further burglaries from
the top table, and proceedings commenced.
“There is a toast too seldom remembered at gold-
fields gatherings,” said the Mayor, “and it is one
which it gives me additional pleasure to propose in
the presence of so many of those who played a part in
the blazing of the track from the coast to Australia’s
richest twenty acres. We who came later —though
perhaps we have tried to do our little bit of pioneer-
ing, too —can say sincerely that we owe everything
we enjoy to those whom we are now gathered to
honor —our pioneers! ”
“Hear, hear!” cried the Irishwoman. The rest of
the pioneers listened stolidly, playing with their glasses
and looking old and useless and out-of-date. Pom-
phrey developed his theme with well-chosen phrases.
Dealing with those who had fallen along the dry
route inland, the speaker’s voice trembled, but he
squared his shoulders manfully and continued. The
pioneers did not seem to be greatly impressed. Richard
Willard’s glance met the cynical one of the disreput-
able Sayers, and he almost grinned back at his fellow-
councillor. Old Pomphrey was a tight old devil, he
thought mean with his liquor and cigars, lavish only
with words. The pioneers looked a stuffy lot. The
entertainment was a washout, but the old codgers had
had their publicity value. He was glad that he did
not have to speak.
The toast-list rolled along its ponderous, unin-
spired course, and beer began to warm the thin blood
of the old men. The terrible Irishwoman was shrieking
with mirth and had acquired a circle of cackling,
elderly gallants. Pomphrey looked as though he
thought it time to disband the gathering, but Sayers
had made a lengthy and rather popular speech—with-
out having been invited to do so —and now an aged
pioneer was waving his glass in a shaky hand, and
replying in a quavering old voice.
“All of us at this end o’ the room was here before
there was any council,” the old man said, “unless you
can count the niggers’ councils. Far as white men
was concerned the Warden was Mayor an’ councillors,
an’ Judge an’ jury, an’ jist about the whole show, and
we was lucky we got such good Wardens on this here
field. I reckon, Mr. Mayor, that if you an’ your off-
siders up there does as good a job as what Warden
Stone an’ Warden McCarthy done in the early days
them that elects y’ will have every cause t’ be satisfied.
The way things is done nowadays is a bit strange to
most of us old blokes, an’ I s’pose our proper place is
out in the scrub lookin’ for another field as good as
this one. All of us that can will be out agin as soon
as this show’s over, an’ I hope you’ll wish us luck.
It’s done us good t’ come back an’ see the place, an’
if things is a bit strange, as y’ might say, anyway,
there’s one name on the council that more’n a few of
us well remembers. Councillor Willard’s new since
my time, but there’s plenty of us knoo an’ respected
his brother, Big Joe Willard”
“Big Joe Willard! That was a mahn fer y’!”
trumpeted the Irishwoman in a tremendous voice.
“They tell me Joe’s dead,” the old man went on.
“Well, all I can say is that there’s a good man gone,
an’ if them left is half as good the town’s lucky. • I
mind the time there was a couple o’ hundred men
starvin’ out Lacey’s Creek without gold or stores
either, an’ all the teams had stopped cornin’ and started
goin’ where they could sell their stuff. But did
Big Joe stop? Not on yer life! An’ it done
him no harm when most o’ the boys got on
their feet again, ’cause there wasn’t many o’
the kind that fergits a favor out this way in
them times. I could tell y’ stories about
Joe”
“Tell ’em about Joe an’ me, the time Paddy
an’ me got stuck up wid the pizen-weed up
north,” screamed the Irishwoman delightedly,
'T' HE welcome to the pioneers became a
1 riotous success, stimulated by the old man’s
rollicking, scandalous, humorous tales of
Joseph, who had lived the best years of his
life in the strenuous early days. Richard Wil-
lard was ashamed and suddenly slightly jealous,
but everybody else was happy. All the leathefy
old faces flushed with beer and memories and
good-fellowship. Joseph Willard, dead, seemed
to be as successful with men as he had been
when living, and Richard’s pleasure seeped
away. Somehow his own calm, cautious and
dignified triumphs were nothing to the joyous
successes his brother seemed to have known.
Sayers had impudently sent the stewards
to the ice-chest, and more liquor was going the
rounds. A grizzled veteran had chopped up a
cigar and was stuffing its ruins into the bowl
of his pipe. Even the two waiters were grin-
ning hugely and trotting about as though serv-
ing was fun. Some aged, uninvited guests had
arrived and were establishing their claim to be
o Continued on next page.)


present by swapping yarns of the past on equality
with the legitimate pioneers. Denbury, the drunken
old lawyer who had made a fortune out of early-day
mining litigation and had swallowed it all through the
necks of various bottles, had appeared, and was want-
ing to know why “that damned fine woman Joe Wil-
lard’s widow” was not one of the gathering. Thus
encouraged, the fearsome Irishwoman began publicly
to give details of how Elizabeth Willard had assisted
at the birth of her sixth when she and Paddy had been
caught at the Ninety-mile “wid not even one o’ thim
dhirty, useless black-gins in sight.”
It was fine while it lasted, but the small, excited
turmoil of the pioneers was soon over. Ancient heads
spin easily. Sayers carefully herded a quartet of stag-
gering elders into his motor-car. Those still capable
went off, swaying a little and chattering so animatedly
that people in the street stopped to stare after them
and to criticise old Pomphrey for encouraging the
helpless old things to get into so disgusting a condi-
tion. After the ranks of the ancients came a group of
councillors, walking firmly and smiling condescend-
ingly.
“Well, the old chaps certainly had an afternoon,”
said someone to Richard Willard, but he hardly heard.
There was no longer any satisfaction for Richard. He
was full of doubts about himself and his caution, and
for the first time for many years he was fiercely
jealous of dead Joseph, who had been able to laugh
and take risks and to earn effortlessly the affection and
regard of all sorts of men.
BACK
TO
SCHOOL
By DON EDWARDS.
THE compartment was cold. The shut windows
rattled quickly with the movement of the train,
and against them the intermittent showers beat
gustily, sending a succession of big tears streaking
down the glass. She watched them halt and gather
size, and run together, and she wondered if the tears
that were so close to her eyes would look the same
running down her cheeks. Quickly, so that her mother
wouldn’t see, she rubbed her eyes with the back of
her hand. •
She hadn’t felt like this till she had seen her
mother commence to collect her luggage, lifting down
a hatbox carefully, arranging her hair before the
mirror, touching her lips with red and shrugging the
big silver-fox furs into position about her shoulders.
Then her mother had turned to her and said “Not
long now, Joan, but holidays have to end,” and she
had suddenly wanted to cry, because of all that her
mother’s words meant and the lack of sympathy in
them.
She pulled the rug about her legs and shrunk
closer into the corner, peering out at the rain-touched
countryside, and recognising with dismay the land-
marks on the edge of the town. There were the
willows by the river where they used to walk on
Sundays, and the straight, tree-lined streets leading
up the hills, and rising above the town the big bulk
of the hotel where her mother lived.
She watched her mother and thought her the
prettiest lady she had ever seen. Earlier on the jour-
ney she had decided to ask her to let her go home to
the hotel for a few days before going back to school.
It wouldn’t hurt if she started school a few days late.
Besides, during the holiday she had hardly seen any-
thing of her mother. She wanted to have her mother
to herself for a while. Perhaps, if she waited, her
mother might think of it herself, and say “We don’t
seem to have had much of each other’s company, do
we, Joan? You’d better come home for a few days.”
But the train rattled into the station and her mother
said brusquely “Here we are. Home again. 1 hope
the car is here to meet me.”
Then before Joan had time to say anything or
even to think, Peter had appeared at the compartment,
her mother had kissed her quickly and said “Look
after yourself, dear ; and don’t leave the waiting-room
at Coolton,” and had gone with an excited flurry of
“Good-byes” and hand-waving that meant nothing.
She pressed back against the seat and watched her
mother walk down the platform. Once she thought of
rushing after her. She hoped her mother would look
back. Even after her mother had disappeared, she
kept her eyes fixed on the entrance to the station, till
the engine whistled and the train started to draw out.
Then another shower streamed against the panes and
the compartment felt like a big world with herself the
only person living in it.
OHE tried to look out the window, but the fleeting
countryside looked wet and desolate and lonely,
so she turned her attention to the new suitcase that
her mother had given her, and the
tennis racquet and hockey stick that
were strapped on to it, but she
couldn’t get her thoughts away from
the realisation that she was alone
and on her way back to school.
She wondered whether there would
be a fire in the waiting-room at
Coolton, and whether the station-
master would come in again and
say “Hullo ; you’re a little girl to
be travelling alone.”
The rain was beating down
steadily now. The window-panes
became blurred, and for a time she
amused herself by tracing designs
on them with her finger ; “Norma,”
traced shakily that was her
mother’s name —and “J.R.,” in all
sorts of peculiar lettering, her own
initials. But soon she tired of this
and just leant back and tried to
peer out on the grey landscape.
Buildings began to appear, and
presently the train was running
through a small town. It stopped,
and people hurried along the plat-
form looking for seats.
One family attracted her atten-
tion, a big woman with four chil-
dren —two boys and two girls. They
rushed excitedly past her compart-
ment twice, the mother in the lead,
the children clamoring behind her
saying “Here. In here,” till their
mother pointed to the “Ladies”
notice on the window. Then they
were back again, more flustered and
excited than ever. Suddenly the
engine whistled, a guard shouted
“Hurry on, please,” and wrenching
open the door the mother bustled
her children into the compartment.
Joan watched them rush for
the windows, laughing and talking.
The big woman breathed noisily in
relief and flopped on to the seat
opposite. The compartment was
filled with noise and life. “I hope you don’t mind,”
the mother said, addressing her as if she was a grown
woman. “All the compartments are full.”
“That’s quite all right,” Joan said primly, imitat-
ing the way her mother spoke to strangers, but the
woman was busy settling a quarrel as to which of
the boys should have the corner seat. Several times
she saw them looking at her, and once the smallest
girl touched the hockey-stick, till a sharp “Leave that
alone, Elsie,” made the child turn to the world outside
the window again. Joan wanted to tell her that she
didn’t mind, but she felt too shy to speak, although
she didn’t fee] quite as lonely now. There was too
much noise and laughter in the compartment to allow
her to think about herself. She wondered where they
were going, and she hoped their destination was past
Coolton.
The smallest boy sidled up to her and asked
“What’s your name? I’d like a piece of chocolate,”
in the same breath, bringing from his mother a quick
reprimand, “Don’t be cheeky, Noel.”
Joan handed him the chocolate, saying “You can
have it.”
The mother looked at Joan, shook her head
slowly as if taking her into her confidence, and said
“These children of mine. They haven’t any manners.”
Then she added, in a tone that had a hint of pride
in it, “They are too much for me.”
Joan smiled politely. After that the mother spoke
to her quite a lot.
The rain had stopped, but cold was coming into
the compartment with the darkness, Jean wrapped
her rug closer round her legs.
“Where are you going?” the mother asked her.
“To Froburg,” she replied. “Back to school.”
“But you’ll have to wait two hours at Coolton for
the train.”
“Yes,” Joan said, shivering slightly at the thought
of the waiting-room, and hoping that they were going
on, too.
“We live at Coolton,” said the woman simply.
Nothing more was said, for the lights of Coolton
began to slip past and they prepared to leave the train.
They crowded out on the platform. Joan set her
case down and waited near the others. She didn’t
quite know why she stood near them, but she knew
that she did not want them to leave. They were a
friendly barrier between her and her loneliness. After
they had gone there was only the waiting-room.
She heard the children shout excitedly “Here’s
dad. Here he comes,” and saw a man hurrying along
the platform. He whirled the small boy up on his
shoulder, pushed the others off playfully as they
clambered about him and kissed the woman. They
seemed to have forgotten her. She was outside their
world.
She picked up her case, but the mother called
to her. “This is Joan,” she said to the man. “She’s
coming home with us till the Froburg train leaves.”
‘No, no, Arkwright—the hose.”
“That’s fine,” said the man as he picked up her
case. She found herself walking along with them,
holding Elsie tightly by the hand.
A T the house they crowded her into the kitchen,
** which was warm and bright. They gave her a
chair near the stove, and she watched them keenly till
she almost forgot that she was alone and on her way
back to school.
During the meal the children talked a great deal
about their few days away, and she found herself
sharing their excited pleasure. She helped Mary and
the mother with the washing up, then she sat on the
floor before the stove with the children. Gusts
rattled the windows, but the room was calm and
warm, comfortable with a sense of peaceful friendli-
ness that seemed to envelop and soothe her. She found
herself joining in their games, laughing at Harry’s
trains, and crawling after the blocks that Noel
knocked off the castles she built.
She saw the man look at his watch, and hoped
she didn’t have to leave yet. “I guess we’d better be
moving,” he said, and it sent a quick sense of dismay
through her, but she only answered “I’ll get my
things.”
The man put on his coat and picked up her case.
The children stopped playing and stood silently look-
ing at her. She gazed about the room as if trying to
fix the details of its bright friendliness in her mind.
At the door she said “Good-bye, and thank you so
much.”
“Good night,” the woman said ; “I hope you have
a good trip.”
She turned away slowly, lingering at the door and
looking back into the warm room, till the children
shouted “Good night, Joan,” and the man closed the
door.
A bitter breeze was sweeping down the street.
The man hunched himself into his coat and walked so
quickly that she had to trot to keep pace with him,
“My, it’s cold,” he said once, and she thought of the
comfort and happiness of the home she had just left.
They had only waited a few minutes at the sta-
tion when the train steamed in. The carriages looked
cold and inhospitable. People began to rush past
them to the refreshment-room. He put her into an
empty compartment and placed her case and rug on
the seat near her. For a moment he stood on the plat-
form beating his hands together. “It’s cold,” he said.
She looked at him. There didn’t seem to be any-
thing to say. “The train waits here twenty minutes,”
he said, “so I think I’ll be getting along home. You’ll
be all right now.”
“Yes,” she said, and the quietness of her voice
surprised her. “I’ll be all right. Thank you so much.”
Already he was walking away, and the feeling of
loneliness that had left her for a time came rushing
back, stronger than ever, so that she huddled into the
corner staring at the empty seat opposite.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
14fm ofia*ie jnellcwneJdanclMouque^
Seppelts
THE FACE OF “BIG BEN.”
Millions throughout the world daily hear the chimes of “Big Ben.” They will, or the vast majority, never see this clock, remarkable not merely on account
of the gigantic scale of its accessories, but also for its wonderful accuracy, since its average deviation amounts to only a second a week. While “Big Ben” is
the most famous of the great clocks which serve mankind, it is not the most remarkable. That is the astronomical self-regulating clock of Strasburg Cathedral,
with its figures which “perform” daily at noon. But as “Big Ben” means something more than a marvellous piece of mechanism to British subjects, a few
facts relating to it may be appropriate. Made and fixed in the Clock Tower of the Houses of Parliament at Westminster in 1858 by F. Dent, it is the
largest striking, most accurate and powerful public clock in the world. The first “blow” at each hour denotes correct time. The four dials are each 23ft. in
diameter, the centres .being 180 ft. from the ground. The figures are 2ft. long and the minute spaces Ift. apart. The minute hands are 14ft. long, weigh
2cwt., and travel a distance of 100 miles each year. They are made of copper. The hour hands —Bft. long, weighing 6cwt. each —are made of gunmetal.
The pendulum is 13ft. long, the bob weighing 4cwt., while the weights are nearly 2\ tons. It is electrically wound thrice weekly. To reach the
clockroom one has to mount 292 steps. “Big Ben,” the bell on which the clock strikes the hours,- weighs 13 tons, and the hammer 4cwt. The four
quarter bells weigh nearly 8 tons. The clock is not automatically synchronised or controlled, but twice a day it telegraphs its time automatically to Greenwich
Observatory, enabling its performance to be checked. Above the clock are the emblems of England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. The chimes are set to
the lines—
“ All through this Hour, Lord, be my guide,
And by Thy Power no foot shall slide.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 62 —No. 3183.
Wednesday, February 12, 1941.
NOT WOUNDED—WINDED!
“Come on, reserve! Can’t you see the other fellow’s winded?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior 9
P. H. Prior
J, £. Webb
David Adam*
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3.5. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
"THE DANGER IS GRAVE."
Australians satisfied with the progress of our arms
and going about their business —or, being members
of Comrade Thornton’s union, not going about it —
unaware of any particular cause for alarm in any
quarter, were exposed last week to a barrage of dis-
turbing oratory from men who may be presumed
to have inside knowledge of what is going on —
though it doesn’t follow that they have a special
gift for interpretation or prophecy.
Mr, Beasley began it at a Sydney conference
of his Labor group, now about to join the larger
Labor group once more. “The full facts of the world
situation as it affects Australia,” he said, “have not
been told to the Australian people. I am not here
to alarm you nor to create an atmosphere of anxiety,
but we have to face the fact that you and I may
be fighting Fascism in our own country in the very
near future.”
Then Mr. Forgan Smith was heard at the A.W.U.
convention, also held in Sydney. The Queensland
Premier was fresh from the discussions at Canberra,
where Premiers, Deputy Premiers, Treasurers and so
forth had received an outline of international develop-
ments and home-defence measures from the Acting
Prime Minister. “To retain our country and protect
our free institutions we must work like hell and fight
like hell,” Mr. Forgan Smith thundered. “I have
met a number of people who comfort themselves
by thinking that what has taken place in other
countries cannot happen here. I am in a position to
tell you, and it is my duty to tell you, that these
things might happen here, and that Australia is nearer
to these things happening here than ever before in
the history of the Commonwealth.”
I am not talking defeatism. I am not endeavoring
to be panicky. I am taking this opportunity of giving
delegates a knowledge of realities as 1 know them, and
when we know realities we should be brave enough to
face up to them.
Mr. Beasley spoke again. He agreed with Mr.
Forgan Smith that “there are too many people in
Australia who do not realise what the present war
means to this country.”
As a member of the War Council I have no illusions
about the shocking tragedy that may overwhelm us
overnight. It is imperative that, in the little time that
may be left us, no effort should be slackened and no
time lost in preparing to work and fight to our utmost.
We must get on with the job without interruption,
because the danger is grave on all fronts and the time
may be short. We are in a national crisis which may
easily become desperate. We must face it as partners.
We must fight it as partners.
There followed a meeting of the Advisory War
Council at Melbourne. The Labor members had
brought to it a list of grievances ranging from
National Security Regulation 42A to the sending
of Mr. Stevens to Delhi and Mr. Sinclair McGibbon
to London ; but they were all shelved to admit of
full consideration of the position at home and abroad.
Admiral Colvin and Air Chief Marshal Burnett were
summoned to the meeting, which lasted many hours,
and afterwards Mr. Fadden said that the members
of the Council realised that “Australia, with the
Empire as a whole,” was “now entering on a period
in which its very existence” was “at stake.” They
had made “a searching review of the defence measures
taken by the Government to meet any emergency
which might arise.”
The discussions covered such questions as the protec-
tion of Australian overseas and local seaborne trade,
the disposition of our naval forces, the activities of the
R.A.A.F. and the measures taken for sea, land and air
defence in Australia and in localities vital to the defence
of Australia.
The War Council was told that the War Cabinet pro-
poses further to step up defence activities, particularly in
relation to the protection of Australia from enemy
attack.
Then Mr. Curtin, speaking to the reporters in Mr.
Fadden’s presence, and with that gentleman often
nodding approval, intimated that “Mr. Fadden’s
statement reflects fully the point of view of the War
Council,” and that “the Labor members share com-
pletely the sense of responsibility now devolving on
the whole of the people of Australia.”
The fact is that the war is yet to be won. The further
fact is that Australia’s safety is yet to be assured.
These two considerations, having regard to the more
recent developments which have taken place, led the War
Council to examine the increased danger which con-
fronts the country. It was in the light of the more
recent developments that the War Council requested the
attendance of the Chief of the Air Staff and the first
member of the Naval Board. Obviously the protection
of Australia throws the first responsibility on these
two services. Their efficiency goes to the very heart
of our security. The War Council holds the strong
belief that there cannot be maximum efficiency of these
services without a maximum industrial effort.
Delays in ship construction or ship repairs, delays in
munitions production and in the construction of aircraft
and the great variety of apparatus required for the Navy
and the Air Force add to the difficulties, already tremen-
dously great, which these services experience in meeting
our immediate problems.
After another meeting of the Advisory War
Council Mr, Fadden and Mr. Curtin issued a joint
statement stressing “the seriousness of the present
international situation as it affects Australia” and the
need for every Australian to do his bit —“only a
maximum effort on the part of every individual in
the community will be sufficient to meet the demands
of the weeks and months immediately ahead.”
In the absence of information to the contrary,
the people must accept this grave intelligence and
with it the responsibility which it imposes upon them,
everyone doing his share according to his bent and
opportunity. In a war such as that in which we are
engaged anything is possible, even a felon blow at the
Commonwealth. That, it was always necessary to
prepare for, and the necessity has grown since the
Triple Alliance was signed, and especially since
Moscow began giving warrant for the suspicion that
it might betray the democracies in Asia as it did in
Europe. Though all the Italian armies in Africa are in
retreat, and although the Royal Navy has done
wonders in the Mediterranean, another and more for-
midable challenge may be coming in that sea. There
are still hostile warcraft in the Red Sea and the
Pacific. And in the homelands of the race the most
heroic of nations still stands at bay facing an enemy in
two arms far superior in numbers and quantity—
though not quality—of equipment, and whose utterly
ruthless leader is master of the Continent in a more
terrible sense than Napoleon was. We can beat him,
as we are beating his European partner, but the task
calls for every ounce of effort and every measure of
material sacrifice on the part of those who are not
themselves in the battle-line.
In Defence of a King.
Unavoidable as it may have been in the prevailing
circumstances, or warranted on humane grounds if
no other, the surrender of the Belgian King Leopold
last May did in fact very nearly cost Britain a huge
army and loss of the war. Because of that, a collec-
tion of documents assembled under the title “The
Belgian Campaign and the Surrender of the Belgian
Army, May 10-28, 1940,” aiming at justifying that
capitulation, has direct bearing on past and possible
future British foreign policy.
Put out by the Belgian American Educational
Foundation, and sent along by the Consul-General
for Belgium, Sydney, the documents are in the nature
of an unofficial White Paper. The main conclusion
to be gathered from them is that Belgians inside and
outside their country, including members of the
Belgian Government in exile who, as they fled, berated
him, are now agreed that their King’s decision was
the right one. Statements supporting this view assail
the performance of the French in both the political
and military fields as angrily as Paul Reynaud assailed
the action of King Leopold.
It is held that the French failed their small ally
in the field, and it is asserted that Belgians were sub-
sequently badly treated in France. “Hostility of the
French was open ; strict orders had to be given to
the police ; all Belgians were under close control.”
Passion was running high at the time, in places far
remote from the scene as well as on the spot, so it
is credible enough that “the French, absolutely
desperate, were very hostile and menacing.” It sug-
gests a horrifying picture of what a few heated words
spoken by an excited leader might have caused.
While these documents —openly and, still more,
by implication—thus assail the French performance,
they show extraordinary restraint in reference to the
British. In two of them, which should certainly have
dealt with the speech made by Mr, Churchill on
June 4, there is no mention of that speech. Another
refers to it only to make an almost incredible dis-
tortion. Mr. Hoover is the first to take a hand in this
extraordinary method of presenting history. Mr.
Hoover quotes the radio outburst of Premier Reynaud,
“King Leopold 111, without a word to the French and
British soldiers laid down his arms,” and stigma-
tises it as “absolutely untrue, both in fact and in its
implications.” He then approvingly quotes Mr.
Churchill’s statement of May 28:
I have no intention of suggesting to the House
that we should attempt at this moment to pass judg-
ment upon the action of the King of the Belgians in his
capacity as Commander-in-Chief of the Belgian Army.
That army has fought very bravely and has both suffered
and inflicted heavy losses.
Mr, Hoover makes no reference to Mr. Churchill’s
subsequent speech (June 4), He records, however,
that Mr. Churchill had been constantly advised of the
progress of events by Admiral Sir Roger Keyes, who
remained with King Leopold till the last evening prior
to the capitulation. Sir Roger Keyes’s “reports to
Mr. Churchill up to the very end were in abso-
lute contradiction to the statement of Premier Rey-
naud.” Yet, with those reports before him, and with
a week longer than Premier Reynaud had in which
to form a judgment, Mr. Churchill said:
I asked the House a week ago to suspend its judg-
ment because the facts were not clear, but I do not
feel that any reason now exists why we should not form
our own opinions upon this pitiful episode.
In another document in this curious contribution to
historical writing that biting statement is thus inter-
preted ;
Mr. Churchill made a statement to the House of
Commons containing some of the facts of the case, and
left it to the British people to judge for themselves.
As a matter of historical fact, Mr. Churchill added:
The surrender of the Belgian Army compelled the
British at the shortest notice to cover a flank to the
sea of more than 30 miles in length, otherwise all would
have been cut off and all would have shared the fate
to which King Leopold had condemned the finest army
his country had ever formed.
That two of the documents in this unofficial White
Paper should ignore that speech utterly, while using
Mr. Churchill’s earlier favorable statement, and that
another should interpret it as “leaving the British
people to judge for themselves,” adds up to an abuse
under Clio’s license for which that meticulous lady
should claim heavy damages. Or perhaps she under-
stands the prevailing influence of Hollywood on his-
torical documentation.
King Leopold’s letter to the Pope and President
Roosevelt is another sort of writing. He explains that
military events occurring “outside of our own terri-
tory” (the beginning of the French collapse) forced
the Belgians, after a four-day battle fought without
counting the cost, into a position where they were
finally encircled on an extremely restricted ground in-
habited by a very dense population already invaded by
several hundreds of thousands of civilian refugees, who
were without shelter, without food, without water, and
who were being driven about from one point to another
by the aerial bombardments.
Another document takes up this story of the Belgian
Army, “short of the supplies essential to continued
resistance,”
the roads behind the line blocked with 800,000 Belgian
and French refugees driven back northward by the
retreating French and English armies, under continuous,
merciless machine-gunning and bombardment by the
German air force The troops were driven into a
small corner of land, packed in herds, cut off from their
supplies, without food or ammunition, an easy target for
German airmen; behind that army were the 800,000
refugees, mostly women and children. In these two
days [May 25-26] the military casualties were estimated
to be as high as 40,000, which was “as great as in all
the two preceding weeks,” and the losses among refugees
even greater.
The extent of that frightful slaughter can be grasped
by comparison with the Australian casualties at
Bardia (543) and Tobruk (300, estimated).
.... Our last means of resistance was broken under the
weight of a crushing superiority of troops and aviation.
In these conditions I sought to avoid a battle which
would have led to our annihilation without benefit to the
Allies. No one has the right to sacrifice uselessly
human lives. I intend to continue, whatever may come,
to share the lot of my army and of my people.
The war in Belgium lasted 18 days. “Contrary
to what happened in France, whose great armies were
routed and whose immense territory was occupied
over two-thirds of its extent in a number of days
equal to the period of combat of the Belgian Army,
Belgium came to no armistice agreement with the
enemy.” King Leopold “was made prisoner just as
were his troops.... he continues to be a prisoner
and conducts himself under all circumstances as a
prisoner, without taking any part in the government.”
That is how Belgians generally now view their King.
Another document sums up:
Two alternatives were left to the King: have his
entire army and civilian population massacred to no
more avail, or capitulate, as no means had been pro-
vided for the evacuation by sea of the Belgian troops.
The last part of that statement, if correct, would
seem to be of the greatest importance. Another re-
markable statement is that declared to have been con-
tained in a message from Admiral Sir Roger Keyes
to Mr. Churchill (apparently before Mr. Churchill’s
June 4 speech), in which the hero of Zeebrugge wrote
that he “approved the decisions of the King as both
wise and courageous, and that he was convinced that
the verdict of Leopold’s warrior father, King Albert,
had he lived, would have been the same.” Consider-
ing that Sir Roger was Mr. Churchill’s liaison officer,
that statement, and other like views credited to Sir
Roger, make Mr. Churchill’s June 4 speech quite as
extraordinary as is the avoidance of it in these docu-
ments.
Widespread publicity was at the time given to a
statement by Mr. John Cudahy, the United States
Ambassador to Belgium, that “the actual surrender on
the morning of May 28 could not have taken either
the French or British command by surprise.” It is here
set down that King Leopold advised London “of his
anxieties” as early as May 20 ; by May 23 he con-
sidered “capitulation impossible to avoid,” and on
May 25 sent “a categorical message to London stating
the imminent peril”—the translation adds “of his
intentions,” whatever exactly that may be taken to
mean. At all events, it seems clear that notice was
given in advance, and it seems just as clear that that
notice, avoidably or not, was dangerously short.
Naturally it is not pointed out in these largely
special pleading documents that Belgium’s fate in
1940 was to a great extent a direct outcome of Bel-
gian policy from about 1936 onwards. A strong case
can be made out for that policy of total independence
and neutrality. It was intended to avert the tragedy
of Belgium ever again being the battleground, the
cockpit, of Europe. It failed because Belgium, bor-
dering on a country which did not scruple to break
solemn engagements made in 1937 and renewed as
late as August 26, 1939, and left in a dangerous mili-
tary position when the French began to collapse, had
nothing like the strength required to meet and hold
out against the German onslaught. Belgium’s policy
prevented the British and French taking up sound
positions to defend it; of coming in at all till they
were called upon to do so. That sort of policy, pur-
sued by most of the small adjoining countries, gave
Germany the enormous advantage of being able to
walk in wherever it chose.
Britain, with its Continental engagements, actual
and “moral,” had no such advantage. In this per-
spective the British Bulldog appears as the Con-
tinent’s poodle, condemned to be at the beck and call
of every country that found itself in trouble, and to
take such terrible risks as certainly were taken in
thus going to the defence of Belgium. Whatever may
be Belgium’s future standing and policy—there seems
to be approval in these documents for a return to
the 1936-39 situation—John Bull’s foreign policy must
be due for a drastic overhaul, one that insists
Continental alliances henceforth—actual or “moral”—
but, instead, unfettered independence of action as
circumstances may require.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Big Week for Boo-Boo Boys.
It is doubtful if Macbeth in his worst moments felt
as scared as the boo-boo boys of the press last week.
The stuff served up in some Australian papers seemed
to have been written by the type of person who
bolted for the Appalachians when a young broad-
caster put over a Wellsian fantasy of an invasion
from another planet.
Looking beyond the rout of the Italian armies
in Africa they saw nothing but “drear, snow-darkened
skies,” particularly in the North Pacific. The most
sinister construction was placed on Japanese media-
tion in the Thailand-Indo-China affair. Singapore
was threatened ; Japan was to establish a naval base
in Cam-ranh Bay ; the Netherland East Indies were
practically lost. For the Dutch Government in
London had refused to come into Japan’s “New
Order in Asia” ; the Japanese would ignore the Dutch
Government in London; Karl von Wiegand had
arrived at Shanghai from Tokyo declaring that Japan
was preparing for a Blitzkrieg, “timed to coincide
with Hitler’s assault against Britain.” One could
almost hear the guns booming in the Pacific.
Nobody reminded anybody that it is about 900
miles from Cam-ranh Bay to Singapore, and
that to send a fleet that distance —and that merely as
a first stop—would be looking for trouble in different
forms and large quantities.
One difficulty attending consideration of the
puzzle of Japanese policy is that some Ministers and
official spokesmen—like some of their opposite
numbers in Australia —don’t always say the same
thing. Now and then translation may be at fault;
since Mr. Matsuoka was alleged to have said in Eng-
lish to an American reporter “I fling this challenge
in the face of the U.5.A.,” the challenge being of the
most fiery description, all his communications and
those of his colleagues and subordinates have been
made in Japanese. Some of his utterances, as since
translated, are minatory ; others are conciliatory. A
shrewd English commentator has pointed out that it is
the Matsuoka way when answering a Chauvinist in
the Diet to reply in words that will humor the ques-
tioner.
Be that as it may, the statement of a Foreign
Office spokesman that Japan was “not dealing with
the Dutch Government in London,” which so agitated
the boo-boo boys, was “formally denied” at Batavia
by Mr. Yoshizawa, leader of the Japanese Economic
Mission to the N.E.I. Thereupon “it was expected”
that Japan and the N.E.I. would “immediately resume
the commercial negotiations” which have been going
on for some time. There followed the arrival in
the U.S.A. of the new Japanese Ambassador, Admiral
Nomura, whose first words were “I love America and
admire its people.” In the Admiral’s case it was “ex-
pected” that “extraordinary signs of courtesy and
friendliness will be shown towards him,” he having “de-
clared his intention of seeking an amicable settlement
of existing problems.” Simultaneously the Japanese
Government caused it to be announced that the
Minister to Australia, Mr. Kawai, would leave Kobe
on March 1 and arrive in Sydney by ’plane from
Darwin about the end of March. On his arrival he
will find the Australian Parliament in session, the
reopening having been fixed for March 12. This in
itself rather suggests that there is nothing at the
moment to be really excited about.
But it will be allowed that the boo-boo boys and
those who take their writings for gospel gave them-
selves a most exciting week.
A Page from the Past.
Dr. Page has ideas about Communists —or had 10
months ago. Then, commenting on the Hands Off
Russia resolution of the Sydney “Labor” conference,
he described “Communism in Australia” as “the
treasonable instrument of Soviet Russia’s foreign
policy,” a foreign policy “aligned to Germany under
the Stalin-Hitler pact,” and stated, in evidence that
“the Communist party is now working to smash the
national war effort.” He pointed out further that
Communists had “captured control of key industrial
unions,” and that the rejoicings of the brotherhood
at the “crushing of democratic Finland” had been
repeated not only over the Moscow radio but “by
German broadcasting stations in their anti-British
propaganda sessions.”
“Steps should be taken immediately by the Com-
monwealth Government,” the Doctor proceeded; and
these were among the steps:
Deregister any trade-union under Communist party
control, pending the elimination of such control.
Name all the individuals responsible for the imple-
menting of Communist party policy in the unions and
declare them to be ineligible to hold any paid executive
position in the unions or control union funds in any
way.
As an illustration of what even a threat of deregistra-
tion could do, he mentioned that “the threatened de-
registration of the A.R.U. resulted in a helter-skelter
settlement of the strike on the Broken Hill line,” and
insisted that “the onus is on the Government to name
the Communist leaders in the unions—it has the
dossiers.”
It will then receive the support of the mass of the
workers, who have no time for the enemy agents
of a foreign Power. But until the Government makes
a decisive move the forces now in control.... will be
free to make inroads into our very national security.
They are holding up production in plants that should
be working day and night to meet Australia’s defence
requirements.
That they are still doing, as far as they can, and “the
onus” is still on “the Government,” of which Dr.
Pagp is now a member —he wasn’t 10 months ago. If
the sentiments he expressed then are still expressed
to his colleagues, and if the Government will not
accept “the onus,” he should not remain in the Gov-
ernment.
"Purely Sectional."
J. P. Abbott, C.P. member for New England, told
delegates to a Country party conference in Sydney
that there was strong opposition to the party in some
country towns —“the people think it is purely a sec-
tional party.”
They didn’t always think so. In the early days
of the party in Victoria and N. S. Wales many towns-
people, aware of the dominance of the Big City, saw
in the then new Country party a chance to get fair
representation in their State Parliaments.
They assumed that Country party meant a party
for the country, one anxious to see that farmers,
graziers and residents of villages and towns got a
fair go. It had long been felt that the interests
of the country fell somewhere between the city par-
ties, and that a third party was necessary to protect
the country. On the strength of this many gave their
votes to C.P. men.
Their disillusionment has been great. In Vic-
toria they have seen the C.P. accept the support of
Labor to keep it in power, have seen C.P. men sup-
porting a transport strangulation policy that prevented
the development of motor transport and forced in-
dustries to establish themselves in the city. They
have seen the population of their towns stand still or
go back while the population of the city multiplied,
have heard the Dunstan Government grandilo-
quently talking in millions for the development of
Greater Melbourne and new city railways while the
Mallee sank into despair and the central north and
north-east stagnated.
In N.S.W. the C.P. is allied with the U.A.P.
There, too, it supports a dreadful transport policy,
particularly dreadful to country people on the State
borders, says nothing against crazy city water and
traffic schemes, leaves country mayors to protest
against plans to grab control of country electricity
schemes and acquiesces in government by board and
commission.
Its N.S.W. leader, Col. Bruxner, at the same
conference, denounced a proposal for the abolition
of Parliaments like the one he belongs to, though
country opinion is overwhelmingly in favor of it, and
though Mr. Bruxner and others largely attained their
position on the strength of the North Coast and
Riverina movements and similar surges of the nineteen-
twenties. This they have chosen to forget.
A Precursor of Hitler.
Judging by his latest explosion of rant, Hitler now
hates the English as much as he hates the Jews.
“These Jewish capitalistic, liberalistic warmongers
laughed at me!” he screamed. “They derided my
ideas! While the soldiers fight, these Jews across the
Channel fill their pockets.” But in 1941, “the his-
toric year of reconstruction,” they “will be broken.”
International understanding will follow. It will be
an Aryan world free from Jewish exploitation.
The English have some cause for laughing at
Adolf, especially as he is indebted to them for what
he calls his “ideas.” His scheme of government by
means of generals, Gauleiters and so forth is a close
copy of Cromwell’s unhappiest experiment, and his
notions about the training of youth, the unimport-
ance of books and newspapers, the superfluousness of
the unfit, the destructive influence of Semitism and
the destined triumph of Aryan principles were all set
down by Disraeli in his novel Lothair, published 71
years ago, though the greatest of English Jews
laughed at them in his mocking way.
Disraeli put them in the mouth of a mysterious
Mr. Phoebus, a painter, like Hitler, but “most suc-
cessful.” Mr. Phoebus sported a “thick but small
moustache,” had a fiery eye and “an arrogant face,
daringly vivacious, yet weighted with an expression of
deep and haughty thought.” He was “vain, arrogant
and eccentric, yet nursed in the philosophy of our
time.” And he held forth in this strain to Disraeli’s
hero, an impressionable young nobleman, immensely
wealthy and of an inquiring turn of mind. Said Mr.
Phoebus:
“Semitism has destroyed art; it taught man to
despise his own body, and the essence of art is to
honor the human frame.
“What you call ignorance is your strength. By
ignorance you mean a want of knowledge of books.
Books are fatal; they are the curse of the human
race.
“The greatest misfortune that ever befel man was
the invention of printing. Printing has destroyed edu-
cation. The essence of education is the education of
the body.
“Youth should attend lectures on art and science by
the most illustrious professors, and should converse
together on what they have heard. They should learn
to talk. The theatre entirely remodelled and reformed
and under a Minister of State should be an important
element of education. I would not have a book in the
house or even see a newspaper.”
“These are Aryan principles?” said Lothair.
“They are,” said Mr. Phoebus; “and of such
principles, I believe, a revival is at hand.
“Depend upon it, so strong and perfect a type as
the original Aryan must be yet abundant among the
millions, and may be developed. But for this you want
great changes in your laws.
“It is the first duty of the State to attend to the
frame and health of the subject. The Spartans under-
stood this. They permitted no marriage the probable
consequence of which might be a feeble progeny; they
even took measures to secure a vigorous one. The
Romans doomed the deformed to immediate destruction.
“The union of the races concerns the welfare of the
Commonwealth much too nearly to be entrusted to indi-
vidual arrangement. The fate of a nation will ulti-
mately depend upon the health and strength of the
population. Both France and England should look to
this; they have cause.
“As for our mighty engines of war in the hands ot
a puny race, it will be the old story of the Lower
Empire and the Greek fire. Laws should be passed to
secure all this, and some day they will be, but nothing
can be done until the Aryan races are extricated from
Semitism.”
Lothair visits Mr. Phoebus in an Aigean isle, and is
welcomed “to an Aryan clime, an Aryan landscape
and an Aryan race. It will do you good after your
Semitic hallucinations.” But there “arrived at the
island a dispatch from the Russian ambassador at
Constantinople; it contained a proposition to Mr.
Phoebus to repair to the Court of St. Petersburg and
accept appointments of high distinction and emolu-
ment.” Before entering on the “appointments” Mr.
P. was to do “a series of paintings illustrative of some
of the most memorable scenes in the Holy Land.”
Considering that the great objects in life of Mr.
Phoebus were to live in an Aryan country, amid an
Aryan race, and produce works which should revive
for the benefit of human nature Aryan creeds, a propo-
sition to pass some of the prime years of his life
among the Mongolian race, and at the same time devote
his pencil to the celebration of Semitic subjects, was
startling.
Mr. Phoebus nevertheless accepted, and Lothair
accompanied him to Jerusalem, where —
Mr. Phoebus intensely studied the camel and its habits.
Ele persuaded himself that the ship of the desert entirely
understood him. “But it is always so,” he added —
“nature has endowed me, as far as dumb animals are
concerned, with a peculiar mesmeric power.”
The conversation turned to the Suez Canal:
Mr. Phoebus did not care for the political or the
commercial consequences of that great enterprise.
Neither does the Phoebus who lives at Berchtes-
gaden. And that person would probably agree with
Mr. Phoebus that “it would be something to sow the
seeds of organic change in the Mongolian type, but
I am not sanguine of success ; there is no original
fund of aptitude to act upon.”
There are few things stranger in fiction than
the Disraelian character, who is all caricature ; few
things stranger in history than the impersonation of
this Jewish creation by the arch Jew-baiter of the age.
"With Federal Assistance."
According to the Sydney dailies, “substantial Com-
monwealth Government assistance to enable the State
Government to complete the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale
railway is expected shortly.” It is added that there
are “hopes” that, with this assistance, the thing will
be finished in about two years.
It was begun in 1936. B. S. B. Stevens, then
Premier, called it a “trunk-link” between the western
and north-western systems, a “national undertaking,”
and mentioned defence. This was in reply to a depu-
tation in November of that year, which suggested
that, instead of a Sandy Hollow-Maryvale length of
150 miles, which would “cost fully £1,500,000,” there
should be a line from Merriwa to Elong, 90 miles —
estimate, £700,000 —which would open up 250,000
acres for settlement and shorten the wheat route to
Newcastle terminal silos.
Mr. Stevens coldly intimated that he was against
building railways to open up country because he
believed other forms of transport could do it better,
though crippling road-transport measures were even
then forcing motor transport out of business.
About that time “S. M. Herald,” announcing that
the total losses on non-paying railways in N. S.
Wales, 60 out of 63 being in the country, amounted
to £19,293,825, stated that an increase was expected
from the Sutherland-Cronulla and Sandy Hollow-
Maryvale lines, and characterised both as being under-
taken by the Government “to assist in the employ-
ment of men on relief works or the dole.”
There were protests against S.H.-Maryvale from
railway leagues in the district. A Mebul farmer de-
clared that all the people along the route wouldn’t be
able to muster enough freight to support one train a
week. A protest meeting at Uarbry produced a
letter from Archdale Parkhill, then Minister for
Defence, denying that the project had any defence
value. Mr. Stevens was asked to make public the
reports and information on which his Cabinet had
based its decision to build the line. Nothing further
was heard of the request.
But at a railwaymen’s picnic that year Assistant-
Commissioner Garside said he had reported definitely
against Sandy Hollow-Maryvale, and complained that
railway officers had to bear the blame when such lines
continued to show losses. This stirred Mr. Stevens
into a typical Stevensesque reply: “The line was
decided upon only after very careful consideration of
all the factors involved.” He estimated the cost at
£250,000.
After that little was heard of the undertaking till
last month, when one of the tunnels fell in, killing
three men and injuring others.
The subject was brought up at a Loan Council
meeting a fortnight ago, when it came out that
£140,000 had been spent on strengthening the existing
line between Muswellbrook and Sandy Hollow, pre-
sumably so that it might carry the Mebul man’s extra
train a week ; that by June, 1939, S. Hollow-Maryvale
wasn’t half finished and had cost just on £1,000,000 ;
that an estimate some months ago was for work cost-
ing upwards of another £2,000,000, and that at last
year’s rate of progress it would take another 10 years
to complete.
It is reported that the Commonwealth Co-ordinator
of Works, who graduated from the post office, is
“greatly impressed” with the need for finishing the rail-
way ; and that it was “emphasised” to the Loan Council
as being of a vital defence nature. The truth is that it
is a worthless sink for loan money and tax money.
And before the administrative wizard responsible for
it gets away to the refuge of Delhi he should be called
upon to answer that four-year-old request for infor-
mation.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.H.S.”: As a student of the American
language, I have always felt some doubt
as to how the natives of the U.S.A. really
pronounced such words as gone, boss,
upon, etc., feeling doubtful whether
“gawn, bawss, upawn” were really right,
though popular on the screen. All doubts
are now resolved.
His account is overdrawn,
All his chances are in pawn.
Some fine day the news will flash,
“Satan with the small moustache
Is asleep beneath the lawn,”
When that man is dead and gone.
That’s Irving Berlin at his best as a writer
of words. Irv., as you know, claims to
be America’s greatest composer of song
tunes, and latterly has taken to literary
exercises.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: B.H.P. is founding another
new town in S.A. —on a great sea-
cliff of limestone at Rapid Bay,
which Colonel Light named after
his vessel some months before Adel-
aide was founded. A mere 500 yards of
jetty (ironbark from N.S.W.) will reach
deep water, and it is expected to send
10,000 tons of flux a week to the blast
furnaces of Newcastle or Whyalla, largely
replacing the present trade with Devon-
port (Tas.). Two or three limestone
houses already built look just like marble.
The place is on St. Vincent Gulf, on the
Adelaide side, but nearly down to Kan-
garoo Island, and the country behind is
settled and well watered, in strong con-
trast to Whyalla and Iron Knob further
north.
* * * »
“Oxmead”; After reading the Fairfax
saga in the “S. M. Herald” I came to the
conclusion that the greatest benefactor
the patriarch John and his descendants
ever had —the man who really started
them on the road to amazing prosperity
—was a Warwickshire citizen by the
name of Empson, whom John probably
regarded at one time as his worst enemy.
Empson, described in the saga as “a vin-
dictive lawyer,” brought that libel action
against John’s little paper in Leaming-
ton (B. 5 / 2 / ’4l) that broke the defendant.
Thereupon John, doubtful of repairing
his shattered fortunes in such a narrow
field, labelled his luggage Sydney. How
he prospered at his old trade in a new
setting is history; 14 years later (in
1852) he was able to return to Leaming-
ton to discharge all his old debts in full,
and—records the saga with a touch of
pride in John’s altruism —“even to pay
the legal expenses of the lawyer Empson
who had crippled him.” One wonders
if he ever realised what a real service the
vengeful attorney had unwittingly ren-
dered him.
“T.”; That reference to “the first lady
reporter who asked for a job on
‘S.M.H.’ ” having been “waved away with
the remark that ‘Herald’ architecture had
made no provision for females” (B.
5/2/’4l) reminds me of the time Lord
Beauchamp was shown over the
“Herald’s” new building. Emerging with
a proud cicerone, his Lordship was asked
what he thought of it. “A more stunning
lavatory I never saw,” replied the Knight
of the Garter.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Touching those dietetic experi-
ments in Melbourne (B. 5/2/’4l), here
is the substance of records taken at one
of the Opportunity Clubs for slum chil-
dren, Half the children were given the
Oslo-type balanced meal at midday, the
other half an ordinary satisfying lunch,
and both groups were checked regularly
for weight, physical fitness and mental
reaction. In two months those taking the
Oslo meal supplemented with wheat-
hearts showed an average gain of 550 z.
in weight, those on the Oslo meal with
an apple 520 z., with an orange 440 z., and
those on the ordinary lunch with an
added orange 290 z. A marked contrast
in temperament was also evident in the
later stages, the Oslo group becoming
obviously more contented and less irri-
table or restless. One 10-year-old amongst
them had been the most difficult young-
ster in his school class. After eight weeks
on the new lunch his teacher wrote to
say that he had changed into a most like-
able and controllable child, and had
moved up from twenty-fifth to fifth place
in his class. The Opportunity movement is
only 18 months old, non-sectarian and
supported entirely from voluntary sub-
scriptions and help, but it already has
three clubs with a weekly attendance of
over 1000 and will soon have a fourth, in
addition to a holiday camp at Ocean
“ Cripes , I hope the people back o’ Bourke are gettin' some of this!”
Grove. The idea is to give the dead-end
kid a chance of making good—and the
dead-end kid is responding.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: From one of those omnis-
cient foreign-affairs columns which are
written in clipped English after the worst
American models :
Over Ethiopia Haile Silassie rolled those
big black eyes that have come down the
years from amorous forefather Solomon.
Into the Emperor’s embrace went Ras
Kassa, one of the last leaders to continue
the fight against Italy, even when Balbo’s
hordes had slaughtered two-thirds of his
forces. Beaming black-bearded Silassie told
newspapermen
It doesn’t matter what he told them, but
those “big black eyes that have come
down the years from amorous forefather
Solomon” irk me, as young literary lions
used to say. Haile has less claim to
descent from the king who had so many
wives and cones, than Solly Hockstein
who lent me 12s. 6d. at sixpence a month
on my silver timepiece. He belongs to
the Shoan tribe, and the Shoans are of
Hamitic origin, “Semiticised by waves of
Semitic invasions from Arabia and adul-
terated by intermarriage with negroes
and other conquered races.” Moreover,
Balbo was never in Abyssinia, though
Badoglio was.
* * * *
“Nagheer”; Canberra’s claim to a
lower deathrate than any other Australian
Territory, State or dependency, and the
inferred conclusion that it is therefore
the healthiest part of the whole
Dominion, are based on a common statis-
tical fallacy. The catch lies in the age-
distribution. Molongloside population is
mostly composed of selected young
people at the most vital and healthy
periods of life. Born and bred elsewhere
they have passed a medical test before
admission to the public service. Well
paid and free from any stress of competi-
tion in their mostly-routine occupations,
they lead a sheltered life. A subsidised
pension system protects them against any
anxiety for the future. When they reach
retiring age they clear out at once to one
or other of the State capitals and never
come back. The result is that the great
and increasing mass of population above
working ages which contributes the large
majority of all deaths in any normally
constituted community does not exist in
the A.C.T.
* * * •
“Jamwood”: Sight of a beard in a
Johannesburg tram started a soldiers’
riot against a Boer organisation called
the Ossewabrandwag (“Way of the Ox”),
the members of which sport ziffs. Re-
corded casualties numbered 316, and
there were still 85 people in hospital
next day. There followed a Gazette
Extraordinary providing heavy penalties
for subversive statements, subversive and
undesirable activities, unauthorised drill-
ing, interference with public meetings if
authorised, and assaults on uniformed
soldiers. Strange that the ziff should
ever have come to be regarded as an
emblem of disruption. Wh,en our Com-
monwealth was established beards were
so much the vogue that Edmund Barton,
who shaved all over every morning, was
thought to be rather a daring adventurer
in fashion. Objectors protested that he
looked so very young. However, of his
colleagues, Deakin, Lyne, Kingston,
Forrest, Dickson and Fysh were bearded
men, and Turner had bristly chin
whiskers, though he had sacrificed them
before he retired from politics. There
has been no bearded P.M. since Joe
Cook (1913-1914).
* * * *
“Tuart”: Since 1918 unforgotten dead
of the war that was to finish war have
been remembered by faithful souls in
daily-paper In Memoriam notices. Now
the pathetic reminders of these sacrifices
are appearing below Deaths on Active
Service among soldiers of another genera-
tion, some of them children of Old
Diggers who sleep in foreign graves.
These new tributes to the honored dead
are, as a rule, expressed with mournful
dignity. I have not yet noticed any
attempt to drop into poetry, a tendency
to which so many poor people surren-
dered in the last war, nearly always with
unfortunate results. I have noticed —I
suppose everyone has that no small
proportion of the lads who have given
their lives in the Western Desert and
Libya were only sons.
* * * *
“S.W.K.”: As a swishboobling discipe
goodole discipe wemeanyouno discipling
yes thatsit of James Joyce (Bulbullybul
5/2/’4l) I thatsme take wohlfricklmg
exepsh unto unto the spoombeatensh
critice hoo bash into or take thename in
vane ofower squawkmured master as
such yoho melads (kiss the girls and-
makem kry). James thatis Jim Jimmy-
joyce is the only certainlee theonly genius
toopithy in sixorseven centuries hundreds
of years centuries if you like zonkoopy
jawp jawp jaw aw w. Tharity of clort
bigbrain James tumpwistel honkswing on
a zoapjabber. Hepossest infact hehad
hehad hehad something shimmyshirt what
a lark hehad something mosteverything
Bill Shake Bill Shake youno of Avon
the bard the bardofavon neverhad could
never have no neverhad tweet tweet Bill-
could neverhave. Sonkplizzet wow a
sardine splinter, eh? Come up I said.
Cumupatonce. Chooks feet. By the
Borpculter James wast a genius! Brains
almighty. Wehoo, wehoo follerjim take
up his pen, nib, dipinink outmaster the
master we other honkahonk, honkahonk
twirp wheezefuster, fuster yet, yet no-
thing, nihil nihil. We will rite on like
James. Jamesjimmy the Master. James-
joyce, we are organ-pumped suffercoo —
we are the only sanemob only mob sane
I me you him her us wenchblend dook-
a-look Jambo, James. All other old-
writers Billshake and them, orlthem
sweez, others all pentripe, all writetripe
orl others buttus batty orl batty batty orl,
batty ork ork ork.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Melbourne Nat. Gallery is
offering £9OO in prize-money for pictures
painted by Australian artists in order to
aid the painter over the war period, and
the contest may become an annual fix-
ture. The picture must be a “subject”
picture— i.e., the artist must paint some
allegorical, historical or other subject
with what the trustees call “a spiritual
content.” Since the prize is a good one
artists will find the bait tempting. Pos-
sibly the time will come when a story
told by Whistler will have an Australian
application. Whistler’s next-door neighbor
at Chelsea was a painter with whom he
was on the friendliest terms imaginable.
One morning he knocked on the door of
the studio. There was a grinding of bolts
and the door opened on a chain a couple
of inches. “Is Mr. Dauber in?” asked
Whistler. “Yes, he is,” said the great
one’s manservant, “but he has given strict
instructions that nobody is to be allowed
into the studio.” “In heaven’s name,
why not?” exclaimed Whistler. “Be-
cause he has just decided on the subject
for his Academy picture.”
« * * *
The Office Historian again:
“S. M- Herald” was generous enough to
acknowledge that A. B. Paterson made his
reputation as a Bulletin bard (“for many
years ‘The Banjo’ twanged every week in
‘The Bulletin’ ”), but the “D.T.” couldn’t rise
to that level—-it never can. Without mentioning
The Bulletin, it repeated the story that Pater-
son received only 13s. 6d. for “Clancy of the
Overflow.” That was asserted by the poet in
the memoirs he wrote when he was old, forget-
ful and inaccurate. Gently asked if he could
furnish any evidence, since there was no record
in the office, he did not pursue the subject.
Paterson dropped out of The Bulletin, not
because he was dissatisfied with the pay—as
he would have been if he had received only
13s. 6d. for his best bush poem—but because
he ceased to write verse; his vein petered out
comparatively early. As has been the case with
every other contributor, he was presented with
the right of republication, and it enabled him
to make more money than any other Aus-
tralian poet has made by the sale of poetry.
If Australian writers of verse and stories had to
depend on concerns like Consolidated Press for
a market they would all be on the dole. The
“D.T.” and the “Sunday Telegraph” never
publish verse. An occasional fragment appears
in the “Wimmen’s Weekly,” but it is lost in the
wilderness of syndicated stories and strips which
as in the other Consolidated Press publica-
tions _ are so much cheaper than Australian
goods, and which can sometimes be presented
as “Australian” by localising a word here and
there.
BLUNT ENGLISH.
“To retain our country and protect our free
institutions we must work like hell and fight like
hell.”— Q. Premier Forgan Smith.
There’s always virtue in a straight-flung phrase,
And that especially in time of war.
Though certain worthy persons might prefer,
As more becoming in a Premier,
A polished metaphor.
But when a man can put in seven words
The faith that’s in him and the need he sees
For tireless effort, what he says should go
As well as if he were a Cicero
Or a Demosthenes.
Tis said that brevity’s the soul of wit;
And who’ll deny that it may prove indeed,
Spiced with a word pronounced explosively,
The real pith of any policy,
The guts of any creed?
’Tis true that some may fault the simile,
Since modern science flatly contravenes
All old ideas a Burning Pit about.
What odds, when none can have the faintest
doubt
What forthright Forgan means!
He might have bid us work as beavers graft,
And fight our foes with Spartan zip and zest;
But diction all who hear can understand,
The highest like the lowest in the land,
P’raps—after all—is best.
N.S.W.
MIDEDKN.


“Spokes”: An illusionist was commis-
sioned to entertain the patients of a mili-
tary hospital over the air, and after doing
a bit of patter he announced that he was
going to get a soldier to be his opposite
number in a card trick. “Take a pack
of cards,” he instructed the soldier. “Take
a card from anywhere in the pack. Now
cut the pack. Put the card on one of
the two halves. Put the two halves to-
gether and then shuffle. Now deal them
face down.” Listeners (doubtless) heark-
ened breathlessly to this procedure. Then,
when the dealer had got halfway through
the operation, the magician said: “Now
I think I’ve got you, Jack. The card you
took out of the pack was a diamond.
Is that so?” “That is so,” replied the
soldier. “It’s the seven of diamonds, isn’t
it?” said the man of marvels. There was
a moment of painful hesitation. “Er —
er,” muttered the soldier. “Say yes,”
came an agitated voice over the ether.
Then the crash of the studio band merci-
fully intervened.
* * *
“Cauboy”: A fire recently removed
the Green Mill, the dance palay across
the Yarra at Princes Bridge, Melbourne,
which used to stage pole-sitting and pie-
eating contests, and once nearly got itself
into the police court by allowing a young
woman to dance with a succession of
young men until she became blind, deaf
and stupid with exhaustion. A proposal
is afoot to build on its ruins a great
national theatre. It would be putting the
cart before the horse in Melbourne.
There is no national drama, national
playwright or company of national
actors; on the other hand, there are
plenty of empty theatres on the north
side of the river. If anyone is hoping
for a free theatre and a subsidy from
Premier Dunstan and his farmer col-
leagues he is optimistic.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melburnians have at least
one arboreal shrine, like those in Japan,
to which they make annual pilgrimage.
It is a ficifolia gum from Westralia at the
Metropolitan golf links, just now a
huge cupola of scarlet blossom. The
clubhouse has been built around it. It
was planted by a private citizen about
1890, and tree-lovers ever since have been
trying to get municipal councils to use
“I’m beginning to think there must be some mistake, Prendergast .”
“Were on it now, Joe. ’Ere s a gold cup!"
the tree in its various color manifesta-
tions for street plantations, but councils
raise the objection that its habit of growth
isn’t as predictable as that of the preva-
lent plane-tree. If St. Kilda-road had
been planted with flowering red-gums
from end to end 50 years ago the thor-
oughfare which everybody in Melbourne
thinks is world-famous would be really
world-famous.
* * # *
“Feng-Shui”: In the Thailand-Indo-
China shindy ’planes crashed in the
vicinity of Angkor Wat. Angkor Wat
is a vast collection of carved and deco-
rated ruins which, like Boro-Budur
in Java, was submerged in dense jungle
until French archaeologists unearthed
it and made a world sensation of
their discovery. It was built at what
must have been an incredible cost
in lives and effort by the Khmers, a race
with affinities with Indian culture that
was Buddhist-Brahmanic in its origin,
whereas the Java ruins were Brahmanic-
Buddhist, according to the hairsplitting
definitions of the savants. It is sufficient
to draw the conclusion from its wealth
of beautiful carving that there was an
era in Indo-Chinese civilisation when
there were sculptors and artists of extra-
ordinary talent, as well as thousands of
magnificent craftsmen, in this tiger-
haunted jungle, and they must have had
rich and powerful potentates to patronise
them. The culture they stood for com-
pletely vanished and was forgotten except
in legend until the French annexed the
country and introduced reading, writing
and arithmetic and factories for making
pots and pans for export.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A Victorian soldier has gone
overseas with the nickname of Melba,
but not because of his qualities as a
vocalist. He got his pre-embarkation
leave and speeded off to his home town.
There was a great celebration which
lasted for several days and the liquor
flowed. He was sent off in great style
at the railway station, hut a couple of
days later he turned up again. His de-
parture had been postponed and he had
got another spot of leave. There was
another celebration as hilarious as the
last, and again the liquor flowed. He
departed—and earned his nickname by
turning up yet again.
* * ♦ *
“C.Q.”: Deafness isn’t always a dis-
advantage. A member of a lip-reading
society in Melbourne was riding in a
tram when the city’s biggest storm on
record broke with a crash of thunder.
She remained completely unperturbed,
but, observing looks of consternation on
the faces around her and reading ex-
clamations of alarm which suggested that
the world had come to an end, she looked
around for the reason. Seeing nothing—
the rain hadn’t started falling—she said
to a neighbor: “What’s the matter?” The
passenger looked at her as if she had
gone crazy. “You are a cool customer,”
he said. “If the tram hasn’t been struck
by a thunderbolt call me a melon.”
« * * *
“Colbun”: The Australian flag was,
of course, flown from the Australian
Legation in Washington on January 20
when President Roosevelt was sworn in,
but on one such occasion it flew from
the Capitol itself, the sole foreign national
emblem amongst acres of Stars and
Stripes. In 1929 60 Y.A.L. boys,
visiting the U.S.A. under the care
of J. J. Simons, were invited to
attend the inauguration of Herbert
Hoover on March 4. They were given
seats on the flat roof of the Senate wing
overlooking the Presidential dais, Old
Glory fluttering above and around them
in all directions. By some oversight a
single pole at the corner of the stately
building had been overlooked by the
official flag-drapers, and the opportunity
was too good to be lost. With-
out consulting their official
leader, a couple of the lads
threaded their way through the
absorbed audience watching
the impressive scene below and
bent on to the halliards the
Australian flag which they had
carried in the procession. As
the cheers thundered out for
the new President they broke it
to view, and an astonished
audience realised the presence
of a foreign flag in the holiest
sanctuary of American liberty.
Officialdom was inclined to be
cross about it, but Hoover’s
Westralian experience enabled
him to appreciate the spirit of
the thing.
* * *
“Fi. fa.”: There is reason
for real sympathy with counsel
for the plaintiff in a Chancery
claim heard in London. The
wife of Captain Charles
Frederick Booth, V.C., had
agreed under a deed of sepa-
ration made in 1925 to pay
him £5OO a year as long as he lived
chastely. She died in 1938 with the pay-
ments much in arrears. Claiming that
he had complied with the condition,
Booth took proceedings to recover the
amount owing and was awarded £6547.
His counsel expressed keen disappoint-
ment that there had been no necessity to
prove chastity, because his client had
spent many hours studying Holy Living
and Holy Dying, and this preparation for
examination had been wasted.
* * * *
“N. Shore” remembers the Days Be-
fore'the Bridge:
The stream of traffic across Sydney Harbor
Bridge recalls the time when it was only a
trickle from one side to the other in sailing
and rowing boats. In 1838 some enterprising
residents of the north side of Port Jackson tried
to float a company to run a steam punt for
the transport of passengers, vehicles, horses and
cattle between Dawes and Blue’s Points, but
nothing came of it. Seven years later, however,
a small paddle-steamer, the Ferry Queen, which
towed a punt on each side for vehicles and
livestock, was run from Miller’s Point to Blue’s
Point oposite. Fares for passengers were 3d.
up to 7 p.m., and 6d. to 11 o’clock, when
traffic ceased. In 1847 the Ferry Queen was
replaced by The Brothers, and in 1854 the
Herald, a paddle-steamer of 22 tons, built in
London to the order of a number of North
Shore residents and brought out in sections,
took up the running. She combined towing
with the ferry service to Milson’s Point, and
sometimes cross-harbor traffic was held up
while she hauled a ship out to sea. About 1860
the present Sydney Ferries began as the North
Shore Steam Ferry. Co. How it developed
is evidenced by the fact that just before the
bridge was opened it transported between Syd-
ney and Milson’s Point and Lavender Bay an-
nually nearly 22,000,000 passengers.
* * * *
“Nakh”: One of the unsung heroes of
the Blitzkrieg in- England is the feminine
colonel of a military organisation who
paraded in uniform complete with lip-
stick and when her male commanding
officer, purple with indignation, ordered
her to take it off asked for a ruling
from headquarters. When h.q. ruled that
lipstick was incompatible with uniform
she stuck to the lipstick and took olf her
uniform, continuing her duties in mufti
rather than submit to male tyranny. The
matter was taken further, even to the
august precincts of Westminster. Won-
derful people, the English!
* * * *
“Digger’s Father”: So our representa-
tive in the U.S.A. has revived the old gag
that in France the Australians said the
Americans were “a bit rough in dealing
with the enemy”? Let me say that those
last five words are sheer embroidery and
invention. Nobody would say such a
thing, whereas “Good boys but a bit
rough and untrained at present” is just
what any seasoned troops might say
about a new levy. The idea that the
hard-bitten Australians chided their new
Allies for not being sufficiently ladylike
in handling Fritz is about the maddest
thing that came out of the last war, and
apparently it isn’t quite dead yet.
♦ * * *
“Spokeshave”: One of the jobs of a
Victorian State-school teacher new come
to a country district was to teach the
tonic sol-fa to his pupils. He was a like-
able young man, and kids told their
parents he was a wonderful singer. The
story was passed round about the town-
ship, and the rumor grew that by some
marvellous chance or other they had
amongst them a John Brownlee. The
young teacher was pestered to sing at
parties, much to his embarrassment, as
he had a voice like a crow. One night
at an annual function he consented. He
sang six verses of “Happy Jack the Hang-
man,” with a couple of verses of his
own composition added. The district
was totally cured of desire for any subse-
quent performance.
COMETS.
You heavenly freaks, you astral waifs and strays
That swim into the ken and thrill the eyes
Of scientific blokes who fix their gaze
O’ nights on the illimitable skies,
I cannot say that in my breast you raise
Either keen interest or wild surmise.
Others may greet you with their benedictions,
I look on most of you as darned inflictions.
You stars with flowing hair, in phrase poetic,
So dimly to be glimpsed in distance far,
Your dates, it seems, are mostly hypothetic,
And as eccentric as your orbits are.
And most would find attractions more magnetic.
I fancy, in some mere terrestrial star,
Whether her crowning beauty she possesses
In elegantly “permed” or streaming tresses.
A flower will oft preserve its sponsor’s fame.
What more enduring glory waits the guy
Who labels a discovery with his name
In “that inverted bowl we call the sky,”
The lucky prospector who pegs a claim
Not on the sordid earth but heavens-high,
Unless, of course, some previous finder-owner
Arrives to demonstrate he’s “pulled a boner”?
For me. I’ll say I’ve never seen a cluster
Of stars and star-dust in our firmament
That really merited such fuss and fluster
Since Halley’s punctually came and went —
Not due again to shed on earth her lustre
Until another forty years are spent.
These small-fry comets, with their furtive sallies
Aloft, are rotten substitutes for Halley’s.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


m
mm&v :
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
~ltiM
8/i or. *poi JWJ oi
E 1866
PREVENT
S OR E
T H R
POLITICAL POINTS
Spender has suffered another bump—
his proposal to send women canteen
workers overseas as “a softening influ-
ence” has been rejected by the War Cabi-
net. An unknown Digger pronounced
the doom of Percy’s plan when he said
“We didn’t come here to be softened —
we came to light.”
One of the lessons Spender has never
learned is that “it doesn’t matter a damn
what we say so long as we all say the
same thing.” Talking again, he said
Parliament should meet more frequently.
Fadden sourly replied that Parliament
was “meeting as often as practicable con-
sidering the tremendous amount of ad-
ministrative work that has to be done.”
Fadden doesn’t seem to admire Percy’s
line of chatter as much as Palm Beach
and the Sydney “D.T.” do.
The Lease-or-Lend Bill is through the
U.S. House of Representatives by 260 to
165. President Roosevelt is to give Con-
gress an account of British-aid trans-
actions every 90 days; but that won’t
matter, nor is any important alteration
likely to be made in the Senate.
Australian war expenditure for the
second half of 1940 is reckoned at
£64,798,000, of which £54,946,000 was
borrowed. Just when the public was
chewing this over, little Foil, who runs
the Information Department, gave notice
of intention to launch “a national pub-
licity campaign in support of the war-
time programme” ; cost, “about £60,000.”
He didn’t mention whether this waste is
to be added to the £198,000 voted for his
department last December, but apparently
it will be.
The N.S.W. “Taxpayers’ Bulletin”
elucidates a position which Richardson,
the Sydney Treasurer, has made as clear
as mud.
Men of the military, naval and air forces
called up for duty in Australia for the
duration of the war will in future have
to pay State wages tax. The State taxation
authorities have virtually insisted that the
Federal Government is in the same posi-
tion as any other employer, and that it
should deduct wages tax from the wages
of all men on its payroll.
“What would they say in England” if
county councils clapped income-tax on
the men who are defending the country
and ordered the British Government to
collect it?
Coles, the member for Henty (Vic.),
has gone to Britain to look after busi-
ness interests which have been affected
by bombing. It will be awkward if he
isn’t back when Parliament meets, for his
absence will leave the Government in a
minority. It was given out that he had
arranged to pair with a Labor member,
but Curtin has significantly mentioned
that no request for a pair was made to
him. A disposition to let private business
clash with public business is one of the
weaknesses of the businessman-politician,
who hasn’t been startlingly successful in
Australia.
For the year to June 30, 237 aban-
doned farms “reverted” to the Westralian
Agricultural Bank. During the same
twelvemonth 117 abandoned farms found
purchasers on easy terms, leaving the
number on hand 1913. It is the long
result of happy-go-lucky land settlement,
and that sort of settlement will have to
be dropped in Australia for all time.
The Curtin-McKells and Lang-
Beasleys are together again in N. S.
Wales, and the Hands-Off-Russia boys
have lost control of the Sydney Labor
Council. J, R. Hughes, who led what
“S.M.H.” called “the Saboteurs of Woy
Woy,” lost the presidency to Maloney,
of the Boot Employees, a Curtin-McKell
man, and McAlpine, president of the
McKell group, held his position as
assistant-secretary of the Labor Council
against one West, a nominee of the
H.O.R. boys. The latter still threaten
to run a ticket at the N.S.W. Assembly
election, but may have difficulty in col-
lecting deposits certain to be lost.
A newspaper report that Hughes might
soon retire from the Cabinet received a
prompt answer from the inexhaustible
old man. He hasn’t been well, but he
turned up at his office next day snorting
that the yarn was “entirely baseless.”
The paper doesn’t know Billy, and can’t
ever have heard of Deakin’s old gibe at
him “dragged screaming from the
tart-shop.”
While Beasley, Forgan Smith, Fadden
and Curtin were warning Australia that
serious days had arrived, a Sydney flapper
paper dashed in. It discovered that troops
“The Official Labor party and Non-Communist Labor have united in N. S. Wales, and
Mr. Lang and his supporters will re-enter the State Caucus. Many of his followers consider
that he should again be leader.”
“Whacko.”
had been “rushed to Singapore from Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, India and from
Britain itself,” that “Englishwomen in
Hong Kong have been sent away from
that fortress north of Singapore,” and
that “these happenings coincide with the
refusal of the Dutch to co-operate in
Japan’s ‘Prosperity Plan’ for East Asia
and the South Seas”—when even the
office boy should know that they antici-
pated it. It discovered also that “strikes
in munition works are not the result of
Communism,” though one insolent Red
union secretary has figured in the lot.
Flapper papers are becoming as notori-
ous for finding excuses for work-stoppers
as they are for dishing up the ravings
of fly-by-night reporters and glorifying
the night-club capers of playboys and
playgirls.
G. C. Fallon, the A.W.U. man, has
the odd notion that “before any taxation
is imposed on the lower wage-earners
all salaries above £5OO a year should be
taken by the Federal Government for
war purposes.” If they were, a large
part of the proceeds would have to be
diverted from war purposes to save hos-
pitals, secondary schools and the like,
and provide unemployed-relief for
domestics, gardeners and swarms of
other workers kept going by middle-class
taxpayers. It would be necessary also
to increase the grants to necessitous
States. Average State taxes on incomes
of £5OO already amount to £3O 11s. lOd.
(personal earnings) and £36 Bs. 3d.
(property), and two Labor States which
the A.W.U. helped to office tax incomes
of £l5O and under. Westralia takes
£7 10s. from £l5O and Tasmania
£2 10s. Id. from £lO5.
On incomes in the £2OO-£9OO group,
S.A. has the highest local taxes, taking
from £ll 13s. 3d. to £ll7 11s. sd. accord-
ing to whether income is derived from
personal earnings or pjoperty. On £lOOO
to £50,000, Queensland displaces S.A.,
taking from £ll4 to £20,694. On £2OO
to £50,000 Victoria is content with the
lowest bites—£4 6s. lid. to £10,092 12s.
The Commonwealth impost is additional,
and in the result there are freakish dis-
crepancies in every State. War or no
war, the position should never have been
allowed to arise. It could have been set
right at least 10 years ago if State
politicians had not been greedy and if
Commonwealth politicians had not been
dominated by craven fears of making
the Commonwealth great.
Appealing for unity, the Sydney
Premier said: “If it is absolutely neces-
sary, let the States vacate the field of
taxation on incomes for the time being.”
It is necessary, and “the field” should be
“vacated” for all time.
After “consideration of present stocks,
national needs and non-sterling ex-
change,” the Government has fixed the
import quota for motor chassis from
North America at 8896 car and 7503
truck, defence orders excepted. It will
operate from May 1 to April 30, 1942.
The figures represent a drop of 85 per
cent, for cars and 45 per cent, for trucks
on the 1935-36 base quota. In addition
State Governments are to be asked to
make it compulsory to mix benzol
or power alcohol with petrol. In
Queensland a measure of compulsion
already exists in respect of power alcohol,
and, in response to an appeal, Queens-
landers have forfeited coupons entitling
them to buy thousands of gallons of
petrol. A gesture very different from the
bellows of petrol patriots in other parts.
If the Sydney Government maintains
last year’s pace on its Sandy Hollow-
Maryvale railway—where three men were
killed and several injured recently—it
should finish the job in 10 years’ time.
It is now hoping to receive Federal
financial assistance on the ground that
the line is “of a vital defence nature.”
Strange how all these costly State works
have assumed “a vital defence nature”
in the past few years. Previously they
were “of a vital development nature.”
Fadden told a deputation from unions
“fighting” overtime —the “fight” shows
signs of giving out —that if the views
expressed by Comrade Thornton, of the
Ironworkers, represented those of the
workers in general he would be “ap-
palled.” The workers in general would
be “appalled” if Fadden thought Thorn-
ton represented them.
So far the main S.A.-election skirmish-
ing has been between the L.C.P. and
Independents. Three years ago the elec-
tors returned 15 L.C.Ps., 15 Independents
and nine Laborites, so the Playford
Government had to look for Independent
support. It got sufficient, but it is natu-
rally keen on shifting Inds. it couldn’t
depend on.
U.A.P.-leader Hollway recently op-
posed reduction of wages tax in Victoria,
but since the Commonwealth child en-
dowment plan was announced he has
changed his mind. He now declares
that it is “indefensible” for a Govern-
ment to collect almost £2,000,000 a year
when it has only 8000 unemployed. He
suggests that the name of the tax should
be changed and that proceeds should be
applied to raising the school age and
vocational training. It never occurs
to any of these politicians to repeal
their “indefensible” taxes.
Ex-Senator Elliott, now attached
to the British Air Ministry, an-
nounces that Melbourne will get its
Messerschmitt fighter ’plane, come
what may. It appears that one on
the way out was lost “by enemy
action.” So far the Sydney daily
press hasn’t waked up to this strik-
ing evidence of favoritism. When
it does it’ll probably demand half
the Luftwaffe for its city.
Not long after the coal strike last
year the Dunstan Government said
it was setting aside £lO,OOO for re-
opening the opencut at its Yallourn
mine, reckoning it would get 2000
tons of brown coal a day. The
State Electricity Commission was
also to extend the briquetting plant.
So far nothing more has been heard
of either proposal, but Melbourne
fuel merchants have been advised
by the State Coal Controller that
there is a shortage of briquettes and
black coal, that it will be worse
during winter and that they ought to
build up reserves of firewood and mallee
roots. The Government ought to send
the £lO,OOO to Mallee cockies to mine
for stumps.
Though the feud in the Victorian C.P.
(not the Liberal C.P.) was apparently
patched up at the Geelong conference,
the patch didn’t stick well. There is to
be another conference at Ballarat next
month, and one S. Lockhart is to oppose
G. J. Bowden, whose election as presi-
dent last year was hailed with joy by
the anti-Dunstanites. Hocking the King-
maker, whose row with Dunstan over the
Savings Bank directorate was the
“reason” given for a premature general
election, is to be opposed by H. L. Simp-
son for the job of running the “Country-
man.”
“We have gone down on our knees
almost in an attempt to reach an under-
standing with the Country party.”—L.
Lawrence, State president of the Queens-
land U.A.P, Perhaps the C.P. thought
it was a praying mantis —ready to grab.
Sydney has a New Social Order party,
and 11 candidates are to stand at the
State elections for “the abolition of in-
justice, unemployment and poverty.” See-
ing that no other party except the U.A.P.,
the C.P., Official Labor, Non-Communist
Labor and N.S.W. Labor claims to stand
for this, the originality alone is worthy
of note. Still, the forfeiture of deposits
is becoming a recognised source of
revenue, so why discourage the bold
fellows?


OUT OF THE
PAST
J-H-M-ABBOTT
Scene on Gallows Hill
SYDNEY enjoyed some remarkable
sideshows a hundred years ago, as
is indicated by the following from
the “Herald” of March 17, 1841.
A little way up Essex-street from its
junction with George-street, at the left
rear of the present Newcastle Hotel —the
famous Gallows Hill—was the scene of
the cheerful episode, some personal de-
scription of which was many years ago
related to him by the writer’s great-uncle
Thomas, as the first thing he saw on
landing in Sydney from Ireland,
“The gang of ruffians convicted in
the Supreme Court of bushranging and
murder... .paid the forfeit of their lives
on the scaffold, in the rear of Sydney
Gaol, yesterday... .These men terminated
a long series of systematic burglaries and
wholesale plunder by the more heinous
crime of deliberate murder. They at-
tacked, on the 21st of December last, the
station of Mr. Dangar, at Scone, and,
meeting with some opposition from Mr.
Graham (Mr. Dangar’s storekeeper), one
of the ruffians followed the unfortunate
young man into the bush and deliber-
ately shot him.
“There was a large concourse of spec-
tators to witness their execution. The
entrance to the gaol in George-street was
besieged for admission long before the
arrival at nine o’clock of a strong military
guard from the barracks, and so great was
the pressure of the crowd that it required
the unremitting exertions of Captain
Innes to preserve order. At ten past nine
the culprits were strongly pinioned and
conducted from the cells to the area in
front of the drop, where they knelt
down. Chitty, Everett, Marshall and
Glanville were attended by the Rev. Wil-
liam Cowper and the Rev. John Elder.
Rev. Mr. Murphy, Catholic priest, ac-
companied Shae; and Davis (being of
the Jewish persuasion) was attended by
Mr. Isaacs, minister of the Jewish con-
gregation in New South Wales. All the
culprits (if we except Everett) deeply
lamented having committed the crimes
for which they were about to die, and
acknowledged the justice of their sen-
tences.
“Everett ascended the scaffold hur-
riedly, and in an evident state of
excitement. He was followed by Chitty,
Marshall and Glanville, all three of
whom, on reaching the scaffold, sang the
first verse of the Morning Hymn, to be
found in many editions of the Book of
Common Prayer, commencing ‘Awake,
my soul, and with the sun.’ This act of
devotion, we have since heard, was en-
tirely spontaneous, not having been sug-
gested or even expected by either of the
reverend gentlemen who attended to ad-
minister the consolations of religion
according to the rites of the Protestant
Church. The ropes were speedily ad-
justed, and the white caps drawn over
the faces of the wretched criminals
The struggles of all the men were of
short duration. The immense crowd dis-
persed peaceably.”
These wholesale executions were no
novelty—not long before half a dozen
men had been “turned off” at the same
spot for the massacre of a number of
blacks at Myall Creek (N.S.W.).
Horrible Dan
OF all the bushrangers who have
afflicted New South Wales, Daniel
Morgan was probably the most
bloodthirsty and worst.
His real name was Owen, and he Was
born at Campbelltown (N.S.W.) in 1830,
the offspring of a father and mother who
were notorious bad characters. He left
the Nepean district when he was about
17, and blossomed as a bushranger on
the Upper Murrumbidgee in 1863.
There is not room here for any details
of the many crimes and outrages he
committed, but one day’s work, as
chronicled in the Albury “Banner,” gives
some idea of his style. It was written
by . a correspondent at Kyamba, and has
to do with the last part of his career,
when he had already accounted for two
police sergeants and several civilians.
“Tragic events in connection with
bushranging follow each other in such
rapid succession that no one will be
surprised to hear that Morgan paid us
a visit here last evening. At about 12
o’clock noon he made his appearance in
the camp of Mr. Adams, road contractor,
when he bailed up all his men, about 15
in number, and, as a warning to the
contractor for having no cash in hand
for the supply of his wants, he set fire
to the tents, thus ruthlessly destroying
at least £l5 or £2O worth of property.
Five Chinamen having made their
appearance, he caused them also to join
the rest of the men ; and, having ordered
them to strip, with a view to searching
their garments, they not understanding
the command, and therefore apparently
hesitating to put it in force, he shot one
of them in the arm just below the shoul-
der joint. This man is now lying at the
Kyamba hotel in a precarious state, and
the ball has not been extracted The
only weapon in the place was a double-
barrelled gun, which was unloaded.
“About one o’clock in the afternoon,
Mr. Jones, another contractor, paid a
visit to the camp (soon after it had been
set on fire); he was likewise' secured,
besides a traveller and two or three other
men residing in the neighborhood, who
came there on horseback. On leaving
he took these men with him, as also
Mr. Jones, four in all, they being each
mounted on horseback. He made them
carry the gun with them, and took them
by a circuitous route over the mountains
to a small bridge on the Little Billabong,
about eight miles south of Kyamba. Here
were two buggies, in one of which were
Mr. and Mrs. Manson on their way to
Braidwood, and in the other two young
men travelling to the same destination.
These he immediately stopped, ordering
them out of their buggies ; and, because
Mr. Manson seemed to hesitate, he
threatened to shoot the whole of them
on the spot. Having got them out, he
pointed to the other four men standing
where he had placed them in a rank
close by, and spoke of them as belonging
to his own party. This effectually set
aside all idea of resistance ; and, having
stripped Mr. Manson to his shirt, and
searched the pockets of the others, he
succeeded in taking about £6 in a 11....
“Soon after Mr. Manson had escaped
from his clutches the mail to Albury
arrived at the scene of action. As the
coach was very light, Morgan allowed
it to pass after a merely formal examina-
tion ; but shortly afterwards, nearly 11
p.m., the Albury mail arrived, when he
demanded of the driver to stop. This
not being instantly complied with, he
fired a shot at him to bring him to.
He then made him get out and hold the
horses’ heads while he ransacked the
mails. This inspection lasted a con-
siderable time, in the course of which
nearly all, if not the whole, of the letters
were opened, and though many cheques
were found, which he threw on one side
as useless, it is supposed that he obtained
but little booty in the shape of bank-
notes, for he complained bitterly of the
mails.”
But his time came at last. He stuck
up Peechelba station, about 20 miles
from Wangaratta (Vic.), on a Saturday
night at the beginning of April, 1865.
He bailed up all the occupants of the
homestead, including the manager and
part-owner of the run, Mr. McPherson,
in one room, holding four men and eight
women as prisoners. One of these, a
plucky girl named Alice Macdonald,
managed to get word out to one of the
station hands, who rode off to seek assist-
ance. Before daylight came a ring of
armed police and civilians surrounded
the homestead, waiting for horrible
Daniel to come out of the house.
Just before dawn Morgan went to the
front door and looked out, finding every-
thing quiet. He went inside and drank
a glass of whisky, and then, cocking his
two revolvers, he ordered McPherson and
the other three men to walk in front of
him to the stables. When he was clear
of the house he was shot by a young
man named Quinlan. He lingered in
agony until 2 p.m., and then died one
of the greatest ruffians who have ever
polluted Australia’s history. About the
only other of his profession with whom
he might be compared was Michael
Howe, of Van Diemen’s Land. They
were birds of a feather.
Queensland's Bushranger
IT is a strange thing that the province
of Queensland was never troubled by
such organised gangs of bushrangers
as were led by Frank Gardiner and
Ben Hall in New South Wales and Ned
Kelly in Victoria. Except for the hunted
runaway convicts of its earliest days as
the Moreton Bay District of N. S. Wales
it had no bushrangers who could be
classed as “professionals” until, in ihe
early eighteen-sixties, there came on the
scene the melodramatic youth who re-
joiced in the popular, if somewhat mis-
leading, nickname of “The Wild Scotch-
man.”
During his brief career, the subject of
this little memoir rejoiced in a number
of aliases. His real name was the good
Scots one of Alpin Macpherson, but he
was also known as John Bruce, Marr
and Kerr, and sometimes as “Scotia” or
“Scotchie.” However, as has been said,
his usual nickname was “The Wild
Scotchman.” He had been born in Scot-
land, and was the son of a quite respect-
able emigrant, who brought him to
Queensland when he was very young.
The father worked in the township
of Cessnock (N.S.W.). There the boy
went to school and earned a repu-
tation for diligence and intelligence.
Later on he was apprenticed to a
stonemason in Brisbane, and there
also he displayed interest in his work and
a considerable aptitude for it. He read
a good deal, joined the debating society
of the Brisbane School of Arts, and
showed that he was possessed of con-
siderable oratorical powers. He seemed
to be a very promising, steady young
artisan, with the makings of a good citi-
Z en —when suddenly he threw everything
up, absconded from his apprenticeship
and “took to the bush.” It is not to be
doubted that he was another of the vic-
tims of the false glamor of bushranging
who became so numerous in New South
Wales about this time, led astray by the
widely advertised exploits of Gardiner,
Hall, Gilbert and the others.
He began by sticking up a bush pub
on the Houghton River in the orthodox
style of the southern highwaymen, and
then announced his intention of invading
New South Wales for the purpose of
“fighting a duel with Sir Frederick Pot-
tinger,” one of the police heads in the
western district. Beyond the fact that
he actually did have an encounter with
that officer and a party of mounted
police, when he was slightly wounded,
not much is known of his doings in the
south. He boasted on his return to
Queensland that he had been with Ben
Hall’s gang, but it is doubtful whether
he ever saw them. However, he pro-
ceeded to make something of a name
for himself by bailing up mailcoaches
and travellers, stealing racehorses and
generally carrying on in the approved
bushranger fashion for some months. But
at last he was captured by the manager
of Manduran station and handed over
to the authorities.
As a warrant had been issued for his
arrest by the N.S.W. police, he was sent
to Sydney to stand his trial for shooting
at Sir Frederick Pottinger. It was whilst
on his way to Sydney to give evidence
against Macpherson that Pottinger acci-
dentally shot himself on the Blue Moun-
tains.
Having been returned to Brisbane, the
lad was sent on to Port Denison, where
he was committed for trial, and remanded
to Rockhampton, being shipped on board
the steamer Diamantina in charge of
Constable Maher. As his hands were too
small for handcuffs to secure him, he
was leg-ironed. His guard seems to have
been a bit too easy with him, and when
the ship berthed at Mackay he managed
to make his escape, which was not noticed
until the steamer was at sea again. He
got away from the town, freed himself
of his irons and set out to resume his
interrupted bushranging career. But it
was not a long one, for he was shortly
afterwards captured on Kolongo station
whilst trying to acquire a horse. He
didn’t succeed in getting away again, and
was duly brought to trial at Rockhamp-
ton on several charges of highway rob-
bery, for which the Judge awarded him
20 years’ penal servitude. Thus ended
the short, and more or less merry, career
of “The Wild Scotchman.” He had done
little beside establishing a niche in the
history for himself as Queensland’s only
bushranger.
“ Cripes, I wonder if the jockey was hurt!”


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Telephone: 85294.
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
G.P.O.
Box 4028 V.V.
NEW
COURSE ON TICKET
AND SHOWCARD
WRITING
Learn the Modern Way.
The new H. & K. course on Modern
Ticket and Showcard Writing gives
you a complete training . . . modern,
up-to-date methods . . . latest styles
. . . complete equipment supplied
free. Write to-night for particulars.
Department of Distribution,
Hemingway & Robertson,
38A Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
38A Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle
s. and Launceston. 38AA/TS2 /.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
PERSONAL ITEMS
Gone to rest after a full life, Andrew
Barton Paterson, whose ballads of the
outback were a notable early feature
of The Bulletin. He was born at
Narrambla (N.S.W.), and passed most of
his boyhood years in the country. Studied
law, qualified as a solicitor, and com-
menced to practise in Sydney. He first
burst into verse and into the pages of
The Bulletin with some comments on
events in the Sudan, and thenceforward
for years his pseudonym “The Banjo”
frequently appeared under jingles
that were redolent of the bush and the
saddle. Such titles as “The Man from
Snowy River” and “Clancy of the Over-
flow” have almost passed into the lan-
guage. Paterson was a war correspon-
dent for the “S.M.H.” in the S. African
War and in the Boxer Rebellion. He
had a term as editor of the Sydney
“Evening News” and then took the chair
of the “Town and Country Journal.”
He was running a pastoral property at
Coodia (N.S.W.) in 1914; enlisted and
served in Egypt as remount officer with
rank as major. Subsequently he wrote a
great deal —on racing chiefly—for the
Sydney “Mail” and the “Sportsman.” He
died in a private hospital in Sydney, just
on 77.
“J.H.M.A.”: Paterson was an uncon-
ventional war correspondent in the South
African affair. He didn’t trouble about
any sort of uniform, and used to
look more like a backveld Dopper
than anything else, with several days’
growth of dark stubble on his cheer-
fully saturnine countenance. At a
time when the unwritten code of the
sentry was “fire first and challenge
afterwards” we often wondered that he
didn’t stop a bullet, for he used habitu-
ally to turn up in places most of the
scribes were careful to avoid. One typical
story about him relates to French’s
cavalry division somewhere about Mod-
der River on its way to relieve Kimber-
ley, where a famous lancer regiment de-
ployed into “massed squadrons” to charge
brother Boer. A wild-looking man
equipped with a riding switch and only
one spur rode up to the colonel and
requested permission to accompany his
corps. “Who the hell are you ?”
inquired the C.O. “A. B. Paterson, sir—
representing Reuter’s and the Sydney
‘Morning Herald.’ ” “Oh, well you
can come if you like, Mr. Paterson, but
I think you’re a damn’ fool.” With his
switch and his sardonic grin “The Banjo”
rode in the wake of the galloping spear-
men.
“Hugh Stone” remembers;
1 contributed verse to The Bulletin before
Paterson began writing for it, and I think I
met him before any other Bulletin man did.
It was in the late ’eighties; riding along the
Burrowa River with a selector I ran against
Paterson and his father, then manager of the
Bendenine station, where they shore about
70,000 sheep. The son was clean-shaved, as
became a legal gent. When I saw him again
he was then editor of the Sydney “Sportsman,”
and I was his Newcastle contributor. The
clean-shaven man of the ’eighties had become
possessed of a moustache, and Time was put-
ting its fingerprints on face and figure. And
now he has gone “over the range.” Paterson’s
dad, by the way, introduced machine shearing
into the Binalong district; it was on Ben-
denine that “the constant clash the shear blades
make” first gave way to the whirr that comes
with combs.
One of the early birds at Bardia was
Sydney'solicitor F. O. Chilton, a member
of the Tietyens, McLachlan firm. He
left Australia with the 2nd Battalion as
major ; Bardia found him a lieutenant-
colonel, and he was named acting-Gover-
nor of the town. A modest, retiring fel-
low in the early thirties, Chilton got his
first experience of soldiering when a
student at Sydney University, but had
so little liking for war that he joined
Toe H. He was its N.S.W, secretary for
years.
At 16 (he is now 65) Francis Edward
Old was ploughing the Mallee. He even-
tually cultivated 2000 acres with his own
teams, once achieving 12,800 bags of
wheat. He now has a property at Swan
Hill, where he breeds Border Leicesters
and racehorses, and he has been the local
member since 1919. As Vic. Minister for
FRANCIS EDWARD OLD.
Water Supply Old introduced the badly-
needed Soil Conservation Bill which is
now law. He has three sons and two
daughters. Track cycling and football
interested him when he was slimmer.
Heading for his ninety-fifth birthday
is John Shelton, of Stratford (N.S.W.),
who can remember the first brass band
at Dungog. It consisted of himself, his
brother George as bandmaster and about
a dozen other Sheltons. The local cricket
team was built almost the same way in
those days. John has never left the dis-
trict of his birth, and has lived to see
the fifth generation. His eldest son, a
youth of 72, is still gallivanting around,
though he has given up farming.
Passed out at 48, Lieut.-Colonel H.
W. C. Macßride, chief instructor of the
School of Artillery, Eastern Command,
who was adjutant of the 2nd Australian
Siege Brigade in France (1916-18) and
afterwards was commander of Coastal
Defences in Victoria. He was pre-
paring to take away an artillery brigade
with the 2nd A.I.F. when double
pneumonia caught him. Though he re-
turned to duty he never recovered.
Just retired after attending 16,000 ser-
vices at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne,
Harry Wetherick, the oldest chorister in
Victoria. For fifty years he sang daily
in those cloistered shades, beginning as
an alto in 1889. There are always nine
lay clerks in the church’s choir, and
Wetherick saw over fifty of them come
and go. One was Horace Stevens, who
won world fame in the prophet’s part in
“Elijah,” and at 67 is still capable of
singing that tremendous role.
Joseph Reuben Gardiner, who died in
Sydney last week, aged 62, was Sydney-
born, and for years was head of the
boot-retailing firm of Joe Gardiner, Ltd.,
which had Australasian ramifications.
For the last 14 years he had been in the
hotel business, and at the time of his
death was managing director of the co.
promoting the Plaza Hotel, the absence
of whose long-expected 14 storeys is a
curious feature of Wynyard city rail-
way station. He was a member of the
N. S. Wales Leg. Council from 1934 to
1937.
Maoriland-born Frank Norton, who
has been appointed official artist with the
R.A.N., came to Australia as an infant
and got his early art training at East
Sydney Technical College under Fred
Leist. He won various art scholarships
and early showed promise as a marine
painter, being one of the few Australian
artists who can draw naval craft in a
manner not likely to afflict a catfish with
nausea. Commercial poster and illus-
trative work have disciplined Norton’s
powers and proved his adaptability.
Wing-Commander lan Douglas Mc-
Lachlan, the first R.A.A.F. fighter-pilot
to be decorated for bravery—he got the
D.F.C. for his dash in leading a Middle
East squadron —was born at Hawksburn
(Vic.) and educated at Pleasant-street
Central School, Ballarat, and at Williams-
town and Melbourne Highs. He went to
Duntroon and passed into the R.A.A.F.
from Point Cook. Pilot-officer in 1932,
before the war he had risen to squadron-
leader.
Dead in England, Rev. E. M. Baker,
principal of The King’s School, Parra-
matta (Sydney), from 1919 to 1932. He
was born in England 67 years
ago, graduated at Oxford, was
an international Rugby player,
and took orders in 1901. He
came to Australia to be the first
warden of St. John’s College,
Brisbane University, in 1911.
Eight years later he succeeded
Rev. J. A. Pattinson as head
of The King’s. He proved an
excellent administrator as well
as an able pedagogue, and is re-
membered affectionately by hun-
dreds of his ex-pupils in Aus-
tralia.
Had*, a 100th birthday in Adelaide,
Albert Ashton —and native-born, too. His
father was a Scotland Yard inspector
who came to S.A. early to help in form-
ing a police force, and became the first
governor of the Adelaide Gaol, where
Albert was born.
South Australia’s “Mr. Speaker” for
the last eight years, Robert Nicholls, who
picked a “Sir” out of the New Year’s
baublerbasket, was a wheatgrower before
he took to politics. He was born at Nan-
tawarra (S.A.) in 1890, and has spent 26
ROBERT NICHOLES.
of his 51 years as a Parliamentarian. He
is chairman of the Advisory Committee
of Royal Adelaide Hospital, and a mem-
ber of various august boards that admin-
ister the higher education. Likes walking
and tennis.
Frank E. Dougall, who, according to
an eyewitness, was drowned when a
drowning man three times dragged him
off a ladder of the torpedoed Western
Princess in the Atlantic, is the latest
Melbourne victim of the U-boat menace.
He was travelling in the interests of
Makower, Mcßeath and Co., the
Flinders-lane firm. He had served it
in Melbourne for many years, and 12
years ago was transferred to a M.L.
branch. Sisters live in Victoria and
Tasmania.
Dr. R. B. MADGWICK, Director of the
Army Department of Education.
In Melbourne, en route to Adelaide,
where he will do special work on soils
for the C.5.1.R., is Dr. Adrian Acock, an
erosion expert who has had as varied an
experience as could come to any man.
A S’African Rhodes scholar, he took up
the subject at Oxford and pursued it all
over Europe as far as Spitzbergen, where
he went with a German Polar expedi-
tion in 1934. The last two years he has
been studying American methods of deal-
ing with the problem at Yale and the
University of California.
W. S. Conochie, a Jersey breeder of
Sherwood (Q.), is gathering material for
a history of the Jersey in Australia. The
would-be historian has been among the
little cattle all his life, towering among
them, for he is over 6ft. His tall figure
has, at one time or another, been seen
everywhere where a man was likely to
pick up a bit of Jersey history.
Dead at Springwood (N.S.W.), John
Ernest Clark, the State’s Crown Solicitor.
English-born, he arrived in Australia at
the age of four, was educated at East
Maitland (N.S.W.), joined the N. S.
Wales Public Service in 1900, studied
law and became Assistant Crown Solici-
tor in 1924. He had held the major
appointment since 1931. Two sons are
on military service.
If E. H. Graham gets in as McKell
Labor candidate for Wagga, and if
McKell gets a majority in Parliament,
Graham should be first choice if a
Ministry of Pork and Bacon is created.
He has a fine stud of Berkshires and
Tamworths at Kinilibah, near Wagga, is
president of the Australian Stud Pig
Breeders’ Society, a successful exhibitor
o'f grunters at many shows and a judge
of ’em at others.
The cove who, as “Banjo” Paterson or
somebody put it, will
Strike once more the bridle track
That leads along the Bland
won’t find a Grimm in the old store
beside the Bimbi (N.S.W.) bridge when
he makes the trip. The last incumbent,
Fanny, has retired to the less-casual life
of the city. It was “Grimm’s store” for
probably 50 years to the Bland, the origi-
nal Grimm having been a parson who
flourished when Ben Hall was in rompers.
He had a son, Arthur, storyteller
and reciter, humorist in his own right
and Assistant Minister for Agriculture
under Holman. Miss Grimm had a store
at Bribbaree, and that, too, has passed
into other hands. A junior Arthur
carries on the old farmstead near the
bridge.


GREAT VALVES IN WORLD FAMOUS BOOKS
M
&
t
the
m
d eq
42.
:
m
a Nd^ e
N
f Al l
'He
«n
IRf
i
Wei
s,
■. :
i?#
>W£*
EVERY BOOK A BARGAIN
Back volume complete unabficidecl
Handsome library editions of books that have changed the thought of the world . . . books that have entertained,
thrilled and inspired millions of readers! Many of these famous titles with unabridged, unexpurgated texts
were formerly available only in many volume sets; now you can own as many of them as you wish in compact,
handsome volumes, beautifully printed in clear readable type and strongly bound in cloth. Size 84 x5-| inches.
Wmdmpi tmiue-106 mck vviume (juatlt)
42. THE COMPLETE NOVELS OF
JANE AUSTEN.
In one volume unabridged. 1364 pages.
Pride and Prejudice—Sense and Sensibility—
Persuasion—Emma—Mansfield Park—North-
anger Abbey. Jane Austen’s delightful novels
are to-day receiving more and more apprecia-
tion.
43. BOSWELL’S LIFE OF JOHNSON.
1215 pages. The greatest biography in the lan-
guage, and a more delightful book “to browse
on” (to use the Doctor’s phrase) was perhaps
never written.
44. BULFINCH’S MYTHOLOGY.
Complete in one 778-page volume, with 16
illustrations and index. The Age of Fable,
The Age of Chivalry, The Legends of Charle-
magne. This work will remain a perpetual
monument to the author’s name.
45. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.
By Thomas Carlyle.
770 pages, with 16 illustrations and index.
This work gives an unrivalled picture of what
underlay the movement that led to the Revo-
lution. The reader will find this book as
exciting as any novel.
46. DON QUIXOTE.
By Miguel De Cervantes.
962 pages, with 16 illustrations in aquatone
by Gustave Dore. One of the greatest books
of the world—a satire on romances of
chivalry.
47. THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES AND
THE DESCENT OF MAN.
By Charles Darwin.
Two epoch-making works. Both complete
and unabridged in this one volume. 1016
pages, with index.
48. THE BEST-KNOWN NOVELS OF
GEORGE ELIOT.
Adam Bede —Silas Marner—The Mill on the
Floss —Romola—complete in one volume.
1350 pages. Four remarkable novels. George
Eliot deserves and holds a place with Dickens
and Thackeray in the front rank of Vic-
torian novelists.
49. THE DECLINE AND FALL OF
THE ROMAN EMPIRE.
By Edward Gibbon.
Complete and unabridged in two volumes.
2973 pages, with index (formerly in seven
volumes). In the opinion of many critics it
is the greatest of the world’s histories. Its
brilliant style and power of imaginative recon-
struction have made it a classic in English
Literature.
50. NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE’S
COMPLETE NOVELS AND
SELECTED TALES.
1238 pages. This volume includes The Scarlet
Letter —The House of Seven Gables—The
Blithedale Romance—Fanshaw —The Marble
Faun. Complete and unabridged, and a selec-
tion of thirty-seven novelettes and tales.
Andrew Lang: “He was a great writer —the
greatest writer in prose fiction whom America
has produced.”
51. THE ENGLISH PHILOSOPHERS.
From Bacon to Mill. The Golden Age of
English Philosophy. 1065 pages. This volume
of 1065 pages includes the essential writings
of Bacon, Hobbes, Locke, Berkeley, Hume,
Gay, Bentham, James Mill and John Stuart
Mill. Such famous essays as Bacon’s Novum
Organum Berkeley’s Treatise Concerning
Human Understanding—Gay’s Concerning the
Fundamental Principles of Virtue or Morality
—James Mill’s Essay on Government —and
John Stuart Mill’s On Liberty and Utilitarian-
ism appear in their entirety.
52. THE COMPLETE WORKS OF
HOMER.
The Iliad and The Odyssey. Complete and
unabridged in one volume. 883 pages. The
Times: “Unmatched for fidelity and good
writing.”
53. THE COMPLETE POEMS OF
KEATS AND SHELLEY.
In one volume. 1539 pages, with complete
index. Leigh Hunt says: “Keats was born a
poet of the most poetical kind.” Saintsbury
says of Shelley: “A marvellous poetic genius.”
54.—THE COMPLETE WORKS AND
LETTERS OF CHARLES LAMB.
1144 pages, with notes and index to letters.
Lamb was one of the most winning and best
beloved of writers, and here in a single volume
are all the essays, dramas, poetry and trans-
lations, as well as four hundred and sixty-
seven letters arranged chronologically and an-
notated with explanatory notes, and a com-
plete index.
55. CAPITAL.
By Karl Marx.
A Critique of Political Economy. 868 pages,
with complete index. With one-sixth of the
habitable world actually governed by Marxian
doctrines and with the rest of the world in-
creasingly concerned with the extension of the
Communist social order, an acquaintance with
the fundamental principles of Karl Marx
becomes more and more essential to every
thinking person.
56. THE ESSAYS OF MONTAIGNE.
The Florio translation. 1060 pages, with
glossary. It is impossible to exaggerate the
influence that Montaigne’s Essays h: d on
modern European literature. Florio’s Mon-
taigne is one of those rare books which have
not lost by translation.
57. THE PHILOSOPHY OF
NIETZSCHE.
Five famous works in one volume. This
1140-page volume contains the complete and
unabridged texts of Nietzsche’s five most
famous works: Thus Spake Zarathustra—
Beyond Good and Evil —Genealogy of
Morals —Ecce Homo and The Birth of
Tragedy. The material included has never
before been available in a single volume.
58. PLUTARCH’S LIVES OF THE
NOBLE GREEKS AND ROMANS.
1333 pages, with index. Plutarch’s writings
have done more than those of any other
single author to familiarise us with the great-
est men and the greatest events of the ancient
world.
59. THE COMPLETE TALES AND
POEMS OF EDGAR ALLAN POE.
1038 pages. With an introduction by Hervey
Allen, author of “Anthony Adverse.” 73
stories, some of the most exciting mystery tales
ever written, and 53 poems, as well as famous
essays, are included in this splendid volume.
nrn
aos
tilt
tstsrtt
B oo*
CBWVt
TWO
wasros
ma
BMJe
\\ XI *****
ixujtmo* 4
*****
won
HJTBO* 5
t» 6t
mv* 4 * 1
anta® 8 *
.no**
»»***
»v row*
JWOBS »VT»<»"
m.
L>> ttvv Fno*
roots
Xu>r
«M J
wo «W»*,
sjio stw' 1 *-
ns**}
nrn
»cm
ST««
tlffl
xtrnwsi
nm
/
dfc* *
WSTOBSSS tBT
trim nor;
*e«asHTt«s
«*u 7*ft
«iTi
Wt* 76ft FftW
WtU-RSftWS
« t'OU- t'A
tttftSTftAtti
.o»*
60. JEAN CHRISTOPHE.
By Remain Holland.
Complete and unabridged. Four volumes in
one—lsB4 pages. Formerly published in
four volumes “Jean Christophe” is the his-
tory of the development of a musician of
genius. Edmund Gosse says: “‘Jean
Christophe’ is the noblest work of fiction of
the twentieth century.”
61. PRESCOTT’S THE CONQUEST
OF MEXICO AND THE CON-
QUEST OF PERU.
Complete and unabridged in one volume.
1324 pages, with index. There exists no better
account of the most brilliant passages in the
history of Spanish adventure in the New
World.
62 —THE WEALTH OF NATIONS.
By Adam Smith.
1033 pages, with index. The famous work
which laid the foundation of the science of
political economy.
63. RENAISSANCE IN ITALY.
By John Addington Symonds.
The Age of the Despots—The Revival of
Learning—The Fine Arts—ltalian Literature—
The Catholic Reaction. With full index and
appendices. Complete and unabridged in
two volumes. 2030 pages, with index. This
is the standard work on the subject, and
every annotation and footnote is included.
64. ANNA KARENINA.
By Count Leo Tolstoy.
950 pages. Anna Karenina is generally con-
sidered the most powerful of the author’s
books. Russian manners and customs are pre-
sented in great detail.
65. WAR AND PEACE.
By Count Leo Tolstoy.
1145 pages. The modern war-epic beyond
compare, the fires of Moscow reddening the
scene and Napoleon as the arch-spirit of de-
struction leading his armies to doom. One
of the world’s greatest novels.
66. MARK TWAIN’S TOM SAWYER
AND HUCKLEBERRY FINN.
Both complete in one volume. 600 pages,
beautifully printed in large type, decorated
endpapers. These two books are undoubtedly
Mark Twain’s masterpieces. Two rare books
written for the young but enjoyed by old and
young alike.
67. LEAVES OF GRASS.
By Walt Whitman.
Unabridged edition. 424 pages. R. L. Steven-
son : “A book of singular service.” Emer-
son : “I find it the most extraordinary piece
of wit and wisdom that America has yet con-
tributed.”
68. THE MEDICI.
By G. F. Young.
With 32 full-page plates reproduced from
world-famous paintings. 845 pages, with
complete notes. The story of the Medici
family is in effect the story of the golden age
of Florence, and Colonel Young’s famous
chronicle leaves out no detail of one of the
most glamorous chapters in all history. It is
recognised the world over as the final authority
and the only complete history of this great
family.
69. THE WANDERING JEW.
By Eugene Sue.
Complete and unabridged in one volume.
There is at present no other one-volume
edition of this famous work.
OUTSTANDING OMNIBUS VOLUMES 700 PAGES
Each Volume Sgin. x s£in. and 2|in. thick. 7/6 each (post Bd.).
70. THE GREAT BOOK OF THRILLERS. Stories of Mystery, Crime and Romance.
71. FOUR DRAMATIC WAR KOVELS. The titles of these books tell their own story,
“Under Fire,” by Henri Barbusse; “Bretherton,” by W. F. Morris; “Patrol,” by
Philip Macdonald; “Roux, the Bandit,” by Andre Chamson.
12— FIFTY MUTINIES, REBELLIONS AND REVOLUTIONS. A sensational volume
of famous deeds.
’3—FIFTY AMAZING HAIRBREADTH ESCAPES. Vivid pages of exciting events.
74. FIFTY GREAT DISASTERS AND TRAGEDIES THAT SHOCKED THE WORLD.
A veritable cavalcade of famous events.
75. FIFTY AMAZING STORIES OF THE WAR, 1914-1918.
76. FIFTY ENTHRALLING STORIES OF THE MYSTERIOUS EAST.
11 •—FIFTY great sea stories by well-known authors.
78.—FIFTY AMAZING SECRET SERVICE DRAMAS. Of high adventure and intriguing
plots.
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Please send me the books I have encircled below.
42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50
51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60
61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69
70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78
Name
Address
B. I 2/2/’4l.


ABORIGINALITIES
“FORE!"
“The 0.D.”: Best wedding I ever at-
tended was when old Mac’s daughter mar-
ried the rabbit inspector. The romance
had blossomed from the frequency with
which the inspector found it necessary to
visit Mac’s place with its unlimited rabbit
herds, and Mac, foreseeing in the union
a cessation of the innumerable sum-
monses celebrated in grand style and
invited the whole district. Preliminaries
began about 4 p.m., and by the nuptial
hour of eight there had already been
three fights and at least five men were
paralytic in the chaffshed. The parson
himself, who’d broken the rules once or
twice at Mac’s insistence, pulled out a
small volume of Voltaire when the cere-
mony began and didn’t discover his mis-
take till he’d made several fruitless at-
tempts to find the right place. Only the
watchfulness of the bride s mother saved
the poor girl from being married to the
best man, himself the owner of a large
*, u
ever I S ha ,, Pl : ened ’ H ? w ;
SInUhS 2 P-m ; h bnde and groom had
Mac’s provender Next “ng in
hopes of getting a hair of the dog fiS my
splitting head, I arrived at Mac s with
the mail. It consisted of one item—a
final notice from the new son-in-law to
eradicate rabbits or be Prosecuted. Mac’s
language almost shrivelled the notice.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland reports an
outsize in saltwater crayfish. Eighteen
inches is the average size of these crus-
taceans; this one topped the tape at
three foot six! A museum will endeavor
to perpetuate the giant.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”; The navigation authori-
ties at Ipswich (Q.) deserve congratula-
tions for introducing anew method of
salvaging stranded vessels. During a flood
in the Bremer River, a tributary of the
Brisbane, a cargo boat broke away from
her moorings and was washed on to the
bank. After consultation amongst the
hardy local mariners it was decided to
borrow an elephant from a near-by
circus to push the vessel back again.
Unfortunately, the pressure of flood-
waters proved too much for the strength
of the gallant animal even when stimu-
lated by a bucket of beer-drainings
thoughtfully provided by an adjacent
publican who understood the tastes of
elephants; but marine opinion was
unanimous that if the circus had only
possessed a hippopotamus to give her a
pluck astern while the elephant shoved
she would have come off easily.
* * * *
“Langshan”: Why Bill Wagtail doesn’t
build a larger nest beats me. Prior to
the present nesting a family of three
seemed to be the limit of what the dainty
cup would accommodate, but this time
Bill’s missus produced quads. How they
stayed put in that nest is little short of
a miracle, and both parents looked re-
lieved when the young ’uns could fly. But
Bill is ever the opportunist. Today being
showery I fastened a clothesline under
the verandah roof. At dusk, just before
the rain came down in earnest, Bill, with
his wife and family, flew in, and with
self-congratulatory twittering took pos-
session of the line and spent the night
m com # or # #
» Colbun ». when we g 0 down t 0 our
f • f t the coa „ t
usual pl f e tor a picmc f at , the coast
vls,to ™ ° ther . par u ts admire the
near-by clump of native cherries amongst
the ti-tree. Always freshly green even
in the driest season, their graceful
feathery stems and strange red fruits set
in “stone” cups present a vivid contrast
to their drab, greyish, withered neigh-
bors. “They look so daintily brave! ”
exclaimed their latest admirer. Knowing
them f or vegetable parasites, as ruthless
as mis i et oe for all their apparent
rooted independence , cannot b ' f |
pity for those neighbors who are being
robbed b y them in subterranean secrecy
Each sends out wide and f c £
l few of the - m honest workin S toots, but
S£*JS» threadasef *-
“atinfthei?
sap . channe £ a ' d draw £ off ™ f
own „„ rvic • , U/ * neir
wo f tb •, Tf ,? h has be^ n
found th ro ' b th “ ir ow *kta d even
in aver * subiinlation of
fervor, their own blood relatives from the
parent tree,
* * * *
“Ex-Moonbian”: “Old-timer’s” saga-
cious sheep-dog (B. 29/1/’4l) may have
ẃ
solid fly-swatter can be used to finish the
argument.
* * * * m
“Wibu”: “Old-timer” and “Groper”
(B. 22/1/’4l) should come to Cairns
(N.Q.) if they are interested in side-by-
side pubs ;we boast of .four pairs that
trade side by side here—the Royal and
Oceanic, the Empire and Mining Ex-
change, the Australian and Criterion,
the Pacific and Strand. In addition, let
it be noted that a journey from the
Royal to the Criterion counts six pubs
out of 11 consecutive buildings. Beat
that!
• • • • * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Towns there may be
with twin or even triplet pubs, but where
else besides Denham—that quaint pearl-
ing township overlooking the huge waters
of Shark Bay (W.A.)—can one find a
station homestead one side of a pub and
its woolshed on the other? All three
front the pearlshell-paved street.
* * * *
“Pick”; Have noticed that when seek-
ing rest foxes always ascend to a point
of eminence from which on the instant
they awaken they can take a view of the
whole surrounding country, and they
always make a complete survey of the
atmosphere before lying down. With out-
stretched noses and craning necks they
sniff anxiously into the current of air
to detect by scent any prowler lurking
on the landscape. If it beman or hound
the fox always trots away to a point from
where he can keep the suspected enemy
under constant surveillance. Should the
hunter creep from sight behind cover
then the quarry glides down hastily from
his higher position to strike the levels,
loping at a canter that carries him across
the tussocks and bracken clumps for hun-
dreds of yards before he turns back with
a defiant bark to take a look for pur-
suers. If there is anything chasing him
he hurries on at a speed that only a rifle
bullet fired after him could overtake.
His run may carry him a mile or two
before he halts again.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow, who
shied off girls, had me a bit worried. He’d
started going up to the road to meet the
fair lass who ran the little post office,
and once or twice he nicked over to her
place in the evening, but was generally
back pretty early. 1 guessed her parents
must have been pretty strict. One day,
after about a fortnight of it, I chipped
him. “Hey, what’s doin’ with the tabby?”
He gave me a furtive look. “Aw, no-
thin’,” he said. A few more days passed,
and then one night he says to me “Hey,
I’d like t’ get y’ advice about somethin’.”
“Yair?” I says. He was silent for a
while, then he said, sort of doubtfully,
“Y’ know that girl up the road?
Well” and stopped. “Come on,” I
said, getting scared, “what’s happened?”
“Well” he said and stopped again.
Then all of a sudden he burst out, “Well,
she’s got a beaut. little kelpie bitch an’
she wants a fiver for it. How about lend-
in’ me a quid t’ make up enough?”
* * * *
“Billy See”: It would be nice to be
as philosophical about a bolting horse
as is “B. A. Ker” (B. 8/1 / ’4l) ; but few
of the bolters of my youth negotiated
corners successfully. Like the modern
motorist, they tried to cut them, but trees,
fences, verandah posts were apt to prove
disastrous. Hence the popular idea of
“heading off” the bolter before he got
too far. Again, there might be a young-
ster or a woman in the vehicle attached
to the bolter—so what then? I’ve seen
a daring man launch himself at the bridle,
get a grip, hang on though he was
dragged along the road, and so bring the
bolt to a standstill by sheer weight. But
the most thrilling was a Clydesdale stal-
lion harnessed to a heavy dray ; in the
dray a seven-year-old kid who had been
enjoined to sit quiet while Dad went in
for a pot. Like a toy the dray flailed
along behind the stallion, the boy bounc-
ing up and down, in danger every
moment of being thrown out. No head-
ing that mad mountain of horse. But a
little jockey bloke raced behind, caught
the tailboard, drew himself up, then crept
out along the shafts until he retrieved
the dragging reins. Then, getting back
into the dray, he sawed at the mad beast’s
head until he brought him to a stop.
* * * «
“Julia C.”: Old Bill, pensioner-cwm-
packhorse tourist, had two prads. Bill
spent hours a day looking for them,
many times not getting off camp until
noon. One horse was belled, and, though
old Bill’s eyesight was not the best, his
hearing was perfect. In spite of this he
could never hear the horse-bell. Then
one day, topping a sharp ridge, Bill sur-
prised the horses, one just in the act of
passing a mouthful of grass to the other
that was belled, and whose only move-
ment was to chew the grass.
* * * *
“Naturala”: I am satisfied that bees
communicate by telepathy. During a
recent swarming a muddling of the job
resulted in part of the swarm being left
outside the new hive. Next morning
found these clustered on the front of the
new home, obviously gathered over the
spot where on the other side of the
wood the queen was hanging. The hive
not being properly settled down, egress
was confined to a few narrow holes,
large enough for the workers to get out
but too small for the queen, her larger
doorway being kept plugged—this being
necessary since the lady, could she get
out, might feel like travelling farther
afield. But I soon noticed that, though
workers were allowed out, none was re-
admitted, with the result that the bunch on
the front of the hive continued to grow.
Thinking to give several persistent triers
a chance to get in, I removed the plug
from the queen’s entrance. Instantly the
whole brood sprang into commotion. A
stream of large bees guards poured
out, while the whole bunch on the front
of the hive took to the air in approved
swarming order. Obviously word had
passed that the way was open and the
queen was coming out. Hastily re-
plugging the hole I frustrated the move.
Within two minutes every one of the
few thousand so excitedly buzzing for
20 yards around was back at the old
place. Two hours later I again removed
the plug, and the whole performance
was repeated. Now, how did the mob
outside, separated by half an inch of
wood, know that the queen was about
to emerge? And how did they know,
20ft. up in the air, that her move had
been defeated?
SONG OF THE BLAND.
I am tramping down the foothills
In the golden afterglow
By dappled ways of evening
Where tides of shadow flow.
And clear in the light-washed valleys
The red-roofed homesteads stand,
And quiet the chequered fallows
In sunset on the Bland.
There is singing in the timber,
Small songs that fall like pearls
On the bosom of the dusk;
The last sun-banner furls.
Ah, warm is the smell of furrows
New-turned in rich, dark land,
And cool the taste of dewfall
When night comes to the Bland.
There is breathing in the stillness,
A slow, faint pulse of sleep,
As the bushland sighs for slumber
And stars their watches keep.
High in her tower of silence
Night spreads a jewelled hand,
In a touch of benediction,
Most gently on the Bland.
They are friendly eyes that watch me
From tree-homes in the dark
Where the lively campfire lanterns
Go dancing up the bark.
And Sleep to my arms is creeping,
And deep is my demand
To hear once more my cradle-song.
The night-wind on the Bland.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Ned”: Old Job Haystack made a
good job of the “clearing sale” he had
conducted on his Upthecreek farm one
windy evening, and the fire insurance
assessor, when he arrived, sailed right
ahead with the usual pertinent questions,
including how long since the house was
erected. That beat old Job. “Blowed if
I know, mister,” he said, “but the missus
oughter.” A bellow brought Mum from
her boudoir in the barn. “Hey, Mum,”
said Job, “can yer tell us our Bob’s age?”
“ 'Course I can,” assured Mrs. Haystack.
“He was born on the night of the big
storm when the lightnin’ hit that old
bloodwood near Mrs. Hearn’s lyin’-in
hospital and killed Joe Hames’s brown
colt; you remember —Pansy had a heifer
calf three days afore?” The assessor was
more hopeful. “Can’t say that I do,
Mum,” Haystack replied. “Well,” pur-
sued Mrs. H. tenaciously, “two days after
Bob was born was the Wednesday you
an’ yer old dad helped to hold Martin
Flanagan down on Mrs. Hearn’s ver-
andah while she held the hot pickle-bottle
over the boil on the back of his neck. I
was lyin’ just inside the winder and heard
all about the storm. Well, last August,
when I was cornin’ home from the show
an’ we was passin’ Hames’s place, there
was an old brown mare in the yard. Alf
Harris tells us she was the oldest mare in
the district, bein’ 30 years old cornin’
Christmas. Alf says that she had a
brown colt what was killed by lightnin’
when it was a yearlin’. So, yer see, Dad,
that makes our Bob just 29 years old
about this time.” Haystack’s expansive
smile expressed his relief. “Mister,” he
blandly informed the f.a., “I built our
house ten months afore Bob was born.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; At a naturalist without
portfolio, I was interested in “Plymouth
R.’s” theory of birds carrying weed seeds
too hard to digest and then dropping
them, equipped with fertiliser and all, to
start life again (B. 5/2/’4l), It supports
a theory of my own that the giant moo-
kau birds, now extinct, but twice the
size of ostriches and with a wing spread
of 20ft., were responsible for the rapid
spread of coconut palms in the Pacific
Islands. My offer of £SOOO for a genuine
mookau fossil had its origin in a desire
to prove the theory, but there is no need
for that now, consequently it is with-
drawn.
* « * *
“Wang”: As Dad approached the
stable the hand came cursing and hop-
ping on one leg through the doorway.
“What the devil’s' wrong with you?’’
asked Dad. “It’s that damned Prince!”
wailed the hand ; “he stood on me foot ”
“Dear, dear!” said Dad in mock sym-
pathy. “I’ll have t’ be careful what I
say in that horse’s hearin’. I never
thought he had such intellergence.”
“What the hell are yer blatherin’ about?”
yelped the hopping hand, pain overcom-
ing prudence. Dad’s eyes glinted, but
he continued sweetly: “Well, when I
wus in there feedin’ him yest’day I sed
t’ meself out loud that I’d have t’ push
you if yer weren’t more lively. Fancy
old Prince understapdin’! He must like
you, an’ don’t want t’ see yer sacked.”
“Oh, yes?” answered the hand sarcasti-
cally ; “an’ I s’pose y’ didn’t mention in
his bearin’, too, ’bout givin’ me few
bob a week rise in wages?” “Well,” re-
plies Dad, still sugary, “now y’ mention
it, I did. Five bob a week. An’ ole
Prince, I thought, wus coughin’; but now
I see he wus snortin’ in disgust at me
foolishness in thinkin’ of it. An’ now” —
briskly—“if yer finished givin’ that one-
legged darncin’ performance yer’d better
stick the harness on ole Prince an’ get
on with that ploughin’. And yer’d better
be careful what y’ say in his bearin’, he’s
so quick in the uptake.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: It’s Chillagoe Joe’s
yarn: “Y’orter bin with me an’ Red
Mick O’Brien an’ Oscar the Swede w’en
we were on a bit o’ gold up in the
Peninsuler. One night me ’n’ Oscar is
’avin’ a game o’ euchre an’ Mick’s
stretched on ’is bunk close ter the side
o’ the tent. Suddenly we ’ears a whizz
an’ a zip, an’ Mick looses orf the most
blood-curdlin’est screech I ever ’ears.
Me ’n’ Oscar grabs our Winchesters an’
ducks outa the tent an’ takes cover in
the long grass ’opin’ ter git a crack at the
blacks, but nothin’ ’appens. Mick’s in the
tent cursin’ somethink ’orrible an’ callin’
us all the w’ite-livered cows ’e c’n think
of fer leavin’ a mate pinned ter ’is bunk
be a seven-foot spear, ter make a banquet
fer a ’orde o’ cannerballs. We can’t
stand no more, so we gets back inter the
tent, an’ there’s the poor cow skewered
through ’is leg to ’is bunk. The other end
o’ the skewer is outside the tent, an’ w’en
we goes out we finds a muskeeter as big
as a brolga with ’is ’ead jammed ’ard
agen the tent an’ ’is neck dislercated.
Must ’a’ bin attracted be the ’lumination,
an’ comes with a rush. But it’s on’y
once in every so orfen as them kinda
muskeeters comes outa the mangrove
“Have y come to the part where he marries the girl?”
“It's all right, dear — they're sure to senQd out a
search party.”
swamps, w’ere they lives be suckin’ the
juice outa the crocs.”
* * * *
“Water Rat”; So “Flight” thinks he
knows his water poultry (B. 15/1 /’4l).
Let him watch the native hen and the
bald coot; the most noticeable thing about
them is that sudden bob of the tail and
forward jerky movement of the head. On
the South Esk, in my part of the Speck,
the “cank” can hold his own with any
duck as far as surface swimming goes. To
compensate for lack of flight power
Nature has endowed him with a long and
muscley pair of legs to outdistance his
land enemies. The web,
which would have been a
hindrance to running, was
omitted. However, in the
water his length of leg
makes up for this defect,
as he sinks well down and
gets a tremendous leg
drive, probably four or
five times greater than
that of a duck. Under-
water it’s a different story,
as he hasn’t the long-
winde dness of other
feathered divers, and he
does not use his wings.
Have with the help of dogs
often swum him down
and have found him
much easier to catch below
the surface than above.
Just a matter of diving
near his spot of submer-
sion and following the line
of bubbles escaping from
his feathers. But if you
fail to grab him by the
legs the proof of their
power and length of drive
will be painfully adminis-
tered in the form of a
‘belly-rip” which will start
at your knees and end at
your chin.
He H« *
“B. A. Ker”: The idea
that bunyips ever existed
is ridiculous —when you
consider the matter in
broad daylight; but in the
right circumstances that
windy little fellow inside
you wants a powerful lot
of persuading that they
don’t still exist! As a kid
I once got so engrossed in
my shooting that I found
myself overtaken by night
and a brewing storm while
still on the wrong side of
the Nepean (N.S.W.). The
idea of swimming that
dark, silent river, with one
hand holding clothes and
rifle aloft, was not entic-
ing, but after a lot of
courage-mustering I low-
ered myself into the cold
water. The next instant
I was on the bank again.
Long tentacles had coiled
around my waist. For a
long time I squatted on
the bank, telling myself
that the bunyip was merely
waterweed, before I felt
game enough for another
try. Again that eerie en-
circling feeling ; but this
time I kept going. Then
the storm broke. With
lightning flashing around
me I was plugging on when something
big rubbed against my arm and a second
later clawed down my side and thigh.
Charlton wouldn’t have kept with me
over that last stretch. And it wasn’t until
I thought the matter over in bright sun-
light that I could convince myself I’d
merely bumped a snag.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Thievin’ cow!” said
old Joe as a bower-bird called in the
gully. “Ever tell yer ’bout ’ow the mob
on Dogsbody got took down over a
bower-bird? A young chap lobs in want-
in’ a job, an’ the boss takes ’im on fer
roustaboutin’. Real Pommy ’e was, with
la-di-da talk, but ’e bogs in good-oh, an’
they takes quite a likin’ ter im, even the
boss. Alius askin’ about the Orstrylian
bush, an’ didn’t ’e get some boshter
answers! When ’e asts was it true ’bout
bower-birds decoratin’ their nests with
colored things, the cook spins ’im a cuffer
’bout ’ow ’e useter make a bonzer livin’
collectin’ money an’ joolery from them
till ’is feet went on ’im. Young Reggie
wants to see one, an’ the cook reckons
’e’ll show ’im a near-by bower on Sun-
dey. Well, the poisoner tips the wink all
round, borrers watches an’ joolery an’
silver, an’ on Sat’d’y night nips down an’
spreads ’em all over the flamin’ bower.
Next mornin’ we all goes ter see the
lark, Reggie that excited ’e couldn’t
’ardly wait fer ’is breakfuss. But there
ain’t a thing in the bower ’cept a bluebag
an’ a thrummer. The cook near ’as a
fit, an’ Reggie’s quite disappointed. They
’unted round all day an’ never found
nothin’. On Toosday Choom gets crook
and borrers a fiver orf the boss ter go in
an’ see the doc, an’ a quid each from
Bill an’ the bab. That afternoon a John
comes out with a photo, uv a Sydney
crook wot’d bin—eh? O’ course, it’s
Reggie. He’d bin born an’ brung
up not a ’’undred miles from the
property, an’ never bin outa Australia
in ’is life.”
D.s
There’s a dreadful Gumperthing
In the awesome river gorges —
Straight and deadly is his spring,
Though his shape’s like Georgie Porgie s.
He has neither feet nor flippers,
Just pink pads, like carpet slippers,
And great purple lobster’s nippers.
Once I saw this Gumperthing,
And he sang, while blue tears glittered
On his scarlet face to cling,
While cerulean tomtits tittered,
“Neither bunyip maid nor Dumper,
Yellow Yabbewong nor Bumper,
No one loves this lonely Gumper ”
“Come, cheer up!” I said to him,
“Surely there’s some golden maiden
Who would gladly flirt and swim
With a Gumperthing so laden
With blue love. What of the Sinkers,
Or the green-eyed Wobbly-Winkers?
Then, again, there are the linkers.”
“Come to think,” he wiped his eyes,
“Never have I thought to woo them.
Pink-eyed sir, so kindly wise,
Please to lead me swiftly to them.”
So we started off together,
While his carpet-pads, like leather,
Crackled in the droughty weather.
But the Jitter-Jinkers fled
And the Wobbly-Winkers scattered
At the uprpar of his tread —
Far away their clippers clattered.
So I said, “I fear, old fellow,
You will simply have to bellow
By yourself, till mauve turns yellow.”
Then that Gumperthing went mad,
Madder than a cow gone crazy;
I had never dreamed he had
So much kick; I thought him lazy.
And he gripped me by the throttle
While I thought, “Ah me! Now what’ll
Mother think? She’ll, blame the bottle.”
Truly there’s a Gumperthing
By the red wine river waters.
Terrible and straight his spring
And his grip’s a grip that slaughters.
There he lurks, where fierce lights hide him
And great purple fantods chide him . . .
I should know; ’cos I’m inside him.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


0)
fauM!
(‘O'R
- gallon <•• - nl0( i i"- *er on
eon»a>" s „„ B ani «'®*| J.‘s* P*»
S »
fAU-tS
fßtt
E^ RA Because
bon .?-_ i C.O-R Pl Tuat >nean»
itSssteSve* im
aUon
T.V3-
fact
gain
9 ,„d th®- se .
and bio® C.°
prove
The
ston
I Uni* 8 •• * 14 . or dsj
i Br» tl
sh Therm® 1 pl(U n
dard
poner
me
asnf®
unit**
of
alorift®
«aln e
j***r
a
ytfo*
TAKE YOUR RATION
TICKETS TO THE RED,
WHITE & BLUE C.O.R
PUMP and obtain the
benefits of Australia’s only
petrol-benzol blend . . .
British petrol plus Austra-
lian benzol.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
LIMITED
C196/16/PB
ESTABLISHED 1834. ,
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTE
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FlftfD (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
,— *—Dividends ~
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 15 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 832,395 30,000 262,500 39,895 1,298,491
111 p.c. Hi p.c.
1931.. 240,992 22,500 196,875 21,617 1,320,108
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1932.. 223,927 20,000 175,000 28,927 1,349.035
1933.. 234,540 20,000 175,000 39,540 1,388,575
1934.. 249,613 20,000 175,000 54,613 1,443,188
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 468,188
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1935.. 270,668 24,000 210,000 36,668 504,856
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1936.. 381,653 30,000 262,500 89,153 594,009
12i p.c. 124 p.c.
1937.. 453,997 37,500 328,125 88,372 682,381
1938.. 493,668 37,500 328,125 128,043 810,424
Properties, plant and investment
reserve disclosed, £972,000 . . 1,782,424
1939. . 528,892 37,500 328,125 163,267 1,945,691
1940.. 570,610 37,500 328,125 204,985 2,150,676
‘Subject to £BOO,OOO originally paid for goodwill.
This big Melbourne brewery, in which
the public is interested through half a
dozen holding cos., is in a very snug
position, financially and otherwise. It
enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in Vic-
toria, and helps to quench thirsty throats
in N. Queensland and the N. S. Wales
Riverina, and elsewhere as well. The
div. advanced from 7 p.c. in 1919 to
17| p.c. eight years later, and remained
at the higher level until 1930, when the
rate dropped to 15 p.c., followed by
Hi p.c. in ’3l and then 10 p.c. for the
next three years. At the end of 1934
£975,000 of reserves was capitalised, one
for two. On capital as it stood before
the gift, this made divs. worth half as
much again as the declared rates —8 p.c.,
followed by 10 p.c. and four lots of
12! p.c. to the close of last accounts.
Then £972,000 was taken from the cup-
board and put in the window in 1939,
after introduction of a new Companies
Act in Victoria. Also, an extra £184,875
of reserves (£2,335,551) was visible in the
consolidated accounts at the end of lune
last.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the public had plenty of
money in its pockets, employment was
at a high level, and Navy, Army and Air
Force depots and camps were full of
men for service both at home and abroad.
Under these favorable circumstances
more beer was drunk, of course —the be-
lated removal of the official taboo on
“wet” canteens in A.I.F. camps notwith-
standing. After providing for deprecia-
tion, taxation and other contingencies,
there was a spring of £41,718, in the
operating co.’s profit, which was equal
to 19.5 p.c. on capital as against 18.1,
16.9, 15.5, 13 and 9.2 p.c. back to 1935.
And the position was even better ; the
consolidated figures for C.U.B. and its
subsidiaries show a profit of £593,773
(up £45,633), equal to 20.3 p.c. on the
£2,925,000 of capital. That was after
allowing for the interests of outside
shareholders in some of the subsidiaries.
The solid nature of the financial struc-
ture and continued expansion of the
organisation are seen in the following
comparison of consolidated balance-sheet
figures of C.U.B. and its subsidiaries:
1939. 1940.
Paid capital . . . . £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Mortgages, etc. .. 69,000 16,794
Sundry creditors . . 629,789 742,889
Freeholds, breweries, etc. 2,291,450 2,398,605
Plant 715,445 710,281
Stocks, etc 376,048 455,747
Book debts .. .. 1,228,748 1,259,824
Cash, etc 488,362 571,649
The amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., includes an unspecified provision
for taxation. Freeholds, breweries, etc.,
consist largely of hotel properties—there
is no price-cutting in the trade ; competi-
tion takes the form of buying hotel free-
holds, thus both anchoring and widening
turnover. Stocks increased by £79,699,
book debts by £31,076 and cash, etc., by
£83,287. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£1,527,637)
was £133,268.
As for the current term, the Govern-
ment proposes to spend a lot of money
with one hand and to take back most of
it with the other. The thumping increases
in income tax can be expected to curb
further expenditure on beer, while the
doubling of the undistributed-profits tax,
making it 2s. in the £2, will bite into
earnings, and so will the continued climb
in costs generally. Excise on beer has
been bumped up 9d., making the new
rate 2s. 9d. per gallon ; but the increase,
or most of it, has been passed on.
Here is the position of the half-dozen
holding cos. in tabloid form:
Shaves Last Market
Paiil in Div., Yield,
Capital. C.U.B. p.c. p.c.
Carlton .. ..£816,992 928,295 15 4.4
Melb. Co-op. . . 431,981 986,901 26s 4.8
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 10 5.5
Foster . . . . 115,200 124,574 13 5.1
Shamrock .. 141,345 124,574' 11 5.1
McCracken’s .. 62,438 62,438 124 5.4
These cos. own 82 p.c. of C.U.B.’s capi-
tal. In addition, some of them gather
rents, etc., themselves. The market yield
is that obtained from the last listed sale
of the scrip.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 47,720 10 p.c. = 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10. „ „ 40,000 9,737 132 172
1931.. 35,383 7„ „ 28,000 1
Contingency reserve, £3OOO ) 4,883 136,55 u
Q’land Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 .. 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. = 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933.. 35,890 4 „ „ 27,042 ) r
Contingency reserve, £3OOO j J ’ B4B 127,827
Surplus on sale property, £16,250.. 144,077
Prom tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 154,077
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c. = 27,304 11,495 165,572
Unexplained reduction, £5713 .. 159,859
1935.. 48,079 p.c. = 30,717 17,362 177,221
4939 -- 48,998 5 .. .. 34,457 14,541 191,702
493 2" 51,916 5 >. .. 37,345 14,571 206,333
1938.. 54,823 5 „ „ 37,500 17,323 223,656
To contingencies, £7500 . . . . 216,156
1939.. 52,426 5 p.c. = 37,500 14,926 231.082
1940.. 52,732 5 „ „ 37,500 15,232 246,314
The Permanent, originally incorporated
in 1874, was the first building society to
set up as such in Queensland. It now
does a limited amount of general bank-
ing business as well, and has not failed
to pay an annual dividend since 1906.
Meanwhile it has consistently developed
in strength, by absorptions and other-
wise. For the seven years to the close
of accounts in 1930 shareholders aver-
aged a shade under 10 p.c. Then the
Queensland Deposit Bank was absorbed
and portion of the assets of the sus-
pended Federal were taken over. But
slump brought a recession of both in-
terest rates and profit margins, and the
div. dropped to 4 p.c. in 1933. It was
lifted to 5 p.c. for the last half of the
1935 term, and has remained steady
since, the average over the last decade
being a wink under 5 p.c.
The bulk of the business consists, as
the co.’s name implies, of advances,
secured by mortgage, in connection with
home and other building activity. It is a
unit bank, there being no branches, and
its deposits and advances are not directly
affected by conditions in the pastoral
and other primary industries.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a steady ex-
pansion of building activity in Brisbane,
especially in the city. The co. put out
£273,443 on building society terms, be-
sides making considerable advances under
other conditions. But repayments re-
duced the net growth in advances to
£20,326:
1931. ' 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid
capital £400,000 £682,600 £750,000 £750,000
Deposits 901,842 ]
Sundry I 1,541,940 1,505,279 1,423,660
creditors 9,093 J
Premises,
etc. .. 26,500 52,260 50,862 50,572
Advances 1,092,323 1,755,147 1,793,895 1,814,211
Public
securities
and cash 354,467 634,846 686,810 602,324
Following a reduction of the 2 p.c. in-
terest the co. used to allow on demand
money, there was a net shrinkage of
£81,619 in deposits. This contraction
was in current accounts ; fixed deposits
increased. To meet the withdrawals and
the extra advances, public securities and
cash were drawn upon for £84,486. When
the books closed, liquids amounted to
42.3 p.c. of liabilities to the public, and
the co. was holding 28s. 7d. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It is a strong position, but the co.
needs more customers of both kinds to
help it meet rising costs, low interest
rates and narrowing margins of profit.
The improvement in the year’s gross
earnings (£135,517) was £2542. Includ-
ing provision of £22,000 (up £2000) for
taxation, exes. (£82,785) took all but
£306 of the increase, leaving the net
result at 7 p.c. on capital, compared with
7, 7.3, 6.9, 7.1, 7.1, 5.6 and 5.3 p.c. back
to 1933. The £15,232 visibly ploughed in
made the support for capital equal to
265. lOd. per f.-p. pound share.
During the year the price of these
shares fluctuated between 17s. and
19s. 6d. in the market. At 195., the price
last week-end, the return is 5.3 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The doubt is not so
much whether the assets will ultimately
be worth 20s. in the pound, but whether
the co.’s earning capacity will be able
to keep pace with rising costs, including
taxation, and low interest rates.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£• £ £ £
1930 .. 6032 74 p.c. = 5947 85 19,766
1931 .. 1484 6i „ „ 4758 16,492
1932 .. 5028 7 „ „ 5551 15,969
1933 .. 6257 7 „ „ 5551 706 16,675
1934 .. 4477 5i „ „ 4362 115 16,790
1935 .. 4247 5 ~ „ 3965 282 17,072
1936 .. 5957 „ „ 5947 10 17,082
1937 .. 7126 8 ~ „ 6344 782 17,864
1938 . . 6592 74 ~ „ 5947 645 18,509
1939 .. 5627 7 „ „ 5551 76 18,585
1940 . . 8272 8 „ ~ 6344 1928 20,513
The belting and other leather products
this co. manufactures are sold all over
Australia and Maoriland, and an export
business has been built up with southern
and eastern Asia and elsewhere. With
a little Government assistance, a much
more substantial export business in
leather products could be built up by
this co. and others jn the trade, and that
at a time when development of export
markets for Australian manufactures is
most to be desired. Chairman F. J. Ludo-
wici says;—
The shortage of suitable hides of Aus-
tralian origin, owing to excessive branding,
is a very severe handicap which could
and should be removed by suitable legis-
lation. But instead of Government co-
operation to this end, we are further ham-
pered by restrictions on the importation
of lightly-branded or unbranded New Zea-
land hides, which are required for the pro-
duction of essential leather products in the
nation’s key industries and for export to
our allies.
The development of export markets for
our manufactures promises to be an im-
portant factor in the solution of some of
our post-war problems ; and a wise Gov-
ernment would heed the fact, even among
the many other pressing needs of the
moment.
For the first half of the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts “ex-
tremely” brisk trading conditions pre-
vailed. Then events overseas brought a
sudden change, but trade continued to
improve as the last half drew to a close,
thanks largely to defence contracts, which
kept both the leather and engineering
sections of the business busy. Additions
and improvements were made to the tan-
nery, the engineering machine shop was
reorganised, and so was the belting fac-
tory, and defence requirements increased
the demand for power-transmission
equipment. The board figured the year s
profit at £8272 (up £2645), the best for
over a decade. The £8272 was equal to


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting;
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patent®.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
V * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
QUEEN STREET
FREEHOLD, BRISBANE
PRICE, £30,000
Returning Slightly Over 6|% Nett
F. G. PEARCE PTY., LTD.
Auctioneers and Valuers
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE
/( kcme you conic/onbi.
# 0"
:
>^? c -
-35*ssm >; . s ppi:^
i^^z>>wee*«wyiBSi^e<^
wm
mtms&
homed —such as this suburban residence —can
be built at low cost when Wunderlich Durabestos (asbestos-
cement) flat Building Sheets are used tor walls and Wunderlich
Terra Cotta Tiles for roofs. Durabestos sheets are permanent,
white-ant proof, fire-retardant and definitely weather-resistant.
Consult your architect or builder for estimates!
Durabestos is a product of Wunderlich Limited (Est. over 52 years), Crown
and Cleveland Sts., Sydney; King St,, Newcastle. Branches in all States.
ŵ
11l
um
mm
*o>
b°°
?\ e
.>o^
t^t--
,i\V
.■''■'vve tS
tss-
0*
-'M
4"
'•;f\e^
YOU WOULD FEEL SECURE
IF YOUR INCOME WAS
Guaranteed by the Government
Your Savings will be Secure
IF INVESTED IN THE
GRAIN ELEVATORS BOARD
PUBLIC LOAN OF £150,000
offering
ISSUED 1 °/ O CURRENCY}
at par. /o HJaCla 15 years.
SECOND ONLY TO COMMONWEALTH LOANS IN STRENGTH OF SECURITY as Principal
and Interest are secured upon the Board’s Revenue and Fixed and Floating Assets
AND
GUARANTEED UNCONDITIONALLY
BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF VICTORIA
In other words;
All the Public and Private Assets of Victoria stand behind the Security for such Loans.
LISTS NOW OPEN
APPLY AT ONOE to any office of THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA or
through ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
LOAN CLOSES not later than
1 7th FEBRUARY
SUBSCRIPTIONS PAYABLE BY
INSTALMENTS
A TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN VICTORIA, TASMANIA AND QUEENSLAND
Loan Underwritten by J. B. WERE & SON, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l, and M.L.C.
Building, 44 Martin Place, Sydney.
WHEAT STORAGE AND TRANSPORT IS AN IMPORTANT NATIONAL
WORK IN WAR TIME
10.4 p.c. on capital as against 7, 8.3, 9,
7.5, 5.3, 5.6 and 7.8 p.c. back to 1933.
A point was added to the div., making it
8 p.c. At the moment prospects of that
rate being repeated for the current term
are encouraging, notwithstanding the
continued rise in costs and stinging in-
crease in taxation.
Here are balance-sheet figures :
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . . . £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities.. .. 32,740 13,914 26,027 27,929'
Freeholds . . . . 50,881 50,881 58,978 58,978
Plant, etc. . . 6,895 5,859 8,301 10,391
Stocks . . . . 53,658 42,892 42,275 38,956
Rook debts . . 18.398 13,037 16,225 17,918
Cash, etc. .. 2,177 2,498 2,219 4,584
Of the £27,929 of outside liabilities
£18,497 (down £4072) was coming to the
co.’s bankers. Owing to the outlay on
plant (up £2090), there was a contraction
of £1163 in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£33,529).
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by 255. 7d. in net tangibles, at
par. Considering the history of the co.
and its performances to date, the shares
appear to be worth consideration at their
present price.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
Added
Writ- to He- Ile-
Sept., Profit. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
1930. . 16,010 12 p.c. _ 12,000 j 3203 106 Mg
Provident Fund, £5OO )
1931.. 10,997 B P-C. = B ’,?rnn 289 I 2208 108 > 156
Provident Fund, £500.... )
1932.. 10,118 5 p.c. = 8,000 1218 t , nn nnR
Provident Fund, £5OO J '’’
1933 ” lr 9 o 2 vU P F C un\ B ’i°s°oo 297 l«« *<>8,686
1934 ” Evident Vund, TbOO i 2475 m > l6l
1935.. 11,383 10 p.c. = 10,000 393 / UQ m 601
Provident Fund, £650 )
1936.. 12,407 10 p.c. = 10,000 1383 1 vj a. m S 7n
Provident fund, £650 (
1937.. 14,050 10 p.c. - 10,000 691 1 27Q9 n
Provident fund, £650 )
1938.. 14,422 10 p.c. = 10,000 487 I 3285 n7(BC9
Provident fund, £6oo )
1939. . 14,021 10 p.c. = 10,000 1557 ]
Provident fund, £650 / 564 118,433
Bldg, improvements, £1250 I
1940.. 14,380 10 p.c. = 10,000 980 1
Provident fund', £650 [ 2246 120 679
Bldg, improvements, £404 f
Patriotic funds, £lOO J
Formed in 1880, this is the largest
trustee co. in S. Aus. as well as being
Australia’s second-oldest. Its early his-
tory, like that of others in the business,
was largely the story of a struggle to
overcome prejudice. Gradually, how-
ever, the advantages of the corporate
over the private trustee have become
more widely recognised and appreciated,
and of recent years a maze of taxation
and other legislation has made adminis-
tration of estates increasingly difficult.
One result has been a steady increase,
which can be expected to continue, in
the volume of business placed in the
expert care of the trustee cos. But the
E., T. and A.’s corpus and other com-
mission charges have remained unaltered
since the beginning of 1911, which means
that it has been unable to pass on any
or all of the burden of rising costs.
Still, the co.’s £lOO,OOO of paid capital
has the support and assistance of £120,679
of reserves. So the two combined would
have to turn in only a shade over 4.5 p.c.
to cover 10 p.c. on capital alone.
Returns from the co.’s own funds and
from the trustee section of the business
aren’t separated in the published
accounts. Last term the amount of new
business entrusted to the co.’s care was
£1,053,114, and estates to the value of
£916,055 were wound up, leaving the net
gain in the volume of trusts on the books
at £137,059:
Gross Exes p.c.
Trusts. Income. Exes.* Income.
1920.. £4,568,146 £22,477 £11,388 50.6
1925.. 6,480,945 81,581 18,006 57.0
1928.. 8,302,728 44,439 26,046 58.6
1930.. 10,036,608 44,426 28,416 63.9
1932.. 10,870,670 38,921 28,695 73.7
1934.. 10,913,978 38,351 26,984 70.5
1935.. 11,527,693 40,206 28,823 71.7
1936.. 12,096,589 42,402 29,994 70.7
1937.. 12,214.348 47.080 33,030 70.1
1938.. 12,306,937 50,441 36.019' 71.3
1939.. 12,116,390 51,390 37,369 72.7
1940.. 12,253.449 52.358 38,279' 73.1
* Excluding depreciation.
The improvement of £968 in gross earn-
ings was almost swallowed by a growth
o Continued on next page.)


Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend t'o be the Executor of your Estate, appoint him
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.LC
XI ir r, E -, R - R l lox ’ H - Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
iiiiDouiicrs
JL
\k
in* O "ill
\C\~
for
GEARS
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES_
V BELT DRIVES
J. C. LDDOWICI & SON ITB.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST. STH. MELBOURNE
ENGINEERS !
SAWMILLERS
Worn Files and Rasps Re-
sharpened at a Fraction of
Replacement Cost.
All Work Guaranteed.
FILE
RECONDITIONING CO.
Government Contractors,
Central House,
Little Regent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA8409.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
of £9lO in exes. Including £3Ol dropped
from somewhere into the equalisation
reserve, the net result (up £359) was 14.3
p.c. on capital as against 14, 14.4, 14,
12.4, 11.3, 11.3 and 8.9 p.c. back to
1933. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
the satisfactory margin between earnings
and distributions gives it a comfortable
look, though costs may yet bite deeper
into takings, and the operations of the
new Government Housing Trust are
causing trustee and life cos. and building
societies a little concern.
The £lOO,OOO of paid capital, reserves
and £466 coming to sundry creditors
were represented bv freeholds £74,000,
safe deposit £14,500, fittings £5406,
mortgages £40,205, Government securi-
ties £82,909, and cash, etc., £9127.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to ss. and covered by 11s. in net
tangibles at 12s. as against 12s. 3d. a
year ago. The return at 12s. is 4.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Producers’ Oilwell Supplies
The Bulletin on March 13, 1940,
dealt with the prospectus and other litera-
ture of Producers’ Oilwell Supplies, Ltd.,
a co. registered in Victoria but at one
period very active in N. S. Wales. In the
course of a detailed criticism of the
documents it said that the prospectus
required a lot of explaining. In
the course of an enlightening wrangle
among the directors at a congregation of
shareholders in Sydney last week some
explanations were made. Shareholders
as a body still weren’t satisfied.
For some time proceedings had been
going on in the N. S. Wales Equity Court
to decide who were entitled to act as
directors of the co. and to have access
to the office, documents, etc. Nicholas,
J., granted an injunction restraining Sena-
tor Arthur and Malcolm Beattie from
excluding John C. Mackay, former man-
aging director, from the co.’s offices. He
said in his opinion Mackay was validly
appointed a director. He doubted, how-
ever, whether Arthur and Beattie were
entitled to act on the board. He hoped
shareholders would be called together.
Beattie on January 24 called a share-
holders’ meeting for February 10.
Mackay on February 5 applied for an i
injunction to have the meeting stopped
i on the ground (among others) that a
libel was to be published. Some of the
, court proceedings;
1 His Honor: The outlook for this company
does not seem very cheerful. I would like
to do something for the shareholders, but
1 do not think that this meeting can de-
cide anything. If a meeting was held with
proper resolutions before it on the order
of a Victorian Court, then the share-
holders could effectively express themselves.
Counsel for the defendants: The meet-
ing is called to give shareholders oppor-
tunity to discuss their affairs.
His Honor: The only ground on which
I could grant an injunction would be that
the meeting was not called by a competent
board.
His Honor held that there was no sub-
stance in the argument that he should
prevent the publication of a libel. Nor
did he think that the more substantial
ground that the board was incompetent
because Mr. Mackay had been excluded
or because Mr. Beattie was not qualified
as a director had been maintained.
Anyway, a meeting was held. It
was well attended. It started at 10 a.m.
on Monday morning (10th) and hadn’t
finished at lunchtime. The sad state of
affairs disclosed makes comparisons with
the language of Mr. Max Steinbuchel,
the co.’s late “oil-producer” (who got
1,250,000 2s. shares out of the co. before
he was bundled out of the country), and
the co.’s prospectus very dismal.
Early in the proceedings on Monday
morning Mackay said he had issued a
writ against Beattie for defamation.
When Senator Arthur came from the
back of the hall after the meeting
had been in progress nearly two hours he
also flourished a blue paper he had
received. Mackay said, in the circum-
stances, he would have to be restrained
in his comments. Nevertheless, a great
part of the three hours was spent by
several parties in saying things that are
too prickly to print.
Apart from the slanging and black-
guarding, it was evident from the pro-
ceedings that the co. is in sorry shape.
There are something like 2000 share-
holders. There is little or no money left.
And there is no oil. As money came in
from shareholders it rapidly disappeared.
The co. ran five cars, it was stated—not
on the co.’s oil, but on shareholders’
money. Though the co.’s literature spoke
of seven wells, some were not owned by
the co., or were only partly owned, though
Steinbuchel was interested in them all.
Senator Arthur, a director and all, said he
had believed the cr owned the wells, and
was astounded when he heard the Mt.
Gambier well was only halLowned and
some others not owned at all. The Trea-
sury had been misinformed about the
number of wells.
Arthur said the co.’s capital was raised
without permission under the National
Security Regulations. Steinbuchel was
unable to deliver agencies he had sold io
the co. as part consideration for his
1,250,000 shares.
Mackay replied that he had never actu-
ally said there were seven wells. He ad-
mitted that there might have been mis-
understanding and confusion on this
point. The meetings the co. had held
throughout the country had not been in-
vitations to subscribe for shares.
Apparently something like £30,000 was
raised in cash subscriptions. Only
Beattie and another director (not present)
had actually paid cash for shares, it was
stated during arguments. Mackay ad-
mitted he was not on the list of share-
holders, though he held 14,000 “vendor’s”
shares, and it was only at the request of
a majority of the shareholders that he
was allowed to remain in the hall.
The co. now had no auditor, it was
announced. Documents filed with the Vic-
torian registrar had been returned as in-
correct. For nearly a year important
books of account hadn’t been written up.
Money appears to have been handled
in an unorthodox fashion, especially as
regards the banking of some cash items.
Senator Arthur said the co. now had no
permission to sell shares and no money.
Although no longer a director, he sug-
gested that “shareholders might throw in
a little —we could put our heads together
and create a trust.” Mt. Gambier was
the right place to look for oil, he added.
Mackay, amid some cries of derision, said
he believed the wells would still produce
oil. The co. was a long way from bank-
rupt. Someone owed it some money,
he said.
Shareholders eventually resolved that
application be made to the Registrar of
Companies for “a thorough investigation
of the co.’s affairs from its inception to
the present time.”
Astonishing admission in chairman’s
report to shareholders of Norseman Gold
Mines, N.L. (W.A.): “In its endeavors
to pay maximum dividends the co. had
not maintained substantial reserves either
in cash or readily accessible high-grade
ore, and, in the confident atmosphere
which success had created, had bor-
rowed money on a bank overdraft to
make additions to plant. A difficult
financial position caused the discontinu-
ance of dividends.”
* * * *
Frederic Hamilton and Douglas Chris-
topherson, chairmen of Lake View and
Golden Horseshoe respectively, attacked
the imposition of the British excess-
profits tax at the recent London meet-
ings of shareholders. Hamilton said
that the impost was not only grotesquely
unfair, but exceedingly unwise. Horse-
shoe had been for some years re-treating
stocks of tailings of varying value. It
so happened that during what was known
as the standard years it was more eco-
nomical to treat certain poorer blocks
first, with the unforeseen and unforesee-
able result that it established the low
standard rate of production. As a
reward for following sound treat-
ment practice the British Government
not only took the whole of the sub-
sequent additional profits from the richer
blocks, but a substantial portion of what
would be the average profit from all the
blocks. Had the co. happened to treat
the richer blocks first, no excess-profits
tax would have been payable, so that in
the result it was penalised for carrying
out its business efficiently. Hamilton
added that the ultimate reactions of taxa-
tion which was not only confiscatory but
capricious were bound to be serious and
permanent. He hoped the Treasury
would review the whole matter in the
light of the accumulating evidence of the
unwisdom of the present policy. Christo-
pherson said that, while in times like these
the Government should receive all finan-
cial assistance possible, it must be borne
in mind that in goldmining profits were
earned from a wasting asset, and, while
Lake View had no intention of curtailing
its operations, the Government, by tak-
ing the full 100 p.c., gave no encourage-
ment to increase profits when they were
derived at the expense of the co.’s prin-
cipal asset.
* * ♦ *
New Golconda (W.A.) is installing
plant, and tips an early commencement
of production. Last month co. announced
that it had taken an option on a block
adjoining Tindals on the Coolgardie gold-
field which was reported to have given
“consistent returns” of around an ounce
per ton.
T . * „„ , * , 4l _ * ~ * ,
Linden (W.A.), with two dividends to
its credit > has decided to take out all
the Payable ore, estimated at approxi-
mately 1200 tons, in its mine at Joyners
Find, near Wiluna, and then cease
operations. The show has not responded
to development, and results for last year
showed a loss of £1691 on a production
of £10,774. Accumulated sands (14,000
tons ) and slimes (7000 tons) will be
treated later and are experted to show
a margin of profit.
_*,*, * . *. ,
Claude de Bernales is again in the
news : Thls tlßie the Economist com-
mentmB on his work, says that his
dhan f es of ra^ sing an V more capital in
London are thm - 11 observes (1) that the
brings of investigator McClmtock, who
delved mto the affairs of Commonwealth
Mmmg f» d Finance, were not judicial, as
he badn 1 , the P°, wer \° tak . e evidence on
oath > and that there 18 evidence in
McChntock’s report that De Bernales,
managing director of the co., felt he was
not compelled to be garrulous about the
Interests of “family cos.” in various flota-
tlonS- The “Economist” adds that, coupled
Wlth the natural disinclination of share-
holders to incur further expense in con-
nectlon with ventures that have turned
out dlsa strously, the temptation to write
“ fims ” to the whole business may well be
strong > but it would appear worth while
for the ongmal allottees at least in the
COS- whlch have suffered loss to obtain
adv,ce as to chances of rescission of
contract.
It is pleasing to notice that, after a
i, x T
rS P m‘ ' B nt? ’■
g , ra K ? ua i ly lmpro ™B ' ts
° re ,f ade Payable figures. The De-
“u/.hl"s „° f 90 |° ns pa , nned °. ut
a * * 1 /fj 1 . B °,, d per !? n ’ A?
age of £4 a ton will pay, though it
mn ,?‘ make up arrears ’ b “* ln ‘ be two
reefs Y are n ? w pro ? p f “P® there ,>?
T r ? chance a pocket of free gold
ahead especially on Gympie reefs.
tjX .°ha, “S^ite
real V“‘ Scot.ish-Oympie did
not survive a further couple of decades
-ncen.ra.ion by flotation of gold
ores reached its nth degree of perfec-
d°n * * * *
The Grange Creek mine on the Cracow
(C .Q.) continues to develop a steady lode
to between 200 ft. and 300 ft. At its
greatest depth values are maintained
around sdwt. on a 2ft. width, factors that
must call fort h a muster G f thrift and
efficiency. Shallower slopes on a bigger
ree f are averaging as low as 3cwt.-4dwt.,
t, ut the last crushing of 192 tons yielded
n soz . of standard gold, which pans out
near Udwt p£r to * diffe P rence is
possibly accounted for by reserves of
higher grade in the Orange itself and by
picked parcels from the Golden Mile, a
jease on which is worked by the same
syndicate. The Mile, by the way, was
the line where Lambert first struck it
r j c h on the field, and it has had much
prospecting since those days without find-
jn g one as g OQ d as Lambert’s original
strike,


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfm
Sm
jjrs
!■!■!■!■»
i
QBSSs
ft.
'A
i4pl
#^s
14« S
ft
-p>
SMOKE-OH
“The smartest hair styles today are the
simplest.”— Woman’s paper.
The simplest of all is the prison crop,
but that shows its wearer has been too
smart.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, Respectable, Airy Double-Bed, Sit-
ting Room, clean.” — Suburban paper.
Dissipated four-posters or scandalous-
ticking ones will not be considered.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Will Mussolini fiddle while Rome bums?”
asks a writer.
If he does it will be while playing
second fiddle to Hitler.
4* •«* 4* 4*
“German women are sacrificing their hair
to provide socks for the troops.”
— Woman’s mag.
Adolf, on the other hand, is tearing
his out oyer the socks the R.A.F. is
providing.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Drifter is by Air Balloon and is half-brother
to Fly.”— Racing gossip.
Sounds like a politician’s pedigree.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Motorists will soon be insuring their
petrol instead of their cars.
ẃ
“Well be wantin' seats in the aisle, Mister Trezise. Manager's takin
the service."
ẅ
Overruled.
In hospital he thought he was
A human individual
Until he heard the surgeon say,
“Now to this ‘case’ I bid you all.”
And half a dozen students then,
With eager gaze, surrounded him,
While in a manner quite detached
The great one probed and sounded him.
“The question now comes up,” he said,
“About an operation here,
And so I want your candid views —
Dissent or approbation here.”
The students gathered all their wits.
And very gravely bent them to
The case in point, then chorused “No,”
Because they thought he meant them to.
“Well, gentlemen,” the great man said,
“You err. It’s necessary that
I operate.” The patient spoke :
“Gimme me duds and boots and hat;
There’ll be ho operation done” —
He spoke with some authority —
“For I consider six to one
A very good majority !”
NELLIE A. EVANS .
Very Active Service.
“Wans Camp Has Sentries on Guard.”
— Woman’s paper.
Somewhere in the scrub just outside
the camp an ominous cry shattered the
midnight silence. The sentry, startled out
of her reverie of whether Ronald Soul-
man would make the perfect husband,
swallowed three times and sprang to
attention.
“H-h-h-halt! Who-00-oo goes there?”
she whispered hoarsely.
Again came the voice from the dark
scrub. “FALL OUT THE GUARD!”
the sentry shrilled as she dropped her
rifle, clung to the nearest tree and burst
into tears.
Sounds of confusion issued from the
guard-tent. Yells of “That’s my brassiere,
Gert,” and “Where’s my beastly com-
pact?” mingled with the shuttling of
Louis heels and the striking of matches.
Soon the guard had fallen-in outside the
tent.
“For goodness sake, Bessie, what’s the
matter —I mean, what’s the trouble,
Private Spoop?” snapped the sergeant.
“There’s a drunken man in those
bushes over there demanding something,”
the sentry whimpered.
“Hell! This’s serious,” the sergeant
of the guard growled. “Righto, ‘men,’
follow me,” she commanded.
Gingerly and at a safe distance the
guard followed their buxom sergeant into
no-girl’s-land. Ten seconds later, breath-
ing audibly and looking like ghosts, they
returned.
“Nothing there. You must have been
dreaming, Bessie,” the sergeant ad-
monished.
“More pork! More pork! More
pork! ”
The guard stood in its tracks, its col-
lective scalp tingling. “G-g-gosh! There
it goes again!” the sergeant stammered.
“Quick, girls, we’ll abandon this position
till morning. Blow the retreat, bugler,
bi*t not too loud. Righto, Bessie,” she
called over her shoulder to the sentry,
who had fainted in the corporal’s arms,
“you can come too.”
As the guard retired in disorder the
mopoke perched in a banksia tree closed
his eyes and went to sleep.
PERCY.
Labor-saving.
In crowning Fay my latest queen
I think that I have chosen well.
She’s far more suitable than Jean,
Flo, Nancy, Dorothy or Nell;
For poems that I wrote to Mae,
In youthful and romantic times,
Can now be readdressed to Fay
Without my altering the rhymes.
T. W. NATHAN.
Drying Up Through Wetness.
“As far as water storage is concerned, the
heavy rains over the Sydney catchment area
will be a loss rather than a gain. Further heavy
falls will delay pumping from Warragamba.”
—' ‘S.M.H.”
“Yes,” said the president of the board
to the special interviewer, “the light falls
we have enjoyed so far have been handy,
but before we can consider the position
safe we will need a minimum of twelve
inches of rain to ensure a good run-off.
I wouldn’t say the storage position is
desperate, but the term dangerous could
not be ruled out. Moderately good falls
would relieve the position slightly to the
point where it might merely be con-
sidered serious.”
“So the restrictions on garden sprink-
lers and hoses will be maintained?”
“Assuredly! To use a hose on a garden
when we can’t see clearly what the posi-
tion will be two years hence is unthink-
able. Consider the consequences if not
one drop of rain fell in the catchment
area during the next 18 months. Admit-
tedly it hasn’t happened in recorded his-
tory, but you never know.”
“But the public is beginning to
ask”
The president drew himself up and
looked stern. “The public is privileged
to pay the rates, meter rents, garden
licenses, charges for excess and such other
imposts as may be necessary. Had the
, , , . , * A ,
board not been so indulgent house-
holders would even now be getting their
once-a-day supplies from the communal
pump. That may yet come. All I can
promise at the moment is that should a
minimum of 70,000 million gallons come
into the dams the board may consider a
short trial period allowing the use of
watering-cans without roses. Remember,
prudence is ever our watchword.”
A week later black clouds banked up
from the south. Then one noonday the
almost darkened city was lit by vivid
flashes of lightning, thunder rolled and
then the heavens opened. The members
of the board had gathered for their meet-
ing, and joyous were their expressions as
they peered through the streaming win-
dows at the leaden sky.
“Looks set in, too,” said one alder-
man jubilantly. “What does the weather
bureau say?”
The secretary pointed to the prediction
in the midday paper he held. “Says
here ‘Mostly fine, mild day tempera-
tures with freshening n.-e. winds, ten-
dency to passing shower at night.’ ”
The president had to raise his voice to
make it heard above the din as, driven
by the south-westerly gale, the rain lashed
the iron roofs of near-by buildings.
“Well, gentlemen,” he said, “if we are
getting this on the catchment area and
it keeps up, there seems little doubt that
our troubles will be, if not over, at least
alleviated.”
It poured all that night, and it was
still coming down in sheets next morning.
As the president came in shaking his
streaming umbrella his face wore a broad
smile. “Well, what are the figures?” he
asked the secretary later.
“Here they are —474 points so far on
the catchment area.”
“H’m, not bad —and what are the
weather people predicting?”
“Think there’s a likelihood of heavy
rains if the depression keeps moving
north”
Just then the chief engineer came in,
looking gloomy.
“What’s wrong—there’s been a good
run-off into the dams, hasn’t there?” the
president asked.
The chief engineer nodded lugubri-
ously, “Yes, 580 millions.”
“Well, that’s not a bad start, is it? It
represents at least nine days’ supply.”
“Yes, but it’s cost us 1140 million
gallons to get it.”
“Good heavens! ”
“If this keeps up there’ll be a huge
run-off today,” went on the downcast
C.E., and we’ll be set back anything up
to 5000 millions,”
Four days later it was still teeming as
the anxious president sent for the C.E.
“Well, what’s the position now?” he
asked.
The C.E. looked worn out, as if he’d
had sleepless nights. “Worse than ever,”
he said despairingly. “The best rain
for seven years and we’re out 37,000
million gallons. If this rain keeps up
the storage position will become critical.
We might have to put a ban on bath
and washing-up water.”
At the end of a week’s almost incessant
downpour suburban gardens were almost
washed away. The board met again to
discuss the position. Members looked
grave as the president, his face haggard
and drawn, rose to speak.
“Well, gentlemen,” he began, “we face
the gravest crisis in the board’s history.
The rains which in former years we
would have regarded as magnificent have
brought this city’s water storage position
to a point that can only be described
as desperate. In consequence of storage
losses due to the soaking rains of the last
ten days, we have, as you know, been
compelled to impose further restrictions
on the use of water. Housewives are
now being limited to one pot of tea a
day, and watering of even seedlings is
banned. I must solemnly inform you
that if this rain continues much longer
the storage will be so low that I will
be compelled to recommend to the Gov-
ernment the evacuation of the civil popu-
lation from this city!”
Three days later the rain ceased. As
the sun struggled out from behind
rapidly-dissipating clouds the C.E. rushed
in to the president’s sanctum.
“We’re saved!” he cried wildly. “So
long as we get no more rain we can
get along with what we’ve got, if we
ban shaving with water, until a good
dry spell comes.”
“Yes,” said the president fervently.
“What we want now to restore the water
position is a good long drought!”
BO.


7p*/
Biggest Value AT TODAYS PRICES
For top value—for greatest efficiency and economy in all 10-12 cwt.
transport work—a Chevrolet Utility is definitely your best buy! Efficient
because Chevrolet (the world’s sales leader) gives you the finest utility
engineering and features . . . economical because with its famous overall
economy (low first-cost, low operation cost and high re-sale value) you
can run a Chevrolet Utility for little more than it would cost for a low-
powered unit of small capacity.
CHASSIS PRICES
from
£277
Available with a wide
range of body styles from^vvO
Easy Terms Under Confidential Q.M.A.C. Plan
m
Chevrolet's famous 6-eyl. Overhead
Valve Engine oh both Utilities and
Commercials is fitted with an
Octane Selector (instantly adjust-
able for second grade fuel).
CHmoilT&c'raumt
CHEVROLET IS A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN’S LTD, mi-is
cl GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
a
5
6
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT, PT..Y. LTD..;
Business, Rollery, Etc.
It Has Its Blind Alley
Industry in the U.S.A. worked at the
highest rate on record during 1940. There
is a clear prospect that it will rise to
new records in 1941. All at the one
time industries are manufacturing for
defence and Britain’s needs, expanding
for still greater production and supplying
the increased wants of people whose buy-
ing power is rising. Living costs, fortu-
nately, have held reasonably steady, per-
haps partly because of the big reserve of
unemployed still existing and partly be-
cause U.S. defence taxation has not vet
bitten really deeply into living standards.
Another reason is that in some directions
plant capacity in the U.S.A. is greater
than the orders it has ever been called
on to fill.
Industrial output for 1940 was 13 p.c.
higher than in 1939 and 10 p.c. higher
than in 1929, the previous record year.
From this comparison can be deduced a
fact of interest. In the U.S.A. production
exceeded 1929 levels for the first time
in 1940; in Australia 1928-29 figures
were beaten four years ago, and each
succeeding year has shown a further in-
crease. The advent of war therefore
brought about a demand for additional
increases in capacity of certain industrial
plants in this country, especially in the
steel and textile industries. We had few
reserves in the way of factory capacity
except with regard to woollen mills, boot
factories and some engineering shops of
the older-fashioned type. We have been
growing industrially for years, and hadn’t
reached an industrial peak where general
overproduction was evident, as had
occurred in the U.S.A. before the last
depression. Thus war requirements in
Australia have resulted in a definite
domestic shortage of some things, such
as cotton goods, paper, copper, wire
and galvanised iron, and it is taking
time to bring production up to
civil and defence demands. In the
U.S.A. it did not call for great plant
expansion to reach an all-time “high”
in industrial output during 1940; an
enormous amount of idle capacity was
waiting to be availed of. The real period
of expansion of the foundations of in-
dustry still lies ahead in the States. To
date there has been little inflation.
But in spite of the wide re-employment
in America and the great spread that has
taken place in spending power—as in
Australia, the lower incomes are benefit-
ing particularly authoritative circles
aren’t blind to the nature of things. Says
the National City Bank of New York in
its January circular;
By the familiar precedents, a business
situation and prospect such as now exist
should induce a spirit of optimism, specu-
lative activity and buoyant enterprise. For
11 years the major problem of the U.S.A.
has been to overcome depression and get
people back to work; and for the first time
in that period the historical upward trend
of American business seems to be resumed
with a vigor which holds promise that the
goal of employment for everyone able to
work will be reached.
Nevertheless, the general observation is
that sentiment is buoyant only with respect
to the volume of business ahead. However
welcome the boom will be while it lasts,
consideration of its causes, of the un-
certainties and difficulties which go with it,
of the tax burden and mounting debt, and
of the disastrous after-effects which will
surely follow unlesss it is wisely guided
has a sobering effect. The year 1941 will
be busy, but not easy.
This critic .emphasises that it is a mis-
nomer to refer to war-induced activity as
genuine “recovery.” Full employment,
it rightly says, is only one condition of
prosperity. Others are that human in-
dustry should be for the purpose of rais-
ing living standards, and that such acti-
vity should be self-supporting. “Until
peace, order and good faith in all rela-
tions are again the normal condition, and
until production is devoted to the creation
of new wealth and goods that people can
enjoy, instead of to armament and de-
struction, there can be no recovery to the
full state of prosperity which the pro-
ductive resources of the world make
possible.”
The remarks apply to Australia with
almost equal force. We can’t waste our-
selves into a state of prosperity, even if
by our war efforts we do strengthen our
industrial sinews and enlarge our produc-
tive capacity.
In the States, too, “some of the mal-
adjustments that kept the depression
going have not been corrected,” though
perhaps they have been obscured or tem-
porarily offset by the effects of defence
spending. The S. American republics,
though neutral, still aren’t flush with
money for foreign buying. Germany
used to do a substantial business in these
areas, but principally on a barter basis.
Internal activity that has resulted from
defence spending in the British Empire
and the U.S.A. is to a large extent self-
creative and self-consuming* though,
instead of the cost of war and munitions
production being charged wholly to those
engaged in these activities, it is spread
over almost the entire population in the
form of a redistributed income. Also,
problems are created in ordinary econo-
mic activity as a result of war. The N.Y.
City Bank’s summing-up: “To business,
armament spending is largely a tem-
porary stimulus ; economically it is but
pump-priming on a greater scale; and
it is not productive, but on the contrary
is a burden on the productive system.
It will undoubtedly show to its credit
immense improvements in industrial
technique, from which the world in due
course will benefit. But in the main it
is a blind alley along the road of econo-
mic progress, and after the end is reached
the retracement may be difficult. It holds
incalculable dangers of unbalancing the
economic structure and of fiscal in-
stability.”
An increase in the basic wage —not
merely a lift in money wages to keep
step with the cost of living, but a lift in
real wages such as occurred in 1937 on
the recommendation of economist Red-
daway—was refused last week by the
Full Arbitration Court. The Court came
to the conclusion that, in view of the
uncertainty of the future caused by war,
falling export trade and the need for
conserving resources for a full war effort,
an increase would not be justified.
* * * *
With the War Advisory Council stress-
ing the growing nearness of the “war
peril” to Australia, and the unsatisfac-
tory attitude of several trade-unions hold-
ing up essential work in a number of
industries, sharemarkets dipped suddenly
last week. The strikes against overtime,
for holiday pay, against Arbitration Court
awards, etc., have had an unsettling
effect in many directions. The chief break
in the markets occurred on Thursday of
last week. On Friday prices were again
lower.
The break was most noticeable in
stocks previously buoyant. Australasian
Paper ords. fell from 375. to 345. lOd.
in a few days—9d. on Thursday—and
Australian Cement, up to 40s. 6d. re-
cently, slipped back to 38s. 6d. Electro.
Zinc ords. fell from 545. 3d. to 535.,
and B.H.P. shares, cum rights, dropped
to 445. British Tobacco fell Is., to
485., on Thursday; a week earlier
50s. 6d. was being paid. Tooth shares
came down from 545. 6d. to 525. 3d., and
Carlton from 695. to 645. 9d. North
Broken Hill at 395. 9d. compared with
41s. 6d. a week earlier, and Souths at
245. lOd. compared with 265. 6d. Mt.
Lyell had a particularly sharp drop;
the 275. 3d. paid on Thursday compared
with 295. 6d.
The index of industrial shares listed on
Sydney ’Change fell to 131.06, then to
130.67 and 130.34, against 134.30 a
week before. The index of silver-
lead shares fell from 158.20 to
, 151.32, the copper index from 137.32
to 126.86, while the tin index had the
heaviest slump—from 101.11 to 87.80.
, This followed a press declaration that
“troops have been rushed to Singapore
from Australia, New Zealand, India and
from Britain itself,” and other less sen-
sational statements meaning the same
thing. Most Eastern tin stocks are in
; Malaya, Burma or Thailand, and, of
course, Singapore is on an island at the
tip of the Malayan Peninsula. In the
event of a war involving Britain occur-
ring in Asia it is probable that Malaya
would be in the thick of it. But, though
transport of tin might be interrupted for
a period, it is a certainty that Singapore
—and Malaya with it —would be held to
the last. On Friday the market was
inclined to think better of tin stocks.
* * * *
Adelaide ’Change has lifted the ban,
imposed on July 8, 1940, on forward
dealings in mining scrip. In “genuine
arbitrage business” in investment stocks,
selling before buying is now permitted
also. Sydney and Melbourne ’Changes
have “not considered” removing the ban,
it being maintained that conditions have
not materially altered since the time the
ban was imposed. The prohibition of
bearing took place soon after Hitler’s
Blitz, last May and June, plus a lot of
savage bearing tactics, had devas-
tated the Australian markets. The Syd-
ney industrial-share index sank to 107.52
in June. Since then it has gone to above
134, and recently has steadied round
133.8. The absence of bearing has had
an influence in the sustained firmness of
our markets lately, but on the whole the
ban has been to the good. It has
encouraged stability in prices, and has
checked market manipulations.
He * * ' *
Melbourne Steamship Co. has declared
an interim ord. div. at the rate of 7 p.c.
p.a., payable February 26. This is an
undisturbed rate. At 275. 3d. the scrip
returns 5.2 p.c., and is an attractive in-
vestment, though sometimes hard to buy
or sell.
* * * *
Advertiser Newspapers, a Melbourne
“Herald” co. which publishes the
“Advertiser” in Adelaide, is still doing
well. Profit for the year to Dec. 31 was
£100,403, compared with £101,673 in
1939 ; in the later term £40,000 was pro-
vided for taxation against £28,000 in
1939. The 1940 result represented just
under 16 p.c. on ord. capital; the ord.
div. stays at 12 p.c. Paid capital is
£721,330 in 553,330 ords. and 168,000
1\ p.c. cum. prefs. The ords. are at
545. in the market.
* * * «
Because of orders from the three ser-
vices, H. B. Dickie, the Melbourne towel
manufacturer, reports a “substantially in-
creased”. output for the half-year to Dec.
31. Building extensions have been com-
pleted, but plant-installation has been
held up somewhat. The first unit of the
condenser spinning plant will be in opera-
tion this month.
* * * *
Berlei Ltd., Sydney, has declared the
usual interim div. of 5 p.c. on ord.
capital, payable March 1. During the
half-year to Dec. 31 the staff and plant
were fully engaged, and there was “a
satisfactory increase” in sales. The
volume of orders in work indicates no
slackening in demand. Material supplies
are coming forward in sufficient quantity
to meet all requirements. The £1 ords.
at 345. yield 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * ♦
William Adams and Co., Sydney, re-
ports that operations for the first half
of the current financial year have been
satisfactory. “Difficulty is naturally being
experienced in obtaining supplies of
some lines from overseas sources, mainly
through lack of shipping facilities, but
stocks of the principal lines handled are
adequate for the time being,” the board
states. Heavier taxation will have to be
met this financial year, but “after taking
everything into consideration,” it has
been decided to pay an interim on the
ords. at the rate of per 14s. share.
This is equal to 10.12 p.c.—an unchanged
rate.


BRANDALERS
PS
m
%
Gff.V
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKANSADBK A CO, U 4, BIUMINOHAM. ENO
Car, Truck,Commercial
Utility, Motor Cycle and
Cycle Tyres and Tubes
Si
N
MILLIONS UPON MILLIONS
OF SQUARE FEET PRODUCED
AND SOLD IN AUSTRALIA LAST YEAR!
The huge sales figures of Masonlle during 1940 prove the
amazing versatility and utility of the steel-strong, grainier
boards produced in Australia by the Masonite process— tin
“wonder boards of 1000 uses”. Every foot sold is an argument
for the use of Masonite, not only in the construction of new
homes but in tire modernisation of existing buildings; in the
extension of office buildings and in every form of commercial
structure. The Building Materials Division of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company will be glad to supply interesting and helpful
details concerning the myriad applications of Masonite and to
give you exact specifications for the particular work yon have in
mind. Remember Masonite is not an experiment. It has
demonstrated its remarkable versatility, durability and economy
in practically every phase of modern building construction.
MODERNISE WITH
ŵ
MAO-4I
_A_ Masonite is produced by •“exploding"
natural timber and then hydraulically pressing
the resultant wood fibre into steel-strong
grainless boards oi varying densities and
thicknesses. The boards are cut and supplied
in standard sizes up to 12 ieet by 4 ieet.
ilf MITE
PRESDWOOD - TEMPERED PRESDWOOD * TEMPRTILE - QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) Sydney . . . Melbourne . . . Brisbane . . . Adelaide , . . Perth
Is there to be more humbug about the
war-time company tax? In December it
was agreed in Canberra that a co. earn-
ing more than £5OOO a year would be
“super-taxed” at the rate of Is. in the
£ or at an increasing rate on profits “in
excess of 8 p.c. on capital employed,”
whichever was the greater. The rate of
tax applicable under the graduated scale
starts at 4 p.c. on the first 1 p.c. of profit
in excess of 8 p.c. on capital employed,
and rises in steps of 4 p.c. until it
reaches 60 p.c. on profits in excess of
22 p.c. But last week regulations “gov-
erning operation and administration of
the tax adopted in the Budget session”
were proclaimed, and press reports made
no mention of the minimum Is. tax,
though there was plenty of comment on
the graduated scale. The ls.-in-the-£
minimum was considered by Labor to be
necessary in view of the probability of
some ingenious big fish escaping most
or all of the war taxation under
the 8-p.c.-on-capital-employed minimum.
Treasurer Fadden estimated that the
ls.-in-the-£ minimum would mean an
extra £1,800,000 to the Government.
It was explained in Canberra last week
that the regulations give holding cos. the
right of electing to have their subsidiary
companies treated as branches, so that
the war-time levy is ascertained on the
basis of both holding and subsidiary
companies being one business entity.
Another regulation applies to cases where
taxable profit includes a net premium in
respect of a lease. To preserve an equit-
able basis of tax a co. may elect to have
its rate of tax adjusted to a lower taxable
profit ascertained after eliminating the
portion of the lease premium attributable
to years in the lease term which fall out-
side the assessment year. Cos. desiring
to take advantage of these concessions
must, do so before February 28, unless
the commissioner grants an extension.
A board of referees will consist of
three members. It will “inquire into every
class of business referred to it by the
commissioner, report to the Treasurer
whether there is some unavoidable con-
dition associated with that class of busi-
ness which justifies a greater statutory
percentage of profit than 8 p.c., and
recommend the percentage which it con-
siders just.” It will also be the job of
this board to consider applications for
increases in capital.
* * * *
William Atkins Holdings, the Sydney
co. interested through its shareholdings
in the distribution of steel products, is
maintaining its interim ord. div. at 10
p.c. p.a., though for the year to June 30
last earnings barely covered the div.—
they were equal to 10.2 p.c. on capital.
Paid capital of the holding co. is
£120,000. The operating co., an old-
established concern, handles engineering
supplies, coach and motor hardware,
tools, etc. The old business was very
shrewdly managed, and maintenance of
the 10 p.c. div. suggests that it is still
skilfully handled. But the sharemarket
isn’t enthusiastic. It pays only 21s. 6d.
for the ords., obtaining a yield of 9.3
p.c. The flotation into a public co. at
the end of 1937 was carried out at 245.
a share, the premium going to the co.
Perhaps difficulties in the motor trade
have influenced the present depressed
state of the co.’s scrip. A big yield is
asked of hardware cos. in most cases,
anyway.
* * * ♦
Tableland Tin is in trouble again. The
tumbler shaft on No. 1 dredge has
broken, which “will cause the stoppage
of dredging for a time” ; but there is loss
of profits insurance, and steps are being
taken to get a new tumbler. Until the
tumbler broke the co. had been having
a good run, though values during Janu-
ary weren’t quite so high as for Novem-
ber and December:
Nov. Dec. Jan.
Hours run .. .. 492 650 636
Cubic yards .. 70,000 88,000 81,000
Concentrates, tons 23 25.7 22.8
Value .. .. £4,560 £5,043 £4,471
Costs .. .. £2,800 £2,800 £3,300
Profit .. .. £1,760 £2,243 £1,171
Costs were up in January, for some
reason unexplained. No. 1 dredge has
been the cause of a lot of trouble. It is
a light unit, and has had frequent break-
downs, though of late, owing to a general
strengthening, it has been working more
satisfactorily than it did earlier. No. 2
dredge, which should eat up the rather
heavy ground on the property at Return
Creek, back of Cairns (N.Q.), like mince-
meat, is still in Ihe process of construc-
tion, and won’t be ready until the
beginning of 1942 at earliest. The
ground, however, appears to be all it
was said to be, admitting that the small
dredge is picking its spots. The market,
however, has taken the latest breakdown
to heart, and, whereas the £1 ords. were
at 12s. 6d. six weeks ago, sellers ask
10s. now, with buyers offering 7s. 6d.
But it is a long-term proposition, and
has to be considered as such.
* * * *
“Tinopai”: M.L. is becoming indus-
trialised. The past five years have seen
724 new factories established, employing
over 4000 hands. Output ranges from
aircraft to footwear; paint, buttons,
sports goods, brushes and soaps are only
a few of the lines now produced. Largest
headache will come after the war, when
industry will seek export outlets, as in
many lines M.L.’s population is too small
to provide full-time markets for some of
the new industries employing up-to-date
machinery. War work is assisting such
factories at present.
* * * *
W. B. Rainsford, chairman of Smith’s
Newspapers, says in a half-yearly report
that income from the lease of “Smith’s
Weekly” to National Press Pty. has been
sufficient to cover all outgoings. National
Press for its first year disclosed a net
profit of £4261, after writing off all pre-
liminary expenses (£544) and providing
£BOO for taxation. The co. advises that
during the four months to December 31
the circulation of “Smith’s Weekly” has
“appreciably increased” and profits have
been more than maintained. As regards
the Nash Building (adjoining that occu-
pied by National Press), income for the
period was insufficient to meet expenses,
and with the prospect of further petrol
restrictions the maintenance of revenue
(from car parking) is problematical.
Advantage is still being taken of the
Moratorium Act in respect of mortgage
interest, arrears of which now amount to
£2034. Efforts made to dispose of the
building have been unavailing. Smith’s
Victorian Publishing Co. has produced a
“reasonable surplus” for the half-year.
Efforts are being made to improve the
building in Flinders-street and prevent
any fall in the rental income. As re-
gards Smith’s Newspapers itself, with the
exception of two staff contracts all
known liabilities, other than the
mortgages, have been discharged. The
provision made in the accounts to meet
such liabilities “and the cost of re-
organisation and the like is considered
ample.” Surplus funds are invested in
a loan to Smith’s Victorian Publishing
Co., Treasury bonds, and listed industrial
shares.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
SHIPPING LOSSES AND PROSPECT.
[This up-to-date survey of Britain’s shipping losses
and dependence on shipping, demands on the U.S.A.
to make good the losses and what the prospects are of
that being done in time, is condensed from the January
circular of the National City Bank of New York.]
With the increase in Allied shipping losses dur-
ing the past few months, the race between the destruc-
tion and building of ocean-going vessels has become
one of the major influences upon the course of the
war. So considerable have been the losses that, if
continued, they will create a shipping situation com-
parable to that of 1917. They have led already to
stricter rationing of foods and other goods in Britain.
During the first nine months of the war, the aver-
age weekly loss of British, Allied and neutral shipping
was about 40,000 tons —a rate of about 2,000,000 tons
per year. The Allies more than offset the loss by
new construction, by capturing about one-tenth of
the German merchant marine, and by buying or
chartering vessels of neutral countries. Since the
beginning of June the average weekly rate of loss has
risen to nearly 100,000 tons, equivalent to about
5,000,000 tons per year.
Following the German occupation of the Con-
tinent, the British Ministry of Shipping assembled
the largest merchant fleet ever operated under one
management. In addition to all seagoing British ships,
this fleet included Norwegian, Dutch, Belgian and
Polish shipping, a few Danish vessels seized tem-
porarily for the service of the Allies, and some French
tonnage now plying under French and British flags—
altogether, almost 30,000,000 tons, or 45 p.c. of the
entire world merchant tonnage. As a
result, the shipping capacity at the disposal
of the British last summer was about
8,000,000 tons larger than when the war
started. However, with the blockaded coast-
line extended some 2000 miles from the
North Cape to the Pyrenees, and the French
Navy withdrawn, some of the most efficient
merchant ships had to be assigned to naval
service.
Since last summer the Allied tonnage
has been increased further by the addition
of the bulk of the Greek merchant marine,
about 1,500,000 tons. With Swedish, Fin-
nish and Russian space limited to the carry-
ing of their own trade, American ships ex-
cluded from the war zone, and the Japanese
fleet also avoiding European waters, all but
a small fraction of the world merchant ton-
nage is subject to some form of restriction.
While the actual tonnage of the far-
flung fleet directed from London has thus
increased, the effective carrying capacity of
the vessels has been greatly reduced.
Repeated bombing of England has impaired
the usefulness of certain ports, especially
along the south-eastern coast. Waiting for
convoys to assemble, slow travel in con-
voys, and the lengthening of the average
voyage per vessel have lowered efficiency.
Perhaps 30 p.c. of British imports, which
up to last June were carried only the
short distance from Continental Europe,
now have to be drawn from much farther
away. The British war effort is increasingly
dependent upon overseas support, particu-
larly from North America. The short route
from the Far East through the Suez Canal
and Mediterranean Sea has been closed.
Meat and dairy products which formerly
were imported from near-by Denmark and
the Netherlands now must be brought in
part from New Zealand or Australia
around the Cape of Good Hope on a trip
lasting up to three months. Much of the timber and
wood pulp formedly carried from Scandinavian ports
now comes from the Pacific ports of Canada.
Fighting the attack upon their ocean lanes of
supply, the British are strictly rationing cargo space.
Record freight cargoes are being loaded, and reports
have been heard of luxury passenger liners sailing
with their cabins and dining saloons packed to the
ceiling with needed goods. Australia, instead of
shipping fresh eggs, will in future send them in dry
form to make more room for war material and other
essentials.
The market price of old ships, as recorded in the
London “Shipping World,” is now about 55 p.c.
higher than before the war. As for new construction,
the low-cost European yards are shut off, and United
States costs are much higher. Some types of vessels
cost several times as much in the United States as
they would have cost in Europe.
The capacity of British shipyards has remained
substantially behind the current rate of shipping
losses, the growing volume of repair work, and the
increasing requirements of the Navy.
The assistance that the Empire countries can
render is no doubt greater than during the first World
War, but as a whole it is still limited. According to
a survey by the London “Economist,” the Australian
shipbuilding industry lacks auxiliary industries, such
as marine engineering. The Canadian shipyards,
which launched almost 300,000 tons of shipping in
1919, for the most part are outfitted to build small
vessels. Steps have been taken to expand the ship-
yards in British India, but it will take time before
these become important.
Hence, to make up their current losses, the British
will have to rely to an increasing extent upon existing
U.S. tonnage and upon a share in new U.S. ship pro-
duction. Purchases made in this market to date have
been chiefly old-fashioned and low-cost cargo vessels,
including many vessels that had been laid up. With
the supply of over-age ships now substantially re-
duced, the British needs for merchant tonnage will
have to be satisfied to an increasing extent by new
ships. Because of the U.S. Maritime Commission’s
modernisation programme and the two-ocean navy
building, U.S. shipyards are already crowded with
the largest volume of construction since the first
World War days.
New U.S. tonnage —modern, efficient and built
almost exclusively to the specifications of the Navy
—is high in cost, and over-age ships can serve under
the convoy system. Shipping circles believe that the
wiser course would be to speed up the building of
new vessels for U.S. requirements, and to release old
vessels for the British. According to the National
Council of American Shipbuilders the annual capacity
of 83 active ways in the U.S.A. as at January, 1940, was
about two ships per way, or no fewer than 166 vessels,
totalling more than 1,000,000 gross tons of average
merchant ships. New ways have been added during
1940 and old ones reconditioned. Moreover, as a
result of the speed-up and improved methods prob-
ably from two and a half to three ships can be built
per way annually.
Since United States aid to Great Britain may
depend ultimately upon the speed with which cargo
ships can be launched, the necessity for mass produc-
tion of simple stock cargo vessels of medium tonnage
for British account is being given careful considera-
tion. In December the British Purchasing Commis-
sion placed the first contract with the Todd Ship-
yards Corporation for 60 cargo ships of uniform design
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
Putting Up a Bold From —But How Are They in the Rear?
of approximately 10,000 tons each. The first ship is
expected to be commissioned in October, 1941.
Obviously shipbuilding can be speeded up greatly-
when cost is no object, but time is pressing. New
construction from American shipyards cannot be ex-
pected to be placed in service in volume before the
crucial spring of 1942, according to Ronald H. Cross,
Britain’s Minister of Shipping. Meanwhile, said Mr.
Cross, Britain’s shipping problem will become most
acute during 1941 and she must look to the United
States for tonnage replenishments.
World's Navies.
(From an article by a Washington correspondent in
New York “Times.”)
At present, according to official estimates, com-
batant craft of the great Powers, including the United
States, Japan and Russia, total approximately 1600
units of an aggregate tonnage in excess of 5,000,000
tons. Iff this vast fighting force submarines number
about 575, of which an estimated 120 are German, 97
Italian and 69 Japanese against a total built and build-
ing for Great Britain of only 56. The rest are Ameri-
can, Russian and French. In addition, Germany has
under construction, many of them already in or ready
for commission, an estimated 180 units against a total
for Great Britain of only four, making the score 300
to 56 in favor of Hitler.
The other side of the naval picture is far brighter
as far as the British are concerned. In battleships,
aircraft-carriers, cruisers and destroyers, Great
Britain, as compared with Germany and Italy, is easily
supreme. Her capital units number 14, compared
with six for Germany and six for Italy, and Italy’s
number is now probably less. Britain is also far in the
lead in the matter of aircraft-carriers, cruisers and
destroyers.
The strength of the Japanese Navy is a debated
question. It appears reasonably certain, however, that
the great expansion programme the Japanese are
understood to have under construction or projected is
far from completed. For more than two years Japan
has been usually credited with having a battleship
programme of eight and perhaps ten or twelve battle-
ships building, at least half of them of more than
40,000 tons each. It now appears that none of these
capital units has been completed and that by the end
of 1941 only two of them will be ready to take their
place in the battle line. These two ships are reported
to have been named the Nisshin and the Kaii, each
of them of approximately 35,000 tons displacement
and each carrying main batteries of nine guns of at
least 16in. calibre. Some reports fix the calibre of
the guns at 18in., and if this is true they will be the
most powerfully-armed battle units in any navy.
Two other battleships, one said to be named the
Owari, will be commissioned in 1942. These two
ships are understood to be the first of the 40,000-ton
class, of which several are reported under construc-
tion or projected for the Japanese Navy. Each, ac-
cording to information considered reliable, will carry
nine or ten guns of 16in. or 18in. calibre.
To offset the expected increase in Japanese battle
strength the United States will commission in 1941
the battleships Washington and North Carolina and
during 1942 four others, all sister ships, the Massa-
chusetts, Indiana, Alabama and South Dakota. These
six ships will be each of about 35,000 tons and each
will mount batteries of nine 16in. guns. The first of
the American 45,000-ton units will be ready in 1943.
They are the Wisconsin, New Jersey, lowa and Mis-
souri. These estimates do not include any of the
battle units of the projected two-ocean navy.
The picture of the world naval situation as it
exists at the present moment is disclosed in the fol-
lowing tables, which are believed to be the most
nearly accurate yet compiled [deductions from Italy’s
totals must be made]:
UNITED STATES.
Type. Built. Building. Total.
Battleships 15 17 32
Aircraft-carriers.. .. .. 6 12 18
Cruisers .. .. .. 37 48 85
Destroyers .-. .. .. 155 170 325
Submarines .. .. .. 103 82 185
Total 316 329 645
BRITISH EMPIRE.
Battleships 14 9 23
Aircraft-carriers 6 6 12
Cruisers 61 23 84
Destroyers .. .. .. 222 18 240
Submarines 52 4 56
Total ... .. ..355 60 415
JAPAN.
Battleships 10 *8 *lB
Aircraft-carriers 7 3 10
Cruisers .. .. •. 44 6 50
Destroyers .. .. •• 135 11 146
Submarines 69 13 82
Total 265 41 306
FRANCE.
Battleships .. .. .. 1 4 5
Aircraft-carriers .. .. .. 1 2 3
Cruisers .. .. .. 14 3 17
Destroyers .. .. .. *5O *3O *BO
Submarines 62 *25 *B7
Total 128 64 192
ITALY.
Battleships .. .. .. 6 2 8
Aircraft-carriers
Cruisers .. .. .. 20 14 34
Destroyers .. .. .. 120 12 132
Submarines .. .. .. *97 21 118
Total .. .. ..243 49 292
GERMANY.
Battleships 6 2 8
Aircraft-carriers.. .. .. 1 1 2
Cruisers .. .. .. .. 7 6 13
Destroyers *47 ? 47?
Submarines *l2O *lBO *3OO
Total 181 189? 370?
RUSSIA.
Battleships 3 3 6
Aircraft-carriers .. .. .. 1 2 3
Cruisers .. 9 4 13
Destroyers .. .. •• 67 *l6 83
Submarines .. .. •• *l7l ? 171.
Total 251 25? 276?
* Estimated.
A Report on Japan.
[The views here expressed are those of a Far East
correspondent in an article condensed from New
York “PM.”]
In three years wild war sentiment in Japan had
slumped. The collapse of imperialistic dreams seemed
too much for the people, and their reaction as any-
one who knows the Japanese character would expect
—was national introversion.
It is harder to gauge public feeling in Japan than
in any other country in the world. The Japanese
have been learning to control their emotions for cen-
turies, so they are highly inscrutable until pushed to
the limit. Where that limit is nobody knows, for
revolt may be pushing up very close to the surface
and still be hidden. But revolution is doubtful in
Japan —Emperor worship being a safeguard against
it. It is more likely that the militarists will appease
the masses with new conquests.
Everything has gone into the national defence
machine, which is now running lickety-split and can’t
be stopped. The economists say war in China is
going to cost a couple of times more than it has
already. ,
Japanese labor is at the bottom of the heap or
misery that the China incident is piling up. In Osaka,
Nagoya and Yokohama your train goes through
miles of little factories that are smokeless now because
munitions plants get the workers. The cost of living


The Each-way Boys.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” front page cable
story last Wednesday, February s:
EXPORT CUTS
U.S. REPLY TO JAPANESE
While Japanese newspapers continue their
campaign of threats against Dutch, British and
American interests, President Roosevelt is
reported to be planning new restrictions upon
exports to Japan.
Sydney “Morning Herald,” principal cable
story last Wednesday, February s:
The embargo movement against Japan by
the U.S.A. and Britain continues, it is learned,
to be held in complete abeyance, if, indeed, it
has not been abandoned.
bounces up every month and inflation can’t help
things much. Invariably working hours are longer.
The war in China has brought about a serious
dislocation in labor. Farmers have flocked to the
cities to get jobs in the munitions plants, and of
course sons of farmers are in the army. Shipyards,
aircraft plants and the munitions industries can em-
ploy freely to the ruination of industries on which
the export trade depends. The Government is even
sanctioning the use of child labor in the munitions
plants, so boys leave schools or lighter tasks for the
mills of war.
There is a neat paradox in the Welfare Min-
istry’s announcement that it will present medals to
the 10,000 mothers in Japan who have 10 children
over six. Japan got into the war on an excuse of
overpopulation.
The war in China was also to be a battle for
culture, with the superior Japanese bringing light and
happiness to the backward Chinese. However, the
result has been to make social conditions in Japan
approximate those in China more closely than ever
before. Here is one instance; women employed in
Japanese mines have increased by 70 p.c. since the
hostilities.
Thus Japan today is a desperate nation at bay
facing a winter of terrific strain. The mainspring of
the Japanese southward advance, which has the fabu-
lously rich Dutch East Indies as its objective, is
found in the rapid deterioration of domestic economy
and the military fiasco in China.
In three years the great drama that is Asia has
unfolded, with 1,000,000 modern samurai driving
inland in the shadow of clouds of bombing ’planes,
a sea of Chinese armies slowly ebbing before them,
and then gradually but surely the tide turning, with the
Japanese beginning the retreat which may quicken in
months to come. A new act in the drama had begun,
for in hundreds of miles of Japanese territory through
which I had travelled in China the turn of events has
become apparent.
In Japan winter was coming, with unrest among
the people, a growing wretchedness in the factory
cities and poverty searching its way among the
peasants and their tiny rice fields. The first act had
ended and the second had begun, but this time the
scenes would be laid southward, already with a re-
hearsal going on in French Indo-China.
By one last desperate thrust the rising bitterness
and fear in Japan might be quelled by an attack in
>i'hich the great fleet, now sleeping at Sasebo, would
be used against the Dutch East Indies. But that
would be a mad adventure, one in which the fleet of
the greatest Power in the world might be thrown
against Japan.
* * * % *
(From a London “Times” article by “a correspondent
lately in Japan.”)
The planting of a Fifth Column in Japan is one
of the smartest achievements of Nazi Germany. The
difficulties of permeating with Gbrman influence a
non-Aryan race proud of their national spirit and
sheltered from the cruder forms of propaganda by an
extremely difficult language were obvious, but the
approach was skilful and the results have been remark-
able.
The problem was not to get hold of the masses,
but of Japanese groups whose opinion counts. The
Nazis were so successful that Franz Huber, a member
of the Security Department of the Reich Leadership
Storm Troops, now sits in the Home Office, which
controls the police and the press and incidentally all
German residents. The Nazis are hand and glove
with many staff officers and have made themselves
useful to the Navy. They have replaced (or con-
verted) the former German teachers ; orthodox Nazis
now implant learning in the fresh green minds of the
students.
In the temper of angry frustration aroused by
the interminable war in China hundreds of young
officers and officials swallowed all that they were
told, and Nazi influence was effectively felt inside the
Government departments. When the gendarmerie or
the police find fault with the policy of a newspaper
in which millions of capital are invested it is not a
thing to be disregarded. So criticism of Germany has
disappeared from the Japanese newspapers and the
“decadent pluto-democracies,” America and Britain,
are the daily whipping-boys. The idea that America
and Britain are Selfish “haves” and Japan’s implacable
foes has, accordingly, been successfully “sold” to the
Japanese public. Of all the achievements to which
the Trojan horse has contributed the greatest is the
transformation by which, in the public mind, America
and Britain have been substituted for Soviet Russia in
the role of Japan’s inevitable enemies.
The Divided French Empire.
(Condensed from New York “PM.”)
A quarter of the French Empire—more than
1,000,000 square miles flung across three continents
and as many oceans—has rallied to the Free France
banner of General de Gaulle.
In Africa the mandated territory of the French
Cameroons, constituting the greater part of the former
German colony, and entire French Equatorial Africa
have placed themselves under the banner of Free
France. French Equatorial Africa consists of the
Lake district, the Middle Congo, Übangi-Shari and
the province of Gabon, whose capital Libreville
and the important Port Gentil surrendered to
General de Gaulle. It is situated between the Bel-
gian Congo to the south and British Nigeria to the
north, the latter separating it from the Vichy-
dominated French West Africa whose capital is the
port of Dakar. The French Cameroons, whose capi-
tal is the port of Douala, are wedged in between
British Nigeria and French Equatorial Africa.
In Asia the five small dependencies constituting
French India have likewise aligned themselves with
General de Gaulle.
The first of the French colonies to adhere to
Free France was New Caledonia, halfway between
Australia and the Fiji Islands, its capital Noumea.
Among the other French possessions in Oceania
which joined the Free French forces are the New
Hebrides, 250 miles to the north-east of New Cale-
donia. This colony has been under joint Franco-
British rule since 1906.
The most important among the widely scattered
French dependencies in the Southern Pacific which
are now under the flag of Free France are the Society
Islands, including Tahiti.
Ireland’s Neutrality.
[lf the threat of invasion becomes more insistent no
doubt the question of Eire’s neutrality will be more and
more warmly discussed. The following items are given
only as fairly typical examples of views already expressed
in voluminous newspaper comment and correspondence.
The first is from comments in New York “World-
Telegram,” by G. B. Shaw, some of whose views on the
subject have been mentioned in cables.]
Mr. De Valera has given his point of view. The
ports are Ireland’s and he (De Valera) will not give
—Reproduced in New York “PM.”
The Don’t-Do-Anything-That-Might-Offend-Hitler Club.
them up. He will not throw Ireland into the cock-
pit to be bombed and blackened out in a war declared
by England without consulting her. If any Power,
under whatever flag, violates Irish neutrality he will
throw a quarter of a million Irish soldiers into the
field to fight. He can understand Britain’s position,
and if he could do anything to relieve the sufferings
of the British people he would do so. But it is pri-
marily with the welfare of his own people that he
must concern himself.
What is Mr. Churchill to do if Britain’s exclu-
sion from Irish ports gives Germany command of
the sea? In that case he must reply: “I see your
position, but I feel about England exactly as you do
about Ireland and I will not allow 40,000,000 Britons
to be starved and defeated to save the paper neutrality
of a few million hostile Irish. If and when the situa-
tion becomes grave enough to convince America that
I have no alternative I will reoccupy your ports and
leave you to do your damnedest.”
If I were in Mr. Churchill’s place I should put
it more philosophically. I should say:
“My dear Mr. De Valera. Your policy is mag-
nificent, but it is not modern statesmanship. Yo'u say
the ports belong to Ireland. That is what you start
from. I cannot admit it. Local patriotism, with all
its heroic legends, is as dead as a doornail today.
“The ports do now belong to Europe, to the
world, to civilisation, to the Most Holy Almighty, as
you might say, and are only held in trust by your
Government in Dublin in their name. We must
borrow them for the duration. You need not con-
sent to the treaty, and you will share all the advan-
tages of our victory. All you have to do is sit tight
and say ‘I protest.’ England will do the rest. So
here goes.”
* * * * »
(Dr. Reginald W. Macan, Oxford; London “Times”
letter.)
May the truth about Mr. De Valera’s neutrality,
as it strikes one Irishman, whose memories cover,
say, fourscore years and ten, be told in your impar-
tial pages? That it is a double wrong to Ireland,
first, as it cripples the British Fleet, which is the main
guarantee of Irish liberties ; and, secondly, as it post-
pones to “the Greek Kalends” the union of Ireland,
North and South. That it is a wrong to each and
every other Dominion in the Commonwealth, wherein
are innumerable Irishmen fighting under the Union
Jack for the life and liberty of all free peoples. That
it is a wrong to the far-flung Empire, in whose ser-
vices Irishmen enjoy their fair share, and perhaps
something more, of honor and emolument. That it is
a wrong to every allied and sister nation, from Poland
to France, now bruised and .panting for life under
German extortion and tyranny. That it is a wrong to
Great Britain, home, workshop and happy hunting-
ground for crowds of Irish men, women and children,
free to come and go, and numerous, perhaps, as all
the anti-British secessionists in this newfangled, anti-
quated, Erse-ridden Eire. That it displays a vindic-
tive recollection of immemorial quarrels in bygone
ages, where all the crimes were not on one side. That
it is a stupidity which endangers Ireland’s economic
relations with her best customer, and a political
blunder, as missing a golden opportunity to prove that
Eire can rise to the present ecumenical call for cour-
age, magnanimity and hope out of her poor little
cabin of isolationism.
* * * * *
( Professor Thomas Bodkin, Birmingham; London
"Times” letter.)
To myself, as another Irishman now living in
England who claims to know his country intimately,
both north and south, having lived there for 47 years,
20 of which were spent first in the British and then
in the Free State civil service, and who maintains con-
stant contact with all shades of Irish opinion, the
truth would seem to be as follows:
There is no sympathy whatever at present exist-
jn g j n gj re f or Germany or for Nazi doctrine. There
is a profound admiration for the stand that England
is making against a barbarous assault, and this is
well evidenced by Mr. De Valera’s offer to welcome
British women and children refugees. There is a firm
determination tn maintain nentralitv chared nnani
determination to maintain neutrality, snared unam-
mously by the members of all political parties, who
have combined to make all possible preparations to
resist invasion from any quarter. There is ,a wide-
spread feeling that, so long as the Government of
Northern Ireland continues to oppress the large
Nationalist minority in the area which it
administers, no waiver of, the rights so tardily
won from the British Government by the
Treaty of 1922 can be honorably conceded.
That the vast majority of Irishmen
would like to find a way, consistent with
what they hold to be the primary and basic
interests of Ireland, to frustrate the U-boat
campaign of indiscriminate murder can
scarcely be doubted. But pronouncements
like those of Dr. Macan, so far from being
helpful, will tend to harden Irish opinion in
the views that Ireland is best defended by her
own citizens on her own soil and that she has
the same right to proclaim neutrality as has
the United States, Portugal or Switzerland.
This may be, and I think is, a short-sighted
policy. But if it is to be changed, the change
must come through British determination to
make all Ireland as free and self-responsible
from shore to shore as are the other
Dominions of the British Commonwealth of
Nations, where, it may be added, the Irish
problem seems to be much better understood
than it is in England.
* * * * *
(C. W. R. Pantlin; London “Times” letter.)
By his stubbornness and failure to face
the facts Mr. De Valera —whose integrity is
unchallenged but whose political wisdom is
clouded by the spectre of Cromwell —is los-
ing all chance of securing a United Ireland
in the lifetime of any living man. The ques-
tion of partition is obviously of paramount
importance, but it sinks into insignificance beside
that of extinction or survival.
The fact that the British Government made a
first-class political blunder in 1938 by handing over
the Treaty Ports without any conditions or guaran-
tees whatsoever gives Mr. De Valera an opportunity
of demonstrating his political astuteness, courage and
magnanimity which seldom is offered to any leader.
Pro-British and Pro-German.
[Last week’s “Uncabled Additions” included a general
summary of present conditions in the German-occupied
countries of Europe. In the condensed articles from
New York “Times” here given unoccupied countries are
dealt with—one (Portugal) officially strictly neutral, un-
officially pro-British; the others (Scandinavian countries)
represented as pro-German chiefly, if not wholly, from
a belief that a strong Germany is necessary to protect
them from the country they really fear, Russia. The
writer of the first article—a Lisbon correspondent—
incidentally records reports of diplomatic moves made in
Portugal to bring about peace. The Scandinavian
observations were made by E. V. D. Wight.]
The policy of the Portuguese Government is one
of absolute neutrality, and Dr. Salazar has gone to
great lengths to secure this. His press, always con-
trolled, is forbidden to comment on war news. Any
particularly active words, like the “rout” of the
Italians in Libya, are carefully eliminated. The space
given to each side in Lisbon papers is measured out
equally to the last millimeter. The people see very
few newsreels, and when they do see them they are
forbidden to applaud either side. The exports of the
country—the Portuguese have some useful wolfram,
tin, cork and foodstuffs —are equally divided between
Britain and Germany. The Portuguese people, how-
ever, are no more neutral than the people of the
United States. There is overwhelming pro-British
sentiment —even pro-German circles admit that only
about 10 p.c. of the people favor Hitler.
The reasons for pro-British sentiment go much
deeper than surface propaganda, nor have they much
to do with the long formal alliance with Britain. The
main reason is that the Portuguese fear that a Ger-
man victory would mean the loss of their colonial
empire. They seem to understand better than Ameri-
cans that the integrity and independence of their


empire was protected throughout the nineteenth cen-
tury by the British Navy, and like the Americans they
do not want to see the British Navy defeated.
There is also the fear that, if Spain should enter
the war on the side of Germany, Portugal might be
occupied by the Nazis and eventually turned over to
Spain to satisfy the ancient Pan-Iberian dream now
supported by the Spanish Falange. As long as Franco
remains in power in Spain, this fear will not be strong,
for Salazar is convinced that Franco wants to keep
the Iberian t peninsula out of the war, but the fear is
that the more radical Falange may get rid of Franco
and let the Nazis into Portugal.
While the people are wishing for a British vic-
tory, they think that if the United States gets into the
war the Germans will immediately insist on occupy-
ing Spain and Portugal in order to block the last
ports on the coast of Europe available for the land-
ing of a large Anglo-American force.
Portugal, indeed, has so much to lose by being
dragged into this war that it is not surprising that
one hears in Lisbon of attempts on the part of
Salazar to try to bring about peace between the war-
ring nations. In diplomatic quarters it is said that the
Portuguese leader made it clear to both Sir Samuel
Hoare, the British Ambassador in Madrid, and to the
late Marquess of Lothian, former British Ambassador
in Washington, that the offices of his Government
were available to both sides at any time they wanted
to discuss peace. British officials deny that any British
official in Lisbon has taken part in peace discussions
or knows anything about any such discussions taking
place, but neutral diplomats say preliminary peace
soundings have in fact been taken.
* * * *
The attitude of the Scandinavians is influenced
by what they call political realism. , Many Scandi-
navians, including political leaders, therefore, are
hoping for an early German victory. In the words
of one of their Ministers: “A long-drawn-out war,
with Germany exhausting herself against Britain’s
forces, means, first of all, free rein to Russian ambi-
tions and, second, starvation for our people.”
Many Scandinavians believe there is a sound his-
torical basis for regarding Russia as the potential
enemy if Germany should ever falter. They like to
believe that Germany, after having attended to matters
in the west, will turn for final settlement of accounts
with Russia. Such a programme would, the Scandi-
navians hope, leave them on the outer rim of hos-
tilities, although they realise that it means limiting,
probably for all time, their political and economic in-
dependence within the sphere of German influence.
Last summer a mission from Helsinki visited
Berlin to find out whether Finland could expect aid
from the Reich in case of renewed Russian aggres-
sion. It is reported that Berlin advised reconciliation
with the eastern neighbor, but a few weeks later
German soldiers landed on Finnish territory, officially
in transit to Norway,
At the moment the most important territorial
factor in the Scandinavian picture is the Aland
Islands. Scarcely a half-hour’s flight from Stockholm,
they control the Gulf of Bothnia and Central Sweden.
Russia won the first round by forcing Finland to de-
militarise them. Any further Russian move regard-
ing their status would be a signal for Sweden to ask
Germany for help.
Besides the political danger, long-drawn-out hos
tilities carry the threat of economic starvation for the
Scandinavian countries. Aside from coal, Germany,
or the Continent of Europe struggling to produce
under the heel of Nazi rule, can furnish very few of
the raw materials and food products which Scandi-
navia requires.
If economic starvation, with unemployment and
social problems, gives cause for concern, the effects
of a long war on the actual food situation in Finland
and Sweden are even more of a threat to national
existence. No one in Finland or Sweden need actu-
ally go hungry this winter, and if crops are reason-
ably good next year the succeeding winter should
present no insurmountable difficulties. But the prob-
lem of providing a national diet which modern stand-
ards consider sufficiently nourishing is more serious.
Vegetables and fruits have almost entirely dis-
appeared. Unless diversified products reach these
countries from oufside, the power of resistance of the
populations will decrease and they will fall easy prey
to sickness and disease.
While Finland and Sweden have made conces-
sions to their Teutonic neighbor, they have not sailed
bodily into his arms. Both have negotiated trade
agreements with Russia, giving the latter real trade
advantages, and Sweden has conceded a $20,000,000
credit to Moscow to facilitate the purchase of Swedish
goods. The Governments have not been blind to
possible future advantages of trading one neighbor off
against the other in their perilous voyage for peace.
The fundamental policy remains the same, however:
“In the present state of world events the existence
of Scandinavia depends upon a Germany strong
enough to defeat Russia and willing to enter combat
should the Great White Bear resume his march
toward the Atlantic.”
The average citizen of Finland and Sweden has
not forgotten, or ceased to love, democratic ideals
and institutions. Tales of heroism of Norwegian
resistance to German invaders are popular in every
gathering. But in the present world crisis this aver-
age citizen has decided to leave direction of the
nation’s policy to the leaders he has chosen. If these
leaders have selected a policy of co-operation with
Nazi Germany, he is willing to believe the reason
lies in the inevitable logic of events.
U.S. ’Planes Behind Schedule.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Hanson W. Baldwin .)
With the fall of France and the start of the Cam-
paign of Britain, a greater demand for ’planes came
from England, and as a result of many conferences
between the representatives of the United States and
England it was agreed that U.S. factories would try
to turn out a total of some 14,000 ’planes for Britain
(and her Empire) between July, 1940, and July, 1942,
in addition to the 26,000 required by the U.S. Army
and Navy—a grand total for two years of 40,000.
A year ago the U.S.A. was producing about 200
military ’planes and 500 to 700 military engines a
month. The goal of the present programme is a pro-
duction rate of about 3333 ’planes and 8333 engines
monthly by mid-1942.
Under the present programme of deliveries it had
been hoped that the nation’s aircraft industry, which
in 1938 produced about 1200 military ’planes and in
1939 about 2600, would turn out almost 6000 ’planes
in 1940, but the output would be closer to 5000 than
to 6000. Some 2000 of these ’planes—most of them
trainers —would go to the Army, it was planned ;
almost 1000 to the Navy and almost 3000 to Britain.
The actual output figures have been somewhat
disappointing, as the statistics for October, the last
month available, show. The delivery schedules called
for a production of almost 750 military ’planes. Actu-
ally, considerably fewer than 600 were produced, of
which about 280 went to the British Empire, about
the largest number that has been exported in any
one month since the war started. (Britain has received
almost 1200 ’planes from the U.S.A. since the start of
the war.)
The programme now being followed calls for the
production of more than 2000 ’planes in July, 1941,
almost 700 of them for Britain. The curve of pro-
duction, as planned, then is intended to climb steadily
to a hoped-for production of about 2700 a month in
early 1942 (900 of them to Britain), and the goal of
3333 in July, 1942.
Engine production is scheduled, under the plans,
to increase from the October output of some 2000
to 2400 military engines per month (a rate of produc-
tion which is equal or superior to Britain’s) to at least
four times that output. It must be remembered that
—“Hoy,” Mexico Lay.
A MEXICAN EYES THE ITALO-GREEK WAR.
for the moment a great proportion of these engines,
a great deal more than 50 per cent., is going to the
British Empire ; it must also be remembered that more
than 80 per cent, of U.S. combat ’plane production is
going to Britain and that, even under the present
schedule of deliveries (which are not being met) it
will be April or May before deliveries of combat
’planes to U.S. forces are slated to reach the 500-a-
-month rate.
Indeed, it is obvious from the foregoing figures
that the problem of the aircraft industry is not so
much the problem of supplying our own forces ; it is
the problem of supplying both Britain and ourselves
that is causing the difficulty.
All things considered, most expert observers here
do not believe that the present goal of 40,000 ’planes
by July, 1942, and a production rate of 3333 ’planes
a month by the same time can possibly be achieved.
Some think that the programme will be a year late ;
others think it will be finished four to eight months
behind schedule.
Communists Do Their Bit.
(Condensed from New York “Times.”)
The Dies committee’s 1000-page report of Com-
munist plans for sabotaging American industry in the
event of war contains, one of the committee’s officials
said, authoritative Communist documents which
showed Communism to be “a foreign conspiracy
masked as a political party.”
Among matters covered in the report were:
The Communist party’s supreme loyalty to the Soviet
Union.
The party’s ultimate reliance upon civil war as the
weapon by which its ends are to be sought.
The party’s rejection of the democratic Parliamentary
form of government.
The party’s concentration of its effort in the basic
and war industries of the country.
The party’s use of trade-unions as schools of Com-
munism.
The party’s technique by which “front” organisa-
tions are set up and controlled.
And the party’s basic doctrine of the dictatorship of
the proletariat.
The report is described as a “handbook”
prosecutors throughout the country in combating “the
menace of Red sabotage and espionage.” Mr. Dies
declared the un-uniformed “soldiers” of Hitler,
Mussolini and Stalin holding key positions in Amen-
can defence industries should be removed, to prevent
“stifling” of such industries.
“We would not for a moment tolerate the uni-
formed soldiers of the totalitarian Powers working in
our national defence industries,” said the statement.
“Neither should we permit their un-uniformed sol-
diers, who are far more dangerous, to hold such jobs
where they are in a position to serve their foreign
masters with little or no risk of detection.
“To permit these people to continue in positions
of leadership in certain unions or in key positions in
national defence industries upon the assumption that
they can be watched and deterred from the consum-
mation of their programme is to follow the inadequate
counter-espionage methods which proved a complete
failure in all of the countries overrun by Stalin and
Hitler.”
Under the carefully-prepared index of the texts
running to an estimated 665,000 words, the committee
sought to show that Communists planned to
create civil war in the event of the country entering
a war, and that its best weapon would be to sabotage
basic industries. Methods specified included destroying
State machinery, the proletariat’s rule by force, open
clashes between classes, the ruthlessness of a workers’
revolution, “bayonets in hands of the workers,” work
among the Army and Navy, acts of sabotage against
the movement of troops, propaganda in the Army and
Navy and among the workers in defence industries,
arming the workers’ class, wresting the Government
“from the hands of the present rulers,” turning a war
into a civil war and working thereby for the defeat of
the Government, transforming a strike into armed
rebellion, and stoppages of movements in harbors,
along railroads and the highways.
One of the documents given out was the “Thesis
on Tactics” adopted by the Third Communist Inter-
national. While it met in 1921, it laid the plans for
Communist tactics which have been used, for the most
part, up to the present. The tactics planned are similar
to those intended to be used in France, which, many
assert, brought about its fall by permitting the weaken-
ing of its economic system through widespread adher-
ence to Communistic doctrines and tactics.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
“There she rode like a hero,” said Captain
Olander, speaking of the fight put up by the Jervis
Bay. “She was right into the guns of the battleship.
She did not have a chance and we all knew it, but
there she stayed to the last to give us in the mer-
chant ships a chance to run for it.” — London “Times” ;
interview with a Swedish skipper.
* # * *
Extract from a speech by General G. Watson
Webb, U.S.A., delivered March 18, 1854:
“....The contingency to which I allude as being
the only one which could prompt an interference in
European affairs is, I sincerely hope, very far distant,
but it is one which should never be lost sight of in
England, and which may ultimately be averted altogether
by its being constantly kept before the world —I mean a
combination of the continent [of Europe] at some future
day against England as the great embodiment of con-
stitutional liberty in Europe.
“That day may come; how soon, if ever, He alone
knows in Whose hands are the destinies of nations; but
come when it may, our interests and our feelings will
alike combine to make us come to the rescue. We shall
come; it may be from a conviction that, in fighting
your battles, we are contending for the cause of consti-
tutional liberty. Our plea or our excuse may be self-
preservation ; but in such a contingency come we will;
and be assured that the youthful giant—for we shall be
a giant before that day arrives*—will not come the less
willingly or strike less effectively because his strength
will be put forth on behalf of a parent who, if she was
not always a kind mother, gave to us our Anglo-Saxon
blood, and sent us forth imbued with her laws, her
literature and her love of constitutional liberty.”
—From a London “Times” letter.
*****
The United States now has within its borders
131,669,275 persons, against 122,775,046 shown by the
last enumeration in 1930 —a gain of nearly nine mil-
lions. Amid the general upswing, six States showed
declines in population. Five are in the Middle West,
running in a chain from Canada to the Texas border ,
the sixth is Vermont. The five Middle Western
Statas which have lost substantially lie in a region
which has been hard hit by drought, duststorms,
floods, soil erosion, insect plagues and other afflictions
of the farmer. Reported declines in population are
North Dakota, 38,910; South Dakota, 49,888;
Nebraska, 62,129; Kansas, 79,971 ; Oklahoma,
59,606. That a large part of the drift away from
this region has been west and south is shown by Cali-
fornia’s gain in 10 years of 1,230,136 ; Texas of
590,109 ; and New Mexico of 108,501. — New York
“Herald Tribune.”
*****
As compared with the English-speaking nations,
the phlegmatic Germans are notoriously lacking in a
sense of humor, and they are pained and puzzled by
its exhibition in others. Swagger, bluster and pom-
posity enter so much into the composition of the aver-
age Teuton that he is utterly unable to see the funny
side of things in life ; he is too solemn, has too much
ego in his cosmos. The British fighting man, with his
ineradicable sense of the ridiculous, is a hopeless
enigma to the Nazi mind. Our sailors, soldiers and
.airmen see the humor of life—aye, and of death, too
—and it is this very trait that so exasperates their
stolid opponents. It was in great measure lack ot
humor that lost the last war to the Huns, and it is
this same bovine mentality that is bringing about their
defeat in this “Literary Guide and Rational-
ist Review.” * * *
During the first nine months of 1940 U.S. exports
of cotton goods increased about 20,000,000 yards as
compared with the same period in 1939 The gam was
almost wholly due to increased sales of bandage clotfis
pnd other war materials to Canada.— New iotk
“Journal of Commerce.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
There was an average attendance at
Randwick on Saturday, when, despite
the success of two favorites and two
second favorites, backers, as a whole, did
not fare as well as the books. Charlotte
Greenwood was a fair result for the
latter section, and Decelea at 20 to 1
and Overbold at 10 to 1 were all they
could wish. “But will it keep going?”
was the query of one rather pessimistic
layer at the close of proceedings.
After Miss Pentheus shook off Waireka
entering the straight in the Glenfield
Handicap she set up a lead that made
the race look almost a certainty for her.
However, Miss Pentheus tired soon after
starting upon the final furlong, and Over-
bold, who was last into the straight, fin-
ished too strongly for her, winning by
a neck. It was a good run on Over-
bold’s part, and he will improve. Many
Ways, in third place, never looked like
winning, but though the field was small
she did not have the best of luck in run-
ning. Waireka stopped as badly as in her
previous races, and, as it would be diffi-
cult to improve her condition, it would
seem little use persevering with her.
Breeze was seen at her best in the
Warwick Farm Handicap. Never further
back than third she and Yours Truly were
together behind Sioneel along the back,
with Mabson heading the remainder.
Breeze was in charge entering the straight,
and though inside the last furlong Mab-
son looked like troubling her he tired
and was merely plugging along’ at the
winning post. Yours Truly hung on well
to get third, but was very little in ad-
vance of Kurrawid and Speardale. Half-
way down the straight Lady Dunnottar
was a possibility for third, but could not
see it out, and Tuckerbox ran as if a
let-up would benefit him. That also
applies to Sioneel, and Marengo’s weight
prevented him ever threatening danger.
He will have to come down a few pounds
to have much chance of adding to his
winning account.
Henchman, at a shade of odds-on, won
the Ingleburn Nursery, but, though he
looked like scoring in easy fashion when
he settled Awake nearly a furlong from
home, he had to be ridden out to stall
off Dick Whittington’s strong challenge.
Beau Timide was two lengths away in
third place, and as at the finish he was
travelling faster than the first two he
should be sure to win at longer distances
later in the season. Pallas, a Man’s Pal
filly, paced it with Awake to the straight
entrance, then dropped out, and the
latter, though fourth, was very tired at the
winning-post. Double Rise again failed
to act up to the good opinion formed of
her a few weeks ago.
Change of riders made considerable
difference to Charlotte Greenwood, whose
showing in a Trial Stakes at Canterbury
the previous week was very moderate,
and she won the first division of the
Maiden Handicap in good style from the
rank outsider Fox Track. Air Link, the
favorite, flattered his backers by com-
mencing smartly and leading at the half-
mile from O Raklo, Canvasser and Raid-
ing Party. O Raklo was first into the
straight, but was immediately headed
again by Air Link, who, however, found
the last furlong too much for him.
Corolla, in third place, ran well enough
to make it surprising that she is still in
the maiden division. She was placed in
a couple of maiden handicaps in Sydney
last season, but has done her recent rac-
ing at country meetings. Yarn, a Ruffler
three-year-old trained by E. Hush at
Randwick, ran on fairly, while weight
stopped Canvasser, who was prominent
up to the straight entrance. O Raklo and
Air Link will win at six furlongs. Char-
lotte Greenwood is by Bulandshar from
Gay Virginia (Lord Quex-Queen Lizzie)
and cost 525gns. as a yearling. Gay
Virginias brother Gesto won several
races at Randwick.
Decelea, now four years old, and of
whom a lot was expected at two, upset
calculations by finishing strongly and
winning the second division of the
Maiden Handicap. She was behind Innis-
fail, Ceres and Caprice at the straight
entrance, but was much too solid for
that lot at the end. Innisfail had every
chance this time, but is evidently an
indifferent stayer. Connette, a Constant
Son filly from B. Payten’s stable, scarcely
did as well as anticipated, nor did Day
Star. Eager Fox ran up to his usual
form, and now has either nine or ten
minor placings to his credit. Decelea is
by Madagascar from Cool Tych (Cool-
trim-Tycha Tycha).
Koomeluck showed more pace than
anything else in the Farm Novice Handi-
cap, and led into the straight from Royal
Land, Cumberland and Goreen. At the
leger Koomeluck and Royal Land were
well clear of their followers, but Red
Pete, who seemed hopelessly placed at
the three furlongs, put in such a well-
sustained run on the outside that he
scored comfortably from Mabonga, an-
other who showfed up only at the finish.
Picaroon, Alluring and Dyne were nearest
the place-getters, but, even allowing for
stronger company, the last-named did not
run nearly as well as when she recently
won at Rosehill. As Red Pete had raced
unluckily at his three previous starts his
owner and trainer could not be begrudged
a win. By Peter Pan from imported
Admired (Bachelor’s Double-Myra
Blake), it is on the cards that Red Pete
will stay.
F. Williams probably has a three-year-
old above the average in Veiled Threat.
In the Minto Handicap Rylstone turned
for home ahead of Bramol, Knight Folly,
Addition, Buzzal and Calruin, and,
though under the whip, was doing suffi-
ciently well a furlong from home to sug-
gest he would not be caught. Then
Veiled Threat put in an appearance, and,
fairly flying along, made short work of
Rylstone, eventually beating him three
lengths. Calruin was third, and then
Überous, Buzzal and Addition. On
actual form the strong support accorded
Addition did not strike me as being
exactly warranted. Bramol and Buzzal
will not be long in returning to winning
form. Veiled Threat won his race in a
second and a half faster time than Red
Pete recorded for a similar distance in
the Novice Handicap, and his time was
also comparatively faster than Breeze’s
2.5 in the February Handicap. He car-
ried 51b. more than Breeze. By Veilmond
from Spear Belle (Spearhead-Mist Maid),
he was a 600gns. yearling.
* ¥ ¥ *
Set again for the Newmarket and
Doncaster, both of which he won last
year, Mildura gave another taste of his
class by beating High Caste and Lucra-
tive in a half-head and head finish for
the C. F. Orr Stakes at Moonee Valley
on Saturday. A lucky inside run con-
tributed to his defeat of High Caste, who
was outside two or three horses all the
way, and Mildura certainly would not
have won had he been forced to go round
the leaders in the straight, but his suc-
cess indicated that his party knew what
they were doing when £5O was paid to
enter him during the week for the
Futurity Stakes.
Mildura has more than a touch of
Jekyll and Hyde in his make-up. An
arrant duffer on a rain-affected track, he
is a near-champion on dry ground. Little
more than two weeks ago he finished
last in the William Reid Stakes at the
Valley without ever being able to raise a
decent gallop in the mud, yet on Satur-
day he equalled the mile record for the
course, 1.37 J. Various reasons have
beten advanced to account for his pro-
nounced aversion to the wet, but trainer
Frank Godby, like Mildura’s former
trainer, George Price, cannot explain it.
Firm going assured him of solid back-
ing for the Orr Stakes, and Creighton’s
riding was a big factor in his success.
Creighton saved every inch of ground,
did not leave the rails at any stage,
waited patiently for the inside run in the
straight, and drove his mount through
when the opening came. The same rider
will have the mount in the Futurity
Stakes and the Newmarket.
High Caste was definitely unlucky in
that he was forced to cover so much extra
ground. Had the race been run at Flem-
ington he may have won, but he had
some difficulty in handling the Moonee
Valley turns, and, in the circumstances,
it was not exactly surprising that the lack
of a prior race caused him to die on his
run right on the post. First Lucrative
and then High Caste had looked the
probable winner until Mildura poked his
head through. Without detracting from
the merit in Mildura’s win, he may have
his work cut out to beat High Caste and
Lucrative next time they meet. He had
a race under his belt, whereas High Caste
and Lucrative were racing for the first
time since the spring.
All going well, Lucrative looks the
probable winner of the V.R.C. St. Leger,
even if the Futurity Stakes be beyond
him. Quite recovered from a slightly-
bruised heel, he battled on really well
after being inclined to hang out all the
way, and his trainer, H. Freedman, stated
subsequently that the colt showed no
soreness after he had cooled down. “Lack
of a race beat him” was Freedman’s
summing-up. Tranquil Star, runner-up
to Lucrative in the Victoria Derby and
to Session in the Oaks, was backed from
as much as 12 to 1 down to fives, and
rattled home strongly in fourth position
after striking trouble near the six fur-
longs. She is a filly of class and will
improve. Beaulivre had his chance
settled when he was stood almost on his
head at the first turn. He finished
strongly, and may be a better proposi-
tion this autumn than his stable-mate
Gold Salute. Latter weakened to finish
fifth after hitting the front near the three
furlongs.
Followers of J. T. Jamieson’s Sydney
stable had a bad day financially. Jamie-
son hoped to begin the autumn cam-
paign with a winning treble: Whisper
Low, Tidal Wave and High Caste, and
each started favorite for its respective
race. Whisper Low and High Caste may
have been unlucky in defeat, but Tidal
Wave missed a place in the Wyndham
Handicap.
Tidal Wave will need to improve to
have a chance of beating Lucrative in the
St. Leger, but it is certain that he will do
better on a bigger track than the Valley.
Favorite at 5 to 2 after big bets had been
taken at shorter prices, he labored almost
throughout, and never really threatened
danger. He finished fourth to Telergy,
Carpentier and Saki, about a length
behind the winner, but he is a long-
strider, and Ted Bartle states that he
could not get him properly balanced at
any stage. Bartle shares the view that
Tidal Wave will do better at Fleming-
ton, and, in assessing the colt’s immedi-
ate prospects, it must also be remem-
bered that Saturday’s race was his first
since the spring.
Telergy, who formerly raced as Mag-
netic Knight, was backed from 16 to 1
down to tens, but his win was a good
result for bookmakers. He made most
of the pace, looked beaten when Car-
pentier ran past him on the bend, but,
with 301 b. less to carry, came again and
worried Carpentier out of it after a ding-
dong battle all the way down the straight.
Telergy met Tidal Wave 31b. worse than
Australian Cup terms, but had the ad-
vantage of having had three races since
his return from a spell. Trained by Bill
Burke for E. L. Hoddinett, Telergy is a
four-year-old gelding by Medieval Knight
from Magnet. Saki, though he battled
on well in third place, does not appeal
from an Australian Cup viewpoint, and
Bianca ran considerably below expecta-
tions.
Whisper Low was backed from 3 to 1
to favoritism at 7 to 4 for the Electric
Handicap, but the support for her did
not scare the party behind Dapper.
Latter shortened from 7 to 2 to 5 to 2,
and he and Whisper Low had the race
to themselves from the start. Inside
running, combined with the fact that
Whisper Low lost ground when she made
the home-turn awkwardly, pulled the
scales in Dapper’s favor. He looked like
winning comfortably at the top of the
straight, but tired toward the finish, and
Whisper Low, raising another effort, ran
him to a neck. Foxhow finished third
after having every chance.
Dapper, a 625 guineas colt by Gay
Lothario from Mons Star, has started
only twice for as many wins, but,
although it is intended to run him in
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, it is
problematical how he will appreciate
seven furlongs. Saturday’s distance was
six, and, as Dapper was racing for the
first time since the spring, it is reason-
able to expect improvement, but most
keen judges are of opinion that High
Title, also trained by Fred Hoysted, is
a better galloper. Nothing finished better
in Saturday’s race than Condignity,
owned in Sydney by F. W. Hughes.
Starting at 25 to 1, he came from a
long way back to finish fifth, and seems
certain to improve.
Magic Circle, not entered for the Oak-
leigh Plate or Newmarket, beat several
fancied candidates for those races when
she staged a whirlwind finish to win the
Marine Handicap from Unishak and
Operatic. Surprise has been expressed
at her omission from the entries, but
owner Ned O’Dwyer intends retiring the
mare to the stud next season, and states
that he did not nominate her because he
did not wish to knock her about by a
lot of hard racing. He had intended
retiring her last season, but a change of
mind has already yielded two wins, with
the likelihood of more to follow. Fol-
lowing her second to All Veil in the
William Reid Stakes, she was backed
from eights to sixes on Saturday, and
came on the scene when Unishak momen-
tarily looked to have the race won. Magic
Circle, incidentally, has been a splendid
bargain at the 55 guineas she cost
O’Dwyer as a yearling.
Although beaten, Unishak did not lose
many admirers for the Oakleigh Plate,
a race he won last year, and in which
he finished third in 1939. He was un-
placed in the Marine Handicap prior to
his Oakleigh success with 8.0 a year ago,
and seems nicely handicapped with 8.4
this time. Some good judges, however,
are prejudiced against him on the score
that next Saturday’s Oakleigh will be
run up the Flemington straight, and that
past form suggests he prefers racing
round a turn. They base their conten-
tion on the fact that he failed in the last
two Newmarkets.
Unishak met and beat Operatic and
Phoines on Saturday when meeting them
on exact Oakleigh Plate terms, but
Phoines, though he weakened to finish
fourth after sharing the lead with Uni-
shak from the half-mile to the turn, may
improve most of the trio. Backing which
forced his price from 5 to 1 down to
favoritism at threes demonstrated that
his stable cbnsidered him fit to win, but
the fact remains that Phoines was in-
volved in a nasty accident four days
before the race, when, after going a fur-
long of a scheduled six-furlongs gallop,
he swerved, tossed his jockey and crashed
over the rails. No serious harm was
done, and he galloped well later in the
week, but, had he been able ’ to com-
plete Tuesday’s gallop, he might not
have weakened as he did on Saturday.
Celeris disappointed, but a mishap to
Woolcombe’s gear prevented an opinion
being formed of his ability. The aged
gelding from Adelaide finished last.
Considerable surprise was expressed
when the judge declared a dead-heat be-
tween Bankshaw and Lord Walla for the
first division of the Newport Welter.
Bankshaw slipped to the front near the
three, and, although hotly challenged by
Lord Walla in the straight, most people
close to the judge’s box considered that
Bankshaw had just held him off. As
Bankshaw and Lord Walla started equal
favorites, however, many backers found
the result to their liking. Bankshaw, a
candidate for the A.J.C. Doncaster, is
unbeaten in his last three starts. Until
recently he was given a lot of fast work
on the tracks, and disappointed in his
races, so trainer A. R. Jamieson decided
to experiment. He cut Bankshaw’s track
tasks down to a minimum, and results
have been entirely successful.
Somebody backed Astounding for quite
a lot of money “off the course” for the
second Newport Welter division, and,
after his price had eased from 4 and 5
to 1 to tens, last-minute support brought
the odds down to sevens. Trainer J.
Donohoe, however, declared after the
race that he had let the Sydney-owned
horse run unbacked. The “set” against
Astounding was due to the fact that he
was ridden by an unfashionable appren-
tice, G. Ross. Latter, however, got the
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
Warrein Hurdle: Bozzago, 1 ;
Coylton, 2 ; Ronalla, 3.
Federal Stakes: All Love, 1 ;
Astrid, 2 ; High Title, 3.
Bond Handicap: Apostrophe, 1 ;
Saul, 2 ; Tidal Wave, 3.
Oakleigh Plate: Chatsbury, 1 ;
Phoines, 2 ; Unishak, 3.
St. George Stakes: High Caste,
1 ; Beaulivre, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
Salisbury Welter: Pannade, 1 ;
Lord Windburra, 2 ; Moonray, 3.


SAVE MONEY
THRIFTY
.10 INSTALL^
Pi new ■
si.J
NOIdMIVHO
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
GREATER POWER
Worn-out spark plugs are the
thief of power. Install new
Champions and see the dif-
ference in speed, acceleration
and power. They soon pay for
themselves, too, in the fuel
they save.
An Empire Product —made in Windsor, Can.
best out of his mount, and brought him
along to win decisively from Prince Sion
and Limerick Lace. It was Ross’s first
win, but much of the pleasure derived
from it was lost when the stewards sus-
pended him for one month for interfer-
ence to other runners. Astounding, who
won two races at Flemington last year
when raced on lease by Norman Robin-
son, is racing again in the colors of
Mrs. D. L. Clayton, who won several
races with him in Sydney.
Left several lengths at the start, Sir
Rona recorded a good performance to
win the February Trial. He moved up
smartly to share the lead at the half-
mile, and lasted long enough to win
by a head from Foreigner, with Federal
third. Chamberlain, hot favorite at 7
to 4, was forced to cover a great deal of
extra ground from his outside barrier
position, and weakened after flattering
his backers on the bend. Sir Rona, a
gelding by Great Star, is held on lease
by J. McPherson from J. A. McKenzie,
who conducts a stud farm near Geelong.
In addition to Sir Rona, McKenzie has
bred recent winners in Curia and Billie
Burke.
* * * *
There is nothing new in Munro’s
alleged offence of coming to an arrange-
ment with a punter. There have always
been jockeys—trainers, too, for that
matter —who had a keen eye for “a bit
on the side.” I have heard it said of
some in both sections “Oh, he’d take a
tip from a waiter ; nothing is too small
for him.” Some years ago it was not
unusual to hear that whether some jockey
or other got a good mount in a hurdle
race depended upon whether he could
get a punter for the owner or trainer,
and such statements were founded on
fact.
#••••*
In racing a lot that is untrue receives
credence, and it is not so long ago it was
said that some trainers had to wait their
turn for their horses to be the betting
mediums of a big punter and turf
adviser. In consequence some owners
were occasionally as much mystified as
anyone else by the puzzling form of
their horses. No doubt exaggeration
entered into these reports, but there was
something in them.
* * * *
High Caste, though beaten, put up a
great battle against Mildura in the C. F.
Orr Stakes, and I am still of opinion
that he will win all the standard w.f.a.
races in which he runs at Flemington.
Of course, exception must be made in
the Futurity Stakes, as, though that is
based on w.f.a., a 201 b. penalty may
tell against even such a good weight-
carrier as High Caste. In the C. F. Orr
Stakes High Caste met Mildura 81b.
worse than w.f.a., and, while he was
rather wide out at the turn, the latter
got a run through on the rails. Anyone
acquainted with Moonee Valley knows
what a difference that makes, and with-
out detracting from the merit of Mil-
dura’s performance it would seem as if
the luck was on his side last week. Prob-
ably they will meet again in the St.
George Stakes next Saturday, when, in-
stead of conceding 71b., High Caste will
be in receipt of 21b. from Mildura. On
those terms Mildura’s prospects are not
bright.
Last spring A. E. Cooper had an idea
that Gold Salute was as good as if not
better than High Caste. C. F. Orr
Stakes running should have further dis-
illusioned him on that score. Gold
Salute had a better run through the race
than High Caste, but the latter gave him
91b. and a beating. It was a pity Beau-
livre struck trouble early in the C. F.
Orr Stakes, but as he was doing well at
the end he may be High Caste’s most
dangerous opponent in the St. George
Stakes. Lucrative ran well in the C. F.
Orr Stakes, as did Tranquil Star, but they
respectively met High Caste 91b. and
161 b. better than weight-for-age.
* * * *
Tidal Wave’s failure in the Wynd-
ham Handicap at Moonee Valley does
not count greatly against his Australian
Cup chance. Prior to his departure from
Sydney he had done comparatively little
in the way of distance work, and, with
important autumn engagements ahead,
it was not to be expected that Jamieson
would have him at his best as early as
last week. He had shown pace when
he worked in public with High Caste
in Sydney, but the older horse palpably
held him in their couple of sprints.
Improved by his Moonee Valley run, and
another race at the V.A.T.C. meeting,
Tidal Wave should be at his best when
he runs in the V.R.C. St. Leger and
Australian Cup.
* * * *
The Farm Novice Handicap at Rand-
wick on Saturday was for apprentice
riders, but permitted of all the
best in that class accepting mounts.
As these races are supposed to be for
the encouragement of the younger
lads why not restrict them to riders
who have not been on more than 20
winners—even fewer —instead of leav-
ing them open to apprentices who rank,
with the best of our licensed jockeys?
Admittedly there are allowances for boys
who have not been on a certain number
of winners, but that scarcely gives them
a fair chance against others who get a
full share of riding at every meeting, and
are prominent in the winning list.
* * * *
Backers are already being catered for
in the Doncaster and Sydney Cup. The
horses at the top of the list in each
race have either Newmarket or Austra-
lain Cup engagements, and as the Sydney
weights are not issued until after the
decision of those races success will mean
substantial rises for two winners, and
place-getters will not be overlooked.
Mildura won the Newmarket with 8.0
last year, and an additional 81b. did not
stop him in the Doncaster, but it is a
long time since the Australian and Sy-
ney Cups were won in one season by the
same horse. As a three-year-old Sylvan-
dale went close to it in 1935, when he
won the Australian Cup with 8.3 and
ran third with 8.12 in the Sydney Cup.
He was less than a neck away from the
winner, Akuna. In 1912 Saxonite dead-
heated Prizefighter for the Australian
Cup, and then won the Sydney Cup with
an extra 131 b.
* * * *
In Sydney there has not been a great
deal of betting on the Newmarket and
Australian Cup, and with the probability
of Melbourne results having marked
bearing on the chances of some horses
there has not been a rush by backers to
do business on the Doncaster and Sydney
Cup double. On Monday the order in
which horses were fancied for the various
autumn handicaps was as under:
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
Dhoti, High Caste, Mildura.
Beaulivre, Chatsbury, Scarlet Toi.
Gold Salute, Lucrative, Reading.
All Veil, Greenwich, Pure Gold, Uni-
shak, El Golea, Moonray.
AUSTRALIAN CUP.
Apostrophe.
Tidal Wave.
Dashing Cavalier, Wilson.
Pandect, Telergy.
Bianca, Mac Rob, Pantier, Companion,
Our Boy, Tetianui.
DONCASTER HANDICAP.
Beaulivre, Dhoti, Gold Salute, High
Caste, Mildura.
Chatsbury, Historian, Rimveil, Scarlet
Toi, Carpentier, Lucrative, Reading.
SYDNEY CUP.
Beaulivre, Lucrative, Tidal Wave,
Feminist.
Dashing Cavalier, Katanga, Remarc,
Dhoti, Proud Fox, Spearvale, Historian,
Reading, Scientist, Wilson.
* * * *
Another Victorian club, Woodend, has
cut off telegraphic and telephonic com-
munication with its track in order to
check “off-the-course” betting. The sale
of books outside the course is also pro-
hibited, but, as in the past, a commercial
station will broadcast results from inside
the course. It seems as if the principal
difference from the old position may be
that money staked at starting-price will
not get back to the course, something
that will be appreciated by stay-at-home
bettors, of whom Melbourne has some
who do business in a big way.
* * * ♦
According to the Associated Press
tote betting in America last year was
as follows;
State. Days. Betting.
New York .. .. .. 176 $103,700,000
California .. .. .. 263 70,423,604
Florida .. .. .. 96 41,787,876
Maryland .. .. .. 100 31,941,731
Rhode Island .. .. 64 23,840,468
Massachusetts .. .. 60 22,447,222
Illinois .. .. .. .. 198 46,865,737
New Hampshire .. .. 60 14,924,086
Delaware .. .. .. 30 9,223,225
Arkansas .. .. .. 30 3,185,182
Washington .. .. .. 75 3,567,855
Michigan .. .. .. 66 9,940,083
Kentucky .. .. .. 77 10,309,936
Ohio 257 7,506,267
West Virginia .. .. 92 6,865,440
Nebraska 66 2,000,000
Totals 1710 $408,528,711
At the present rate of exchange with
Australia that would mean approximately
£A126,358,000, In 1939 the State of
New York, with course business con-
fined to bookmakers, received about
£A19,000 from betting. With the tote
operating last year the revenue advanced
to nearly £A 180,000. There are now no
bookmakers on New York courses.
* * * *
Gilltown, favorite for last week’s Rose-
bery Handicap, again demonstrated that
he has no liking for other horses hang-
ing on to him in the early part of a
race; furthermore, that a mile is not
now a distance at which he is seen at
his best. When Happy Lass and Aranui
ran past him before going half a mile
that was the end of him. As he was only
251 b. from the minimum in a very in-
different field he is evidently a long way
from the form that enabled him to win
the last Moonee Valley Cup when 191 b.
above it. However, as he should im-
prove, he and his stable-companion
Amiable may make a good double bet
at a mid-week or ordinary Saturday
meeting in the near future.
* * * *
The California Racing Board recently
passed a rule which does not commend
itself to all that State’s breeders or
owners. There are many races restricted
to Californian-bred horses, and the board
recently decided that “Californian-bred”
horses were those not only foaled in that
State, but whose dams were served there.
This meant that in order for her progeny
to run in races for horses bred in Cali-
fornia a mare could not be sent to any
stallion outside that State. Those op-
posed to the rule say it would eventually
have a bad effect upon California’s blood-
stock, as breeders would practically be
forced to mate their mares with one of
many indifferent stallions now in that
State instead of sending them away to
those of a higher class. L. B. Mayer,
who recently acquired Beau Pere, will
lose nothing by the new rule, as that
horse will be located at his stud in
Santa Clara Valley, California.
* * * *
It is of interest to Australians that
Sir Gallahad 111, who headed the list of
winning sires in America last year with
$304,705, has the same granddam on the
maternal side as Playaway, winner of the
Caulfield Futurity Stakes of 1903 and
Newmarket of 1904. Sir Gallahad Ill’s
dam Plucky Liege was by Spearmint
(son of Carbine) from Concertina, and
Playaway was by Carbine from Concer-
tina. Playaway was used at the stud in
N.S.W. for several seasons, and the best
of her progeny was Highland Band. In
1913, when 13 years old, Playaway was
sent to France, but I have no knowledge
of her stud record in that country. Sir
Gallahad 111 is by the French horse
Teddy.
* * * *
When some horses lose form they take
a long time in regaining it. Runners for
the Flying at Victoria Park, Sydney,
included Fakenham, winner of the 1938
Villiers Stakes with 8.3 (211 b. from the
minimum) and now rising eight. His
only win subsequent to the Villiers Stakes
was 15 months ago in a mile at
Hawkesbury. He had 9.0 (limit 7.0)
and beat three others. He finished ahead
of two of the 12 starters in last week’s
race, but his return to the winning list
appears a long way off. Still trained by
E. D. Lawsop, Fakenham’s owner is Miss
Honor Wilson.
Scientist, looking healthy, though not
wound up, reappeared at Victoria Park
last Wednesday, and, though unequal to
making a bid for the Flying Handicap,
should be ready for autumn racing. Luck
was with him when he gave Veiled
Threat a stone and a half and a half-
neck beating in the Members’ Handicap
at Randwick in the spring, but still it
was a performance that put him in the
light of a good colt. He is now trained
by his owner, E. G. Carroll.
* * * »
Proud Fox, who is coming to Sydney
with Beau Vite for autumn racing, has
raced unluckily this season, his seven
starts having given three seconds and
two thirds. He ran nowhere in the Well-
ington Cup with 8.1, but a couple of
days later, with 8.0, ran Wardress (7.7)
to a half-head in the Wellington R.C.
Handicap, third place going to Royal
Chief (9.9). According to some of the
critics Royal Chief should have won, but
the field, as a whole, was not high-class.
Proud Fox is a four-year-old by Fox-
bridge from Gazelia.
* * * *
Dhoti’s prominence in the Newmarket
quotations is a 4 fair indication that he is
getting through a satisfactory prepara-
tion. The £5O paid for him as a late
entrant for the Caulfield Futurity Stakes
assures his being a starter for that race,
and seven furlongs should be within his
compass. He has 101 b. penalty, but in
that respect will be much better off than
High Caste and Beaulivre, each of whom
will have 201 b. extra. Dhoti has had
only one run in Australia, that being
when Aurie’s Star beat him a neck in
the Kiata Handicap, six furlongs, at
Moonee Valley last year. Dhoti is owned
by Mr. E. A. Underwood.
=t= * * *
The odds are against Victorian owners
winning any of the w.f.a. races at
the V.A.T.C. or V.R.C. meetings. The
southern nominations for the St. George
Stakes at the Caulfield meeting point to
the southern State being weak in w.f.a.
horses. Including Mildura, the Mel-
bourne-trained entrants for that race
are that horse, Historian, Tranquil Star,
Lucrative, Greenwich, Pure Gold and
Sun Valley, against High Caste, Beau-
livre, Gold Salute, Reading, Dashing
Cavalier and Nightbeam from N.S.W.
Unless Lucrative and Tranquil Star should
prove really good three-year-olds there
does not seem much hope for the Vic-
torians in the longer w.f.a. races at the
V.R.C, meeting.
* * * *
Despite the war racing was carried
on in Germany last year, and at the sales
at Hoppegarten in October unusually
high prices were paid for yearlings.
“The Blood-Horse” says that 71 were sold
at an average of about £A66O. The top
prices were for two colts by Felicitation,
winner of the Ascot Gold Cup. They
were bred by the Aga Khan and are
believed to have been among the horses
annexed by the Germans in France early
last year,
* * * *
The oldest known thoroughbred in
America is Merrick, who was 38 this
year. He was raced until he was 11
years old, starting in 205 races, of which
he won 61. He is nearly blind, deaf and
toothless, but his owner reports him as
“getting along fine.”
* * * *
In respect of winning fees jockeys are
not so well off in California at meetings
of importance as they are in New South
Wales. Until recently the Californian
rule provided for $5O for a winning
mount, but that was amended, and now
the payment for first in any race, even
the most valuable, is $35, second $2O,
and third $l5. Riders of unplaced
horses receive $lO, a little over £A3.
Perhaps one reason for the alteration is
to make jockeys ride their mounts out
for minor places. The tote backer has
evidently impressed upon the racing


authorities that he is always entitled to
a “go” for second or third. In N.S.W.
when the value of a prize to a winner
exceeds £lOO the jockey receives 5 per
cent., and £2 for a losing mount. There
is no provision for extra for second or
third, though it is improbable jockeys
are overlooked when something sub-
stantial attaches to a minor place. In
England, no matter how great the value
of a prize, a jockey cannot claim more
than £5 ss. for a win and £3 3s. for a
losing fee under Jockey Club rules. One
can imagine the surprise and disgust of
a jockey whose employer gave him only
£5 ss. for winning a Derby or St. Leger.
• * * •
Unishak won the last Oakleigh Plate
with 8.0, and, though five and a half
furlongs down the Flemington straight
is a severer test than that distance at
Caulfield, another win for him in that
race is possible. He has 8.4 this time,
and his second with that weight in the
six furlongs Marine Handicap at Moonee
Valley was the best he had done recently,
and suggested further improvement was
probable. Phoines is expected to prove
himself, likewise Scarlet Toi, Aspire and
Chatsbury, but before the declaration of
acceptances it is difficult to give a defi-
nite opinion as to what is likely to win.
Still, I (“Pilot”) think Unishak will be
thereabouts.
* * * ♦
Few buyers of high-priced yearlings at
last season’s sales in Melbourne and Syd-
ney have much on which to congratulate
themselves up to the present. Queens-
land-bred Yaralla (by The Buzzard) has
given the best return of the four-figure
youngsters, and Beau Port, at 2200gn5.,
is a winner. Astrid has put Brueghel in
the limelight, but unless there are develop-
ments during the next few weeks there is
likeiy to be a considerable slump in the
prices of the progeny of some sires.
Breeders do not like their “duds” being
mentioned, but no stud can avoid having
some. Of the comparatively low-priced
yearlings All Love (by Double Remove),
at 250gns., stands right out.
* * * *
Gladynev, who was sold in Welling-
ton after running nowhere in the Welling-
ton Cup, will in future be raced by Mrs.
M. Lees. Gladynev could have been
resold at a substantial profit to a would-
be Australian buyer, but no business re-
sulted. Allotted a weight that threw him
into the race, Gladynev was narrowly
beaten in the Caulfield Cup, but as he
proved he could get a mile and a half
he might have been a profitable purchase
for Australia, especially as those handi-
cappers who, unlike C. Hill, were in-
clined to overrate him had commenced
to treat him more leniently.
* * * *
Telergy (7.0) and Saki (7.7), first and third
respectively in the Wyndham Handicap
at Moonee Valley, are in the Australian
Cup. Telergy has 6.10 and Saki 7.7, and
both meet Tidal Wave on better terms.
The last-named ran fourth, but, though
his weight drops only 21b., he may make
the greater improvement. Telergy, who
outstayed Carpentier, is a four-year-old
gelding by Medieval Knight from Mag-
net, and, as he would not have been put
in the Australian Cup unless his o\vner
or trainer thought he had staying preten-
sions, his light weight should give him
a fair chance. The last winner of that
race with less than 7.0 was Sea Money,
who had 6.10 in 1928.
♦ * * *
Orange J.C. will race on Feb. 28 and
March 1, and the Orange Cup, though
not so valuable as at one time, carries £6O
and a £2O trophy. Entries for all races
close at 8 p.m. on Saturday next, 15th
inst.
« * « *
While punters have had the better of
the battle with the books in Sydney for
some time past it is doubtful whether the
latter, as a whole, have experienced quite
such a bad time as they would have it
believed. We read of the millions —more
or less—some horse has taken out of
the ring, and of the big bets laid against
a winner by various bookmakers. How-
ever, when you reckon up the big bets
credited by the same bookmakers against
other horses in the same race it would
seem that the amount taken out by a
well-backed winner must sometimes be
nearly covered. Of course, smaller bets
would help to swell greatly the amount
laid against some winners, but as a rule
prices are so close that, if four horses
are fairly backed in a big field, the
damage can rarely be very serious. Admit-
tedly, when a winner is backed from a
comparatively long price down to a short
one the books can be hard hit, but it is
not often they are caught in that fashion.
Anyhow, one day of long-priced winners
makes up for many losing days.
* * * *
Maoriland three-year-old Lou Rosa is
not up to the standard of Kindergarten,
but he is good. In the Great Northern
Derby at Auckland on New Year’s Day
he ran Kindergarten to three-quarters of
a length in 2.31 for the mile and a half,
and on Jan. 25 at the Auckland R.C.
meeting he won the Takapuna Cup, 11
furlongs, of £lOOO, in which he had 8.4.
Another three-year-old, Beau Leon, was
favorite with 8.3, but did not get a
place. The early pace was slow, but
the last half-mile was run in 48|. Lou
Rosa, who is a gelding, is by Foxbridge
from Lucy Rose.
* * * *
It would seem advisable to amend
the A.J.C. rule bearing on jockeys’
acceptance of presents. As it reads at
present it provides that every jockey or
apprentice shall be fined, suspended from
riding, or disqualified for any period the
committee of the club may think fit “if
he shall accept any pecuniary or other
gift or consideration in connection with
any race in which he shall ride, other
than from the owner or owners of the
horse he shall ride in such race, without
the consent of such owner or owners.”
As the owner and trainer acquiesced in
Munro accepting the odds about Cryon,
it was generally thought the latter part
of the rule would tell in that jockey’s
favor. However, the A.J.C., acting on
the stipendiary stewards’ report, must
have had sound reason for deciding
otherwise. There are so few in Munro’s
class as a jockey that it is to be re-
gretted he offended to the extent of
causing the A.J.C. committee to with-
draw his license. The public would like
to know exactly what was contained in
the stewards’ report, as it not only led
to Munro’s punishment but the debar-
ment from admission to Randwick of one
of his friends.
* * * *
Every year a vote is taken in America
as to racing writers’ opinions concern-
ing the best horses. A total of 172 regis-
tered votes as to those standing out in
1940, and among the two-year-olds
Whirlaway (by Blenheim II) was placed
first of the colts, and Level Best (by
Equipoise) the best filly. Bimelech,
despite his Kentucky Derby failure, was
voted the best three-year-old, and Chal-
ledon the best horse of the year, having
84 supporters to the 34 of Seabiscuit,
who was placed second.
* * * *
H. G. Raymond and H. B. Ranken,
of the St. Albans Stud, Geelong, have
received word that their English pur-
chase, Field Trial, was lost as a result
of the steamer on which he was coming
to Australia being torpedoed. A Tiberius
colt was on the same boat. Field Trial,
who ran third in Bahrain’s Derby, was
not a costly purchase, but might have
been an acquisition to Australia’s blood-
stock. He was by Felstead out of
Popingaol, by Dark Ronald out of Popin-
jay. Popingaol is a full sister to Magpie.
* * * *
Nowadays few owners or trainers
would countenance running a high-class
three-year-old twice in the same after-
noon, but John Tait did that with Fire-
works on three different occasions in
the 1867-68 season. At Flemington on
Nov. 27, 1867, he ran Fireworks in the
Duke of Edinburgh Stakes, a handicap,
\\ mile and a distance. The colt
finished third, and, with one race inter-
vening, won the Galatea Stakes, a two-
mile race for three-year-olds. On the
following New Year’s Day Fireworks
won the Derby, 1} mile, at Flemington,
and was then saddled up for the next
race, the Midsummer Handicap, If mile,
in which he carried top weight, 8.6 (mini-
mum 6st.), and won easily from the aged
gelding Toryboy in 3.6.
Fireworks was then taken to Tasmania,
and at Launceston on Feb. 20 won the
St. Leger. His next run was in the St.
Leger at Flemington on March 21, and
that proved soft for him. Then he was
brought back to Sydney, and, though
beaten by his stable-companion Glencoe
in the St. Leger at Randwick on April
25, won the All-Aged Stakes, 1 mile, and
the Autumn Bruie Stakes, 1 \ mile, on
May 1. He finished by winning the
Randwick Handicap, \\ mile, with 8.4
(minimum 6st.), on May 2. At the com-
mencement of that season he was un-
placed in the Melbourne Cup, then run
on the first day of the meeting, Thursday,
Oct. 31 ; won the Derby on the second
day—there were two Derbies at Fleming-
ton that season —and ran second in the
All-Aged Stakes, 1 mile, on the third
day. John Tait believed in getting all
that was possible out of his horses. As
a four-year-old Fireworks was weighted
at 9.6 (minimum 5.7) for the Melbourne
Cup, those above him being Sydney Tim
Whiffler and The Barb, 10.4 each.
* * * *
The reduction of racing in England
last year naturally had a marked effect
upon winning sires’ figures, and Hyperion
(by Gainsborough), who came out on top,
was credited with only £13,461, the result
of 25 wins by 20 different horses. Next
in order were; Bahram, £6703 ; Barne-
veldt, £6703 ; Fair Trial (by Fairway),
£5606 ; and Tourbillon, £5486. Apron
(by Son-in-Law) had 16 winners of 25
races, Cameronian (by Pharos) 10 of 11,
and Gold Bridge (by Swynford or Golden
Boss) nine of 14.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Southpaw from Noumea
Georges Champion, described as a
French middleweight from Noumea, but
several shades darker even than a cabled
portrayal of Monsieur Pierre Laval,
proved at Leichhardt last week miles too
industrious and awkwardly clever for the
Newcastle lad, Joe Delaney. Both tipped
the beam at list., Joe having it a bit his
way in height and reach, but, with his
side-on, evasive style and pale pelt, look-
ing spidery against Champion’s more
solid brown proportions.
Adding to that contrast effect in hue,
shape and style, Georges sported sky-blue
trunks and Joe the dark green and white
star of the Coal City’s leading stoush
laboratory. Both ran to higher foreheads,
bulkier bokos, more knobby cheekbones
and larger lugs than the usual run of
scrappers, Georges especially, and for
some reason his corner too, running to
a forehead loft a good couple of inches
above Parliament House, Canberra, aver-
age. On top of it Georges had growing
a nicy wavy crop of thatch in the Mar-
celle style, and of that faintly ginger tint
—natural, sun-bleached or otherwise
acquired—that has decorated the scalps
of sundry imported scrappers of late.
As a scrapper Georges gave the im-
pression that he could fight for thirty
bob a week and tucker. He had to make
the fight, pursuing Joe throughout the
12 rounds in the manner of a hungry
crab after a toe-dancing, crouching and
weaving squid, yet he finished up as fresh
as he started. Joe’s method was to keep
retreating on crouched tiptoe round and
round Albania, every now and then, when
the unvarying advance goaded or exas-
perated him, leaping at Georges with a
wild welter of swings. Mostly these
landed on Georges’s shoulder or solid and
hairy brisket, Georges countering with
left rip or uppercut to body or chin, a
discouragement that scored more and
more effectively, until, over the last few
rounds, it never missed getting home.
Once a wild right swing took Georges
under the point and literally lifted him
several inches off the canvas. It made
no difference to Georges: he was still
fighting while up in the air, and carried
straight on when he got back to earth.
Apart from this proof of toughness,
the scrap didn’t indicate how good or
otherwise Georges may be. Joe may pos-
sibly have won the second round, but
he won no other. He fought as if fifth-
columnists had been at him with a de-
featist line of patter. In the circum-
stances, Georges had his work cut out
to keep up, and no chance at all of
demonstrating what there might be in
him. However, he showed well enough
to indicate that, though a heavy puncher
with a fast right, like Richards, would
make a fair job of him, Georges should
hold his own with most others that would
be left if Ron carried out his professed
intention of turning the game in.
There was much more real stoush in
the 10-round support scrap between Bill
Hebberd and Tommy Hunter, both 10.4.
Bill is a hard-hitting, cool Westralian,
evidently tougher in the pelt than most
of the fair-complexioned breed. He had
a fair sort of a molehill under his left
eye towards the end, but bore no other
marks of the hard-fought and very will-
ing mill.
Tommy, on the other hand, looks as
if he might have been turned out, com-
plete with green trunks and star, by the
B.H.P. in his home town. Yet quite early
in the piece he had a fairly bad cut above
his left eye and later a gash between the
left side of his boko and the corner of
his mouth. At the end of the third his
phiz was in such shape that ref. Elliott
wanted to know if he’d had enough.
“Enough be hanged!” said Tommy, or
words to that effect. He made light of
the inconvenience, which never im-
proved ; mixed it solidly with the West-
ralian lad, who’s a natural solid mixer ;
and, orj boxing merit as well as the grit
his effort called for, Tommy deserved
his win.
The Westralian has a lot to learn in
the finer points, but looks the sort who
might improve, and in the meantime
brings a needed willingness into the game
that would make any scrap with him in
it be at least an honest fight. Not that the
Newcastle lad who honors the name of
the local creek is any flung behind him in
that respect.
* * * •
In their second meeting at Newcastle
Alan Westbury beat Tod Morgan. It
was again a hard fight, with Tod again
giving the claimant of the Australian
welter title an 81b. advantage. Morgan
weakened towards the finish, and Alan
had it narrowly on points.
Boxing as a featherweight, Mickey
Miller was outpointed by Billy Rainsbury
at West Melbourne on Saturday night.
Miller has a Government job which gives
him little time for training, and he may
not have been at his best. All the same,
Rainsbury is not too bad.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
[Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
American golfers nearly all grip the
club in the same manner. Only one
player of note, Gene Sarazen, seems to
differ ; he uses the interlocking grip, in
which the little finger of the right hand
interlocks with the first finger of the left
hand. The rest of the leading golfers use
the conventional overlapping, or Vardon,
grip, where the little linger of the right
hand overlaps the first finger of the left
hand. Sarazen has frequently stated that
if he had his time over again he would
never interlock, and in teaching he
advises the overlapping grip.
While the big players all grip alike, some
favor more pressure or a firmer grip by
one or the other hand on the club. Some
have a tighter hold on the shaft with the
left hand, which, they contend, is the
guiding factor in hitting the ball. Others
have a firmer grip with the right hand.
But Ed Oliver expresses the general view:
“I like to know that both hands are
working together.”
Some years ago I was in favor of the
right hand doing the main part in hitting
the ball, but today I find that a con-
certed effort by both hands assists me
to more accurate play. However, I still
use the right hand chiefly in playing
recovery shots, particularly bunker shots
and digging the ball out of the heavy
rough. This, I find, is essential for club-
head speed, and strength is required in
both these strokes. I find, too, more touch
using the right hand in my pitch-and-run
shots around the greens and in shorter
high pitches with stop. In the former
the right hand regulates the strength of
the shot; in the latter crispness is re-
quired, and with the club sharply cutting
across the ball the right hand is needed.
Craig Wood and Gene Sarazen are
the principal “right-hand-only” players
in American golf, and both met with
outstanding success during 1940. In late
years the players who favor a firm left-
handed grip are gradually sinking into
the minority.
Most American players prefer a modi-
fied closed stance, although there are out-
standing examples of both the open and
closed stances. The younger school nearly
all use a semi-closed stance, with the right
foot at right-angles to the line of flight
and the left open slightly toward the
hole. This stance is a comfortable one,
and is used by such players as Ed Oliver
and Ralph Guldahl. A feature of this
stance is that the backswing can be more
easily curbed ; overswinging is easy when
the right foot is in open position.
With the semi-closed stance the
natural tendency of the hips at impact
with the ball is to open out toward the
hole and provide a full follow-through.
These fundamentals are vital factors in
improving one’s play, and especially that
of handicap players who have difficulty
in scoring consistently. A glance at
one’s stance may show the feet to be
incorrectly placed, or at least in a position
that makes stroke-making harder.
Miscellaneous
In November the athletes of the fight-
ing forces had a great series of contests
on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
Bradman was there, and so was
Menzies, and some of the best runners
in the Commonwealth competed in the
track events. Hoping to go one better
on the Sydney C.G., the R.A.N., A.I.F.
and R.A.A.F. track and field men
applied for the use of that ground
through the N.S.W. Amateur Athletic
Association, which undertook to make
all arrangements and provide all officials.
They might have known what the answer
would be in general terms, since the
ground, dedicated for amateur sport, has
been given over for years during the
winter months to a professional football
concern with a shabby history and no
hope of posterity, but after the first im-
pulse of anger they laughed loud and
long. The application was refused be-
cause “such a procedure would dis-
courage the Rugby League’s war effort.”
The Rugby League’s war effort! Price-
less!
* * * *
Had a sixtieth birthday, H. A. Ben-
nett, president of the Victorian Amateur
Swimming Association and a former
champion swimmer and water-polo
player. He managed the Olympic swim-
ming team in 1920, and has been 20 years
president of the association.


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kitlncy Tubes
►—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble Is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get bacK-
tfashed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don't wait for serious trouble to lay yoh
tip. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. Ifbackacheisbother-
Ing you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN 3
JJACKACHE KIDftEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMEN'S
LETTERS
H.M.A.S. Sydney berthed at the Quay
to the boom of guns, to the whistle
of ferry, to the flying of flags. The
harbor was dimpled all over with smiles,
the sky was delphinium blue. Smart and
brass-bound launches darted about the
warship. Officialdom paid its calls on
gallant Captain Collins and his brave
men. Yesterday the men of the Sydney
paraded the city, the aura of their Medi-
terranean glory arousing wild bursts of
enthusiasm from the watchers along the
streets. Commemorative plaques were
handed out at the Town Hall, and in
the evening there was a public reception.
If you had the heart of a locust you
rejoiced at the dry, still heat of Rand-
wick last Saturday. It was a Warwick
Farm meeting, and the maxim about
making hay while the sun shines seemed
to have infected one and all. Woman,
however, made her bets with a seem-
ingly cool nonchalance, aided by light
frocking of the washable variety. Mrs.
George Osborne, all in bronzy browns
from her snappy little hat, was reported
as having the luck with her. Among the
attractive in white was Mrs. Mick Grace.
A large satchel bag in navy and white
to match her small sailor hat caused
every woman’s gaze to rest on Joan Bell.
Mrs. Sam Osborne’s navy and white were
among things approved.
Everybody has heard of Turramurra
as an art centre. It is the life centre
of the group that became so well known
as the Turramurra wall painters. But
Chatswood, lower down the North Shore
line, can now exalt itself, for Chatswood
is the home suburb of Frank Norton,
newly-appointed artist with the R.A.N.
Frank is a product of the East Sydney
Technical and Fred Leist. Fred Leist
saw his student’s talent for painting the
sea and ships, and helped him in every
way. When Frank was still an art
student he made many journeys along the
coast in colliers to study the ever-variable
moods of wind and wave. The P. and O.
company sent the artist on a cruise to
China and Japan to get local color for
publicity work. After the outbreak of
the war, when he was in London, he did
on commission from the British Ministry
of Information, a poster showing the de-
feat of the Graf Spec. He is a member
of the Society of Marine Artists.
If you desire health and beauty (and
which of us does not?), you’ll get the
whole series handed to you at the fair at
and for the Lady Gowrie Red Cross
Home. This, as you probably know, is a
convalescent home, and is the somewhat
transformed residence of Woolcott Forbes
at Gordon. There will be lectures on
health and physical fitness. Psycho-
analysts, too, will be loose in the land ex-
plaining all he reasons why you do or do
not like certain things. There is the prob-
ability of facials, hair-dos and make-up
being part of the fun for the adolescent
and adult girl. Annette Kellerman is
organising a display named, or it might
easily be, “Esplanade Serenade.” This
will be staged on the brink and in the
cool, jadelike waters of the superb swim-
ming pool. Annette will give a display of
aquaplaning.
Mervyn Finlay has promised flowers
large and small, and, in short, everything
but a complete rock garden, to the flower
stall which will be rup by the Walder
lady. This does sound as though it will
be a partnership of the romantic and the
exotic in blooms. There will be a pro-
duce and fruit stall, a general stall and
all the usual trimmings. The serving of
tea is expected to be a Gargantuan task,
because if you don’t buy your tea at the
fair, where, so far from home, will you
get it? There are to be soothsayers,
a merry-go-round for the children
and ponies for them to ride on, also
lucky dips. The price of admission
was keenly debated. Some thought
that people would pay 2s. as they did
when the Red Cross threw the house
open to inspection. Then somebody
pointed out that it would not be so easy
now to display to the curious the black
marble bathroom. It was decided to
charge one shilling for grown-ups and
sixpence for children. One man added
a rider that there should be a rebate for
families of four or over.
Lady Wakehurst got the meeting going
at a good pace, and with one eye on
the clock, so to speak, as she was due
to go on to the opening of the City Mis-
sion’s new offices in Bathurst-street. The
Snow lady was appointed president of the
committee. Then came a list of vice-
presidents, the Sheldon and Fairfax ladies
and Mrs. Walter Swinson among them.
After Lady Wakehurst’s departure the
president took the chair and made a neat
job of it. Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones, Ruby
Storey, Mrs. Reg Bettington and Mrs.
Rodney Dangar were among the eager
to help in the Australia ballroom.
Why not begin to help Greece on
February 18 by being one of the gay
throng on the Showboat? This excur-
sion is Tor the Greek Red Cross. Greek
Day throughout Australia will be Feb-
ruary 28, and surely on that day every
city and suburban worker will buy and
wear the special button commemorating
our brave ally. It is hoped that over a
million will be bought and paid for.
Special feature of the 28th will be the
parade of the men of the Air Force, the
Navy and the A.I.F. in company with
Greeks in the now-so-widely-known
Evzone uniform. A market day, with
stalls and chocolate wheels in the prin-
cipal street, will be held in every suburb.
Greece’s war funds benefit.
The Women’s Auxiliary of the
National Defence League is lucky in its
president, Mrs. A. W. Keighley. She is
at once a thinker and a woman of action,
a necessary combination when you have
to direct the energies and talents of 2000
members. The work of the auxiliary
takes in A.R.P. transport, first aid and
map-reading. The last seems the most
difficult of all to those of us who have
only to have a plan of any neighborhood
given to them to cause them to become
irretrievably lost. All sports, particularly
riding, appeal to Mrs. Keighley. Mem-
bers are reminded of the bridge party
for the auxiliary funds on Feb. 27 at the
Sydney Bridge Club. Tasma photograph.
There was such a programme arranged
for the Theodore Sizers that lots of Syd-
ney people who would have liked to get
to know them practically just glimpsed
them as they were whisked away. Pro-
fessor Sizer, Director of Art at Yale Uni-
versity, is visiting Australia as a repre-
sentative of the Carnegie Trust to make
a collection of representative Australian
art. This will be shown through the
U.S.A. and Canada. Professor Sizer is
dark and debonair, and what he doesn’t
know about art would probably go in a
nutshell, and a small nut at that. He said
to the selection committee; “Don’t give
us all your sweets ; put in some of your
sours, too. We want to get a compre-
hensive showing.” Artists here agree that
Mrs. Sizer has a “beautiful head.” The
two left for Melbourne last week.
Died recently in England, Marie
Narelle, a famed singer of the late ’nine-
ties. Marie, whose maiden name was
Ryan, took the concert name of Narelle
from her native place, Narellan. She
was a typical Irish beauty, tall, black-
haired, clear-skinned, blue-eyed. Her
fame, and it was spread through Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and America, was
as a ballad singer. Press and public alike
went wild over her. It is told that once
in England at a very conservative con-
cert she gave as an encore “The Wearin’
o’ the Green” and was greeted with
rounds of applause.
She sang in London with Albani, Cross-
ley, Santley and Davies, During the St.
Louis World’s Fair she was one of the
few artists engaged for the entire term.
Under the management of Francke, who
piloted Paderewski on his first tour of
Australia, she sang throughout the whole
of the United States. Her American tour
closed with a reception by President
Theodore Roosevelt at the White House.
When Marie paid a return visit as a
singer to Australia Chester Fentress, an
English tenor of renown, was in the
company.
The City Mission, whose record of
service to the community is worthy a
golden scroll, hopes to increase its kindly
ministrations among the poor and needy.
Its new home in Bathurst-street has more
facilities than had the rather cramped
quarters in Campbell-street. For nearly
80 years the City Mission has worked
among the less fortunate. It is a re-
proach to the thinking citizen that the
task of its staff of 40 is so heavy. Last
year 28,500 poor families were visited
and provided with food and clothing,
and thousands of free meals were given.
A side of the Mission’s work which
should make direct appeal to all mothers
is that of its homes for undernourished
children. Last Thursday afternoon the
Mission’s new home was crowded with
friends and workers. Lord Wakehurst
went along to give Vice-regal blessing to
the Bathurst-street premises. Lady Wake-
hurst, too, hurried along after her Red
Cross meeting. Knight Clifton Love is
president of the C.M., and the well-liked
padre S. A. McDonald is its super-
intendent.
Saturday scintillated with weddings;
among them Pat Culpan’s to Keith
Collie Phillips ; Patricia Daly’s to David
Murray; and Iris Langworthy’s to
Gunner Raymond Crossing, St. Mark,
St. Stephen and St. John were respec-
tively called upon to give the blessing,
each in his own church at Darling
Point, Macquarie-street and Darling-
hurst. Pat weftt to her nuptials
cheered by the telephoned and cabled
good wishes of sister Betty, Mrs. R. J.
Williams, of Detroit. Iris had a whirl-
wind trousseau plucking, as she and her
’groom decided only on Friday to make
Saturday the day.
Father Thomas McNevin celebrated
his first nuptial mass when a former
fellow-student was married at St. Mary’s
Basilica on February 1 to Mavis Eliza-
beth Frost. Bridegroom, lawyer Leonard
Lochrin, who graduated at the same time
as Father McNevin, is the younger son
of the A. Lochrins, of Burwood. The
pretty bride, only daughter of A. Frost,
of Cronulla, wore a gown of ivory
French crepe and a cut tulle veil with a
topknot of orange-blossom. Her flowers
were tuberoses.
Alison Clint, whose wedding with
Corporal Gordon Nuttall is timed for
round about Easter, has several links with
this paper. An uncle was Frank Fox,
one-time Bulletin staff man and editor
of the original “Lone Hand” ; another re-
lation was Sydney Clint, who contributed
black-and-white sketches to The Bulle-
tin for many years. Art runs in the
family. One forebear helped found the
Society of Artists here ; another, a great-
grandfather, was a friend of Sir Thomas
Lawrence. Alison said “good-bye,” or
at least “au revoir,” to all that, and for
some time trained as a nurse in Sydney
Hospital. She and her affianced met first
of all at a hunt in Yorkshire, where
Alison had gone as her uncle Frank
Fox’s guest. That was a few years ago.
Then came the war, and Corporal Gor-
don Nuttall came to Australia as in-
spector on loan to the R.A.A.F. The
two met again at a party. Gordon is
the youngest son of Sir William Nuttall,
of Yorkshire. The two hope to make
their home in Inverness, which was the
girlhood home of Alison’s mother.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
It isn’t a bad thing to turn the pages
of memory when the personalities and
the incidents come out as cleanly etched,
as vividly colored as do those of Julian
Ashton’s life. Ninety-year-old Julian was
the guest of the trustees of the National
Gallery the other day. They did this
veteran artist proud. The flowers on the
lunch table, which was set in the board-
room, were composed not to obstruct
the view. Jimmy McGregor provided the
wines. Everybody made speeches of
congratulation. TTie only two present
who weren’t trustees were Julian’s son
Howard and Minister for Education
Drummond. At last Julian, his sensitive
face a little flushed with the excitement,
made his speech ; and more than half his
listeners, including Syd Long and Sydney
Ure Smith, had been his pupils. His
reminiscences painted a perfect picture
of Sydney in the ’nineties, and such
old pupils as Hilder, Lambert, Gruner
appeared again,, eager youngsters avid
for beauty.
Julian told a good story concerning
the portrait of Henry Parkes which now
hangs in the Gallery. Henry, who always
appeared in a top-hat and a frock-coat,
was a very recognisable figure. One
morning, the same being a public holi-
day, on which there was to be a sitting,
the artist, who lived at Bondi and had
to make the journey to town in the steam
tram, was delayed because the tram broke
down. Arriving at his studio, Julian
found the veteran politician waiting on
the pavement, top-hat, frock-coat and
all. Julian apologised for his tardy
arrival, explaining its cause. “That’s all
right, Julian. While I have been stand-
ing here during the past half hour it has
given innumerable passers-by the chance
to point me out and say ‘There’s the
old cow! ’ ”
Mrs. Clarence Weber, Independent
M.L.A. for Nunawading in Victoria,
paid Sydney a flying visit last week.
Among other engagements, she kept one
with her own portrait hanging in the
Archibald Prize exhibition. This portrait
of the clever woman who now represents
the electorate formerly represented by the
Prime Minister was painted by Nancy
Moffat, art instructor in the Technical
College in Mrs. Weber’s electorate.
Brisbaneites and inhabitants of other
cities in Queensland are soon to meet
Gladys Richardson of the Red Cross.
Gladys has been assistant secretary of
the N S.W. division of that society and
has in her 12 years’ work won appre-
ciation from headquarters and from the
public brought into contact with her.
Gladys has a nice way over the telephone,
and that’s not so usual as you might
think it. She has during the whole of
her association with the society worked
with the superintendent, H. L. Pitt; so
when she goes as secretary of the Queens-
land division she’ll take over with all
competence. The Red Cross Head-
quarters Younger Set is going to miss
Gladys ; she has been so much one of
them, and has organised their fete for
the past eight years.
What a linking-up of ancestors there
was when Mary Hartwell Williams, of
Wahroonga, exchanged vows with Colin
MacLaurin in Cranbrook School chapei.
She reckons among her pioneer forebears
Captain T, V. Blomfield, who served with
Wellington in the Peninsular wars, Milsons
and the De Mestres. The ’groom’s grand-
father was knight Normand MacLaurin,
for 18 years Chancellor of Sydney Uni-
versity. The Fitzgeralds, of the famed
Irish line, and the Rouses come into his
family tree. The Rev. F. T. Perkins, who
was headmaster of Cranbrook during
Colin’s schooldays, blessed the vows. The
bride’s array was the traditional white
satin, tulle and orange-blossom. A recep-
tion was held by her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Keith Williams, of Wahroonga, in
the Queen’s Club.
Well-known Sydney newspaperman
Kenneth Wilkinson, who by now is busy
on a Melbourne paper, opened the “Show
of Fives” at the Macquarie Galleries last
week. The show is so named because
none of the pictures is priced higher than
five guineas. The exhibition lured a
crowd of art lovers and a few art buyers.
Howard Ashton’s “Harbor Foreshore”
drew the eye, as did Mrs. Russell Drys-
dale’s hat with its flyaway bow of plaid
taffeta. Her husband’s canvas “The
Paper” was among the discussed. They
are Victorians, but not of the early order.
Mrs. Claude Plowman was an interested
gazer who had nothing on the walls.
Every second person seemed to be an
active wielder of the brush. The Paul
Haefligers each showed a picture. Like-
able are Elaine Haxton’s chimney-pots
and Isabel Mackenzie’s strip of Vaucluse
beach.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of the
undermentioned people are asked to get in touch
with the undersigned, who has information
which may be to the advantage of the people
in question:
1. WALTER ERNEST LOWE, aged 30 years.
2. REGINALD LOWE, aged 27 years.
Both persons born at Grimsby, Lincolnshire,
and last seen in Brisbane some 16 years ago,
the children of Walter Lowe and Ethel May
Lowe (born Morris).
J. M. GLASS, Solicitor,
Box 1, Wauchope, N.S.W.
WOULD JAMES RAYMOND GIBSON,
last heard of in Mildura, Victoria, or anyone
knowing whether he is alive or dead, please
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch, New Zealand?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
No. 234 of 1940.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
DAPHNE GLADYS BUTTERWORTH v.
MAXWELL DANIEL BUTTERWORTH.
Abstract of Citation.
TO MAXWELL DANIEL BUTTERWORTH
of an address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia citing you to appear and answer the
petition of DAPHNE GLADYS BUTTER-
WORTH of Wiluna in the State of Western
Australia praying for dissolution of marriage.
IN default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the said petition proved
and pronounce sentence in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within forty-five days
after the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your Proctor Solicitor or Attorney
at the Central Office of our said Court at
Perth and there to enter an appearance in a
book provided for that purpose without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
either in person or by counsel at any stage of
the proceedings in the cause.
(L.s.) J. G. BOYLSON,
Acting-Registrar.
JOSEPH MUIR & WILLIAMS, of A.N.A.
House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
To be advertised in one issue of the
“Bulletin.”
Melbourne
Chatter
Organisers of the meeting in the Town
Hall where Major Gorman spoke of the
work of the Australian Comforts Fund
were out in their guess about the size of
the house. The hall was barely half-full,
but its size was hardly a reflection on
the interest in this city. People stayed
away because (1) they thought they
wouldn’t get seats, (2) expected to hear
everything on the radio, (3) “a women’s
meeting” scared them. As it happened,
men were present, and more would have
been welcomed.
Patriotic songs were sung at the end
of the programrpe by Strella Wilson, in
fine fettle, as she always is for Empire
music. A marching song was Dudley
Glass’s most recent composition, which
has caught on in England during the last
few months. Speakers at the meeting
were Lady Dugan, Mrs. Frank Beaure-
paire and Mrs. Herbert Brookes. Women
in the front rows of the dais had thoughts
running along the same lines in the matter
of attire—black and a bit of color some-
where ; hats, some with tilts in the right
direction (i.e., Mrs. Paul Henry’s black
model); long white gloves or short black
ones. On the stage was a large issue of
Comforts Fund members who turn up
daily for work in the Melbourne Town
Hall. They wore their blue uniforms
ironed with particular care to combat a
spotlight. Like a perch full of pigeons
was the organ loft, where row upon row
of W.A.T.Cs. sat in their grey overalls.
So many of them turned up for the
occasion that their guard of honor for
Lady Dugan stretched, shoulder touching
shoulder, up the steps and through the
hall to the foot of the platform.
Major Gorman spoke fluently and
without notes. He knows his stuff by
heart, and craves a spot of indulgence for
his vocal organs. He’d given five ad-
dresses that day, and had made a gramo-
phone record. He repudiated some state-
ments against the Comforts Fund, and
quoted various instances and figures to
prove that it is well administered. He
doesn’t claim 100 p.c. efficiency (at a
rough guess he calls it 85 p.c.), but he
does claim honesty and co-ordination
under a lot of difficulties. He’s all for
one central control as against working
for units. Regarding this there are and
apparently always will be two schools
of thought. Possibly the weightiest argu-
ment by the unit enthusiasts is that more
money is raised through smaller, more
personal appeals. For them there’s a
contagious feeling about dipping hands
into pockets that the big appeal misses,
by its very size.
In Caulfield are to be found Camp
Foster-Mothers. They are not sinister,
nor are they even a race apart, but just
honest-to-goodness women, married,
young or near-young, who take an aver-
age interest in life and things that are
happening. They number about 30, came
into existence six months ago, and in
that time have collected £275 and made
with their own fair fingres some 16,000
articles. Some of these articles were cer-
tainly small and quick in the making, but
others ran to pullovers and spiral pattern
stockings. Their total sum of money
is remarkable considering the amounts
that are raised in threepences. Every
week the Foster-Mothers have a three-
penny raffle, and they pay threepence foi
tea and biscuits at their weekly get-
togethers at Mrs. Wilkie Young’s house.
Mrs. Young is president, Mrs. Dave Cum-
ing treasurer and Mrs. John Cordner
secretary.
Bridge and tennis parties have helped
the funds considerably. Comforts are
given as nearly as possible from hand to
hand. The F.Ms. adopt a battalion until
it leaves for abroad, then they adopt an-
other one. Sometimes they visit the
camps, after first consulting the com-
manding officer, and personally hand
around comforts to those troops who
seem to need them. Goods that are sent
overseas are consigned to some respon-
sible person. Up at Puckapunyal they
have found a helpful liaison officer in
Major Morris. Mrs. Cordner’s brother,
Howard Fellows, who’s climbed up to
being a corporal at Bacchus Marsh, has
also helped in finding recipients for parcels
to warm the heart physically and men-
tally. Among the most useful gifts that
went to Egypt were several hundred
destroyable hankies. Word has come
through that the idea was no washout.
The hankies are simply pieces of gauze
that have been dipped in Condys. They
make excellent emergency bandages. The
Foster-Mothers let their heads go regard-
ing a flag, and provided a Union Jack
for the 2/3rd Engineers.
If the name “Lady Dugan Red Cross
Hostel and Convalescent Home for War
Nurses” is a compliment to the Gover-
nor’s wife, it’s returned reciprocally.
Lady Dugan is taking a possessive home-
maker’s interest in the institution. Quite
informally she arrives there bright and
early in the morning to measure up cur-
tains, to acclaim the new cream-and-
yellow tablecloths or to punch the good,
firm mattresses of the 30 new beds. The
furniture is arriving gradually. Some
articles are donations or loans, and the
hostel will be operating in a few weeks’
time.
Sick A.I.F. nurses are lucky in their
new convalescent home at the corner of
Domain-road and Punt-road, where Mrs.
A. E. Poolman has lent house and
grounds for the duration. She has also
left her grand piano, carpets, pictures
and many pieces of furniture. There’s
a tennis court, and a shrubby garden is
protected from the prevailing gales. The
hydrangeas are nearly over, but the
grapes are almost ripe. The ballroom
will become a lounge, and the down-
stairs drawing-rooms will be transformed
into bedrooms. Provision will be made
for 10 patients and for 20 nurses passing
through Melbourne from camp to camp,
etc. The institution is under Red Cross
control, and the house committee, con-
sisting of Mrs. H. D. Giddy, Mrs. Harold
Cohen, Mrs. Ernest Poolman and George
Former, will report to the Red Cross
executive. Matron Rosalind Ballard,
already in residence, will have assistance
from one more nurse.
Matron Ballard is appreciative of the
surroundings and is glad her confreres
are going to have every aesthetic comfort
while convalescing. She has a very soft
spot for army nurses. As one of them
she had a big dose of the last war and
didn’t find it all beer and skittles. She
certainly learnt a lot apart from her
work, for she liked history and when-
ever off duty viewed life in India, Egypt
and England through students’ eyes.
Matron is looking forward to her new
job, but there’s just one thing she has
not got used to —her beige Red Cross
uniform. For so many months she’s been
in army-grey.
Among Matron Ballard’s responsibili-
ties since her return from England in
1920 have been the position of acting
sub-matron of Mildura Base Hospital
(she saw the growth of Redcliffs Soldiers’
Settlement right from the word go) and
the management for 10 years of her own
private hospital in Mildura. She was
also on the staff at Epworth, and more
recently was sister-in-charge of Tatura
and Seymour camp dressing stations.
Her home is at Whittlesea, and she
trained at Bairnsdale District Hospital
and at the Women’s in Melbourne.
Judy Laing (Broothorn photograph)
was married on Saturday to Leading
Aircraftman Gerrard Alderton. It was
a quiet wedding, but the young bride was
traditional in her choice of tulle veil with
gown of stiffened white moire. She’s the
only daughter of the Bruce Laings, of
Toorak, and Gerry’s the only son of
the late Percy Alderton and of Mrs.
Alderton, of Frankston. His best man
was Sandy McCulloch, who is also an
L.A.C. Wagga will provide the first
home of the newly-married pair.
Trinity College and Trinity Grammar
School are both concerned in a recent
engagement. Alma Silvester is on the
staff of the prep, school at Trinity
Grammar and Frosty Colman was at
Trinity College. He was a student within
its walls when some three years ago
Terence Crisp snapped him up with a
couple of other Trinity men to take the
male parts in a P.L.C. play. Alma was
in the cast, and so the romance started.
The engagement was announced at the
stage party following on the season of
“Poisoned Pen,” when Harry Uxbridge
Best called on everyone to fill a glass
“in honor of my competent and agree-
able ex-wife.” (In the play Harry and
Alma had been Colonel and Mrs. Castle-
ton.) Fiance Frosty (otherwise David),
a son of the G. S. Colmans, of Gordon
Grove, is an old boy of Geelong
Grammar and recently joined the
R.A.A.F.
Those who missed “Poisoned Pen” have
another chance to see it on February 22
at the Union Theatre. The cast will be
the same but for the deletion of William
Hawton, now in an R.A.A.F. uniform.
His part of Hurrin the laborer will be
taken by Geoff Sholl. The little effort is
for something unusual, to help pay for
the brass band of the A.I.F. out at Royal
Park. It would be too bad if the trom-
bones, saxies, trumpets, etc., were
snatched away. The staff of T. S. Nettle-
fold partly paid for the instruments in
the first place, and the committee in-
terested in the success of “Poisoned Pen”
wants to see the rest of the debt dis-
charged.
A recent engagement of country
interest is that of Margaret Watts (Broo-
thorn photograph) and Rex White,
R.A.A.F. Margaret is the only daughter
of the late N. Watts and of Mrs. Watts,
of Ballarat, and her fiance’s the only
son of Mr. and Mrs. G. White, of
Diamond Creek.
Dr. Dora McMahon, who sometimes
visits her sister Mrs. J. J. Daly in Mel-
bourne, was married last month in Sydney
to Dr. Bill Bye, of Macquarie-street.
Thus the McMahon family now con-
tains seven doctors. In addition to
medico sons and daughters John and
Edward and Dora and Lucy there are
three medico sons-in-law, Doctors Bris-
towe Johnson, J. J. Daly and now Bill
Bye. Mrs. Bye is well known at the
Children’s Hospital in Sydney. Lucy,
returned from abroad, where she made
a study of anasthetics, is now in private
practice. Dorothy McMahon, who is at
home with mother, Mrs. T. P. McMahon,
of Hampden-avenue, Darling Point,
thinks that as the youngest of a family
that bristles with brains and professional
attributes she’s entitled to sit back and
read detective stories instead of text-
books if she feels so inclined.
A bit slow to gather momentum is the
Queen Carnival. The queens seem to
have been lying low waiting for one
another to get going, and up till the end
of last week some queens were not
elected, still being in princess competi-
tions. According to progress reports
Gladys Moncrieff is Queen of Arts and
Amusements. She will need her public ;
her only official barrackers are J.C.W.
and the Tivoli. The film business, unless
it changes its mind, is standing down.
Strella Wilson belongs to the primary
products, Mary Lundqvist to the essen-
tial services, Mabel Titus to the retailers,
Adele Cutten to transport, Mrs. K. J.
Corridon to liquor and allied trades and
Jessie White to industry and munitions.
Miss White’s life is a whirl of machinery
and strenuous hours, for her job is mak-
ing munitions. Yet to come are Public
Service, commerce and sport.
Mrs. Norman Picot has been lent by
the Children’s Hospital to organise the
commerce drive. She’s well known for
her original ideas, so the queen she’s
helping can rely upon a helpful adviser
at her elbow. Mrs. Picot recently left the
Hotel Australia (after a farewell party
and a gold pencil as a souvenir) to
become public relations officer at the
Children’s, but things up there are for
the moment quiet. Until St. Vincent’s
collection is over the Children’s Hos-
pital is just marking time.
Sister Kenny has had much the same
experience in America as she had
in Melbourne. City after city refused
her permission to apply her method
of treating infantile paralysis. Then
she was taken up by the Minnea-
polis City Health Commission, whose
chief now describes her successes as
amazing. The “A.M.A. Journal” is pub-
lishing in March a report by the medical
school of the University of Minneapolis
which claims that her method reverses
orthodox practice completely, gives a
percentage of recovery of 55 with 36
days in hospital (whereas the orthodox
treatment produces only 20 to 40 p.c.
in many months). The resolute sister is
writing an autobiography that should be
interesting reading.
The gift of a perambulator to 5
Albany-road caused much surprise and
some scratching of heads under Air Force
caps. But the pram now has a home.
A deserving infant was found for it —
one who does not live on the premises.
The pram arrived (why, nobody knows)
with some furniture, given by people who
had heard about the mess, recently taken
over for some of the staff of the Southern
Area, Dept, of Air. The house, well
known as Kianga when its owner, Mr.
F. J. Thomas, was in residence, provides
a large recreation-room, but when the
men arrived it contained nothing but
table-tennis kit and vast empty spaces.
Thereupon Flying-Officer G. P. Barton
spoke a word in the ear of some friends,
word went abroad of the men’s needs, and
a billiard table with equipment, a leather
couch, 20 chairs, a carpet, a radio, some
books and the pram arrived, all in a few
days’ time.
A telephone call came from Montreal
the other day for Mrs. Dick Allen
(Tuppy Munro that was). The voice at
the other end of the wire belonged to
her husband. Every word was clear and
any odd noises across half the world might
have been attributed to Dick’s teeth
chattering in the Canadian winter. Cap-
tain Allen has been flying bombers
across the Atlantic. Mrs. Dick and her
two young children are at present en-
joying some sun and sea at Mrs. Harry
Allen’s house at Frankston.
Off to the West Indies early in March
to marry Sam Atyeo is Moya Dyring,
who has done a heap of travelling since
the middle of last June ; she got away
from Bordeaux a few hours before
France caved in. Moya had been a
farmer-painter for a couple of years ; her
little property, half an hour’s drive from
Nice, was a legacy. When she aban-
doned it she left everything, furnishing,
clothes and her pictures, handing the key
(a gesture, if not exactly an optimistic
one) to a peasant friend who lived near
by. Moya knows numerous people still
in France, Britishers with all their in-
terests and investments there, who
wouldn’t leave while they still had the
chance. She spent some months in Africa
on her way home, of necessity owing to
shipping hold-ups and also from choice —
she did a lot of drawing and rough
sketches, “shorthand notes” she calls
them, for paintings of the future.


MP
To'
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you wont them—
ot trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
wy.
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaqjies animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it- at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Cfill or Write for Descriptive Folder,
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
MORE MILES FROM PETROL RATION
NEW INVENTION 1000 GIVEN FREE.
w
New invention utilises petrol fumes now wasted. Car owners report
amazing savings . . . together with faster pick-up . , . more power . . .
smoother running. This invention turns fumes now being wasted into
valuable fuel, and puts them back to work. Mr. A. McW., of Mitchell
Road, Alexandria, writes:—"l have installed on my Ford A one of
your Aero Oil Attachments ... I had an Increase of 14 miles
per gallon."
The Aero Oil Vaporator fits all cars, trucks, buses, and tractors. No
drilling, tapping, or cutting required. Anyone can fit it with a spanner
in a few minutes. It operates automatically, lasts a lifetime.
1,000 ATTACHMENTS GIVEN FREE. During the next 30 days, under
a new advertising plan, 1,000 Aero Oil Vaporators will be given away
FREE with the object of further popularising this ingenious invention.
To share in this offer you must act immediately. Post Coupon NOW.
FREE COUPO'i BELOW.
POST THIS
COUPON
TO-DAY
To NATIONAL DISTRIBUTING CO.. Brickfield House.
663 George Street, Sydney.
NAME ADDRESS
CAR M.P.G
(Enclose 2d stamp for postage.) b. 2/4?,
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Major George Fielding Eliot, “U.S.A.’s
foremost military expert,” has been say-
ing kind words about the A.I.F. No
wonder. He’s an old Digger himself.
Born in Brooklyn (U.S.A.) in J 894, Eliot
came to Australia with his parents at the
age of eight. In 1914 he enlisted in the
A.I.F. and saw service on Gallipoli and
in France. After the Armistice, finding
military opportunities limited in Aus-
tralia, Eliot returned to the United States,
where he served in the Military Intelli-
gence Reserve from 1922 to 1930. In
1937 he published If War Comes, and
since then has written Ramparts We
Watch and Bombs Bursting in Air. He
writes thrillers as well.
He * * »
Justice A. A. Uthwatt, just appointed
to the Treasury Division of the High
Court Bench in England, is an old Bal-
larat boy. He was dux of Ballarat Col-
lege in 1894, graduated from Melbourne
Uni. and went to Oxford. When R. G.
Menzies was in London in 1938 he met
Uthwatt, and the talk resulted in a gift
to Ballarat College of a £3ll scholarship.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The notion that Japan is over-
populated is not shared by the Japanese.
A recent Cabinet decree announces a
policy aimed at increasing the popula-
tion from its present beggarly 73,000,000
to 100,000,000 by 1960 by reducing the
average age at which Japanese youth
marry, a bachelors’ tax and financial
assistance to large distressed families.
Four is the present average quiverful for
a Japanese paterfamilias, and it is de-
sired to increase this to five. Even if the
deathrate remains as high as at present.
this would mean that within 100 years
there would not be much standing room
on the archipelago.
“El V.”: The N.S.W. Mair co., plainly
scared of touching liquor law reform with
a bargepole, might do worse than investi-
gate the Japanese variety. Beer in Tokyo
is sold in beer houses which don’t open
till 5.30 p.m., when the day’s work is
finished, and then stay open till 10 p.m.
Each customer is limited in any one beer
hall to two schooners —each 400 cub.
centimetres—which must be drunk sitting
down and from a clear glass, so that the
police can see that the head is reasonable
in height.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is great talk nowa-
days of attaching psychological expeits
to armies to discover the natural apti-
tudes of recruits, but it requires no aca-
demic training or book knowledge to
ascertain them in most cases. In a recent
case in England a trainee was sentenced
to six months for damaging a Spitfire in an
endeavor to fly it without permission. In
evidence the trainee’s father said that his
son had gone to night school to pass his
matric. When he joined up he was given
to understand that he would soon become
a pilot, but found that he was doomed
to be a rigger and stay on the ground.
A youth with a passion for aviation like
that should have been given six months
in flying school, not in prison, surely!
* * * #
A New Year honor (C.8.E.) for Maori-
lander Air Commodore C. R. Carr, who
saw a lot of service in the 1914-18 war,
recalls that he took part in an attempt
on the world’s record long-distance non-
stop flight to India in 1927 in association
with Flight-Lieut. Gillman. They were
within 200 miles of their objective when
they were forced down in the Persian
Gulf. Carr was later chosen as pilot of
the Baby Avro ’plane when the Rowett-
Shackleton Antarctic expedition set out
in the Quest.
* SK * *
Extract from another letter from
London: —
Please note change of address. Have been
twice bombed out of home. Won’t trouble
you with details, but my wife and I have had
narrow escapes. Now we are used to this
bombing nuisance and don’t bother a great
deal about it. Every night we sleep in our
own beds with but a roof over our heads to
protect us from shrapnel. To spend night
after night in air-raid shelters savors too much
of the life of rabbits. Food is plentiful, and
far better organised than in the last war—
queues do not exist.
* * * »
Dr. Eugene Dubois, dead in Holland,
was the man who made an enormous
stir in the scientific world 30 years ago by
discovering the bones of an alleged ape-
man near the village of Trinil in Java.
Trinil is not far from Jokjakrata, where
are the temple ruins of Boro-Budur, relics
of an ancient Hindu civilisation in Java,
and of still earlier ruins which date back
to the supposed dispersal of Egyptian
culture. Romantic ethnologists started
reconstructing the drama of man’s emerg-
ence from the ape on the Javanese
plateau, and linked it up with the wars
between gods and monsters portrayed in
the native wayang or shadow theatre.
Then remains of another first man were
discovered near Peking, tending to prove
that deductions from odd bits of bone
are liable to error.
* * * *
The R.A.F. has 3000 miles of Con-
tinental and British coastline to look
after, as well as working havoc on Ger-
many’s production plants in the occupied
countries, the Ruhr, far into Germany
and Czechoslovakia. It has to do the
same job over Italy, help the Greeks in
Albania, support the Diggers and their
mates in Libya, Eritrea, Italian Somali-
land and Abyssinia, guard Gibraltar,
Malta, the Suez Canal, and keep con-
trol over the Mediterranean. It is in
Palestine, Aden, India, Singapore and
other defensive posts of the Empire.
The flights of its Coastal Command
over the North Sea and Atlantic
are numbered by millions of miles.
It has to protect the vital strong-
hold of Britain, fighting terrific battles,
as in August and September. The con-
tinuous strain on it is as great even as
that on the Navy. That it has gone on
increasing in strength, while doing all
that, is one of the wonders of the war.
« * * *
There must be many sore hearts and
stricken consciences in Italy. Early last
year the Imperial War Graves Commis-
sion completed the placing of stone
tablets over the graves of Tommies who
fell in the Italian wars, the inscription in
English (and Italian) being “The British
Empire ever remembers, together with
her own fallen sons, those of Italy who
gave their lives in the Great War of
1914-1918.” A month later the Com-
mission was informed that Italy was
about to inscribe a reciprocal tribute to
the British dead on the Italian memorial
at Asiago. A month later Mussolini de-
clared war on Britain.
* * * ♦
“T.”: Nothing has been heard of
S’Thomas Beecham since be whirled
himself away from this country
threatening us with all manner of
things, but another vain and bitter
old man, H. G. Wells, is back in
Britain from the U.S.A, And, of course,
he arrived with a plan—“an immediate
understanding between Britain, the
U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R.” That appeared
in a Sydney paper which has printed
acres of pro-Russian stuff. In the same
issue it published two pictures of Molo-
tov and Hitler smiling at one another
at Berlin ; and neither smiles easily. So,
quite unintentionally, it gave Wells his
answer.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
up .
T , , ~ .
OnTbright and shiny day;
The great and rolling ocean
Seerns to blow my cares away.
I love to think and ponder
As I sit upon the sand
m d ou™flnd a riorionri I fnd
Twerebetter should perish’
And our sun and moon eclipse
Than a dictator’s withering finger
Should ever guide our ships.
ajp •
' ' To Britain’s Hgbiln, men. all hail!
For Britain always will prevail.
Though the task be far from frail,
As Churchill puts it, “We won’t fail ”
ii pn ,
■ VJ ‘‘ , , , .
They’re tough because they re sons of men
Who toil and drink and swear
And sing with pride our nation’s song,
“Advance, Australia Fair!”
C.R.8.: F ' a '-™ a R „d f»U
?| 0n ± SlOnS n W K ak A- little ndem JH
Both B hisV miss’’ LEA - Nobutterflies. ..
Both just miss uuunu s.
what’s' Colonel San/ Tofio ’do wilh the
Tc?o F doVe Kl Sidy. aSlkVonfaith-
ful wife incarcerated m w.p.b.. ...E.A.Pri We
never look at vistas superb ... . E.W.K...
“Summer Morning” is first jingly, then prosy.
GK • Trite D.J.W.: Don’t doubt that
it was a “titanic struggle”... .N.H.: We don’t
rpnnnt KAR * Try a woman’s paper....
T P “i.ife’s ’ Garden” ran To seed . . D.F.:
U"nj* more swing.^”.TJ.D.: Thin....
ESW ■ Your “apologies to ‘The Man from
Snowy River’ ” should be profound. .P.F.R.:
Write about what you know; not about dying
stockmen .T.L.S.: “You shall by us never
forgotten be” is about the last word in
clumsiness.... 1.P.: You’ve a long way to go.
LAS.: We’ve had too many c00k5....
MB- Lightweight L.J.T.: “Simulating
Phoebus’s dewy fingers.” If you mean “like
r /uS 1
SS!? “A«ng comes ffie’’hii.s
flushed by summer’s heat. They lie warm under
the lingering caresses of the sun.” Puzzle: find
poem... .L.McL.: On second thoughts, no.
Polish more W.C.D.; Read with interest.
But don’t you think there are Diggers who like
to read the racing? M.L.: Thoroughly ms-
like wealthy Hindus who feverishly exclaim
“Oh, it is wonderful, I lovee you, my English
missee l ” F.W.: Tried “Child Psychology”
on the office boy... .D.W.: We’ve suffered too
many of those dandy newchums who as-
tounded the stationers with brilliant horse- ana
marksmanship... .A.M.: No room tor
“Paddy” D.N.L.: “The Long Arm” was
last seen groping for the edge of the w.p.b.
...**•■■ “ F f* n F f Sid
homeward... . L.R.D . The Certainty landed
no cash... .E.L.R.: A few bright thoughts, but
far too brief... .A.M.A.: Called on the P.M.Cj.
to remove “The Nuisance” D.H.G. (Eng-
land): Neither of them in our line M.A.:
> flanner mac FL ; Found
Try it on a tapper mag....■ r L -•' u .
Grans Holiday hard work....E. •
A.M.C.: Those bad women always ha e
!hTM?.
to ribbons... .C.T.W.: “Brief Liberty” is the
better, but there’s not enough to it....
p w . Might nlace it with a magazine....
3M. pi',f “IS
Pis and Whistle” is not one ot our haunts.
TQ ARTIS TIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENIS.
7“ , ,
Bert C.: Only a genius can flout the laws
of perspective and get away with • */
Your decision to return to art is noted with
deep regret... .P.M.:
the neck up 8.C.K.. Couldn t worn p Y
enthusiasm over remark to barrel-hke
female by cove with a dial 1 • d
trainer’s.. . .Hugh M.: Wed teel negiectea u
the swaggie with the pup /n the ,b y didi a
turn up each week... . A :^ds^ing
gloomy .snatehmgs...-C.T.C : Ikey« tossing
fitfully m w.p.b G.Y.. If he went to
down _ his knees would knock h • —■
without a dLtm-
RoSe^
man in a tiock coat.


■
m
1 1 1
6 ' '
■
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
hi
m
&
*2
*>
I
l .
’ 'I'M
G
mac
m.
&
£14141-
ALL LESS
■
/£
the
in
- ,•
USUAL PRICES:
£lO/10/- £II|II|- £l2/12/
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.


THE SERVICE MAN
Rout in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: This war is certainly ex-
hibiting a new mobility in generals.
General Wavell is a case in point.
At the end of November he was seen
getting out of a ’plane in Greece with
his Browning—verse, not gun—under
his arm. A week or two later he was
late for dinner in Cairo because his West
Egyptian armies were attacking Sidi
Barrani. Tobruk fell on January 23, and
the General was there to see the Aus-
tralian flag hauled up.
Nine days later he was standing watch-
ing the attacks on Barentu in Eritrea,
nearly 1500 miles away, while the Aus-
tralians were in and beyond Derna.
On all Mediterranean fronts, land, sea
and air now, Italian defeat is turning to
rout. Tobruk fell on January 23. A
week later Derna caved in. The country
had become more favorable to defence
—in fact almost impassable if covered
by tough defenders. But resistance from
then onwards was only gusty for a day
or two before it seemed to peter out.
Three days after the fall of Derna the
grip was closing on Cyrene, not so long
ago Marshal Graziani’s headquarters, the
most ancient of the great cities of
Cyrenaica. Next day Cyrene was cap-
tured intact, with Derna 50 miles behind,
and the troops, sleepless, were pushing on-
ward along roads on which every inhabi-
tant seemed to wear a white flag and a
relieved expression, since the native
lootie had got up early. to forestall the
arrival of the Australian vanguard.
Hence the strange spectacle of grateful
Calabrians cheering the conquering Aus-
tralians and kissing their horny and
abraded knuckles.
By Thursday the British forces were
well on the way to Barca, the railhead,
which is about halfway (60 miles) from
Cyrene to Benghazi. Passing through
copntry thickly populated with Italian
peasants, they found themselves without
contact with or resistance from the
enemy, though the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.,
scouting in the van, reported the exist-
ence of fleeing columns which they had
been stimulating to greater alacrity by
bombing everything worth bombing
ahead of them. The hapless cohorts of
Musso.’s Army of Libya were now
marching towards their own burning
hangars and other military facilities which
the British had blasted.
One piece of news told by Italian
civilians was that Graziani had passed
through Cyrene a week ahead of the in-
vaders and had assured the inhabitants
that they would be safe in British hands
because the British were “gentlemen.”
In a few hours Barca fell, and the
world had not long to wait for the sur-
render of Benghazi, a city with about
65,000 civil inhabitants. The central line
of attack from Mekili had pushed itself
across the short cut at the base of the
Pentapolis Peninsula (B. 5/2/’4l) and into
the city, which gave up without resist-
ance only seven days after Derna, 160
miles away, had fallen.
The Italians were now obviously over-
whelmed. Resistance in a closely-popu-
lated area could have meant only the
destruction of vast quantities of civilian
property and the loss of masses of
peasants.
The Italians gave up another large
batch of their troops, with five generals,
including Annibale Berganzoli—“Electric
Whiskers” to the A.I.F. —who had eluded
capture when Bardia was taken. He was
the supreme commander in Marmarica.
Altogether 10 Italian divisions, number-
ing about 120,000 men, have been cap-
tured, killed or wounded in the Cyren-
aican campaign. The casualties of the
Army of the Nile have been under 2000.
The precipitateness with which the re-
maining five Italian divisions made for
Tripoli has reduced the almost bloodless
surrender of Benghazi to the status of an
incident in a headlong rush.
Two days after the capture of the city
the British armored spearhead had arrived
at El Abgelia, 258 miles east of Tripoli.
In nine days the British armies had driven
more than halfway from Derna to Tri-
poli, bringing the last stronghold and
capital of the Italian Libyan Empire
within a few days of final disaster.
The papers which have proclaimed that
Mussolini is facing his “Dunkirk” in
Africa are wrong. Actually, he is facing
his Sedan. In view of the overpowering
strength of the R.N. and R.A.F., the
only method of escape open to Graziani
is along the bottom of the Mediterranean.
An Empire Falling.
The Eritrean war is running true to
British form. Scottish, Indian and
Sudanese troops are showing a com-
mendably competitive spirit in a different
kind of race from that of Libya. Barentu
on Feb. 2 quickly followed Agordat into
British hands.
About 2000 prisoners and large quan-
tities of armament were added to
the heaps already acquired in previous
battles. The best part of another divi-
sion took to the bush along an unfinished
road which the Italians had started to
h’nk Barentu and Agordat with the main
Asmara-Addis Ababa road (B. 5/2/’4l)
at Adigrat, inside the Ethiopian border,
70 miles s.-e. of Asmara. However, the
Sudanese troops —Fuzzy Wuzzy has had
his hair cut and has been mechanised, but
otherwise is the same old fighting six-
pence—got at them immediately. When
last heard of those of the retreating
Italians who had not been killed,
wounded or captured in the scrub had
small hope of getting through.
Meanwhile the main British force pro-
ceeded to follow the retreating Italians
up the escarpment to Cheren, 53 miles
along the railway, whence the line bends
south-east for a final 65 miles’ run into
Asmara, the Eritrean capital.
Shells were falling in Cheren three
days after Barentu had been captured, so
the Agordat force had not wasted time.
Further south and east the advance is
having its reactions. There have been
evacuations of Italians in parts of
Ethiopia to meet the certainty that once
Asmara falls the British army will turn
the key to open the door of Ethiopia
proper. The Walkait Abyssinians have
been organised in the north-west corner,
adjacent to the Eritrean country just
occupied, and are ready to sally from
their fearsome ranges, which rise as high
as 15,000 ft. in peaks, to join the Kassala
invasion force on its cliff-ridden expedi-
tion to Gondar, about 70 miles from
Gallabat. Tank mines and traps impede
the road to Gondar, and are causing
delay but no check.
Kenya forces, on the day Cheren was
first threatened, were nearly 50 miles
across the Italian Somaliland border, a
third of the way to the Juba River. On the
north, other forces from Kenya are well
into Abyssinia at the Moyale enclave. And
the R.A.F. is everywhere—bombing aero-
dromes, dropping leaflets, driving off
harvesters, connecting with Ethiopian
levies. Haile Silassie is a long way nearer
his throne than when he said good-bye to
the Australian pilots who brought him
from England last July.
The one set of places where the Italians
are known not to be retreating is in the
Northern Mediterranean. In the Dode-
canese there is neither any place to run
to nor anything to run with. Most of
the air force there has been blown out
of existence, and naval forces are harbor-
bound. The R.A.F. is still blasting the
remnants —Maritza aerodrome had a
dusting on Feb. 4-5.
In Albania every condition is against
running. A step backwards, even with
Count Ciano in the field, would land all
the southern Albanian armies in the
Adriatic. A last furious burst of winter
has retarded the Greek push which will
make that step inevitable.
Deprived of a foothold in the rear,
General Cavallero tried a step forward
against the Greeks. This original
manoeuvre, so foreign to 1941 Italian
conceptions of war, was paid for in tanks,
arms and men.
At sea the Mediterranean was quiet
except on the Libyan coast till Admiral
Cunningham and his battle fleet did an-
other long, sauntering coat-trail through
Bomb Alley, between Sicily and Tripoli,
whistling fruitlessly for the Italian Navy
to come out for another handicap, and
for the Stukas of Catania to give another
aerobatic display.
They turned northward, traversing the
whole length of Italy. They sauntered
up past several Italian naval bases, in-
cluding Naples, paused to send the
F.A.A. to do a bit of bombing in Sar-
dinia, and finally appeared off Genoa,
whose harbor moles embrace the
sea in front of a city of 650,000
people, under a ring of guns on
the seaboard foothills of the Ligu-
rian Appenines. Genoa 700 miles
from Malta —is, from a war viewpoint,
the most important port in Italy, since it
serves the whole industrial north, includ-
ing the cities of Turin, Alessandria and
Milan. It is a senior naval station.
British disrespect for Italy’s resistance
had reached such a point, however, that
the R.N. was prepared to treat one of
the ill-fated country’s greatest and best-
fortified seaports in the same way that
wandering British naval ships used to
treat barbarous Oriental harbor forts in
the last century, i.e., to a punitive bom-
bardment. It seems to have drawn no
energetic response. “The operation was
highly successful.”
Several other bases in fhe Genoa Gulf
were attacked, and 300 tons of shells
were fired into Genoa alone. Ships which
took part included Malaya and Renown,
Ark Royal, that aircraft-carrier which
has been sunk several times, and the
9000-ton cruiser Sheffield, sister to South-
ampton, lost in Bomb Alley under the
Stuka attack a few days ago. The
Ansaldo electric works and the main
power station at Genoa were set on fire.
Aircraft bombed the Anic oil refinery
near Leghorn, and other naval units
attacked Pisa, where there is an important
railway junction.
The only sign that Italy remains a sea
Power is the unconscionable amount of
wreckage being washed up in the Adri-
atic in the wake of British and Greek
mosquito units and submarines. The
Stukas prefer home, even though encour-
aged by the news (copyright by Colonel
Knox, of Washington) that 80 men were
killed and 20 ’planes destroyed when the
first Stuka attack was made on H.M.S.
Illustrious, though she reached Alex-
andria, after calling at Malta, under her
own power.
It was reported at the week-end from
Spain n that Count Volpi di Misurata,
sometime Governor of Libya, was in
Spain sending out feelers for peace with
Britain. He is a likely man for such a
job. He was made a count for his work
in the settlement of the Ouchy Treaty
with Turkey in 1912, after the African
war which gained Tripoli for Italy, was
an Italian delegate at Versailles, and con-
ducted the Italian negotiation regarding
war debts with Britain and U.S.A. in
1925.
H.M.A.S. Sydney Home.
“Nobby II”: Round midnight on Feb-
ruary 9 H.M.A.S. Sydney ((Captain I. A.
Collins, C. 8.) came into her home port
round South Head in Port Jackson, slid
almost invisibly past Camp Cove, where
Phillip landed 153 years ago, and anchored
in Watson’s Bay. She still shows a few
scars of her Mediterranean battles.
Since she left Australian waters nearly
13 months ago she has steamed 80,000
miles, faced 60 heavy bombing attacks
—2B in one day—and fired 4000 shells
in 20 actions.
Her men show the marks of their ex-
periences in their hard physical condition,
despite months on war rations in which
the luxuries which make the Australian
naval cuisine the most generous in the
world were missing.
Sydney has been so much part of the
Mediterranean campaign that no history
of it could be written without constant
reference to her. Her bag of enemy craft
was the largest for any vessel of her size
in the whole war.
Among her actions was that in which
she sank the Bartolomeo Colleoni, in
which she was hit in the funnels. She
helped to sink the Italian destroyer
Espero; she was in the sweep off
Calabria on July 9 when the Italians ran
for their ports —though only after a heavy
battle in which the cruisers at times faced
four-to-one broadsides. She was the
first warship to fire a shot into Bardia.
She was one of the first ships to escort
troops to Crete. She took part in two
sweeps of the Adriatic, one as far in-
ward as Durazzo. And she is credited
with having sunk five Italian transports
in Otranto Bay on Nov. 11. All the
officers agreed that gallantry was not
lacking among the Italians. Some of their
ships put up stern fights against odds.
Sydney’s crew is 40 p.c. N.S.W., 30 p.c.
Victorian, 10 p.c. Queensland, S. Aus.
and Westralia. Captain Collins is a Tas-
manian. Added to the Australians are
R.N. and mercantile marine men.
For all her adventures, the crew comes
home without a single man killed in
action —there were a few slight casualties
from bomb splinters.
Sydney City gave the ship a great
welcome when she came up to the Cir-
cular Quay wharf on Monday morning,
and the march of 400 out of her comple-
ment of 618 through the streets of Syd-
ney on February 11 was as triumphant
a welcome home as has been given to
any Australian veterans in history.
Spring's Awakening.
“Aileron”: Last week was one of those
periods when the weather advantage was
on the right side of the Channel. France
and Germany were snowbound, and,
while this did not prevent the clearer
parts of them being bombed, it did pre-
vent effective defence and also raiding
from the Continent.
The R.A.F. was active from nether
Abyssinia to Brest. Sardinia, Genoa and
other Northern Italian objectives were
bombed by the F.A.A. with good effect ;
and Brest was hammered. But the Air
Ministry on Tuesday issued one of its
shortest communiques about night
activity over London: “Nothing to re-
port.”
it had been the same story for 13
nights out of a fortnight. On Monday,
however, while a bitter northerly carried
driving snow over the Channel a few
lone and miserable-looking German
bombers had been heard probing the
white wool of the upper air over East
Anglia. One of them attacked a trawler
off the Norfolk coast and was shot down
in a bleak marsh for its pains; another
blew up a Methodist church. Snow,
however, did not prevent the High Com-
mand propaganda bureau from working
at high pressure:
Bombers yesterday attacked an aero-
drome and factories and railways in
southern England and fired a merchantman
near Southend. They scored a direct hit
on another ofi the s.-e. of Harwich. The
enemy lost three ’planes, one of which
made a forced landing.
Next day was slightly livelier. Some
trouble in England was caused by lone
’planes again. One bomber dropped a
long string of bombs on an East Coast
town, smashing a publichouse and a flat
and wrecking several private houses.
While the groaning victims of the
atrocity were being dug out a British
lifeboat crew risked their lives in a long
race to rescue the murderers, who had
been winged and brought down in the
North Sea.
An odd raider livened up the London
suburbs, decanting incendiary bombs,
which have surrendered many of their
terrors now that a universal technique
for dealing with them is being enforced.
Towns in various other parts of Eng-
land had odd hours of alarm. The
Luftwaffe exulted over routine mining
of British ports, attacks on London and
a direct hit on a Maidstone (Kent) fac-
tory ; but they admitted that three
’planes had not returned; the R.A.F.
said four. One of the new cannon-firing
Spitfires drew its first blood from a
large Heinkel 111 which it scattered in
shreds over the Thames Estuary. The
bits flew all round the Spitfire pilot and
blinded him so that he had to dive to
extricate himself from the mess.
February 5 saw the biggest organised
raid by either side for a fortnight. A
heavy formation of R.A.F. bombers,
escorted and covered by Spitfires, in day-
light followed home the German squad-
rons which had made more widespread
raids on the previous evening, during
which two of their bombers crashed in
various parts of England.
To begin with, the Channel Guard
picked up three luckless Nazis which had
chosen a bad day to try to bag a con-
voy, while thumps from all directions and
of all degrees of loudness announced
that the Bomber Command was laying
eggs in a lot of large nests spread over
more than 400 miles of country. Those
operating on Channel objectives did their
work under layers of fighters which sat
above them daring the Messerschmitts
to interfere.
There seemed to be no Messerschmitts
abroad, and the roving wrecker crews
were able to report a highly successful
day of which the evidences were to be
seen on every horizon but the north —
docks at Brest blazing, Dusseldorf rail-
way facilities knocked slightly out of
shape, an aerodrome at Vannes (where a
bootlegger 260-odd years ago printed the
first book in French to use the word
“Australia”), docks at Dunkirk, Dieppe
and Ostend mangled by high explosive ;
Cherbourg twice visited to the accom-
paniment of low-flying Coastal Com-
mand ’planes playing crump-and-
machine-gun leapfrog over the harbor
and its warehouses and repair yards.
Four ’planes out of the 100-odd in-
volved in actual bombing did not re-
turn, and the convoy which had been
attacked in the Channel lost a convoying
trawler, though another trawler. Lady
, Philomena, shot down a dive bomber
when attacked. Trawlers appear to have
acquired a new deadliness. The per-
sistence with which they get their
attackers now makes them dangerous
prey to handle. The Germans declared
the British sweep a “complete failure,
and claimed a bag of 15 British planes.
, At night on Wednesday patchy raids
were made on Britain and London, n


they were on a small scale and damage
again was light. Thursday night was
quiet—just sporadic activity over the
west coast —while the R.A.F. for the
second time returned from playing merry
hell with harbor equipment at Boulogne,
Calais, Dunkirk, Dieppe and Fecamp. In
all these havens barges have been gather-
ing, and these and adjacent storehouses
filled with their equipments were used
that night for bonfires.
The rest has been welcome to Lon-
don, but it cannot last. Within a fort-
night most of the snow which covers
Germany will be gone. Aerodromes
which have been inactive for weeks will
be operative again. Rivers and canals
in the north will be open—traffic has
been resumed already on parts of the
Danube, though it will be impeded yet
awhile by hurtling junks of ice which
roll down with the torrential thaw.
There is no reason but weather for
the slackening since December, as an
Air Ministry spokesman declared. He
added that British bombers, as well as
German, had largely been grounded by
the snow and blizzards.
The authorities are preparing the
British people for an immediate trial of
strength. General Eastwood, head of the
Home Guard, issued a warning on
Friday. On Saturday, the taciturn John
Dill, Chief of the Imperial General Staff,
said: “I believe the Germans are about
to launch an invasion.” Nevile Hender-
son, formerly British Ambassador, on
Saturday night warned Britain to “beware
of the next 48 hours.” And Mr*
Churchill in one of his lengthiest speeches
of the war, after paying a tribute to those
concerned in the brilliant victories of the
Armies of the Nile, said:
The greatest crisis of the war still has to
be faced at home. We must be prepared
to meet gas attacks, parachute attacks and
glider attacks. But we are far stronger,
relatively and actually, in the air over these
islands than when the Nazi attack was
beaten off last autumn. Nearly 4,000,000
Britons with serviceable weapons in their
hands are waiting. It is no easy military
task to invade an island people like us
with command of the sea.
The German High Command knows
that it has to deal with an opponent
whose air force in November and De-
cember —as proved by photographs—
directly hit 248 industrial plants, put seven
factories out of action and burnt out the
main canal shipyard in one city alone —
Mannheim.
When England is attacked by air again
it is likely that she will have to endure
the same sort of experience as she went
through last August and September. The
attack may be more devastating and ex-
tensive, and even longer.
But where there was no ground
organisation based on actual experience
of this kind of war when last year’s
Blitzkrieg began, England now knows all
there is to know about defence against
aerial atrocity and has bought its ex-
perience dearly enough to ensure that
1940 lessons will be applied vigorously
and intensively in 1941, as they have
been in North Africa.
Sea-power and Invasion.
“Ek Dum”: The danger of invasion
in an ocean like the Pacific is not nearly
so great as timorous people imagine.
Distance, where there is likely to be
interference with lines of communication,
has always been an enemy of successful
aggression.
The whole military, naval and air
world is waiting anxiously to see whether,
with huge resources prepared over many
years, Hitler and Goring can bridge the
21 miles of water which form the Eng-
lish Channel.
Malta is a little bit of an island, only
60 miles from a main enemy territory.
After eight months of war the
worst that the Axis Powers have been
able to do is to knock a few chips off
Valetta with bombs and kill a few
Maltese. Pantellaria is, as it were,
a peak in wide waters. Its garrison is
isolated ; it is exposed and a good target
from every side; and Britain has full
command of the Mediterranean. Yet,
though Pantellaria would be valuable, as
would the Dodecanese and detached
Sardinia, no attempt has been made to
take them.
Possession of Irish bases facing Liver-
pool and the Welsh ports and
Bristol, and commanding every Atlantic
route to Britain, would be about equiva-
lent to doubling German naval strength ;
but there has been no German attempt
on Eire.
And where expeditions of that sort
have to be carried out over a wide tem-
pestuous ocean, even attacks against
objects 300 and 400 miles away are
enough to make a prudent man pause,
so great is the room for chances and
changes of atmosphere and weather.
It matters not who fights whom in the
Pacific, they are up against distance.
against the time factor, which lengthens
the periods between blows with any par-
ticular piece of material, and against
enormously added risk and wear and
tear.
Shanghai is only 500 miles from
Nagasaki. It is significant that in the
early stages of the Chinese war, when
Chinese airmen were credited with hav-
ing first - class Russian machines, no
attempt was made to bomb Japanese
bases in Kiu-Shiu, the nearest Japanese
island.
As for warships, 2000 miles is the
mean normal range from a base at which
a heavy capital ship can operate even
for a time.
If British possessions in East Asia were
attacked, the enemy would have to
operate against Hong Kong to begin
with. Hong Kong is 1076 miles from
Nagasaki, and 1580 miles from Yoko-
hama ; and it is no easy place to attack.
Its defensive staple is an island which
looks a bit like a battered giant flea
swimming east to west. It is about 11
miles long ; at its narrowest it is about
two miles wide; at its widest about five
miles.
Down the centre runs a line of
peaks ranging from 1000 feet high at
the east end to Victoria Peak, 1780 ft.
high, on the west, shadowing Victoria
city which fringes the north side of the
island for five miles or so. From the
peak one sees in all directions —to Mirs
Bay, cut out of the mainland, where the
water is British and the shore is Chinese,
up the Canton River with its teeming
sampans, across the depot ship and
Hongham Bay with the flagstaff on its
Any more cheek from you, Tony, and you'll be kicked outa the
prison camp !”
left, across Kowloon, west out over the
wash of Kellett Banks between Green
and Stonecutter Islands, south over Aber-
deen Dock to Lamma and Lantao Islands
and the open sea. At the eastern end
Lyee-mun Channel, which separates Hong
Kong Island from shores above which
the serrated peaks of China rise beyond
Kai-tak aerodrome, is only Sydney
Harbor Bridge width. Further up, from
Canton boat pier to Kowloon Point
might be from Sydney’s Taronga wharf
to Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair in the
Domain.
Save for the wide passage on the
west, mostly too shallow for entry,
there is no shipway into Hong Kong
Inner Harbor more than half a mile
wide. The island commands the Canton
river mouth. And from the Peak visi-
bility ranges from 41 to 50 miles in
clear weather.
The job of sneaking on Hong Kong
would be a pretty difficult one; the job
of taking it either from Chinese soil
with its hostile population even the
Kowloon part would be under the heavy
guns of the island —would be a war in
itself for an enemy distant from his own
bases.
Singapore is another 1440 miles on-
ward, and is one of the strongest and
least approachable bases in the world.
Whoever tackles it from the north has
Manila on his left.
Attack on the Dutch East Indies would
involve the conquest of Singapore, Hong
Kong, Manila and British Borneo unless
the attacker was ready to stick his head
through a noose which presently might
close.
Attack by land on Burma, even if
Thailand provided a base, would be jam
for the defenders. Behind are hostile
Chinese millions. Distances are long.
Big rivers, enormous rainfalls and
almost impassable mountains with forests
like a giant’s tangled knitting stand in
the way, even if approach through south
China were possible.
Finally, the Dutch East Indies, if they
happened to be an objective, are spread
over a mere 2000 miles of length and
700 miles of depth at their widest and
have a population of about 70,000,000
to draw on.
Curiously enough, the most vulnerable
avenue of attack is on British possessions
in the wide seas of the Pacific —on New
Guinea, of which the nearest island point
is 300 miles from the Japanese Marshalls,
and even on the Australian and Maori-
land coasts. But such long-distance
attacks at most could be in the nature of
raids. And one of the first consequences
would be a counter-attack on the hostile
mercantile marine.
Britain is weathering the U-boat cam-
paign largely because of her multiplicity
of small vessels for sea-search and anti-
mine work, her splendid sea personnel,
her well-conceived long-distance sea
patrol, her capacity to use a large num-
ber of fast armed liners of large ton-
nage and long range for convoy work,
and her ability to move large numbers of
troops quickly in large, fast ships which
can outstrip anything except a cruiser
or destroyer.
There is no possible enemy in the
Pacific which possesses these advantages.
The same factors apply in mercantile-
marine war as in naval, air and _ terri-
torial war in general. An enemy in the
Pacific would operate at extreme and
almost impossible distances from his
bases; on the other hand, John Bull
and Uncle Sam have a ring of bases all
round the approaches to any possible
enemy.
The German High Command must
have known that it would be suicide for
Italy to enter the war. It also knows
that the Italian effort keeps large British
naval, military and air forces in the
Mediterranean, and even the threat of
Japanese effort has had the effect of keep-
ing troops and naval vessels in the Pacific,
particularly in the Dominions, which
otherwise would be in use directly against
the Third Reich.
During the week to January 26 mer-
chant shipping totalling 33,604 tons was
sunk or otherwise destroyed by enemy
action: seven British ships of 23,514 tons
and two Allied ships of 10,000 tons. The
figure was a reduction of nearly 20,000
tons on the previous week’s losses. The
sturdy trawler fishermen are doing their
share of defensive work while plying their
dangerous trade.
* * * *
Australian casualties in the African
campaign, as published to February 4,
were 148 killed and 568 wounded. They
included, apparently, all the Bardia
losses, a number from Tobruk and some
from the Derna battle; but officially no
information has been issued that Tobruk
and Derna casualties are coming for-
ward. Probably, in view of the swiftness
of the advance, in which one engagement
merges directly into another and the
front deepens and changes, it is difficult
to separate the later battles.
* * * *
“Aileron”: The swift advance into
Libya has called for a new system of
dealing with the wounded. Four-engined
aircraft used for training air observers
are being converted into ambulances
equipped with stretchers, standard both
for the air and motor ambulances. The
machines pick up sick and wounded at
advanced points, and fly them to casualty
clearing stations, whence, after prelimi-
nary treatment or urgent operations, they
go to base hospitals. The wounded will
have a different experience in this war
from the long, weary journey to Abbe-
ville or Brighton which so many knocked
Diggers suffered in the last.
* * * *
“Ek D.”; Whatever else is behind,
nobody can complain of the speed with
which the Empire Air Training Scheme
has been pushed forward. According to
Mackenzie King, it is eight months ahead
of schedule. There are at present 36,000
officers and men attached to the R.C.A.F.,
and by the end of the year it is planned
to double the number and raise machine
numbers from 1700 to 4000. Canada
will send 25 new squadrons overseas.
♦ * * *
At the end of 1939 Canada owned six
destroyers, seven minesweeping trawlers
and a few other trawlers. The C.R.N.
is now engaged in building up a present
force of 413 by the end of the year, and
operations have become so extensive as
to justify the appointment of a commo-
dore to command the British Isles end of
the service.
« * * 4c
In an airliner crash in South China
a week ago Admiral Osuma, Rear-
Admiral Suga, three naval commanders,
two pilots and a mechanic lost their lives.
Admiral Osuma was a member of the
Japanese Supreme War Council and a
former Minister for the Navy. He was
on his way to Hainan Island to take a
high naval command —“Commander-in-
Chief of the Joint Japanese Fleet in the
South Seas,” according to Chungking.
The Chinese version is that the ’plane
was brought down by guerrillas with
machine-gun fire, and that “important
documents” were found on the person
of the admiral.
♦ * * *
Colonel —to be promoted brigadier—
S. R. Burston, a S’Australian, becomes
A.I.F. Director of Medical Services. He
is 52 years old, second son of Major-
General Burston, who commanded the
7th A.I.F. Brigade on the Peninsula and
was afterwards G.O.C. British reinforce-
ments on Lemnos. Before the last war
S.R.B. was Medical Inspector of Abos.
in N.T., went off to .serve with the
A.M.C. and came back with a D.S.O.
and a C.B.E. As a colonel in 1916 he
was O.C. 3rd Australian General Hospi-
tal, which handled 29,000 cases that year.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: A Melbourne man re-
turned from Japan has a theory about
the secret naval weapon a high Japanese
authority asserted recently that his
country had up its sleeve. He reckons
it is a torpedo which speeds on its errand
with a dedicated driver inside it who
steers it to its destination, certain death
being his portion. This device was de-
scribed long ago in Australian papers.
It is now asserted that the Japanese navy
has several thousand volunteers waiting
to be called up for this service. There
would be nothing about this that violates
tradition in a country where individual
citizens commit hara-kiri when the Em-
peror has been insulted; but suicidal
courage isn’t a Japanese monopoly in
war.
* * * *
“Aileron”: In this war Britain has
saved more than half the pilots of ’planes
which have been brought down round
her coasts and over her fields, thanks to
the parachute and the self-inflating rubber
boat. Even in foreign fields a serious
machine injury doesn’t mean death ; there
have been several cases of pilots who
have limped home with a wing and a
quarter. The Air Ministry quotes in-
stances —a Hampden which came home
400 miles from Hamburg practically un-
lubricated because its oil tanks had been
ripped to pieces; a giant Whitley, the
machine used for the raids on Turin and
Milan, which arrived home with practi-
cally the whole skin and ribs of one side
of the fuselage blown off; and a Blen-
heim which checked in from Rotterdam
with its port petrol tank punctured in
several places, its fuel feed from the
starboard tank severed, the main spar
cut and the tail and fuselage riddled. But
none of them can beat the narrow escape
of an Aussie with the R.F.C. in the last
war, who fell nearly 3000 feet with his
machine out of control, found it sud-
denly lifted by a gust when close to the
ground and so slowed up that he was able
to jump out at the cost of a few minor
injuries. And nobody has emulated the
feat of “Tommy” White, M.P., who m
’l5 taxied home 15 miles through the
Turkish lines in Mespot.


BAKES
boils
FRIES
GRILLS
ROASTS
STEWS
STEAMS
TOAST
VERY KIND
OF COOKING
with INSTANT
SERVICE/
Say good-bye to your hot, tiring stove.
Change to automatic cooking on a beautiful
vitreous-enamelled, effort-saving AGA
Cooker, insulated for kitchen coolness,
clean, capacious, self-contained.
All ways of cooking ever invented are
instantly available on an AGA. Ovens and
hot plates are ready, day and night, to boil
or stew, grill, bake or roast. No waiting
or watching, basting or turning. You can
leave a whole dinner to cook itself.
AGA cooking is BETTER . . . scarcely any
meat shrinkage, such delicious flavour, so
much tenderer, fussy husbands say.
You’ll scarcely credit the amount of fuel an
AGA saves. Model C, for city or country
homes, cannot burn more than £3 worth of
coke (at 30/- per ton) in a whole year.
40,000 happy AGA users save like this.
They can’t afford to be without their AGA.
Can you?
w
It’s fascinating to watch an AGA cooking, in our
Showrooms. But if you cannot call, write today
for illustrated Booklet R 2.
LEVIN & CO.. LTD.,
Established 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney; 432 Bourke St., Melbourne.
And at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
JhOridndikatStmme.
COOKER
MADE in BRITAIN
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northern. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pert
NORTH Of
TWENTY-EIGHT
Rice, Tea and Politicians
“Nakhoda”: J. R. Vincent, a retired
tea-planter visiting Australia, suggested
recently that enough tea could be grown
in North Queensland to supply the needs
of the whole country. Melbourne news-
papers always react against anything said
in favor of the north of the continent,
and the “Herald” headed this piece of
information with “We Can Grow Tea
but Not Economically.”
Exactly the same thing was said about
rice in Australia. It had always been
supposed to be the natural-born product
of low-wage coolie countries. But an
experiment was made in N. S. Wales with
modern irrigation and machinery, and
in a few short years Australia was grow-
ing not only enough rice for its own
requirements, but a surplus for export.
The natives of Java are a charming,
indolent people. They grow tea in the
most inefficient manner possible. To see
them at work in their factories suggests
they are having a picnic. Wages are low,
but then they live on the smell of an
oilrag. Everything in the country is easy
and natural. Nature irrigates the rice-
fields almost without assistance and the
volcanoes obligingly fertilise them. The
soil is so rich that three crops can be
grown on the same piece of ground
annually in some places. Consequently
the people have never had to become
inventive, and the methods they use are
the same as those depicted on the frescoes
of the temple of Boro-Budur, which was
built in the eighth century. Even the im-
plements remain unaltered, except where
the Dutch have intervened and forced
new notions on the native. The native
strenuously objects to these new notions.
Sometimes he creeps out at night and sets
fire to a canefield.
Nature is hard in Australia, a fact
which was wholeheartedly deplored by
the early settlers. But its hardness forced
them to become inventive or perish. Now
parts of the country which used to be
almost waterless desert grow crops of all
sorts of things under irrigation. The only
people who aren’t required to be inven-
tive are the politicians, and by sticking
to the old-fashioned methods they do
their best to negative the efforts of the
others. Australian methods of irrigation
would be regarded as supernatural by the
natives of Java, although they have been
irrigating their fields for untold genera-
tions. But this was done in spite of,
and not because of, the politicians and
departmental officials by visionary
creatures like the Chaffey brothers, who
were regarded as cranks by Governments
and newspapers.
“Balander”: Brisbane lost a landmark
by the passing of Tom Welsby at 82.
For 50 years he was in everything. En-
gaged in banking and shipping after he
left Ipswich Grammar in 1874, he set
up as public accountant in the early
’nineties, and was that for the rest of
his life, in between performing public
duties. Tom was M.L.A. for Brisbane
North in 1909-12 and for Merthyr in the
next Parliament; but politics finally gave
him the pip. He seldom spoke and fre-
quently confessed to being bored with the
proceedings and the partisanship. His
hobby was Moreton Bay and its history.
He knew its currents, shoals and mud-
banks, its identities and its changes.
Memories of Amity is a record of his
wanderings on the islands ; it followed
Early Moreton Bay, a tale of his own
yachting experiences and the wrecks and
tragedies of the years. A founder of the
Queensland Historical Society, he owned
a valuable library on Australiana. He
helped to start Rugby Union in Brisbane
—was its first secretary and played for
Queensland in two seasons against
N.S.W. —and to revive it, as president
(1929-39), after the 1914-18 war. An
early member of the Royal Yacht Club,
he was its historian and commodore for
16 years.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Dr. Watson Brown, Inde-
pendent M.L.A. for Gregory, has offered
himself to the Air Board, and expects
to be posted to a Queensland station.
He joined the A.M.C. in the 1914-18
affair, and continued his studies after-
wards. For nearly 20 years in practice
at Longreach, Dr. Brown was one of the
first medicoes to use the aeroplane for
outwork medical work.
* * * *
“23-4”: lan McColl Stewart, a young
Brisbane engineer, has been appointed
official egg- and milk-drier to the Com-
“Where you gain to, sailor P”
“I tell you and you tell ’ Itler , I s’pose.?
monwealth Government —if he can find
satisfactory means of drying the products
for export to Britain. The idea is that
a dozen dried eggs occupy only a
seventh of the shipping space of a dozen
fresh ones, and Mr. Stewart, the Egg
Board and the Department of Commerce
have to find a way to do it. The Queens-
lander matriculated in engineering at 15,
graduated with first-class honors in
mechanical and electrical engineering,
won the Walter and Eliza Hall Engineer-
ing Fellowship in 1934 and studied in
England, Germany and the U.S.A. After
research work at Queensland University
he joined the City Electric Light Co.,
Brisbane, and was there when the new
appointment arrived.
* * * *
“Cresswell”: I see where Mick Sawtell,
“adviser to the Aborigines’ Progressive
Association,” has been making sweeping
allegations about the seduction of abo.
girls in Darwin. Minister Foil replied
hotly, but when he has disposed of Mick
it is to be hoped that he will read and
profit by the report of R. A. Mclnnis, the
Brisbane town-planner who visited Dar-
win a while ago. One of Mr. Mclnnis’s
remarks was that “with financial assist-
ance to build homes, the uneven balance
of the sexes at Darwin would be re-
dressed.” In that great truth there is the
solution to half the ills of the N.T,
* * * *
“Norther”; A Murwillumbah (N.S.W.)
doctor found his surgery occupied by
five ladies and a gent. They seemed to
be torn between excitement and curiosity,
shoving each other about and stamping.
Unable to obtain from them any reason
for the visit and fearing for the safety
of his premises—all the party were fairly
hefty and beginning to be beside them-
selves with strange emotions —the doctor
called for help. A gang of men came
in and bustled all the visitors out except
one —she lay on the surgery floor and
refused to budge. The gang had to use
their entire strength to shift her. No
doubt, as they were driven away, the five
cows and the bull decided that Mur-
willumbah doctors were unsatisfactory
people to visit when you needed medical
aid. They should have tried a vet.
* * * *
“Plugger”: Three Mirriwinni men,
making for the beach between Innisfail
and Cairns, came across an old bushman
practically exhausted. He was stagger-
ing a few yards, falling, getting up, stag-
gering on and falling again. They boiled
the billy and gave him tea. As soon as
he recovered a bit he asked the way to
Alice River and set off again. He was
seeking aid for an injured mate who had
gashed a foot and severed an artery with
an axe back at Pinchgut. The injured
man, W. H. McDonald, had taken two
hours to get to the ancient’s camp, and
there was nursed through the night. Next
morning, seeing that McDonald was like
to bleed to death, the old man set out
afoot for help. He struck a rainstorm,
got bushed and fought through under-
growth and rain for hours until the Mirri-
winni men found him. Fifteen hours
after the rescuer set forth McDonald had
received ambulance attention and within
another 15 hours was in hospital. Mean-
time the old battler, Charles Powell, slept
the sleep of utter exhaustion, and never
knew how close he had been to passing
out.
•R * * *
“P.D.”; A Darwin doctor and his pilot
were called to Groote Eylandt to attend
a half-caste woman in trouble after child-
birth. They made the Roper River
mission, but, held up there by the
weather, did not reach Groote till the
second day. The rest of the journey
was 45 miles by truck. The truck gave
out 15 miles from their destination.
Abos. were sent for a launch, and doctor
and pilot fought their way through pretty
dense vegetation to the beach where they
were to meet it. When they had been
devoured by mosquitoes for four hours
the launch arrived. The doctor operated
and they carried the patient back to the
truck on the following morning. After
a game struggle they got her to the fly-
ing-boat base, whence she was taken to
Darwin.
***•••
About the same time the flying doctor
at Alice Springs also experienced the
queer ways of Binghi. Over the radio
he was called by Eva Downs station for
advice regarding a sick woman. But what-
ever recommendations he made were
kiboshed by the abos., who drenched the
patient with water to “cool her.” She
died-
<4XirT ~ , .
: recent discussion as to
wben the sugar mill on St. Lucia Point
now a fashionable suburb of Brisbane
was removed and whether by flood
or human hands has produced so many
definite statements that I am tempted to
make one myself. When I went to Bris-
bane in 1883 the mill stood there, with
sugarcane growing on the flat adjoining ;
as bo Y s we used to go sailing in punts
and camp under the sheltered landing-
stage where the wharf stood. Then for
rnany years the mill stood idle ; probably
so™ 6 of hs machinery was removed and
,f n to ,^9 rtb Queensland. But the
b °"C r andbl S flywheel remained till the
1890 flood, when rows of houses on
A o ™ wheeled away downstream like
§ mps going to sea, to smash against the
° ld Victoria Bridge. It was a small mill,
though, not to be compared with the big
ones m the north. The one at Millaqum,
f° r instance, cost £160,000 (annual ex-
penditure was £60,000), and consisted ot 24
complete and 14 crushing mills.


and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
cutroct. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/4.' Write TO-DAtf.
MEN!
821
CUN D
TONIC
T. J O N E S & CO
CHEMIST, gig George Street, Sydney.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
FREE SETTING
*
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 11
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/fl
Blade size 2in.
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Kazor Guards, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St.. Sydney
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Letter”
The usual, heavy dramatic acting of
Bette Davis is the main interest in this
latest screen version of the Maugham
play, showing at Sydney Century. Like
most of the other roles in which she
figures, this particular one suits her down
to the ground, and she carries it off effort-
lessly, registering all the emotions and ex-
pressions that a film audience might ex-
pect of a woman who murders her lover,
lies her way successfully through the trial
after bribing the deceased’s Eurasian wife
to suppress an incriminating letter, and
then, realising that she still loves the man
she murdered, walks out into the night,
where the Eurasian female is waiting to
stick her with a dagger.
The film is a generally competent pro-
duction, and excellent directing and act-
ing maintain an atmosphere of suspense
that might otherwise have been lacking.
Miss Davis’s acting is no more than might
be expected of her, but James Stephen-
son, as the lawyer who defends her while
knowing the full details of the case, turns
in a very creditable stretch of histrionics.
Stephenson has hitherto been confined
mainly to small supporting parts, which,
however, he has always managed more
than capably ; this present performance
should rank him a good deal higher.
Herbert Marshall, that long-suffering
player, suffers excruciatingly right
through the film as Miss Davis’s hus-
band.
“The Letter” is supported by an excel-
lent batch of shorts a tip-top Disney
cartoon, good newsreels, an arresting
travelogue in technicolor, and a rib-
tickling item on how Miss Elsa Maxwell
crashed into society. Regarding the latter
item, need any more be mentioned than
the fact that Miss Maxwell is every bit
as good as a female Robert Benchley,
perhaps better?
♦ ****♦
*' ‘Victory”
Paramount version of Conrad’s novel
at Melbourne St. James is basically
melodramatic. But so is Conrad’s novel.
When that writer had reached the last
page of his opus he fell into acute de-
pression which lasted for months and
wanted to blow his brains out. Then
one morning he poked his head out of
his bedroom window and shouted to his
wife in the garden, “I’ve killed her, I’ve
killed her!” “Killed who?” asked the
astounded Mrs. Conrad. “Lena,” shouted
the eminent author. Much relieved, Mrs.
Conrad went on with her weeding.
Paramount just drops Lena into the
arms of the isolationist Heyst on his
tropic island after the human gorilla
Pedro, the rascally Martin Riccardo and
the suave and sinister Mr. Jones have
been dispatched in that order. But the
less sanguinary solution doesn’t make the
story more convincing. Nobody is going
to believe that the solipsistic Mr. Heyst
—with the library of his father’s books
and his father’s admonition not to let
other human beings mean too much to
him because it hurts too much when you
lose them —is going to make a do of
matrimony or love on a remote dot in
the Java Sea with a temperamental young
woman.
Best part of the film are the scenes
in the Sourabaya cabaret with the fat
amorist Schomberg (Fritz Feld) chasing
the beautiful young musician under the
eyes of the frozen Mrs. Schomberg.
When the world-weary Heyst turns up
in the person of Fredric March, with
a moustache grown for the occasion,
and spirits Lena away to his island,
action lags. It is a case of the more
Heyst the less speed until the arrival
of Mr. Jones and his pair of scoundrels.
Then it becomes first-rate melodrama.
Bettie Fields makes a good fist of Lena.
* * * *
“Angels Over Broadway”
Sydney Capitol, be it recorded, has for
a moment gone highbrow with a tiptop
drama with an original theme and act-
ing right out of the box. It has one
feature seldom struck in films, mainten-
ance of the dramatic unities, particularly
that of time. The whole thing takes
place in the course of one evening, with
a fleeting glimpse of the morning after.
What makes the show, however, is the
fine acting put into a bunch of highly
dramatic roles —Thomas Mitchell as a
drunken, but polished, cultured and philo-
sophic ex-successful playwright; John
Bette Davis disposing of an unfaithful admirer to the consternation of husband
Herbert Marshall and lawyer James Stephenson— “The Letter,” at Sydney Century.
Qualen as a shred of a man all the while
influenced by his infatuation for a woman
who does not appear in the film ; Doug-
las Fairbanks as a confidence man and
general ne’er-do-well, without a care in
the world save his own welfare. The
girl of the piece, Rita Hayworth, seems
a little out of her depth.
* * * *
“Maryland”
Technicolor is still new enough to
enhance a commonplace film; let any
doubters of that trot along to Sydney
Regent and inspect this current offering
at that address. The story’s a sturdy
ancient all about a horsewoman whose
husband was killed at the ’unt by a
mettlesome neddy, and who thereafter
forbade the appearance of horse or any-
thing horsy on her estates —stables were
locked up, and even the faithful old hoss-
trainer sent about his business. Years
pass, and the son of the house returns
home from college to find old hoss-trainer
living in humpy near by with bewchus
grandchild and a likely piece of horse-
flesh. Youth is then naturally torn be-
tween promise to mother never to ride
and duty to horseflesh and bewchus
grandchild.
Dress all that out in technicolor, deco-
rate it with scenes of rolling green hills
and splendid horses, with hunting scenes
of fine red-and-black-cloaked figures gal-
loping against tawny autumn brown and
green foliage, throw in a bunch of humor-
ous darkies, add gracious indoor scenes
with polished wood, women’s hair and
gowns and other decorative features all
coming up wonderfully in color, and the
result is a couple of hours of tophole
entertainment.
One scene merits particular attention.
It is of a crowd of darkies at their weekly
church meeting. They roll up pious, re-
spectable and perhaps a little proud of
themselves; the preacher takes over, his
fiery sermon gradually swelling to a chant
with all me darkies joining in, improvis-
ing and gradually working themselves to
that stage where they are leaping from
their pews and screaming out their devo-
tion in as fine a display of mass hysteria
as could be witnessed anywhere. Present
commentator has read of such doings,
but it has to be seen to be fully appre-
ciated.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Professor Lindrum
At Horderns’ Fine Arts Gallery, every
afternoon, is Professor Walter Lindrum
with his trained billiard balls. There is
nothing spectacular about the first part
of the bill, a set of performing billiard
balls. A wave of the magic cue and they
set off, following each other round the
table, all the time keeping in perfect for-
mation and seeming never to vary their
relative positions. After every third wave
of the wand the red ball vanishes into
the handiest pocket, only to reappear in-
stantly and smilingly resume its place in
the formation.
The second act embodies a little more
of the spectacular, and has a military
motif, catering for current popular feel-
ing. Under the leadership of a white
ball —apparently something in the way
of a sarge-major—they form fours and
march round and round the table, strate-
gically taking cover one by one as they
pass each dugout.
The professor is taking on all-comers,
conceding round 95 points in the hun-
dred, and extracting a patriotic fund
donation from losers. Beat the master
and you will be awarded one outsize
plume for millinery adornment.
* * * *
Melb. Tivoli
The return of Mo was the event of
last week at Melbourne Tivoli. The
breathless hush which precedes his en-
trance might suggest to a stranger the
imminent emergence of a Melba. As of
yore he looks as if he had fallen into
a flourbin and wiped his face with a piece
of charcoal.
Current offering is “Black Velvet,” a
revue straight from London, but after
Mo has finished with a refined sketch in
the English manner about three evacuee
children who have been quartered on a
titled lady its own mother wouldn’t
recognise it.
The Tivoli lovelies appear as Orchids
in the Evening, and anon take a trip on
“Our ’Arbor” in the old Kurraba ; Billy
Samuels, a little man from U.S.A., does
some astounding acrobatics with no other
aids except his muscles. A ditty, “My
Heart Belongs to Daddy,” contributed
by Cole Porter, assisted by three micro-
phones with three girls worrying at them,
comes under the category of musical
offences. The rest of the bill makes a
full dish of entertainment.
* * * *
The new bill at Sydney Tiv. is rather
rough and uneven, though individual acts
are slick, if, in cases, poor. The chorus
resurrects some old stuff, but also turns
out in two strikingly good bits of cos-
tuming. One, a chorus-girl adaptation
of Red Cross nurse outfit, the other de-
fying all the rules of revue by obscur-
ing shapely arms, legs and midriffs in
midshipman togs. Of individual acts,
particularly good are a genial magician
seen previously at the Tiv., and a clown
who extracts strangely “pretty” music
from graduated straps of sleigh bells.
* * * *
Melbourne Repertory fanciers are in
for a pretty varied time this season.
Gregan McMahon opens in March with
Jean Girandoux’s “Amphitryon 38” and
Ambrose Pratt’s philosophical Chinese
play “Point in Time.” Bernard Fagan’s
“And So to Bed,” James Bridie’s
“Susannah and the Elders,” Lionel
Britten’s “Spacetime Inn” and Masefield’s
“Philip the King” will follow. Revivals
will include Shaw’s “Candida” and
O’Neill’s “Anna Christie,” which has
been done professionally in Melbourne.
Either Beaumont and Fletcher’s seven-
teenth-century “Knight of the Burning
Pestle,” said to be wildly funny, or Con-
greve’s “The Way of the World” will be
an experiment in the antique.
ARTBURSTS.
A Show of Fives
The third annual mixed show of pic-
tures priced at five guineas at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, is in some
sort a measure of the Australian pro-
gress of the fashion called modernism.
At least 20 of the 43 exhibits call for
explanations and marginal notes. These
can be supplied by the seasoned art-show-
goer in the case of such well-known prac-
titioners as Ronald Wakelin, Rupert
Bunny, Helen Stewart, Grace Cossing-
ton Smith and Treania Smith, whose per-
formances are always predictable, and
it is understandable that Frank Med-
worth’s mixture of rag dolls and chaos,
labelled “Cavalleria Rusticana,” is in-
tended as a jest. But what Donald Friend,
Wolfgang Cardamitis, Russell Drysdale,
James Cant, Amie Kingston and Geof-
frey Graham intend by their queer man-
nerisms is not so easily ascertainable.
Less difficult to think about are a
Howard Ashton seaside sketch of 20
years ago, Muriel Medworth’s gracefully-
drawn flower piece, a J. J. Hilder pen-
drawing, a D. Y. Cameron etching and
“The Still Life Class” of J. Noel Kil-
gour, which last has some quiet humor
in it. Douglas Dundas, Robert Camp-
bell, Harold Abbott, Nancy Kilgour,
Gladys Owen, Hilda Rex Nicholas, Thea
Proctor, Randolph Schwabe and Joshua
Smith are characteristically and quite
understandably represented—Eric Wil-
son’s “Snow in Pimlico” is a fine piece
of realism.
“C.R.”: Australian broadcasting
stations are so inured to cashing in on
other people’s efforts that when a bit
of original talent comes into their pur-
view they don’t know how to treat it. A
young English composer with a big repu-
tation in his own country recently broad-
cast some of his own piano compositions
from one of our premier stations. He
got the usual miserly pittance. When a
conductor of standing performs the works
of dead composers he may get any-
thing up to 250 guineas. He may possibly
be worth it in terms of audience-value,
but why the enormous discrepancy be-
tween his emoluments and that of an
original artist? Fifty years after the
composer is dead the same station prob-
ably will be getting his works for nothing.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulleth
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To buy Democracy in Australia (two vols.)
and The State of Society in France Before 1789
—both by £)e Toqueville. —9539.
Information Sought.
/ recently read a statement to the effect Hun
the Australian sugar industry saved Australia
large sums of money during the 1914-18 war.
Is this so? Any figures to support it?— 9416.
Yes —in the shape of cheap sugar. From
1915-19 inclusive the wholesale price of sugar
in Australia did not exceed £29 5s. per ton,
and the retail price to the consumer was
per lb. The price of sugar in 1920 in Eng-
land was Is. 2d. per lb.; in Canada and U.S.A.
it was Is. 3d. per lb., and in Italy and France
it was Is. 6d. per lb. Thus on the basis of
the English comparison the Australian industry
during the war period saved Australian people
many millions sterling.
* * * *
(1) When and where might I apply for an
exhibition scholarship on leaving certificate
examination ? (2) / wish to take up journalism
and ultimately writing as a profession. Would
you advise an arts course at the University
or would attendance at a business college,
together with an apprenticeship to a daily
paper, bS of more value? Furthermore, would
some knowledge of shorthand and typewriting
be worth the time and money given to the
attaining of these subjects? —9272.
(1) Application should be made on the pre-
scribed form and lodged with the Registrar
of the University. Applications this year closed
on January 31. (2) Best preparation for
journalism is a job as a cadet reporter on a
newspaper—preferably a country newspaper.
Ability to write shorthand is a help to obtain-
ing such an appointment, and the wider a
journalist’s fund of general knowledge the
better.
* * * *
(1) Does the amount of wind present when
it is raining make any difference to the amount
registered in an ordinary rain gauge? (2) If
so, could it in a strong wind make a difference
of as much as 50 p.c. ? (3) Does the height
above the ground of the gauge affect the amount
of rain caught ? Would a gauge at practically,
say, ground level catch more than one 3ft.
high? (4) Would a square gauge catch more
or less than a round one?— 9089.
(1) Yes. The amount registered is less the
stronger the wind. (2) No figures are available,
but it is considered that a gauge would always
record at least 90 p.c. to 95 p.c. unless the
gauge was badly exposed, e.g., near a tree,
fence or other such obstacle. (3) The height
of the top of the gauge does affect the catch.
Twelve inches above ground is the standard ex-
posure and has been found to be .the best.
Aboye that height the amount recorded de-
creases ; thus a gauge at ground level would
catch more than one about 3ft. from the ground
because of the wind. (4) It is considered that a
round gauge would catch more than a square
gauge because eddying would be less violent.
* * * *
What prices are paid for cane beetles caught
in Queensland, and what is the season of the
picking ? —8993.
Payment for the collection of cane beetles
has been abandoned in Queensland. Years of
experience in this and other countries has
demonstrated that economic control of a pest
cannot be achieved by the collection of the
generation of the pest prior to the generation
which does the damage. In the case of the cane
beetle the damage is caused by the grub stage,
and payment would in such circumstances be
made for male beetles, females which had
already laid their eggs and females which would
never have laid eggs in canefields, in a.ny
case. Furthermore, the system was found to
lend itself to many abuses.
* * * *
If a person posts a letter to England by air-
mail via U.S.A. and puts 5s. 10 d., on it in
stamps, is it permissible to enclose two other
letters to be reposted on arrival in England?
—9030.
No. Australia is a member of the Universal
Postal Union, and Article IV of the Final
Protocol of the Universal Postal Convention
provides that no country is bound to forward,
nor deliver to the addressees, correspondence
which the senders domiciled in its territory post
in a foreign country with the object of profit-
ing by the lower rates in force there.
* * * *
(1) Is it a fact that the electricity supplied
throughout Sydney and suburbs to householders
is uniformly at 240 volts, and that electricity
is supplied in different parts of Melbourne and
suburbs at varying voltages, so that an elec-
trical appliance capable of being used in Syd-
ney could not be used in Melbourne unless in
a district supplied at 240 volts ? —9287.
(1) The supply of electricity throughout the
Sydney metropolitan area is given as a three-
phase alternating-current supply at 415-240
volts, except in the city proper, where the
supply is given as direct current at 480-240
volts. In many parts of Melbourne the supply
is three-phase alternating current 400-230 volts,
and in some parts single-phase alternating cur-
rent 460-230 volts or 400-200 volts. , Some
apparatus can be used either on 240- or 230-
volt supply, and 400- or 415-volt supply. The
particular form of the apparatus determines
whether this is practicable or not.
* * * *
(1) Is the use of mushrooms for eating a
recent innovation ? (2) What is their food
value? (3) What is the leading country for
commercial cultivation of mushrooms ? —9544.
(1) No. Mushrooms and other edible fungi
have been used as foodstuffs since ancient
times. (2) They are esteemed mainly for their
flavors, and actual food value is not very
great. Like most vegetables they contain a high
proportion of water. Small quantities of pro-
teins—some of them indigestible—carbo-
hydrates, fats and minerals are also present.
They have been found to contain also small
quantities of vitamin B. (3) The U.S.A.,
although it is also an old and well-established
industry in Europe. It is estimated that
15,000,0001 b. to 20,000,0001 b. are grown each
year in the U.S. These are used mainly fresh,
but large quantities are canned. In the U.S.A.
the average area of a commercial grower’s
mushroom bed is 27,000 sq. ft. and the largest
measures 1,000,000 sq. ft.
* * * *
(1) Details of the American Tacoma Narrows
bridge which recently collapsed? (2) Was it the
largest suspension span in the world? (3) What
caused it to crash ? (4) Was there any previous
indication of the likelihood of such a disaster ?
—9487.
(1) The bridge, opened July 1, 1940, linked
Tacoma and the Olympic Peninsula across
Puget Sound with a 2800 ft. single suspension
span between 435 ft. high towers. It cost
6,400,000 dollars. (2) No. The San Francisco
Golden Gate bridge has a 4200 ft. span and the
New York George Washington bridge a span
of 3500 ft. (3) A gale set up wave motions in
the structure, which developed into a twisting
lateral motion, causing it to crash. Engineers
attributed the disaster to the fact that flat, solid
girders were used on the side of the span instead
of open trusses with less wind resistance. (4)
Yes, both indirect and direct. The Bronx-
Whitestone bridge in New York, which was
built to the same design, had previously de-
veloped an Sin. oscillation, which was corrected.
The Narrows bridge itself proved a problem
from the day it was opened. It had a pro-
nounced sway and an occasional longitudinal
roll, earning itself the nickname “Galloping
Gertie.” Engineers tried without success to
anchor the structure, and built an expensive
test model to study its behavior in a wind
tunnel. The result was alarming—the model
revealed a tendency under certain conditions
to develop a disastrous twisting lateral motion.
This was precisely what happened; it occurred
a very short while after the possibility was de-
tected and before any steps could be taken to
prevent it.
* * » *
(1) Have whales been found as far north as
New Guinea? (2) What is the best commercial
sort found in Australian waters and how far
north is is found? (3) Within what limits
are whales found in Australian waters? —9417.
(1) The skull of a small species of toothed-
whale was received at the Australian Museum
from a beach at New Ireland, Territory of New
Guinea. (2) The best-known commercial
species in Australian waters is the humpback
whale, which is reported as usually plentiful
in the region of Point Cloates, north-western
Australia, from mid-June to early October.
(3) So many kinds of whales have world-wide
distribution or overlapping range in the two
hemispheres that it is impossible to define any
limitations regarding Australian waters, and
without similar means of checking the occurrence
of larger species than the one mentioned from
New Guinea it is impossible to delimit their
range.
* * * *
On boxes of matches, packets of cigarettes,
cigars, tobacco, etc., there appears a fraction,
such as Tor f, in a circle. What does the
symbol indicate? —9076.
The symbol represents factory number and
State number under the Customs regulations.
The top number represents the number of the
factory allotted by the Customs Department,
and the lower number represents the number
of the State of the Commonwealth.
* * ♦ *
When an invalid pensioner (63) in N..S: Wales
enters the State hospital at Lidcombe does
his pension cease, and is the object to pay for
nursing, board and lodging ?— 8982.
Section 45 of the Invalid and Old-age Pen-
sions Act provides that immediately a pensioner
enters a public hospital or institution pay-
ment of his pension is suspended and not re-
sumed until after he is discharged. After he
has been an inmate for a period of 28 days,
however, he becomes entitled to a hospital
pension of 6s. 6d. per week. Maintenance,
representing the difference between the hos-
pital pension and the pensioner’s normal rate
of pension, is paid to the hospital authorities
after the pensioner has been an inmate for 28
days.
* * * *
Are the seeds or vine of sweet-pea of any
value for feeding poultry? If so, how do they
compare with soy, barley or Jap. millet ? —9280.
Sweet-pea seed has little value when com-
pared with recognised poultry foods. The
vines are a bit too tough and stringy to make
good green and cannot compare with lucerne,
vetches, rape, cowpeas or garden peas. Soy,
barley and Japanese millet are all much better
for poultry than sweet-pea. About the only
value the latter has is as a garden plant.
# * *
(1) Why is it unwise to have stock on lucerne
while it is raining? (2) What is the most un-
favorable season for feeding lucerne ? —9302.
(1) Two reasons. One is that lucerne making
growth opens its leaf-pores to moisture, thus
becoming' gaseous and likely to cause bloat.
The other is that stock chop up wet ground
and cause the soil to compact round the plants,
a condition that checks growth. (2) It’s a
matter of time, not season. For instance, stock
brought in off dry country and short rations
and put on to lucerne must be watched care-
fully whether it’s raining or not. They should
not .be allowed , to remain more than an hour
the first day or two, the time being gradually
increased as they adapt their systems to the
new feed. Just after a cut or heavy grazing,
rain sets the lucerne frantically trying to re-
cover the lost ground; growth is then sappy
and much more gassy than in normal periods.
It is all a matter of care in watching the
stock; at the first sign of bloat (a beast lying
clown in evident distress) get them out and on to
dry feed, putting them after a day for another
hour or two, and so on.
* * * *
Recipe for a good hop beer? —9331.
Take four gallons of water, 2oz. hops (a
good handful), one cup wheat, one cup raisins,
21b. brown sugar, |oz. ginger, cream of
tartar, loz. isinglass. Put wheat, hops and
raisins into a muslin bag, leaving room for
swelling, tie and boil in the water for two
hours. Put the sugar into clean kero.-tin, pour
over it the boiling liquid and leave till cold.
Add the cream of tartar and isinglass, stir well,
leave for 24 hours, then strain and bottle.
When head begins to rise in bottles cork and
tie down tightly (or use patent caps and
capper). A cup of yeast instead of the wheat
makes a better beer.
» * * DC
Recipe for preserving green prawns to retain
their natural color? —8930.
Remove heads, wash the prawns thoroughly
in clean water, drain off, then place them in a
mixture of 21b. salt and lib. sugar for each
21b. of prawns. Pack in earthenware or glass
container with a lid of similar material (tin or
iron will rust and corrode and spoil color).
These prawns will keep for months, and are
suitable for either fish-bait or household use.
* * * *
Recipes for pineapple sponge and tart ? —•
9543.
For the sponge take half grated pineapple, ioz.
gelatine, whites of two eggs, juice of a lemon,
one tablespoon of sherry, 2oz. sugar, |-pint
boiled custard, and crystallised fruits. Soak
gelatine in two tablespoons water, and dis-
solve over hot water with lemon-juice and sugar.
Add pineapple, stir until thoroughly mixed and
add sherry. Pour into basin to set slightly.
Beat egg-whites until stiff, add them, and whisk
until firm. Stand on ice, then heap on glass
dish. Pour the custard around and garnish
with the fruits. For the tart take |lb. flour,
ilb. butter, baking powder, pinch
of salt, sugar, i-gill of water, one
pineapple. Prepare the crust by sifting the
flour and baking powder together; rub in the
butter, add the salt and sugar, and make into
dough with the water. Lightly knead on a
board and roll to required size. Line a but-
tered sandwich-tin with the pastry. Prick well
and keep level, cook in a moderate oven, and
place on a sieve to cool. Peel the pineapple
and remove the centre. Grate it on a coarse
grate, but avoid grating the core. Sweeten
to taste and place upon the shortcrust. Serve
with whipped cream.
* ♦ 5k 3*!
Information concerning the manufacture of
casein for casein glues ? —9550.
Casein is one of the chief constituents of
milk, from which it can be separated by various
methods. On souring, milk changes to a whitish
precipitate, which is the curd, and a pale-
colored liquid, which is the whey. The curd
is mostly casein, and when washed, dried and
finely-ground can be used for preparing glues.
For the best grades of casein, skimmed milk
only is used, as the presence of fats affects
the properties of the glue. Casein, in the form
of a curd, can be precipitated from the skimmed
milk by various methods. The commonest is to
allow the milk to sour naturally, such casein being
called “natural sour,” “self-soured” or “lactic”
casein. The casein can also be precipitated by
adding sulphuric or hydrochloric acid or rennet,
the corresponding products being known as
“acid” and “rennet” casein. After precipitation
the curd is washed, pressed to remove a large part
of the moisture, dried in special driers and
finally ground to a powder. The care taken in
the foregoing operations and the method of pre-
cipitation used determine the quality of the
product. Generally natural sour or acid casein
will give a thinner glue than rennet casein,
though the same mixing formula is used in
each case.
* * * «
(1) In auction bridge, when the opponents of
the declarer hold the honor cards of the trump
suit, can they demand that their score be
credited with the value of the honors? (2)
How many times can a declaration be doubled
and redoubled? (3) Do the rules on these
matters apply in contract as in auction bridge ?
—9521.
(1) Yes. (2) There can be only a double
and a redouble. (3) Yes.
* * * *
How to make and apply french polish ?
9520.
To make the polish dissolve 6oz. of orange
(or reddish-brown) shellac in one pint of pure
methylated spirit. Assuming that the article
is to be repolished, dissolve one cup of wash-
ing soda in one gallon of warm water and with
this wash well the piece of furniture, using, if
necessary, some powdered Bath brick or pumice
powder. Rinse off, wipe dry and leave over-
night to dry; next day wipe over with a rag
moistened with raw linseed oil, wipe that off
and rub well in, then apply.
* * * *
(1) Method of removing chocolate stain from
linen? (2) Formula of pleasant-smelling fly-
repellent? (3) Method of removing sea-vapor
mildew from oiled-silk raincoat ? (4) Where
in Sydney can I get a mackintosh drycleaned
and re-proofed? (5) How to dry soft sugar
gone lumpy? —9505.
(1) Steep in glycerine overnight and wash
next day. (2) Equal parts of oil of winter-
green and oil of spike lavender. (3) A spraying
with Dulux might lengthen its life. (4) De-
pends on the waterproof. Take it to any of the
big department stores and get a quotation; it
may be cheaper to buy another coat. (5) Soft
sugar is usually damp. If some has dried in
lumps (what you called granulated) it needs
only crushing.
» * * *
There are persistent rumors that a lea firm
was fined for adulterating tea with Candy’s
crystals. Is there any truth in this ? —9BOO.
No truth in the rumor. There is no reason
whatever why tea should be treated with
Condy’s crystals. The cost would be con-
siderable, and the tea would be ruined.
* * * *
In a recent cricket match on a turf wicket
the hatting side claimed the right to roll the
pitch at any time. Is that in order ? 9540.
No. Law 9 of Laws of Cricket states: “The
ground [pitch] shall not be rolled... .during
a match except before the commencement of
each innings and of each day’s play, when, un-
less the in-side object, the ground shall be
swept and rolled for not more than seven
minutes. This shall not prevent the batsman
from beating the ground with his bat nor the
batsman or bowler from using sawdust in order
to obtain a proper foothold.”
Brief Answers.
K.L.C.: “£ s. d.” is an abbreviation of the
Latin libra:, solidi, denarii (pounds, shillings and
pence)... .R.D.8.: “Wilga” is a N. S. Wales
native name for any Australian tree of the
genus Geijera.... D.L.W.: A “wattle bird”
might be any of several Australian honey-eaters
having fleshy, pendulous ear wattles... .T.M.D.:
Yes, under the agreement made between the
Commonwealth Government and S.A. for the
surrender and acceptance of the N.T., which
was ratified by Northern Territory Acceptance
Act 1910, the Commonwealth undertook to
complete the Darwin-Adelaide railway. At
present the line from Adelaide reaches as far as
Alice Springs, and the line from Darwin finishes
at Birdum... .L-8.D.: At December, 1938,
there were 102.31 males to every 100 females
in Australia. In England and Wales (1937)
there were 92.4 males to every 100 females.
. ...S.R.L.: Latest figures available are for
1937, when Australia produced 3743 tons of
tin EI.G.C.: The last Commonwealth census
(1933) gave the average weekly rent for ’ a
private dwelling in Australia as 17s. 6d., an
increase of Is. compared with the previous
census (1921)... .H.T.M.: At March 31, 1939,
there were 3319 miles of State railways open
for traffic in M.L. Gauge is 3ft. 6in. Sleepers,
mainly Australian hardwood, M.L. silver pine
or totara, are laid 2500 to the mile... .L.T.D.;
Cape Leeuwin (W.A.) was named after the
Dutch vessel Leeuwin, which rounded the cape
in 1622... .G.D.T.: Only 194,423 sq. miles of
Australia are within the average annual rainfall
of over-40in. area, as compared with 1,067,345
sq. miles in the under-lOin. area... .E.L.:
There is no literature on the subject so far as is
known in Australia... .P. 8.5.: You are eligible
for consideration for entry into Royal Aus-
tralian Naval Reserve. Age zone is 17 to 25
years... .C.E.: You are over age for considera-
tion for entry as a cadet midshipman, Royal
Australian Naval College. Candidates for the
college must be in their thirteenth year during
the calendar year vacancies are called for. You
are under age for entry as a rating—l 7 years.
. ...D.C.: Make application to the District
Naval Officer, Queensland, direct regarding
conditions of service, etc., in the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval Volunteer Reserve... .W.8.H.:
Cannot trace “The story of Ponce de Leon,
a mariner withered and old.” Fray Luis Ponce
de Leon (1528-91) was a Spanish Augustinian
monk celebrated as a mystic poet R.W.:
The name Peden does not belong to a Scot-
tish clan... .A.T.C.: The small black ant is
Iridomyrmex rufoniger, and the large brown
sugar ant is Camponotus nigriceps. Use potas-
sium cyanide at the rate of 4oz. dissolved in
a gallon of water, and pour a pint of the
poisoned water down each opening of the
nest. Cyanide is an extremely deadly poison,
as also are the fumes given off by it... .F.0.A.;
Miniature medals and war-service ribbons are
obtainable at the R.S.L. Trading Dept., Wingello
House, Angel-place, Sydney P.T.: Might be
worth your while to consult an expert....
H.T.D.: To make pineapple drink, wash the
skin of pineapple and place with the core
and enough cold water to cover in a lined
saucepan. Cook slowly |-hour; add three
tablespoons or more sugar and the juice of one
orange or lemon. Strain, allow to cool, chill
and serve M.T.: Interpreters are not pro-
vided for, and so far no such appoint-
ments have been made... .M.Q.; No vacancies
for compositors in Q’land Railway Advertising
Dept W.J.W.: The bayonet-fitting lens
hood for the camera referred to is now un-
procurable. Kodak, Brisbane, can supply other
types of lens hoods... .A. 8.5.: There is no
rapid method of reblueing barrels of rifles. Re-
blueing is done by an acid process which takes
several days to operate... .R.A.S.: Cannot
find any Tasmanian aboriginal word of the
same meaning as “Elanora.” There is a word
for “house” —Lenna —and another one reputed
to mean “by the seaside.” This is Liopackana-
poona. These would hardly combine satis-
factorily into a name for a home by the sea.
Splasher: Submit to E. Wills, 7 Lugor
Brae-avenue, Waverley, Sydney, N.S.W., or, if
a mixed lot of various countries, to J. Tyrrell,
281 George-street, Sydney... .G.0.C.: (1) Miss
Alleyne Cook, 14 Bradford-avenue, Kew, E. 4,
Victoria. (2) Victorian League for the Hard of
Hearing, Room 10, 4th Floor, Nicholas Build-
ings. Meets every Wed. night. Class for be-
ginners. Advanced pupils meet in another room.
Subscription ss. p.a., or sixpence a month.
Some people get on best under private tuition,
others with the society, where members help one
another P.R.O’D.: Bauxite (aluminium ore)
occurs in many places in N. S. Wales. Alu-
minium on a commercial scale is not yet being
manufactured in Australia. The demand for
bauxite is limited to a small tonnage annually
for use as flux. Chief user is 8.H.P., to which
a sample of the material referred to should be
submitted to ascertain whether or not it is of
commercial value.


BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION WITH
c ~7^-GxJL-Ch-
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
The most valuable mineral supplement for increased milk production is
Tri-cal -os Bone Flour, with its guaranteed minimum content of 33%
phosphoric acid, and 40% lime. Being bone, Tri-cal-os is definitely
palatable, and in its fine flour form is easily digested and assimilated.
Profitable milking can be carried on for four or five months longer
by giving Tri-cal-os in the dry period.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from —*
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
o
A
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St.. MELBOURNE, YIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The National Fodder Plan.
“R.N.”: No one familiar with the sub-
ject could wish otherwise than that Min-
ister for Commerce Page’s fodder con-
servation scheme should be successful.
It may be in the long run, but Dr. Page’s
statement to the press and the proposals
outlined suggest that there is a long and
costly period of experiment ahead. The
setting up of a National Fodder Conser-
vation Board, with State boards and
agents in various districts, isn’t likely to
instil confidence into those people con-
cerned with protecting livestock against
drought.
Dr. Page has long entertained a fine
vision of stores of fodder laid up in cer-
tain districts for distribution when need
arose. He declares that an organised
plan of conservation has been delayed
chiefly because farmers could not finance
home fodder storage. Conservation isn’t
costly on the ordinary farm. Where
finance is needed it is a poor trading
bank that won’t provide. If the bank
won’t make the advance, either the
branch manager is a dunderhead or he
knows too much about the farmer.
About State efforts to increase fodder
reserves the less said the better. Except
for the work of short-handed field offi-
cers and a support of country and R.A.
societies which could hardly be denied, no
State Government has done much,
though some of them find thousands to
back film companies or build new city
railways.
According to Dr. Page;
It would be suggested to financial insti-
tutions that they might be prepared to ex-
tend advances at reasonable interest to cover
the out-of-pocket expenses of farmers for
storing fodder. Other forms of assistance
suggested included the granting by the
State Governments of cheap freight rates
for the carriage of fertiliser and an arrange-
ment under which a farmer could secure
taxation concessions in the year in which
he made an outlay for fodder conservation,
to be recouped in the year in which he
profited by the use or sale of the fodder.
All these things, except taxation con-
cessions, are at present available. The
taxation job will call for a new civil
service. A man might put away 200
tons of fodder one year and not touch
it for six. In that time much can happen,
including a change of State Government,
raising or lowering of tax rates and interest
and a boom in wool and/or wheat. The
200 tons—or the silage part of it—might
not be used for 20 years.
The doctor states also that the National
Fodder Conservation Board is to be “a
steady buyer of hay for fodder reserves.”
At what price per ton? The commercial
hay-grower of Riverina and northern
Victoria, of Tasmania and the Gawler
plains isn’t likely to sell it for less than
normal — i.e., a price considerably above
that at which conserved fodder can be
valued. If the N.F.C.B. starts buying
hay at normal market prices it will find
itself snowed under with a tremendous
storage problem, and so reduce the price
of hay that nobody will want to grow it.
Then there will probably be a royal com-
mission on hay, and the taxpayers called
on to help hay-growers as they have been
to assist wheatgrowers.
The hay is to be stored at central points
in producing districts. It will have to be
protected against fire, flood, rain, mice
and other enemies, and may have to stay
in the stacks or sheds for years waiting
for a drought. Assume that a drought
hits western N. S, Wales. The nearest
storage points would be Coonamble, Con-
dobolin, Hillston, Mildura.
In 1939 there were just on 6,000,000
sheep in the western division. Between
them Sydney R.A.S. and the Agricul-
tural Department have worked out that
a grazier needs the equivalent of 2cwt.
of lucerne to sustain a sheep for five diy
months. That means that fodder equiva-
lent to 600,000 tons of lucerne would
have to be stored against a five-months’
drought in the western division. Out
there droughts often last five years.
A western ewe is worth about 20s.
Under the scheme the owner, to keep
her alive, would have to buy his feed
from the N.F.C.8., have it brought to
the nearest railway siding and then carry
it perhaps 100 miles to the run. By the
time he’d paid for the hay, its transport
and distribution to the sheep he’d be won-
dering if it wouldn’t be better to skin the
“Better ’old ’is ’ead till the car goes by, Ma .”
sheep and buy some more when the
weather broke.
All the foregoing applies to the outer
sheep country of Queensland, S.A. and
W.A.
Inside the line, where there is lOin. or
more rain between April and October,
droughts of more than two years’ dura-
tion are so rare as to be hardly worth
considering. The stockowner in that area
who doesn’t conserve enough fodder off
his own country for two years deserves
all he gets, and should be called upon,
as bad farmers in England are now being
called upon, to show cause why he
shouldn’t get off the land and let a better
man have a go at it.
The idea of the Commonwealth set-
ting up as a sort of national hay and
corn store overlooks many things, not the
least of them being the relationship be-
tween fodder conservation, pasture im-
provement and carrying capacity. Even
in the dry country saltbush can be sown,
and many are making a success of plant-
ing fodder trees like the kurrajong. There
is tremendous scope for pasture improve-
ment everywhere. And what of carry-
ing capacity? Confirmed paddock-flog-
gers, once they feel the warmth of a
benevolent Government’s hay and corn
store behind them, will load the paddocks
even more so. They could, by a bit of
skilful pleading, overstock to glory, with
consequent disaster to the paddocks.
Dr. Page’s scheme would have a better
chance of success if it confined itself to
grain—either whole or compressed in
cake—for stock. Grain is more easily
stored than hay and much less bulky in
nutrient equivalents. And for this there
already exist the Australian Wheat Board
and the State silo systems. Increased
production of oats and maize, added to
the existing wheat production, would be
a fairly simple matter.
Much more could be said about the
Commonwealth scheme, but one more
important aspect will do. It is a serious
mistake to regard fodder conservation as
purely a drought measure. Until it be-
comes part of every farm’s annual pro-
gramme, it will remain a weak and un-
certain palliative—less and less effective
as more acres are flogged out and more
tons of topsoil sail away.
Sickness in Ewes.
“Graz”: A supposedly new disease
among ewes in north-west N. S. Wales
has been diagnosed as hypocalccemia,
more commonly known as grass tetany
and among cow-farmers as milk fever,
Actually the trouble is a sudden fall of
lime in the blood.
The drain on a dam’s resources pro-
ducing her young and large quantities of
milk depletes her store of calcium. Heavy
milk producers are the most susceptible,
and the disease is most prevalent in flush
seasons. Recent losses under dry con-
ditions mostly occurred among ewes that
had been starved in sheds for 24 hours
or more.
Ewes become semi-paralysed in the
hindquarters and stagger along. After
getting down they do not struggle much.
Very few recover.
Treatment is by injection under the
skin. One ounce calcium gluconate and
two drams of boric acid boiled for five
minutes in 12oz. pure water make one
dose for cow or sheep. The mixture
should be cool. Inject with a large-bore
hypodermic needle. Failing this treat-
ment the udder should be inflated.
Nicotine-Bluestone Again.
“Sagitta”: I drenched for two years
with bluestone-powder 11b., nic. sulph.
solution 16 fl. oz., water two gallons.
Dose: Grown sheep, 20 c.c.; hoggets,
15 c.c.; lambs, 8/12 months, 10 c.c. (in
one dose). Result: Many losses and
unsatisfactory kill of worms.
For the last three years I’ve used the
following mixture: Bluestone-powder
£lb., nic. sulph. solution Boz., water two
gallons. Dose: Grown sheep, 40 c.c.;
hoggets, 30 c.c.; lambs, 8/12 months
20 c.c., 4/8 months 16 c.c., under four
months 10 c.c. in two doses, giving the
second slowly after the first. Thus I
follow practically the method suggested
by “Lion” (B. 22/1/’4l). Result: No
losses in three years and most satisfactory
results regarding worms,
My place carries three sheep to the
acre and is heavily infested with worms
G f various kinds, but with drenching six
times a year in three periods— i.e., the
second drenching about three weeks
after the first—they are kept well under
control.
j n experienced hands the n.-b. drench
j s not nearly so dangerous as is usually
suggested.
The drench may have fatal results if
the drenching-gun is handled roughly and
carelessly, causing injuries to the mouth
c f the sheep. There may exist, also,
internal lesions caused by the worms, a
condition which must always be suspected
j n v w hich show marked anaemia
(yellowish skin), emaciation even on good
fodder, diarrhoea (faeces being often
bloodstained and mixed with mucous
matter). Especially in the latter case —
which, however, is due to nothing else
but careless management—the use of the
drench might offer some risk. A study
of the droppings on the pastures is quite
a good guide to show when drenching
time is up. In scour caused by worms
the faeces are much darker than those
due naturally to watery green feed.
In drenching, I frequently observe that
a weedy lamb takes its dose better than
a fat fellow of the same age. As a matter
of fact, in using the mixture on lambs
it will occasionally be found that the best
conditioned ones go down in the race
with all signs of being lordly drunk, but
they recover in very short time again
without any assistance.
To get best results and to avoid losses,
sheep should be drenched before they
show that they need it. Keep a record
of drenching dates.
Flag Smut and Minerals.
“Ben C.”: Looking for information
about flag smut, Victorian experimenters
have tested four wheat varieties, Nabawa,
Ghurka, Free Gallipoli and Federation.
The first two are resistant, the others sus-
ceptible. Difference in yield from plots
sown with clean and infected seed was;
Nabawa, 14.9 and 14.7 bushels to the
acre ; Ghurka, 20.4 and 17.7 ; F. Galli-
poli, 17.5 and 5.2 ; Federation, 13.9 and
4.4, the first figure from pure seed. Thus
Nabawa was practically able to withstand
infection, whereas the others suffered in
varying degrees.
In addition to recognised control
measures such as burning infected


tnßn f m
■
mm
I'MR ~ S&&*^
*.
xx.
mm
mst4ss >
?m
.
A ”«»*
y>?. c?'
. <
»-J3
-- *
sis
: V
-
The “Caterpillar” Diesel D 2 Tractor in this picture
is pulling 21 foot home-made one-way disc harrows,
preparing land for planting corn. It covers 10 acres
per hour, 10 hours daily—or a total of 100 acres per
day. Fuel consumption is 9 pts. of diesel fuel per
hour at 1/- per gallon—so that the average fuel cost
is less than per acre.
Whatever your farming problem give us the opportunity of
proving, on your own property, the greater economy and
efficiency of a "Caterpillar" Diesel Tractor. Call on your
nearest dealer or write us direct.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISXKIBUTOKS:
Victoria and Tasmania;
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
621 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Smokers are saying—
“Fm not cutting down
my smoking, Vm smoking
f Hillmans* ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially CUT
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST
Four Square
First Crop, Mild
All British, Mild
Kiverhead Gold, Medium ;...
Old Peter, Dark
Cavendish, Strong-
Beech Nut, Medium
Africa, Mellow and Mild
Soldier’s Own, Mild
Normandie, Medium
Winning Post, Medium
Three Bells, Strong
Bird’s Eye, Medium
Eatakia (in Pipe Only)
White Eodge, Medium
White Eodge, Eight
Barlock Flake, Eight and Dark ...
Cahills, Medium
Union Eeader, Medium
Tender Eeaf, Medium
Imperial
8/C
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
10/-
10/-
11/-
9/6
10/-
11/-
11/-
11/-
HIGH CLASS PLUG TOBACCOS.
“Skipper,” Medium 8s 8/6
“Clinker,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Three Sailors,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Big Hit,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Irish Twist,” 13s 8/6
“Koyal Navy,” Nuggets 8/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 13s and 26s .... 7/10
Subject to Gd. Ib, postage to all
States outside Queensland. Quantities
of 51b. and over, Post Free to all States.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., VAEEEY, N. 1., BRISBANE
Telegrams: “Comgrow,” Brisbane.
’Phone No. 84587.
|r"
rj
sm
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone; 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
stubble, fallowing and rotation, adequate
supering and pickling with approved
mixtures helped to reduce losses. In-
fection of a susceptible variety was
found to be largely governed by the con-
centration and balance of minerals in
the soil. Too much or too little calcium
reduced flag smut development, too little
phosphorus increased it. Application of
superphosphate or ammonium sulphate
kept smut down, because the super, in-
creased the phosphoric acid to the plant
and the ammonium sulphate indirectly
influenced the absorption of calcium.
As soils in the Mallee are generally high
in calcium and low in phosphates, this
probably explains why Mallee wheat
takes flag smut more so than any other
in Victoria and suggests that a remedy
may be found in the arrangement of arti-
ficial manures. The best way to avoid
flag smut is to use clean seed of a resist-
ant variety, preferably Ghurka or Ben-
cubbin, though Totadgin, Sword, Dundee,
Carrabin, Geeralying and Nabawa are
all resistant.
Hints for the Farm.
“Canbelego”: Some flystrikes will
appear in the flock a couple of weeks
after jetting, especially in humid weather.
Don’t jet strikes when the stained area
is more than 3in. across. Treat them
with a good dressing. Jet the smallest
strikes as, if they did not exist, but jet
intermediates or doubtfuls at reduced
pressure by drawing back the nozzle.
Jet the surrounding fleece at normal
pressure.
“Goulburn”: Combine a cereal with
a legume for winter fodder crops. Cape
barley or oats (Sunrise or Buddah) pro-
duce a heavy bulk of palatable green
feed. Addition of the legume increases
feeding value and improves soil fertility
when residues are ploughed under after
being fed off.
“Menburb”: Been watching the water
run away and wishing you had a well?
Pick your site and mark out the well,
making the radius greater than
the actual well radius—this is to allow
for brickwork and an inch for filling
behind the bricks. Stick a peg in at th%
centre of the site and a big nail in the
peg. Drill a hole in one end of a thin
stick, .drop it over the nail and so draw
your shape. The stick should be half the
diameter you want the well to be. Sink
exactly to the ring, using a plumb-bob
and line. Dry-brick to within 3ft. of
the top, setting out the first layer so that
the bricks mount spirally, like a close-
coiled spring. Keep ihe plumb-bob
going all the time. For a well of 3ft
diameter and 20ft. depth you’ll need 1000
bricks, or 50 for every foot of depth Use
»"* ™ '
“Macker”: Australian servicemen from
the farms of Riverina, Wimmera and
other parts now in England may wonder
if they are home again when the next
English harvest is taken. The landscape
is likely to be thick with Sunshine
reapers-and-binders, another 2000 hav-
ing been ordered this year. There are
orders for headers also.
“Norther”: Value of Queensland to-
bacco harvest has jumped from £140,880
in 1935 to £260,000 in 1940, though there
are fewer growers. In 1935 the 837
growers produced 1,555,0831 b. of cured
leaf from 3117 acres; last year 633
growers produced 2,400,0001 b. from 4530
acres.
Outback Occupations.
No. LVI.
HELPING THE WAR EFFORT (1).
You are hand-drafting some ewes on
the lookout for flystrike when young Jack
says “Hey! Who’s this?”
A smart car slides to a stop beside the
sheepyard. At the wheel is a young lady,
beside her an older and more ample lady.
The ample lady gets out. She is attired
in a fawn riding outfit, coat, riding
breeches, polo leggings, boots. She car-
ries a riding whip. The boys titter. You
mutter “Shut up, y’ young larrikins.” But
it’s hard to keep a straight face. The
lady is very ample across the beam and
knock-kneed.
She reaches the rail and surveys you
with a charming smile. From the corner
of an eye you are conscious of young
Tom nudging Jack. Jack, who is nearly
20, begins to sidle towards the car, peer-
ing at its rear wheels. The girl driver
stares straight ahead. You wonder what
Jack is up to. Says the lady “Mr. Ford-
cubbin, I believe?”
“Yairs,” you say.
“Mr. Fordcubbin,” she begins, “I am
the district commandant of the Women’s
Land Army. As you possibly know, we
are out to assist the national war effort
by training girls to become farm workers
and take the place of farmers who enter
the fighting services. We are seeking the
help of patriotic farmers. The Government
has given its support. My husband —you
know my husband, Mr. Fordcubbin?”
“Can’t say I do,” you reply, thinking
that if it wasn’t for her get-up you’d prob-
ably know her.
“Oh,” she twitters, “but you must. He’s
the manager of the Agrarian Bank of
Commerce, you know.”
“Aw,” you say helpfully; “big fat
bloke with a red face?”
“Er, well. Well, he was saying he was
sure you’d be only too willing to assist
us. We”
“Well, missus,” you say, trying to
break it gently. “Y’ see, we didn’t have
too good a year, an’ what with all these
taxes an’ things there isn’t much money
about. Still, if half a quid’s any good to
y’ I don’t mind”
“Oh, dear, no, Mr. Fordcubbin,” she
trills, highly amused ; “we are not seek-
ing money. What we do want is permis-
sion to make a camp on your land. A
training camp, you understand.”
“A training camp?”
“Yes. You see, our members are all
town girls, and they have to learn farm-
ing practice. So we decided that if we could
hold a camp and give the girls drill and
lessons in farming and so forth. You see?”
You have to think this over. You’d
heard about this Women’s Land Army,
but thought it just another of those silly
city ideas to give the flappers a chance
to get themselves up like American
parade leaders. You never thought they’d
ever come to the country. A camp, eh?
You get a swift mental vision of a row
of tents and a mob of young women
parading up and down. Perhaps they’d
blow bugles. By cripes, you’d have to
scotch-hobble young Jack. He’s begin-
ning to take a mighty interest in young
women. By gum, it ought to be funny.
Perhaps they’d want you to teach ’em
how to break a horse or pickle wheat.
“Yairs,” you say, thinking aloud and
forgetting your audience, “I’ve often won-
dered how some of them women’d get
on treatin’ fly-struck sheep.”
“I beg your pardon.”
“Aw, that’s all right, Missus Frome-
court. So y’ wanter make a camp out
here? How many of these here farm
girls are there?”
“Only ten so far,” says she, ‘“but I’m
sure we can recruit more when it is seen
how important it is.”
“Yair,” you say. “Well, perhaps we’d
better go up t’ the house an’ have a cup
o’ tea. My missus’ll be mighty interested
in this. Tom, let the sheep go an’ tell
Jack”
There isn’t any need to tell Jack any-
thing. The young lady from the car, also
clad in breeches and leggings but with her
upper works confined to a khaki shirt
and tie, is being shown round the farm by
Jack. They are half a mile away. Tom has
vanished. You shoot a glance at the com-
mandant and lead the way to the house.
“This is Missus Fromecourt,” you tell
the wife. “She’s a general or somethin’
in the Land Army. They’re cornin’ out
here to make a camp an’ learn how t’
run me farm while I go to the war or
somethin’. Anyhow, she’s goin’ t’ have
a cup o’ tea an’ talk about it.”
“Indeed!” says the raissus. You’ve
heard that tone before, and you drift ofl
to wash your hands.
When you get back the commandanl
is talking nineteen to the dozen, soft-
soaping your missus for all she’s worth.
You can see the missus is beginning to
yield. You’re a bit doubtful about the
whole thing. Nobody wants a team of
young women racing about the place, up-
setting the poddies and getting in every-
body’s way. Still, if it’ll help you might
as well do it. Besides, you’ll be popping
it on old Fromecourt for an extension of
that note in a day or two.
Just as you sit down to tea and cake
a car pulls up with a rush outside and
the horn is tooted vigorously. You follow
the ladies out. It is the commandant’s
car. In it sits the driver, her face flaming.
Around the corner of the house races
young Tom. Hot on his heels races Jack.
“Young so-and-so,” gasps Jack ; “wait
till I catch him, that’s all.”
“Here, here! What’s all this?” you
demand importantly.
Tom has vanished. Jack shuffles and
backs and fills, silent. The young lady
stares straight ahead, silent and scarlet.
“What happened, Muriel?” asks the
commandant.
“Nothing,” asserts Muriel. You look
hard at Jack ; he looks up in the sky and
whistles. Then your missus says to the
girl in the car “Won’t you come in and
have some tea?”
That night you get hold of Jack and
warn him. “If you get up t’ any pranks
when that camp starts, young feller, y’
better look out!”
He doesn’t say anything.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line; all others at
2Jd. per line.
A. plea for the utilisation of the services of the Boy Scouts, who are yearning
to do something for home defence, is placed first this week.
Scouts Could Help
Under military leadership, Scouts could
be doing a good deal more to help this
country than opportunity allows them to
do at present. Five Scouts can pitch a tent
in 2\ to three minutes, and let it down,
fold it, pack pegs and ropes and stand
for inspection in If minutes. Boys quali-
fied to do so can lay out the grounds
and prepare the cooking. A health
inspector could see to sanitation, and
for this the holder of a St. John Am-
bulance sanitation certificate would be
chosen. Then there are boys capable of
estimating the width of and throwing a
bridge across a river or stream. With
them are signallers, Morse and sema-
phore, who could keep open lines of
communication.
Other Scouts have first-aid certificates ;
others are experienced bush boys capable
of finding their way through town or
country by day or night and locating
water. Others are capable not only of
cooking in the open but of finding food
in the bush.
Theory alone never satisfied the late
Lord Baden-Powell. Every proficiency
badge held by a Scout means that he is
experienced, and has satisfied an in-
dependent examiner—doctors, health in-
spectors, clerks, horsemen, bushmen,
mechanics, champion swimmers, marks-
men and a host of others constitute an
army of Scout examiners.
Many of these boys have ten times
more training than members of the
flapper organisations receiving publicity
in the Sunday papers.— Skip (N.S.W.).
Women Workers
Australia could learn a lesson from
the enemy in the matter of domestic aid
for the overworked farm wife (B.
29 /1 /’4l). Germany has a female equiva-
lent of her male Labor Corps. This body
engages in various forms of social ser-
vice, but one of its most important acti-
vities is assisting farmers’ wives who are
unable to afford domestic help. Detach-
ments are stationed throughout, the coun-
try districts, and each member spends
portion of her term of service in the
home of a farmer, helping mainly with
the household tasks and care of the
children, though the girls are not above
giving a hand with the lighter farm work.
Even foreigners, highly critical of the
Nazi regime in general, have testified to
the utility of this particular activity.
Australia badly needs a similar move-
ment. There is no reason why one or
more of the several bodies of uniformed
women the war has brought into being
should not provide it —if those who have
joined them are really actuated, as they
claim to be, by the desire to render
worth-while service to their country. —
D. Ait (N.S.W.).
A Fifth Column?
I known any amount of harmless super-
optimists whose enthusiastic patriotism
makes them one-eyed and supremely con-
fident of Britain’s ultimate victory (B.
29 /1 / ’4l), but they are never backward
in coughing up for any patriotic appeal
or buying war-savings certificates.
One positive, boastful but genial old
buffer in our street declares to all and
sundry that the British can’t lose because
they’re an unbeatable, never-say-die race.
He’s cocksure all right, but he backs it
up, with the aid of his wife, by liberal
and warm hospitality to as many soldiers
as can find shakedowns in his house
every week-end.
To suggest that these overconfident but
up-and-doing type are “insidious fifth
columnists” and that “they can do more
harm than any other factor” discloses a
new and rather ridiculous slant on that
overworked term “fifth columnist.”
Actually, our greatest menace is the
selfish complacency of many people who
contribute absolutely nothing towards the
v/ar effort, being supremely confident that
the other fellow will pull the country
through to victory. Then there are other
insidious types, such as war profiteers,
high-rent mongers, those who foment
senseless strikes or spread false and dan-
gerous rumors, and those who craftily
spout treason under the guise of Com-
munism.—Danbo (Vic.).
Australian Italians
The hullabaloo raised by the press over
people of Italian birth and parentage
prospering in this country, and more par-
ticularly North Queensland, is unjustified.
I’ve found the Aussie-Italian hardwork-
ing, honest and courteous to a degree.
By industry and love of the soil he has
succeeded in making a living area of
acreages which would have been de-
spaired of before his advent, and his off-
spring of the second and third genera-
tion are of fine physique and undoubt-
edly Australian-minded. This can be
proved by an examination of the list of
names of the A.I.F. personnel drawn
from the Northern Command.
Because a political upstart and his
coterie of agitators have plunged a nation
into an unnatural war against an age-
old friend and ally, it is a hard thing to
condemn an entire people. A certain
amount of sympathy and forbearance
would not be amiss towards Aussie-
Italians. — Red Ned (Q.).
Rising Costs
Despite virtuous resolutions and public
utterances at the beginning of the war,
it looks as though the bogey of rocketing
costs, which means decreased purchasing
power, ad infinitum, has got us. In my
job on the staff of one of Australia’s
biggest peace- and war-time industries I
have been getting a pretty good eyeful
of how things are trending.
There is hardly an item of material
being used for either private or defence
work that has not suffered great, even
staggering, rises. My firm’s annual pur-
chases bill (pre-war) approached very close
to the million mark. What this norm is
likely to become as time marches on
beggars imagination. Normal factory
cost accounting is knocked sideways,
computation figures become obsolete
from week to week, and one runs around
in circles and spirals trying to cope with
the ceaseless maddening adjustments to
commodity and labor costs.
Increases on cost of imported materials,
owing to the hazards of shipment and
abnormal markets, were to be expected ;
but in spite of price-fixing commissions
one cannot help wondering if many local
producers and processers are not exploit-
ing their opportunities. They all seem
to be able to put up a good case on paper
and to get the official O.K. to their rises,
but one silently wonders how much of
that case is bolstered by subtly padded
“overhead” on which it is impossible to
lay one’s finger. Another disturbing
thought is that a big percentage of this
unwelcome visitation has come to stay,
and costs and therefore purchasing power
and monetary values will be affected for
all time.
The problems have not been faced
with the iron overhead control or the
public spirit that was hoped for, and
that we see in Britain, despite the fact
that we have had all the advantage of
the spectator of Britain’s handling of
war-time problems on a greater scale
and at an earlier date.— Vouvray (S.A.).
Truth Versus Flapdoodle
A diagram of a cross section of our
population in relation to its war activity
would show how little our “resources”
are being “strained” in the conflict. The
politician spends most of his energy mak-
ing his seat and his party secure. The
contractor, even when not a soulless pro-
fiteer, is only doing big business for a
handsome reward. The munition-maker
is well paid and assured of a steady job.
The working class generally is being
benefited by the money-spinning, and any
increase in the cost of living is largely
offset by higher wages and overtime. The
bond-buyer is merely a wise investor.
The storekeeper a larger turn-
over, and passes on the tax. The trade
of the entertainer is booming.
To hundreds of thousands of citizens
capable of beating ploughshares into
swords Mars has been a sort of rich
uncle. Almost the only people who are
making a “sacrifice” —and then unwill-
ingly—are those who practise the arts
of peace and culture. Their services being
dispensed with, their fees are turned into
“charitable” channels, although their
names don’t appear on the lists of donors.
It is fashionable to orate about our
“magnificent effort,” but an honest
analysis of the position will demonstrate
that, apart from the men in the ranks,
all we have done is build up our indus-
trial prosperity by mortgaging the future
and passing the buck to the baby. We
have not yet begun to “take it.”—
Unpopular (S.A.).
Grouchers ?
“L.L.’s” complaint (B. 29/1/’4l) that
the “0.F.M.” pages are full of grouchers
is true enough. The grouches, however,
are not personal, but indicate a growing
body of public opinion which is dissatis-
fied with the way in which national prob-
lems are being treated.
Is it “blaming their conditions” to point
out that we are fighting to preserve Aus-
tralia for our posterity and at the same
moment killing off that posterity by birth
control?
Is it “grizzling” to mention that after
17 months of acute danger for the British
Empire N. S. Wales alone has 28,000'
recorded unemployed, meanwhile com-
plaining that America, a foreign country,
won’t ginger up her war production for
our benefit?
vShal I we burst into applause because
we have seven Parliaments to rule (and
tax) us, or should we be just complacent
like some (former) nations were?—
J. N. R. (N.S.W.).
Yes, we are all grouching about some-
thing on this page, and thank goodness
for it. In the average newspaper (reputed
circulation 100,000) how much space is
devoted to correspondents? The usual
allowance is about half a dozen letters.
And look at the letters that haven’t a
grouch in such papers. A bit of blah
about Sir Blah Blah and his new political
job; another bit of blah about what
Hitler may do if Mussolini does some-
thing else, and what will happen in con-
sequence ; and a backscratch or two for
the editor. If “L.L.” really thinks that
Australians are not given to blaming their
conditions, then he must be stone deaf.
The only Australians who do not blame
their conditions are the smugly self-
complacent ones. Auntie Blah
(N.S.W.).
Overtime
Politicians burble that if overtime is
abolished in essential industries it will
seriously hinder our war effort. Actually
it will do nothing of the kind. From a
strict business point of view overtime
never was and never will be satisfactory,
for the simple reason that men can work
efficiently only for a certain number of
hours a day.
After that they become tired, and speed,
efficiency and quality of work all drop
with a bump. Also, employees working
long hours overtime invariably com-
mence work next morning with a “hang-
over” complex, feeling tired and gener-
ally out of sorts, so that their work suf-
fers. Britain realises this now, and the
latest production planning is based on
a seven-day week, not on overtime, but
by working three shifts every 24 hours.
If you ask any leaders of industry they
will tell you that in its essence overtime
is the last resort of bungling and incom-
petent managers who continue to prac-
tise it after the need is long past. Actu-
ally, an all-round ban on overtime would
be a blessing in disguise.— Danbo (Vic.).
James Joyce
I don’t know whether Joyce was a
genius or not, nor whether he had a
greater understanding of human nature
than Shakspeare, but I fancy that “F.S.”
has missed the point in his Red Page
article (B. 29/1/’4l).
If it is more effective in certain
circumstances to alter the traditional way
of telling a story (i.e., beginning at the
beginning and ending at the end, with
the middle part in the middle), the same
may be applied to the use of language.
The particular order of words is un-
important as a clue to meaning. For
instance, if I can read Latin I will not
be upset in a Latin sentence by finding
what might come first in English coming
last in Latin. That is the first point—
Joyce emancipated English words from
the tyranny of conventional order. Next
Joyce did give promise in his earlier
work of his subsequent development. In
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
there are germs of the vocabulary and
technique of Ulysses. The main point
about Joyce is that the Joyce reader has
to ascend to the Joyce level of con-
sciousness to understand what it is all
about. The ordinary, or traditional,
novelist requires no effort in reading,
for he merely supplies a photograph in
words.
As to whether it is worth while to
go to any trouble to find out what Joyce
means, that is another matter. Time per-
haps alone can tell. Today schoolboys
read Shakspeare with a glossary, and I
wonder how many of them find it worth
while? Some day, perhaps, a great num-
ber of people will be reading Joyce with
a glossary, and until their verdict is at
hand we shall not know whether Joyce
was a greater genius than Shakspeare?
Meantime Joyce was at least a pioneer.
—Another Dubliner (N.S.W.),
Syndicated Stories
And let me tell “Willyn” (B. 5/2/’4l)
that as sub-editor of - a N. S. Wales
weekly paper I was offered syndicated
short stories by representative English
writers for 10s. a time. Our kite wasn't
buying stories then, but the agent sug-
gested that maybe it could find space
for a few at 7s. 6d. It didn’t.
Several years ago, as a sort of pro-
test against the tripe being sold to coun-
try papers for serials, I wrote one myself.
One paper bought it and paid me £3 for
the 80,000 words, stating that it did so
to encourage local talent, though it could
get serials for from £2 to £2 10s. from
“its agents.” I am not impressed by


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
“Anyone else Want to say it's no good cryin' over spilt milk?”
the Sydney she-editor’s criticism of Aus-
tralian writers ; she probably dotes on
E. M. Dell and Ethel Mannin.— The
Nark (N.S.W.).
The Press
Some of our lower-class magazines are
certainly not edifices of purity, and our
newspapers do sometimes print elaborate
doses of “twaddle,” spiced with a few
exaggerated untruths. But surely the
press is not deserving of the harsh criti-
cism that is meted out to it by many
of us.
Every day events which happen across
the other side of the world are flashed
before the eyes of millions of readers
a few hours after their enactment. Items
of interest to wives, businessmen, chil-
dren, farmers and, indeed every section
of the community are placed before us in
a fascinating manner. The sporting com-
munity derives its main source of enter-
tainment from the neat summaries of
results, etc. Advertisers and readers find
a mutual market place in the press.
Propaganda is not so extensive. A
press admitting and criticising some of
the serious knockbacks suffered by
Britain cannot be really rotten. Con-
sidering its place in the modern world
and all its advantages, the press fills an
important position in the lives of us all.
—Scout (N.S.W.).
Radio Writers
A few more boulders were slung on to
the Inky Way recently when a couple of
radio wisecrackers who would be more
suitably employed changing gramophone
records boldly entered the writing field.
The best that can be said of one of them
(for he may, of course, have an arrange-
ment with the publishers of New York
“Variety”) is that he has been dishing up
second-hand material under his own
name. But this is not uncommon in
radio.
Radio —particularly commercial sta-
tions, but also 'including the A.B.C. —
somehow manages to get away with acts
of undisguised plagiarism. Some day
writers are going to get wise and copy-
right their output, and then there will
be consternation, if not collapse, in the
field of commercial radio.
Typical of the average radio man’s atti-
tude to the art of writing is the follow-
ing remark, made recently to the present
writer by an “ace” radio star, “Why don’t
you write for radio? All you need is a
gag book.” — Celt (N.S.W.).
“Marvellous’ *
Visiting the Big Wen I decided to
treat the family to the talkies. An in-
spection of the advertisements in the
“Daily Blurb” just left us undecided, so
I hopefully turned to the criticisms of
the entertainments. An entire column
was given up —despite newsprint short-
age—to telling the public that each pic-
ture was “magnificent,” “stupendous,”
“marvellous,” “brilliantly acted” and so
on. Apparently not one of the 30-odd
programmes contained even a mediocre
picture. The closeness with which adjec-
tives followed those in the advertisements
was also remarkable.
Obviously the advertising of talkies,
taking valuable dollar funds out of the
Empire, entitles the film exchanges and
talkie magnates to free space even when
newsprint is short. But if local pro-
ducers, using MX. labor, capital and
materials, desire to have their product
extolled in this fashion they are charged
special rates for the privilege. When the
papers are short of advertisements and
decide to run a special issue they may
give a MX. factory a write-up provided
such firm is prepared to spend sufficient
extra cash on an advertisement.
If we must spend our money on talkies
surely the Great Dailies can at least
supply honest criticisms so that at least
we get value for the money we turn into
dollars. — Tinopai (MX.).
Australian Wine
The Agricultural Council, plus State
and Federal Ministers, has been in
kotigsi at Canberra solemnly discussing
methods to control the planting of new
areas with grapes in the interests of the
Australian wine industry. The Australian
w.i. doesn’t need new areas for produc-
tion —there is an enormous surplus of
wine knocking about the country already
—but new areas of consumption.
Publicans have such a prejudice against
Australian wine that he is a courageous
wine-bibber who would ask for a glass
in the bars where gallons of beer race
down the throats of the thirsty daily.
Even the general public shares in the pre-
judice, as instance the colloquial terms
for the beverage which has been glorified
by poets in Europe for centuries. In
Melbourne it is known as “plonk,”
“paint” and other even more derogatory
labels. It is served for the most part in
dingy wineshops, or in luxurious hotels
at a price which only the wealthy can
contemplate. Yet these are hard times,
and wine is a cheap drink to produce
and beer a very expensive one, carrying
an enormous excise.
A friend of mine has found a legiti-
mate way to supply himself with Aus-
tralian wine as good as or better than the
vin ordinaire which everybody drinks in
France and the Chianti of Italy, and save
handsomely on his beer allowance. He
gets it in bulk from the producers, deli-
vered to his doorstep, and decants it into
clean dry beer-bottles, and it works out
at threepence halfpenny a bottle. There
is more kick, if that is what is wanted,
in one bottle than in half a dozen bottles
of beer, and, taken in moderation with
a little water, it is as pleasant a tipple as
anybody could wish for. — Spokeshave
(Vic.).
Children and Flats
Flats mightn’t be ideal places for rear-
ing a family, but why should tenants
with kids be barred from many flats on
the ground that “children make too
much noise”? If children are barred,
nobody should be let in with a gramo-
phone, radio or piano,
A nice touch of irony occurs at our
place every day when the lady in the flat
next door yells at the kiddies who are
playing, quite mildly, in the flat below,
“Stop that screeching! Stop that yelling
or I’ll throw water over you.” Then
inside goes this tabby and continues to
play through her gramophone programme,
which consists of a dozen yodelling
numbers repeated over and over again.
The birthrate might get a move on if
it became law that every block of flats
contain one large playroom for tenants’
children, the room to have soundproof
walls and be under the supervision of a
trained nurse. — Flatite (N.S.W.).
School-leaving Age
Again educational circles are making
determined efforts to have the school-
leaving age raised, and few of us deny
that their claims are justified. No child
is fit to leave school at 14, for at that
age he is only a baby. At 15 he starts
to see the light; at 16 he can stand on
the threshold of knowledge. That, any-
how, was my experience, and I showed
no differences from other children.
I recall newspaper articles over the last
nine or ten years dealing with the prob-
lem and advocating reform. But no-
thing ever happens. The Government
could easily decree an increase, but any
alteration in the present Act would needs
be accompanied by some social reform.
Thousands of parents find a lot of diffi-
culty in keeping their children until they
reach 14, and for these people the in-
creased time of whole dependency, plus
the cost of advanced textbooks, would
not be a hardship but an impossibility.
The new child endowment scheme
points to a solution. Up to the age of
14 the child will bring ss. a week. Let
the amount from that age be increased
to 15s. until he leaves school. His earn-
ings would be about that much. The
increased cost would not be great, and
its benefits would be wide and far-reach-
ing. It would banish the commonest
excuse for small families —“I feel I have
to educate him properly, and I can only
afford it for one.” It would ensure the
dependence of the child until the age
when he is amenable to reason, instead of
the eternal conflict between parents and
their cocky, semi-self-supporting 14-year-
old which so often ends in the Children’s
Court. — Pip (Vic.). v
It Can Happen Here
Four years ago, when America awoke
to the fact that syphilitic heart disease
was carrying off 40,000 people every year,
and that 31 million dollars was being
spent annually to support the syphilitic
insane, Congress decided that something
should be done about it, and passed the
National Venereal Disease Act. It
authorised 15 million dollars to be used
in a three-year campaign, this amount
being augmented in 1939 by a further
7,000,000 dollars. Every doctor in 43
States was supplied with the necessary
drugs free of cost to himself and the
patient, and more than 1700 free or part-
pay clinics were opened. The intense
programme has shown results in so far
as in 1939 over 100,000 were discharged
from these clinics with their disease cured
or arrested. Treatment by doctors
accounted for a similar number.
Some similar united-front attack is
needed in Australia. Travelling clinics to
tour the back country, extended hospital
facilities for treatment, free issue of drugs
to doctors and an educational campaign
would work wonders in lowering the
venereal deathrate, the loss to industry
from sickness and the cost of maintaining
asylums for the syphilitic insane. The
scheme could be financed from the
money to be spent on the projected
Federal family endowment scheme, for,
after all, a healthy nation is the primary
consideration. —A. P. (N.S.W.).
Rights and Duties
“C.H.’s” plea for the industrial con-
scription of all “scroungers, urgers, bar-
flies, etc.,” will be echoed by most of us
whose pay envelopes have been lightened
since January 1. Realising the necessity
for still heavier taxation, we would fork
out far more cheerfully if we could see
the community relieved of the expense
of supporting the thousands of social
parasites that infest our cities, while a
Government that would make them
“accustomed to the discipline of respon-
sible toil” would earn our gratitude.
For the duration of the war —and
possibly after —Australia can do without
the luxury of professional racecourse
gamblers and their hangers-on. Idleness
should be made a crime for any able-
bodied man, and the onus should be
placed on every citizen to show that he
is making some contribution to the com-
munity. If he has no trade the Gov-
ernment should train him or use his ser-
vices in some unskilled work —there is
ample scope for employment for all.
And when the street lounger or dog-
racer protests against honest toil, claim-
ing his “rights” as a citizen to loaf while
young Australians die in the Libyan
desert for Australia, let him be given a
lesson, such as a child would understand,
on the rights and duties of citizenship in
peace and war. It is fundamental that
the community cannot fairly recognise
the rights of all unless all accept their
corresponding duties of citizenship.
WUSSLEAN (Vic.).
Australia’s Job
The “post-war reconstruction” shib-
boleth attracts leader writers as a
sly-grog shop attracts undesirables.
Whether Australia would be the better
for a post-war era moulded by the Syd-
ney “D.T.” or the “Barrier Miner” is a
neat problem in speculation.
It mightn’t be a bad idea if Australia
dispensed with post-war reconstruction
ideas and, when peace comes, picked up
her swag and went on from where she
left off. When war came it found a lot
of persons and groups here fighting for
various ideals, commendable and other-
wise. They were invited to drop these
aims, temporarily at any rate, and join
in the “fight for freedom.”
We’ve always been fighting for free-
dom. We never actually possessed it.
What we did, and do, possess is the right
to continue the fight—a fight in which
we were at least holding our own.
Certainly we were free to think, wor-
ship, loaf or work as the spirit moved
us. We even extended to doubtful
elements the freedom to juggle with
national assets, defence and other things.
But no Australian father has ever been
free of the fear of losing his job, having
his wages cut or his rent increased.
Few Australian women were ever free
of the dangers of disease, of being evicted
from their homes, of seeing their men
come out on strike, of seeing their bits
of furniture sold over their heads. No
Australian could be called free if
economic laws allowed his physical
strength and mental power to be stolen
for the profit of others.
Neither was there any freedom for the
employer. He might have the brain and
will to build up an industry, but rules
and regulations and taxes and union
leaders and erratic politicians and
monopolies could tear it down again. Far
too often was he bound by the lack of
responsible subordinates to work far into
the night, night after night, struggling
to keep his industry going and his men
employed.
Progress was being made, true, but
there remained ceaseless work for the
uplift of the nation. Education itself was
not free ; though compulsory and paid
for from taxes, it was bound by six State
syllabuses, by regulation, by imported
traditions. The adult had still to be
educated. We had to find counters
to the assaults on commonsense and
credulity made by both the ignorant and
the profit-seeker pandering to the super-
stitious, the sentimental, the sensation-
lover and the mug tempted by the lure
of easy money.
There was the necessity for educating
Australians to understand that Australian
problems must be solved by Australian
solutions. There was need for the de-
velopment of an Australian way.
Hard, perhaps, to define an Australian
way. But if hard-working, practical,
easygoing, tolerant natives of a vast
sun-swept land like this can’t dispense
with the intolerant political creeds and
selfish greeds of foreigners they should
hand it back to the blacks.
The Australian mind has to be cleared
of inherited bigotry and puritanism. It
has to be washed clean of wowserism.
Social diseases must be recognised and
dealt with, our offences against nature
stopped, our rape of the soil prevented.
Political reform is needed. There was
a growing cry for simplification and
centralisation of national government,
abolition of State Parliaments, expansion
of regional government. The deadening
influence of two great cities on a whole
continent had to be lifted. Urgent re-
forms in literature and entertainment
were needed. The monstrous burden of
bureaucracy had to be abolished.
There was the need for educating Aus-
tralia to regard herself as an original and
enterprising young nation that could no
longer stand quietly by and watch herself
and the Empire to which she belonged
involved by the foreign policies of
London politicians and London editors
without having a say about it. The time
had come for an Empire Parliament and
Australia was ready to take part in it.
We were beginning to undermine our
insular outlook on world affairs and the
ideals and aspirations of other races, to
get away from our localised and racial
comprehension of history, to emerge from
our astounding national ignorance.
All this was in hand, poorly perhaps
but definitely, when we had to turn from
that unspectacular fight to meet a force
that would, if successful, throw us back
into something worse than our former
darkness
That is the fight now. When it is
won, it will be enough if we are able
to resume the old fight with the same
spirit and will. If this war will have
sharpened the spirit and firmed the will,
we shall be all the better for that, and
“post-war reconstruction” will follow ot
its own accord. —O. T. (N.S.W.).


r
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
Jm When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. 1 herefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
INDIAN
■too
They Make You
Feel Brighter
ẁ
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Windburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet.—Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price; 2/7-8 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
* „ *3»
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME .
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
TO
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . .8/-
3 months, 4/-
post free. -<^
AO*
'-'V
pp' »\e
s e ! i** e
i’
>V' S
.•*
A 'VV
„of to V’S'jJ*'-'
AX) 0 "


issss*
Sfiliii | paissk
!Si»; E sSiiiSSSS
Kill! S i?!i!ssr
II
siisiisssi
iwIBCIWBCS;
I'KiSSli
Whl
■l fA
"vfi'T
■ / _<<"’//. •, j; Wiiuijt: .• ■/'’."On;
Vij*i
A \ *i
>xs'
"A, >
"# N \
2> \. /.
?'9
■SS
<- >,.
..,./> ,n.p *>»:■_ W/ ®Vi tS* '’n,, - ■■ • ■ Tn \
KSeTCfe&t.
>5
V 3
r / f j&s
t?*W!
§§g;
:Ss
<J=>.
s
Sgsgggsgi?
sm
IPs
i ;
/;-
TV o
& I:.-.' / / TV.;-:
tei
wA'i/. v..r.-. : v
->* v i
p
Lv'^fiSvS:
V .
hd i
111
s
These are days when a man needs a noggin more
than ever to sustain his energy and maintain his
cheerfulness, but he has to consider his pocket as
well as his palate.
That is why so many more spirit drinkers now ash
for Gilbey's. The price is right-—the spirit Is righl
and the benefit to mind and body is comforting anc
immediate.
Make Gilbey's your daily ration of cheerfulness and
combine health and pleasure with economy.
A
4CJI
Sl/n
Uffrit 40JU.
F
0
G
T
GENERATIONS
