

The CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
Established 1879.
CORNER OF HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
AN AUSTRALIAN
INSTITUTION
:
V
i.
J
: m iMfnra' nm| fwaagig
:3i jpPI
ff- ■
i I
*
Head Office: Corner Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
PURELY
MUTUAL
ANNUAL BONUSES
TOTAL ASSETS APPROXIMATELY £11,000,000.
WILLIAM BENNETT,
General Manager.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3227.
Wednesday, December 17, 1941.
War in the Pacific (Page 32)
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
A.G. STEPHENS: CRITIC .
A community that endures a contemptible
law is itself contemptible Indecency, or
even obscenity, simply cannot enter into
the artistic question. Art has nothing to
do with decency; it is a Peter’s sheet in
which there is nothing common or unclean.
A picture of a saint has no more artistic
merit, because it is a picture of a saint,
than a vile Pompeiian fresco; and it may
have less. Countless pictures of saints have
perished, and some Pompeiian frescoes are
immortal —not because of subject, but be-
cause of art.
It could have been said yesterday about
the banning of Ulysses. It was said by
A. G, Stephens in his “Bookfellow” 20
years ago. And so Vance Palmer’s claim
that Stephens’s writings are still fresh is
obviously true. They are, in fact, amaz-
ingly fresh ; amazingly, because the pieces
of literary criticism Mr. Palmer has
strung together for A. G. Stephens; His
Life and Work (Robertson and Mullens)
are not elaborate essays in which the cry-
stallisation of a philosophy of letters
might be expected to stand the test of
time, but mainly snippings and scraps
from the first Bulletin Red Pages—
week-by-week reviews and jottings which,
if they were the ordinary stuff of jour-
nalism, would reek of the decay of the
files.
Even last week’s newspaper articles
(like last minute’s broadcast talk) will
seldom bear reprinting. But here, still
fresh and still —on the whole—valid criti-
cism, is what A.G.S. said of Australian
short stories in a Red Page of 1897;
Australian writers run too much to the
easy, detached, realistic sketch —not too
much if it be considered that they are young
and learning, but too much if they are
judged without reference to local considera-
tions, as artists merely.
And again (apparently, by calling for
greater realism, contradicting himself;
but not really doing so, for the true short
story takes its shape somewhere between
the laxity of the sketch and the slickness
of the artificial “magazine story”):
Too much is ephemeral. The reason is:
Becke’s failure in constructive power. He
wrote some excellent short stories, still ex-
cellent short stories; but they are all epi-
sodes. That is, detached from the main
current of life. Island scenes and people
are shown in a wonderful series of moving
pictures; but, when the pictures stop, there
is only a blank screen. They are always
outside the reader, virtually set apart in
another existence. The only lasting stories
are those that get inside the reader, making
him feel that they are a part of himself
which hitherto he has not known, not recog-
nised.
Again (a criticism meant for Lawson,
but still applicable to any short-story
writer who keeps his eye on the imme-
diate objective of newspaper publication
instead of on the only objective for which
is it really worth while writing short
stories—-book publication):
A reader of Lawson’s work is continually
setting out for short journeys all round the
compass. Perhaps it was expedient to be-
gin publication in the way of journalism;
but it was not necessary to end there. The
spectacle of Lawson’s talent, contrasted with
his performance, offers a useful lesson to
many writers wasting their strength in
periodical publication. Lawson has achieved
himself, but he has not justified himself.
When it came to books, Stephens knew
what he was talking about; that simple
fact, making him a critic instead of
merely a reviewer, is what made his criti-
cism respected in his time and keeps it
alive today. He had read the great books
of the past, prose and poetry alike, and
on them he based his standards. It was
not enough for him that a book should
be an entertaining (or otherwise) piece of
current literature, “something to read” ;
it had to be considered as a work of art,
standing or falling by comparison with
the masterpieces of the world’s litera-
ture ; or with what A.G.S. considered the
world’s masterpieces. (Vance Palmer
notes that his preference in poetry was
for the lyric ; and says, too, that he con-
fessed that Dante bored him: a weak-
ness there, perhaps, unless what he really
meant was that the attempts of earnest
clerical poetasters to translate the Divine
Comedy were the pain in the neck they
undoubtedly are.)
Knowing something about the great
books distinguished Stephens from the
illiterate reviewer (who still abounds).
Distinguishing him from the other most
common type of Australian reviewer was
the fact that, knowing the great books
and having set his standards high, he
didn’t forget everything he had ever
learned or decided about literature the
moment an Australian book landed on
his table. Robbery Under Arms was a
good novel, yes; but how did it com-
pare with the Scott novels from which
he knew it was derived? Fairly well: —
If For the Term of His Natural Life is
the better piece of literature, Robbery Under
Arms is the better Australian romance.
Thomas Browne had not Marcus Clarke’s
literary faculty, but he had a remarkable
knowledge of the Australian life and charac-
ter of his epoch, and he followed faith-
fully Sir Walter Scott’s advice to observe
and copy the fact. Scott was to a con-
siderable extent Browne’s model as a roman-
tic writer; and his writing name of
“Boldrewood” was taken from Marmion.
And so, “the Australian value of this
book” was that “perhaps seven-tenths of
it is Australian truth.” Its value as litera-
ture —justly and precisely—was that it
amounted to a pretty good application
of Scott’s method to the Australian
scene ; marred by the overwriting of the
hero, redeemed by the realism of the
minor characters.
It wasn’t that Stephens couldn’t praise.
He knew that Such Is Life was good, and
persuaded The Bulletin to publish it.
My Brilliant Career won a favorable
notice. Louis Stone’s Jonah, savagely
attacked elsewhere in its day but still
immensely readable for its story alone
and growing more and more valuable
for its pictures of the vanished Sydney of
the “pushes,” “exhibited in masterly
fashion the Sydney types we know and
esteem highly.” “With one book Mr.
Stone has put himself in the front rank
of Australian authorship.” But it was
always guarded praise: there was a
wealth of cautious qualification in that
phrase “ A ustralian authorship,” or in the
summing up of Such Is Life as “an Aus-
tralian classic or near-classic.” Jonah
wasn’t even to stand in the front rank
of Australian novels without an analysis
of its faults to temper the praise of its
merits: —
We have praised two-thirds of the book;
the remainder is often as good in essence,
but it is not an integral part of the book.
Structurally Jonah is equivalent to “two
rooms and a skillion,” and the skillion is
only a lean-to. The hunchback Jonah,
greatly conceived, remains mis-shapen in
fiction and in fact; he typifies the book he
entitles. He grows beyond his creator’s
power to shape and guide, and his final
tragedy is merely sketched, not shown and
realised.
As with the novelists, so with the poets.
Adam Lindsay Gordon? Well, yes;
Gordon had many merits: “In the end
we love him for transfusing life; his
poetry is a man’s heart beating.” But: —
Australian popularity of Gordon is natur-
ally accounted. He adapts Scott and
Aytoun and Lockhart, Byron and Macau-
lay and Tennyson, Whyte-Melville and the
Brownings—with doubtless other writers
of his epoch—and weaves their ideas, their
measures, and sometimes their phrases,
altered by his own mind and colored by
his experience, into poetry for people who
have never known the sources of his poetry.
From the adored Byron of his boyhood to
the beloved Swinburne of his manhood,
Gordon’s work is imitative. So he becomes
a translated classic of the Bush.
And, again, Gordon was not allowed to
be a classic of the Bush without having
his qualifications as such assessed: “On
the high path, Gordon’s poetry is not
poetical His poetry is intellectually
obvious Gordon called some of his
verses ‘bush ballads,’ but there is hardly
a hint of the ballad spirit in any of them.
Your true balladist is no introspective
pessimist; and then Gordon had too
much culture, too ipany of the rhymester’s
airs and graces ever to be natural —and
a ‘ballad’ which does not spring spon-
taneously from the soil has no right to
the title.”
It may seem that Stephens’s attitude
to the Australian writer was niggardly,
carping; that he asked too much. But
—in general—that is not so. To have
two standards of criticism, one for Euro-
pean literature and another, much lower,
for Australian books, would be insulting
to Australian authorship as a whole; to
relate Australian books to the stream of
world literature, however they may suffer
by the comparison, honors the author as
well as doing him justice.
In particular instances it is true, how-
ever, that Stephens, was overcautious.
He loved Shaw Neilson’s lyrics; but: —
A poet means to me Shelley, Verlaine,
and their kindred. The others I call verse-
writers merely; they cannot give me the big
emotion. I do not believe in cheapening
the price of laurels. Even to Miss Jessie
Mackay and Mr. Shaw Neilson, I dislike
applying the great word poet. I prefer to
say that they are poets in kind, or that they
have written poetry, and thus make a dis-
tinction. For a man cannot write poetry
without being a poet in my Shelley sense
.... Miss Mackay is a poet in a manner of
speaking; but not in my manner of speak-
ing, not sheer and clear of all qualifications
and reservations.
If Stephens had been boggling over
“major poet”—which implies a great
mass of work—his caution would be
understandable. But it was fantastic to
deny the laurel of “poet” to Shaw Neil-
son.
In Stephens’s defence, it has to be re-
membered that he was dealing with many
of these writers while they were making
their reputation ; he was not summing
up their full achievement. A reviewer,
with a single new book before him, or
even with the knowledge of two or three
previous volumes, can’t say “This man
is a major writer” ; the most he can say
is “This is major writing, and, if the
author can keep it up, he will be a major
writer.” That is why Stephens, aware
of his virtues but hoping to cure him of
his faults, seems persistently to under-
rate Lawson; it is one of the reasons
that makes him in his too-showy art criti-
cism select for attack Low, Lambert and
Norman Lindsay. He saw the stories,
poems, paintings and drawings as run-
ning streams of work, not as the still
lakes of achievement.
“Bulk! ” he cried for; poem upon
poem, novel upon novel, story upon
story, painting piled upon painting. Some
of the men he criticised, Lawson and
Lindsay in particular, have certainly
turned out a sufficient mass of work for
major status. But his great plea and
challenge to Australian writers as a whole
is still the cry of today;
' Some have succeeded in verse and prose;
but neither in prose or verse have we had
a great writer, woman or man. Many good
—some fine —none great.
In verse the reason is plain: the work is
too limited or too imperfect.
Bulk counts in one’s impression of great-
ness, even if some of the bulk is unworthy.
It is true that poetic rank can be fixed by
a stanza, perhaps even by a line; but place
in the rank is fixed by the total weight of
performance.
By his creation of the Red Page, says
Vance Palmer, A.G.S. made Australian
writers feel that they were no longer
talking into the void. In case Mr. Palmer
should feel that there’s a void today,
here’s a word for him. Why the deuce
weren’t the snippings grouped so that
the scattered reviews of Paterson or Law-
son would have amounted to something
like a Statement on Paterson or Lawson?
Though there is a biographical note,
there is no real attempt to recreate the
atmosphere of a golden age of Aus-
tralian writing (Stephens’s qualification!);
the thing is strung together and no more.
But it’s a valuable work ; and it’s good to
see that the Commonwealth Fund, after a
bad start, is beginning to sponsor the sort
of books it should.
Call-up in France .
A year or so before the war started,
Robert Henrey crossed with his wife from
England to buy and live on the title plot
of land of his book, A Farm in Nor-
mandy (Dent) —a green, hedgy and
blossomy place, set amidst other smallish
farms in gentle hill country that had been
tilled, cropped, harvested for centuries ;
peopled with peasants, rustic to the point
of being primitive ; in season, the ground
under the apple-trees stacked feet-high
with the fruit; a land flooded with peace
and flowing with cider.
The “applejack-man” comes round with
his ambulating still and distils from the
cider each farm’s Government allowance
of applejack—a potent brew ; one man is
spoken of with respect for his ability to
drink a pint of it a day. The peasants
gather their apples; make their butter
and take it to the village market; conduct
private feuds that come out into the open
under the influence of applejack. When the
well-sinkers come to a job it’s an event;
so is each birth or suicide—all of about
equal excitement value.
Into this scene in due course, the news
of war. How did the French people
react to that—not the political or press
gentry well publicised at the time in
cables, but the ordinary people like
these? No doubt this account, dealing
with only a special little community, is
not fully representative, either. But, how-
ever that may be, the picture presented
is extraordinarily different from that
which the press boys—seeing only the
city and political scene, and profoundly
ignorant, as they generally are, of the
common run of people—cabled at the
time.
In a general sense, war came to the
French nation —as it did to other nations
in the mass —by radio, when war was de-
clared. The French army for war being
a citizens’ army based on conscription,
an average mind-picture would probably
have its citizen soldiers mobilising as au-
tomatons ; accepting it like robots and
going off without question to their battle
stations. There is no space or time in
war reporting for the reactions of indi-
viduals. It calls for some effort to think
of armies as being composed of so many
individuals —not merely uniforms in the
mass.
The war came to the individuals of this
small French peasant community—as no
doubt it did to individuals through most
of country France —in the beating of
drums. It might have been war-drums in
Africa, or tom-toms in the back country
of New Guinea. “The sound of drums
came rolling across the orchards”; too
intermittent to belong to passing troops.
Then a single drum in the courtyard of
one of the peasant homes. “A man with
long, unkempt moustaches was beating a
drum slung across his shoulders, and
having roused all the dogs to fury he
cleared his throat and yelled out the
order of mobilisation.” The drum of
another crier could be heard over at
another farm.
At first peasant Goguet took it with
one of those remarks the press boys
quote as representing the philosophical
spirit cloaking the true brave feeling
beneath. “Why the blazes,” said Goguet,
“couldn’t they wait until the apple crop’s
gathered?” Presently Goguet began to
realise just what that drum at his neigh-
bor’s place meant: he would be sent to
the front and might well be killed ; at the
best he would be absent for months, per-
haps years, far away from his wife, his
cider press and his orchard. “Leontine,”
he wailed, “I don’t want to go to the
war.”
As the night wore on Goguet became in-
creasingly nervous, and his wife was finally
obliged to feign sleep in order not to answer
his cries of distress.
There is more of Goguet—about as
unwilling a soldier as ever went to war.
Then there was Goguet’s brother, who
was supposed to leave also, but “got cold
feet” and for days “barricaded himself in
his little house, threatening to shoot any
policeman who attempted to take him
away by force.” There was also Groscol:
“His four children were worth their
weight in gold now, because they entirely
exempted him from military service.”
There are other individual reactions,
adding up to a picture drably in contrast to
the highly colored confections concocted
by press boys at the time. No doubt all
this would be different today, if only a
small fraction of what is now reported
by the same press boys can be believed.
If alive, these peasants—who went off to
the war eventually—are probably prison-
ers, as far from their farms, wives and
cider as in their worst fears. No doubt
they would all face up to it very differ-
ently now if they had the chance. It’s
not suggested that these few individual
peasants represented France; that’s as it
may be. Nor is the suggestion made that
there was anything cowardly about them ;
only that, at the time when it came, these
individuals, at least, did not want war.
There is no mention in this section of the
book of anyone who did.
When the French armies began to fall
back, the author abandoned his farm and
joined the refugees streaming to the
coast; and so back to England. One of
his glimpses on the way of one of those
who fled before the German advance: ’
There was a Belgian peasant woman who
arrived in a covered wagon, drawn by two
farm horses. The outfit had been shelled
and machine-gunned during the first hun-
dred miles of the journey, the woman
driving like mad with her nine children
through burning towns and roads encum-
bered by war material. Seven out of her
nine youngsters had been killed on the way,
and each time she had halted only long
enough to lay the little victim on the road-
side and make a sign of the cross.
Tom Collins as I Knew Him: Sub-
stance of a paper read by A. Lee Archer
to Melbourne Lindsay Gordon Lovers’
Society, published in a nicely-made book-
let by Melb. Bread and Cheese Club.
Furphy’s love of Shakspeare and the
facility with which he composed verse
are the two most interesting sidelights
emerging from these lightly personal
reminiscences. There’s also this:
He was trying to negotiate for the
publication of Such Is Life. He told me
that it would cost him £3OO. He had not
that many shillings to spend. However,
a year or so later The Bulletin took it
up, and it was published through them.
Convert to Freedom: Eitel Wolf
Dobert (Bodley Head). Interesting auto-
biographical account of the author’s con-
version from disciple of Hitler to civilised
human being. Too young for the last
war he was trained in the rigid German
military schools of the time, was about
through when the war ended, became an
adherent of Hitler, and then went to
France and there decided that Hitler was
on the wrong track. Description of the
harsh military school training very good,
though, like the rest of the book, now
rather familiar.
Nation Building in Australia (Angus
and Robertson). Author’s name not given
on cover or title page, but preface, signed
Jessie Groom, describes the work as “an
attempt at a biography and national esti-
mate of my husband.” It is a very detailed
and well compiled account of the politi-
cal life of Littleton Ernest Groom, who
held a seat in Parliament for more than
a generation. R. G. Menzies describes
him in a foreword as having been a good
democrat, with a sense of individual
responsibility.


y\/\
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —always
• • •
annma
FROM "THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS"
Selected items from our large assortment of brush and comb sets ... gifts of
quality that will be appreciated for their lasting worth and practical value . . *
appropriately packed for menfolk and women friends.
£5
ns
as
: .
Men’s Brush Set, Black
lacquer and chromium.
White bristles. With shield
for initials. Made in
America. Exceptionally
smart. At Anthony Hor-
derns’. Price, set . . . 22/6
Men’s Travel Set, comprising
hair brush, comb, shaving brush
in case, shaving soap case, razor,
bottle for brilliantine, toothbrush.
Set in strong leather case. At
Anthony Horderns’. Price, per
set 22/6
1C
mm
Set of Brushes for your men-
folk in the R.A.A.F. White
bristles set in Blue and Gold
back, with wing badge. Com-
plete with comb in Navy Blue
case. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, set 30/-
Brush Set for our boys in the
A.I.F. Hair brush, clothes
brush and comb, with A.I.F,
badge. Complete in leather
case. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, set 26/6
Men’s Travel Set, good, quality
sliding fastener case, in Black
Morocco. Comprising clothes
brush, hair brush with white
bristles set in black ebony,
comb to match, metal mirror.
Price, set 33 16
%
Men’s Hair Brush, latest handled de-
sign from America. Pure hog bristle
set in beautiful polished wood back.
At Anthony Horderns’. Each . . 25/6
Men’s Hair Brush, best quality White
bristle, White xylonite back, also tor-
toiseshell. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each 24/6
m
m
Men’s Military Brush Set, pure
White bristle. Smart design in
Black and Chromium. Made in
America. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, set 39/6
Ladies’ 3-piece Brush Set, dainty
Petite Point designs in pastel
shades of Green, Blue and Beige.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price,
set 39/6
Ladies’ Hair Brush, best quality
pure White bristles set in light
Dolished wood back. Made in
America. At Anthony Horderns’.
Price, each 25/6
%
Ladies’ Xylonite Brush and Comb
in satin-lined box. Colours are
Pink and Blue. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price 10/ll
A. Ladies’ 3-piece Brush Set, Old
World design, Oriental colour-
ings on black and chromium.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price,
set 26/6
B. Ladies’ 3-piece Brush Set,
made in England. Pretty
design in floral tapestry,
chromium. At Anthony
Horderns’. Price, set, 18/6
• Brushware Department —Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free
within our delivery area.
A
Anthony Horderns
'PHONE: M 2401
(DAY OR NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 27120
G.P.0., SYDNEY


CARNIVAL
By DOUGLAS STEWART.
ON the topmost pinnacle of the
monkey-puzzb tree at 13
Mortimer-street, high above the
ghost of Sergeant Piggott, a
blackbird welcomed the morning. The
sunlight clapped its hands in the back’ bedroom and
the sleepers stirred.
In the big double bed there were two ladies.
She on the left, of the broad pale face and the black
hair that was losing its lustre, was the handsome Mrs.
Trotter; she on the right, breathing with a musical
hiss and gurgle, like a pump at a pond, had no name
but the nickname of Fat Hilda.
Pressing her left hand flatly against her com-
panion’s puckered features, Mrs. Trotter levered her-
self into a sitting position.
“Wake up, dear,” she said. “We’re going to the
Show. It’s a holiday!”
“Well, take yer ruddy ’and away,” growled Fat
Hilda.
From the privacy of his bathroom at the other
end of the town, Sergeant Piggott sent his perturbed
imagination winging to the women’s cottage again. It
was not a mind that could envisage the scenes
at 13 Mortimer-street; all it could see was a vision
of himself, in the evening to come, standing dramati-
cally on Mrs. Trotter’s verandah with his hand raised
to the doorknocker. Whether he would knock, and
what words would come to his tongue if he did, he
could not prophesy.
Flashing his razor like a scythe, he slashed at the
purple meadow of his cheek. As his face emerged
from the soap, clean and monstrous, it pleased him,
and a small smile, improbable as a daisy, flowered
among the lather on his mouth. Yet Sergeant Piggott
had slept badly and dreamed tumultuously. The
anonymous letter he had received yesterday still cor-
roded the pocket of his tunic hanging on the bedroom
door.
Sergeant Piggott.—Why have the police
taken no action concerning a certain house in
this borough ? If action is not taken concern-
ing 13 Mortimer-street, this complaint will be
Carried Further. Certain people in this borough
seem to be protected by the police. If action
is not taken there will be no need to ask why.
The Watcher.
Blast it! thought Sergeant Piggott, today was
no day to be pestered with threatening letters and
the problem of Mrs. Trotter. For his own good
reasons he had ignored 13 Mortimer-street for so long
that it had almost ceased to be a problem, and he
wasn’t going to be rushed into melodrama now. For
today, at least, he would think no more about it;
there was time enough. With a heave of the will, he
threw Mrs. Trotter out the window. Fat Hilda went
tumbling after. The sergeant beamed.
As he strode into breakfast, resplendent in his
blue serge, Mrs. Piggott gazed at him with that slight
feeling of relief she always experienced on seeing him
in his uniform. In his pyjamas Sergeant Piggott looked
faintly unnatural. The smile that still flickered like
a fish on the cold slabs of his lips alarmed her, until
she remembered what day it was.
“Coin’ to the Show?” she said.
“Mph,” he answered.
For the pair, it was an extensive conversation.
Years of presiding over the moral welfare of a small
town had given Sergeant Piggott something of the
appearance and all of the patriarchal somnolence of
a Black Orpington rooster among its hens. Awed
by his magnificence, Mrs. Piggott had long since
shrunk to something like a feather, a greyish, dusty
little feather blowing about the sergeant’s roost.
Sergeant Piggott glared at his fried egg. It had
the face of Fat Hilda. He bolted his breakfast hastily,
hid his head in his helmet, and rolled majestically
out the back door.
<‘KJICE day for the Show,” said Constable Yates
when the sergeant met him at the station.
The sergeant nodded.
Foxy-looking! he thought distastefully as the
constable bared his teeth in a smile. Instantly he de-
cided not to tell Mick Yates about the letter. The
lithe young fellow with the hooked nose and the dark
complexion was efficient all right, a keen, useful assis-
tant. But he was too keen, ruthless. Balance was
needed in an affair like this. The sergeant looked at
his subordinate and disliked him intensely.
Not that those damned women didn’t deserve a
shake-up, he reflected angrily as he and the constable
marched side by side into town. People writing letters
about them. They had had their own way in the
town far too long, and if they thought they could
ride roughshod over the law they had another think
coming.
But it was difficult. Yes, it was difficult. The
thing was, he pointed out to himself, that he could
hardly prosecute the pair after all these years. People
would talk. Besides, he disliked the whole idea of
stirring up trouble. They were established in the
town, as much a local institution as the Oddfellows’
Lodge or the halfwit who met all the trains and
strutted in front of the Town Band on occasions of
ceremony. In spite of her profession Mrs. Trotter
was a very respectable woman. As for Fat Hilda
“You walk too fast,” he complained to the con-
stable. “No need to break your neck.”
The town, when the two blue uniforms rounded
the corner into the main street, was gay with flags in
honor of the Show. Along the road, already ani-
mated with traffic, a lost-looking small boy dragged
a calf along by a rope halter, while from the back of
a truck parked outside the hotel, the head of a stal-
lion—Mr. Royland’s Bonny Dundee —towered serenely
above the hurrying townspeople. The atmosphere of
carnival, the sense that the humdrum little town was
bewitched, awaiting some princely or preposterous
denouement, intoxicated even the policemen.
Show Day was a great day for Sergeant Piggott.
All his flock would be gathered together in the after-
noon at the Showground, and he would stalk proudly
among them, acknowledging their greetings with a
massive inclination of his helmet, “keeping an eye on”
the young larrikins in Sideshow Alley, discomforting
the visiting showmen with his most impressive glare,
chatting amiably with officials and farmers of wealth
and position, patting horses on the rump and little
girls on the head, responsible for the peace and good
conduct of the whole concourse and never for one
moment unaware of the majesty of the law he per-
sonified. He stood on the pavement under the wild
eye of the stallion and beamed.
AT 13 Mortimer-street, meanwhile, something like
a Battle of Flowers was in progress. Flinging a
colored nightgown here, a beribboned nightcap there,
a furry slipper somewhere else, spilling face powder
on the dressing-table and charging the air with per-
fume, Mrs. Trotter and Fat Hilda made ready for
their holiday. In a cracked soprano, Fat Hilda sang
the first verse of “Annie Laurie” over and over again.
She trundled her prodigious proportions into corsets,
pink petticoat and a billow of floral organdie, plastered
her snub features with rouge and powder till her face
was iced like a wedding-cake, crowned her nonde-
script brown bobbed hair with a floppy floral hat,
and paraded before her friend. “How do I look,
ducky?”
“You’re a treat, Hilda,” answered the tactful
Mrs. Trotter.
In a lightweight green tailored costume, with her
face persuaded to the suave pallor that best set off
her sad, dark eyes, the mistress of the house looked
supremely elegant. Calm of temperament, but never
quite at ease when she had to appear in public, she
“Bit hard on the feet, George !”
was looking forward to the Show with subdued ex-
citement as a tournament at which she would meet,
look for look, the embattled matrons of the town.
It was a ritual, this annual visit to the Show, a cere-
monial defiance of the world, after making which she
could live at peace with herself for the rest of the year.
The ladies lunched early and lightly on lettuce.
Then, while the monkey-puzzle tree kept guard over
the dilapidated verandah, intimidating the frequently
returning spectre of Sergeant Piggott, they promenaded
decorously through the town to be stared at by every
man and every woman they passed.
To every eye, bold or cold. Fat Hilda responded
with an ironical twist of her lips, a smirk that served
for challenge or invitation as the circumstances war-
ranted. Mrs. Trotter, stately in her green costume
might have been walking alone through marble halls.
Yet she was not unaware of the crowd,
nor displeased by its unflagging curio-
sity. Like Sergeant Piggott, she knew
that she was a public figure, isolated.
and she was at once proud of her
detachment and flattered at the interest of the herd.
“Look, dovey,” cried Fat Hilda as they entered
the Showground, “it’s Mr. Royland! He’s making a
speech.”
“Ever known him not to be?” asked Mrs. Trotter,
sardonically.
It was a remark that would have hurt Mr. Roy-
land had he been able to hear it. President of the
Agricultural and Pastoral Association, chairman of the
County Council and Drainage Board, deputy chairman
of the district school committee and a life member
of the Rugby Football Club, Mr. Royland did indeed
enjoy listening to Mr. Royland. A large, prosperous
dairy-farmer with a thick, reddish moustache, he
would one day, he confidently expected, be Minister
of Lands in the Government.
“It is my pride and privilege today,” he was
booming into the microphone in front of the grand-
stand, “as president of the Agricultural and Pastoral
Association, to welcome you one and all to this mag-
nificent display of the wealth and the many fine
animals of this district of ours of which we are all
so proud. When I cast my eyes about this vast
assembly of people, gathered from far and near —we
have visitors from many other centres eager to pay
tribute to this magnificent display, and I want to
especially here welcome the visitors, one and all, who
have come from so far afield to be with us today on
this day on which we are so proud to have them!
When, I say, I cast my eyes about this vast assembly
of people gathered from far and near who are with
us today, I want to say to you one and all, that is,
if you can all hear me”
“There’s Sergeant Piggott, dearie!” cried Fat
Hilda. y
The sergeant started. He had been listening
dreamily to Mr. Royland, and the two ladies and the
anonymous letter were far from his mind. Shocked
from his trance, he turned and saw that the women
were not six feet from him, keeping him company in
semi-isolation on the fringe of the crowd by the dais.
Mrs. Trotter inclined her head politely.
The sergeant turned away. “Come on, Mick,”
he said, “we’ll shift along a bit.”
“And so I want to say to you, as president of the
Agricultural and Pastoral Association, as I have said
to you in the past, those who remember, and as I
shall say to you again next year and the year after
that —if I am still president of the Agricultural and
Pastoral Association, that is, that is up to the com-
mittee! (. Laughter .) But I shall always, while lam
spared, be at least a loyal and faithful member of this
association as I have done in the past to render loyal
and faithful service to the committee and the members
of the Agricultural and Pastoral Association!
{Cheers.) And what I want to say to you today is,
when I cast my eyes about this vast concourse of
people, and others who are with us in spirit—l have
a telegram here from the Minister of Lands, the
Honorable Mr. Ensilage”
“The old bullock will go on bellowing till the
cows come home,” said Fat Hilda. “Let’s go and
get a seat on the grandstand and watch the Grand
Parade.”
Mr. Royland’s audience lost its solidarity. “What
I want to say to you today....” the voice droned on.
There was an epidemic of coughing ; the crowd around
the dais began to break up; some of the young


fellows in the top corner of the grandstand stamped
their feet upon the wooden floor.
URGED on by some impatient official, the Grand
Parade began to troop into the arena. Mr. Roy-
land’s voice died away among the lowing of cattle
and a buzz of conversation. The Town Band brayed.
After it. in glory and turmoil, marched the glossy
Clydesdales with bright ribbons around their tails,
the great sullen Jersey bulls, the heifers as delicate as
deer, the obstreperous calves flying their attendant
small boys like kites, the men and women on hacks
and prancing hunters, the Boy Scouts, the Girl
Guides, a rabble of athletes with knobbly knees, and,
last of all except for an army of hangers-on, grubby
children and delirious terriers, the Pipe Band in all
its skirling splendor. The bulls bellowed; the heifers
lowed; stallions whinnied and snorted; calves ran
away with their owners; the Town Band blared and
the Pipe Band squealed as if the kilties were cutting
the throats of the bagpipes.
It was a mess of sound and color that warmed
the sergeant’s heart. He stood on the steps of the
grandstand nodding his helmet in amiable conversa-
tion with Mr. Royland. Immediately before him the
crowd surged with its bright pattern of summer
dresses; beyond was the riot of the parade on the
green grass of the arena ; and beyond that were dark-
green pines, the distant tower of Mount Egmont, with
furrows of snow still streaking its blue immensity,
and the cloudless summer sky over all.
“Well, Mr. Royland,” said the sergeant, “it’s a
success this year. A wonderful thing for the district,”
“What I wanted to say” said Mr. Royland.
“I wish the sergeant would move to one side,”
interrupted a loud voice behind the pair.
“Ssh!” hushed another.
Even before he turned to look, Sergeant Piggott
knew that it was the ladies from Mortimer-street. He
glared at Fat Hilda so fiercely that she was momen-
tarily quenched. Nevertheless, it was he who gave
ground again. Mr. Royland took him off to watch
the woodchopping.
“You shouldn’t cheek him,” Mrs. Trotter re-
proved her companion. “He could turn very nasty if
he wanted to.”
“Him!” said Fat Hilda. “After all these years?
He’s an old duck.”
| T would have suited Mrs. Trotter to have sat elegantly
* in her green costume among the ladies in the grand-
stand all afternoon, but Fat Hilda’s yearning for the
richer entertainment of Sideshow Alley was too strong
to be resisted. They made their way to the sideshows
through a jungle of home-industries stalls, where
country matrons and pretty young girls sold jams and
jellies and cakes and fudge and fat, garish cushions.
Mrs. Trotter, defying the world, bought a rag doll at
a Plunket stall.
At the refreshment tent they paused. Two by
two the fashionable townspeople and the farmers’
wives were trooping in for afternoon-tea. Like a
pitchfork going into the side of an eel, Mrs. Trotter
and Fat Hilda broke into the queue. There was a
visible shudder as the nearest gentlefolk made way
for them. An old lady shaped like a barge fronted
them, took air and sailed indignantly away.
“And what about the time ’er daughter drove
into the ditch on the way home from the Golf Ball?”
muttered Fat Hilda.
The pair seated themselves at a table from which
two other ladies, after a pretence of conversation that
withered in the air and left a hollow silence, rose and
departed with a great clatter of chairs, rustle of
parcels and swish of drapery.
. “Tea and sammidges for two,” Fat Hilda ordered.
The waitress, a pale, lumpy girl from the country,
blushed violently and tossed her head. A hundred,
two hundred eyes were staring at her from all sides
of the tent. Men were grinning, some girls giggling,
middle-aged women exclaiming “Well!” in short, in-
dignant gasps. A knot of waitresses in the far corner
stood discussing the situation, some sympathising with
the girl who had to serve the scandalous visitors,
some teasing her.
“Somebody ought to get the police,” one of the
waitresses was saying. “I wouldn’t serve them if I
was you, Milly.”
Milly, with the air of a Christian going bravely
to the lions, carried the afternoon-tea to the ladies
and banged the tray on the table. Mrs. Trotter
talked fast to Fat Hilda and laughed elegantly with-
out just excuse. When she poured the tea, she crooked
her little finger. She ate delicately with a fork and
did her best not to hear the sooping noises Fat Hilda
made when she drank. When the last sandwich and
the last squelchy crumb of sponge cake had been
consumed, Mrs. Trotter patted her mouth with a
handkerchief and led the way in a dramatic exit
through the hushed, grinning audience.
The waitresses had had no need to talk of calling
the police. The door of the refreshment tent, where
he could nod his helmet and beam at the ladies, even
exchange a compliment with the mayoress and the
president of the Women’s Institute, was one of Ser-
geant Piggott’s favorite haunts. Fat Hilda brushed
against him as she passed.
“Ffff!” snorted the ser-
geant, ridding his nostrils of
the waft of her perfume.
“Those”
“A bloo m i n’ hide
they’ve got! ” said Constable
Yates. “A pair of bloomin’
tarts! You’d think they
owned the place.”
“Look here,” barked
Sergeant Piggott. “This
thing! Read it! ”
He handed Constable
Yates the anonymous letter.
Immediately he did so he
felt a thrust of regret, but it
was quickly smothered in
his anger. The sight of the
two ladies, flaunting them-
selves among the choicest of
his ewe lambs, aroused his
deepest wrath. His cheeks
puffed and turned a cloudy
purple. “Them!” he ex-
ploded. “Causing trouble.”
“What you goin’ to do
about it?” asked Mick,
pleased. “Round ’em up?”
His subordinate’s eager-
ness damped the sergeant’s
rage. “I’m considering the
matter,” he said heavily.
“It’s high time we
pinched ’em,” declared Mick
Yates. “They’ve been get-
tin’ away with it far too
easy.”
It was high time some-
body got pinched, Sergeant
Piggott decided, subsiding
into sullenness. He felt a
need to assert his authority.
He turned about sharply,
thinking that someone was
staring at him. But the
women had disappeared, and the crowd was intent on
its own affairs.
A SURE instinct led Sergeant Piggott to the side-
shows. Among the visiting showmen, loud or
furtive, he was certain to find someone on whom he
could pour out the flood of his agitation. His appease-
ment began immediately when he found that wherever
he went the menace of his presence could hush the
pandemonium, cast a momentary shadow over show-
men and merrymakers alike. Sideshow Alley was a
world in itself, where only a distant lowing of cattle
or the occasional crack of a starter’s gun bore witness
to the more sober crowd about the arena and the
stock pens. The sergeant moved in sombre isolation
where showmen yelled, children shrieked, farmhands
and the girls raucously laughed and whooped and
the merry-go-round sobbed and wheezed and tinkled.
A grey woman like a witch, selling souvenir mugs of
red glass, fell silent as the sergeant approached, and a
saintly-looking old gentleman with silver hair who was
passionately expounding the virtues of a penknife
with four blades, a corkscrew, a bottle-opener, a nail
file and a gadget for removing stones from horses’
hooves muttered something beneath his breath and
viciously cut the ears off a piece of paper.
Outside the tent of the Flying Plantagenets, a
woman with flaming red hair and a face made ghastly
with powder missed a beat as she banged the big
drum, and her tone faltered for a second as she
screamed “The greatest show on earth! See the Plan-
tagenet Sisters, the flying daredevils of the high wire! ”
Taking advantage of her irresolution, the ragged Jew
of the neighboring camp shrieked in triumphant
frenzy of the wonders of the Two-headed Calf, the
Tattooed Lady and the Smallest Woman in the World.
Then, as the policemen fixed on him their sardonic
stare, he too subsided, and the popcorn man took up
the cry.
“’Ere y’are! ’Ere y’are!” screamed the man at
the ninepins booth. “Choc’lates if you win an’ choc’-
lates if you lose! ”
The shadow of the sergeant fell upon him. His
customers froze, the ironical presence of the Law mak-
ing them feel that somehow they were being cheated.
“ ’Ere y’are! ’Ere y’are! ” the dark little man in
the flaring yellow shirt shouted frantically. “Four
shots for sixpence. Choc’lates if you win an’ choc’lates
if you lose. Four shots for , a sprat an’ a lovely box
of choc’lates to take home to the little lady.”
His hands, outstretched imploringly, fell down to
his sides. He glared at the sergeant. “ ’Ere,” he said
disgustedly. “I’ll tell you what I’ll do. A free shot
for the sergeant. Come on, sergeant, ’ere’s a free shot
for nothing and a nice big box of choc’lates to give
to the little lady.”
As the eyes of the crowd turned towards him, Ser-
geant Piggott beamed. But he shook his helmet.
“All right then,” shouted the showman, “you
have ’em if the sergeant don’t want ’em. ’Ere’s a
free shot for your missus. Come on, missus, and show
the sergeant who’s the better man.”
“The Water's fine. Come on in.
There was a roar of laughter from the crowd.
Astonished, the sergeant swung on his heel. Not
a yard away from him, smiling delightedly, was Fat
Hilda. Behind her, with a languid air that seemed to
say the proceedings were no concern of hers, stood
the handsome Mrs. Trotter. Fat Hilda pressed for-
ward for her free shot.
For a moment the sergeant panicked. He felt
haunted. Then he grew angry. The people were still
laughing, but warily. He jostled his way through the
grinning crowd and went away to look at the pigs.
“Seems they’re follerin’ us about!” said Mick
Yates, voicing the thought that had just infuriated
the sergeant.
TT was quiet by the stock pens. The animals had
1 settled down and it soothed the sergeant to gaze
upon them. He leaned over a railing and absorbed
the repose of the Berkshires, which, for the most
part, were sound asleep. Occasionally, when one was
trodden on by a restless brother, it squealed faintly
and dreamily. The small boys were leading their calves
home and, looking across the arena, Sergeant Piggott
saw that the farmers were beginning to trickle towards
the gates obeying the call of the evening milking.
Everywhere on the Showground the grass was trampled
flat and the yellowing light fell sharply on a litter of
torn paper as on foam on a calm sea. In the dis-
tance, the tinkle of the merry-go-round was gay and
pleasant. Sergeant Piggott’s mind, with an assurance
it had previously lacked, strode past the monkey-puzzle
tree and knocked at Mrs. Trotter’s door. As it opened,
some conflict of emotion robbed him of speech, but,
infinitely relieved, he knew now that he would inter-
view the women that night.
“Fine pigs,” he said pleasantly to a farmer who
joined him. “A lovely bit of bacon there.”
“Better have a look at the traffic,” Mick Yates
interrupted him. “Getting late.”
“Aw, a little while longer, duckie,” Fat Hilda
was pleading at that moment. Armed with a thin
black cane to which a naked kewpie was tied with a
band of pink ribbon, Fat Hilda looked battered but
valiant still. She was munching popcorn and looked
enviously at a child who passed with her ears buried
in a pink foam of floss candy.
“Roll up, bowl up, tumble up! ” a stocky attendant
was shouting by the merry-go-round. “Any more for
the next ride? The last ride of the day. Who’s
gonna ride on the merry-go-round?”
“ ’Ere,” said Fat Hilda. “Gimme a ticket.”
“There’s the sergeant,” whispered Mrs. Trotter
warningly.
“The ole cow!” said Fat Hilda. “I b’leeve ’e’s
follerin’ us! ’Oo cares?”
On his way to the gates to watch the homeward
tide of traffic, Sergeant Piggott stood spellbound.
Fat Hilda mounted on a red wooden horse with
staring eyes rode it like a Valkyrie. Its decoration
ravaged by the heat and industry of the day, her face
was bare and flushed ; her beady eyes shone with
(Continued on page 40.)


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
f
Seppelt's
KING'S CROSS STATION MAIN DEPARTURE PLATFORM.
King’s Cross, formerly the London terminus of the Great Northern Railway and now the “East-Coast Gateway” to Scotland
of the London and North Eastern Railway, is one of the most notable and, at the same time, architecturally ugliest of the
stations with which London is provided. Its location at the squalid end of the Euston-road, where the York and Caledonian
roads join the first-named thoroughfare, reposed amid historic associations. Hard by is the place where more than a thousand
years ago King Alfred conquered the Danes. The terminus, however, borrows its name from an octagonal tower, erected
by an ultra-loyal bricklayer who surmounted it with a statue of George IV, so grotesque in figure and expression, that till
its “happy removal” it was the jest of London. George Cruikshank sketched it, bestowing on it the designation “Dusty Bob
in a Blanket.” The whole station has been accurately described as severely utilitarian. Its frontage, two wide arches, represent
the original platforms, and from the junction of which springs a tower topped by a clock compared to a stable-yard clock such
as our grandfathers were familiar with. This clock possesses the unique distinction among railway clocks of a chime of
bells! In August, 1840, the Great Northern Railway was opened, and ten years afterwards Queen Victoria signified her
approval of the completion of the East Coast route by travelling from King’s Cross to Scotland. The terminus has played,
and still plays, an important role in the British railway world. Its most famous train, “The Flying Scotsman,” until the
Great Strike of some two decades after, for sixty-three years departed every morning at 10 for Edinburgh. Since then its
streamlined expresses to Scotland have established speed records which are not likely to be beaten while surface travel
remains on lines we know it. During the Great War, and the greater struggle destined to succeed it, King’s Cross station
attained a new importance.


AFTER FORTY YEARS.
That reddish veil which o’er the face
Of night-hag East is drawn...
Flames new disaster for the race?
Or can it be the Dawn?
[From Bernard O’Dowd’s “Downward,” published in THE BULLETIN, March 8, 1902.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H, Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
w 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.PO I
Wellington.
London : I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad’;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) •
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s ;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
1\ per copy. United Kingdom, 2\ per copy. To
all other places, 4\.
A TIME FOR STOUT HEARTS.
Since Japan became one of our enemies the English-
speaking world has suffered shock after shock. The
full story of “the cold-blooded, violent and treacher-
ous” attack on Hawaii has not even yet been told,
but we know that Anglo-American command of the
sea and the air in the Pacific has, at the very least,
been placed in jeopardy by the blow at the Republic’s
mid-Pacific base, by the sinking of the great
British battleship Prince of Wales and the battle-
crui er Repulse, which so recently arrived at Singa-
pore, and by the attacks on Hong Kong, Malaya and
the Philippines, which are obvious precursors of other
operations. It would, be crazy on our part to pro-
ceed as if the worst were over: madness to go on in
the old carefree way as if Australia and Maoriland
had, even now, nothing more to fear than bombing
raids. Each may know before long what it is to be
blockaded ; both may have to deal with amphibious
assaults, supported by aircraft; if the Pacific enemy’s
plans for the subjugation of Malaya, the Netherlands
East Indies and Borneo are realised both will have to
struggle for very existence.
Japanese accounts of the losses inflicted in Hawaii
and of the wild confusion to which the defenders were
reduced startled the world. They were not admitted
in official American reports, but they were supported,
after a fashion, by American politicians and news-
papermen who swing easily from ultra-confidence to
extreme pessimism. Congressmen railed at the com-
manders who were taken by surprise and demanded
courts-martial. A Mr. Vincent Shean, one of those
“famous” correspondents who have been pervading
the Pacific zone, asserted that within the compass
of 36 hours there had been visited on his nation “the
greatest humiliation in its history the greatest
reverse of its kind in the history of the world.”
We have lost more ships since Japan attacked than
Britain has lost in the whole war. We have lost all our
possessions in the Pacific, except Hawaii and the
Philippines.
The gentleman added that “East Coast cities” would
be “bombed soon,” and that, on the other hand,
“American bombers” might be “attacking Tokyo”
that night (Dec. 9). These attacks were carried out in
two Sydney newspaper offices, but nowhere else.
Obviously with Mr. Shean in mind, Mr. Roosevelt
addressed his nation, and he was never in better form.
Indeed his ringing sentences, repeated around the
world, brought comfort and renewed hope to demo-
crats everywhere. “Many American soldiers and
sailors have been killed,” he said. “American ships
have been sunk; American airplanes have been
destroyed ; we have suffered a serious setback in
Hawaii, and we must be prepared for the announce-
ment that the three outposts of Guam, Wake and
Midway have been seized.” As for Pearl Harbor
“admittedly the damage is serious, but no one can
say how serious until we know how much of this
damage can be repaired, and how quickly the neces-
sary repairs can be made.”
Then, speaking to “all newspapers and radio
stations,” the President uttered words pregnant with
significance:
You have a most grave responsibility to the nation,
now and for the duration of this war. If you feel that
your Government is not disclosing enough of the truth,
you have every right to say so. But in the absence of
all the facts you have no right in the guise of patriotism
to deal out reports in such a way as to make people
believe that they are Gospel truth. Every citizen bears
this same responsibility.
And, speaking to citizens, he said:
When you hear statements that are attributed to
what they call “an authoritative source,” you can be
reasonably sure from now on that the “authoritative
source” is not any person in authority.
That could have been said years ago with justice
and with profit. Such a warning, issued from such a
source, would at least have corrected the tendency to
accept at their face value the reckless assertions of
persons who claimed to write or speak with authority
on foreign affairs, or to have derived trustworthy
information from the fountainhead, or to be giving
first-hand evidence of a particular situation or develop-
ment with full knowledge and without bias, when
they were merely innocents abroad or worse. In the
guise of “famous” correspondents, special representa-
tives, commentators and the like, such persons have
been at large in Europe and Asia for years, and of
recent months they have crowded into the Pacific zone.
Nearly all have professed an overwhelming contempt
for the Japanese and for the Japanese Air Force in
particular. Acres of print were devoted to the theme
that Japanese aircraft were no good, that —because of
visual and physical defects —Japanese pilots were the
clumsiest of their kind, and that the safest position
to take up in a Japanese air raid was a military target,
which Japanese bombers had never been known to
hit. We have learned in bitterness and sorrow how
much truth there was in this description.
Another judgment to which nearly all these
“famous” reporters subscribed was that Japanese man-
power and finance had been well-nigh exhausted in
the China war. That also has been exploded by recent
events ; indeed, the China war seems now to have been
—in the later stages at least, and as far as the Japanese
were concerned —a “phony war” that spoofed all the
“famous” correspondents and “roving reporters.” And
there may be something “phony” about the German
retirement from the gates of Moscow ; it coincided
queerly with the Japanese attack on the United States
and Britain, which found Moscow queerly neutral.
As to that, the “famous” band and editorial know-
alls in Australia were positive that the Russians would
be in it from the beginning and that bombers from
Vladivostok would make hideous wrecks of Tokyo,
Osaka and Yokohama in a few days or hours, what
time submarines from Vladivostok made a mess of
the Japanese Navy.
Russia has an alliance with Britain, and British
airmen have taken part in the defence of its great
cities. Its Government asked for British tanks and all
manner of other supplies, which were carried to Rus-
sian ports in British merchantmen, escorted by ships
of the Royal Navy. And when the northern ports
were in peril new southern routes were opened up,
and over these Russia has been receiving not only
British supplies but Lease-lend materials from the
U.S.A. The Russian Government asked Britain to
declare war on Finland, Hungary and Rumania, and,
after consultation with the Governments of the
Dominions, this was done as a British Commonwealth
proceeding, though the advantages to the British Com-
monwealth, if any, have not been stated. So the
British Commonwealth has a clear right to expect the
Russian Government to declare war on Japan.
So far as is known the British Government has
not explicitly exercised that right though indirectly
it has given the Russian Government a broad hint.
Lord Beaverbrook was the Minister that went to
Moscow to arrange for the assistance that Stalin speci-
fied, and he is owner of the “Daily Express.” Lord
Beaverbrook must have inspired, if he did not write,
these sentences in a “Daily Express” editorial:
We ask Russia to do for us what we have done for
Russia.
We ask Russia to announce that any enemy of ours
is also her enemy.
We ask Russia to declare war on Japan before Japan
repeats the Hawaii attack on Vladivostok.
By the use of Siberian aerodromes we can carry the
war into the heart of Japan and strike at the source
of Japanese sea attacks and land invasions.
Russia alone can reverse the weapon of distance
which Japan has used so effectively against her other
foes.
But no reply came from Moscow, and “Russian radio
stations and newspapers continued to report the Pacific
war objectively and without comment.” Technically,
this attitude is correct, if it is a virtue to be correct
in these cases. Russia has a neutrality pact with Japan.
The precise terms have never been published, but they
are said to bind the contracting parties to respect the
integrity and inviolability of each other’s territories
and to remain inactive in the event of military action
being taken against one of the contracting parties by
a third Power or other Powers during a period of five
years. The thing was signed at Moscow on April 13
by Molotov and Matsuoka and was ratified by the
Japanese Cabinet on April 15. Nine weeks later the
Germans invaded Russia in violation of another
neutrality pact, signed on August 23, 1939 (“the two
contracting Powers undertake to refrain from any
act of force, any aggressive act and any attack on each
other”), which had nearly eight years to run.
The “Times,” palpably worried, hazarded the
suggestion that “Soviet policy in the Pacific war”
might “depend on whether the United States declares
war on Germany and Italy.” On the day that this
appeared Germany and Italy declared war on the
United States as allies of Japan—allies which have
pledged themselves not to make a separate peace with
the United States or the British Empire. If events
are unfavorable this pledge will go the way of all the
other pledges which the Axis Powers have scrapped
when it suited them to do so ; but meanwhile Russia
remains at war with Germany, which has killed mil-
lions of its peoples and made a howling wilderness
of its fairest provinces, and at peace with Japan, which
is making furious war on Russia’s partners against
Germany—ostensibly expecting that the Japanese, who
have had no secrets from Germany, will be as faithful
as the Germans were faithless. To the Occidental
mind Stalin’s trust in Tokyo is altogether baffling, and
even if nothing comes of the German manoeuvres for
a separate peace with Russia, which succeeded the
abrupt conclusion of the campaign against Moscow,
the Russians meanwhile claiming great gains of
territory, tanks, guns and transport, and pyramidal
lists of killed and wounded, but no prisoners, the
situation will remain obscure till Stalin has spoken.
The assurances of Litvinov have to be read in the
light of the fact that his foreign policy was abandoned,
and he himself removed from office, in 1939.
In any case there is no occasion whatever for
sinking of hearts, A great deal of Axis blood has been
shed in Russia. Hitler himself admits nearly 750,000
German casualties, a number which may be doubled
at least; and his own description of the rigors of the
campaign (“every inch of territory has had to be
fought for ; ice and mud are only two of the problems
that have beset the German soldiers”) suggests that
none of the divisions which have been thus engaged.
and whose machine strength must have been badly
impaired, will be ready for offensive action anywhere
without a long period for rest, re-equipment and re-
organisation of supplies. The same must be true of
the part of the Luftwaffe that has emerged from the
, six months’ campaign ; and, although squadrons suf-
ficient for the renewal of raids on Britain have no
doubt been retained in Germany and the occupied
countries other than Russia, it is doubtful whether
they can be renewed on the 1940 scale. Not only
have the R.A.F. squadrons held for the defence of
the United Kingdom increased materially in personnel
and in number and quality of machines, but there has
been a significant improvement in radio-detection
devices and anti-aircraft defences (not only, of course,
on one side, as recent raids on Berlin and Hamburg
have demonstrated). Moreover, on both sides of the
Atlantic there has been a vast increase in naval con-
struction, accompanied by a reduction in sinkings of
merchantmen to less than a fifth of the figures for four
months to the end of June.
And there are very hopeful signs in other quarters.
The campaign in Libya—of great importance, though
temporarily obscured —is going favorably for the
Allies. In spite of the loss of the battleships on which
so much depended, Hong Kong and Malaya are being
stoutly defended by the British Imperial forces. The
Americans and Filipinos are also shattering the theory
that the Philippines would be an easy prize ; Ameri-
can bombers based on Manila avenged the loss of
Prince of Wales and Repulse and of their own war-
ships in Pearl Harbor by sinking a Japanese battle-
ship and damaging another.
In the long run, it will be shown that the Japanese
lost more than they gained when they attacked Hawaii
in the night while their negotiators in Washington
were still within the precincts of the State Depart-
ment. They and their European allies will in good
time realise what it means to have aroused the Ameri-
can spirit. It was not the American spirit that failed
in Pearl Harbor, but the Hollywood spirit, extended
into the field of journalism; and America (and
Australia, too, it is hoped) has said good-bye
to all that. Divided, the British Empire and the
United States —behind which stand most of the Latin
American Republics are unconquerable. United,
they can and will conquer, in the name of God and in
the cause of the holy spirit of man.
All-in for Survival.
It is now clear what a lot of nonsense was being
talked about “our voluntary way of life” right up to
the time when this way of life became directly
menaced by the Japanese attacks on, among other
points, advance outposts of Australian defence in the
Pacific. It always was quite incredible that the “volun-
tary system” would be persisted in if ever it became
necessary to reinforce the A.I.F. men fighting to hold
those outposts. The “system” was nationally deplor-
able enough when, in a superficial view, the war was
remote from Australia, and when casualties were not
so heavy that they could not be replaced, in a fashion,
by volunteers. Even then it was false in principle ;
continuance of it now, in the event of a call for
reinforcements from the north and the possibility of
answering it, would, of course, be criminal.
An immediate reaction to the Japanese onslaught
was a rush of recruits at Australian recruiting depots.
That was psychologically natural; something only to
be expected of the Australian character. There are
healthy signs—particularly the priority for already
trained men in the national-service call-up—that an
unfair advantage is not to be taken of that fine enthu-
siasm ; that these men will not be rushed away un-
trained at the first call and opportunity. Except as a
last resort, no men should be sent into fighting until
they have received as thorough training as possible.
This is the strong case for the enforcement of general
conscription now—that, in the event of men being
sent to any point whatever, the first sent would be
the best-trained.
The Director-General of Recruiting, Lieut.-Col.
N. H. Whitfield, stated after last week’s early rush
that it should no longer be necessary to appeal for
recruits ; “the difficulty should be to keep up with the
rush.” Nevertheless he appealed to all those who had
“said over and over again that they would be in the
front line if the war ever came to Australia.”
Those men must now honor their promise. Libya
and Syria seemed such a long way off; Australia was
remote from any seat of war. That position has
changed overnight.
So apparently, even in this situation, recruiting
appeals are still to be made. However, Mr. Curtin
has faced up to the home-defence job with reassuring
realism.
In early speeches the P.M. said nothing on the
important matter of using properly-trained men for
reinforcing the outpost defenders (if necessary and
possible), but his general sound handling of the situa-
tion suggested that mere political expediency will cer-
tainly not influence him now. He spoke of Austra-
lians now going to battle stations “in defence
of the free way of living.” “Every Australian, man
and woman,” was asked “to go about their allotted
tasks with full vigor and courage.” Since for actual
home-defence purposes—that is to say, throughout the
Commonwealth and its territories —there is conscrip-
tion already, all this sounded much better than it might
have done if the previous talk about commitment to the
“voluntary system” and expressed abhorrence at any
departure therefrom had been anything but the
frothiest of political twaddle. Thanks chiefly to the
reintroduction of the home-defence conscription
measure when the war in general broke out, it is now
possible to speak of “allotted tasks” without being
tragically funny. Australia has had the providential
good fortune to have had two years of the benefits
of conscription already.
In this time a large number of men have been
trained for the job which now faces every eligible fit
man in the country who can be spared. This training
is of the greatest importance. It is a measure of an


only too widespread ignorance of what war means and
what it demands of men that many have, in Lieut.-
Col. Whitfield’s words, said that they would be in the
front line if the war ever came to Australia. These
have included a number of politicians. The reality
of their position is that if they now enlist they should
be held until they are thoroughly trained for the job
they will have to do —or, at any rate, as thoroughly
trained as circumstances now permit. To send un-
trained men into the fighting of modern war is not only
unfair to them but far more unfair to those they would
be reinforcing.
It is now seen what a foolish disservice was done
to Australia when a temporary Government, carried
away by sentimental notions that war had been abol-
ished from the earth for ever, abolished national ser-
vice for home defence. It will be said that this is no
time for raking over the past, and heaven knows the
first consideration is the present and the immediate
future. But if the past were all forgiven now it would
also be forgotten ; and the luck which enables Aus-
tralia to stand on two years of strong preparation
today is not going to hold every time. Without the
past bad fortune of temporary Governments capable
of the limit in foolish legislating every available fit
man in Australia today would be well trained for a
job for which training is vitally necessary. At least a
determination should be reached now that this will
never happen again.
Thanks not to any extraordinary inspiration of
statesmanship, but merely to ordinary commonsense,
conscription for home defence was reintroduced in
1939. If it had not been, instead of the state of
stability in which Australia now faces “the darkest
hour in its history,” there would be tragic confusion.
If those who uphold the “voluntary system” want
any stronger proof than this of their own past utter
lack of a sense of realism they must be written off as
hopeless romantics.
The fighting part is only one aspect of the con-
scription question. Australia’s whole effort should now
be put on a conscription basis, without apology to
anybody and without any lingering obsession for the
“voluntary system” —for fighting or any other pur-
poses. Sensibly Mr. Curtin moved a very long way
in that direction immediately the grim reality of war
came home. He should go all the way. All Australians
are waiting to hear the voice with the strength to
say with finality, You do this, and you do that—in
regard to civil-defence arrangements and every other
national requirement. Australians have now only to
be told, and they will not be found lacking, whatever
the sacrifices required.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Association and Alliance.
The U.S.A. came into and remained in the last war as
an associated Power, and it looks as if that will be its
status in the present war. Association has certain
advantages over alliance, not only to the party asso-
ciated but to its partners. For one thing, it cannot be
called upon to issue declarations of war which may
be awkward, in view of previous relations, or politi-
cally disadvantageous.
At the instance of Moscow, Britain and the
Dominions have declared war on Hungary,. Rumania
and Finland. As a result, Britain has no doubt been
accused throughout Europe of a fell design to deliver
up these countries and others to Stalin and Dimitrov.
And Axis propagandists must be making the most of
the pro-Hungarian policy of the Rothermere Press —
it had its fantastic side when leg pullers from Buda-
pest offered Lord Rothermere the Hungarian Crown
—and Mr. Churchill’s articles in praise of Rumania
and its “high-minded” Carol, and, above all, the speech
of January, 1940, in which he extolled the Finns:
Only Finland, superb, nay sublime, in the jaws of
peril—Finland shows what free men can do. The service
rendered by Finland to mankind is magnificent
We cannot tell what the fate of Finland may be,
but no more mournful spectacle could be presented to
what is left of civilised mankind than that this splendid
northern race should be at last overcome and reduced
to servitude by the dull, brutish force of overwhelming
numbers.
In 1917-18, though the U.S.A. was at war with
Germany and Austria-Hungary, it did not declare
war on Turkey and never broke off relations with the
Bulgars. It is on record that the publication of Wood-
row Wilson’s Fourteen Points “had great influence on
feeling in Bulgaria,” so much so that “articles in
praise of the United States were allowed to appear in
the Bulgarian press.” Indeed, “the Bulgars professed
to be ready to desist from the offensive projected in
the early part of 1918 and to make a separate peace.”
In point of fact, they did very little more fighting, and
when the Allies moved into Bulgaria they found it
ready to give in on Wilsonian terms.
On September 25, 1918, Malinov, the Premier, asked
for an armistice. Delegates left at once for Salonika,
accompanied by the diplomatic representative of the
United States. On September 30, the armistice was
signed, the Bulgars accepting the Allied terms uncon-
ditionally.
Thereupon Ludendorff gave up the struggle. He
always maintained that if Bulgaria hadn’t capitulated
he could have carried on for at least another year,
and British generals. Sir lan Hamilton among them,
agreed with him.
Precedent for Treachery.
For whatever it may be worth, the Japanese militarists
-an claim a sort of precedent for sending their bombers
and gunners on their murderous mission to Hawaii
and neighboring points without a declaration of war.
Much the same thing was done nearly 38 years ago,
though in that case Japanese negotiators were not
going through the motions of parleying in the capital
of the party of the other part.
At the beginning of February, 1904, Japanese and
Russians were negotiating for the settlement of a long-
standing wrangle touching Korea and Manchuria. On
Feb, 5 the Japanese broke off the negotiations. On
the night of Feb. 8 Admiral Togo’s torpedo-boats
dashed into Port Arthur and inflicted serious losses on
the surprised Russians. Two days elapsed before
Tokyo issued a declaration of war.
When the world learned what happened in Port
Arthur there were mild protests here and there, but
only in unofficial newspapers. Even in highly respec-
table English quarters the Togo manoeuvre was thought
to be rather clever, and this view persisted ; indeed, it
predominated even when the Eleventh Edition of the
Encyclopedia Britannica was published, in 1910, In
the Encyc. Brit, it was recorded that “Japan had
already, on February 4, decided to use force, and her
military and naval preparations, unlike those of
Russia, kept pace with her diplomacy.” There was
even an elaborate attempt at justification:
The only alternatives for Japan were war or total
and permanent effacement in Asia. She chose war, and
in fighting it she fought the battle of free and equal
opportunities for all, without undue encroachment upon
the sovereign rights or territorial integrity of China or
Korea.
Which shows what nonsense can be made of even
sober historical essays in tomes accepted as authori-
tative by the terrible irony of events. But American
commanders at Hawaii should have remembered what
happened on the night of Feb. 8, 1904.
Estates of the Lost.
The wife of an officer lost with H.M.A.S. Sydney
—her sole relative in Australia is a nine-year-old son
and her total income a pension of £3 a week for her-
self and the boy—went to the Naval Board for guidance
as to what steps she should take regarding her hus-
band’s estate in N.S.W. She was referred to a legal
association, which informed her that it acted only for
the widows and dependants of ratings and she’d better
see a solicitor. She saw a solicitor, who told her she
would have to apply to the Court after the “long”
vacation. Costs? “Oh, between £6O and £70.”
This though the naval authorities regarded ship
and crew as lost and solemn rites for the dead had
been celebrated. However, friends interested them-
selves in the case and succeeded in obtaining a ruling
that henceforth legal go-betweens would be unneces-
sary. All the lady had to do was get a statement
from the Naval Board and take it along to the Probate
Court, where it would be accepted as sufficient proof
of death. This, of course, will apply to all wives of
naval officers.
But there are other branches of the fighting ser-
vices and other States with Probate Courts. The
peace-time form of legal presumption of death may be
all right in peace-time, when disappearances are rare.
In war-time, the relatives of missing men should be
relieved of such worry and expense; if necessary, by
Act of Parliament. It should be easy enough for the
service authorities to supply Courts with the requisite
evidence so that the dependant of the missing could
go ahead and wind up his affairs without cost. A man
who offers his life for his country shouldn’t be ex-
pected to benefit the legal profession by the supreme
sacrifice.
"Butcher" Bennett.
“0.R.”: Sentencing Robert William Bennett, described
by police as a “persistent abortionist,” to three years’
gaol at Sydney Quarter Sessions, Judge Hill remarked:
Despite the prisoner’s age and ill-health, his conduct
has shown that he cannot be trusted at large, so it would
be futile to grant him a bond.
Bennett is 92. He has been known to two genera-
tions of rakes and silly women as “Butcher” Bennett.
• Thirty-seven years ago he received his first sentence
in Perth; and he looked an old man then. Thrice
convicted in Westralia, and sentenced to terms aggre-
gating 16 years, he resumed his criminal career in
N. S. Wales, and has been four times convicted in
Sydney, though on one occasion he was “released on
bond to be of good behavior”!
It would be within the mark to say that this
appalling ruffian has destroyed thousands of unborn
Australians, many of whom, had they come into the
world, would have reproduced themselves times over.
But society shares the guilt, both for its attitude to
the unmarried mother and its complacency about abor-
tion itself. Nor is the unmarried mother the only cus-
tomer of the abortionist, not by a long chalk. A very
great proportion of women who seek out these child-
murderers are married, often with living children of
their own, and a very great proportion of them have
no excuse other than to avoid the normal discomfort
of child-bearing, the necessity to forgo social outings.
Along with the abortionist is the purveyor of
contraceptives. Anybody can buy these things, and
there is a wide and open advertisement of them, even
in little farm papers. Medical authorities are rapidly
coming to the conclusion that many childless couples
who used contraceptives in the first few years of mar-
ried life are unable to have children when they want
to have them as a result of the effects of contracep-
tives on the women.
And for 50 years the Governments have failed
to deal with these things, though all of them in that
time have been fully seized with the national danger
from lack of population. “Too few children,”
mourned Marshal Petain as one of the causes of
France’s defeat. Until Australia hangs abortionists
and prevents the sale of contraceptives except under
medical control it may echo the Frenchman’s woe.
Ships and Mr. Curtin.
“So far as I know, no ship is at present held up
because of an industrial dispute.... .It is possible
that some ships are held up at Australian ports
because of difficulty in obtaining crews. This, how-
ever, is because of the war position, and not because
of any industrial trouble.” So said Mr. Ward, the
Minister for Labor, last Saturday.
“Possible”! Shipping people retorted that 16
ships were held up while Mr. Ward was speaking;
and they were all ships on the Australian register:
there was no “industrial trouble” on overseas ships.
Mr. Ward has asserted that conditions in some
ships are bad. Shipowners deny it, and allege drunk-
enness and absurd demands by crews. It should be
added that Australian merchant shipping moved well
enough for upwards of a year, and that the courage
of even men who tie up ships for flimsy reasons or no
reasons at all is not in question.
At the beginning of the present week five ships
that had been tied up were moving again ; and that
is better. But, since all ships have been requisitioned
by the R.A.N., the R.A.N. should have power to get
them to sea and to deal adequately with men who
refuse duty.
Indeed, the thing is simply another argument for
all-in conscription. Under all-in conscription every
man engaged in a vital industry would automatically
take the standing of a soldier, a sailor or an airman
and become subject, like them, to stern disciplinary
measures in the event of refusing or shirking duty.
Mr. Curtin’s Government is rapidly realising that the
new turn in the war necessitates the taking of powers
hitherto undreamt of by an Australian Government,
and Mr. Curtin’s Government will fail if it doesn’t
take all powers. It would increase the confidence of
the nation in its determination to govern if it began
with idle ships and recalcitrant crews.
Sex and Color.
Throughout the history of his association with the
dominant race, the full-blooded Australian aboriginal
has had a very good record in his treatment of white
women. Cases such as the one out from Walgett
(N.S.W.) are so rare that a search for precedents
might be unavailing.
Two full-bloods, brothers of 22 and 28, stole with
bare feet on a woman of unblemished reputation
asleep on a closed-in verandah. Both criminally
assaulted her, repeating the assaults over a period of
four hours. They were found guilty, and Justice Owen,
recording sentence of death (it will not be carried out)
commented on the “dastardly attempt to blacken the
woman’s character”—it had been alleged that the
poor creature, who had been left almost at death’s
door, was a consenting party.
Blacks in N, S. Wales are usually able to read
and write. By their nature they are attracted to pic-
tures, especially, no doubt, the luscious representations
of nearly-nude young women that are to be found in
journals and magazines, particularly Sydney publica-
tions. There has been a wave of sex crimes in recent
months sufficiently bad to attract public notice, and
many people are convinced that it has an association
with the type of “literature” available for unbalanced
males. If it has spread to natives more trouble may
be expected, and it may be necessary to put those
responsible for salacious “illustrations” in the dock.
The Coming of Henry.
Old Henry Ford, who tried to stop the 1914-18 war
by loading a bunch of cranks on to a Peace Ship
and sailing it to Europe, has come out with the state-
ment that “a federation of the world, in which there
would be no trade barriers, no armies and no wars,
must emerge from the present war.”
Henry joins a pleasant company—a company
whose thoughts are vague, whose ideals are bright but
whose practical sense doesn’t work too well. It’s
an easy form of thinking, this new orderism, for it
allows the mind to skip over such things as racial and
language barriers, man’s natural instinct for acquisi-
tiveness, human nature in general and the phenomenon
that it isn’t until the nations start tearing into each
other that people become convinced that a new order
is necessary.
New-orderism attracts to its ranks all sorts of
people with all sorts of ideas ; but even the very sincere
disciples must recognise one thing—that “orders” must
have leaders, and that the order must inevitably follow
the pattern in the mind of the leader, be he single or
collective, Henry is no Hitler, Mussolini or Stalin,
but Henry must see as a leader of his World Federa-
tion somebody whose thought-processes bear a strik-
ing resemblance to Henry’s. The same can be said
of every other prominent advocate of a new order.
Which might be all right but for one thing, and that is
not so much whether all the new-order advocates can
be got to agree with each other, but whether they can
get mankind in all its diverse shapes, sizes, colors and
standards to agree with them. It has been tried but
never accomplished.
More "Safety First."
N. S. Wales Railways Commissioner Hartigan must
be getting tired of coroners. The one at Casino
(N.S.W.) castigated him for his attitude that he was
not responsible for the safety of people travelling on
roads crossed by his railway lines. Then the Ryde
(N.S.W.) coroner demanded to know why signal stan-
dards are so close to the line that a person putting
his head out of a carriage can be struck and killed
by one of them. The Commissioner, according to an
Inspector Abbott, “can only guarantee safety if pas-
sengers keep their bodies within the carriage.”
And the coroner replied:
That might be the Commissioner’s view. I dread
daily to hear of children being struck. There have been
several cases.
The signal standard in question is only inches
from the line of carriages passing it. Hamilton Hume
Mott, 27, a medical student, had evidently stuck his
head out of a train between Meadowbank and Ryde,
been hit by the standard and killed instantly.
A nurse who was travelling on the train told how
she found the dead man on the floor of the carriage
and twice asked for the train to be stopped and
medical help obtained. But the train went on through
one station and on to another. Probably, like the
Commissioner, it didn’t consider itself responsible.


Society
"AND IT;S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“D.E.”; Under the stress of emotion,
especially when he is addressing the nation,
Curtin’s Australian accent —we have one,
O my countrymen! and it’s nothing to
be ashamed of —becomes more pro-
nounced than when he is conversing with
a friend or speaking dispassionately in
debate. It was the same with his prede-
cessor Lyons—even more so, in fact.
Joseph, I recall, gave the “oi” sound
to the vowel “i.” I’m sure that if
he had ever had occasion to mention
“Irene” as an international character he
would have made it “Oireen,” as is done
by so many engaging youth of both
sexes. Curtin has the national tendency
to substitute “be” for “by”—“be rights,”
“be all the canons of public law,” and
so forth. But, minor blemishes apart, he
is no mean radio speaker. His enuncia-
tion is good, he marshals his facts well,
and in his exhortations there is real feel-
ing. And he is not too squeamish to
come out with a good honest “God bless
you all! ” when he thinks the occasion
calls for it.
Jj: =:< * *
“Southern Lawyer”: Can’t N.S.W.
Parliament find time to repeal its old law,
which now looks merely comic, ordering
capital punishment for attacks on women,
“grievous bodily harm” and such things?
With cold-blooded murderers escap-
ing the gallows, even to suggest death for
any lesser offence is at least half a cen-
tury out of date. Everybody knows that
it won’t be enforced, and certainly it
doesn’t add to the dignity of the Law
when a convicted criminal can quite
safely greet the sentence of doom with
a cheeky “I don’t think.”
-f * *
“K.P.”: Last week I watched an old
friend from studenthood struggling in the
Valley of the Shadow with heaving chest,
blue lips and agonised tormented face.
The new miracle-drugs brought him
through and today he wanted to know
how his condition had seemed to us. I
told him—distressing and at one stage
almost hopeless. He grinned: “Sorry to
worried you, dear chaps,” he said.
r old kindly Mother Nature! The
mpression I’ve got of the whole
is having been pleasantly tight over-
r-.-y and waking up damned hungry, just
as we used to do in our Bohemian days.
Kicked up a row for the first few min-
utes because they wouldn’t bring me a
good grilled steak with lots of oysters —
the sister thought I was delirious again.”
Fears of a painful death for loved ones
or one’s self are mostly quite groundless.
Lack of oxygen supply to the brain is
what we all naturally die of, and its first
effect is to dim and then abolish con-
sciousness. The physical signs of appar-
ent distress and pain are reflex actions
only, unfelt by the dying person because
kindly old Nature has administered an
effective anaesthetic.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Diplomatic offices in
London have been chuckling oyer sundry
naive interpretations of English social
customs as expressed by a distinguished
Free Frank. Receiving an invitation to
the golden wedding celebration of a very
highly placed and even more highly dig-
nified English couple he approached a
British friend for information. “Zis
golden wedding pozzle me,” he explained.
“Tell me, mon ami, what is ’e?” “Well,
old chap,” replied the other, “it’s a
custom amongst us when a man and
woman have lived together for fifty
years” “Ah! I se-e,” his beaming
interlocutor broke in, “an’ now ’e is
going to marry ’er? Magnifique !”
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: The east coast of Malaya,
where the Japs have landed, is the most
tempestuous spot in the whole length of
the herringbone peninsula. On the other
side a child could paddle a canoe from
one end of the strait to the other, but
opposite Thailand during the wet season
the shores are swept by gales and bom-
barded by enormous breakers. Half the
year the fishing-boats are drawn up on
the long black beaches and the fisher-
men spend the time mending their nets
and getting into trouble with their next-
door neighbors’ wives. The rivers with
their bars and the vast mangrove-infested
estuaries were ideal haunts for pirates,
and during the early days of Singapore
they hid fleets of Illanun prahus, which
came across from Borneo and formed
alliances with the Malay rajahs. With
their three banks of oars manned by
slaves they were more than a match for
the lumbering East India merchantmen,
and a lot of the trade of China never got
to Canton. It was intercepted by the
“Hi there , Dad. I've got six days leave!"
pirates and sold to the rajahs who sent
the booty overland to the British market.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The band of the battleship
Oklahoma, reported sunk, was the first
overseas organisation to broadcast in
Australia, and it happened this way. When
the American fleet procession was march-
ing along Bourke-street, Melbourne, in
1925, the march was suddenly and in-
explicably halted. There was some con-
fusion, and the resourceful conductor of
the Oklahoma’s band ordered his musi-
cians to go on with their playing. A
3LO announcer happened to be standing
at his mike alongside them. At a loss for
subject matter he remarked to his lis-
teners: “Something has happened and I
am going off to see what it is. In the
meantime, the band of the Oklahoma will
entertain you.” The cause of the dis-
turbance was the collapse of an over-
loaded verandah in which 105 people
were injured—the worst street disaster
in the history of Melbourne.
* * * *
“Uramao”: When Abel Tasman landed
a boat’s crew at Wainui Bay (M.L.),
Maoris killed three of the men. Just the
other day there were unearthed from a
foot underground at Wainui Bay a large
number of lead balls and a flint from an
old musket. The balls ranged from three-
quarters of an inch in diameter to the
size of a large pea. Almost certainly the
bullets were fired by some of Tasman’s
men.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The Australian suicide-com-
plex is a queer business. Practically
every year Tasmania provides the lowest
figure proportionally to population (9.2
per 100,000 average), W.A. the highest
(18.4), the other States keeping in order
of Victoria (9.7), S.A. (11.1), N.S.W.
(12.2) and Queensland (14.5). The pro-
portion increases in summer and de-
creases in winter, but to a much less
extent than in Europe. It follows the
average temperatures of the capital cities
except in W.A., where the bulk of popu-
lation and suicide is in the south-west
with an average temperature of five
degrees less than Brisbane. W.A. has the
highest drink bill (£7 p.h.), but next-
highest is N.S.W. (£4 18s. p.h.). Tas.
has the lowest drink bill (£3 2s. p.h.), but
next-lowest is Queensland (£3 4s. p.h.),
second-highest in suicide rates. These
seem to rule out climate and booze as
causative agents. Three out of four
Australian suicides are amongst males,
firearms being the principal single agents.
One out of each two female suicides
chooses poison or gas.
sH * * *
“W.C.R.”: Left turning, “K.P.” (B.
12/11/’4l), comes under what is known
as Ferrell’s Law. All bodies moving on
the earth are naturally deflected to their
own right in the Northern Hemisphere
and to their own left in the Southern.
Classic examples are the Gulf Stream and
prevailing winds. Willy-willies and
cyclones move clockwise in Egypt, but
anti-clockwise in Australia. At the Well-
ington (M.L.) exhibition recently the hun-
dreds of thousands of visitors to the
main court were observed practically
without exception to veer off to their left
to start their round of inspection after
passing through the entrance doors. The
direction of the earth’s rotation explains
it all.
* * * *
“Blue P.”: Neither the loss of Sydney
and Parramatta nor the advent of Japan
as an enemy ended the strife of news-
papers in Sydney; on the contrary, both
events intensified their Blitzes against
each other. For a time the war concerned
“Terewth,” “Sunday Sun” and “Sunday
Telegraph,” but, when “Terewth” brought
out its “Mirror,” “S.S.” and “S.T.” appar-
ently regarded it as out of the fight and
concentrated on each other with bombard-
ments of colored comics, lurid pictures
of nearly-naked females and “free
novels.” This is still raging. Meantime,
the afternoon “Sun” and “Mirror” got
to grips. “Sun” offered £3OO in prizes
for war slogans. “Mirror” raised it to
£4OO. “Sun” switched the contest to
catch answers. “Mirror” raised it again.
Up to this stage the morning papers were
mainly neutral. But on 9/12/’4l Sydney
woke to find itself with four, morning
papers, “Sun” and “Mirror” having
rushed out 8 a.m. specials about the Jap
raids. Now the city is asking where
newsprint rationing comes in and when
it is going to get an afternoon paper
that concentrates on getting and giving
the news. The first one that does so
will scoop the pool.
* * * *
“Hawkshaw”: One of the most deter-
mined crimes of violence in N. S. Wales
history occurred last week when a motor-
railcar carrying a large sum of money
intended for railwaymen’s wages was
blown up at Yanderra, on the main
southern line from Sydney, and the
driver, the guard and a paymaster were
killed. The greater part of the money,
about £7500, was in a safe which the
explosion did not affect, but about £2500
is missing. The police are looking for “two
suntanned men wearing dark sweaters
and khaki shirts and two young females
who sported slacks.” The explosion,
caused by gelignite plugs under the rails,
electrically fired as the car was passing
over an embankment 60ft. high, occurred
just 10 minutes before a goods train came
along, the driver of which saw, and was
later able to describe, a man rolling down
the embankment. Forty detectives, with
hounds, were shortly on the job, but
when these lines were penned no arrests
had been made.
* # « *
“Marcel”: War in the Pacific had been
raging for three days. Into our dry-
deanery depot came a fussy old gentle-
man with a bundle of duds for treatment.
“Three and six,” said the girl at the
counter. “Exorbitant!” came back the
old ’un. “I get them done at the Japanese
laundry for two and eleven.” “The Japa-
nese laundry has been closed,” said the
girl mildly. “Closed? Oh, yes, I suppose
so. All this nonsense!" He went away
quite indignant.
« * * *
“Cordite Headache” : My introduction
to alcohol wasn’t as pleasant as “Strict
Veg.’s” (B. 3/12/’4l). It happened in
Central Queensland. Rising 17, I’d been
sent in search of a couple of strayed nags,
and located them at dusk of a mid-
February day, having then a raging thirst
and being 30 miles from the township,
with no water en route. Fifteen miles
along the homeward track I came upon
a teamsters’ camp, and, in response to the
request for water that croaked from the
kiln that was my throat, was handed a
black billycan and pannikin and invited
good-humoredly to “have some tea in-
stead.” With mighty intake I engulfed
nearly the panni-
kinful before splut-
tering overtook me.
It was O.P. rum
from the cargo on
the wagons des-
tined for the pubs
of outback. I don’t
remember anything
else till a purple
snake bit me in
two and an orange
elephant, using his
trunk for a needle
and one of my legs
for thread, sewed
my two halves to-
gether, and I heard
the. doctor telling
matron he thought
I’d be right now.
I loathed the odor
of alcohol or the
sight of a label on
a bottle for years,
but gradually the
likes of “Hamer”
and “Strict Veg.”
have drawn me
from the error of
my ways till now
all the fuss about
a water shortage
seems absurd.
* *
* 5F
“R.H.P.”: This argument about
Blarney’s comfortable shirt (B. 26/11/’4l)
reminds me of a yarn about L. F. Giblin,
of the Commonwealth Bank Board,
who was O.C. of Tassie’s 40th Battalion
in the 1914-18 stoush. L.F., who
is a bit of a dress reformer, carried
his ideas into the army, and he
seldom went beyond the Q.M.’s store for
his uniform requirements. On one occa-
sion a one-pip artist, decked out in the
latest from Cox’s (London), chipped
Giblin about his unstylish rig-out. With
a basilisk stare Giblin retorted, “The
uniform soldiers wear is good enough
for me.”
* * * »
“V. Cluse”: Our drunk, in his normal
condition, got off the bus and wavered
up the street towards his home. Half-
way along he ran into a small crowd
gathered round a gate. It appeared that
somebody’s Alsatian dog had occupied
the front yard and was defying attempts
to get in or out. It had lashed itself
into a fury and kept making rushes, both
at the crowd and at the lady of the house,
who was wringing her hands and scream-
ing on the front verandah. When the
purport of the situation penetrated our
drunk’s intelligence he opened the gate
and walked in, saying, “Here, pup, Pots
ole pup. Wharrer marrer, pup?” The
horrified crowd expected the hound to
eat him in one gulp; instead, it trotted
up, smelt his boots and then leapt joy-
fully around him. The drunk took the
hound by the collar and led it into the
street. Then, as he and the dog moved
off, he said, “He’sh only frightened, that’sh
all. Y’ gotter know pupsh. An’ y’ gotter
know women. Ain’t the firsh time I bin
scared into wantin’ ter fight be a yellm
female. Come on, pup!”
THE ONE THING NEEDFUL.
“Active businessman, moderate means, near 60
looks younger, wishes to meet lady, non-smoker.”
— “S.M.H.” view mat. ad.
Straight to the point, explicitly recorded,
His assets for the matrimonial state.
In the bare minimum of words afforded
To get a nibble or ensure a date
By one who clearly hopes to be rewarded,
If only for his frankness, with a mate.
What though he’s sixtyish, when he’ll engage
Even in sunlight not to look his age!
His modest requisition puts no strain on
Those who his quaint advertisement have seen.
One trait alone he looks with cold disdain on,
One habit in a dame provokes his spleen.
For his potential bride a sine qua non
Is total abstinence from nicotine,
The stipulation marking him a bloke
Who cannot tolerate the smell of smoke.
Tall she may be or short, plump or ethereal,
A blonde or redhead or a bright brunette.
Smooth as the heroine of a flapper serial.
Or snappy as an old-time suffragette;
Such attributes as these are immaterial.
But if she can’t forgo the cigarette
That sends so sour a savour to his snout
His reservation leaves her counted out.
He doesn’t look as if he neared the shady
Side of thereescore by several degrees,
And seeing that he merely wants a lady
For spouse, you couldn’t call him hard to
please.
She needn’t be a Helen or a Haidee,
He doesn’t crave for beauty or bawbees.
’Twill be sufficient for his wedded bliss
If she gives gaspers best and fags a miss.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sooner than sell me apples at your price I'll eat the flamin' lot.”
“Mandarin”; National temperaments
differ though there’s often a similarity in
the general idea, of course. Was talking
to an acquaintance at a G.P.O. The War
having replaced The Weather as a starter,
we opened up with the usual comments.
Friend (an Australian) looked at me very,
very sadly and said, “We’ll win, of
course, but ’struth, it’s serious, isn’t it?”
Further inside the G.P.O. a Chinese gent
was writing addresses on letters to Maori-
land, carefully printing the English and
then, at the side, tacking on the same
thing in rapid Chinese. “Flow’s your war
against the Japanese going?” I said. He
roared laughing. “Good!” he cried as
if it was the best joke of the year. “Very
good!” “Oh, so you’re winning, eh?”
said I. “Not know if we winning,” said
he, “but we still fighting. While still fight-
ing, still going good.” He seemed sur-
prised I hadn’t looked at it that way and,
still smiling broadly, he walked off to the
posting-boxes.
“Wodgil”: It was Sydney’s Lord
Mayor Crick who conceived the notion
of raising £2,000,000 by public subscrip-
tion for the construction of a third new
H.M.A.S. Sydney, If it was he who sug-
gested that N. S. Wales should be invited
to raise a million and Victoria half a
million, he showed a surprising ignor-
ance of the population and public-sub-
scription history of both States. In
a friendly contest with an Australia-wide
appeal Victoria invariably beats N. S.
Wales hollow. Taken generally, Vic-
torians are more frugal than the people
of Crick’s State, but they are certainly
not less generous, and when moved by
patriotism or philanthropy they dig into
fatter purses. Sydney people, in particu-
lar, are such free spenders on all manner
of pleasures that an occasion like the
H.M.A.S. Sydney fund finds them with
much less ready money than inhabitants
of the city built on Yarra’s banks, who
have more civic pride to boot. So when
Crick had only £35,000 of his million
Melbourne’s Beaurepaire had got his first
£200,000, with more rolling in every hour.
It is a pity that the thing was launched
at all until the £50,000 to be raised for
the dependants of R.A.N. seamen —who
are no longer here—had been fully sub-
scribed—or oversubscribed, as I am sure
it will be.
* * * *
“Apple-gum”; I’m impressed by those
young fellows who are qualifying here in
Australia for their duties as members of
the R.A.A.F. I’ve been in daily contact
with hundreds of ’em in the last 18
months or so and have yet to see one
who wasn’t as well behaved on leave as
on parade. And they have another char-
acteristic that ought to be studied by
everybody concerned in transport —their
capacity for stowage. You’ll see what
looks like a crowd of a hundred or so of
them at a bus stop. Up rolls a not-too-
big bus. Three seconds later the road
is empty save for the bus, rolling on its
way. I’ve seen ten of them vanish into
one taxi. I suppose it is practice in
cramming themselves into ’planes that
enables ’em to do it.
* * * *
“X.S.”: There is a survivor of the
Sydney in Australia. He is the ship’s
mascot Spot, a fox-terrier to which the
entire ship’s complement was devoted.
He took shore leave when the cruiser was
berthed for the last time in Melbourne,
and when he didn’t report for duty prior
to departure half the ratings set off to
find him. The quest was fruitless and
the Sydney left, broadcasting a request
to the finder to keep the animal till they
returned and he would be well rewarded.
A wharfie subsequently found Spot study-
ing the wake of the vessel, took him
home and then transferred him to the
safe keeping of a friend in the country,
where he patrols the garden.
“ Don't you realise the pubs close in a coupla hours!"
“Lexo”: A statue
ought to be erected by
the world’s lawyers to
the man of property
who neglects to make
a will. Another har-
vest has been reaped
from litigation over
the estate of one Mar-
tin Edward Burke. He
was a retired civil ser-
vant who fell mortally
ill and was accepted
as a destitute patient
by Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital, Syd-
ney, where he died in
1923. After his death
it was discovered that
he was possessed of
considerable wealth,
and for 18 years
Burkes and descen-
dants or relations of
Burkes in formidable
numbers have been
endeavoring to estab-
lish claims to the old
man’s fortune, now
amounting to about
£50,000. There was
no clear proof of any
of the individual
claims, the Courts
ruled, and last week the Chief Judge
in Equity was asked to decide between
three corporate claimants—the hospital,
which produced a N. S. Wales Statute
giving it a right to all unclaimed moneys
belonging to a person dying in the
institution; the Attorney-General of
N. S. Wales, who claimed that the Crown
had a right to the estate as bona vacatia,
and the State’s Public Trustee, who pro-
duced a Statute directing him to seize
estates of intestate persons and pay them
to the Treasury to be held in trust for
any future valid claimant. The Judge
disallowed the hospital’s claim and re-
served judgment as to the issue between
Crown and Public Trustee.
* * * Hi
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I’ve never
understood why, even though the Church
of England is “established,” its bishops in
England should be appointed by the
Prime Minister of the day, a job which
must arouse qualms in even the most
hardened political mind. Mr. Churchill
seems to have ideas about the church.
Bishop Hudson, of Newcastle, com-
manded a battalion of the Berkshires in
the 1914-18 war, was twice mentioned in
dispatches and got a D. 5.0., also the
M.C. and bar. Bishop Barry, of South-
well, and Bishop Cash, of Worcester,
also won D.S.Os. and saw a lot of hard
service. So did Canon Milner-White,
the new Dean of York, another of the
Churchill appointments. All are still in
the forties.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland’s Works Min-
ister Bob Semple went off like a geyser
when a member of his audience asked
him why he did not light in the last war.
“You are a contemptible coward, a liar —
a white-livered coward. This is nothing
but an exhibition of compound stupidity.
I did not refuse to fight in the last war,
and twice in this war I volunteered for
construction work. Labor fought pro-
fiteering in the last war, and demanded
that, if there was conscription of men,
conscription of wealth should be made.”
The interjector: “Why don’t you con-
script it today?” Bob: “This man opens
his mouth to cackle, and the wind blows
his tongue around. Taxation is up to
17s. 6d. in the pound on big incomes, and
if we did that to you you would squeal
like a rabbit with your tail jammed. Com-
panies with £lO,OOO profit are paying
£6500 in taxation, 10 times more than in
the last war. Oh, you poor mutt, you
should go home and read. If you are as
light below the shoulders as you are
above, you can fly home.”
* * * *
“Atrax”: The shining glory of Venus
in the western evening sky leads one to
wonder why no worth-while novelist has
used our nearest and most alike planet-
ary neighbor as a field for romantic and
daring adventure by escapees from this
dull earth of ours. She is the only planet
or star bright enough to be seen in day-
light. Her brightness comes from sun-
light reflected from the dense cloud-
mantle in which she is always discreetly
wrapped. Nearer to the sun than we are
she moves round it in an almost circular
orbit, just as we do, thus having a rela-
tively small range of climatic variation
throughout the year. The clouds are not
metallic or gaseous, but apparently con-
sist of suspended water particles like our
own. Such suspension involves the exist-
ence of an atmosphere much like that of
the earth, at any rate, in specific gravity
and extent. If any other planet is in-
habited by beings with any resemblance
to ourselves, Venus seems the most likely.
* * * *
“Jeff”; Henry Ford, who believes in
a confederacy of all nations to pave the
way for eternal peace, had a fore-
runner in E. W. Cole, of Mel-
bourne. Cole’s advocacy of a United
States of the World, with one Gov-
ernment, one religion, one language
and one coinage, was commemorated
upon medals he struck, bearing inscrip-
tions with the prophecy that fulfilment
would be achieved before the year a.d.
2000. Despite his strong streak of ideal-
ism, he had a lot of business acumen.
Cole’s Book Arcade weaved a spell over
customers and visitors. Caged monkeys
and a string orchestra attracted all and
sundry. Anyone could spend an afternoon
among the musty books on the first gal-
lery without buying or being asked to
buy. Salesmen seemed rare, but try to
pinch a book and you’d be nabbed im-
mediately. There were spotters moving
around the tables of books, dressed for
the street, with hats on.
* $ * *
“Zake”; Now that Adolf and his pure-
Aryan cobbers of Nippon are flat out
together, I am expecting Dr. Rosenberg
to discover, through the Reichsfiihrer-
aryaneis cheimdudelsackkkidturgessel-
chaft, or some such organisation of re-
search, that they have something more in
common than an aptitude for burying
dirks between the shoulder blades of
sleepers. Doesn’t Arnold’s “Light of
Asia” prove that the birth of Buddha
was inexorably bound up with the em-
blem of Nazi Germany? Listen to the
words of the grey saint Asitor as he
recognised the holy marks of the new-
born One:
.... O Babe! I worship! Thou art He!
I see the rosy light, the foot-sole marks,
The soft-curled tendril of the Swastika.
On the strength of this the Fiihrer must
become the protector of Buddhism, just
as Musso. has taken over the protector-
ate of Islam.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: What mystic
significance attaches to the number 40?
Solomon’s temple was 40 cubits long,
and Solomon himself ruled
for 40 years. So did Jehoash
and Joash. Saul’s son was
forty when he began to rule.
Isaac and Esau were each
forty when they married.
Moses was forty years in
Midian before he led the
Israelites into the wilderness,
and they wandered there for
40 years. The Flood was
caused by 40 days and 40
nights of rain. These are a
few instances from the Old
Testament. Then there is
quarantine originally 40
days’ detention of ships from
infected ports to safeguard
against imported disease.
Also fair, fat and 40, a par-
ticularly dangerous example.
The Fitzroy Forties were the
most lawless push in Mel-
bourne’s larrikin history.
Mademoiselle of Armentieres
hadn’t been kissed for 40
years. Most of such signi-
ficant numbers have an astronomical or
physiological basis, but 40, in most of its
applications, can have no such origin.
TAKING NO CHANCES.
“The State Government will not curtail racing or
any other sport unless asked to do so by the Federal
Government. If there is to be any curtailment it
should be applied to every State.”
—Chief Secretary Baddeley (“D.T. 11/12/’4l).
Though the world be ablaze with the wildest of
wars
And closer and closer it comes to our shores,
We scout the suggestion of giving a lead
In curbing the cult of the galloping steed,
Or lessening the thrills of those hectic affairs
When hounds are pursuing synthetical hares.
Should we bar these encounters of pigeons and
rooks,
Why, what in the world would become of the
books?
No, no, in such action, we won’t be the first;
We’ll wait, same as others, until we’re coerced.
What a dull and depressing old place it would
be.
This country of ours, if we never could see
The dealing and dodging by dexterous pugs
Of swings at the midriffs and swipes at the
mugs,
Or the tricks of men-mountains of muscle and
fat
To pin their antagonists down on the mat.
While the stadium rocks with its packed par-
tisans
To roars from the bleachers and yells from the
fans.
But Baddeley, you’ll notice, is hardly the sort
For putting a spoke in this species of sport.
And what should we do with our bunce, d’you
suppose.
If the curtain came down on such pastimes as
those,
If the race clubs were docked of one-half of
their gates
And the dogs were deprived of their quota of
dates?
If such prized recreations must go to the wall
Let’s wait till it’s ukased for one and for all.
Then the blame can be shifted to Curtin and
Co.
From those who are running our own little
show
And who set, it’s admitted, such obvious store
On “Pleasure as usual”—.aye, even in war!
N.S.W.
PIPARD.


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night Because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more_ you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When,
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous.. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
LOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRAUAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRAUAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
QUEENSLAND’S
MASTERPIECE
BOWEN
POT STILL
RUM
Equal to the Finest
Imported
Sold only in BOTTLES
HARRISON & ATTWOOD Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney,
Wholesale Distributors.
POLITICAL POINTS
“It’s all right, all right now, no need
to worry any more”—there is to be a
conference of Premiers and Treasurers at
Canberra on Friday. In the unitary parts
of the British Commonwealth Churchill,
Fraser and Smuts can give their un-
divided attention to the war. In Aus-
tralia the P.M., whoever he may be, has
to withdraw from such concentration
every month or two to parley with State
Premiers and Treasurers—or thinks he
has to, which amounts to the same thing.
Hostilities with Japan brought about a
gentlemen’s truce in Tasmania. Arrange-
ments for State election meetings were
abandoned by mutual consent, and for
two nights that were to have been given
over to stump speeches the voice of the
candidate was silent in the land. Elec-
tors welcomed the gentlemen’s truce, and
they would have welcomed it still more
if abolition of the State Parliament had
been the object instead of a mere aban-
donment of meetings that few would have
attended anyhow.
The Tas. election proved a soft thing
for Labor. It held 18 of the 30 seats in
the last Assembly ; it may have 19 in
the next.
A state of war with Finland, Flungary,
Rumania and Japan was proclaimed by
the Governor-General on the advice of
the Executive Council, which means
Curtin. There were actually two proclama-
tions ; between the first and second, which
set forth that “a state of war with the
Japanese Empire exists and has existed
with the Commonwealth of Australia and
its territories as from December 8 at
5 p.m.,” the King, “acting by and with
the advice of our Federal Executive
Council of our Commonwealth,” had
executed an instrument assigning the
requisite power to Lord Gowrie. A be-
lated assertion of Dominion status, though
of the kind that can bring no cheers.
Where are all those writing boys who
predicted so often and so boisterously
that Russian bombers would be over
Tokyo two hours after Japan came into
the war? They are still to be seen in
their swivel chairs, but on the subject
of Russian bombing of Japan they are
“all silent” and, as prophets, “all
damned.”
The Australian Communist demanded
(1939) an Anglo-Russian alliance against
“the Nazi butchers and the Japanese
butchers” and (1941) a British offensive
“in the West.” He is not now demanding
an Anglo-Russian alliance against “the
Japanese butchers,” or a Russian offen-
sive “in the East.”
Addressing his nation after Congress
declared war, and rising to the height
of his noble eloquence. President Roose-
velt was severe on writers and radio
uncles whose rumor-merchandise had
turned black in a single night. Describing
the verbal tricks of the gentry, he said
that when slabs of pessimism were pre-
sented as coming from “an authoritative
source” the people could be sure that they
came from no one in authority. A re-
port of the speech appeared in the Syd-
ney afternoon papers along with a state-
ment that American ’planes had bombed
Tokyo. It came from “an authoritative
source.”
J. S. Weatherston, chief Federal “Han-
sard” reporter for many years and now
chief president of the A.N.A. in N.S.W.,
came out flat for unification at the A.N.A.
conference. Saying that in the 1914-18
and the present war the Federal Gov-
eminent had exercised powers almost as
great as those unification would confer
on it, he urged that as the lesson to be
learned from the war. “Briefly, let Aus-
tralia be a Union and not a Federation.”
There should be a rush now to join the
A.N.A.
Melbourne “Herald’s” Special Repre-
sentative in London touched delicately
on the latest conundrum in which
Moscow is concerned:
Britain, being at war with Japan, could
a i ? uss ! a t° declare war, just as Russia
asked Britain to declare war on Finland,
Rumania and Hungary. However, a de-
cision will be left in Russian hands.
Why should it? The Special didn’t try
to explain, nor has anyone else made
the attempt. It has been asserted in one
quarter that Dr. Evatt was the prime
mover in the British Commonwealth’s
action against Finland, Rumania and
Hungary. He too has been silent on
the very odd lack of reciprocal action.
Queensland had no sooner got its 10-
to-10 drinking hours than the Pacific war
broke out and eight-to-eight was
“My Government must make the decisions Cabinet has decided to leave blackouts
to the States.”
“TURN THAT LIGHT OUT—I mean, ask Premiers McKell, Forgan Smith,
Dunstan, Playford, Willcock and Cosgrove to tell you to turn it out.”
restored by proclamation for three
months. Then there was a big drop in
brewery shares, not wholly attributable
to the new war. Somebody must have
believed 10-to-10 would result in more
beer being drunk.
In W.A. fines incurred by s.p. book-
makers are allowed as deductions in
income-tax returns. Asked who gave the
authority Premier Willcock said adminis-
tration of the income-tax laws was vested
in the Taxation Commissioner, who was
“satisfied that the deductions were allow-
able.” The gentleman must regard s.p.
bookmakers as primary producers or
something.
There was more than a touch of panic
in the Sydney air over the week-end, in-
creased by such things as practice artil-
lery shoots, blares from a couple of de-
fective air-raid sirens, visits of wardens
to private houses with questionnaires
about evacuation and the sight of sand-
bags round city buildings. Then over
the heaving waste of waters came the
voice of General Blarney;
Australia has at least 2000 miles of salt
water between it and any possible in-
vader Any large-scale operation would
be extremely risky even in the remote
contingency of Darwin being taken, it
would have no serious ultimate effect on
Australia or the bulk of its people.
It is a comfort these days to have a
clearheaded and iron-nerved man like
Blarney.
What has prevented the Russians in
Siberia from bombing Japan, which every
flapper-paper editor and “famous” cor-
respondent was sure they would do the
moment the Pacific zone flared up? Ex-
planations are in order, but so far none
has been forthcoming, though Mr. God-
frey Blunden, the Sydney “Telegraph’s”
“roving reporter,” might at least be heard
from. To Mr. Blunden, writing at the
end of August, it was “essential that
Australia should have a representative at
the Moscow Conference to offer Russia
sufficient Australian airmen and crews to
maintain 500 modern American bombers
and fighters at Vladivostok.’ ’
The war in the Pacific has upset some
beautiful projects. Martin, the N.S.W.
Attorney-General, had arranged to pre-
ceed to Maorilahd “to study the work-
ings of State conciliation in matrimonial
affairs,” and five Federal members were
going to London “for the meetings of the
Empire Parliamentary Association,” to
which Australia, having seven Parlia-
ments, is expected to make seven annual
contributions. Curtin has no control over
Martin’s movements, but he put it to the
other gentlemen that they should “defer
their visit for the present.” S. M.
Herald” comes in here:
Some members said they intended to
urge the P.M. to permit the delegation to
sail later. They pointed out that they had
made extensive arrangements in order to
make the trip. Farewells had been given
them by the P.M. and throughout their
electorates.
Trying to dissever a political deadhead
from a trip is like trying to drag a vul-
ture from its prey.
In April, 1917, Congress votes for war
against Germany were 373 to 50 in the
House and 82 to 6 in the Senate. For
war against Japan the Senate was a
unanimous 82; the House was 388 to 1.
The dissentient was Jeannette Rankin,
the Republican from Montana, who in
April, 1917, being then the only woman
in Congress, was one of the 50 “antis.”
Her record is never likely to be repeated
in time to come.
Why didn’t Hollywood have its ace,
Robert Taylor, and his Hellcats in
Hawaii?
Competition for newspaper readers,
suggested to the prints which go in for
such things;
For many months correspondents, editors
and radio uncles assured you (1) that the
Chinese war had left Japan thoroughly ex-
hausted ; (2) that Japanese airmen can’t
fly; (3) that their machines are no good;
and (4) that the safest place when they
come over is a military target. Name these
oracles, giving nationalities and last-known
place of abode.
It can be taken for granted that these
worthies constitute the choicest collection
of mugs that ever infested the English-
speaking world. Who, in your opinion, is
the champion, giving reasons and quota-
tions if possible?
Prize, a towering fool’s cap, winner to
have the right to ram it on the champion’s
head.
Nearly everyone supposed that the
Anglo-Italian treaty of 1883 had been
cancelled by the war, but Dr. Evatt is
dubious. He had a great respect for the
late Professor Charteris as an authority
on international law, and the prof, gave
it as his opinion that war had merely
suspended the operation of the treaty.
Five colonies agreed to be bound by
the Anglo-Italian treaty (S.A. stood out),
and the Commonwealth took over their
obligations, which were extensive and
peculiar. One stipulation was:
The subjects of each contracting party....
shall have full liberty to enter, travel or
reside in any part of the dominions and
possessions of the other, to carry on their
commerce and to exercise civil rights on
the same footing as native subjects.
And “no provision was made for sepa-
rate withdrawals in relation to any part
of the King’s dominion.” Complete
abrogation will necessarily have to be in-
sisted upon as part of the peace arrange-
ments.
In the midst of its alarms over the
week-end Sydney suddenly discovered
that its remarkable Egg Board had seized
the chance to raise eggs another Id. a
dozen, making them nearly lyd. each. Is
the producer to get the penny? He is
not —at least, not for the present. The
board is to raise the levy on production
from Id. to 2d. for “pool purposes.” This,
said the E.B, chairman, was decided upon
after careful consideration of all details
associated with the removal of egg sur-
pluses under war conditions.
He added that egg production in the
metropolitan area alone had increased
by 6,000,000 dozen in the current year.
That’s another £25,000 for “pool pur-
poses” by itself, and if what Sydney calls
a Parliament stands for it it will stand
for anything.
Melbourne’s elaborate Housing Com-
mission hasn’t had much luck in its short
history. The first attempt was disbanded
as a governmental economy measure
during the depression. The second never
had a hope of catching up with the house
shortage or causing any radical change
in the slumscape, but when it built
Fishermen’s Bend it at least made a slight
dint in Melbourne’s squalor. It put up
another show at Northcote, but with
extraordinary snobbery local residents
objected to sharing their suburb with ex-
slum dwellers. Then the munitions ava-
lanche hit Melbourne and the situation
got beyond the control of any authority
short of a dictator. Now the Commis-
sion has notified municipalities that, be-
cause it believes the housing shortage is
seriously impeding the war effort, demo-
lition of sub-standard houses will not be
enforced, except in cases where the house
is in danger of falling in on its tenant.


PREMATURE CELEBRATION.
“Sorry to interrupt your Victory toast; but have you forgotten, corporal, what happened in 1918? "


Queensland
Insurance Go
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation, 1
etc.
•• ——-V- '
I On His Majesty's Service
—AND YOURS
l§ms
COOEt
• Exigencies of war have found
Qantas Empire Airways ready and
willing to co-operate to the limit of
their resources . . .
Entrusted with the maintenance of
regular air-mail services between
Sydney and Singapore, and co-
operating with the Air Force in the
constant patrol of Australia’s coast-
line, Qantas applies its tradition of
aerial achievement and efficiency to
the service of the Empire at war!
Qantas Empire Airways
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY,
or at any recognised Travel Agency.
TRINITY
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
SUMMER HILL
A Church of England Boarding
and Day School for Boys.
C One of the Associated Schools of
N.S.W.)
Separate Preparatory School at
Strathfield.
New Term Commences on
Tuesday, February 10, 1942.
Illustrated Prospectus will be for-
warded on application.
Headmaster—
V. S. Murphy, M.A., Oxon.
flbL; *V\
W PERTONAL ITEMJ
That very tall, very brave young man
Lt. A. R. Cutler, V.C., who returned
home, having left a leg in Syria, on
Friday, was accorded a civic reception
at Manly, his home suburb, with the
mayor in full regalia, a band playing and
the school kids to swell the cheering.
The warmth of his reception must have
struck a strange contrast with the marked
unenthusiasm of Sydney City for returned
soldiers. In the 1914-20 period they were
marched through the streets in triumph
with bands playing and flags flying.
Nowadays they are taken to the Show-
ground, dism.ssed amid the pigsties and
cowbails, and allowed to find their way
to their homes piecemeal. Cutler, who
comes of a family of marksmen, and has
two brothers nearly as tall as himself, is
a University graduate and in peace-time
was on the staff of the Public Trustee.
Dr, John Percival Vissing Madsen,
who returns to Australia with a knight-
hood earned for his services in the sphere
of radio-location of night-bombers, is a
graduate of Sydney University, where
since 1920 he has been professor of elec-
trical engineering. His D.Sc. derives from
Adelaide University, where he taught for
a while before coming to Sydney. He
worked in England with R. A. W. Watt, a
pioneer of radio-location, now Director
of Communications in the Air Ministry.
Maj.-General Neil Methuen Ritchie,
who succeeds General Cunningham in
the Libya command, is a 44-year-old
Englishman, a Sandhurst product, who
got his first commission in the Black
Watch in 1914 and climbed to a captaincy
and won the D.S.O. and M.C. on active
service. A lot of his 1914-18 experience
was in the Middle East—Mesopotamia
and Palestine. He has been a staff officer
since 1923, and had four years with the
Northern India command. At the out-
break of the present war he commanded
the King’s Own Royal Regiment. His
wife is a Canadian.
Frank E. Reynolds, who takes over
the secretaryship of the S.A. Returned
FRANK E. REYNOLDS.
Soldiers’ League during the absence over-
seas of J. F. Dowling, is a 45-year-old
accountant who fought on Gallipoli and
in Egypt, France and Belgium in the
1914-18 war, and has three wounds as
souvenirs. For the last three years he
has been president-secretary of the
Blinded Soldiers’ Association. He has
been an officer of the R.S.S.I.L.A. since
1931— accountant and later also assistant
secretary.
At 59 Rt. Rev. G. H. Cranswick be-
comes chairman of the Australian Board
of Missions. A son of the late Canon
E. G. Cranswick, of Sydney, he was born
in Sheffield (Eng.) but came back in time
to be educated at The King’s School and
St. Paul’s College (Sydney Uni.), finishing
off at Oxford. After that he exhorted the
faithful at Brighton (Eng.), in India,
Chatswood (N.S.W.) and Bendigo (Vic.)
before becoming Bishop of Gippsland in
1917, the job he was holding when the
new appointment arrived. He was
national president of the Church of Eng-
land Men’s Society for a decade.
The place of the late Tom Elder Barr
Smith as chairman of directors of Elder
Smith and Co., founded by his uncle and
his father in Adelaide, is taken by Fred
Downer, present head of the old legal
firm of that name, and son of a former
Premier who was K.C. as well. The
vacancy on the board of directors is
taken by another T. E. Barr Smith, who
has had to sign himself “Junior” hitherto.
Outside its well-known hostility to
booze and gambling the Salvation Army
steers clear of even social questions that
have a political angle. But its Commis-
sioner in Maoriland hopped off the fence
for a moment recently to say (speaking
personally and not for the Army) that he
could not see how any Christian man or
woman could logically take up the pacifist
position. Smith, born in London 55 years
ago, was private secretary to General
William Booth for five years and to
General Bramwell Booth for 16 years,
and has since been Chief Secretary in
South Africa and Territorial Commander
in Wales. He took over in Maoriland
last year.
William George Toop Goodman, g.m.
of Adelaide’s Tramway Trust, will be
70 next year, but is as vigorous as ever.
He shuns publicity, but doesn’t mind
being caricatured. He has been on most
royal commissions about transport in
Australia and Maoriland, and drove the
first electric tram along Sydney’s George-
street; the first in Dunedin (M.L.) and
the first in Adelaide ; moreover, he made
and drove a trolley bus before Sydney
thought of them, and he learned to fly in
less than five hours some 25 years ago.
Housing the people is Goodman’s pet
hobby nowadays, and he does the job
as well as he manages the Tramway
Trust. He added Kt. Bach, to the letters
after his name in 1932.
One of the first Melburnians to receive
the Clarke gold medal of the Royal
Humane Society was E. A. Mcßitchie.
A son, Pilot-Officer lan Mcßitchie, and
his Maoriland-born gunner are known
as “the Anzac Team” in flying circles in
England. When last heard from lan and
his colleague had brought down a
Junkers 88 bomber and damaged another
over the East Coast. On September 3,
1939, young Mcßitchie was an instructor
in Victoria. He resigned, worked his pas-
sage to Britain and got an R.A.F. com-
mission on the day of his arrival.
Lieut.-Col. M. J. Moten, recently
awarded the D. 5.0., is in private life
an Adelaide banking official. Born at
Hawker (S.A.) in 1899, Moten was first
commissioned in the A.M.F. at 23.
He went abroad in command of a bat-
talion about a year ago. During the
Syrian campaign, Moten’s battalion, in
spite of difficult terrain, dive-bombing
and artillery fire, effected the capture of
Merjiyun, thus forcing the French to
abandon the Saida defences.
General Sir Henry Maitland Wilson,
appointed to command of the Ninth
Army in the Middle East, is a 60-year-
old Englishman with a war record that
started when he left Eton in 1899 to fight
in South Africa. Australian news-reel
addicts will remember him as the nicely-
spoken elderly officer, who, the conquest
of Syria being completed, addressed the
civil population of the last town to fall,
almost apologising for the disturbances
war had caused, and giving an assur-
ance that there would be no more inter-
ference than was absolutely necessary
with the everyday life of the people. The
complete antithesis of a Prussian war-
lord, but the Diggers (to whom he was
“Jumbo”) knew him as the craftiest of
technicians and a man who absolutely
could not be either bustled or rattled —
even in Greece. Graziani made acquaint-
ance in Libya with many of Maitland
Wilson’s little tricks.
Air Vice-Marshal Arthur Coningham
has many links with Australasia. Born
in Brisbane, he was educated in Maori-
land, where he arrived as a lad. He
learned to fly at Walsh’s pioneer flying
school, Kohimarama, Auckland. He
fought with the Ist N.Z.E.F. in Samoa
and on Gallipoli, and in 1916 he trans-
ferred to the R.F.C. His bag in the 1914-
18 war was 30 enemy ’planes, and among
them he brought down a German ace,
Wolfe. Coningham led a flight of four
Fairey ’planes from Cairo to the Cape
and back in 1926. Service in Kurdistan,
Iraq, Egypt, Khartoum and elsewhere
preceded his elevation to the command
of No. 4 Group of the R.A.F. in June,
1939. He is 46.
R.J. HEFFRON, Minister in Charge of
N.S. Wales’s A.R.P.
Captain M. B. Skinner, master of the
Mareeba, sunk by the raider Kormoran
in the Indian Ocean, and now perhaps
a prisoner of war, did a lot of useful ser-
vice on transports and hospital ships in
the 1914-18 war. For years he was chief
officer of the coastal-trading Wyreema,
and more recently has been the A.U.S.N.
Co.’s marine superintendent at Sydney.
His home is at Rose Bay.
The chap who sets the papers in
meteorology for U.S.A. naval officers
when they sit for examination is a Maori-
lander, 26 years old, J. M. Austin. A
graduate of Otago University, a couple
of years ago he entered the Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Mass. Follow-
ing his acquisition of a doctorate in
philosophy, he was appointed Professor
of Synoptic Meteorology at the Institute.
His services are called upon by the U.S.A.
Navy for various purposes.
Air Chief-Marshal Sir Charles Stuart
Burnett, K.C.8., C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
Chief of the Australian Air Staff, has
had varied military experience. He went
through the Boer War and came out with
a medal and three clasps. Then he served
AIR CHIEF-MARSHAL BURNETT.
in the Northern Nigeria scrap, was
wounded, mentioned in dispatches and
came out with a medal and four clasps.
He was right through the 1914-18 shindy,
served in operations in Mespot and
Persia, and emerged with a C.8.E., a
D. 5.0., the 3rd Class Order of the Nile
and a medal and two clasps. From 1931
to 1933 he was Director of Operations
and Intelligence in the British Air
Ministry and Deputy Chief of the Air
Staff. From 1933 to 1935 he commanded
in the air in his old stamping-ground,
Iraq, and just before the present conflict
was C.-in-C. of the Training Command
in England. Inspector-General of the
R. was his first present war job ;
then he came to his current appointment
in Australia. He is the son of John Alex-
ander Burnett, of Aberdeenshire, was
born in 1882, is married and has four
children, all daughters.
Still pegging away at agricultural his-
tory is Arthur James Perkins, Director
of Agriculture in S.A. from 1914-36.
Born at Ramleh (Egypt), Perkins was
educated in England and France. In
S. he has been, in turn, Professor of
Viticulture, Principal of Roseworthy
Agricultural College, and Director. In
1939 he wrote a tome reviewing South
Australian agricultural beginnings. He’s
70, and looks robust enough to complete
many more decades.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 80, Patrick Scott Cleary, editor
of the “Catholic Press.” Born at Bendigo,
and a schoolteacher for many years, Cleary
came to Sydney 40 years ago and was on the
“Catholic Press” for 26 years, succeeding
Tighe Ryan as editor in 1922. He received
two decorations from the Vatican and was a
Papal knight.
In Adelaide, Victor Gameau, really famous
(ever since serving in France) in the matter
of eggs and their layers. He was president of
everything possible on that subject, including,
for ten years, the Commonwealth Egg-Pro-
ducers’ Council.
In England, Lt.-Col. F. W. Osborne, born
in Melbourne and a resident of Australia up
till his retirement in 1923. He was a mounted
infantry officer in the South African War, and
in the 1914-18 war saw service as major, 51st
Battery, 36th Brigade, A.I.F. From 1917 to
1923 he commanded the Second Military Dis-
trict. His only son was killed in France in
1918.
In Melbourne, at 65, Dr. John Kenneth
Clark, dental surgeon. He was London-born,
had Melbourne Uni. and English degrees, served
in the South African, Somaliland and 1914-18
wars and was Assistant Commissioner for Lone
Scouts. He was permanent vice-president of
the Australian Dental Association and had a
term as chairman of the Australian College
of Dentistry and of the Dental Hospital.


OR& ER
v>
im
m
OATMEAL
STOUT
FLAG
, : ■A&V iealEs
uitßS
TOoHtfS
* lac»s
;U*
PILSENER
CLUB
LAGER
«
;
\t-un
sAcen
YOU*
f^PLI
ES
TY
t,
‘ \ I
»
m
U
t
Oi
L>
45
t=.
A
&
/.
r
m
<?
h
/
/
r<L
mi
u
V
In
OJMIIC t. ,<!
sSfiSsSs
Y'J ' ' ’
WAV
\2
ss
Hi II ■; Y
w
s
CcW
: Yin
V
Vi
\
TT;
•\
\
A
>■?.
STANDARD
S Y D
BREWERY
N E Y
AGENTS:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: “The boss an’ me is drivin’
into the township one scorchin’ after-
noon,” related Dan, “when we spots a
swaggie trudgin’ through the dust some
distance ahead. ‘l’ll bet yer ten to one he
asks us for a lift,’ ses the boss. ‘l’ll
take yer, in pots,’ I ses. The boss looked
a bit took back for a second or two ; but
the sight of the heat-waves shimmerin’
an’ the dry dust floatin’ up from under
the wheels musta reassured him, for he
ses it’s a bet. Presently we catch up
the bloke, who stands aside t’ let us pass,
fannin’ himself. But he don’t say any-
thing, jist gives a friendly nod. The
boss gives a sorta choke an’ pulls up a
yard or two further on. ‘Don’t y’ want
a lift, mate?’ he calls out. ‘No, thanks,’
replied the bloke; T ain’t got far t’ go
now. S’long.’ ‘The blanky cow’s batty,’
ses the boss in a sour tone as we drive
on. About an hour later, while I’m goin’
easy on my eighth pot and the boss is
tryin’ t’ keep up pleasant talk with
Bung, the swaggie appears, marches up
to the bar an’ downs four pots, one after
the other without a stop ; then, with a
satisfied sorta sigh, he orders another
with a happy look. The boss eyes him
savage as I hand over me empty pot for
me ninth, an’ then barks, ‘Why didn’t
y’ ask for a lift or take one when it wus
offered to yer?’ The bloke takes a swig
at his pot an’ replies, ‘What, an’ spoil
ev’rything? The bonzer thirst I wus
workin’ up, an’ all the luvly thought of
the number of pots it’d take t’ satisfy it?
I would have been a flamin’ fool, would-
n’t I?”’
* * * *
“Oont”: Will “E djud i n a” (B.
12/11 /’4l) tell me where in “Australia’s
dry places” he will find kurrajong and
quandong to serve as camel fodder?
Both of those shrubs are essentially
coastal-fall trees, and that isn’t camel
country. The humped one takes on pig-
weed at any time, mimosa as a dessert;
grass when it’s half-green appeals to
camels a bit. But for the oont’s favorite
pap I refer “E.” to the words of an ancient
who had pushed countless padders over a
good bit of our continent; “Gimme gidya
an’ I don’t care how far it is between
waters or what loads I’ve gotter hump.
Gidya’s the same to a camel as oats an’
chaff is to a horse.”
* * * *
“Buckerino”: “Gumsucker” (B.
26 /11 / ’4l) must have been on the hops
when he saw that Indian hawker carry-
ing his bundle on his head. In 40 years’
contact with these dusky lads I’ve never
seen them lump the heavy bundles any
other way than slung across the back
with an arm through the knotted corners
of the calico covering. The fancy-goods
were always in a tin box and carried by
a strap. And some of those bundles
weighed up to 901 b. apiece. Many in the
northern parts of Victoria will remem-
ber the giant Sikh, Goolah Singh, better
known as “Ranji” through his assertion
that he was the famous cricketer’s uncle.
Ranji was particularly pugnacious when
his assertion was doubted. And he would
fight with anything from a billiard cue
to a log of wood. Only saw him beaten
once. At a farmhouse, near Charlton,
Ranji unloaded one hot day. “What have
you got today?” asked the farmer’s wife.
Too tired to describe his wares, Ranji
replied, “Eberyt’ing.” The farmer’s wife
said, “All right, I’ll have three coils of
barbed wire.” Ranji grunted and went
to sleep alongside his bundle and a flock
of fowls.
* * * ♦
“Murlonga”: If those sissies have fin-
ished trying to scare each other with
noises in the night let me give them one
which will turn their bones to jelly and
their blood to water. It is just to be
astride a nag on a bush track at night
and to feel him suddenly stop dead,
spread his legs wide, lift his head, prick
“Got a license for that gun?”
his ears, shiver and give a long shrill
whistle. “The terror of the dumb beast
that has looked upon the dead” —as one
of our bards has put it. It’s better than
all the mystic Warenda Lights and curlew
calls as a hair-raiser.
“Felix”: Eerie night calls, is it? As a
newchum I took a contract scrub-falling
on the El Arish soldiers’ settlement in
N.Q. After a dawn-till-dark day with
brush-hook, axe and springboard Mor-
pheus didn’t need much wooing, although
mine was no elaborate couch. Just when
I had the pigs moving nicely the scrub
hens would come on the air; the blood-
curdling final scream usually brought me
out of bed with my hair at the “ ’Shun! ”
Last year I was on the Palmerston, and
on one selection a braw laddie whiled
away his lonely evenings with his bag-
pipes. And you couldn’t hear a scrub
hen for miles around. Even they must
have known when they were beaten.
* * * *
“K.S.”: Believe it or not, a hoarding
at Ascot (Q.) racecourse bears the legend
“The bushmen of Australia drink large
quantities of tea out of a billycan, which
they call ‘Matilda.’ ”
* H= * *
“Homfrey Beale”: These disquisitions
on abos. and their pets recall the accom-
plishment and reward in perpetuity of
Bovaro, the Motuan (New Guinea) dog.
In common with all other N.G. tribes, the
Motuans at the start of time had no fire.
One winter the father of all frigidity settled
over the locality, and most of the tribe’s
teeth broke from chattering. In dire
extremity the head serang called a meet-
ing of all ihe animals and supplicated
them to scour the planet for means of
warmth, promising equality with man as
the reward of success. Gunamaka, the
bush pheasant, went off with much
cackle, but soon returned saying it was
too cold to travel. Then Gaigai, the
snake, and Harika, the iguana, hissed
boastfully and slithered away, but were
soon back empty-handed, though full of
excuses. Next, resultlessly, went Kibi,
the quail, Magani, the wallaby, and
Boroma, the pig. Then Bovaro, the dog,
arose, stretched himself silently and, with
a bored air, padded into the forest. He
crossed many mountains and valleys and
swam a few oceans till he came to an
island whereon a woman was grilling a
fish over a fire. Bovaro made no “excuse
me.” He grabbed a blazing log in his
strong canine teeth, and away he sped
over the seas, valleys and mountains to
the camp of his tribe, where he dropped
the fire in the very centre of some dead
timber. You can guess the rest, but —
don’t kick a Motu dog. He’s a PET.
• * * *
“Calos”: The parasites which prey
upon the fairy penguins (B. 5/11 /’4l) are
amphibians, as are their hosts. No marine
creatures are immune from bloodsuckers
or other hangers-on. The whale has his
barnacles, the shark his suckerfishes, and
so on. Even the sea anomone, half plant,
half animal, has tiny finned denizens
which prey upon its victims even within
its flowerlike jaws. The anemone itself
is a kind of parasite like the sundew on
land.
* ♦ * *>
“Gryllus”: It’s extremely lucky for us
and the rest of the world’s animals that
insects never developed lungs, or even
gills, but have to get their air supply by
soakage from a system of tubes. That,
and that only, has kept down their maxi-
mum weight to below that of a halfpenny
and their chest diameter to less than an
inch. With lungs they might easily have
made the earth uninhabitable for any
animal bigger and less concealable than
a rat, and with gills would have cleared
the sea of most of its inhabitants. As it
is, Australia has a fish-killing beetle
nearly Sin. long which devours small fry
in inland waters and can sometimes be
found bumbling round city electric lights.
Only archaic breathing apparatus has pre-
vented some of its relatives from develop-
ing into a sort of cross between a bomber
’plane and a submarine. A jumper-ant
the size of a kangaroo could have given
Phar Lap 75 yards in 100 and then car-
ried his carcass past the post before start-
ing to devour it. So be grateful that the
mosquito didn’t spit you instead of just
making your ear itch.
* * * 4s
“The 0.D.”: Is there anything quicker
than the policeman-fly? One took up
a possie on the side of my hat, just below
the crown. Presently the inevitable com-
mon fly landed on the crown, cleaned
its mandibles and had a look round. The
policeman peeked over the top, backed
down and went round the hat to the other
side. The common must have got a hint
of danger, for it ran to the other side
of the crown. The policeman peeked
over again, paused a fraction of a second
and then disappeared, to instantly re-
appear with its prey firmly captured.
That leap must have covered six inches,
and I’m blowed if I saw the thing travel
the distance.
“Propalong”: The mustering camp
horses had to be taken a couple of miles
night and morning for water to Double
Dams. On the track they travelled in
several cliques. The old bachelors,
Micky, Wiggles, Brownlock and Digger,
were always sober and respectable. The
young stuff played as usual, while Kale,
X7O and Roanie kept a staid couple of
chains from the rest. But the old spin-
sters, Actress, Ruby, Biddy and Trix,
were always sourly formidable. Tiny,
the little brown Diamond Tail pony mare
who, ponylike, belonged to no clique, suf-
fered much harassing from the old girls.
She travelled away from the mob till
they reached the water. Then she waited
off. As soon as Actress and co. had
waded out belly-deep and had sunk their
muzzles she tore down the bank. Four
quick chops that raised the hair on four
rumps satisfied her. By the time the old
mares had plunged back to dry land
where hind legs could be used effectively
Tiny was drinking demurely a hundred
yards away. She never forgot to repay
an injury, and she always got away
with it.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “If I take a job here with
you I expect to be treated as one of the
family,” the new hand remarked to
Maloney. “I expect you to regard me
just as you would your own sons and
daughters.” “I’ll do better than that,”
Maloney told him, “I’ll give you a few
bob a week pocket money as well.”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: Most intelligent animals,
puss and the prad, seem to have
much in common. Used to ride a bald-
faced PHT horse called Digger. Having
been broken-in when rising seven, Digger
was apt to be jumpy, although quiet
with me. At an early stage in his career
he nearly booted the boss out of the
watering yard, and just after I left the run
he piled a jackaroo hard for taking liber-
ties, Lambs were dead meat if they came
close to his forelegs, and the dog that
walked in Digger’s shadow took a risk.
And yet with a clawing kitten on his
bare back he’d stand amiably. We had
a family of five kittens at Sandy’s at the
time, and they all slid down the bay
bloke’s ribs, played among his feet and
swung on his tail. He wasn’t just care-
ful not to tread on ’em ; he liked to have
them round.
* * ♦ m
“Mug Angler”: I have a new and
better test for those legendary heroes
who nonchalantly can snatch up a snake
by the tail and crack its head off with
a wristy flick. South-west W.A, estu-
aries carry a frisky catfish, known as
the cobbler. Full grown, these reach at
least the size of a man’s arm. So power-
ful are this fish’s backbone and muscles
that though hanging by the extreme tail-
tip it can lash right up and drive its
' barbed stings into the hand that holds
it. And of all the pains that the human
body can suffer there are few to exceed
that intolerable agony. I’m waiting for
the operation to be tried on that slippery
fellow, and I’ll allow the one who tries
it a rag to get a grip before starting.
* * * *
“Old-timer”; Big Tom, a hairy bloke
with a face like an old-time pug, shuffled
through the dust to the Six-mile Pub,
dropped his swag on the verandah and
sat down. He was thirsty and broke,
and his brain must work if refreshment
was to be obtained. He got up and
went round the back of the pub, had a
good look round the stables, then passed
in by the kitchen and up the passage to
the bar. To the publican’s missus he said,
“Where’s the boss?” She replied, “He
ain’t here; he’s gone into the town.”
“Well,” said Tom, “I got a broken axle
down the road a bit an’ I want a bloke
t’ gimme a hand.” “You’ll get no help
here. We don’t keep a man. The nearest
is three mile up the road at the school.”
Big Tom leaned toward her, “Look,” he
said, “I’m humpin’ me knot an’ I’m des-
perate. Gimme a coupler drinks or I’ll
bust up the place.” The woman turned
pale. Then she got a pot, filled it with ner-
vous haste, pushed it across the table and
stood back, trembling. Suddenly Tom
dropped his head on his arms and mut-
tered brokenly, “Gawd, missus, I’m a
silly cow. Don’t know what got inf me.
I never done a wrong thing in me life
an’ I ain’t startin’ now,” and he stumbled
out on to the verandah and collapsed
beside his swag, staring fixedly at the
ground. Silence in the bar. Then the
woman came out and said, “Listen, you
must be nearly all in. Drink this (the
pot) an’ then I’ll get you somethin’ from
the kitchen.” Two hours later, with four
more pots inside him, his nosebag full
and three bob in his pocket. Big Tom
was on his way. “It’s psychillergy,” he
told me, down in the bend. “So long as
y’ can act up a bit any woman’ll fall for
it. But it’ll only work when she’s on
her own.”
SOPHIA JANE.
Near is the open water; a tepid river tide
Foams from our ship’s propeller; the panoramas
wide
Of cane and maize are fading, and westward,
far away,
The ranges of New England dim with declining
day.
We sit on deck together. This grey old man
has seen
That gleaming northern delta when palms and
cedars green
Grew in its virgin jungles, and naked tribesmen
still
Crept through its reedy swamplands their tribal
foes to kill.
\
Facing the Yamba foreland, we turn to cross
the bar.
“Yonder” —he points—“she foundered; yonder
her engines are.
First in the nation’s story, pride of her
engineers,
Rusting along the bottom; buried for fifty
years!
“Out of the old Sophia they shifted, in forty-five,
Those engines to the Phoenix. I am the last
alive;
Knew the ways of ’em, sonny. Fifty h.p. at
most,
They drove from Port o’ London and up and
down the coast,
“Mother of all your steamers, shallow-draft,
slow, and plain,
Rigged like a tops’l schooner —the old Sophia
Jane!
Thumped her into the Harbor, after a five-
months’ run;
Thumped her into the Harbor in Eighteen-
thirty-one.
“Mother of all the steamers. Though she was
built of wood,
All of her old-time engines were British-made
—and stood;
Driving the Jane and Phoenix for six and twenty
years
Under our watchful nursing—us old-time
engineers.”
Turning from low Iluka, lifting her scornful
nose
Over the broken rollers, our smart screw
steamer goes
The patriarch beside me, I know he dreams
again,
His youth along the Clarence when old Sophia
Jane,
With noisy side-wheels turning and sooty masts
and sails,
Was proudly chug-chug-chugging the coast of
New South Wales.
He sees her lone smoke trailing; he sees her
off the Bar,
Where, under salt tides rusting, her ancient
engines are.
VIC.
E.J. BRADY.


“Taylor Ville”: We have a half-grown
yellow bunny caged on the run, and
already he has developed a portentous
habit. When let but for exercise he sig-
nals his wish to return by attacking the
wire front of his hutch with tooth and
claw in an access of cold ferocity which
would be, in a larger animal, truly terri-
fying. It is a well-known fact that such
animals as cats and rabbits tend to attain,
in the interior of this continent, dimen-
sions unparalleled by the similar animals
of more effete countries. It is, there-
fore, with some trepidation that I await
the day when our pet will commence a
regular course of barbed-wire mastica-
tion. I see the time coming when boun-
dary riders will venture around their
flocks only in a heavily-armed and
armored vehicle.
* * * X
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
working in the transhipping gang at
Terowie (S.A.) when a couple of trucks,
lined and padded with zinc and wool and
packed with cases of gelignite, were
backed into the siding. There was a little
nervous bloke in the gang, and when the
rest of them discovered it they pretended
to handle the stuff carelessly, and talked
about explosions and their effects until
the little bloke was almost sick with
terror. Mat himself had taken an early
part in the game, but when he saw its
effect he stopped and advised the others
to do so. They took no notice. Then
the lunch break came and the mob
headed for the pub. When they came
back Mat and the little bloke were
already waiting to start. The line of
men were passing across the
platform, each carrying a box,
and had not started on the little
bloke again when he suddenly
turned and yelled, “All right,
y’ biankers; let’s have a
blanky blow-up,” and heaved
his box high in the air. By
the time it came down there
wasn’t a transhipper except
Mat and the little bloke in
sight. Then Mat kicked the
empty case aside —the mob
hadn’t noticed that it was dif-
ferent from the ones they were
handling—and went on work-
ing. The mob drifted back,
made a few urgent inquiries,
then silence descended and all
hands worked on without any
more hints.
* * *
“Astern”: An old Cousin
Jack mine manager on Tassie’s
west coast, his cherished prero-
gative was to hire and fire his
men during his morning walk
around the mine. One day
Snowy fell foul of the old chap
and was sacked. Snowy in-
quired casually how his
dismissal would affect his
brother. “He goes, too,”
shrieked the old cap’n. “What
part does he work in?” “Oh, him,”
blithely replied Snow; “he works over
in Westralia!”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; I never expected to see
any one of the smaller creatures that my
“foxy” couldn’t, and wouldn’t, summarily
dispatch if given half a chance. Rats,
mice, rabbits, snakes, lizards and (just
quietly) stray fowls have all succumbed
to the vicious little tyke’s blood-lust. I’ve
even seen him stalk and jump feeding
doves! But a harmless green frog recently
proved his master. When I first noticed
what was afoot Spot, with the clammy
creature in his mouth, was obviously not
enjoying himself as circumstances should
have warranted ; apparently the mucous-
like film over the frog’s body didn’t taste
the best. A few seconds later “bully”
was left triumphant in the field while his
erstwhile assailant choked, coughed,
spluttered and vomited in abject nausea
under the house. But puss, who a few
minutes later finished the job that the
dog botched, suffered no ill effects what-
ever.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: Intelligence among mem-
members of abo. tribes seems to be gov-
erned a lot by the amount of tucker in
their towri. Take, for instance, the boys
around the coastal area of Cooktown
(Q.). They’re well fed from the time
they’re weaned. Previous to that they
may have to share a teat with a pup.
They are well-grown boys, with whips of
intelligence, quick to pick up things, full
to the brim with the laughter of life and
the lust for slaughter. The Cooper blacks
from around Currawilla were the finest
of all abo. stockmen. They enjoyed an
abundance of game, while flooded flats
provided them with variety in diet. On
the other side of the slate, take the blacks
from the desert west of the Georgina,
towards the Mulligan country. Starved
from the day they’re born, pot-bellied
and spindly-shanked, they are of poor
intelligence.
* # * *
“Mrs. P.”: The Narrinyeri, a tribe
which once inhabited this S.A. part of the
Murray, were none too keen on going
“Perhaps I should tell you , cook , there'll be another 800 for dinner"
“I not be talkin' 'bout fish, T'omas; I be givin ee thumbs-up sign!"
out after dark (B. 26 /11 / ’4l). They be-
lived their dead came back as spirits to
live in the trees, and at night came forth
in the forms of 10-year-old boys. Anyone
who has strolled through the leering
raallee at night and shied at twisted box
and gum stumps will understand the
general aversion to night travelling—an
aversion quite unconnected with the
possibility of trampling down lurking
tiger snakes.
* * * *
“The Gosling”: Dad King, declaring
that Dinny the colt was now thoroughly
educated to harness, drove him in the gig
to town for stores and the mail. All
went well until he had gone a few yards
of the return journey, when a motor-
bike flashed from behind and passed
with a roar. At once the colt propped,
then went into reverse action despite
Dad’s whipping and best curses. Not
until the insistent call of the manger
came could he urge Dinny homewards.
Next day Dad set out to give the colt his
final lesson. Armed with a long stout
rope, a halter and a keen-bladed butcher’s
knife, he led Dinny to the big waterhole.
Here he tied the rope to the halter,
measured off enough to reach the slope
of the dam and then secured the loose
end to a fence post. Dinny was now
tied facing away from the water, and
Dad, standing behind, let out a roar. Im-
mediately the colt pranced, noted the
fence and, hearing another roar, rushed
back. Right on the edge of the slope
the rope drew taut and Dinny hung back
hard. Now Dad rushed forward calling
“Whoa! Whoa!” but this only sent
Dinny up on his hind legs. At the right
moment the knife flashed, the rope
snapped with a whang, and down plunged
the colt on his back into the water. Since
which salutary lesson Dinny has behaved
like a thorough little gentleman.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve often heard it con-
tended that a dozen bulldog-ant stings
could be as serious as a snakebite, but
have always been a bit sceptical. Last
week I began to recast my notions. Un-
wittingly lolling with an elbow on a
“bullies’ ” nest, the kid received four stings
in as many seconds, all within a radius
of two inches. After he’d performed the
usual war dance I applied the bush
remedy—tobacco juice from the stem of
an overproof pipe. Within a few min-
utes the pain had ceased; but after
several hours the four little lumps began
to itch and then swell. Next day the
arm had swollen to abnormal size and
developed that angry red look consistent
with bloodpoisoning. It took iodine and
three days of hot foments to restore the
joint to normal. Being a die-hard, how-
ever, I’m still just a bit doubtful —could
nicotine cause similar complications?
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Out past Mt. Margaret,
(W.A.) we came on a small rockhole
that seemed to have been used as a
cemetery by most of the late fauna of
the locality. Long Ned was the kind of
bloke who took his duty to his fellow
man rather too seriously. “That hole
wants cleaning out —it’ll take years to
purify by itself, and some poor devil
might happen along any time doing a
perish.” So with the assistance of young
Hartigan he got on with the job. There
might have been a couple of hundred
gallons of fluid —you couldn’t call it
water —and the stench when the bucket
dipped and emptied was awful. Ned
gripped tight on to the stem of his old
pipe, which itself was a pretty rank
proposition, but Hartigan had no such
protection. But the hole was cleaned
right out ready for the next rainfall,
when it came. A couple of days later
young Hartigan began complaining about
the awful dreams he had been having.
Then his appetite failed, not even
sardines, our greatest luxury, being able
to stir him. But it was when his head
began to ache that Long Ned got him on
to a camel and carted him back the 150
miles or so to the Margaret. Typhoid.
Now, that waterhole was pretty rotten,
but it was far isolated from any possible
source of typhoid, for the abos. who
might have visited it for the previous ten
thousand years knew nothing of the
disease. And nobody drank the water.
So how did Hartigan become affected?
* * * *
“Kicked”: Dad had loaded the old gun
to shoot a wild pig, but, not finding his
quarry, he took off the cap and stood the
gun in the corner. A few mornings later 1
found a cow in the garden tearing down
the well-laden grapevine. Grabbing the
gun, I loaded it with powder and shot
and a good wad of paper, rammed well
down, and let Strawb. have what I hoped
would be a stinging whack in the stem.
When the family rushed out and picked
me up they thought their daughter had
shot herself. My nose was bleeding,
there was a piece of skin missing from
my cheek and I had a black eye for a
week. A year later, when we killed the
cow for beef we found the bullet in her
udder.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry had been hav-
ing a terrible time with the toothache.
After several sleepless nights he was talk-
ing it over with a boundary rider who
was a bit of a health crank. “It’s all
a matter of suggestion,” said the boun-
dary rider. “You must convince your-
self that there’s nothing the matter with
you. What you want to do is to keep
on repeating ‘Get thee behind me, pain.’ ”
“Gripes,” said the long ’un. “And get
lumbago? That’s no good to me.”
* * * •
“Aratta”; The new hand, a city pro-
duct, was always pouring tales about his
prowess as a runner into young Jim’s
receptive ears. Jim accepted them as
gospel, but Dad dissented. “Ain’t shown
much speed in his movements here,” he
growled. One afternoon he came on
the hand flat on his back and fast asleep
under a tree half a mile from the house.
Dad had been rounding up some stock
and was carrying a short stockwhip;
from a few feet behind the hand he flicked
the whiplash within a few inches of the
sleeper’s ear. The crack woke the hand,
who scrambled to his feet and rushed
madly towards the homestead. Dad
tossed the whip under a bit of scrub and
called after him “Hi! Where are y’
rushing to?” The hand pulled up and
glanced fearfully around, “I heard a
pistol shot,” he said. “Somebody fired
at me.” “Nonsense,” said Dad ; “y’ve
been dreamin’. No use denyin’ it. I
saw y’ asleep under that tree.” “But
I’d swear I heard a shot,” protested the
other. “No, no,” said Dad, shaking his
head. “Y’ dreamt it. There ain’t a soul
about ’cept me, as y’ can see. Y’
must ’a’ thought y’ was footracin’ agen
an’ heard the starter’s pistol. Better
keep awake in future, me lad, or this
dreamin’ bizness will be affectin’ y’r
brain.” And, grinning, he walked off,
leaving the puzzled youth to resume his
work.
CLOUDBURST.
I leaned out from my window ere I slept:
The night was glorious, untouched, unstained
By any menace; gum-sweet airs had crept
About the hill that, lovely and tree-chained,
Slumbered below me. Somewhere through the
night
The cloud was coming then, torpedo-swift.
Threading far milky tide-ways of starlight,
Nosing a passage through the saffron drift
Of cool moon currents. Its long, wicked shape
Must have loomed huge among the pale aus-
tere
Cold dews of midnight; purple as a grape,
Heavy with storm, it shattered like a tear.
I heard it through my dreams —the sudden roar
Of rain unleashed against the startled hill;
1 heard the gums groan as the torrent tore
At rough root moorings, tautening them until
I feared the great trees would come crashing
down.
The night was clamorous with the aching cry
Of water rushing, curling, thick and brown
As spilled molasses where the crumbling dry
Ridge of the hill grew sodden, and slid low
To join the restless eddy and the flow.
Dark brackens beat the tide like drowning
birds;
And in the mud the logs made sucking sounds
As though a steer had wandered from rough
herds
Among the scrub to drink there; shuddering
mounds
Of debris soughed forlornly; and a smell
Of earth and roots and leaves rose rank as
smoke.
Adze-keen the wind blew, tolling like a bell
In some old ruin, and a half-moon broke
Through sullen swathes of cloud, gaily to
swing
Its scythe against a tasselled field of stars.
The frogs, long silent, now began to fling
Their singing challenge, while drenched sap-
ling spars
Blithe as retriever puppies shook themselves.
Water was everywhere. Uprooted clumps
Of sags bobbed by—fantastic heads of elves,
Their long hair fouled with briars. Wattle
stumps
Waltzed giddily in backwash holes a-whirl
Where hawthorn dipped small buds of dazzling
pearl.
The hill lay like some dark, deserted ship,
Its decks awash, its long hull listing low;
And plover mourned above it, and a slip
Of moonlight touched it with a ghostly glow.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


What are the
Deties OF AX
Exeeetor ?
I
DOUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems of
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outline of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 63 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £968,760.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS'.
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.0.M.G., Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Oolman,O.B.E. ;
Sir Alan Newton.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.O.M.G, (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart; R, T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Comnany
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors; THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson,
R. A. MANZIB, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
United Provisions, Ltd.
r- 2 —Dividends To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 38,205 8 p.c. Nil 36,000 205 1391
1982.. 85,611 8 ~ Nil 36,000 1002
1933.. 22,090 5 „ Nil 22,500 592
1934.. 35,652 8 ~ Nil 36,000 244
Transferred from taxation reserve, £BBO.. 1074
1935.. 67,812 11* p.c. 2 p.c. 68,500 886
1986.. 55,326 8 „ 2 „ 55,000 326 712
1937.. 36,087 8 „ Nil 36,000 87 799
Tax refund, £467 .. 1266
1938.. 70,868 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 6,353 7619
* Including 3 p.c. arrears.
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
Nominal
, Dividends A To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1939.. 57,490 8 p.c. 3 p.c. 64,500 164,875
1940.. 55,185 8 „ li,, 47,875 7310 172,185
1941. .142,589 8 „ 4 „ 74,000 68,589 240,774
* Subject to intangibles of £641,732.
Up to the close of accounts business with
what is now the “Too-near East”
continued on a sound basis, the
co. says, and trade with the United
Kingdom in canned goods has gone
on, though occasionally there have
been shipping difficulties. Exports of
frozen pork from Australia and Maori-
land fared similarly, Britain buying under
contract. The co. represents the 1927
amalgamation of Foggitt, Jones and J. C.
Hutton (combined capitals, £716,700), and
it is now the largest ham- and bacon-
curing, smallgoods and canned-foods, etc.,
organisation in Australasia. There are 13
factories altogether, with a similar num-
ber of warehouses. Queensland has two
of the factories, N.S.W. one, Victoria
three. South Aus. one, W.A. two and
Tasmania one, with three in Maoriland.
The Maoriland business is “expanding
satisfactorily.”
The amalgamation was accompanied by
a capital enlargement and, shortly after-
wards, by slump. Previously there had
been excellent profits in all sections of
the trade. With slump came keen com-
petition both on the buying and selling
sides in the bacon and pork section, and
earnings crashed heavily. Though the
prefs. went without part of their div. in
one year only, there were five occasions
on which the ords. missed out altogether.
They have had a very poor run even dur-
uig years of substantial national pros-
perity.
Last term conditions were the best in a
dozen years. There were contracts float-
ing round for A.I.F requirements in
canned sausages and the like, as well as
canned rashers. Malayan orders were
better, mostly in respect of tinned foods,
and altogether net trading profits of the
co.’s subsidiaries to September 30 were
£74,073 higher at £162,133. With other
income, the figure was £74,267 better at
£163,836. Depreciation allowance was
£27,551, against £28,241. Allowing for
directors’ fees, etc., the balance of profit
claimed in the accounts was £133,589, up
£79,895. An unexplained addition of
£9OOO to general and insurance reserves
made up the £142,589 shown in the in-
troductory table—an increase of £87,404
on. the corresponding figure of the pre-
vious year, and altogether equal to 11.2
p.c. on ord. capital, compared with 2,
2.2, 3.6, nil and 2 p.c. for the five pre-
ceding terms. Though the liquid position
was good, the board chose to hand the
ord. shareholders no more than 4 p.c.,
leaving £68,589 for reserves. This carry-
forward seems to be partly intended to
cover war taxes. To the extent that taxation
is not elsewhere specifically provided for,
profits and reserves are subject to further
charges. At the annual meeting the
chairman stated that the carry-forward,
plus £ll,BOO specific provision made by
some of the subsidiaries, would be suffici-
ent to meet taxation.
Finances show little change:
United Provisions and Subsidiaries.
„ . 1939'. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £1,400,000 £1,400,000 £1,400,000
Bank overdraft . . 60,034 211,838 236,957
Other creditors .. 144,413 121,684 124,052
Tax provision .. 29,358 88,551 11,800
Suspense account.. 3,975
Freeholds .. ~ 395,909 393,362 389,458
Plant, etc. .. 158,204 166,682 170,351
Stock . . .. 371,801 501,793 579,957
Debtors . . .. 236,021 241,220 248,046
Cash, etc 37,344 33,270 37,627
Intangibles* .. 641,807 641,782 641,732
Suspense account.. 4,094 2,413
* Mainly difference between book value and par value
of inter-co. shareholdings.
Largely owing to the improvement in
trading results, the more or less liquid
surplus was £61,860 stronger at £504,621.
Most of the additions to liquids took the
form of stocks, up £78,164. There was
an increase of £27,487 in the outside debt.
One of the attractive features of the finan-
cial position is the comparatively low
figure (£170,351) at which plant appears
in the accounts. Depreciation provision
seems to have been adequate, though over
the last couple of years outlay on plant
has been in excess of these allowances.
In the 1939-40 term new sheep- and
lamb-processing works were completed
at St. Leonards (Tas.).
The Japanese onslaught on Pacific
bases and trade routes has made the out-
look for this co.’s export trade very
obscure so far as the current year is con-
cerned. Net intangibles in the accounts
total £400,958, mostly representing the
excess of share consideration over book
values at the time of the merger, less
reserves since accumulated. The ords.
are around Bs.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends >,
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Written Re-
Aug., Loss. 6 p.c. 7£ p.c. Ord. Off. serves.
£* £* £/ £ £» &
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29.071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Reserves.!
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 .. .. 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 .. 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790 capital written
off = £23,558 211,330
Reserves capitalised, £185,148 .. 26,182
6J p.c. 3 p.c.
1988.. 68,009 18,000 19,338 12,148 7,771 36,934
1939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
1940.. 56,061 18,000 19,360 Nil 8,274 53,164
3 p.c.
1941.. 64,535 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,485 59,706
+ Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Defence requirements have called for
the spending of millions of pounds, new
industries have been created and old ones
stimulated, employment has been in-
creased almost to the full and wage rates
have been lifted. Thus more people have
had more money to spend, and the busi-
ness of retailers and others has prospered.
But this prosperity is partly artificial and
therefore likely to receive a jolt when the
time comes to change gear from war to
peace in the economic machine, though
that time may be a long way off yet.
Meanwhile, business costs and taxation,
direct and indirect, are expanding, while
the public effort is directed to diverting
personal expenditure to essentials and
savings to the Treasury.
Marcus Clark, which runs a big
Sydney department store business, largely
on a t.p. basis, with substantial connec-
tions in the country (particularly Wol-
longong and Newcastle), is getting its
share of increased trade. But owing to
heavy overhead and rising costs, including
taxation, the extra turnover didn’t yield
much by way of return on the share-
register total of £1,002,786, made up of
300,000 first 6 p.c. and 297,848 second
64 p.c. prefs. and 809,876 ords. of 10s.
each.
After allowing for taxation and
striking off £8485 for depreciation-
shown as written off in the table—the
amount available for distribution was
£8263 better at £56,050. This was enough
to pay the pref. divs. and show 4.5 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 2.5, 1.4 and
5.6 p.c. back to 1938, when the capital
account was reconstructed, following the
failure of the co.’s Melbourne subsidiary,
Craig Williamson. The ords. got 3 p.c,,
only the second thing of its kind in 11
years.
The position as balance-sheet figures
show it compares as follows:
1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital 1,035,895 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages., 530,360 507,769 490,566 477,020
Other debts 114,094 109,800 155,201 210,646
Freeholds .. 656,687 671,860 672,618 680,618
Leaseholds. , 4,426 4,026 3,826 3,626
Plant, etc. 68,540 67,071 62,222 68,668
Stocks .. 191,117 181,360 234,867 243,956
Book debts 656,368 559,774 547,104 583,380
Shares, etc. 125,947 118,913 116,480 117,532
Cash, etc... 12,916 6,388 10,900 20,878
To carry an extra £36,226 of debtors’
balances, clip £13,546 off mortgages and
add £BOOO net to book value of free-
holds and £9089 to plant, the amount
coming to trade creditors was increased
by £55,445. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£160,498)
was £13,394.
As for recent State legislation con-
nected with hire-purchase transactions.
the chairman said it will not be detri-
mental to well - conducted business,
though it will add to the work to be
done, and therefore costs. Also, the
Federal Government’s intended control
of hire purchase is not expected to be
“unduly harmful” to the co.’s business,
which is mainly in essential household
requirements.
At 3s. 3d. (same as a year ago) the
ords. return 8 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis.
The first and second prefs. at 15s. and
12s. yield 8 p.c. and 10.8 p.c. respectively.
The net tangible cover is £3 6s. first,
£2 6s. 4d. seconds and 9s. Bd. ords.
“Truth” and “Sportsman,” Ltd.
, Dividends
f Pref.
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 8 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 27,521 9000 8000 5 p.c. = 10,000 74,127
Transferred contingency res., £1500.. 75,627
1932.. 26,945 7481+ 6650 5 p.c. = 10,000 72,813
1933.. 29,890 7275+ 6500 6J „ ~ 13,000 69,698
Contingency reserve taken in, £6052.. 63,646
Unexplained addition, £18,019 .. 50,627
1934.. 42,406 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 45,221
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. 49,221
1935.. 42,761 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 20,000 43,460
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. . • 47,460
Establishment a/c disappears, £10,537.. 36,923
Added goodwill, £16,287 .. .. 53,210
Capital reserve appears, £30,000 .. 23,210
1936.. 44,942 9000 8000 12 p.c. = 25,021 20,289
Special depreciation, £2OOO .. .. 22,289
Goodwill disappears, £1671 .. .. 20,618
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 5,618
Share issue exes, w/o, £1671 .. .. 7,289
1937.. 52,643 9000 8000 10 p.c. - 25,375 + j 021
Special depreciation, £4OOO .. .. ) ’
Reserves.
1938.. 54,563 9000 8000 10 p.c. = 26,000 ]
Written off, £lBB5 f 3,657
Special depreciation, £5OOO .. ..J
1939.. 40,094 6975+ 6200+ 6 p.c. = 16,800 + R 77fi
Special depreciation. £5OOO .. .. j ’
Surplus sale property, £4275 .. .. 13,051
1940.. 20,836 6975+ 6200+ 8 p.c. = 9,000 11,212
Expenses charged to goodwill, £7396.. 3,816
1941.. 31,558 6975+ 6200+ 6 p.c. = 18,000 4,199
* Nine months. + Pref. div. subject to Interest
Reduction Act.
Principal event during the year was the
launching of the “Daily Mirror” in Syd-
ney, where the main edition of “Truth”
is published. After a great deal of
trouble in getting a license to import
newsprint, the new afternoon daily got
away to a flying start. In the preceding
term the board had this story to tell:
Early in the year the co. applied for and,
on March 29, 1940, received a license from
the Federal Government for the importa-
tion of newsprint which would have enabled
it to proceed with the publication of the
“Daily Mirror.”
This license was revoked on May 31,
1940, after very heavy costs and expenses
had been incurred. These costs and ex-
penses to June 30, 1940, have been charged
before arriving at net profit.
Needless to say, the Government’s action
in revoking the license has placed the co,
in a most difficult position. A claim for
compensation has been lodged.
Results for 1939-40 were the poorest
since the co. took over the late John
Norton’s newspaper estate in 1925. Pay-
ment of an ord. div. of 3 p.c. was deferred
pending settlement of a claim against the
Commonwealth. For the term to June 30
last the directors report as follows;
Since the date of the last annual report
the Commonwealth Government has per-
mitted the granting of the necessary license
for the importation of newsprint required
to enable this co. to proceed with the publi-
cation of the Sydney “Daily Mirror.”
The “Daily Mirror” was published on
May 12, 1941, and all costs and expenses
incurred from July 1, 1940, to May 12,
1941, with the exception of an amount of
£7396, which has been charged to good-
will, have been charged before arriving at
the net profit. From its first issue the
“Daily Mirror” received the solid support
of the reading public and advertisers....
The new daily is now well established, with
a most satisfactory and increasing circula-
tion.
The board does not say whether the
“Mirror” is yet making a profit. But
allowing for provisions and charges
mentioned, and setting aside £16,729
(against £14,911) for depreciation, net
profit from the organisation was shown
at £31,558, up £11,222. The prefs. were
paid their statutorily reduced rates, and
6 p.c, was declared on the ords. That
called for almost all the net earnings.
“Truth” is published in several States,
and a controlling interest is held in
“Truth” (N.Z.), which hasn’t been a
money-spinner. There are sporting papers
as well, and a jobbing department in
Sydney that turns out the “A.B.C.
Weekly.” “Truth,” Sydney, was put up
to 4d, in 1939, and it has since been
turned into a tabloid, like the “Mirror.”
Competition in the Sydney Sunday-paper
field is now severe, especially from the
threepenny “Telegraph.” The Sunday
“Sun” also sells at 3d.
The advent of the “Mirror” has not
called for any great immediate additions
to plant. Presses installed in the preced-
ing three or four years were apparently


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated oy
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Legal Notices.
PATRICK JOSEPH RYAN deceased (who died about
Ist October, 1935) Pursuant to a DECRETAL
ORDER of the Supreme Court of the State of New
South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the
24th May 1940 (as amended by an Order of the 21st
November 1941) and made in a Suit (No. 25 of
1940) intituled “In the matter of the Estate of
PATRICK JOSEPH RYAN formerly of TAHMOOR
in the said State now deceased, Between THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Plaintiff, and JOHN RYAN,
Defendant” whereby the following enquiry was
directed, viz.: —Who were the persons entitled
according to the Statutes for the distribution of
intestate estates to the estate of the abovenamed
PATRICK JOSEPH RYAN deceased living at his
death and whether any of them are since dead and
if so who are their legal representatives—Notice is
hereby given that all persons claiming to be entitled
under the said enquiry are to send by post prepaid
to the undersigned so as to reach him on or before
30th June 1942 their full Christian and Surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Decretal Order
unless the Court or a Judge thereof or the Master
in Equity on application otherwise orders. Claimants
are to attend personally or by their Solicitor before
the Master in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth
Street Sydney Australia on Tuesday 28th July 1942
at 11 o’clock in the forenoon being the time appointed
for adjudicating upon the claims. A claimant not
residing in New South Wales must send with particu-
lars of his claim the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notices to the claimant
can be sent.
Dated 26th day of November, 1941.
(Sgd.) A. W. HYMAN, Solicitor for the Public
Trustee, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
John George Parker Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales in Equity made in suit No.
99 of 1941 In the Estate of John George Parker
formerly of Tottenham in the State of New South
Wales Selector deceased WHEREBY it was directed
viz.:—Who were the persons entitled according to
the Statutes for the Distribution of Intestate Estates
to the estate of the abovenamed John George Parker
deceased living at his death and whether any of
them have since died and if so who are their legal
personal representatives NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that all persons claiming to be entitled under the
said enquiry are to send by post prepaid to Messieurs
G. O. Driffield and Hodby Solicitors Condobolin or
their Town Agent Mr. Frederick H. Greaves Solicitor
92 Pitt Street Sydney so as to reach them or him
before the twenty-eighth day of February 1942 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in
default thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Order. The Claimants are to attend per-
sonally or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at his Chambers Supreme Court Elizabeth
Street Sydney on the first day of April 1942 at
10 o’clock in the forenoon. A Claimant not residing
in New South Wales must send with particulars of
his or her claim the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notice to the Claimant
may be sent.
DATED this eighth day of December 1941.
G. O. DRIFFIELD & HODBY, Solicitors, Con-
dobolin ; by their Sydney Agent, FREDERICK H.
GREAVES, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
offers all facilities for the transaction of every class
of Banking business. Since 1854 over a century
ago the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
has maintained the confidence of its depositors and
the community alike.
HEAD OFFICE;
343 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
df
MILLIONS MORE PENS ARE BUSY.
with
Keep
tAefn
fouia
INK
SWAN
Every Shopping Day in Australia
thousands of Pens are sold as the result
of War correspondence.
Each Pen demands a supply of SWAN
INK to get the Best Writing Results.
Steel Nibs and “Dip” Pens also ask for
The Ink That Lasts For Ever.
“Swan Ink” is brewed at Liverpool
(Eng.) and is sold at Peacetime Prices.
$ Swan Ink was created for Mabie, Todti s
| & Co. by Dr. C. A. Mitchell, M.A., B.Sc., £
i Oxford, world’s authority on writing inks, Z
? who tests each brew before being bottled. ?
SWAN PENS
ARE CHEAPER THAN STEEL NIBS
A High-Grade Fountain Pen, such as the
“Swan,” lasts from ten to forty years—some
longer.
Steel nibs cost from 3/- to 9/- per gross. A
busy office writer will use two gross of steel
nibs per year at a cost of 6/- to 18/-; in addition
there is the cost of the holder and nib tip.
When using a steel nib, it is estimated that the
writer’s hand travels a mile from paper to ink-
pot in eight hours’ writing. Another advantage
when using a high-grade Fountain Pen is that
writing is continuous, rhythm of thought being
uninterrupted. All first-class writers and quick
thinkers use Fountain Pens. Follow their
example.
in the main capable of handling the extra
work thrown on the machine-room.
Capital has been kept down to half a
million, a favorable aspect of the financial
position. Here is a comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Prrf capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ord.’ capital.. 230,000 260,000 300,000 300,000
Mortgage .. 37,670 | 2 86,012 286,667 317,102
Other liabilities 20,811 j ’
Freeholds, etc. 174,59'8 272,088 239,622 244,524
Plant, etc. . . 151,462 246,818 259,817 256,039
Investments .. 96,050 100,651 102,437 103,022
Stocks .. 27,628 91,177 127,096 143,486
Debtors .. 50,728 67,088 76,848 91,268
Cash, etc. .. 2,272 7,048 6,083 8,120
The addition to the debt of £30,435 last
term was mostly necessary because of
increases in newsprint stocks (up £16,390)
and debtors (up £14,420). The excess of
liabilities, including mortgages, was £2412
lighter at £74,228. No great financial
strain has been thrust on the business by
the new paper, and the liquid position
has actually been helped over the past
two years by the sale of some Sydney
freeholds.
The initial favorable run by the “Mirror”
has partly been due to special circum-
stances, especially the lack of advertising
space in other dailies brought about by
newsprint rationing. But the management
has itself to thank for whatever happens
to circulation, which so far has been un-
usually good for a new publication.
Naturally, a great deal depends on
whether present circulation can be main-
tained and eventually increased. Japan’s
Blitz in the Pacific may further affect the
newsprint position.
The market, which was depressed about
the co.’s prospects prior to the granting
of the newsprint license, has brightened
noticeably, paying par for the ords.,
against 14s. a year ago. There is only
a shade more than par in net tangibles
backing the ords., goodwill (£97,012) not
being treated as an asset in these calcula-
tions. Behind the first prefs. there is
£5 os. lOd. in net tangibles ; behind the
seconds, £4 os. lOd. Both issues are
inactive.
Australasian Petroleum
Australasian Petroleum Co., whose
shareholders are Vacuum Oil Co. Pty.,
D’Arcy Exploration Co. (a subsidiary of
Anglo-Iranian, London), and Nominated
Holdings Pty. (an offshoot of Oil Search,
Ltd,, Sydney), has recently increased its
subscribed capital by £BO,OOO. Oil
Search, in which the Australian public
is interested, has taken up 11,000 shares
out of its quota of 16,000, making
211,000 £1 shares altogether, or 19.5 p.c.
of the issued capital.
Australasian Petroleum was formed in
October, 1938, to acquire and explore
special permits in Papua and New
Guinea previously held by Oil Search.
The first task was a comprehensive
aerial survey, followed by geological and
geophysical prospecting. The site for the
first deep test well was selected in March,
1940, at Kariava, which is about 75 miles
from the coast of the Gulf of Papua, not
far from the banks of the Vailala River.
A difficult engineering problem was the
transportation and erection of the heavy
drilling outfit, bought at a cost of
£200,000. .This outfit, capable of boring
to 10,000 ft., comprised many heavy lifts
of over five tons. To handle these lifts,
wharves, jetties and cranes had to be
erected on the banks of the Vailala where
previously there was only jungle. A road
from the river base to the drilling site
was constructed. This road, although
only 3i miles long, was a difficult and
expensive undertaking through dense
jungle. By November, 1940, the road
was through to the bore site. By March,
1941, the installation of the drilling plant
was far enough advanced to allow drill-
ing operations to commence. Since then
good progress has been maintained, and
a depth exceeding 5000 ft. has now been
reached, which is far in excess of the
depth reached by any test well previously
drilled in Papua.
Wiluna Gold Mines, operating in West-
ralia for Wiluna Corp., London, has
contracted to spend £24,000 during the
currency of its two-years working option
on the Mt. Charlotte-Hannans Hill
group, Kalgoorlie. It will probably pay
out more than that, as well as a substan-
tial sum on plant and equipment. If the
deal comes off the vendor, Mt. Char-
lotte (Kalgoorlie) Gold Mines, Ltd., will
get £A220,000, either in cash or shares, or
cash and shares, less £lO,OOO deposit
already paid, and will have the right to
subscribe for a large wad of scrip in any
new co, formed to work the property, and
to elect one first director, or two if there
is a board of nine or more. If a deal
isn’t made, Mt. Charlotte will keep the
£lO,OOO deposit. In consideration of
having introduced the business to Wiluna
Gold Mines, Moonlight Wiluna, the
Westralian operating co. for Gold Fields
Australian Development Co., London, is
to have the right to participate to the
extent of 25 p.c. in the contract. The
British Treasury has consented to the
arrangement and to the ultimate sale of
the property, if so desired, to a new
operating co. intended to be registered
in Westralia. Paringa Mining and Ex-
ploration, which has looked after the
Westralian affairs of Mt. Charlotte for
some time past, will get either £12,500
cash or 125,000 Mt. Charlotte 2s. shares
if the property is sold.
* * * *
Kingston Gold Mine (S.Q.) has had a
good month, 300 tons averaging sdwt.
fine gold. This is high for the type of
deposit, a flat-dipping auriferous and
silicified mass in schist country. An
option on the property was turned down
by southern interests last year, but appar-
ently not on a sdwt. basis. As a matter
of fact, ore boundaries are nebulous —it
is an ill-defined body—but the signs are
that a tract of gold-impregnated forma-
tion has definite economic possibilities if
the average can be maintained around
3dwt. to 4dwt. It was last in the hands
of South Queensland Gold Mines, and
Brisbane faith and capital have already
been sunk in it. Nevertheless it hangs
on and may yet float on call being for
low-grade stuff if massive.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. VIEWS ON JAPAN.
JJb®. B reat bulk of the views expressed in US
An«ll C f IO vf t rece l ved b y the last air-mail to reach
Australia before Japan started war in the Pacific have
natura ly been rendered out of date by events In
general their use here could only have the value of
indicating the striking national unity with which
Americans have all along faced the prospect of Japan’s
being so reckless as to force them into war That
however, has meanwhile been shown by the Congress
Sen^ e X?^ es 9*] declaring war and in other ways. In
last week s Uncabled Additions” were one or two items
indicating the then prevailing general American view that
Japan would restrict itself to heightening the alarm ”
n s J? ere condensed are some written on the eve
of the Pacific war giving views or information that may
be said to still have validity and general interest.]
C From Baltimore “Sun.’'’)
In order to furnish Japan’s reckless policy with
a semblance of justification, and probably also in order
to stir the Japanese people, Tokyo invented a clever
phrase and a myth. The phrase is the “ABCD
Powers,” that is, the American, British, Chinese and
Dutch nations. The myth is that these nations, to-
gether with Russia, constituted a hostile coalition con-
stricting and threatening Japan by “encirclement.”
This myth clearly has no foundation in history or
present fact. The very idea of encirclement implies
the deliberate surrounding of one country by other
countries acting in concert. Now Japan’s emergence
as a modern State from a “hermit” nation dates only
from 1868. Her development as expanding Power
and naval force began with the decade 1895-1905,
covering the Sino-Japanese War and the defeat of
Russia.
But China has been China for centuries, and cer-
tainly none can pretend that in the last 50 years this
sprawling, backward nation has encroached upon or
imperilled Japan. The reverse is true. As for Britain,
it has been established in Singapore since 1819, in
Hong Kong since 1841. The Dutch have been in the
East Indies from the seventeenth century. Russia
has held Vladivostok and the Amur River boundary
with Mongolia since 1860. America appeared in the
Far Pacific—Guam and the Philippines—in 1898.
So, far from having chosen posts in the East to
encircle Japan, the “ABCD Powers,” and Russia, too,
were ranged in their present positions long before
Japan’s empire building became a challenge. In recent
years these Powers have tried only to preserve their
possessions and their traditional interests. Their poli-
cies in this respect have been wholly independent one
of the other.
Moreover, none has ever sought to deny Japan
access to the natural resources of the territories con-
trolled by them. The Dutch, British and Americans
have, on the contrary, been only too eager to trade
with Nippon and to supply her with all that she
needed. To be sure, there was a belated realisation
that Japan’s “twenty-one demands” on China in 1915
represented a new and ominous turn of affairs. But
in 1922 the Western Powers, together with Japan,
freely drew up and subscribed to a Nine Power treaty
guaranteeing the “open door” in China and assuring
all of the signatories that China would not discriminate
among them in granting concessions and privileges.
The United States honored these provisions and,
even when the Stimson doctrine of non-recognition of
armed conquests was formulated, no attempt was made
to circumscribe Japan’s accepted rights, nor was the
consideration of a Japanese case presented to peaceful
negotiation barred. In fact, as late as January, 1939,
after Japan had put forward her theory of a “new
order,” repudiating all the “ideas and principles of
the past,” the U.S, State Department reminded Tokyo
that the United States “has been prepared, and is now,
to give due and ample consideration to any proposals
based on justice and reason.”
This, of course, was wholly consistent with Secre-
tary Hull’s well-understood advocacy of peaceful multi-
lateral discussion of international problems and of a
free world trade with equality of opportunity.
Neither economically nor militarily, then, has
there been any effort to “box” Japan, to shut her
off from raw materials and to deny her the right to
orderly growth. Rather it was Japan herself that first
brought pressure to bear upon the interests of other
Powers in the Pacific and that first invoked the sup-
port of another nation (Germany in 1936) in an
attempt to immobilise her neighbors. Any joint
understanding, tacit or explicit, which exists today
between the “ABCD Powers” and Russia is one which
was never planned nor intended by them. Rather it
was brought about, and only at the eleventh hour,
by Japan’s 10-year campaign of war and threats in
defiance of all her promises and of the patience of
countries interested not in aggression or suppression,
but in defence.
*****
(From a New York “Sun” article.)
Modern Japanese are a bit muddled about
Japanese history. They have been propagandised into
believing that Japan is a product of the sword. As
a matter of fact, when the sword mattered most in
Japan, during the Tokugawa Shogunate, Japan was
brought down to a low standard of living by isolation
and stagnation.
The American Commodore Perry opened Japan
to the Western World in 1853 ; the Meijii Revolution
which, almost bloodlessly, modernised Japan, took
place in 1868. Since the latter date Japan fought two
wars of short duration, the Sino-Japanese in 1894 and
the Russo-Japanese in 1905. Except for these two
wars and participation as an ally in the 1914-18 war,
Japan’s career had been that of a peaceful merchant,
making and selling goods to the world. In this role
Japan had had the assistance of Great Britain and the
United States, not only financially but politically. By
the Anglo-Japanese alliance Great Britain recognised
Japan as a first-rate Power; by the Treaty of Ports-
mouth the United States prevented Japan from collaps-
ing under the strain of the Russo-Japanese War.
Up to Japan’s expedition into China, whatever
real success Japan has had—that is, in modernisation
and in raising the standards of living of her people
—came from the sale of silk to the United States, of
cotton piece goods to China, the South Sea Islands,
India and even North Africa. Japan also exported
Manchurian soya bean and bean products to Euro-
pean countries. To this was added in recent years a
great trade in muck and truck, small electrical equip-
ment and some machinery. The heart of this trade
was the exchange of silk and cotton between Japan
and the United States.
Prince Ito, who is really responsible for the
modernisation of Japan, said in 1904:
In some cases we may be exposed to such a danger
as to injure our national prestige, should we undertake
the proceedings on that occasion. It is therefore very
necessary for us always to act with great caution; par-
ticularly must we refrain from the abuse of military
power, for if we abuse military power, and suffer a
complete defeat, not only our national prestige is
greatly injured, but the ruin of the country is not
unlikely.
Modern Japan has apparently forgotten the lessons
of her own past.
*****
{From an article by the Shanghai correspondent of the
“Christian Science Monitor.”)
Out of the hostile atmosphere into which mutu-
ally irreconcilable Japanese and American policies
placed the two countries a seldom-seen situation
emerged. America, a democratic nation which, ac-
cording to formula, should be split into opposing fac-
St. Louis "Star-Times," U.S.A.
"By the old Moulmein pagoda, lookin’ lazy to the sea.”
tions, has a singular unity concerning the Far East,
while Japan, a totalitarian State that theoretically
should be as one, is split into camps and blocs.
Isolationist Senators who ordinarily bitterly
opposed President Roosevelt’s foreign policies backed
him on his freezing of Japanese credits and the new
forthright hard-hitting policy the Administration has
taken regarding Japanese expansion. Polls of public
opinion indicated that three out of every four Ameri-
cans would be willing to go to war with Japan in
order to prevent an increase of Japanese domination
in the Far East.
Most neutral observers do not believe that similar
polls in Japan would have resulted in majority votes
for war with the United States, further expansion
toward the south or even a continuation of the war in
China.
*****
{New York “Herald Tribune’* comment.)
The belief in Singapore that the task which the
Tojo Government has set itself is the invasion of
south-west China from Indo-China, with the cutting
of the Burma road as its objective, is not so unsound
as those who study the map are likely to think. It
may seem fantastic to suggest that an army which
cannot fight its way from well-established bases on
the Yangtse into the wide valleys of Hunan can seri-
ously assign itself the job of following a toy railroad
through miasmic jungles, up narrow gorges, over tre-
mendous mountains and across deep chasms, spanned
by fragile bridges, on to the plateau of central Yunnan.
But Japanese military dreams have always been fan-
tastic, and there is no warlike move that Japan can
now make that would not be desperate,
A movement toward the Burma road is designed
to arouse fresh hope in both army and people of the
liquidation of that everlasting headache “the China
incident.” For three years past the army has been
propagating the idea at home that Chinese resistance
is sustained by nothing but Occidental encouragement
and that when Chungking is completely cut off from
Britain and America Chiang Kai-shek will lose heart
and quit. The interruption of traffic on the Burma
road has been stressed as an objective far above the
acquisition of the rich Burmese oilfields or the seizure
of the British Navy’s stores at Rangoon. The Burma
road has, in short, got the Japanese goat, to put it
vulgarly.
The Japanese people are under a severe economic
strain and are suffering great hardships because of the
inordinate ambitions that their jingoists have for them
as a nation. No class in Japan is having a worse time
than the agricultural population, and the hardships of
great numbers of Japanese farmers have been inten-
sified by the loss of the American market for their
silk. This is now forcing a radical and painful over-
haul of Japan’s agricultural system. It is reported
that 250,000 acres of mulberry-trees are being grubbed
up to clear land for grain crops.
With all of her industrialisation, the expansion of
her fisheries and her deep-sea commercial fleets, Japan
still has at least 45 p.c. of her people on the land. But
most of her land is nearly straight up and down, so
that there is only half an acre of arable land pet-
capita ; and only about 2\ acres a farm family. Only
half of this is farmed in rice. Other minor crops are
grown in Japan; but the acreage given to them must
be relatively small when it is understood that on what
is not in rice Japan has produced three-fourths of the
world’s silk. In many districts silkworm farmers are
that and nothing else, with no room for garden,
poultry or livestock. Food must be bought with cash,
and when there is no sale for silk there is no cash.
It is not hard to imagine with what feelings mil-
lions of Japanese farmers, never more than a short
jump ahead of destitution, now look out upon those
useless mulberry-trees, nor with, what grim purpose the
Japanese Government now goes
at them with the axe. Japan’s
dependence for the health of her
rural economy upon a luxury
export trade has long ben tragi-
cally unwholesome.
* * *
[While opposing any general
appeasement of Japan, practically
all American commentators, right
up to the outbreak of hostili-
ties, were insisting that the people
of the two countries had no real
hate for each other, and that as
far as Americans were concerned
there was no cause for war un-
less Japan made one. With that
stated, commentators in general
added comments on the lines of
the following items, the first by a
New York “Sun” columnist.]
War in the Far East will
mean the release of a mighty
bombing force from Manila,
which is not far from Tokyo.
It will also mean the beginning
of a mighty effort to aid China
in her resistance to Japan.
What is more, war between
Japan and the United States
means that Germany can be of
little help to the Japanese. Why
then should sensible Japanese
play Hitler’s game and allow
their Government to be made a
tool of Berlin? The answer is
that sensible Japanese do not
agree with the Berlin-Tokyo-
Rome Axis treaty, and wish it
never had been made a part of
Japan’s policy. But the Japanese
Government is what the military
men make it. They have a power
of veto and it is the military in
Japan who prevented the liberal elements in Tokyo
from working out a compromise policy that would
appeal to the United States.
Whoever is on Hitler’s side cannot be on
America’s side. Most of the Japanese officials know
this and many of them have been prepared to let the
Axis treaty become a dead letter. But Nazi influence
in Tokyo is considerable.
Germany has never been as good a friend of
Japan in Far Eastern matters as has Britain or
America. From a truly selfish Japanese viewpoint the
trend has required that America, Britain and Japan
should remain on the same side. For, with American-
British naval power forced to enter into hostilities with
Japan, the fate of the Japanese Navy in due time may
be somewhat similar to the Italian Navy and the clock
would be turned back several decades in Japan. This
is expressed not by way of implying any lack of
bravery or ability on the part of the Japanese, but
the resources of the Japanese islands cannot support
a long war.
* * ♦ * *
(Comment by a New York "Herald Tribune” contributor.)
We [Americans] have danced around uncertainly
behind our friends, shouting defiance over their hard-
pressed shoulders, handing them up arms and ammu-
nition, giving a tentative jab or push now and then,
but carefully avoiding any real wading into the melde.
This course has been a serious error.
Admitting that our land forces are far from ready
for any successful large-scale participation, even if
such participation were possible or advisable now, we
have full confidence in the power and preparedness
of our naval arm and of its excellent air component
to cope with Japan’s Navy alone.
The benefits to the U.S.A. of such a realistic
course of action would be incalculable, both internally
and externally. But can one dare to hope that it
will be adopted? I wish I could think so. Democ-
racies do not function that way, and our history shows
too well that we are no exception to their familiar
rule of “delay, linger and wait.” Grim facts force
us in, and we shall pay the far greater price exacted
by Mars for violating his first rule: that a definite
plan adopted in time and carried out vigorously, even


For Your
Christmas
Dinner...
&ilando’
GOLD MEDAL
PORT AND
SHERRY
though it is not ideal, is infinitely better than hesita-
tion among several.
« * * * *
(From the “United States News.’’)
Principal targets for enemy bombers attacking
Japan would be the Tokyo-Yokohama area and the
city of Osaka, 240 miles southward. These two areas
are the head and the heart of industrial Japan. Tokyo,
city of rice-paper and wood houses, is the centre of
transportation. Government and commerce. Only 15
miles away is Yokohama, home base of the Japanese
Navy, Damage to the repair and supply facilities
there would seriously cripple the fleet, Japan’s main
striking force.
At Osaka is concentrated most of the national
munitions industry. Hastily expanded during the last
three years, the arms factories are built of wood.
Acres upon acres of these wooden buildings in and
near the city present a highly vulnerable target for in-
cendiary bombs. This same strategic liability is true
of other cities, making it imperative to keep attacking
’planes at a distance. Use of aircraft-carriers by hos-
tile forces would intensify the difficulty of this task
for the Japanese Navy and Air Force.
These facts are made ever more pointed by the
spectacle of American-produced bombers, aviation
gasoline and supplies flowing into Vladivostok, near-
est source of danger to the Japanese capital.
*****
(From New York “Daily Mirror.”)
There is a tendency in the U.S. to belittle Japan’s
chances. Some U.S. military experts even predict that
the U.S. would defeat Japan within two months —three
at the most —with no danger to herself, by means of
a long range naval blockade.
Certainly the Japanese Fleet could not very well
bring the war to the U.S. Pacific Coast. But the con-
verse is also true. If the Japanese cannot attack the
U.S. directly, the same lack of bases prevents any such
direct action by the U.S.
Japan would undoubtedly attempt to take Guam,
Wake Island and Midway. Guam, in the Caro-
line Islands group, surrounded on four sides by
Japanese bases, would probably be taken. Wake,
2600 miles from Hawaii but less than 800 from the
nearest Jap base in the Marshall Islands, would prob-
ably go also. [This was written before the reports
claiming that these islands have been taken.] Mid-
way, only 1304 miles from Hawaii, would probably
be held.
But Japan’s strategy is more .far-reaching. The
Philippines, 7154 miles from the U.S., 4778 miles from
Hawaii, are too far from the U.S., too close to the
Japanese base at Formosa, 250 miles, to be readily
defended against attack. The best the U.S. could do
there would be to exact as high a toll as possible on
the Japanese, hoping, as General Douglas A. Mac-
Arthur, commander of U.S. forces in the Far East
predicted in 1939, that it would cost the enemy “at
least 500,000 men and upward of $5,000,000,000 to
pursue such an adventure with any hope of success.”
Japanese naval circles believe that the Philippines
and the Dutch East Indies could be taken within
three weeks of the outbreak of war —with the proper
use of Fifth Columnists. If the Japanese got control
of the resources of the East Indies —rubber, tin, oil,
spices, rice—they could defy the long-range blockade
which the U.S. Navy had clamped on Japan.
*****
(From New York “World-Telegram.”)
The months of American-Japanese negotiations
helped the United States. Philippine, Hawaiian and
Alaskan defences are more secure, and more American
bombers are guarding the Pacific to compensate fo,r
United States ships transferred to the Atlantic. Japan
is weakened by the American-Anglo-Dutch embargo,
losses in China and mounting war weariness at home.
This does not mean that the United States is
stronger than Japan in the far Pacific. It only means
that the United States is in better shape than if Japan
had precipitated a Pacific war when she threatened
a year ago.
*****
(From New York “Times.”)
In the Pacific our [U.S.] position is in many ways
immeasurably stronger than it was a year ago. Our
Pacific naval strength is weaker because of the trans-
fer of units to the Atlantic, but the auxiliaries, indis-
pensable to any navy —minesweepers, net tenders, store
ships, etc. —have been greatly increased ; the Pacific
Fleet is completely on a war footing ; naval and air-
base facilities at Hawaii and on the West Coast have
been expanded and improved, and Hawaii itself has
been much strengthened by additional men and
weapons and particularly by the dispatch to the islands
of many long-range naval patrol ’planes and army fly-
ing fortresses.
Outlying ’plane or small ship bases have been
partly or completely finished at Midway, Wake, John-
ston, Palmyra and other islands and in Alaska and
the Aleutians. And, above all, our Achilles heel in
the Pacific—the Philippines—is far, far stronger than
it was a year ago.
* * * * ♦
(From New York “Nation.”)
The Tojo Cabinet was formed for but one pur-
pose —to unite all the services in support of a more
aggressive pro-Axis policy.
People who insist that we [Americans] could
never be brought to “fight for Siberia” or for Siam
or for our right to navigate the Japanese sea fail to
realise how little popular objection there is to war
with Japan. First of all, it would be chiefly a naval
war, and American pacifist sentiment is mainly directed
against dispatching a mass expeditionary force to
foreign shores. Second, it would be a war in support
of American “interests” in the Far East, and even
the ordinary citizen who has nothing direct to gain
from such interests bristles at the notion of forfeiting
them to a grasping neighbor. Third, as a people we
don’t like the Japanese, while popular sympathy for
their Chinese victims is universal.
Nazi Party and German Army.
(Condensed from an American “New Republic ” article
by Thomas Reveille.)
A myth about the German Army that is widely
believed is that the High Command is hostile to the
Nazis and loyal to the old German ideal, that it is
an island of conservatism and commonsense in a
Germany of fanaticism and lies. Those who believe
this myth would probably accept the idea that if
Hitler were overthrown the Allies could afford to
make peace with a Government in which the High
Command was heavily represented. Not only is this
whole conception false, but there is reason to believe
that it has been cultivated deliberately by Hitler to
prepare for an eventuality in which he might need to
make a pretence of handling over the reins to the
army while retiring temporarily into the background.
The German Army asked for and negotiated the
Armistice of 1918. That army thereby recognised
“Oregonian,” U.S.A.
LOOK-OUT, NIPPON!
explicitly its own defeat, and solemnly promised to
keep the peace. No sooner was that done than its
leaders embarked on their plan for world conquest
once again. They carefully abstained from associating
themselves with the Versailles Treaty, for which they
coined the word diktat. To Germans the army was
presented as invincible, above all politics and strife,
and innocent of defeat.
The leaders of the defeated Wehrmacht began a
systematic undermining of the stipulations of the
Treaty of Versailles. The first effort toward European
reconstruction at the Genoa Conference of 1922 was
largely frustrated by the treaty concluded between
Germany and Soviet Russia at Rappallo. German
military circles engineered it, or at the very least
approved it heartily. Their motives were obvious.
They desired to scotch attempts at any form of Euro-
pean reconstruction which might prevent a remilitari-
sation of Germany. They were also anxious to obtain
discreet means of achieving this remilitarisation. The
training of the Bolshevik army by German technicians
offered scope for the preparatory efforts.
The systematic militarisation of the Reich began
as early as 1923. The organisation for the war of
revenge ranged from studies on psychological war-
fare to building up the armed forces permitted by the
Versailles Treaty into a formidable nucleus for the
future Wehrmacht.
The famous system of war economy, or Wehrwirt-
schaft, was not a product of the Nazi regime. Ger-
man economic rearmament started in 1926, seven years
before Hitler came to power. Its organisers were
German army officers and men who had fought in
the World War. The leader was Colonel (now
General) Georg Thomas. He set up his War Economy
Board as early as 1926, but disguised it as a Statistical
Society. The importance of this board has been gener-
ally overlooked. Thomas and his assistants moulded
German economic developments in such lines as
machine-tools and raw materials, so that when Hitler
came to power the switch-over of the national economy
from peace-time to war-time production took place
almost at a moment’s notice. The plans and organi-
sation of Marshal Gdring’s Four Year Plan and of the
mammoth Hermann Goring Works are the achieve-
ment of this board. General Thomas and his officers
officially took charge of the German economic system
in January, 1940. They organised and continued to run
the system for the economic spoliation of conquered
countries.
Hindenburg’s advisers, the Prussian and other
German Army cliques, and Von Papen were fully
aware of the implications and consequences of their
manoeuvres when they persuaded the aged Marshal to
give Adolf Hitler the reins of the German State.
Among the galaxy of German Army notables there
was only one person who had the distinction of oppos-
ing Hitler and the Nazi party. He was General Kurt
von Schleicher, Chancellor of the Reich during the
10 weeks before Hitler’s seizure of power. Schleicher
and his wife paid for this with their lives.
Not a voice was raised by any notable member
or representative of the German Army against even
the most appalling practices of the Nazi party.
The goal of Nazism is avowedly the conquest of
the world. This goal has been the predominant and
incessant theme of German military writers and
strategists from the time of Frederick the Great to
the present day. The proposed means of achieving
it are identical. Both the Nazis and the military wish
to make the entire German nation one militarised
corporate body. The German military and the Nazis
have preached the same doctrine on the economic
organisation of society. Both have demanded the
maximum utilisation of human and material resources
for the speediest rearmament, and both have been
equally insistent on autarchy as a means of rendering
Germany invulnerable to economic blockades. Total
warfare, ranging from the psychological attack on the
civilian population of the furthermost corner of the
enemy’s hinterland to wholesale armed onslaught in
the field of battle, has been advocated, and practised,
by the Nazi regime and the leaders of the army alike.
It is not surprising that the German Army and
the Nazi party should in the course of time have
achieved an identity even of person. Today it is im-
possible to distinguish one from the other. The
greater if not the preponderant part of the German
Army is now composed of fanatical Nazis. The same
is true of its officers, other than those in the highest
ranks. Non-conformist officers have been diluted, if
not eliminated, by the purge of 1938 and by demotion.
They have been replaced by officers promoted since
1933 from the ranks of fanatical or faithful Nazis.
Even the top of the German Army hierarchy is made
up at best of the Nazi party’s yes-men or of figure-
heads. Adolf Hitler is the Supreme War Lord of the
Reich, and heads the General Staff in person. The
true General Staff is made up of Hitler’s own minions
or advisers, such as Generals Jodel and Warlimont.
The generals with high-sounding and aristocratic
names in charge of the occupied countries are figure-
heads. They are in reality decoys used by the Nazi
party to give an appearance of respectability and
conservatism to its own ruthless exploitation.
The contention that the German Army is different
and distinct from the Nazi party and Nazism is sheer
myth. The fact that it continues to be propagated as
the truth outside Germany attests to the success of the.
Nazi propaganda machine. The encouragement of
this idea started as far back as 1936, before and after
the occupation of the Rhineland. The world was suc-
cessfully given to believe that the German Army
opposed the occupation of the Rhineland. Eyewitness
stories came out of the Reich telling how this and
that German officer had said as much in confidence
and out of earshot of Nazis.
The same device was used and with equal suc-
cess during the occupation of both Austria and
Czechoslovakia. It was resorted to again, without any
significant variation, during the campaign in Russia.
Who has not heard of the reported conflict between
the Nazi party and the German Army over this cam-
paign?
The rumored disgrace of Marshal Goring and
General Udet falls in the same category. The Npi
propaganda machine has painted both as conservative
gentlemen and as friends of England. They were the
logical instruments for obtaining from England the
negotiated peace which the Nazi party needs in order
to consolidate its military victories on the Continent.
The myth continues to be propagated by way of
insurance. The Nazi leaders, who are also fervent
Germans, hope that in case of a collapse of their
military ventures the victorious Allies will repeat the
mistake of 1918. Short of out-and-out victory, nothing
would please them more than to have the so-called
“German” (i.e., non-Nazi) Army entrusted with the
job of organising and ruling a post-war Germany.
Russia’s Aviation Spirit Need.
[Condensed from a Manchester “Guardian” contribu-
tion by an oilfield engineer, this article shows another
of the various ways in which Britain has been aidina
Russia as far as it has been possible to do so.]
Russian refineries, although including up-to-date
plant capable of producing a good type of petrol
from the normally high grade of crude oil produced


in Russia, do not have the special type of plant—poly-
merisation—for the supply of aviation spirit of the high
grade now required in modern aeroplanes Some
aviation spirit was produced, with the aid of imported
tetraethyl lead dope, but here again there was no
plant in Russia for supplying the “dope,” which must
be used when producing the best aviation fuel.
It must be remembered that although Russian oil-
fields can produce well over 30 million tons of crude
oil per year the main peace-time domestic demands
were limited to normal products. Thirty per cent, of
the refinery output covered paraffin for the millions
of lamps used in the homes of the peasants. Con-
siderable quantities of Diesel fuel were needed for the
heavy demands of the tractors on the collective farms,
and ordinary motor spirit was required for the swiftly
increasing output of motor vehicles with petrol engines.
One hundred octane aviation spirit is now nor-
mally used by the air forces of Britain and of the
United States, but Russia’s refineries have been capable
of producing aviation fuel of only 85 to 87 octane.
A ’plane using 100-octane fuel has 20 per cent, more
speed on a straight flight and 25 per cent, more
manoeuvrability and climbing speed than a similar
’plane with 87-octane fuel in its tanks.
Analysis of the petrol in German ’planes brought
down in Britain by the hundred shows that the spirit
used was, on the average, from 65 to 75 octane, with
one or two examples of 87-octane fuel being found.
It was illuminating that the new 109 F Messer-
schmitt brought down a short while ago had 100-
octane petrol in its tanks. The Nazis have only a very
limited supply of this high-grade petrol, and it is
obvious that British supremacy in the air forced
them to draw on their small stocks of the best
aviation fuel available rather than continue to put
their aircraft at such a great disadvantage when
fighting our new and faster ’planes.
How does Britain’s action in Iran affect the
supply of vital high-grade aviation spirit to the
Russians? It is obvious that the huge distances to
be covered from the United States to Russia make
transport of American aviation spirit very slow.
Abadan, the strategic refinery situated on the
Shatt-el-Arab in Iran, had recently been enlarged
and modernised completely, making it the largest
and most up-to-date plant in the world. That is
why we took prompt action to protect it. With the
new road open to Russia through Iran, Abadan
can make a very valuable contribution of high-
grade aviation spirit for use by the Red Air Force,
and as Britain has plenty of other sources, apart
from the many refineries of the United States, for
the supply of such fuel, Abadan’s output of 100-
octane spirit should all go to Russia by the new
short cut.
Incidentally, Britain’s action in taking Bandar
Shahpur, a little way down the Persian Gulf from
Abadan and Basra, was aimed primarily at pro-
tecting the new 7000-ton-per-day refinery erected
there. This new refinery acts as a complement to
Abadan, where there is no room for further ex-
pansion of that huge plant, and will also handle
some of the crude-oil output of new south-western
Iranian oilfields.
More on Invasion Lunacy.
[ln the face of expert criticism which demonstrated
that it was madness, the clamor for a British invasion
of Europe has died down, but how dangerous was the
advice of newspaper, radio and other oracles who
advocated it should be remembered against them, and
for future reference. Two exposures of this dangerous
outburst of ignorant lunacy have appeared in “Uncabled
Additions”; here is another, from an air viewpoint, by
Air-Commodore L. E. O. Charlton in London “Fort-
nightly.”]
Many in Britain, encouraged by the article-
writing in their favorite dailies, have pressed for an-
other British landing on the Continent while Hitler
was otherwise engaged. This is dangerous thinking,
if there ever was, and it is astonishing how people
can be so misled.
In spite of lesson after lesson on the peril of
such an undertaking without complete air mastery they
loosely think, and loosely speak, to that effect. Any
such idea, of course, would be at present a palpable
absurdity! It is not generally known, perhaps, that it
took at least a fortnight to assemble Britain’s original
Expeditionary Force on French soil in 1939, nor is it
taken into account that the whole proceeding was then
conducted without interference of any sort or kind
from the air. Air action at that time by the enemy
would have involved a series of 700-mile flights, there
and back, over hostile territory and in the face of
determined fighter opposition before he could have
made his presence felt at all. He did not choose to
do so, and in consequence our war material was un-
loaded in an atmosphere of peace, while our men
stepped ashore amid the plaudits of the crowd and
marched in safety to their billets. But compare the
then and now!
Today such landings would have to be effected in
the fact of opposition from the start. Not only
would our force be endlessly assaulted from the air in
the act of disembarking, but also in the ports of
assembly on our side and on the crossing. TTie main
bomber strength of the Luftwaffe is occupied against
the Russians, but a few hours would be enough to
reproduce it where it could settle down on aero-
dromes which are kept in working order, with fuels,
bombs and all other requisites, for just such a pur-
pose,
A further handicap would be the ruined ports of
France, which we have been assiduously bombing day
and night for the last 15 months, and from which
every landing facility, in the shape of derricks, haul-
age gear and winching plants, would be at once with-
drawn.
In these circumstances we would be bound to
suffer cruel loss and might receive a mortal blow, for
even if we repeated our successes in the air battle of
Britain, in protection of our men and ships below, it
stands to reason that neither could expect immunity
from overhead attack. It would doubtless be an
occasion for the staging of the biggest air battle ever
yet conceived, and indeed we need not shrink from
such a contest; but the lure would be our transports
and their cargoes, human or material, and the risk of
their wholesale destruction would be immense. We are
fairly confident that British air power can be largely
relied on to defeat the enemy’s attempt to invade
Britain. Then why should we succeed where the
enemy must fail, taking into consideration that the
enemy, as to weight of numbers in the air, is still in
the ascendant?
Not thus could we effect a diversion in favor of
Russia. But the time is fast approaching when we
may assume, and assert, that air mastery over the Luft-
waffe which is to bring us final victory, for with air
supremacy, not in local airs, but in a universal sense,
we can command the sea and land as well.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
Information reaching London from Rome is that
there are now 80,000 German “functionaries” running
Italy, with Mussolini as Gauleiter and nothing more.
There is no hope whatever of any effective Italian
resistance to German domination, and the British Gov-
ernment is preparing for heavier and continuous raids
on Italy right through the winter in this knowledge
that Italy cannot escape the German toils —Man-
chester “Guardian” London correspondent.
*****
In the first weeks of Hitler’s bombs over London
the homeless people of the East End were given shelter
New York "Journal-American."
WHAT’S IN A NAME.
(U.S. comment on the war published before America
became involved in the Pacific .)
in West End mansions. Thereupon it became a
commonplace among some of the more confident
prophets to say that the working people of the East
End, once having seen how the rich live in Mayfair,
would never again consent to go back to their Lime-
house and Stepney tenements. This could mean one
of two things. The people of the East End will take
permanent possession of the mansions of the rich, or
the people of the East End will no longer be content
with their mean tenements, but will insist on much
better homes. Both changes might* be described as
vast, but with a difference. In one case you have
something that sounds very much like proletarian
revolution. In the other case it is a national housing
programme. One is the sort of thing that happened
in Soviet Russia 24 years ago. The other is the sort
of thing that happened in Great Britain, where one-
half the population has been rehoused since the
Armistice. — New York “Times.”
% sfc # He H:
Raiding will find London infinitely better pre-
pared than she was a year ago. Enrolment and train-
ing of fire-watchers are the most conspicuous of our
preparations. The strengthening of surface shelters
to resist earth shock still goes on, and no doubt we
shall always be finding ways of improving them as
long as the war lasts. There is no longer any need
for extensive building of new shelters. There is now
sleeping room in shelters for 4,772,000 people, some
80 p.c., of London’s civil defence region. The provision
of bunks continues. Heating, light and ventilation are
being continually improved and electric power points
have been installed in all shelters habitually used by
50 or more people. There are feeding facilities in
public shelters for nearly 93,000 people, including
canteens in 558 of the 1106 shelters which accommo-
date 200 people or more. No doubt there will always
be more to do, but at any rate shelter life in London
this winter will be a great deal safer, healthier and
happier than it was a year ago.— Manchester
“Guardian” London correspondent.
*****
No comprehensive account of the naval effort in
the war would be complete without special reference
to the work of Britain’s submarine service. The sub-
marines play no part in great sea battles, their con-
tribution to the success of combined naval and mili-
tary operations is indirect, and since the results of
their successes, though well known to the enemy, are
rarely known in detail and with certainty to ourselves,
they secure little publicity. Nevertheless, the power
of the submarine to interfere with the enemy’s use of
the sea in areas where surface forces are not available,
or where it is inadvisable for them to operate, is of
the greatest value to the exercise of sea poWer. This
function has been practised throughout the war with
energy and with the lavish use of all available strength.
The execution has been characterised by ardor, forti-
tude and well-judged initiative. Not only is the actual
loss a serious matter to the enemy, but the overseas
communications to his armies must have been much
hampered by the delays and inconveniences due to
the anti-submarine measures imposed on him. The
much to be deplored losses in submarines and in their
gallant crews have been in greater proportion than
in any other branch of the Royal Navy. And yet it
has been officially stated that entry into this service
is keenly sought by officers and men. All honor to
the submarine service.— Admiral Sydney R. Fremantle,
in London “Contemporary Review.”
* * * * *
In the recorded utterances of Nazi spokesmen,
from Hitler down, there is no trace of pity for the
hardships of the peoples they have subjugated. The
conquered countries are to them only territories to be
exploited for German profit. The Nazi aim is loot,
and the horror and indignation aroused by the
methods of obtaining it have had no effect upon con-
tinuance of the exploitation.— New York “Times”
* * * * #
Without a doubt the Germans expected the cam-
paign in Russia to be an easy affair. The shock was
the greater therefore when they met with stubborn
resistance and realised the sacrifice of life necessary
to overcome that resistance. Whatever the exact figures
of losses may be, they are certainly enormous, and to
the Germans they may appear even more startling by
reason of their unexpectedness, German minorities
living outside the Reich in neutral or non-belligerent
countries are known to have suffered already severe
bereavements in proportion to the number of their rela-
tives fighting in the German ranks. — Manchester
“Guardian” diplomatic correspondent.
* * * « *
Vichy’s normal attitude is one of abject prostra-
tion, but rarely has even Vichy grovelled quite so
miserably in the dust under the conqueror’s feet as in
Petain’s appeal against anti-Nazi terrorism:
By the armistice we laid down our arms. We have
no right to take them up again to strike the Germans
in the back. The foreign Powers which order these
crimes know well they are wounding France in her very
flesh. Of little matter to them are our widows, orphans
and our prisoners Help out justice. Find one culprit
and 100 Frenchmen are saved. I cry out to you about
this in a broken voice.
It is a broken voice indeed, pitiful in its acceptance
of a '“justice” which can slaughter 100 innocent men
for every assassination, in its attempt to rivet upon
France the chains which the men of Vichy expected
her to wear. A Government of integrity and strength
might have urged the abandonment of terrorism
because of its essential futility; because of its bar-
barity ; because it can only be destructive. This Gov-
ernment urges the people to drop it because of the
savagery of reprisal; it asks them, in short, to allow
themselves to be terrorised, to admit the validity of
the gorilla justice of Nazism, to add a moral and
spiritual degradation to the physical degradation of
defeat. — New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * * *
The U.S. Army is getting ready to cart airports
wherever the air forces may be drawn. Landing mats,
which are being manufactured in Pittsburgh, consist
of steel plates, sft. long, 15in. wide and one-eighth
inch thick. They are locked together to form a steel
carpet big enough for a ’plane to land on, or take off
from, rough, rocky, muddy or swampy ground, or
ground deep in snow. The strip can be taken apart
and loaded into trucks or railroad caTs. — New York
“World-Telegram.”
*****
The U.S. Maritime Commission’s vast programme
for building 1383 vessels by the end of 1943 includes
730 Liberty Ships, the misnamed “ugly ducklings,”
each of which will be completed in from four and a
half to six months, or half the time it took to build
freighters during the World War. — New York “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * * *
By September 30, 1939, 60,427 children had been
sent from Manchester, representing 66 p.c. But by
September 30, 12,633 had returned home. Thus the
actual number in reception areas at that time would
be about 47,000. In spite of every effort made by the
authorities to counter it the homeward movement con-
tinued, until just before the December raids the
number had fallen to 5537. After the raids 10,788
were sent out of the city in four days, bringing the
total to 16,325. These figures are, to say the least,
surprising. Fear of the unknown possibilities of air-
raiding brought evacuation to the peak figure of over
60,000; the experience of two severe raids last
December caused no larger exodus than 10,788. —
Manchester “Guardian.”
*****
Britain is today spending $64,000,000 every 24
hours, all over the world, but principally at home,
and, at home, principally upon her navy. In the last
eight months three yards’ areas have delivered three-
quarters of a million of naval tonnage. In the last
year 480 vessels have been added to the navy. Ger-
many’s Vice-Admiral Walter Warzecha said recently:
“This war demonstrates, even more than the World
War, that the final decisions of great wars must always
be gained by fighting on the world’s seas.” Probably
the gentleman considered “and under,” to follow “on,”
as understood. But German naval power, whether “on”
or “under,” will not win this war. The Battle of the
Atlantic will go on to the end of the war, however.
Germany had 70 submarines at its beginning. She
has built 400 since then, and will continue to build
them. How many she has lost Britain knows better
than she does. But at the end of the last World War
Germany surrendered nearly 200 of her submarines
that had survived. — Charles M. Lincoln, in New York
“Times.”


r
¥
W
K-
li
&
rs >f'\
%5
fv-W
ft
v ¥
*
V\*-£V
# iMmm
f* M-& $
Z»
ss.
•*S&
P*
tSfcr
EW
—n
tg >
Xj* —, «J
jp S 5
©
©
Ye can ha’e a
richt guid Xmas an’
a thrifty ane, tae!
Here’s a michty braw Refrigerator
wi’ a graun*
capacity—at a
wee sma’ price!
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
CASH
£5 DEPOSIT AND 5/6 A WEEK
(SYDNEY METROPOLITAN AREA)
THE
a
'*h
r
**£
&A,
h
¥■
*
GAS OR KEROSENE- OPERATED
Gas Companies offer specially low refrigerator rates which ensure
very low operating costs. . . and the Kerosene-operated unit
requires only If gallons of fuel per week. See your local Tasma
Retailer or write direct for complete details.
THOM & SMITH PTY. LIMITED
919 BOTANY ROAD, MASCOT. ’PHONE: MU1422
©
0
Make this Xmas a happier and a
healthier one for all the family.
The Tasma Refrigerator is easy to
buy and easy on the home budget,
too. It eliminates the ice bill . . .
saves you shillings every week in
preventing food spoilage , . . you
buy perishable foods in larger
quantities at better prices ... in
fact, the Tasma is an investment
which pays you dividends in cash,
in health and in enjoyment for
many years.
The Tasma is operated by a tiny
gas or kerosene flame ... it is truly
silent (no moving parts) ... and is
guaranteed for five years. Cost of
operation is surprisingly low and
the record low price is made pos-
sible because only one size (4.2
cub. ft.) is manufactured.


WHILE PASTURES ARE SO DRY.
Tri-cal: You should be feeding calcium phos-
phate regularly to make good the mineral
deficiency in our soils, which is being more
troublesome because of the dry weather. A
mineral supplement—such as Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour —in which you can have absolute confi-
dence will make good the lack in the pasture
and also enable the stock to make better use
of the poor coarse fodders. Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour is a pure bone product, containing a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric acid
and 40% lime, and it is specially processed to
ensure maximum digestibility. I find my stock
take to it readily and are holding condition
splendidly. Davis Gelatine will send all par-
ticulars about Tri-cal-os if you write to them.
G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058,
Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane;
G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Old Farmer.
m
MORE MILES FROM PETROL RATION
NEW INVENTION 1,000 GIVEN FREE
New invention utilizes petrol fumes now wasted. Car owners report amazing savings . . . together
with faster pick-up . . . more power . . . smoother running. This invention turns fumes now being
wasted into valuable fuel, and puts them back to work. Mr. A. McW., of Mitchell Rd., Alexandria,
writes:—"l have installed on my Ford A one of your Aero Oil Attachments ... I had an increase
of 14 miles per gallon."
The Aero Oil Vaporator fits all cars, trucks, 'buses, and tractors. No
drilling, tapping, or cutting required. Anyone can fit it with a spanner
in a few minutes. It operates automatically, lasts a lifetime.
1,000 ATTACHMENTS GIVEN FREE
During the next 30 days, under a new
advertising plan, 1,000 Aero Oil Vapora-
tors will be given away FREE with the
object of further popularising this in-
genious invention. To share in this offer
you must act immediately. Post
Coupon NOW.
FREE COUPON BELOW
POST THIS COUPON
TO-DAY
m
THIS WASTE
To NATIONAL DISTRIBUTING CO.,
Brickfield House,
663 George Street, SYDNEY.
NAME ADDRESS
CAR
(Enclose 2d stamp for Postage)
M.P.G
B. 12/41
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Eye Disease of Stock.
“H.C.”: Conjunctivitis or specific
ophthalmia first appears as redness and
swelling of the mucous membrane lining
the eyelids. The discharge may be blood-
stained or a thick yellowish stream that
gums up lashes and lids. It scalds the
skin, removes the hair and leaves the
surface raw and inflamed. The mem-
brane surrounding the eye is seen to be
red, covered with pus, badly swollen and
inflamed. The membrane in the inner
corner may project over the eyeball. Fre-
quently the eye appears opaque and
milky. Bad cases develop ulcers which
cause perforation and loss of the eye or
heal, cause scars, contract the pupil and
interfere with the sight. There may be
high fever, depression, loss of
and condition.
The trouble is contagious. In isolated
cases make certain it is eye disease and
not a foreign body in the eye. Isolate
affected stock, if possible, in a cool, dark
shed. The eye and parts should be
cleaned with a solution of two teaspoon-
fuls of boracic powder or common salt
to one pint of warm water. Smearing
the eyelashes with boracic or zinc oint-
ment stops the discharge collecting. Vase-
line or lard smeared on the skin below
the eye prevents scalding and loss of hair.
For the eye a lotion of lOgr. of sul-
phate of zinc and loz. of distilled water
should be dropped in twice a day. Where
large numbers of sheep are to be treated
dissolve of zinc sulphate in \\ pint
of boiled rain water. Taken early, com-
plete recovery is almost a certainty. Left
till ulceration sets in the sight is more
or less affected.
Silage Methods.
“Huxave”: Remember these four main
rules if you want the best results from
silage; (1) Selection of green stuff with
high content of sugar and starch ; (2)
cutting crops in green but not immature
stage—fermentation, valuable to silage,
does not occur in immature crops or
crops dried out in the field ; (3) exclusion
of air from the mass to promote acid
fermentation; (4) rapid development of
proper acidity.
B. Doman, N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture, says that in Europe just
before the war efforts were made to im-
prove the quality of silage by the use of
mineral acids and molasses to speed up
the work of lactic acid and prevent de-
velopment of undesirable organisms. At
the same time the maximum of digestible
nutrients and vitamin content was pre-
served. Today a carbohydrate meal is
available containing the molasses, mineral
and organic acids.
Mixed with silage at the rate of 601 b.
per ton of green fodder, its cost is about
7s. per ton of silage. A meal with 66 p.c.
of molasses costs about 6s. per ton of
silage. Given this molasses-acid treat-
ment, temperatures do not rise above
lOOdeg., and caratene content—vitamin
A —is preserved. It is claimed that either
meal more than repays treatment. Salt,
mixed into the silage in palatable pro-
portions, does not act as a preservative
while bone meal acts adversely, neutralis-
ing the acids.
In coastal Queensland and N.S.W. maize
is best for silage ; it gives a heavy yield
and retains moisture well. Cut when
grains are cheesy. Sorghum runs maize
close, but both make little more than
roughage and lucerne, cowpeas or meal
must be added as a supplement. White
panicum or Japanese millet can be used
alone or with maize or sorghum.
Inland wheat, oats and barley are
generally used, and all three should be
cut when there’s plenty of sap in the
straw. In Queensland lucerne, Poona,
Black and Groit cowpeas are mixed with
non-leguminous crops, and Florence
wheat and Dunfield peas make an excel-
lent mixture. Sudan grass mixed with
maize or sorghum, plus clover growth,
makes well-balanced silage, as the grass
expels air as the mass settles.
Silage may be fed from eight to ten
weeks after making.' Begin with small
amounts and gradually increase the quan-
tity, the amount to be fed daily being
“ Hey , Ma, it — hie — Works.”
governed by the size and production
capacity of the stock and amount of
natural feed available.
A Pest Beaten.
“lola”: Back in 1936 the writer drove
through the Mannus valley, near Tum-
barumba (N.S.W.), and as far as the eye
could see the ground was covered with
the yellow blossoms of St. John’s wort.
There seemed little hope of the land
ever being any good for anything, except
pine plantations, and even the Govern-
ment one then established didn’t look
too promising.
Today there are farms in the valley
carrying two and three sheep to the acre,
and dairy herds returning nice yields of
butter. The wort has been beaten by
black-faced sheep, superphosphate and
clover. Credit goes to the Riverina
County Council, which organised the
attack on the weed, and to Jim Daley
and George Bartlett, of the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture.
The wort caused light-skinned cattle or
sheep to break out in skin sores and
left them with a tendency to sunburn.
Salt .and chemicals would kill the weed,
but the cost was beyond the average
settler. Daley tried black-faced sheep.
They ate the weed and suffered no ill-
effects, and they were a good fat-lamb
type. Bartlett tried pasture improvement
and proved that super, and sub. clover
would choke out the wort. Together
they did the job.
Better results are expected. The dis-
appearance of wort and the development
of clover pastures, with careful grazing,
will restore soil fertility to the point
where swards of perennial rye and P.
tuberosa will be possible and carrying
capacity stepped up—perhaps to five,
sheep to the acre. Costs are low, being
limited to the seed and lewt. of super, an
acre a year ; meantime the sheep can go
on grazing and give good returns in lambs
and wool. On one 500-acre block there
are 1000 sheep and 80 dairy cattle, the
cattle averaging 3001 b. of butter-fat a
year.
Bencubbin Again.
“Y. King”; Nine of the 17 competing
crops in the Sydney R.A.S. contest for
the area immediately south of that re-
ported in B. 3 /12 / ’4l were also Ben-
cubbin, including the champion and the
third, fourth and fifth crops. Second
was Bordan, a variety pushing up into
favor since its good performance during
the dry 1940-41 season.
The winner is tipped to go 48 bushels,
which might be a record for the State
this year and is six bushels better than
the next best yielder in the area. The
17 average an estimate of 38 bushels,
seven of them tipped to better 40 bushels.
There were four crops of Ford, three of
Bordan and one of Eureka.
The division known as the Central
Slopes runs from Coonabarabran down
to Forbes and Cowra, thence back via
Molong and Gulgong to Coona., a
narrow strip running north and south.
The soil ranges through pretty well every
form, from heavy black to light shaly
stuff. Rainfall during the growing season
—April to October—was poor, but
enough fell to keep the crops going.
Taken all round, the division had a
better season than the rest of the N.S.W.
wheatbelt, but it affected Bordan, which
will hang on during a dry spell but needs
good spring rains to fill out the grain.
The Ford took flag smut, and there was
even a slight infestation in Bencubbin
sown on light soils. All but five of the
crops reached pure standard, the winner
being particularly high. It was grown by
A. V. Williams at Binnaway, in the
north. The champion usually comes
from Cowra, in the south.
Turnips for Fodder.
“Brecko”: The South Australian areas
best suited to fodder turnips include the
Adelaide Hills, the south, south-east and
parts of the north, southern Eyre Penin-
sula and Kangaroo Island. As well as
friable soils, red-gum lands, rich flats and
darker soils are recommended. In lower
rainfall areas ploughing should be done
between June and July. In wetter dis-
tricts the soil must be dry enough to
permit tillage. Early seeding leaves the
crop open to aphis attack. Mid-October
to January is best.
While swedes have greater fodder value
common turnips do better in S.A. Give
80 p.c. of the area to Mammoth Purple
Top and Pomeranian White Globe, and
the balance to Champion Purple Top
swedes. Seed costs about 2s. 6d. per lb.,
and 12oz. to the acre allows for good
root development. For maximum growth
add lewt. of super. Sown in small plots,
stock have time to graze the lot before
damage due to first grazings causes the
crop to rot. Grazing green tops of grow-
ing plants is an expensive practice. Let
the roots fully mature first.
Turnips have been sown at Kybybolite
Farm (S.A.) for the past 20 years and
have never failed.
Hints for the Farm.
“A 1 Gerian”: In late years Fulgum
oats have shown a decreasing resistance
to loose smut. Seed should be treated
before being sown. The formalin solu-
tion —lib. of for-
malin to 40gals.
water —is good, or
the seed can be
dusted with Agro-
san or Ceresan at
about 2oz. to the
bushel.
“B.R. 114”: The
larvae of the Peiris
rupee, or white cab-
bage moth, which
may be seen dog-
fighting and dive-
bombing in the
garden these days,
cause wholesale de-
vastation in the vege-
table patch. Arsen-
ate of lead sprayed
on young plants and
derris dust upon the
half-grown or those
nearing maturity will
settle the larvae, but
the butterfly itself
should be swatted.
“Norther”: Spraying of bananas for
control of leaf spot should be done in
early December and subsequent spray-
ings at three-week intervals through
January and February. Under special
conditions it may be necessary to spray
fortnightly during those two months,
when the danger of leaf spot is great.
Details of the sprays can be had from the
banana inspectors.
“West Aussie”: Wheat-poisoned horses
(B. 12/11/’41)? Before we took to trac-
tor farming it wasn’t unusual for spare
horses to break into a paddock of bagged
wheat and gorge themselves. Our method
of relieving them was to get them to a
watering trough as soon as possible—they
will drink plenty after eating wheat.
When they had filled up with water we
put them in a big paddock and galloped
them round at a good pace. They didn’t
go far before they started to scour, and
wheat and water passed through them
without any trouble. To make quite sure
give them another drink and repeat the
gallop, then put in a yard and let them
calm down. After an hour or so a small
feed of chaff won’t do any harm.
Phalaris tuberosa has proved
superior to rye grass and cocksfoot and
able to resist paspalum on the N.S.W.
North Coast. Valuable for fattening and
cream production, it makes good silage
and hay. Phalaris is a good mixer but a


END
BLOWFLY
STRIKE MENACE
.. safely, surely
Now you can give healthy sheep definite pro-
tection against blowfly strike, and treat struck
sheep safely with no danger of re-strike, with
Way-Bio, the most positive-of-all blowfly strike
preventives. Way-Bio kills maggots, does not
scald and does not wash out. Way-Bio heals
wounds without scab-formation. It prevents
re-strike, is non-poisonous and is harmless to
both sheep and fleece.
Way-Bio has been compounded by a special
treatment of many species of Eucalypts wherein
the extraction of their most active principles
definitely makes them effective in both the pre-
vention and cure of blowfly strike.
Hundreds of graziers are saving time and money
with Way-Bio, since sheep once treated are safe
for the whole “danger” season, and its use costs
less than one penny per sheep. Order Way-Bio
from your regular wool-house or station sup-
plier, or write to the Manufacturers, W. K.
Burnside Pty., Ltd., Melbourne and Sydney.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER: A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA. HENTY, HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
z
m*
I
c
*o'-
.V'
IS
M
i
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your assurance
that replacements are available
when necessary.
RIIDIOTIIOII VALVES
will give full tone realism to your radio
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD.,
72 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
BILLABONG”
WINDMILLS
HAVE
1
AUTOMATIC
OILING AND
ENCLOSED
GEARS
THE BASIS FOR
EFFICIENCY IN PUMPING
fIOANKSfa
■no
JL.'TCD-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKERS OF PUMPING EQUIPMENT FOR OVER 70 YEARS.
FI
yr~
rrP
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
slow grower. When sown with perennial
or Wimmera rye not more than 2ylb.—
some use only jib.—should be mixed
with 21b. to 31b. of the rye-grass seed.
Queenslanders mix it with lucerne or red
and white clover at the rate of 21b. of
the legumes to 41b. of phalaris an acre.
The grass should be grazed intermittently
for the first season,
“Cobar”; Tung-oil trees thrive in
country like the N.S.W. coast between
Sydney and the Tweed. They grow best
in acid soil, especially the type that has car-
ried ironbark, gum or stringybark. Plant
the trees like an orchard on the 16ft. by
16ft. square system. They don’t need
fertiliser or pruning, but will have a
better start if the soil is cultivated for
the first three years. Trees will start
to produce nuts in two years, and will be
in full production within seven years.
Gather the nuts as they fall.
“Horatio”; Norco (N.S.W.) has estab-
lished a manufacturing record of 99.67
p.c. of choicest quality butter. Norco
gradings for the second-quality article in
1939 were .55 p.c., for 1940 .52 p.c., and
for 1941 .33 p.c. Between 1895, its first
year, and June 30, 1941, Norco paid sup-
pliers of cream £42,545,527 and of pigs
£3,953,637. Its turnover was £61,254,914
and its manufactured butter totalled
831,696,9041 b.
Outback Occasions.
No. 14.
BECOMING A FATHER.
The occasion when your first child was
born had its moments. All arrangements
were made and you went to bed that
night ready for anything. It came at 2.30
a.m., when the girl the wife had got in
came and pulled you out of bed with a
grave look on her face. Nothing was
said, but you knew and you fought in
the darkness with your trousers, com-
pletely forgetting to light the lamp until
you’d fallen twice and barked your shins
on the bedstead.
You stumbled out into the passage,
found the telephone and whirled the
handle. You waited, then you whirled
it some more. You waited and the girl
came and gave you another grave look
and you whirled faster. Outside you
could hear rain drumming on the iron
roof and there was a low hum on the
wires. Then a voice came,
“Yangapella exchange?”
“Huh! Gimme 45, quick.”
“It’ll cost you eighteenpence opening
fee.”
“What the hell does that mat —er,
righto. Gimme 45.”
A pause. Then a male voice said,
“Hello?”
“Hello, Doctor Brown. Look, Doc.,
come straight away, it’s on”
“This ain’t no doctor. What you mean
pullin’ me outta bed at this time? What’s
the ruddy game. I’ll”
You clamped the receiver on the hook,
waited, then whirled the handle again. The
first voice, sleepy, said, “Yangapella
exchange.”
“Look, you gimme the wrong number,
I want 45, Dr. Brown.”
“It’ll cost you eighteenpence opening
fee and”
“What! It ain’t my fault, you gimme
the wrong number”
“You should speak more idilly moreoh
and sometimes kang irril opopop.”
“What?”
“Number, please?”
“Gimme 45, Dr. Brown.”
“It’ll cost you eighteenpence open-
ing”—
Somehow you restrained yourself and
got the doctor at last. He promised to
come at once. You sat on a box in the
passage and stared at the door of the
spare bedroom. The girl came out and
looked at you gravely. The rain came
down. Then the telephone rang. The
doctor was at Williss’s, 10 miles away.
His car was bogged and he had had to
walk across and knock the Williss’s up.
Their car had two flat tires and the
doctor asked you to come and get him.
You called the girl and told her, got
into an oilskin and barged out into the
saturated night to the shed. The car
wouldn’t start at first, but you got away
and slithered and slid to the Williss’s
where you picked up the doctor and
slithered back. A mile from your gate
the car slid into the table-drain and went
down to the running-boards in slush.
You revved and revved and shot gears in
and out but it stayed. You could see the
homestead light through the rain, so you
gave the doctor your oilskin and he
started off across country.
You wrestled with the car some more
then started after him, your feet wet and
trickles of water running down inside
your collar. It was hard going across
the fallow and through the soaked
stubble, but you got there at last, wet to
the skin. When you walked into the
passage the girl came out and looked at
you and frowned at the puddles you were
making on the floor. No longer boss in
your house you slunk back to the
verandah, shed your boots and wrung
out your clothes.
Then the back door opened and an
oilskinned figure stumbled in. It was the
doctor. He looked at you and said,
“Gosh, you must have flown.” Then he
shed his oilskin —or your oilskin —and
looked about. Mutely you pointed to the
bedroom door.
He went to the door, knocked and
passed in. The minutes ran into hours,
the hours to weeks, the weeks to years.
Suddenly a dog howled on the back
verandah and you leapt two feet in the
air and walked to the door and roared,
“Sit down, you crimson, motherless
ruddy flamer. Hourrrout, y’ mong.” The
dog stopped and the girl came out and
said, “Sh-h!”
Then the doctor came and stood by
the fire and talked about the weather.
You wanted to ask him everything but
didn’t know how to begin. The he said,
“It looks as though you’ll have to get
a couple of horses t’ drive me back f
town.” He went back to the room and
you put on the oilskin, went to the stable
and got a couple of halters and fared
into the dripping night. You ranged up
and down the horse-paddock, falling into
drenched shrubs, stepping into crab-
holes, colliding with fences. There wasn’t
a sign of the horses and you made back
to the shed. Under it, sheltering from the
rain, were the horses. Hurriedly you shut*
the yard gate and threw the harness on
them.
You got back to the house to find
yourself a father. You went in the legs
and wanted to cry, but the doctor shook
hands and said everything was all right
and could you start at once as he ex-
pected another call. Covered with bags
and rugs you drove him the 18 miles and
then drove home again, getting in just
after dawn. Too worn to unyoke, you
left the horses standing and went inside.
The girl was drinking tea.
“It’s a terrible thing to be a woman,”
she said bitterly. “Men never know
what women go through,” You got a
cup of tea and sat down and put your
head on your arms on the table and fell
asleep.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
THE OTHER
FELLOWS
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2id. per line.
First place for a Queenslander’s thoughts, inspired by a union meeting.
Unions
I had occasion to attend a union meet-
ing the other night (I’ve held a ticket
for over 10 years now, but excluding
meetings held in shearing-sheds and so
on, this was the first “important” meet-
ing I’d ever attended). For various
reasons I was unfavorably impressed by
the arrogance of the “big men.”
They talked down to the smaller fry
—me, and the other fellows. It was
what “they were going to do,” not what
they were going to do for us. A big pot-
bellied bloke was the star-turn of the
night, and, though he took good care to
give us an occasional pat on the back —
because “we were good union men” —
it was the Soviet-Nazi brawl that aroused
his oratorical power to fever-heat. To
be honest, it was obvious that he was
more interested in the Soviet than he
was in the workers of Australia.
1 did a bit of thinking on the way
home, and realised that the pendulum
had swung in the opposite direction and
the union “boss” is now more tyranni-
cal than the “master” ever was.
When I first went out to the western
country a man could always tell the
“master” to go to hell, and, unless he was
prepared to fight you, about all he could
do was fire you. And then it wasn’t so
very hard to get another job if you were
sweet with the union. But tell a union
“boss” to go to hell and see what
happens. You won’t get another shed
unless you do a devil of a lot of crawling.
The idea behind old-time unionism
was to counteract the tyranny of some of
the “masters.” That was all right, as
records show, but, and as Tolstoy said,
“half-educate a man and you let a wolf
loose on society.” The same is applic-
able to a modern union “boss,” who,
after fighting his way to the top and
suddenly becoming conscious of his own
power, sets about ruling all and sundry
(“master” and worker) with an iron hand.
Simply because he hasn’t been educated
enough to appreciate his own power.
And that appears to be the trouble with
Australian unions. They have become
too powerful, and now, being conscious
of this power, they don’t give a damn
whose corns they tread on as long as they
can continue to display this power.
When not flogging the “master” they are
flogging the worker, and their slogan is
“Unionism means protection for the
worker.” — Zend Avesta (Q.).
Mortgage Banks
In B. 29 /10/’4l “E.E.C.” asks that a
prize be offered for the best solution of
the drift-to-the-city problem, while
“Julia Creek” ridicules the idea of a mort-
gage bank.
As one who has experienced most
vicissitudes of life on the land, I assure
“Julia Creek” that a mortgage bank more
than any other single factor could stop
the drift by raising living standards and
restoring the prestige of life on the land.
Despite “J.C.,” a mortgage bank is most
heartily desired by farmers, having been
one of the persistent demands of
their organisation for many years —the
factor which appeals to them most, of
course, being low interest (in U.S.A.
mortgage banks lend at from one to two
per cent,).
The majority of farmers are harassed
by high interest payments. The present
“cure” of debt adjustment for those in
extreme difficulties is a tedious process
and involves unpleasant feeling on both
sides. A mortgage bank lending at low
rates of interest would halve the annual
burden and provide an opportunity
(which does not exist at present) of pay-
ing off capital,
“J.C.” thinks there has been too much
borrowing already in this country. It
would be more to the point to say there
has been too little repayment. In this
respect a mortgage bank would enable
the farmers to set an example to the poli-
ticians whose practice he so much de-
plores.
A mortgage bank would also help to
solve another rural problem which is
only dimly apprehended now, but which
threatens the living standard of not
only the rural community but of the
whole population. That is, the problem
of declining soil fertility. At present it
is agitating many of our agricultural in-
structors to such an extent that nowadays
we never hear them lecture on “how to
get more out of the land,” but “how to
put more back into it.” In short, farmers
have to ease up on production if they
wish to save their land from ruin. But
they can’t when they have an inexorable
high-interest bill to meet every year.
They are living a desperate, hand-to-
mouth existence, and squandering the
nation’s greatest asset. A mortgage
bank would give them a chance to re-
store their land and (what should be re-
garded as more important) their lives.
But one precaution would have to be
taken or the advantage of low interest
would be considerably nullified. Cheap
money would have a tendency to raise
land prices. It would be necessary to
refuse to lend on inflated values. —E. O. S.
(N. S. W.).
Wheat-growing in War-time
In a few weeks now the harvest will
be off, farmers will collect the guaran-
teed price of 3s. lOd. outports (if produc-
tion does not exceed 140,000,000 bushels)
and the Wheat Stabilisation Scheme will
go into the melting-pot.
It seems almost certain that the ex-
portable surplus will stay here in special
depots, along with portion of last year’s
crop, and there is every probability that
the same thing will happen every year
while the war lasts.
This wholesale production of a com-
modity which is of no immediate use in
the prosecution of the war is an eco-
nomic waste which should not be
allowed to continue. The acreage sown
to wheat in Australia could be cut by
more than half and, even if a drought
were experienced in some parts, there
would be no danger of a shortage for
home consumption.
The home-supply position would be
further safeguarded by the fact that the
areas kept in production would be the
safe districts, while the unsafe or mar-
ginal districts, where the worst uneco-
nomic production occurs, would go out
of wheat while the present emergency
continues.
Most farmers in such areas would
willingly leave wheat alone if they could,
but they are compelled, by the pressure
of their commitments on their land, to
continue the mad gamble with prices
and seasons.
Even the present guaranteed price is
unpayable in the drier districts and rising
costs are rendering the position even
worse.
The Federal Government should make
a start by limiting future sowings to safe
areas and providing protection in the
form of freezing of liabilities for those
farmers who are prevented from sowing
wheat. This big cut in wheat production
would release, both directly and indi-
rectly, a large force of man-power for
service in other industries more neces-
sary for the prosecution of the war.—
Bushwhacker (S.A.).
Women in Uniform
I was for 16 months a clerk general in
the R.A.A.F., but eventually managed to
realise my ambition to belong to an air
crew. Since my remuster my youngest
sister has joined the auxiliary, also as a
clerk. She has virtually taken my place
on the ground staff, and is doing the job
just as efficiently. England’s use of
woman-power blows any arguments
raised against the enrolment of women
sky-high. As ifor the uniform, why
shouldn’t the auxiliary be treated the
same as the men? Members of both
sections could not buy their own clothes
on service rates of pay.— Airman
(N.S.W.).
Two Wars
In the debate about conscription many
speakers and writers refer to the 1914-18
war as if the conditions then obtaining
bore some resemblance to the present
struggle. The circumstances are entirely
different. During the 1914-18 crisis Aus-
tralian industries were reduced instead
of being expanded “miraculously.” Un-
employment was rife because of drought
and market stagnation. Thousands of
eligible men were faced with the choice
of enlistment or idleness. For every job
offering there was a crowd of applicants
with empty pockets. The supply of labor
exceeded the demand in almost every
trade. Making of munitions was scarcely
thought of.
Men and women, poverty-stricken, had
time to think about the war. Married
and single, the breadwinners often saw
in the recruiting office the only alterna-
tive to starvation or the dole.
Today the industrial conditions are
reversed. Scarcely any adult, male or
female, need be out of work. Wages
were never higher, conditions never
better. Factories offer every temptation
to keep the men in civvies. The women,
themselves earning record money, have
no reason to encourage enlistments as
a means of livelihood. Australia was
never more prosperous nor offered
greater inducements to her manhood to
stay where they are, enjoying a stan-
dard of living and a degree of safety
that is the envy of the world.
Conscription may be right or wrong,
but there is no sense in quoting as argu-
ments facts and figures that bear no rela-
tion to present Australian conditions,
even when they are quoted—more or less
carelessly—by the highest officials in the
land. — Then and Now (S.A.).
Those Two Front Lines
Every day I pass a large poster, pre-
sumably sponsored by the Department
of Information. This poster informs me
that there are two front lines, known as
the production line and the fighting line.
It also includes a picture of men at work
in each of them.
The poster implies, therefore, that men
in these two lines are equally important.
It also implies by its general tone that I
would be welcomed in either of them
and can do my country an equal service
by joining either, since they are both
front lines.
It does not tell me, however, that I
will get a much better pay envelope in
one of these lines than in the other. Nor
does it tell me that I am not likely to
be killed if I join one force, but I am
risking my life if I join the other.
This practice of comparing the fight-
ing and production lines seems to be
copied from the idea in Great Britain,
but it will satisfy no one, least of all the
men doing the fighting. Munishun
(Tas.).
Taxation of Family Income
Much noise has been made lately by
feminists about the decision of the Gov-
ernment to lump the incomes of husbands
and wives for taxation purposes. Why
not? I think the principle should be
carried further.
A man of my acquaintance gets £4 10s.
a week, and, being married, has received
a certificate of exemption from tax de-
ductions from his wages. However, his
wife is also working (a fact not revealed
to his employer or the Taxation Depart-
ment) and earns £2 10s. a week. So
that the total family income is £7 a week
and not one penny tax of any kind is
paid! Surely this is inequitable? The
income-tax return form should show in-
come of husband and wife, and this
laddie might then be caught.
Another case in support of my con-
tention: husband, wife and three daugh-
ters. Father earns £4 10s. a week, first
daughter £2 15s. and second daughter
£2 ss. Total family income £9 10s,
a week, and no tax at all paid. I have
four children, all at school. Sole income
is salary of £8 10s. a week gross (less
certain superannuation deductions), £8
a week net. I am liable for about
£l2 tax (State and Federal), payable by
deductions of 7s, 6d. a week (6s. State
and Is. 6d. Federal), and there are six
mouths to feed and six bodies to clothe.
—Macßopus (N.S.W.).
The Small Shopkeeper
War-thne taxation presses heavily on
the keeper of a seaside shop, who only
gets one real day’s trading a week —Sun-
day, if it is fine. He used to work on
a small turnover, with a big margin of
profit. With a £lO Sunday trade, serv-
ing confectionery and light refreshments,
there was £5 profit. But the shop rent is
reckoned weekly, and the shop must be
opened all the week, if only to receive
deliveries.
Cool drinks have gone up sixpence a
dozen wholesale, but this has not been
passed on, any more than any other of
the additional taxation amounting to
about six shillings a week. The tax on
ice-cream is now 4s, in the £, and the
shopkeeper pays the lot. This item costs
him about ten shillings a week. A pound
and a half of tea accounts for another
couple of shillings extra. Once a couple
■of dozen of matches retailed at a penny
a box put a shilling in the exchequer in
the way of profit, but this has gone.
Eight dozen penny cakes cost 7s. 6d.
when tax has been added, and there is
always the chance that some of these will
be wasted. So here we have an income
tax of a pound on a five-pound gross
income.— Dan Druff (N.S.W.).
Employment of War Prisoners
Minister Forde adopts a unique line
of reasoning on the question of employ-
ing prisoners of war. He says “they will
not be permitted to keep out of employ-
ment any Australian capable of and will-
ing to accept work.” The fact is that all
the Australians who are able and willing
to work are doing so. The employment
of war prisoners can have no detrimental
effect on the situation, for there are
avenues in which they can be usefully
employed without affecting Australian
workers—on the construction of roads,
for instance.
These prisoners have come into our
hands at the cost of gallant Australian
lives ; they have been transported to Aus-
tralia at the expense of valuable shipping
space. We have housed them, and fed
them (as we are bound to do), and we are
pledged to give them medical attention
should they need it.
The rules of war are such that we are
permitted to employ them, too; but
when this question arises the Minister
for the Army raises objections, and winds
up by saying that in the very remote
event of their being employed they would
have to be paid award rates. Award
rates! There is nothing in the Hague
Convention about that.
Time we stepped into line with other
nations and gave our prisoners some
useful work. — Blue (Q.).
Apprentices
The fact was rightly deplored in Plain
English (B. 5/11/’4l) that youths of to-
day are preferring to accept jobs as un-
skilled laborers instead of learning a
trade as an apprentice. But the youth is
hardly to be blamed, for on the whole
an apprentice is not fairly treated. The
wage he receives is, to say the least, not
generous. Even though learning a trade
he is to a great extent doing a necessary
job, and often when his term ends he is
dismissed, his place to be taken by an-
other apprentice. He himself must look
for a new position. At present that is
not difficult, but in time of depression he
is on the same level as the unskilled
laborer.
The only solution seems to be a decent
wage during apprenticeship, commensu-
rate with the work and study entailed in
becoming an efficient tradesman. — Paddy
M. (N.S.W.).
Wine
“Yabbie” (B. 3/12/ ’4l) shows com-
radely concern for the welfare of ex-
Digger wine-grape growers, but I would
like to delve deeper into some of the
paradoxes of wine-growing before sub-
scribing to a “Drink more” in addi-
tion to our many “Eat more” cam-
paigns to ease the problems of surplus
production.
Wines which are to be worthy ambassa-
dors of the trade in overseas markets,
and which cannot make the grade unless
able to compete with the established pro-
ducts of France, Spain, Italy and the
Rhineland, are a long-term investment.
One does not gather the harvest this
year and hand it bottled over the counter
next year. There is a long period “in
cellar cool.” X have drunk wines in
France that were bottled before I was
bom. If the growers planted with a view
to overseas markets, then it should have
been realised at the outset that vintage
wines are a long-term proposition, and one
for expert, even traditional, knowledge
too.
If the initial objective was not export
but the home market, then the law of
supply and demand should have been
considered. The normal home market is
still available, and the artificial creation


of a large new alcohol-drinking public
is not the answer to an economic error.
As a matter of fact, for years in S.A.
before September, 1939, a never-ending
moan went up regarding the hard lot of
the Australian wine exporter, with much
talk of Government aid and bounties to
build up an “insufficient and handi-
capped” export trade. It appeared that
only a trickle, so to speak, found its way
overseas and that home consumption
would remain indefinitely the grower’s
hope and mainstay. One gets the im-
pression now that loss of that nebulous
export market is equivalent to cutting
the vignerons’ throats! What is the
truth? Was there just an optimistic blind
hogging into a new line, with consequent
all-round overproduction?
Perhaps someone in the trade can
answer my queries. The wine industry
seems to be at sixes and sevens, and it
looks as though Repatriation and State
authorities after the last war leaped in
where angels might well tread warily.—
Caer-Urfa (Vic.).
Price of Butter
Dairy-farmers asked in vain for an in-
crease of a penny a pound for their
butter. The Prices Commissioner gave
no reason for his decision. Butter
producers contend that their costs have
gone up to such an extent since the war
started that they are barely getting the
cost of production.
Any suburban housewife will agree
that commodities —except a few locally-
produced foodstuffs —have become much
dearer in the last 12 months. Increases
have been small in some instances, big
in others.
Take matches. During the war the price
has increased by easy stages from 6id. to
lljd. a dozen. Other necessary goods
have shown similar increases, and all are
used by dairy-farmers and their families.
Wages have risen, but it seems that
dairy-farmers must keep to pre-war
returns, although other sections of the
community are getting higher prices for
their commodities, and the dairy-farmers
have to pay the higher prices for what
they want to buy.
If the principle of a war loading is
right for employers and employees in
secondary industries, farmers are justi-
fied in asking for a similar loading.—
Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
I am wondering whether those who
framed the Federal Child Endowment
legislation foresaw a case such as mine.
I have six children eligible for endow-
ment. Normally, I earn approximately
£l2OO a year, and employ a large staff
in my professional practice.
Receipts from child endowment .. .. £65
Increase in Federal income tax owing
to elimination of deductions for
endowed children 40
Payroll tax ( 2\ p.c. on £7000) .. .. 175
As payroll tax cannot be passed on, the
net cost to me for child endowment is
£l5O a year—with six children to keep.
Contrast the position of a professional
man employing no staff, earning the
same amount and having a family of one.
He receives no endowment and pays no
more tax than he would have had to
pay had the legislation not been intro-
duced.—S. D. (N.S.W.).
Pensions and the Precipice
How many who, like the N.S.W. Minis-
ter for Mines, advocate extension of
pensions schemes, almost without limit,
pause to consider Australia’s existing
commitments? Can it keep on paying
bills of such magnitude and accommodate
mounting war costs? While everybody
will concede that soldiers’, old-age and
invalid pensions should be on a liberal
scale, some maintain that all three may
be endangered if we continue to run
amok financially. Against this possi-
bility the whole system should be re-
viewed. The time for a stocktaking is
overdue.
Responsibility for contributing toward
the upkeep of aged people and invalids
should be shared more by members of
families. Extension of pensions schemes
to industry should be made a subject of
cautious approach.
How is Australia going to pay—and
with what? If it be said “get the money
from the capitalist,” then (apart from the
problem of settling where the boundary-
fence runs between “the capitalist” and
other men of means) it should be con-
sidered whether “the capitalist” is
better plucked in the cause of wages or
of pensions. If “the capitalist” must
fulfil his obligations to wage-earners out
of profits, he cannot cut too deeeply into
those profits for pensions and more pen-
sions. So much of his profits goes back
into his business to give it life. Should
wage-earners be threatened with still an-
other tax, earmarked for pensions, think
of the commotion?
There are 7,000,000 persons in the
Commonwealth. How many can pay,
how many want to pay, and how much?
Determine that, and we will have an idea
of how many pensioners may be added to
the present total, and how much will be
available for each. A review of present
payments—to whom, for what, and in
what sum—should equip us to face the
inevitable reckoning.—N. C. L. (N.S.W.).
Marriage Loans
There is a short and natural answer to
the cry for marriage loans (B. 3/12/’4l)
and that is that well-paid and, nowa-
days, regularly-employed young men (and
their fiancees) should accept the discip-
line of financing themselves and saving
up for their own housekeeping outlay.
We already have quite enough Bright
Ideas for lapping us round and saving
hands and brains from exertion, without
depriving young people of the healthy
exercise of standing on their own feet.
The scheme would mean another
Government department, complete with
bombproof jobs and red-tape! And to
what end? So that Bill Smith, who has
been receiving man’s money (i.e., enough
to keep himself and theoretical wife and
children) for his private spending since
the age of 21, shall continue to blow in
his pay envelope without a thought for
the future, and then call on the Govern-
“You don't know how We missed this in Darwin!"
ment for an overdraft when he decides
to marry.
The old-fashioned virtue of Thrift
carried a “precious jewel in its head.”
The man who has learned to manage his
finances thriftily has banked much more
than money—he has banked foresight,
character, good management, discrimi-
nation of values and, not least, the know-
ledge of how to manage his affairs in
time of stringency.
The taxpayer, too, is entitled to ask
for close scrutiny of the problems of
repayment of the loans. Those who
would make demands on the loan facili-
ties would not be the self-respecting and
reliable types, but the easy-going, feck-
less or thoughtless ones, the people who
live for the hour and cast their burden
on whomsoever they can find to carry it.
Experience of professional money-
lenders has been that, if their apparently
very high rates of interest were to be
much reduced, their losses on the hazards
of small loans to householders would
practically drive them out of business.
As it is, the repayment period averages
50 p.c. longer than is contracted for. If
such is the case among £lO-and-under
borrowers, what are the Government’s
(/.<?., the taxpayers’) chances with loans
running to three figures? If a man can-
not put by a margin towards his mar-
riage when single and free of responsi-
bilities, how can he make that same pro-
vision when married and carrying a full
load of household expenses?— Tinmuth
(Vic.).
Magna Charta
One of the most amusing of A. P.
Herbert’s “misleading cases” concerns the
prosecution of an Englishman who had
asserted that England was “a free
country,” that a man could do as he
pleased provided he didn’t harm anyone
else, and that Magna Charta was his
protection.
Admitting that M.C, had conferred the
most valuable rights upon the British citi-
zen, the prosecuting barrister skilfully
showed by references to the thousand-and-
one prohibitions and restrictions familiar
to everybody that England was no longer
a free country, and that it was utterly
erroneous to suppose that “a man could
do as he pleased.” Hedged about by
State laws, municipal by-laws and the
countless decrees of innumerable minor
authorities, the English citizen had
virtually no freedom in any respect what-
ever, and reliance upon the worn-out
charter of civic liberty was no defence at
all.
Though Herbert wrote half in jest, his
words are none the less true, for this part
of the British Empire at any rate. War-
time restrictions are accepted as inci-
dental to war”; but long before the war
began the spirit and the letter of Magna
Charta were contemptuously ignored in
this country. It has become the accepted
practice for every petty group of indi-
viduals, for whatever purpose appointed,
to take it upon themselves to regulate
the affairs of their fellow-citizens.
Whether it be a municipal council, an
employers’ association, a trade-union
committee, or —last and worst of all —a
marketing board, the idea is that no citi-
zen may exercise his own judgment as to
what he shall do or how and when he
shall do it.
So we find trade declining, enterprise
stifled, and individual rights and liberties
whittled away to a miserable vestige of
the freedom foreshadowed by the Great
Charter of our ancestors. If there is to
be a New Order, let it include the sweep-
ing away of petty tyrannies and petty
tyrants, and the restoration of that indi-
vidual freedom of choice and action
which was wrested for us at the sword’s
point at Runnymede.— Wusslean (Vic.).
A Public Scoffer
James Edmond once voiced in verse
the benefits which would accrue from the
appointment of a Public Thug to deal
swiftly, ruthlessly and fatally with
bookies, moneylenders, vendors of in-
ferior liquor and the like. Looking
upon such strange political antics as an
Apple and Pear Board destroying huge
quantities of good fruit while thousands
of outback and city slum children suffer
under-nourishment for want of that very
thing; national child-endowment lavish-
ing millions of badly-needed war-time
money without the slightest effort to
ensure that the endowed get the least
real or assured benefit from it; and a
dozen other performances equally strange
and irrational, the need for appointment
of a Public Scoffer seems imperative.
Reasoning and argument are provenly
and obviously useless. Ridicule and
satire might possibly penetrate the cara-
pace of national stupidity. The Public
Scoffership would not be an easy or
even a safe job. It would attract none of
the) Old Hands. The screw would need
to be at least as safely entrenched as that
of Auditor-Generals and Judges. Its
functions would require to be totally
exempt from all laws of libel and
slander. Amongst them would be power
to have anything printed anywhere in
any Australian newspaper without altera-
tion and in any type. The Public Scoffer
would also be at liberty to interrupt any
radio broadcast to any extent he might
consider necessary, from mere interjec-
tions, such as “Rats,” “Tripe” or “Leggo
me leg,” up to detailed correction of mis-
leading or untruthful statements. Those
would be mere beginnings.
The appointee would require to have
had extensive personal experience in poli-
tical and public affairs of sufficiently in-
timate nature to ensure that his scoffs
would reach the tenderest spot every time.
He would need to possess a capacity for
being devastatingly iconoclastic in the
tersest possible terms, a total disrespect
for all political formulae, an unswerving
adherence to the plain square-toed truth,
and an uneirring nose for the nigger
in every political woodpile, Federal or
State. — Colbun (Q.).
Hospitals
“Pawang’s” lament (B. 19/11/’4l) over
the building of a new Melbourne Hospi-
tal instead of putting the money into
some structure which would exemplify
pure beauty, as they did in the Middle
Ages, may be all right, but there is some-
thing wrong with his contention that the
people would benefit. In the Middle
Ages the population of all European
countries remained stationary, though con-
traceptives were unknown. The few that
survived a disease-threatened childhood
may have been tough, but even with them
old age was the exception rather than the
rule. — Charn (W.A.).
A Five-bob Note
Between recriminations over bank
credit comes the suggestion that a farth-
ing and a five-bob note be
added to the currency.
The farthing idea should
be strangled at birth —the
halfpenny is nuisance
enough—but the note notion
deserves a better fate.
When it was suggested last
year the only harsh criti-
cism came from a book-
maker who deplored the
extra fistfuls of notes he
would have to handle.
There seems to be a real
need for a ss. note. It
doesn’t take many florins
to make the best pocket
lining sag, and who hasn’t
known that sinking feeling
when you get over a
quarter pound of change
from a quid note? The
elusive crown was too
heavy and awkward, I
remember being given
change of a pound in
Noumea and receiving 12
crisp, crinkling five-franc
notes which brought a
feeling of opulence with-
out the sagging feeling that
accompanies a pocketful
of silver.
My wife, of course, says
the most sensible notes
would be denominations of Is.
2s. Hid., etc. — Denarius (N.S.W.),
Appreciation from Abroad
I am not alone by any means in think-
ing that Scorfield’s sarge-major drawing
in B. 2/7/’4l is one of his best efforts.
Many a mahogany Australian face has
cracked into a grin or better when I
showed it to him. We should be glad if
you would convey to Scorfield our feli-
citations on the extremely high standard
he amazingly retains.
Wherever a bottle of beer may be run
to earth the corollary occurs, and an
officers’ mess, sergeants’ mess or Diggers’
canteen springs up around it to corral
the prize. Wall decoration automatically
follows —generally lovely ladies or some-
thing like Scorfield’s sketch.
Is there any chance that you could
send me half a dozen copies (if
possible about twice the size) of Scor-
field’s effort? They would be keenly
appreciated by the boys. If you can’t,
just send my cutting back to me.—Y. D.
(Overseas).
[Half a dozen original Scorfield draw-
ings have been forward to the writer. —
Ed.]
Poets and' Politicians
The poets and poetasters who have
been writing learned letters to O.F.M.
about “Poets and the War,” “Poetry and
the People,” may now put away their
pens, the Commonwealth Government
having said the last word on the subject.
Asked his opinion about professional
sport, the Prime Minister replied:
The fact is that our race does not live
by bread alone. I think Test matches
are just as important to the British race as
the performance of Shakspeare. The two
go together in making us what we are. The
English lord and the bus-driver both
regard Hobbs as their common property.
So, if Shakspeare is as important as
Hobbs, “T. the R.” and other local bards
may take comfort from the fact that in
the eyes of their Government they are
at least as important to the nation’s war
effort as the elegant eligibles one sees on
suburban tennis courts. — W. K. D. (Q.).


Want you car
to accelerate
more qnlchlY?
No pleasure in driving a car with a sluggish,
unresponsive engine due to inferior or worn-
out spark plugs. Install new Champions and
enjoy the smooth, top performance provided
by full, hot sparks and complete
combustion. They will soon pay
for themselves in the fuel they
save. Factories, Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can.
Ibledo,
USA.
i
U
%
MSS
SliSjjk
mm
'&&///&
um
'A
St
r
CONTAINS SILLMENJ
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Champions against
troublesome leakage, at the shoulder
and past the center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark plugs. This
patented feature corrects rough, un-
even and wasteful engine operation
caused by leaky,overheated sparkplugs.
Install new
Champion Spaih Pings!
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved,
“Wanted to jell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Man, 40, would like to hear of opening, self
and small capital, or would provide truck.
Any proposition anywhere considered. —2993.
Gentleman with library of good books, many
rare and interesting, would like to have lists
from other readers with view to exchange.—
3106.
Man, 38, accounts and storekeeping exp.,
large island firm, seeks bookkeeper’s and/or
storekeeper’s position on large Q’land or
N.S.W. station. Exp. with cattle, sheep and
horses. Must be outback, loneliness no disad-
vantage. January-February.—2956.
To hear from firm requiring a resident agent
in Broken Hill (N.S.W.).—3105.
Wanted to buy W. H. Ukers’s All About
Tea, The Romance of Tea, What Everyone
Should Know About Tea and Tea in a Nut-
shell, new or second-hand. —3107.
To buy artist’s color box (oils) and materials.
—2964.
To buy i-h.p. electric motor, also small
lathe, power or treadle. —3000.
To buy Philip’s Map of the World, published
in England some years ago.—2998.
To buy holey dollar and dump.—2961.
To buy Marine Propellers, by Barnaby;
state price and condition. —2965.
Information Sought.
Is there any reasonable process by which
next to valuless sheep pelts may be converted
into articles of commercial use? —2922.
These pelts are not valueless any longer. The
Central Wool Committee advises that all sound
skins carrying half an inch or under of wool
are being purchased by the authorised repre-
sentative at prices favorable to the grower.
The Country Women’s Association is also asking
for skins of this type for use in the making
of sheepskin vests for the fighting forces over-
seas.
* * ♦ *
Is it a fact that numbers of Australia’s fight-
ing forces are not permitted to travel on the
“Spirit of Progress’’ train on the Victorian
railways ? —2942.
Irrespective of rank any member of the fight-
ing forces can travel on “Spirit of Progress”
upon payment of the full ordinary fares. Non-
commissioned officers and men travelling on
concession tickets or warrants are not per-
mitted to travel on the train, although excep-
tions are made in any bona fide instance of
urgency.
* * * «
(1) On what authority, if any, was the Gallup
Poll Method of inquiry introduced into Aus-
tralia ? (2) Is it an honorary organisation ? If
not, how is it promoted ? (3) How is it
financed? Is the Commonwealth giving any
grant? (4) How are its officers appointed?
How are they paid? (5) Where is the head
office ? —2842.
(1) No official authority. Australian Public
Opinion Polls (the Gallup Method) is an in-
dependent organisation. (2) and (3) It is
financed by subscriptions from newspapers
which publish the findings, and has no con-
nection with Governments or political parties.
(4) In most places interviewers were appointed
on the recommendation of town clerks or head-
masters of State schools. They are paid each
time they take part in a survey. (5) 352 Collin s-
street, Melbourne.
* * * *
What were the points of the treaty signed
by Great Britain and Italy some time in 1938 ?
—3110.
The Anglo-Italian Accord, signed on April 16,
1938, had as its main points: ( a ) Britain and
Italy will maintain their present positions in the
Red Sea and Mediterranean. ( b ) Italy will seek
no political or territorial rights in Spain, (c)
Britain and Italy will not interfere with ship-
ping in the Mediterranean and the route east.
(d) The Ethiopian frontier will be sharply de-
fined to prevent interference with Italian domi-
nance within the country proper, (e) Italy will
adhere to free navigation of the Bosphorus and
Dardanelles, as provided in the Montreaux
convention, (f) Britain and Italy will exchange
information about military activities in the
Mediterranean area. (g) Italy will respect
Britain’s dominance of Aden at the southern
entrance to the Red Sea. (h) Italy will not
interfere with the flow of Lake Tana, head-
waters of the Nile.
♦ * * •
(1) What opportunities are there in the
N.S.W. public service for boys leaving school
with intermediate passes? (2) What qualifica-
tions are necessary for entry to the N. S.
Wales Lands Department ? —2932.
The Public Service Board conducts an ex-
amination for appointment as a junior clerk
in conjunction with the intermediate certificate
examination. Full details are set out in a leaflet
which has been forwarded to you. It would
be necessary to pass in this examination in
order to obtain an appointment to the Lands
Department. The only other avenue of employ-
ment in the public service would be to watch
the papers and submit an application in reply
to any advertisement appearing for any general
division type of employment, such as laboratory
attendant, etc.
* * * *
(1) What are the ordinary postage and air-
mail rates for letters and parcels to members
of the A.I.F. abroad? (2) By what date should
A.I.F. overseas Christmas mail be posted? —
2775.
(1) Letters by ordinary post, Id. per ounce;
by air-mail, 9d. per half-ounce. Parcels by
ordinary mail not exceeding 11b., 6d.; 21b., 9d.;
31b., Is.; 51b., Is. 3d.; 81b., Is. 6d.; 111 b.,
Is. 9d. Air-mail concessions do not apply to
letters, etc., exceeding half-ounce in weight.
Packages forwarded by air-mail service must
have full air-mail rate postage prepaid. Articles
may be forwarded by either surface or air-
mail service, but in cases of urgency and ex-
pediency the air-mail service is recommended.
(2) Mails for delivery before Christmas, de-
spatched per surface mail, closed the first week
in November, but Christmas mails are being
despatched by air-mail at regular intervals.
* * * «
(1) Has divining for water with a forked
stick proved 100 per cent, accurate? (2) Can
an accurate estimate of the depth of stream
be given by the use of a forked stick? (3)
Does the use of such a stick give any indication
as to the size of stream ? (4) Can books deal-
ing with Water-divining be obtained? —2925.
(1) No. A very considerable amount of in-
vestigation has been made in various countries,
including Australia, into the efficacy of the
divining rod. In general, it would seem that
scientific authorities do not favor the method,
although it is true that on occasions individual
diviners have a number of successes to their
credit. One of the difficulties in reaching a true
assessment of the value of the method is that
successes are always remembered, whereas
failures do not have the same publicity given
to them. From the scientific point of view,
there is so much mysticism in the use of the
rod that scientific methods of measuring the
so-called “forces” are impossible. Professor
Gregory, in a report he wrote which was
published in the annual report of the Smith-
sonian Institution of 1928, included the fol-
lowing : “Many tests of divining have been made
both by geological surveys and individuals. The
Government Geologist of South Australia, Dr.
Keith Ward, reports (November 5, 1914) that
m that State an area had been tested and water
found alike where, according to the divining rod,
there was none, and where it gave indications
of water. In N. S. Wales the results of an ex-
tensive test were also unfavorable to divining.
The commission for water conservation and irri-
gation reported (June 10, 1920) observations of
152 bores; of 56 bores located by the divining
rod 70 per cent, were successful, but of the
96 bores sunk without it 87 per cent, were
successful; and as these tests were regarded as
utterly discrediting the use of the rod the tests
were stopped. Prof. Griffith Taylor, of Sydney,
reports two cases that he had investigated. In
one case a flowing stream was predicted; the
stream was not there, but a well reached the
watertable and thus obtained water. In the
other case, the divining was a complete failure.
(2) and (3) Individual diviners will say yes, but
scientific opinion is against that. (4) Yes. Such
books should be obtainable in the public
libraries of the capital cities.
* * * *
(1) What climate and soil are best suited
to the growing of the tung oil tree? (2) What
is the average life of these trees, and at what
age do they start to produce? (3) Description
of the fruit? (4) Any books on the subject?
—2784.
(1) A minimum annual rainfall of 28 or 30
inches is required. A hot summer and a fairly
cold winter seem the best general conditions.
In China, where the tree thrives, there is gener-
ally only about four degrees of frost, and the
trees do not do well where frost exceeds 12 or
13 degrees. On the other hand, the winter
must be cold enough to give the tree a definite
resting period and cause it to drop its leaves.
Most classes of soil are suitable, but the tree
does not thrive where the surface soils contain
much lime, preferring a slightly acid soil. A
deep soil of sandy or light nature well supplied
with organic matter is particularly good, but
any well-drained fertile soil will do. (2) About
25 to 30 years, but probably longer if given
careful attention, especially as it does not seem
to be susceptible to insect pests or disease. Well-
cared-for trqes which have made good growth
should produce a fair crop by the fifth year,
and full bearing should be reached by the tenth
year. (3) The mature fruit reaches a diameter
of from two to three inches, resembling a
small apple in shape. The fruit may grow
singly or in clusters of two or more. Five
or more seeds are generally found in each fruit
surrounded by an outer husk; 340 to 350 nuts
go to a bushel of 30|lb. Tests of seed viability
show that seeds must be planted during the
season following that of their maturity. (4)
Tung Oil (Chinese Wood Oil) from Australian-
grown Trees of Aleurites Fordii (Hemsley),
by A. R. Penfold and F. R. Morrison, can be
obtained from the Curator of the Sydney Tech-
nological Museum, price Is.
♦ * • •
In what year did Houdini appear in Aus-
tralia ? (2) Was Harry Houdini his real name ?
(3) I believe he was the first man in Australia
to fly an aeroplane. Is that correct ? (4) What
age was Houdini when he died —and what
country did he die in? (5) Any further par-
ticulars ? —2909.
(1) 1910. (2) Yes. (3) In 1910 Houdini flew
his own French-made ’plane at the Rosehill
Racecourse, Sydney. He was the first man to
leave the ground in Australia in a power-
driven machine. At the racecourse he made
a short, straight flight. (4) He was 53 when
he died in Canada in 1926. (5) He was born at
Appleton, Wisconsin, U.S.A., 1873, and as a
child was apprenticed to a contortionist and
trapezist. Later he became a locksmith, in
which capacity he acquired the knowledge
which laid the foundation of his first big en-
gagement under the management of Martin
Beck in New York. Houdini appeared suc-
cessfully all over the world in leading music-
halls. His skill in “breaking gaol” and escap-
ing from a variety of handcuffs and different
locks made his entertainment unique.
* * * *
What is the proper treatment for a No. 16
gut fishing line? I had thought of giving it
a coat of shellac or plain varnish before stow-
ing it away. —2B94.
Following is a good waterproofing varnish:
100 parts cellulose nitrate, 250 parts castor
oil, 400 parts amyl acetate, two parts mag-
nesium carbonate, 600 parts alcohol. If this
solution is too difficult to prepare, satisfactory
results may be obtained by dissolving clear
or colored celluloid in acetone to which a
small amount of amyl acetate has been added.
The amount of celluloid or old film added can
be judged by the thickening of the acetone.
A thin coating only will be necessary. This
solution may be somewhat brittle, and its
resilience could be improved by the addition
of a small amount of castor oil.
« * * *
Re the Australian XI in England in 1938.
(1) Who were the players who did not take
part in a Test match? (2) How many three-
figure scores were made during the tour by the
Australians, and the players who made them ?
(3) How many three-figure innings were made
against them ? (4) What were the scores in
England’s 903 for seven wickets in the fifth
Test?— 3o3s.
(1) B. A. Barnett and E. S. White. (2) Thirty-
five: Bradman (13), Brown (5), Hassett (5),
Badcock (4), Fingleton (4), McCabe (2), Barnett
(1), Chipperfield (1). (3) Twelve: Hardstaff and
Hutton (2), and one each by Ames, Barnett,
Bartlett, Compton, Dempster, Hammond, Ley-
land and Paynter. (4) Hutton (364), Leyland
(187), Hardstaff (169 not out), Hammond (59),
Wood (53), Edrich (12), Verity (8 not out),
Compton (1), Paynter (0); Sundries, 50.
Brief Answers.
N.H.1.: Some Sydney importers of cane are:
N. C. Berry and Co., 2 Druitt-place; Abel
Lemon and Co., 193 Elizabeth-street; C. R.
Maguire and Co., Phillip-street, Waterloo;
Gollin and Co., 50 Clarence-street; H. Hanna
and Co., 19 O’Connell-street; Waters Trading
Co., 51 Mountain-street; Manley Ferrari and
Co., Newtown-street, Alexandria W.D.L.:
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, can supply
Roget’s Thesaurus of English Words and
Phrases, 10s. 6d. Arnold Bennett’s How to
Live on Twenty-four Hours a Day and The
Human Machine are out of print and un-
procurable M.A.G.: The Adventures of Jim
Barnes is not available in Sydney H.W.8.:
No deductions allowable. Effect on your
mother’s pension of your contribution is a
matter for the Pensions Office P.C.: The
Victorian Railways and other institutions have
children’s nurseries in Melbourne, but there
would be plenty of scope for a private one —
in the vicinity of the Myer Store, for instance.
But much more capital than £lOO would be
needed. A nursery could not be started without
proper equipment, such as cots, playgrounds,
linen, medicines, etc H.K.L.: In 1912 Hart-
fell won the Epsom and Duke Foote the Metro-
politan. In the same year Uncle Sam scored
in the Caulfield Cup and Piastre in the Mel-
bourne Cup, the A.J.C. and V.R.C. Derbies
went respectively to Cider and Wolowa, Saxon-
ite won the Sydney Cup and Saxonite and
Prizefighter dead-heated in the Australian Cup.
T.S.A.: The first Gilbert and Sullivan
opera was “Thespis,” produced at the Gaiety
Theatre, December 26, 1871. It was unsuccess-
ful and never published. Their final opera was
“The Grand Duke,” produced at the Savoy
Theatre, March 7, 1896. It also was unsuccess-
ful, and though published was never revived.
C.R.B.: A recent edition of “The World’’
Almanac would suit your purpose D.D.T.,
L.P. and W.A.E.: The man is looking at a pic-
ture of his own son... .S.F.T.: The termites
classified as the subterranean species principally
attack converted timber, but several species
are known to attack the living tree E.C.0.:
See that only pure seed is sown. Sudan grass
and sorghum cross-pollinate very readily, and
the young sorghum and sorghum-Sudan hybrid
plants are very likely to cause poisoning and
death if animals are grazed on them G.S.F.:
A simple producer-gas power test can be
carried out as follows: Mark a starting-point
and a finishing-point at the bottom and the
top of a normal hill of fair length and free of
heavy traffic. With the vehicle loaded and the
producer well warmed up, time the truck from
rest at the bottom mark to the top mark, making
the best use Of the gears on gas. Then repeat
on petrol. The time on gas should be little
or no more than twice the time on petrol.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
Mrs. A.R.:
Poor Mr. Shickclgruber—screaming out for room —
We’ll give him just enough -where he’ll meet his doom !
We’ll put him where the walls are thick and the
window high,
And there’ll be a nice chopping block where his
head can lie.
Wallaby:
Why in the name of God and Heaven and earth
Does not this tortoise Government of ours
Bring in conscription?
A.H..L.: Pleasant; but the verse is elemen-
tary J.G.: It dances with all the grace of a
16-stone policeman E. 8.: Bill’s a bore....
T.E.McC.: Keep it a secret E.H.T.: Slight.
L.A.V.: The gold lies deep J.E.C.: If
you’ll stop writing poetry about washing day,
we’ll turn the wringer for you D.O’G.:
Liked the anxious eyes of the potatoes
J.A.L.: Pleasing; but the background needs ex-
plaining... .L.F.8.: Can’t hear the saws nor
smell the sawdust L.P.J.: That size, we
throw ’em back A.C.: True, indeed: —
Yet farmers all, both large and small,
—A noble occupation—
With sweat and blood fight fire and flood,
Deserve more adulation.
H.W.B.: You wield a devastating exclama-
tion-mark. .. .T.E.; What exactly is a “reef-
ing dirge’s gong”? N.L.R.: Both thin
J. 8.5.: Another “Old Bark Hut”! 1.M.5.:
Try a woman’s paper V.M.H.: Even as
doggerel, it’s only a pup 8.G.: Cheer up.
L.D.: A rhyme or two would have helped
it F.H.P.: Clean bowled J.E.F.: Just
a parody....C.C., C.W.8., A.A.F., G.W.:
Missed J.E.C.: Well done of its kind, but
it’s a long way off our beat A.E.8.: Maga-
ziny C.M.H. Not up N.J.C.F.: Story of
Mr. Squibbs is merely a squib.... .C.M.L.:
Still not up E.R.M.: Nor is yours
N.L.R.: “The Cicadas” nearest; try us with
some more M.L.P.: Dull W.MacD.:
Send it to a daily 8.H.V.: A long way
away H.P.-C.: Not here 1.L.: Might
suit the school magazine 8.E.: Long-winded.
J.D.O’S.; Scrappy; keep trying A. 8.5.;
Labored.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.O’N.: Your women have measles and
elephantiasis J.R.: Atrocious pun allied
to the crudest of draughtsmanship... .M.H.L.:
Next time you send in drawings with
gags so defunct you’d better substitute a
shroud for the tissue paper H.E.; We
showed your faint-lined pencil sketch to the
process engraver. Left sobbing J.M.0.: Legs
look like twin ironing boards H.S.M.: If
she was the toast of the party the dopey looks
of the men are explained 8.W.: You’re
tearing along the Art-road like a tortoise
R.N.J.: Oil the joints of all your figures
L.W.: According to the text the lady is eating
a pear; then why has she got a 100-watt globe
up to her lips?


tf-
mms
«■
m
ati
.
<: W;
OUR TECHNICAL ADVICE
IS
We advise customers that while
engaged on Defence production we
shall continue to attend to their current
requirements, and to maintain our
Technical Advisory Service for all
commercial refrigeration problems.
R. WERNER & CO. PTY. LTD.
SHOWROOMS: 608 LIT. COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, C.I.MU 6275.
WORKS: RICHMOND. AGENTS ALL STATES.
SMOKE-OH!
“Miles had asked her to be his wife, even
though she was Rose of the old Mill Cot-
tage, and he was Squire’s heir.” —Serial story.
But then she was one of the climbing
variety.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“The fact that nowadays we broadcast pro-
grammes over five thousand miles long for
hours and hours shows what an immense
advance has been made on the technical side.”
—Wireless paper.
We often wondered how long they went
on after we switched off.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This book shows how stupendous Nature
is and what an insignificant creature man is.”
—Book review.
Peculiarly enough, it wasn’t written by
a woman.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He had never seen her before, nor had he
ever seen anyone so beautiful. Her face, her
figure, her poise—all were utterly faultless.”
—Short story .
In short, a perfect stranger.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Pause and Effect.
“If you insist on walking to town, pause
now and then for a brief rest.”
—Health article.
He started out in splendid style to walk
to town, about a mile. At sight of tram-
cars he would smile, give them a
snub. He walked a hundred yards all
right, but suddenly felt not so bright, and.
so he paused. Then, late that night
when Town’s hubbub was silenced, He
still persevered. “I’ll get there yet,” he
weakly leered. He’d paused a bit too
long, he feared, at that damn pub.
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She explained to her little son that the
lovely silk dress she wore was the result of
the industry of a little worm.”
— Woman’s paper.
Still, it’s hardly fair to speak about his
father like that!
4* 4* 4* 4«
“In England it was the custom once to
wear the wedding ring on the thumb.”
— “World’s News.”
This custom was altered to allow the
thumb freer play in keeping the husband
under.
4* 4* 4*
Night when the stars are swinging
Can never bring joy to me
Till for their crime we hang some time
A Crosby on every tree.
Mrs. P.
“New process for making wool unshrinkable
was discovered by accident.”
But bathing costumes have been shrunk
by design.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The plot of this new novel centres around
a murder in a submarine.” — “Sun.”
The author claims it is waterproof.
"The Weather s been so changeable lately, dearie, one hardly knows
which dress to pawn."
“ ‘I might even do that, too,’ said Gerald,
as he held out his glass to have it filled, ‘but
I wouldn’t like to say when.’ ” —Short story.
His reluctance wins the deep under-
standing of all Scotsmen.
•J. •£• •£• igi ■
“It is comparatively easy for a woman to
learn how to secure a burglar.”
— Woman’s paper.
That is, if she’s keen on having one.
■4* *i* *i*
“Shyness has its charm, but no girl can
hope to be popular if she shuts herself up in
a glass case.” — Woman’s paper.
More especially if the fellow she has
just beaten to it is waiting to ring through
an urgent s.p. bet.
4* 4*
“Witness said that at the time of the rob-
bery he was up at the chemist’s getting a
gaggle for a sore throat. He had been away
longer than he had anticipated.”
—Court report.
Perhaps he had been hargling with the
chemist about the price.
“Regular Bachelor’s progeny at Mentone.”
—Brisbane “Sunday Mail” race report.
Yet they call it legitimate sport!
Misleading.
The poet, who with rapture dwells
On lonely stars like sentinels,
Or lonely hills, or lonely trees,
Will pay attention if he please.
I am a Digger, so I see
The chaps on sentry work with me.
I’ve studied them and tried to guess
What prompts this phrase, without
success.
For none of them remotely are
Like any b tree or star!
B.H.
Into Battle.
The zero hour was at hand! He waited
tensely, every muscle keyed-up for the
struggle that was to follow. His face (
was set in an expression of grim deter-
mination.
He knew it would not be easy. His
opponents were men like himself, reso-
lute, implacable. Now! Mustering all
his energy, he crouched, then made a
sudden rush forward. In another instant
he was grappling, struggling frantically.
Then, after a brief, fierce encounter, he
sank into the bus seat with a gasp of
triumph.
T.W.N.
Fares and the Fair.
“Women bus conductors for Sydney are not
approved by department.”—“ Sun.”
Not that they’d cause much trouble.
Just a hitch now and then, such as:
“Fares, please! Pardon me, dear, but
where did you buy those stockings? I’ve
been hunting all over town for that shade
—one section, did you say?— Really !
at Groans’s! I’ll ask the driver to wait
a minute when we pass there so I can
dash in and get a pair. What! I didn’t
give you your change? Oh, but I’m
positive I did. I remember giving you a
sixpence and two pennies. Now do stop
arguing or I’ll have you put off the bus ;
if you kept your mind on counting your
change instead of magging to me about
your stupid-looking stockings”
Then, again, there’d be the glorious
chance for the lady bus conductor to
blow the whistle just before that cat Elsie
manages to get aboard. The sight of
Elsie sprawled in the roadway would so
thrill the conductor she’d blow the whistle
all the way to town for sheer pleasure.
And, of course, when the boy friend
came on to the bus: “Yes, darling, I
know you want a two-section! ... To-
night? Of course... Now don’t be silly.
If you’re going to shout me a dinner to-
night I couldn’t possibly take your money
for a paltry two-section ticket, could I?”
And, if the conductor was married:
“Oh, it’s you, Henry. You’re late again.
Did you put the milk back in the ice-
chest and leave the note out for the
baker? Come on, Henry, where’s your
fare? I give you enough for fares, don’t
I? What! Getting off here? Oh, no,
you’re not! You’re getting off at some
corner where there’s no blonde in the
tobacco kiosk... Say that again, Henry,
and I’ll tell the driver to have you arrested
for insulting a Government worker!”
But perhaps the most complicated diffi-
culty might arise were the lady conductor
to look daggers at some seated male pas-
senger and absent-mindedly snap: “Fine
sort of gentleman you are! Why don’t
you get up and give me your seat?”
ELM.
Utilitarian.
Let others rhyme of singing birds,
Of skylarks and of nightingales,
I will not squander honeyed words
On such as these. Their music fails
To stir in me that pleasure rich.
The only birds that I find sweet
Are ones like fowls and turkeys which
Are so delectable to eat!
T.W. NATHAN.
A Job Well Done.
When the death-knell of pleasure
motoring sounded through the latest
petrol restrictions “Pongo” Blinks, who
lives next door, decided to put his car
up on blocks for the duration. “Anyway,
it’s been costing me eight bob a week to
keep it on the road,” said Pongo when he
confided his decision, “and a cove’s only
allowed to use half a dollar’s worth of
juice. I’ll run the tank dry next week-
end by taking the wife and kids to the
beach for a final flutter.”
He ran it dry all right—half-way home.
A towing truck brought it back on the
Monday morning.
A few days later I struck him as he
struggled along the road from our
suburban timber yard with a 12ft. length
of four by two hardwood. “Cows wanted
two bob to deliver it,” Pongo snarled,
“and the lousy swine in the bus wouldn’t
let me get on with it!”
Knowing the bus proprietor’s opinion
of Blinks, whose patronage of the vehicle
is limited to occasions of severe thunder-
storms or when he is lumping half a
hundredweight of parcels on Friday
nights, I was not surprised.
Blinks had borrowed a pamphlet set-
ting out the proper method of preparing
to store a car. He decided to chock the
car up first. This necessitated sawing the
hardwood into 12in, lengths.
Pongo, of course, has the usual
householder’s saw —he’d used it for get-
ting through everything from sheets of
fibro to galvanised iron. By the time the
saw had chewed its protesting way
through the last length a whole Saturday
had been spent and Blinks’s spinal
column was just an agonised number of
fiery, creaking joints.
Next morning he jacked the car up
at the back and slid three lengths of the
timber under the axle. There being still
a good space between timber and axle
Pongo calculated that it would need
two housebricks to bridge the gap. That
meant eight bricks in all. A minute
search of his property disclosed two half-
bricks that were stopping up a hole
under the fence.
Further along our street there is a
house in course of construction. Snivvle,
who lives opposite, told me next day
he had come home with Blinks the night
before and he had been carrying a couple
of brown paper parcels. “Reckoned he
was bringing home presents for the kids.
Strike me! By the way he was grunting
he must be going to give ’em a couple
of lead ingots or something. Queer
bloke. Blinks.”
Anyway, the next time I looked in to
tell him how he’d have to treat the spark
plugs he had the car up and had deflated
the tyres, but was cursing because he’d
had to buy a gauge before he could tell
whether the tyres were down to the
requisite 51b. pressure.
It was then that he found it was neces-
sary to wash and polish the car before
covering it. As he couldn’t take it out
into the open again he had to shift about
half a ton of junk outside the garage
before he could start splashing the hose
around. When the water gravitated to
the depression in the centre of the badly-
laid concrete floor he had to mop it out
before he could crawl underneath to drain
the sump before filling it with fresh oil.
Naturally the nut had rusted on, and
after taking a few square inches of bark
off his hand with a slipping spanner he
fell back on my cold chisel and hammer.
I was just telling him he’d have to hit it
a bit harder when he crawled out from
underneath with his ears and what is left
of his hair awash with black oil. 'Hie way
he carried on confirmed my opinion that
he is by nature a bad-tempered fellow.
For the next two days he was busy
greasing the car at all vulnerable points,
treating the upholstery with some special
preparation and the tyres with a mixture
of water and glycerine and polishing the
duco and nickel work. After that he
covered every part of the electrical wiring
with rag, wrapped greased paper around
the engine, drained and refilled the radia-
tor, having in it an anti-corrosive, put
colloidal graphite and upper cylinder
lubricant in the oil and finally sold tor a
couple of bob the battery he had paid
£4 10s. for a couple of months before.
The following Sunday morning I was
in his place telling him how I should have
treated the tyres to stop their deteriora-
tion when his wife rushed out with beam-
ing face. . ,
“Arthur, what do you think! she cried
exultantly.’ “Millie’s husband just rang
up. He’s getting a new gas producer put
on his car and he says we have the
old one. It’s quite good. Isn’t it mar-
vellous? He’s bringing it over this
afternoon. Put it on, dear, and we 11 try
it out tonight!”
BO.


df
df
d
fd
A POOR HIDING PLACE
fit MONEY
and other similar household
utensils are poor hiding places for money. They
afford little protection. Bank cheques, on the
other hand, eliminate the risk of loss, enable you
to make payments easily and safely, near or far;
save walking and waiting at cashiers’ desks. Each
cheque affords the safety of a receipt for the
amount paid. The butt, with its detail of
expenditure, serves as a useful record of payment,
when making up future accounts and Income Tax
Returns. Ask for full particulars from the nearest
branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
«7-18-40
BRANDAEJERA
m
PENS
*
at
guaraate
do not experiment with imitations.
& B&AHDAOTCK * CO, Ud, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
£?«
9i
'**h
r \m*
c,'**
%
Of
T.JON ES E CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, etc.
Abolish the Overtime Penalty
The higher rates paid for overtime
worked by award wage-earners is offici-
ally regarded as a penalty for resorting to
overtime. The idea behind this penalty—
time-and-a-half, double time, etc. —was
originally to discourage the working of
long hours when there was an abundance
of employment, an hour’s overtime a day
by eight men keeping a ninth man out of a
job. The higher rates for overtime com-
pared with ordinary time has almost
always been regarded as a penalty more
than compensation for any sacrifice made
by the employee. In present circum-
stances overtime penalties are as obvi-
ously out of place as are stop-work meet-
ings in war industries.
In the first place, a substantial propor-
tion of Australian man-power is engaged
in fighting or training to fight. The short-
age of skilled labor is acute. Yet while
the fighting forces are in receipt of nomi-
nal pay the unionists who are asked to
make up the gap in the ranks by work-
ing longer are paid higher rates than ever
before. It is not that the majority would
insist on these higher rates, either.
It is just that the question has
not yet been tackled from the direction
that it ought to be tackled —and that is
from the direction of Canberra, where
Labor’s own representatives are in office.
There is a great deal more in the over-
time question than would appear at first
sight. In order to maintain anything
like old living standards in this country
longer hours have to be worked. The
proportion of men needed for the de-
fence services is large and growing, and
of those who remain at work a far
greater proportion than ordinarily is
occupied in munitions production—work
that cannot in any way improve our im-
mediate living standards, even though it
may be vital in the saving of our future
standards of life and, in fact, our entire
independence. The difficulty of keeping
up the supply of civil requirements grows
more acute every day. Unemployment
is now down to the point where those out
of jobs are mostly unemployable. And
yet the working of longer hours in the
national interests is still penalised by
loaded rates of overtime pay!
Overtime penalties, too, are a national
danger from the economic point of view.
Let there be no misapprehension about
who pays overtime. The Government and
the nation pay, not the employer. In-
versely, if overtime rates were abolished it
wouldn’t be the employer who would
benefit. The Prices Commissioner would
compel him to reduce his prices imme-
diately the wages bill dropped, and the
benefit would pass to the Government
(in the case of munitions work), and to
the consumer in the case of civil pro-
duction. The very fact that so much
defence work is being done on a cost-
plus basis indicates how directly the Gov-
ernment would benefit from the abolition
of overtime penalties. Company and
personal tax rates are looking after most
excess profits—where they are possible.
The working of overtime must increase
as our fighting services expand. And,
unless overtime remuneration rates are
brought down to rates for ordinary time,
as the services grow (and the army of
workers drops) the amount of inflation
within our economic system must in-
crease. That is because work that was
done in the days of peace could be done
in eight hours’ labor a day, whereas it
now has to be done in nine or ten hours
a day, with inflated costs on the extra
hours.
Workmen who have become accus-
tomed to doing their job in peace-time
are much more economical producers
than new hands rushed into war jobs on
short notice. An old hand working
several hours’ overtime per week is likely
to turn out more of what is wanted than
a newcomer to the game would do in a
couple of days. Certainly we will want
both old hands and new. But the point
is that overtime working by experienced
hands is of the utmost value to the war
effort.
The working of a few hours more a
week would not interfere with the health
or well-being of most people who work
in industries not specially noted for dis-
eases. The 44-hour week is generally
worked in five days, with Saturday morn-
ing free. A Saturday-moming’s work
from these trades at ordinary rates, plus
fares, would be a great help to the war
effort and the economic battle that is all
the while going on against inflation. With
the difficulty at the present time of in-
dulging in the pleasures and recreations
of peace, a half-day extra a week should
be no burden, especially when it is being
paid for. The present occasion calls for
all that is physically possible. We know
from past experience that a 48-hour week
was little or no strain on the health, even
if it was not Labor’s peace-time ideal.
Capital is making a full contribution to
this war; if there are isolated exceptions
it is because there must always be excep-
tions. Taxation departments as a rule
miss very little, and rates on the higher
incomes are confiscatory.
The new Federal taxation law that
makes divs. from goldmining subject to
tax and disallows the previous allowance
of calls as deductions has greatly upset
the industry. Calls paid are to be subject
to a deduction of only one-third the
rate of tax. In connection with income
from mines, Malcolm Newman says rep-
resentations are now being made to fol-
low the Queensland procedure, by which
all capital employed, as well as three-
quarters the development expenditure, is
returned before divs. become subject to
income tax. As the Federal position
stands, taxation of income means the
taxation of capital and income indis-
criminately, which in the case of gambles
like mines is an absurd situation.
» * * *
The Federal Labor Government has
had extended by six months the period
in which gold tax can be recovered by
bona fide prospectors. Prior to the
amendment the regulations required a
prospector to apply to the Taxation
Commissioner within six months of the
end of the year in which the gold tax
was paid. In spite of the six months’
grace, many prospectors missed out by-
mischance, and their claims were rejected.
The Commissioner is now empowered to
reconsider late applications where there
were good reasons for delay in the initial
application.
>*! * * *
There is always the last straw. It is
not necessary to be on over £l5OO a year
to see this point—even a poor journalist
on much less than a Federal Cabinet
Minister’s salary can see it. Perhaps it
was rather more than a straw that has
stuck in the throat of the goose that
used to lay the taxation eggs. In any
case, straw or more, the Federal taxa-
tion rate of up to 18s. in the £, including
tax at that rate on income that has
already borne tax overseas, has caused
some investors to act swiftly in the cause
of self-preservation. Once upon a time
Australia was a large holder of Malayan
tin stocks, held by many because of their
comparative freedom from taxation. To-
day they are no longer free, but are more
like doubly or trebly taxed —from little
or nothing the rate has sprung to as high
as 90 p.c. —and as a result these stocks
were sold on Australian ’Changes
(weeks before Japan’s Blitz ) for de-
livery in Malaya and Britain, the seller
being content in many cases to collect
his capital in cash and put it in
some place where it can’t possibly earn
any income from anywhere. The Labor
party in Britain long ago in this war
recognised the necessity for an incentive
for a person or co. to earn income. A
Labor member named Benson criticised
Britain’s 100 p.c. excess-profits tax on
the ground that it took away all incentive
to do extra work, and subsequently the
terms of the tax were modified. It was
all very well, said Mr. Benson, to dis-
place the profit motive by patriotism.
But did anyone really believe that
patriotism, which in certain circum-
stances could raise a man to heights of
heroism, would work “when a man was
at a desk?” Possibly it would work, at
times, a little better than Mr. Benson
suggested, but never as well as the Can-
berra Labor party expects. Canberra
Labor seems to believe, amongst other
things, in fairies. The recent course of
events should force a more practical turn
of mind on it.
* * * *
Enterprise of New Guinea has 10 gold-
mining leases on Edie Creek, three having
been abandoned during the year, and the
remainder are under partial exemption
owing to the fact that no development
is being carried on until an assurance
can be obtained about the construction
of the Salamau-Wau road. A mainten-
ance and prospecting staff is being kept
on the job, and some of the plant has
been dismantled and stored pending re-
sumption of development. Tenders have
not yet been called by the Government
for construction of the motor road,
though Canberra has taxed and hum-
bugged producing mines for years in re-
spect of this essential means of transport.
New Guinea Goldfields has now been
granted an option over Enterprise’s
leases, and an examination is to com-
mence “with the least possible delay.”
Enterprise has found itself able to get
nowhere fast in its negotiation with Can-
berra in the matter of exploration for
petroleum. The directors state that they
are in possession of reliable information
which supports their firm belief that
petroleum of national significance actually
exists in portion of the uncontrolled area
in the Mandated Territory.” This belief
was placed “very emphatically and
clearly” before the former Government,
but Minister Collins, the co. says, de-
scribed the area the co. was interested in
as “unknown and unexplored,” and per-
mission to enter the area was refused.
Chairman Frank Watkin says he has
official maps of German and Dutch
origin “which disprove this statement.”
After an early false alarm, the new Labor
Government also banned entry into the
area. Whether the co.’s hopes of finding
oil are justifiable or not, Canberra lives
up to its reputation of making things
difficult for miners in territories under
its control. In its double taxation of
New Guinea gold Canberra has been par-
ticularly heavy-handed.
* * * •
Goliath Portland Cement hasn’t been
as lucky as most other Australian cement
cos. In its term to Sept. 30 net profits
were £38,797, compared with £55,233 in
the preceding year. In the later term, too,
provision for depreciation was £lO,OOO
less at £15,000, but probably still ade-
quate. Transport to the mainland from
Tasmania has been difficult, and repre-
sents the chief cause of the fall in profits.
Ord. div. has been brought down from
Is. lid. to Is. 9d. per 13s. 4d. share.
In order to pay the ord. and pref. divs.,
reserves had to be tapped for £5798, but
the finances are in such a comfortable
position that no worries will be caused
thereby. The ord. div. paid represented
13.1 p.c. on capital. At 235. this scrip
gives an immediate yield of 7.7 p.c., and,
though immediate prospects are not
secure owing to the transport problem,
the long-term aspect is interesting.
5P * * *
Australian whisky has been in greater
demand since the war began, partly be-
cause of shipping difficulties but largely
because the price of all whisky has risen
♦ as a result of war-time increases in excise.
The Australian spirit, being cheaper than
the imported, has been an acceptable
alternative to other whiskies made pro-
hibitive by price. The chairman of
Brind’s, Ltd., Melbourne, believes that
the present growing export market for
Australian whisky will be held when the
war is over. There has been activity in
Brind’s 1 Is. shares at around par lately.


THAT'
/'HE
■ 1 1
HAND OVER YOUR WORRY
The business of this Company is not only to relieve its clients of worry concerning
the future administration of their estates, but—if desired —to undertake for them
the efficient conduct of their personal business during lifetime. Thus, those living in
retirement, or those whose professional duties are all-absorbing, can hand over to
the Company the supervision of investments and property, the preparation of income
tax returns, collection of rents, payment of rates and taxes, etc., with consequent
relief of mind, and positive assurance of competent, conscientious administration.
Full details of this service are contained in a special brochure entitled " Hand Over
Your Worry" which will be forwarded free on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901 Box 543 B . G.P.0.. Sydney.
mu* 9
HO
a
have
fj ratw r
Red C**\
■J
<0
Cl
#m ML i(3p
-jf&ybe
HUB
•JOB.
capstan’-
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs * Coprfon Medium . . B/ue foefc * Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs
The Sharemarkets
Again the Australian sharemarkets
have had to stand up to a major shock.
Though not this time living up to their
recently-acquired “shockproof” reputa-
tion, the markets up to the week-end had
not suffered so severely as in June, 1940.
In that dark period the Sydney index of
34 ord. shares collapsed to 102.13. Last
week it stood at 113.98, which compares
with a highest of 131.26 in 1941.
Stocks most affected by the Japanese
raids in the Pacific, which were followed
by swift naval reverses for the U.S.A.
and the Empire, were Malayan shares
and cos. depending on exports or repre-
senting defence industries. The time is at
hand when the Commonwealth Govern-
ment should make it clear that war-
damage insurance will be introduced to
cover all possible losses by enemy action
whether the targets be of “strategic” im-
portance or otherwise. In Britain war-
damage insurance is law throughout the
land, and, whether Australia’s losses in
this regard are to be large, small or nil,
no doubt should be left in the public
mind that there will be compensation for
all damage by enemy action. The only
way to provide for such compensation is
by the levying of a general insurance
premium on property. In Britain the
scheme came into operation after much
air-raid damage had been done, but
premiums and compensation were made
retrospective to the outbreak of war.
One of the heaviest crashes, away from
Malayan stocks, in last week’s market
surprise was that of North Broken Hill.
This Barrier silver-lead stock stood at
395. on Friday, the sth. On Friday, the
12th, it sold as low as 345. On
Saturday it had recovered to 355., ex
div. Souths fell from 235. 3d. to 21s. 7d.
over the week, then rallied slightly.
Broken Hill Prop., the steelworks co.,
dumped from 375. 3d. to 335. 6d. Electro-
lytic Zinc came down from 495. 6d. to
465. A.C.I. dipped from 425. to 395. 9d.
Yarra Falls at 40s. compared with 425. a
week earlier.
Amongst Malayan tin stocks the crash,
of course, was most pronounced. This
market had already been weakened by
war fears and the introduction of
Federal income tax on divs. from these
stocks ; but, even at the lower prices pre-
vailing on Dec. 5, the market found
further room for marking down. Austral
Amalgamated, at Bs, 9d. a week before,
dropped to 6s. sd. Renong came down
from 21s. 6d. to 20s. seller, with no
buyer in sight. Larut, for which buyers
had been offering 6s. 6d., was tendered
at 4s. 6d. From 375. Thabawleik dipped
to 335. 6d. seller. Kuala Kampar crashed
from 18s. 6d. to 13s. seller, Bs. buyer. The
entire “eastern” tin sharemarket was dis-
organised and obscured. Thabawleik
was quoted on Saturday at 30s. seller,
15s. buyer. Rawangs were down from
Bs. 6d. to ss.
Raub, a central F.M.S. goldmining
show, was not dealt in. Loloma, Fiji,
was substantially lower at 16s. 6d.
Emperor sold at 7s. 9d. Placer, of New
Guinea and elsewhere, slumped to 51s.
(against a low of 455. in 1940), and Bulolo
dropped to 85s. seller.
It is difficult to assess the prospects of
Malayan stocks under present condi-
tions. There is no foretelling what
damage may be done to individual mines,
and as yet there is no assurance of
“spreading the risk.” But so far as Aus-
tralian industrial stocks are concerned,
the present market depression will reveal
itself to be in the majority of cases un-
warranted, especially if war-damage in-
surance is spread over all property.
B.H.P. shares are now far lower than
they were even in June, 1940,. and for
holding purposes look exceptionally good
buying. The same applies to most other
sound cos. that rely on Australian ma-
terials and labor for their production and
Australian markets for their sales. The
slump in Barrier stocks appears to be
due to a fear that it may not be possible
to get exports away. But Australian sales
will probably increase now, and any ac-
cumulated stocks should be worth their
money eventually. As to the general war
situation, it is interesting to note that,
however Australia may feel itself to be
particularly involved, London ’Change
has suffered nothing that could be de-
scribed as a slump as a result of the
sudden developments in the Pacific,
The Sydney newspaper trade continues
to be of interest to the onlooker, but it
isn’t so entertaining from the point of
view of, say, shareholders in Associated
Newspapers. The “Sun,” daily issue, has
met fierce and unconventional competi-
tion from Ezra Norton’s “Mirror,” which
breaks out in a new place every few days
without in any way lifting the general
standard of Sydney journalistic edifica-
tion. It is wedded to Venuses, sport, the
“new” economics, and trumping any cir-
culation-booster tried by the “Sun.” Sun-
day “Sun” has been tackled aggressively
by the “Telegraph’s” Sunday issue, and
Norton’s “Truth” has always been in
this field. Typical weapons of the dog-
fight are colored supplements of “beach
queens,” radio-telephoned “news-maga-
zine” stuff from the U.S.A., and free
novels — two free novels, one with a
special woman’s angle, in one case.
“Truth” became a tabloid, and the Sun-
day “Telegraph” has followed suit. It
has all been very hard on the Asso-
ciated News stable, which, owing to
newsprint rationing, has had to turn down
a lot of retailer advertising, part of which
has found its way to the opposition.
In spite of its trials and tribulations,
including a slump in its shares on
’Change, Associated News showed an in-
crease in profits before providing for
taxation. But after setting aside £122,580
(up £39,087) for taxes the net profit was
£20,263 lower at £189,071. Smaller news-
print consumption has been some com-
pensation for increased difficulties in
many other directions. Associated
has reduced its ord. and pref. div.
from 7 p.c. two years ago to £5 Bs. 6d.
per cent. Taxation was under-provided
for by £7OOO in 1939-40. “Goodwill
and establishment” still appear in Asso-
ciated’s accounts at £1,500,000. This item
is equal to more than the ord. capital.
The newspapers themselves have been
undoubted money-spinners.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Hurricane Arrives.
“Ek Dum”: War broke out in the
Pacific with all the familiar phenomena
of the hurricane. There was the sultry,
mind-paralysing calm, followed by the
tigerish gusts which find the casually open
door, the hasty sealing of cracks, the
inevitable casualties in houses and streets.
Then the thing settled down to a hard
blow against barred doors and straining
roofs of British and United States de-
fences. As usual, some edifices which
seemed strongest and most trustworthy
suffered in the first blasts.
President Roosevelt was dealing with a
hair-trigger situation in Washington. The
Japanese wanted war and knew that
Uncle Sam would go to great lengths to
avoid it. They knew that they could
move naval forces within strategic limits
and prepare for lightning attacks without
provoking war. And if the U.S.A. in
self-defence engaged in any major de-
ployment, they could seize on it as a
pretext for their own aggression.
They could move resources from main
bases through a long chain of islands —
Mariannes, Carolines, Marshalls from
which all foreigners are excluded ; move
them to within 1850 miles of Pearl Har-
bor, Hawaii, Uncle Sam’s forward main
station in the Pacific. And all with the
greatest secrecy.
On the other hand, the U.S. Navy,
based on an island on which more than
50 per cent, of the population was of
enemy origin, could not move a pinnace
without giving the fact away. And the
American end of the lifeline was open
to observation by resident Japanese, Ger-
mans, Italians and other ill-disposed
persons.
The rectangle of water formed by the
length of the Hawaiian islands and lines
to the Marshalls is roughly as large as
Australia. A large aircraft-carrier is 260
yards long and 33 wide. Yet a fast air-
craft-carrier, having crossed in daylight
its own Japanese zone, could launch its
bombers into Pearl Harbor almost in a
single period of darkness. It could
attempt it with double confidence in view
of the fact that the continuous incoming
of ’planes from U.S.A. would help to nul-
lify the usefulness of the locator systems.
Success was achieved, though not so
great in a naval sense as it might have
been. The material destruction was seri-
ous, and so was the moral effect.
Full details were necessarily concealed,
but the White House admitted that
an old battleship had been capsized,
several ships seriously mangled, a
destroyer blown up and some small ships
damaged. Several hangars were de-
stroyed, a large number of ’planes put
out of commission, many persons killed
and many more wounded.
The Japanese on their easily-heard
radio painted a picture of “seventy per
cent, of United States naval power in the
Pacific destroyed at a single blow in the
greatest naval battle in history.” By the
end of the week they made it “three
battleships, one aircraft-carrier, four
cruisers, two submarines and some small
vessels, totalling 270,000 tons.”
Even worse was their picture of dis-
organisation at Hawaii, to which hysteria
on the part of the press and radio and
some of those in authority lent color.
Tokyo Radio declared that the Pearl
Harbor affair had been marked by panic
on the American side ; that defenders mis-
took a U.S. aircraft-carrier for Japanese
and shot down their own machines in
defiance of frantic orders from their
officers. The enemy declared also that,
though the Japanese had captured
250,000 tons of British and U.S.
shipping, including the liner President
Harrison, without loss of any of their
own, a ship which had been sunk
off San Francisco had not been their
victim. It had been sunk, they said, by
a panicked U.S. submarine; moreover,
when the crew took to the boats they
were destroyed by the guns of the U.S.
port for which they made, having been
mistaken for Japanese.
All these things were gross and deliber-
ate exaggerations, but in an atmosphere
thick with warnings of Japanese flying
formations approaching both the Cali-
fornia and the Atlantic coast they served
their purpose until they received a quietus
from Mr. Roosevelt’s statement on Wed-
nesday.
The salient fact about the Pearl Harbor
business was that it was a raid—a heavy,
damaging and disastrous affair. But a
week afterwards there had been no at-
tempt to repeat it or follow it up ;
the damage, save to the lost ships, was
well on the way to repair, and fresh
squadrons were arriving to make up for
the lost ’planes.
The Pincers in Asia
The, disadvantages under which Britain
and the United States labor must be
emphasised. Foolish people have
asserted that the Japanese are mili-
tarily weak. In three wars fought
this century they have shown them-
selves to be a well-equipped people
of fanatical courage. Admiral “Jacky”
Fisher mentions one brigade in the
Russo-Japanese war from which only six
men returned out of 4000 who set out
deliberately to die. Tokyo has its monu-
ment to the three “human bombs” who,
wrapping explosives round themselves
and carrying a bangalow bomb, blew
themselves and the wire up at Shanghai
before Ma’s 19th Army early in 1932.
The Japs are fighting in their own
battlefleet- and main air-base and supply
zone against nations which are outside it.
They have a short, well-connected and
centralised supply fine and abundant
labor subject to no democratic restric-
tions. Alleged to be short of petrol, they
have been extracting it from coal for
years. Their iron and steel plan, aimed
at self-sufficiency by 1941, is based on
schemes for treatment by the Krupp
process of low-grade ores and iron sands.
They are a maritime people, living largely
off the sea and on the sea with harbors,
seamen, all the needs of sea warfare.
With Britain, this is only one war
of many wars which have to be fought
from outposts at the extreme end of the
globe. The nearest bases to Japan to
which communication lines can be kept
open are Singapore (2900 miles) and Pearl
Harbor (3500 miles away),
Japan’s strategy is built on aggressive
centralised strength. Japanese actions in
the war they started so treacherously
have been like the opening of the fingers
of a giant hand spreading to grasp the
whole of south-east Asia and the adjacent
islands in one vast operation.
Within a couple of days of the Pearl
Harbor affair there was news of other
Japanese actions over an area 3000 miles
long and as wide. All British and U.S.
facilities, concessions, legations, guards,
nationals, property in North China fell
easily into the Japanese palm.
There was in no case any possibility
of an effective defence.
Out in the Pacific, beyond the Mar-
shalls and within 1500 miles of the Aus-
tralian coast, Japanese bombs came
crashing down on Nauru and Ocean, our
phosphate islands. Almost at the same
moment the enemy was tearing at the
fine of forward U.S. bases between
Hawaii and the Chinese coast and hover-
ing over Singapore and the Burmese
border and encircling the Philippines with
air power and naval units.
Guam, in the heart of Japan’s man-
dated islands, was first attacked; and
almost simultaneously assaults were made
on Wake and Midway, further east. It
had always been taken for granted that
these places would fall early. Wake and
Midway were only converted atolls, used
as stages for the trans-Pacific Clipper
services; militarily they were mere
jumping-off places at which formations
of ’planes could be stationed in forward
positions from which they could get
quickly to vital centres in the Asiatic
zone. Their function was to gain time.
At the week-end Wake was holding out
—Mr. Roosevelt had issued a warning
at the beginning of the week that all
could be expected to be reduced by the
enemy.
While Wake was stoutly resisting, the
cruel fingers of the North were reaching
down from joints at Formosa and the new
bases in Indo-China at Camranh Bay and
Saigon.
The overwhelming impression of first
events was that British and U.S. power
was staggering under air blows of un-
paralleled ferocity. The appearance of
the attack was deceptive. It was a case
of the defence being weak rather than
that of the assault being overwhelmingly
strong; a case of outposts taking blows
delivered with the full weight of a nation.
There was no surprise in the methods
used. Nothing has been so far done by
the Japanese which has not been done
by British airmen in other zones.
Though there was idiotic and sustained
depreciation in the American, British
and Dominion press, there had never
been any doubt in military minds about
the capacity of the Japanese as airmen,
and about the fact that, with the help of
German technical knowledge, the air arm
would play an important part in the
earlier stages of the war. The British
Government demonstrated what its views
were when it appointed Air Chief Mar-
shal Brooke-Popham as Commander-in-
Chief of the Far East. It was the first
time in history that the total strategy of
a major campaign involving the use of
possibly a full army of ground forces and
heavy naval formations had been en-
trusted to an airman. Naval adjustment
at Singapore was left till last. It had to
be. The Navy has borne a heavy burden
over the last year or two, and it has made
some desperate sacrifices through other
people’s mistakes.
The outcome of the bitter fight to save
the A.I.F. and other troops in Greece and
Crete, the price paid by the Royal Navy
and the loss of Ark Royal, plus the new
burdens thrown on the Admiralty by the
need to guard heavily supplies bound for
Russia and the peculiar exigencies of the
Libyan fight in its crucial stages, had a
severe effect on the power of the Gov-
ernment to send an adequate and well-
balanced naval force to Singapore.
The Japanese attack, outside the
Hawaiian adventure, divided itself
into three sections. As stated, the un-
defended or scarcely-defended points held
by Britain and the United States in China
were taken over.
Next, the enemy developed a series of
operations against the fortified British-
U.S. ring south of Formosa and north of
the East Indies. One main operation
was against northern Hong Kong, about
400 miles from the base at Formosa. It
is a tough nut to crack. It consists of
Hong Kong Island, 11 miles long, and the
narrow peninsula of Kowloon, a harbor
about a mile wide on the west and
entered by the quarter-mile wide Lyee-
moon pass on the east. There are other
islands —Lantao and Lammas to seaward
on the west and south, Stonecutter on the
south-west of and close to the mainland
Kowloon shore.
Along the shores of these islands flows
the Canton River estuary. Hong Kong,
island and shore peninsula alike, consists
of about 356 miles of assorted peaks, with
harbors boring in among them on each
side.
The Japanese closed in from all sides.
They attempted sporadic air raids. They
established without difficulty a sea block-
ade. They tried a landing from the sea
on Stonecutter Island to dominate the
main harbor entrance, but this withered
under machine-gun fire, as did a specific
attempt to reach Hong Kong Island by
boat.
An incursion was made from the west
at the peninsula’s waist at Tolo Harbor,
inside the perimeter defences. The rail-
way runs close to the bay through a pass
and tunnel here and the Hong Kong
waterworks fie a little inland. British
forces blew up the tunnel, severing con-
nection with Chinese soil, and turfed the
invaders back off the beaches. On the
eastern side they came up or down the
Canton River, or both, and tried landings
near Castle Peak, on the mainland west
edges, towards the harbor, and at Deep
Water Bay, near the defence perimeter,
some way up the river.
Hong Kong has a teeming civilian
Chinese population of 1,000,000 and
750,000 refugees had crowded in a little
while ago. It is a hard place to feed
under blockade, but a wasteful place to
bomb or shell, an excellent place to cre-
ate defence fines in.
And the elevated position of its guns
obliged Japanese naval units to walk
warily upon the sea and to be content to
look upon Lantao and Lammas Islands
from afar save under cover of darkness.
The enemy claimed to have immobilised
two gunboats off Victoria city, inside the
island.
The position at the week-end was in
doubt. On Dec. 15 Tokyo reported “an
intercepted admission by the British that
Kowloon had been taken.” This would
mean loss of the waterworks at Shing
Min and enable the Japanese to bombard
Victoria on the island point-blank.
The Fight for Luzon
Luzon is the heart of the Philippines,
which stretch from about 74 miles from
Japanese Formosa on the north for 900
miles to the level of British North
Borneo, which lies 400 miles westward
of Mindanao in the south. Luzon itself
is 200 miles from Formosa.
The capital is near the extreme south
of its western side on the inner shore of
a great landlocked bay. The entrance to
this harbor is narrow. It is stoppered
by a sheer-sided, circular-looking island,
Corregidor. This has been thunderously
fortified, with two islets near by. Once
inside you are in a glorified Botany Bay.
To the south-east, a spit like a scimitar
runs north-west into the bay. On this
is the arsenal of Cavite naval base. On
the entrance side of it Dewey fought his
battle of ’9B. Manila (pop. 400,000)
shows in the distance, old walled town
(Intramuros) south of the Pasig River,
with delightful residential suburbs along
the harbor front, magnificent wharfage
standing out clearly for any bomber,
commercial town north of the river, hills
beyond in which, a few miles away, con-
nected by electric railway, is Fort Mc-
kinley, the main military base. Towards
the south and Cavite, airfields.
The full blast of the hurricane in
Luzon was heralded by a pattering
shower of bombs, which rained over the
air and naval bases the whole length of
the islands. Manila was bombed several
times. It reacted with a gay Spanish gal-
lantry. Its radio blared racily throughout
the week. On Thursday night, Tokyo
announced grimly that much of the city
was burning, and that the Filipinos were
learning what it meant to be under
American domination. A few minutes
later “O Sole Mio” soared into the ether ;
then a cheerful voice said that “as there
is no fresh news there will be no inter-
ruption for the news session.”
By Dec. 15 every naval base, large
aerodrome and harbor the length of the
islands —Davau, Fort McKinley, Cavite,
Nichols Field and others —had been
under fire. The enemy feinted at several
points in northern Luzon, but succeeded
in establishing himself only at two. He
made a landing at Aparri, which lies at
the extreme north of the island at the
mouth of the Cagayan River facing the
Babuyan Islands, and at Vigan (north-
west Luzon). His attempts, according
to U.S. official reports, cost him the
29,000-ton battleship Haruna, sunk, after
having been set on fire, by flying
fortresses. She was built in Kobe in
1915 and is comparable in fighting power
to Ramifies or Resolution.
A second landing was made on the
extreme south-east of Luzon at Legaspi,
about 190 miles from Manila, on the
long, narrow, tortuous peninsula which
stretches down to San Bernadino Strait.
Manila and Cavite and adjacent de-
fence centres were repeatedly bombed,
with sporadic attacks further south in
Mindanao. But the U.S. air force was at
work, and at the week-end Rear-Admiral
Hart, C.-in-C. of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet,
announced that the Haruna’s sister ship
Kongo was out of control and believed
“seriously crippled” after receiving one
heavy and two lighter hits from U.S.
bombers. The Japs denied it, but admitted
the loss of a light cruiser and damage to
another.
On Dec. 15 the Manila Command re-
ported four Japanese transports sunk,
three others damaged and at least 40
Japanese ’planes down. General Mac-
Arthur said the situation both in land
and in air was well in hand. The Japanese
claimed to have destroyed 202 U.S. ’planes
in the Philippines,
Only a tithe of Philippines defence
forces have been engaged. The Ameri-
can division was well settled down in the
north on Saturday. The Philippine forma-
tions which had been in action had shown
themselves good fighters, Japan has a
long way to go before she can take the
islands.
Thailand Surrenders
While the little and third fingers of
Japan tried to curl round the eastern
ocean bases of U.S. and the Philippines,
the thumb and first and second fingers
bored down the Asiatic coast in the otner
part of the movement, which was de-
signed to close round the whole ring of
British U.S. territories and protectorates
between the Japanese Mandated Islands
and the Bay of Bengal.
A few hours after the Pearl Harbor
bombing began, attacks were being made
on Bangkok from the air ‘and river,
which will not carry a very large steamer
beyond its mouth.
The Thailand Prime Minister, who
appointed himself a field-marshal at the
beginning of the war, surrendered at
once, and allowed his country, which
owes most of its development to British
and Australian enterprise and nothing
whatever to Japan, to come under Nip-
ponese domination. An alliance was
signed within three days.
Japanese troops were landed on a large
scale, and throughout the week were
being pushed in two directions apart
from subsidiary landings further south
towards Singora on the Kra Peninsula
near the Malayan border.
The southern operations were attri-
buted to a generous desire on the part
of the Emperor to save Thailand from


a brutal invasion by the British, which
Tokyo barefacedly declared to have
begun before the attack on Pearl Harbor.
The other and more massive concentra-
tions were made towards the Burmese
border on the north. The eastern enclave
of the border country here is shut off
from the western part by the broad Sal-
ween River. The country is rough and
tough, but there is a goal worth reaching
—Lashio and the Burma Road, 220 miles
away.
Directly west of Bangkok, the Burmese
border makes a thin cover for other pre-
cious prizes. Here in Burma, only 40
miles or so wide, lie the rich tinfields of
Tavoy. In this neighborhood the Japs,
drove across the frontier after air raids.
Their point for attack was Victoria Point
air base.
Still further north, only 40 miles from
the Thai border, is Moulmein, snug at the
eastern end of a bay in the Gulf of Mar-
taban, which forms the body of an
octopus of river arms. A little beyond
120 miles from the border is Rangoon,
the Burmese capital. Both these cities—
Rangoon has 400,000 people, Moulmein
65,000 —began evacuating their civilians
in expectation of air raids. These are the
mouths through which the British and
Indian troops deployed along the border
are equipped and fed. If the Japanese
attempt a real invasion of Burma they
will have to tackle a land of almost
perpetual rain terrible leech-ridden
country in which the tiger, the king cobra
and dozens of other horrors lurk, and
through which broad, muddy rivers surge
irresistibly to the sea amid giant forests
impinging on banks of muddy ooze.
So soon as Thailand surrendered
Nippon began to mass its legions towards
the north-west along the Chinese border,
while in Indo-China troops moved to
points 150 miles from the Burma Road.
Malaya Stands at Bay.
At 1 a.m. on Monday boats drifted in
from transports in the far north-eastern
corner of Malaya, near Kota Bharu, at
the mouth of Kelantan River. Rifle shots
and the chatter of machine-guns shook
the palm-trees. Interest in the hunt for
the mangy old maneater which had been
killing villagers—common phenomenon
in those feral regions—failed in the
excitement of a greater shikari for land-
ing parties.
Before dawn R.A.A.F. Hudsons and
some R.A.F. ’planes arrived. Against
the leaden sea they made out below a
convoy of three big ships ringed by the
white destroyer wakes. Rectangular
raft-looking barges were making for the
coast throwing out sluggish swirls of
foam. The ’planes swooped down to find
them loaded to the rims with men flat
upon the bottoms, horses, equipment.
Down again swooped the Hudsons over
ship and barge.
The ships sent up a hot peppering fire ;
Japanese ’planes appeared with daylight.
Three Japanese cruisers and three de-
stroyers and two supply or transport
ships, one damaged, were disappearing
into the sunrise. A big N.Y.K. liner
which had served as a transport was
about to blow up, which she presently
did. The Hudsons turned on the barges.
Their prone men made no attempt to
reply. They died quietly under the hail
of bomb and bullet. Presently 200 sur-
vivors crawled ashore and ran for the
cover of the jungle.
This was only the beginning. Day
after day, night after night, the attack
went on. The Japanese were supported
by aircraft-carriers. Neither British sea
nor land forces had the same advantage.
They had been forced to rely on local
land ’dromes, but possession of carriers
meant that the attacker had not only
bombers but fighters to screen them.
Soon British ’dromes were useless. In
two days Kota Bharu ’drome was in
Japanese hands. British fighters could
not go up. Only bombers, with their
longer range, could reach the area, and,
unscreened, they were at a grave dis-
advantage.
On Monday and Tuesday new threats
developed—the naval base Penang, across
the peninsula, began to be savagely
bombed. About 150 miles south of the
Thai border, over which Japanese already
were attempting to filter, a second land-
ing on the east coast at Kuantan was
attempted.
The enemy was “using considerable
numbers of aircraft in an endeavor to gain
a measure of ascendancy in northern
Malaya, in order to be able to cover
troop landings in southern Thailand.”
Air reconnaissance established that an-
other 25 transports, escorted by numer-
ous warships, were moving south and west
from Camranh to make landings at Sin-
gora, Patani and Kota Bharu. Landings
already had begun on the Kra Isthmus,
further north. A heavy bid was being
made for control of northern Malaya.
British troops fiercely contested the
border north of Alor Star, pushing right
into Thailand. The R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
early bombed transports, but something
more was needed.
Heavy Ships Move to Disaster
On Monday Admiral Tom Phillips, in
his flagship Prince of Wales, 35,000 tons,
H.M.S. Repulse, a 32,000-ton battle-
cruiser, and the customary destroyer
escorts steamed northward along the
Malay coast. There was a change of
course in the night.
Admiral Phillips had sent out a signal:
The enemy has made several landings in
northern Malaya and has made local pro-
gress. Fast transports lie off the coast.
This is our opportunity before the enemy
establishes himself. We have made a wide
circuit to avoid air reconnaissance.
He noted that they were sure to get
good practice with high-angle guns. He
suggested that they might have to deal
with the Japanese battleship Kongo or
cruisers, but that in any case he wanted
to finish it quickly and get out to sea.
Apparently he was well aware of his
danger. He had no aircraft-carrier. He
had to rely on the land ’dromes of
northern Malaya, already dominated by
enemy fire and bombing. When he set
out there was low-cloud formation shield-
ing him from the air. But on Tuesday
the air had cleared.
At 5.30 p.m. that day a reconnais-
sance “Naka 93” was seen flying high
above Repulse. Admiral Phillips, having
countless gallant British exploits by the
Fleet Air Arm in mind, turned his prows
for Singapore, praying no doubt for a
wet morning next day.
The luck was against him. At 5 a.m.
“action stations” was sounded suddenly.
Landing barges were seen making towards
the coast on the port bow. But the sky
had cleared. With day visibility became
good to above 15,000 feet.
About 6.30 a.m. on Wednesday the
Repulse’s loudspeakers told her crew that
the Japanese intended to make a landing
north of Singapore. The signal added
“We are going in.”
At 11.5 a.m. both ships opened fire on
a single Japanese ’plane. Then six
Japanese machines, flying low, attacked.
There was nothing novel in machines,
methods or weapons. They came in in
orthodox close formation, leaving the
destroyers alone and concentrating on the
big ships. The real onslaught began
about 11.18 a.m. It was met by the full
A.A. barrage of the ships.
The Japanese tried a feint by sending
two machines straight at the ships. Too
late it was realised that this was a diver-
sion to draw fire from the real attackers.
Repulse was hit by bombs on the catapult
deck. A funnel was torn off and other
injuries were inflicted by bomb splinters.
But the heaviest assault was made on
Prince of Wales.
At 12.20 p.m. a second attack came,
made this time by a squadron armed with
fish torpedoes. Their method was again
conventional —modelled on that used by
the British ’planes which crippled the
Bismarck. Repulse sacrificed herself to
the battleship’s defence. Prince of Wales
herself was scarcely to be seen for the
smoke and flash of her fire. But the
torpedoes continued to hit her, and from
the Repulse there could presently be seen
little knots of men jumping into the sea.
Repulse was missed 19 times and then
hit by three torpedoes. The last hit was
on the port side just as the sixth Japanese
’plane had been brought down. The ship
began to heel over. Men climbed out on
a torpedo blister and jumped 12 feet or
so into the sea. There, in the sweltering
tropic heat in an ocean deep in oil which
seeped into their burning eyes and
throats, they struggled on anything which
would support them —in boats, on pieces
of timber, sometimes two or three doing
their best bn one lifebelt.
It was some time before the destroyers
could begin effective rescue, but they did
a gallant and wonderfully successful job.
Over 2000 officers and men out of 2705
were rescued, including Captain W. Ten-
nant, of Repulse, and Captain L. H. Bell,
the Fleet captain, both well known in
Australia. But Admiral Tom Phillips,
C.-in-C. Far Eastern Station, and Captain
Leach went down with the Prince of
Wales. They were last seen in the water.
The only detailed account of the battle
came from a civilian reporter on Repulse,
and it was followed by the usual spate
of ill-informed criticism and hysterical
rubbish. The familiar cranks rushed in to
claim that the day of the battleship was
done.
The truth is that no battleship is safe
against any kind of torpedoes unless
adequate protection is provided. It was
equally true before the days of torpedo
bombers, but an effective destroyer screen
looks after the sea torpedo and accidents
are rare. The air has given a new dimen-
sion to torpedo attack, and Prince of
Wales and Repulse were without the air
protection which they should have had
and with which they could have kept the
torpedo ’planes at a great distance.
Why they went out without aircraft-
carrier cover nobody knows for certain.
It has been said that the Admiral expected
cover from land —a doubtful tale. Cer-
tain it is that the sally would not have
been made except for serious reasons.
They may have been bad reasons, but they
were certainly in accordance with tradi-
tional R.N. policy of “fighting the enemy
wherever found and in whatever strength.”
The stake was a big one. The
Japanese convoys of troopships off the
coast, escorted by battleships and cruisers,
were heavy. The smashing of them, com-
ing after the Pearl Harbor disaster, would
have had a wonderful moral effect. It
would have disorganised Japanese plans
and perhaps altered the whole complexion
of the war. It would have whittled away
some of Japan’s all-too-short supplies of
transport shipping, one of her vulnerable
points. She has no mercantile ship over
17,000 tons and only one or two in that
range.
The Japanese bombers achieved no-
thing which had not been done before.
Neither the sinking of the two aerially
undefended battleships in a smooth sea
and under good visibility nor the sur-
prise assault on Pearl Harbor can
be compared to advantage with the
feat of the F.A.A. torpedo ’planes
which wrecked the Italian squad-
ron at Taranto. The latter’s dam-
age was wrought in the midst of a port
strongly defended aerially. They had to
dive into a heavy barrage to within 20
feet of the water in a restricted space, and
in a port prepared under stringent war
conditions. Yet they came away with
little damage after having achieved their
objective. At Pearl Harbor estimates of
the number of machines used varied from
80 to 150. The Japanese admit losing
30 machines.
The World at War
Outside the area north of Mindanao,
most of the activity in the Pacific war
was confined to reconnaissance. To
match the bombing of Nauru the
R.A.A.F. struck the first offensive blow
against Japanese territory by bombing
the little island advance base of Pobi,
about 1100 miles from Darwin. Japanese
’planes flew over the East Indies and
over New Guinea but left before they
could be attacked.
Admiral Hart, of the U.S. Asiatic
Fleet, announced that he had tried to
bring the Japanese Fleet to action but
it steamed off. And, though Tokyo Radio
announced early in the week that the
Japanese Government did not consider
itself at war with the southern peoples
of the Pacific and did not wish to harm
them, East Indies Navy submarines rein-
forced the D.E.I. Government’s declara-
tion of war by sinking four Japanese
transports off Malaya and reported later
that it was believed that another had
been sunk.
By Monday evening the Empire and
the United States were officially at war
with Japan. Before the end of the week
Chiang Kai-shek’s Government de-
clared war on Japan, Germany and Italy.
On Thursday Hitler declared war on the
U.S.A.; Mussolini also. Congress re-
ciprocated promptly. Bulgaria declared
war on Britain and the United States.
Rumania and Hungary, but not Finland,
added themselves to the list of Uncle
Sam’s enemies.
Mexico severed diplomatic relations
with the Axis Powers and seized Japanese
fishing boats. Cuba, San Salvador, Nica-
ragua, Honduras, Guatemala, Costa Rica,
Haiti, Panama added themselves to the
enemies of the Axis.
The attitude of the U.S.S.R, is still
obscure. For what it was worth, Tokyo
Radio announced on Friday in its Eng-
lish sessions that among those who called
at the Japanese Navy Office to offer con-
gratulations on the sinking of Prince of
Wales and Repulse was the Naval Attache
of the Soviet Union, who was named.
There has been no denial from Moscow.
However, interviewed in Washington
on Sunday, M. Litvinov, the new Russian
ambassador to Washington, told the press
that “we are all in the same boat and
will perish or triumph over the greatest
menace of all time. Japan belongs to
the Axis bunch of gangsters and is a com-
mon enemy.” He said that Russia was
“happy to be the ally of such great coun-
tries as Britain and the U. 5.,” and that
“We feel no one except Russia can smash
Hitler.”
But there was nothing about the abro-
gation of Russia’s pact with Japan.
Libya and the Main Issue.
“Ek Dum”: The British imperial
forces which are overcoming the Ger-
mans and Italians in Libya are unfortu-
nate in their nationality. If they had
been foreigners the press and radio of
the Empire and the U.S.A. would have
united to praise them.
As it is, the resounding success of the
British Command, which has for the first
time in the land war achieved a victory
against superior mechanised forces,
German-armed and -led, has had little
attention and less appreciation from
editors, commentators and radio uncles.
The great truth is that, operating from
bases 300 miles away, British, Maoriland,
S. African, Indian and Allied troops
have driven General Rommel, a full
Panzer group and a full-sized army back
over 100 miles. They have freed the
whole of the Tobruk perimeter and
shoved the Germans incontinently out of
the defences there;, though at a cost
which measured their gallantry, toughness
and determination. They command the
desert approaches, and have pushed a
strong force on to the enemy’s communi-
cation lines, 300 miles west of his frontier
position. They have command of
approaches to his flank from the
south. They . have taken his main
forward aerodromes at Bir el Gubbi and
El Adem outside Tobruk.
The fact that the Maorilanders, whom
the enemy claimed to have lost “the bulk
of a division,” were able to push forward
and surround Gazala, another air and
supply base west of the perimeter, while
other formations built up a line 40 miles
south, shows not only that Maoriland
losses, though admittedly severe, were
exaggerated, but that the situation is in
British control. It is welcome news that
700 wounded Maorilanders were rescued
in a captured casualty clearing station.
The Italians early in the week reported
the sinking of one of their transports
taking 2000 British prisoners from Libya
to captivity. They said 800 were rescued.
Hitherto, British forces have had to
depend on Mersa Matmh, 300-odd miles
from Tobruk, as the nearest port of the
campaign, though communication with
Tobruk was never interrupted.
Now, Tobruk has become a port
free from major molestation and it will
be possible to convoy large quantities of
supplies right up to the front line
through it.
The coast, including Benghazi, has been
blasted thoroughly by the R.A.A.F. and
Imperial Air Forces. At Derna on one
day early in the week the S.A.A.F. de-
stroyed eight aircraft, of which five were
three-engined troop-carriers. On Friday
and Saturday, in further heavy bombing
of enemy bases, 18 machines, mostly
Messerschmitts, were brought down.
The general intensity of the fighting
may be measured by the fact that in
one day the garrison of Tobruk—com-
manded by Major-General Reg. Scobie,
the Scottish Rugby International and for
three years director of military art at
Duntroon—fired 40,000 shells, which
must have been a tithe of the general
usage.
Mr. Churchill’s summary of the cam-
paign on Dec, 11 was that it “had not
taken the course its authors expected,
though it would reach the end at which
they aimed.”
The attack was hampered at the outset
by the breakdown of General Alan Cun-
ningham, whose fine campaign in Ethiopia
had put a tremendous strain on his health,
eight days after the beginning of the
battle. General Auchinlech, C.-in-C. in
the Middle East, replaced him by Major-
General Ritchie on Nov. 26, but remained
for the most part at battle headquarters
himself supervising operations.
Losses have been heavy—in the case
of tanks heavier than was expected—and
Mr. Churchill admitted that the enemy’s
repair facilities worked better than the
British. This was to be looked for in
view of the vastly greater experience of
the Germans in tank warfare. The lesson,
however, probably will not be lost.
And the Royal Navy continues to help.
Before dawn on Dec. 13 in the Central
Mediterranean, British destroyers, under
Commander G. H. Stokes, sank an
Italian cruiser and an E-boat and dam-
aged severely another cruiser and a
torpedo-boat. There was no British
casualty or damage.
The Libyan campaign must have reper-
cussions throughout the world. The re-
sults of the test may have been a factor
in persuading Hitler to inhibit his Russian
campaign for the winter. He has learned
that the large British defence armies in
the Middle East are really powerful.
Their fighting quality is such that they
beat his men at the first test, despite
their greater experience of Panzer
methods and superiority in infantry.
With the Germans and Italians beaten
out of Libya, Hitler has good reason to
fear lest another Syrian affair should be
fought in Morocco and Algeria. In any
case, the possession of North African
harbors even as far as Tripoli will put
an entirely different complexion on the
(Continued on Page 37.)


m.
mm/
3248
FOR THE COUNTRYMAN.
SPECIALLY
PRICED AT
HOW’S THIS FOR VALUE?
Here’s one of the finest boot values ever offered
the countryman. As wonderful wearing as it
is comfortable. Double Soles, Ooze Calf
Uppers, with reinforced Elastic in sides and
Leather lining throughout. Priced at only 55/-,
this strong country boot is obtainable in a full
range of sizes and half sizes with wide and
extra-wide fittings. Order TODAY.
ABBEY
316 George St., Sydney
324 Pitt St., Sydney
SHOES
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2001 of 1941.
BETWEEN CHRISTINA MAY JARVIS Peti-
tioner and
FREDERICK JAMES JARVIS Respondent.
TO FREDERICK JAMES JARVIS late of
Darlington Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHRISTINA
MAY JARVIS has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
during three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance for the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Twenty-seventh day of February
One thousand nine hundred and forty-two and
in the event of your not so doing within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit to be heard
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of Novem-
ber, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. K. DIXON, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO JOHN RANKIN DENNESS formerly of
North Fremantle in the State of Western
Australia but now of parts unknown
seaman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of EMILY FRANCES DENNESS of
Number 115 Clyde Street Mosman Park in the
State of Western Australia praying for dis-
solution of marriage In default of yotir so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition proved and pronounce sen-
tence in respect thereof AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within Thirty (30) days after
the date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Proctor Solicitor or Attorney at the
Central Office of our said Court at Perth and
there to enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose without which you will
not be allowed to address the Court either in
person or by counsel at any stage of the pro-
ceedings in the cause.
(L.S.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
JOSEPH MUIR & WILLIAMS, of Vic-
toria House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solici-
tors for the Petitioner.
■'i „
w
m.
x
W
Q
H
i
m
... and
shaved happilu
ever niter...
ROLLS RAZOR
-the ideal Christmas present
ONE HOLLOW GROUND BLADE LASTS FOR YEARS
SELF-HONING • SELF-STROPPING • SELF-CONTAINED
A gift a man will be proud to own and pleased
to use. In strong nickel-plated presentation .
case 57 '0
Silver-plated presentation model 67/6
A*
t_» t SPECIAL
APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LIMITED
rv
m
Street
ueen
SUNDAY
SHOES
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Man Who Came to Dinner”
There’s no doubt that the Church is
an admirable institution ; nor can there
be any doubt that, by remaining per-
manently a parson, Edwin Styles would
have a most improving influence on the
life of King’s Cross. But how good it
is to see that he has fallen from grace
again!
No longer Robert’s wife’s clerical hus-
band, but unfrocked and unregenerate,
he wheels about the stage of Sydney
Minerva in a bathchair, impersonating
America’s “idol of the radio,” Alexander
Woollcott. Professionally rude (in more
than one sense), professionally witty,
professionally famous, professionally
irresistible; all of which impressions
Styles’s natural flair for comedy, aided
by the vigor, color and explosive unex-
pectedness of the dialogue, combines with
ease to make a strikingly amusing even-
ing’s entertainment.
To carry a comedy along for three acts
as Styles does this one, hardly a moment
off the stage, is pretty good going ; to
dominate the piece from a bathchair
(especially when Styles has always liked
to make his best points with a flourish of
the left leg or the shooting-out of a six-
foot arm like a train coming out of a
tunnel) is a remarkable performance.
He does it so well that it doesn’t matter
a scrap that there is only one Woollcott
in whom Sydney is passionately inter-
ested ; and not this one.
It makes it all the more interesting
that Dick Bentley and Wayne Froman
caricature Noel Coward and Harpo Marx
accurately and hilariously; but, again,
their characterisations are so funny in
themselves that they’d be worth seeing
even if one had never heard of the
originals.
The plot’s about as flimsy as it can be
—a lot of nonsense that goes on when
Styles makes himself unbearable as a
guest in a small-town home—but that
doesn’t matter. It’s meant as no more
than a skit; and as a skit it’s a roaring
success.
Aileen Britton is a capable secretary to
the great man (“The only reason that I
continue to employ this ageing debutante
is that she’s the sole support of her
two-headed brother,” says Styles with
villainous injustice) ; Ethel Gabriel a
delightfully harassed nurse, Lettie Cray-
don delightfully dotty, and the cock-
roaches are as witty as they are beautiful.
The Kirsova ballet continues to do fine
work at the Minerva. It’s a pity, on the
whole, it doesn’t run to an orchestra,
for the two pianos, though pleasantly
handled, are on the cold side for an
already icy ballet such as “Les Sylphides.”
“Vieux Paris,” a comedy, is danced with
great spirit, and, unlike most ballet-
comedy, is genuinely amusing as well as
charming.
* * * ♦
It is difficult to determine whether the
crowds flocking to Sydney Royal during
the current Gilsullivan season are addicts
of Gilsullivan or of Ivan Menzies. Cer-
tainly there is no possible, probable
shadow of doubt that Mr. Menzies’s own
interjections bring the house down as
often as does the work of the original
authors. To which, of course, the dyed-
in-the-wool G. and S. addict may add
that, as Mr. Menzies is as perfect an
exponent of Gilsullivan as could be asked
for, a fair portion of the clapping, cheer-
ing and encores to which he answers is
the rightful property of Mr. Gilbert and
Mr. Sullivan. Present commentator not
being game to risk life or limb by
announcing a decision on such a vital
matter, it can only be recorded that the
present combination of Gilbert, Sullivan,
Menzies, Gardiner, Stroud, Manning and
a string of others seems to be enjoying
a deservedly and highly popular run at
the Royal. The current show, “H.M.S.
Pinafore,” opened last Saturday and is
a good ’un from most aspects —costuming
all new and particularly smart. The audi-
ence recalled Sir Joseph Porter Ivan
Menzies, Captain Corcoran Gregory
Stroud and Cap’n’s daughter Viola Wil-
son four or five times for “Never Mind
the Why or Wherefore,” and was loth to
let them go even then. Buttercup Evelyn
Gardiner was good vocally and histrioni-
cally, Dick Deadeye Bernard Manning
good histrionically, and Maxwell Oldaker
(Ralph Rackstraw) good vocally. Bernard
Manning, Vincent McMurray and Les
Getting lifted the curtain with “Cox and
Box.”
* * * *
“The Messiah”
At the Melbourne Town Hall perform-
ance of Handel’s “Messiah” a chair-
cracking obbligato made it difficult to say
how conductor Herbert Davis was doing,
but he seemed to be putting up a very
fair performance. If the Presbyterian
Oratorio Choir, the Malvern Choral
Society, the Baptist Assembly Choir and
the St. Paul’s Cathedral Old Boys didn’t
come to the attack with the same pre-
cision and elan as the more united Phil-
harmonics in “For Unto Us a Child Is
Born,” it was sufficiently inspired to make
“Who Is the King of Glory” a thrilling
experience ; and soloists were outstand-
ing. Heddle Nash’s tenor was easy in the
opening recitative, and Thea Phillips gave
her soprano a good airing in the “Re-
joice Greatly.” Dagmar Worland, an
attractive new contralto, sang “He Shall
Feed His Flock” with an apparently un-
studied sureness, and Arnold Matter’s
bass was as adequate as usual. The Zil-
man Memorial Orchestra gave the Pas-
toral Symphony unusually sympathetic
treatment, and, despite hot weather and
the admonitions of A.R.P. officials, con-
gregation was a record.
ARTBURSTS
Lionel Lindsay’s show of water-colors,
tinted drawings, etchings, drypoints and
woodcuts at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, is a straightout gift to the Lord
Mayor’s Sydney Fund. Outstanding are
the water-color “Arab Kilns,” full of
Spanish sunshine, and the romantic
tinted drawing “A Castle in Old Castile.”
The etchings and prints are, for the most
part, well known. All the work has
character and individuality.
* * * *
At the Minerva Restaurant Building,
Potts Point, Sydney, last week Marie
Burke opened a show of paintings by
Lesbia Thorpe, mostly portraits of actors
and actresses. These are in the “modem”
manner, and it may be gathered that most
of the subjects will continue to use studio
photographs for publicity purposes.
AT THE TALKIES
The main troubles of Laurel and Hardy
in “Great Guns,” at Sydney Plaza, are
(1) the sergeant, of whom they fall foul
as often as possible and on whom they
are revenged in their inimitable fashion ,
(2) a pet crow which turns up at most
inopportune moments and which, when
stuffed into the seat of the inflated one s
pants when the General or somebody is
approaching, furnishes the greatest
guffaws in the film ; and (3) each other.
Need it be added that the pair of ’em
are a couple of flunkeys who join the
army to watch over their millionaire em-
ployer, that the m.e. gets the canteen girl,
that L. and H. and crow win a theoreti-
cal battle for their side and when last
seen were in proud control of the army s
sanitary unit.
* * * *
“Father Takes a Wife,” at Sydney
Century: a mildly amusing comedy about
an elderly shipping magnate (Adolphe
Menjou) who finds few wild oats left over
and decides to marry an actress (Gloria
Swanson), to the great consternation of
his highly-respectable son (John Howard)
and daughter-in-law (Florence Rice). The
authors of the piece, evidently at a loss
to keep it running on that theme, then
introduce a Latin singer who manages
unintentionally to separate both couples,
and so forth, with the usual knobs,
trimmings, etc. A laugh or two ; better
directing would have improved it.
* * * *
In his latest Andy Hardy role at Sydney
St. James, Mickey Rooney has reached
the high school graduation stage and runs
to a private secretary to help him in
his many tasks as president of most of
the school organisations. The secretary
is a new juvenile singer, Kathryn Gray-
son, and, though she makes quite a good
fist of some classical numbers, one light
modern tune she warbles is enough to
show the class of stuff with which she
might be very successful. In his usual
manner Mickey sticks his foot into
trouble in all directions, and as usual
the kindly Judge Hardy mends matters
with a little fatherly advice and a bit
of string-pulling. Pleasant entertainment
along familiar lines.


TO LEAD YOUR
CHILDREN PAST THE
PITFALLS OP ADOLESCENCE
and ensure for each the realization
of that fuller and better life each
mother wants to give her child.
fpODAY, through circumstances and the times
we live in, the age old urge of self reliance
tends to develop quickly in the young folk and
the inherent desire to live their own lives is
more apparent and vital to them than it was
to the parents in their youth.
And the wise parent of Today, wishing to
lead them past the trials and pitfalls that be-
siege them, and to modulate, influence and guide
their loved ones in the best way possible—
ensuring them the happiness and contentment
that add most to the joys of life—appreciate
the need for greater understanding of Human
Relations. They gain that knowledge through
the New H.&R. applied Psychology Course
and Training Service.
All human relations are Psychological, and
faithful study of the principles—taught in
this modern way—simple to understand —will
gain you the understanding that is necessary,
and by application of these principles to your
daily problems, you guide your children past
the pitfalls. And there exists a happier, con-
tented family relationship that leads to the
natural realization of that fuller and better
life each parent strives to ensure for her
loved ones.
The New H.&R. applied Psychology Course and
Training Service, written by one of Australia's
most eminent Psychologists, in collaboration
with our Editorial Faculty, teaches true
Psychology . . . gives scientific training, simple
to study and easy to apply, that is of practical
daily use to every mother—and every adult
child.
Complete details and illustrations of the
Complete Training Service, together with
specific information of how it benefits your
personality will be posted free . . . Cut out
the coupon—Post it Now.
Department of Distribution
Hemingway & Hobertson
Founders of Commercial Education in Australasia
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
38a Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Offices in all Capital Cities, N’castle & L’nceston
//on?
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please send me details of the H. & R, applied
Psychology Course and Training Service.
A tame Age
Address
Sales.
SIXTEENTH NEW ZEALAND
NATIONAL THOROUGHBRED SALES.
JANUARY 21 and 23,
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.
218
THOROUGHBRED YEARLINGS
141 COLTS 17 LILLIES
218
Representing 41 Leading English and Colonial
Bred Sires.
The catalogue is a record in resect to
quality and relationship to highly performed
New Zealand bred horses in Australia, South
Africa, India, U.S.A. and the Dominion, includ-
ing the champions Pliar Pap, Beau txoiu
Rod, Defaulter, Battle Dress (N.Z. Derby,
1941). Salutation (N.Z. Oaks, Wellington Gns.
and Dunedin Gns., 1941), Kegal Eox (Great
Northern Gns., 1941), Lambourn (W.R.C. Har-
court Stakes, 1941), Burra Sahib (Wellington
Stakes, 1941), Premature (Manawatu Sires
Produce Stakes, 1941), Kronos (-AR.C. Cham-
pagne Stakes, 1941), Augment (W.R.C. Lhoinp-
son Handicap, 1941), Yours Truly (N.Z. Clip,
1939, and Moonee Valley Gold Cup, 1941),
Grilse (C.J.C T.Y.O. Welcome Stakes, 1941;,
Indian Sign (W.R.C. T.Y.O. Wellesley Stakes,
1941), Dominate, Indian Princess, Kink, Hippo-
drome, Royal Merit, Capine, Master Cameron,
Chestnut Glow, Trapeze, Coronaee, Penwilt,
Dalesman and Crackerjack all good two-year-
olds this season. Also Catalogue (Melbourne
Cup), Tohunga (Durban S.A. Gold Cup),
Martara (Macpherson Cup, Calcutta and
Byculla Club Cup, Bombay). Tidal Wave
(Rosehill Gns.), Theo (A.J.C. and V.R.C.
Derbys), Amiable (V.R.C. C. M. Lloyd Stakes),
Rulanut (W.R.C. Thompson Handicap, V.A.T.C.
Federal Stakes), Fearless Fox (Queensland
Derby), Cerae Abbas (N.Z. Cup, A.R.C. G.N.
Oaks and St. Leger), Floodtide (A.R.C. Michel-
son Cup), Beaupartir (N.Z. and G.N. St.
Legers), Movie Star (A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate),
Surmount (Wellington Stakes), Nuna (A.R.C.
Welcome Stakes, dead heat), Golden Hair
(V.R.C. and A.R.C. G.N. Oaks), Nlghtbeam
(A.R.C. Champagne Stakes), Lady Primrose
(A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes), Symcony (C.J.C.
Welcome Stakes), Queen Helen (V.R.C. Ottawa
Stakes) and a host of others.
ALSO
A CHOICE CATALOGUE OF BROOD MARES,
RACEHORSES AND UNTRIED STOCK.
COMMISSIONS: The Auctioneers will under-
take commissions on behalf of absentee buyers.
Arrangements can also be made to leave year-
lings in New Zealand and have them broken
in and given preliminary training.
CATALOGUES may be obtained from
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.,
Henty House, 499 Little Collins St. Melbourne.
MACKINNON & COX PTY.,
482 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WM. INGLIS & SON PTY., LTD.,
28 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS:
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.,
Wellington, N.Z.
PYNE, GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD.,
Christchurch, N.Z.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVEUNESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Many backers went to Rosehill on
Saturday confident they could pick four
winners. They pinned their faith to Miss
Hua, Rimveil, Yaralla and Connette. The
last-mentioned two won, but at prices
that did not more than cover losses on
the others. Owing to the long spell of
dry weather the course never looked
worse.
Yaralla made light of his 8.9 in the
Dundas Handicap. Taking charge soon
after barrier-rise he won at his ease from
Grand Fils, who looked as if the run
would do him good, and he should pick
up a race at the summer meetings at
Randwick. Amiable finished strongly in
third place, and Rathlin and Forward
also shaped well, but it was really a one-
horse affair. Though Yaralla won so
decisively he was only a half-second out-
side Rimveil’s record for the track.
In the December Handicap Thompson
gave Dewar plenty of time to settle
down, and, though that horse was last
after going five furlongs, he then moved
up so smartly—too much so, some specu-
lators reckoned—that he was with
Sologram in the lead turning for home.
He then shot out, followed by Rimveil,
but though the latter struggled gamely he
never looked like overhauling Dewar,
whose rider kept him going until he was
safely past the winning-post. Two’s Com-
pany was a fair third, and is a probable
winner at a middle distance. Early Bird,
who struck herself, dropped back to last
before reaching the half-mile, but ran on
again, finishing fourth.
It has often surprised me that Sydney
clubs do not cater more for amateur
riders. Events restricted to them are in-
variably productive of interest, and the
best-contested race of the afternoon was
the first division of the Corinthian Cup.
A hundred yards from home it was diffi-
cult to say whether Pendorus, Pastime,
Fox Track or Grand Boy would win,
but, though for a few strides the last-
named looked like doing the trick, Pas-
time’s advantage in weight and the assist-
ance of his experienced rider, L. Quinlan,
who is also his owner-trainer, enabled
him to pull through. Pendorus, in fourth
place, was almost level with the third
horse. Fox Track, while nothing shaped
more disappointingly than Rhythmic, who
was well backed.
• •••«*
The second division of the Cup was
not so exciting. Aren’t We All led
round the turn from Heather Lass, Shun-
teh and Lainelands, but in the run home
was completely outstayed by the outsider
Heather Lass, whose tote dividend was
at the rate of 51 to 1. The favorite,
Shunteh, was third, but never looked a
winner, and neither Lainelands nor Mer-
ton did nearly as well as expected. No
excuse was possible for Lainelands, as
he had a good position from the start to
the turn.
The late A. B. Nagel bought several
yearlings at high prices without getting
much return, but Battle Dress, whom he
bought for 1050gns. at the last yearling
sales as a present for his son, promises
to be above the ordinary. Trained by
B. Payten, and having her first race,
Battle Dress comfortably won the Nur-
sery Handicap from Miss Hua, whom
she followed into the straight. Current
(by Midstream) narrowly beat Tahmoor
for third, and Box Ridge, a son of Fox-
earth, is another worth keeping in mind.
Battle Dress is by Double Remove from
Lady Silvius (half-sister to A.J.C. Derby
winner Tregilla), by Silvius from Malt-
gilla, a Challenge Stakes winner. Her
maternal relatives also take in Maximize,
an Epsom Handicap winner.
Payten’s luck did not end with Battle
Dress, as he won the Carlingford Handi-
cap with Connette. At one stage Con-
nette dropped far enough back to give
her supporters some anxious moments.
However, she finished strongly to win
from Thrax, and, though hitherto she has
not shone as a stayer, wins for her at
middle distances are now probable. Willie
Green tried to win all the way, but after
leading into the straight missed a place.
Levraut was a good third, and, though
the distance was short for him, Kurrawid
was not far from the place-getters.
* * * *
Sir Richard followed up his Ballarat
Cup success of nine days earlier by de-
feating Togo and Prairiedale in a close
finish for the Ascot £5OO Cup on Satur-
day. He clipped 1\ seconds off the pre-
vious course record for 11 furlongs, but
the barrier at that starting point was
erected only a few months ago.
Derby hopes centred in Sir Richard, and
Eli Phillips refused a substantial offer for
him after he had defeated Sun Valley
over seven furlongs at Flemington in his
last race as a two-year-old. Hopes did
not materialise, however, and Sir Richard,
now four years old, did not win again
until Ballarat. Meantime he had been
leased by Phillips to his son-in-law, V.
Sleigh, a successful rider some years ago.
Sir Richard was always favorite for the
Ascot Cup, and, taking the lead when
the pacemaker, Keelie, dropped back
beaten about two furlongs from home,
was not headed subsequently. He battled
on gamely, and if he maintains his
present rate of improvement may be hard
to defeat in the Bagot Handicap at Flem-
ington on New Year’s Day. S. Murphy,
trainer of Sir Richard, had won a pre-
vious Ascot Cup with Keeping Watch.
Togo, although not quite good enough
after receiving a lucky rails-run in the
straight, improved on his form in the Bal-
larat Cup, in which, however, his late
arrival at the course probably upset him.
Prairiedale’s third showed that he is not
a spent force at the age of nine, and
Marcius, who fell in the Epsom Cup a
week earlier, shaped well enough in
fourth position to indicate that he might
repay following. Isonomia disappointed,
but Elanage made up considerable ground
to finish sixth, and, provided he stands,
might return to something like his best
form. As a three-year-old he won the
Bagot Handicap, and defeated Damalis
and Hua at w.f.a. in the King’s Plate at
Flemington.
A plunge on Unishak at short prices
misfired when the Adelaide-owned geld-
ing was defeated by his compatriot
Chatasan in the Lincolnshire Handicap.
Track work suggested that Unishak had
returned to the form that enabled him to
win the Oakleigh Plate in 1940, but,
although he looked all over a winner
when he joined Chatasan in the lead on
the bend, the latter fought on better and
won by a length. Chatasan, a four-year-
old gelding by Chatham, was racing for
the first time since his success at Moonee
Valley in August, but there was sufficient
money to bring his price from twelves
down to eights.
Sangallo, winner of the first division
of the Mallacoota Handicap, could have
been bought at auction for 350 guineas
last Friday. Highest offer of 325 guineas
was refused, and the following day San-
gallo won prize money of £B?i and
landed some substantial bets into the
bargain. He is a particularly smart gal-
loper, but prospective buyers may have
been scared by the knowledge that he
dislikes to go round a turn. Again on
Saturday he veered off the course after
entering the straight with a clear lead,
but, although finishing almost alongside
the judge’s box, he still wound up with
three-quarters of a length to spare from
his stable-mate Rosmarine, with Lawlove
third. Sangallo was backed from fours to 5
to 2, but started slightly less fancied than
Avion, who lacked dash in the straight.
Law Student, never better than even
money and starting at 6 to 4 on, was the
good thing the betting indicated in the
second division of the Mallacoota Han-
dicap. He led all the way, and won with
something in reserve from Philfred and
Roseate. Law Student is a colt by Law
Maker from Chantant, and, with two suc-
cessive wins at Ascot, is at last acting up
to the promise contained in his third
to High Title in the Debutant Stakes last
year.
A potential National winner may have
been seen when David Spear unwound a
strong finish to defeat Dominex and
Aurated in the Delamere Trial Hurdle.
David Spear has a long way to go before
he reaches National standard, but he has
raced over hurdles only twice for a first
and a second, and seems certain to im-
prove with experience. Like most of
David’s stock, he is a natural jumper, and
his breeding on the maternal side can-
not be faulted. His dam, Spear Maiden,
won a King’s Cup, and David Spear him-
self, although disappointing on the flat,
finished fourth in Rivette’s Caulfield Cup.
David Spear was backed to favoritism
for Saturday’s race, and, although his job
was made easier when Jack Farr, second
favorite, practically lost his chance at the
start, the probabilities are he would have
won in any case.
Border Lass broke a long spell of bad
luck for her lessee-trainer, R. F. Baldwin,
when she defeated Con Burn and
Inspector Scott in the Berkeley Welter.
At the same time she gave Baldwin’s
apprentice, R. Ransome, his first win-
ning mount. Latter’s presence in the
saddle did not frighten stable followers.
Border Lass was always well in the
market, and, securing a nice run through
on the rails entering the straight, won
decisively. Con Burn did well enough
to suggest an early win, but warm-
favorite Treleen let his backers down
badly. Failing to reproduce the dash
that had characterised his win in a smart
sprint field at Mentone a week earlier,
he finished only sixth without ever being
really dangerous.
Son o’ Val looked a certain winner of
the first Pembroke Trial division when
he ran past the pacemaker, Stage, enter-
ing the straight, but Kalbar, who had
failed at Pakenham two days earlier, re-
sponded gamely under Badger’s vigorous
riding and got up in time to make a
dead-heat. Kynoona shaped fairly in
third place, but Public News, backed to
equal favoritism with Son o’ Val, failed
after having every chance. Stewards
questioned H. Toomer’s handling of
Brownie, who finished sixth, but accepted
his explanation.
Backed from 5 to 2 to 5 to 4, David
Banks ran home a comfortable winner in
the second division of the Pembroke
Trial. Always well placed, the country-
owned and -trained gelding outstayed Star
Diamond and Sports Girl, and it might
not be long before he scores in better
company, Ballycummins disappointed,
but Edmonton, appearing for the first
time since a spell, shaped encouragingly,
and might win a race shortly.
» * * *
It is not asking too much of Yaralla
to win the Villiers Stakes with 8.3, after
his Rosehill victory with 8.9. He failed
as a stayer in the spring, but he easily
won the Clibborn Stakes, one mile,
in the unusual time for a three-year-old
of 1.35|. Last year Rimveil, then a
three-year-old, won the Villiers with 8.2,
and it cannot be claimed that up to the
time of his success in that race he was
really a better performer than Yaralla.
The latter has lib. more than weight-for-
age, while Rimveil has 111 b. I am unaware
whether the latter is to start, but, good
miler as he has shown himself, he will
be at a decided disadvantage by com-
parison with Yaralla.
Veiled Threat’s work since he won at
Randwick points to him as a probable
starter for the Villiers, no matter what
his owner’s intentions may be in regard
to the Summer Cup. Although most of
us have looked to Veiled Threat to stay,
and he has won at a mile and a half, it
is possible he is really a better miler than
a distance horse. Of course, it is a bit
against him that he is a trifle slow in
finding his legs, and in a good class mile
race few horses can afford to give away
much start commencing the last half-mile,
but his latest win was at seven furlongs.
Veiled Threat’s stable companion Gun-
dagai is working well, and as his tasks
are confined to sprints he may also be
a Villiers candidate. He has 31b. more
than when fourth in last year’s Epsom
Handicap, won by High Caste (9.5). Gun-
dagai’s last placing was third with 7.12
to Mildura and Goose Boy in the Waver-
ley Handicap. He should be one of those
worth following at the summer meetings.
* * * •
As a result of Dewar’s Rosehill Handi-
cap win it does not seem as if backers
as a whole are likely to go far beyond
him for the Summer Cup winner. It did
not appear that he could have increased
the two lengths by which he beat Rimveil,
but he will meet the latter 91b. better. It
is probable Rimveil will improve slightly
in condition by Boxing Day, but even
if that should be so the difference is
likely to be too great for him. Dewar
has yet to win at 13 furlongs, but he has
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Hurdle Race: Anpapejo, 1 ;
Mainray, 2 ; Spearbine, 3.
December Nursery: Battle Dress,
1 ; Takarangi, 2 ; Baroda, 3.
Villiers Stakes: Yaralla, 1 ; Veiled
Threat 2 ; The Miller, 3.
Novice Handicap: Soho, 1 ; Dun-
dalk, 2 ; Ron Rico or Path King, 3.
Holiday Handicap: Malagigi, 1 ;
Grand Fils, 2 ; Jymjon, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Breeze, 1 ;
Tel Asur, 2 ; The Squire or Gallop,
3.


CIGARETTE CASES %
COMBINING
Sturdy Quality With Novel Features
•U
w\
; * t ,' <. *
-iim " , mam mm I
.1
?>-,
iigiiiii
m n
■
m
gsss
■
. a
■■■
MMiil
Miii
At Prouds . . . English Chrome Cases
in a large variety of attractive nj L
patterns. Capacity 8 '/ w
10. 10/6; 12, 13/6; 15. 15/6.
Super Quality English Chrome
Cigarette Case.
Capacity 9
12, 21/-.
7/6
a
up•
, '
mm
mm
'i
m
u.
This very neat Case is in non-
tarnishable Guinea Metal, or /L
4%in x S'Ain. At Prouds, °
A smart combination Cigarette Case
and Lighter, in Chrome. Holds r /
12 cigarettes. At Prouds .... "
BADGES OF THE FIGHTING SERVICES ATTACHED, 2/-
EXTRA.
mm mm
R:
Hi
HI
The "Wunup" Patent Automatic
Bakelite Case in a variety of colours.
Capacity 10
15, 11/6.
WmSSm
Patent Automatic Cases in a variety
of inlaid Australian woods. |n /L
At Prouds IU/O
V
Sfi.
The "Camera." A novel Combination Flap Jack, Lipstick, and
combination Flap Jack. Cigarette Case in _ Frosted Nickel
Lipstick, and 7 // Wlth Floral Decoration.
Cigarette Case .. •/& At Prouds
T hop in complete comfort in Prouds’ Air-Conditioned Showrooms.
9/6
f
' PROUDS SS
■-.. *. * w . ; • 'L. _.
CR, KING ANt> PtTT STREETS. SYDNEY
COUI\ ■i'Ujf HhlAOmiHi choose your gifts from fronds’ new
illustrated catalogue. Write for it it’s Free.
Missing Friend.
ESTATE JACK MacLAREN or McLAREN
or ALBERT JACK MacLAREN. Understood
born either in Ballarat or Broken Hill, 1880.
Father, English. Both worked in goldmines
Australia. Many brothers and sisters —some be-
lieved still living in Australia. MacLaren
understood left for America forty years ago.
Died there 1941. Relatives requested to com-
municate with undersigned view their advan-
tage.—JOHN R. EDWARDS, SON AND
BROWN, Solicitors, Box 1068, Broken Hill.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
Legal Notice.
WILLIAM CHARLES BYRNES Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity made in
Suit No. 1389 of 1941 “In the matter of the
Estate of William Charles Byrnes late oit
Michelago in the State of New South Wales
Grazier now deceased” whereby it was directed
that it be referred to the Master in Equity to
inquire who were the persons entitled as on
intestacy to the Estate of the said William
Charles Byrnes deceased living at his death and
whether any of them are since dead and if so
who are their respective personal representatives
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry
are to send by post prepaid to Edwin Rex
Boardman of Queanbeyan in the State of New
South Wales Solicitor so as to reach him on or
before the 20th day of June 1942 their full
names and addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims or in default thereof
they may be excluded from the benefit of the
said order. Claimants are to attend personally
or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street
Sydney on 27th day of July 1942 at ten o’clock
in the forenoon. A claimant not residing in
New South Wales must send with particulars
of claim the name and address of a person in
New South Wales to whom notices to the
Claimant can be sent.
DATED this Eighth day of December, 1941.
C. THROSBY YOUNG, Solicitor, of 26
O’Connell Street, Sydney, Sydney Agent for
EDWIN REX BOARDMAN, of Queanbeyan,
Solicitor.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2193 of 1941.
BETWEEN REGINALD PITCAIRN Peti-
tioner and
ARLEY MURIEL PITCAIRN Respondent.
TO ARLEY MURIEL PITCAIRN late of
Grafton in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said REGINALD
PITCAIRN has commenced a suit against you
in this Honourable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of his marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honourable Court on or before
the Ninth day of March One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of you
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of December,
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
MERVYN A. DOYLE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tloner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1907 of 1941.
BETWEEN ELLEN MAY COUGHLAN Peti-
tioner and
LOUIS MARCEL COUGHLAN Respondent.
TO LOUIS MARCEL COUGHLAN.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN MAY
COUGHLAN has commenced a suit
you in this Honourable Court and is applying'
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such
cause or excuse left her continuously so de-
serted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honourable Court on or befpre
the Fifth day of February One thousand nine
hundred and forty-two and in the event of your
not so doing within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED the Fifth day of December, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. G. PATRICK, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
39-49 Martin Place,
TO ALFRED WRIGHT MARSHALL Miroe
last known address was 24 Murphy Street
South Yarra Dyer and Colourist now of
parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife FLORENCE
MARSHALL has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of desertion
and unless you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court at the
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the
State of Victoria within Twenty-one days from
the date of the publication hereof and thereafter
file your answer within Ten days from the date
of such appearance the suit will proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
MACOBOY & TAYLOR, 299 Hargreaves
Street, Bendigo, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT” OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1673 of 1940.
BETWEEN MILTON CHARLES WATT Peti-
tioner and
GRACE ELIZABETH WATT (formerly Grace
Elizabeth Chamberlain) Respondent.
TO GRACE ELIZABETH WATT late of 82
Victoria Street Darlinghurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MILTON
CHARLES WATT has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of adul-
tery with some man or men unknown to the
Petitioner AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Fourth day of March One thousand
nine hundred and forty-two and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the Peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of December One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
(Sgd.) OTTO BROWN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
scored at a furlong less. It is also in his
favor as a potential stayer that he is by
Marconigram.
In the Cup Dewar will meet Yours
Truly 81b. and Two’s Company 111 b.
better than last week, but, while it seems
safe to wipe them off, Santa, Buzalong,
Malagigi, Veiled Threat, Serenata,
Katanga, Thrax, Grand Fils and Mab-
son may be added to his troublesome
opponents. Queenslander Spearvale, a
winner at two miles, was running at a
distance too short for him in the Dundas
Handicap, and his form did not give any
idea as to whether he will be at his best
on Boxing Day. Buzalong’s last placing
was second with 9.3 in the A.J.C. Winter
Plate, 1 mile 5 furlongs, last June, beaten
a head by Jymjon (6.7) in 2,41 i, which
up to that time was an Australian record.
A repetition of that form would put him
a long way in the Cup with 8.13. He is
working well, but lack of racing may tell
against him.
* * * *
In winning the Nursery Handicap at
Rosehill Battle Dress did the four and
three-quarters in 57|. At that she was
three-quarters of a second outside the
track record, which is shared by Grand
Mogul, Korimako, Gay Romance, Read-
ing and Modulation. Grand Mogul made
his time in 1935, and it is surprising it
should not have been improved upon in
6j years. Touching upon records, one
of those of long standing at Rosehill is
Valicare’s 1.38 for a mile in 1930 ; but
though it has not been beaten at that
track Gold Rod equalled it three years
ago.
» * *
The Villiers Stakes is not one of Syd-
ney’s races in which heavyweights have
a particularly good record of recent
years. In the last twenty-two there have
been only two winners with over 9st. —
Wish Wynne 9.6 and Closing Time 9.5.
The time record for the race is Ramdin’s
1.35 i, and of the jockeys likely to be
riding in next Saturday’s race Bartle has
the best record, having won on Pavilion,
Closing Time, King’s Head and Rimveil.
Of present-day jockeys he also has the
best Summer Cup record, his winners
being Braille, King of the Forest, Dalston,
Young Crusader and Malagigi.
* * * *
The Villiers Stakes and Summer Cup
double of Yaralla and Dewar is at a
ridiculously short price, and early on
Monday the order of the most-fancied
horses for each race was as follows:
VILLIERS STAKES.
Yaralla.
The Miller.
Rimveil.
Amiable, High Caste, Veiled Threat.
Grand Fils, Elenchman.
SUMMER CUP.
Dewar.
Grand Fils, Rimveil, Santa, Malagigi,
Aristocrat, Abspear, Buzalong, Chatoona,
Gundagai, Katanga, Red Pete, Sere-
nata, Spearvale, Yours Truly.
* * * *
Whether so much provincial racing
near Sydney for paltry prizes is desirable
is a matter of opinion. It may, as con-
tended, “give the battler a chance,” but it
does nothing towards promoting the
standard of the sport. Too much is depen-
dent upon the betting market and an
owner-trainer’s luck in finding a punter.
The position is much the same as in the
early days of pony-racing in Sydney,
when anything over £3O was a big prize.
Action by the Government and further
petrol rationing may put some clubs out
of action, and, without being unduly
pessimistic, the outlook for racing folk
is not exactly bright.
Increased taxation of incomes is likely
to reduce the number of yearling buyers,
and, with the cost of feed and stable
labor increasing, trainers cannot well
carry on at the fees they now charge
their patrons. On top of their own taxa-
tion troubles that may cause some owners
to drop out. The A.J.C. will do its best
to carry on as at present, and, though it
is suggested racing should be cut down
to one day a week, the fact that this
State’s ruling racing body gives all its
profits to war funds is sound reason for
non-interference with its fixtures. Tatt.’s
Club and City Tatt.’s Club also contribute
their racing profits to war funds.
* ¥ * *
With Kindergarten out of the way
Beau Vite is credited with outclassing all
the other horses in Maoriland. In the
Auckland Cup, two miles, he has 10.2,
nearest him being Old Bill 9.5 and Beau
Leon 9.0. Stayers must be scarce over
there as only nine horses have more than
8.0 in the Cup, and 39 of the 61 entrants
have the minimum weight, 7st. Serenata
has 7.13.
* * * #
The war has not caused any marked
falling off in the number of yearlings
catalogued for the National sales at Well-
ington (M.L.) in January. There are 216
listed —139 colts and 177 fillies—against
220 last season.
* * * *
In Australia if some cheaply-sold year-
ling does well at two years it is safe to
bet odds-on its yearling brother bringing
a high price because of experts being
able to see good points in it that were not
discernible in its relative. We are not
alone in that respect. It is the same in
America. Alsab, that country’s best two-
year-old of this season, made only $7OO
(about £A2I7) when sold as a yearling,
but at the Lexington sales in October
his yearling half-brother realised £2lBO.
Alsab, by the way, has been kept busy
for a two-year-old. Up to the end of
October he had started 21 times for 14
wins, three seconds and one third, his
earnings totalling $102,880 (approxi-
mately £A31,500).
* * * *
The V.R.C, has expressed its dis-
approval of jockeys contributing to news-
papers. That, of course, is apart from
interviews with them after a big race.
In some of these it is occasionally shown
they knew they started and finished, but
their ideas as to where they were during
the running of the race were very wide
of the mark.
» * ♦ *
Whenever I hear followers of racing
holding forth on the subject of “good in-
formation” it makes me wonder how
much of it is worth having. The late
Theo Marks was a good judge and stood
so high in the esteem of most owners and
trainers that he received much more “in-
formation” than most men in Sydney, As
to its real value —well, though the inten-
tions of those who vouchsafed it were
excellent, it helped to cost him a fortune.


Send Him -
i
m
I
m
m
m
m
/
m
i
An Ilford picture of
a rating pilot aboard
a British Aircraft
Carrier, getting
ready for a flight.
Made by
ILFORD, LTD., LONDON.
Australian Office: 347 Collins St., Melbourne.
Obtainable from chemists
and photographic dealers.
ROLL FILM
Distributors: HERBERT SMALL PTY., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
*&*■
•v*
O
r.isfis
10 for ltd.-—2O for I^lo
ALSO IN FIFTIES
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVEN*
fd
SPECIALLY
33
VENT
THRO A T S
Mediterranean situation and pave the way
for the stern and regular harassment of
the Italians on a scale hitherto undreamt
of.
Goring met Retain on French soil a
week or two ago. Darlan visited Rome.
Straws show how the wind blows.
Withdrawal in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Hitler to his forces in
Russia in an order-of-the-day dated
October 2;
During the past 34 months the precon-
dition, at least, has been created for a last
mighty blow that shall crush this oppo-
nent before winter sets in. All prepara-
tions, so far as human beings can foresee,
have been made. .. .to manoeuvre the oppo-
nent into such a position that we can now
. strike a deadly blow. Today begins the
last great, decisive battle of this year. It
will hit the enemy destructively, and
with it the instigator of the entire war,
England herself. For if we crush this
opponent we also remove the last English
ally on the Continent.
The men to whom this order was ad-
dressed have failed to achieve the task
assigned to them. In the third week in
November —a month later than Napo-
leon began his retreat —the first with-
drawal of German troops from the farth-
est-flung front lines near Rostov began. It
has been followed by a sudden retire-
ment from the Moscow region, though
the enemy asserted recently that he was
in sight of the city. In neither case has
there been a rout, and though great lists
of German killed and wounded are
claimed, together with great captures of
weapons, etc., there is no mention of
prisoners. Winter and the sturdiness of
the Russian soldier have had their effect
—it is to the everlasting credit of the
Russian soldier that, after his dreadful
sufferings, he should have retained spirit
and energy enough for counter-offensives.
And there may be other causes of which
the world has not been told. The Nazis
keep their own secrets.
Hitler’s progressive estimates of casual-
ties are worth quoting:
Oct. 2. Nov. 5. Dec. 11.
Russian prisoners 2,400,000 3,600,000 3,806,865
Tanks captured
or destroyed .. 17,500 20,200 21,391
Artillery pieces
cap. or des... 21,600 26,000 32,541
’Planes destroyed 14,200 15,000 17,322
The list of German casualties issued
on September 20 gave the totals as 85,896
killed, 295,900 wounded and 20,299 miss-
ing. On Dec. 11 Hitler placed his losses
since June 22 at 162,314 dead, 577,767
wounded and 33,334 missing. So that
whatever he thinks he has achieved it has
been at the cost of rivers of German
blood.
Stalin’s estimate of Russian casualties
on November 5 was 350,000 killed,
1,020,000 wounded and 378,000 missing.
A Russian communique on December 12
announced German casualties at
4,200,000, including 1,380,000 killed.
In the speech in which he announced
the declaration of war on the U.S.A.,
Hitler said; “The beginning of winter
may hamper the German armies in Russia,
but with the coming of spring the on-
slaught will be renewed with greater
vigor and success.” The words were
scarcely out of his mouth when Moscow
reported that he was putting forth peace
feelers which would not be accepted;
Russia would conclude peace only in
partnership with Britain and the U.S.A.
But it is too early to say that the with-
drawal is a major victory for the Rus-
sians. It will be time enough to rejoice
when the German line is broken in depth.
Meanwhile the failure to take Moscow
and Leningrad must be added to Hitler’s
other failures of 1941: his failure to Blitz
Britain into submission, the failure of the
U-boat war —Mr. Churchill says sinkings
have declined to less than one-fifth of
those for the four months ended in June,
which means a reduction to that extent
front 1,768,000 tons, “allowing for new
building, but not for captures and U.S.
building”—and the failure to push into
Egypt.
Mr. Duff Cooper came to Australia
and then visited Maoriland. In neither
country was he asked whether it was true,
as stated in a “Saturday Evening Post”
article (Nov. 9, 1940), that he and General
Gort went to Casablanca, North Africa,
in July, 1940, to “inquire” into the authen-
ticity of a German code message which
had been picked up by British intelli-
gence.
This message stated the alleged terms of
an agreement whereby the French war-
ships at Oran were to be handed over to
the Germans. It was a trick designed to
mislead them. If General Nogues had con-
sented to receive Lord Gort and Duff
Cooper the trick would have been ex-
posed in time, but their rebuff at Casa-
blanca convinced them that the message
was genuine.
Because of this misunderstanding the
British Fleet steamed into Oran and de-
livered a six-hour ultimatum to the French
warships lying at anchor there.. French
admirals declined to accept the terms of
the ultimatum because they violated the
instructions from Marshal Petain’s Gov-
ernment. So the British Fleet opened fire,
sinking some French ships and damaging
others, killing several hundred French
officers and sailors.
French naval officers later explained that
they had been instructed to lay out their
ships and already had begun to break
down guns and engines. Sentiment in the
French Fleet at the time was overwhelm-
ingly pro-British. Orders to turn over
the ships to Germans or Italians would
have resulted in mutiny. If the British had
delayed action for a week or two they
would have discovered the true state of
affairs. Lord Gort and Alfred Duff
Cooper arrived at least two days too late.
The sinking of the French Fleet has
generally been hailed as a British triumph.
The Germans may equally claim that it
was another victory for them. For, along
with the French Fleet, there sank also the
hopes of many Frenchmen for further re-
sistance to Germany.
If the story is true, it accounts for other
things. Mr. Duff Cooper may or may
not have been communicative on the
subject.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
It was hardly an easy week in which to
launch a new money-making notion. Also
it was a gloomy day, the raggle-taggle
end of a week of blizzards when the
“Summer Girl Quest” took to the air.
The inaugural meeting happened in the
mayoral parlor with bombs coming
nearer, with rain on the roof and puddles
in the streets, but was anyone down-
hearted? Very much the reverse. All
were cool and collected and maybe
cracked a few more jokes than usual, and
they got a lot of good meaty blasphemies
off their restricted chests in regard to the
new enemy.
Mrs. Beaurepaire has launched a num-
ber of appeals during her tenure and each
has been a success, especially since Kitty
McEwan’s been her Man Friday. It
would take more than war right on the
doorstep to put this couple out of their
stride where the Red Cross and A.F.C.
are concerned. At the conclusion of the
meeting those present were asked to step
across the passage for a glass of sherry
and an olive or two at an informal little
celebration in honor of the unpre-
cedented success of the recent Prisoners
of War Radio Dance Night.
Originally the “Summer Girl Quest”
was to have been called “Miss Summer
Girl.” But at the inaugural meeting the
query came up, “Is single-blessedness a
necessary qualification?” No one
thought so, and young matrons will have
an equal chance with young misses for
some honor and glory and agreeable prizes
(several have been donated), to say no-
thing of collecting money for good
causes. Competitors pay Is. entrance fee
and should in the first place send along
a photograph in sports clothes (postcard
size will do) addressed to “Summer Girl
Quest” at the Town Hall.
They won’t win on beauty alone with-
out personality, deportment, etc., nor
without “drive,” for as drive is assessed
the money they raise by penny votes.
Thus the lass with a freckled face and
maybe a pound or two too much around
the hips will, if she collects a goodly
harvest of votes, be on scratch with a
sylphlike shape, hair of spun gold and
milk-and-roses complexion if such a
bunch of charm isn’t so slick on money-
making. A large committee will deal
with preliminary judging, early stages of
which may take place in the suburbs (to
ease up the transport problem for the
competitors). If country girls are final-
ists they will, if the point is a problem,
have their fares paid to town for the
finals day at the Brighton Carnival on
January 26.
Letting the cat out of the bag regard-
ing results of the Prisoners of War Dance
Night was a pleasant surprise for all con-
cerned. Figures exceeded everybody’s
expectations even for those who take it
as a matter of course that Victorian
appeals are always highly successful. The
cheque from this State was for £6300-
odd. Runner-up was Queensland, with
£lOO6, and little Norfolk Island rose to
the national SOS with £2l. In Victoria
there were registered 1200 country and
500 metropolitan dances and other
parties. Among the former co-operation
was forthcoming from places as far re-
moved as Flinders Island and the hamlet
of Goodnight, on the N.S.W. side of the
Murray. Maybe Goodnight picks up
radio programmes more easily from this
State than from N.S.W. —hence the regis-
tration here. Its effort was worth £2l.
For the appeal, expenses as announced by
the Lord Mayor as hon. treasurer were
5 per cent, and salaries 1.6 per cent,
of the total.
“Miss Hazel Leonard” is in Syria.
“Wee Miss Melbourne” is in Malaya, and
two more sisters of the species, otherwise
mobile canteens, are in the Middle East.
All four were presented to the Salvation
Army through the efforts of the Units
of Service, which have raised the remark-
able sum of £2500 since August 5. (Per-
haps Blarney House committee has a
regret or two that it shook feminine dust
off its feet. The ousted women became
Units on the spot.) The mobile canteens
did not absorb the whole sum raised.
There have been many other etceteras,
including garments for Bombed Britain
and food which is begged from door to
door by Paddy Wilkinson and the Junior
Auxiliary for the canteen at Red Shield
House.
The Units’ wind-up-of-the-year meet-
ing was held at Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald’s
home in Kooyong-road, where Brig.
Dent, “a hundred per cent, bloke” who
has seen active service as a Salvation
Army officer, gave first-hand information
of how donations are spent. He’s per-
sonally acquainted with “Miss Hazel
Leonard” and “Wee Miss Melbourne.”
The former materialised through a gift
from Harry Leonard, of Queensland.
Directly responsible for the other trucks
were the V.A.T.C. and the Moonee
Valley Racing Club, which chose the
Units and the Salvation Army as their
respective intermediaries and beneficiaries.
A picture night at the Village Theatre paid
for the fourth chassis and its conversion
into a canteen.
Just engaged Patricia (Austin-Murcott
photograph), younger daughter of Lieut.-
Col. L. R. Stillman (A.I.F. Abroad) and
Mrs. Stillman, of South Yarra, and
Douglas, elder son of the A. E. Hock-
ings, of Toorak. Patricia, who is a
science student, was recently elected
president of the C.M.U.W., but she will
probably relinquish her course next year
for munition work. It’s a University
romance. Fiance Douglas, who is a
Commerce graduate, will join the
R.A.A.F. in a few days’ time. If all goes
well (i.e., if a few hours’ Christmas
leave can be granted) Patricia’s elder
sister Pamela will marry Peter Fetheis
(A.1.F.) tomorrow in Melbourne Gram-
mar chapel.
Sleeping Bag Supplies, 258 Flinders-
lane, would be glad of more voluntary
machinists. The roster of competent
workers grows and grows, but a dona-
tion was recently received of yet two
more beautiful power machines, and no
one likes to see them idle for a moment.
Volunteers are always welcomed for odd
jobs like sewing on buttons, and handfuls
of odd buttons are also acceptable (every
woman seems to have a few of these in
her junk box). Steadies on daily duty
are Cecil Tait and Mrs. Fred Whybrow.
Both can turn their hands to anything
from stitching at fast speed to moving
heavy bales (each bag weighs 3|lb.), pack-
ing, sweeping the floor, etc. Steadies in
the evenings are the Old Fintonians,
Monday being their prerogative night.
Girls in factories continue to make
hundreds of bags per week, staying over-
time on their jobs to do so. The supply
grows, but so does the demand ; the fact
that summer is here (at least theoretically)
seems to make no difference. Bags are
in evidence throughout the three services,
and now are being regularly dispatched
to prisoners of war and to Bombed
Britain, sent through the mayoresses of
the towns which have been badly raided
and through the Salvation Army, Much
reciprocal letter-writing has commenced
through every sleeping bag’s billet-doux.
“This donation is from the person whose
address is enclosed. Please acknowledge.
Good luck and safe return.” Sleeping
Bags president Mrs. J. Sheffield and sec-
retary Molly Kelly are off to spend
Christmas at Wangaratta, not for a rest
but to help with the harvest. A pal there-
abouts is running her property almost
single-handed, as all her menfolk are on
active service.
No one is questioning the timeliness
of Mr. Curtin’s injunction “Don’t buy
Christmas presents,” but it’s rather hard
on the handcraft people who depend so
much on Christmas sales. All the same
they’re not grumbling. Being artists they
know they are never far away from
tough times.
Riding a motor-cycle and looking com-
petent thereon and attractive (easy to
be one and difficult to be both) is Mrs.
Eccles Mackay. She’s been in Red Cross
uniform for months. Aboard her iron
steed she wears transport driver’s coat,
brown slacks and brogue shoes.
The arts will not die. Ages of bar-
barism come and go and still painting,
sculpture, music, etc., survive. Signs of
man’s fundamental adoration of beauty
are to be seen in his contemporary be-
havior. Right through the war music has
persisted, and sales at art shows in the last
two years have not been of lower aver-
ages than they were in years preceding
1939. Also sales are rarities from
private collections. People who own a
picture or two are hanging on to them,
and men and women on active service
are lending theirs till their return.
From Sydney
There was only one fault to find with
the speeches at the opening of the Rachel
Forster Hospital. They were witty and
well constructed, but they could have
done with a bit of lopping. The Mayor
of Redfern and Minister for Health
Kelly were impressed with them. The
latter said openly that he was glad none
of the ladies lived in his electorate and
could not therefore be candidates for
political honors in his pasturage. The
new hospital is in Pitt-street, Redfern.
It is in part of the grounds surrounding
the famed emancipist doctor’s home. The
grounds have had a colorful and busy
history. Once they were a dog track
and for a time an exercise ground for
racehorses.
Over 2000 wellwishers of the hospital
were there on Saturday afternoon and
applauded president Mrs. W. H. Read for
many points in her speech, but particularly
when she told how she recognised the
tune that the builder’s lad whistled con-
tinuously off the note as that of “Abdul
Abulbul.” Dr. Lucy Gullett (to her
and Dr. Harriet Biffin R.F. owes her
being) scored with her statement that the
Rachel Forster was the only hospital that
kept open at night. One night in each
week its doors are open for the woman
who is unable to come for medical atten-
tion during the day. Of the speeches
Dr. Dayell’s is due for an extra star.
Her voice and phrasing were a delight
on the ear.
The building, with its high, blue-lined
colonnades, makes an arresting picture.
On Saturday at one end of the verandah
running along the front block sat a group
of blue-frocked nurses. Matron and Dr.
Puckey, all in white, were ranged at the
back of Lady Wakehurst. Deep blue
scrolled on white was Lady Wakehurst’s
summery dress. Her hat allied the two
colors, Mrs. McKell turned her pretty
profile to the assemblage. Her black
frock had a foam of whiteness at the
neckline. Dr. Marie Hamilton was an
important. Dame Constance D’Arcy
must have had some secret intelligence at
work. Her hat and frock toned in beau-
tifully with the purply note in the uphol-
stery of the official chairs.
Herewith Viola Wilson (Mrs. Frank
Tait), who is the Josephine of “H.M.S.
Pinafore,” now at the Royal. Viola has
sung the heroine in every known G. and
S opera, even Aline in “The Sorcerer.”
“The Gondoliers” will be the Firm’s
Christmas attraction. John Lee photo-
graph. .
Clever Mrs. Tom Bateman, who was
Beatrice McGirr, has done it again. She
has combined law with matrimony, and
got word last week that she had passed
her final examination. Mrs. Bateman
already had the degree of M.A. She is
now the first woman in this State to
acquire both M.A. and LL.B. Husband
Dr. Tom Bateman presented his wife with
a cream cocker with golden ears to com-
memorate her success. They have called
the pup Cicero.
“The Man Who Came to Dinner” will
provide a few comforts for prisoners of
war, though he provided nothing but
misery for his host and hostess. If you
like comedy without humor this play
provides a good enough dish. First-night
audience at the Minerva let loose girlish
and boyish laughter at appropriate
moments. There was quite a flutter in
the foyer. V.As., under the eye of Corn-
mandant Da Silva Waugh, got themselves
smartly into line for the arrival of Lord
Wakehurst and Lady Gowrie and Lady
Wakehurst. Red carpet unspilled itself,
and there was the scent of gardenias over
all; they were being sold for the fund.
Mrs. Penfold Hyland was an early arri-
val. With the Alexander Gordon lady
graceful Kathleen Robinson and Alec
Coppel she received the vice-regals.
Barbara Knox, in black, Mrs. Brady,
who wore with her white frock a little
rosy jacket of stiffened marquisette, film-
star Betty Bryant (with husband Maurice
Silverstein), Mrs. Edwin Styles (whose
husband plays the part of Sheridan
Whiteside, the Man), Mrs. Bertie Kelly
and her party were part of the conges-
tion in the brightly-lit foyer.
■ Manly’s 25-year-old V.C. winner, Lieu-
tenant Arthur Roden Cutler, was given
a civic reception in his Pacific-fronted
home town last Friday. His mother,
sister Doone and and his two brothers,
Leading-Aircraftman Geoffrey Cutler,
R.A.A.F., and Gunner Robert Cutler,
were there looking happy and proud.
Manly’s Mayor R. A. Miller, a Gallipoli
veteran who lost a leg during the 1914-18
war, and M.L.A. Currey, V.C., gave the
young hero enthusiastic reception.
After 44 years’ presidency of the
Royal Art Society veteran artist Lister
Lister has at last been allowed to
step down from his leadership. Last
Wednesday members of the Royal Art
and half of Sydney’s painting world
entertained Lister and friend Oxnard
Smith at a dinner. Oxnard Smith has
been the society’s treasurer since the
beginning of things, since the days when
it had not even a shilling to treasure.
The dinner was a bright affair, and
the speeches were set about with stories
of the old days. President of the
National Gallery Waterhouse was there ;
also its former director Victor Mann.
Nevill Smith, Syd Long and Ray Lind-
say were among the many. The Jimmy
Jacksons, too, were of the chicken-eaters.
Jimmy got a rivet for the new Sydney
when he proposed a shilling collection.
The total was £3 9s. Erik Langker and
his wife were at the top table. Erik
made a speech of which every word was
audible. Bat, alas! Julian Ashton,
of the slim, sensitive hands, whose influ-
ence has been felt throughout half a cen-
tury of Australia’s art, was too ill to
come and stand by old friend Lister
Lister and to wish son Howard well in
his new presidency.
Double Bay has a new spot for danc-
ing at nights. It was opened partly
to meet the petrol shortage, partly as a
counter to dull care. Now that the city
is to face blackouts, it will be particu-
larly pleasing to girls and boys around
about Edgecliff and Double Bay. It is
called Giro’s. Over 200 crowded it for the
opening party and found its nearness to
the tramstop one of its great advantages.
The Food for Babies Fund benefited by
every penny of the entrance money.
There was a great water-lily on each of
the silver-ash tables. The cocktails were
champagne. Mr. and Mrs. Ashley Buck-
ingham were host and hostess of the
afternoon.
Mrs. Zara Aronson, retiring president
of the Society of Women Writers, was
surrounded by tea, crumpets and com-
pliments one afternoon last week at the
Pickwick Club. The writing women and
the guest’s old friends turned up
in force to do her honor, and the
club had put out its best lacy table-
cloths. Mrs. Aronson was the founder
of this society, which in the years of
its existence has unobtrusively taken a
part in the movements of the day. One
of its aims was the entertaining of over-
seas writers. From the party Mrs. Aron-
son bore flowers, gifts and a folder bear-
ing a scroll of pluckable pansies and in-
scribed in exquisite lettering with two sets
of verse, one by Marjorie Quinn, one by
Nora McAuliffe. The artist responsible
for the folder was young Jean Dufty.
There were great doings at Sydney
Hospital on Friday afternoon. There
was the annual meeting, there was tea
and there was a visit to the Blood Bank.
The hospital’s chairman, Norman Paul,
received at the hands of the wife of Dr.
Hamilton Kirkland a cheque fat with
£954. This was the result of the work of
the Sydney Hospital Ball Committee. The
auxiliary had also been doing good work,
as was shown by its handsomely uphol-
stered cheque. This goes to the endow-
ment of the Donald memorial bed. The
widow of Sydney’s devoted former secre-
tary was among the company gathered
first in the board room and later at tea.
Dr. Paul handed out a life governorship
to Mrs. Kirkland. Other life governor-
ships have been bestowed on Mrs. L. P.
Plasto, Mrs. Ernest Turnbull, the
McMaster lady and Mrs. Keith Cudmore
for good work in the hospital’s table-
setting competition.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
Leather Portfolios
W
For those bulky papers In Black
and Brown Seal Grain Cowhide:—
Ideal for Military Requirements.
ICin. x llin. —with 3 divisions.
Price: 57/6
Others: 84/-, 100/-. 10S/-.
C. E. KUCHING SE
"For Everything in Leather.”
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(near Wynyard Stn.). 'Phone: 8W7133
ABSOLUTELY
SAFE and
SILENT
LANE'S
GENUINE
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
'pmmiL
BLUEF L A M E
.......»«*«.
TO INVESTORS
with available
investment money
THIS war will be won by the power of
our money as well as by the valour
of our men. To invest in Commonwealth
Loan issues is the duty of every citizen
who can do so, for if finance fails then
the whole of the prop that sustains our
war effort will collapse.
Don’t wait for the date of the next
Loan to be announced. You can invest
now and interest will accrue from the
date of your subscription. The amount
to Invest is all you can. The time to
invest is NOW!
You can and you should
invest now in the next
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
APPLICATION FORMS ON WHICH ARE PRINTED FULL CONDITIONS
AND DETAILS ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ANY BANK OR STOCKBROKER.
A MIXED GRILL.
Chicago “Daily Tribune” of October 9
had an Sin. x 6in. reproduction of Nor-
man Lindsay’s “Mayflower Returns”
cartoon (B. 14/5/’4l) on its leader page.
Now in its 95th year, the “Daily Tribune”
claims to be “the world’s greatest news-
paper.” The claim is disputed by New
York “Times,” London “Times,” London
“D.T.,” Sydney “D.T.” and other publi-
cations too numerous to mention.
* * * »
“T.”: Some Australian newspapers in-
variably refer to the Russian soldiers and
Russian airmen as Reds. Considering
that there are only 1,600,000 Communists
in the U..S.S.R. west and east of the
Urals, Reds must be in a small minority
in all Russian army and air-force
divisions. When Communist imperialism
inspired the Russians, as it did in the
invasion of Finland, they made a poor
showing. What is inspiring them now is
not Communism nor world revolution
but the same forces that inspired their
forefathers to smash the Swedish and
French invasions.
# * * *
“Cauboy”: Since Gregan McMahon
died Melbourne Repertory Society’s
affairs have been at sixes and sevens.
Now the organisation has crystallised into
a new society. Terms for subscribers are
to be the same as heretofore, and if the
intelligentsia rally to the call the co.
will go into production next year with
Frederick Blackburn, formerly of J.C.W.,
as producer. It is hoped to present reper-
tory plays along the lines laid down by
McMahon, but it remains to be seen
whether the collective enthusiasm of a
mixed committee will be sufficient sub-
stitute for McMahon's individual devo-
tion to the cause.
* * * *
“Taniwha”; Maoriland, like other
parts of the Empire, has withdrawn the
right of note issue from private banks.
A provision in the Reserve Bank
Act decrees that private banks’ notes
are to be regarded as good up to
40 years from date of establishment of
the Reserve Bank, Reserve Bank notes
to be valid for 40 years from date of
issue. In Wellington, a wealthy and
eccentric widow died, and £26,500 in
notes of M.L. private banks was found
under the linoleum in her bedroom. Of
course, there is no question that those
notes are worth their face value —the
Reserve Bank was established as lately
as 1934 —but supposing they hadn’t been
found for another 50 years? The Reserve
Bank itself says that they would still be
good—in fact, banknotes of private
banks and Reserve Bank are good
in perpetuity. What happens after 40
years is that any notes that turn up
are taken by the Reserve Bank and de-
stroyed. Their face value is put aside
under the Unclaimed Moneys Act, under
which payment must be made to any
person producing evidence of ownership.
In the case of a banknote production
thereof is deemed to be evidence of
ownership.
* ♦ * »
The rector of Otago Boys’ High, Dun-
edin, has received a copy of the book
The Battle for Britain, autographed by
Air Vice-Marshal Rodney Park, from
whose dispatches the volume was largely
compiled. Rodney, born at Thames
(M.L.), is the youngest son of Prof.
James Park, of Dunedin, the Dominion’s
leading mining authority, and was at
Otago Boys’ Home. Now 48, he was on
Gallipoli with the Maorilanders and
started flying in 1918 with the R.F.C.
Dunkirk and the September, 1940, battles
over London are among his latest laurels.
♦ * * *
“Cauboy”: The late Norman Campbell,
of Melbourne, was the most prolific free-
lance I ever met. I ran into him one
evening in Flinders-street, and he told
me he had just closed his office door
behind him in the “Herald” for the last
time. “What are you going to do now?”
I asked. “Freelance,” he answered. 1
ran against him next day. “I wrote fifty
pars, for The Bully last night,” he said.
“I expect to get five in.”
* * * *
Percival Serle, to whom Australian
literary folk are already indebted, is
shortly to assume the mantle worn suc-
cessively by Mennell and Fred Johns.
Born at Elsternwick (Vic.) in 1871, Serle,
after a lengthy career in insurance, became
chief clerk of Melbourne Uni. He retired
in 1920 to devote himself to literary re-
search. Five years later his Bibliography
of Australasian Poetry and Verse
appeared. The Australian biographical
dictionary, on which Serle has been work-
ing for years, nears completion.


delight; her dress billowed as she flew. Surprising
himself. Sergeant Piggott chuckled. The face flashed
into view, then out of sight again, and into view and
out of sight like a crazy acceleration of day and night.
Fat Hilda shrieked, clasped her arms about the neck
of her steed, and spun triumphantly among the music.
“She’s a beaut., ain’t she?” said Mick Yates.
“What you goin’ to do about ’em?”
“We’ll see,” said the sergeant.
Watching the traffic at the gate when he had
broken the spell Jhat held him at the merry-go-round,
Sergeant Piggott became very thoughtful. He con-
sidered reducing the women to tears by one indignant
stare ; or scalding them with hot words ; or solemnly
warning them ; or curtly informing them that they
were to be prosecuted. He thought that he might
catch them out in some scene of tumultuous embar-
rassment. Something, it was certain, would have to
“Keep your eye on that bomb, haoella,A while I get the
demolition squad”
be done that night. Cars, people and animals flowed
past him like figures in a dream. Fat Hilda whirled
round in his mind and the music rang in his ears.
'T'HE sergeant was late for his evening meal and
* had little appetite. Mrs. Piggott, at whom he stared
with mild, sad curiosity, assumed that he was tired
after the long day. But the sergeant, the thought of
duty to be done coiled in him like a spring, was not
tired. After his third cup of tea he put aside his half-
smoked pipe, clamped his helmet over his head and
announced “I’m going into town.”
“Anything up?” asked his wife.
“Oh, no ; nothing,” said the sergeant. “ Just keep
an eye on things after the Show.”
It was a beautiful evening, changing minute by
minute from a calm twilight into a blue and sparkling
night. The first stars were twinkling and the moun-
tain looked vast and close. The air was rich with the
odors of summer.
“Well,” said Mick Yates, “what about ’em? Made
up your mind?”
“We might stroll round that way and see what’s
doing,” said the sergeant.
“We know what’s doing all right,” said Mick
Yates.
The town, as they passed through it, had an air
of restlessness. The flags, the colored lights, promised
adventure ; the idlers and larrikins outside the hotel
seemed to be waiting for something to happen. The
policemen saw the crowds file into the theatre and
the doors close. Casually, as if by accident, they
drifted nearer and nearer the corner of Mortimer-
street.
“I don’t know,” said the sergeant. “Do you
think we ought to?”
“Think we ought to!” Mick scorned him.
“In my opinion we ought to give them fair warn-
ing before we prosecute.”
“All right,” said the constable. “Scare hell out
of ’em, that’s what we’ll do.”
The sergeant resisted an impulse to tell the con-
stable to stop making decisions for him. He felt like
doing something to Mick Yates. What Yates couldn’t
realise was that Mrs. Trotter had lived in the town
for a long, long while. A darn sight longer than
Constable Yates, if it came to that.
All the while he debated Sergeant Piggott was
strolling slowly but fatefully along Mortimer-street.
Soon the monkey-puzzle tree would be in sight.
Of course, he reflected, there was the threat to
him in the letter. And Fat Hilda was unquestionably
over the fence. The cheek of her! The way she
dolled herself up! The old barrel!
“Hach!”
Constable Yates observed with astonishment that
Sergeant Piggott was laughing.
“Eh?” he said.
“Fat Hilda!” gasped the sergeant, shaking and
hissing uncontrollably like a locomotive gone mad.
“What a beauty! ”
chuckled Mick. He began
to snigger.
The sergeant was now
recognisably roaring with
laughter. “Ho, ho, ho! Fat
Hilda! Oho! Oho! Oho!”
The constable clasped him
round the waist, bowed his
head on his shoulders and
giggled foolishly till the
tears ran down his cheeks.
“Oho! Oho! Fat Hilda!”
roared the sergeant.
“Humph!” he snorted
suddenly, detaching himself
from the constable’s em-
brace.
The pair were still
hilarious when they reached
the gate of No. 13, though
the consciousness of being
on duty painted the mask of
gravity over their faces
again.
The two blue figures,
vast and shadowy, crept over
the lawn and stood still for
a moment, listening, in the
shade of the monkey-puzzle
tree. All was quiet. They
stole along the side of the
house to a light that shone
from a back window and
threw a pale glimmer on a
pile of empty beer bottles,
a broken enamel colander
and, far and faint, Mrs.
Trotter’s potato patch.
The uniforms crouched.
The enormous boots trod
as carefully as if on the roof
of a glasshouse. The
helmets, like two huge hard-
boiled eggs, bobbed beneath
the windowsill. The ser-
geant put his finger to his
lips. “Ssh! ”
Four eyes peered wamy through the window into
the mysterious interior of 13 Mortimer-street.
Seated at the kitchen table, Mr. William Royland,
president of the Agricultural and Pastoral Association,
chairman of the County Council and Drainage Board,
deputy chairman of his district school committee and
life member of the Rugby Football Club, was in the
act of slapping the right bower of diamonds on Fat
Hilda’s Jack of hearts. Blissfully unaware of his
audience, he gathered in the trick and, elated, smacked
Fat Hilda on the back. Mrs. Trotter handed him a
mug of beer and he drank deeply.
“My Gord!” whispered Mick Yates. “My Gord!
Look at ’im! And you was talking to ’im today.”
“Hah!” breathed the sergeant. And then, in a
tone of ineffable scorn, “Playing euchre!”
Mick Yates began to snigger again.
“The old billygoat!” he said. “Look at ’im!”
The stout, auburn-moustached president of the
Agricultural and Pastoral Association, comfortable in
his shirt-sleeves, was apparently blowing into Fat
Hilda’s ear as if it were a trombone.
“Come on!” said the sergeant.
His heart sank as he banged at the front door.
For one thing, he most certainly did not want to en-
counter Mr. Royland in such embarrassing circum-
stances. For another, he had a notion that by laugh-
ing he had already lost face with the constable, and
that, before the evening was over, something worse
might happen. He felt uneasy. But duty was duty,
and there could be no retreat. He knocked at the
door more loudly than before.
“Oh —it’s you, sergeant!” gasped Mrs, Trotter.
She stepped back a pace in alarm.
“Yes, Mrs. Trotter, it’s me.”
Mrs. Trotter thought fast. “Oh, do come in,
Sergeant Piggott,” she invited. Her voice rose to a
glad cry. “Hilda, dear, it’s Sergeant Piggott!”
From the back room came the scrape of a chair,
the musical crash of a bottle, a sound of scurrying.
Constable Yates turned to step from the verandah,
but felt the sergeant’s hand on his shoulder, detaining
him.
“Yes, Mrs. Trotter,” said the sergeant. “We’ll
come in.”
NEVER in all the years had Sergeant Piggott
crossed the threshold of Mrs. Trotter’s house, and
the liveliest curiosity excited him as he stepped into the
parlor. It was an ordinary enough room in appear-
ance; a dingy carpet, plush chairs, a spindly-legged
sofa, brown wallpaper stained with rainwater, “The
Stag at Bay” and three lithographs of a black and a
white horse in a thunderstorm. But an air of scandal
pervaded it, and the sergeant would gladly have lin-
gered had not Mick Yates pushed past him along the
corridor.
Fat Hilda, smiling ingratiatingly, was alone in
the kitchen, mopping up beer from the table. Large
footprints across the potato patch, if Sergeant Piggott
had cared to look for them, told of the flight of the
president of the Agricultural and Pastoral Association.
It was an episode Mr. Royland would long remember.
Picturing the florid man with the red moustache
galloping off into the night like a startled stallion, Mick
Yates guffawed. Sergeant Piggott stared at him for
a moment, then solemnly winked. A sense of home-
liness and comfort stole over the sergeant as he gazed
about him. The stove, black and polished, sent out
a companionable glow. Cards and an unopened bottle
of beer stood on the table, and half a dozen more
bottles paraded in a row along the sink.
“We been ’avin’ a little game of cards,” said Fat
Hilda.
“You bet!” said Mick Yates.
The sergeant grunted. All the long roads that
day had led to this room. While the stove shone and
glowed and the light struck golden on the bottles and
Fat Hilda smirked and Mrs. Trotter gazed at him in
calm inquiry (for she could not believe that the visit
portended anything worse than a warning), the ser-
geant found it hard to say what had to be said.
He cleared his throat.
“Well, you can see for yourself how it is, ser-
geant,” said the handsome Mrs. Trotter. “We’re just
here, me and Hilda, having a quiet game of cards.”
“You bet!” said Mick Yates again.
The constable’s black eyes were alight with glee.
He made a circuit of the room as if looking for clues
and, arriving at the sink, picked up a bottle of beer
and held it to the light.
“I don’t suppose I could offer you a little drop,
sergeant?” said Mrs. Trotter with great deference.
“Ah, no, thank you, Mrs. Trotter ; no, thank you.”
“Good beer,” said Fat Hilda.
“Speights,” said Mick Yates,
“Come on, sergeant,” urged Mrs. Trotter.
“Where’s the harm in a glass of beer? It’s not often
that I have a chance of entertaining you.”
“ ’Ave a beer! ” said Fat Hilda. “ ’Ere! ” She
opened the bottle on the table and poured a mug
each for the two men.
The sergeant made a gesture of protest. Still
waving one hand in denial, he took the beer and, after
a moment’s hesitation, warily sipped it.
“Won’t you sit down, sergeant?” pressed Mrs.
Trotter.
“Oh, no,” he said. “No, thank you.”
“Well, the fact is, Mrs. Trotter,” he continued, sit-
ting down, “there’s been a complaint. Anonymous.”
“Anonymous!” cried Mrs. Trotter.
“You can see for yourself,” she went on, “there’s
nothing here for anybody to complain about. Some
people have got nothing better to do than writing
anonymous letters to the police. A wicked thing to
do. Nobody’s safe. But you can see for yourself”
Mick Yates lit a cigarette.
“ ’Ere,” said Fat Hilda, “ ’ave some more beer.”
Mick accepted. The sergeant sipped deeper.
“All I can say, sergeant,” Mrs. Trotter concluded,
“is that I’m very grateful to you for your warning.
I’m sure Hilda and I will know how to defend our-
selves from anonymous-letter writers.”
“That’s quite all right, Mrs. Trotter,” said Ser-
geant Piggott.
It wasn’t quite what he had meant to say, but the
words slipped out and he couldn’t see how to recall
them.
“Well,” said Fat Hilda, “if you’ve got nothin’
better to do than worry your ’eads about ’nonymous
letters, why don’t you stop for a ’and of euchre?
Nothin’ like a bit of company to brighten things up.”
The back of her hand brushed along the sergeant’s
neck.
“Come on, Yatesey,” said Mrs. Trotter gazing
merrily into the dark, dancing eyes of the constable.
Take your helmet off and make yourself comfortable.
The constable winked.
“Umm,” said Sergeant Piggott slowly. “I don’t
suppose a little game, just to pass the time away,
would do us any harm.”
“Oh, you dirty old man!” cried Fat Hilda
delightedly.
Gently she lifted the sergeant’s helmet from his
large, bald head and placed it, upside down, among
the shining bottles on the sink.


en
uou
It is often dangerous to carry large sums of cash
meet your requirements en route. Business men
and holiday makers can avoid these difficulties
by using Bank of New South Wales Travellers'
Cheques. They can be readily cashed at all
branches of ail banks, and are accepted at prin-
cipal tourist bureaux, transport offices, hotels,
guest houses and stores.
FREE OF INLAND EXCHANGE
Bank of New South Wales Travellers' Cheques
are free of inland exchange everywhere in
Australia. A small charge for this useful facility
is made when cheques are purchased.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
and frequently inconvenient to remit money to
AUSTRALIAN CURRENCV
travellers 7 dli
FOLLOW THIS
LINE OF
REASON
★
B* APPOINTMENT
GENUINE
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordon’s
Gin
IS DISTILLED
It may cost a
little more but
it's WELL worth it!
StW 4
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUERA'Y, GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
'Jhe UtfiaeSt qm dtitilkU in the woild
SNAP JUDGMENT
By A.C. HEADLEY.
THE first time I met Snowy Fallon was at a horse
sale. Sitting next to me he was trying to look
like an owner with a string of a dozen horses.
To look at him you’d have thought he was won-
dering whether five thousand wasn’t just a bit too
much to pay for the colt that was to save his only
chee-ild from a fate worse than death, and his faith-
ful retainer from a broken heart. I knew it wasn’t
that because I knew Snowy by sight and reputation.
Three weeks before I’d seen him selling studs in a
city street. I decided he was there for the same
reason as I was myself—somthing to do to fill in a
day between race meetings. All the time they were
leading out horses and parading them around the
ring his fat face didn’t change. I watched him for
a while and then my eyes dropped back to take a
look at the horses.
It was then I saw the black filly. It’s no use
trying to describe her because I’ve never been any
good with the right words. All I can say is that if
ever a piece of horseflesh looked a champ, it was
this. She stood there with her neck arching while
the auctioneer began to enlarge on her merits. But
I wasn’t listening ; the only thing I was conscious of
was the way she looked at the crowd as though it was
the scum of the earth. There was color and move-
ment in her, and I was wondering why people weren’t
standing on their seats and cheering. But when I
looked in the catalogue I knew the reason. It’s funny
the way racing men get fixed with the idea that a
horse can only do what its ancestors have done, and
the black filly’s ancestors, as far as I could make out,
hadn’t done anything.
The bidding started at twelve guineas, and while
it was building up to twenty I was thinking of the
wind in the morning. I was thinking of the straight
at Randwick and a black filly tucking the turf under
her feet. I took a look at the feller who had bid the
twenty. He was a thin feller with a forehead so
wrinkled that it looked like a Venetian blind. He
looked so much like a prosperous milk-carter that it
made me shudder and feel cold, so cold that I shoved
my hands into my pockets and my fingers touched
on the roll of notes I’d been keeping for a rainy
Saturday and a certain horse. It was when the
auctioneer was all set to crack his hammer on the
rostrum and getting ready for the next horse that I
said “Twenty-five” in a voice that nearly scared the
daylights out of me.
“Twenty-five guineas,” yelped the auctioneer, “I
am offered for this”
“Thirty,” said the milk-carter.
I had just over forty quid in my pocket, and I
knew that if I went to thirty-five there was nothing
more certain than that he’d make it the even forty.
If that happened I wouldn’t have the chance of mak-
"Wot, no ping-pong?”
ing another bid over him. I took the chance. “Forty,”
I yelped,
“Forty-five,” said the milk-carter looking at me
as though he knew how much dough I had.
With a dull sick kind of feeling I heard the
auctioneer trying to flag up another bid. “Is there a
fifty”
I’d rather have seen anyone but the milk-carter
get the filly. But no one seemed to be showing any
interest. The auctioneer was still wanting to know
if there was a fifty. Then abruptly he stabbed his
hammer at Snowy Fallon.
“Fifty guineas I am bid by the gent, on the right.”
I looked at Snowy. His head was hunched down
beneath his hat and I could see the bottom of his
face wreathed in a seraphic smile. On the other side
of the sale-ring the milk-carter seemed to have had
enough. He was turning the pages of the catalogue
and looking for details of the next sale.
“Sold,” said the auctioneer, “to the gent, on my
right.”
I eased over close to Snowy and nudged him with
my elbow. He opened his eyes, blinked for a moment
and stared at me. “Listen, mister,” I said, “you want
to learn to go to sleep without
nodding your head. In case you
don’t know you’ve just bought a
horse for fifty guineas,”
He looked at me as if he
didn’t know what I was talking
about.
“You nodded your head,” I
said, “and the horse was knocked
down to you.”
Snowy’s red tongue came
out and said hello to his fat lips.
He looked at me ; he looked at
the auctioneer and his troubled
gaze swept the ring.
“Fifty guineas,” I said, “it’s
lucky for you they weren’t sell-
ing one with a bit of breeding.
You’d have been nodding way
up past the five thousand mark.”
Snowy gave a gulp that ran
along the line of his chins.
“Fifty,” he said, “I on’y got
twenty-five to me name.”
“Listen, mister,” I said,
“this thing you bought in your
sleep looks to me like a cham-
pion. If you want to save your-
self a lot of trouble getting out of your bargain you’ve
got a partner,”
Snowy began to look interested. “Y’ mean you’ll
go me shares?”
“The first thing I waat,” said I, “is to see it
written on paper.”
“Where’s the paper?” said Snowy, “and what’s
your name?”
o Continued on next page.)


“Here’s the paper,” I said, “and my name’s
Judgment.”
“Judgment?” said Snowy, giving a bit of a grin.
“I think I’ll call you Snap. See, Snap Judgment.”
“It isn’t original,” I said, “that’s what everyone
calls me.”
HP HAT way I became Snowy Fallon’s partner. When
* the sale was over we went round to pay over the
dough and make arrangements about the filly. We
had till the next morning to take delivery of it. It
didn’t leave us much time.
“Listen, Snowy,” I said, “I know a boy who does
a bit of riding. He’ll be able to tell us what to do.”
Snowy grinned. “I’ll leave it to you.” He took
a look at the filly. “Maybe we got the winner of
the Derbies.”
“That,” I said, “is something like what I’ve been
trying to tell you.”
This boy I knew was a feller named Jimmy
McGew. He was a little feller and weighed about
seven stone. The skin on his face was so tight that
when he opened his mouth it shut itself automatically.
1 told him about the filly.
“Snap,” he said, “I’ll train it for y’ meself, an’ save
y’ money. I got a bit of a stable be’ind me ’ouse.
It’s just the thing. All y’ gotter do is take out a
license in y’r own name an’ leave the trainin’ to me.”
So that was that, and after a while when the filly
started to settle into training it began to look as
though Snowy and 1 had struck a pretty fair per-
former. She started to reel off times on the track
that the sporting papers call “a sterling trial.” It
was great standing there in the cold of the morning
to watch her skimming the
turf so that you thought the
ground was moving away
from under her.
“You got a ’orse orright,
said Jimmy McGew.
| T was Jimmy who first put
1 the idea into my head that
I d ; dn’t need a partner.
“If you used y’r ’ead,”
he said, “you could buy
Snowy’s share pretty cheap.
There’s money in this filly
and there ain’t no sense in
sharin’ it with someone else.”
I began to wish the same
thing myself. I started won-
dering about ways to make
Snowy lose his interest. I
tried him with money, but
Snowy just grinned. “Listen,”
he said, “sell my share for
fifty notes? Wha’d’yer take
me fer? I wouldn’t consider
it not even for a ’undred.
With a ’alf-share in a ’orse
like this I got a chance of a
fortchin.”
I told Jimmy.
“Listen, Snap,” he said,
“what if we get the filly
entered in a race and she can’t run better than a bad
tenth in a weak field. Snowy might like to sell out
then for what he can get.”
“Yeah,” I said, “and what if she wins, which she
should?”
“For twenty quid,” said Jimmy, “I’ll see that she
doesn’t run better than a bad tenth.”
“It’s dishonest,” 1 said.
“My, my,” said Jimmy. “The risk’s worth it.”
“It’s a deal,” said I.
D Y this time the filly was getting pretty close to
the time when she was ready to race. It had
been easy to find a name for her. At my suggestion
we’d called her “Nod,” and in a couple of weeks we
had her entered for a race at one of the midweek
tracks. Just before the race Jimmy McGew joined
his nose, mouth and eyes into a wink. “Y’ needn’t
worry,” he said. “After this race Snowy’ll sell out
cheap.”
Jimmy certainly did the job well. Looking at
him you’d think he was trying to drag every ounce
of effort out of the filly when she hit the straight.
But she only struggled home in tenth place, a good
ten lengths from the winner. Snowy was with me
in the stand.
“It looks,” said I, “as though we haven’t got a
champ, after all.”
Snowy gave a baleful stare. “She didn’t even run
like a cart’orse.”
I took my chance. “Listen, Snowy,” I said, “I
feel like I pooled you into this partnership. I’ll tell
you what, I’ll give you the twenty-odd quid you put
towards her and I’ll try to pick up a race on one of
the bush tracks before I sell her.”
Snowy thumbed three of his chins. “No,” he
said, “I wouldn’ like to impose on y’ like that. Any-
way maybe we ain’t give ’er a fair show. She might
be improved be the run.”
I told Jimmy McGew about it.
“Listen, Snap,” he said, “we’ll do it again the
next time she races. Another twenty quid won’t
break you, an’ in my opinion this filly is one of the
best I ever rode. You’ll be gettin’ a good ’un real
cheap.”
I parted with the other twenty.
In the next race when Nod struggled in a bad
tenth I started to look for Snowy. I found him down
by the fence with a sorrowful look on his face.
“Snowy,” I said, “this just about proves it. The
filly’s no good.”
Snowy gave a bit of a cough. “It was my fault
we ’ad anythink to do with ’er at all,” he said. “If I
’adn’ been asleep none o’ this would’ve ’appened, an
to show me goodness of ’eart I’ll give you fifteen
pounds for your ’alf-share.”
I stared at him and swallowed hard.
The next time it raced I broke Jimmy McGew
down to a tenner, and it was only because he kept
telling me how good the filly was that made me do
it at all.
“It’s ’ardly worth my while at the price,” said
Jimmy. “It’s an orful risk, but I’ll do it.”
It was just two nights later when I heard him
talking to Snowy behind the stable. I’d left something
behind and I’d come back to get it. They didn’t know
1 was there, and they didn’t bother about dropping
their voices.
“All I gotter do, Snowy,” said Jimmy, “is to run
’er dead once more and you’ll be able to buy ’is
share in the filly f’r two bob. I can always tell when
a bloke is getting fed up with ’orse-racin’. Just once
more, Snowy. I’ll do it f’r a tenner. I’ll run ’er so
dead that she’ll be finishing in the first race next
Saturday.”
I just stood there with all the breath knocked out
of me thinking of all the dough I’d given him to pull
“He's old enough to be her great-great-great-grandfather.
the same stunt. I was beginning to understand why
Snowy didn’t seem to be so keen on selling his half-
share. I heard their voices moving away and I sat
down to think. It was an hour before I had the
matter settled to my satisfaction.
I WENT to the course with Nod on the Saturday,
1 and an hour before the race I took Jimmy McGew
by the arm and led him out the gate.
“If you come back,” I said, “I’m going to have
a little talk with the stewards.”
Jimmy looked dazed.
After I put him off the course I came back to
look for Snowy. I found him in the bar.
“Jimmy’s taken sick,” 1 said, “I’ve engaged an-
other boy to ride the filly.”
Snowy looked as though I’d belted him across
the skull with his mother’s picture. He stood still
staring at me, and something moved up and down in
his throat.
“Listen, Snap,” he said, “I gotter see a feller.”
He dived off and I followed. I started to grin
when I saw him in the ring shoving money at the
bookmakers. I was thinking of the instructions I’d
given the other boy. It was costing me a tenner, but
it looked as though it was worth it.
It was beautiful watching that race, watching the
way Nod kept getting closer and closer to the last
horse. Snowy had come back into the stand, and the
look on his face was worth a fortune. In wrinkles,
starting from his bottom chin, it started to get redder
and redder. At the turn the filly had beaten the last
horse for its position. Then the race was over, and
Nod looked as though she would get in the way of
the horses for the next. I tried to look miserable,
but I wasn’t in the same street with Snowy. His red
tongue was out and licking the edges of his lips. It
was the time I’d been looking for. I didn’t even
bother about reasons.
“I’ll give you a tenner,” I said, “for your
share.”
Snowy looked at me. “I’ll take it,” he said, look-
ing as though he couldn’t grab the dough quick
enough.
There was paper and a pen in my pocket.
“We’ll do it properly,” 1 said.
“Gimme the pen,” said Snowy
’ I was trying to keep the grin off my face. It
had cost me a few quid but now the filly was mine
to race as I liked. 1 went down to the bar to cele-
brate.
I was still there when Snowy found me.
“Snap,” he said, wiping the perspiration off his
forehead, “the stewards is looking for you.”
I just grabbed the glass before it dropped out
of my hand.
“The stewards?” I said.
“Yeah,” said Snowy, “they was looking for me,
too, but I told ’em I’d sold my interest in the filly.'
He grinned. “For your sake, he said, 1 ope you
backed ’er.”
ABOUT the middle of the next week there was an
announcement in the sporting pages that the con-
nections of the filly Nod and the filly had been dis-
qualified for a year for improper practises. What
I’m doing now is looking for a milk-carter who wants
a cheap buy.
THE RUNAWAY
By WILL LAWSON.
THE southerly pounced like a tiger on the two
ships in the open seaway off Portland Island on
that blue-skied Sunday morning in the year 1903.
One was the steamer Hawea and the vessel she
was towing was the well-known clipper Samuel
Plimsoll. Now the clipper had nothing left of the grace-
ful masts, spars and canvas which had driven her vic-
toriously for thirty years, save the stump of her fore-
mast, snapped off at the parral holding the foreyard.
As if to accentuate her destitute appearance, the long
bowsprit and jib boom, still perfect, stuck out above
the figurehead, which dipped into the surge at every
plunge.
The wind was whipping up a big sea, and, although
she had no rigging for the wind to seize upon, the
weight of the fully-laden ship was a heavy strain on
the towline. After an hour’s battle it suddenly parted,
with a twang like the breaking of a giant violin
string. The Samuel Plimsoll fell away in the trough,
drifting broadside on to the seas, towards the rocky
cliffs of Mahia Island, while the steamer circled help-
lessly, unable in that sea to put another line on board.
But the sailer’s afterguard and crew were fine seamen.
They got the foresail hoisted on the remaining yard,
and squared away on a course to clear the land.
This was the second time the southerly had
seized on the Samuel Plimsoll. Only two weeks
before she had made her landfall off the Nuggets. She
had been a proud ship, and carried a proud company,
after a fast trip of 71 days from Plymouth to Port
Chalmers. Her destination was almost in sight when
the southerly came up out of a clear sky. A terrific
squall struck the ship flat aback and the main- and
mizzen-masts went clear by the board ; the foremast
followed, leaving the stump and foreyard. Sails, spars
and cordage were cut away, then the foresail was
braced and the ship flew before the gale.
Past Tairoa Heads, leading to Port Chalmers, she
sped, and there the smoke of a tug coming out to meet
her could be seen, but too far away to help. North-
wards she went for six hundred miles till she passed
Cape Turnagain and the Kidnappers into Poverty
Bay, where the gale abated and the small steamer
Omapere got hold of the runaway and took her into
Gisborne roadstead.
There the Hawea, a powerful new coaster, took
her in tow, only to lose her again. All day the steamer
followed, with anxious engineers spurring sweating
firemen to greater efforts to keep the ship in sight.
With the coming of darkness the stern light of the
Samuel Plimsoll was a tiny star in a black storm.
Past East Cape and Cape Runaway she went into the
Bay 'of Plenty and there the gale abated. Twenty-
four hours after the line had broken'the Hawea had
her in tow once more and without further mishap
they reached Port Chalmers.
All her long life the Samuel Plimsoll had been a
runaway, ever since her maiden voyage from Plymouth
to Sydney in 1873, which was completed in 73 days,
with 180 emigrants under the care of Captain Boaden.
She was an iron ship, of the Aberdeen White Star
Line, whose green-painted clippers won fame every-
where. She revelled in the Roaring Forties ; it seemed
as if she took a new lease of life when she stood away
eastwards from Capetown, for she was a powerful ship
of 1500 tons —which means much more than it would
today, when deckhouses are measured. Once she ran
2502 miles in eight days, her best day being 340 miles.
But after that tow on the coast of New Zealand,
though she went to sea again, the Samuel Plimsoll
never escaped the tug of a towline or the fret of
anchor chains. First to Sydney, then to Fremantle
she was towed, to end her career as a coal hulk in
Fremantle Harbor.


HIGH LIVING
at Xmas Time
Results in Biliousness and
Bad Heads
At this period of the year most of us are
inclined to over-indulge in both food and
drink. This, coupled with the lack of usual
exercise and other methods of living, upsets
' - #
the system. There is no need to describe
the symptoms, which are known only too
well. For disordered systems arising from
such conditions Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills
are invaluable. They act directly, though
gently, on the liver, increasing the digestive
secretions, thus assisting nature to cope with
the surplus food. Upon the first indication
of bilious symptoms a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills should be taken, or, better
still, if used regularly they will keep the
digestive organs in proper working order.
Dr. Horses
jy
Oliver
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ■ ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
♦ For local office. address
see Page 6.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS ..............
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-).
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windbum and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/8-3- per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W, H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS-
TO
Special Concession Rates:
12 months 15/-
6 months .... 8/-
/
C°>
&
3 months . 4/-
post free.
/ s V>f
■ ..•••■ ..•••■»'? 'v^**
O’


iiiii
mmm
m
m
;; ■
■
a
/-
1
<>'a
i
■
mSHEmm
■
ACAIN i\JI%MrNOT FAIL!
auR FA ■
r-- —-
« - -rr—« = “-^s;
when we must, a an d in the air. rommon wealth we shall
•»> r ““‘ 0» «“« 01 to. to®* 1 *"•
unwavering j ev ft and retain
defeat repression a ■ ton#r ibufion »*■
free action. Limi is 0 . went of
.. Paoer Manufacturer* wm ff f through the emp«
Ausfruf.o" P«P« fo fhe na tional war effo | |
privileged fo ■ ski ||ed workers
ifs plant, resources
I
1
Inserted
AUSTRALIAN
I 30§,
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., distributes nearly
£1,000,000 annually in salaries and wages to its 3200
employees whose labour and skill have contribuied so
well to the company’s development.
From its five mills it produces paper, pulp, and board,
and supplies firms throughout Australia at prices which
ensure the maximum amount of regular employment in
the industry, and assist subsidiary industries to expand.
