

The new facade recently completed for
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OEEICE; 335. 337, 339 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3193.
War-time Industries Supplement
Wednesday, April 23, 1941.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


B3»«j«g±r
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
Sonnets to the Unknown Soldier.
1.
We did not bury him deep enough; break up
the monument.
Open the tomb, strip off the flags and the
flowers
And let us look at him plainly, naked Man.
Greet him with silence since all the speeches
were lies,
Clothe him in fresh khaki, hand him a rifle
And turn him loose to wander the city streets
Where eyes so quickly inured to death’s
accoutrement
Will hardly spare him a glance, equipped to
die for us.
“You see that fellow with the grin, ona eye on
the girls,
The other on the pub, his uniform shabby
already?
Well, don’t let him hear us, but he’s the
Unknown Soldier,
They just let him out, they say he lives for
ever.
They put him away with flowers and flags and
forget him,
But he always comes when they want him. He
does the fighting.”
2.
A thousand bayonets flashing down Martin-
place
Wheel into George-street, blaze in the sun and
are gone.
And he who can bring back the soldiers the
band led away
Can whirl the cheers and the streamers back to
the typists
And swing the Post Office clock the wrong w'ay
round
Till it chimes Macquarie back and the naked
black men
And the green grass breaks the pavements and
gum-trees the buildings.
When the soldiers are gone the traffic roars
again.
But hollow are the streets through which the
traffic thunders,
And hollow the harbor when the ships push
out through the Heads,
And hollow are hearts and homes. And we
who are left,
We wait as dead men wait in the hollow tomb
Who know they will never hear the miraculous
trumpet
Calling up dawn and last year’s grass and men.
3.
We thought we had buried war with the Un-
known Soldier,
Safe in the stone and rotting away with the
flowers,
But the power in the soul of man when it
rushes to darkness
Is the ancient chaos, and the Flood that de-
stroys the world,
And the tombs are cracking in the jaws of
roaring waters
And dead men come into their kingdom and
portents are seen.
When man has said to his brothers “Let there
be Night”
The night comes most surely, the hour of the
thunder is struck.
We had built so much to hold back the onset
of night,
Treaties and covenants, machinery, flashing
cities,
But the Flood is upon us, and down in the
roaring waters,
Drowning with man, goes his work and the
light of the world.
Look deep in the heart of the soldier, and
there you shall see
The lonely flame of a life against the darkness.
4.
War is a time of decision. Have we not rushed
Mad through the darkness in search of some
island of light;
Stammered with Freud that war is the young
men escaping
From the murderous old men guarding the
gates of life;
Railed at Clemenceau, cried with Marx that the
soldier
Dies for the rich man’s car and the slut’s fur
coat;
And turned (Oh, turned in the night) to the
far green valleys
Where childhood laughs like water under the
willows?
War is a time when half-truths, shadings of
bitterness,
Wither to ash in the flames of light or dark-
ness ;
And we hold to the holy candles of the future
The body of a London child, shattered by
bombers,
And praise its defenders, declare that that
broken body
Is our only earth, its blood our only Com-
munion.
5.
Twice in our time the hunger in all men’s
hearts
Who yearn to the light beyond food and
money and love
Drove mad the Germans —as we in our day
have been driven—
And the will that shrank from the stony paths
of the light
Rushed to destruction and darkness, death in
the sea;
And once in anger and arrogance, half in the
shadows,
Once in pity and horror, and both times like
rock,
Sure of the light in its heart, England stood
firm.
War is the will of the people rushing from
light
As a cataract hurls itself down from the snow
to the sea;
And the man who pits his body against the
torrent
(Though he fights with a grin and a curse and
is lost in the darkness)
Is touched with a light within like the gleam
of bayonets,
For life is within him and sunlight, the peaks
of the future.
6.
Not one man’s war, but a nation’s: that one
man
Is the cave of the priestess where things that
are black in man’s soul
Howl with the voices of beasts. We who have
heard
The animal howl of Hitler exulting in Poland
Invaded, Norway betrayed, Rotterdam bombed,
Machine-guns on women and children, all
Europe cringing,
And mercy and truth the mainsprings of bestial
laughter,
Have heard on the radio the ancient voice of
the pit.
The dark of the cave, the sea-floor, the bottom-
less pit
Where Lucifer fell and the creatures of chaos
exult
Is the dark of the soul of Germany, and there
its spokesman.
The snake at the roots of being, strikes at the
light.
When lovers of sunlight meet with a snake
in the bush
They break its back with a stick. The ants do
the rest.
7:
Burning Dunkirk was the mouth of hell at mid-
night
And a man who was lover, husband, father of
children,
Workman or farmer or bank clerk, not of im-
portance.
Walked cursing into the flames and died on
the beach,
Or clambered aboard a boat and saw white
dawn
Break on the cliffs of England. And this was
the man
Who died at Thermopylae, and died at Water-
loo,
Died at Gallipoli, died in the mud at Pass-
chendaele.
When the Australians crashed singing on
Tobruk
He sang the loudest and was the first to die;
And he will sing and rot and rise again
Many times before the white dawn breaks on
the world.
Look in the darkest past and the darkest future,
And a man goes down into hell to bring fire
for mankind.
8.
The fools will tell you we stand on the threshold
of light,
This year or next the ploughs will be out in
Europe,
And pacts and covenants seal the eternal
brotherhood
And the soldier come home as the soldier who
went away
And find that his girl has been true and his
job has been kept
And nothing is changed from the old days
except for the better:
We stand on the threshold of darkness. And
light will not break
Till the pit is choked to the brim with ruin
and death.
We who with light within us go down to the
darkness
To wrestle with fate and the ancient betrayers
of man
Have little time for dreaming and less for folly
And none for the lie that man will be angel
next year.
Pray we have strength in the darkness. Pray
that we hold
The light in our hearts that our children’s
children may know it.
9.
Never fear, soldier, that we shall not reward
you,
Though you do not fight for money and ask but
little—
A speech and a cheer and a job and a girl
who remembers.
You shall have the soldier’s reward as from
time immemorial:
A column of stone in the park for the men
who are dead,
Speeches and cheers for the living, the pubs
wide open,
And a girl in your bed at last; and after ten
days
The morning sunlight will taste like dirt in your
mouth.
In the days when the stay-at-home hates you
for threatening his job
And the smug intellectual you fought for calls
you a fool
And women and old men contrive to assure
themselves
It was they who sang in the desert and sweated
and bled;
In the long dull years of ordinary living,
You shall know what you know: and that
shall be your reward.
10.
Whether they bury him under a slab of granite
With the poets and kings in the Abbey, whether
they leave him
One meaningless X in a million crosses in
France,
Whether he lives and sings in the streets for
pennies,
Slaves on a stony farm, goes mad in the end.
Or conquers all but his memories and struggles
all night
While the gunfire roars in the no-man’s-land
of dreams,
The Unknown Soldier dies in every war.
He is the stone man crushed by the wheel of
history,
He is the green man feeding the roots of the
grass,
He is the warm man, lover and father of
children,
And by his endurance the world rolls on to the
light
And the grass comes up in the spring and the
children laugh;
And, dead and forgotten, he lives in their
laughter for ever.
11.
Men of the future for whom we bleed today,
For whom this man in khaki with the light on
his bayonet,
This Unknown Soldier, killed in a hundred
wars,
Coming up singing and cursing to fight on for
ever,
Remembered by no man when peace comes
back to the earth.
Goes down into hell to save the light of the
world,
Remember him once for the lonely flame within
him
In the days when the mountains are lit and
all the green valleys.
“You see that happy man singing, safe in his
garden, . ,
Playing with his child in the willowy light ot
evening?
That is the man they told to go and die for
them
In all the old wars. He hates to hear the old
stories.
He did the fighting, the bleeding, suffering and
dying,
And the light in him lived, for ever. His
name is Man.”
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Sailing with the Arabs.
Omitting, the 18-footers on Sydney
Harbor—which, not being traders on the
deep seas, don’t count —there is only one
fleet of sailing vessels still operating as
practical, regular, commercial adven-
turers on the high seas of the world:
the dhows of the Arabs. Because the
Arabs have lost the art of deep-sea
navigating, they don’t go long journeys
far from land any more, but, crammed
with passengers, dates and contraband,
the wooden craft with their unwieldy
lateen sails do make surprisingly lengthy
and dangerous voyages along the coasts
ot Arabia and Africa. Alan Villiers tells
in Sons of Sindbad (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Angus and Robertson) of a jour-
ney of 10,000 miles, taking nine months.
The Arabs didn’t want to take Villiers
with them. Though they admitted, he
says, that “Yawrens” (T. E. Lawrence)
and Freya Stark had written well about
Arabia, they believed that the Koran was
all the literature the world needed, and
Nejdi, the nakhoda of the Triumph of
Righteousness, holding that Europe’s sun
had set and that the only hope for the
world lay in the growth of Islam in
Japan, was the last man to welcome a
wandering journalist aboard his dhow.
Villiers’s cautious introduction, hinting
at dramatic stories he could tell if he
chose, makes one wonder just what it
was that so mysteriously “fell from the
rigging” and kept him on his back for
the first few weeks of his adventures.
Writing quietly and leisurely, assum-
ing that every detail of the life and work
of these seafaring Arabs is worth record-
ing, Villiers eventually justifies his method
by producing a book that can compare
with Freya Stark’s masterpieces ; lower —
but not as much as one might expect —in
literary quality; equally valuable as
documentary, equally powerful as a
portrait of the Arab mind. Much of it
is, as Villiers says, almost incredibly
romantic. This is the Triumph of
Righteousness making ready for sea:
The cutter pulled over to the place where
the Triumph lay, a picture of sail-borne
majesty beneath the stars. She looked pic-
turesque and almost incredibly romantic,
fleet and deep and heavy-laden, with the
tracery of her darkened masts high against
the stars. The beating of drums and tam-
tams and the stamp of dancing feet added
a note of wild rhythm. There were lights
aboard as I came over the side, and I
heard the sailors softly singing as they
hurried at their work of bending the huge
mainsail and getting ready for sea. It was
brutal, heavy work. They stopped fre-
quently to dance and sing, stamping the
deck rhythmically with their great bare
feet and clapping their tremendous hands so
that the handclaps rang through the harbor,
and the serang banged an Indian drum.
The days at sea, until the dhow took
a horde of passengers aboard, were
equally idyllic. The day began with
prayer. The men were all smugglers, but
they had naturally no blame for them-
selves for defying the laws of the Euro-
pean interloper, and, says Villiers, “there
was no hypocrisy in these strong faces
which looked towards Mecca. Their
prayers were not simply a formula to be
mouthed, but a form of real communion
with a very real God. None of them
prayed hurriedly: they always spent a
few moments first in silent meditation in
this discard of their worldly thoughts.”
Then came the Spartan breakfast of a
piece of unleavened bread. Then four
or five hours of baling the bilge-water,
or of squatting in the shadow of the sail,
making rope: “There was no yelling,
no bullying, no slave-driving. Those
Arab sailors had long ago learned how
to work together in peace for the com-
mon good.”
At 11 a.m. came the first real meal of
the day, a little dried fish with rice.
Everyone slept till 4 p.m. There was
another hour or so of “work,” then the
sunset prayers and the evening meal of
rice. Then, “each sailor came on to the
poop in his turn and greeted Hamed and
all the others there, wishing them good
evening, by name. Hamed replied to
each by name, and they went down again
to the maindeck.”
So the night would find us, drifting
quietly under the moon, the ship a silent
ghost of peace mirrored in the silvered
darkness of the placid sea while the cloaked
and hooded mariners puffed at their
hookahs on the poop, and the quarter-
master, the folds of his headcloth wrapped
about him and his bare feet tucked be-
neath his cloak, sat like a sphinx at the
wheel, keeping the big boom to something
like her course.
When the passengers came aboard
things were not so tranquil. Only Vil-
liers’s excellent photographs can give any
adequate notion of the way they were
packed in every available square foot
of the dhow. They filled the boat with
their bodies, the silence with their yells,
the air with their stench. They left the
sailors no room to work the ship, and
tripped them when they tried to ; they
cooked their own food and were seasick ;
they looked over the side, says Villiers,
and, seeing that the sea was clean, spat
in the dhow instead ; a ferocious quarrel
started when the blind beggar was found
to be deliberately starving his two boy
acolytes; a girl died in the cramped
cabin where the women were penned;
after two months, when port after port
had refused to allow them ashore, the
women mutinied. No one was much
interested, Villiers found, when a dead
man floated by in the sea —he was only
an Arab passenger from another dhow,
and passengers often died. The romance
became farce:
From our exposed and dangerous anchor-
age to the shelter of the breakwater was
only a short distance, and the Arabs aboard
the 12 or 14 other dhows already there
watched us with interest that, changed to
apprehension as we came, for we bore
down right upon them. The tug coughed
and gave up the struggle. The serang
threw three anchors overboard, two of
which, unfortunately, were no longer con-
nected to their cables. The ship took
complete charge of herself and drove down
upon the tier of anchored vessels. First wc
crashed into a small ex-pearling jalboot
from Bahrein; next we drove into a Suri
sambuk with a deckload of cows. The
passengers yelled and stampeded. Still
we charged about that congested harbor,
next side-swiping a Batina boom with fish
and passengers.
The climax to this part of the voyage
came when a cargo of prostitutes were
packed into the tiny cabin in which those
of the original women passengers who
still had strength to protest protested
with vigor. Romance, though now in-
evitably tinged with realism and comedy,
reappears when the dhow reaches Zanzi-
bar —a place, apparently, of unexpected
charm. While the dour Nejdi (who,
after seeing a Hollywood talkie, is more
than ever convinced that the white man’s
day is over) rests among the fleshpots
of Zanzibar, Villiers and the dhow visit
the “Delta of Misery” in Tanganyika,
seeking mangrove poles which will be
sold to Ibn Saud; the delta is indeed a
place of misery, but Villiers tells here
a priceless comedy of smuggling.
The great voyage over, Villiers does
a trip to the Arab pearling grounds.
There is not much comedy here —“I
found nothing to admire in that romantic
industry, except the courage and forti-
tude of the crews” —but the description
of the life of the divers, and of the
system of moneylending that forces them
into the trade, is the finest piece of
travel-writing in the book.
Apart from its general interest, Sons
of Sindbad, as a book about the places
and people of the Middle East, has, of
course, considerable topical interest. This
is Villiers’s summing-up of the prevailing
Arab attitude to the various European
nations:
The Arabs heartily disliked the Italians,
They had no respect for a European who
possessed so many of their own faults
and, as far as they could see, none of their
virtues. The petty officials were noisy,
irascible, avaricious and sometimes down-
right dishonest; some of them could be
bribed, and the Arabs, knowing this, had
little respect for any of them. The Somali
hated them, and none of the Muslims for-
gave them for Abyssinia. The Arabs re-
spected the English, who could do things
they could not do, and the Germans, who
were thorough and efficient. But they
laughed at the Italians in Somaliland.
To hand from the Penguin and Pelican
people final and irrefutable proof that
this war is total —to wit, two Puffin Pic-
ture Books for youngsters: War on Land,
by James Holland ; War in the Air, by
James Gardner. Bring the war home to
the nursery; beautifully drawn pictures
of Spitfires, Hurricanes, Skuas, etc., in
action ; a Messerschmitt taking it in the
neck, with pilot just getting away per
parachute; Sutherland Flying Boat to
the rescue of torpedoed castaways ; tanks,
excitingly likened to dragons. It’s not so
long ago that a Minister from the N. S.
Wales Parliament addressed a Sydney
audience, enthusiastically with him, on
the theme that toy soldiers shouldn’t be
given to youngsters because they made
them military-minded.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
§
0L
\C&
\JOW
“THE SENIOR STORE”
*
df
¥,
&
w %
o
n
n
■■■ . i
Mi
'< **'
m 0
i|
%
The Trade Mark
that stands
for real
foot comfort
9
4 m
33/6 Health Shoes3l /-
Dr. Reed's Nu-Matic Health Shoes
with special arch support and
heel cushions. Available in Black
Box Calf, Glace Kid, and Tan
Calf. Wide and medium fittings in
all lines. Full and half sizes. An-
thony Horderns' Regular Price,
pair 33/6
Sale Price, pair 31/-
45/- Brogues 39/6
Our famous "Tree" brand super
handcraft Shoes made with genu-
ine Ist grade imported zug and
zebu leathers. Smart brogues with
extra stout soles and whole Golosh
models on the "Ace" last. Wide
welts and stitched heel seats. Full
and half sizes. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 45/-
Sale Price 39/6
Dr. Reed’s Health Shoes
(Exclusive to Anthony Horderns')
Wise men realise that Foot care is most
essential . . . that is why you'll find
them wearing Dr. Reed's Health Shoes
which are made with special arch
supports and heel cushions.
“UNIFORM” SMARTNESS
AT SALE PRICES
32/6 Officers Boots 30/-
"Tree” brand Officer's Boots in tan willow
and Black Box Calf. Made without toecaps.
Genuine welted soles. Full and half sizes.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 32/6
Sale Price 30/-
WAGGING TONGUES
WON'T WIN WARS!
GOOD FITTING SHOES
MEAN MILESOF COMFORT
27/6 SHOES 21/-
High grade shoes in Tan Calf and
Black Box Calf. Twenty distinctive
styles to choose from in full and
half sizes. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 27/6
Sale Price 21/-
1
• Men's Footwear.—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth,


RESERVED OCCUPATION
By JOHN K. EWERS.
WHEN he got off the bus he was tired out and
moody. Every afternoon for months he’d
felt like that. During the day it wasn’t so
bad. He was so busy driving his class of
eleven-year-olds, keeping their noses to the grindstone
from nine o’clock till a quarter to four, that he didn’t
have time to be tired. It wasn’t until he got off the
bus and came in sight of his home that he really
felt it.
The front gate was wide open. The two boys,
home before him because they attended a school
nearer than the one at which he taught, seldom
thought of shutting it when they scampered in. Four
afternoons out of five it was open like this, and
nothing he said seemed to make any difference. He
shut it savagely, then lifted the lid of the letter-box
and peeped in. But there was nothing in it. There
never was. Ethel always flew out when the postman
blew his whistle, and if there were any letters they’d
be propped up on the desk in his study. It didn’t
seem the same, somehow, getting them like that.
Made them feel sort of second-hand. He always
looked in the letter-box in the hope that he might
have the pleasure of finding a letter for himself.
He walked slowly towards the front door, examin-
ing with a critical eye the flower-beds that flanked the
path. A newly-eaten hole in the leaf of a cineraria
brought him to his knees. He turned the leaf over
and crushed between finger and thumb the grub on
the underside. It gave him a savage pleasure. At
the front door he fiddled in his pocket for the latch-
key. The door opened before he found the key, and
Ethel was there with the baby in her arms. It was
usually like that. She’d heard the front gate click,
she said, or she’d been peeping through the curtains
and seen him coming.
She was always glad to see him. So was the
baby. The ecstasy with which the baby almost threw
herself out of Ethel’s arms ought to have made him
delirious with happiness, but it didn’t, somehow. He
brushed her forehead with his lips, kissed his wife
and went past them both to the hallstand where he
always put his bag.
Ethel followed him and said “Had a good day,
dear?”
Somehow, that question never failed to irritate
him. He knew she didn’t mean it to, but it did. He
grunted something or other, and Ethel realised he was
in one of his moods.
"The light's against us. Spike. Will We dash across and risk it ?”
“Hold baby a minute,” she said. “I’ll make you
a cup of tea. The kettle’s boiling.”
He went into the lounge and sat there, dandling
the kid on his knee. Sometimes he let her crawl all
over him, climb up to the windowsill and touch the
flowers, or jump up and down on the well-sprung
couch to the tune of a singing game they played
together. If he wasn’t too tired he enjoyed this play-
time. And the youngster looked for it. But when he
felt as he did tonight he just sat there and didn’t
worry so long as the baby didn’t fall off the couch
and crack her skull.
Presently Ethel came in with tea and cakes on
a tray. The baby went down on the carpet and
crawled about quite contentedly as if she knew her
playtime was over. Before he began sipping his tea he
turned the wireless on. It was a sort of ritual he per-
formed every afternoon at this time. Then Ethel and
he sat drinking tea and talking in a desultory fashion
until the news session. He always liked to be home
in time for that. It seemed to be the only thing
these days that contained a possible element of sur-
prise. They stopped talking and listened to the news.
He poured himself another cup of tea and sat sipping
it. But there was nothing he hadn’t heard that morn-
ing while shaving. There seldom was. They re-
peated the same news over and over again. Still he
kept on listening in the hope that some fresh item
of news might arrive before the session ended in a
blare of martial music. When none came he poured
out a third cup and said “I’ll take this into the study.”
At the door he paused. “The gate was open
again today.”
“Oh dear, was it? The boys both declared they’d
shut it. But they’re that excited they can hardly wait
to change so they can go off and play. Tomorrow
I’ll watch out for them, and if they don’t shut it they
shan’t be allowed to go out.”
He closed the study door behind him and set the
cup on the desk. There was a letter perched against
one of the book-ends. He lifted it down. It was a
reminder that his life insurance premium was due. He
filed the notice and dropped the envelope in the waste-
paper basket. That was all the mail he ever got now,
insurance notices, rates, taxation. While he sipped his
tea he let his eyes wander over his shelves of books.
There was something friendly about a room full of
books. He’d read all of them at some time or an-
other. He wouldn’t keep a book he couldn’t be
bothered reading, and for years he’d made a prac-
tice of buying every book he thought was worth
reading. That was how he’d built up his library.
But in the last five or six years he hadn’t bought so
many. With two youngsters of school age and now
a ten-months-old baby, there wasn’t much left over
for buying books. Ethel generally gave him one for
his birthday and another for Christmas because she
knew he liked seeing his library increase. But lately
he hadn’t even been able to read. He had to be in
the mood for reading now. Once he’d always been in
the mood.
He knew what it was. It was his lurking dis-
satisfaction with things in general and himself in
particular. His books were in part to blame. He
slumped into the chair and glared at them.
Over the other side of the world there was a
war on and men were proving their manhood in a
way he knew he couldn’t share. He was tempera-
mentally and physically unfitted for soldiering. He
knew that. And he knew that on both scores his
books were in a measure responsible. They’d influ-
enced his outlook. He had no illusions about war.
Since the last war, which he’d been just too young
to share, he’d read everything worth while that had
been written on the subject. He had a big collection
of books, tracts and pamphlets on war’s horrors and
post-war problems. He had deluded himself into
believing that everyone shared his views about war.
Or, if not everyone, then at least the majority. It
couldn’t happen again.
\ \ / HEN the war came he realised that it had hap-
* “ pened in spite of himself and those who thought
as he did. He imagined hell suddenly let loose. He
thought of, his boys, who he had fondly imagined
had been brought into a world free for ever from the
bestiality of war.
During the first four or five months of quietude
he began to hope again. There were shipping
disasters and air battles, but nothing on a big scale.
He began to hope it would fizzle out. He began pre-
dicting to the staff at school that it would. But the
papers and radio kept saying the spring would see
big things. And he, like everyone else, waited to see
what the spring would bring forth. There was an
air of waiting everywhere.
Then came the invasion of Denmark and Nor-
way. Everyone had expected the blow would fall
in the Balkans, but Hitler had struck in the north
instead. A madman’s thrust. No good would come
of it. Time saw an early end to this optimism, but
he consoled himself that Germany had only closed
up one more opening in the blockade. A month
later, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, France. It was
starting in earnest now. Till this moment people had
been going on as if there wasn’t a war at all. But
this brought it home to them.
When the baby was born he was glad it was a
girl. He wondered what he ought to do. He
had a wife and three youngsters, but some
men with family ties had enlisted. He knew Ethel
wouldn’t stop him if he wanted to go. In fact, he
imagined there’d be a gleam of pride in her eyes when
she saw him in khaki. He was in a reserved occu-
pation, but that needn’t stop him. He knew chaps
who’d gone from reserved occupations. But they
were mostly specialists who were good at something
that could be used. One day he saw an advertisement
for teachers for the air force. They would have an
honorary rank and wear uniform. But he didn’t
have the qualifications. They wanted a degree, with
maths, and physics, and he didn’t have that. He
could have mugged up enough maths, and physics to
teach to young aviators ; it wouldn’t be above matri-
culation standard. But he didn’t apply. It wouldn’t
be any good without the degree.
Provided he could get past the man-power regu-
lations, he could enlist as a common soldier. But
they wouldn’t take him, even if he offered. He
wasn’t fit. That was where his books had let him
down again. Since he took up teaching in the city
he’d fallen back on the garden as a recreation.
There were only the garden and his books until
the war came. His books had settled him for mili-
tary service. Poring over them had ruined his eye-
sight. He wore thick-lensed glasses. If he lost them
he was as blind as a badger and his head ached as
if it were on fire. If he went to enlist they’d prob-
ably give him a medal to show he was a “Rejected
Volunteer,” and another to prove that he was in a
“Reserved Occupation.”
But medals wouldn’t satisfy his conscience. He
wanted to be useful and couldn’t see how. That was
why he’d lost interest in his work and just drove the
kids at school like a slavedriver. That was how the
war had reacted upon him. He began to feel he’d been
getting lax. Discipline was the thing, discipline and
results. He could get them, too. But it meant throwing
over some of the so-called “frills” of education. Drive
’em hard at arithmetic, history, geography. Facts,
facts, facts all the time! Keep ’em up to it! He’d
done that all the year. That was why he always came
home tired out. And because he felt it was all so
petty, so futile contrasted with the things other men
were doing, despair added gloom to his physical
tiredness and brought him home each night like a
bear with a sore head.
‘ ‘ INNER’S ready, dear! ” It was Ethel calling
at the door. He’d been vaguely aware of her
collecting the children, giving them their dinner and
getting them off to bed. She always tried to keep
them from worrying him. “Off you go now and play.
Your father’s had enough of children all day. Don’t
worry him.”
He went into the bathroom and rinsed his hands
before going into dinner. Ethel and he hardly
talked at the table. When she asked him what was
the matter, he replied brusquely “I’m tired. That’s
all.” But he knew it wasn’t just tiredness. It was
everything, all added together. And he knew it was
no good trying to explain it. Easier just to let Ethel
think he was tired and leave it at that.
She said “You need a tonic, dear. That’s what
it is. I’ll get you some of that stuff you had when
you were run down before. You can’t go on like
this. You’ll have a breakdown.”
He had a reply on the tip of his tongue, but
from the other room came the sound of the music
that always came before the news. He left the table
and turned the volume up so they could listen while
they ate. Silence fell between them, occupied only
by the voice from the wireless. There was nothing


fresh. Only the same endless reiteration. But he
wouldn’t turn it off. He went on listening, hoping
some unexpected news item freshly arrived might be
broadcast. Something to break the monotony of air
activity, naval encounters, eyewitnesses’ accounts of
an air raid, news from the Far East. Even the reports
of the pushing back of the Italians in Libya were
becoming monotonous now.
They lingered over the meal till the session was
over; then, while Ethel cleared the table, he went into
the lounge and sat in front of the fire. That was
how it was. He’d let his youth slip away from him.
He’d be forty next year and that wasn’t old, but he
felt old. He walked like an old man. He thought
like one. Nobody but himself seemed to think he had
a youth worth recapturing. His pupils had never
for a moment imagined that he should be doing
military service. He’d expected it when war was
declared. He’d thought one at least of tbem would
say “Going to the war, sir?” But not one. They
regarded him as too worn out to be of any use. That
was what rankled. That and his own knowledge that
they were right. That was why he drove them hard
all day, kept them at it. To stop himself from think-
ing about himself.
Presently Ethel came in. He pulled a chair up to
the fire for her and she settled herself with her knit-
ting. While the needles flashed she prattled away
about the day’s trivialities. That was the extraordinary
thing about women. They got no end of a kick out
of the little things of life. And they found ways of
making themselves useful in times like these, too.
Ethel was knitting for the soldiers. She and a group
of friends sent a parcel each week to a soldier on
active service.
Of course they were doing things at school. The
staff had a war savings certificate group. He was
air-raid warden for the school and once a week they
practised emptying the building in two minutes. The
kids were bringing papers, bottles, old metals and
rubber, all sorts of junk that had suddenly acquired
a commercial value. But it gave him no sense of
personal satisfaction. He wasn’t doing a thing , . .
not a damned thing towards winning the war.
At half-past nine he got up. “Think I’ll go for
a walk. Haven’t been sleeping too well lately. A bit
of fresh air might do me good.”
“Take your coat and scarf, dear. It’s cold out-
side.”
“No. I’ll walk briskly. No sense in coddling
yourself.” He stooped and pecked her on the fore-
head. It was a habit he’d got into somehow. Couldn’t
go out without kissing her good-bye, even when it
was just for a walk.
Outside the cold air cut him to the bone after
the warmth of the fire. The street lamps were ringed
with misty haloes. The air was still and bleak against
his face. After five minutes’ walking he felt in-
“If an"If any of youse strike a plug o’ terbacca in the stoo it’s mine, see!”
wardly warm, although his face and hands still tingled
with the cold. He thought he would run. Just once
round the block. It would be good training. He
set off at a jogtrot, but after a hundred yards he was
glad to slow down to a walk. He hadn’t realised he
was so out of condition. His lungs drew in great
gulps of cold air and his foot was hurting where he’d
jarred the joint of the big toe on an uneven patch
of roadway. He rounded a corner and limped up a
fairly stiff hill. He was exhausted after his bit of a
run and his foot was crippling him, go he made for
home by the shortest cut.
Ethel was surprised when he let himself in by the
front door. “You haven’t been long, dear.”
He stood in the doorway of the lounge, oppressed
by the heat of the room. “Stuffy in here. Think I’ll
turn in.”
“Don’t you want any supper?”
“No, thanks.”
He was glowing with warmth and trembling a
little as he undressed. Before getting into bed he sat
in his pyjamas and thoughtfully rubbed his right foot.
Fat lot of good he’d be as a soldier! He’d ka©ck
up halfway through the first route march.
T N the morning while shaving he hovered, brush in
* hand, between the bathroom and the lounge, listen-
ing to the morning news from Daventry. Nothing
fresh. There never was anything fresh! He ate his
usual scanty breakfast and hurried off to his bus. The
same old crowd, mainly girls going to business. The
half-dozen or so men who worked in offices and shops
congregated at the rear of the bus and discussed the
war in a fog of tobacco smoke. He sat with them,
but didn’t have much to say. A word now and then,
but most of the time he read again the news he’d
already heard three times on the radio.
At his usual corner he pressed the bell and swung
himself off the bus just before it drew to a standstill.
He could still do that, thank God! A few more
years and he supposed he’d have to wait for it to
stop and let himself gingerly down the two steps to
the pavement. A few youngsters, cases in hands,
smiled shyly at him as he strode towards the school.
Presently he heard the noise of their shouting in the
school ground. It was a familiar sound. As a rule,
he was scarcely conscious of it, but this morning it
seemed to ring with vitality. He felt as he’d felt
once years ago when he first came down from the.
country ... his first morning at this school. There
seemed so many kids after the handful he’d had at
his little one-teacher school. And he’d thought then,
what an immense reservoir of energy they had. Five
hundred of them, all keyed up to life, eager for it
That was ten years ago. Where were they now, h©
wondered. He saw an odd one now and then, and
half the time had to pretend he remembered who
they were. But he had no idea where the majority
of them had gone.
Education for life. That was the catchword. But
what sort of life? And did life hold out much for
them? How many of the boys he’d taught were at
this very moment in Egypt or Malaya, in the air force,
on the high seas? How many of them were doing
what he wished he could do but knew he couldn’t?
He was still thinking this way when he got to
the classroom. He hung up his hat and coat, ran an
eye over the neat table, picked up a piece of chalk
and began to put some arithmetic on the blackboard.
The bell rang while he was still writing. The young-
sters trooped in and stood for his “Good morning,
boys and girls.”
They sat with a clatter of desks. He went to the
table and opened the roll. They began calling their
numbers—“ One, two, three, f0ur....”
Fifty of them. Where would they be in another
ten years? What would they be doing? What sort
of men and women would they be? When the last
number had been called there was a moment’s silence,
then a chatter broke out, subdued at first but gather-
ing volume. He rapped sharply on the table with a
ruler. They became silent and sat waiting. He half-
turned to the board and said “Now, these sums I’ve
put up”
They were waiting dumbly for the usual ritual
of arithmetic. They knew they had it every morn-
ing . . . arithmetic, spelling, writing, reading. Nothing
in the course of the year had broken the routine.
After recess, history—Alfred and the Danes, the
Norman Conquest or something equally dead and use-
less, The futility of it! After history they’d write a
composition, as like as not about something as far
removed from their own experience as the man in the
moon. English and hygiene in the afternoon and then
an hour’s drawing—art, they called it nowadays. He’d
be glad of a chance to sit at the table while they
scribbled with crayons and now and then brought
their work to him for criticism and advice. Then
he’d go home, tired out and fed up.
It hadn’t always been like that. Once, he’d been
fired with an enthusiasm for his work. Every lesson
had been a chance for building something into young
minds, for getting at their individual differences, for
implanting a sense of values and developing their
powers of judgment. He’d kindled the flame of
their spirits with the poems and .stories he read to
them. These days he found himself dodging litera-
ture as much as possible. His heart wasn’t in it.
There was no fire, no enthusiasm. At the end of
the half-hour it was just another lesson over and
done with.
A tap at the door distracted his attention. He
saw the headmaster beckoning to him through the
glass panes. He left the file open on the table and
crossed the room.
“Young Carlson’s left us,” said the head, peering
at him through his thick lenses.
“Transferred?”
“No. Joined up.”
“But I thought”
“Yes, I know. So it is. But, of course, Carl-
son*s different. He’s young enough, and besides he
had his two pips in the militia. The military asked
fM him.”
“Anyone come in his place?”
“They’re sending someone.” The head glanced at
a letter in his hand. “A Miss Armstrong.”
“A woman?”
“Yes. There’ll be no one but women soon.
Women and us old chaps. Let’s hope she’s young and
good-looking, eh?” He walked away chuckling.
Some of the boys had overheard the conversa-
tion and were retailing the news in excited whispers.
He caught the words “Carlo’s goin’ to the war!”
“Get on with your work now!” he rapped out
sharply.
Their heads went down with every semblance of
industry. He stood looking at them, wondering what
was going on in their minds. Fragments of the head’s
remarks came back to him: “No one but women....
women and us old chaps... .Of course, Carlson’s dif-
ferent. .. .he’s young enough... .they wanted him.” He
returned to the table and stood gripping the back of
his chair with both hands. “Women and us old
chaps!” He couldn’t get the words out of his mind.
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1941.
£100
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of Australian writers
and Australian literature—“ Australian” being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing; so also are bona
fide residents, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £lOO, which
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. If this should occur in any year, the
prize-money will still be available for the en-
couragement of writers whose work shows
promise, or shall be otherwise awarded as the
judges may recommend or the trustees decide.
Only novels will be eligible for this 1941
Competition. The Prize will be awarded to the
novel that is considered the most outstanding
contribution to Australian literature. Each MS.
must be submitted under a pen-name, with full
name and address in an accompanying sealed
envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. First refusal of serial rights
to any entries is reserved to “The Bulletin,”
payment for such rights being in addition to
the Prize. All other rights book, stage, radio
and the like will belong to the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252 188,
G.P.0., Sydney.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j4znfd mm ofWie mellcnt/ncMandlmu/mS
Seppelts
ANCIENT TAVERN IN BISHOPSGATE STREET, 17TH-18TH CENTURY.
None can say with any feeling of
definiteness what face London will
present when it, Phoenix-like, rises
from those ashes Hitler and Goring
in 1940 were responsible for. We
know something of its architectural
delineaments in the past and present,
before 1939 at any rate, but as to the
future? That’s the question. Even
Byron’s dictum, “the best prophet of
the future is the past,” does not help
us, “building fashions” changing so
rapidly. It is instructive, nevertheless,
to glance at some of the structures —•
shall it be said of the more homely
kind?—which lined the streets within
the boundaries of the City two to
three centuries ago. They were not
devoid of elements of comfort, and
externally possessed a pleasing pic-
turesqueness. That was a period
when windows occupied almost the
whole front of the house, especially
if it was devoted to providing “re-
freshments for the people.” The
fronts of such establishments became
highly ornamental, frequently deco-
rated from medallions or subjects
from history. The illustration, taken
from an old copperplate engraving,
depicts an “Antient Building” in
Bishopsgate Street, the heart of the
City. The superscription carved above
the ground floor windows conveys the
information that the licensee was
named Stewart, and that he dealt in
“spirituous liquors, etc.” Is it beyond
possibility there may not be a return
to certain forms of picturesqueness
modern styles, with their “Rule and
Line and Up and Down,” can scarcely
be said to possess?


The Bulletin
Vol. 62 —No. 3193.
Wednesday, April 23, 1941.
POSTSCRIPT TO THE SHOW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
~ 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.).
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foretgm:
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
o months. Us.
Postage bn the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
ANOTHER AND WORSE GALLIPOLI.
Down to the beginning of the present month, Mr.
Anthony Eden had a legion of admirers in all parts
of the Empire, especially in newspaper offices and
broadcasting stations. They were delighted beyond
measure when he brought off his “great diplomatic
triumph in the Balkans,” though one of them in-
cautiously mentioned that it was his first success of
the sort in any region. Now there is nothing so cer-
tain in the field of war politics as that the wandering
Foreign Secretary will pay for his recent performances
with his job.
The “Daily Mail” had its indictment ready first.
Premising that “the country”—and it might well have
said the Empire—“will demand an explanation of the
present deplorable strategical situation,” and “will
want to know how far Mr. Eden and Sir John Dill
were allowed to overrule the judgment of Sir Archibald
Wavell, ’ it declared that “travelling politicians have
proved a nuisance in peace-time ; in war-time they
can become a national danger.”
Mr. Eden is more distinguished for emotional idealism
than for judgment. We cannot imagine a worse coun-
sellor on the hard, realistic facts of war.
“Emotional idealism” is right. The young Minister
who went to Moscow to persuade a scared and cun-
ning Oriental to join the anti-Hitler front; the some-
what older Minister who preached collective security
at Geneva when the League was tumbling about his
ears was an idealist born in the wrong age and
placed in the wrong sphere. He was saturated with
the crusading spirit. He was a Red Cross knight, in
a Savile Row suit and a black Homburg hat, speed-
ing to the rescue of distressed maidens wherever their
cries were heard, be it Prague, Warsaw, Belgrade or
Athens. Mindful of his great following, especially
among flappers of both sexes and all ages, his Gov-
ernment permitted him to go galloping about distant
and doubtful countries with his lance in rest. And
when, with blind folly, he was authorised, as one of
three or as final arbiter, to choose between harsh
military necessity and sentiment fraught with extreme
peril, he plumped for sentiment.
Within ten days the extreme peril had arrived
and there were immediate and sinister reactions from
the Tigris to the Hoangho.
Lord Halifax made a feeble attempt to justify
his successor to the Americans among whom he now
moves. “In order to support Greece,” he said to the
English-speaking Union at Washington, “Britain de-
liberately weakened her forces in North Africa. We
were well aware of the risk involved, but were deter-
mined not to leave our gallant ally unsupported.”
At that stage an Imperial War Cabinet might
have been of the utmost service. Father Bull may have
considered himself bound by the guarantee to Greece
(Rumania, Turkey and, of course, Poland also received
guarantees), but Australia, Maoriland, Canada and
South Africa were not so bound. They gave no
guarantee to Greece or any other country. They
would have been perfectly entitled, one and all, to
refuse to let their soldiers, airmen and seamen be
sacrificed in a madcap campaign and to object to
British participation except on terms of which they
approved—one of the terms actually agreed to, the
subordination of the British general to the Greek
commander-in-chief, must have been laid down by the
Greeks.
It is not enough to say, as was said in a sur-
prisingly brief British official announcement, that the
Governments of the “Dominions concerned” were
consulted. Mr. Fadden has stated that “the Com-
monwealth Government has been consulted before
every troop movement affecting Australian units has
begun,” but in the absence of an Imperial War Cabinet
ali the facts and all the chances could not possibly
have been placed before his Government or the Gov-
ernment at Wellington. In any case, the Govern-
ments of the other Dominions which are will-
ingly sharing the common obligations and dangers
should have been consulted, too, and that in
the proper way —at a round-table conference of re-
sponsible British Commonwealth Ministers, with all
the cards laid on the table and all voting.
The case for Dominions’ participation in the
war councils of Britain was stated in many Bulletin
articles and paragraphs. “These Dominions,” it was
here said on July 3, “must no longer be content to
leave everything to Mr. Churchill, Mr. Eden and Mr.
Duff Cooper. They must demand the resuscitation of
the Imperial War Cabinet and their fair share of
representation on the War Council.” These sentiments
were repeated in an article published in the following
issue, and it was suggested that “the chairman of the
Imperial War —or Defence —Cabinet should be his
Majesty the King.” The subject was broached again
on August 14, it having been pleaded that Downing-
street was in frequent communication with Canberra
by radiophone.
Australia needs much more than mere radiophone
talks. It needs active and able representation in an
Imperial War Cabinet and on the Allied War Council—
if the devoted bands of exiles from their unhappy
countries are still classed as allies. And it has in Mr.
Cameron a man who could give it that quality of repre-
sentation, with a well-accredited member of each of the
fighting services to assist him on the War Council. Mr.
Cameron would not be overawed by his associates, nor
would he take to London that blind faith in the infalli-
bility of British official information and in the capacity
of British politicians to do all the thinking required to
be done for us which is cherished by some of his col-
leagues.
The sending of Mr. Cameron to London was urged
on other occasions. He was then Deputy Prime
Minister and Minister for the Navy, and as such had
given repeated proofs of the possession of what the
great Fisher called a war mind. Even before he
entered the Ministry he had declared uncompromis-
ingly against Continental commitments, especially to
weak countries which “would demand ships, aero-
planes, munitions and transport,” imposing “upon the
resources of Great Britain and her Dominions a
strain which it would be very difficult for those re-
sources to meet.”
So it doesn’t seem likely that Mr. Cameron would
have been in favor of taking Admiral Cunningham
from his job of keeping watch and ward on Italy and
the Germans in Italy and Sicily to do convoy work
in the eastern Mediterranean; of sending the new
Anzac corps to Greece, there, with their British
comrades, to face an enemy with far better
bases and communications and vastly superior
in numbers and equipment, and of leaving a seriously
weakened army and air force to contend with the
imminent German thrust towards the Canal. Cer-
tainly he would not have meekly acquiesced in the.
Government and people being kept in ignorance of
momentous developments which concern every Aus-
tralian by the Department of Information over which
Mr. Duff Cooper presides, and left to make what
they could of official reports days behind the enemy’s
and alarming by reason of their very meagreness.
But support for the setting up of an Imperial
War Cabinet, voluntarily conceded as a right in 1917,
was lacking. Newspapers, dazzled by Mr. Churchill’s
eloquence and by what they were pleased to call his
strategic genius, mentioned the proposal only to
reject it in a few airy sentences. One, still dominated
by the colonial spirit, asserted that there were “in-
superable obstacles,” without mentioning their nature.
There were no obstacles other than pride, ambition
and self-sufficiency in Downing-street and inertia, pro-
vincialism and the “Yes, Mr. Churchill,” habit in
Canberra and other capitals. This has been demon-
strated by what is happening now.
Under the grim pressure of a foreseeable crisis,
an Imperial War Cabinet or something very like it is
taking shape. Mr. Menzies has been asked by Mr.
Churchill himself to stay in Britain. Before Canberra
was communicated with a London invitation had been
dispatched to and accepted by Mr. Fraser. And SOS
signals have been sent out to General Smuts and Mr.
Mackenzie King.
But, in a very real and tragic sense, this mar-
shalling of the minds of the younger nations by call-
ing their leaders to London has come too late. It
is too late to prevent the rallying of the Italians,
who, when Cunningham, Wavell and Longmore were
left to deal with them without political meddling,
were in straits so desperate that the appearance of a
peace party was a fair probability. Too late to con-
centrate superior forces against the Germans in Libya
and strike them at the most favorable time and point.
Too late to save the divided Yugoslavs or the war-
worn Greeks, who must be already blaming us for
their frightful calamities. Too late to save many a
fine fellow —Australian, Maorilander, Briton ; soldier,
airman, seaman —from the consequences of a blunder
of the first magnitude in which sublime heroism and
stoical endurance of suffering were of no avail.
It may not be too late to pluck the expeditionary
force out of the Greek furnace, though a fearful
price must be paid. Nor is it too late to win the war
if the preservation of the Empire is made our one
military policy and war aim, as it should have been
after the surrender of France. Except in North
Africa, where an offensive-defensive may istill be
possible, the army must be relegated to its proper role
—defence. As many soldiers as can be employed, in
some way or other, in assisting the work of the Royal
Navy, the merchant navy and the British and
Dominion air forces, must be diverted to those para-
mount services. And we must turn away for all time
from the lure of grandiose Continental campaigns and
spectacular sideshows which has so fatally attracted
Mr. Churchill.
Stalin Sells Out Again.
“The Fascist aggressors—Germany, Italy and the mili-
tary imperialist clique in Japan—are the chief incen-
diaries of war.” Such was the declaration of “the
Twelfth Congress of the Communist party of Aus-
tralia,” held at Sydney in November, 1938, and there
was a great deal more in the same strain. Congress
demanded that Australia should get in behind “that
powerful buttress of liberty and world peace the
Soviet Union,” which, “in direct contrast to blood-
thirsty Fascism,” had demonstrated “to the whole
world that, by firm measures, the Fascist bandits can
be checked.” In the process Australia was to accord
“full support to the Chinese people against the
Japanese military Fascists, including a complete boy-
cott of Japanese goods and the severance of trade
relations with Japan,” and to “guarantee the indepen-
dence and security of small nations,” Finland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania among them.
“The Fascist States —Germany, Italy and Japan—
have assumed the offensive in the international arena.”
That appeared in the report of Comrade Manuilsky to
the executive committee of the Communist Inter-
nationale, delivered on March 11, 1939, and “printed
in the Soviet Union” ; and again there was a lot more.
The Fascist rulers resort to bribery, deception, black-
mail and threats in furtherance of their aims of con-
quest. They are forming gangs of diversionists in
Rumania for the commission of terrorist acts; they are
conducting extensive disruptive activities in Poland in
preparation for her dismemberment; they are forming
secret companies of armed men in the Baltic countries,
in Finland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Balkan countries.
But these “Fascist vultures” were encountering
resistance from “certain capitalist States,” and had had
to contend with “opposition sentiments” among “all
sections of their own people.” For instance, “the
German people grew increasingly incensed at the
venality, peculation and tyranny of the corrupt Fascist
bureaucracy. The Gestapo met this wave of dis-
content with new bestial repressions, with the block
and the axe and with Jewish pogroms.”
However, retribution was coming, for the march
of Communism was irresistible. It had a party in
Germany “despite the fact that Comrade Thaelmann,
the leader, has been languishing in a Fascist gaol for
six years,” and another in Japan, “with a tradi-
tion of struggle against the predatory plans of the
Japanese Fascist militarists, despite savage terror.”
Moreover, the Communist parties of 53 countries had
shown the world in Spain how Communists could
fight, and the working people of the whole world had
found out what they wanted.
They want to help the Chinese people drive the
Japanese invaders out of their country; they want the
Governments of the countries under Fascist dictatorship
—Germany, Japan and Italy—to be defeated in war;
they do not want world reaction to present the Fascist
Governments with sources of food, raw materials, oil,
etc., for the development of new wars of plunder.
In 1938 and the first half of 1939, there was a
continuous eruption of such stuff. Stalin himself added
to it, threatening to “find strait-jackets for the
lunatics of Germany” if any attempt were made “to
snatch the Ukraine.” It suddenly ceased in Europe,
but continued in Australia, where the Communist press
insisted that “Chamberlain must at once sign the
Anglo-Soviet pact against the German butchers and
extend it to the Japanese butchers.” It went on to
describe Goring as “a drug addict” and “a Fascist
beast of prey,” and “Germany under the Nazis” as
“a land of dehumanised thugs, the dregs of humanity.”
All this while the Anglo-French military mission was
in Moscow.
Then Ribbentrop arrived in that city. With a
cynical contempt for his agents and dupes in other
countries, Stalin did not let them know what the
sinister German was really going for, and the Aus-
tralian Communist press blithered that Hitler, recog-
nising “the growing might of the Soviet Union,” had
sent him “to try to make terms.”
That does not mean and could never mean that the
Soviets are prepared to give Hitler a free hand for new
aggressions.
Though a non-aggression pact was to be signed, “in
the event of unprovoked aggression the pact becomes
null and void.”
It was signed on August 23, 1939. Sydney’s
“Daily Telegraph,” which had been insisting on an
Anglo-Russian agreement, and the extension of the
instrument to East Asia, pronouncing that “urgent,”
discovered that “the Russo-German pact is likely to
relieve the Empire, and particularly Australia, of a
possible war in two hemispheres.” The stronger of
the two double-crossers straightway issued the order
that made Australia a belligerent: the order for the
destruction of Poland. While that horrible business
was in progress, the Australian Communist press
characterised it as “stark aggression, without any jus-
tification whatever,” and called upon “Communists
afid all peaceful people to support the Polish people’s
struggle against enslavement by brutal Fascists.” It
continued to perform in this fashion until Stalin dis-
patched a robber army to Poland to pick up the
scraps which “the German butchers” had left for
him ; then, having received belated orders to twist, it
twisted, and spat venom at “the Polish imperialists.”
Finding “the Fascist robbers” in a mood to
permit more robberies, with mass murder, if neces-
sary, Stalin entered upon his barbarous, but very
clumsy, invasion of Finland. The dismemberment of
that little country accomplished, he grabbed the other
Baltic States and as much of Rumania as Hitler per-
mitted him to take. Then he woke up one morning
and found the Germans in full control of Hungary,
Rumania and Bulgaria, and of the Communist parties
in those countries, and preparing to plant his iron
heel on Yugoslavia and Greece. There were some
poor creatures among the Czars, but the poorest of
them would have fought rather than let Germans take
up positions on the Black Sea coast and on the /Egean.
Stalin shivers at the thought of fighting anyone any-
where near his size. He thinks he can save his im-
mense dominions and preserve the recent additions
to them by flattering and supplying “food, raw
materials, oil, etc.,” to the conqueror of the rest of
Europe, a man as merciless and as faithless as him-
self. He may be violently undeceived.
Meanwhile this incarnation of cowardice and
treachery has, by signing up with the Japanese, sunk
to the lowest level to which even he could sink. The
deed of shame was done in the Kremlin, and after-
wards, according to Mr. Walter Duranty, the Famous


American Correspondent, Stalin “personally bade
Matsuoka farewell at Moscow station —an unusual
courtesy which set. the seal of friendship on the diplo-
matic document” —or set the brand of infamy on his
brazen forehead.
Article I of the diplomatic document binds the
parties to “respect the integrity and inviolability of
each other’s territorial rights.” Territorial rights are
not defined, but, with the Japanese in control of a
great part of China proper and Manchuku# and
the Russians dominant in the Chinese provinces of
Outer Mongolia and Sin-Kiang, definition would have
been out of place. The thing is an unspeakable
Moscow betrayal of the Chinese nationalists, if not
the Chinese Communists, but perhaps another part
of the stricken country has been reserved for them.
Article II provides that “in the event of military
action being taken against one of the parties by a
third Power or other Powers, the other shall observe
neutrality.” That means that the U.S.S.R. will stand
aside if Hitler summons Japan to enter the war in the
terms of the Tripartite Pact. It may mean that
Pacific nations will suffer what the nations of Western
Europe have suffered since the spring of 1940, and
what the British are suffering now. But if death and
destruction come to millions of people in countries
washed by the Pacific, there will be no throb of pity
for them in Stalin’s black heart.
A day or two before the sinister ceremony in the
Kremlin Berlin Radio announced that the Russian
Oil Export Department had undertaken in an agree-
ment to increase petrol supplies to Germany. This did
not prevent Mr. Duranty from taking a light-hearted
view of the whole business. He asserted that the
Stalin-Matsuoka pact is “what it purports to be —a
strict neutrality agreement, without secret clauses or
devious hocus-pocus, which has committed the Soviet
to nothing new.” The fact is that the second article
is on all fours with the second article of the German-
Soviet agreement (“If one of the contracting Powers
should become the object of warlike action on the
part of a third Power, the other contracting Power
would in no way support the third Power”), and 10
days after that agreement was published —less the
secret clauses which permitted the Soviet to glut its
greed without taking material risks —Europe was
aflame. Before it was published Mr. John Gunther,
another Famous American Correspondent, who was
in Moscow at the time, reported that “the Russians
wished to dispel ideas that Germany is now at liberty
to attack Poland” ; and swore by all his gods that “a
clause has been inserted in the pact to provide that
it should become nullified in the event of either
signatory attacking a third Power.” When it came out
that there was no such clause and there must be
“secret clauses” and “devious hocus-pocus” Mr. John
Gunther was in no wise abashed.
Mr. Walter Duranty may prove to have been better
informed. But the truth about Famous American Cor-
respondents is that sly and slippery foreigners have
tugged their legs over all Europe and a great part of
Asia, and the more Famous they are the easier marks
they have been.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Australia at War."
For upwards of half a century The Bulletin has
been a Protectionist paper. Its fiscal policy was
shaped by James Edmond, a Scot of genius who
joined the staff in 1886. He saw Australia divided
into six jealous colonies, all, because of the prevailing
Freetrade sentiment, drifting to an utter dependence
on their export trade. He saw an intelligent, resource-
ful and energetic people in danger of becoming mere
clerks, overseers, hewers of wood and drawers of
water. He visioned this continent as a lonely outpost
of the white race which would some day need to be
defended by its own trained manhood using Aus-
tralian-made arms.
And so Edmond worked for Federation as a
first step towards national union ; for Protection to
give Australia a solid economic structure and careers
open to talents ; for an Australian Navy and an Aus-
tralian Array based on universal training and service.
For many years it was hard going. The preju-
dice against Protection was such that to advocate it
was to be boycotted in certain circles. The six
colonies had a seemingly irresistible force of bigoted
champions ; and when the case for an Australian Navy
and Australian Army was presented the customary
taunt was that its supporters were mad or disloyal.
But Edmond had great powers of persuasion,
courage and energy ; and he pegged away. As con-
tributor, financial writer and associate editor he had
for many years the unswerving co-operation of S. H.
Prior, who was destined to succeed him as editor.
Both men lived to witness the triumph of the causes
for which they had toiled. It is not too much to say
that the astonishing developments of which an
account is given in the Industrial Supplement
which forms part of this issue of The Bulletin are
fruits of their work. If they had not lived, Australia
might never have had the great industries which have
been adapted so rapidly and successfully to the pro-
duction of things required for the prosecution of the
war.
Much more remains to be done ; but done it will
be. Australia will increasingly produce machines and
munitions, not only for its own requirements but for
those of other parts of the Empire. Had the Free-
trade spirit conquered, it would in that field and in this
crisis have been more of a liability than an asset.
It's Only the People's Money.
Always keen on spending, and never deaf to an
appeal for a subsidy from a concern with a high-
sounding name, the Government at Canberra had its
ear stuck out in the old familiar fashion when Mr.
Anthony Eden or some unknown representative of the
fugitive League of Nations asked it for more money
for the League. Mr. Eden or the unknown men-
tioned that the Commonwealth’s 1940 contribution to
the flying circus amounted to £42,200 Australian.
“After taking several factors into account,” the Gov-
ernment, through its kindhearted Minister Stewart,
agreed to weigh-in with £34,000 this year “in six
bi-monthly instalments.”
“On the outbreak of war,” Mr. Stewart explained,
“there were 45 effective members of the League” ;
and he read the list. On it were Belgium, Bulgaria,
China, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The
Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R.
and Yugoslavia. The U.S.S.R. was expelled for carry-
ing fire and slaughter into Finland. There is no need
to descant on what happened to those other States, all
of which relied more or less on that pitiful fraud
“collective security.”
There remain among the nominally effective
members Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia,
Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Equador, Egypt, Haiti,
Iran, Irak, Liberia, Mexico, Panama, Portugal, Siam,
Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Uruguay. It is rather
barefaced to include Switzerland, seeing that the Swiss
chased the huge League staff out of Geneva. The
allegiance of nearly all the other nominal effectives
listed is extremely doubtful. It is not too much to
say that the only really effective members, effective
in the sense that the money is good, are the U.K.,
the Dominions and India.
According to the benevolent Stewart, “some part
of the League’s work” is now being carried on at
Princeton, and the International Labor Office is in-
stalled at Magill. And to cover these very restricted
operations what is left of the League had the
face to budget for an expenditure of £770,000 (Aus-
tralian) and to ask Mr. Stewart’s Government for
nearly 5 per cent, of it —this when Mr. Stewart’s Gov-
ernment is taxing people up to the eyes and going
heavily into debt to pay for the war that the League
was to have prevented. And Mr. Stewart’s Govern-
ment complied like a lot of lambs.
It is a gross and wanton waste of public money.
As bad in its way as the granting of £BOOO to the
alleged National Travel Association for beating up the
American tourist who has ceased to come.
One Parliament.
A city newspaper, reporting the annual conference
of the State U.A.P. in Sydney, saw fit to feature a
resolution demanding that N.S.W. be given a greater
share of war contracts. Much more significant was the
voting on a motion urging the abolition of State Par-
liaments. The motion was defeated, but 76 delegates
out of 173 were in favor of it.
The conviction that this country needs one Par-
liament is growing. It has been very strong in country
districts for a long time, and anyone who cares to ask
a few questions in the cities will find a pronounced
desire for abolition of the State futilities. Resolutions
favoring abolition or asking for a referendum on the
question crop up in all sorts of places, from meetings
of farmers’ organisations to those of such industrial
bodies as the Federated Enginedrivers and Firemen.
A host of small annoyances keeps cropping up
from the overlapping departmentalism of seven dif-
ferent Governments. Taxation appears to have run
mad. Primary production is the football of a variety
of controllers. State squabbles with State and with
the Commonwealth over “rights” to loans, to war
contracts, to home and export markets. A horde of
State Ministers vociferously demands this, that and
the other thing.
No wonder the movement for abolition grows.
The wonder is that the gentlemen at Canberra have
ignored it so long. This attitude, if persisted in, will
become unhealthy for a lot of them.
Book Early or Walk !
The row between the Commonwealth Air Minister
and the N.S.W. Railways Department over the latter’s
refusal to make berths available on an express train
for the Minister and staff to attend a War Cabinet
meeting brought forth a couple of interesting state-
ments.
Said the Air Minister:
Surely this is the only country in the world where
a Service Minister, travelling on official business in
war-time, can’t get priority over holiday-makers on a
Government railway.
Said the N.S.W. Acting-Secretary for Railways:
We show preference to nobody.
Whereupon the Minister wanted to know if troops
going on duty would have to yield to civilians with
prior bookings, and threatened that National Security
Regulations might be used to compel State railways
to provide berths for Commonwealth Ministers.
Mr. McEwen now has a wonderful chance to
urge that the Commonwealth take control of trans-
port. It should have done so long ago. This is the
only belligerent country which has six different, and
often conflicting, controllers of its transport and six
different transport systems —as well as the railways
which the national authority owns and controls.
If inspiration is needed it can be found in a reso-
lution submitted by several State branches of the
Federated Enginedrivers and Firemen’s Association at
their Federal conference in Brisbane. This urges the
Commonwealth to take over State railways as a war
measure.
The men responsible are in jobs which bring
them into close, practical contact with railway affairs.
They must know better than anybody else the waste,
extravagance and confusion involved in the present
forms of control. It is very striking that, meet-
ing as an industrial body chiefly concerned with main-
taining and improving industrial conditions in their
occupation, they should bring forward a resolution
of this nature.
Transport should be under national control in
peace-time. That the country is still saddled with
seven control systems after 18 months of war is
nothing short of tragic.
Strikers and War.
Apart altogether from the rights or wrongs of those
affected, the gas strike in N.S.W. must bring Australia
hard up against the question whether, with indus-
trial arbitration available for all, it can concede the
right to strike in war-time.
The employees concerned in this gas strike enjoy
conditions denied to most workers outside the public
service, yet they seize the most critical moment in
their country’s history to strike, not for more pay but
for extra leave. Leave! Do these men ever wonder
what sort of leave they would get from a triumphant
enemy?
Some of them do. Some of them tried to have
the strike called off. But they encountered the same
old intimidating tactics by which militant minorities
in unions get their way. One of them said, facing a
hostile uproar,
Our conditions are bad, but our mates on the other
side have worse conditions.
And the uproar mounted until his voice was drowned.
A good many fellows of his type must be won-
dering what they’ve got into, especially since the
strike leaders, not satisfied with holding up one essen-
tial industry, threatened last week to drag in miners
and transport workers.
It is to be hoped the latter won’t make fools of
themselves. If any of them are thinking of it they
should note that, seeking support, a strike leader went
not to the recognised Labor party, but to the “Hands
Off Russia” faction, whose latest impertinence was
a demand that Australian service men should be with-
drawn from the war. Naturally, this crowd wel-
comed the strikers. At its Easter Conference it car-
ried a resolution of “solidarity” with them.
This war is an all-in affair in which industry has
a principal part. The side with the greater machine
strength will be the winner. Steadygoing Australian
unionists don’t need to be told what will happen to
them and their unions if Germany wins.
As for the Australian public, it is beginning to
ask itself whether, in the present desperate emergency,
a body of workers in sheltered jobs has any more
right to down tools over a real or trumped-up wrong
than a body of soldiers has to mutiny.
What About Dollar Exchange?
People who buy Sydney Sunday papers for war news
and see whole pages of these sheets given over to the
glorification of playboys, “socialites” and “dashing”
punters, for whom the war seems to have no meaning,
are apt to leap with rage. Australian writers and
artists join in the leaping when they turn to the
pages in which American journalists and perpetrators
of strips, comic and otherwise, perform. Now there
are more of these imported features.
At a cost of “more than £4OO a week” the
Sunday “Telegraph” is publishing, in “a separate fact-
packed magazine,” New York “Time’s” “complete
cover of war and foreign news, flashed from New
York to Sydney by radiophone.”
“Time,” it is alleged, is “renowned as the maga-
zine of facts. It never guesses, never takes chances,
never suppresses the truth.” Never? Well, hardly ever.
In one of its August issues it published an infamous
slander on Australian soldiers, alleging that they were
“not allowed in Egypt because they raised such hell
there last time.” And the Government which has the
honor of Australian soldiers in its keeping lets this
lying and unrepentant rag come in as a supplement
to an Australian paper!
Not to be outdone in the American-feature line,
the “Sunday Sun” is publishing “Newsweek,” “the
great American news magazine, the magazine that’s
ahead of time.” “Newsweek,” which “is regarded
throughout the world as the best inside information
of what is going to happen.” “Newsweek,” which
“scooped the world when it reported 80,000 British
troops in Iceland.” Yes, “80,000 British troops in
Iceland,” which has a resident population of nearly
120,000.
Did anyone say anything about dollar exchange?
Mr. Fadden hasn’t been heard from on this occasion,
nor has Mr. Harrison, his Minister of Customs,
though at other times Mr. Harrison has been very
copious on the subject of newsprint rationing.
First Instalment.
Mr. Eric Spooner, M.H.R., is a staunch believer in
that wonderful new order that is to come out of this
war. He told a Gosford (N.S.W.) crowd that Aus-
tralia would lead in the birth of a new world in the
Pacific, particularly in social and monetary reform.
If Mr. Spooner mentioned any ideas “on monetary
reform” they weren’t reported. On social reform he
was quoted as saying that the first instalment had
already arrived —the Holt child-endowment scheme.
This is to be followed “soon” by all-Australian widows’
pensions, with national insurance little more than a
length behind. And, of course, by more taxation, though
on that phase of the subject Mr. Spooner was silent.
There is certainly nothing new about schemes
that propose to take money from one section of the
community and give it to another. I. T. Lang thought
of it long ago.
Mr. Spooner has been heard advocating the
abolition of State Parliaments. As an ex-member of
the most extravagant and futile of them he should
know what he is talking about in this case. It’s a pity
he can’t see that an indirect threat of more taxation
on a community that is struggling to pay war taxes
and keep six enormous State establishments going at
the same time is likely to make that community shrink
from new orders.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: Didn’t Donne write a
sonnet to the effect that the flea which
bit both him and his mistress had
created an unbreakable bond between
them? Immediately in front of me as
I strolled along Sideshow Alley at Syd-
ney Show were a clerical gent., a re-
spectable suburban matron and her small
daughter, two very haughty and dis-
tinguished-looking old ladies and three
“I got tired of catching butterflies."
drunks. The company, as I did,
pondered and then passed by the Wild
Woman, the midgets, the Fattest Woman
in the World and all the rest of them ;
but at the tent of the performing fleas
they paused a long time. They glanced
uneasily about them ; with a detached
air they paid their bobs; they darted
into the tent. I suspect that in the
clerical gent., the matron and child, the
two aristocratic old ladies, in the drunks
and in me, there lurks the Missing Link
still.
# * * *
“S.T.S.”; These general - knowledge
questionnaires everywhere—the almost
forgotten word “quiz” is being revived
to describe them —do show how empty
is our theory of certain “classic” writers
being known to everyone. Here are three
recent genuine cases: (1) Question,
“Name three books by Charles Dickens.”
A. (a pause), David Copperfield (a long
pause), Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch.
(2) Q. (with good money hanging on it),
“Name five plays by Shakspeare.” A.
(in an almost offended tone), “I couldn’t
name one .” (3) Q., “In what plays of
Shakspeare does Falstaff appear?” A.,
“Martin Chuzzlewit.” And, after all,
does it really matter? Which is the more
valuable, to know the plays of Shak-
speare backwards or to be able to restart
a car that breaks down 50 miles from
anywhere? And the two capacities seem
to tend more and more not to go to-
gether.
* * * *
“Visitor”: Probably every city talks
of “the harbor” or “the bay” as though
there were not another in the world. But
surely Adelaide is supreme in this allusive
game. The town of Glenelg is still “the
bay,” because it was called Holdfast
Bay just at the beginning of things;
but “the beach” is Henley Beach, now a
thriving town, which wants to drop the
second word (except for getting mixed
up with the modern Henley-on-Torrens).
Semaphore and Grange both had “the”
before them for a century or so, but are
striving now to get rid of it. “The island”
is Kangaroo L, 70 miles away; “the
Peninsula” is Yorke P., across St. Vincent
Gulf ; but “the Gulf trip” is away beyond
that—up Spencer’s. The prison at Dry
Creek is still popularly “the Stockade,”
which is how it started. But the double-
banking is the queerest. You have to
listen carefully to the rest of the sentence
and guess whether “the river” means the
Torrens close at hand or the distant
Murray. “Up to the Mount” is Lofty,
behind the city, but “down to the Mount”
is Gambier, 300 miles away. Similarly,
“the hills” are Lofty and its range ; but
“the Hill” is Broken Hill. In short, when-
ever an Adelaidean speaks of “the” any-
where at all, the only safe course for an
outsider is to ask “Which?”
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: The local drunk and his
missus went to the Sydney Show on Good
Friday, a day of heat, crowds and
closed bars. We first saw them about
10 a.m. We saw his missus, on her own,
at midday, and twice more during the
afternoon, still alone, and we wondered
if he had discovered some secret source
of supply denied to ordinary individuals.
At 4.30 p.m., on the way out, we struck
her again. “I’m awfully tired,” she said,
“and I’m supposed to pick up my man,
but I feel I couldn’t go back into that
crowd.” Did she know where he was?
She did. Could we help? We could,
and, having received directions, we went
to the brewers’ exhibit in the industrial
pavilion and retrieved him. “Darn
good show,” he muttered, looking back
at the artificial cascade of frothing beer
as we moved away ; “never want t’ see a
better.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: If anybody wants to
get the fright of his life he has only to
try the new “safety” lanes provided by
a sapient Melbourne Council between
main intersections in Collins-street and
Bourke-street. They comprise the usual
yellow lines drawn from pavement to
pavement with large warnings, “Slow,”
printed east and west of these borders.
The notion is that the motorist, courteous
fellow, wiH slow down when he
approaches the warning word and amble
gently over the lane or even stop politely
if pedestrians happen to be crossing. But
the City Fathers never did know anything
about human nature. If they did they
would realise that a mark on the road to
the average Melbourne motorist is, like
the Equator, an invisible line. He doesn’t
see it. All he feels is an emotion of rage
against Authority and he automatically
presses his foot on the accelerator ; and
so do some tram drivers. The resqlt of
the council’s latest safety device is that
simple people who never crossed city
streets previously save with a traffic cop’s
permission, because they are reverential
to Authority, now trust themselves to the
authority of the council’s lines and find
themselves in a maelstrom.
* * * *
“X.S.”: “Practice Court. —At 10.30:
Chamber music.” Charming typographical
error made by the “Argus” in a recent
issue. “It is a striking testimony to the
harmony of relations existing in this
court,” remarked Lowe, L, next morning.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The N.S.W. Government has
done a good job of work in appointing
a committee to inquire whether State law
should be amended to replace the present
system of fining and imprisoning habitual
drunkards by one of compulsory treat-
ment in a suitable institution. In most
advanced countries these unfortunate vic-
tims of psychic instability completely be-
yond their control are already regarded
and treated as the mental cases which
they are. Some years ago Queensland’s
Legislature sounded a flourish of trum-
pets over an Act which purported to pro-
vide suitable treatment for all mentally-
sick persons. Since then a Brisbane lady
has celebrated her 300th arrest and con-
viction for drunkenness. Asked whether
Queensland was likely to follow the N. S.
Wales lead, Health and Home Affairs
Minister Hanlon informed the press that
he was “not interested in these freak
schemes.” In Queensland, he pointed
out, drunkenness was considered as a
weakness, not a crime, and drunks were
locked up for their own protection. His
own health people could have told him
that his idea is 50 years behind the times.
* * * *
“Stayathome”: Revelations at the
U.A.P. Convention in Sydney concerning
the night clubs of that city have restored
my faith in the soundness of Hollywood’s
information on Australian affairs. That
faith has been shaken on frequent
occasions when pictures have been shown
me of large low-ceilinged halls in which
congregate hundreds of drunken sailors,
including negroes and Chinese, for whose
delectation scantily-clad houris caper at
two o’clock in the morning, the location
of these doings being allegedly “the Syd-
ney waterfront.” Personally I’ve never
seen anything like that, not even in the
palmiest days of the Fifty-Fifty and more
ephemeral evening resorts. But then
neither have I ever come across that Syd-
ney wine bar where a U.A.P. delegate
counted “thirty-six prostitutes and as
many men” breasting the counter. I had
been laboring under the delusion that
most of Sydney’s drinking after 6 p.m.
was done either in the home or in rather
posh clubs and restaurants, conducted
with an almost painful regard for the
decencies and conventions.
“Tuart”: For some mysterious reason
some unknown used to send me copies of
a Hungarian quarterly published in Eng-
lish at London. It was well printed on
excellent paper, and the articles were,
as a rule, ably written. They were mostly
about Hungary’s irredentist aspirations,
the admiration of the Hungarians for the
English, the ties that united their two
aristocracies, and such-like subjects—
very effective propaganda, and no doubt
it helped to establish a pro-Hungarian
party in England with the late Rother-
mere at its head. That press baron was
flattered into believing that the Hun-
garians yearned to place their vacant
crown on his head. All eyewash, of
course, and Hungary must have been in
the Nazi orbit all the time. Now we see
it handed over to Hitler as a base, and
see the Hungarians, those models of
romance and chivalry, putting the boot
into prostrate Yugoslavia and going
through its pockets. English-speaking
people will never understand these Euro-
peans.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo”: The pictorial flapper sister of
one of Sydney’s Great Dailies, which
specialises in the display of acres of
feminine torso and miles of unclad limb,
gloatingly features in its latest issue the
wardrobe of the inevitable “glamorous”
visitor from the “States.” Valued at
25,000 dahlars, the sartorial splendor con-
tains “exotic” wear for all occasions. Oh,
yes, there’s an interview. The celebrity
says “Australian women will be wearing
similar models in 1942.” The remark
will cause a rash of fury to break out
on our Bettah People, who have been
taking advantage of those bargain ads.
splashed by the flash ragshops in the
pages of Big Brother. After all, it is a
bit annoying to pay 35 guineas for a rig-
out, with another 25 for “accessories,”
only to find you are pushed out of the
limelight by a beastly theatrical. And,
worst of all, that the stuff you bought
isn’t the very latest.
* * * *
“Bungstarter San”: Pliz transport to
honorable Norman Lindsay great humble
servant admire lovely picture Matsuoka
San show honorable Mussolini how do
honorable seppuku. But Matsuoko San
he no samurai or no show how with
Nago Wakizashi. That common sword,
no point, not achieve honorable inside
of so much buxom honorable Mussolini.
Too, he put sword wrong place for begin
make honorable seppuku. If Matsuoko
San real dinkum samurai he .show with
Tan To, verree sharp at end of business,
verree sharp all way. Push into honor-
able tum-tum one bandwidth below
Flower of Buddha name navel in Englis
and one bandwidth to left, pull quick
across then ascend him. Honorable
samurai ancestors be with pretty dam
quick. Tan To he only proper sword
for honorable seppuku. Alwiz verree
sharp.
* * * *
On the bloating of Sydney:
Not many of its inhabitants know the present
boundaries of the spreading settlement Arthur
Phillip founded on Port Jackson in January,
1788, when it began with a population of 1030
—reduced to 591 a couple of years later by the
establishment of Parramatta. Up to about a
dozen years ago the metropolis of N.S.W.
included the City of Sydney, 40 municipalities,
the Shire of Kuring-gai and the nine islands
in the harbor. In 1929 Auburn, Bankstown,
Lidcombe and Parramatta were included, and
the borderlines of the metropolitan area were:
East, the coast; south, Botany Bay and George’s
River; west, the western limits of Bankstown,
Granville, Parramatta, Ryde, Eastwood and
Kuring-gai; north, the eastern boundary of
Kuring-gai, the n.-e. boundary of Willoughby,
and the northern boundary of Manly—a total
area of 233 square miles, the population of
which is well over 14 millions. As Parramatta
was given the status of a city in 1938, these
figures need a little revision, but the dispropor-
tionate habitation of its capital to the rest of
N.S.W. is tragically evident.
* * * *
“K.”: On my way home early from
the last day of Sydney’s washed-out
Royal Empire Show the lashing rain had
rendered the windscreen wiper’s efforts
futile. Arriving home I noted that my
stock seedlings were just visible in their
bed above a rain-lashed lake, and deep
channels had been cut through the lettuce
bed. As the family shed sopping shoes
and I put the streaming brollies to drain
in the bath 7 p.m. chimed. The overseas
news! Dashing to the radio I switched
on, wondering as the tubes warmed up
what ally or protectorate had caved in
or sold us out since the midday edition.
Then came the fruity tones of one of
our poshest announcers: “.... and the
board warns the public that the new
hours for the use of garden hoses, which
must be held in the hand and be fitted
with the regulation nozzle” (etc., etc.),
“are from 4.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. daily
only” As I wrung out the half-
drowned cat that had just wandered
in miserably while the torrential down-
pour was beating a mad tattoo on the
roof I wondered gloomily whether the
stock seedlings by morning would have
floated off on the tide.
PER ARDUA AD ASTRA.
(Air Force motto.)
Per ardua —through toil and blood and sweat
And all the obstacles the Fates decree
To block the path whereon your eyes are set;
Ad astra —to the stars —the simile
For honor shining and indelible
That tireless hands and dauntless hearts compel.
Per ardua ad astra. There you see,
Packed and precise, clean-cut and crystal-clear,
The brief but eloquent epitome
Of many an illustrious career.
The stories of the men of old who came
Through lives of struggle to eternal fame.
A well-worn tag! How could the poet know,
Whose line to many a rusty memory springs.
That twenty centuries would have to go
Before humanity would take to wings,
And make the thesis he was moved to state
So incontestably appropriate?
Per ardua! There still are ocean deeps
To plumb, and mountain heights on earth to
scale;
But those whose work is on the trackless steeps
Of sky are traversing a harder trail.
Here’s to their winning, through all jolts and
jars,
The way they’ve mapped ad astra —to the stars.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Ike Hollar”: A gentleman who
thrashed his wife in a Sydney flattery
until the neighbors interfered explained
his position. “I always thrash my wife
on Good Friday,” he stated ; “it makes
her understand that it is a day for sadness
and repentance ; it makes me miserable
too. I don’t wish to criticise, but your
method of making such a day as this
one of easy enjoyment is disgraceful.”
With that dignified reproach he closed
the door. The celebratory walloping
being apparently over, all the neighbors
could do was to drift away.
* ♦ * *
“Fitzwilliam”: The Ministerial Mr.
McEwen’s assertion of the right of a
Minister of the Crown to have a sleeping-
berth in a train has doubtless aroused
memories in the legal departments of
State railways of a successful action for
damages brought by Nash, a barris-
ter of the ’eighties, against Henry Cope-
land, at that time N. S. Wales Minister
for Lands. Nash bought a ticket
for berth LlO but, upon going to take
possession of his bed, found Cope-
land in it. Nash went to the guard, who
said, “Oh, that is Mr. Copeland, the
Minister, and I dare not shunt him. It
would be as much as my job is worth.”
Nash asked if Copeland had a ticket for
that berth, and the guard said, “He
has no ticket for the berth or the train,
but he’s a Minister, and I can’t do any-
thing.” Nash then
went back to Cope-
land and pointed out
that the eminent
gentleman was occu-
pying a berth he had
no right to. Cope-
land made a terse
and abusive reply
and the conversation
ended—to be re-
sumed in the
Supreme Court,
which had no parti-
cular respect for
Ministers.
* *
“Hamer”; A man
who seems to make
a practice of drown-
ing himself has been
added to my list of acquaintances. My
first sight of him was as a figure who
dripped moisture as the crowd pouring
off the night ferry passed him, while he
whined that he’d been drowning himself.
Whilst a well-drowned corpse might have
been interesting, one who was well
enough to talk about his drowning
caused not a single footstep to pause.
The dripping figure hitched to my side
after I had paused at the little ferry-
wharf shop, and squelched beside me
up the hill, moaning about his suicide.
It was his wife, he told me ; she drove
him to it; and of course when a man
found himself in the water he nat’rally
yelled ; and there was an old gentleman
living in a flat near the water used to
come running down to the beach and
throw a rope to him. Afterwards the
old gent.’d take him into his flat and put
him near the radiator and give him hot
whisky to prevent him getting a cold, “But
ternight,” he told me sadly, “there was
me drowning, and the old gent, wasn’t
there.” I didn’t offer to undertake the
whisky cure.
* * * *
“K.P.”: For the first time for years I
have seen a case of “cradle cap,” not,
I’m glad to say, in a white child. That
repulsive beret of scalp sores and crusted
discharges was still not unusual amongst
slum infants in the England of the
“Neglected ’Nineties,” and, at any rate
up to a few years ago, almost the rule
amongst poor-class Chinese. Chinese
parents considered it a sign of constitu-
tional soundness and a protection against
future disease. In the light of later know-
ledge, I have sometimes wondered
whether they were not right, so far as
the diseases produced by the commoner
pus-producing organisms are concerned.
Adult Chinese are notably immune to
such infections, and it may well be that
their body resistance has been built up
by months and years of manufacturing
antibodies to overcome the mixed
poisons absorbed from their horrible dis-
figurement in childhood. Still, I do not
recommend it for inclusion in any course
of mothercraft.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: “It is unfortunate that
I cannot make it a condition of your
bond that you should refrain from chew-
ing gum,” said an esteemed Judge at
Melbourne General Sessions, noticing
that one of four boys charged with shop-
breaking was vigorously chewing. Like
Mr. Deeds I have made a study of
Judges. One draws horses on his pad ;
another searches for fleas, doubtless
psychological, in his wig ; a third has a
frightful struggle to prevent himself from
yawning when a particular counsel is
talking; a fourth always forgets the
“Yah, refugee!”
“You can't tell ME anythink about mixin' concrete."
names of rising young barristers ; a fifth
cracks the joints of his toes and fingers ;
a sixth blinks one eye like a lighthouse ;
a seventh counts the flies on the
ceiling and, if there are no flies to count,
silently enumerates the curls on the wigs
of counsel, the buttons on the coat of a
witness and even the heads of the
good men and true in the jury; an
eighth has to touch all the panels of the
door he passes through when he goes to
his chambers, and, if he misses one, has
to go back and repair the omission. I
wonder how they would all feel if they
were prohibited by law from using these
various unconscious forms of covering
up their emotions.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Melbourne may yet
have its Bowl, d la Hollywood, as a result
of the remarkable achievement of young
Hector Crawford in making open-air con-
certs in the Botanic Gardens popular in
the face of Melbourne’s weather. A local
architect has designed a portable sound
shell of light wood which can be set up
anywhere, and which reflects the sound
and protects musicians and their instru-
ments from wind and weather. All that
is now needed is a patron prepared to
dig into his pocket and pay for seating
accommodation. Considering that at one
recent performance 50,000 people sat on
the lawps and stood amongst the flower-
beds to listen to the Melbourne Conser-
vatorium Orchestra’s efforts and that
patriotic charities benefited considerably,
he ought to be forthcoming.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: I read with keen pleasure
that the Air Department is putting its
public relations staff in uniform. The same
idea was considered by the Army but
was rejected when it was discovered that
on the basis of his salary, a journalist in
its publicity section would be entitled
to sport the uniform of a brigadier.
The thought that numbers of my old col-
leagues on the Inky Way will now be
going around in the habiliments of Mars
and taking salutes from privates, if any,
charms me. It reminds me of a Eurasian
clerk in the cable co. in Singapore. Though
he didn’t know a Leclanche cell from a
condenser, he got the job of Postmaster-
General and Director of Communications
to the Government of British North
Borneo. The “communications” consisted
of a few miles of wire, supplemented
by bullock-carts and coolies; but that
didn’t matter. His former confreres
used to be struck dumb with awe
and envy when they saw him pass
through the office, en route to an
interview with his old manager, garbed
in a cross between the- uniform of a
British general and an admiral, though
without the sword he carried on special
occasions.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The report that Charlie
Chaplin is being sued for £1,660,000
damages on the ground that he pinched
the idea for “The Great Dictator” from
novelist Bercovici reminds me. I once
wrote a stofy about a slim, handsome,
well-proportioned youth who had heredi-
tary adiposity in his family. He went
to the tropics, leaving a sweetheart
behind him. There he started to grow
fat, and grew fatter and fatter; and,
afraid of losing his girl, kept his misfor-
tune from her. She writes to tell him
she is coming up to see him, and he be-
comes wild with terror. When she
arrives, however, it turns out that she
has also been growing fat, so they do
the sensible thing, marry and go on the
Tivoli circuit. I thought my story very
funny, and sent it to an Australian maga-
zine. The editor rejected it with em-
phasis. But he also happened to be an
author, and quite a distinguished one,
much more so than I was. A few years
later I found my plot, with a more
romantic ending, in a published story,
appended to which was the name of my
editor. Knowing the author well —in fact,
no man could have been more helpful to
me during my literary adolescence—l
have no reason to believe that his plagiar-
ism of my idea was anything but uncon-
scious.
* * * *
“Colbun”: In mitigation of “Philo’s”
(B. 9/4/’4l) annoyance about highfalu-
tin, permit me to offer a definition from
F. Howard Collins’s Author and Printer
—“highfalutin (U.S.A.), bombast, not
-en, hifalutin, -n’, -ng.” Spelling is shown
as in Oxford English Dictionary. Its
probable derivation has always seemed
to me a corruption of “high fluting,”
“flute” being a semi-obsolete American-
Australian slang expression denoting
boasting. “Always flutin’ about himself '
was common enough in the 1890’s for
the summing-up of the boomerang-
bouquet artist. Further etymological
ancestry may possibly be traced to the
strident domination of an ill-played flute
in an orchestra.
* * * *
“F.S.”: American scientists are always
discovering something. The latest is a
sixth sense which makes housewives ner-
vous when they see a picture hung not
quite horizontal. Because of its alleged
importance to aviation, the subject is
being studied closely, and the researchers
have advanced the hypothesis that there
is something inherent in the human brain
structure which requires that the eyes be
kept at right angles to gravity. A much
more commonsense explanation seems to
me to be that when the housewife looks
at a picture she expects it to be horizon-
tal, and when it isn’t her expectations
aren’t realised, she feels upset and wants
to right it. I owned some Norman Lind-
say etchings in Java, and when I changed
my bedroom I observed that my native
servant had hung one of the pictures
wrong side up, so that Mr. Lindsay’s
figures were standing on their heads. My
expectations weren’t realised, and I was
upset. But the servant wasn’t. As Java-
nese landscape conventions are different
from ours, Mr. Lindsay’s picture was
meaningless to the djongas, so he didn’t
notice any difference. A commonsense
explanation of why an aviator can un-
knowingly fly at a dangerous angle is that
he has nothing horizontal with which to
compare his position.
* * * *
“Zake”: As one who oft has been
compelled, in the interests of domestic
peace and the need to sit through one
awful potboiler to get to the chief film
offering, to listen to the yawpings of
Dick Foran, Cab Calloway, Gene Autry,
Martha Raye, Bing Crosby and the rest,
I have often registered thankfulness that
not one of these moaners had a twin
with the same disease. Now the blow has
fallen! It has now been sprung on a
wholly unprepared public that Bing
Crosby has a brother, Bob, who has now
“starred” in a picture. One could man-
age a fitful doze with Bing yowling soul-
fully about lurv, for he did it rather
soporifically, generally to a muted accom-
paniment. If the sound track wasn’t
boosted unduly one could even sleep
through it. But the new arrival leads his
swing band while he gurgles. It is a
combination to reduce strong men to
palsy. Perhaps the last remaining con-
solation is that the Crosby pere et mere
didn’t beat the Dionnes to the particular
fame they achieved.
BLOKES AND COVES.
“Witness in the Abbco Bread Commission: ‘The
Colonel did all the talking; the other two coves
didn’t say much.’
“ilr. Justice Maxwell: T do not think the word
“coves” would be accepted in the Army.’
“Witness: ‘Well, blokes, then.’” —Sydney “Sun.”
You may utilise “fellows” or “chaps”
As synonyms handy for “men,”
And it hardly will count as a lapse
Of the tongue or a slip of the pen.
But where Judges their rulings dispense
And webs by the lawyers are wove,
It seems to be over the fence
To speak of a “bloke” as a “cove.”
You may label a human a “guy,”
But that’s an American word
I don't recommend you to try;
It’s safer to dub him a “bird.”
That carries no sting, I affirm,
Wherever our language is spoke;
But ’ware of employing the term
A “cove” when you’re meaning a
“bloke.”
Expressions like “sheilah” or “jane”
Will never assuredly vex
Or cause an iota of pain
When used of the opposite sex.
But where counsel impressively spruik
And bolts from the Bench may be hove
You’ll risk a judicial rebuke,
Confusing a “bloke” with a “cove.”
’Tis hard, without guidance or aids,
A proper perception to reach
Of subtle nuances and shades
That lurk in colloquial speech.
But when next through your word-store
you rove
The mot that is juste to invoke,
Remember a “cove” is a “cove”
And forget not a “bloke” is a “bloke.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVENA
SO
8/1 JO* OZ
pOI JO* oi
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT S ORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
On the authority of “S.M.H.’s” Can-
berra correspondent, Labor members of
the Advisory War Council were not in-
formed of “the decision to engage in the
Greek campaign” till the troopships were
on their way. Then “discussion flowed
fast,” and after it “ebbed” Curtin “is
stated to have exclaimed ‘Thank God we
didn’t have to decide.’ ” Curtin will be
expected to say something about that.
So will Cameron, who has never had any
use for the Advisory War Council.
The Victorian Council of Churches
hurls defiance in the teeth of those who
declare that the Church is falling down
on its job. In the midst of the bad news
from Greece it had a thought for the
Australians facing tremendous odds
there, and carried a resolution condemn-
ing the Government —for sending them
Australian beer.
“We should get our army out of Greece
as swiftly as we can. It should never
have been in Greece. Sending it there
was an invitation to disaster.” Not an
astonishing statement from some people,
perhaps, but it comes from Mr. John
Gordon, editor of the London “Sunday
Express,” a gentleman who, a few weeks
ago, was urging Britain to invade the
Continent and telling everybody how h-
would do it.
Mr. Mair, the Sydney Premier, thought
he put a nasty one over Mr. McKell, the
Opposition leader, when he challenged
the latter to define the Labor party’s
attitude to the gas strike. It’s certainly
awkward for Mr. McKell; all the same,
Mr. Mair is Premier —at the moment—
and he has had a lot to say about the
value of State Government aid in war-
time. A Government that really governed
would have taken adequate measures to
stop the gas strike instead of throwing
the onus on poor Mr. McKell. But when
did a State Government ever govern,
except through a board or commission?
The farcical petrol-rationing system is
again in the limelight, the Minister for
Supply having declared that, even though
rations were ostensibly cut down at the
beginning of April, national consumption
has been reduced only 16 per cent, as
against the Government aim of 33 per
cent. Yet motor-racing was held at
Penrith (N.S.W.) on Easter Monday, and
there are plenty of companies advertising
“Drive Yourself” cars and assuring
patrons of plenty of petrol coupons.
Muttering something about compul-
sory loans as an alternative to public
failure to lend the entire £35,000,000
sought in the new war loan, Fadden said
in Brisbane that his Government was
“mindful of the limits of taxation.” Good,
but is it mindful of the need for im-
posing a limit on State taxation?
Political students interested in history
see something ominous—for whom isn’t
stated—in the fact that a boilermaker,
McGowen, took a Labor Government
to the Sydney Treasury benches 30 years
ago partly on the strength of the Govern-
ment having reduced a fine imposed on
a wealthy baker. McKell was a boiler-
maker before becoming a barrister. And
there is the Abbco case.
The exploded Douglas Reid has
bobbed up again. In his last and worst
book the cocksure fellow wrote that the
affair of the Graf Spec had settled Hitler,
and that he would “not attack us in full
force ; the people who tell you that he
will do it in the spring of 1940 are
armament rings, rabid for their profits.”
N° w he has become an authority on
“Yosif” Stalin, and he quotes another
authority.
Anthony Eden, the only British Minister
who has met him, said meditatively to me
in Moscow: “He is extremely well-informed
about other countries and their affairs. I
can’t think how he does it cooped up here.”
Anthony’s own knowledge of other
countries and their affairs may be
peculiar but it is not profound.
Four years ago the N.S.W. Country
party had seven seats in the House at
Canberra. Now it has only three, and,
but for some unexpected Labor cross-
voting in Hume, Collins would have
shared the fate of Ministers Thorby
(Calare) and Nock (Riverina). Never-
theless the party’s secretary is “confident”
that his crowd will hold its 21 Assembly
seats and “do very well in Barwon,
which we lost at the by-election.” There
is always something charming about
optimists.
Communism must have contributed to
the swift collapse of Yugoslavia. There
are lots of Corns, among the Yugoslavs
(not a few of them have found their
way to Australia), and though Corns.
NEW ORDER BIRTHDAY CEREMONY.
“Hitler’s birthday and that of Rome (founded by Romulus, who was suckled by
wolf) fell on the same day.”
have killed millions of Fascists with their
mouths and fountain pens they have a
way of making themselves scarce when
the enemy appears with arms in his
hands. White-anting is ever so much
easier and safer.
Nothing was heard here of Churchill’s
movements last week, but it is a million
to one that he didn’t have to leave the
helm to go into conference with a parcel
of provincial busybodies with greedy de-
mands for public-works loans and silly
notions about the “more effective use of
national credit for financing the war.”
That was Fadden’s experience at Can-
berra. On Tuesday, April 15, though he
agreed to find £8,000,000 for provincial
works, he refused, as Loan Council
chairman, to put a wordy “national
credit” motion tabled by Mr. Cosgrove
from Hobart, saying that war finance
was none of the Loan Council’s business.
And neither it is; but Mr. Cosgrove was
extremely hurt.
U.K. county councils look after the
provincial affairs of a far greater num-
ber of people than the Australians who
put up with six State Parliaments, Gov-
ernments and Governors, and a vast
crowd of duplicated departments. Try-
ing as the times are, the English have
not lost their sense of humor, and there
would be a universal roar of laughter it
a party of county council functionaries
turned up at Downing-street and one of
them, declaring that he was implement-
ing resolutions passed by a majority ot
county councils, ordered the Government
to “finance the war and the general well-
being of the people” by means of
“national credit.” The counterpart hap-
pened at Canberra last .week.
“National credit” resolutions have,
it seems, been adopted by the Par-
liaments of South Australia, West-
ralia, Queensland and Tasmania. S.A.’s
Parliament has licensed betting shops.
The other three extend their bene-
volent protection to lotteries. Hence,
no doubt, their readiness to make war
finance a reckless gamble, and their in-
capacity to realise that the people would
lose in the long run, as do the great
majority of horse and lottery punters.
The urgent matter of reducing the con-
fusion of income taxes to one simple
nation-wide impost with the same in-
cidence everywhere seems as far off
realisation as ever. It was mentioned at
the Loan Council meeting, but “repre-
sentatives of several States said they had
been unable to complete their examina-
tion of the Commonwealth’s proposals” ;
and that ended the “discussion,” But
they all came primed with information
as to their loan-money requirements, and
they are to get £6,060,000 of the
£35,000,000 loan to be raised presently.
With a great show of magnanimity, they
agreed to a reduction of £4,000,000 in
the current year’s “allocation,” which
they have no way of spending. Fadden
was “delighted” with “their fine spirit.”
He is very easily delighted.
Justifying his opposition to the Dar-
danelles expedition, wise old Fisher
pointed out that every British soldier
booked for the Continent has to be car-
ried on a seaman’s back:
It means that so much shipping tonnage
has to be provided, not only to take him
to the Continent, and all the time to fetch
him provisions, ammunition and stores,
but to be ready to bring him back.
A great truth, which should be always
in the minds of those who have the
ordering of Continental campaigns. But
it seems to have left little impression on
some minds.
Stalin is a hard taskmaster. No sooner
had certain of his Australian disciples
carried resolutions urging pacts with
China and Russia “to maintain peace
against aggression in the Pacific” than
Joe signed his neutrality pact with Japan.
A man has to be a mental acrobat of the
first water to remain a “good” Communist
these days.
“Patchwork social legislation” was how
A. E. Heath described Holt’s child-
endowment plan to the Affiliated Cham-
bers of Commerce in Sydney. But what
did he expect from a patchwork Gov-
ernment?
“The ‘national’ income of New South
Wales has doubled itself in the last nine
years,” says State Treasurer Richardson.
“Because of this the State Government
has been able to reduce taxation a little,
but whatever the State leaves is picked
up by the Commonwealth.” Which has
to use a magnifying glass to find it.
Payroll tax, according to young Mr.
Holt, should be regarded as a normal
working expense, payable as it is in-
curred. Maybe it should, but somehow
Australian wage-payers persist in regard-
ing it as something else.
At Easter the N.S.W. State Labor
party, better known as the “Hands Off
Russia” boys, held a conference at which
new officers were elected. A couple of
days later Molotov signed the pact with
Matsuoka. Locating a member of the
State Labor party has been tough
going ever since.
Currumbin Surf Club, a Queens-
land body, joins the ranks of Aus-
tralian organisations that have
learned to view with suspicion letter-
heads from bodies claiming to stand
for “Peace, Freedom and Cultural
Progress.” It got such a letter from
the “Unity Theatre Players” offering
to put on iterhs at a beach concert
and accepted. It took the crowd
about two minutes to wake up to
the “U.T.P.” and a near-riot fol-
lowed. Then it came on to rain.
During the rain the “Players” van-
ished and the concert chairman an-
nounced that the surf club had been
“misled.”
Fadden flew from Canberra to
Melbourne to open a Victorian
“Liberal” Country party conference.
One of his Ministers, McEwen, is
L.C.P., and so is Tummas Paterson
(Gippsland). Their group is a break-
away from Dunstan’s Country party,
and its president, a Mr. McFadyen,
started the conference by stating
that “until the war ends party poli-
tical ambitions should be kept in the
background.” How Fadden recon-
ciles them is a bit of a mystery.
At the latest reckoning Commonwealth
and State public debts totalled
£1,341,054,244. The States were respon-
sible for £906,000,000 of it. While it
might not be safe to assume that, had
there been one national borrowing
authority since 1901, the public debt
would be less, it is certain that under
one borrowing authority there would not
have been seven different interest bills
totalling £47,557,033.
“Ek Dum”: The latest demand of the
press “experts,” who have been unfail-
ingly wrong in their advice throughout
the war, is that Britain should rush to
build endless heavy tanks to meet the
menace of German tanks. Whatever the
outcome of the Mediterranean cam-
paigns, J. Bull can be beaten only if he
loses command of the sea and becomes
hopelessly inferior in the air. All the
armor he can produce, all the gun steel,
all the engine material should be going
into ships, naval and otherwise, and into
aircraft. Rightly employed, there arc
armies enough for the main purpose-
survival.


“ALL IN TOGETHER THIS FOUL WEATHER!”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5% per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust :
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
The Mutual Life and Citizens'
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
PERSONAL ITEM
General Adrian Carton de Wiart, V.C.,
is in the news again. Member of an old
Belgian family, he left two cousins in
Brussels to follow distinguished careers
along peaceful paths—one, Henry, be-
came a jurist of international celebrity
and Prime Minister, and another was a
Louvain professor, secretary to wicked
old King Leopold and many other
things going himself to Oxford and
afterwards joining the British Army.
He was wounded twice in the
South African War, and ten times
in the Great War, coming out with a
string of decorations. In the present war
he commanded the expeditionary force
in Norway and just got away. Now,
unless the enemy is lying, he has been
captured in Cyrenaica. Another member
of the family, who also served in the last
war, has lived for many years in West-
ralia.
Had an eightieth birthday in Adelaide
last week, Sydney Talbot Smith, who
must come near being The Bulletin’s
oldest contributor anywhere. Born at
Kensington (Adelaide), only son of knight
Edwin Smith, he graduated M.A. at
Cambridge Uni., and was called to the
Bar at the Middle Temple, London. He
was for years leader-writer and book-
reviewer for the defunct “Register,” and
still reviews for the “Advertiser.” Talbot
Smith chairs the Adelaide Repertory
Theatre, Public Library Board, Institutes
Association and the Commonwealth
Literary Fund, and sat on the Adelaide
Uni. Council from 1903-25. As an
authority on the long ago, cricket past
and present, and for well-rounded and
witty speeches, “S.T.S.” has few equals.
Ambrose Pratt, of Melbourne, who
describes himself as journalist, novel-
ist and businessman, can now add play-
wright to his list of attainments. His
AMBROSE PRATT.
three-acter “Point in Time” recently got
a week’s performance at the hands of the
Gregan McMahon Players at Melbourne’s
Comedy Theatre. He wrote his opus last
year with the idea of inducing the Aus-
tralian public to pay attention to the
culture of “the East.” He knows Thai-
land very well (he has tin interests there),
also Japan and China ; and travel and
company directing haven’t prevented him
writing over 50 books, including 30 or
so novels. The American public is likely
to see his Chinese play, which has an
Australian airman in it. Pratt is 67 and
sports a snow-white beard.
Although the advisory panel of the
Ordnance Production Directorate is a
recent creation it has some notable
achievements to its credit, particularly in
the making of optical instruments for
use with war tanks and anti-air-raid
munitions. One is a stereoscope which
enables air photographs to be viewed in
three dimensions. The American and
English article cost £6O, against the Aus-
tralian cost of
£l3. Head of the
section is Prof.
Thomas Howell
Laby, Professor
of Natural Philo-
sophy at Mel-
bourne Univer-
sity. He shared
in the design of
the first anti-gas
respirators when
that foul method
of warfare made
its appearance m
the 1914-18 war.
Laby’s distinction
in research work
started early,
when, after pass-
ing through the
Melbourne Uni-
versity, he won a
research scholar-
sh i p at Cam-
bridge and worked
under the famous
Joseph Thomson
in London. He
hails from Cres-
wick (Vic.), where
the Lindsays
come from.
Dead at 73 in
Melbourne, James
Arthur Boyd,
sometime State
and Federal mem-
ber. Born in the Land o’ Cakes, he
came out early and was educated at the
Workingmen’s College, Melbourne. He
was Mayor of Port Melbourne from 1898
to 1904, then M.L.A. and an Hon.
Minister and Acting Minister for Lands
in Tommy Bent’s Administration. He
was the sole rep. for Australia at the
1908 Franco-British Exhibition in Lon-
don, was a Melbourne Harbor Trust
Commissioner for 27 years, and sat on
a host of Parliamentary commissions. In
the Federal House he represented Henty
from 1913 to 1919. One of his surviving
daughters, Esna, was Australian and Vic-
torian tennis champion. The other, Alva,
is a medico.
Emma Sutton, dead at 102 in Mel-
bourne, was born at Alfred-place,
Collins-street, when that majestic
thoroughfare was a bush track. She spent
most of her life at Williamstown, where
her father, Captain Thomas Halk Sutton,
was the first pilot in the Port Phillip
service. The lady in her long life never
had a serious sickness.
Poverty Pointers were sorry to learn
that that popular amuser Alfred Frith
has died in a Melbourne hospital. His
Cheshire Cat smile and eloquent legs were
a source of public entertainment, with
interruptions, for close on a quarter of
a century. Like most natural-born
comedians his humor was always three-
fifths impromptu. On one occasion he
landed in the middle of a fountain in
the course of some musicomedy acro-
batics. Standing up with the make-up
running down his face, he remarked:
“It’s not in the script, but I think it’s
rather funny.” He was born in England,
served in the British Army in the Boer
War and first visited Australia in 1914.
He has since been associated with many
J.C.W. comedy shows, and in recent years
has been engaged in radio entertaining.
When seen for the first time the appear-
ance of Australia’s sea commander-in-
chief, Rear-Admiral John G. Grace,
might suggest a somewhat ascetic but
active bishop. As a bishop he would
certainly be an ornament to the Church
Militant, for he has all the detached
and human forcefulness of one who has
handled men from his short-trouser days
and who has been cooped up with hun-
dreds of them long enough to understand
them inside out. He was born on the
edges of the Monaro (N.S.W.), but has
spent nearly all his life abroad with the
REAR-ADMIRAL GRACE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
R.N., his one intermediate visit to these
shores before assuming command being
as captain of a light cruiser which came
out with H.M.S. Hood and Repulse in
1924. In uniform he is a firm but under-
standing disciplinarian ; in plain clothes
he can be a salty conversationalist who
exudes wise saws and modern instances
in almost unlimited quantities. He is
well liked in the R.A.N. and his methods
admirably suit its temperament.
As well known in Newcastle diocese
as Newcastle’s town clock was Canon
H. S. D. Portus, who died on Saturday
aged 66. He was born at Morpeth, N. S.
Wales, ordained as a deacon by the
Bishop of Newcastle in 1898, and ad-
mitted to the priesthood in 1900. He
was incumbent of many parishes in the
diocese, and in 1917 was made an honor-
ary canon of Newcastle Cathedral. He
latterly lived in Sydney in retirement.
Returned to his home town, Christ-
church (M.L.), after an absence of
47 years, C. R. Palairet, an engineer
whose work has taken him to many
corners of the earth. His first job was
with Siemens Bros, in England. In
1896 he was with a party laying a cable
along the bed of the Amazon. Later he
was engaged in the electrification of
London’s tube railways. In 1910 he went
to India, and in the last 30 years has
occupied advisory posts with the Gov-
ernments of Hyderabad and Indore.
Latterly he has been in practice at Bom-
bay as a consultant.
An Australian R.A.N. man now in
his home town, Melbourne, had the most
terrific job that has fallen to any sailor
in the present conflict. He is Commander
H. J. Buchanan, D. 5.0., who was pier
master on Dunkirk Pier during the
evacuation. He was one of the last to
leave, and the dive-bombers made shots
at his party right up to the finish. Then
he went to command of a destroyer and
has now returned to staff duties at the
Naval Office in Melbourne. His D.S.O.
came for operations on the Dutch coast
when his destroyer was assisting Nether-
lands land forces to retard the career
of the Germans across Holland. So many
bombs were dropped around his craft
that it was scarcely noticed that one
went down the after funnel. He was on
exchange with the R.N. His mother lives
in Melbourne.
Dead in the Mediterranean, Com-
mander Frank Douglas-Watson, D. 5.0.,
well-known in the Commonwealth since
he did two periods of exchange duty with
the R.A.N. —one just after the war and
another in 1925-27, when he was at
Garden Island on H.M.A.S. Penguin. He
commanded a minesweeper at the evacua-
tion of Dunkirk. His wife, a daughter
of ex-Senator St. Ledger, was a weli-
known songwriter and musician and a
protegee of Melba.
Malcolm McEachern, the basso who is
organising an all-Australian concert in
London for next Saturday, Blitz permit-
ting, was a protege of Melba. Born and
educated at Albury (N.S.W.), he became
a chorister in Melbourne, where his voice
attracted the attention of the diva. His
Australian tour as soloist with her made
his local reputation. He made an inter-
national one at the Albert Hall and
Queen’s Hall. Then he turned to the
music halls and made a hit as Jetsam in
the Flotsam and Jetsam team.
A Maorilander helping Britain is Robert
Mclntyre, an ex-pupil of Dunedin’s Boys’
High School. During the 1914-18 war
Mclntyre went to England and was en-
gaged as a naval architect. Since then
he has been associated with aircraft de-
signing, and for the last 15 years has
worked with Hawkers. Mclntyre is chief
of the department that turns out Hurri-
canes and Spitfires.
Francis Villeneuve Smith, of Adelaide,
one of the best known of Australian legal
advocates, comes of legal stock, for an
uncle, after whom he was named, was
Chief Justice of Tasmania. The F. V.
Smith of the second generation was born
FRANCIS VILLENEUVE SMITH.
K.C.
in Adelaide 56 years ago, graduated in
law at Adelaide Uni., was called to the
S.A. Bar in 1906, and took silk 13 years
later. In 1927 he represented Australia
at an International Law Conference. He
has a persuasive way with juries, is a
noted after-dinner speaker and a pillar
of Australian Rules football. Also he
likes a flutter on the turf.


We’re hoisting
the latest suit-
fabrics aloft!
*
C H eC
i
Gv efl
r eV
nP e
LsSWS
tHP 1
Bln
rin e
JAG
alW*^
CH
GreV
i*ec^
A
A
THE AUTHORITY ON CLOTH STYLES
FOR HI6H CLASS WORSTEDS AHD WOOLIENS
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING STORES AND TAILORS


ABORIGNALITIES
“Triumvir”: Since boom-price gold
has been the order Westralian fields have
attracted ’weight-chasers of all types.
One of the mugs came to Bluebush Joe
and showed a nice specimen of auriferous
quartz, real Berdan-pan stuff. He wanted
to know whether it was gold and, if so,
rich enough to work. Joe nearly fell
through the bucket he was squatting on.
However, he managed to do some high-
speed thinking. “Brother,” he said, “this
is a very hard stone and it will take a
lot of separating to get the gold out of
it; but, as you seem to be a dinkum trier,
come with me and I’ll show you a patch
where you can get the gold without any
stone.” Joe led the mug to his own
special dryblowing patch and let him put
through a few runs for the very profitable
return of Bdwt., seven of which he had
thoughtfully placed in the hopper. Hav-
ing ascertained the locality of the rich
leader Joe left him to make his fortune
dryblowing, while he himself pegged a
P.A. around what proved to be the rich-
est leader on the field that year.
* * * *
“Buco”: “S.W.K.’s” ode to a cham-
pion pumpkin (B. 16/4/’4l) made nice
reading till the last two lines, when he
suggested that the fate of the champ,
would be to become hash for the farm-
hands. Perhaps I’m embittered, but after
years of visiting country and city shows
and viewing the same old scones and
crochet-work I’ll bet “S.W.K.” drinks
that his champ, will be there next year,
still hale and hearty, and probably the
year after that. Heavens, you wouldn’t
feed that to the hands!
* H= * ♦
“Old-timer”: That old Oxford lady
who kept a pet shrimp alive for 17 years
(B. 16/4/’4l) should have emigrated to
our Murray River and teamed up with
Jimmy Ghallagher, the greatest trainer
of codfish that ever handled a drum-net.
Jimmy never bothered with ordinary cod.
“Too stoopid and inclined to forget their
business, like a sheep-dog takin’ to
rabbits,” he’d tell you, “but these green-
speckled blokes y’ get under the cliffs
is the boys. Y’ can almost teach ’em
to talk.” Jimmy had a billabong full
of them, all trained as decoys. After
he’d set his drum-nets he’d drop down-
stream a bit and turn loose half a dozen
of his pupils. They knew that to get
back to the billabong and the good tucker
Jimmy supplied they had first to get into
a drum-net and they’d promptly head
upstream flat out. The wild cod, seeing
these sleek strangers streak past, imme-
diately set after them, for a cod always
suspects another cod of having a pantry
hidden somewhere. Thus the “homers,”
as Jimmy called them, kept the nets
packed. He was in a fair way to making
a fortune till George Becher’s team bolted
and bashed their cargo of grog against
a big stump by Jimmy’s billabong. Most
stu ff ran * nto water, and those
fish simply made exhibitions of them-
selves. The last of them was vanishing
j n tde d j recdon 0 £ tde Merbein distillery
when Jimmy recovered from his share of
the wreckage.
* * * *
Sailor Bill : Finding a dead blood-
W OOd sapling in the horse paddock, I
hoisted it on my shoulder and carried it
~ , T
home. It was very rotten, and as 1
dropped it on the wood-pile it snapped
in two sections, out of one of which a
sft brown sna k e wriggled. There was
now a swai ruing mass of yellow ants
around the log, and I realised that it
the snake had bitten me through the
hole, which had been on my shoulder,
without my seeing it I should have
blamed the ants for the bite, perhaps
until it was too late. I don’t carry a
hollow log home now without examin-
. . ,
ing 11 “ rsi - * # .
.
Bulong K. Kanowna : For 15 years
Ironfoot —so named because his huge
feet left tracks even in ironstone country
—had camped at the same spot in the
Westralian mulga and vowed he would
never shift. One day some passing nigs
bad arr i V ed at his camp with a sick
When it petered out the coons
vanished on walkabout, thoughtfully be-
queathing the defunct oont, which had
expired almost on his doorstep, to Iron-
foot. with no whites within 35 miles,
not a skerrick of decent timber for a
funeral pile and the ground as hard
“Trouble with you, Jones, you've always got one eye on the clock.”
as iron, Ironfoot had to be content with
swearing at the fast-ripening carcass.
Three weeks later the mailman found
the dead oont but no camp. Mailie fol-
lowed Ironfoot’s tracks and found him
camped a mile further on. “Aw,” said
Ironfoot in explanation, “I didn’t mind
the dead camel. It was the ants an’
flies and the dingoes smackin’ their jaws
o’ nights thet druv me away.”
* * * ♦
“Nigel D.”: The small house or
hollow-tree bat may be able to avoid
wires strung across a room (B. 26/3/’4l),
but it falls an easy prey to a black felt
hat. As kids in the Cabbage Garden
we used to watch for the exit of bats at
sundown from hollow stringybarks. When
the flight was in full swing, with the
winged mice diving and fluttering after
the thick droves of gnats and other insect
provender, we used to toss our cadies
high, at the same time repeating the for-
mula “Bat, bat, fly in my hat.” And,
sure enough, if the hat was an old black
felt it would come down with a bat
inside. Explanation is that the bat, pos-
sibly a little tired, seeing what appeared
to be a dark hole close at hand, mistook
it for the entrance to a hollow limb. A
while ago, exploring a W.A. cave, the
home of myriads of small bats, I be-
thought to try out once again the old
formula. The old black cady came down
with a bat in it. But be careful how you
handle your catch, for the bat’s teeth are
sharp and never fail to draw blood.
« * * *
“Son-in-Law”: Beats me how rock-
wallabies adapt their sight so quickly
tc the sudden changes from darkness to
sunlight. Disturb one from the darkest
cavern and he’ll flash out into the open
and vanish among near-by rocks in the
twinkling of an eye. It may be just
blind instinct combined with good luck,
for tests show that any nocturnal animal
is momentarily bewildered by a bright
light; but I’ve never seen the r.-w. collide
with the veriest bramble for all his haste,
and that’s more than can be said for his
scrub cousin.
*** . *
“Gryllus”: A curious instance of
habit-adaptability is the partnership
which has arisen between rabbits and the
indigenous nest-buildihg jerboa rats of
inland South Australia. Not unlike small
rabbits themselves in build and move-
rodents beehivfr-shapecf
4ft. high and 3ft. diameter around a
stout bush, several families usually work-
ing in partnership. By interlacing the
branches and weaving in other sticks
they produce a completely waterproof
structure, too strong to be pulled apart
by any dingo or dog. Stones are often
worked into the walls, evidently to in-
crease strength and weight. Separate
DaL?glf d are°T5 me bT
families sLe the coming of rabbits
to their country the jerboas have evolved
a method of building smaller nests over
rabbit warrens with a doorway handy
to one of the warren entrances. When
danger threatens they go underground
to their burrowing neighbors, who appear
to regard them with complete approval,
* * * *
“Klaws”: So-called ayian ventriloquists
(B. 26/3/’4l) are no more capable of
voluntarily projecting their voices into
space than their human equivalent,
Echoes are responsible for the deception
in the case of birds, and without them
the bell bird’s notes never have the same
strength and clarity. By holding a hand
over one ear to block reception of sound
on that quarter, and turning slowly
round while the calls are in progress,
any bird can be located at its approxi-
mate position. A man would often go
hungry in the bush without that know-
ledge.
* * * •
“Naturala”: “N. Sylvester” (B.
26/3 / ’4l) has the fox pretty well
summed up, but has he ever seen one
shamming dead? Caught m a trap and
hearing the hunter approaching. Reynard
will often put on this show Limbs
become stiff and cold, eyes glazed and
wide open, live odor gone. One can pick
such a shammer up and shake him, but
he will give no response. But let the
trapper lay him aside while he resets the
trap—and Reynard becomes only a hairy
streak across the landscape. The fox will
put his show on also when short of food,
and by such means he not seldom dines
on the crow. For Kelly, as evil in his
way as Reynard in his, just can’t resist
the temptation to fly down and pick out
the “dead” one’s eyes. Then a quick
snap, and the scavenger is gone. Some
bushmen aver that Reynard really pre-
fers crow, and by kidding dead he em-
ploys his only means of obtaining such
a delicacy ; for, of course, that bird is
much too strong-minded to be scared off
his roost at night by such foxy tactics as
“N.S.” describes.
• * * *
“Langshan”: Hornets, showing a
marked preference for indoor building
sites, are making life uncomfortable in
our N.Q. district. Keyholes are plugged
up and all available nail-holes comman-
deered, but it was a born opportunist of
diminutive size that used a large cotton-
reel on a verandah table as a nest, neatly
sealing the top when finished. I promptly
turned the reel over, but the careful
builder had sealed the bottom of the
hole first. Seeing one plastering a neat
row of mud apartments on a white quilt,
Mum, with a purposeful glint in her eye,
grabbed a sheet and pounced on the
offender, who indignantly retaliated.
However, she admitted later it was some
consolation to see Mrs. Flashy saunter
b y 5 blissfully ignorant of seven hornets’
nes t s j n a perpendicular line between the
shoulders of her topcoat,
* * * *
“^'VS
road (B. 2/4/ 41) reminds me We were
coming back into Walhalla (Vic.) along
one of those roads where the hairpin
bends are so severe that bullock teams
were not used there, and where a falling
t ree above the road sometimes misses
that thoroughfare by diving straight over
d into tbe creek far below, when round-
• a rid we stopped short j n front of
a P ulled b Y a ° C ****&
It was easier for us to reverse,
*) we crawled back through the moun-
tain drizzle for a tew chains and, s p
ing the truck against the cliff where e
road widened slightly, stopped to give
the other chap a chance. On he came,
inch by inch, urging the horses with
rein, voice and a small flagpole, till the
turnout was right beside us, its hub
to ours. Then the near moke began
to pigroot. I hopped out to take his
head but was routed by the driver. Get
outa the —- way!” he snapped, and,
leaping up in his chariot, he flayed his
steeds with wondrous words and the
flagpole. They reared up, balanced for
sickening seconds, then flew into the
collar; and the last we saw of the hardy
mountaineers was a confusion of flying
stones, pounding heels and bouncing
wheels, all surmounted by a waving
waddy. We waited for the crash, but
it never came ; then I went over and
measured the distance from his wheel-
track to the edge. Four inches.
» * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Flying low and very fast
tbe s tormbird (pallid cuckoo) came
w j n gj n g across the paddock ; but his
d was nQ match for that o£ the
sc P issors . grinder _ perhaps one o£ , he
_ 6 i* u • i
Council can supply the technical name ;
J. ve n p v^ r h ear d it used Literally on the
bfi? bird s tail, the black-and-white fury
found time to zoom, swoop, dive in with
vicious pecks and still keep up a run-
ning fire of avian abuse. Obviously
realising his limitations, the cuckoo bailed
up on a fence-post. Then the real fight
started. Except for the savage click of
beaks—which was more reminiscent of
a rapier duel—the scrap had all the
characteristics of a boxing bout. The
little fellow was fast, elusive, darting in
with quick stabs and out again, and con-
tinually taunting his opponent; the big
’un silently pivoted to face the enemy and
tried vainly to land a “decider” as the
will-o’-the-wisp came in. Suddenly ceas-
ing hostilities the little spitfire calmly sat
on the fence wire not two feet from his
adversary. Neither moved for fully a
minute; then, evidently with wind re-
stored, the aggressor bogged in again,
The cuckoo skied the towel, but even as
he flew away the feathers were being
plucked from his back by the fighting
fury above him.
THE AFTERMATH.
Done up like two injured toes, their boots and
clobber new,
And with a cheque of blanket-size —almost a
half-year’s screw—
Pete and Bob got on the coach; we sped them
on their way
And enviously watched them start upon their
holiday.
Then back we went to nursing sheep and riding
boundary lines.
And cursing dust and heat and flies and other
droughty signs;
And, sweating hard, we thought of them amid
the town’s delights,
Living like two fighting cocks and seeing all
the sights.
“We’ll have six weeks,” big Pete had said, the
day before they went,
“For we’ve got near a hundred quid; we’re
bustin’ every cent.”
And, six weeks later to the day, I’m ridin’
Little Plain,
And tramping down the track from town those
two came home again.
I double-dinked them to the hut; they hadn’t
much to say,
Though we were breakin’ all our necks to hear
about their stay.
“I bet y’ stopped at every pub,” Dan Brogan
said in fun.
Said Pete and Bob, “Too right, we did. We
never missed a one!”
At this the mob was silent, seeing visions of the
brown
And sparkling beer a man could drink from
Booberoi to town.
We saw that happy pilgrimage like pictures on
a screen,
In fancy felt the froth in bars where Pete and
Bob had been.
But then we heard a bitter voice, it jerked our
thoughts right back
From splendid visions floating on an alcoholic
track.
Said Bob, “We reached the city with last
quid in the roll
An’, coming back, we had t’ stop at ev’ry water-
hole!”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Wang”; Jimmy Lynch met Dad down
at the sliprails. “I see the doctor drivin’
away from your place this mornin’,” he
remarked. “Anyone crook?” “On’y
Dave,” replied Dad. “He’s got the ’flu
an’ thinks he’s goin’ t’ peg out. Scared
his mother inter fits, an’ she sent fer the
quack. Dunno what the present genera-
tion is cornin’ to. Get the least ache or
pain an’ they buckle under an’ have t’
be nursed an’ coddled. They don’t breed
’em as tough as you an’ me nowadays,
Jimmy. Look at me, near sixty, an’
rarely get anything the matter with me.
An’ if I do, do y’ find me makin’
a fuss like the young ’uns do? No, jist
put up with it an’ shake it orf.” “Same
here, ’zactly,” agreed Jimmy. They con-
tinued yarning along the same lines for
half an hour ; then Dad remarked, “What
about cornin’ up t’ the house fer a spot?
I see y’r missus up there, so y’ can go
home t’gether.” As they stepped on
to the verandah Mum appeared. “Dave’s
a lot better,” she remarked. “I’ve been
givin’ him some of that medicine y’ had
when y’ was last laid up.” She smiled
at Jimmy. “Y’ know, Mr. Lynch,” she
said, “Dad’s the biggest baby y’ ever
knew; can’t stand the least pain but
what he thinks he’s goin’ t’ die. He
keeps bottles an’ bottles of all sorts of
stuff in the house.” Mrs. Lynch appeared
at Mum’s shoulder. “Don’t you worry,
Mr. Greybox,” she said cheerily, “you
ain’t a bigger coward than Jimmy when
he gets sick. The stuff he’s got”
Two sheepish-looking men hurried inside
to find the whisky.
* * * *
“W.”; When the Government asked for
more flax to be grown, our valley, despite
little prospect of profit, responded well,
and summer found rows of dark-brown
stocks beside the usual yellow. Then in
the drying flax there appeared little
beetles that burrowed and crawled, yet
eveiy now and then took the air just above
the stocks. Clearly a pest; but along
came scores of swallows which spent the
day, beak to breeze, over the infested
rows. At the central stacking depot the
storage officers checked each load and
sent it to be stacked in its proper grade ;
but to the swallows it was all beetles. A
mob of not fewer than 500 hovered in the
lee of the rising stacks from dawn to
dusk, and what got past them was harm-
less. Granted that while helping the
country the birds were on a good thing
themselves —yet haven’t carpet-knight-
hoods been gained by similar sacrifice?
And the Flax Protection Brigade didn’t
wear special uniforms.
* * * *
“Herbert”; During the Queensland
election campaign the Daley girls, of
Upthecreek, had word that a youthful
aspirant for a Parliamentary seat would
be at the Crossing dance. Ma watched
the girls applying first-aid to their freckled
I'm keeping it Warm for you.”
patches what time their two swains were
in the kitchen, but didn’t approve of the
ersatz complexion or of the occasion.
Why youse want to go and plaster up
y’r faces with scented flour gits me,”
she criticised acidly. “Y’ don’t have to
go out like a pair of painted dolls to
catch them two sooks out in the kitchen.
Maybe yer thinkin’ about that blob what
thinks he’ll get into Parliament? He
ain’t nothin’ but another thing in pants,
and, Lord knows, men is cheap enough
around here. Yes, youse can paint up
yer lips, too ; but, take it from me, any
sort of fool can go up for Parliament —
it’s the bloke what gets there what wins,
and your fancy man ain’t goin’ to win.”
He didn’t.
* * # *
“Bogaduck”: A holidaying city bloke
pulled up at Nelson (Vic.) and inquired
if any fish could be caught there. “Yes,
and whoppers, too,” said a humorist. “I’ll
lend you a line if you like.” He fetched
a shark line, baited the four-inch hook
with a rabbit carcass, handed it to the
visitor and then went off to tell his mates
to go down to the river and watch an
18-carat optimist. The locals flocked
there just in time to see the angler leaning
back on a taut line. After a struggle
he landed it —a mulloway of over 1001 b.
—a record. Bung hung the head of it
under the tank of his windmill, and it
has proved a great tourist-attractor. The
humorist hastens in for a reviving pot
every time he passes it.
* * * *
“Timberloo”; What did the wedgetail
eagle live on before the benevolent white
man introduced the rabbit and the sheep?
With his provender scope limited to the
infant ’roo and the small but very
nimble wallabies, the big bird must often
have had hunger as a companion. For the
marsupial was by no means easy to
catch; Ma Roo kept her young in her
pouch until it was well able to fend
for itself. And even then it still re-
mained with the mob and so had a
“All right, girls. You're Not a lot of nincompoops!”
good chance to escape when the wedge-
tail made a power-dive. An increase
in food supplies has probably led to a
growth in the eagle population, for just
as starved fowls will cease laying so will
starved hen eagles. All the hawk tribe,
1 fancy, know hunger very often. The
fish eagle will fly for hours without pick-
ing up a bite. And I have often watched
hawks working a wide limestone plain,
hovering and dipping but never making
a catch. Yet the same plain, beneath its
thick but stunted growth, afforded harbor
for myriads of mice and small mar-
supials. Probably it is hunger that gives
the whole falcon family that fierce drawn
expression which led our forebears to
coin the saying “hungry as a hawk.”
* * ♦ *
“Padflogger”: One way in which dirt
got into the spout of a tree, in the W.A.
dry areas at any rate, was that it was
placed there by human agency. Selecting
a hollow salmon-gum or similar herb,
Binghi would set his gins to work at
building a small reservoir by thoroughly
lining the hollow with well-puddled clay.
Starting then from the outermost tip,
and always selecting a limb with a suit-
able slope, deep channels would be
grooved in the bark, each channel leading
down to the central reservoir. Thus
every shower contributed something to
the tribal water supply. And the en-
closed water was kept free from con-
tamination save perhaps by an occasional
careless possum or an odd bird. Nor
did Binghi climb the tree when wanting
a drink. Down the trunk a series of
holes would be bored, and then plugged
with a softwood stick. Thirsting, one
pulled out a plug and a thin crystal
stream gushed out. And, note: Binghi
was too clever to have just the one spigot
hole at the bottom ; he worked the level
downwards, prepared for the inevitable
fool who might leave a bottom plug
leaking. Gropers tramping to Cool-
gardie over what is now the W.A. wheat-
belt always kept an eye open for a siz-
able tree adorned with plugs—which is
one of the reasons why there was none
of the native-born among the scores
that in those days died of thirst or ex-
haustion.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Till yesterday I had regarded
the soldier ant as the most formidable
of all dinkum-Aussie fighting creatures
at anything near its own scrapping-weight.
Speedy, active, pugnacious and enduring,
well armored, it owns a formidable pair
of long jaws and at the other end of its
inch-long body a poisoned sting that
would make an elephant sit up and
trumpet. A small brown ground-spider
has led to a complete change of opinion.
It lives in a burrow at the edge of a
garden path and at sunset comes up to
its leaf-camouflaged doorway ready to
pounce on any passing meal. Outside
is a little heap of dry shells of small
moths and a grasshopper or two from
which every vestige of juices had been
sucked before they were brought tidily
out for disposal. Last evening I was
stickybeaking round in the unpardonable
way of my kind when a soldier ant
swaggered by. The spider sprang, and
in a fraction of a second had the helpless
doubled-up warrior back into the burrow
and out of sight. Next morning the
mortuary showed the unmistakable re-
mains of Myrmicia gulosa, who on all
apparent form of strength and armament
should have outed the spider in one
punch.
* * * *
“Dominic”: Did the aboriginal in his
primitive state have any idea of a reli-
gion? That notion “jump up white
man” suggests that he had some thoughts
regarding reincarnation, itself the oldest
of living beliefs. In Eastern Australia
the abo. received little study at the hands
of his conquerors, but in the West he
was given more sympathetic treatment.
At least three good intelligences, Lieut.
Grey, George Fletcher Moore and Nairne
Clarke, made him the object of study.
Although unable to discover any belief
in a Deity, these three agreed that the
black had a definite belief in the exist-
ence of demons. The lord of these was
one Jon-ek, a master of life and death
who rode the storm, directed the whirl-
wind and wrought the sea to fury. Among
the Swan River tribes burial, too, was made
always with the dead warrior laid on
his left side, his right arm free and with
the hand raised level with the shoulder —
obviously so that he might rise easily on
the day of resurrection. There was also
a legend of how death came into the
world, not altogether dissimilar from the
story of Adam and Eve.
* * * *
“Walkabout”; That 21 days’ semi-
starving tour made by J. F. Brown (B.
2/4/’4l) wasn’t in it with the marathon
put up by Petersen, a Swede who went
bush between Bedourie and Boulia a
couple of decades ago. From the time
of leaving Bedourie until found by a
party of musterers near the South Aus-
tralian border fence 11 weeks had passed.
A sixteen-stoner in normal life, the
Swede’s skin and bones weighed less
than seven stone when taken to Boulia
hospital a fortnight after being found.
Until he grew too weak the Scowegian
managed to dig out rabbits, snare crows
and catch a lizard or two, but for the
last month of his ramble outside the
Georgina floodwaters he had to sate
his hunger by chewing pieces of hide
torn from the rotting carcasses of cattle.
When found the wanderer was carrying
his unfinished meal, a piece of mature
hide showing his teeth marks.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Why this
childish bickering (B. 26/3/’4l) over
paltry 9in. spiders which drag mere
turkeys to their lairs? My old friend
Wotta Woppa, chief of the Da-mnli-ahs,
would for years have been a happier
and wealthier potentate had such footling
limits on spider dimensions and per-
formances been imposed by
Nature in his domain. Never
shall I forget the thrill of
horror with which, on my
first expedition, I witnessed
the inch-thick silken web-
cables of Mendax bungstar-
teri, largest of all the race,
float out from a lofty cliff-
side over his grazing six-
horned buffaloes {Bos guy-
verus), envelop a huge bull
in their deadly embrace and
drag it, desperately back-
pedalling and bellowing in
fear, high up to the fearsome
monsters’ cave. Depleted as
were our supplies, I broached
a fresh bottle and pondered
the situation. Elsewhere I
have related how, disguised
as a lady buffalo and armed
only with six quarts of O.P.
Queensland rum, I allowed
myself to be captured in those
terrible toils, becoming in turn the captor
of eight of the gigantic arachnids when
the genial but potent fluid had got in
its work. Amid the enthusiastic cheers
of the whole Da-mnli-ah population, I
returned to the village, followed by my
herd of unique prisoners, galumphing
joyously whenever I waved my rum-
soaked handkerchief to windward. An
improvised distillery provided the means
for keeping them tame. Before I returned
on my next visit Wotta Woppa had
organised them on a factory basis and
had secured a monopoly of the entire
net and cordage industry throughout
western Papua.
BUSH-BORN.
I He with the clustering grass against my face;
The wine of its sap is drained now, but the dry
Thin slanting stalks still hold exquisite grace,
Rippling and whispering in the wind like rye.
So still am I that a lizard creeps from the sand
To bask in the warmth of my palm. I feel the
beat
Of its tiny fluttering against my hand,
And the elfin touch of its delicate silken feet.
Bees come blundering, dreaming my blue eyes
flowers;
While a myriad nameless insects, mist-frail
things,
Cling to the stems or circle the flaxen towers
Of the barley grass on tremulous azure wings.
The roots of the trees are my roots, thrusting
deep
Down through the warm earth’s dark delicious-
ness ;
And the cry of the black cockatoos in their
clamorous sweep
Is the voice of my spirit rising above the stress
Of the storm in triumph. Rose-tinted in their
pride,
Flesh of my flesh, the hills rise; and my blood
Burns in the waratah on the mountain-side.
The leap of my pulses beats through the sing-
ing flood
Of cool bush water that blazes a silver trail
Where saurian logs sprawl evilly in the mud,
The green slime seeping like poison from each
scale,
Their blunt snouts sunken darkly in backwash
holes,
Peering from eye-knots never shuttered by sleep.
Yonder the sun spills past the crayoned boles
Of giant gums, to gild each fallen heap
Of crescent leaves, until they gleam and glow
Like little yellow moons that time has thrust
Beneath the trees to tarnish in the dust.
Music of magpies in the ebb and flow
Of wind sounds like a mellow spinet played
By mittened fingers where the shadow falls
In mosaics of amber and old jade.
The smooth boughs move like stallions in dim
stalls,
Reefing and blowing, till their breathing heaves
The fragrant swinging bridles of bright leaves.
Moths cross my vision, and the sun leans down
To plunge hot daggers in my scattered hair,
While high in space a hawk, leaf-light, leaf-
brown.
Braves the blue avalanches of the air.
Cloud-shards as white as manna almost seem
To touch the treetops, and I hear the wild
Sweet chant of bronzewings, while locked fast
in dream
Sheer beauty lies against me like a child.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD,
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds *o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, IS Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
SMOKE-OH!
“Traveller wanted. Goog salary and commis-
sion.”—Advt.
They shell out handsomely on payday.
•h •!« •b
“As Jennifer realised who her visitor was
to be she let out an awful shiek. Whom would
she turn to now for advice?” — Short story.
Edith M. Hull probably.
“Wanted. Experienced badmaid. Apply
B ’s Hotel.” — Queensland paper.
References essential?
•I* -h
“Writing in the Sunday ‘Morning Herakfi
Professor A. K. Stout, etc.” — “The Journalist.”
No doubt about our “Granny.” No
fuss, no advertisement, but you wake up
some Sunday morning and find she’s
done it again.
■b •!• •S'
“One of America’s most capable and highest-
priced orchestras recently was faced with what
the 60 members of the group declared was ten
almost impossible task. They had to play
good music badly.”— “Music Maker.”
That’s funny. Even our suburban
dance band can do that.
b -I* »b 4*
“The force retreating from Asmara also
may try to branch out from Dessie witji the
same gaol in view.” — Hobart “Mercury.”
That’s it —the gaol’s their goal.
•b ►!< *l*
“Heavy woollen stockings will prevent chil-
blains.”—Woman’s paper.
They will also keep chaps away.
“A study of animals whose actions are
prompted by instincts and necessity teaches us
to reason.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Let’s be logical, even if it’s only
zoological.
►l* ■b b *l*
“She had, along with her sweetness, her merry
impudence, a will of steel.” — “S.M.H.” serial.
But what narked her husband most was
the brazen way she went through his tin.
Breathes there a man with soul so dead
Who never to himself hath said,
“This is my own, my native land,
And signboards hide it on every hand!”
E.
•b »b *b *b
“Boy, 17-18 years, for cleaning staff.”
—“S.M.H.” ad.
What! Is the firm too stingy to give
them time off to wash themselves?
“Land where divorce laws favor women.”
— Woman’s paper.
As distinct from America, where
women favor divorce laws.
4* ❖ •h
“Clark was electrified by the news.” — “Sun.”
They had evidently wired him.
The Sentence.
“Brunettes are becoming more popular than
blondes.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Farewell the mop of shining gold
That wrecked the hearts of young and
old.
Poor blonde, how hard indeed is fate,
Dethroned from out your queenly state,
And —please excuse the tearful eye —
How hard to be condemned to dye!
D. McM.
Not So Successful.
“It is the feeling that she is being deceived
that angers a woman. The husband who tells
the absolute truth will find it the best policy.”
—Woman’s paper.
I resolved to try a new policy with
Maria.
“No,” I said firmly. “I wasn’t working
back at the office. I felt I’d like a night
out, so I took it.”
Maria gasped. It was quite two seconds
before she let herself go.
“How dare you come home and tell
me that! You wanted a night out! How
did you know that I didn’t want to go
out! You knew”
That was the start of it. Maria was
a volcano in full eruption, and" I was
sprayed with the lava of her anger. It
was after about 20 minutes of that that
her eyes narrowed and she regarded me
shrewdly.
“I don’t believe you, anyway,” she
said with ominously tempered voice.
“You come home sober and tell me a
cock-and-bull story like that. You have
been working back at the office ; you’re
just trying to hide from me the extra
money you are making. Let me tell you,
Aitchem”
I’ve now abandoned the new policy.
H. M.
Derring-do.
The orchard was still and dark ; the
rich smell of fruit on the early autumn
air told of the luscious apples hanging
on the trees. Somewhere over the ridge
a dog barked.
Then the back door of the darkened
house began slowly to open. Soon a
figure emerged cautiously and crept down
towards the orchard. Reaching the
“ I've got to show 'em off somehow since petrol rationing
came in.”
nearest tree it rose, a hand reached out
swiftly and gave two twists. Then the
figure turned and raced back to the
house.
“Missus,” whispered the orchardist
triumphantly, “would y’ like an apple?
I just sneaked ’em, and blast the Apple
and Pear Board!”
In the darkness the woman’s eyes
glowed as they fell warmly on this heroic
man of hers.
M8.
Men Are Deceivers.
His big, wild-eyed wife sobbed bitterly
in the empty kitchen. It was past his
usual home-coming hour and he still
hadn’t returned ... Ah, there was his
key in the door now! Sniffling, she
greeted him:
“You brute! A fine husband you
turned out to be! All you live for is
to go out guzzling in that common bar!
Why can’t you be decent and stay at
home? Morning to night you leave me
here alone while you go down there
He interrupted her scornfully. “You’ve
been boozing again, Matilda. But, once
again, how can I help it if you own this
pub and I prefer to do my drinking down
at the milkbar?”
ELM.
Budget for the Boy.
“ ‘Regular pocket-money encourages the child
to plan expenditure,’ says a psychologist.”
However, the system has its drawbacks.
My small heir adopted a Five-day Plan
at threepence per day and ninepence for
the week-end.
On the Monday, he kicked off with an
apple-on-a-stick, an all-day sucker, six
aniseed balls and a dose of castor oil,
undoubtedly getting his trey’s worth. On
Tuesday, three “Tasty Toffees” com-
pleted his picture-card set of “Modern
Warplanes.” The rest of the toffee I cut
out of his hair with the scissors. On
Wednesday, the butcher-boy’s young
brother gave him a good thing for Vic-
toria Park. He specked Hd. each way
and left it in.
By Thursday, his financial cares were
taking their toll, and long before play-
time that day his nervous system was
crying out for stimulant. Consequently,
he indulged recklessly in ice-cream and,
on the strength of his assets at short call
(four empty beer bottles), liquidated Fri-
day’s quota in lemonade. Came Black
Friday. Taking his week-end reserve to
school for safe-keeping, he saw a water-
pistol marked at 9d. in Kelly’s window.
Loading the pistol, he sneaked up behind
“Stinker” Bragg and squirted him
squarely in the earhole. After the en-
suing melee, I understand my son re-
tained possession of the pistol’s grip and
trigger-guard.
Saturday. Grabbing the mower bright
and early he offered to mow the lawn for
two bob. I hesitated, suspecting foul
play, but finally engaged him on a wages-
in-advance basis. Later, while his nibs
was yelling suggestions to Dick Daring in
the “Air Ace of Arizona” I was mowing
the lawn.
P.O.M.C.
The Crowning Folly.
“Mistakes Punters Make.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Most punters many errors make.
Some, spiritless and sparing,
Don’t follow up a lucky break;
While others are too daring.
Some for a silly system’s sake-
Tote chanceless mokes for places.
But any punter’s chief mistake
Is going to the races!
D A/T
P.M.
More Curious Cures.
“A man charged with arson in Chicago
claimed that he started the fires because the
excitement of watching the firemen at work was
the only way he could get relief from his indi-
gestion.”—Cable.
There have been similar cases here.
At the Sydney Quarter Sessions
“Dario” Mike, who described himself as
a soup-worker, was charged with
breaking and entering. Police evidence
was that accused had attempted to
blow open the safe at Splosh and Co.’s
premises. Portion of the building was
wrecked, but the safe had withstood the
explosion.
Accused, in a statement from the dock,
said he had been worried of late by his
failing sense of hearing. Only the night
before the alleged crime he and a busi-
ness associate, “Spike” Standover, were
in Oyster Pete’s joint at “the Cross.”
It was only after Spike had roared in his
ear “I just asked y’ what’re y’ havin’!”
that he suspected ear trouble. He
decided to give his hearing a thorough
testing by subjecting it to the sound of
a severe explosion. He had selected
Splosh and Co.’s premises because the
room in which the safe happened to be
—he was unaware it contained £2OO0 —
had four walls, and this would heighten
the sound of the explosion. He didn’t
hear it as well as he should, and was
convinced that his condition justified
medical advice. This he would seek as
soon as he had been discharged.
After the jury had returned a verdict of
guilty the Judge, in declaring him an
habitual, said that he would recommend
to the prison authorities that a louder
whistle be placed in the quarry so that
for the next five years he would be in
no danger of not hearing the “cease
work” whistle.
• •••••
In his appeal against disqualification
for life by the X.J.C., Joe Nobbier, the
well-known jockey, stated that the charge
that he had used a battery on his mount
was an error. The facts were these;
As a child he had once fallen down and
trodden on his right funny bone,
with the result that, after lifting
up no more than three drinks, the
strain thus put upon the injured
member would cause him to burst into
uncontrollable laughter. Once when he
had ridden a hard-mouthed horse at a
country meeting the consequent laughing
fit had caused him to fall off. His doctor
had advised thermo-electric treatment. In
the race in question he had determined
to minimise the risk to himself and the
other jockeys by treating his elbow
with a small battery. It couldn’t
possibly have come in contact with his
mount. The sudden burst of speed his
horse had achieved over the last half-
furlong was due to the whispered words
of encouragement he had uttered, and
the horse’s violent trembling while it was
being unsaddled was a sign of the
animal’s natural elation at having won.
The chairman said that no points the
appellant had raised held power enough
to switch the committee’s decision.
Though it might come as a shock, the
current disqualification would still stand.
Charged with having gone through a
form of marriage with May Bleevit, Joan
Mugg and Cynthia Green while his real
wife was still living, Henry Hatpeg said
in explanation that for the first two days
his marriage had been happy. Then his
wife began bickering. During one row
she had thrown the mangle at him, and
after that he had been a sufferer from
warts and the hives. He had obtained
relief for a while by scratching the hives
with the rough warts, but when the latter
wore away the position became worse.
He had then adopted Coueism. Several
times a day he had to repeat “I will get
better.” It was when he felt his resolu-
tion weakening that he decided to renour-
ish it by going through the marriage
ceremony again. The “I will” he uttered
each time was, he believed, a big factor
in his improved health.
His Honor, declaring that such a weak
moral sense deserved severe punishment,
sentenced him to return to Mrs. Hatpeg.
Syd Spinnout, milk carter, prosecuted
at the Central Court for selling adul-
terated milk, said that while delivering
to one customer he had been bitten on
the stomach by a large St. Bernard dog.
He had applied a tourniquet and seven
whiskies and had proceeded on his
rounds. After a while he felt queer,
as if with the onset of hydrophobia.
To combat the tendency to hatred of
water which the disease must evoke he
had forced himself to turn on taps, and
in his temporary delirium some of the
open cans may have accidentally got in
the way of the falling water.
After hearing further evidence, the
magistrate jocularly remarked that the
Law would now put the fangs in for £5
and costs.
Bo.


*'Hk
m
m &
i
' •
m
m.
V,
ft
Hi
%
y ■■
■
- /j
1
- ■
m
m
■
L
|oue the three comers ei the
world in arms, end we shall
shock them. Nought shall
make us rue, if England to
itself do rest but true. shakupem
Inserted by HUDDART PARKER LTD.
Shipowners, Coal Merchants
466 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
W.J.h.1336
Huddart Parker Ltd. is proud of the part its organization and personnel are playing in the nation’s war effort. It is pleased to make this tribute to all who are
now assisting the British Commonwealth of Nations in the common cause.


THE FOUNDATION OF HUME INDUSTRIES IS CONCRETE. ITS
SUPERSTRUCTURE IS HUME STEEL. IT LEADS WHERE OTHERS
FOLLOW. Our policy is to try and be as straight, as
true, as durable as the pipes we make..
LARGEST CENTRIFUGALLY SPUN PIPE in the WORLD
Again the Hume Pipe Company has
created a new sphere which engineers
are bound to explore. In the past it
was practically impossible to make
pipes large enough to carry the vast
quantity of water required for Irriga-
tion, hence, in Australia particularly,
thousands of miles of open channels
have been constructed. These leak and
waste water, fill up with sand. The
water evaporates, weeds grow and
block the flow, water seeps from them
and kills orchard trees, etc. Usually
much more water is wasted than used.
Water costs so much to conserve and
reticulate that to waste it is a fearful
extravagance a loss in capital, a still
greater loss in produce. At last we
have solved the problem of making
these giant concrete pipes new inven-
tion, new patents, new methods, much
effort and a heap of money, and now
we can do it.
HUME
PIPE
Go.(Aust.)Ltd.
Si®
lilll
iii |
■*?
1892 1942
Next year will bring the Golden Jubilee of the Hume organisation.
Forty-nine years ago the brothers Hume started business as Hume
.ot ers. Their capital was “10 bob and a fortnight’s tucker.”
Today millions of pounds are invested in the manufacture of Hume
P, -n eS i n" d StHl . thC future holds in store the certainty that engineers
wid fully realise the great possibilities of further use for Hume-
ogeneous concrete pipes.
TRUE HUMEOGENEOUS CONCRETE IS THE HIGHEST
QUALITY CONCRETE THE WORLD CAN PRODUCE.
It is better than all other concretes, but unfortunately many city
ers prefer to hear the jingle of a saved halfpenny than to pass
on to posterity a pipe which posterity will be proud of.
The enormous Hume pipe here illustrated was
the first made for the purpose of demonstrating
that the Hume Pipe. Company could manufacture
pipes suitable for the great twin pipe syphon
to be laid under the Edward River. The Murray
waters enter a huge man-made river at Yarra-
wonga flowing across the rich Riverina plains for
a hundred miles or so, then under the Edward
River, thence on and on for miles and miles to
the VVakool section, shedding its blessings and
wealth all along the line, thereby creating a
monument to a wise and far-seeing Government.
It is an achievement of great credit to its
engineers.
Australia is deficient in good rivers, hence
droughts have been a dreaded anticipation, and
the realisation a fearful happening, but years
of adversity and success have brought forth
men of pluck and ingenuity who have fought
droughts. Year by year they are overcoming the
menace by constructing great reservoirs and dis-
tributing the conserved water through thousands
of miles of man-made rivers, canals and pipe
lines. The magnitude of Australia’s wealth
depends upon her power to conserve and
distribute water, and it is reasonably assumed
that no Company in the world has done so much
as the Hume Pipe Company of Australia to
further this great cause.
HUME
STEEL
Limited
y "MM
%
"... .
I lie advent of ar caused the Hume Steel Company to realise that it had
an opportunity to benefit the nation. Australia, with a million motor vehicle!
fS lded w?r supplies of foreign petrol from overseas to make these motors
w , ? ut petrol I. 116 nullum motors were just so much scrap iron, so
Hume Steel began spending money and effort to produce a good gas producer
toi motor vehicles, thousands of pounds have been spent to date, with rhe
lesidt that when occasion demands we will be in a position to supply lan-e
numbers. Undoubtedly gas producers will be very extensively used in fh«
tutuie, and, while they are not so convenient and ever-ready as petrol they
are more economical and a greater aid to industry. Moreover, to the man
on the land they will prove a blessing, and ultimately the producer gas tractor
will win the heart of the man who needs its daily help. By and by, perhars
quite soon, in fact, a tractor fitted with an engine specially designed for
pioducer gas will be fitted to Australian-made tractors. Then petrol may have
SoSUtal’.'rs'i: We «* ** »—• -X H
Concrete lining is another of Hume
Pipes great achievements. For 10
years old-time engineers sniffed at
the idea of cent'rifugally lining metal
pipes with concrete, which, they said,
would fall off and block up the
pipes, and it was not until the
original patents had nearly expired
that they could be persuaded to use
them. Yet today the Hume process
is used in practically every country
of the world. Modern engineers
appreciate that our concrete lining
has eliminated nine-tenths of the
troubles of the past. Smooth bore
pipes, immune from internal cor-
rosion, deliver pure water in con-
tinuous quantity. We doubt if any
other single patent taken out during
the present century the world over
has given so much direct benefit to
humanity.
FREE!
A 72-page
Book of
Humour, “HUME PIPE
HUMER. Send request
on your letterhead. 858.
■—
- i- iliflliil
p-j >jc, ■. _, $£
m
If Australia were invaded it would be a tremendous advantage if we could
meet the invaders with a few hundred thousand armoured tanks. With
this thought in mind, Hume Steel has spent much money and time in
discovering and inventing a way of fulfilling this need, with the result that
we are now able to convert ordinary standard motor-cars into armoured
tanks, which, if fitted with producers, would bo capable of defending our
territories, meanwhile using for fuel charcoal locally produced.
Let us hope that Australia will never need to repel invaders, and that our
policy of fighting intending invaders on their own soil is the best policy.
Then Hume Tractors will have ample scope to dig water channels, pipe
trenches, till the land, and transport the produce. The illustration * above
shows a Hume tractor fitted to handle, load, transport, or lay Hume pipes.
There is nothing like a good tractor to save labour and" money.
HUME INDUSTRIES PLANS FOR
Recently nearly a thousand acres of land' situated close to Footscray were purchased for the purpos
best men can concentrate and continue to improve our methods and increase our business scope,
at low rents and enjoy a country life, while living practically in the suburbs.
Labour troubles today are caused mostly by the difficulty of the man to discover a method of how
purpose of Hume Industries will be an endeavour to reduce the £6 bill to £4 by giving men better ]
THE FUTURE
e of establishing a central works where our
Here our workmen may have good homes
to pay a £6 bill with a £5 note, and the
living conditions and more self-dependence.


AUSTRALIA AT WAR
INDUSTRIAL SUPPLEMENT
An Empire Arsenal
/ALTHOUGH the Commonwealth’s
industrial war production is now
I 20 times greater than at the out-
break, according to the P.M. it will
be 60 times greater before the end of
1941. An Empire arsenal is in the making.
In the last war fewer than 3000 people
were employed in making munitions.
In this one nearly 150,000 persons
are employed directly and indirectly
in turning out munitions, fighting
vehicles, technical instruments, ’planes
and army material, ranging from minor
items of equipment to huge mobile field
units. They are developing medical sup-
plies hitherto imported from the Old
World, building ships of war and of
commerce, and in a thousand and one
equally important but less conspicuous
ways pushing on the war effort.
This vast industrial army had to be
recruited, and its work had to be co-
ordinated and set towards a single target.
Obstacles that, viewed in retrospect, seem
terrifying and overwhelming had to be
overcome to produce what is, in fact,
the greatest industrial development in the
Southern Hemisphere. Besides this in-
dustrial army Australia had to raise one
of another kind and train it.
In the upshot, about 600,000 Austra-
lians are now engaged directly in war
activity—a heavy drain upon the man-
power of a nation of 7,000,000. Of this
number more than 120,000 are with the
A.I.F. and its reinforcements, 250,000
are serving with militia and home defence
units, and about 18,000 with the Royal
Australian Navy. None of these forces
is static, and there is continual develop-
ment. In addition, the R.A.A.F. numbers
many undisclosable thousands.
A.I.F. recruiting, suspended for some
months, has been resumed, the Navy has
embarked successfully upon the largest
recruiting campaign in its history, the
R.A.A.F. continues its demand for men,
and the development of the home forces
is steady and intense. The war effort on
i e factory front has to be reviewed in
relation to this background.
Now
20 Times
Greater
In 1937-38, £2,000,000
would cover the value
of Australian munitions
production. The value
today, if disclosed fully,
would make that sum
look silly. As an indi-
cation of the way civil
factories and annexes have swung into
alignment with the Government establish-
ments, take the history of one private
plant.
Sixteen months ago this plant, spread
over several States, was employed on
commercial products. When the war
came it threw its entire assets, valued at
£4,000,000, into the war effort. Today
convoys of military wagons, ambulances,
artillery and anti-aircraft tractors, travel-
ling workshops, kitchens, mobile wireless
outfits and universal carriers are end-
lessly moving out into service. A defence
annexe is making marine mines, lathes
for shell-making, pressings for new 25-
pounder-gun howitzers, machine tools
for other factories and an amazing range
of paraphernalia of this winged and
wheeled Armageddon.
Tremendous engineering problems have
been met and overcome, though many
experts said they never could be. This
plant is serving a growing family of
infant factories, and has accepted and
discharged commissions which 12 months
ago seemed as far outside its range as
manufacturing rainbows.
That Australia has multiplied its in-
dustrial war effort by 20 is an exact
computation, and not a fanciful assess-
ment. Proof? While exporting huge
quantities of war material to Britain,
India, Africa, M.L. and Crown colonies
the Commonwealth was able to equip
and arm completely the expeditionary
force of many thousands which recently
stepped ashore at Singapore. A power-
ful cross-section of a most highly-
mechanised, modern fighting force, this
army of the Far East has all the equip-
ment which gave the war in France its
unconventional and intense character.
Practically all of the equipment was made
in Australia by Australians, and it is in
no way inferior to any produced in the
factories of the Old World.
Cruiser tanks are the newest weapon,
and it was decided to build up and equip
an armored division. Within a few days
of the decision designs were being pre-
pared, surveys of resources made and
pioduction planned. The work is into
its stride already.
Many in Britain and Australia said
and believed sincerely that the Common-
wealth Government was speaking out of
its turn when it announced its munitions
programme. A country whose industries,
though sound and vital, had never been
asked to take on the job of rapid expan-
sion in a dozen new avenues at once could
never make the grade. Yet a few weeks
ago members of the British Supply Mis-
sion, some of whom admitted their
earlier conviction that Australia must
inevitably overreach herself, confessed
that the programme had been completed
to schedule, and, what was more im-
portant, that fresh development was cer-
tain. It was a high tribute from men
who had first-hand experience of the
gigantic war work of highly-industrialised
England.
There are romances in the story.
Machines of high precision and delicacy,
formerly imported from what are now
enemy or enemy-occupied countries,
were fabricated in Australia soon after
the outbreak by firms which had had
no previous experience. In other places
all sorts of expedients were adopted to
convert presses and other major factory
units to purposes for which they were
never intended.
Engineers throughout the Common-
wealth reached new levels, drawing from
the chairman of the British Supply Mis-
sion the tribute that they had achieved
•what to him had appeared impossible.
Within eight months of starting from a
virtual scratch mark, production of shells
has increased 15 times, bombs 25 times,
rifles 15 times, machine-guns 16 times,
and so on, and that rate has since been
exceeded. France’s downfall and
Britain’s urgent need for material brought
a tremendous speed - up. Twenty - five-
pounder field guns, anti-aircraft guns,
anti-tank guns, Bren guns, automatic
rifles and small arms poured out and
are still pouring out of the factories.
Present production rates are not dis-
closable, but there is enough evidence
about to justify Australia’s claim to be
an imperial arsenal.
Quite apart from munitions, yet an in-
tegral and vital part of the general pro-
gramme, is Australia’s aircraft industry.
Three years ago we were given 10 years
to become an effective producer. Today
Australian-made aeroplanes are flying in
the Middle East, the Near East, India,
Burma and Maoriland, and maintaining
patrols throughout the length and breadth
of the Commonwealth.
Wirraways
and
Beauforts
The Wirraway, an
Australian ’plane de-
veloped from an Ameri-
can type, is already
winning the approval of
Imperial air experts,
and has reached a pro-
duction exceeding one
a day ; Tiger Moth trainers are built in
Australia and are playing a prominent
part in the Empire Air Training Scheme
in Australia and elsewhere.
The Beaufort bomber will soon be
rolling out from Australian factories.
Production of this aeroplane will mark
another triumph for Australian industry.
It has 22,000 components, excluding the
engines, and when production was
planned in the Commonwealth it was
with the expectation that the thousands
of tools and jigs necessary would be ob-
tained from Great Britain. The war
intervened, and Australia faced the task
of making 26,000 of a total of 33,000 of
the gadgets herself. This was a stagger-
ing problem, but Australian Beauforts
will be in the air shortly.
Everywhere there has been develop-
ment. Already, only 18 months from
the outbreak of war, machine tools de-
signed and manufactured in Australia are
in steady production. Orders of more
than 4330, valued at £3,000,000, have
been delivered, and scope and quantity of
output are increasing.
The finer industries and the highly-
specialised tasks have not been neglected.
Even now the Commonwealth is well
embarked on making optical and
scientific instruments, which are playing
so great a part in this war of machines,
also shipbuilding. An allocation of
£6,000,000 has already been made, and
it will undoubtedly be the forerunner of
many other allocations.
Industrially, Australia is getting organ-
ised to meet demands wherever they may
come from. Steel helmets, parachutes,
military clothing, military supplies—
everything from the axiomatic needle to
the factual anchor, from the rifle bullet
to the tank, is within the range of her
programme. This programme will con-
tinue and will grow until the absolute
point of physical ability is reached. It
will not slacken until the end of the war
itself calls a halt, and until the victory
which is the one common object of a
free world in arms crowns the effort.
War-time Shipbuilding
Before Hitler broke loose, Australian
dockyards were fulfilling limited ship-
building orders, ship-repair work and
engineering contracts for shore projects.
It was difficult to keep a skilled staff to-
gether. With the war shipyards found
themselves faced with tremendous prob-
lems: their staffs were only skeletons of
what were required in war-time, and
hundreds of skilled men had drifted into
other trades and occupations. But Ü-
boats were emerging and submerging in
the North Sea and the Atlantic, and
orders came from Great Britain for 40
patrol boats. The skilled men came
streaming back from stores, from small
shops, from farms and from laboring jobs
in hundreds. But still more are needed.
Tribal
Class
Destroyers
Shortly before the
outbreak of war the
Federal Government
placed orders with a
Sydney yard for the
construction of three
Tribal-class destroyers.
British yards doubted
whether Australia could do it; some
of the more delicate sections of
machinery construction, they said, should
be left to Britain. The engineering
experts sized up the job and bogged in.
Difficult castings and intricate machinery
made on the spot confounded critics,
and in due course the Arunta, first of
the Tribal class, took the water.
Parts that would have taken up valu-
able shipping space on difficult and dan-
gerous sea voyages can now be made in
Australia beside the hulls in which they
are to function and far out of range of
enemy bombing. Australian engineers
have found it necessary to try their hand
at casting bigger bronze propellers than
ever before. They have succeeded,
making engineering history for Australia.
Last year, in the Sydney yard men-
tioned, five vessels were completed, and
they are now serving somewhere in the
fight against the Nazis.
From the drawing office to the smallest
shop every department of the yards is
a hive of industry. Just one phase of
activity is the construction of boilers for
warships of varying sizes. And boilers
for the patrol boats being built in the
smaller yards are made here, as well as
other vital sections —shortage of parts
hasn’t yet delayed a ship in any yard.
Work upon ships already in commis-
sion is also of importance. Merchant
ships have been armed with means of
retaliation on U-boats and raiders, trans-
ports have been prepared and ships of all
kinds have been protected against the
menace of minefields. Rush jobs, these
were, and there has been no respite for
the yards and factories.
Big initial tasks were the conversions
of merchant liners to naval purposes. For
instance, almost overnight an Australian
liner was transformed from a passenger-
carrier to a hospital ship of the highest
order, with modern wards, operating
theatres and dental surgeries. When the
job was done her best friends hardly
knew her.
In one yard 24 merchant ships have
been stiffened to take guns and provided
with bow protection against mines, while
20 ships have been altered to meet the
requirements of troop-carrying.
Cockatoo
Dock
Shipbuilding is not new
to Sydney. Cockatoo
Dock earned a splendid
reputation in the 1914-18
war, and now high-class
shipbuilding is traditional.
The light cruiser Brisbane and the de-
stroyers Huon, Torrens and Swan were
completed there in 1916. The light
cruiser Adelaide, laid down in the Great
War, was completed afterwards and is
still serving. The naval collier Biloela
and the freighter Dundula (5500 tons)
were built in 1920, followed the next year
by the Budunda (5500 tons).
Then in 1924 came the Fordsdale and
the Ferndale, freighters of 12,500 tons
deadweight, built for the Commonwealth
Government line. These ships became
floating advertisements abroad for Aus-
tralian shipbuilding. A few years ago
the Ferndale was wrecked on the North
African coast, not far from where Aus-
tralian troops are fighting today, but the
Fordsdale is still giving efficient service.
After these ships came the seaplane-
carrier Albatross (6150 tons), followed
by the Cape Leeuwin, Cape York and
Cape Otway, lighthouse steamers built
for the Federal Government to service
the lights around the Australian coast.
There was a lull in ship-construction until
1933, when the placing of orders for the
sloops Yarra and Swan for the Royal
Australian Navy kept a spark of life in
this key Australian yard.
In the shipbuilding doldrums Mort’s
had a lean time. There was plenty of
ship-repair work but very little building
until an order came from the N. S. Wales
Government for a steamer to replace the
old Captain Cook pilot steamer at Syd-
ney Heads. The new Captain Cook was
completed before the war.
Today, well-known Sydney yards are
full of ships—patrol ships under construc-
tion and merchant ships receiving stif-
fening and bow-protection. The first big
war jobs were the conversions of liners
into armed merchant cruisers. These
yards have already dealt with many other
ships, stiffening them for guns, altering
them into transports, or protecting them
against mines with paravanes or de-
gaussing equipment.
A number of patrol boats are to be
constructed. The order for the first was
received in December, 1939. It took
a year to complete and place in commis-
sion, but times for the others are being
rapidly reduced as the staff becomes
accustomed to them. More are in the
water now, and there will be further
launchings at regular intervals.
With overseas manufacturers fully
occupied on war work, countless prob-
lems had to be faced. Hundreds of fit-
tings never before made had to be pro-
duced in Australia, so that the ships
could go to sea in the shortest possible
time after launching. Some of the sec-
tions being made in bulk in engineering
shops all over Australia include steering
engines, reversing engines, windlasses,
minesweeping winches, pumps feed,
ballast and air and oil-sprayers for
boiler-room; dynamos, generators and
all electrical equipment; galley equip-
ment, including oil-fired stoves, steel bars
and angles, high-grade steampipes, con-
densers, anchors and cables, davits and
lifesaving equipment, plus a wide variety
of deck fittings.
Engineers and tradesmen skilled in
other directions adapted themselves to
the needs of the war to do this work.
There has been nothing like this change-
over before in the history of the country.
On December 10 last year H.M.A.S.
Ballarat, a patrol ship built by the Mel-
bourne Harbor Trust Commissioners,
was launched. This was the first-fruits
of Victoria’s share in the shipbuilding
revival.
The building of naval ships in the
present programme began in Victoria last
April, and since then the number of em-
ployees has increased fivefold. The Mel-
bourne Harbor Trust has modernised
plant and added to equipment, and if
the Government wants a ship of any type
built it says it can build it. The fresh
berths that will soon be ready will allow
double the present output. It will soon
be possible to launch a new naval vessel
from one yard alone every three months.
Engineering workshops are at work ful-
filling orders for main engines for ships
under construction, and many other
trades in Victoria are employed in vari-
ous phases of the shipbuilding pro-
gramme.
The number of persons directly em-
ployed in shipbuilding and allied trades
has more than trebled in S.A. since war
started. A mangrove swamp on the
fringe of a small sheep station of about
400 square miles is now a shipyard where
{Continued on page 24.)


/T
M
dm
! • '
¥ '
*1
!
m
m
I HP
w*
1
•4
iS
w ■'Mr
Wi
n
I
. :
.
P
'
i«SS»!«S^SS
__ _Jp‘=
■ «P| u
hump^
ill
B
■
■
'■ i ' : -
! J
I
■
The Kid and the Ice Cream
N
Typical Cabinet supplied
to shopkeepers.
Today Werner’s are proud indeed that Its organization is playing an
important part in the Australian war effort by manufacturing essential
equipment for the defence requirements of the nation.
:><:
TIFE’S grand for him on any day that he earns a penny he reaches his
ambition with a purchase at the confectioners.
Not for him to worry about keeping the ice cream at correct temperature, about
delivery over many miles on hot days, about manufacture to exact standards of
quality . . . those things are part of the great unknown the world of business
and industry which he hopes to enter some day.
In that world, the problems of ice cream manufacture and storage, like every other
matter of refrigeration and air conditioning, are expertly solved year in and year
out by a highly skilled organization of management, labour and machines that,
fortified by the experience of 40 years’ manufacture and service, is supplying and
installing plants and units to numerous Australian industries, institutions, and
recently to the Defence Departments of the Commonwealth.
INDUSTRIES SERVED BY WERNER REFRIGERATION
Ice Cream Factories Councils Abbatoirs Confectioners Grocers Fishmongers
Breweries Butter Factories Fruit Storages Bakers Dairy Produce Shops Cafes
Hospitals Ice Manufacturers Guest Houses Dairies Hotels Butchers
AUSTRALIA'S MOST COMPLETE REFRIGERATION SERVICE
WERNER
& CO.
PTY. LTD.
SHOWROOMS: 608 Lit. Collins St., Melbourne. MU 8275. WORKS: 54 Burnley St., Richmond
South Australia: R. WERNER & CO. PTY. LTD., West Australia: ATKINS (W.A.) LTD.,
56 Franklin Street, Adelaide 894 Kay Street, Perth
New South Wales: STUART WALKER & CO. PTY. LTD., Tasmania: NOYES BtlOS. (Melb.) LTD.,
174 Clarence Street, Sydney 36 Argyle Street, Hobart. 59 George Street, Launceston
W.J.H. 1342 ■■■


' w
V ''V \
s’.
WP
*
-
m
w
_r=^^=.
tv %t fl)
*>•
Tfir
Q
HELPING AUSTRALIA’S
WAR EFFORT
The experience gained by A.W.A. in designing and
manufacturing wireless equipment during the past
27 years is now proving invaluable in advancing
Australia’s war effort.
A.W.A. is the largest manufacturer of wireless
apparatus in Australia and is wholly self-contained
in the manufacture of every type of wireless equipment
for use at sea, on land and in the air.
The Company’s extensive organisation is to-day
producing high-grade wireless apparatus for the
Australian Navy, Army and Air Force in ever-increasing
quantities, as well as manufacturing stations for vital
Wireless Communication Services.
3,000 Australians are to-day engaged at the A.W.A.
Radio-Electric Works.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


AUSTRALIA AT WAR—Continued
the keels of naval vessels are being laid
on slipways that twelve months ago were
non-existent.
Great
Work in
South Aus.
S.A. has rolled up its
sleeves and announced
plans for building ships
larger than any hitherto
launched in Australia.
In January, 1940, the
plans of some yards
were not even on
paper. Turning basins have been dredged,
wharves have been fitted out and
offices, carpenters’ shops, plate shop
and loftman’s shop completed. B.H.P.
is the State’s driving force in the
business, while technicians from Great
Britain have supervised the work and
trained the workmen. Some thousands
of skilled workers are employed in the
engineering works and shipyards, while
many thousands more are engaged else-
where in allied trades on the manufac-
ture of ship components.
A new harbor has been constructed.
It consists of a swinging basin excavated
between high- and low-water marks,
approximately 1200 ft. long and 800 ft.
wide, with a straight approach channel
310 ft. wide out to the 25ft. contour. The
channel and basin have a dredged depth
of 25ft. at low water, with 27ft. berths
beside the wharves. The spoil from the
dredging of this large basin was used in
the construction of the site for a blast
furnace, which will consume about 5000
to 6000 tons of ore weekly.
At the inner end of the basin three
slipways have been installed, and they
are now all serviceable. Two berths,
each measuring 95ft. by 450 ft. long, and
one measuring 70ft. by 450 ft. long, are
available, with crane runways 600 ft. long
beside each berth. The slipways are suffi-
cient for the building of ships up to
15,000 tons, but they could each accom-
modate two small ships. Room is avail-
able for two additional berths equal in
size to the larger two already constructed.
At present the company has a contract
to build four patrol vessels 180 ft. long
for the Admiralty. Its policy is for all
ships constructed in S.A. to be com-
pletely fitted out there, although at present
such equipment as boilers, engines,
winches, etc., will be made elsewhere.
The shipbuilding centre furnishes the
biggest industrial transformation scene in
the history of S.A.
Last year the S.A. Parliament author-
ised the construction, at an estimated cost
of £3,122,000, of a scheme to pump water
from the River Murray at Morgan and
convey it to the dockyard centre in mains
235 miles long. This work is now in
hand, and in future the shipbuilders will
not be dependent on water shipments
from Newcastle, but will be supplied
from the Darling and its Queensland
tributaries, the Murrumbidgee and the
Edwards Rivers in N. S. Wales, the
Murray and its tributaries in Victoria
and the snows at Kosciusko.
Queensland,
Too
Towards the end of
last year it was an-
nounced that ship-
building contracts run-
ning into millions of
pounds had been let
in Queensland. The State has tackled
the job with vigor and enthusiasm in a
climate once regarded as impossible for
white men. Ships of war of varying
classes and tonnages, to be used by Aus-
tralia, Great Britain or in other parts of
the Empire, are on the construction pro-
gramme. Shipbuilding yards are estab-
lished on two rivers, but supplementary
workshops in other parts of the State are
being pressed into service. The job must
be done quickly.
The first keel was laid down in July,
and in November a naval fuel-supply ship
was towed to the fitting-out yard. Skilled
electricians, shipwrights, plumbers, car-
penters, engineers and furniture-makers
are preparing it for its first sea voyage.
Two-thirds of the ships contracted for
under the naval building programme are
already under construction, while exist-
ing yards are expanding. Plant is in-
creasing so quickly that soon there will
be cranes to deal with several vessels
simultaneously. Every conceivable type
of fitting for ships is being manufactured,
and the miracle of prefabrication is being
wrought at other works. Vast workshops
contain machinery so powerful that it can
break or twist great blocks of solid steel
in one movement, and so delicate that it
gives the finest thread to a screw.
At a great height, amid interlacing
girders, men peer down from miniature
houses slowly moving on rails. From
these hutches enormous cranes are con-
trolled. Here the entire hulls of ships
are made, piece by piece, in what looks
like a huge jigsaw puzzle. But every
piece, irrespective of shape or size, is
weighed by a 50-ton-capacity scale, and
fits with the precision demanded by the
blueprints. This giant Meccano set is
taken piecemeal to the shipyards from
the workshops to be assembled, and the
ships begin to take shape as if by some
form of spontaneous creation.
Today a number of naval vessels are
in course of construction at another firm’s
works, and one has been launched and
is now in the fitting-out yard. The firm
also manufactures the engines for the
ships built at other yards.
A builder of wooden craft in Queens-
land claims that he has the plant and
equipment necessary to build wooden
naval torpedo-boats and small mine-
sweepers, and that, if given such work, he
can build three large ships simultaneously.
A 300-ton ship is being built with Queens-
land timber, and it will be launched soon
for duty with the Queensland Marine
Service.
Australian Iron and Steel
During the 1914-18 war Australia pro-
duced a very small portion of the
weapons and ammunition necessary to
equip our troops in Gallipoli, Palestine
and France. A private company—the
Colonial Ammunition Co.—with works
at Footscray (Melb.) produced all the
.303 stock that Australia contributed, and
the Commonwealth Small Arms Fac-
tory at Lithgow (N.S.W.) did quite a
good job with rifles. The Commonwealth
Ordnance Factory at Maribyrnong
(Melb.) turned out field guns and car-
riages as well as transports and kindred
equipment of the solid agricultural
variety, but, looking back over the inter-
vening years it is easy to see what great
industrial development has taken place
since then.
During the same 1914-18 period the
Commonwealth was producing large
quantities of base metals, but the bulk
was exported. Our production and ex-
port of copper, for instance, touched
their peak between 1910 and 1920, but
secondary industries were undeveloped,
and, passing through the post-war boom,
little thought was given by most indus-
trialists and politicians to the potentiali-
ties of establishing, within Australia,
industries which would convert so many
of our raw materials into equipment and
commodities for home consumption.
Slump
Developed
Our
Resources
The world financial up-
heaval of 1929-34 thrust
upon this country the
necessity of manufactur-
ing many things which
otherwise we could not
have had. Industry began
to move, and we found
we could produce not
only iron and steel bars,
plates, tubes and sheets, but copper,
brass and other metal in these forms
and in sufficient quantity to meet
the requirements of many trades. Motor
bodies and chassis equipment, wireless
sets, railway and tramway rolling stock,
domestic and building requirements all
established demands for Australian raw
materials and were found to be equal
in quality to similar equipment which,
up to then, had been imported. The cat
was out of the bag. Freetrade politicians
became scarce. Heavy industries, the
backbone of capital expansion, grew up
in record time and, as the effects of the
financial collapse began to clear up,
manufacturers in Australia seized the
opportunities to supply the expanding
market.
The mineral resources of Australia in
all States are being opened up and de-
veloped at an accelerated rate in re-
sponse to war demands, and we are head-
ing towards the stage where importing
will become either unnecessary or re-
duced to a minimum. It is a remark-
able tribute to Australia that we can
actually export to British countries con-
siderable quantities of iron, steel, copper
and other products which, pre-war, were
supplied by lohn Bull. And we are doing
this in addition to meeting home needs,
which have multiplied since the out-
break of war.
The huge expansion of the iron-and
steel industries in N. S. Wales and S.A.
includes the production of ferro-alloys,
until recently imported. The value of
this development is demonstrated by the
fact that we now have tool steels, high-
grade steels for castings and forgings as
used in railway rolling stock, ship-build-
ing and the construction of heavy plant
for mining, quarrying and engineering
generally. Integral parts of all this equip-
ment come from metals of the non-
ferrous group—zinc, lead, copper, tin and
antimony, all of which are mined, re-
fined and fabricated wholly in Australia.
Aluminium, which has come to us mainly
from Britain and Canada, is receiving
concentrated attention. Large works for
the manufacture of aluminium sheets,
rods and bars are coming into operation,
while the production of the raw
aluminium in Australia is anticipated in
the early future.
From
Peace
to War
The degree to which Aus-
tralia has been able to divert
her industries to munitions
production and supplying
military equipment is brought
home by the fact that prac-
tically every engineering or
metal-working shop is en-
gaged on defence work, using materials
of Australian origin and machines that,
to an increasing extent, are also locally
made.
Iron and steel play their major part in
the construction of plant and machinery,
buildings, hulls of ships, big shells, tanks
and transport equipment. The nont-
ferrous group of metals provides com-
ponents of most machinery. In munitions,
they are vitally necessary insofar as all
ammunition from .303 size up to medium-
size shells are produced entirely from the
non-ferrous range. Lead and zinc from
Broken Hill and copper, mainly from
Tasmania and Queensland, after passing
through treatment, refining and smelting
processes, are alloyed and rolled into
sheets or strips, extruded into rods and
bars and drawn into tubes and wires, all
of which go to enable ammunition fac-
tories, annexes and workshops to deliver
phenomenal supplies of ammunition in
the stream which starts from Aus-
tralia and finishes somewhere in Africa,
Europe, Asia or the high seas.
The Department of Supply and De-
velopment takes care of all metals from
the time they become available until
they reach the plant which will shape
them into final products. Defence orders
take priority under this system, yet the
demands for civil needs have scarcely
suffered. Water supply, telephone, trans-
port and food production—all of which
call for large quantities of metals —have
increased during the war. The time
appears imminent when restrictions may
become imperative in these necessities,
but, at this stage at any rate, our country
is so well supplied with raw materials
of war-time and civil requirements that
the brass taps in our homes and the
knockers off the front doors are un-
likely to be requisitioned for war pur-
poses.
Thanks to the Protection policy of Aus-
tralia, combined with the vision of some
of our big industrialists, we have taken
some giant strides towards economic in-
dependence at a most opportune time.
The post-war welfare of Australia can
be built upon solid foundations.
Broken Hill Proprietary
In a world clamoring for steel, Aus-
tralia is, fortunately, able to manufac-
ture sufficient for practically its entire
needs. From the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary’s Newcastle steelworks and the
Kembla works of Australian Iron and
Steel, Ltd., comes an assured iron
and steel supply. In regard to price
Australia is also fortunate —’Australian
steel is marketed at prices among the
lowest in the world, and had we to im-
port the same amount of steel as sup-
plied by our own plants the cost would
be many millions of pounds in excess of
what is paid now.
A little more than 25 years ago Aus-
tralia’s iron and steel production was
practically negligible. The genesis of the
industry in Australia was B.H.P.’s estab-
lishment of the Newcastle steelworks in
1913, and since June 2, 1915, when the
works were declared open, they have been
one of the most vital factors in Aus-
tralia’s industrial progress.
Before the B.H.P. steelworks were
established, Newcastle had a population
of 20.000. Today it embraces more than
120,000. The steelworks and allied and
associated industries provide employment
for about 15,500 men, whose total weekly
wage bill is approximately £92,000. If
the indirect employment in commerce and
avenues which depend on the expenditure
of the steelworkers’ wages is taken into
account, there are about 60,000 people in
the Newcastle district, or 50 p.c. of the
population, who depend on the steel in-
dustry for a living. The Newcastle works
are the hub of Australia’s most important
industrial city, the works being closely
neighbored by many subsidiary and allied
industries, each adding a wealth of in-
dustrial production.
The iron and steel in-
The Base
of Other
Industries
dustry—principal factor
in the development of
Australia’s secondary in-
dustries — naturally be-
came the bulwark of
war-time preparedness.
From the Newcastle
steelworks and the A. I. and S.
Kembla works comes steel for con-
version into munitions and the machines
that make them. The output of
steel shapes and sections turned out
by the B.H.P. Newcastle works (second
largest in the British Empire) is probably
more comprehensive than that manufac-
tured by any other individual steelworks
in the world. With a few exceptions, the
varieties of steel produced cover prac-
tically every type of steel required in
Australia today. These steels have made
possible the manufacture in Australia of
the Wirraway general-purpose type of
military aircraft by the Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation and the naval
patrol vessels now being built at various
dockyards throughout Australia.
Australian steel has formed the frames
of the buildings and annexes erected for
munitions manufacture. It has made pos-
sible the manufacture of high-precision
tools and gauges, the lathes, presses and
cranes and other vital equipment serving
skilled munitions craftsmen. We can now
make here armor plates or gun forgings,
bullet-proof steel helmets or anti-aircraft
guns. Hand grenades and shells in thou-
sands, gun components and bombs in a
variety of sizes, are all emerging from
Australian munitions establishments
served by Australian steel. Other pro-
ducts made by B.H.P. subsidiary and
allied industries include barbed wire,
drag-nets, wire netting for camouflage,
steel fence posts for entanglement sup-
ports, seamless tube used as the raw
material for the drawing of the metal
tubing for aircraft construction, and gal-
vanised iron to special specifications for
air-raid shelters.
Also in production at Government and
private workshops are destroyers, bomb-
ing ’planes, Bren guns and Bren-gun
carriers, mines and rifles.
The Australian steel industry is hard
pressed to meet all demands. Many
thousands of tons of iron and steel has
had to be diverted into channels where
it will best serve defence purposes, and,
although this may cause temporary dislo-
cation in domestic supplies, every effort
is being made for maximum production.
As a step towards establishing a new
centre for iron and. steel production,
B.H.P. some two years ago commenced
the erection of a blast furnace at Whyalla
(S.A.). The building of a loading wharf
and the necessary harbor accommodation
for ocean-going steamers was also under-
taken. This work will soon be com-
pleted, and S.A. iron ore will shortly be
converted into pig-iron at a spot less than
40 miles from where it is mined. An-
other vital development undertaken at
Whyalla is the construction of ship-
building yards and workshops capable
of turning out vessels up to a gross
weight of 15,000 tons.
Yet another important move has
taken place recently at the Newcastle
steelworks —the setting-up of an exten-
sive plant for electric furnace production
of ferro alloys, the concentrated ingre-
dients (previously imported) absolutely
essential to the production of the special
and alloy steels upon which depend our
most elementary munition operations.
Comparison of official statistics for
1933-34 and 1938-39 reveal how Australia
is advancing towards greater strength as
an industrial nation:
Manufacturing.
No. of Persons
Fac- Em- Salaries and Value of
Year, lories, ployed. Wages Paid. Output.
£ £
’33-34.. 23,297 405,909 64,445,000 330,134,000
’3B-39.. 26,941 565,106 106,743,000 500,420,000
Value of Building Permits Issued.
New Buildings. Total Value.
1933- .. .. £8,206,000 £10,957,000
1938-39 .. .. 23,195,000 28,234,000
Tonnages of Interstate Cargo Shipped.
1934- 6,590,000 tons
1938-39 8,952,000 tons
Black Coal Production.
1933 9,091,976 tons
1939 13,535,206 tons
Trade-union Unemployment.
Union Number Percentage
Membership. Unemployed. Unemployed.
1934 .. 424,035 86,865 20.5
1939 .. 476,918 45,967 9.7
Note: The percentage of unemployed for
the quarter ended December, 1940, was 6.2.
Australian Radio in War-time
When the 1914-18 conflict broke out
radio was an infant. Only a few en-
thusiasts thought it would ever amount
to much in the scheme of Empire com-
munications, and Australia had to depend
almost entirely for its news on the cables.
They had occupied the field since their
inception without any serious competi-
tion, and, as a natural consequence, had
become old-fashioned. To get a message
from Sydney to London took hours where
it now takes minutes, unless it were given
special conditions. The alternative routes
were scanty. There were the Perth-
Cocos-Mediterranean route, the route
through Darwin, Java and Singapore
across India, and the Government-owned
Pacific cable to America.
Some of the stepping-stones on these
routes belonged to foreign nations, and
in Java the Dutch authorities, to preserve
their neutrality, turned out the British
staff and replaced it with Dutchmen and
{Continued on page 28.)


-sf
mmm
mm
I ' I wmm . |mi
: : 1 iilill
■
iii
MHI
'
m
m--
iii
’
■
■
m i
V
B
«
■
.
■
m
n
Pi
M
r
w
m
sr *
H
■.•Qpjfcv-i
' 'I
Hi 1/ .
L* : A*
Mr-
■
f/
#
THE
Xr
MOW THROUGH THE FACTORIES”
(WINSTON CHURCHILL)
E
V/.J.H. 1310.
In this war, all soldiers of the Empire
do not wear uniforms. Many wear
overalls, white collars, print dresses, and
over half a million workers in Australian
industry have enlisted to fight to see
it through to the end, just as surely as
every soldier, sailor, and airman.
Not threats or fear drive these to labour,
but the will and determination to hold,
at any cost of labour and blood, the
freedom of thought, speech and action
on which our British Commonwealth of
Nations is built.
Our sustained effort is now needed more
than ever before by our country. Can
we fail those who rely on us —‘‘those few
who fight for so many"? Let us with
all our heart and strength do our daily
work - every man, woman, and child
contributing his and her share to the
effort that will bring victory.
Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited is proud indeed , that its past development
and the labour of its employees has so well established its organisation that it
can now play an important part in Australia’s war effort .
Inserted by AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD. Sydney and Melbourne


■y.*SAiir m
*■/ ,•
.Ui'U vPp?'
■' ■*• --' • - • --''*s
:': •""--*• ■-• ■
■■ "'• ; ,■•<'•??••’•’■ :!? ■V* ’
''i * ? -'is'-.’-'. 1 ~
m
ton*
.*>#•
.4U-.W
V',
V.' .• •
S&B
PP.' : ’ v; -- -v. .'■
y-pp =,, . ./.'. -PP.%j p. >:;■:>vPP& T “P. ,r ■■■'.
'&**■■'- ’ •£> -"'a
•'■ - - - r,:.p. , .•' jmi
tos.’t
eP* ■• ■,' " - ■>•. ' %
sSfe
-'•.■'..V'-Cp* -v.'v
’.«S
Ssi
<v. -
ft*
' v V-;/,^
■'.il
SSSfcM
'J< i
s-' r . 'pp
'' \n, N
p*d
s&&‘
\v.n
-■5:
- .^■sr/'Z
\7L-s*
V/ ~
V,.
Sfe.
W *'*■" . . w “*
ws;
■. f ”V-
WPr +.jdr'
«3Sa**s
- .*, ~- ; c,. ... - ‘h&w*
'•..%• 4 •* #•. 3f *ix «:V^7?%j? -IB
•~~*St*f**tt*&'* * % - ...»
>Z\
_ <r •
. -• Av., 1 s »;-«••.. >- •
-'.■- i S
-v*«L
>Tv.
*7
1941 finds Australia in the midst
of the greatest production race in
history... a race to keep the Empire’s defenders adequately
provided with all supplies which are essential to the
prosecution of the war!
Behind this effort directing and controlling the flow of
production is organized Australian industry . . . designing,
manufacturing, financing and distributing products of war
that equip the fighting forces.
Parallel and concomitant with this effort is that of maintaining
production for home needs.
So production increases .. .
BUY AJVJ2 JHCOLD I—
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AUSTRAL BRONZE
Branch Offices; Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth.
Established 1914.


PEACE-
IN WAR
SERVING THE REQUIREMENTS OF
THE NATION WITH EVER-INCREASING PRODUCTION
Austral Bronze Co. Pty. Ltd., specializes in the manufacture
of
Sheet and Strip Copper, Brass, Gilding Metal, Phosphor Bronze and
Nickel Silver; Copper Rods and Bars, Busbar and Commutator Bars for
Electrical Work; Manganese Bronze in Rods and Bars; Muntz’s Metal,
Naval Brass, Copper and Brass in Round, Square, Hexagon and Special
Sections; Copper Plates, Rolled Copper Anodes; Gunmetal, Manganese
Copper and Manganese Bronze Ingots; Muntz’s Metal and Naval Brass
Condenser Plates; Muntz’s Metal, Naval Brass and Special Copper
Sheathing from Australian metals for
Defence, National Service and
Commercial Requirements.
ft
i'k
V,
r,-.»5 -% -i
W$
»> v •
<♦■• s *
tw • t: ; • >’v"?>2^
BKk, *• ‘>V^
Wfcr=>
m
■BwßwwgmS«fr*j&4? "
•‘-Hs
m
»- ■ -;_■ .-■%.
ESS
h£
*S.
t*V ■'
1. A 8.4
COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Branch Offices: Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth.
Works: Alexandria, Sydney.


AUSTRALIA AT WAR—Continued
natives. Cables could be fished up and
cut by the enemy—although this was not
an easy operation—and isolated stations
could be raided. A German raider seized
one of the Pacific Cable’s stations, de-
stroyed the equipment and put the route
out of action for three months at a vital
moment. The Emden did the same thing
to Cocos in the Indian Ocean, and was
sent to the bottom for its pains; com-
munication was re-established within 24
hours, emergency equipment having been
concealed on the island.
But Australia’s communications were,
on the whole, very precarious. The capa-
city of the cables was limited by all sorts
of factors, and the congestion that en-
sued became so great that towards the
end of the war the less important class
of telegram more often than not made
most of its journey by steamship, and
a soldier invalided home from London
often arrived before the message an-
nouncing his departure.
Amalgamated
Wireless
Moreover, wire-
less between ship
and ship and ship
and shore was only
in its beginnings.
Amalgamated
Wireless had been established only in
1913, and shipowners weren’t enamored
of the new invention. With the outbreak
of war that company started making its
own apparatus and equipping Australian
and Maoriland troopships and food-
carrying vessels. Great Britain was hard-
pressed for equipment, so when ships
were built in Hong Kong and Japan to
carry foodstuffs and munitions to the dif-
ferent theatres of war Australia was able
to supply the radio apparatus, as well as
the operators to work it. But it was all a
very primitive business, and the value of
wireless was so slight that most of its
achievements were of the spectacular
sort, as when the wireless SOS sent out
from Cocos had the good luck to be
picked up by the first Australian convoy
and brought the Sydney hurrying to the
Emden’s destruction.
The war today presents an astonish-
ingly different picture. There is hardly a
portion of the globe which is not in con-
stant communication with this country.
After a great deal of opposition from
the diehards, the Beam was established,
and now can carry an amount of traffic
limited only by certain mechanical speed
factors in the transmitting and receiving
apparatus. This ccmpetition gave a spur
to the cables, which were improved out
of recognition. Short-wave stations send
out Australian propaganda over the
Pacific in half a dozen different lan-
guages, and in receiving-rooms in various
parts of the country dozens of operators
receive the broadcasts of other countries
in a score of lingoes, while owners of
private sets can hear the latest bulletins
from London, Berlin, Rome, Tokyo and
Moscow —and even progress descriptions
of air raids.
As far as Australia is concerned these
conditions are almost exclusively a local
achievement. Radio communication is
an indispensable concomitant of warfare,
whether on land, at sea or in the air;
and it is a fact that the needs of Aus-
tralia in this direction are being supplied
from within the country. Amalgamated
Wireless has been striving for years past
to make Australia self-contained with
regard to its wireless equipment. The
final step was taken with the manufacture
of transmitting valves, and now a multi-
tude of types are being made in Aus-
tralian factories to cover the require-
ments of ships, coastal stations, aircraft
and aeradio stations, and for various
defence and broadcasting purposes. Aus-
tralia would not suffer in respect of her
ability to make herself heard across the
world if she were completely isolated to-
morrow. It is no idle boast that the new
valve transmitters, designed and manu-
factured in Australia, have no superiors
anywhere.
Making the airways of
Radio
Beacons
Australia safe for aerial
travel is one of the most
important factors. At the
capital city airports and at
many large towns, radio
beacons of the new ultra-high-frequency
type have been erected. These emit in-
visible radio beams which act as a guid-
ing path, and along these unseen tracks
aviators travel from city to city in all
sorts of weather with the same confidence
with which a ship’s captain at sea steers
by the visible ray from a lighthouse. At
26 Australian airports direction-finding
equipment has been installed a pilot
who wishes his position to be checked
has only to inform the ground station
and in a minute or so direction-finders
from two or more stations converge on
the flying quarry, locate his position and
tell him where he is with the exactitude
el a navigator when he plots his position
on a chart in the bridge house of a
steamer.
Wireless beacons, which perform much
the same service for shipping, are begin-
ning to dot the Australian coastline
from Cape Otway to Cape Schanck and
Cape Wickham, so that fog and rain no
longer perplex the navigator in the stormy
east seas round Victoria.
Australia’s radio industry is also
serving the public well in the manufacture
of broadcast receivers which enable
listeners to hear overseas as well as Aus-
tralian stations. About 300 short-wave
broadcasting stations in 68 countries are
pouring news and views into the ether
from the point of view of their respec-
tive Governments, and Australian listeners
can dip into this Tower of Babel and
believe in what they hear as much or as
little as they want to.
There are scores of other special
functions the radio industry performs,
from keeping police patrols and ambu-
lances in constant touch with head-
quarters to giving forestry officers a
second eye to survey their vast preserves
for signs of bushfires.
The enormous industry that has been
built up employs, directly and indirectly,
over 25,000 persons. Almost every wire-
less unit has been designed, constructed,
installed and is being operated by Aus-
tralians,
Training Technicians
Skilled tradesmen are essential for the
production of munitions, and Australia
was at least four years behind scratch
when the war started. She had to make
up that leeway and also catch up on a
goal that was rapidly receding because of
the steady increase in demand for manu-
factures, the opening of fresh industries,
the constant change in the nature of
weapons and the necessity for making in
this country all sorts of things that had
hitherto been imported.
In the 1914-18 war man-power was the
vital problem. In this war the vital
factor is machines. Behind the fighting
machines are more machines to keep
them in operation and behind those
machines a highly complex and elaborate
equipment. Behind those again are the
factories. But the factories have to be
manned and a veritable army has to be
recruited to man them. This army has to
be trained. There was an organisation
of technical schools and colleges which
went about the job of training youths for
industry in peace-time in a more or less
leisurely fashion, with upwards of five
years’ additional apprenticeship when
they reached the factory. Then there
was a mass of labor rules and conditions
which had to be observed and which
fitted fairly well into the peace-time pic-
ture.
Big
Changes
All this did not have to
go by the board, but it
had very rapidly, if not
ruthlessly, to be adjusted
to the burning necessities
of the moment. It was no
use putting a youth through a training
that would make him a skilled artisan
with a vocation that could last him his
lifetime. He had to be immediately pre-
pared for an emergency so that he could
go to a machine within three or four
months and be able to manipulate it. He
had to be made into a specialist —quickly.
From 1914 to 1918 some progress had
been made in building up a war-time in-
dustry in this country, so there was a
foundation to build on. But the prob-
lem in this war was far greater and more
urgent. The Government had quickly to
produce for the overseas and home forces
trained technicians and craftsmen, many
additional thousands of skilled trades-
men, to carry out Australia’s part in the
Empire Air Scheme, and to supply the
human material for the vastly expanded
programme of production of aircraft and
munitions. The training has been done
in two ways. Existing technical schools
and institutions, from Brisbane to Perth
and Hobart, were enlisted in the first
place under an agreement between the
States which ran them and the Federal
authorities who desired their products.
In the second, ordinary training that went
on in the industrial workshops had to be
accelerated.
Education being a State matter, the
States had to co-operate with the Com-
monwealth. A training plan was estab-
lished whereby existing facilities could
be used and increased under the direc-
tion of the Minister for Supply and De-
velopment. The vocational schools were
turned into defence training centres and
the wheels were set turning at their fullest
capacity.
For instance, in Melbourne there are
13 centres. At the Melbourne Technical
College trainees for munitions work go
on duty from 7.30 in the morning till
5 p.m., and detachments of trainees from
the Air Force and the other armed ser-
vices march in from 8.30 till five. From
five in the evening till ten the benches
and lathes are reserved for the ordinary
State student, who is going to become an
apprentice to engineering or something
of that sort. From 10 p.m. till seven in
the morning is the night shift for muni-
tions tradesmen. Thus the round of the
clock is worked in all the larger institu-
tions, and there are 45 of them in the
Commonwealth altogether.
The
Results
As a result of this inten-
sive effort during the 14
months that the vocational
schools have been used as
defence training centres, up
to Feb. 28 over 13,000
men had been put into full-time train-
ing and over 9000 successful students
had been turned out to take their place
in the war economy of the nation. The
demands of the Government for war
training are additional to the normal
needs of over 100,000 day and evening
students. To meet these demands schools
all over the country were reorganised on
the basis of a 24-hour day. One of the
main functions of the schools is to sup-
plement the work of the advanced train-
ing centres of the Air Force and Army
by enrolling men who have already been
enlisted by these services but need a
further course of intensive training to
bring them to the standard required for
modern service conditions. So the spec-
tacle is presented daily in any city of
long ranks of youths in the blue uniform
of the Air Force marching along the
streets on the way to and from the desk
and the lathe in the technical colleges.
The R.A.A.F. requires aircraft fitters,
needs motor mechanics, fitters, instru-
ment makers and even chefs. The army
needs motor mechanics, fitters, instru-
ment mechanics, carpenters, welders,
blacksmiths, coppersmiths, electricians
and other tradesmen —in fact, there are
almost as many occupations in a modern
army as there are in a factory. The tech-
nical training in the schools is at high
speed and occupies the trainee’s whole
time for periods varying from eight to
twenty-four weeks. Production of muni-
tions and aircraft requires thousands of
additional skilled tradesmen —in particu-
lar, precision tool and gauge makers.
These are being trained in the vocational
schools and industrial workshops, and
both engineering unions and employers’
organisations have co-operated with the
Government in this.
During the period of training all men
who are being trained as skilled trades-
men receive an allowance equal to the
Federal Arbitration Court’s basic wage.
When they have completed their training
and are drafted into the munitions indus-
try as skilled tradesmen they receive the
award rate of £6 a week in accordance
with the Dilution of Labor Agreement
entered into by the Government, unions
and employers in 1940.
The schools are not only training men
but contributing to the production of
war requirements. Every minute of the
time spent in training is put to the best
advantage. Students being trained as
toolmakers make certain tools and gauges
for the munitions factories; tradesmen
in training carry out orders for machines
from the factories. Incidentally, the
Army, the Air Force and the munitions
industry have acknowledged the high
standard reached.
While the training of skilled men is
vitally necessary at the present moment,
this industrial army will still be in exist-
ence when the war drums cease beating.
But there will be less and less room for
the unskilled man in the society of the
future, so the present effort may result in
this country taking a foremost rank
among industrial nations.
The Importance of Gasworks
Two thousand products are taken by
British chemists from coal, and the
humble gasworks now rank high among
factories producing war materials. At
the gasworks coal is treated to yield mil-
lions of tons of explosive, millions of
tons of fertiliser for the additional ground
put under cultivation, millions of gallons
of tar to keep the roads repaired for
transport and millions of tons of coke
for the steelworks.
From coal, too, come fuel oil and
motor spirit—the gas industry produces
about 20,000,000 tons of benzole a year
every gallon of which reduces the need
for the importation of petrol from
abroad.
Drugs and disinfectants also come
from coal —aspirin, novocaine, acriflavine
being three of the best-known drugs—
including the new drug M and B 693,
which is being used successfully to cure
pneumonia and other diseases.
The gas industry is a model of
economic planning, for these valuable
by-products, saved in the process of gas-
making, would be lost in smoke and soot
if the coal were burned raw. Nothing
is wasted. Gas is carried to home and
factory; coke, pitch, creosote and other
by-products are used in the home market
or, more important in war-time, exported
to foreign countries; toluol and nitro-
benzene are used to fill shells, and phenol
is the base of plastics used for various
products important in the construction
of aeroplanes.
Retort carbon is used for the brushes
of dynamos and electric motors and for
the electrodes of dry batteries. Even the
flue dust finds a use in liquid meial
polish.
During the 1914-18 war a single gas
undertaking provided enough high ex-
plosive to fill 160,000,000 18-pounder
shells, as well as 17,000,000 gallons of oil,
29,000,0001 b. of disinfectants, and enough
tar to treat all the military roads on the
Western Front. Since 1918 the indus-
try’s productive capacity has risen by
50 per cent, and, at the same time, there
have been great improvements in the
technical methods of manufacture.
As a result the gas industry can get
considerably more out of coal than it
could before. And Britain’s gas indus-
try is twice as large as Germany’s. Every
ton of coal treated at the gasworks be-
comes a potent weapon against the
enemy.
Science and Our War Effort
This is a war of scientists as much as
soldiers —every belligerent country is
using all the resources of modern science
it can lay its hands on —and in this direc-
tion Australia is not far behind the older
countries.
With the outbreak of the war the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search at once considered the steps it
could take to render assistance in as direct
a way as possible to the war effort. As
time went on it was charged with vari-
ous investigations of immediate concern
to the fighting services, many of which,
however, cannot be discussed.
At first, particularly with problems of
primary industry, it was not easy to make
an immediate change - over. As the
national effort gained momentum, how-
ever, it was possible to devote more and
more attention to studies directly related
to war requirements. These studies have
covered all kinds of questions —what
Australian materials can replace those
previously imported ; how Australian ma-
terials can best be used in new industries ,
what can be done to reduce the difficul-
ties caused by any particular damming-
up of Australian exports, and what can
be done to alleviate the general upset or
normal conditions.
C.S.I.R.
Gets to
Work
The Division of Forest
Products was well placed to
afford assistance. It had
accumulated over the years
a mass of information on
the properties of different
Australian timbers, so it
was instantly able to tell in-
dustry how to replace imports with
local products and how best to
use local timbers in the many new
constructions required for war pur-
poses. The Division is also devoting
much attention to studies of Australian
timbers for their possible use in different
parts of aircraft —work of importance,
since excellent aeroplanes can be pro-
duced using the newer plywoods and
plastics. Incidentally, the Council’s work
on paper pulp, which is still being con-
tinued by the Division of Forest Pro-
ducts, has been of particular value dur-
ing the present crisis—it has resulted in
three large new industries producing writ-
ing papers at Burnie, newsprint near
Hobart and wrapping papers in Gipps-
land—all from Australian woods.
With the cessation of Continental sup-
plies of flax—for the production of cord-
age, tarpaulins and the like —the Empire
now has to grow its own supplies, and
the Council is engaged on various prob-
lems connected with production in Aus-
tralia. Economically retting flax straw
is another problem, and it seems that a
solution has now been found. For the
first year or two it will be necessary to
use the old and dew-
retting process, but eventually it will be
possible to use the strictly controllable
water-retting methods and thus place the
flax industry on a sound basis. The
various Departments of Agriculture are
co-operating in this work on the flax-
growing side, and the whole effort is
looked after by a committee of the De-
partment of Supply and Development.
The main war work of the Division of
Plant Industry concerns the production
of medicinal plants and of different fibres,
some of them from plants indigenous to
Australia. The war has set many ob-
stacles to the supply of drugs obtainable
from different plants, but considerable
(Continued on page 32.)


: v .
fit v-i-
-v\;
'••V
?iV.
mm
■;■ •
' , ' 4 X • ', ' . ' %*s£s»s»
*?>. .V*'*» .V%-Vi • : '•■■•■’■'■
■v-v
ss
vU
if "
m
r • ■:
m
W*'i
9
7
m
—,-'i
miMm
£Ss
SPS
1
-itf;
WJV- j-
&%■
„ rfOWWOl**"
" r -
-
AUSTRALIA ADVANCES!
Every day Australia is advancing its war effort . . . factories
throughout the Commonwealth are constantly increasing their
production of war supplies.
General Motors - Holden’s Ltd. is one of the Australian enterprises
like many others, whose peace-time activities have now been applied
to doing everything possible to aid Australia’s war effort.
This is done with pride and zeal, affording its 5,000 employees,
good Australians all, serving in the factory line of attack, consider-
able satisfaction.
When this trouble is over General Motors - Holden’s Ltd. will
return to its normal commercial pursuits with added experience and
happiness that in every possible way it served.
IL/20 develops Industry serves Australia
Pagewood Plant Sydney
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S-LTD.
BEDFORD • BUICK • CADILLAC • CHEVROLET • G.M.C. • LA SALLE • OLDSMOBILE • PONTIAC • VAUXHALL
C 751.60


ENGINEERS
mmmmm
m m
m
m
m
■
■ mm
wm a
fiM
m/m
,
.
i
'
■
UMi
■iHi
m
■—
sss
■
*
m
H
H
Hi I
•;■■■ •;
ns s
■
i
■
■
FORGING A LARGE INGOT UNDER 1000-TON PRESS AT THOMPSONS ENGINEERING, LTD.,
CASTLEMAINE. (INGOT WEIGHT 20 TONS 7 CWTS.) FOR PINION AND EXTENSION
SHAFTS FOR BROKEN HILL PTY. CO., LTD.
“There is not a week, nor a day, nor an hour to be lost” says the Empire’s
leader in vivid words, and the wheels of industry speed to make Australia an
arsenal of war materials.
Lights burn late as Australian industries’ war effort gains momentum. The
army of overalls has swung into action.
The Thompsons plants are now working at capacity producing great quantities
of materials essential in a war programme.
The Company is indeed proud of the share it is taking in the nation’s mighty
effort. It is proud of the skill and enterprise of its management and employees,
who are cheerfully giving of their best, determined that nothing shall interfere
with the flow of vital supplies.
To victory there is no short cut. We expect the road to be long and hard. We
are determined to pursue it until peace is made secure for all nations of the world.
THOMPSONS ENGINEERING
CASTLEMAINE MELBOURNE
T.1.9E41.


on active service
«
%
w
■
n
$
U
0
m
■
:;
Ml
m
m
:
11
m
U
m
m
. ■
H
■
m
H
■
: •
m
m
m
"
u
H
25in. X 41 in. and 68in. x 45in. TRIPLE EXPANSION MARINE ENGINES FOR
COMMONWEALTH SHIP CONSTRUCTION.
The most urgent need of the British Empire now is ships, and the most important part of a ship is
the Propelling Machinery. The above photograph illustrates one of seven (7) sets of Engines built by
us for the Standard Vessels constructed in Australia during the last war period. The size of the Engines
was 2300 Indicated Horse Power at 70 revolutions per minute, and the weight of the Engines was
105 tons.
The Company is at present manufacturing engines and auxiliaries for Naval Defence Vessels.
Forgings are a vitally important part of the Munitions Programme and the demand for Forgings is
much greater than normal times. The Company is supplying Forgings for guns of all kinds and
machines for the manufacture of munitions.
The Company is supplying Pumps of all kinds—Centrifugal and Piston types—to be used in
connection with the Munitions Programme.
COMPANY LIMITED
WILLIAMSTOWN
fICA r &


AUSTRALIA AT WAR—Continued
progress has now been made in the pro-
duction of, at least, the more important
ones. An interesting war-time problem
which the Merbein Laboratory has
solved concerns the supply of the neces-
sary potash for the dipping of dried vine
fruits. With the cutting-off of European
supplies, potash is now difficult to obtain,
but the station has shown that the short-
age can be overcome by extracting potash
from vine prunings burnt in a particular
way.
The Entomological Division is engaged
on the problem of weevil in stored wheat
—the insect always becomes troublesome
when wheat is stored for any length of
time.
The Fisheries Division is giving atten-
tion to fish oils, which are rich in vita-
mins and are needed to replace the cod-
liver oil no longer obtainable from
Europe. Private interests have taken up
this matter, and it looks as if Australia
is on the road to self-sufficiency in these
particular oils, which are, at times, very
necessary for children. The Division is
also looking into the production of tinned
fish in Australia. Previously Australia
imported large quantities of salmon and
sardines at the cost of dollar exchange.
The Division of Food Preservation is
working in the general field of the drying
of various foodstuffs with a view to their
export in that condition and the conse-
quent saving of shipping space. Par-
ticular attention is being given to c§gs
and milk.
Fresh
Fields
In the newer divisions
which have followed the
recent extension into the field
of secondary industries is,
first, the Division of Aero-
nautics. In the older indus-
trialised countries the aeroplane-builder
has a wealth of materials on which to
draw for special purposes. That wide
selection is not available to Australia,
and much research, therefore, must be
done to find suitable Australian materials.
There are, of course, many other peculi-
arly Australian problems in the field of
aeronautics. The laboratory building is
now complete, but it is not yet fully
equipped. It is organised in four sections
—aero-dynamics, structures and materials,
engines and fuels and instruments. Its
capital cost will be upwards of £lOO,OOO.
The Australian National Standards
Laboratory is situated in the grounds of
Sydney University. Here again the build-
ing is complete, but all the necessary
equipment is not yet gathered together.
The laboratory is organised in three sec-
tions —meteorology, physics and electro-
technology. Its establishment is but a
part, though a particularly vital one, in
the general movement for the dissemi-
nation of more accurate measurement
throughout Australian industry. Aus-
tralia is now an exporter of manufac-
tured equipment, including large quan-
tities of munitions, and thus it is essen-
tial that the Sydney inch should be
exactly the same as the Melbourne inch,
not just nearly the same. It is also essen-
tial that the Australian inch should be
the same as the standard inch of the
British Commonwealth. The same con-
siderations apply to many other measure-
ments.
Many problems of industry have their
roots in chemistry, and accordingly a
Division of Industrial Chemistry has now
been formed. It will be housed in a
laboratory to be erected and equipped at
a cost of some £50,000 alongside the
Aeronautical Laboratory at Fishermen’s
Bend, Melbourne. Its chief objects are
five —to promote technical efficiency in
industry, to stimulate new industries, to
encourage the use of Australian raw
materials, to encourage the replacement
of imported materials by those of Aus-
tralian origin, and to investigate the pos-
sibilities of industrial by-products.
As a long-term policy, the division
endeavors to play its part in obtaining a
better balance than the existing one
between Australian primary and second-
ary industries; its short-term policy is
governed by national war needs. After
an extensive survey of the many different
industries, it decided to concentrate in
the early years on problems relating to
the non-metallic minerals and their use,
metals and alloys, wool and other fibres,
hides and leather and dairy products.
Another activity of the Council lies
in the. field of lubrication and bearings.
A small team is working in a laboratory
provided by the Melbourne University,
where it is studying the lubrication of
metals under difficult conditions of high
temperature, as, for example, in the case
of piston rings and bearings of a modern
high-speed engine. The results will pro-
vide a valuable guide in the selection of
correct bearing metals for use under:
different practical conditions and the pre-
vention of undue corrosion, scoring and
seizure of bearings.
The foregoing is but a general view of
the more important war efforts the Coun-
cil is making. From time to time it
engages on many other smaller pro-
grammes.
A Remarkable Change-over
Despite serious setbacks to its mer-
chandising programme in the early stages
of the war, the automotive industry has
answered the call for production of war
materials and applied itself without hesi-
tation to the new forms of manufacture.
A glance at the activities of General
Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., the largest con-
cern in the Australian industry, will give
some idea of the striking change-over
which has been effected. Normally this
company and its dealer organisation
directly employ nearly 14,000 people, and
£6,385,000 is involved in the combined
capitals. The co. itself usually pays out
£4,500,000 annually—£3,ooo,ooo for Aus-
tralian raw materials and £1,500,000 in
wages and salaries to Australian per-
sonnel.
The first branch of the industry to feel
the war was the retail end of the business.
G.M.-H., however, realised that this
organisation would have to play an im-
portant part in the rehabilitation of the
industry after the war, and took imme-
diate steps to stabilise the situation. On
the manufacturing side the first job to
be tackled was the supply of military
transport this “mechanised” war in-
cludes not only tanks and armored units
but also the motor troop transports, as
demonstrated most convincingly by the
rapid movements in Libya and Eritrea
and by the fact that, although it took
seven weeks to capture Keren, motor
transport brought the British army to the
gates of Asmara within a couple of days.
Great numbers of motor-trucks rolled
off every assembly line, while such
specialised units as blood-bank trailers
(for blood-transfusion operations), re-
frigerator units, field dressing stations,
ambulances, mobile office trucks, mobile
workshops, photographic units and map-
ping units, were being produced at a
remarkably rapid rate to equip the A.I.F.
Gipsy
Major
Engines
G.M.-H. has gathered to-
gether a team of men who
are versatile and enthusi-
astic. They have been re-
sponsible for some remark-
able achievements. Trained
in present-day organisation
methods, they have been
able to tackle jobs no matter how
complex or new to Australian manu-
facturing technique. That was plainly
demonstrated in the manufacture of the
Australian De Havilland Gipsy Major
Aero Engine. When they received the
blueprints from overseas they set to and
worked out the planning of the aero-
engine production so successfully that,
within eight months, the first engine was
assembled, tested and ready for service.
The De Havilland Company in England
lent ready assistance in advice and per-
sonnel and sent congratulations upon the
successful completion of the initial pro-
duction of these engines. Although an
entirely new manufacturing technique
was employed, differing greatly from that
usually obtaining in motor-car assembly,
production today is flowing so smoothly
that the 200th engine has already been
delivered.
Another big and closely-guarded pro-
ject is the anti-tank gun-. This tremendous
job looks like being produced in world’s
record time, handicapped even as the
technicians were by the lack of the
machine tools for the job. This was
overcome by designing and building
special precision machines for the various
component parts of the work, getting old
machines and modifying them to modern
conditions, and altering automotive equip-
ment to adapt it to munitions production.
Other work carried out in the various
plants includes the manufacture of anti-
submarine aircraft bombs, army boats,
pontoons, airframe sections, bomber
tanks, haversacks, tents, gas-mask parts
and naval shells. What a transformation
from motor-car assembly and body
manufacture!
Despite the fact that approximately 1000
men have enlisted from the firm, the
personnel is probably larger today than
it was in the normal pre-war period, and
the versatility in manufacturing technique,
together with the greater knowledge of
precision tooling and machining, should
find this company ready for the produc-
tion of trucks in Australia should other
sources be cut off—if complicated, high-
precision aero engines and guns can be
produced in Australia, transport could be
produced with the same speed and
efficiency.
Apart from manufacturing and pro-
duction, General Motors-Holden’s has
also applied itself to training motor
transport personnel for the army. In
association with its distributors in every
capital city in Australia, thousands of
men are put through, intensive high-
speed repair and maintenance courses.
It is estimated that men are going through
these schools at the rate of 5000 a year.
An Important Industry
The humble sheet of galvanised-iron,
which is so common today that it gener-
ally escapes notice, is little more than 100
years old. A plain shed of galvanised-iron
was displayed at the Great Exhibition of
1851, but it was not until steam power
was used for corrugating in 1854 that gal-
vanised-iron really came into practical
use. About three years later John
Lysaght established a galvanising busi-
ness at Bristol. At first only galvanised
sheets and other articles were manufac-
tured, but in 1880 he acquired the Swan
Garden Works at Wolverhampton and
laid down rolling mills for the manufac-
ture of black sheets. After his death in
1905 the firm of John Lysaght, Ltd.,
erected new works at Newport (Mon-
mouthshire), which are now its head-
quarters.
Towards the end of 1879 John Lysaght
looked to Australia, where, although he
had been selling galvanised sheets to
various firms, he had no direct sales
organisation. In 1880 an office was
opened in Melbourne, and from then
until 1921 the Australian business was
restricted to the importation and selling
of galvanised-iron and black sheets made
in England. The 1914-18 war and the
establishment of the B.H.P. steelworks
at Newcastle induced Lysaghts to make
galvanised-iron and black sheets in Aus-
tralia, and in April, 1921, an initial unit
of two rolling mills and one galvanising
pot started work. In seven years there
were eight mills and four galvanising pots
with a capacity of 40,000 tons of sheets
a year. In 1930 the plant was doubled ;
in 1932 production was 80,000 tons a
year; in 1934 a mechanical mill was
added, and another in 1936 ; the gal-
vanising plant was modernised and out-
put went up still further.
Today, with their two plants at New-
castle and Port Kembla, Lysaghts can
turn out at least 150,000 tons of galvan-
ised sheets yearly, as well as a large
quantity of black sheets and, a recent
addition, “Zincanneal” —an annealed
sheet that combines the strength of black
iron with the rust-resisting properties
of high-grade electrolytic zinc—and
“Terne Plate.” These works employ 2500
men and pay out £650,000 in wages every
year ; indirectly another 4000 men (pro-
ducing the raw materials) receive £700,000
on the strength of the co.’s activities.
The two works produce 12,000,000 sheets
of galvanised-iron yearly. One factory
now consists of 16 manual and two
mechanical mills and 10 galvanising pots,
one of which is fitted for the manufac-
ture of “Zincanneal.” The other works
came under Lysaghts’ control when they
bought the sheet mill and galvanising
plant of Australian Iron and Steel in
1936. The plant had one mechanical
mill and two pots ; annual production
was 25,000 tons. Lysaghts built new
works on a site near Port Kembla, trans-
ferred the A. I. and S. plant there,
added new plant and so stepped up pro-
duction to 60,000 tons a year.
What this industry means to Australia
may be estimated by recalling that,
during the 1914-18 war, the price of gal-
vanised-iron soared to £lOO a ton. Be-
cause all Australian requirements in gal-
vanised-iron —for roofing, walling, fire-
breaks, silos, grain-storage bulkheads,
dams, etc. —are now made here, the price
has not fluctuated from the pre-war level
of August, 1939. And, in addition to meet-
ing all home needs, Lysaghts have ex-
ported more than 40,000 tons of galvan-
ised air-raid shelter sheets to England,
as well as exporting, in competition with
overseas manufacturers, galvanised-iron
to islands in the Pacific, to Singapore
and to the Dutch East Indies.
The Textile Industry
Any full story of Australia’s part
in the war will have to include some
passages on the manner in which indus-
tries switched from civilian trade to mili-
tary requirements, and not the least re-
markable of those chapters will deal with
the textile business. The ramifications
of the sheep and wool industry are in
every State in Australia ; those employed
directly by it, plus the numberless ones
associated with it, run into many thou-
sands, and the total wages bills are the
largest in the Commonwealth.
Yarra Falls, Ltd., was founded at
Abbotsford (Vic.) in 1917 with 67
employees; today it has 1550 on
the payroll. The bulk of the co.’s
machines and equipment, selected by one
of the leaders of the industry in England,
came from Yorkshire, home of the Brit-
ish woollen industry. Australian em-
ployees, under expert guidance, have
handled those machines so successfully
that, although the original objects of the
company were confined to the combing
and spinning of wool into yarn, it now
uses 25,500 bales of wool yearly to
produce 2,500,0001 b. of yarn and
1,750,000 yards of high-grade cloth,
including worsted knitting and weav-
ing yarns, twills and fancy worsted
suitings, Venetians, baratheas, covert coat-
ings, wool crepes and wool georgettes, as
well as large quantities of the better type
of fabric required for defence purposes.
In piece-dyed fabrics the company has
used over 1250 shades, while in “dyed-
in-the-wool” yarns it has produced
more than 1600 solid shades with com-
binations giving unlimited variety of
tonings. The mills are turning out large
quantities of textile materials for each
branch of the fighting services, and also
producing material essential in the manu-
facture of munitions.
The wool is processed
From
Sheep
to Yarn
through all stages from the
fleece as shorn from the
sheep to the finished article.
It arrives at the mill in
bales as bought at the wool
auctions and is sorted out
to quality, a much more
exacting process than the classing
which is usually done at the sheep
station. The fleeces are divided into
the various types of wool to produce
different thicknesses and qualities of yarn,
but before the fleeces are broken up
brands are removed, a wastage still neces-
sary because of the continued use of tar
and other branding materials which do
not respond to the ordinary scouring pro-
cess. The sorted wool is thoroughly
blended, then taken to the scouring
machine and washed with soap and soda.
The scoured wool passes to the first
fibre-manipulating process, the carding
machines, which untangle the fibres and
deliver the wool in a rope form called
a sliver, in which the fibres are roughly
parallel. These machines also remove
burrs, seeds, etc. The sliver then passes
through another washing and drying pro-
cess called “backwashing,” and is then
processed in gill boxes and combs. These
complete the job of making the fibres
parallel and remove the short lengths or
noils, after which the sliver is wound
into a ball known as a “wooltop.”
The wooltop is converted to yam in
two stages. The first is drawing, which
consists of reducing the diameter of the
sliver in progressive stages until it is a
comparatively thick thread with a small
degree of twist. Eight to ten operations
are required to complete the drawing,
the result being known as “roving.” The
roving is placed on the spinning-frame
and spun into yarn, which is taken to the
twisting machines, which make twofold,
threefold, etc., yarns as may be required.
The twisted yarn is then wound on to
cardboard tubes or cones for weaving or
knitting.
From
Yarn to
Cloth
A cloth is composed of
two sets of threads, those
running lengthwise warp
threads and those run-
ning across the piece—
weft threads. An average
high-class navy serge would
be composed of about 68
warp and weft threads to the inch. The
warp threads are all placed side by side
on what is called a warp beam—
a roller about 7ft. long, with flanges
at each end. The complete warp
would consist of from 4000 to 8000
threads across the width, and each thread
would be 70 yards to 700 yards long,
according to the number of pieces to be
woven. Generally, each piece is woven
from 70 yards of warp threads to give
55-60 yards of finished fabric. In a warp
sufficient for eight pieces of fabric, made
from 5000 threads each 560 yards long,
there are nearly 1600 miles of yarn.
When the warp arrives at the weaving
mill it is placed on a special stand, and
each individual thread is drawn through
an eye in a wire—one of a set consisting
of a wire for each warp thread to be
woven. The sets of wires are mounted
in a frame, and the complete assembly is
called a “heald,” one of which is used
for each group of threads to be woven
in similar position in the design—in an
elaborate pattern there may be 16, or
even more, healds controlling the warp
threads in the loom. Each strand of
yarn is then drawn through a reed frame,
and when this is completed the warp is
ready to be put into the loom for weaving.
The designs of the weave of the cloth
are controlled by the up-and-down move-
ments of the healds with their warp
threads, timed to allow the shuttle to
travel across the fabric between each
movement. As the shuttle passes across
it pays out the weft thread, which is then
forced into place by the reed frame mov-
ing backwards and forwards between
(Continued on page 36.)


Sa,-,
Wii/fiv* , -.° 7••.;-5: a' ••• •-
f&.t-i.*
ySSt'j-7'K ~
*:'V:
«P
* ■*-'- v A-":-: ‘r.t?.-. -->i r v> v „ -> .» A tf; ’?'.’ J V -V
•f-
-' -.X £
NS
!fttf,'-“--- ■ ■'".}*?•■. "n»->y^-
* :•.*> iL.^v
... „,v .7,". >■•.:•
" t fU' • •'«<
■;-;•* f*- .-■ v <• ‘
mi ’ >7.
/ i
S.':-:2
rsE-S
B|«fi
k
I mmw/§
ii ill
g ’g|
k<i : :
,l
■V- 1 sM.’si s
Is
£ -rr -
• ■'-' > < '<V
* .';m
' f SHgM
h\tr.
ii* ! Y' j:
ii,.;
&$K
L-.&y*:
x; - : ■ **s*
W Slii-.-'' Tr-'--'.c£ I.M- V A
BrnfeV, *A s V^OA&i*s»>,
! .v f
.. - •
is
*•&<?*/ r:v f
stTLs
yfr.; 7 v '
if |S:
mr^
*.
pg?s.;
if a
.’. jfei J-, r v-MSE^J
i
»v,.
«s*#7 vv?->fa
Mm m
MM
r>v:.-. v^fJFg
:
' : ( l rp
■3s'«
i.k •?' ’-kj
,kT/!
Vi r .
ses.
1
/7;
s**A*'&■<
'?$A
V.W'!
-2sr
»
-.c • :
aSHH
««K>k4.'/.
Sb.
rt .
i^SIS
,VA;*... c *♦ k-VwWt.«-^»vi
:rrssigwriww.irryrw»^
C v
mfimmm.-
SS?
Hi
r- -
'S&sSbl
‘S^S..'
_^>7s'v *!•
-5-■-,.•*..:.: ..
. iSis* v o'B*- •HMHI
k*%nfv.»wivy-<*■/■■•,. ■"
. ■■ - ■ ~
JMIK
atMßaeie^foa
££
F,
agi
t»wwW r
“WORKMEN ARE SOLDIERS
WITH DIFFERENT WEAPONS
BUT THE SAME COURAGE”..
History records how nations once left their battles to small
groups of fighting men who, often without support from
home, carried out the offensive or defensive actions decided
on by the nations’ rulers.
Today instead of those small bodies we have whole nations
in arms using not only their weapons of war but also their
tools of trade that in peace - time were used for the
production of the nations’ goods.
In Australia, those tools in the hands of experienced men
are turning out war weapons for our forces at the front,
and equipment for war vehicles and buildings.
The organization and employees of John Banks &. Son
Pty. Ltd. are taking their share in this great work. The
Company is proud that its efforts are an appreciable part
of the nation’s war programme.
JOHN DANKS
& SON FTY. LTD.
3t?¥
s&U
m.
aaaa'i
if;
jsspwotsOj
;.Wj y .
m
hf\
'ft&QyV- h\.
\y, ■S':' l _;^^miS%.:
SsssisF'
r »:. \t*sr
D.F.P. 39.
r J
4W
»- ;■ ■ ■ •:.'»*
w
.'A • '
*>...•”«
> v r * v :
SYDNEY
AND
MELBOURNE


wl
■
:
m
mmmmm
'
Wm
Wm
mmm
■
■
"' ■:■ - > •••
AMMUNITION
«* :
■
Hi
i
Si
-
.#
Nj
GUN CARRIERS
i»K&
" N T>Sfoss' , N-.V. i ...
PARACHUTES
• j
mrni
fv
AEROPLANES
-...
SHELLS
1
SHIPS
flfl
STEEL HELMETS
by England’s Pri
those words clearly ini
try’s vital responsibility in
conflict. The mechanise
modern armies relies on ii
only by the greatest m;
efforts can Great Britai
Dominions hope to cou
productivity of the c
machine.
Steel is the foundation ft
establishment and expa
automatically becoming
behind defence preparedm
In a world seeking more
steel, Australia is in th
position of being able to i
sufficient for practically
needs, this assured supply
able at prices among the 1
world!
The efforts of The Broke
prietary Co. Ltd. have
nationally beneficial situat
THE BROKEN HILL
Head Office: 422 Little Collins She
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, Soul
IRON AND STEEL
. ' 0
MINE UNO SHIP


- CHURCHILL
ate indus-
it present
night of
astry, and
uiacturing
and her
tract the
my war
iadustry’s
m, thus
1 power
■
and more
iortunate
iifacture
er entire
ng avail-
est in the
il Pro-
iade this
‘possible.
s » '*m
■
...
Mr. Winston Churchill
Since 1914-15, when the B.H.P. Com-
pany established the Newcastle Steel
Works planned to give Australia
self-sufficiency in iron and steel no
opportunity has been lost to increase
the scope and service of the under-
taking.
In anticipation of increased demands
for iron and steel, the Company’s
plant at Newcastle and the Kembla
Works of Australian Iron & Steel Ltd.
have been modernised and extended.
Production in more than 800 different
shapes and sections has made possible
enormous development in Australia’s
secondary industries, and as a result
this period of stress finds our factories
fulfilling their huge munition-making
tasks, served by B.H.P. Steel.
1
W
I
avr--
m
-
;
- •
IB:
, v.'
m
is
mm
■■
■■
.
PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
t, Melbourne
i Australia
Iron and Steel Works; Newcastle, N.S.W.
Shipbuilding Yards; Whyalla, South Australia.
ns f f COLLIERY PROPRIETORS • * SHIP BUILDERS


AUSTRALIA AT WAR—Continued
each travel of the shuttle—which passes
from one side of the loom to the other
at least 100 times, or picks, a minute.
As the cloth is woven it is automatically
wound on to a roller at the bottom of
the loom.
When each 70 yards of the warp has
been used a mark appears to denote the
end of the piece, which is then removed
from the loom and taken to a piece-
room for “perching”—a careful exami-
nation for such faults as broken threads,
picks outs, threads in wrong position, etc.
Then comes mending, done by female
workers who pull the cloth over a slop-
ing table to find the “percher’s” marks
and repair the faults.
The piece is then ready for dyeing and
finishing, or for finishing only, accord-
ing to the nature of the cloth—a material
such as navy serge is made by weaving
white yarn and then dyeing the fabric,
while a multi-striped, fancy-mixture suit-
ing is woven with colored yarns, the
woven fabric not passing through any
dyeing process. Several pieces are tem-
porarily joined end-to-end and passed
through washing and milling machines,
the latter assisting the process of shrink-
ing and closing up the weave of the
fabric. The pieces are washed in jets of
cold water to remove the soap solution,
after which those to be dyed go to the
dye vessels, the others being taken direct
to the tentering machine. It is usual to
dye several pieces together, and they are
passed through the dye liquid joined end-
to-end in an endless band of cloth, which
passes over rollers and is thus kept
rapidly moving to ensure level dyeing.
The cloth is then passed through a ten-
tering machine, which holds it at a pre
determined width and dries it by means
of steam-heated pipes at a temperature of
180 degrees.
Another “perching” follows, this time
to detect unevenness of dye or of scour-
ing or any other faults. Then comes
“picking” to remove vegetable and other
foreign matter, revealed by the fact that
wool dyes do not affect such material.
A brushing machine next raises the nap
of the cloth in preparation for cropping
—passing the piece through a machine
containing fast-revolving stiff brushes and
cutting blades which mow off the nap
and raised fibres down to a clean and
level surface. The cloth is then cooled
off and conditioned by passing over per-
forated cylinders with a very fine spray
of cold water. With a cotton wrapper
between each layer it is then rolled on
to perforated cylinders through which
is blown dry steam, thoroughly set-
ting it both for length and width. The
material then goes through a rotary press
and then into the electric press, where the
heat is carefully regulated while a
hydraulic pressure of 40 tons to the
square inch is applied. After that comes
another perching, and then the cloth is
folded in half-width, measured, rolled and
sent to the warehouse.
The
V icars
Mills
Among the textile organ-
isations that have placed their
machinery at the disposal of
the Commonwealth none has
done so more wholeheartedly
than the firm of Vicars, a
name associated with woollen
manufacturing since John
Vicars won a gold medal for tweed at the
first International Exhibition in London
in 1851. When he moved his factory from
Sussex-street, Sydney, to Marrickville in
1893, the complete payroll recorded 40
names; today the firm, with its asso-
ciated mills at Parramatta, employs 2000
Australians and uses about 30,000 bales
of Australian wool every year.
During the last few months demands
on plant have increased, for now, as well
as supplying A.I.F. needs, Australian tex-
tiles are being shipped to India and else-
where in large quantities for the Imperial
forces. Remarkable results have been
achieved, defence output from Vicars mills
in 1940 exceeding 750,000 yards. Also,
some 500,0001 b. of yarn was supplied to
other firms for knitting sweaters, socks
and underwear for the defence forces.
Those figures are sufficient testimony in
themselves to the management and em-
ployees—for long periods it has been
necessary to work overtime, and it has
been done willingly and cheerfully, even
the youngest among the workers seeming
to realise that the country’s needs come
before personal amusement and sport.
Commonwealth Rolling Mills
Steel to most people means massive
girders, ships’ sides, engines, railway lines
and the like ; it rarely occurs to them
that the bodywork of a motor-car,
enamelled kitchenware, filing cabinets and
so forth are made from high-quality steel
sheets as essential to this modern world
as the girders that support a good deal
of it, and as essential to the successful
prosecution of this war as the men who
are fighting it.
Just how essential is this form of steel
may be gauged from the fact that a few
years ago Australia was importing more
than a million pounds’ worth every year.
In 1938, however. Commonwealth Roll-
ing Mills Pty. was registered; it is
controlled equally by Armco (Aust.) Pty.
an offshoot of the American Rolling
Mill Co. and John Lysaght (Aust.),
well-known manufacturer of galvanised
iron. By 1939 the co. had invested
£BOO,OOO in its plant the only high-
iinish mill south of the Equator—
on an 80-acre site and had com-
menced production. Its capacity was
reckoned at 36,000 tons a year, and its
output was designed for such things as
refrigerator cabinets, motor-body sheets,
enamelware, stoves, table-tops, steel fur-
niture, filing cabinets, rust-resisting
sheets for gasholders, culverts and other
articles exposed to severe weather condi-
tions.
All that, of course, was in peace-time.
The war flung forward its pressing needs,
and today, with employees engaged on
80 p.c. defence work, and producing
130 p.c. of its designed capacity, the
C.R.M. is rushing out steel sheets for
defence purposes of various kinds.
The C.R.M. gets its raw material —
made to strict specifications—from Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel in the form of
steel bars 12in. wide and 30ft. long. A
bar is sheared into the lengths necessary
to produce the required sheet and then
submerged in successive baths of sul-
phuric acid and hot and cold water to
clean the surfaces of all scale and dirt.
The bars are next put through continuous
furnaces to bring them to the required
temperature and then passed back and
forth through the sheet-rolling mills,
which reduce them to sheets of the re-
quired thickness and length. After roll r
ing, the material is naturally out of
square, so it is passed on to be sheared
to the desired sizes. Then the sheets are
subjected to a “normaliser,” a heating
and cooling operation which alters the
grain structure of the steel to permit
proper forming and shaping.
The steel sheets are then taken to the
scrubber and dryer—a bath of weak acid
and a drying process —to clean them
thoroughly and so prevent any defects
being rolled in in subsequent operations.
A toughening process, or “close anneal,”
follows: the steel sheets are placed under
a stainless-steel inner cover over which
a furnace —coke-oven gas for cleanliness
—is lifted, heated to the proper tem-
perature for a set time and then, after
cooling, sent on to the next treatment,
temper-rolling. This consists of rolling
the sheets on finely-surfaced rolls to give
them flatness, surface and, by the degree
of reduction the roll makes, the required
temper. The sheets are then individually
inspected, any below standard being
rejected and stamped with an identi-
fication number, or, if ordered to an
absolute degree of squareness or
accuracy, taken to the re-square shears
and cut to the exact requirements of that
order.
Whatever the order is, however—and,
as the plant is on 80 p.c. defence
work, it will be an important one
—Australia can be thankful that, like
many other orders on industry, it can
be fulfilled here, and that, in these par-
ticularly critical times, it is not necessary
to send money overseas for the privilege
of hoping that a vital necessity, if avail-
able, might survive the present hazards
confronting most seaborne cargoes.
A War of Wheels
The armies of this war roll along on
rubber, from its obvious use in tyres
to its less visible inclusion in the manu-
facture of the great variety of offensive
and defensive weapons. A mechani-
cal army would soon be rendered ineffec-
tive in the absence of an adequate supply
of rubber —one of the reasons why public
and military attention has lately been
focused on the Near North, from where
the leading nations of the world draw
the bulk of their rubber supplies.
Dunlop Perdriau, like many other Aus-
tralian enterprises, was, at the beginning
of the war, only geared to the manufac-
turing of peace-time products, and cater-
ing for a few odds and ends of defence
work. As Australia’s largest rubber-
goods manufacturer, however, with 40-
odd years’ experience in meeting Austra-
lian needs, it soon swung over many
departments to meet the new demand.
One of the first jobs was the production
of new-type lifebelts for the Navy and
gas masks for all services. Then came
the growing need for equipment, and,
later, for the replacement of tyres for
army vehicles.
New ’planes, both imported and
locally-made, needed tyres* and Dunlop
made them, at the same time developing
a special new tyre, which, instead of
being a non-conductor of electricity, was
just the reverse, so that static electricity
developed during flight would be dis-
charged the instant the ’plane touched
ground. More and more production
was steadily swung over to war-time
necessities—special hoses have been made
for water-carts, petrol-tanks, for aero-
plane brakes and gun-firing equipment.
These hoses are made in both natural
and synthetic rubber.
New factories created demands for
flat transmission belting and wedgropes
and other industrial lines, such as pack-
ing. Certain types of aircraft and other
military vehicles require rubber flooring,
both for shock-absorbing and as a non-,
slipping surface. Sheet rubber came into
demand, and is being used in a dozen
different ways. For the comfort of the
troops and sailors, waterproof clothing
and footwear were called for ; waterproof
sheeting and ground sheets were also
needed, both in training and on active
service. Blood-transfusion tubing is being
used for the wounded, and rubber
tubings of many descriptions are needed
for a thousand and one purposes.
Hard rubber or ebonite finds its place
in the increased demand for munitions
work, radio panels on aircraft and special
buckets for carrying explosives. The
output of the motor industry has in-
creased enormously in the line of military
vehicles, and on these Dunlop rubber
products are being used in many ways,
both on the mechanical apparatus and
body work.
The actual products with their various
uses are almost legion ; the 5000 em-
ployees of Dunlop Perdriau Rubber
Co. are solidly behind Australia’s war
effort; and the largest rubber factories
in the Southern Hemisphere are, night
and day, turning out thousands of dif-
ferent products which play no mean part
in the successful prosecution of the war.
Australian Paper Industry
Two thousand years ago the Chinese
were making soft paper out of rags and
other fibrous materials. The Chinaman
of those days poured his suspension of
fibres and water into a mould with a
porous cloth bottom. The fibres were
left on the bottom as a wet web, which
was lifted from the mould and laid to
dry in the air to form the sheet of paper.
The underlying principles of the
Chinese method are still used in modern
paper machines, but the mould is re-
placed by an endless porous wire cloth,
upon which the fibres suspended in water
are continuously poured. After the
excess water has drained off, the web
is lifted by means of a rotating couch
roll, passed through a number of presses
and finally dried on a series of rotating
steam-heated cylinders. A Frenchman,
Louis Robert, invented the method in
1797, and Henry Foudrinier, assisted by
an English engineer, Bryan Donkin,
modified and improved it. Various re-
finements have been developed and new
parts added, but there has been no altera-
tion in principle since that time.
The wet end of a cardboard machine
differs from that of a paper machine in
that the wet web is formed on the out-
side of a rotating cylinder covered with
wire cloth. A felt passes over a series
of such cylinders, lifting from each a thin
web of fibres. Ifhe laminated web thus
formed is then pressed and dried as on
the paper machine.
If the fibres were used on the paper or
board machine without any previous
treatment the water would drain off too
rapidly and a “wild,” weak sheet would
result. The treatment given consists of
a mechanical bruising and cutting known
as beating. If a weak, absorbent sheet,
such as blotting-paper, is required, a short
hard beating with sharp tackle is given,
while a strong “rattly” paper, such as
cigarette paper, gets a long beating with
blunt tackle
The paper gets its desired character-
istics from other materials added in
the beater —resin and alum to prevent
ink-penetration (except, of course, in
‘such papers as blotting-paper), clay or
similar material to give opacity and finish
and dyes to tint the paper. After leaving
the machine the paper may be ironed
or calendered to increase the surface
finish. Tests to which it is sub-
jected after making depend on the
type. Blotting-paper must be soft and
absorbent, greaseproof impervious, wrap-
ping papers must have high bursting, ten-
sile and tearing strengths, writing and
printing papers must have surface and
color properties depending on the par-
ticular use to which they are to be put.
The
First
Mill
The first Australian mill is
said to have been established in
Sydney in 1818, only a few years
after the Foudrinier machines
were set up in England. Since
that time the paper industry
here has experienced many vicis-
CltllH AC r>nt n n
snuaes, but has advanced
steadily under the impetus of grow-
ing population and new discoveries.
In recent years there has been a tremen-
dous transformation which has reacted
beneficially to the Australian commu-
nity, and, so far as its supplies of paper
are concerned, Australia is in a much
more fortunate position than it was
during 1914-18.
Although to an extent indirect, the
role of the paper industry in the Aus-
tralian war economy is one of high im-
portance. There are certain basic indus-
trial products which no country, whether
at war or peace, can be without. Paper
is one of them. Consumption of many
essential products, through rationing, can
be reduced with advantage during the
war, and that is what has occurred with
paper in Australia. But there is a mini-
mum, reduction beyond which, volun-
tary or compulsory, will affect the
economic life of the community and
reduce employment. The position in
regard to paper and cardboards during
the war period can be summarised simply
as follows: The more paper we can pro-
duce in this country the less it will be
necessary to import, and the consequen-
tial savings in foreign exchange can be
used to buy other necessities, particularly
primary war requirements. In the last
few years the industry has made vast
strides in all departments^—in the know-
ledge and quality of its personnel, in
technical and scientific plant efficiency,
in the output of finished products and,
last, but by no means least, in the pro-
duction in Australia of its main raw
material, woodpulp.
There are four main classifications into
which finished products of the paper
and cardboard industry can be divided —
newsprint for daily papers and periodi-
cals, fine writing and printing papers,
wrapping papers and cardboards of all
descriptions, from plain cardboards
for boot boxes and shirt boxes to highly-
finished special cardboards, such as those
used for packing cigarettes and choco-
lates. Up till a few years ago Australia
imported all of its newsprint, nearly all
of its writing and printing papers and
some of its requirements in wrapping
papers and cardboards. During the last
decade the capital invested in the indus-
try has been increased by over £5,000,000.
New mills and machines of modern de-
sign have come into production, the out-
put of which has enabled Australia to
reduce substantially its imports of vari-
ous types of cardboards and papers.
q
*- /ur
/> resen #
1
Plants
This has been made pos-
sible through large expan-
sions by Australian Paper
Manufacturers,Ltd.—which,
with a paid-up capital of
£3,200,000, is the oldest and
largest paper manufacturing
company in the Common-
wealth —and the establishment of two
important new enterprises in Tas-
mania—Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills, Ltd., at Burnie, which commenced
the production of fine writing and print-
ing papers during 1938, and Australian
Newsprint Mills Pty., Ltd., a large organ-
isation backed by a number of the lead-
ing newspaper interests, which began the
manufacture of newsprint only a few
weeks ago. Australian Paper Manufac-
turers, Ltd., which operates a number of
mills in various parts of Australia, has
more than doubled its output of finished
products of wrapping paper and card-
boards since 1934. Total annual capacity
of its various plants is about 130,000
tons ; value of turnover is over £4,000,000
and number of employees approximately
3000.
Equipment installed by these three
organisations, all producing on a com-
mercial scale, is the best of its kind in
the world today. The basic raw material
of the industry is pulp which consists
mainly of cellulose, principal sources
of which are timber from trees not suit-
able for lumber and straw from various
cereals. In the manufacture of card-
boards large quantities of waste paper
and straw pulps are used, supplemented
by new mechanical and chemical pulps.
In the manufacture of paper, the main
raw materials are mechanical and chemi-
cal pulps direct from the pulp mills.
Until 1938 mechanical and chemical
pulps, with the exception of straw pulp,
were imported, but since that date pulp-
mills, using Australian pulpwoods, have
started in Gippsland, Victoria (to a
smaller extent at Botany, N.S.W.), and in
Burnie and Boyer in Tasmania. To a
(Continued on page 40.)


u
M '
'jAe sulq&Jjl
■: &
-^<:s
ft. \
ffl
*»*
gwwii^ 1
.
0 tanks, no guns, no armoured cars obey the order that issues today, for this is an order to a new
army, in a new front line.
It’s the army of the factories that responds. Men, women, youths, girls, who day in and day out
control the machines in Australia’s industrial plants that supply the essentials of war.
“The front line runs through the factories,” says Britain’s Prime Minister for this is a war of
national industrial strength against national industrial strength. Every man, woman and machine of
the nation is just as surely a weapon of total war as every soldier, gun and tank.
Today in the Yarra Falls Mills largest Textile Mills in
the Southern Hemisphere huge quantities of Australian
wools are being converted into fabric for the Empire’s
defence. This company is proud to believe that its organisa-
tion, its plant and equipment, its 1,550 employees are all
playing a great part in the most momentous effort in Australia’s
history. It is especially proud of the great effort displayed
by its personnel .... so apparent in the excellence of the
Yarra Falls materials.
MANUFACTURERS
YARRA FALLS 1
ABBOTSFORD, VICTORIA
OF WORSTED FABRICS AND YARNS
W.J.H. 1305


m «
GAS
MASKS
M-l
COMMOWWtaiTHI I
AUST
SaaE
Z't/
TARY
*
HUH
:v
m.
B3S
RA
■t
&
s
Vv ; .|| .
TYRES & BRAKE EQUIPMENT
TYRES
INFLATABLE LIFEBELTS
il
DUNLOP SERVES
ALL THE SERVICES
Of all the great Australian Industries few are making such a wide
and varied range of articles for the Army, Navy, and Air Force as
the Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Company. Whilst tyres for military
vehicles and aircraft are the most important items, the Dunlop
factories are working night and day to produce a host of other
important rubber articles. Altogether the number of items supplied
by Dunlop to our defence services and their auxilaries provides
an outstanding effort from one organisation. The Dunlop Company
and their 5,000 employees, are doing everything within their power
to help achieve the victory which is certain.
SOME OF THE DUNLOP
RUBBER PRODUCTS
ASSISTING
THE NATIONAL EFFORT
Cor, Truck, Tractor, Motor Cycle,
Cycle and Aeroplane Tyres and
Tubes . . . Tank Wheels . . .
. . Moulded and Wrapped
Industrial Hose for all purposes
... All Types of Industrial Belting,
Fan Belts, Life Belts . . . Gas
Masks, both Moulded and Stockin-
ette types . . . Serum Stoppers
. . . Industrial Flooring and Rubber
Flooring, Sheet Rubber of various
types . . . Life Saving Waistcoats
. . . Waterproof Footwear and
Clothing . . . Waterproof Sheeting
. . . Special Rubber Boots and
Shoes . . . Ground Sheets . . .
Blood Transfusion Tubing . . .
Surgical Tubing . . . Ebonite
Products of numerous types.
sd
DUNLOP
R I T i Sjj
THE FL A G
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. (Inc. in Vic.)


i
r
§
>
-
/
isfiipt
ORB
mmmk
,
.■ ■■ _, __ ■>
'•» 111 ". !"
aaK.iamßmi
«»
!
|[n the great struggle for freedom that has engulfed the world, the
heavy industries of Australia are standing shoulder to shoulder with the
fighting services. From their factories and annexes a steadily growing
stream of shells, guns, aeroplanes and automotive equipment is flowing
towards the far-flung armies of Empire, to England, to Egypt, to India,
and to Singapore. And as more and more factories switch over to war-
time production, placing their resources, technical skill and machinery at
the disposal of the Government, this flood of material will reach levels
unheard of in the history of the Commonwealth. With this great effort,
the firm of John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., is proudly associated, its
huge works at Newcastle and Port Kembla contributing their quota
towards the expanding military might and industrial strength of Australia.
Thus this great organisation, in time of war, as in time of peace,
continues to play its part as one of the industrial leaders of the Nation.
;
mmi
* * *
.
Hr/—: I m m mmmmm
lflfcMfaS.-. • .. * , *Vc Jlj
JOHN iySAGHU A “ STB#LIA ) PIY.ITD.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE


AUSTRALIA AT WAR—Continued
very minor extent only this pulp-produc-
tion is a war measure.
The original technical difficulties were
great—some overseas experts thought
them insuperable. Important paper-
producing countries are plentifully en-
dowed with extensive forests of soft-
woods—Australia has scarcely any, and
it was necessary, therefore, to concen-
trate research work on Australian
eucalyptus timbers. This work began in
1915, and Government authorities and
private enterprises spent many hundreds
of thousands of pounds on it. The coun-
try is now reaping the benefits of the
foresight and courage of those who held
fast to their beliefs in the possibilities of
Australian timbers.
At the
Right
Time
It is interesting to note
that these new mills came
into production almost at the
same time as the invasion of
Norway cut off the supplies
of mechanical and chemical
pulp from Scandinavian
countries. The main burden
of supplying these export pulps naturally
lies upon North America. War conditions
have increased the landed cost from over-
seas of these pulps by nearly 300
per cent. So Australia would have
been faced with a serious shortage
and the Australian industry itself seri-
ously dislocated had not production
of pulp from hardwoods been investi-
gated, planned and courageously launched
in the years preceding.
The industry is being called upon to
a greater and greater extent to contri-
bute directly towards the manufacture of
munitions. In these, as in many other
directions, rapid extension of production
in Australia is of the utmost value.
When speaking of the paper and card-
board industry in Australia, one is in-
clined to think only of the big mills pro-
ducing woodpulp, paper and cardboard
in large tonnages, and this article has
been devoted to the developments taking
place in that field. The whole industry,
of course, consists of these mills and also
of those who treat the basic product in
various ways prior to its being used for
container purposes, for writing, print-
ing and so forth. There are carton,
box and container manufacturers,
bagmakers, manufacturing stationers,
printers and other attendant enter-
prises, varying considerably in size
and in capital investment, who handle
the output of the paper mills. This
section of the industry gives employment
to a great number of Australian wage-
earners, and uses all kinds of specialised
and expensive equipment,
Australia is making full use of the
greater experience of older countries in
overcoming the manifold technical diffi-
culties of manufacturing paper and card-
board, but it is not resting content with
this. With the assistance of highly-trained
and -qualified scientists, the industry is
pioneering its own way through intensive
research into local problems.
The United States has developed a
remarkably wide range of uses for the
output of its paper and cardboard mills.
Consumption per head in that country is
several times greater than in Australia.
There seems little doubt, therefore, that
the rapid advancement of this great Aus-
tralian industry is assured—there is room
for greater use of its products, and this
will react to the advantage of the commu-
nity in improved standards of cleanliness
and health and employment for Australian
people.
Leaders of this industry give the
assurance that the notable advances made
could not have been achieved without the
co-operation and full support of the Aus-
tralian workmen.
Sunshine Harvester Co.
Prominent among Australian plants
busily engaged in the manufacture of
fighting equipment is the Sunshine Har-
vester Works, Victoria. H. V. McKay
Massey Harris Pty., Ltd., were quick to
adapt their plant to war-time require-
ments, and now the great factory at Sun-
shine is operating night and day, turning
out huge quantities of metal parts —for
aeroplanes, for tanks, for guns. Nor is
this all. Big quantities of Sunshine
reapers and binders, drills and disc culti-
vators have been shipped to England to
the order of the British Ministry of Agri-
culture, and these Australian implements
have done yeoman service in cultivating,
sowing and harvesting English crops and
helping to defeat the German U-boat and
aeroplane threat to John Bull’s supplies
of food and raw materials. The British
Minister of Agriculture wrote:
If we ever had any doubt as to the wisdom
of introducing Australian implements not
hitherto seen here, that doubt was soon
dispelled, and I would like you to know
that we are more than satisfied with the
way you have executed our orders.
That tribute, coming from such a high
and independent source, is well merited
by the staff and workmen of the Sun-
shine Harvester Works, and, as confir-
mation of the satisfaction expressed, the
British Ministry of Agriculture has
placed further large orders for Sunshine
farm machinery.
Australia’s farmers have not been
neglected, because H. V. McKay Massey
Harris have all along realised that the
supply of farm produce in quality and
quantity is vital. The work of improv-
ing and experimenting upon existing types
of agricultural machines has actually
been accelerated, and as a result the Aus-
tralian farmer is offered labor-saving
machines and implements of greater effi-
ciency than ever before.
Recalling the early struggles of Hugh
Victor McKay and the way in which he
fought down the old prejudice to Aus-
tralian secondary industry evokes a feel-
ing of thankfulness for the fact that the
forces of virile nationhood won out, and
that such a great factory as the Sunshine
Harvester Works is able to pour out vital
necessities in the hour of need.
The International Harvester
Factory
Geelong was selected after an Aus-
tralia-wide search as the most suitable
site for the factory of the International
Harvester Co. of Australia. It was con-
sidered to be ideally situated both for
manufacturing and shipping, and was
preferred to the capital cities because it
had greater scope for development and
offered special labor facilities. Consider-
ing the size of the factory, the fact that it
was completed in seven months was a re-
markable piece of planning and effort.
Today its output of agricultural im-
plements and machinery for all parts
of Australia adds materially to the
status of Geelong as a manufac-
turing centre of national importance.
The manager of the works, Mr. H. B.
Zimmerman, who has been associated
with the enterprise since its inception,
came to Geelong with a wide experience
of similar undertakings in America and
Europe.
With its wharf on Corio Bay, and
its direct links with the main railway
and road systems, the factory is particu-
larly well situated for the assemblage
of raw materials and distribution of
finished products to all States. The fac-
tory is not merely an assembling or
single-purpose plant; it is a complete
engineering works capable of manufac-
turing practically every item that enters
into the construction of agricultural
machinery and similar goods. It includes
a grey iron and malleable iron foundry,
a forge shop, a wood shop, a pattern
shop and a machine and sheet-metal
working department. There is also a
special building, adjacent to the wharf,
for handling and assembling tractors and
motor-trucks imported from overseas.
Australian
Material
an J Tabor
Practically all the
material used in the
construction of the
works and at least 90
per cent, of the equip-
ment used * n tbe foun ‘
dry are of Austra-
lian origin. Similarly,
nearly all the material used in manu-
facture is Australian-made. The area
of the site is 46 acres, and all the
factory buildings have been laid out on
a plan which allows full room for
expansion. All the buildings are
spacious and well lighted and ventilated.
Facilities for loading the finished pro-
ducts for distribution to farming areas
indicate great foresight—in the warehouse
building, situated on the western side of
the main road through the plant, is a
74-ton crane which spans two railway
tracks and a roadway, thus providing
crane service for both road and rail
transport and for handling goods to be
shipped at the wharf.
For convenience and safety all pipes,
cables, conduits and the like pass along
large tunnels between the buildings, so
designed as to give ready accessibility for
maintenance and to facilitate further
extensions.
The trading history of the Inter-
national Harvester Co. and its prede-
cessors in the business in this country
is nearly as old as Geelong. Records
show that Cyrus Hall McCormick
sent to Australia a shipment of his
reapers more than 80 years ago, and that
the names “McCormick” and “Deering,”
household words in International Har-
vester enterprise, have been associated
with the very earliest development of
wheatgrowing, at least from its entry
into the machine age.
Following the invention of the reaper
by McCormick in 1831, machinery
in agriculture began to lift the burden
of slow and unremunerative hand labor
from farmers. What this change meant
is indicated by the fact that in the old
days it required one man for three hours
to produce one bushel of wheat, whereas
today 10 minutes will do the job, while
working conditions have improved be-
yond recognition. The time required for
most other jobs on the farm has been
similarly reduced.
In motor transport, as well as in agri-
culture, International Harvester was an
early pioneer—International motor-trucks
have operated in Australia since 1909.
This is also in the nature of a record.
In addition to the factory and its
administrative and technical offices at
Geelong, the company has its busi-
ness headquarters at Harvester House,
City-road, South Melbourne. Here the
Victorian branch is installed with its
extensive showrooms for the display of
International trucks, McCormick-Deering
tractors and the full range of the Geelong
factory’s products. Here, too, is the
modern International Truck Service
Station. The company’s branch houses
in other States are situated in the respec-
tive capital cities.
"Information, Please"
From the need for making the most
of all the world’s scientific research have
arisen technical scientific services to
keep track of all this knowledge—no
matter from what country it may come
—and to make it available when wanted.
Information services have been in exist-
ence in other countries for some con-
siderable time. Typical examples in the
U.S.A. are the well-known Bureau of
Standards and Bureau of Mines with
their excellent libraries, their highly-
qualified scientific staffs and their fine
research and testing facilities. Numerous
industrial-research associations carry out
research and conduct information ser-
vices mainly for the benefit of their
members. The Portland Cement Asso-
ciation, the National Canners’ Associa-
tion and the Bacon Trades’ Association
are typical examples.
In Great Britain the National Physical
Laboratory has long been known for the
research it conducts and the information
it disseminates. The various research
boards that deal with foods, fuels, build-
ing, etc., set up by the Department of
Scientific and Industrial Research, are
also valuable centres of information, as
are the score or more of private indus-
trial research associations set up in con-
nection with the manufacture of leather,
wool, linen, scientific instruments and
the like. Germany, too, has a wealth of
research and information centres, and,
as long ago as 1929, set up a “Central
Agency for Information on Scientific and
Technical Literature” to act as a clear-
ing house for the specialised information
services which already existed in connec-
tion with numerous scientific and techni-
cal societies, research institutions and in-
dustrial organisations. Until recently,
Italy was comparatively lacking in
national research organisations and cen-
tral information services—a lack which
may have some bearing on her recent
Mediterranean exploits.
Industrial
Problems
Australia has its “In-
formation, Please,” de-
partment in the infor-
mation section of the
Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research
at the council’s head office, 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne. Manu-
facturers and others can consult the sec-
tion there gratis. For instance, the war
may have upset a manufacturer’s normal
supply of raw materials. He wants in-
formation about possible Australian sub-
stitutes. Again he might like to know
of recent developments overseas in the
production of his particular specialty;
or he might like to have details of new
competing products, or details of pro-
cesses used abroad to manufacture a
material not previously produced in Aus-
tralia. Yet another field of interest might
be the utilisation of by-products. The
section is there at any time to search the
literature and consult the relevant
authorities to see if the desired informa-
tion is available. Since it was formed
some three years ago it has dealt with
over 2000 inquiries of this nature.
Six University graduates with training
in chemistry, physics, etc., staff the sec-
tion. They have been trained in the basic
sciences most commonly involved in
manufacturing production. They are
specialists in knowing where to seek in-
formation, no matter in what language.
There is also a small library staff of
which two members are graduates. The
library concentrates on the collection of
abstracts, bibliographies and technical
journals, particularly those that are not
taken elsewhere in Australia.
Questions
and
Answers
Abstracts and the like,
however, merely indicate
the particular volume
and page number of the
journal or other publica-
tion on which the de-
sired information may
be. There still remains
the problem of finding the journal. It may
be hundreds of miles away in another
State, and all too frequently it may not be
in any State at all. This difficulty has
largely been overcome by an action
which various public and semi-public
libraries took some years ago. They
sent to Melbourne a list of all the jour-
nals they took. These lists were then
incorporated into the one catalogue
which was edited by E. R. Pitt, of the
Melbourne Public Library, in 1930 and
published in book form by the Council
some years ago. From time to time, it
has been brought up to date. Recently,
too, the private libraries, such as those
of the bigger manufacturing firms,
afforded most helpful co-operation in
providing the Council with lists of their
holdings of technical and trade journals.
In this way the library resources of the
country have been truly welded into the
one whole.
But even when the whereabouts of a
desired journal are known there still
remains the problem of bringing the
volume to the reader without overburden-
ing the mails. Strangely enough, the
moving-picture industry has shown the
way to a solution. Microphotographs are
made of pages of books, and the foot or
two of resultant negative, which can be
produced well under a cost of id. a page,
is posted to the inquirer. In this way
much information has already been cir-
culated in Australia, but much more of
the good work could be done if the
necessary photographic facilities were
more generally available. The time will
come when no library of any standing
will be without equipment, obtainable at
a cost of well under £lOO, for photo-
graphic copying. As far as journals and
reports not obtainable in Australia are
concerned the film-strip method is also
obviously of outstanding value. There
are several libraries in Great Britain and
the U.S.A. which can be approached, and
are frequently approached, on the part
of Australia for cheap photographic
copies of articles of interest.
Another service is the translation of
articles in foreign languages. The
officers of the section can themselves
deal with quite a few foreign languages,
but to deal with others a card index has
been established from which it is pos-
sible to ascertain the whereabouts of
suitable outside translators who might
be prepared to undertake translations for
the usual fee.
In every case the section doesn’t score
a bull’s-eye. Required information may
not exist and may have to be sought by
laboratory research. The staff of the
section does feel, however, that it is at
all times worth a try, no matter what the
problem may be.
Refrigeration
The engineering works of R. Werner
and Co. Pty., of Richmond (Vic.), now
in its forty-first year of business, are
probably the largest in Australia devoted
solely to general refrigerating machinery.
The co. manufactures all types of com-
mercial refrigerating equipment, includ-
ing food-storage cabinets, ice-cream cabi-
nets and all other commercial electric
refrigerating lines up to the largest am-
monia compression machines used in the
cold storage, butter factory and ice-
making industries. Present activities
cover not only the straight-out engineer-
ing part of the work as represented by
machining and fitting shops, but a coil
shop, sheet-metal shop, carpenters’ and
insulating division, store and paint shop.
Since the war Werners have built
and equipped a large annexe in which a
great amount of special defence work is
carried out. With employment at its
highest figure since the inception of the
company, over 200 tradesmen are em-
ployed at the Richmond works. Two
shifts are operated in the machine shop
in order to keep pace with the demand of
the Defence Department for the manu-
facture of special equipment, and be-
tween 70 p.c. and 80 p.c. of the machine-
shop output is concentrated on this work.
Many other jobs indirectly connected
with defence work are being carried out.
The refrigeration industry plays an im-
portant part in national affairs in carry-
ing out the storage of foodstuffs, such as
fruit and meat, which are produced or
processed in a comparatively short
season, and at present in providing re-
frigeration of all kinds for defence pur-
poses.


S'J
•• •
—i
;
■MR
i t
■
iilai
H
:; >s*
' :
1/
W
m
.
■ •■ ;
€
.
m
m
>*:;:
./ >; '
AMMUNITION TRAILERS
LORRIES
DESERT WHEELS
y 2^
AIR RAID SHELTERS
FUSE CAPS
SPEEDING STEEL SHEETS
TO GIVE DEMOCRACY
THE ARMS FOR VICTORY
No man, no business, no industry has ever
shouldered a greater responsibility than that
of defending and preserving for posterity
the right to live in the freedom of democracy.
Commonwealth Rolling Mills Pty. Ltd., pledge
their entire resources ih men, machines, and
material to the service of the nation. Our
plant runs twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week; our employees give unstintingly
of their energies and their loyalty never
falters.
It is our privilege to produce steel sheets to
meet many of the production needs of the
defence equipment pictured on this page.
■Ci
e
/V r\\
m
25 PDR. GUNS
DEPTH BOMBS
$
9k
m
V
§uth
SMOKE BOMB CASES
>
BOMB TRANSIT BASES
ANTI-TANK GUNS
Vj
m
rrnnm
dim
WATER BOTTLES
Cl
PONTOONS
SO
'Sr
t?ro
:-v j
PARAVANES
E-tC>
BREN GUN CARRIERS
a
iM
1
-T^V
UNIFORM BUCKLES & BUTTONS
::
■>
v , $$ •?
wmM
w* Ml
ph zm.
s.
P T Y.
(THE ARMCO-LVSAGHT ORGANISATION)
.vl
...... »M!5V' ... O
■
.
LTD.
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA


A Good Australian
By “Preceptor.”
THE pioneer oil company of Australia is
the Vacuum Oil Company Pty., Ltd.
This Company sold the first “Mineral”
lubricants in Australia away back in
1895. Today this Company, incor-
porated under the laws of Victoria, is very
much an Australian company, both in fact
and outlook. Over 3000 Australian men and
women give Vacuum service throughout Aus-
tralia and the Pacific Islands. It is thus one
of the biggest manufacturing and marketing
organisations in the Southern Hemisphere,
with a paid-up capital of £7,500,000. The
Company’s vast distributing organisation con-
sists of 13 Main Bulk or Seaboard Installa-
tions, 5 plants for manufacturing lubricating
oils, special greases and petroleum products,
with 152 rail tank cars and 354 tank waggons
operating through more than 900 lesser in-
stallations and country depots throughout the
hinterland of Australia.
Service , the Secret of Success.
From the earliest beginnings in 1895, the
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty., Ltd., determined on a
policy of service to the Community. From
its inception the Company has maintained that
it does not merely sell oil, but performance;
thus it was not satisfied merely to sell its
petroleum products but carried its service into
the sphere of operation, and sought to ensure
that the principles of correct lubrication were
carried out by the user of the oil. Correct
lubrication, with which the word Vacuum is
synonymous, being defined as the correct
application of the correct grade of oil to the
correct place at the correct time. Thus today
not only are its products recognised as of the
highest quality that science and skilled refin-
ing can produce but its lubrication advice and
guidance through consultative engineers in
every branch is greatly sought after by indus-
trial plants, and this service is backed with
free booklets and educational material of
every description; thus Vacuum renders prac-
tical assistance to its customers to ensure that
they obtain the finest performance from the
finest lubricants. Through service Vacuum
has grown, and with growth has come the
opportunity for still greater service.
Vacuum s Australian Outlook
The Australian outlook of the Company is
demonstrated by many practical steps it has
taken to ensure splendid conditions for its
employees and a square deal for its customers,
which are found in thousands of plants and
factories, farms and orchards throughout the
Commonwealth. Its attitude to employees is
based upon the humanitarian principle that
Members of Vacuum Oil Company Staff Comforts Fund packing
hampers and wrapping reading matter for the Boys overseas.
when age takes toll of the mental and physi-
cal vigour of men and women who have de-
voted the best years of their life in Vacuum
service, they shall not go unrewarded. It is
many years since Vacuum developed a Pension
and Death Benefit and Sick Pay plan that
ranks with the best evolved by large com-
panies that recognise their responsibilities to
employees who have rendered lifelong ser-
vice. These are without cost to the employee.
It also adopted a “Buy Australian Made”
policy and all the raw material, packages,
plant, whenever possible, are Australian-made
products—for example, nearly 15,000 petrol
pumps costing over £BOO,OOO.
Helping our Industry.
From its inception a pioneer, today the Com-
pany still leads the way with the introduction
and development of products particularly
needed by the industry of the country. For
instance, the now universal oil sprays for
fruit-trees and oil-arsenical dips for sheep,
both invaluable to our primary producers,
were originated, developed and made here in
Australia —by Vacuum Oil Company Pty.,
Ltd. Various products used in secondary in-
dustry, such as certain heavy-duty greases for
our steel industry and soluble cutting oils
for gears, were originated and manufactured
by us here. With unmatched resources of skill,
experience, materials and plant behind it,
Vacuum is equipped to solve any problem
likely to arise in connection with the applica-
tion of petroleum products to industry.
Helping the War Effort.
The Company and its staff have given un-
stintedly of their time and money to the
national effort. Since the commencement of
the war 421 employees have enlisted in the
Test and research work occupy a large staff of highly qualified
chemists in the various Vacuum laboratories throughout Australia.
Australian fighting forces. The Company has
encouraged its staff to become efficient in Air
Raid Precaution work, and the A.R.P. district,
area and sector wardens on the staff now
number 85 men and women. Amongst the staff
there are also 18 men who regularly give their
blood for blood transfusions. The First Aid
work has attracted 149 members of the staff,
and many of them are also holders of certifi-
cates of St. John’s Ambulance standards of
proficiency. Voluntary aid is regularly sup-
plied into hospitals, hostels and canteens by
89 Vacuum girl employees, and 35 are
members of the Women’s National Voluntary
Register. Many Vacuum employees are men
with high technical qualifications in particular
directions. Two members of the staff, Air
Force aces of the 1914-18 war, are on the
Selection Board of the R.A.A.F.; another, be-
cause of his high qualifications and skill as
engineering draftsman is on the Advisory
Panel established by the Government for the
designing of Australian-made tanks and Bren
Gun carriers. Another member of the staff
w Rh t he highest civil Engineering degrees,
who specialised in road con-
struction, is a member of the
Strategic Roads Committee,
whilst others assist the Gov-
ernment’s propaganda cam-
paigns and handle the publicity
for the Australian Comforts
Fund.
Vacuum engineers and lubrication specialists
have given generously of their time and know-
ledge, lecturing regularly to members of the
mechanical units, such as the tank corps and
transport sections of the fighting forces. An-
other group assist at the Universities in the
voluntary capacity of training men for pre-
cision instruments work.
In addition to the personal work by indi-
vidual members of the staff, £2605 has been
collectively contributed to the Central Organi-
sation of the Australian Comforts Fund in
the various States. Recently the Vacuum
Comforts Fund group handed over a cheque
for £4OO to be used for building, fitting and
furnishing a Salvation Army hut at Darwin.
The Staff War Savings Certificate group have
already contributed £10,835 to the war effort
through the purchase of War Savings Cer-
tificates.
Women's National Emergency League candidates looking over
papers prior to examination by a Vacuum Engineer.
The N.S.W., South Australian and Victorian
staffs of the Company have founded Book
Club groups, and already 18,459 books, maga-
zines and games have been sent to the
members of the fighting forces.
Visual Education of Fighting
Men.
One of the outstanding features of the Com-
pany’s war work has been the use to which
it has put its splendidly-equipped theatrettes
in every capital city. Many thousands of indi-
viduals have undergone short educational
courses consisting of lectures by the Com-
pany’s experts, films and practical work on
automotive units; more than 2400 certificates
Mr. J. W. Stuart Crow, Director, and President of Vacuum Oil Company
Staff Comforts Fund, Melbourne, presenting cheque to Councillor
Beaurepaire, Lord Mayor of Melbourne and Hon. Treasurer of Australian
Comforts Fund (Vic. Division).
of efficiency have been issued, for example,
to members of voluntary transport groups.
The Company has made its well-equipped film
library available to the various soldiers in
camps throughout the Commonwealth, and
each State Branch has a travelling movie outfit
which has been working to an itinerary
throughout the country districts of all States
since the war began.
At the conclusions of the Company’s tech-
nical lectures and educational courses, tech-
nical booklets covering the motor-car, the
motor-truck, the motor-cycle, modern Diesel
and oil engines and gas producers are given
to the students without charge.
The following figures relate to members of
the forces and others engaged in National
Service who attended courses of instruction,
and they give some idea of the magnitude
of the work done by the educational officers
of the Company,, many of whom hold the
highest academic attainments in science and
engineering from Australian Universities:
Since the war began technical lectures and
film screenings have been attended by 44,815
members of the Australian Imperial Forces,
Mechanised Units, Tank Corps, Militia and
R.A.A.F.; 6108 A.R.P. Wardens, demolition
and decontamination squads; 9137 members
of the Women’s Auxiliary Associations.
In addition to all these services, voluntarily
given by members of the Vacuum staff, the
Company itself has rendered considerable
assistance of a vital, nationally important
nature to the Commonwealth Government in
a variety of ways.
Oil in Australia.
Oil in payable quantities has not yet been
discovered in Australia, but Vacuum does the
next-best thing: obtains its supplies of petrol,
etc., from the closest possible point to Aus-
tralia —Palembang, in the Netherlands East
Indies, only 9 days’ sail from Fremantle. In
the meantime, however, the search for oil
goes on. Vacuum Oil Co. Pty., Ltd., a
pioneer as usual, was the first major oil com-
pany to seek native petroleum in Australia.
Including New Zealand and Papua, to date it
has spent over £1,000,000 in the effort to find
oil, which is pursued vigorously, with the
most modern equipment. Actual drilling is
being carried out in parts of the Dominion
and in Papua. These efforts are quite un-
paralleled in this part of the world.
A True Claim.
The Company is not only one of the greatest
and most progressive organisations of the
Southern Hemisphere, but a sincere and valu-
able ally to the whole of Transport and
Industry of the country. It never seeks
preferential treatment, but treatment on its
merits. Its claim is based on the quality of
its products, its service, and its record as a
Good Australian, doing the best possible job
in peace or in war for this country and the
Emnire of which it is part.
Drilling for Oil, Papua, New Guinea.
A 136ft. rig capable of drilling to
10,000 feet.


'i\ - W‘--<v mB. \v-, ssis?issi* &Wis s^r£S&•■ ssgss4 $* V«MSP^
■ : . ;.;
WS
jaHftg&qg ,
;V ,:■.
• ' ■• ■
y
V NV ' ...
K'j
sn
■ <i
•■■:
■" ;fi
r -.:
* -* ..A A
■ U.,:..
*M V „*Ck
Wm s iM'M 1
■ ;VB& H
SP
> 7* \ A/a, ' .
: <<
1
l
V ; .-; :
.<l
WM
i .p®i
» , ■;:;•■■
n
\ toe
r
«■£! I
■
W
. .. .
wS&mm
jp'
Hi
m
m i
~. -
i p.
'mmM
, • : ' V- ■
WmMM mmmm
.
.
■
■;;
Mi
■illlßl
mm
i H
......
SSM&$£pgSKB%
.
Bam
PEACE-TIME SKILL MAKES BETTER WEAPONS OF WAR
Today Labour and Industry, having accepted the national call for wartime
assistance, are responding with a tremendous output of munitions to support
the heroes who are chasing the enemy out of his every stronghold.
At the Charles Ruwolt plants skilled men and giant machines are playing a
major part in the national effort. The company and its many employees are
proud indeed that their engineering experiences of peace-time are now turned
to such good account.
The resolve of all is that nothing but their utmost in skill, time and labour
will be employed in the nation’s behalf. Whatever it is that the nation
expects from this plant it will be the very best that an organization of men
and machines can make.
W.J.H.1401
CHARLES RUWQLT PTY. LTD.
DESIGNING, MANUFACTURING, MINING AND STRUCTURAL ENGINEERS
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria


Winston Churchill ,
11th February, 1941.
*
ive us
the tools
AND WE WILL FINI
m
HHi
w
.
: Hi
Jf
■
ejayg?"*
..
...
r ; f :
*; f
H
-<*-
m :
1.%
■
■;.;. : 'y
HP!
AUSTRALIA and Australian industry are proud to respond
to the stirring call from Britain's fighting Prime Minister.
Australian Consolidated Industries, in common with other
great national undertakings, is straining every nerve and
sinew to aid the national war effort. Urgent war work is
being carried out by the organisation in both New South
Wales and Victoria.
In Melbourne a large munition factory has been built
manned with A.C.I. workmen, and is operated in the
nation's interests without profit to the Company. (In fact,
A.C.I. was one of the first industrial organisations asked
by the Industrial Panel to build annexes for the production
of munitions). Aircraft components, aero engine parts,
shells, cartridge parts and other essential war supplies
are being produced at top speed.
In Sydney, every facility not already applied to defence
and Government needs is immediately available, and all
plant and equipment are at the disposal of the Government
when and as required. A spirit of responsible enthusiasm
permeates the entire organisation, and A.C.I. employees
are responding wholeheartedly to the calls made upon
them by national emergency.
Australian Consolidated Industries Ltd. shares with the
whole of industrial Australia the inflexible determination
that nothing shall interfere with the speedy attainment of
a victorious peace.
(|
o
CONSOLIDATE
RIE
AND ITS AUSTRALIAN-WIDE
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES


4*
%
ff.
ft
**\
IZAZI
im
&
»
K
s
w
ee
&
i
@
3CI
V
H
V
▼ ICAKS, like other great Australian industries, has put the whole of its resources
at the disposal of the Commonwealth Government.
The output of the Marrickville and Parramatta mills is largely devoted to Empire
War requirements. Military cloths and yarns are also being shipped to South Africa,
India and the East Indies. Thus VICARS is aiding the war effort in clothing our
fighting services, providing much-needed exchange, and using extra Australian wool.
Over thirty thousand bales will be used this year, giving employment to 2000 Australians.
m
a in
I®
JOHN VICARS & CO. PTY. LTD
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Makers of fine woollen materials for 60 years


>
' >' >w,
ii
■n
Wmm.
. . . - .> U
SJKm.
m
■PH
■
—fcr-- **** «
* VSC!
■■WM.: :\ •
■S ,
,
In England...
A Sunshine Binder carries on while the anti-aircraft Lewis gun
points expectantly to the skies.
Thousands of Sunshine-
made machines, including
binders, drills and disc
harrows, ,have been ex-
ported to England on the
order of the British
Ministry of Agriculture,
and are now giving essen-
tial wartime service in the
homeland.
In Australia ...
As well as producing
agricultural machinery
for use in England, and
manufacturing munitions
of many kinds, the Sun-
shine Harvester Works
continues its equally vital
task of providing modern
machinery for the main-
tenance and development
of Australian primary
production
The No. 8 SUNDERCUT
Stump-jump Disc Cultivating Plough
More than 27,000 Sundercuts have been sold
already; and this latest model, the No. 8, has
increased the margin of leadership. The many new
improvements (including rigid draught) have made
an outstanding implement better still. 1 0-, 12- and
14-disc sizes. Pressure-gun nipples to disc bear-
ings and wheels (oilers can be substituted if
desired). Levers adjustable for team or tractor
working without extra ;ost. Wide range of wheels
to suit any conditions.
■■
wm
yy.y.
I m
mm
mm
m
; Xv>¥
mm
>j* ;•.;.
>\ • . v*
Xx-x
mm
:mMm
S. ■•"■
■•>
...
m - § -- • | -V>v pHi -- /
■V S
• X >■
h<ms&
yyys.:^&X::±ii
m
m
m
M.
SUNSiIINE
H.V.M'KA’
-V
m
Mi.
mm.
mSSm
mm
SUNSHINE COMBINES for better crops
The SUNTYNE
(illustrated
above) is the
famous Sunshine combined grain and
fertiliser drill and spring tyne cultivator.
7 sizes; 8 to 24 rows. Team or tractor
haulage.
The SDNLEA
is the patented
stump - jump
rigid tyne cultivator drill which unites
the Suntyne feed run with bridle draught
similar to the Sunduke scarifier. 12-,
16- and 20-row sizes. Team or tractor
haulage.
They cultivate thoroughly, provide the correct surface mulch, and
plant seed and fertiliser evenly on a firm and level seed bed.
Leading farmers use them consistently for sowing and for cultivating.
For instance, the latest
N.S.W. WHEAT CROP CHAMPIONSHIPS
were again won by users of Sunshine Combines:
Riverina and Western Ist, C. Cassin, Yarrandale
Southern Slopes Ist, A. C. Severin & Sons, Brocklesby
Central Slopes Ist, S. Barber, Baldry
Northern Division Ist, Waddell Bros., Inverell
In South Australia the three place-getters in the State Championship
all used Suntynes, and there were many other successes throughout
the Commonwealth.
The
SUNDUKE
Stump-jump
Scarifier
The Sunduke is the patented bridle
draught scarifier with ALL draught
gear above the frame. Unequalled
3-way clearance.
Five sizes—from the NEW 1 0-tyne,
cutting sft., up to 20-tyne, cutting
10ft. In addition, two Sundukes
may be coupled together, giving
cutting widths up to 1 9ft. 6in. The
Sunduke, as illustrated, is suitable
for either team or tractor working.
Forward screw lift, also special
tractor hitch, may be fitted if desired.
Ask your local agent for the Free
Catalogues; or write direct.
H. V. McKAY
MASSEY HARRIS K;
{lnc. in Victoria)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS,
SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.
Also at CONCORD WEST (near
Sydney).
95-07 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
Queensland: H. V. McKay Massey Harris
(Qld.) Pty., Ltd., SOUTH BRISBANE.
SUNSHINE PROVIDES AUSTRALIA’S MOST COMPLETE RANGE OF MACHINERY
FOR THE FARMER, GRAZIER, DAIRYFARMER, FRUITGROWER AND PLANTER


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
TOWARDS A DAY OF RECKONING
(From an article by J. M. Spaight in American
“Foreign Affairs”)
It was undoubtedly the inability of the German
air force to penetrate the British defence by day
which inspired the savage attacks by night upon
London and other cities in Britain. Those attacks
were a confession of failure.
The Luftwaffe had not been trained for night
operations. It was in this respect both technically and
professionally far inferior to the Royal Air Force.
The latter, as a result in part of the “leaflet raids”
carried out during the winter of 1939-40, knew the
darkened face of Germany as well as it knew that of
England. Its personnel was highly skilled in night
flying. Its materiel was, for this purpose, superior to
Germany’s.
The pilots and bomb-aimers had been trained to
a pitch not even approached by those of the Luft-
waffe. Precision of aim was inculcated and practised.
Long periods were spent in the search for and exact
location of targets. If the designated objective could
not be found, and if no alternative target could be
bombed with reasonable precision, no attack was
launched. Bombs cost money and it is folly to dump
them where they can do no harm. Frequently a full
bomb-load has been brought home because it could
not be dropped on a military objective. There is
nothing of blind or indiscriminate bombing in the
work of the Royal Air Force.
While these words are being written, the callous,
ham-fisted bombing of London continues. Defence
in the air has proved to be more effective by day, less
effective by night, than had been expected. In time,
no doubt, a solution of the problem of the night
bomber will be found. That time may possibly be
soon. Meanwhile we have to grin and bear our
adversity, and that is what in fact we are doing. There
is no likelihood whatever that the random, indis-
criminate attack to which the once-chivalrous
German air force is subjecting the civilian
population of London and other cities will
break their spirit. Rather, it is steeling them
to a grimmer, determination to put an end to
the regime which can slaughter women and
children as a mere incident of its march to
world domination, to stop the wheels of the
Nazi juggernaut for all time. It will do
something more, too ; it will give British air
power a freer hand when the day of reckon-
ing comes. There will be little mercy then for
the butchers of the air.
The day of reckoning is coming. The air
strength of Britain and the Empire is being
marshalled. The Luftwaffe is still numeri-
cally stronger than the Royal Air Force.
Mr. Churchill stated, however, as far back as
last August, that the new production of air-
craft in Britain is already considerably larger
than Germany’s, and, he added, the American
production was then only beginning to flow
in. Soon it will be a flood. Some 500 air-
craft are believed to be coming each month
from the United States, The number will in-
crease to 1000 by the early summer of this
year. Canada, we know from statements by
two of her Ministers, Mr. Power and Mr.
Gibson, will be sending 360 aircraft a month
by then. Britain expects to overtake the Ger-
man lead in 1941, Mr. Churchill stated in
October. In his broadcast to the French
people on October 21 he was still more defi-
nite and said that in 1941 Britain would have
command of the air.
The British Air Force, already qualitatively
superior to the German, will soon be better still. Air
Marshal Sir Philip Joubert stated in a broadcast that
the new machines soon to come into operation would
be as distinct an advance upon the existing ones as
they were upon their predecessors. New American
aircraft of very high performance are also under con-
struction. The Bell, Brewster, Curtiss and Lockheed
fighters, the Douglas, Boeing and Martin bombers,
will be a most important supplement to the new and
improved types of both classes now on the stocks in
Great Britain. The Coastal Command of the Royal
Air Force knows, from its experience with the Lock-
heed Hudson, about the quality of American machines.
There will be advances in German quality, too, no
doubt; but Britain, with American help, should be
well able to keep her lead. When it is a quantitative
lead also, then the end of this great struggle will be
near at hand.
Given the achievement of the task which the
British nations have undertaken —to mass overwhelm-
ing strength in the air—the Axis must lose. It will
be crushed in the grip of two mighty forces, sea power
and air power, against which land power, backed by
air power that is outmatched, will find it useless to
struggle. That, one makes bold to predict, will be the
lesson of the coming phase of the war.
An English Pilot Bails Out.
(Extract from a letter written by an English pilot,
Ralph Hope, and published in the “Atlantic Monthly.”)
We were at about 21,000 feet when we got in-
volved with a squadron of Messerschmitt 109’s. They
got me before I even saw them, which is very annoy-
ing. I first felt a kind of funny bump, and as I
turned to see what was up my controls suddenly felt
funny, a lot of red sparks and black smoke appeared
round my feet, and a cloud of white smoke, probably
glycol, began streaming back from the engine. The
aircraft began going downhill fast. I slid back the
hood and began to get out; my goggles were shipped
off and my helmet began to lift up in the slip stream.
I realised I hadn’t undone my straps, so I pulled out
the retaining pin and stood up, standing on anything
which came handy (the seat, the instrument panel
or the stick—l don’t know really). The air seized
hold of me, there was a wrench as my oxygen tube
snapped off (I had forgotten to undo it), and I shot
out into the sky. The aeroplane disappeared.
It was nice and cool falling. I was head down,
of course, but found the position quite comfortable ;
there was no sense of speed or feeling of falling. I
had a look at the clouds below (they were about
4000-5000 feet) and then collected the odd bits of my
helmet and had a look round. My parachute was still
on my seat, both my boots were on, and I did not
seem to have lost anything except my goggles, and a
handkerchief and map which must have fallen out of
the pockets in my knees when 1 first went upside down.
After a while I thought about pulling the rip
cord. “What about giving the old ‘brolly’ a try-out?”
I thought. I seemed to have fallen a goodish way, so
I pulled. The canopy streamed out, there was a
hard jerk, and there I was right side up, quite com-
fortable and floating slowly—oh, so slowly—earth-
wards. I was about 9000-10,000 feet, so I had fallen
free for about 8000 or 9000 feet (from about 18,000)
and might have fallen farther with advantage.
When I looked up 1 could see a shining white
canopy above me, and little silver specks having no
end of a dogfight in the clear blue. A Spitfire dived
down past me with a high-pitched whine, but that
was the only disturbance.
The parachute began to swing me about, and it
wasn’t long before I felt sick—very sick, in fact, by
—New York “World Telegram.”
WORKING ON THE SPARE.
the time I landed. It was fun going into the clouds,
as the sun played a sort of “spectre of the Brocken”
effect on my shadow as I approached them.
When I emerged, the countryside looked
pleasantly open, and after drifting quite a way I
thought I saw where I should land. Two farm hands
had the same idea. We were all wrong, as, in spite
of attempts on my part to avoid it, I came down in a
spinney of young oak-trees, pulling up short about
twenty feet from the ground, hanging in my harness.
I managed to get hold of a trunk, pull myself over
to it, get out of the parachute harness and climb to
the ground, where I remained quite still until I was
found.
The army soon took charge of me, gave me a
drink and some lunch, and drove me back to the
airfield.
The only damage I sustained was a hefty bruise
on my right shoulder from hitting the tail as I jumped,
and a bruise on my leg, and a torn trouser from the
somewhat unceremonious descent through the upper
branches of the oak-tree.
Now I go about with my arm in a sling, feeling
particularly good as I have been given a week sick
leave.
[The “Atlantic Monthly” acknowledged in a foot-
note that the letter came to it from Mrs. Mary E.
Carnegie, of London, who had added that the young
pilot who wrote the letter and who was her nephew
had subsequently been killed.]
Britain After the War.
[ln the article here condensed from New York “Wall
Street Journal,” G. V. Ormsby, writing from London,
gives reasons for believing that the “totalitarian” form
of Government control adopted for war purposes will
have to be continued for some years afterwards. He also
considers what chances the Socialists have of imposing
their control .1
It is certain that many of the existing war controls
in Britain will have to be continued long after the
war is over. This is most obvious in the building
industry, where the damage from air raids to buildings
is superimposed upon a complete suspension of private
dwelling house construction during the war. The
amount of labor and material available for recon-
struction will be limited and must be subject to
Government control for several years after the war.
Here is also a sphere where a measure of national
planning will not only be necessary from an industrial
point of view, but also from the aesthetic and social
aspect. Already Sir John Reith, as Minister of
Building and Public Works, is consulting with local
authorities in preparing plans for the reconstruction
of the most devastatingly bombed cities. These are
matters which all political parties are agreed cannot
be left to private enterprise and financial speculation.
The inconveniences of the blackout and enemy
bombing upon the free movement of the people are
potent factors in limiting personal expenditure at the
present time. But when the war is over and these
restraints are relaxed or removed, the dangers of a
steep rise in prices will be acute and will necessitate
the continuance of a strong monetary control in order
to prevent a runaway inflation of the currency.
The heavy increase in the national debt is another
problem which will face whatever Government is in
power after the \var. It has been widely agreed that
if a capital levy had been imposed immediately after
the last war it would have had favorable social
effects and would, have taken the sting out of
political attacks from Labor critics that the Govern-
ment had allowed war profiteers to enrich themselves
from the country’s sacrifices. With 100 p.c. excess
profits duty there will not be many war profiteers
in this war, but the social problems arising from the
service of a large national debt will remain. The
Labor party is politically wedded to a capital levy and
will certainly press hard for such a measure, as some
of its members do even today.
How much poorer will Britain be as a result of
the war and what standard of life can be maintained ?
Mr. Keynes has expressed the opinion that with a
reasonable degree of skill in Britain s post-war
economic policy the nation should not necessarily be
made poorer by the war.
Loss of current production of goods and services
through diversion to war effort must obviously be paid
for by reduced consumption during the war. But
when the war is over raw materials and machinery
can be again devoted to the needs of peace except
in so far as capital assets are destroyed by bombing or
deteriorate through insufficient allowance for depreci-
ation. With regard to house property, it is estimated
that, should the rate of destruction be doubled and
the war last two years longer, it would take five years
to restore destroyed house property and catch up with
building operations suspended during the war. An
estimate for shipping gives four years to replace lost
tonnage should it reach 5,000,000 tons. To achieve
this programme there would, of course, have to be an
extra amount of saving which would temporarily
divert expenditure from other objects. With regard
to gold and foreign investments, which are being
disposed of to meet purchases of war material abroad,
there must be some loss of Britain’s power to import.
Britain’s pre-war import surplus averaged
£350,000,000 a year in the period 1935-37, of which
£200,000,000 came from income on foreign invest-
ments. Britain is likely to lose a great part of its
foreign investment income, and some of its other
income from services, which might cut down its capa-
city to import by some"£200,000,000. This prospect,
however, may be modified by a lowering of prices
of raw materials when pressure to sell in the British
market after the war is likely to be strong. Britain
also might have to manufacture and export munitions
to America for some years without payment. While,
therefore, Britain undoubtedly will have to cut its
coat to a shrunken cloth for some years after the war,
there is no prospect of any great permanent im-
poverishment arising from the struggle should victory
be fully attained.
The continuance of such controls as have been
mentioned so far may be taken as common ground
whatever Government is re-elected after the war, but
beyond that point political ideologies begin to raise
their heads. The Socialist wing of the British Labor
party is insistent that a new order must be brought
into being after the war, and some of their more revo-
lutionary leaders appear to be more interested in
using the war as a lever to bring about a social
revolution than in devoting their main energies to
winning the war first. There is an among
these leaders upon the attainment of “social justice,
the “abolition of privilege” and a “more equal distri-
bution of wealth.”
All these ideals are in themselves inherent in a
democratic way of life, and there is undoubtedly room
for considerable reform in the British social system
to attain a closer realisation of these ideals than exists
today. But the one method through which most
Socialists appear to hope to attain their ends is by
imposing upon the community a vast bureaucracy ol
civil servants and by replacing the privilege of wealth
and birth by what Shakspeare called “the insolence of
office.” In a totalitarian war it is inevitable that the
life of the people should be more and more controlled
by civil servants. But it is apparent that Socialists are
no less clamant than individuals in blaming the civil
service for red-tape which causes such maddening
delays, and for lack of imagination.
As soon as the war is over most people will clamor
for a return to individual freedom of enterprise as
soon as possible. But not so the Socialists. They


There's nothing like a
mmfss
wM ICBST
GUINNESS
s W IFT £ COMPANY P T , V L T .°
26-30 CLARENCE ST. SYDNEY
wish to rivet this system permanently upon the com-
munity. Admittedly many war-time Government
controls are a matter of improvisation as the necessary
trained staff to administer them is unavailable. But
even in peace-time it would take a generation to train
a civil service capable of administering so many new
departments of daily life as the Socialists wish to
bring under control at once.
The British have a knack of finding compromise
solutions of their political problems, and no political
party in Britain today is averse from trying experi-
ments, as is proved by the fact that most of the radical
social and economic legislation of the last decade has
been drafted and passed into Acts of Parliament by
Conservative Cabinets.
The main danger to be avoided is that which over-
took Britain after the last war, when social legislation
took the form of creating a kind of eleemosynary
State in which comfort and safety first replaced enter-
prise and risk. This led inevitably to protectionist
duties in order to try to maintain those comfortable
standards behind a tariff wall, with the poison of
permanent unemployment as its sequel. The “Daily
Herald,” the organ of the British trade-unions, still
harps upon “social security” as the goal of British
Labor policy. But something more than this is needed
if Britain is to retain its place in the world and not to
relapse into the Maginot Line mindedness of pre-war
days. Lloyd George gave Britain a slogan after the
last war which ran “Britain must have a land fit for
heroes to live in.” If he had changed one word and
said a “land fit for heroes to work in” he would have
set an ideal which best expressed the proper answer
to Hiller’s “New Order,” which visualises a land only
fit for slaves to toil in.
Gas Possibilities.
(From a New York “Herald Tribune” article by Major
George Fielding Eliot.)
The more horrifying calculations based on so
many tons of gas producing such an effect within a
given square mile are based on conditions which
almost never prevail—no wind at all, plus absolutely
level ground. The moment wind and terrain variants
are introduced these calculations tend to break down.
A determining factor in the use of gas will doubt-
less be the known degree of preparation by the oppo-
nent for defence against it. At the beginning of the
war the British civilian population was far better pro-
tected against gas attack than was the German. If
there was any one point which the British A.R.P.
organisation had given thought and attention to, it was
gas defence. Preparation for gas defence in Ger-
many was on a far less elaborate scale ; it was esti-
mated that not more than 25 per cent, of the German
civilian population possessed masks. But the Ger-
mans could confidently count on Britain not initiating
gas attacks on civilians ; and it is possible that the
Germans have held back their own use of gas, hoping
perhaps to avoid the need of using it at all, anxious
to obtain the full effect of surprise if they did decide
to use it.
Such a German decision would be based on
several factors. First, the degree to which, since the
opening of the war, they have improved their own
defence against gas. Second, the degree to which they
judge the British are capable of executing reprisals.
The production of military gases in the quantities de-
manded by the somewhat wasteful methods of air
warfare is no small task. British industry has been
busy with other matters. If the Germans are prepared
for air-chemical warfare on a large scale, while the
British are not able to retaliate strongly in kind for
some time, the Germans may judge that a favorable
opportunity has arrived for the introduction by them
of such methods. They have a rather short time limit
for the achievement of victory in any case. Indeed,
from one point of view the use of gas by the Ger-
mans might be considered an indication that they have
decided to strike for an all-out victory regardless of
immediate consequences.
There has been a tendency in Britain to relax
gas precautions and the fear of gas. It has not been
used, and all the elaborate preparations of September,
1939, are tending to recede into the background of
popular thought. Just such a moment might be the
one in which the greatest degree of confusion and
panic could be produced by the sudden introduction
of a series of gas raids ; as accompaniments, of course,
to other operations, and perhaps so distributed as to
paralyse important communications centres. It is
reassuring to note from British official utterances that
this possibility is not being forgotten.
Spain’s War Position,
[The views expressed in this summing up on Spain's
pro-Axis position in this war are those of W. Horsfall
Carter, given in a London “Contemporary Review”
article here condensed.]
A great illusion on the part of so many commen-
tators on Spanish affairs is that various moves —the
Sutler mission and the meeting of Hitler and General
Franco, for example—have been steps in preparation
for Spain’s entry into the war on the Axis side. Not
a bit of it. In the first place the exhausted state of
the country makes it impossible, and food and oil
supplies are only obtained by the grace of the British
Navy. Secondly there is enough latent hostility to the
regime to make it unsafe to risk a renewal of the
civil war. And finally, if Spain were a declared
enemy, Britain might be presented with a field of
operations from which Hitler’s whole European order
could be shattered, as Napoleon’s was.
Hitler fully appreciates the position—and he prob-
ably told General Franco straight out that at present
Spain would be more of a liability than a help as an
ally. Hitler certainly complained about the growing
anti-German feeling in Spain. But for the present it
suits the Fiihrer much better to “nobble” Spain by
economic penetration and police control ; and with
the threat of marching his divisions over the French
border and through Spain he knows that General
Franco must always come to heel.
Hitler does not care a fig for Spain’s interests —
or for that matter for Italy’s—except in so far as they
serve his purpose against Britain. One prize he wants
is the French Navy, so that he cannot very well
bribe Spain with French Morocco. It would be just
like him, however, to allow Marshal Petain to imagine
that he can come to an amicable arrangement with his
friends the Spaniards. General Franco and his friends
probably want a portion of the Atlantic part of that
country, connecting Spanish Morocco with the colony
of Rio de Oro and forming a compact wedge with the
Canaries. The young hotspurs of the Falange are not
really anxious to have to fight: they are relying on
their powerful friends first to render France’s colonial
—New York “Daily Minor.”
THE PRISONER OF THE AXIS.
forces powerless and, if any De Gaulle element should
make trouble, then Spanish troops could be drafted
in to “establish order.”
Does it never occur to the Spaniards, you may
ask, whose new-born zeal for Empire is being thus
exploited by Hitler, that they are being used as tools
and that their fate may be to exchange an Anglo-
French “stranglehold” for a German-Italian? The
more intelligent of them certainly see this danger
clearly, and where, as with Tangier, there is a chance
of “jumping their claims,” undoubtedly they will take
it. But they also know that, willy-nilly, the Franco
regime is bound to the chariot wheels of the Axis.
At the same time Spaniards, by and large, retain
immense confidence in British sea power ; and the
more wary are thinking not so much in terms of a
complete Axis victory as of a sufficient challenge to
the traditional Anglo-French domination of the
peninsula to let them in for a more important role,
in keeping with Spain’s imperial traditions. In the
event of a British victory they are hoping for a con-
solation prize in Morocco and a peaceful transfer of
Gibraltar to Spanish sovereignty, subject, perhaps, to
some Control Board keeping watch and ward over
this and other strategic key-points.
Meanwhile we shall have to face the fact that
Spain is for the Axis what the U.S.A. is for us, a non-
belligerent associate, giving all aid short of war.
Whether it suits British policy to leave things like
that only time can tell. Let us only know exactly
where we are and shed all illusions about the “friend-
ship” of the Spanish Government, for there are, as
Senor del Vayo says, forms of neutrality more dan-
gerous than actual participation.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
Beware of prophecies in Europe! Yet it is en-
tirely reasonable that Mr. de Valera may be able tc
maintain his imperilled and tenuous neutral course.
The situation is not like that of King Leopold ol
Belgium, for Mr. de Valera is favored by the Irish
Sea. At the outset of the war he recognised that the
small countries would be kicked about, and, as Mr.
Churchill in one of his extraordinary prophetic utter-
ances predicted, would be destroyed piecemeal like
the victims of the crocodile. Mr. de Valera is a
mathematical idealist with a realistic approach. He
recognised that 3,000,000 people could not resist a
determined attack by one of the great Powers, but he
reasoned also that, if a considerable military commit-
ment would be necessary to take possession of the
green island, the gain might not be considered worth
the necessary effort. Therefore, he set about to in-
crease his military forces, and developments have
shown that his estimation of the situation was a sound
one. There is nothing secure about Irish neutrality,
but it is based on practical and realistic considerations
and therefore it may last longer than some prophets
think. But first and last it is an Irish problem for
Irish solution. — John Cudahy, American Ambassador
to Belgium.
« * * * *
We get news flashes of people under duress, of
bread riots, of sabotage, of blind revolts swiftly sup-
pressed, but no picture of the day-by-day existence of
the great mass of the people. Yet this untold story
is the big story of the war. Whatever battles are
lost and won, the future of Europe depends on what
is happening to the lives, minds, habits of those mil-
lions in the dark. — Anne O’Hare McCormick, New
York “Times” columnist.
*****
What is needed to fight Japan in Oriental waters
is a complete navy, a complete army and a complete
air force. Nothing would be more welcome to Nazi
agents, both in Tokyo and in the United States, than
the diversion of such large forces, whether they be
British or American, from the theatre of the European
war. — Ernest O. Hauser, in the “Atlantic Monthly.”
*****
We Americans have been morally outraged by the
actions of Japan in Asia and the Nazis in Europe. We
are permanently outraged by the policies of Soviets
in Russia. In the past we have assumed that the mere
public expression of our disapproval of the policies of
certain transoceanic Powers and the threat of economic
pressure through embargoes against them would be
sufficient either to encourage the successful resistance
of other democracies nearer the scene or force a
general change in the policies of the dictatorship States.
Through the pursuit of such a course we have suc-
ceeded in alienating the friendship of every major
Power in the world except Great Britain. It is one
of the basic rules in the game of power politics that
if you talk big you want to mean what you say. No
matter what a nation’s moral feeling may be with
regard to the policies and ideologies of other nations,
that sentiment should only be expressed as a matter
of public policy provided the nation is prepared to
stand by the consequences of the provocation pro-
duced by such expressions.— Professor Brooks Emeny,
in a paper read before the American Political Science
Association.
*****
When the Japs swept in they took 90 p.c. of
China’s modern industry. Before them 60 million
refugees retreated into the undeveloped interior where
no industry existed. In that milling multitude were
factory workers, mechanics, textile workers —skilled
artisans now deprived of any outlet for their skill.
With them also was a sprinkling of technical experts —
men like Rewi Alley, a New Zealander who has spent
16 years in China. He had been chief factory in-
spector in Shanghai, had served in flood and famine
relief. The Chinese knew and trusted him. Around
Rewi Alley rallied the best of the leaders, Chinese
and European. China’s only hope of fighting the
invader lay in guerrilla warfare. Why not guerrilla
industry also —an industry as mobile and elusive as
the army? A national organisation of co-operatives
was formed, with Rewi Alley as technical director.
When Mme. Chiang Kai-shek gave the co-operatives
of the south-east an order for 10,000 padded over-
coats and 10,000 suits of underwear it was filled in 15
days. An order for 15,000 towels and 15,000 pairs
of socks took five days to fill. Until the co-opera-
tives came into being, all blankets, if not woven in
Shanghai, were imported. Now a million blankets
are being woven on co-operative looms from native
wools and colored by native dyes. The old crafts of
China are coming to life. — From a “Survey Graphic”
article by Bertram B. Fowler. Edgar Snow, in a long
“Saturday Evening Post” article on the same subject,
commented: “Who can say that in the end Rewi
Alley’s achievement may not prove of more lasting
benefit to mankind than the current battles of empire
—may not, in fact, be the most constructive result
of the battle for Asia itself ?”


RECOMMENDED .. .
FEED TRI-CAL-OS
BONE FLOUR THIS WINTER
AND SEE THE RESULTS
Tri-cal-os is the best source of calcium
and phosphorus for all stock. It contains
over 70% tricalcic phosphate, having a
guaranteed minimum of 33% phosphoric
acid and 40% lime. Tri-cal-os is pure,
wholesome and palatable, and fed regu-
larly will enable stock to make good use
of the winter fodders.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from
Oavis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4038, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box
BK, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 713 P, Adelaide; and G.P.O. Box 388, Perth.
ilDv
%
X •
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
m
u
O
&
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
37 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. QLAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef Cattle at Sydney Show.
“Bulago”: The cattle sections more
than justified themselves. Our beef and
dairy cattle reflect not only the skill of
breeders but the result of imported in-
fusions of blood.
Imports from England have ceased
and it may be years before new blood
can be introduced.
One breed—the Devons —has equalled
or perhaps even excelled the quality of
the original English breed. We are still
a fair way behind the parent stock in
Shorthorns, Herefords and Aberdeen-
Angus, but we have to thank far-sighted
breeders like Anthony Hordern, D. R.
McCaughey, Hunter White and E. L.
Killen for the rich and varied store of
blood available.
Beef cattle entries were little fewer
than last year’s. Shorthorn and Black
Poll numbers were higher. Red Polls
felt the absence of their largest and
most consistent exhibitor, N.Z. and Aust.
Land Co. “Military service” was respon-
sible for the absence of some studs—
Narrangullen in particular.
A noticeable feature was the interest
and large attendances at the judging of
the new polled Shorthorn and Hereford
breeds.
N. J. Holmes, Larras Lake (N.S.W.),
judged the beef Shorthorns. Several
classes were very large, but the pro-
portion of “tail” was small. The average
quality of the younger stock was out-
standing. The array of bulls in the 15-
and 18-months classes was excellent.
Awards were widely distributed, but
the Coonong cattle stood out. This stud
collected the open and junior bull cham-
pionships with Coonong Keyman—one of
the best quality youngsters seen in Syd-
ney—and the junior reserve. On the
female side, Coonong Secrecy took the
junior championship and the open re-
serve. It was everywhere a triumph for
youth.
A number of new exhibitors helped to
balance the loss of old identities. Peel
River cattle showed some good females.
Peel Maid of Promise won the junior and
the open female championship. She first
came to Sydney two years ago as a calf
when her dam, Abbotslea Maid, was
champion. She is a beautiful, soft-
handling, great-scale cow.
Polled Shorthorn improvement in
colors on past years is most noticeable,
but there is still a tendency to weak
and overshot jaws to be remedied.
The Antrim cattle were shown well,
and the imported white cow Oakwood
Missie 3rd retained the female champion-
ship for the third year in succession.
Last year’s champion, Gundibri Laddie
2nd, appeared slightly overdone, and there
was the smallest of margins between him
and his roan studmate Standard 2nd.
Herefords were not so strong
numerically as last year but the quality
was unimpaired. Several classes were
very bulky, and there was neither “tail”
nor anything outstanding, so the judge
had his work cut out. All the best-known
studs were represented and honors were
widely divided.
Hays Bros, were most successful ex-
hibitors, but, as usual, the Golf Hill (Vic.)
cattle were well in the picture, and
Fenwick Bros., Windsor (N.S.W.), and
Hobartville collected many ribbons. It
was expected that last year’s duel for
the championship would be repeated, but
the Percy Reynolds Hobartville bull was
fvr" le . runr, i n S and Mcllrath’s
Windsor Puritan repeated last year’s
triumph He has filled out wonderfully,
a beautiful Hereford type, and there was
nothing to challenge him seriously.
Junior championship went to Golf Hill
Conslute, a beautifully - proportioned
youngster - a certainty for a future
championship if he keeps his form. His
runner-up was a Bexley bull, excellent
m the body but faulty in the legs. Taking
them all through, the females were even
better than the bulls, and the tops were
particularly good. Two old rivals con-
tested the cow championship. In 1939
it went to Myall Carissima, by Bexley
Cup Day 3rd ; this year the Bexley cow
won again, with the Fenwick cow re-
serve.
Among the Polled Herefords, Mrs.
Hordern s cattle were shown in wonder-
ful condition. The Cudgeena Polls in
some classes ran them very close.
Cudgeena Svengali took the bull cham-
pionship from competitors who dwarfed
him. He had the quality. All other
championship ribbons went to the Milton
cattle.
In Devons Havilah had four challengers
this year, and they succeeded in wresting
quite a number of awards from the old
firm. Hunter White’s unbroken record
of championships was seriously menaced
by a bull imported by Table Top, but last
year’s champion, Havilah Delegate 54th,
prevailed, chiefly on his better condition.
The Aubyn Devons also made a good
showing, and carried off a reserve junior
championship.
Aberdeen-Angus enthusiasts were not
disappointed this year, and the cattle that
paraded before the judge showed the
high standard of the breed. The type
of Black Poll now shown in Sydney is
much more even and standardised than
a few years ago ; but there was still a
decided “tail” and a lack of finish on
some entries. Kahlua sent a very strong
team. Booroomooka and the Depart-
ment of Agriculture were well represented
in the awards.
The two-year-old Kahlua Gaelic Chief,
which won premier bull honors from
Miss M. S. Doyle’s Trangie Eurotia’s
Prince, is a typical 8.P., square set and
beautifully balanced and full of style and
breeding. The greatest improvement was
noticeable in the female classes. Kahlua
Titania, a matronly low-set cow which
gained the championship, was perhaps
not so strong in the head as she might
have been, but elsewhere she was hard
to fault and a typical breeder.
Red Polls were not up to their usual
standard and competition was limited.
Most of the awards went to Yammatree,
with Perry Bros.’ cattle next. Yamma-
tree’s Castor, the champion bull, was,
however, an excellent dual-purpose
specimen, and would have been hard to
beat in any company.
Export and Prices.
“Mookau”: This month’s ban on the
export of various stock products is an
unpleasant outlook for growers.
The manager of Norco, on the N.S.W.
North Coast, says the pig position is
unprecedented. His co., which is co-
operative, is faced with the handling of
“ 'Ere, boy.”
large quantities of bacon already pro-
duced, and, while it and other co-ops.
intend to continue receiving fresh pigs
until they find themselves unable to deal
with more, that point soon will be
reached. Norco can deal with 1600 pigs
per week, but supplies have ranged up
to 2500 per week in recent months.
Private firms will take their own courses.
. , .
Prices are slumping heavily in all pig
districts. Maitland (N.S.W.) reports that
the market is at the lowest level for a
decade. This in a line in which co-
operative factories help the farmer to get
a fair price. Some of the industries
which will be affected by export stoppage,
such as the fat-lamb business, have not
this safeguard.
The position is not easy to deal with ;
but it would do something to keep values
at payable levels if it were decreed that
prices to the public should come down
at once in exact proportion to the fall
of primary markets.
Barley and Oats.
“Wundi”: Barley should get a fillip
now that there are signs that petrol short-
age is leading to a horse revival.
A sound ration for a working horse is
201 b. to 301 b. chaff with 41b. dry or 61b.
soaked barley, plus 41b. bran twice a
week.
A cow needs 101 b. barley meal, 31b.
molasses and 201 b. hay per day; and
barley makes an excellent pig ration
properly prepared. In Europe barley is
considered an essential bacon grain. It
is ground to meal stage or given a 12-
hour boil to reduce it to pulp. It needs
to be fed with foods which are palatable
to the animals. Denis is not partial to
it alone.
Barley is short of oil compared with
oats and maize, but it is between the two
in carbohydrates and protein. When fed
dry, unless the animals have very sound
teeth, it is best rolled.
Oats are about the best of all grains for
horses. They are a grand muscle-former
and are warming, have more protein and
less carbohydrates than maize—have all
that is needed for support of the animal.
They are tasty and can be fed alone. No
horse will pass an oat trough for other
feed.
For a heavy working draught horse a
normal ration should be about 91b.
crushed oats, with 181 b. wheaten chaff
and 31b. bran. Light horses call for 101 b.
to 111 b. chaff, 91b. of oats and 11b. to
Hlb. bran. Chaffed lucerne can take the
place of bran. The grain ration should
be cut ou t ? n da ys on which an animal
is not working.
F ° r da } ry cows a B ood ration is 101b-
° ii ,4 oats, 2Jlb. bran, lib.
P °wh (ir/ f nd lmseed . cak f-
Where milk supply is short, young
stock will soon take to oat gruel, and
crushed oats up to 31b. for foals under
a year and up to 51b. for those well
pastured under two years is a grand
stimulator to growth. With milk cows
oats supply the casein element not avail-
ab^e * n other grains,
Generally, oats are a breeder’s grain,
a nd even stud rams can do with Jib. or
s 9 a day - For fattening, oats should be
d i scarded I where the job is weaning,
B rowth > muscle- and energy-building, they
( Continued on page 51.)


" y 'it fai/teb not tkmJt
oft/uU mcuK*
rvONT put off thinking about the
choice of a funeral director until
bereavement overtakes you. Consider
these simple facts now —they are
important when the inevitable happens.
Motor Funerals Limited originated the
all-motor funeral in 1923. Chapels for
clergy of every denomination without
extra cost . . . distinctive modern
equipment —every modern facility that
progress has proved worthwhile.
THIS FINER SERVICE
COSTS NO MORE
Please note the name Motor Funerals
Limited, for it has no connection
whatever with companies of somewhat
similar name.
Mr. David Spring, General Manager
of Motor Funerals Limited is widely
known throughout Australia as
a fighter for the Friendly Societies
and for the humane work they
represent. Both in his long rural
and city experience, Mr. Spring’s
sympathies have always been for
those in distress - a trait which
has impressed itself upon thtt
Company he now controls.
AOO
i a, rS
'M-i :
HU
mm
iwi
ANY HOUR,
DAY OR NIGHT
Chapels: 30 City Road, SYDNEY, Tel. M 6277; 389 Pacific Highway, CROW’S
NEST, Tel. XB4015; 93 Weston Road, Rozelle, Tel. W 1141; 8 Railway
Parade, EASTWOOD, Tel. Ryde 855; 97 Rawson Street, AUBURN, Tel.
UX7261.


fsd
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posited.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 3001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY.
Good-looking Good Value
%
In fine
quality calf
39/6
For a good-looking shoe that offers even
better value, here is the shoe you should buy.
A boldly-punched full galosh model with the
popular square toe; made in black or richly-
coloured brown calf, and obtainable in full
range of sizes and half-sizes.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
A 35.
uiiDoiuicrs
for
GEARS
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES
V BELT DRIVES
%
o
5®
o
C>
J. C. LVDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST. STH. MELBOURNE
& A A
tV R
sesa
mm
tmm&M
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 11/- Double Rooms from 15 -
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
are without peer. They might one day
form the basis of a standard drought
ration if enough study were given to the
matter.
More Thoughts for Seeding.
“B. Cubbin”: The chairman of the
Wheat Industry Stabilisation Board
announces that delays in issuing permits
to growers for the coming seeding was
due to “the further investigation needed
to check the exaggerated acreages applied
for by many growers.”
To anyone familiar with wheatgrowing
and its prospects it seems incredible that
any man should now want to increase his
crop acreage above normal. Some pos-
sibly hope that the Government will
come to light with a fixed price next har-
vest, but these must be few.
Quite plainly the wheatgrower is
facing a tough, future. Not only is his
grain a drug on the market, but the
recent stoppage of fat-lamb killing isn’t
helpful to men who have heeded the con-
stant advice to go in for diversified farm-
ing.
It is hard to know what to do about
wheat. Most growers feel that the
country expects them to keep at it and
most will sow somewhere about their
average. War developments in the
Middle East and the consequent neces-
sity to feed vast armies, and perhaps
peoples near to Australia, may give our
wheat a chance. A lot of people have
been waiting to hear from the Eastern
Supply Council at Delhi on the subject,
and it would be interesting to know
whether the A.W.B. has made any moves.
The A.W.B. has about million
bushels for sale in 1941, though whether
that is all 1940-41 wheat or includes some
from the previous season isn’t stated.
Sales to mid-March were 20.8 million
bushels, leaving 67.7 million to be dis-
tributed between home demands, 49.4
million, and carryover for export, 18.3
million.
Canada is expected to limit wheat out-
put in the coming season to 230 million
bushels, which means a drop of nearly
10 million acres on Canadian yield aver-
ages. The U.S. Secretary for Agricul-
ture is said to favor an acreage drop
of 10 p.c. Argentina’s crop is down
nearly 25 million bushels on the fore-
cast. Despite all this, Canada alone is
expected to • hold a carryover of 576
million bushels by next July.
It would be interesting to hear the
views of somebody who has applied to
the W. 1.5.8. for an “exaggerated acre-
age.”
For the Mallee.
“Danyo Dave”: Last season, which
was so bad that no wheat was got from
test plots at Werrimull and Ultima in
the Victorian Mallee, the new varieties
Pindar and Quadrat both gave 10 bushels
an acre in tests at Walpeup, Woomelang
and Berriwillock.
Pindar and Quadrat are similar in type
and maturity to Ghurka, and over a
four-year period at Walpeup both did
well in yield averages with proven wheats
—Bencubbin, 27.4 bushels; Baldmin,
27.3 ; Quadrat, 27.3; Regalia, 26.9;
Ranee 4H, 26 ; Pindar, 26 ; Magnet, 24.7 ;
Dundee, 24.2 ; Ghurka, 22.2.
Quadrat was formerly known as the
crossbred Ghurka x C.M.G., and Pindar
is an improved Ghurka selection which
has consistently outyielded its parent. It
can be tried with confidence in districts
where Ghurka is regarded as the best
wheat. It yields a better bread-making
flour than Ghurka.
The two new wheats seem better suited
to the southern Mallee than to the north,
where early-maturers like Bencubbin and
Regalia do better than the Ghurka types.
At Berriwillock Pindar and Quadrat out-
yielded Ghurka, Ranee 4H and Regalia.
More experience is necessary before
either can be recommended for straight-
out growing, and a fair selection for
Mallee growers in the coming season
would be: General sowing in the north,
Regalia, Ranee 4H, Ghurka; in the
south, Ghurka, Ranee 4H ; limited sow-
ing in north, Pindar, Bencubbin, Bald-
min; in south, Regalia, Pindar, Ben-
cubbin, Dundee, Baldmin, all in order
of preference.
“Mookau”; Bidding at Sydney R.A.S.
this year both for Shorthorns and
Herefords was keen. Prices were
up 35 p.c. on last year’s, and young
stock were especially in demand. J. F.
Male (Cowra) paid 480 guineas for Roy
McCaughey’s Coonong Junker, by Cal-
rossie Red Baronet, reserve junior cham-
pion, and 400 guineas was paid for a calf
—another Coonong exhibit, Coonong
King, by Coonong Formidable, bluo-
ribboner of the under-12-months class.
Eight Coonongs offered by Common-
wealth Wool and Produce Co. brought
1920 guineas. Hereford prices also were
much improved. J. F. and S. Vickery,
Vective, Tamworth (N.S.W.), paid 350
guineas for Golf Hill Corislute, junior
champion and winner of the 15-18-
months-bull class. Mrs. U. M. Hordern
refused 320 guineas for the junior cham-
pion polled Hereford, but she sold six
other youngsters for 750 guineas.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXV.
ASSISTING THE NATIVE.
For a long time the wife has been
throwing out hints about the woodheap.
She addresses queries to nobody in par-
ticular as to how she is going to get
6ft. logs into a stove built to take Ift.
logs, why a man seems to think that be-
cause he cuts a few sticks one night they
will last all the week when she has three
hungry mouths and her own to feed,
sometimes as often as five times a day.
Further, it appears she would like to
be informed how people expect to find
cakes, buns, brownie and similar sweet-
meats always on hand when the person
supposed to supply them has to be con-
tinually raking the woodheap for suffi-
cient chips to carry on. She notes with
audible asperity that while some men are
ready enough to talk about the need for
method in running a house it never seems
to occur to them that the person charged
with the running thereof must have suffi-
cient supplies to maintain said method.
Also, you would never think of starting
seeding without plenty of seed, yet you
think she can cook without plenty of
fuel. And, anyway, do you expect her
to swing the blessed axe herself?
All this is beginning to worry you
when Jimmy Boolala heaves in sight.
Jimmy is an aboriginal of this country,
a bit of a hard-doer in the district’s
opinion, and one who believes that it is
the white man’s privilege to support the
black.
You survey James with cunning.
“Jimmy,” you say, “how you bin like-it
a few bob? You savee, ’bacca an’
tucker, eh?”
“You bin got it the few bob, boss?”
grins Jimmy.
“Yowi,” you answer, “s’pose you bin
cutem a big heap of wood, Jimmy.”
Jimmy looks over the woodheap, regis-
ters some primeval emotion and remarks
“You gibit tucker s’pose me bin cutem,
boss, eh?”
“Yowi, tucker and a few bob when
you bin finish.”
“You grindem axe, boss?”
You grind the axe while Jimmy collects
a few bags and bushes and rigs himself
a humpy behind the stables.
Carefully you explain how long you
want the wood, note Jimmy’s early swings
at it and go triumphantly to the missus.
“Well, I’ll feed him,” she assents. “But
I won’t have him in my house. He can
eat”
“Listen, missus. If we kid to him a
bit he’ll finish up cutting the whole heap
and we’ll have stove wood for the rest
of the winter.”
Jimmy surprises you that first day. He
cuts and builds a respectable heap of
wood. The missus becomes mollified,
especially as Jimmy takes pains to cany
a fair heap of cut wood and stack it
handy to the kitchen.
You follow your agricultural voca-
tion, hearing at times the steady clip-clop
of the axe. By night the cutter borrows
your tobacco and talks of many things.
On the third morning you make a d,s-
covery.
Look, missus, them s my pants old
Jimmy is wearing. They’re too good to
give away.”
“I didn’t give any pants away.”
You interview Jimmy. His version is
that he found the pants. He can’t re-
member where, but he found ’em. Still,
if they are really yours, you can have
™^ a , CI L n Ut s f omethin 8 "> side y°, u
revolts at the idea of wearing those pants
since they have encased Jimmy s shanks,
so you let the matter drop, feeling un-
comfortable about Jimmy’s sly grin as
h Vr s away ' .
Still, you reflect, getting the wood cut
is worth a pair of pants. Time drifts
steadily on and Jimmy steadily cuts
wo , .
Says the missus, “I don’t know, but
there’s something funny about the way
that man works. He just sits on the heap
until he sees you coming, then he grabs
the axe and starts to cut.”
“Aw, you’re too suspicious, woman,
Jimmy’s all right. Look at the wood he’s
cut ”
“Yes,” she says, “but I wonder why
he just cuts now. He’s stopped stack-
ing.”
Queried on this, Jimmy explains, “Aw,
mine bin cutem all up first, boss, then
stackem. That way save time.”
Comes Saturday, and you and the
family depart for town. You get back
ate I^ia ! nl §hf: f n morning you ge
an d in - ts plac£ j s a nea tly-stacked heap
f oot j 0 g S
“You payem?”
“Too right. Gripes, you must’ve bin
work yesterday, Jimmy.”
“Yowi, boss.” He wriggles a battered
boot and looks a bit anxious. Enthusi-
astically you call the missus,
says the blacks are lazy. Look
at She'looks and is suitably impressed,
You oive y 30 bob i hich P make s
his “ s and he immed iately heads
for t £ e to^n
« And now » says the missus? « it
wouldn’t be a bad idea if you carried a
f ew sticks over and stacked them for me
by the door.”
The .third stick you seize seems stuck.
You give it a wrench. A minor sort of
collapse occurs, and you whirl round,
But that black has disappeared. There
no wa y j n which you can hide from
t he missus the fact that he has carefully
stacked foot logs all round the heap of
uncut six-footers and sold you a pup.
You reflect bitterly that some people
look on the aboriginal as having a child-
like mind.


-ESTABLISHED 1834. .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!. . .. ~ ~ 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
hdward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World,
■■■■-" ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.——
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
sdf
sd
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Wool worths, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £> £ £ £
1932.. 62,407 7500 17J p.c. =29,363 25,544 18,406
1933.. 68,845 7500 22J „ „ 37,752 23,593 41,999
Trans, to staff provident, £2OOO .. 39,999
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 7 p.c. 25 p.c.
£ £ £
1934.. 85,552 7500 4,579 41,947 31,526 71,525
Assets written up and £253,182]
of bonus scrip distributed. Un- I q SRI
explained addition reserves, £lO,OBB ; (
added goodwill, £77,732. J
124 p.c.
1935. .100,418 7500 7,000 52,746 33,172 43,053
To staff fund, £lOOO .. .. ~ 42,053
Share premiums, £30,000 .. .. 72,053
17-J p.c.
1936. 7500 11,862 73,844 * rn
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO j
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
12* p.c.
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 I ~0 , QH o ftn
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO j 4^’ d4y lys ’ 0
Share premiums, £126,591 .. .. 324,951
!938 217,717 7500 14,000 137*562 1 378,106
Staff fund and chanties, £5500 j ’
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 .. 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
£7500 184,939
174 p.c.
1939. .271,693 7500 14,000 194,950 \ OQr - o0
Staff fund and charities, £5OOO j
1940. .272,922 7500 14,000 194,950 ) „
To charities, £5OOO .. \ 51,472 286,654
Tax reserve taken in, £120,095 .. 406,749
1941. .282,566 7500 14,000 194,950 66,116 472,865
f Excluding depreciation reserve, £217,636 at
31/1/’4l.
For those who got in early, this variety
chain-store organisation, now spread
throughout the Commonwealth and
Maoriland, has been a money-spinner.
When the public became interested in
1928 paid capital was £63,264. At the
end of January last the figure had grown
to £1,388,999 in 75,000 £1 10 p.c. and
200,000 £1 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
4,455,996 ords. of ss. each. Of the
£1,113,999 of ord. capital no less than
£944,712 (approx. 17s. in the £) repre-
sents bonus scrip, all scattered since 1930.
From the beginning cash issues have
brought with them £199,977 of share
premiums, and divs. have averaged
approximately 18.2 p.c.
Another feature of this class of busi-
ness is that in hard times —and indica-
tions are that they might lie ahead—
many who used to pass by turn and go
into the chain shops, as experience dur-
ing the slump of the early 1930’s shows.
Still, turnover, upon the volume of which
profits largely depend, can’t be expected
to go on expanding at the old rate in-
definitely. Competition has become much
more intense during the last decade. Also,
in these days when development of our
maximum war effort is the paramount
consideration, the flow of capital and
savings is being directed both into pro-
duction of essential war materials and
back into the Treasury in order to meet
defence expenditure. One of the instru-
ments of direction is Treasury control
of capital expansion. Since Woolworths
isn’t engaged in production of essential
war goods, a halt in the recent rapid
expansion can be expected.
But the factor likely to hit the
co. hardest is taxation. The Federal
rates for public cos. for 1939-40 were
2s. in the £ of taxable income, plus 2s. in
the £ of undistributed income, plus
a super tax of Is. in the £
of taxable income over £5OOO or plus
an involved War-time (Company) Tax.
Because of the complications, the co. has
ceased to make provision for the next tax
bill when it arrives, and now charges the
accounts only with the amount of tax
actually paid during the period covered.
For this reason the gain of £9644 in
last term’s profit is more apparent than
real. The amount paid in taxes was
£35,336, and the provision made in
the previous accounts was £44,000. The
£282,566 of profit shown for 1941 was
enough to pay the pref. divs. and show
a juicy 23.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
22.5 p.c. for the previous year. That was
after allowing £25,057 (up £4994) for
depreciation and increasing staff fund
reserve (£25,500) by £13,000. The div.
was kept at \l\ p.c., leaving £66,116 to
put on the shelf.
The market prices the ords. at 16s.
as against 20s. 6d. a year ago. The
return at 16s. is 5.5 p.c, on a \l\ p.c.
div. basis, maintenance of which cannot
be regarded as certain, though payment
of a handsome rate appears to be as
reasonable an expectation as anything of
the kind can be in these uncertain times.
The first and second prefs. at 375. and
255. yield 5.4 p.c. and 5.6 p.c. respec-
tively. The net tangible cover is £24 16s.
6d. firsts, £8 18s. Bd. seconds and 7s. Id.
ords., excluding £217,636 in depreciation
reserve.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1937. 1940. 1941.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital. . 93,764 1,118,938 1,388,999 1,388,999
Liabilities . . 127,525 306,662 316,798 377,915
Freeholds, etc. 51,667 417,585 36,717 41,148
Leaseholds .. 6,095 87,016 82.506 89,062
Plant . . 37,196 239,571 282,531 317,799
Shares other
cos., etc. .. 9,450 847,326 1,266,263 1,286,263
Stocks .. 100.551 349,439 465,024 590,027
Debtors . . 4,159 *64,359 *344,625 *281,630
Cash. . . . 929 4,749 6,479 15,846
* Includas advances to associated cos.— £58,291,
1937 ; £317,321, 1940; £272,889. 1941.
Outstanding feature last term was the
growth of £125,003 in stocks, due partly
to expansion of the business and partly
to provision against rising prices. Liabili-
ties consist of trade debts and accrued
charges £100,132 (down £4013) and sub-
sidiaries’ current accounts £277,783 (up
£65,130). Including stocks but not shares
in other cos,, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£509,588)
was £10,258. Over the past 14 months
10 new stores have been opened,
The subsidiaries, which operate in
Maoriland and all the Australian States
except Tas., are a highly profitable lot,
too. After providing £263,413 (up
£25,999) for taxation and allowing for de-
preciation—the reserve for the purpose
(£269,163) increased by £44,069 net —
their aggregate net earnings at last balanc-
ing dates were £69,618 stronger at
£346,821. This was sufficient to pay
the pref. and preferred ord. divs. (to-
gether £47,295) and show 26 p.c. on the
aggregate ord. capital (£1,150,602) as
against 24 p.c. for the previous period.
The newest pup is Woolworths (Can-
berra), paid capital £20,000.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1932*. 66,695 6£ p.c. = 46.875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6J „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 5 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 „ ~ 37,500 101,759
1930.. 42,754 5 „ „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 „ „ 43,750 14,338 121,351
1938.. 65,145 64 „„ 46,876 1 „
To staff fund, £5OOO .. j
1939.. 51,233 6i p.c. = 46,875 4,358 138,979
1940.. 49,352 6J „ „ 46,875 2,477 141,450
1941.. 38,971 5 „ „ 37,500 1,471 142,927
*l3 months.
The poor war-time outlook for South
Seas copra, on which a large slice of
Island activity still depends, despite the
part now played in the Fijian economy
by sugar and gold, has sent this co.’s
pound shares tumbling from 265. 6d. to
par or thereabouts over the past 12
months. Visibly the net tangible cover
is 235. lOd. But book values can stand
considerable stretching. Inheriting its
parent’s conservatism, ever since the co.
took over the extensive Island-trading
and -produce business of Burns Philp in
1920 —£500,000 in scrip changed hands,
and B.P. shareholders put up another
quarter-million in cash —the management
has been unobtrusively muscle-building.
And that both gives attractions to the
long view and inspires a measure of con-
fidence in the present.
Following the outbreak of war, the
British Government fixed the price of
copra at £l2 stg. per ton, later reduced
to £ll 12s. 6d. But there is no shipping
available to lift the stuff, and, with
the Mexican market oversupplied
and unprofitable, planters every-
where have walked out, leaving stocks
to rot. The co.’s direct earnings from the
commodity have thus suffered, and with
them its trading and shipping connec-
tions, necessitating the laying up of
several of the small inter-island craft.
Takings have been further affected by
official control of imports, commodity
prices and exchange. Hence the declared
fall of £27,457 in last term’s gross;
Gross Exes. p.c.
Dec., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1930 .. .. £185,060 £124,571 67.0
Jan.,
1932 .. 169,182 112,487 66.4
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1936 .. .. 153,393 110,639 72.1
1937 .. .. 180,189 122,101 67.8
1938 ~ .. 203,465 138,320 68.1
1939 .. .. 184,269 133,036 72.2
1940 . . . . 191,683 142,331 74.3
1941 .. .. 164,226 125,255 76.2
With shipping freights, insurance and
other costs up, general exes. (£95,296)
proved stubborn, but by clipping £5840
off depreciation (£17,728) and £10,916
off bad-debt provisions (£10,980) the slide
in the net result was reduced to £10,381.
The £38,971 called profit came mostly
from merchandising and investments; it
represented 5.1 p.c. on capital, as against
6.5, 6.8, 8.7, 7.7 and 5.7 p.c. for the five
preceding terms, and the div. was cut
back from 6| p.c. to 5 p.c. Only once,
during the short, sharp post-war slump in
1922, when they were passed by alto-
gether, have shareholders got less.
Looking at finances, investments and
“properties, shipping, etc.,” are the items
in which most of the hidden strength
appears tucked away:
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 30,724 46,089 55,708 57,180
Properties, I
shipping, etc. 1 554,179 •{ 274,872 384,546 357,280
Investments J [ 266,356 258,096 281.433
Stocks, etc. .. 158,898 178,562 98,803 91,496
Book debts .. 175,498 179,788 163,221 159,104
Cash .. .. 36,662 61,132 67,498 79,544
Over the past four years £98,000-odd,
equal to 27 p.c. of present book values,
has been visibly struck off fixed assets, and
£63,000 for bad debts charged to earn-
ings. Last year’s reduction of £27,266
in the main asset and £7307 in stocks
went into investments and cash, together
£35,383 higher at £360,977. The moderate
debt is over 10 times covered by more
or less liquids. Anticipating a drawn-
out war, the board has sold four of its
small Island-trading craft, three since the
close of accounts, in order to avoid lay-
up maintenance.
To see what can be done about ship-
ping, a Pacific Copra Marketing Board
has been set up by the Australian, Maori-
land and Fijian Governments. The
question of any internal assistance to
growers is being left to the Administra-
tions concerned.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
f— Dividends Nominal
f —Pref. To Re — Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. <3 p.e. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
’30.. 14,102 524 6i p.c. = 2,836 10,742 13,374
’31.. 160 Nil Nil 160 13,534
’32.. 358 Nil Nil 358 13,892
’33.. 5,734 Nil Nil 5,734 19,626
’34.. 10,982 9247+ Nil 1,735 21,361
Preliminary exes., £2569 .. .. 18,792
Dec.,
’341. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.e. = 2,749 2,628 21,420
’35. . 15,199 2194 300(1 8 „ „ 7,330 2,675 24,095
'36.. 22,626 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37.. 25,150 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’3B. . 25,626 2215 3000 10 „ ~12,075 8,336 51,455
’39.. 27,887 2215 3000 10 „ „ 12,827 9,845 61,300
’40.. 23,138 2214 3000 10 „ „ 12,828 5,096 66,396
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934
at Dec. 31). + Includes arrears. J Six months.
Catering for both sexes, this is now one
of the largest hosiery manufacturers in
the Commonwealth, and one of the most
efficient, too, thanks partly to its techni-
cal association with the Holeproof
people of U.S.A. and partly to the
board’s policy of scrapping plant
long before it is due for retirement in
order to keep abreast of the most modern
developments in the industry.
The first year of war was one of
large-scale development. Following ex-
tension of manufacturing to Sydney early
in the term by purchase of the Berkeley
Knitting Mills Pty., a lot of money was
spent in bringing the mill “into line with
Holeproof methods and standards.”
Apparently the new interest brought
nothing into the household, but it is ex-
pected to turn into a “profit-producing
unit” and should be a great help in meet-
ing Queensland and N.S.W, custom in
these times of disorganised shipping.
The new Great Eastern mill at Camber-
well (Vic.), in which production of men’s
woollen hose is now concentrated, also
came into production too late to con-
tribute to its keep, but “results for the
past three months indicate that it should
become a valuable asset.”
The main Brunswick (Vic.) plant met
with its greatest demand yet. That the
net result showed no benefit was due
to exes, in connection with the year’s
expansion, and to the board’s policy of
keeping down retail prices, despite in-
creased labor and material charges, thus
adding to the co.’s goodwill and com-
petitive power. Thus, despite greater effi-
ciency in manufacturing, gross earnings
from trading (£147,031) narrowed
£3971. There were economies in man-
agement, too, outgoings here (£123,893,
including £25,321 for depreciation) being
only £778 heavier, notwithstanding pro-
vision of “greater sums” for taxation.
After meeting pref. obligations, the
£23,138 (down £4749) of profit left
a margin of 13.9 p.c. for the ords., com-
pared with 17.7, 16.9, 21.8 and 19 p.c.
back to 1936. Repetition of the 10 p.c.
div. left £5096 for visible reserves —
£66,396 before deducting intangibles of
£15,934.
Raw silk is now rationed, and, with
continuity of rayon supplies a bit uncer-
tain and markets rising, the board added
heavily to stocks:
1934. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Orel, capital.. £91,621 £128,270 £128,270 £128.270
Pref. capital. . 75,685 77,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities* .. 58,304 49,229 51,303 147,388
Freeholds, etc. 68,045 83,241 81,297 85,176
Plant & fittings 67,241 68,686 64,308 64,190
Shares other cos. 5,000 16 16 16
Stocks ~ 92,709 136,380 158,647 228,129
Debtors . . 8,718 10,421 6,017 33,355
Cash, etc. . . 659 2,264 2,643 3,242
* Includes tax provision.
The £228,129 comprises mainly raw
materials, finished manufactures being
at a “very low” level. The lift of
£69,482, with an expansion of £27,338
in book debts, necessitated going outside
for a further £96,085. A feature is the
conservative valuation of plant, now
lower in the books than a half-dozen
years back. Depreciation allowances
covered last year’s additions, leaving the
more or less liquid surplus little changed
at £117,338.
Now 235. 6d., returning 8.5 p.c., Hole-
proof ords. represent one of the most
attractive hosiery investments offering.
At 235. 6d. and 225. respectively, the 8 p.c.
A and more numerous 6 p.c. B prefs.
yield 6.8 p.c. and 5.4 p.c. The cover is


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting’
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney'
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents — Advt'
* * * * ‘
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
$
//s
% f
COME TO
SOUTH
AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land where the romance
of the past lends colour and vivid interest
to the present. Modern cities, mountain play-
grounds, sunsplashed beaches, scenic splen-
dour, primitive native life, draw an everlasting
throng to this country, where holidaying is
inexpensive and the costs of modern transport
services quite moderate.
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY & COMPANY LiMiTED
(Incorporated in England),
Agents for South African Railways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
BRANDADERA
Kl
(tt.V
PENS
r
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKJLHDJLOKE * CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
VJoo\'e" S^'" a ta
'• fc* *K Z
ensur® a or e
2. I''°“ S n H U C '^om'^'' s '
a " d 3 \ uv<ear^ o°' 0 °'' e "!«v» rfva-
- 3' « ,v '’ Ce ' T '^""
•■ «i*JS -j£.«-
s t' ,oU V| jJ'e o»Y a " a ' eS ' tU pjwvcrs
- wear
it/iU v,ear eas'W*
7 - W «"* * Scarv«
s.^^^ ddr ::o^
*V»®V r Woo^ en un du®
, S «U« S'**
'" e ’ 9 . ... wear ~~
' S°«Jp m raanV art ;m Su.H
v#e»9 w a , r Wo©' 3; . a na
uAt ear • in
0 tbou b
i|f||#|f
■■(■■lBi
HSOOI FO# PFRSO/VAI HEAIM S ffATfO/VAi
visibly £9 ss. 3d. As, £4 11s. 6d. Bs and
-7s. lid. ords. With increasing absorp-
tion of women and men into war-time
industry and stocking-up by traders
against cost-lifts, current term has opened
with record demand on all three mills.
The shortage of skilled operatives is a
pioblern that appears to be being satis-
factorily grappled with.
Assuming smelters’ margins remain un-
changed, lift in the Commonwealth tin
price from £306 to £320 (= £256 stg.) per
ton will bring in £7OOO more annually
to Briseis, the Derby (Tas.) sluicer,
on the basis of last term’s output (6814,
tip 1764, tons t. 0., assaying 73.66 p.c.
metal). With rainfall 34 p.c. below aver-
age, the 300-million-gallon Mt. Paris
dam proved a useful adjunct to the Briseis
Cascade supply last term, when record
recoveries (up 41b. t. 0.) and tin prices
fitted net earnings from £25,001 to
£40,624:
„ . , 1937.* 1938. 1939. 1940.
overburden, e.y... 215,000 277,000 202,000
unit, e.y. .. 331,000 772,000 741,000 752,000
1.0., tons.. .. 211 J 544 CBU
Average, c.y. . . 1.431 b. 1.681 b. 1.521 b. 2.031 bi
*jejd, c.y. . . _ 29.44 d. 31.19c1. 43.4(1.
Costs, c.y. .. IS.Old. IC.ISd. 10.02 d. 10.54 d.
m-oht .. £9,250 £28,232 £25,001 £40,G24
Divs.—Share . . Nil _/3 i/_ 1/3
Amt.f .. Nil £8,0G3 £32,802 £41,010
kix months, f Including Tas. div, tax.
That was after charging £30,613 (£20,079
more) for taxation, not provided for in
the published ’39 accounts, and £7679 (up
£6011) for development. Nothing was
debited against earnings for depre-
ciation (£4754 in 1939). Shareholders par-
ticipated in the better showing to the ex-
tent of Is. 3d. (up 3d.) per share, calling,
with Tas. div. tax, for £41,016. Half capital
has now been returned. Dry conditions
interfered with overburden removal and
accentuated the problem of tailings dis-
posal ; hence part of the 4d. rise in unit
costs. Operations are now in the richest
wash, and 21b. recoveries are expected to
continue in the present period, so an-
other good showing is in prospect, subject
to rainfall vagaries. During the year a
£14,000 debenture debt was wiped off,
reducing indebtedness at Dec. 31 to £873,
apart from £41,147 earmarked for taxa-
tion Briseis is subject to the same im-
posts as investment cos., including the
War-time (Company) Tax. More or less
liquids at balance date totalled £28,650,
including stores.
* * * #
Plans for development of the bauxite
ore on Tambourine Plateau (S.Q.) are
held up by mining objections to the
granting of leases. The best-grade ore —
and some of it is very good, according
to latest analyses—is unfortunately in one
of the most picturesque and quasi-resi-
dential sections of Queensland, and a
considerable list of objectors is fighting
every inch of Dr. Bradfield’s aluminium
project. It is a quarrying proposition, and
probably means a good deal of surface
pig-rooting to start off with.
* * * *
After three days of production-testing
at the Roma Blocks No. 4 bore, now
down to 3514 ft., no commercial oil flow
has been brought in. Bailing will be car-
ried on, but only to keep the water level
stationary in the well. If no greater evi-
dence of flow-oil is shown, it is in-
tended to drill deeper to test the lower
sand level encountered at No. 1 bore,
which produced 1000 gallons of
petroleum in 1930, and at No. 3 bore,
where a large volume of gas was tapped
last year. Market support for scrip in
all the interested cos. has slumped.
Roma Blocks shares were at 2s. sd. last
week-end. The scrip had a bright flutter
following a report of oil forcing itself
1000 ft. towards the surface a few weeks
ago.
* * * *
Beechworth Alluvials reports that,
since beginning operations on the Gouron
Creek (N.S.W.) area, the plant has been
running 88 hours, working one shift, and
has treated 2700 yards for 20oz. gold,
valued at £175 nett. Two unusual floods
occurred, damaging the sludge dams and
pumping engine. The damage has now
been repaired and work is proceeding.
Bottom hasn’t been reached in the
present paddock, and the material so far
treated consists of overburden and light
wash. The paddock should be completed
after a further three or four weeks’ work.
The property, about 16 miles south of
Bingara, was taken up 18 months ago,
and the co. was ready to start sluicing
last June, but dry weather prevented a
start on running-in the plant until the
beginning of 1941.
solTd' kg?up when^h''‘b" d“d“f H “
e bl S drecJ g e °f Har-
renowld n? w t 0 operate m the
• vens Valley, commences dig-
to^ ards th e end of the year. A. H.
owerdew reckoned 96,000,000 c.y. of
T92gr. W ash is available. The intention
18 to start up a mile from the top end
ot the lease and work upstream, so that
j n S^gr. 1 ground £ wnHfi 6 be
y arc j Equinned with rpenT' 2 ' USt ‘ a
which wfi mg ®? uipm f 1nt ’
tTnew dred P fwiii i a f dUg ’
• A T dred B e wfil be one of the largest
nudly' to a*detjS B ?? l nnf?°Th° C ' Y ‘ iT
bigeest dredtJ 3 k th p T ! I r WOr S S
(F MS) canacitv snn nnn Peta mg ,^ ln
1 j ’ P Clty 500,000 c.y. monthly.
0 . * * * *
, continues to show the West
V^ w . handle low-grade stuff in good
Yankee style. Only Lake View and
Wiluna have larger outputs. The 466,142
( up . 28,820) tons put through the mill
during 1940 assayed 2 76dwt gold • vield
was « og nn7 Jm ,; . ’7.
was or 2.3dwt. per ton, giving
a percentage recovery of 84—somethin"
\ ™ than had been originally looked fon
rour-hiths of the ore came from glorv-
{“■«•. S o ? ll **™ extension of the ore-
oody has been indicated by costeening,
and two more blocks are being prepared
for gloryhole mining. The Cue mine
now has its own modern hospital, com-
plete with resident doctor, operating
theatre and X-ray apparatus,
* * * *
Gt. Boulder Prop, treated 111,755 tons
of ore during December quarter for gold
worth £A211,706. Costs, including ordi-
nary development, totalled £169,717.
Working surplus was £41,989. Approxi-
mately £26,026 was expended on special
development and £llB2 on machinery,
Some 8340 ft. of development and 7300 ft.
0 f diamond-drilling were done during the
period. Exposures of ore, which were
many, were mostly above payable grade,
Westralian Mines Department reports
an increasing gold yield from re-treatment
of tailings which have been lying undis-
turbed for many years, and which, prior
to the rise in the price of the metal, were
deemed unprofitable to treat. February’s
yield from old dumps on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile totalled 33780 z. Lake
View’s share was 16720 z., extracted from
87.000 tons.
* * * *
South Aus. has a deposit of rutile (an
oxide of titanium) at Mt. Crawford, near
Williamstown, where Industrial Metals,
N.L., is planning to increase production
by use of an elutriation process invented
by a Queenslander named Ashworth.
Recoveries from this water-washing pro-
cess are claimed to be a great improve-
ment, because of the fine-grinding
achieved. Mt. Crawford rutile is de-
scribed as second to none in quality ; the
difficulty has been in cleaning it.
Titanium ores are in industrial demand
as an alloy, with steel and aluminium, for
welding rod-coatings, and in the paint,
ceramic, cosmetic, ink, tanning, textile
and rubber industries.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Mortgagor: (1) (a) Approx. £433; ( b ) £428.
(2) (a) £510; ( b ) £498. (3) («) £555 ; (£>) £271.
....Z: The co. has been producing gold for
three years or more. Recoveries for the year
ending April 30 will probably be slightly lower
than in the previous term, when £57,000 was
earned. Values recovered have recently fallen
owing to the turning of the dredge. There are
2.500.000 2s. shares issued. The sum of £50,000
distributed annually would be under sd. a share.
But what divs. will actually be when they start
to flow is a matter for conjecture... .C.H.L.:
Britain, at $4.86 to the £, owed the U.S.A.
£897,534,246 sterling on March 31, 1939. At the
same date her allies of the 1914-18 war (exclud-
ing Russia, which alone owed £1,526,287,000)
owed Britain £1,115,737,000 sterling, including
£755,875,000 from France and £252,937,000
from Italy. It will be seen that the amounts
owed to Great Britain far exceed the sum
owing by Great Britain to the U.S.A. No inter-
est on international war debts has been paid
since the “Hoover moratorium” of 1931.


“ROOM ONLY”
DAILY TARIFFS
Singles -5/- to 101-
Doubles • 8/- to 18/6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
$. D. HORNE
Manager
6 •la-'H^
A HOME
FBDM HOME
The comfort and carefree luxury of your own
home are yours when you stay at the Victoria.
Added to this comfort and luxury is the
special guest service which cares for your
every wish, as well as the convenience of
staying in Melbourne's city centre. Bring the
children with you when you come ■ they're
always welcome, and they’ll make the Victoria
even more your Melbourne home from home.
VICTORIA
P & I. A G 1
MiiBOURMS MOST POPULAR HOm
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET - NEXT TOWN HALL
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees,
This Comnany offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chainnan) SIR THOMAS AUCKLAND
CECIL H DOYLE A. E. BOND F. W. HIAbUiN
E V T WHITTLE Manager. . N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Commonwealth General Assurance
A meritorious recovery has been
brought about in the affairs of the Com-
monwealth General Assurance Corp.,
formed in Sydney in 1920 at a time when
new assurance flotations were fashion-
able, if not well-advised. The office can
now face policy-holders and indicate full
cover for their assurances (some of the
cover is of an internal nature), while an
encouraging beginning has been made to
bonus-paying. Economy in running the
business, service to policy-holders and
careful handling of the funds have done
the trick where high-pressure and high-
cost salesmanship failed.
In 1934 the ratio of expenses to pre-
mium income was 62.2 p.c. This high
cost of putting business on the books,
heavy lapses, large losses in the fire and
marine section (sold in 1924 for £25,378
in scrip) and purchase of some ready-
made Industrial contracts from the Co-op.
Assurance Co. and the L.I.C.A. at too
high a figure had put the business on a
precarious footing. It is greatly to the
credit of the present management that
it has overhauled and built up the posi-
tion of the office to a stage where it has
been able to meet the heavily-increasing
but legitimate claims under policies (a
natural result of writing 15-year endow-
ment contracts during the 1920’5) and at
the same time provide for past arrears
and more than provide for future com-
mitments.
From the beginning of 1937 to Dec.
31, 1940, the C.G.A. paid out £229,988
to its policy-holders in claims and sur-
renders, wrote £15,974 off the book value
of assets out of actuarial surpluses, and
at the same time increased the value of
its net tangible assets by over £60,000.
The assets are of a good variety, too, as
this tabulation shows;
1938. 1939. 1940.
Govt, securities £210,419 £211,962 £218,598
Cash .. .. 4,655 5,296 2,929
Mortgages .. 91,992 101,792 116,783
Debtors, etc. .. 6,736 6,611 7,772
Loans on policies 15,736 15,907 15,663
Shares in other
cos 1,738 1,738 1,738
Equipment .. 2,091 1,895 2,106
Freeholds .. 12,886 15,082 15,082
£346,253 £360,283 £380,671
Liabilities* .. 4,786 5,037 4,919
Net tangibles .. £341,467 £355,246 £375,752
* Not including liabilities under policies.
One reason for the solidifying of the
finances in the face of large payments
to policy-holders is the fact that over the
past four years expenses of all kinds have
run off with no more than 33 p.c. of
the premium income. Considering that
only about 12y p.c. of the business done
is transacted in the Ordinary Department,
that is a very commendable figure. In
the 1940 term the expense ratio was
actually 32.5 p.c. It bears tribute to the
hard work of managing-director A. L.
Harris.
At December 31 last the co. had in-
tangibles of £144,052. Since then share-
holders have agreed to a reduction in
their capital from £96,287 to £24,927 by
writing 4s. per share off the 60,228 Bs.-
paid first pref, shares, 6s. per share off
the 59,103 Bs.-paid second pref. shares,
7s. per share off the 108,503 Bs.-paid
ords., and 7s. per share off the 10,307
10s.-paid ords. There remains a liability
of 2s. per share on all the scrip other
than the 10s.-paid ords., and all scrip is
now ordinary. The £71,360 provided
by the capital reduction will reduce in-
tangibles to £72,692, and The Bulletin
is assured that these are more than
offset by the capital which remains and
inner reserves. Consulting actuary T. W.
Bremner has congratulated the co. on
its “wonderfully-improved financial posi-
tion.”
The actuary, in a preliminary report
on his latest valuation, recommends, after
providing for the writing-off of new
business expenses over one year instead
of two at a cost of about £20,000, that
the C.G.A. (1) pay a div. of Is. per share
on all first pref. shares in terms of the
capital-reduction agreement, and (2)
declare a bonus in the Ordinary Depart-
ment of 15s. per cent, and in the Indus-
trial Branch at the rate of five times the
weekly premium on all policies in force
10 years or more.
Here is a picture of the business as
the co.’s cashier has seen it over the past
four years:
Ex-
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Surplus, Funds*
£ £ £ £ £
1937.. 100,946 55,715 28,908 16,323 233,548
Assets written down, £15,974 .. 217,574
1938.. 103,994 52,642 29,343 22,009 239,583
1939.. 104,811 63,445 28,273 13,093 252,676
1940.. 106,782 58,186 29,039 19,557 272,233
Written off capital, £71,360, and
intangibles reduced .. .. 343,593
* Net funds apart from capital.
Income has been expanding slowly but
steadily, and at no increase in cost.
Premium income over the past four years
has been £84,898, £86,316, £89,415 and
£89,443 (1940). Interest earnings have
been £16,048, £17,678, £15,396 and
£17,338 over the same period. Last term
they represented approximately 4.3 p.c.
on the mean life fund after allowing for
divs. to shareholders and other reserve
adjustments. The actuary assumes that
the office will earn 4 p.c. on its funds,
so there is a margin here for bonuses.
But, naturally, the management aims to
strengthen this position as soon as pos-
sible.
Australia’s railway systems have long
been outmoded in many respects by
other forms of transport. It has been
“found necessary,” in most States, to in-
troduce laws to protect the railways from
private motor competition—in other
words, to slow down transport operations
to the pace of the slowest and most ex-
pensive transport agents, the State rail-
ways. Vigorous enterprise in some new
directions has thus been strangled at
birth ; the Commonwealth as a whole
hasn’t been allowed to keep step with the
times, even admitting that the railways
can do certain types of jobs that are out-
side the scope of motor-trucks. But this
legalised protection of out-of-dateness
exists in other Government departments
as well. What is most serious is that it
appears to prevail in some defence depart-
ments. Frequent complaints have been
heard that it takes two or three times as
long for certain Government departments
to do a job compared with private enter-
prise. This particularly with reference to
shipping. Yet the slow-paced Government
“system” supervises defence work done
by private firms, and there has been much
“language” floating round Australian
waterfronts. Too obviously, Germany has
reached a high degree of efficiency in the
prosecution of this war —an utterly ruth-
less efficiency on land. Australia, in its
portion of the task, can’t expect to
counter this ruthless efficiency with out-
moded systems and tangles of red-tape.
We cannot afford to be sleepy-eyed on
the job we now have in hand. We have
arrived in a new era of production and
organisation, and Authority mustn’t be
allowed not to recognise it.
The banks have done good work for
the Government in this period of crisis.
The Treasury has been well advised by
eminent civil servants, central bank and
other banking authorities. There has
been no lack of finance for essential
defence jobs, and our factories have done
marvellous work in the production of
munitions. Yet there still appears to be
a lot of misdirected effort and lack
of co-ordination in the defence scheme as
a whole. The fact that useless State Par-
liaments remain standing in the way of a
maximum war effort typifies the entire
situation. Other outmoded and cumber-
some political and departmental pro-
cedure and systems are not in keeping
with the realities of the present situation.
In peace-time frustration of effort and
waste of time and material could possibly
be passed off with the remark that “the
country can stand it.” But it can’t stand
it now. Someone else outside the coun-
try is setting a pace which we have to
beat.
* * * *
Since people can’t be prevented from
selling their shares, even in their own
interests, investors of the solider type may
find it worth while to keep an eye cocked
for market bargains in times like the
present. Uncertainty breeds nervousness
among some classes of market operators,
and, though there was a thorough shaking-
out of these kind of people in the Blitz-
krieg of this time last year, it is worth
remembering that that market collapse
did occur nearly 12 months ago, and that
since then we have had stretches of
buoyant market conditions —just the kind
to draw in the optimists. And “optimist”
is usually another name for “pessimist”
in different circumstances. Thus nervous
selling, even if on a limited scale, is a
possibility of the present time, and, how-
ever much it may be to be deplored, it
shouldn’t be ignored by genuine inves-
tors. Their support in a weak market
may be of assistance to investors as a
whole, while at the same time a benefit
to themselves. It is a good thing that
bearing is prohibited.
* * * *
Considering everything, Australian
sharemarkets stood up to last week’s
news, or lack of news, with commendable
calmness. In few instances were there
signs of anything resembling a break in
the market. There was definitely a set-
back, but it was not heavy when aver-
aged over the whole share-list. Indus-
trials suffered most in the investment
section, followed by retail stores
(especially chain stores). Among mining
issues, Barriers and tin stocks showed
fairly substantial falls. Tin stocks, which
mostly represent mines in Malaya, in
any case have been temperamental for
some time past.
B.H.P. paid shares came down to 405.,
then to 395. 6d. A.C.I. ords. sold at 405.6 d.,
which, though a bit lower than recently,
is above any price paid in 1940 or the
first quarter of 1941. Electrolytic Zinc
ords. changed hands at 515., down 3s. 6d.
on the 1941 highest price. British To-
bacco ords. at 475. 6d. show little move-
ment during the past few weeks, though
3s, 6d. lower than this year’s highest
price. Shortage of leaf has affected the
position here more than anything. Brad-
ford Cotton ords. recorded only Is. drop
at 40s. 6d., though Bond’s Industries
shares were offered at 295., with buyers
offering 255. Yarra Falls scrip at 425. 6d.
compared with 445. Bd. paid some weeks
back-
• •••••
G. J. Coles ords. at 60s. 6d. showed
a sharp fall, and Woolworths ords. at
just under 16s. were down, though not
to the same extent as Coles. Felt and
Textiles ords. were also unusually weak
at 365. 9d. ; this stock, though of the
newer generation, usually has shown
great staying-power. Tooth shares
slumped to under 515., then steadied at
51s, 6d. Brewery issues were cheap
generally.
Mt. Lyell shares at 275. 6d. showed
a moderate decline ; B.H. South at 235.
3d. was down more noticeably ; North
B.H. at 365. 9d. was weak. Gold issues
were irregular.
* * * ♦
Tableland Tin’s issue of 100,000 pref.
shares has been approved by ord. and
deferred shareholders. The prefs. are
8 p.c. cumulative, and participate
equally with ords. and deferreds beyond
that rate. The money is wanted to com-
plete installation of No. 2 dredge, and is
additional to the £75,000 advance by the
Bank of New South Wales guaranteed by
the Queensland Government. The
directors anticipate that, judged by re-
coveries from No. 1 dredge, prospectus
estimates of profits will be realised when
No. 2 dredge gets going. E. J. Morgan
and Co., Melbourne sharebrokers, have
underwritten 20,000 of the shares, with
the right to underwrite 10,000 more.
These prefs. are decidedly attractive in
their class, particularly to those investors
paying heavy income tax. Only 2s. per
share is payable on application and allot-
ment; the remaining 18s., when called
up, is allowable in full as a deduction
for Federal income-tax purposes. To a
person whose income is subject to
Federal taxes of 10s. in the £ these shares
would really only cost 11s., by virtue of
the provision making calls paid to Aus-
tralian mining cos. a concessional deduc-
tion for taxation purposes.
* * * *
Collection of sales-tax frequently
amounts to an astounding type of victi-
misation. The cases where the depart-
ment has reversed its decision about
the non-taxable nature of production,
making the producer pay the tax months
after he sold his goods without charg-
ing tax, are numerous. Recently
a more remarkable case has arisen.
Two or three years ago a firm dis-
tributing a product asked the depart-
ment whether the product was subject to
tax. It said no. The product was sold
free of tax for a couple of years. Now
the department has informed the firm
that the product is non-taxable only
where a certificate from the buyer can
be produced to the effect that the pro-
duct is used exclusively for a certain
purpose. After two years, and with pos-
sibly thousands of untraceable cus-
tomers, the firm has two chances of get-
ting these certificates —its own and
Buckley’s. It will now have to pay heavy
and unexpected tax out of its own pocket
all because it was officially misinformed
to begin with.


r
SSSs
trolling
THE BUSINESS FRONT!
llil
liiis
■HHH
MMMR
* '»V
nHMm
■
»»
m
m
m
%
isii
Industrial effort is the basis of our War effort. Our Navy, Air
Force and Army require and must have vast stores of equipment
and munitions, to enable them to carry through their vital tasks
surely and efficiently. At the same time, the needs of the civilian
population must be secured. Consequently, it is important that a
careful watch on the Business Front be kept, in order that the
efforts of Industrial and trading houses be co-ordinated and their
future stability and usefulness be assured.
From the beginning of the present world conflict, The National
Bank has assisted Industry to expand its operations in keeping with
war-time demands. Also, the Bank has provided a wide range of
facilities to primary-producers, manufacturers and traders, assisting
them to market their growing volume of industrial production.
With the coming of peace, the Bank will be equally ready to assist
Industry and trade to expand and to perform their essential tasks,
and will continue to act as a guardian of wealth, a ready helper
to Industry, and a stabilising force in the Nation’s business.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
C lncorporated in Victoria.)
Capital Paid Up:
£5,000,000
Assets Exceed
£58,000,000
The Commonwealth is approaching the
loan market for £35,000,000 on April 30.
Rates offered will be £2 10s. per cent, for
the short-dated issue and £3 ss. per cent,
for the longer-dated. The terms will be
five years and 15 years. Sums of
£20,000,000 and £28,000,000 were asked
for on. the occasion of the last two bor-
rowings. Interest on the long-term issues
was the same as now offered, but the
short term loan carried £2 15s. per cent.
Of the £35,000,000 to be asked for on
April 30, £27,000,000 will be for defence.
Portion of the next loan (£10,000,000)
will be earmarked for paying for upkeep
of the A.I.F. abroad. After the earmark-
ing comes the finding of the external ex-
change. By various means, and certainly
not from overseas trading, Australia’s
London funds were built up to
£81,523,000 Australian on March 17,
compared with £58,658,000 in April,
1940. Last week (April 14) our London
funds had declined to £75,098,000, a drop
of about £6,500,000 in a month. For
the nine months to March 31 our over-
seas trading figures (merchandise only)
have been as follows:
1939-40. 1940-41. Decrease.
£Stg. 1000. £Stg. 1000. £Stg. 1000.
Exports .. 86,561 81,252 5309
Imports .. 82,297 81,128 1169
Excess of ex-
ports .. 4,264 124
Gold movements aren’t included. Un-
satisfactory as the figures are, dur-
ing March there was a sharp pull-
up in the drift, and, compared with the
February totals, the improvement
amounts to £2,522,000 sterling. This
was because during March exports
(£10,337,000 sterling) rose 2.4 p.c. com-
pared with the, same month of last year,
and imports (£7,855,000) fell 18.5 p.c.
High export values and low import levels
are expected during April, May and June.
* * * *
The war having reached another critical
stage, it may not be long before we shall
have to shape up to a revised picture of
what is required of us to meet the weight
of enemy metal. Organised Nazism is
cock-a-hoop in Europe, and, disciplined
to the last degree, the German people
have to give the Prussian military machine
just what it asks for —so far as it is in
their power to do so. There are thou-
sands, possibly millions, of people out-
side of Germany who believe that we
can counter the outpouring of Nazi
mechanised armies and air armadas by
borrowing, inflating, or some other
monetary rearrangement for providing
war equipment. But, looking the matter
squarely in the face, from whom (out-
side, perhaps, the U.S.A.) can we
borrow anything worth while using
to fight this war? Of what use
is inflated or “rearranged” money
in the face of Panzer divisions? The
superstition attached to the “powers” of
money will have to be chased out of our
minds. It is on our productivity,
not on our money, that the value of our
war effort will depend in general. In
particular, it is the proportion of our
productivity available for war use that
will govern our per capita protection in
the shape of tanks, ’planes, guns and
ammunition. It will not be surprising,
therefore, that if, later on, taxation rates
in Australia are increased, since diversion
of production to the national effort rep-
resents taxation, whatever the shape in
which politicians may choose to disguise
it. The one thing at present standing
as an objection to increased taxation is
the fact that production for defence
hasn’t so far been able to rise up to the
last Budget provisions ; in other words,
the people diverted more spending power
to the Government than it could imme-
diately spend without wasting it wantonly.
But that phase will quickly pass with the
swinging-over of more and more Aus-
tralian factories to defence work. That
swinging-over may mean an even greater
curtailment of stocks of certain things
for the people’s consumption. That is
where the real contribution to the de-
fence effort will be made —when we start
doing without things urgently wanted to
fight this war. Australians have hardly
suffered yet.
The powers of Germans to contribute
to their war effort aren’t as great as the
powers of people in Empire countries.
Germans haven’t access to such stocks
of raw materials as we have. Ersatz
materials are non-existent in this country,
and, except in the case of petrol and a
few other similar things, we aren’t likely
to have to improvise to any great
extent. We have a great deal to be
thankful for in our factories and our
extensive land industries. It will be in
supplies of factory goods that Australians
may feel the pinch first. These are things
with which we aren’t yet so abundantly
supplied as, say, the U.S.A., Britain
and Germany. But, unlike European
countries, it would be a drought rather
than a war that would deprive us of
abundant food supplies.


THE SERVICE MAN
At Bay in Greece.
“Ek Dum”: On April 13, when the
first week of the German onslaught on
the Balkans ended, Yugoslavia had
been ripped to ribbons. It needed only
the driving of the German bandsaw cuts
to the Adriatic and to Sarajevo, the new
Yugoslav headquarters, to complete the
Yugoslavian collapse, and the double job
was done. On Friday, April 19, the
Yugoslavs laid down their arms. In the
final scene the Germans, according to
their own account, took 245,500 prisoners
in northern Yugoslavia.
It was remarked on this page (B.
16/4/’4l) that if the Germans captured
the Banitza-Florina-Kastoria roadheads
below Lake Ochrida and the Monastir
Gap, the British and Greek forces would
be compelled to fall back on the Larissa-
Corfu defence lines and that the Germans
would soon be in control of the com-
munication roads of the Greeks facing
the Italians from Khimara to the Voyusa.
All Macedonia, at least 20 miles south
of the border, on Monday morning, April
14, was in the hands of the enemy. The
whole of Greece north of Salonika, west
to Albania and east to Turkey had been
occupied. The Greeks had withdrawn
from above Koritza, leaving the enemy in
possession of all the main crossroads
immediately in the north rear of the
Greek army of Valona. That army was
deprived of the use of all the roads of
central Greece, of the backing of the
Larissa railway routes, of Salonika and
Volo as ports, save as the latter could
feed across the mountainous and snow-
filled pass of Metsovo, where the road
climbs over Pindus from Trikkala, 5000
feet or more above sea level.
Loss of the great air bases of the north
was a serious blow. And, according to
the Greek communique, the Germans in
Central Macedonia were making an all-
route drive southward on a focus point
at Koziani, the clearing house of
the three road systems between northern
to southern Greece. They were streaming
on from the east down the main road
from the Struma, the Vardar, Thrace and
Salonika. From Salonika this route runs
via Verria (46 miles) to Koziani (85
miles). The enemy, too, was coming
down the Monastir-Florina road, into
which he had poured from two and per-
haps three directions —Monastir, from
Salonika-Banitza and Koritza-Florina
roads, to Koziani. Koziani is 61 miles
from Monastir.
Most ominous of all, the enemy was
said by the Greek command to be push-
ing toward Shatista, down the valley of
the Vistritza from the Koritza road, on the
rear of the Greek Army in Albania, mak-
ing it inevitable that the British-Greek
line must be retired and that the lonian
Sea Greek front must soon turn to face
north instead of west. The move in this
direction also presaged a stroke at the
Allied line at its joint between the Larissa
and Yanina systems beyond Grevena.
There was another drive further west
on Leskovu and Klisura.
British G.H.Q. at Athens said that “on
the right of the British and Imperial lines
several thrusts by enemy mechanised
troops were repulsed. There was no con-
tact with the enemy elsewhere.” It
seemed that the Germans were concen-
trating on the Greeks, while the Luft-
waffe blasted the communications of the
allied armies, Larissa, their pivot de-
fence depot, and the Piraeus, their main
port, seven miles from Athens.
When Yugoslavia was invaded the
A.I.F. was evidently guarding the Banitza
junctions, 18 miles south of the Yugoslav
border on the Monastir-Koziani road. As
the Germans began to pour down from
the north and east on April 10, the front
British screen was moved forward to meet
them just in time to see the enemy racing
through the cornfields of the valleys a
few miles south of Ostrovo Lake. They
could be seen below, careering forward
in buses and gun-carriers and tanks. The
first Australian ranging shot sent one of
the buses sky-high.
The sky was overcast that day—inces-
sant rain had held up the German ad-
vance in parts of Yugoslavia. At night
it snowed heavily. German reconnais-
sance raiders, among whom were men
speaking Greek and English, captured
some Australians by ruses.
Next day, Good Friday, the German
barrage woke with the dawn. The
enemy’s concentrations of mobile 25-
pounders, light tanks, heavy machine-
guns and motor-cycle clusters came on
like a swarm of locusts. Then came the
lumbering heavy tanks and the infantry
four abreast in column behind. Their
strength was in their numbers and
materiel superiority. Australian fire laid
them in sheaves along the roads and
through the snow-covered fields.
There was no panic or unsteadiness
among the Australians or the Maori-
landers on their right and in front of
Olympus, Their front groups swayed
back and forward, yielding to a thrust,
coming up fighting and advancing in
counter-attack. German infiltrations were
dealt with; gaps were blocked. Fear-
some-looking Hun parachuters, in asbes-
tos, armed with portable flame-throwers
and Tommy guns, were dealt with as they
arrived. Stukas roared over in droves,
four squadrons at a time, sometimes de-
canting their bombs in a stream; some-
times, where the terrain suited, dropping
them in unison over a selected objective.
Snow was lightly falling again at dusk.
The Allied front at this time seems to
have spanned northern Greece in the
shape of a broad harpoon head,
embedded in the oncoming enemy for-
mations. The eastern barb, Maorilanders
merging into A.1.F., acting with the
British on their west. The A.I.F. harpoon
point drove at the Germans on the
Koziani-Monastir road. Beside the British
on the line sloping south-westerly were
the Greeks, whose new lines merged into
their old ones held by the Voyusa-
Khimara army.
At 5 p.m. the news came that the
Greeks on this western side of the arrow
head were being forced back by the two
pushes from Koritza to Lysekovik, just
north of the Voyusa, and down the
Vistritza from Kastoria to Shatista,
The front was to retire so as to keep
the salient on the British side.
Slowly south-east down the Koziani
road towards the Sarantaporon Pass they
went, burning such equipment as they
left behind. It was no headlong retreat.
The motion suggested the flexible harpoon
head being withdrawn tenderly from
quivering flesh as writhing muscles inched
it out. For a time the barbs held fast
against the bone of the Olympus and
Pindus ranges.
Back 18 miles at least in the first
moves to Koziani through the snowclad
night, in country which fortunately had
been prepared for evacuation by removal
of most of the civil population.- Back
further over the foothills, the cross
section of the harpoon head contracting
umbrellawise so that it would be con-
tained in the narrowing waist of Greece,
as it withdrew slowly and in order, vomit-
ing out civilian population and town life
towards its rear.
The Graeco-British Command assured
as much as possible that, as it withdrew,
it would leave nothing in front of its
main body but the mobile rearguards
holding passes to the last moment, the
gallant medical units picking up the last
of the wounded, the snipers and delaying
forlorn hopes in their eyries, the single
spies and observers and the hideous tangle
of German dead, overturned buses and
mangled tank divisions.
Wounded, moving to the rear, saw
Larissa, 69y miles from Koziani and
about 80 miles from the original front,
die as a civil town. They saw the Stukas
sweeping over to bomb the key stations
of the single-track railway which runs
down the east coast to Athens, Larissa
and the main points of the star of the
defence roads which run across Larissa
and Trikkala plains to link with the
Yanina defence system. With every mile
of withdrawal the composition of the
harpoon head on which the German ad-
vance had impaled itself had necessarily
become more solid as the defenders
packed into a less area.
But equally the outside pressure be-
came heavier as the Germans threw fresh
troops and mechanised units and ’planes
into the fray. The defence could have
had only limited reserves. Their forward
units in any case must keep moving,
snatching only an hour’s sleep here and
there. They must march, wet to the
bone, in high, cold, slippery country in
which every foothold must be felt for,
through snow pounded into mud and
cemented with the blood of their com-
rades. They must fight as they moved,
and as they had been fighting for nights
and days.
The Germans coming in from the
Macedonian plains had more mobility
along their front to move up quickly
at given points. They could use 10
divisions against one short front.
They could throw armored vehicles
and tanks and guns away reck-
lessly, secure in the knowledge that
behind were thousands more tanks,
tens of thousands more young jackbooted
Germans who had not yet felt the fatigue
of battle and who could plod on over
the mired corpses of other thousands of
their fellows whom the A.I.F. and the
N.Z.E.F. and the B.E.F. and the Greeks
had left behind to clutter the roads in
mounds among the twisted tanks and
broken guns, and to mingle with gallant
Anzac and British dead in the pockets
and along the valley entrances.
Little has been said about the pressure
which the Greeks on the left wing en-
dured. But it stands to reason that it
must have been terrific. The German
High Command knew that in fighting the
Greeks it was tackling a tired army
already worn threadbare by a winter of
onslaught against a much larger but
cornered foe standing at bay on the
Adriatic —and with that foe still on their
flank. The High Command played the
same game as it played at the Maubeuge
joint at the end of the Maginot Line
in France last year, heaping on the pres-
sure to tear the weaker arm of the allied
harpoon head from the fresher and better
equipped, making first a hole in the de-
fence dyke, then expanding it into a
bulge which would presently shatter the
Grasco-British front as it expanded from
inside.
British G.H.Q. in Greece on April 18
announced:
Greek and British Imperial forces on the
northern front are gradually withdrawing
to a shorter line of defence in order to face
increasing pressure by the German forces,
which are daily reinforced. The German
advance has so far been costly.
British generals and admirals must be
getting tired of this sort of thing. They
were sent to Norway to link with a non-
existent Norwegian force, and they and
the R.N. pulled their division out with
comparatively light casualties under des-
perate conditions. They were sent to
Belgium, and the Belgians gave way on
their flank with France broken. They
pulled the bulk of their army out at
Dunkirk. They held like rock in Greece,
but again their foreign flank broke.
Ten days after the first British and
A.I.F. contacts with the Germans, the
Greeks reported that near the western
end of their line they were holding back
the enemy near Argyrocastro almost on
the Albanian border.
But the German claims were great.
They had forced the Olympus passes,
hoisted the Swastika on Mt. Olympus,
rushed down from the Kalabaka region
—where the Greek and British lines joined
—over a road which they said was strewrl
with smashed British equipment and
British dead, and taken Larissa, centre of
the defence south of the Macedonian
border ranges.
Their bulletin added that the southern
exit of Larissa was congested with
broken-down British vehicles and car-
casses of horses. 8.8. C. and the Greek
High Command in statements issued on
Sunday did not confirm these claims.
Friday and Saturday had seen bloody
fighting. The Greek official spokesman
said the Germans made no progress on
Friday. “Enemy columns in the Grevena
region and the Vistritza Valley-Mt.
Olympus chain [across the British-A..1.F.-
N.Z. lines] were confined to positions
which they captured last Thursday.”
8.8. C. on Sunday said that the Germans
had made no gain of line for two days.
There was no British or Greek confirma-
tion on Monday morning of the Germans
having forced the Sarantaporon Pass,
guarded by the A.1.F., of their having
broken either the western or eastern lines,
or of their having taken Larissa.
There was, however, no doubt about
the narrowing of the main cross section
of the allied front or of the gradual with-
drawal of its flanks and of its internal
arrangements towards Athens and the
Gulf of Corinth, The extreme danger
of the position could not be doubted.
There was no word, either, of the posi-
tion at the ports. If Larissa was taken,
as suggested, Yolo and Lamia were as
good as lost and German air bases being
established 120 miles air-line from the
Piraeus. Germans claimed three times
during the week to have sunk quantities
of allied shipping more than 40,000
tons. Again, there was no confirmation,
and their claims regarding shipping are
notoriously and consistently false and
exaggerated.
Australia IS There!
“Ek Dum”; The North African situa-
tion took a turn for the better after the
Germans reached the Egyptian border.
According to some accounts, the invaders
have 3000 vehicles, a large proportion of
them tanks, and 30,000 men, but from
April 14 onwards there was every sign of
their being held.
A delayed cable from the Acting
Official Correspondent in Tobruk (the date
was April 11) told how A.I.F. units in
Libya fought their first holding action
in a week-long 250-mile withdrawal from
Benghazi lines, facing a heavily-
mechanised enemy who was in a position
to command one of their flanks. Three
A.I.F, battalions were thinly holding a
50-miie front along the escarpment from
near Toccra, n.-e. of Benghazi. Retire-
ment began on April 4 as the enemy
followed the railway to Benina and
climbed the Regima escarpment. The
Australians were in serious danger of
being cut off by a flanking movement
in the south. Two of the three battalions
were sent to the rear concentration point
at Barce railhead ; the third, a Sydney
unit, held on to cover their withdrawal.
This constituted the first Australian
action of the war against German troops.
It was fought by infantry against
mechanised troops and there were only
three companies of Australians to hold
a seven-mile front. Behind the German
tanks were 2000 infantry—three times
the Australian force. The latter was
screening not merely its own retiring men
but huge stores and dumps which were
being removed at El Abiar, and it there-
fore fought for time.
The superior numbers of the Germans
enabled them to surround one company.
It cut its way out. The fighting was
desperate, and the shock of it knocked
the breath out of the German columns,
giving the Australians the chance for
an orderly withdrawal over the rough
terrain and cluttered roads.
The subsequent week before Tobruk
was reached was marked by fierce
encounters along the road, with Germans
catching up from the rear or coming in
from the flank, particularly round Derna,
where the road had to be constantly
cleared of enemy infiltrations. From
Barce railhead, however, the British and
A.I.F. forces had merged ; but it took a
full week to get them back to Tobruk
and behind the strong lines there, from
which they have since adopted an offen-
sive instead of a defensive rdle.
On the road a Derna contingent of
British troops fought a heavy action on
April 7 in which 15 German vehicles
were destroyed and numbers of German
infantry dispersed.
On April 14 20 attacking German tanks
penetrated the outer defences of Tobruk.
They were ejected in a counter-attack
in which the enemy suffered severe losses
in personnel and equipment —200 to 300
prisoners were taken and 12 ’planes were
brought down while attempting to bomb
the town. The Germans told a story —
it contained some facts of their own
capture of Mekili in a blind sandstorm,
and of their race over “serious obstacles”
to Derna with an intermediate cutting-
off of a British armored column, most of
which (they said) surrendered with the
six generals. The generals “stood around
calmly smoking their pipes, not paying
any attention to what was going on.”
The tale was topped off with another that
air raiders over Tobruk had severely
damaged a merchantman in harbor and
shot down two Hurricanes, while A.A.
guns brought down two Wellington
bombers near Derna.
The enemy said nothing about the
R.A.F.’s heavy strafing of Tripoli on
April 17, when the Customs House was
straddled, along with the power-station
and shipping, and one big ship was left
burning fiercely. He had less to say
next day when the sky was full of the
R.A.F and the R.A.A.F., who have ex-
changed their Gladiators for “fully
modern fighter” types. The British Air
Forces gave the enemy little rest around
Derna, El Adem aerodrome and Tobruk
and Bardia. There were daylong raids
by the bombers, while snooping fighters
made every enemy movement along the
roads an excuse for machine-gun prac-
tice. Two large twin-engined enemy
machines were brought down near Derna.
The British land forces which had been
engaged in a holding action at Solium
near the border were suddenly supported
by a detachment which appeared on the
heights eight miles from Bardia and
attacked the rear of the Germans near
Fort Capuzzo, which had been battered
to pieces by the R.N. when Bardia was
taken.
Vehicles and prisoners were captured
and the Germans’ boast that they and
the Italians would be in Suez within a
fortnight began to lose its air of reality.
The weather, which becomes hotter
every day on the waterless Libyan table-
land, took its toll of exhausted and


poorly-watered Germans and Italians,
some of whom were captured completely
played out.
The R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. seemed,
from this stage, to hold definite ascen-
dancy. They possess the advantage of
having carefully-marked objectives and
of being fully conversant with landmarks.
They are much nearer supplies than the
Germans and Italians, who are operating
over nearly 1000 miles of militarily-
stripped country.
Tobruk, too, now began to make itself
felt. Instead of being content to be a be-
leaguered township in which “four divi-
sions were trapped” (enemy allegation)
its infantrymen and mechanised cavalry
began acting in the cat-burglar role which,
as General Wavell has always stressed, it
is sometimes necessary for them to adopt.
They kept biting into the left flank of
the German communication line with
Solium, forcing on it a detour into the
desert. The first attack of this nature
was launched by Australians on April
11. They made a great showing with the
bayonet. Only one A.I.F. man was
wounded.
German communiques suddenly
assumed a less triumphant tone, which
was partly due to the arrival of a new
combatant. Thus all the High Command
had to record on Tuesday, April 15, was:
Fighting continues in the Solium area.
British naval units are tenaciously support-
ing the defence of Tobruk. Italians and
Germans continue to raid Tobruk. Two
Italian ’planes did not return from this
area.
That Tuesday night there was even less
reason for joy bells in Berlin. One of
Admiral Cunningham’s flotillas, which by
all proper theory should have been stand-
ing off the Piraeus waiting for another
Dunkirk, had forces to catch an Italian
convoy of five supply ships loaded with
Germans, ammunition, vehicles and sup-
plies bound for Tripoli. Two 5000-ton
ships full of motor transport were sunk
and a 4000-ton ship blew up, as did the
remaining two 3000-ton ships, which
seemed to be transports. All three Italian
escort destroyers—Luca Tariga (1628
tons) and two smaller ones —went to the
bottom. The victory was reckoned cheap
at the cost of the loss of H.M.S. Mohawk,
a Tribal-class flotilla leader, Commander
W. M. Eaton, who was saved with most
of the company.
On Wednesday, the Tobruk forces
made two vigorous patrol attacks on the
Germans, and showed themselves
superior, man for man, with the bayonet.
A counter-attack by the Germans was
beaten off, 25 officers were taken and
200 German soldiers left dead among
the wire and pillboxes. Near Solium the
German front came to an abrupt halt,
and British raiders took many prisoners.
In another heavy raid on Tripoli on
Wednesday night a tanker was hit and
was seen burning, and a big fire burst out
at the base of the Mole. With a parting
machine-gun salute to the searchlight
crews, the raiders went home intact.
The British are no longer recognising
French territorial waters along the Afri-
can coast. Hitherto, it is suspected, Ger-
man and Italian troopers and supply ships
have been out from under the cover of
the heavy guns of Pantellaria only for
a couple of hours before reaching the
safety of French waters in the voyage
from Italy. They are now naked to
British warships for at least 250 miles
on the way to Tripoli from Sicily,
On April 21, the Germans were still
held by aggressive action round Solium
and Tobruk. Four German tanks out of
12 which tried to raid Tobruk were
knocked out and the rest driven off.
Armored patrols are harassing the Ger-
mans and Italians inland. The Germans
claim that British attacks continue with-
out success despite the support of the
R.N. and R.A.F. The Italians admitted
a raid by the British air forces on Ben-
ghazi and Tripoli, and claimed that one
of their submarines sank an enemy de-
stroyer in the eastern Mediterranean.
Italian Abyssinia is at its last gasp.
Throughout the week the S.A.A.F. was
bombing out the hideholes of the
southern ranges, and prisoners were pour-
ing into Addis Ababa. Four ’planes were
reported lost from all N. African opera-
tions on April 16.
At the week-end two British and S.
African columns were closing in on
Dessye, the last Italian post of any
strength in Abyssinia.
London's Worst Raid.
“Aileron”: “Who fears to speak of
Easter week?” Not the dauntless people
of the U.K., but they will remember it
for the ferocious cruelties and barbarities
committed.
Towns in the Midlands licked gaping
wounds. Over Coventry, four times the
victim of cruel and senseless battering,
the silence of the dead hung. The centre
of the lovely old town was a mere mass
of flattened ruins, with only the market
tower standing in the midst of 20 acres
of smouldering horror. Moaning victims
were still being taken out of the wreck-
age. Queues still stood patiently before
notice boards as the steadily-growing list
of casualties went up.
The R.A.F. continued its aggressive
policy against Brest, where the Scharn-
horst and Gneisenau were pasted again
in “the most terrible raid Brest has
known” (Vichy report). Kiel got its
thirty-eighth drubbing, and “damage to
buildings in North Germany” was
admitted.
The Germans ranged far afield to
Belfast. Their claim to have hit “harbor
and armament works and caused exten-
sive fires at Harland and Wolff’s” was
negatived by the results. The raid had
been the usual indiscriminate bomb-
dropping over acres of poor homes and
residential quarters.
On April 16 London was again called
on to suffer a great raid—vaster even than
that of December 29, after which the
Mayor of Poplar reported that 14,000
out of 23,000 houses in his municipality
had been damaged by bombs in some
way and 2000 rendered uninhabitable.
Wednesday’s raid lighted up the great
city. It lasted eight hours through
the whole period of darkness. Thou-
sands of incendiaries were supple-
mented by hundreds of the heaviest
types of H.Es. The Whole A.R.P.
and fire-fighting resources of the capital
were needed to deal with the outbreaks.
Londoners woke red-eyed and stern, all
the humor bleached out of their faces
as they looked round on the smoking
ruins under which their dead still lay in
scores. Eight hospitals suffered ; Guy’s
and the Chelsea Royal Hospital, among
them. St. Paul’s was extensively dam-
aged, and the City Tempje almost
wrecked. On the list of shattered
buildings were Selfridge’s, Maple’s and
Christie’s. The Houses of Parliament
have been hit again.
The dead included Lord Stamp, a
director of the Bank of England ; his
wife and son ; Lord Auckland, a relative
of Anthony Eden, and the Earl of Kim-
berley. Australian service men —sailors,
airmen and soldiers —were killed or
wounded when a hostel which held hun-
dreds was hit; one R.A.A.F. man was
killed in his bed. Canadians and Maori-
landers in the hostel also were killed or
hurt, and the matron, who had nursed
Australians in the last war, was dead.
But the building was so far reduced to
rubble that it was a wonder anybody
escaped alive.
The hotel in which Mr. Menzies slept
was damaged. The bombing was de-
scribed by Admiral “Teddy” Evans, head
of the Metropolitan A.R.P., as a piece
of “hellish frightfulness.”
Unfortunately, only five enemy raiders
out of hundreds were destroyed—two by
A.A. guns, three by fighters.
The Germans declared that “this
greatest of all raids” was a “reprisal” for
the raid on Berlin and Potsdam on
April 9-10.
On the night of the London raid the
R.A.A.F. was again over Berlin, using
heavy Stirling bombers and leaving it
chequered with fires. Nevertheless, in
view of the distance and bad weather, it
was unlikely that the raid was as heavy
as the London raid. The Germans
claimed that only single ’planes pene-
trated the inner ring of defences. They
admitted damage to some public build-
ings and some casualties. Coastal Com-
mand carried out towards the week-end
another series of attacks on German ship-
ping and on Brest and parts of north and
west Germany.
The Huns were back over London in
force all through Saturday night. The
raids were not as heavy as that on Thurs-
day, but thousands of bombs were
dropped and fires were started along the
Thames estuary, from which the raiders
approached. Four more hospitals, two
churches (one of its tall spires could be
seen burning for miles), two museums, a
town hall and a school were wrecked or
damaged. Casualties were heavy. Other
towns over England’s east and n.e. suf-
fered lesser attacks. Defence again
proved non-effective two German
machines shot down over London and
two considered damaged.
The Atlantic Battle.
“Nobby II”: Instead of the weekly
report of shipping losses, it was an-
nounced last week that losses would be
published monthly in future. Not a good
sign, but possibly the enemy has been get-
ting too much information) from the
weekly bulletins.
On April 12 the R.N. sprang another
surprise raid in northern Norway. One
of the U.S. destroyers taken over by the
R.N. sent landing-parties ashore, took
over fish-oil stocks and destroyed harbor
works and oil depots. The Germans
heard nothing until 24 hours after the
event.
H.M.S. Tigris, a submarine, sank a
10,000-ton tanker bound for a port in
enemy-occupied France. On the other
hand, survivors of a British freighter re-
ported that their ship had been torpedoed
off the Brazilian coast and a Spanish
steamer landed at Santos (Brazil) the sur-
vivors of the Clan Ogilvie, 5800 tons.
The heaviest loss, however, was one of
the 10 new 5450-ton Dido cruisers, which
carry 10 5.25 in. guns and have a speed
of 33 knots. She was torpedoed while
escorting a convoy.
U.S. naval and other units, it has been
revealed, are stationed at various points
in the Atlantic and are reporting in open
signals the presence of strange craft for
the benefit of the R.N. The U.S. Mari-
time Commission on April 17 acquired
four new cargo ships for immediate trans-
fer to Britain. And the American con-
voys have been authorised to take troops
and stores to Greenland. All of which
is better.
Strong British forces, largely consist-
ing of Indian troops, have reached Basra,
in Iraq, to establish lines of communi-
cation with the oilfields. The new Iraqi
administration is “affording the troops
full facilities” and collaboration in terms
of the Anglo-Iraq Treaty of Alliance. In
view of the gathering of Russian forces
on the borders of Iran, near the Caspian,
a few hundred miles away, and the
presence of large German armies across
the Calais-Bagdad railway at Turkey’s
front door before Adrianople, western
Asia will sleep easier for the new move.
So should Australians.
* * » *
Savage air raids are now almost the
daily experience of Malta, which, outside
Britain and Gibraltar, is the most
thoroughly militarised portion of the
British Commonwealth. After almost in-
cessant raiding for three days it came
out that 1000 inhabitants were being sent
to India. With British Imperial forces
in Greece, Malta assumed a new import-
ance as the nearest fortified base —it is
only 366 miles from Corfu. From
Catania, the German base in Sicily, and
other bases in southern Italy, it is easy to
reach, but with its heavy gun defence
and its rock surface, tunnelled and gal-
leried by centuries of pirates, robber
and other barons and thoroughly forti-
fied, it is a hard nut to crack.
* * * *
There must be sad hearts in Maori-
land and sore hearts too. The people
were uplifted when their Prime Minister
told them that the three echelons of the
N.Z.E.F. would not be sent into battle
until they could fight alongside one
another, but they never bargained for
the division getting its baptism of fire
in Greece of all countries, and that
against heavy odds. It seems incon-
gruous that soldiers drawn from the
Dominion most distant from the U.K.,
and with a population of only 1,638,000,
Maoris included, should be hurled into a
hopeless campaign in Greece, instead of
being reserved for the defence of some
vital part of the Empire.
JP * * *
“T.”: Three things stand out from the
reports of last week’s events in the aerial
war: (1) Neither side can prevent the
bombing of any city or town ; (2) the
Germans can bomb London more easily
and effectively than the British can bomb
Berlin, not because their machines or men
are better, but because they have not
nearly so far to go, and thus can carry
extra bombs where the British have to
carry extra fuel; (3) because the Middle
East Command had been obliged to
divide its forces, the R.A.F. was heavily
outnumbered in Greece. Nearly all the
reports of the Australian correspondents
—very revealing reports they were, on
the whole —lay stress on that point. It
is one of the things that should have been
foreseen.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Army Minister Spender has
made it plain that the Government does
not intend to increase the strength of the
A.I.F. abroad beyond four divisions,
though this idea “may be reviewed in the
light of later developments.” The recruit-
ing campaign is based on a “generous
assessment of the number of men who
will be required to fill overseas wastages.”
Though monthly quotas have been fixed
at 8000, it “does not mean that 100,000
men are to be enlisted in the year or
that men will be enlisted at that rate
indefinitely.” Even four divisions take
keeping up where there is anything like
heavy fighting. Casualties in the present
war have not been nearly so heavy as
in the last, but the mobility of attackers
has become such that any unit within
two or three hours’ run of enemy
armored divisions now is virtually
in the battle line, and men must be kept
at concert pitch. Hence, the strain of war
on immediate reserves is greater, especially
where, as in Greece, areas held are com-
paratively small.
* * * *
Lieut.-General L. V. Bond, who held
command of all troops in the Malayan
area, is to give place to Major-General
A. E. Percival, one of the few British
generals to forsake a City of London
career for the regular army. He won
the D. 5.0., the M.C. and C. de G. in
the last war, and was wounded in France.
Afterwards he won a bar to his D.S.O. in
North Russia. He has passed through the
Imperial Staff College and the R.N. Staff
College. General Percival, who was in
Malaya for a couple of years before this
war, served with the B.E.F. in France.
A.I.F. cricketers will find themselves
with an enthusiast over them —the general
was an accomplished Essex amateur.
* * * *
“Whanga”: Fraser, Maoriland’,* P.M.,
told a questioner in Parliament that
“most urgent representations have been
made and are being made” about the
supplying of M.L. troops, overseas with
Australian margarine instead of butter.
“Unfortunately,” said the P.M., “what
happened in the last war is recurring in
this war, and there is no logical reason
why.” If Mr. Fraser wants to solve that
mystery he won’t have far to look;
Maoriland soldiers can testify that the
supplying of margarine to them began
on one transport the day it left port. It
wasn’t one of the usual troopships, and it
was probably an exceptional occurrence,
but it did occur.
* * * *
To the end of March, casualties in
the British armed forces were 37,697
killed and 25,895 wounded. On March 5
it was announced that the Middle Eastern
campaign had cost 438 killed, 1249
wounded and 87 missing, but to these
must be added the losses in the Eritrean
and Abyssinian campaigns. In Eritrea, in
taking Keren, there were over 4000
casualties. Italian Somaliland was occu-
pied at the cost of 52 killed and 151
wounded and missing.
* * * *
Bob Semple, Maoriland’s one Minister
of Works (Australia has seven), certainly
gets things done. About the time France
caved in somebody gave him a U.S.
photograph of a tank improvised from a
caterpillar tractor. Having 98-h.p. cater-
pillar tractors in his department, he
asked T. G. Beck, one of his engineers,
whether they could be converted into
tanks without blueprints, “Yes,” said
Beck ; and, enlisting the services of brainy
men in the workshops at Temuka, he
came to light with a three-ply model of a
tank, with armor which withstood very
severe firing tests and with trailers de-
signed at Wellington. Now Maoriland
is about to have its own fleet of 25-ton
tanks, armed with quick-firing guns,
fitted with drawbars with which armored
trailers can be towed, and each one
capable of carrying not only a crew of
eight but troops and their ammunition.
Burning crude oil, and thus invulnerable
to incendiary bombs, the tanks can go
60 hours without refuelling, and if more
are required the bodies can be mass-
produced and bolted on tractors.
* * * *
“X.S.”: It is no longer possible to go
to the entrance to Victoria Docks, in
Melbourne, and ascertain what ships are
in port and their berths simply by read-
ing the notice board, Commonwealth
peace officers having taken control and
ordered the board’s removal. Recalls a
censorship feat during the last war. A
troopship ran ashore just off the mole
at Fremantle. Though allowed to re-
port the incident, newspapers were for-
bidden to mention the name of the
ship. At the Marine Board inquiry
the circumstances of her grounding
and the position were freely referred
to, but she was called “a ship” in all the
reports in the dailies. What ship she was,
however, could be plainly read by any-
body who took the trouble to stroll to
the end of the mole, and nobody thought
to censor that with a wipe of black paint
until the vessel could be towed off.
* * * «
“Lucian’s Ghost”: On the way to
its lines in Greece the A.I.F. passed
battlefields which live for all time in
history among them Marathon and,
more interesting, Leuctra. Lysandros of
Sparta about 400 b.c. had founded a
Nazi party and, by Hitler methods,
subjugated numerous white-anted Grecian
States, including mighty Athens a de-
mocracy, He had appointed Gauleiters —
Hitler’s word is almost an exact trans-
lation of the Spartan’s word for them,
hormost. For a few years, the Spartans
seemed masters of the world.
They picked on the Thebans as easy
marks. And Epaminondas, the Theban,
with his back to Leuctra and a new Blitz
technique, smashed the Spartan army and
invaded Sparta, which collapsed.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLESS!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Unfavorable weather marred the
A.J.C. meeting on Wednesday, and a loss
of more than £2500 resulted, but Satur-
day all that could be wished. The
result was an attendance of 30,000
against 25,800 on the corresponding day
last year, and a tote turnover of £50,144
against £37,186. For the four days the
tote aggregated £195,130, which was
£5637 more than last autumn. As three
of Saturday’s winners were first favorites
and the other four well backed the day
was not a profitable one for the books.
The remarkable part of the A.J.C.
Plate was the betting. Despite his
fourth in the Sydney Cup it was difficult
to concede Mosaic a really good chance,
and at level weights Dashing Cavalier
could not well be given preference to
Beau Vite. Yet at the close of business
Tranquil Star was at 9 to 4, Beau Vite
at 5 to 2, and Mosaic and Dashing
Cavalier only a half-point longer than
the latter. As was expected Tranquil Star’
quickly took up the running, Beau Vite
being second, but the pace was very slow,
the first seven furlongs taking 1,39£. The
pace improved at the mile, and then
Tranquil Star’s followers gradually
closed on her. Beau Vite reducing her
lead to two lengths at the half-mile,
where Dashing Cavalier was third.
Tranquil Star was joined by Beau Vite
entering the straight, and the latter
quickly put the result beyond doubt.
Tranquil Star stopped to nothing over the
last furlong, and near the winning post,
where she was eased right up, was passed
by Dashing Cavalier and Mosaic, the
last-named finishing four lengths behind
Beau Vite and a head in front of Dash-
ing Cavalier. The last half-mile was run
by Beau Vite in 49, and despite the
opinion expressed by his owner and
jockey after a couple of defeats that he
was not as good as last spring there is
evidently very little amiss when he runs
at distances that suit him. On this visit
Beau Vite’s three wins, a second and a
third have returned his owner £2705 in
prize-money, which was better than spell-
ing him in Maoriland until near the
spring.
In the C. W. Cropper Plate the A.J.C.
handicapper’s assessment of Gold Salute
and Mildura worked out correctly, despite
the fact of A. E. Cooper taking pro-
nounced exception to the way the two
were weighted. When Gold Salute ran
past Reading coming to the turn and led
into the straight he looked a winner, but,
served by her light weight, Amiable was
too good for him over the last half-
furlong. Amiable improved considerably
upon her Doncaster form, but in that
race she was badly placed at the barrier,
and was then wide out most of the way.
On Saturday she was last at the three
furlongs.
Mildura was somewhat slow in fairly
finding his legs and a win for him seemed
improbable early in the piece. In the
straight he and Rimveil each made a run
that momentarily suggested they were
going to play a big part in the decision
of the race, but both weakened before
reaching the winning post, Mildura hang-
ing in under pressure. However, as in
the Doncaster, Mildura finished ahead
of Rimveil. Evergreen again proved him-
self a good three-year-old. He was third
soon after the start, and finished in that
position. The time, 1.24£, was on the
slow side. Amiable made the Australian
mile record of 1.34| in March of last
year when she defeated High Caste and
Ajax in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes. She
subsequently lost form to such an extent
that her present owner was able to buy
her for 750gns. at auction.
Winifred gave trainer G. Price his third
win of the meeting when she won the
Rous Handicap. Brazandt and Poi
Morse were the early leaders, but,
though the latter seemed to be doing well
when he showed the way into the straight,
Winifred —never further back than third
—was too good for him over the last
half-furlong. Glorious, in third place,
made a good showing, while Petruchio
ran without any dash, and, as was
thought possible, Bona Fide did not shine
under the high scale of weights. Chis-
wick is worth keeping in mind for minor
meetings.
Rathlin did all that was expected of
him in the Woollahra Handicap. He
was in command soon after the start,
and though Tel Asur was level with him
a furlong from home he upset calcula-
tions by lasting longer than the latter,
Sethia, in third place, ran well, and Cable
Boy surprised by finishing fourth at a
distance supposed to be short for him.
His turn should not be long in coming,
nor should that of The Squire, who, after
being last early, ran fifth. Of the re-
mainder nothing did better than Bestop,
who finished strongly. Stable-mates
Rylstone and Air Link were never dan-
gerous.
Binnia Hero, who has been gradually
improving, was favorite for the Dangar
Handicap, and, with an advantage of
121 b. in weight, was too good for Hope,
who looked a winner when he settled
Kestrel and Val Eaton just after turning
into the straight. In getting third with his
rise in weight Mabson ran up to his pre-
vious form, though without ever looking
a winner. On the other hand, Anpapejo
and Lady Buzzard were disappointing.
The last-named, who made the running in
the Sydney Cup and assisted in setting a
time record for that race, could not get
near the front, though her connections
expected a lot of her.
It’s Funny’s run of the previous Mon-
day evidently benefited him considerably,
and he justified his favoritism for the
Fernhill Handicap by taking up a promi-
nent position soon after barrier-rise, dis-
posing of the pacemaker Goldbrook in
the straight, and then beating the Peter
Pan filly Rosabelle by a good margin.
Dundalk, Dick Whittington, Condignity
and Steal On got away badly, and the
first-named did well to run Rosabelle to a
head for second money. Goldbrook,
who cost 1300gns. as a yearling, has lots
of pace, and, though a failure up to the
present, will yet win races. There is no
doubt as to Turmoil (Excitement-Ardis),
one of G. Price’s team, eventually doing
likewise. He finished particularly well.
Condignity also did fairly, but Thrax’s
form was below that shown by him in
winning the Wentworth Handicap. It
was Its Funny’s second win, and he is
now well ahead of the 375gns. he cost
as a yearling.
• • • • • •
Katanga and Fearless were equally in
demand for the Final Handicap, but the
former’s efforts in longer races had taken
the dash out of him, and after being
second last along the back he did well to
cut Proud Fox out of third money in the
last few strides. Fearless, though well
placed to the turn, finished some distance
back. The winner, Chatoona, was promi-
nent throughout, and was too solid for
Overjoyed in a tussle over the last fur-
long. As a two-year-old Chatoona gave
promise as a stayer, and is fulfilling it.
Beau Frere tired after holding a substan-
tial lead up to the turn, but a mile and
a quarter may be within his compass at
one of the suburban or mid-week meet-
ings. With a smoother run from the
half-mile Proud Fox would probably have
filled a place, and may pick up a race
before returning to Maoriland.
* * * *
The Trapper’s defeat of Wheat Sheaf
and Dapper in the Juvenile Handicap
at Moonee Valley brought hoots from
all sections of the course, and his
owner, “G. Capesthorne,” requested
the stewards to inquire into the
apparent reversal of form displayed by
the colt as compared with his running
in the Juvenile Handicap at Flemington
five days earlier. In addition to the
owner, evidence was given by W. Duncan
(trainer) and S. Ralph, who rode the colt
in both races, and the stewards expressed
themselves satisfied that The Trapper
had run on his merits at Flemington.
Even allowing that many backers are
prone to talk through their pockets, the
hostile demonstration was not unex-
pected. The Trapper had started equal
favorite with Dapper in the Flemington
race won by Wheat Sheaf, but showed no
dash at any stage and finished a poor
sixth of eight runners. On Saturday he
met Wheat Sheaf 91b. better, started at
7 to 1 after touching tens, moved up
third near the half-mile and beat Wheat
Sheaf half a head in the last stride. Sec-
tions of the crowd found it difficult to
reconcile the two performances, but con-
nections of The Trapper were equally sur-
prised. The stable commission for him
on Saturday was only a fraction of the
amount invested at Flemington. Appar-
ently The Trapper is a lazy customer
who must be ridden hard in the early
stages of his races to make him do his
best.
Wheat Sheaf, though beaten, was un-
lucky not to have increased her record
to five wins from as many starts. She
was rumored to have travelled badly to
the course, and there was some talk of
scratching her, but she looked calm
enough on her way to the post. Always
an odds-on favorite, she did not begin
with her usual brilliance, but held a clear
lead at the end of two furlongs and
looked all over a winner entering the
straight. Probably she would have won
had her apprentice rider, G. Hope, gone
straight for the judge, but he looked
round more than once in the straight, and
Wheat Sheaf, tiring, veered out. No
excuse was possible for Dapper’s failure
to do better than third, but a slow start
prejudiced Gold Strand’s chance.
O. N. Marshall, of Ballarat, is one of
several trainers who successfully mix the
preparation of trotters and gallopers.
Marshall has been well known in the
light-harness sport for many years, and
won with Prana at the last meeting at
Ascot (Vic.), but The Decoration, win-
ner of the Essendon Handicap on Satur-
day, has helped to bring him into promi-
nence in the galloping world. Starting
second favorite at 4 to 1, The Decoration
ran to the front near the seven furlongs,
momentarily looked to be beaten when
the field closed on her rounding the
turn, but slipped away again to win de-
cisively from Tregenna and Contact. It
was her first win over a middle distance,
though she was placed at 10 furlongs at
Flemington last spring.
Atorna followed up his Mentone win
of four days earlier by leading through-
out the Kinross Handicap, for which he
was always a short-priced favorite. He
appeared fortunate, however, to defeat
Industry, who, after losing ground by
running wide when in second position at
the turn, ran him to half a head. Mis-
fortune has deprived Industry of success
on more than one occasion since his one
and only win in the Ascot Vale Stakes
in the autumn of last year, Kanuri made
up ground to finish a moderate third,
ahead of ex-Sydney performer Denis, who
was having his first race since being
purchased by W. Burke. Burke bought
him with a view to hurdling, but if Denis
returns to anything like his best form he
will win a race or two on the flat for
his new owner. Fur Trader, having his
first race since the spring, was well-
backed but never dangerous, and Prince
Ariel, who is being prepared for the
Adelaide Cup, looked in need of the race.
Revealing infinitely better stamina than
at Flemington five days earlier, when
she had tired badly toward the end of
seven furlongs, Mollie Con, starting at
12 to 1, unwound a strong finish to beat
Procyon and Swettenham at a mile in the
Yuroke Welter. Procyon and Swetten-
ham looked to have the race between
them at the top of the straight, but
Mollie Con, sixth at the half-mile, out-
stayed them. Thuna, Somerset and Wind
Robe disappointed, and Pannade, favorite
at 4 to 1 after touching 5 to 2, was never
dangerous. Stewards inquired into the
cause of Pannade, Haughty Stare and
Trebleworth being slowly away. R.
Smith, apprentice rider of Pannade, told
them his mount had every chance to get
away, but refused to move after the bar-
rier lifted.
Mollie Con has won several races, but
Saturday was the first time her owner,
Mrs. T. J. Confoy, had seen her score.
Previously she had been content to listen-
in, believing that her absence brought
the mare more luck. Mollie Con is a
four-year-old by Great Star (sire of The
Decoration) from Humoresque, and
earlier in her career was sold to a well-
known racing man for £125. Because
she was ineligible for the Stud Book,
however, the buyer sold her back to the
seller a few days later for the same
amount. Mollie Con has been a good
stake-winner since then, and her owner
of a few days missed a nice bargain.
W. Burke appears to have got hold of
another good hurdler in Campaspe, who,
even if not up to G.N. standard this
year, should win his share of races. Cam-
paspe did not have a strong field to beat
in the Mia Mia Hurdle, but the manner
of his success was impressive. Never
farther back than second, he seemed to
forfeit his chance when he bungled the
jump near the five furlongs and went
down on his nose, but his rider, T.
Dynon, wisely gave him time to recover
before setting out again after the pace-
maker, Southern Night. Latter, who
also prejudiced his chance by poor jump-
ing, tired badly rounding the bend, and
Campaspe won running away from that
gelding and Sydney-owned Boisterous.
Campaspe was having his third race over
hurdles in eight days, and obviously is a
hardy sort.
T. Dynon, who rode Campaspe, has
piloted many winners on the flat and
over jumps, but a year or so ago when
opportunities were few decided that
there was more money to be made in
driving a taxi. Petrol-rationing, however,
caused a reduction in staff of the com-
pany that employed him, and recently he
returned to race riding. Bill Burke, with
whom he served his apprenticeship, gave
him his chance to make a comeback, and
both Dynon’s recent winners, Campaspe
and Nevizes, are trained by Burke.
Always well placed St. Robert, backed
from 4 to 1 to 5 to 2, easily defeated
Laveur and Testudo in the Ardmillan
Steeplechase. St. Robert, raced some
time ago by a N.S.W. Parliamentarian,
was sold later to J. Abrahams, who
leased him to a Tasmanian owner with
an option of purchase for £100. The
Tasmanian lessee, however, did not think
the gelding worth buying, and eventu-
ally returned him to Abrahams, who
leased him to his brother, “A. Marlou.”
St. Robert, a stable-mate of the Austra-
lian Cup winner Saul, under the care of
D. McRae, won well enough on Satur-
day to indicate that further wins are in
store. Abrahams was represented in
Saturday’s race by Brightello, who was
having his first run since August, and
showed up well in fourth position.
Brightello will be all the better for the
race, and Bridge of Dee is another who
may repay following.
« * * *
Nearly every important fixture is re-
sponsible for a change in the status of
some horses. It was so at Randwick
last week. Despite his owner’s com-
plaints on the score of alleged unfair
handicapping, Gold Salute’s form placed
him on top at a mile. Defeat of High
Caste and Beau Vite at w.f.a. at that
distance and his second with 9.5 in
the Cropper Plate gave him the position.
It is improbable High Caste was as good
as on some previous occasions, and,
though in the C. W. Cropper Plate it
did seem asking a lot of Gold Salute to
give Mildura 51b., the chestnut proved
himself equal to beating the latter on
91b. and Rimveil on 141b. worse than
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
{Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Brush Hurdle Race: Masterpiece,
1 ; Guardsman, 2 ; Shot Gun, 3.
Quality Handicap: Harprey, 1;
It’s Funny, 2; Cradle Song, 3.
Frederick Clissold Handicap:
Trimmer, 1; Rathlin, 2; Flying
Knight, 3.
Turf Club Handicap: Chatoona
or Hieron, 1; Gilltown, 2 ; Austra-
lasia, 3.
First Trial Stakes: Southerly, 1 ;
Paul Muni, 2 ; Fan Dancer or Bruce
Wood, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Bestop, 1 ;
The Squire, 2 ; Bonny Loch, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
(Before acceptances.)
Strafford Trial Hurdle: Jack
Farr, 1 ; Virile, 2 ; Parcem, 3.
Torrington Handicap: Naval
Revue, 1 ; Basalt, 2; Fort Garry, 3.
Murchison Trial Handicap:
Sunixa, 1 ; Deniker, 2 ; Curia, 3.
Wokingham Handicap: Prince
Ronald, 1 ; Atorna, 2 ; Con Naru, 3.
Aylesford Handicap; Sir Locket,
1 ; Spearwings, 2 ; The Decoration,
3.
Plymouth Welter Handicap:
Somerset, 1; Phildoll, 2; Man-
power, 3.


w.f.a, terms, thereby confirming the
handicapper’s estimate.
Amiable, with an advantage of 271 b.
on the w.f.a. scale, was too good for
Gold Salute in the Cropper Plate, but,
in running her to half a length, the latter
demonstrated that his owner was not far
astray when he gave him a good chance
of beating High Caste in the Linlithgow
Stakes at Flemington last spring. Un-
fortunate, perhaps, for A. E. Cooper, but
it now seems as if he will have the honor,
if not profit, of owning the horse that
handicappers cannot well avoid putting
on top, or very near it, in all the big
mile handicaps of the spring. With a
clear run Gold Salute would have been
a place-getter in the Autumn Stakes, \\
mile, but, though his chance in the Can-
terbury Cup, with 8.2 at a furlong less,
appeared particularly bright, the Brisbane
trip is to be given preference. He has
9.4 (minimum 7st.) in the Moreton
Handicap, and the w.f.a. race to be run
at the same meeting looks a fair thing
for him.
Over a distance Beau Vite proved him-
self the best of the older w.f.a. horses,
and, taking a line through Tranquil Star,
is superior to the younger division.
Tranquil Star, after cutting up badly in
the St. Leger, ran away from Lucrative
in the Cumberland Plate, but Beau Vite
settled her in short order after turning
into the straight in the A.J.C. Plate, which
was run at such an easy pace for the
first mile and a quarter that it should
have left Tranquil Star with a finishing
run if she was nearly as good a stayer
as previously supposed. Before leaving
the weighing-yard for the A.J.C. Plate
Beau Vite indulged in a little playful
bucking which caused some of the on-
lookers to remark “His racing has
livened him up,” and that idea proved
correct. He is to remain in Australia
until the spring, and goes to Sol Green’s
place in Victoria for a spell.
In running second to Beau Vite in one
race and third in another, Dashing
Cavalier acquitted himself well, but it
can scarcely be claimed for him that he
is yet quite a first-class w.f.a. horse. He
is likely to improve, but with the possi-
bility of the opposition being stronger it
may be difficult for him to go as close
to winning w.f.a. races next spring as
he has done recently. Katanga is de-
finitely short of w.f.a. class, and in a
really good handicap field it may always
trouble him to get two miles. It is never
advisable to be too pronounced in your
opinions where racehorses are concerned,
but it seems to me that a mile and three-
quarters is as far as Katanga likes.
Nine-year-old Hope was the marvel of
the meeting. His seconds in the Sydney
Cup and Dangar Handicap proved him
a wonderful veteran. He started racing
at two, winning twice at that age,
and has not missed one season since. At
five years he ran in 28 races, and in 21
at six, and probably was never much
better than last week. Feminist’s only
run at the meeting was in the Sydney
Cup, and notwithstanding her condition
was excellent her showing was poor. As
she is rising six, probably this season will
conclude her racing career. Anpapejo,
another of B. Payten’s team, did not
prove himself above suburban form, but,
as he is a good type of horse, improve-
ment in him is possible.
Buzalong had three runs, showing a
little of his old pace each time, and
thpugh he dropped out at the finish of
two races he must not yet be accounted
a back number. He needs more racing
to enable him to do a “comeback” act,
and may be quite ready for the winter
meetings at Randwick. Burhan Ali, after
beating Gilltown in the Tocal Handicap
in the style of a good horse, dead-heated
Tuhitarata for second in the Coogee
Handicap. Foaled to English time, he is
actually a few months younger than Aus-
tralian four-year-olds, and there may be
more room for improvement in him by
next spring than in most of that age.
He is to race in Brisbane next month.
Notwithstanding Burhan Ali was a little
too good for him, Gilltown made a
game bid for the Tocal Handicap, and,
as he has no difficulty in getting 11
furlongs, he will give his backers a good
run in the Canterbury Park Cup with
7.13. He won over the Cup distance at
that track last month with 8.3. Tel Asur
is getting close to his best, and it was
hard luck for his owner and trainer that
he should have gone so close to winning
the Woollahra Handicap without actually
doing so. Rylstone ran one good race
and two that were indifferent, and Air
Link was not impressive in the Woollahra
Handicap, though on Cup day he ran
away from Beauregard and Chatoona in
the Biranganbil Handicap. Pennywise
showed a liking for soft going in the
Coogee Handicap, and did so well at
the end of that race that she will win
at a longer distance than nine furlongs.
Vestal, in the same stable, again failed
to show herself as good in races as on
the training track.
* * * *
High Caste’s failures at Randwick did
not greatly surprise those racegoers who
closely noted his running in the Rosehill
Rawson Stakes. In that he was level
with Gold Salute a furlong and a half
from home, and yet, though most vigor-
ously ridden, he did not have the latter
beaten until within the last hundred
yards. Beau Vite then settled both. In
the Chipping Norton Plate the kick High
Caste received while at the post possibly
told against him, but over the last fur-
long Tranquil Star ran away from him.
An outside position disadvantaged him, to
some extent, in the Doncaster Handicap,
but at no part of that race was he going
like a winner. In the All-Aged Stakes
he was not more than a possibility for
third from the top of the straight, and
it is a conservative estimate to say Gold
Salute beat him 51b. He met the latter
on the same terms as when he easily
downed him in the Linlithgow Stakes at
Flemington last November. No fault
could be found with High Caste’s appear-
ance, and he sprinted well during the
week prior to the Doncaster. The going
may have been against him in the All-
Aged Stakes, as he did not show himself
the horse of last spring, but, though it
is easy to play the “after game,” it is
undeniable that many keen judges
deserted him as a probable Doncaster
winner after his Rawson Stakes run at
Rosehill.
* * * *
Excuse is possible for Yaralla in the
Champagne Stakes on the score that the
going did not suit him, but it would be
impossible to detract from the merit of
All Love’s success. She never looked
like being beaten, though Prince’s good
finishing run after going wide at the
turn landed him within three-quarters
of a length of her. It seems certain now
that All Love has a pull over Yaralla
in speed, but we shall have to wait until
the commencement of next season to
learn whether she is a better stayer.
Other good Double Remove fillies are
Triad and Cradle Song, and if his colts
of the coming season are up to their
standard the prices realised by their sire’s
progeny next autumn are likely to greatly
exceed those of last week, even though
they were satisfactory.
So far as the staying possibilities of
All Love are concerned, breeding on her
dam’s side does not greatly appeal, as
Beauvue is by Legionnaire from speedy
Girton Girl, by Linacre from Miss
Arlington ; but her sire, Double Remove
(Felstead-Quick Rise, by Hurry On), was
credited with giving great staying
promise up to the time he broke down.
Yaralla should stay. He is by The
Buzzard from Even Keel, half-sister, by
Highfield, to Old Rowley, and his
brother. True Flight, ran second in a
Perth Cup. Cheveley Lad (sire of
Prince), who was sold as a yearling for
5300gn5., is by Fairway (Phalaris-Scapa
Flow) from French Haste, a Hurry On
mare, and Salamander (dam of Prince),
who is by Magpie from Chorus, won up
to a mile and a half.
* * * *
Some of the running at Randwick
should have gone towards convincing
those people who are strong upholders
of “reversal of form” inquiries that im-
provement or deterioration in horses in
a week, especially with track conditions
slightly different, is genuinely possible.
For instance, on the Saturday previous
to the commencement of the A.J.C. meet-
ing Mildura (a Newmarket Handicap
winner) beat two in a field of eight in
the Liverpool Handicap, Lucrative
weakened so badly over the last furlong
of a mile and a quarter that he missed
a place in the Chipping Norton Plate,
and Tranquil Star, who so decisively beat
her opponents—these including Lucrative
and Pandect —in that race, followed up
that effort by running a pronounced last
in the St. Leger. Difference in form was
excusable on Wednesday, owing to the
soft going, but we saw Tranquil Star
again lose Lucrative, and Gold Salute,
who ran nearly last in the Autumn Plate
—owing to interference certainly—make
a hack of Beau Vite in the All-Aged
Stakes. Then Tranquil Star ran last in
the A.J.C. Plate, which added to the
confusion. There was no doubt as to the
bona fides of the horses mentioned in
their respective races, and when horses
of class can show marked variation in
a few days it can be the same with the
ordinary Wednesday and Saturday per-
formers, even though many racegoers
think it should be otherwise.
* * * *
With the season’s big racing practically
over, the question of which is the best
three-year-old is undecided. A.J.C. St,
Leger and Sydney Cup running gave
Lucrative the premier position, but then
Tranquil Star put a different complexion
on affairs by defeating him with the
greatest of ease in the Cumberland
Stakes, Probably Tranquil Star’s form
went more to prove that she is excep-
tionally good on a very heavy track than
that she is really superior to a colt that
made record time in the St, Leger and
Sydney Cup. Pandect, though not quite
Lucrative’s equal, is good, and as he
gives the impression of a colt likely to
continue improving his turn in an im-
portant handicap should come next year.
Velocity’s chance in the Cup was settled
through another horse falling ahead of
him, and both he and Veiled Threat will
see a better day. The latter displayed
neither pace nor staying ability. What-
ever the cause I cannot say, but his form
was all wrong. Tidal Wave did not run
in anything, a gallop in which Velocity
was his master possibly giving his trainer
an idea that a win for him in any race
was improbable. Of the various hun-
dreds of yearlings sold in Sydney and
Melbourne in 1939 few outside the
following seven have pretensions to
class as stayers: Tranquil Star (Gay
Lothario-Lone Star), 600gns.; Lucrative
(Gay Lothario-Balkan Star), 450gns.;
Veiled Threat (Veilmond-Spear Belle),
650gns., and the Chatham colt Chatoona,
350gns. Pandect (Pantheon-Credit), who
was bred by his owner ; and Tidal Wave
(Tiderace-My Own), who cost 1450gns.
in Maoriland. Rimveil (Veilmond-Rima),
the best three-year-old miler, made 80gns.
as a yearling, and Evergreen (Chatham-
Emerald) 250gns.
* * * *
There are so many valuable two- and
three-year-old races to be won in Sydney
and Melbourne that, if the breeding and
conformation are right, the risk of giving
a big price for a yearling is worth tak-
ing, but that does not dispose of the
fact that as a rule the buyer who pays a
thousand or two for one and gets some-
thing that turns out really well has more
reason to congratulate himself on his luck
than his judgment. Competitors for the
three principal two-year-old races at
Randwick upheld that idea. For the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, Champagne
Stakes and Easter Stakes the total
runners were Yaralla (1200gns.), All Love
(250gns.), Triad (375gn5.), Cradle Song
(160gns.), Whisper Low, Rosabelle, Con-
gratulations, Steal On (80gns.), Manner-
heim and Felt Yet. Of these only Yaralla,
All Love, Triad, Rosabelle, Cradle Song
and Steal On were among the 609
yearlings catalogued at Randwick last
season. Over 500 were sold.
Admittedly some of those sold have
shaped fairly in other States, but as of the
many hundreds catalogued at Randwick
a year ago only three of the starters at
the recent A.J.C. autumn meeting were
really of class it will be gathered that
something more than judgment is re-
quired in the selection of yearlings.
Breeders are occasionally inclined to
lament the fact when youngsters sold
cheaply by them subsequently prove they
went below their value, but, as a set-off,
the many that brought more guineas than
they were worth shillings should also be
remembered.
It is fortunate for breeders and
auctioneers that, despite unprofitable pur-
chases, some buyers continue to forget
their wounds, and there are generally
others who, in response to ballyhoo, take
the places of those who drop out.
Some breeders placed a higher value
than expected on several yearlings offered
at the recent sales at Randwick, and they
were passed in. Perhaps this means they
purpose racing them on their own behalf.
That will benefit the game ; and, when
you come to think of it, there are breeders
who really should be represented a lot
more in racing than is the case. The
breeding and selling of yearlings is their
business, but perhaps they would lose
nothing if they gave a little more direct
support to racing.
* * * *
Mildura is among the horses likely to
be popular for the Canterbury Park Cup.
He is to be an acceptor, and in 8.11 he
has a weight that he should have no diffi-
culty in handling. Although he has not
recently been trained for distance racing,
he should not find 11 furlongs on a com-
paratively easy course beyond him. He
has won at Randwick at a mile and a
quarter, also in Brisbane, and with 8.5
was beaten only a half-head by Gold
Spark in the Anniversary Handicap, \\
mile, last year. He is now a much im-
proved horse,
* * * *
There is bound to be keen competi-
tion for the billets of stipendiary steward
and assistant stipendiary to the A.J.C.
Many people have an idea there is no
easier position than that of stipendiary
steward, and applications will come from
most unexpected quarters. Quite a
number of qualifications are necessary,
and though since the system was first
adopted in Sydney there have been many
stewards there would be no difficulty in
naming those who proved themselves
really capable.
* * * *
Taking everything into consideration,
most breeders had cause to congratulate
themselves on the result of the yearling
sales at Randwick. The aggregate was
80,402gn5., and the average for 432 was
186|gns., against last year’s 205gns. for
504. P. Miller (Kia-Ora) received 25,272
gns. for his draft. Medieval Knight and
Piccadilly youngsters were not in par-
ticular demand, but naturally there was
a rush for Double Remove’s yearlings,
and those by the new sire, Midstream,
showed so much quality and substance
that buyers took kindly to them.
Only three youngsters reached the four
figures mark—two being colts by Talk-
ing from French Model (1200gns.) and
Capris (lOOOgns.) respectively, and the
other a filly by Double Remove from
Lady Silvius (1050gns.). The last-
mentioned youngster was bought by
A. B. Nagel, none of whose high-priced
purchases of some previous years, ful-
filled expectations. Only one of the 12
Beau Peres catalogued was sold at
auction. Some were passed in, and a
few were sold privately. It was a great
falling-off compared with last year, when
half a dozen of his progeny sold from
3500gns. to 900gns. “Can’t go far wrong
in buying a Buzzard” is a remark now
often heard at yearling sales, and 14 of
the 15 catalogued were sold.
Principal averages were as under:
Number Average,
Sold. Guineas.
The Buzzard (imp.) .. .. 14 518 L
Spearfelt 6 446
Double Remove (imp.) .. 22 418$
Brueghel (imp.) .. .. 14 328
Harinero (imp.) .. .. 11 322$
Midstream (imp.) .. ..30 315
Talking 12 310$
Hua 3 303$
Veilmond 12 247$
Plymouth Sound (imp.) .. 3 245
The Marne 3 228$
Marconigram (imp.) .. .. 8 218
* * * *
The net value of the recent Santa
Anita Derby to C. S. Howard, owner
of the winner. Porter’s Cap, was $44,975
(approximately £A 13,679). Second money
was $lO,OOO, third $5OOO and fourth
$2500. Porter’s Cap was a warm favorite
in a field of 16, and he beat the second
horse four lengths in 1.54| for nine fur-
longs on a heavy track. Each runner
carried 8.8.
Miscellaneous
Micky Miller was clearly outpointed
by Billy Rainsbury at West Melbourne
on Saturday night; but he is still titular
featherweight champion. It was a 12-
rounder (15 rounds is alleged to be the
championship distance) and both boys
came in at 9.2. If the thing had gone 15
rounds the result would have been the
same.
* * * *
Alan Westbury has had his tit-for-tat
with Georges Champion, the southpaw
from Noumea, at Newcastle. He was
down more than once, and at the begin-
ning of the 12th (and last) round was
well behind on points. But he then con-
trived to floor Champion twice, and the
second blow made the fallen warrior
so sick that Joe Wallis declared West-
bury the winner without applying the
count. Now Harbulot, Champion’s
French manager, declares that if Wallis
had started to count the bell would have
rung before he finished and the prostrate
pug must have got it on points.
♦ JH * *
Twenty-five thousand watched Ken
Hutton, a 20-year-old Burnie (Tas.) bank
clerk, win the Stawell (Vic.) Gift. Three
of the four runners in the final broke
and were penalised, then the crowd
rushed to the books and altered bets. The
Tasmanian, off 6$ yards, put in a burst
over the last 30 yards to win by inches
from Hawkins in just under evens.
Rodgers (N.S.W.), 6 to 4 on in his heat,
tore a ligament and started in the final
at twelves, running nowhere. A
of days later Hutton failed in a 75 yards
sprint at Bendigo and was rubbed out
for a year for allegedly running “dead.”
He announced that he was “broken-
hearted” and would appeal.
* * * *
“101”: As a mug, I object to a
recent effusion from a golfing champion.
In one of a series of articles to “ease
your problems at tricky holes,” he tells
of a par 3 hole, 205 yards long, well
trapped with bunkers in front and with
heavy rough at the back, “On calm
days,” says he, “a high No. 4 or 5 iron
is the correct club.” No ordinary club
golfer could hope to reach a hole that
long with either iron. For the average
golfer it would be a very good drive with
a No. 1 wood.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
SS
SsS
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
CHAMPIONS
Bring BETTER
HILL CLIMBING
Good hot sparks from Champion
spark plugs will give your car the
kind of ignition it needs for a
smooth, even pull up a hill.
Champions allow less carbon to
form, so you get more speed,
more power, more economy.
Champions save you money!
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ry » •
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES. Wpreivine
With offices at London. Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South M ales, 'fl 20 . world this
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia andl the worm
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking b __
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Accountant seeks permanent position moun-
tains or good country town, large general store
preferred. Competent to take full charge. Good
organiser, accustomed to country conditions.
Ineligible for military service.—lol9.
Exp. wool and sheep man, middle-aged, plain
and mulga country, horseman, s.s. expert,
accountant, wheat-farming, offers services.
9691.
Exp. dental mechanic seeks position Brisbane.
Refs.—969B.
To exchange women’s books, including over-
seas, hundreds of patterns, knitting, crochet
and other fancy work, for stamp album, loose
stamps, coins or something useful.—lol3.
To buy Wisden’s Cricketers’ Almanacks
prior to 1934. —9829.
To buy back numbers “American Life.”—
1092.
Information Sought.
I wish to study law. (1) Are there examina-
tions set by the N.S.W. Law Society ? (2)
May one graduate through these to practise
immediately ? (3) What wage does a law cleik
get per week? (4) What credentials are neces-
sary for admittance to the Crown Law Office
in Sydney? (5) What would be the lowest
and the highest fees a barrister could earn for
one day’s work in court? —9854.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, but applicants for admis-
sion must first be enrolled as students at law
and serve a term of at least two years. To
enrol, must be graduate of a recognised uni-
versity or have passed a matriculation exami-
nation. (3) Depends on age, ability, experience,
qualifications, etc. (4) Apply to Public Service
Board. (5) From nothing to a hundred guineas.
* * * *
With reference to Lieut.-Col. J. A. Rena (B.
12/3 /’4l), I should like some particulars as to
how an American could join the A.I.F. in
Egypt. Under what regulations was the enlist-
ment made ? —1026.
Lieut.-Col. J. R. Rena was one of the few,
Australian or otherwise, who were allowed to
join the A.I.F. overseas. He was an electrical
engineer, born New York June 21, 1893, and left
Marconi’s mast construction near Cairo to join
the Light Horse. You will find his story in the
Australian Official War History, pp. 616, 617,
and 619. He probably got in because of his
special knowledge as an electrical engineer.
* * * •
What is the story connected with the pic-
tures on a willow-pattern plate? —9907.
The Chinese legend which Thomas Minton
used for the willow-pattern china (which was
first made by Minton in England) is as follows;
Kong Shee, beautiful daughter of a rich man-
darin, fell in love with her father’-s secretary,
Chang, but the father had promised her to a
rich old man and banished Chang. However,
Chang returned and carried off Shee, escaping
from the father, who, with two slaves, chased
them, and the young couple settled in the little
cottage seen on the willow plate. Later the rich
old suitor found the lovers asleep in the cot-
tage and set fire to their home. Both were
burnt, but their souls rose in the shape of
doves. In genuine willow patterns there are
five trees —apple, peach, plum, fir and willow —
two men on the bridge with the father and a
temple in the left foreground. This is called
“the story pattern,” which Thomas Minton
first painted to follow the story.
* * * *
I have been told that any land where there
is lantana growing is good for banana-growing.
Is this so ? —lO4O.
Vigorous, thick lantana with a healthy dark-
green color is an indication that the soil is
good. Moreover, the decaying deposits of
leaves and twigs greatly enrich the soil, and
the roots of the lantana bring up plant-food
from lower levels than those reached by the
previous crop. The ash remaining after firing
contains a fair percentage of potash, a plant
food particularly required by bananas. Growers
are beginning to regard lantana as one of the
best soil renovators rather than a pest. This
class of land merely requires brushing after a
six or eight weeks’ burning off. The bananas
can then be planted and the lantana roots
either grubbed out with a mattock before
planting or removed during the first and subse-
quent chippings, or as they show signs of new
growth. The cost of grubbing and brushing
lantana does not greatly exceed the initial pre-
paration of scrub land, but the resultant weed
growth is much more troublesome and requires
constant attention.
* * * *
Life history of the fruit-fly? —lo29.
The two species of fruit-fly which attack
fruit are the common or Mediterranean fruit-
fly and the Queensland fruit-fly Life histories
are similar and there is no easily distinguish-
able difference in the maggots. The eggs are
minute, glistening white, and slightly curved.
They hatch in about two or three days, when
infestation soon becomes noticeable and the de-
cay or “give” in the fruit can readily be felt.
The young maggots, which are about l-25th
of an inch long, white to creamy-white in
color, and have small, black, hooklike jaws at
the end of a pointed head, burrow in the fruit
tissue and feed for about two weeks until full
grown, when they are about one-third of an
inch long. Then they crawl from the infested
fruit and work their way into* the ground to a
depth of two or three inches. The skin of the
maggot then hardens and forms a small oval
seedlike puparium, dirty-white to dark brown
in color. The adult fly develops in the
puparium, later bursts through one end and
forces its way up through the soil to the sur-
face, where the wings soon expand and stiffen.
The adult insect then flies off, and the female,
after feeding, deposits eggs in the fruit, by
means of a pointed ovipositor which can pene-
trate the fruit to a depth of |in. to iin., so
that eggs are deposited under the skin. The
pupal stage occupies from 11 to 14 days
in the summer, and the time of development
from egg to adult in the summer is about four
or five weeks. In cold weather this period may
be prolonged to many weeks longer.
* * * *
(1) How may a young man best learn suffi-
cient of the pastoral or farming industry to take
up land with a reasonable chance of success
(he has had no previous experience) ? (2) What
part of N.S.W. is best suited for pig-raising,
particularly for one with limited finance ?
9969.
(1) Best way to learn farming is to work on
a farm for a few years, applying theory to
practice. The farmer keeps on learning to his
dying day, but a young man keen on agricul-
ture should absorb sufficient in five years to
start on his own, provided he is willing to seek
and accept the advice of neighbors when he
starts. (2) Pigs like an equable climate, and it
is wise to keep fairly close to markets. A
dairying district is best for several obvious
reasons. Quality of the soil isn’t so very im-
portant, except that pigs must have some graz-
ing or green fodder. Avoid low and damp loca-
tions or high and wind-swept ones. It isn’t
so much a matter of location as of the quality
of the man who is to manage the pigs. Unless
you can be certain of obtaining sound advice,
don’t be too eager to rush into pig-raising.
Suggest you have a yarn with A. Gray at the
N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney.
* * * *
Does coin make good silage? Should it
be chaffed for the pit? Would frost affect its
quality? What is the best stage to ensile it?
9161. . J .
Provided the pit is packed tight and has
sufficient earth on top to keep out air and
water, corn ensiles well. Chaffing is recom-
mended, but the corn should not be cut very
finely. Effect of frost depends on the severity
of the bite; lightly-touched stuff will still make
good fodder. Best stage is when the plants are
still sappy, just before the cobs start to move
towards maturity. Success depends on pack-
ing the stuff tightly in the pit; this is best
done by passing a team over it frequently as the
pit is filled and building it well above ground
level before covering.
* * * *
What are the uses of tung oil?— 1097.
Tung oil or Chinese wood oil is used in
the manufacture of paints and varnishes. In
China it is used for polishing, preserving and
waterproofing wood, for waterproofing cloth,
paper umbrellas and bamboo netting, and
throughout Asia as an ingredient in the manu-
facture of putty. In remote districts of China
it is used as lamp oil, although considered in-
ferior to tea or peanut oil for this job. Lamp
black for India ink is also made from tung
oil. The oil is used medicinally in China for
the treatment of boils, ulcers, swellings and
burns. Best known and most extensive use is
in the manufacture of waterproof varnishes,
enamels and paints, but it also serves in the
manufacture of rubber substitutes, linoleum
and cellulose lacquers.
» * * *
(1) Is lucerne-growing a payable proposition
in itself? (2) What is a reasonable acre yield
from naturally well-watered black soil ? (3)
How many tons of green lucerne make a ton
of dry hay ? (4) Is £6 a ton for hay payable,
and what costs are involved ?—9802.
(1) Very rarely and only in favored locali-
ties ; most growers combine it with fat-lamb or
pig-raising or dairying or combinations of
all three. (2) Depends on what is meant by yield.
An acre may give four cuts averaging three
tons four times a year; in another year it might
give only two cuts averaging three tons. Doubt-
ful if six tons a year would be exceeded ex-
cept by irrigated lucerne. (3) The ratio is about
four to one, according to climate, quality,
heaviness of cut, maturity of lucerne, curing
and other factors. (4) £6 a ton is a high price;
a recent Brisbane quote for prime was £5 165.,
and lucerne was scarce at the time. Costs de-
pend on so many factors that it would be im-
possible to generalise. Consult Queensland
Dept, of Agriculture and Stock.
* * * »
What salaries are paid managers of picture
theatres in N. S. Wales? —9945.
The following estimates of weekly salaries
may be used as a guide:
A Grade. B Grade.
City theatres .. .. £8 to £l5 £7 to £lO
Residential suburbs .. £6 to £lO £5 to £7
Industrial suburbs .. £6 to £lO £5 to £7
Outer suburbs .. .. £5 to £7 £4 to £6
Small theatres .. .. £2 to £5 £2 to £5
In addition, many managers are paid com-
mission on results. The theatres in the first
four groups are assumed to work full time, but
small theatres may be opened only two or three
times per week.
* * *
(1) What advantages are derived from pulp-
ing fruit ? (2) Is the process difficult or ex-
pensive ? (3) What class of fruit may be used ?
(1) Pulping is an economical method of
preserving all deciduous and berry fruits and
tomatoes. The pulp can afterwards be con-
verted into jams, chutney, sauces, soups, etc.,
in cold weather or during slack times. By
buying when the price of fruit is low and con-
verting into pulp, supplies are made available
economically for pies, tart filling and various
other uses. (2) No. It is easily and quickly
done and does not require expensive utensils.
(3) Fruit that is not up to the standard can
often be used for pulping. It should be ripe
but quite free from fermentation. If slightly
defective or misshapen, or even a little too
ripe to keep its shape when cooked for bottling,
the damaged part, if no decay has set in,
may be cut away and the good pieces used for
pulp.
Brief Answers.
P.L.J.; (1) Yes, until he is 18. (2) The
Governor, on application made through the
Minister, may order his release... .J. 8.: He
could sue, but prospect of recovering much
by way of damages looks remote... .J.A.: You
do not appear to have any grounds for exemp-
tion, but you may appeal to the Court against
the Area Officer’s refusal to give you a certifi-
cate of exemption... .W.W.; You can leave it
by will in any way you like, but you cannot
prevent your wife after your death making an
application under the Testator’s Family Main-
tenance Act. If she is eligible she may get a
share in your estate... .F.E.8.: Probate duty
is payable on the value of the property, but
an allowance is made for the stamp duty
previously paid J.E.; Yes. Duty is payable
in both States G. 8.: Do not know what
you mean by “revoke all rights in the child.”
If the child is illegitimate the husband has
no rights or liabilities in respect of it. The
mother cannot by any agreement “revoke” her
motherhood of the child. She could agree
that the child is illegitimate and undertake
not to take any proceedings against her hus-
band for its maintenance T.C.: In the
absence of any stipulation in the lease tenant
would be liable. You may be primarily liable
to the Water Board, but you could recover
from the tenant W.F.W.: (1) Suggested
course is dangerous. Better to get an eviction
order. (2) It is not correct.. . .W.T.F.: Your
lawyer appears to be right and you should
take his advice J.A.W.: May be difficulty
in getting it out until after war. See Com-
monwealth Bank C.L.S.T.: (1) Yes, but for
the benefit of your executor and your children
you should reduce the trust to writing in case
you die before children are 21. (2) Cannot
speculate as to future taxation legislation.,,,
GR.F.: May be difficulty in getting money
from England to Australia. See Common-
wealth Bank.... A.8.C.: (1) Yes. (2) He can
do what he likes with his own land. (3)
Only if he can prove negligence B.B.: (1)
Yes he may make application for an appoint-
ment to tax the bill within one calendar
month after its delivery. (2) He is not bound
to do so, but it would be unwise. (3) No. (4)
Not bound, but he would be unwise if he did
so (5) Depends on the order made by the
Court ..A.T.8.: Do not understand whether
road was built on your property. Give further
particulars. If not on your land shire cannot
compel you to keep it in repair R.A.W.:
In the absence of any sale of the pump from
the vendor to you ’he remains its owner
Patricia; Desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards is a ground
for divorce. Under the rules of the Supreme
Court, if a petitioner is a poor person, fees
are suspended and a solicitor will do the work
for £7 In ordinary cases the costs would be
from £2O to £3O, assuming the case is unde-
fended by the husband. If defended, costs
would be considerably higher, but in any case
husband will be ordered to pay the costs.
Action must be brought in State where peti-
tioner lives permanently, or, in case of wife,
where husband is domiciled. See Registrar in
Divorce, Supreme Court, Sydney. Would take
about 18 months to complete 8.8. A.: Craw,
Son and Lyall, King-street, Sydney, are
suppliers of knitting machines for woollen
stockings. Know of no small machine for the
making of silk stockings W.8.C.; (1)
Federal taxable income is £7OO. (2) Rates of
tax are 35d. on £4OO and 10.3794 d. on £3OO,
i e. r on conversion-loan interest. (3) No.
This information applies to the year ended
June 30, 1940, only, and may not be correct
in respect of future years W.H.S.: Botanical
authorities in Sydney can give no information.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice ( except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —
C.G.: —
This pest that twirls through Europe’s lands
Does remind us of the Huns,
For against the rules of war it stands,
And what is right it shuns.
It wants to sweep our noble King
Right out of his Royal Scat,
But our fighters will not let it bring
Off such a daring feat.
And Bellerive, his “Recollections of the Morn-
ington Boating Calamity, Victoria, May 21th,
1892”: —
Returning from a football match
On the twenty-first of May,
Members of the teams were drowned
Out on Port Phillip Bay.
Fiercely o’er the tossing boats
Swept the frothy waves;
Hurried: were the victim’s
To deep and watery graves.
Returning from a football match,
Destroyed by sudden doom,
Cut off in the flush of life
Like flowers in their bloom.
The empty boats did drifteth in,
And tear’s of grief were shed
By loved ones of the illfated lads,
A-numbered with the dead.
. .M.F.: No chop “San Fu Low”... .G.L.:
Another early bard... .A.S.T.: Have yet to
see a millionaire sitting on a “luxury stool,
collecting rents from trudging fools” J.E.:
But love isn’t all in making a poem....
R.M.H.: Maybe a lion can make a noise like
a trumpet, but you can’t call him “she” and
he doesn’t pick up gauntlets W.D.D.
(Toronto): Too late, brother... .G.B.R.: No,
but come again... .G.N.H.: Thin... .B.T.:
“The twinkling star of timeless tunes.” Aren t
you rather overdoing apt alliteration’s artful
aid 7....R.H.: Keep at it.... A.J.M.: Rough,
but readable... .B.S.R. : Afraid that all you
could make out of them would be a little fire.
C.V.M.: Could find neither solution nor
mystery in “The Solution to the Greatest MyS'
tery on Earth”... .G.L.T.: Your “satire
amounts to indiscriminate mud-throwing —
A.G.B.: Very nearly the worst we can remem-
ber F.R.C.: More platitudes than a fourth-
rate politician’s speech... .R.J.S.: “One more
rejection and I’ll give up writing.” Done....
C. : Thought that plot had been peacefully
laid away some 20 years ago R.C.A.: Study
your markets more thoroughly... .F.R.H.: Call
for the body... .G.R.S.; If the quality of your
work came anywhere near the quantity of it,
you’d be getting somewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.E.; A string of “plumes” doesn’t neces-
sarily make an abo. joke.. . .Toby: Girl fin-
able, but whiskered gent, is apparently walk-
ing on paddles... .J.R.R.: No hope....
F.W.M;. You draw a nifty leg, but the gags
are moth-eaten T.M.: Figures wooden ; an
cut out the heavy shading E.R.:
crooner clubbed into silence J.E.L.; tne
profile is the lazy man’s road to art....R.B..
If you don’t shift that amorous couple trom
the paddock they’ll get double pneumonia....
D. That blotto is a venerable friend....
K.R.M.: “My whole heart is in art work ,
yes, but head and hands are equally importan .
O.E.; You have a sense of design, but
figures are still too uneven... .G.B.: Use a
fixative on charcoal sketches; white shellac
and metho will do B.H.: “These have been
drawn from memory”; a course of Pelmamsm
is indicated.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE .........
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man*
hood. Price 10/6.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney
WRITE
TO-DAY
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
f
fss7
Ag*nU: JOUBERT *. JOUBERT PTY. LTD. I
HAPPINESS AND
sdf
If you suffer from
defective hearing,
remember that your
future happiness
may depend on
your choice of a
hearing aid. That
is why we strongly
recommend that
you hear the
Western Electric
Audiphone before
making a decision.
Inconspicuous, yet offering the advantages
of extreme sensitivity, economy, and
natural tone, the Western Electric Audi-
phone reflects the results of over 57 years’
experience in the making of Bell Tele-
phones and Talking Pictures. It enables
the user to take part in group conversa-
tion, to hear at greater distances, and in
any position. Call for demonstration
immediately. Both bone and air con-
duction types available.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
COLES & GARRARD PTY.. LTD.
310-37 i Bourke Street, M elb our ne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
LEN G. STONE,
67 G awl er Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 S 3 Hay Street, Perth.
PINDLAYS PTY., LTD.,
Apollo House. Brisbane St., Launceston .
Western Electric
'audiphone'
hearing aid
SUNDRY
SHOWS
ARTBURSTS.
The Sydney Long Show
The success of posthumous shows of
the collected work of well-known Aus-
tralian painters at the N. S. Wales Art
Gallery has suggested to the trustees that
something similar might be done for the
living. So there is a big show, collated
from National Galleries and from private
owners in various States, of the work of
Sydney Long.
Long’s career commenced when the
N. S. Wales Gallery bought his big
canvas “The Bathers” (No. 56 in the
present show). Though signed with the
date 1903, it was, according to the
painter’s friend, B. J. Waterhouse, painted
in 1894, when Long was sixteen. It is
a river scene painted with rare delicacy
and charm, and the worst that new-arty
critics can say about it today is that the
distant figures of little boys aren’t well
drawn.
As the painter gained experience he
found, it may be gathered* that a
medium-sized frame contained his designs
better than a big one. His best work is
all on canvases under or around 36in. by
24in. The large pictures, such as “By
Tranquil Waters,” “Pan” and “The Spirit
of the Plains,” have elements that please
but are not altogether satisfactory. But
in such pieces as the latest Wynne Prize
winner and “Thames, Windsor Park”
(1913), the subject, the manner and the
scale are in perfect balance, and the result
is as restful as it is pleasing.
It is Long’s distinction that to a greater
extent than any other Australian painter
of landscape he reinterprets things seen
and clothes them in new beauty. Almost
all of his many happier effects of form
contrast and color harmony analyse out
very simply if one undertakes the prosaic
task, just as any schoolboy can parse a
line of Shakspeare. But no amount of
parsing or analysis will give the student
the secret whereby Long presents country
or town, riverside or mountain as if seen
through a magic casement, trailing clouds
of glory. This is a great gift, not of less
value because its achievements are easy
for the plain man to appreciate.
* * * *
Lister Lister
At 81, William Lister Lister is still
painting away happily, and some of his
recent pictures are on view at Anthony
Horderns’ gallery, Sydney. There are
no big canvases this year—time has taken
its toll to that extent —but close on a
score of those genial landscapes in oils
which so well portray the N. S. Wales
countryside. No. 9, “The Incoming Tide,”
tackles the difficulties of sky, sea and
wet beach and succeeds dashingly. In
“White Waves Roll to the Shore” the
waves do roll. Biggest canvas on view,
“A Gleam of Sunlight, Narrabeen,” is
the quietest, most sombre that has come
from this usually lively brush.
*■« * *
Viewed from the position usually
adopted by the art fancier, Miss E. M.
Richardson’s show of landscapes, still-
life and portraits at the Velasquez Gal-
leries, Melbourne, look like any other
average exhibition of oil paintings inter-
spersed with black-and-white sketches.
Judged on its artistic merits it would be
classed f.a.q. Closer inspection dis-
closes, however, that the lady has used,
not the brush, but the implement mother
employs when she darns father’s socks.
The eye is taken in even at close quarters
by the black-and-white sketches. The
skill with which Miss Richardson uses
the needle justifies the adjective amazing,
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Second Crazy Show”
Main vertebra in the backbone of
this Sydney Tiv. offering are Edwin
Styles, George Wallace, Jenny Howard,
Magda Neeld and the Tiv. chorus.
Styles has done some first-rate work
in a couple of plays, and in this
show, as well as slick compering, he does
a neat bit of character-acting as a dod-
dering family butler, and displays some
weird musical talent. He provides appro-
priate numbers with a guitar and an in-
strument which whistles when shaken,
plays “The Campbells Are Cornin’ ” on
a jew’s-harp and rounds off by getting
an excerpt from “William Tell” out of
a safety-matchbox.
George Wallace turns in some laughs
in his usual manner, but, like a good
many natural comedians, George is better
at impromptu clowning than at getting
weak lines off his chest.
Jenny Howard is well enough known
and appreciated by Tiv. audiences, and
Texas Ranger Gary Cooper and Redcoat Preston Foster, both after the same man
—and woman —in “North-west Mounted Police” at Sydney Prince Edward. The
wonderful creature between them is Lynne Overman, Scots trapper, tracker and
odd-job man.
Magda Neeld is a comely lass with a
tiptop voice which would do quite nicely
without the aid of the swarms of bob-
bmg microphones which writhe up from
a stage these days like snakes from a bar-
room floor.
The Tiv. chorus girls look better every
time they are sighted, and they have
squad dancing to a fine art.
* * * *
Current Melb. Tiv. show mainly com-
prises local broadcasting “personalities,”
including Mrs. ’Dimes and Mrs. Kent-
whistle. A young lady who goes by the
name of Dilly tells smoke-room stories
while riding a bicycle in her nightdress,
the Littlejohns defy the laws of gravita-
tion with their feet and hands by juggling
various objects while reposing on revolv-
ing globes and the Leotards present an
amazing turn in which muscularity is
allied to gracefulness. The Tivoli lovelies
provide the punctuation.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Santa Fe Trail”
It would be interesting to know just
what attitude is taken by American edu-
cation authorities to the host of films
based on U.S. history and churned out
from Hollywood. Apart from their over-
romanticising of historic facts, these
must be of great value as an aid to
teaching history in American schools—
not so much from the point of view
of teaching what happened on May 3 in
the year Dot, but rather in the way that
they present a general picture of a period.
Certainly a fair number of Australian
juvenile film-fans, who would have pretty
hazy notions of the uniform worn by an
officer in Phillip’s first fleet, are familiar
to the last button with uniforms worn in
the American Civil War.
“Santa Fe Trail” goes into some of
the causes of the Civil War the
last few chapters in the life of abolitionist
John Brown. Errol Flynn and Olivia de
Havilland supply a romantic and adven-
ture interest, but they are relegated to
the position of minor characters by Ray-
mond Massey’s portrayal of the vigorous,
fiery and fanatical John Brown. The in-
terpretation of fanaticism is excellent.
The usual procedure is to portray
a fanatic as a raving lunatic, but Massey
does a masterly job, making him a sane
man with a bug about something.
“Mr. and Mrs. Smith”
American filmsmiths are experts at
turning on a promising beginning, even
if they don’t always follow it up. In
this Sydney Century offering they
introduce a successful young solici-
tor (Robert Montgomery) and his wife
(Carole Lombard), who have solved
the secret of steering clear of the divorce
courts by having a set of rules and set
procedure to be strictly adhered to in
the event of a domestic tiff. The opening
scene depicts Mr. and Mrs. Smith strictly
adhering to Rule No. I—that1 —that neither
party shall leave the bedroom after a
quarrel till they have reached a reconcilia-
tion. This may mean anything up to a
week or so ; here they are on their third
day.
But Mr. and Mrs. Smith are informed
that, through some instability of State
borders, they are legally Mr. Smith and
Miss Someone Else. Subsequently a
weary tale is unfolded, founded purely on
the wholly unreasonable and unrealistic
attitude adopted by Miss S. and her
mother on the question of the propriety
of continuing to live with a man —with
whom she has been living for three years
—because a State boundary has mean-
time wandered a little off its course.
They fence and spar in slow motion for
several reels, eventually come to grips
and melt into a clinch with strictly legal
wedding bells clanging in the offing.
♦ * * *
“Tin Pan Alley”
It has been recorded that Alice Faye
can throw more at the camera than any
of her well-upholstered, crooning and
hoofing sisters. In this current Sydney
Regent offering Alice has for her off-
sider one Betty Grable, a wench of
luxurious geometric curves, whose writh-
ings and contortions under the guise of
dancing would knock the chief of the
Sultan’s harem into a cocked hat. They
make the efforts of Alice in the same line
look like those of a blushing debutante.
And, while on the subject of sultans
and harems, it might be mentioned that
the one bright spot in an otherwise ordi-
nary opus is a stage set-up with Billy
Gilbert as sultan. He nibbles at a bunch
of grapes and boredly refuses to be
diverted from the job by the scores of
very much underclad damsels disporting
themselves about him with the set inten-
tion of diverting him from his meal.
For the rest, the film’s all about a
couple of musical publishers in Tin Pan
Alley—apparently the street in N’Yark
where most of the jazz-band music in the
world originates—with one of them chas-
ing after Alice and mixing his heart
affairs and business with disastrous
results until, of course, the fadeout. Fair
to middling entertainment for them that
likes such fare.
* * * *
“Busman’s Honeymoon”
It’s hard to forget Robert Mont-
gomery’s performance in “Night Must
Fall,” and the few slight comedy roles
he has figured in lately seem to have been
very lean bones to throw to him. In
his latest appearance in this current item
at Sydney Lyceum, though he does a
tidy bit of work, there’s little or nothing
for him to get his teeth into —just another
crime - comedy - romance, with Mont-
gomery and his bride on their honey-
moon and running foul of a battered
corpse in the basement of the house they
have taken over. Montgomery being
Lord Peter Wimsey, with amateur sleuth-
ing for his hobby, it goes without saying
that he apprehends the criminal just
within the limits of the running time.
Seymour Hicks figures as a butler, and
some of the supporting roles are very
well managed ; Constance Cummings, the
goil, has run a little to seed.
* * * V
“Tall, Dark and Handsome”
The sight of Charlotte Greenwood in
this film at Sydney Embassy will com-
pensate some of those who have done
their coin on her four-footed namesake.
The screen lady displays enough agility
and energy for her age to give High Caste
himself two stone and a licking. It’s a
bright thought to treat gangsters as comic
characters, and “Tall, Dark and Hand-
some” makes good use of the idea, with
Cesar Romero as a soft-hearted gangster
who keeps his gang-war “victims” in a
comfortable gaol in his cellar. A mixture
of light comedy and a bit of warbling by
Virginia Gilmore.


LADIES' FITTED
DRESSING CASES
from KITCHINGS’.
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings,
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
C. E, KITCHING
Pty.,
Ltd.,
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
First the heat, then the rain spoiled
Randwick as a dress parade. But Rand-
wick under the rain last Wednesday re-
vealed a beauty hidden from view when
the lawns are crowded with hurrying,
scurrying humanity. Wasn’t it
made the remark about grass “that
looked as if it had been left out all
night”? Well, that’s how the greenness
struck one on Wednesday. By the early
afternoon there were great patches of
blue in the sky, and the clouds had
turned from dour greyness to mischiev-
ous puff-ball things—a pleasant day on
which to back winners. Transparent
waterproofs and umbrellas whose trans-
parency was patterned in festive mood
were addenda carried by every woman.
Galoshes, too, plumped about sturdily in
spite of the disdainful glance of their
rich cousins with fur-trimmed tops.
Bettina MacPhillamy put in spirited
appearance on the opening day of the
meeting wearing riding kit, sandwich-
ing in Randwick between ring events
at the R.E.S. Ailsa Robertson did
the same on Ladies’ Day. Ailsa
had been busy packing up her horses and
sending them home from the Show.
Mrs. George Duncan was slim in black,
and wore a hat at once simple and subtle.
Mrs. Joe Coen was again to be seen.
During the meeting two of the most
attractive girls have been her daughters
Mario and Patricia. Mrs. Ken Mackay,
of Dungog, was fur-coated and felt-
hatted.
Blue like the patches of sky was June
Osborne’s suit. Golden brown were Mrs.
John Bruxner’s suit and hat, and tailored
to an English accent was Mrs. J. A.
Perkins’s grey outfit. Two charmful
things noted during the week were a
black marabou toque with a long tassel
worn by Marie Fagan, of Manurama,
and the three-tier necklet of opalescent
beads worn by Mrs. J. R. McKerihan.
The Fred McMaster lady was seen with
• daughter Thelma. A Queenslander all
in brown was Theresa Appleton. Mrs.
Gavin Cobcroft was one of the very
smart.
Two hundred and fifty guests assembled
in the ballroom of Government House
last Thursday night to applaud Marie
Ney, who put all her versatile art into
portraying the big moments in the lives
of six Shakspeare heroines. Marie was
using her talents in aid of the Australian
Aerial Medical Service. The actress wore
a full and swaying frock of black taffeta
that went particularly well with the Lady
Macbeth and Katharine of Aragon
numbers. It stood out in relief against
the pale blue drop curtain on the stage.
Pale blue, pink, and white flowers of
autumn had been arranged about the
rooms during the afternoon by the
Gordon lady, Mrs. Victor White, Mrs.
Nigel Smith and Mrs. Charlie Lloyd
Jones.
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst
were present, and with them were the
Governor of Victoria, Sir Winston
Dugan, and his wife. Captain and Mrs.
Paul Henry, of Melbourne, were in the
G.H. aura. Joan Holman, another visitor
from Melbourne, helped Henrietta Loder
to distribute programmes. Lady Wake-
hurst’s black chiffons were much shirred.
The Dugan lady was in a jade setting.
Ink blue and pale blue were contrasted
in Mrs. Neil McEacharn’s attire. Mrs.
Walter Swinson, Barbara Knox and Mrs.
Jimmy Dickson were among lovers of
the drama. The Mark Sheldons brought
daughter Mrs. Cuthbert Sheldon. The
Bertie Kellys, Mrs. Archie Rankin, Mrs.
Greg McGirr, Noreen Dangar and the
Halse Rogers sisters were other applause
bringers.
Don Bradman had a daughter born
last week. Mrs. Bradman was a Menzies,
of the Moss Vale (N.S.W.) district. They
have a son, John, who will be two in
July—a bit young for cricket, but he can
already throw hard and straight.
Everybody admired the dog stall at the
King George V Memorial Hospital fete.
It was surmounted by a frieze of Scotch
terriers, very amiable looking, and had
for chief attraction a dog kennel built of
dog biscuit. A pair of dachshunds or dis-
mal Desmonds made in red leather
melted the heart of all canine admirers.
Mrs. Fred Gallagher, of Inverell, was their
maker. The stall was gay with flags.
Mrs. McEvilly Jordan and Mrs. Clement
Chapman were responsible for the joyous
happening. Up on the Town Hall plat-
form with Lady Wakehurst, who opened
the fair, were members of the committee,
including the Street knightess, Mrs. Ben
Edye and Harry Tighe. Hospital chair-
man Dr. Bertie Schlink told to great
applause that he had received a cheque
for 500 guineas from shipping magnate
Tom Gordon.
Mayoress Crick went the rounds of the
stall escorted by daughters Patricia and
Shirley. The Tom Gordon lady was an
early buyer. Ethel Ranken had some-
thing new recipes for herb cock-
tails. There were chocolate wheels
and lucky packets and a children’s art
exhibition. This filled the vestibule with
Mr. and Miss Junior’s ideas of Friday
night, Monday morning and Saturday
afternoon. Monday morning and wash-
ing day seemed to be associated in the
minds of many of the young. The self-
portraits exhibited a touph of humor.
Many of the, entrants didn’t mind having
a smile at themselves.
Mrs. Urquhart, wife of Commander
Kenneth Urquhart, R.A.N., is the newly-
appointed hon. sec. for the women’s
auxiliary of the King George Fund for
Seamen. The next big effort for this
cause will be the shop specialising in
children’s wear, which will be run in June
by Mrs. Grace and Mrs. Muirhead-
Gould. These two ladies are making
many of the garments, but will be pleased
to receive gifts from clever needlewomen
to help their stock. Mrs. Urquhart
speaks French fluently, and has a know-
ledge of French literature. She was till
recently librarian at the French Alliance.
Now she has been appointed its secretary.
Since the war started the Anzac Fel-
lowship of Women has sent over 30,000
garments to raid victims in London.
Most of these have been babies’ kits, and
almost every one has been hand-made.
Last Friday in the Women’s Club about
300 pieces made an absorbing exhibition
of handcraft. These were the crop
gleaned from the just-completed knitting
contest. Here was a dusky-pink pull-
over made by an enthusiast of 83.
Near by was one in grass-green, which
had been worked by a young girl who
has lost an arm. Soft and fleecy baby
wear came from a group of blind knitters.
The Ist Katoomba Brownies were
helpers. The wool making bootees,
bonnet, dress and coat for a baby was
bought with pennies saved by this group.
In the Fellowship rooms on the day of
the prize allotting, Dr. Mary Booth and
organiser of the contest Mrs. Whitaker
smiled with satisfaction.
Kathleen Robinson presented Oscar
Wilde’s “Importance of Being Earnest,”
and also played one of its leading parts,
thus proving herself one of the tribe of
actor-managers, among whom London
reckons John Gielgud. The dresses in
this production, by the way, were copied
from a Gielgud production. They were
fussy, feminine and Victorian. But the
ladies within them had as direct a way
of reaching out for what they wanted as
the most ultra-modern of catch-as-catch-
can misses. Enid Lorimer, Margaret
Hodson and Jean Richardson were the
other charmful creatures of the comedy.
The production was to aid the R.A.A.F.
Central Area Comforts Fund. Though
the night was dark and stormy there was
a comfortably filled Conservatorium to
view the show. Dash was put into the
entry of the vice-regals by the presence
of a guard of honor of members of the
Australian Women’s Flying Club. With
Lord and Lady Wakehurst came Vic-
toria’s Governor, Sir Winston Dugan, and
his lady. Lady Wakehurst was in jade
and silver lame, and the short sleeves of
her jacket were banded in fur. Daughter
Henrietta and son Christopher were in
the group. Joan Holman, Joan Tyler,
Peter Lubbock and Lieut.-Col R. O.
Wynne were others in the G.H. party.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax,
knight Donald Cameron, Mrs. E. Salen-
ger, with daughter Mrs. Munro, and Pat-
ricia Wadley were in the audience.
In days filled with acts of destruction
Winifred Birkett is trying to buttress
creative art. Winifred is chairman of
an evening literary circle at the Lyceum
Club. This group busies itself with the
reading of books, plays and poems by
Australian writers. Then the works are
discussed, their beauty, promise or power
springing into brighter colors in the light
of appreciation. Winifred is one of this
country’s younger authors. Her novels,
Three Goats on a Bender, Earth’s
Quality (which was awarded the Austra-
lian Literature Society’s gold medal) and
Portrait of Lucy, have been well received
by the critics and the public. Photograph
by May Moore.
Mayor Crick is president of the whole,
since the concert will benefit his fund,
which is the direct expression of appre-
ciation to the boys of the fighting services.
The Alexander Gordon lady is president
of the concert committee. Lady Wake-
hurst, who, as well as Lady Gowrie, is a
patron, was at the meeting and spoke.
A bouquet here and now goes to her
and the Gordon lady for fine diction and
clear enunciation. Stella Power, who
was a sort of Melba fledgling, and is
known as the “Little Melba,” Una
Bourne, who so often played at the
diva’s concerts, and Lindley Evans will be
heard on the great night. The singer’s
old friend John Lemmone, who played
a flute that would not have disgraced
the wild slopes of Thessaly before tanks
were dreamed of, may play for us
again. He first said he would,
then wrote to say that he will be 80
next month, and that his last public
appearance was 14 years ago, and might
he be excused. But the committee feels
he would be the star of the night, and
will ask him again.
Melba, who did so much to raise
patriotic funds during the 1914-18 war,
will be represented at the concert on
May 19 which is to help the Mayor’s
Patriotic Fund. On that occasion, which
happens on Melba’s birthday night, the
memorial plaque to Australia’s greatest
singer will be unveiled. The memorial,
as you will remember, is the gift of the
generous Lord Lurgan, who had been
encouraged by Melba when he was a
just-beginning student of singing. The
wife of the Governor-General will unveil
the plaque, and the reading of a letter
in which Lady Gowrie agreed to do this
was one of the moments of the inaugural
meeting in the Mayoress’s rooms last
Thursday. Here is the letter: “Through-
out the ages in peace and war music has
been our inspiration. Never was this
more needed than today, when every
force for goodwill inspires us to keep
faith in our cause and in our fight for
a better world. May this concert be
worthy in every way of Melba’s great-
ness.”
About 300 took part in the Cocktail
Stakes run by the younger members of
the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund. This was
at Prince’s. For six shillings and six-
pence you were entitled to drink three
times, hard or soft; to dance ;to try your
luck at games of skill, and to make
merry generally. The young men present,
most of them in uniform, found no diffi-
culty about the last, for rarely has there
been gathered under one roof a prettier
batch of girls. Both Shirley Crick (our
Mayor’s daughter) and Pauline, his niece,
were there. Pauline, who is a V.A. at
the Lady Cowrie Red Cross Home for
Soldiers at Killara, and gets on to the
job with a group of other young war
workers around six o’clock in the morn-
ing, was again on active duty. She was
in charge of one of the afternoon’s
money-makers.
Edna Bowden, Pat Hunt and Mrs.
Mick Grace were there early to greet
the guests. Others, too, helping to start
the ball rolling were Eve Sheedy, Mrs.
M. Henry and Nancy Burleigh. Marcelle
Bishop was in a group who came on
after the races. The Mayor and Mayoress
were on deck.
Sydney Cooper, who is lending some of
his rare Chinese pieces to the English-
man’s Home Exhibition, belongs to the
old Australian Cooper family. Gran-
dad’s home was old Woollahra House.
He with many others went out to Bar-
bara Knox’s late-afternoon party at her
home, Rona, last Wednesday. Sydney
has been for years in China, and is lucky
enough to have lived in old Peking. Mrs.
Victor White, Mrs. Hector Clayton, Mrs.
Dundas Allen and Mrs. Harold Bott,
who are all giving a hand to make the
home worth its weight in goldleaf, were
other guests. Mrs. Penfold Hyland is
arranging a Chippendale room, and
there’s to be a Victorian room in papier
mache, A collection of jade, some of
the pieces over a thousand years old, will
be a certain lure to all women visitors
to the home. This will open its doors at
David Jones’s on May 6 in aid of the
Red Cross.
Late afternoon last Saturday saw the
gardens of Ginahgulla, the Bellevue Hill
home of Miss Mary Fairfax, unusually
crowded with humans, 500 or so of them.
They had come at the invitation of the
Young Contingent of the Victoria
League, and every one meant a donation
to the fund. Offerings were plumped
into a long and deep vase. A searching
glance in passing did not discover one
threepenny-bit among the silver coins,
but there was nice, crackly paper money
to swell the final count. The Hon. Hen-
rietta Loder, who is president of the
Young Contingent, and Miss Fairfax
received the guests. Money will go to
the Y.C. bomb victims’ clothing fund.
Sydney still remembers Victor Dandre,
the likeable husband of Pavlova. Last
week’s English mail brought a letter from
him to an Australian friend:
Our life in London is not very gay, and this
winter I have suffered very much from my gout.
I was in the habit of going each year to Aix-
ies-Bains; now the war has put an end to my
visits there for the time being. The blackout
makes it very difficult to go out at night, and
therefore we always stay indoors in the evening.
We read a great deal; sometimes we play
bridge. During the night our dreams are often
interrupted by the sound of ’planes with their
loads of bombs spreading death and destruction
and the booming of guns trying to protect us—
but one gets used to all this! You know that
after leaving Russia with Madame Pavlova
during the Bolshevist revolution we made Eng-
land our second homeland. I think I may claim
that I knew England and the English fairly
well —I know their excellent qualities and their
weaknesses. But this war has brought their quali-
ties into such prominence I feel I am learning
to know them anew—their strength and steadi-
ness of character, their capacity for self-denial,
their devotion to duty. All these and many
other fine traits have behind them a powerful
spiritual force. One begins to have faith in
human nature again, and to feel the certainty ot
victory over Nazism.
The news that Margaret Burns,
daughter of the Jimmy Burns couple, of
. Bowral, had become engaged in England
to Flying-Officer John Broughton, R.A.F.,
son of the H. H. Broughtons, of Darling
Point, caused wide interest. It had a sad
sequel: Flying-Officer Broughton is re-
ported “missing as a result of air opera-
tions.”
The onion is a rival to caviare in Eng-
land. As for nightingales’ tongues, if
romps past the winning post miles ahead
of them. A letter last week told that one
onion costs 3s. 9d. (or did at the time
of writing) and that one makes quite a
popular prize at bridge parties.


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name LOAN’S*
Missing Friends
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
NORMA ESTHER PATERSON and HAZEL
IRENE PATERSON, who are understood to
be residing in Australia and who are daughters
of Percy Bernard Paterson, late of Cambridge
and Amberley, New Zealand, is requested to
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Christchurch.
Legal Notice.
CECILIA MARTHA GARNOCK, late of
Bombala, State of New South Wales, Aus-
tralia, Married Woman, deceased, intestate,
who was the daughter of William Maurice
Thomas and Miriam Thomas, nee Seears.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity dated
9th August 1940 and made in a suit (Number
527 of 1940) intituled “In the Matter of the
Estate of Cecilia Martha Garnock late of
Bombala in -the State of New South Wales
Married Woman deceased intestate between Per-
petual Trustee Company (Limited) Plaintiff and
Joseph Wentworth Thomas Defendant” whereby
an enquiry was directed to ascertain who were
the persons entitled according to the Statutes
for the distribution of the estates of intestates
to the estate of the said Cecilia Martha Gar-
nock living at her death and whether any of
them have since died and if so who are their
respective legal personal representatives—
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquiry
are to send by post prepaid to PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), of 33
Hunter Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia, so as to reach it on or before the
24th November, 1941, their full Christian and
surnames, addresses and descriptions, and full
particulars of their claims, or in default thereof
they will be excluded from the benefit of the
said Order, unless the Court or a Judge thereof
or the Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend person-
ally or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, on Monday, the Bth December, 1941,
at 11 a.m., being the time appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the claims. A claimant not re-
siding in New South Wales must send with
particulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent.
DATED 2nd April, 1941.
F. C. BOYS, of Bombala, N.S.W., Solicitor
for Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
Melbourne
Chatter
A great success was the dance of the
week which revolved over the whole area
of St. Kilda Town Hall in aid of Air
Force auxiliaries. Organised by Mrs. Eric
Harrison, it was a brief for low-price
tickets and no “hard words” about
raffles. Maybe quite a lot of people went
home with money still in their pockets,
but then they’ll be all the more likely
to rise to the occasion some other time
if Mrs. Harrison asks them to. Inciden-
tals were a wheel which operated early
in the evening, and a hot-dog stall which
came to life after supper. A patron of
the wheel was Group-Captain Tom
Wilkes, who presented his better-half
with a cake dish as a result of a hunch
for ticket 13—he says he’s so used to this
number it’s just part of his make-up,
for several houses he’s rented and one
he owned were thirteens.
Mrs. Bob Menzies was in a party with
Captain and Mrs. H. L. Quick. Helping
at the hot-dog stall were Mrs. J. Forbes
Mackenzie and Betty Littlewood, chefs-
in-chief, and Guelda Pyke, Valerie and
Yvonne Cohen, who put over sales talk
and finally sold not only “dogs” but their
cook’s paper caps at a profit. Beef tea
was popular round about the hour of
lights-out.
An infant movement is the Younger
Set of the 2/23rd Battalion Welfare As-
sociation, which meets tonight at the
Combined Old Girls’ Club to talk about
a picture night at the Athenaeum on
May 1. Hon sec. is Della Martin, whose
mother, Mrs. Norman Martin, chatelaine
of the Country Leave Club, is enjoying a
well-earned holdiay. For the club within
the precincts of the old Green Mill is
enjoying a massage and building-up exer-
cise at the hands of carpenters and
painters. The boys of the three services
who are in the habit of visiting the club
on Sundays are of one voice with Mrs.
Martin that the reopening in a few weeks’
time should be something cheery like
the Christmas party.
Officers formed a guard of honor
outside Melbourne Grammar School
chapel for the marriage of Patricia Clegg
and Lieut. William Beresford Moffitt
Marks. A gown of silver brocade,
tulle veil and half-moon of orange
blossom formed the bridal apparel, and
also in the picture were four ’maids, Alice
and Marie-Louise Carse, Bunty Andrew
and Joan Marks in sky-blue taffeta with
red roses in their hair and upon their
arms. In the absence abroad of her
father, Lieut-Col. Humphrey Clegg, the
bride was given away by her brother,
Sergeant-Pilot George Clegg, R.A.A.F.
Lieut. Peter Peek was best man.
Thea Phillips, heard and much appre-
ciated in Verdi’s “Requiem” and to be
heard in many forthcoming choral pro-
grammes, is a first cousin of A. V. Alex-
ander, First Lord of the Admiralty. Inci-
dentally he is one of her favorite
relatives and she seems to be one of his.
A few years ago while passing through
Bristol cousin Bert saw cousin Thea’s
name billed for one of the famous six-
penny concerts which used to be a
feature of musical life in England. There-
upon he changed his mind, catching a
later train so that he, too, could have
his sixpennorth. Miss Phillips, who came
to Australia for grand opera some six
years ago (in the interim she returned to
England for 18 months), is fond of this
country, and was quite happy, even before
war broke out, to pitch her tent perma-
nently upon these shores. She’s interested
in Australian voices and agrees with other
visiting singers that this climate makes
for fullness and richness of tone. She
was recently appointed to the staff of
the University Conservatorium.
This is Judy Chirnside (Spencer Shier
photograph), whose marriage to Reshid
Bey takes place on April 26 at Christ
Church, South Yarra. Father Gordon
Chirnside will give away the young bride
—she recently turned 21. Sister June and
Virginia Deeley, of South Australia, will
attend, and Peter Ronald will be hench-
man for the ’groom.
“Bombed, safe, love to Sally” ran a
cablegram from Nevin Tait in London.
Another good-luck message for the
Firm’s first night on Saturday came from
Adelaide, from the first Sally, Josie Mel-
ville. New Sally, young Dot Rankin,
went through her big moment with starry
eyes and the tail-end of convalescence
from a broken foot, though no one
would have suspected it from the pluck
she showed in dancing. The house was
first-class in size and appreciation—
from comments it looks as if a success-
ful musical comedy has arrived at long
last. In days gone by there have been
innumerable likely starters, but short-
comings were always noticeable to dis-
cerning critics.
Interested spectator in the front of
the stalls was Mrs. Danny Reddan, going
in heavily for gipsy stripes upon gown
and turban. She must have been a babe
when she danced in the first “Sally” co.,
’way back in the early nineteen twenties.
Among young things present were Betty
Wallace Mitchell and Betty Jess, the
former Betty wearing white and a color-
ful wrap sent from the Middle East by
fiance Carl Jess. Pam Forster was notice-
able in moonlight blue with scintillating
tunic and severe turban.
The Victoria League goes off to market
on Friday, May 9, at 9 Darling-street.
Among wares upon the stalls will be
produce so fresh that dew still sparkles
upon every green leaf; flowers uncon-
scious of the fact that knives have
severed their stalks from life-giving
earth ; poultry all set for the oven ; jams
and cakes that make housewives’ hearts
thump with pride. The Victoria Leaguers
can take superlatives in all relations of
good citizenship and domestic talents.
Those who can’t come to the fair can
assist materially by following the pro-
cedure of market gardeners, but in an
honorary capacity. Other incidentals of
the afternoon include bridge card
addicts can indulge in their hobby from
two till six—and a “white elephant”
stall. The “elephants” surely sound
ominous; but “one man’s meat’s an-
other’s poison” has its vice versa, and
there’s a good chance that a loving hand
with a daily duster may be the fate in
store for odd pieces of junk.
The Market Fair will assist the Vic-
toria, League’s war and peace work. Use-
ful war service includes the league’s Hos-
pitality Bureau, which through Mrs. Wil-
liam Riddell and other liaison officers
behind a 2ft.-wide counter at Air Force
House has extended friendly gestures to
some 36,287 men. The league V.A.Ds.
and Emergency Co. under the wing of
Mrs. Hellier Evans, whose war work
seems to have full-time proportions, are
going strong in their blue uniforms and
white veils. Books and papers are col-
lected as never before, and 8000 gar-
ments have been dispatched to the Red
Cross and Comforts.
In black, silver foxes and a swelter of
orchids Mrs. Eleanor Knox entertained
at the Lyceum in honor of the David
Martin couple and the Minerva cast
playing in “Room for Two” at the
Comedy. Mrs. Knox certainly qualified
as a 100-p.c. hostess. She managed with-
out fuss to introduce everybody to every-
body else with no confusion of names
and no mental aberrations about those
who knew one another already. Mrs.
Martin, in black and floral headpiece,
did her own and her husband’s share of
guest-of-honor duties—for her spouse had
made an unexpected dash back to Sydney
on the Spirit of Progress on the previous
evening. In her tweed suit Mary Ward
looked fit for any ocasion, though she
said she was slowly cooking (it was a
humid afternoon). Hal Thompson,
Gaston Mervale and Eric Reiman were
on deck ; also producer Gerald Kirby,
who made on “Room for Two’s” first
night a curtain speech (“Haven’t we been
naughty?”) that he’ll never live down.
Ginger-topped Hal Thompson, who
escorted Sheila Helpman in suit and
quilled toque, confessed to old Mel-
bourne friends that (1) his health is now
fine and dandy ; (2) he likes cream cakes
and doesn’t worry about dieting when he
goes out to tea ; (3) he feels embarrassed
from the word “go” in female roles,
though he’s satisfied with his make-up.
He’s no modest violet about praising his
own feet; says they’re “just beautiful” in
a woman’s six and a half shoe with a
three-inch heel. They hurt, of course,
but they never give him a feeling that
he’s going to measure his length on the
floor.
At one of last week’s dress rehearsals
little waif Sally, otherwise Dot Rankin,
wore valuable white foxes for the first
time in her young life. They almost
reached her knees, and Dot was pop-
eyed with wonder. Producer Chapman
was not so silent. “If anyone brings a
moth into this theatre I’ll be after them
with the garden rake.”
A romance which commenced during
University days recently reached the
stage of felicitations and an engagement
ring. Participants are Margaret Schofield
(Antoine photograph) and Dr. Dudley
Edwards. The bride-to-be, known to her
friends as Bunty, is the second daughter
of Canon and Mrs. J. A. Schofield, of
All Saints’ Vicarage, East St. Kilda, and
her fiance is the only son of Mr. and
Mrs. L. D. Edwards, of Herston, Brisbane.
At present he is a resident medico at
Launceston Hospital. Bunty is a
Mus.Bac. and well known among young
pianists. No doubt she will receive plenty
of encouragement to keep up her music
after her marriage, for Dr. Edwards,
though no musician, is an appreciative
listener.
Lilliputian - minded Mrs. Oswald
Gibson is on the job once more —her
latest effort being Lilliput Arcade, ex-
hibited, as were its architectural pre-
decessors, in aid of war funds. By
her handwork Mrs. Gibson has raised
almost £2OOO for charities and patriotic
appeals. The arcade, built on the scale
of one inch to one foot, contains a dozen
odd stalls and is fronted by a nice little
effort in town-planning with shrubs and
a green lawn (its secret to a probing eye
being towelling dyed grass-green). Trans-
parent celluloid roofs and walls are an
adjunct to some of the stalls.
The animal shop is protected
from the weather by an awning on
pulleys. Inhabitants are canines of
all kinds, cats, infinitesimal spots
of color that are nevertheless gold-
fish, and budgerigars in cages. Butcher’s
shop and fish market overcame any com-
plexes Mrs. Gibson had about rubber-
necking at glass windows. She stood for
hours sketching fish on the backs of
envelopes or in her mind. Results were
highly satisfactory, and with a fine paint-
brush and delicate tints in silver and
other colors she has made faithful and
artistic reproductions of piscatory foods.
The butcher’s shop stocks everything
from sides of bullock, porkers, spring
lamb and rabbits to bones for the dog.
Fruit and vegetable stalls are inviting—
market gardeners have managed to pro-
duce crops from all four seasons. Other
adjuncts of the Arcade include a hair-
dressing salon, a dress shop (its gilt
mirrors are charming) and a library, the
tiny volumes bound in suede. Mrs.
Gibson finished her task with only a
handful of barbola to spare. At the
moment she has no idea what she will
use for further Lilliputian efforts in place
of this pre-war modeller’s product. The
Arcade is on show at Buckley’s in aid
of the Comforts Fund. Later, like its
predecessors, it will go on tour.
News comes from London of comedian
W. S. Percy, whose association with
Pollard and J.C.W, donkey’s years ago
made him known to all Australasian
theatregoers. He has been living such
strenuous days in the ranks of London’s
A.R.P. that his health has broken down.
While entertaining patients at a big hos-
pital he collapsed suddenly and had to be
detained as a patient for a while. Percy's
own home was bombed. A daughter is
on the staff of the M.L. High Commis-
sioner in London.
Raymond Maxwell Crawford, whose
Ourselves and the Pacific was recently
published in Melbourne, has already
made his mark in the study and teaching
of history. Born at Grenfell (N.S.W.)
in 1906, he was educated at Sydney
High and Sydney Uni., where, in 1927,
he collected his B.A. (first-class honors
in history) and the Woolley Travelling
Scholarship, which took him to Balliol
College, Oxford. A few years after his
return to Australia, he became lecturer
in history at Sydney Uni., and he took
S. H. Roberts’s place while that pro-
fessor was abroad collecting facts and
fancies for The House That Hitler
Built. In 1937 Crawford succeeded
Ernest Scott in the Chair of History al
Melbourne Uni.
The first award of the Masson
Memorial Scholarship by the Australian
Chemical Institute goes to Joan Money,
who has had a very successful academic
career. The scholarship, founded by sub-
scription as a memorial to knight David
Masson, in his day a leader of the chemi-
cal profession in Australia, provides for
a year of post-graduate research and
study.


*ou im * **&
to Experiment
Your Business. ■ • ■
t all likely that any sane
IT >s not at al a course .
i person would o{ your
Why *en Uav aggravated
Estate, with > fricnd or relative
by y ° Ur fittld’to carry out the dnt.es.
quite undue j osseS (often
In SUCl bleT almost inevitable,
irreparable) , The Union Trustee
On the other hand Th a nd
Company 18 . , undertake such
specially organised to n an d over half
work, fts "““ al experience m
a century of P of Estates guarantee
handling all man
sd
tmistce tMWW
n» 0*
wit h Established Offices m
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
14-16 DENHAM STREET, TOWNSVILLE
MARGARET STREET, TOOWOOMBA
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pert
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
North to Darwin
“Philp”: “Thousands of happy, sun-
tanned soldiers,” mostly from N. S.
Wales and Victoria, have gone to Darwin
in “the biggest movement of troops in
the history of Australia.” They entrained
from S.A. for Alice Springs, transport
trucks carried them from there to the
railhead at Birdum, and the remaining
300-odd miles to Darwin were covered
by rail.
If the troops followed the usual route
I’d say that the part that interested them
most in their journey was the Alice
Springs-Tennant Creek section. After
they had twisted through the Mac Do-
nnell Ranges, just north of the Alice, they’d
have rolled on to Ti-Tree Well, with its
little store and, if it’s still intact, the
underground cellar built as a refuge from
the heat. A few miles on from Ti-Tree
they’d have passed Mount Stuart, “the
centre of Australia,” and then Barrow
Creek, nestling in a ring of hills, over
which many years ago abos. came and
attacked the telegraph station, wounding
some and killing others—their grave is
just in front of the station and protected
by a low stone wall and an old over-
hanging tree.
After Barrow the lads would have
passed through the Devil’s Marbles —
and I hope the route they followed did
take them through these —great boulders,
each larger than a house, balancing pre-
cariously on each other in piles of half
a dozen or more, the heaps stretching
for miles as though some juvenile prehis-
toric giant had flung them down. On
past the Marbles is Tennant Creek, the
prosperous ’field which is still confound-
ing its critics.
There’s a new all-weather road from
Tennant to Birdum, and the soldiers
reported that it made good riding except
near Newcastle Waters —a station home-
stead, a pub and a store or two —where
heavy rains had washed some of it away.
By the time they reached Birdum the trans-
ports were well out of the desert and the
open pastoral country bordering on the
Barkly Tableland and getting into the
tropics. The old railway line from Bir-
dum to Darwin is closely fringed with
big trees and, further north, any amount
of tropical growth. No doubt the travel-
lers saw some of the massive orange ant-
hills, 20ft. and more tall; some of the
’roos that abound along the line, and the
steep creeks and rivers which are prac-
tically impassable by road in the wet.
They' would have passed through Matar-
anka, with its low, creeper-covered hotel,
and Elsey station and the Roper River
near by; over the high bridge which
spans the Katherine River with its peanut
farmers —if hard times haven’t driven
them away—and through Katherine,
about the largest town along the line and
recently the base of flying-doctor Fenton,
now in the R.A.A.F.
After Katherine
comes Pine Creek,
where years ago
Chinese turned the
ground into a warren
with their haphazard
search for gold;
then through Brock’s
Creek, where Fanny
Haynes—whose first
husband was N.T.
member in the S.A.
Parliament —used to,
and may still, pre-
side over the Brock’s
Creek Hotel. From
Brock’s to Adelaide
River, where the
buffalo hunters bring their skins, and
then to Darwin,
It’s a good trip at any time, and the
troops evidently had the time of their
lives —beer every day from a mobile
refrigerating unit, good tucker, with fresh
fruit and vegetables and mail every night.
There were few cases of sickness.
“23-4”: Tell “Poi-poi” (B. 16/4/’4l)
that a means of transporting milk to the
tropics in good condition has been found,
the first shipment of frozen milk from
Queensland having reached Singapore. It
so pleased the recipients that a further
order for 800 gallons has been received,
and Indo-China and the Philippines
are making inquiries. The milk is placed
in 4-gal. tins, two to a case, cooled at the
factory and sent to a freezer to be con-
verted into solid blocks, a five-day treat-
ment. On arrival it is thawed out and
then pasteurised. Milk for such treatment
must have a minimum acidity content,
The first consignment gave producers a
profit above that for butter.
* * * *
“Norther”: The Italian is a whole-
souled all-inner when he feels a sense
of injustice, a fact discovered by a pound-
keeper and his offsider in the Innisfail
district recently when they attempted to
impound two cows and a horse. Their
Italian owner, his family and a com-
patriot appeared with sticks, and for a
quarter-hour there was a lively dust-up,
“ Don't take any more Water out —We aint got too much draught as it is.”
interlarded with good Australian curses
and the shrieking falsetto of enraged
Italian men, women and kids. The stray
horse took to its scrapers, and the bovine
bones of contention chewed solemn cuds
until the attack was repulsed. It cost the
Italians £2 each and costs to learn that
grazing in the “long paddock” is a risky
business.
* * * *
The Bulletin has a caller:
When he came into the office you could
guess from the look of him that he was a
Highland man; another Cameron, perhaps.
But he said his name was Duncan McGregor, and
after the fashion of his race he came straight
to the point: “It’s 50 yearns noo,” he said,
“I’ve been readin’ The Bulletin, and for
forrrty-five yearrrs I’ve been promisin’ mahsel’
tha’ I’d ca’ intae the office; an’ I’ve done
it.” And out came a laugh that rattled the
windows. The source of his mirth, he re-
vealed, was that the boys at Batavia River,
Cape York Peninsula, had bet him he’d never
get inside The Bulletin. This, therefore, is
to record that Duncan did, and to call upon
Batavia River to pay up. Duncan was a 1914-18
soldier, and has sons in the present war. He
has roamed over most of Australia looking for
gold, and, at the moment, has an interest in
mercury.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: One thing which has
probably put a different complexion on
war in Greece is the modern technique
of dealing with malaria. In 1917-18 alone,
34,762 malaria patients were invalided
from the British Salonika force. Aus-
tralia had its own lesson in New
Guinea. The changes which better clinical
knowledge, preventive measures and
mosquito destruction have brought about
are shown by the latest New Guinea
medical figures. Only 215 persons were re-
ported suffering from malaria and black-
water in 1938-39 ; only eight died from
the two diseases, which is remarkable,
having regard to the conditions of out-
lying districts. In Rabaul there were 83
malaria cases and no deaths.
* * * *
“Pap-pap”: The Minister in Charge
of External Territories, a Mr. Collins
(these grandiloquent titles are great stuff
for par.-writers paid by the line), has an-
nounced that a Pacific Copra Marketing
Board is to be established soon, with
headquarters in Port Mores—sorry,
Sydney. Australia, Maoriland, Fiji and
the W.P. High Commissioner are to be
represented, and the board will institute
a scheme to assist copra-producers, in-
cluding the Free French. Whether it
proposes to persuade our wives to use
more soap isn’t stated, but it is worth
noting that a stray northern visitor to
the Sydney Show remarked on the
absence of coconut shies, which offer one
means of using up the crop. It is hard
to see what good a board stationed in
Sydney can do. The feelings of a planter
at (say) Kavieng trying to do business
with a control authority at far-away
Sydney had best not be expressed in
print,
* „ * , *
Balander : A Canberra P
that power alcohol P ro u
sugarcane will be increase o , ,
gallons a year four times p - P
duction as a result ot recom e
°£ a committee of inquiry,
now three p.a. distilleries m action, at
Sarma (Q.), Pyrmont (N.S. .) an *
ville (Vic.) and they are using all the
molasses they can get. For that reason
and others the committee suggests the
use of raw sugar, holding that this would
keep the distilleries going all the year
round and step up output by upwards or
5,000,000 gallons a year—it is expected
to reach 4,000,000 by the end of this
year. A ton of sugar yields 125 gallons
of p.a. at only slightly increased cost, and
if the idea is feasible it may open a large
home market for sugar. An American
report claims that good paper can be
made from a 50-50 combination of sugar-
cane bagasse and wood pulp, and research
workers in Peru aver that newsprint and
bond paper can be made from bagasse
alone, the cost comparing favorably with
Canadian pulp. If this war does nothing
else but wake Australia up to the poten-
tialities of many of its by-products it will
have achieved something.
* * * *
“Steele”: W. H. Rudd joined Walter
Reid and Co., of Rockhampton, in 1879.
Son of a Sheffield (Eng.) cutlery maker,
he was educated at Sheffield and came
to Queensland as a youth. He managed
Reid and Co. for 54 years, watched it
spread into the west and south to Bris-
bane and Sydney, and himself travelled
the west with packhorse and samples.
He became a director of several com-
panies and was Vice-Consul for Norway
for many years. He was 87 at the end.
* * * *
“23-4”: A number of Queensland
firms are set to begin mutton-canning,
provided they can get the jumbucks
at reasonable prices. The Commonwealth
Government has given a sort of tentative
guarantee that it can use as much canned
mutton as can be produced. Existing
meat-canning plants are expected to be
able to handle the mutton. Meat-canning
in the State has gone ahead in recent
years. Tinned meat export was worth
£140,000 in 1936-37 ; for the first half of
the current season it was worth £500,000.
Whether sheepmen are prepared to accept
canning prices for their old stock remains
to be seen, and some people are talking
about inviting the Commonwealth to sub-
sidise growers. A canning industry would
help offset the effects of the ban on
frozen exports, which came into force
this month, especially if the Empire forces
in the Middle East maintain their appe-
tites. i


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
A Westralian storekeeper’s telling criticism of bureaucratic control of farm
industries, as he sees it in operation, goes on top this week.
Bureaucracy Run Wild
I have just read The Grapes of Wrath,
and there seemed to be something un-
comfortably analogous in the shocking
accounts of destruction of farm goods
in the U.S.A. and our own position here,
with our Apple and Pear Boards and
Boards for Onions and Eggs and Pea-
nuts and heaven knows what. Friends
I know in these agrarian pursuits tell me
some very puzzling stories of the indig-
nities they suffer at the hands of their par-
ticular swarm of bureaucrats. They cannot
give a case of apples away to a hospital—
one man couldn’t even rail a case to his
own son further down the line—they
cannot feed them to the pigs, one cannot
even grow the humble onion in peace.
As a storekeeper a few miles away, I
am told by my merchant that onions are
scarce and high in price.
The local farmers want to bring me
eggs for resale, but such a simple pro-
cess is not the kind of thing that bureaux
tolerate. The eggs have to be stamped
and sent to Perth, and held there for
inspection, and I can order from there
and rail them all the way back here
again, and finally sell them—the same
eggs that a week or so ago were warmly
fresh a few hundred yards from my
back door. A farmer battling on the
land for years now cannot grow what
wheat he wants, and cannot dispose of
what he does grow. A single fruit-tree
in the garden means a license for an
orchard, and the owner of this solitary
tree is bound by the same innumerable
regulations as govern the harassed pro-
fessional orchardist —he may not pass
a case of apples across the fence to his
neighbor!
What does it all mean? Where is the
sense in some well-meaning committee
in Perth getting out pamphlets on the
health of the child population and talk-
ing about the lack of vitamins, for in-
stance, while a few miles down the river
apples are rotting under trees and eggs
are travelling up and down the railways
being stamped and going bad? It cannot
possibly be denied that there are many
mouths going without all this food that
is being destroyed. Into what unholy
tangle has our so-called system led us
when we cannot take advantage of the
abundant fruits of this good earth? What
plan is behind it —if there is a plan, and
not just bureaucracy gone hog-wild?—
R. H. G. (W.A.),
Said Mr. Anthony, the Assistant Min-
ister for Commerce, defending the Apple
Board against accusations of waste: “It
costs as much to pick and transport the
fruit as it does to grow it.” If this is
true it can be true only because picking
and carrying are done by well-paid labor
and growing by ill-paid but skilled labor.
The grower is at a further disadvantage
in that he must accept the risks and in-
vest a fair wad of capital.
Had the Apple and Pear Board, in-
stead of confiscating the fruits of the
orchardist’s labor, taken over the whole
orchard, with perhaps an accompanying
mortgage or payments due on orchard
machinery, and paid its officials to carry
out ploughing, pruning, spraying (every
few weeks), thinning, cultivating, caring
for horses and plant, manuring and graft-
ing it would see the jobs in different per-
spective.—L. F. (Vic.).
Radio and the Child Mind
Of late years the teachers in charge
of the lower grades at suburban schools
have noticed some puzzling features
about their young charges. Nearly all
the kiddies in a class will appear to be
listening to their teacher with close atten-
tion, but a question or two reveal the
fact that they have acquired the knack
of thinking of other things without pay-
ing even a passing attention to what is
being said. Their facial expression gives
no clue to the fact that their thoughts
are far away.
Radio appears to be the villain of the
piece. In many homes the radio set
blares without ceasing, and the kiddies
have to carry*, on their conversations
among themselves, play games or do their
homework without listening to the voice
from the radio set. They carry this
ability to ignore what is being said into
the classroom.
The schools can do little to correct the
harm being done; but I’d advise all
parents to go back to the old-style family
conversation around the dinner-table and
to keep the wireless set silent at meal-
times, and also to tune in to restful musi-
cal programmes until the younger
children have been sent to bed. — Infant
Mistress (S.A.).
Training Youngsters
I can illustrate “Tynesider’s” interest-
ing account of English training ships (B.
2/4/’4l) and their worth in converting
“dead-end kids” into fine citizens. I
went to school in Northumberland with
a young chap who was the incarnation
of all boyish wickedness. He was a liar
and a sneak-thief, and he had a fiendish
temper. His escapades culminated in his
being expelled from school, and as a last
resort his distracted parents dispatched
him to H.M.S. Blank.
The rest reads like a Hollywood scen-
ario of the bad-boy-makes good type.
When he came home on his first leave his
conduct was as shining as the brass but-
tons on his cadet uniform. The change
was so unexpected that it gave his parents
fresh grounds for worry, and he spent
his first leave in an atmosphere of mis-
trust. I met him for the last time a
week or so before I sailed for Australia.
He was big and tough, had a quizzical
gleam in his eye and was heartily con-
temptuous of all those who didn’t sail
the Seven Seas.
But from the contents of a letter I
received recently from a sister living at
Newcastle-on-Tyne the curtain has been
rung down for him. “It is believed that
your old schoolfellow Johnny went
down with his ship in the Atlantic. He
has left a wife and three kiddies, all
living at Newcastle.” — Zend Avesta (Q.).
“Her Worship”
C. Halbert (B. 2/4/’4l) is a brilliant
dialectician, but psychological terminology
can be made to cover lack of logic. His
long list of womanly virtues fitting the
female to become a puissant Judge has
one fatal omission—commonsense.
One is reminded of David Copper-
field’s arrival at Dover. When the boy
appeared at his aunt’s door, hungry, dirty
and footsore, the good-hearted, clever
lady wrung her hands helplessly as she
contemplated the task of providing for
his future. She was willing to sacrifice
anything and everything for the prodigal,
but didn’t know just where to begin.
“Give him a bath!” said the dull-witted
Dick. And he was right
After all, the crude
command “Get back to
the home and have
brats!” is only a collo-
quial rendering of the in-
junction that was
breathed o’er Eden: “It
is not good for man to
be alone. Multiply and
replenish the earth.” The
advice may be futile, but
it certainly has a per-
fectly sound legal prece-
dent.
No Freudian phrases
can hide the fact that the
mother has always spared
the rod and spoiled the
child, leaving the father
to do the laying on of
hands. C.H. admits the
fact, also the resultant
“retributive father” com-
plex and aversion to
male authority. Tis true
’tis pity. Then why per-
petuate the mistake on
the Bench? If woman
cannot administer justice
in the home how can she
do it in the court?
Her Worship’s very
virtues would be her un-
doing. Her mercy would
not only temper justice;
it would tamper with it.
Her swift intuition would
outstrip the evidence and
arrive at conclusions
without waiting to hear
the other side. “Logic without feel-
ing” does not sound pretty, but it
is what Judges are paid to dispense.
“Feeling without logic” is what breeds
delinquency, juvenile or adult. I can
well remember playing up to it in order
to avoid punishment when I got into
youthful scrapes and heard the fateful
words: “Just you wait till father comes
home! ” —D. Linquent (S.A.).
f*
V.D.
For years the v.d. problem and its
solution —or lack of solution —has been
aggravated by the conflict of medicine
and morals. Medically, the problem has
resolved itself to the prevention of dis-
ease ; but if the methods chosen are such
as to affect not only the incidence of dis-
ease but human behavior, there is, say
the ethical, a moral problem, too. For
this reason many people are disturbed
by the policy of making prophylactics
available to the troops: protection
against v.d., they aver, makes promis-
cuity attractive. The obvious answer to
this argument is that clinics for the effec-
tive treatment of v.d. would have the
same effect.
The whole problem of v.d. prophylaxis
should be considered almost exclusively
from a medical angle. Many people
know the rudiments of first-aid, although
they will not necessarily sustain a severed
artery or accidentally swallow a corro-
sive. A knowledge of v.d., its nature and
prevention by methods other than per-
sonal continence should be popularised
in the same manner as other precaution-
ary propaganda. If specific educational
methods keep the soldier fit and clean,
why should these measures not be open
to the civilian army?— Charles Halbert
(S.A.).
Art of Living
After exhaustive scientific research the
British Food Ministry has evolved a one-
dish meatless meal containing all re-
quisite nutritive components suitably
balanced and in adequate amount, com-
posed of cheap and readily-obtainable
ingredients and requiring the minimum
of cooking, labor and fuel. Tried out
experimentally by the ruler of this house-
hold, it was, allowing for differences of
components, as good a Malay vegetable
curry as I’ve ever enjoyed.
The Ministry and others, too, might
do well to follow up further the methods
of the world’s most skilful exponents of
the art of achieving the maximum of
practical result with the minimum of
effort and material. Malay dress com-
bines comfort and dignity with essential
simplicity. A Malayan peasant’s house
is replete with every mod. con. that he
and his missus have any real use for, and
is excellently suited to whatever climatic
conditions they happen to live under.
His colloquial language—not, of course.
Court Malay—eliminates all unnecessary
words, articles, inflexions and other non-
essentials, yet is completely clear and
lucid.
He lives unworried by complexes or
Freudian fantods, with peace of mind as
the only essential in his psychological
make-up. If he loses it he proceeds to
"Quick, Joe, toss up the brandy; y'r wife’s
fainted !”
impress the fact on the community at
large with a sharp kris, and is rapidly
translated by their combined reaction to
an assured heaven. Obviously, therefore,
it is to the advantage of everyone to be
as nice as possible to everyone else.
When it comes to settling up a Nazi-
free Europe I’ll certainly vote for full
Malayan representation on the practical
side of the job.— Colbun (Q.).
War-savings Certificates
The other day an elderly voluntary
worker dropped in at my office to urge
the formation of a group for buying war-
savings certificates. He briefly stressed
the patriotic reasons, then dwelt at great
length on the private advantages of the
investment. Among other things, he
mentioned with obvious pride that
through his influence all the members
of one family had withdrawn their entire
savings from the State Savings Bank and
bought war-savings certificates with the
money, thus getting higher interest.
This organiser is probably typical of
many would-be helpers of the war effort
who have completely misunderstood the
purpose of the war-savings certificate.
The savings banks already exist for the
purpose of collecting and lending money
for Government and other requirements,
and deposits in them are being used for
the war effort. The war-savings cer-
tificate was never intended to. take the
place of the savings bank deposit as a
means of providing money ; it was in-
tended to supplement existing methods
of saving, in particular to afford a means
of regular saving for small wage-earners.
People who withdraw savings bank
deposits and buy war-savings certificates
are not “helping finance the war.” All
that they are doing is to help themselves
to more interest on their savings than
the banks provide.—Wusslean (Vic.).
Vocational Guidance
The cost of a Government Vocational
Guidance Department (B. 26/3/’4l)
would be more than offset by the gain
to the country through the elimination
of unskilled labor—which has been the
bugbear of Australia for years. If it
were supplementary to the Education
Department and proper co-operation
were established between them the cost
would not be so great. Anyway, the
Education Department is run at enor-
mous cost too, but that doesn’t warrant
its confiscation.
Even if there are psychological insti-
tutes in every capital for those who can
afford to pay for advice, what about the
great majority who can’t? And what
about the parents who can afford to
pay, but won’t?
A hopeful parent may refuse to be
persuaded by a Government official as
to the occupation most suited for her
son, but she would change her mind if
she were fined by a heartless brute of a
magistrate.— Danbo (Vic.).
Wheat
From now on the growing of wheat
should be confined to areas like the
Malice, where even the present price
returns but a bare living to the grower
and where little can be done in the way
of growing alternative crops.
In more fertile areas, where ten-bag
crops are the rule rather than the excep-
tion, the present guaranteed price makes
wheat a very payable proposition. As
a result, farmers on those areas who
have no need to grow wheat are con-
tinuing to do it. One big property near
me has 500 acres under fallow ready to be
sown with wheat. Another man refused
to tender for a job of ploughing up
some newly-cleared land and sowing it
down with pasture—his tractor and plant
would be fully occupied in preparing
every available paddock on his own farm
for wheat, as well as additional land on
a neighboring property which he was
going to crop on shares. That sort of
thing is going on all over the more
assured rainfall areas of southern Aus-
tralia.
It is not too late for drastic orders to
be given for these men to sow their
fallow with lucerne or clover and grass
pasture mixtures. I am closing down
my farm for the duration and working
in the nearest munition plant, instead
of listening to any more rot about stay-
ing on the land to produce foodstuffs.
There must be thousands of men like
me who have been rejected by the army
but who have been handling tools all
their lives and who can do a day’s work
with anyone. Half of our present farms
will be able to produce enough to feed
the people at home and the small ex-
port surplus for which shipping space
will be available. Of course, I shall lose
financially by leaving the farm —but if
the other side wins this war I won’t


“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
23/41*41 (See Page 60)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department, The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.
have any farm at all to worry about.
And Britain needs ships, guns, ’planes,
tanks and munitions from us, not wheat.
— Tompion (S.A.).
“Sam Square” (B. 5/2/’4l) says that
wheat has been “stabilised” by the Gov-
ernment, but he doesn’t mention that the
costs of wheatgrowing were not stabilised
at the same time. Super, costs have risen
a trifle of 21s. a ton ; petrol for carting,
spare parts, sacks, plough oil, harness,
tyres, etc., have all gone up considerably
during the last 12 months.
In Westralia it is possible for men
on large-scale wheat production to pro-
duce wheat cheap if they are renting
abandoned farms from the Agricultural
Bank at about \\ bushels an acre rental,
and have large tractors working on pro-
ducer-gas. But those properties are no
longer farms ; they are wheat factories
concentrating on mass production. They
can produce the goods all right, but three
or four years of such treatment and the
soil loses its fertility, as sheep are not
generally kept. It is terrible to see, on
drought-dry days, great clouds of cocoa-
brown soil flying away from the culti-
vated land with every wind that blows.
—Opal Lynn (W.A.).
It is a sad thing to have a banker like
“D.C.Q.” (B. 19/3/’4l) complaining
about wheatgrowers failing through pay-
ing too much for their land. Certainly
many wheatgrowers gambled on high
prices continuing, and lost. But the
bankers were equally culpable ; they en-
couraged the gambling by lending money
on high valuations. They, however, didn’t
lose —not nearly so much as the wheat-
growers, anyway.
There is no analogy between the failure
of a small businessman and the threat-
ened failure of the wheat industry. Wheat-
growing is the most important industry
in Australia, because more people,
directly and indirectly, make a living out
of it than out of any other industry in this
country. Should the wheat industry crash,
thousands of small businesses will just
vanish —as they are now doing in many
wheat districts in N.S.W. —and railways,
factories and steelworks will experience
an unprecedented depression.
“D.C.Q.’s” taxation contribution to the
wheat-farmers is microscopic compared
with his contribution, in protective duties,
to the secondary industries. The yield to
the farmer from the flour tax is so negli-
gible that it is not worth consideration
in his budget. The tax doesn’t make
bread dear; that is achieved by the
millers and bakers. There is only a
penny’s worth of wheat in a sixpenny
loaf of bread. Moreover, the guaranteed
price for wheat is not to be a tax on
the country, because any cost the Govern-
ment has to bear will be reimbursed
when world prices rise above the guar-
anteed level. And, since the level is so
low, this reimbursement should take place
as soon as normal trading begins again.
—Soe (N.S.W.).
The Australian
The absence of dialects and the uni-
versality in type of mainland Australians
are features which I have never seen
commented upon in print.
Considering that for many years the
various colonies were separated widely,
with only sea travel available between
them, this situation is remarkable; in
fact, it is hard to find a counterpart in
the world. European countries are
riddled with dialect —the man from
Somerset, for example, can hardly under-
stand him from Northumberland. In
the United States local influence on
speech and manners is noticeable ; the
Easterner differs from the Californian.
Possibly Russia is an exception ; but in
China the dialects are amazing, and in
lapan also, though in a less degree. The
South American countries resemble Aus-
tralia, yet each country differs in its
national speech, based on the Spanish
tongue.
Even in Chile, Peru, Malaya, China,
lapan and the South Sea Islands, the
Australian does not change with his
environment.
Tasmania is the exception among Aus-
tralian States. The Tasmanians differ
“Take the best forty years of a girl's life and dump her. Would you?
from mainlanders in many ways, owing
to their insular position. Also, it must
be remembered, that in the heyday of
whaling hundreds of American, British,
Dutch, French, Norwegian and Chilean
whale ships made Hobart their base in
the Southern Ocean, and they must have
left their mark. The only ports on the
mainland which felt this influence were
Sydney, Port Phillip, Albany and Fre-
mantle ; and in their case it was only
mild.
Darwin is the oustanding example of
this purity of type, for at that place and
at Thursday Island and Broome the
crews of pearlers were largely drawn
from colored Eastern races. And Darwin
has many Chinese, too. Yet so far their
influence in this direction has been nil.
In fact, a colored diver who has lived
for a long time there acts just like an
Australian. This universality of type
should prove a big factor in building
Australia into a strong nation. —W. L.
(N.S.W.).
The Scientific Lunch
The cult of the bran-addict is a morbid
phenomenon in this enlightened age.
Roughage enthusiasts should visit Sydney
Museum for an object lesson in their
favorite topic. There, one of the exhibits
is a collection of balls of wood varying
from the size of an orange to the size
of a man’s two fists, taken from the
stomachs of pigs, sheep and cows which
had had too much roughage in their
feed.
Having had something to do with
clearing up lunchtime litter in a large
N.S.W. school, I can tell “Pedagoggle” (B.
5 1 3 1 ’4l) and “scientific-lunch” parents that
the carefully wrapped brown bread and
its good-for-you spread in dozens of cases
were pitched over the fence unopened
to end in the incinerator. In lieu of such
ideal pabulum the boys wangled, or
perhaps pinched, a couple of coppers
to buy the legitimate food of their con-
temporaries—cream buns, pies, chips or
watermelon. Shocking, of course, but
does not modern education lean toward
instinct as self-expression? Harry
O’Berridale (N.S.W.).
Closer Settlement
Closer settlement has so long been the
ideal of most Australians that we have
failed to draw the logical conclusions
from our experience. The history of
practically all closer settlement schemes
has been repeated concessions to the
settlers to enable them to carry on, and,
even so, many have left their holdings.
Yet few have doubted the wisdom of
the principle or questioned whether the
one-man farm might not be as inefficient
as the backyard factory. It is time that
we examined the problem with minds
clear of wishful thinking. There are
two great weaknesses in closer settlement.
One is that the cost of an efficient farm-
ing plant is too great an overhead to be
borne by the returns from a one-man
farm (the proof of which is the admitted
higher cost of production on the smaller
farm); the other is that very few men
have both the mental and physical re-
sources necessary to run a one-man farm
successfully.
Every farm needs a long-sighted
thinker and planner who can get the best
out of the land without despoiling its
fertility. Such men are rare and it is a
shame to see them frustrated by the
limitations of a small farm and worn
out by the physical toil involved ; they
should be used to direct the operations
of others who fail because they lack
scientific knowledge and business ability.
It is noteworthy that practically all
the farmers who have evolved improved
methods (from “Turnip” Townsend down
to our own Prell) have been large holders.
Also that large holdings have proved
their ability to survive droughts, com-
petition and depressions without Govern-
ment assistance. It is also a fact that
large holdings do not necessarily mean
that fewer people are making a living
on the land or that the land is not being
put to its best use.
There are two communities near where
I live. One is a closely settled area of
small wheat-farmers. The settlers work
hard from dawn to dark six days every
week. They flog their land and skimp
and economise, yet most of them are
in chronic financial difficulties. They all
have a careworn look ; their social life
is confined to the very young, who have
not yet felt the full burden of trying
to make a living from farms of declining
productivity. They are too tired and
worried to take an interest in rural
organisations, politics or international
affairs.
The other comprises a large holding
and a village containing the people who
are all more or less dependent on the
landowner. The owner has a State-wide
reputation for his methods of conserving
soil fertility. Through wise use he gets
a much better average acre return than
the settlers without impoverishing his soil.
(Incidentally, he has physical disabili-
ties which would doom him to failure
if he was obliged to work his own farm.)
His methods demand the employment of
a lot of labor. He gets it from the village,
much of which he owns. Some of the
men are permanent employees with big
responsibilities who are provided with
cottage, cow and garden ; some are con-
stant laborers; others work for him
intermittently and go shearing or rabbit-
trapping when they think that pays better.
But they all know that they need never
fear unemployment; their landlord can
always be depended upon to find them
something to do. They are a carefree,
happy crowd.
Of course, not all large holdings are
run like this one, but it is a fine example
of what can be done. I am convinced
that our Governments would be well
advised to give more attention to en-
couraging the fuller development of large
holdings, rather than cut up such hold-
ings into uneconomic units which con-
stantly need concessions and assistance.
—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
“Your Own Home”
We are told that the working man is
encouraged to own his own home, but
when he sets out to get it he is faced
with many obstacles. First, he selects a
block of land and discovers that it has
an artificial value far in excess of its
real value, simply because it is close
to the railway station or bus route
or because it overlooks a river or some-
thing. Somebody bought it as a specu-
lation for about two pounds an acre and
now wants two pounds a foot for it.
Having bought a block at two pounds
a foot, the worker, already liable for rates,
finds that the council has decided to put
down kerb and guttering in front of his
block, and he has to pay half the
cost. The council might even decide
on a concrete footpath. And if he wants
gas and sewerage connected to his home
there is a fee for the privilege of open-
ing up the street to connect with these
services.
Another good lump of money has to
be paid to a legal man to have the deeds
of the land transferred properly, other-
wise he is apt to find that he has built
a cottage on land he does not own. The
ambitious man finds that 'he has had
to pay out a couple of hundred of his
savings before he has a brick in position.
It is all these extra charges that
frighten away potential home-buyers.
Most of them could be either eliminated
entirely or else greatly reduced. The
enormous profit made in the resale of
land is the first thing that needs looking
into. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
War and Children
Watson Boyce, probation officer of the
Southwark (Eng.) Juvenile Court, has
drawn public attention to an effect of the
prevailing night-life in England on the
young. Adolescents in shelters without
parental control, or in rebellion against
it, are playing up. Boyce tells a revealing
story of youngsters, sick of the confine-
ment, everlasting darkness and strain,
who break out on the streets and relieve
themselves with vandalism, looting and
general cussedness.
New, high wages gave boys too much
to spend, and many of them were boozing.
He urged conscription of the youngsters
for their own good. This is in London.
It should cause some Australian Premiers,
now dabbling with ideas for putting the
population underground, to remember
that here there is a vast and empty back-
country for evacuation. Good sunhgn
gives mental and moral as well as
physical health. —W. Oldstairs (N.S.W.j


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelrnanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort.
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pelmanists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
There are over half a million
Pelnianists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
In Melbourne for over 33 years.
Training for Effectiveness
IT is not by chance that Pelmanism has become such a widely-used instrument for the
development of individual effectiveness. First, it is based on scientific laws; secondly,
it is conducted by men who earnestly and sincerely seek to apply these laws to the
circumstances and the needs of ordinary people; and thirdly, these men have intimate and
peculiar knowledge of the difficulties and aspirations of humanity gained by contact with
considerably over half a million men and women.
DELMANISM offers help in the solution of personal problems, but its main purpose is
to train the individual’s powers so that he will be effective in all his movements, so
that everything he does will be well done and produce the effect he intends it to produce.
The result is seen in the multifarious acts attendant on earning a living, in his social relations,
in his recreations, in his inner life and in his outward contribution to the tremendous effort
the Empire is now making.
INTO whatever channel the energies of men and women may be directed, by whatever
means they earn a livelihood, and however they may make manifest their intention to help
in the common effort, the development of certain qualities is necessary to full effectiveness.
These are:—
Perceptive Faculty Judgment ■- Self-confidence
• Concentration Decisiveness Initiative
Self-control Will-Power Organisation
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
PELMANISM develops these qualities. It develops them quickly and permanently. It
creates desirable and serviceable habits of mind and of will that continue and strengthen
as time goes on. Thus Pelmanism is not so much a study as a training designed to
strengthen the mind and character and enlarge the personality as a whole. It succeeds because
it trains the conscious and the subconscious alike so that every faculty will, when called
upon, contribute its share in making a good performance of anything that has to be done.
We give extracts from a few letters from many thousands received by the Institute in
Melbourne. It will be noted that some, also selected from a large number, are from
men in H.M. Forces : —
MILITIA: “I am writing to tell you how I have
benefited by your instruction. In the Militia last year
I was a singularly undistinguished private. Aided by
Pelmanism, I have become a proficient soldier, boon
after 1 was made a Corporal I was recommended for an
officers’ training corps. 1 certainly have reasons to be
grateful to Pelmanism.”
CLERK (14/10/’34): “I have just received my
Diploma in Economics at the Sydney University and 1
am grateful to the Institute for showing me how to use
mv mind . . . Pelmanism is an enemy of fear and ignor-
ance; it is packed with commonsense and practical
advice and with inspiration to bigger living.”
PRINTER; “I have attained a standard of efficiency
which has enabled me to secure an executive position.
The obscure and complex are now clear and simple.
ENGINEDRIVER: “It is with a wonderful sense of
ability and security that I face the future.”
ARTICLED CLERK: “I have*enjoyed and appreci-
ated the Pel man Course as I have rarely enjoyed any-
thing before.”
BANK CLERK: “I was a bit sceptical of all the
claims you made for it but I know now that they were
not exaggerated one iota.”
SHEEPFARMER: “I have kept an account of the
time spent on the Course. It amounted to a shade under
three months and the average time per day—4o minutes.
AIRCRAFTSMAN : “I now have a clearer under-
standing of life and of the functions of the mind. My
memory is improved, my concentration developed and
I am a better observer.”
STAFF CAPTAIN: ‘‘l want to thank you for your
attention and express the hope that I may keep in touch
with the Institute in the future as the occasion offers.
I am a confirmed Pelmanist.”
PRIVATE: “I have developed Will Power, Observa-
tion and Memory. I have a clear knowledge of how and
where I am going. I feel that I can step into the
future with both feet firmly planted on the path to
success. I am better off in every possible way.”
SOIiDIER (ENGINEER): “The Course so far has
done me an amazing amount of good and I have no
hesitation in saying that I have tremendous faith in
it and also in myself since taking it. I think that the
average person unaware of the methods of Pelmanism
must live almost a dream life. Yesterday I learned that
promotion, and to a higher rank than that which I had
expected, is coming my way in the near future. Many
say that I was ‘born under a lucky star.’ That may be,
but I attribute my promised advancement to Pelmanism.
It was only the benefit I had already gained from it
which carried me through at
SOLDIER: “I was one of three to be promoted out
of a class of thirty selected for special training.”
CLERK: “I won a Flying Scholarship for which
there were 216 entrants. I thank Pelmanism for this
success, chiefly because of the wonderful manner in
which it has increased my self-confidence and alertness.
The Course has already paid for itself many times over.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelinan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send 'me, free and post-free, a copy of
"The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
136


AUSTRALIA/
AT WORK ON THE INDUSTRIAL FRONT..
Advancing in line with "Greater Australian Industry,"
International Harvester is operating at full pressure its
entire manufacturing plant at Geelong, and Its motor
truck assembly plant at Harvester House, South
Melbourne. Fully equipped with its grey iron and
malleable iron foundry, forge shop, wood shop, pattern
shop, machine and sheet-metal working departments,
the factory is actively assisting in maintaining the output
required under existing conditions and for future
development.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER FACTORY, GEELONG
The Most Modern Implement Plant in Australia
m
A section of the moulding floor in the foundry at the
International Harvester Works, Geelong. This picture shows
the moulds into which the molten metal is poured .
The motor truck assembly line at Harvester House, South
Melbourne f where International trucks of all capacities are
made ready for service.
c-%
m
if#
s*|
:■*
HBI
IU
is
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE *
Factory; Geelong
AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ADELAIDE • PERTH
With 4>, acres of floor space. Harvester House, City
Road, South Melbourne, accommodates International
Harvester Company’s headquarters staff and the
Victorian organization, as well as spacious showrooms,
assembly plant, service station and parts department.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
