

Ns
*•?
X
1
a
mm * m iV"
The manulacturi 8 tireless, as
~,HU-S «f Ao>«Vo “ Bese areh &
n as *f>« .re to-**
eng««l >" ” ork
„ .he opeeahon ,* .he
tireless e o n , "'»" , e ,s eqmP® en ’
manalactore of lraU ,’ S «*
a .W.A. f aivanems : •
effort.
ds
ttvACTUß*'**
aR E UANOt appAß atvs
W l R EL eSS
for
the ** vVV
THE VlV^*'
nit At* *®" tB s .
co VE» tIMENT °
P ,»ut trairas
C.V.. ".AT.O*
SH W «« S “ 8
ai» iisßS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (MIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3210.
Wednesday, August 20, 1941.
A Nation the Audience
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


StoryWslS
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russall Street, Melbourne.
Please send , without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in fie Sydney “Bulletin.’ 1
Sly Name
My Address
S.B. 341
The Red Page
The Interloper.
(In certain ancient feast.s, at the height of the
merriment, a corpse was solemnly carried in as a
reminder of man’s mortality. In this poem the
speeches represent the mental reactions of various
typical individuals as the dead man passes them by.)
Scene: Banqueting Hall. Revelry. Splendor.
Usher:
Now sleep the song,
And wake the gong,
For marching on the pride of the feast
Comes death, a cold, accusing priest.
Woman :
It passes me, I feel
A wind upon my neck, my beauty
Shakes like a taunted leaf, this wine
Pales now to water —ph, what is mine?
These trinkets, lovers, this doting hour?
Nay, I am pauper whose bravery
Of very breast and brow like casual crust
Is claimed of dust:
The ecstasy
Is like a bird lost in the livid height;
So is life desert, and all the promise
Null as night.
Warrior :
This stiff parade
Stabs not my peace, for I have known,
The laugh of death over the battle blown,
And yet. . . and yet, in this replenished place,
Where life is limned as feast,
He seems to wear another face.
My scorn of him rang like a sword,
But then was he foeman, barbed with
splendor:
Against this cold and thievish fate
My arm knows not
How it may keep the gate:
My honors rain upon the ground,
Upon desire crouches the timeless mound.
King :
My conquests live, a frowning chronicle
That wounds the rocks. No citadel
Stands like a stone forlorn
Against my tides of scorn —
The very sun with fingering wonder
Adores my image. Shall death plunder
A kingdom thus replete with majesty?
Yet bleak on spirit’s border
And strange, pads the marauder —
Well, let the wine confound
The prowling insolence,
And let the song go round
Till out is cringing sense.
And interloper, night—
Then, ho, come life, my slave, my rose
delight.
The Courtier:
How have I climbed, by what oblique ways,
By smile, betrayal, sword,
Till here I sit, a scarlet lord,
Secure till now —but the earth rocks
Beneath me, and the abyss mocks
My clarion dignities. O death,
Who dimmed my dreams with peril,
Now do I feel you groping for my breath.
My breast labors under the chain,
The torches of my spirit have gone out,
The final grief descends:
O death, good death, annul this debt of pain,
Unseat this curse, else must my cry
Shatter the feast —O fading friends,
Silver and sword, is it thus our concord ends?
The world falls and the dark
Gathers the man who has not strength to die.
The Fool:
This is the prince of jests, to serve up death
As ’twere upon a dish. It irks me not,
The fool who cares no jot
For death or life, who asks no more
Than one bedizened hour.
Life, I have fooled you,
For my laugh lightly
Has carried me above your skulking thorn:
Death, I have schooled you
To modest looks and dulled your famous
horn.
I wear my laughter, merry
As the bough that wears the berry,
Laughing in winter’s face:
Come he tonight, tomorrow,
Death finds no imp of sorrow,
Nor fear’s grimace.
He cannot fling me in a fit,
The fool who’s walled about with wit.
MAORILAND.
J. R. HHERVEY.
Book of Beginnings .
A single entry in Mr. Justice Fergu-
son’s Bibliography of Australia (Angus
and Robertson) —let alone any thought
of the work as a wholes—should be
enough to start an average mind chasing
fantods. Both the exactness of the tech-
nique employed and the total achieve-
ment may be roughly indicated by stat-
ing, first, that the work, including a fool-
proof index, extends to only 540 pages,
then adding that this, briefly, is what it
does: —
In chronological order, dating from
1784 to 1830, it lists and describes every
known publication, wherever printed and
whatever its subject or language, having
Australian reference: not only all books,
pamphlets and so forth dealing wholly
or chiefly with that earliest Australia,
but, as well, all those in which any refer-
ence whatever, however slight, is made to
this country, from the time of the first
settlement on to 1830. “Every publica-
tion relating in any way to Australia
printed anywhere outside Australia as
well as every imprint made in Australia.”
Thus, it is literally a book of a nation’s
beginnings—unique in that it does for this
country what has not been done for any
other country in the world, and could
be done only for a similarly young
country, such as New Zealand. Anyone
seeking to do the same for older countries
would fall into myth, legend and sup-
position. In bibliographical terms, Mr.
Justice Ferguson sets forth the whole of
Australia’s beginnings as exact knowledge.
The compiler intends to complete his
work in another volume carrying for-
ward to 1838. In those eight years the
number of books and references to be
listed naturally increases considerably,
calling for a volume of similar size to
house them. After that, the job possibly
becomes one for specialist volumes, deal-
ing separately with particular branches
of social, literary and other development.
Within this first part of Mr. Justice
Ferguson’s work
fall subjects of the highest importance,
including, for example, the foundation of
the settlements in New South Wales, Tas-
mania, Western Australia, Victoria, South
Australia, and North Australia ; the trans-
portation and management of convicts;
immigration; exploration by land and sea;
the earliest descriptions of objects of
natural history; the aborigines and
their treatment; the establishment of the
first Australian institutions and indus-
tries ; the administration of justice; the
first claims for self-government and the
early agitation for the abolition of the
convict system; land settlement; the first
printings or incunabula; and the gradual
development of an Australian literature.
In addition to a precise description of
each work, historical and bibliographical
notes have been introduced where they
seem to be called for. The title-pages of
many of the more notable or quaint im-
prints have been reproduced as illustrations.
Having that comprehensive range, the
book does what it sets out to do com-
pletely and, as far as is humanly possible,
finally. As far as is known, ,it can be
added to only by fresh discovery, in a
field in which fresh discovery, if any,
must necessarily be very limited. Hence-
forth, finding something that “isn’t in
Ferguson” will mean for collectors,
librarians, students of and dealers in
early Australiana what winning three
lotteries in a row would mean to an
average mortal. The freakish sort
of thing that can happen in that way
is illustrated by one of the quoted
extracts from listed or mentioned pub-
lications. This describes how the late
Richard Thompson, representing Angus
and Robertson, bought in Hobart
an early volume of the “Sydney
Gazette” (the first Australian newspaper),
and, as he turned over the leaves, two
theatre playbills, unique specimens of
the earliest Australian printing, flut-
tered forth. D. S. Mitchell, founder of
the Mitchell Library, considered them
cheap at £lOO.
There are enough such notes and
curiosa included to give the book an
anthology character, apart from its
supreme importance as a comprehensive
bibliography of this nation’s complete
beginnings. One thing that adds enor-
mously to its curiosa interest is the prac-
tice in its period of having books’ title-
pages do, with gusto, the whole job that
is nowadays pallidly done by title-pages
and blurbs combined. Compare any cur-
rent title page with the following, part
of a typical title page listed:
The
Northern Hero;
minutely and impartially delineated in
The Life of Major S ... le, alias Harrold,
Kennedy, &c..
The Celebrated .Swindler:
exhibiting his
Surprising Adventures
Curious Devices
Remarkable Escapes
Deep-laid Projects
Amorous Intrigues
Unparallel’d Hypocrisy
Infernal Frauds, and
Villainous Exploits
From the Period of his Infancy to the present
Year, 1786.
Interspersed with
Numerous Interesting Anecdotes
of his
Fraudulent Associates in the Metropolis,
necessary to be duly attended to by the public
at large, but especially the Youth of both
Sexes, as well as Merchants, Tradesmen, &c.,
who wish to be guarded against the wily Ways
of Swindlers and Sharpers, who swarm in
London.
“An Hypocrite with his Month destroyeth his
Neighbor; but through knowledge shall the
just be delivered.” —Solomon.
Or again (briefly) in part:
An
Account
of the
Mutinous Seizure of the Bounty;
with the succeeding
hardships of the Crew.
To which are added,
Secret Anecdotes of the Otaheitean Females.
The art has been lost, or at best taken
over by the blurbists, and even they
haven’t any longer the kick that went
into titling
“The Criminal Recorder; Or, An Awful
Beacon to the Rising Generation of Both
Sexes, Erected by the Arm of Justice, to
Persuade them from the Dreadful Miseries
of Guilt.”
As well as plentiful curiosa of this
kind, there are the extensive notes on
such early characters as George Barring-
ton, the Prince of Pickpockets ; Waine-
wright, the poisoner; Michael Massey
Robinson, writer of the first separately
printed Australian verse (he produced
annual odes on the ruling sovereigns’
birthdays—on one occasion months after
the sovereign’s death, the news of which
arrived somewhat late); Barron Field,
author of the first book of poems pub-
lished in Australia (friend and correspon-
dent of Charles Lamb ; the copy of his
book in the National Library at Can-
berra is a presentation copy from the
author to Coleridge; Field himself
described by the young Disraeli as “a
noisy, obtrusive, jargonic judge, ever
illustrating the obvious, explaining the
evident, and expatiating on the common
place”). There are listed and described
all “firsts,” from the first newspaper to
the first novel (Henry Savery’s Quintus
Servinton ); the first magazine (“The
Australian Magazine”—“A poor produc-
tion from a literary standpoint”); the
first short story ; the first rules for the
first bank ; the first school book (food
for thought and speculation in the fact
that no copy of it survived!); and so on
through all the “firsts” of the national
life’s beginnings.
The immediate value of the work is
that it makes available to collectors, to
world libraries and the like, complete
knowledge which hitherto could not be
bought at any price, and was shared in
only by a select few. By the method
employed, the listing of any given book,
pamphlet or other document is done with
such exactness and completeness that a
bibliomaniac, finding in a cave on top of
the Andes what looked like an item of
early Australiana, and having Ferguson
in his haversack, could there and then
identify the item with practical certainty.
Its compiler’s part can be presumed to
have been a pleasure, since he gave to
the making of it 25 years of spare-time
research. Spare time! It might well
have kept a staff of librarians busy for
25 years’ hard. And a whale of a lot
of grief and pain must have gone into
achieving the technical excellence of its
printing.
As an achievement and in its total
impact it is a literary event of the highest
importance, comparable, in its own
spacious field, to the publication of the
Great Australian Novel, if that item of
futurist folklore had just now happened
to become a reality.
Baumeshell.
He has written it! His autobiography!
“Baume the bastard—the most ruthless
executive the game has ever seen!”
“Number 1 on the Nazi’s blacklist
for Australia and New Zealand” —Eric
himself! With jolly old Hector Blithero,
fresh from the slaughter of the Duke of
Windsor, blurbing away on the jacket:
And here are your talent and your
courage burning together in a book which
1 simply could not put down.
Heads will r 011...
Hearts will beat...
Sides will ache...
To come down from the heights where
Eric and Hector live, where the excla-
mation marks tower like crags, the
dashes rip by like the blizzard, the
commas scream like eagles and Sydney
“Daily Mirror’s” daily moaner is “Aus-
tralia’s foremost war correspondent,” /
Lived These Years (Harrap, Ltd.) is not
at all a bad imitation of Douglas Reed’s
imitation of Bruce Lockhart’s excellent
political, journalistic and personal remi-
niscences.
Eric tells of his boyhood in Maoriland,
of his amazingly successful career in
journalism in Sydney ; of Lang, Camp-
bell and the “New Guard” ; of Woolcott
Forbes and the gentry who attended that
Missing Link’s fabulous dinners; of
Hollywood, Mexico and Trotsky ; and of
what he has seen in bombed London,
finishing with a few notes on how to win
the war and run the universe.
There’s enough material in all this
for a book as good as a Lockhart, but
it misses because it’s all overstated. A
retiring politician gets not scores or even
hundreds but “thousands” of letters;
Shakspeare is “not literature, because
people in his day talked almost as he
wrote”: these are examples of the exag-
geration in minor matters that forces one
to discount by about 50 per cent, all that
Eric says on major matters. Even when
one knows it is true that
during the years after the “Guardian’s”
start, newspaper work in Sydney, apart
from the “Herald,” began to degenerate
into a series of feuds between leaders who
used their staffs as private armies;
even if one allows that in Lang’s day
politics in Sydney were like mire; they were
filthy and crooked; they were nauseating
and degrading,
the tub-thumping, the piling on of adjec-
tives, the Reedy denunciation make it all
seem a bit stretched, a bit unreal.
Just as it’s difficult to imagine that
Eric’s broadcasts from 2UE were really
so momentous to “the people” that he is
justified in writing
The people knew that when I had told
them in 1937 and 1938 that war would come
because of their own weakness in dealing
with Germany I had been right;
so it is difficult to believe in his appal-
lingly candid self-portrait:
In those years 1 was in my home the
loud-voiced, bad-tempered, plate-throwing
variety; viciously jealous without cause,
childishly petty—an unstable gambler who,
week after week, used to bring home a frac-
tion of the good salary I earned. I was a
typical street angel. As I thought my pres-
tige grew in office and theatre and concert,
so my conceit allowed me to neglect my
home. To me my children were simply
squalling infants....
No matter what he says about him-
self —and he says things that no one else
would dare say for fear of a libel action
—the dim but devastating suspicion
creeps in that Eric is quite a nice chap.
As he says himself, after describing two
punches delivered to the Baume nose on
Sydney Harbor Bridge—one of those
glamorous glimpses which really it might
be better to leave to the Reeds and the
Lockharts —“from that day onward I
believe I have been a better man.”
At which beautiful thought, this re-
viewer, unlike dear old Blithero, finds it
just possible to put the book gently, ever
so gently, down.
Heffernans and Hiffernans.
The Heff emails and Their Times:
Major Patrick Heffernan, M.D. (James
Clarke and Co., Ltd.). Be the Holy
Smoke this is a grand book you have
written, Doctor, and with names sprout-
ing up all over it that are an exaltation
of the spirit to read out aloud in front
of the fire these winter nights. Take the
variations on that upstanding name Hef-
fernan, coming down from the year one
to be a pleasure still to the ears in this
year of strife and disorder—Ua h Ifear-
nain is it, or O’Heffernan or O’Hiffer-
nan, or does the voice prefer Ifearnan, or
Eichthighearnan (pronounced Eachcheer-
nan), or how about O’Hyfernayn or
O’Hearnan, or let us be hearing now how
the rafters will give back O’h Ifearnain!
It would be a poor vocal instrument,
Doctor, that would not be happy just to
be rolling these sounds into the fire-
warm air, a poor intelligence that would
find confusion in the information that as
many as three spellings were often used
in the case of the same individual, and a
poor spirit, Doctor, that would not leap,
either to refute or to substantiate, on
being told by yourself that “Some of our
modern Irish scribes, who are nothing if
not realists, stoutly maintain that the
name O’Hiffernan or Ua h-Ifearnain
means, bluntly, ‘Spawn of Heir!”
You will understand, Doctor, how our
own feelings as to that are in a manner of
speaking mixed, whether to be on the
side of politeness and so regard it as
derogatory, or to think of fields whereon
military titles such as your own, Major,
are won, and so regard Spawn of Hell as
a compliment indeed. As such, Major,
we feel this modern interpretation of the
ancient name would no doubt have been
worn of old by a clan the home of whose
titular head was Gort Ivard, that is to
say the Poet’s Field, and whose Gaelic
poets, as you record in your most in-
teresting history, went out in a blaze of
glory with Blind William of Sronel.
Spawn of Hell indeed, sir! What of it,
when of such is the Kingdom of Heaven,
to say nothing of the salt of the earth!
Victorian Fungi: James H. Willis (Vic.
Field Naturalists’ Club). Psalliota cam-
pestris is very tasty with grilled steak, and
you can grow P.c. in your garage. And
that isn’t the only edible mushroom avail-
able :
As a matter of fact very few of the
fleshy fungi can be branded as “dangerous,”
and it is surely a libel to condemn the
whole race because one or two have a bad
reputation; no one would exclude parsnips,
carrots and parsley from his table just
because they happen to belong to the same
family as deadly hemlock!
An admirable little publication by an
expert who certainly knows his fungi.
The E. Ashton Murphy Memorial
Poetry Competition, conducted by the
Queensland Authors and Artists’ Asso-
ciation, closes on August 30. Particulars
may be had from the honorary secretary,
Box 1871 W, G.P.0., Brisbane. Frederick
T. Macartney, this year’s Commonwealth
lecturer at Melbourne University in Aus-
tralian literature, has been appointed
judge, and results will be announced early
in October.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the pulse of business
“THE SENIOR STORE’
Solve Your Pefrol Problems with a BICYCLE!
AND YOU CAN NOW BUY THEM ON OUR FAMOUS EASY TERMS
W^ RV
CHALLENGER’ Roadster
d
Build: Best British parts. Frame: 22 inches, best steel, rust-
proofed. Wheels: Best British, 28 x If in. Tyres: Australian,
28 x 1-| in., guaranteed. Pedals: Best English rat-trap. Chain:
Best British, \ x i in. roller. Handle Bars: Best British
reversible, 2-irinch outrigger. Saddle: English model. Finish:
Best, five-coat British enamel, 20 main colours; hand lined
and decorated. Equipment: Tool bag, tools, oil-can, inflator,
bell and approved reflector.
STANDARD MODEL: Fixed Wheel, Rim Brake. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £B/2/6
Terms: 16/3 deposit, monthly 25/- payments.
POPULAR MODEL: Free Wheel Clutch, Back Rim Brake.
Price £B/15/-
Terms; 17/6 deposit, 6 monthly 26/10 payments.
POPULAR MODEL: Coaster Hub Free Wheel, B.P. Brake.
Price £9/12/6
Terms: 19/3 deposit, 6 monthly 29/7 payments.
CHALLENGER”
LADY’S LIGHT TOURER
ď
Build: Best British parts. Frame: 20 inches, best steel, rust-
proofed. Wheels: Standard, 28 x If in. Pedals: Best English,
rubber. Chain: Best English, i x i in. Chain Guard: Best
English detachable half chain guard. Mudguards: Best
English lightweight steel, detachable. Handle Bars: Best
English reversible, heavily plated. Finish: Best British five-
coat enamel, 20 main colours; hand-lined and decorated.
Equipment: Tool bag, tools, oil-can, inflator, bell and
approved reflector.
FREE WHEEL CLUTCH: Back Rim Brake. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £9/12/6
Terms: 19/3 deposit, 6 monthly 29/7 payments.
COASTER HUB: Free Wheel B.P. Brake. Price .. £lO/2/6
Terms: 20/3 deposit 6 monthly 31/1 payments, or
9 monthly 21/- payments.
ds
“Royal Enfield”
Light Roadster
£ll's'-
Frame: 22 in. finest Enfield gun steel.
Coslettized against rust. Wheels: Standard,
28 x If in. Rims: Chromium-plated, 28 x If
in. Tyres: Highest grade Black English
Dunlop guaranteed. Finish: Best triple-
coated enamel, Black with Gold lines and
crest. Equipment: Tool bag, tools, oil-can,
inflator, bell and approved reflector.
COASTER FREE WHEEL BACK PEDALLING
BRAKE. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price £ll/5/
Terms: 22/6 deposit. 6 monthly 34/9 pay-
ments or 9 monthly 23/7 payments.
• Sports Department Lower Ground Floor, Pitt
Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
WHITE FLYER
m
m
SPECIAL SPEED MODEL-
‘White Flyer
£l2'7'6
“Universal”
£12
UNIVERSAL
special bush model
Build: Best British parts only. Frame: 22 inch, close built, finest English lightweight
steel, rust-proofed, all tapered fittings. Stays: Tapered, exterior-brazed. Wheels: Racer,
28 x If x If inch. Rims: Endrick British, plated. Tyres: Best Dunlop Speed, If inch,
If inch wires. Guaranteed. Brakes: Best English cable calipers, front and rear.
Hubs: Double-sided rear hub, slip sprocket and fixed sprocket. Chain: English racing,
f x -f inch. Handle Bars: Best British racer, shock-proof grips. Saddle: Best narrow
racing seat. Finish: Best British five-coat enamel in White and Gold. Equipment:
Tools, tool bag, oil-can, inflator, bell, and approved reflector.
"WHITE FLYER" (as above). Cash Price £l2/7/6
Terms: 24/9 deposit, 6 monthly 38/1 payments or 9 monthly 25/10 payments.
Build: Best British parts only. Frame: 22 inch, special tested _ steel, rust-proofed.
Forks: Fitted with girder front forks. Wheels: Standard, 28 x If inch. Tyres: Highest
grade Australian Thornproof Dunlops. Brake: Front rim, 9/6 extra. Hubs: Best English,
plated. Chain: Best English, h x & inch. Mudguards: Best English lightweight steel,
detachable. Saddle: Various English models. Finish: Best British five-coat Black
Enamel. Decorated Gold lines and crest. Equipment: Tool bag, tools, oil-can, inflator,
bell, and approved reflector.
FIXED WHEEL MODEL. Cash Price £ l2
Terms: 21/- deposit, 6 monthly 36/10 payments or 9 monthly 25/1 payments.
COASTER HUB FREE WHEEL. B.P. Brake. Cash Price £l2/15/-
Terms: 25/6 deposit, 6 monthly 39/3 payments or 9 monthly 26/7 payments.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY OR NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


KAIJEK THE SONGMAN
By XAVIER HERBERT.
KAIJEK the Songman and his lubra Ninyul came
up the river, picking their way through the
wind-stricken canegrass and palm-leaves and
splintered limbs and boughs that littered the
pad they were following. It was a still and misty
morning, after a night of one of those violent south-
east blows which clean up the wet monsoon. Mist
hid the tops of the tall river timber and completely
hid the swirling yellow stream. The day had dawned
clear and cool, but now it was warming up again.
Sweat was trickling down Kaijek’s broad, gaunt
face and through his curly raven beard, and down his
long, thin, naked body from his armpits. He wore
nothing but a loin clout, a strip of dirty white calico
torn from a flour-bag and rigged on a waist-belt of
woven hair. On his right shoulder he carried three
spears and a womera ; and from his left hung a long
bag of banyan-cord containing his big painted dijeri-
doo and music-sticks. Fat little Ninyul, puffing at his
heels, bore the bulk of their belongings—swag balanced
on her curly head, big grass dillybag hanging from
a brow-strap down her back, tommy-axe and yam-
sticks in a sugar-bag slung on her left shoulder, and
fi restick and billy in her right hand. She wore a
sarong made from an ancient blue silk dress.
Ninyul sniffed at the strong effluvium of her man.
Not that she objected to it. Indeed, she was as proud
of it as of his talent, of which she considered it an
expression. As her wide fleshy nostrils dilated, she
thought of how lesser songmen always came to him
during corroborees to have him rub them with his
sweat. And she glowed in recollection of the great hit
he had made at the last gathering they had attended —
amongst the Marrawudda people on the coast —with
his latest song, “The Pine Creek Races.” Apart from
the classics, corroboree-crowds liked nothing better
than a good skit in song on the ways of the White
Man. But this pleasant recollection lasted only for a
moment. Ninyul became aware again of her man’s
drooped shoulders' and his frenzied gait; and her
anxiety for him in his struggle with his muse re-
turned. At full moon they were due to attend a great
initiation gathering amongst the Marratheil of the
Paperbarks. The moon was nearly full already;
and they were getting further from the Paperbarks
every day; and still Kaijek had not composed the
song that would be expected of him.
Kaijek was the most famous songman in the land.
His songs were known from the red mountains of the
Kimberley to the salt arms of the Gulf. Wherever
they went Kaijek and Ninyul, who was always with
him, were warmly welcomed ; for, though Kaijek’s
songs always travelled ahead of him, he never failed
to turn up at a gathering with a new. one. Not that
Kaijek found composing easy. Far from it! Often
his muse would elude him for moons. And so
wretched would he become in his impotence, and so
ashamed, that—pursued by Ninyul—he would fly
from the faces of his fellows, to range the wilder-
ness like one of those solitary ramping devil doctors
called the Moombas.
He was in the throes of that impotence now,
while he went crashing through the tangle of wrecked
grass and trees up the river. So he and Ninyul went
on and on, travelling at great speed, but heading
nowhere. Wallabies heard them coming and fled
crashing and thudding from them. White cockatoos
in the river timber dropped down to pry at them, and
wheeled back shrieking into the mist. And on and
on till suddenly they were stopped in their tracks by
a burst of uproarious dog-barking in the mist ahead.
Kaijek, staring ahead, heard the click of Ninyul’s
tongue, and turned to her. She gave the sign “White
Man ’” then ? ointed with her «I» to the left. Kaijek
looked and saw the stumps of a couple of saplings of
Size such as no hlackfellow ever would fell to make
a cam P- Nin yul was already aware of the likelihood
0 f a white man’s presence in the neighborhood,
because some little distance back she had observed
fresh P rint s of shod horses, and just before the dog
barked had fancied she heard a horse bell. Kaijek
had seen and heard nothing consciously for miles. He
turned and looked ahead again.
Th th d anoeared a little red kelnie When
*
yapping shrilly - They heard a white man y ed at him.
Stil l he yapped. They judged the distance. For a
moment they stood. Ninyul glanced into the mist to
the left> thinking of wheeling round that way to avoid
what lay ahead Then Kaijek turned tQ hef again
and hissed “Inta jah—tobacca! ”
f , ddd ' They had been without tobacco
hZnTIZ
m jaht find his son, C U n^Cl ° ° aCC ° 6
g ' .
u ey went ahead cautiously. A score of paces
brought them into dim view of a camp. There were a
en ’. a ar -roofed skillion, a baik-covered fireplace,
a spnngcar and pieces of mining gear. Kaijek and
', nyu new what the gear was tor, because they had
°, en worked f° r prospectors. There was only one
W lte . **? an ’ and no sign of blacks. The white man
was Slttmg on a b ° x die skillion, kneading a damper
! n a P ros P ec b n g‘ d i s h between his feet and looking
* nt ° m lst in their direction. His dog was crouched
eOl ~l bT S 1 ent now ’ ut tense -
Kaijek gave his spears and bag to Ninyul, but
1 Gained the womera. Ninyul slipped behind a tree,
Kaijek went on slowly. The white man soon saw him,
stared hard at him with bulging blue eyes that bade
b^m anything bpt welcome. Kaijek stopped at the
fireplace. He knew the man slightly. He had seen
b ' m work i n g a tin show in the Kingarri country, and
l iac l heard blacks describe him as a moody and often
violent fellow. He was a man of fifty or so, stout
and . stock T’ wd b a big, red, bristly face and sandy,
S re yl n § ka ir and a long, gingery, unkempt moustache,
A NDY GANT was in a particularly mood just
then. The heavy humidity had upset his liver
and brought out his prickly heat, which was why he
was doing camp chores at that time of day instead of
digging gravel from the bench behind the camp and
lumping it down to the sluice-box. To slave at digging
that hard-packed gravel and washing out the lousy bit
of gold it yielded was heartbreaking at any time, and
too much to bear with a lumpy liver and a fiery itch,
He had slaved at that mean bench-placer throughout
the wet, and had not won enough gold from it to pay
for tucker, although the indications were that there
was rich gold thereabouts. And most of the time he
had been alone, deserted by the couple of blacks he
had brought with him. He was just about ready to
shoot any nigger on sight.
Kaijek spat in the fire to show his friendliness,
then grinned and said “Goottay, boss!” And he
stroked his beard and lifted his right foot and placed
“You may take a rest now”
it against his left thigh just above the knee, and
propped himself up with the womera.
For answer Andy raised a broken lip and showed
his big yellow teeth. Then he gave attention to his
damper.
Kaijek coughed, spat again, then said, “Eh, boss
—me wuk longa you, eh?”
Andy’s face darkened. He kneaded vigorously.
A pause, during which Kaijek coveted the pipe
and plug of tobacco on the sapling-legged table at
Andy’s back. Then Kaijek said, “Me prop’ly goot
wukker, boss. Get up be-fore deelight, wuk like
plutty-ell”
Andy could contain himself no longer. With
eyes ablaze he leapt to his feet and roared “Git to
jiggery out of it, you stinkin’, rottin’ black sumpen,
before I put a bullet through you.”
And his dog joined in with him, yapping furiously
and dancing about.
“Wha’ nim?” cried Kaijek, dropping his leg.
Andy grabbed a pick-handle with a doughy hand,
and shouted “I’ll show you what name, you beggin’
son of a sheeter—l’ll show you what name—the ghost
I will!” And he rushed.
“Eh, look out!” yelled Kaijek, and turned and
fled back to Ninyul with the dog snapping at his heels.
Ninyul bowled the dog over with a stick. Then
together they snatched up their belongings and bolted
back along the track.
They stopped at the sapling stumps. “Marjidi
naijil!” grunted Kaijek, and spat over his shoulder
to show his contempt. Then he pointed with lips to
the left, and set off in that direction. But though
they were not seen as they skirted the camp, and
though they went warily, their going was followed
every step of the way in imagination by Andy’s dog
yapping at his master’s side.
They had gone no more than fifty paces past the
camp and were still at the foot of the flood-bench
when they came upon a river-gum that had been up-
rooted in the night. Kaijek paused to look among the
broken roots for bardies, and saw gold gleaming in a
lump of quartzy gravel. He knew gold well, but had
no more idea of its value than any average bush
blackfellow. He gave his spears to Ninyul, and fished
out the lump of gravel and freed the gold. It was a
nugget of about two ounces on a piece of quartz.
Kaijek picked it clean, spat on it, rubbed it on his
thigh, weighed it, then looked at Ninyul and said
with a grin “Kudjing-gah—tobacca!”
They turned back, heading straight for the camp.
The dog knew they were coming, and barked blue
murder. Andy, now at the fireplace setting his damper
to bake in the camp oven, rose up and peered into
the mist again ; and when Kaijek appeared he let out
a stream of invective and grabbed up the pick-handle
and rushed.
“No more —no more!” yelled Kaijek, and held
out the nugget in his palm,
Andy had the handle raised to hurl it at him.
He saw the gold. But his dog was flying at Kaijek.
“Goold—goold!” yelled Kaijek, and flung it at
Andy’s feet, and made a swing at the dog with his
womera.
Andy snatched up the nugget, goggled at it, then
looked up at Kaijek fighting with the dog, and rushed
in with the handle to put the dog to flight. “Where —
where’d you find it?” he gasped.
Kaijek pointed with his lips and replied, “Close-
up behind.”
“Then show me,” gasped Andy. “Show me! ”
And his voice rose shrill. “Quick —where is it? Show
me! ”
Kaijek knew the symptoms of the fever. He
turned and led the way with a rush.
Andy fairly flung himself at the roots. In
a moment he had another nugget of an ounce
or more, and then found one as big as a
goose-egg. He turned his jerking face to Kaijek
and cried “Go longa camp ; gettim pick an’
shovel. An’ the axe. Quick, quick!”
Kaijek moved to obey, then turned and
said “Me hungry longa tobacca, boss.”
“Tobacca there longa camp.”
“No-more gottim pipe, boss.”
“Pipe there, too,” yelled Andy. “Take it.
Take anything you like. But be quick!”
Kaijek flew. Ninyul, in the background,
set down the belongings and followed him. It
was she who took the things to Andy. Kaijek
stopped in the camp to chop up tobacco and
fill Andy’s pipe ; and when he went to the
fireplace to light the pipe he swigged a quart
of cold stewed tea he found there. Then he
strolled back to the tree, puffing luxuriously.
Andy now had a good dozen ounces of
gold on a rock beside him, and was chopping
off roots with the energy of a raving madman. And it
was the eyes of a madman he turned on Kaijek when
at length he paused for breath. He lowered the axe,
and stepped up to Kaijek, and laid a great wet hairy
hand on his slim black shoulder, and gurgled lovingly
in his face: “Thank you, brother, thank you! It’s
what I been lookin’ for all me flamin’ life. An’ I owe
it all to you. Yes, to you who I nearly druv away.”
He shook Kaijek till he rocked. “Won’t forget it,”


he went on ; and now he was near to tears. “My
oath I won’t! I’ll look after you, brother, don’t you
worry. I’ll pay you the biggest wages a nigger ever
got. I'll pay you bigger’n white man's wages. Oh,
ghost, I love you. I’ll buy you everything you ever
want. Gawd bless you!” And with that he flung
himself back at the roots.
For a while Kaijek watched him. Then he said
"Eh, boss, me two-fella lubra hungry longa tucker.”
Andy stopped chopping and gasped at him "Plenty
tucker longa camp. Take the lot. Take the rintin’,
jiggerin’ lot! And when you’re cornin’ back bring
another pick an’ shovel, an’ a dish. There's damper
in the oven. Eat it! Eat anything you flamin’ well
want to, brother. Everything 1 got is yours!"
Kaijek turned away, and signed to Ninyul, who
picked up the belongings and followed him to the
camp.
THEY sat by the fireplace, gorging bully-beef and
hot damper and treacle, and swilling syrupy tea.
while the racket of Andy’s joyous laboring went on
in the distance. Then they sat taking turn about with
the pipe. Twice Andy yelled to them to come see
fresh treasures he had unearthed. The first call Kaijek
answered. Ninyul answered the second, because
Kaijek, staring fixedly at the fire and humming to
himself, did not hear it. Then suddenly Kaijek leapt
up and smacked his rump and danced a few steps
and began to sing:
"Oh munnijurra karjitt jai, ee minni kinni goold,
Wall narra akinyinya koori, mungawaddi yu ?”
He swung on Ninyul. whose eyes were shining
and lips aquiver. For a moment he stared at her.
Then he began to clap his hands and stamp a foot
and sing a ballad:
O White Man, why do you so love gold
That you hunt for it in heat and cold '. 1 '
You curse while you dig for the black tin ore;
You rage while you slave with axe and saw ;
On a buffalo-hunt you rave and roar;
But you’d die where the gold lies smirking.
Kaijek stopped, turned panting to Ninyul. She
leapt up and cried joyously “Yakkarai!”
Then Andy’s voice rang out through the thinning
mist. "Eh, brother—come here! Come quick! Come
quick an’ see what the angels’ve planted for you an'
me. O Gawd!” He ended with a sob.
Kaijek looked towards him for a while. Then
he turned back to Ninyul and made a sign. She
went to their belongings. He followed her and
gathered up his stuff and shouldered it, then led the
way down the river again, heading for the gathering
in the Paperbarks.
APPLES IN THE MOON.
We came round by the little dark pond ;
Apples, bunched in the moon, #
Had lifted our bodies, proud and fond
To a gentleness, coming soon.
Is it coming soon? Is it something to speak?
Something to fold our mood?
There goes a long white ray across the creek
Coiling, unsummoned, unwooed!
Something to think, lad, something to praise?
Some magnificence to do?
But it’s a deep slime that is over the gaze ;
Maybe their lies arc true.
So moons and apples mean little to us
When all’s so rotten for sure ;
Teeth and bones and boys shall the harvests truss
And only filth endure.
The screaming rocs come lower than low
Shedding black blasts from steeple to station
And under the ruinous thunders l.midly flow
The dark unwaking silences of desolation.
Pyres of smouldering love and law!
Plato to Christ ashes, all ashes!
And the great bloody tongue of the world s awe
Licking its bloody gashes!
Something to think, lad, to say or to do:
Their fires die down, die dark ;
In the pyres of the beautiful things and true
Is there some living spark?
I
Only the wind is free,
A wind that spreads no dust;
Nothing hut caking mud
Made from the blood
Of the poor world’s agony
And the spittle of its disgust.
Wide, wide the shroud,
Way down south,
Down hack,
Down Lenah Valley track
Red, red as a harlot's mouth.
Red, bunched apples are rotting against a cloud.
Coming round the small dark pond,
To a vision of apples high in the moon ;
A flash of grace, one heart-beat of something fond,
An instant flash of approaching boon
Dead in its speck!
Fondness is wreck,
Boon is shame,
Pity a sunken stone
And the name
Of Beauty a blasphemy grown,
We must be blinder, lad, when apples glow,
Eyes are only to weep with now.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
GRATITUDE
By G. C. B.
VOUR first memory of Father—you would be
about five years old then —was that he was an
enormously big man and enormously wealthy.
He would put his hand in his pocket and pull
out two-shilling pieces and threepences and coppers,
all mixed up in a careless jumble. Yet when you
asked him for a penny he’d want to know if you
thought he was made of money: and he was always
saying how “short" he was.
“ What's a ’gob' got that I haven't?"
He was terribly clever, too. The way he read the
papers; not the front pages with the big letters you
could almost read yourself, but the back pages where
there were long lists of tiny printed words. You found
out later that Father knew a terrible lot about horses.
He would ask Mum what this horse had done before,
and then he would tell her straight away ; it had done
this and that at Canterbury or Warwick Farm or
Rosehili. He had a wonderful memory, and he knew
lots of people who knew other people that actually
owned or rode horses.
Mum was a bit afraid of Father, especially when
he came home grumbling and muttering and walking
unsteadily. She would take his boots off for him and
agree with everything he said about the bunch of
crooks, and a working-man having no chance. This
happened so often that Father must have had a lot of
crooks trying to rob him all the time. But there were
times when he would reel home, talking about his
judgment, and giving out pennies and threepences
galore.
Mum’s chief trouble was “worry." There were
days when everything you did made Mum worry and.
lose her temper and call you a faggot and say Oh,
damnanblast you kids! You're more worry than
you're worth. I don’t know why I ever had you!"
And that made you feel ungrateful, and you swore
to yourself that you would be a good girl all the time.
That time when Mum got terribly sick there was
tremendous bustle in the house, what with the neigh-
bors rushing in and out all the time; and then old
Nurse Wall came around and hustled you about, and
Father had his meals any old how ; and then in the
morning you found that they had brought Mum a
little baby to keep her company in bed.
The school inspector was a fearful creature in
those days. You never actually saw him, but the
threat of him was enough to make you shake. When
Mum was in a worrying temper she would say that
she would put him on to you and he would put \ou
away for good.
He did visit the house one day when you were
out with little Bobbie. Mum was worried, of course,
and said you were more worry than you were worth.
She told Father about it when he came home. She
had told the inspector that the boys never missed
school, but she had to keep you home to help, and
that a girl’s schooling didn’t matter anyway. Father
lost his temper and said that if ever the swine ot an
inspector said anything to him he’d fix him. You
shivered with a sort of delighted horror at the thought
of those two giants meeting. But they never met, and
you still stayed away from school quite often to wheel
Bobbie around the streets in the
old pram.
When Father said he was
sick and tired of slaving his guts
out for a great lolloping girl
about the house, you realised
that the time had come to leave
school.
Mum said that "service"
was the best place for you. It
was a huge house that she took
you to, and Madam was a
beautifully-dressed lady with
yellow hair and lots of paint
and powder, and she spoke
sharply and kept you running
about all day long. Still, it was
good to think that you actually
lived in this great house.
It was the Master that you
didn't like ; a fat little man with
podgy hands. He was never
drunk, like Father, but he always
had that drunken smell about
him. He spoke nicely and
quietly, but he frightened you
somehow. And when he got you
in the kitchen alone that after-
noon and put his arm under
your armpit and stroked you
with his podgy hand he just
about scared you out of your
wits, and you remembered what
Mum had said about the things
that had happened to other girls.
Yet when you went home
and told Mum that night she
seemed to think that you’d been
“up to something.” She said she had done her best to
give you a good home and bring you up respectable,
and had slaved for you from morning to night, and in
return you'd disgrace her one of these days and bring
her to the grave with worry. Worry, worry, worry,
that's all you were good Ijpr. You felt sorry for Mum,
and somehow guilty, but all the same you wouldn’t
go back. No; not even when Father came home and
roared at you and told you that you must have en-
couraged your boss, and anyway you were old enough
to look after yourself and keep him in his place.
No ; you wouldn't go back, and that’s how it
was you got a job in the factory, making buttons. It
was frightening at first, all those other girls expertly
and carelessly doing their work at those thumping
machines, and staring hard at you when you
came in.
It was at the factory that you first met Fred, who
looked after the machines. He was gingery and had
freckled forearms with little golden hairs on them. He
called you “Skin” at first, but after a while he got
really friendly and took you to the pictures. And
Fred gave you the greatest thrill of your life—he
made you feel a really important person at home.
Mum got dressed up the night you brought him
home to tea ; and even Father changed out of his
working shirt, and after tea he chatted quite politely
to Fred about the races. They all treated you as
though you were the lady of the house.
The wedding was more of a blur than a thrill.
Mum was worried about it for days before, but you
didn't take much notice of Mum's worry then. Look-
ing back now it must have been terribly trying for
Mum, even if you did pay for everything out of
your small savings bank account.
CRED will be home soon. You'll have to tell
* about Mum's visit today, and explain about that
ten shillings. Perhaps Fred will complain, perhaps
there will be a row, with Fred calling Mum and
Father a couple of old cadgers. But you have to put
up with it. Haven't Mum and Father given the best
years of their lives to you—given you a good home
and brought you up respectable?


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jj{jell mellmncjdandlotu/mt
MILTON'S COTTAGE, CHALFONT ST. GILES.
Twenty-three miles from the Metropolis, in the beautiful country of South Buckinghamshire, is one of the most treasured
dwellings to all who speak the language Shakespeare spoke and Milton sang. It is the residence, not greatly changed in external
appearance at least, of Milton during the great plague’s visitation of London in 1665. It was taken by the poet from Mr.
Elwood, a celebrated Quaker of the time, who had been recommended to the blind bard as “one who would read Latin to him
for the benefit of his conversation.” Here Elwood first saw a complete copy of “Paradise Lost,” and, having perused it,
remarked, “Thou hast said a great deal on Paradise Lost, but what hast thou to say to Paradise Found?” This question
suggested to Milton the idea of his equally immortal poem “Paradise Regained.” Apart from his poetic writings Milton has
bequeathed, in imperishable prose, much applicable to the struggle the British race is now enduring. How appropriate are
these lines:
“Methinks I see in my mind a noble and puissant nation rousing herself like a strong man after sleep,
and shaking her invincible locks; methinks / see her mewing her mighty youth, and kindling her
undazzled eyes at the full midday beam.”


NOT UNDERSTOOD.
“You couldn’t have understood me, sir. I said ‘Single or return.'”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man,”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted- Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
Id. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
A NATION THE AUDIENCE.
The political drama without a title, an unfinished per-
formance of which was given in Melbourne last week
—another scene has since been under rehearsal for
production at Canberra—had features with which the
nation, which constituted the audience, was familiar.
In fact, a play with the same theme —Crisis in the
Pacific—was put on six months ago, and the lines
spoken by the characters were to much the same
effect. The main differences were that Mr. Menzies
starred in the Melbourne production—six months ago
he was engaged in a tour of London and the prov-
inces, where he was received with gratifying applause
and requests for a return season —and that Mr. Beasley
was relegated from the role of actor to that of critic.
Mr. Beasley had a “fat” part in the February
show, having written it in the script himself, and the
bodeful lines he declaimed made nervous people
tremble. Striking a Cassandra-like attitude, he said:
“I am not here to alarm you, nor to create an atmo-
sphere of anxiety, but we have to face the fact that
you and I may be fighting Fascism in our own country
in the very near future.” With that he stalked off the
stage, conscious of the effect he had produced and
followed by anxious eyes till he was out of sight.
Returning before the shudders had subsided, he pro-
ceeded : “I have no illusions about the shocking
tragedy that may overwhelm us overnight.”
Exit Mr. Beasley again, and enter Mr. Fadden
and Mr. Curtin, both in extreme agitation. Pausing
several times because his emotion mastered him (Mr.
Curtin filled in the gaps with nods and murmurs of
assent), Mr. Fadden said in a subdued voice that Aus-
tralia was “now entering on a period in which its very
existence is at stake,” and that the War Council had
been told that the War Cabinet proposed “further to
step up defence activities, particularly in relation to
the protection of Australia from enemy attack.” Here
Mr. Curtin took up the running with “Mr. Fadden’s
statement reflects fully the point of view of the War
Council.” The pair then retired from the darkened
stage, to reappear presently and mutter in unison some
words about “the seriousness of the present inter-
national situation as it affects Australia.”
Enter Mr. Fadden again, this time alone. Still
agitated, and often needing to be prompted, he
delivered himself of some very irregular blank verse:
The disabling of Australia has become
A major strategic objective of the enemy.
It should be realised by everyone
What lies before us, what the future holds,
Th’ immediate future, and let us all take heed.
It holds some grave, some very grave possibilities.
Our enemies are preparing a great offensive
Which they may launch when spring arrives in Europe.
Most probably their main assault will be
Directed at the homeland of our race,
But they will also strike on other fronts,
And we ourselves we find in serious danger
Of hostile action, near or on our coastline.
Exit Mr. Fadden. He enters again, followed by
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Beasley, and the three voices blend
in more rugged lines:
We think that we should tell the people things
Of a most serious import. The War Council
Has made a thorough survey and review
Of th’ situation and its implications.
It is its considered opinion that the war
In which we are belligerents has moved
To a new stage involving the utmost gravity.
As the actors made their exit, some incredulous
cries were heard, and after some delay Mr. Fadden
came on again. Waving a hand in deprecatory fashion
he said:
Far from alarmist were the words you heard.
Two facts are unmistakable: one is that
The war may suddenly spread; and number two
Is that the spread may bring a clash of arms
Near to or even to Australia’s shores
Straightway, incontinently, overnight.
What caused these gentlemen to become so gloomy
all of a sudden and to issue such dismal warnings?
Mr. Beasley has since indicated, though not in very
precise terms, that it was the arrival of information
that the Japanese were contemplating the move into
Indo-China which did not become an accomplished
fact till the present month. But a move into Indo-
China had been a distinct possibility ever since the
collapse of France, and, in any case, the information
which knocked Canberra off its balance must have
been shared by London, Ottawa,' Washington and
Wellington, whose only apparent reaction was mild sur-
prise at Canberra’s perturbation. The same is altogether
true of the report that led to the cancellation of the
Menzies tour of the central and western States, to the
“very critical situation” announcement, the Full Cabinet
and War Council discussions and the summoning of
Parliament to meet today. Nothing even remotely
resembling these proceedings has happened in London,
Washington, Ottawa or Wellington, and the share-
market barometer remained steady in New York,
which reported indeed that Australian stocks were par-
ticularly strong. In a dispatch published in the New
York “Times” the Wellington correspondent of that
journal wrote that “nothing has been learned here
since the Australian Cabinet meetings began that
would give the Far East crisis the urgency with which
it was invested by Canberra” ; and Sydney “Sun’s”
American correspondent added that “Washington is
also at a loss to understand the flurry at Canberra.”
And President Roosevelt, returned from his meeting
with Mr. Churchill, said his country was no closer
to war than before.
Mr. Menzies naturally took Mr. Curtin into his
confidence, and the Leader of the Opposition supported
him as he supported Mr. Fadden in February. He said
he was “aware of the communications to Australia and
of the views which Australia has communicated,” and
he maintained, astonishingly, that “the view I took last
February and March of the war position, particularly
as it affected Australia, has been borne out by events.”
About the same time Mr. Beasley was saying that he
had “not been informed of any circumstances which
have made the Far Eastern situation worse since the
War Council met last week,” and he pointedly ques-
tioned whether “the position has deteriorated to the
extent indicated by the Prime Minister’s statements
and his action in calling a special meeting of the Full
Cabinet.” From that meeting issued a “unanimous
recommendation” that Mr. Menzies should go to
London again as Prime Minister.
Thereupon Mr. Forde hurled himself into the
controversy with an assertion that the recommendation
“was actuated more by political expediency than by
international considerations.” And after the War
Council meeting, at which the facts were placed before
the Labor members, Dr. Evatt spoke to the same effect
in stronger terms.
It is not for any newspaper to deny that the Gov-
ernment received bad news in February or that it has
received bad news in August. There is no cause for
anxiety about the position in the Atlantic or in the
Mediterranean or in Britain itself, whence the R.A.F.
ranges forth daily to harry the enemy with ever-
increasing force, but the position in the North Pacific
has certainly deteriorated. There are all the materials
for a flare-up in that quarter. Nevertheless, the forces
restraining the Japanese militarists from a direct attack
on British interests (meaning not only Malaya
and Burma but the Netherlands East Indies) are very
strong, and so far they have prevailed. And though
it is far from reassuring to read that there was a
majority of one vote in the U.S. House of Representa-
tives for keeping the conscript army in camp for
another 18 months (timorous members who had
shouted “aye” when the thing was carried on the
voices absented themselves from the division), they
may still prevail.
What is objected to is the way in which the news
has been handled. The psychology underlying the
methods adopted in February and repeated in August
is wrong and the effect aimed at is not produced.
Those who resort to such methods do not understand
their own nation. Mr. Churchill has inspired
moments, asd it was in one of these that he told his
people in the darkest hour of their history that he had
nothing to offer them but sweat, blood and tears.
That is the spirit in which this nation should be
addressed by its leaders when perils accumulate. It
would respond with the grim fortitude which carried
the British people through the dreadful summer and
autumn of 1940.
A representative Australian should, of course, be
sent to London. There should have been one there
all along, and the necessity for his presence has become
greater than ever now that the North Pacific situation
has changed so much for the worse. In one of many
Bulletin articles stressing the need for active Austra-
lian participation in British war councils it was
pointed out that the Commonwealth could not afford
to leave everything to Mr. Churchill, Mr. Eden and
Mr. Duff Cooper. This position has nevertheless been
reached in the Pacific, as well as in other parts of the
world, though none of the three gentlemen can have
more than a distant acquaintance with Pacific prob-
lems. And when their qualifications for navigating the
Pacific Dominions through the storm are examined
Australians cannot forget Mr. Churchill’s impulsive
temperament, his crashes as a campaign-planner or
his Russian alliance; or Mr. Eden’s unbroken record
of failure in the Foreign Office or his habit of address-
ing foreign Governments in the style of a school-
master admonishing Smith minor for having ink on
his fingers; or Mr. Duff Cooper’s performance in
several departments or his provocative utterances in
and out of office. These he started making apropos
of Pacific affairs as soon as he reached Washington
on his roundabout way to Singapore, where he is to
be a political and military co-ordinator or something
—a desperately unsuitable appointment.
But it is by no means necessary that Mr. Menzies
should go to London as Prime Minister or that he
should go at all. The “Argus” “presents” him as “the
Australian statesman best fitted to put a crystallised
Australian viewpoint before the men responsible for
grand strategy,” adding, very oddly, that “much
of the British Cabinet’s strategy has been haphazard
and hand-to-mouth,” and emphasising “the need for
avoiding further adventures like those which cost
precious Australian blood in Greece and Crete.” It
forgets that Mr. Menzies was a consenting party to
the “strategy” which had such evil results in Libya,
Greece and Crete. In B. 15/5/ ’4O (and on other occa-
sions) it was suggested that “Mr. Cameron should be
sent to London to represent Australia in the Imperial
War Cabinet and on the Supreme War Council” (there
was one then), and that “the Government should inti-
mate that it will expect the necessary arrangements to
be made before he arrives.” The Bulletin remains
of the opinion that this course should be taken and
that there is no better man than Mr. Cameron in sight.
In any case, Parliament should make the decision
and its decision should be accepted. Talk of “a dead-
lock” and “another election” if Parliament does not
agree that “it is imperative for Mr. Menzies to go to
London at once” (Dr. Page indulged in it) is pestilent
nonsense.
Churchill-Roosevelt War Aims.
Still in many ways extraordinary by all previous
standards, this war was made a bit more extraordinary
by the announcement on August 14 of joint British-
American war aims. Incidents leading up to and
associated with the declaration carried forward the
spectacular—not to say Hollywooden—tradition
present in many happenings since September 3, 1939.
Mr. Roosevelt went fishing aboard the Potomac ;
Mr. Churchill disappeared into the blue. Shrewd
American guessers at once named what was afoot.
British papers refrained even from guessing, though
they have done their share in that line. Australian
dailies ran the American guesses ; then for days mys-
teriously dropped the subject. For all practical pur-
poses, the President and the P.M. vanished from the
earth. Then it was given out that Mr. Attlee, the
Lord Privy Seal, would make an important broadcast
over all stations. With both Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Roosevelt still off-stage, Mr. Attlee came to the micro-
phone and, to use the appropriate phraseology, did
his stuff.
Mr. Attlee announced that Mr. Churchill had met
Mr. Roosevelt at the latter’s invitation and that
together they had drawn up a statement of “certain
common principles in the national policies of their
respective countries, upon which they base their hopes
for a better future for the world.” The statement
which Mr. Attlee then proceeded to declaim amounted
to a declaration of war —or peace —aims shared in
jointly by America and Britain ; or, at all events, by
Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill on their behalf. It
is likely that Mr. Attlee himself had a hand in the
framing from the British side. According to his own
statement, the British Labor leader had already put
in a good deal of work on the formulating of war
aims, but thought that the time was not opportune for
making a declaration. That was as much as eight or
more months back ; there had previously, and there
has meanwhile, been much pressing for such a declara-
tion, both in Britain and America. Why has the time
now suddenly become opportune?
The “mystery” meeting was made at the request
of Mr. Roosevelt. Probably the American leader
believed that such a declaration would strengthen his
position, which, in regard to America’s part in the
war, may well have seemed to him to need strengthen-
ing. Straw votes of the Gallup variety continued to
show the American people as anything but hogging
for “action,” the mood in which Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” had them* a year before the war started. The
isolationist tub-thumpers—Messrs. Wheeler, Lindbergh,
Hoover and others, all with an already big enough
following, and still strongly influential —had lately had
their hand strengthened out of recognition by Hitler’s
attack on his former partner in crime and guilt. From
the time of the signing of the Nazi-Soviet “Non-
Aggression” Pact, Communists in America —as in Aus-
tralia —had done their dirtiest to interfere with the
war effort. Consequently a vast amount of attack had
been directed against them by pro-British organs in
the U.S.A. The result was the building up of a wall
of antagonism against local Corns., which extended to
the Corns.’ fatherland, Soviet Russia. Hence, when
Hitler turned on his former partner and Mr. Churchill
declared Russia now an ally, the isolationists were
able to improve their ground quite considerably by
putting it to Americans that they were being asked
to fight for Communism.
It says a lot for widespread American reluctance
to taking a really active part in the war that such
specious argument could have effect. Still, that is the
position, without frills or wishful-thinking garnishing.
It probably explains Mr. Roosevelt’s urgency to have
a declaration made; and it is merely another of this
war’s extraordinary aspects that the declaration should
come as a joint affair. One party to these war —or
peace—aims is fighting desperately in the air and at
sea, and also on land, for its survival. At the moment
there is some easement owing to the fighting in
Russia; but the position still isn’t as healthy as it
might be, and the end is nowhere in sight. The other
party to the declaration, as far as fighting goes, is only
vicariously in the war ; in it, as it were, by proxy.
It is not fighting; its leader —a joint signer of the
declaration of aims—has taken back nothing of his
election promises that no American would be called
on to take part in any foreign wars ; and there is a
widespread opposition to any American doing so.
America takes the role of loader-in-chief and powder-
monkey to Britain, and spotter-at-sea for the British
Navy. The stuff is being thrown across in good style
and on now generous terms, and today’s position of
the whole British Empire would be parlous without it.
But still America is not a fighting partner, and yet
is a partner to the declaration of war aims. W. S.


Gilbert could make something of this, or it might cali
for the whole line of British satirists.
The terms of the declaration- given in full in
another article —resemble Wilson’s, with the merit
of being shorter and in spots less academic. It is an
inescapable resemblance, the problem being the same
in both cases —subduing force, the German use of
and preference for force, and the establishment in its
place, as near as can be, of wofld peace, based on a
general admission of the rights of peoples to choose
their own brands of government; a wish to see sen-
government restored to those who have been deprived
of it; the ensuring for all trade and economic pios-
perity; a lightening of the crippling burdens of
armaments. „ , .
It might be said that all this and the other pro-
posals of the declaration have been implicit on the
British side all along. Still, though theie may be
also the feeling that Hollywood has labored and pro-
duced a talkie-short, to have the declaration made
and nailed up is no bad thing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Eight (Not Fourteen) Points.
The Declaration of Independence and Woodrow
Wilson’s Fourteen Points must have been handy when
Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill were drafting their
eight-point programme. The text follows:
1. Their countries seek no aggrandisement, territorial
01 desire to see no territorial changes that do
not accord with the desires and freely-expressed wishes
of the peoples concerned. .
3. They respect the right of all peoples to choose
the form of government under which they will live, and
they wish to see sovereign rights and self-government
restored to those who have been forcibly deprived ot
lllC 4. They will endeavor, with due respect to their
existing obligations, to further the enjoyment by all
States, great or small, victor or vanquished, ot access
on equal terms to the trade and raw materials ot the
world which are needed for their economic prosperity.
5. I'hey desire to bring about full collaboration
among all nations in the economic field, with the object
of securing for all improved labor standards, economic
advancement and social security.
6. After the final destruction of Nazi tyranny, the>
hope to see established a pea9e which will confer on all
nations the means of dwelling in safety within their
own boundaries and which will afford assurance that all
may live out their lives in freedom from fear and want.
7. Such peace should enable all men to traverse the
high seas and oceans without hindrance.
8 They believe that all nations of the world, lor
realistic as well as spiritual reasons, must come to the
abandonment of the use of force. Since no future peace
can be maintained if land, sea or air armaments continue
to be employed by nations which threaten or may
threaten aggression outside their frontiers, they believe,
pending the establishment of a wider and permanent
system of general security, that the disarmament ot
such nations is essential. They will likewise aid and
encourage all other practicable measures which will
lighten for peace-loving peoples the crushing burden ot
armaments.
Wilson’s first Point was “open covenants of peace,
openly arrived at, after which there shall be no private
international understanding of any kind, but diplomacy
shall proceed always frankly and in the public view.
His fourteenth Point was “A general association ot
nations must be formed under specific covenants for
the purpose of affording mutual guarantees of political
independence and political integrity to great an
small alike.” Our Anglo-Saxon duumvirs deliberately
avoided these shoals. So far from undertaking to re-
establish the League, they do not mention that
unhappy experiment. Neither do they stand, as Wilson
did for “a free, open-minded and absolutely impartial
adjustment of all colonial claims.” But they follow
Wilson to some extent, in other respects. Subjoined
are the second, third and fourth Wilsonian Points:
•7 Absolute freedom of navigation upon the seas,
outside territorial waters alike in peace and in war,
except as the seas may be closed, in whole or in part,
by international action for the enforcement of inter-
national covenants.
3 The removal, as far as possible, of all economic
barriers and the establishment of an equality of trade
conditions among all the nations consenting to the peace
and associating themselves for its maintenance.
4 Adequate guarantees, given and taken, that
national armaments will be reduced to the lowest point
• consistent with domestic safety.
Seven of Wilson’s Points specifically referred to
territories in enemy occupation. He demanded the
evacuation of “all Russian territory, Belgium,
Northern France (with the restoration of Alsace-
Lorraine), Rumania, Serbia and Montenegro the set-
ting up of “an independent Polish State” and ‘ an abso-
lutely unmolested opportunity of autonomous develop-
ment” for “the other nationalities now under Turkish
rule ” The Roosevelt-Churchill programme does not
mention any particular territorial adjustment. And
“Nazi tyranny” is the only thing marked down for
“destruction.” No reference to Fascism. It may
have been hoped that the Italians and the Japanese
would react favorably to Points four and six ; but
of this thus far there has been no sign.
Opportunity Missed.
When he returned from the Loan Council meeting, this
is what Premier McKell did not say:
“Honorable members will remember that before I departed
for the Loan Council I announced that this Government would
need at least £10,000,000 to fulfil its election promises and
another £8,000,000 for semi-Government authorities. My
first impulse was to ask for £12,000,000 for this Government,
but my advisers assured me that I had no hope of getting
If 1 When I learned at Canberra that there would be oppo-
sition to my getting even £10,000,000, plus £8,000,000 for
the semi-Government authorities, I unhesitatingly announced
that I would fight for our rights to the last ditch. .
“I have now to inform the House that we are to receive
less than half of the amounts I specified, and to add, before
any comment is made, that I am in full agreement with
1C “Wherf'l found that not only had the Commonwealth
Co-ordinator of Works put forward recommendations tor
sums much below the totals mentioned by the States but that
ST Commonwealth Treasurer had cut the amounts even
lower and that two of the smaller States supported him, I
was indignant to the point of speechlessness. I thought of
this great State of ours, denied its rights by a cheesepanng
Commonwealth and by small States, each with the same
voting power as New South Wales. Honorable members will
readily appreciate my feelings. . , „
“I hope they will as readily appreciate what is to follow,
for while I was still struggling for words to express my
indignation a flood of new thoughts burst into my mind.
Suddenly there unfolded before me a mental picture of this
great Australia of ours —its coasts, its mountains, its plains
and the long rivers of the inland; the forests of the ea^ [
and of the far south-west; the sheep country and the wheat-
farms, the cattle stations of the north, the sugai country,
the mines. I saw, like a moving picture, the cities and the
towns, the villages and the camps and the roads between,
the great industries and the small; the warm Australian
suns and the people they have made and the graves of the
P “And I saw, too, the graves of Gallipoli and Palestine
and France, and the newer graves in Libya, Syria, Greece
and Crete, where lie men of our race who went forth as
volunteers, with that devil-may-care Australian walk of theirs
and the free Australian look of them, to face what 1 and
most of you honorable members have never faced and may
never have to face so long as that spirit lives in oui land. 1 saw,
too, the enemy in all his might; under his feet the beaten
nations, and in his path, shaken but resolute, battered but
undaunted, the islands in the north whence we sprang l
saw the grey ships of war and the rusty, old merchantmen
beating gamely into the Atlantic, never knowing but what
the next wave may be their last wave, and in the skies that
hold the emblem on our Australian flag young lads of our
race going forth on wings of war. All this I saw, and moi
—much more—in that flash of time that was like an age
“I want now to tell honorable members that before that
vision, before the thing which all that vision interpreted, the
so-called rights of this State faded into insignificance. I want
now to tell honorable members that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has upon it the burden of a terrible duty, a duty from
which men might quail. This country and this people, still
safe and enjoying all the rich privilege of Australian life,
cannot be diverted from the task in hand for a single hour, nor
can a shilling be spared for anything or anybody not directly
connected with the war effort and the care of those who
cannot care for themselves.
“I could say a great deal more. Let me say only this.
I have offered the services of my Cabinet to the Common-
wealth. I have suggested that this Parliament be suspended
for the duration of the war and a year after until, indeed,
the existence of State Parliaments can be put to a national
vote—and that the purely provincial functions of this State
be carried on by the appropriate departments already func-
tioning, working under Commonwealth guidance through a
State Cabinet reduced to ten members. I have invited the
Commonwealth to assume full control of all national services,
such as transport, education and arbitration, and to admin-
ister them with the existing State staffs. I have invited it
also to take over all aspects of State finance, beginning with
taxation, and, after the normal balancing of accounts as
between revenue and expenditure (that I have promised to
cut in every possible way), to use whatever surplus there may
bC f “Gentlemen , eff ° rt and my predecessors before me have
repeatedly assured the Commonwealth that our State is solidly
behind its war effort. There is something to be done before
private members will go into suspension—the ten Ministers
can be exnected to work round the clock under <Common-
wealth control —but I want it done quickly so that this part
of the country can the more quickly fulfil in the only practic
able manner the assurance I mentioned.
That is what Premier McKell did not say. By not
saying it, or something like it, he missed a splendid
chance to place his name for ever in the hearts and
history of his country
The Cost-plus Danger.
Canberra, the City of Expediency, which has made
an effort to finance the war on sound lines —possibly
under outside expert advice —is lavishing too much
of its precious war funds on cost-plus contracts, one
of the most extravagant and wasteful means of getting
work done. .
In theory, the Government contractor is rewarded
with a percentage on the cost of materials, labor and
overhead involved in a job. The Defence Department
pays the costs, plus the percentage. In practice, the
Defence Department may also pay for waste, delay
and general cost inflation —again plus a percentage.
The greater the waste and delay, the greater the con-
tractor’s profit. And not many people will give Can-
berra credit for being able to police hundreds of
contracts
Assuming that policing is not adequate, skilled
men may be used to sweep floors so as to increase the
cost. Poor tools, possibly made on another costly
cost-plus contract, may be used. Indeed, a job
may in the end be still more profitable to the con-
tractor if it is botched, necessitating extra labor, extra
outgo, extra cost-plus. .
Many people are perturbed about the operation ot
cost-plus. There are, of course, scrupulous contractors
as well as other varieties. But any system which pays
a premium for undetected waste, inefficiency, delay
and bad work is no good to a country whose fighting
sons are sorely in need of the best equipment. Cost-
plus is rotten in principle, and it has been notoriously
disastrous in peace-time practice. In war-time it is a
hundred times more dangerous.
"Appeasers. 1 *
In the dizzy whirl of events Left-Wing writers and
editors of flapper-papers still find time and space to
heap mud on the memory of Chamberlain and the
hateful appeasement policy.” They would rather
swallow their fountain-pens than call Stalin an
“appeaser,” but what else was he in August, 1939,
and until June, 1941? And a comparison of his
appeasement policy with Chamberlains is all to the
advantage of the Englishman.
Chamberlain was honest, at any rate A non-
interventionist by tradition and conviction, he refused
to involve his country in war for the preservation ot
an Austrian republic which could not be preserved or
for the support of an unspeakable Red Government in
Spain In both cases, and in respect of the China
war also he had to contend with a powerful clamor
for intervention, backed by members of all parties and
newspapers of all shades of opinion, but he faced it
down. Placed in the same situation, Canning, Glad-
stone and Lord Salisbury would doi } e sam
They would have been guided, as Chamberlain was,
by imperial interests, and by Je well-tried prin-
ciples of foreign policy which saved England from
being wasted in foreign wars as Sweden was.
For Munich, Chamberlain seems now to have been
far less responsible than Daladier. That unfortunate
man knew that his nation did not want to fight for the
Czechs, though France and Czechoslovakia were allies,
and that in any case it was incapable of saving those
Northern Slavs, even with British assistance. He must
have communicated these facts to his English asso-
ciate. Chamberlain, for his part, knew that Britain
could give little help to the Czechs in the air and none
on land, and that to such a war there would be strong
opposition at home. It is now clear to all but Left-
Wingers and editors of flapper-papers and imbeciles
who write books such as Guilty Men that, with or
without Franco-British opposition, the Germans, with
half the population of the synthetic republic assisting
or sympathising with them, would have walked through
the Czechs in 48 hours.
Chamberlain tried to save for Benes and his
people as much of their country as could possibly be
saved without bloodshed, and failed because. Hitler
perjured himself. He tried to bring Russia into an
alliance designed to restrain the perjurer, and faded
again because he refused to pay the price demanded
by Stalin —the annexation of the Baltic States and
parts of Finland and Rumania. Though his object
all along was to avert another world war he refused
to buy peace —if peace could thus have been main-
tained—with dishonor. The war came, but—thanks
very largely to Chamberlain—the Empire went into it
united and with clean hands and with allies. ihe
allies were soon beaten, but the consciousness that
it is fighting with unsullied honor in a great cause has
helped to inspire the Empire to withstand Hitler and
Mussolini as it withstood Napoleon, and it presents a
picture of stubborn resolution and endurance which
commands the admiration of the world.
What of Stalin? Double-crossing Britain and
France, whom he had himself invited to negotiate,
he came to terms with the man whom he had tor
years denounced as a bloodthirsty criminal, abandon-
ing to Hitler’s vengeance the Russians Slav brothers.
Then in spite of his engagements under the League
and of a pile of non-aggression pacts, he made war
on the Finns and grabbed Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania,
Bessarabia and North Bukovina under the threat of
war, meanwhile supplying Germany with huge sup-
plies of war materials, including over a million tons
of oil Had he been honest, as Chamberlain was, he
might', in association with Britain and France and
with the moral support of the U.S.A., have forced
Hitler to recoil from the certain horrors of a doubt-
ful war on two fronts. At the worst he would have
had only part of the German forces to contend with.
Still ci Headache.
“0.T.”: “Well aware that the scheme has defects and
that criticism has been levelled at it in many places,
T. E. Kendall, president of the N.S.W. Farmers and
Settlers, told their annual conference that his
executive believed that the present system of handling
Australian wheat amounted to ‘ stabilisation of he
industry” and that it was hoped to per suade the
Government to continue it for 10 years alter the war.
While the conference was sitting the Australian
Wheat Board was announcing that it still ha
42 241,000 bushels of old wheat to sell, another
25,000,000 sold but not shipped, an overdraft of
£7 700 000 on payments to growers and geneml ex-
penses and a debt of £765,000 on cornsacks. This is
fhe position of Mr. Kendall's “stabilisation scheme
after two harvests, and there is nothing in the wai
situation to justify any hope for improvement after
the third harvest/now only three months away and
promising well in yield .... T ~ Tp .. s
Also while the conference was sitting, J. b. leas
dale, the Westralian member of the A.W.8., was say-
ing this in Perth:
A <*reat deal of the success with No. 2 pool was due
to Britain buying 1,500,000. tons of wheat and about
200,000 tons of flour early m 1940 Th & contract pr
vided for delivery, by January, 1941. But at the ena
of IQ4O the shipping position was so bad that br t
indicated it might be June, 1941, before the wheat
could be lifted. Later, we were advised that it was
unlikely it could be moved before j
Since then the position has further deteriorated.
To relieve the position, Britain transferred 250,000
, c Ap contract to the account of and to be dis-
patched to Greece. Britain financed the Grcckpurchasc.
About 32 ships were listed to arrive between March and
Time The first ship had reached Fremantle when Greece
collapsed Britain has still 342,400 tons of the contract
to lift, and very little prospect of doing it in the
immediate, future.
This meant the storage of a vast amount ot wheat
in Westralia, and already there are hints fro ™
of loss through lyeevil damage. It is expected tha
nearly 48,000,000 'bushels will be stored in Westralia
after the new harvest is in.
Mr. Teasdale added that flour export had been
almost normal, but mainly to Asia m lapanese and
neutral ships, and spasmodically to South Africa. At
the moment, with Japanese credits frozen and other
things, only South Africa is left. ...
On a normal season and estimating the coming
harvest at somewhere between 150 and 160 I P I llo |J
bushels, it looks as though Australia will find , '!
with a carryover of about 80 million bushels next
January. This is assuming that the export flour trade
continues and that internal wheat consumption is
maintained at the present rate.
Not a good position for an authority with a
thumping overdraft and committed to buy the next
harvest at a price that must at least meet farraers
costs, and not a pleasing picture for the country that
has to finance it. ,
It is difficult to see what can be done other than
what has been done ; still more difficult to tell farmers
that the country cannot afford this sort ot thing to
another 10 or 15 years. Few sensible people would
reject the idea that it is better to keep the farmers on
the land at heavy national cost than have them walk
off and thus wreck the whole structure of many
country towns and districts. All the same the F and
S.A. and the A.W.B. should be putting their minds to
a search for some way out.
For a beginning, the A.W.B. ought now to be
formulating a cropping policy for the next tour
five years.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“V. Cluse”: It was a pleasant Sunday
afternoon in our suburb and the wife of
our tame drunk had a few visitors, in-
cluding a parson, in for afternoon-tea,
the drunk himself having departed soon
after lunch, in a sober condition, for a
walk around the sea front. Somewhere
on that walk he discovered sufficient beer
to render his gait unstable and his talk
doubtful. His wife, happening to go
outside the house, was in time to spot
him meandering up the side path, sized
up the position with the acumen and
dispatch of a woman trained to such
situations and led him with determina-
tion to the back shed. But she forgot
to empty his pockets. He slept 20
minutes, awoke, emptied what was in his
pockets, cogitated, made his way to the
living-room and bumbled in. His wife,
perforce, had to make introductions.
When she produced the parson the drunk
eyed him in alarm, then turned and
bolted. Later, her visitors gone, the wife
awaited his return. He came, fortified
with more liquor, and, before she could
get a word out, roared, “Shay, wharrer
y’ tryin’ a do, bringin’ that parson bloke
’ere? You married me wunsh, but by
cripesh y’ ain’t goin’ a put it over me
again! ”
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: So “Arev’s” great-grand-
mother saw Nelson (B. 13/8/’4l). Well,
my great-grandmother came to Australia
as a baby, lived outback most of her
life and never saw Ned Kelly. Beat
that, y’ cows!
* * * *
“Clooter”: My kid, having just read
Treasure Island, had taken to beefing out
“Fifteen men on a dead man’s chest”
around the house, which prompted
the curiosity of a small girl neighbor.
Having been told what the chest and rum
meant, she then asked, “Who’s the
devil?” “Oh, he’s an ugly fellow with
horns who comes after bad little girls,”
said the missus. “Have you ever seen
him?” asked the youngster. “No, dear,
I m a good little girl”—with a glance at
me “only bad little girls see him.”
Pause while the child absorbed this.
Then, “When is he on at the pickshers?”
* * * *
“X.S. ’: All the people sitting at the
cafe table in Collins-street except one
were wearing “V for Victory” badges.
The exception was a businessman born
in Norway but for the last 30 years
resident in Australia. “Where’s your
Victory badge?” asked one of his com-
panions. “Haven’t bought one yet,” re-
plied the Scandinavian, “but it reminds
me that I got a bit of news from my
home town the other day. The Nazis
have done their damnedest to force the
boys there to join the Hitler Youth Move-
ment but without much success. They
are all first-class ski-men, and their
favorite sport on Sunday evenings is to
go out on the hillside behind the town
and write with their skis ‘Down with
Quisling,’ ‘Down with Hitler,’ ‘V’—in
letters a quarter of a mile high in the
snow. If there is a frost the letters freeze
and remain there for days for the Nazis
to read.” There seemed to be a moral
of some sort hanging to his story, but if
there was it remained unspoken.
*
T.McN.”: A column in my local rag
quotes a 8.8. C. broadcast by Mr. Quen-
tin Reynolds in which Hitler was
warned not to wake the dead and
asked a multitude of questions about
France, Russia and other things. Mr.
Reynolds used the direct personal pro-
noun—“ You, Mr. Schickelgruber, cannot
fool people any more”—and my paper
invited me to suppose that Mr. Schickel-
gruber was listening to all this with tears
of mortification. I don’t like Mr. S., if
that’s his name, any more than anyone
else, but I’m not fool enough to believe
he gives two hoots for Mr. Reynolds or
his opinions. And how weary I am of
American reporters killing Nazis with
their mouths!
* ♦ jg
“W.E.M.A.”: J. H. M. Abbott (B.
6/8/’4l) relates the story of Mrs. Potter
Mac Queen’s marble bath, in which the
lady was said to bathe daily in milk, an
aid to the preservation of her not in-
considerable beauty. The bath is still in
"It's all right, Muggins, here's the Sydney comin' to yer rescue."
existence, but has now been displaced
these many years and lies somewhere
outside the old convict-built homestead
of Segenhoe. Popular legend also has it
that the lavishness of this old-time
beauty’s bathing arrangements could not
be frowned on as extravagance; after
she had risen like Aphrodite from the
foam the milk was used as part of the
convict servants’ daily ration.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A wrecking job unique in
Victoria’s history will be concluded when
the Orungal, the liner which went ashore
near Barwon Heads last November,
breaks up and vanishes beneath the
ocean. A few months ago Whelan the
Wrecker, who has done more than any-
one to change the face of Melbourne,
surprised the trade by making an offer
to demolish the vessel. He did his usual
thorough job, and the last bit of portable
material had been removed just before
a heavy gale broke the ship’s back.
* * * *
“Morty”: An open-air religious meet-
ing was in progress. After the speaker
had repeated the words “I believe”
several times, a voice broke in: “Do you
believe in backing horses, mister?” “Cer-
tainly,” roared the speaker, to the aston-
ishment of the crowd and the horror
of the brethren assembled in the ring.
“I can make money backing horses —but
I don’t think you can.” He glared chal-
at the interjector, and went on
with his discourse. But the crowd was
thoroughly interested. “About the
horses?” someone shouted. The speaker
glared. “What about them?” he de-
manded. “What’s your system?” “I’ll
tell you. You take your horse, you get
him by the head and gently back him
into a cart; then you go and save the
missus the price of- a cord of firewood
by bringing her a load of wood—that’s
the only way to make money out of
backing horses, brethren.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The decision of a doctor
to seek another practice has put people in
a remote part of Victoria’s Mallee in the
predicament of being from 50 to 70 miles
from the nearest medical assistance and
thus in a far worse position than people
in the allegedly wild parts of the con-
tinent served by the flying doctors. Chief
Secretary Bailey proposes to solve the
problem with a subsidy. The Mallee never
did have much medical attention, but
struggled along without it. I was motor-
ing along one of those interminable vistas
where you can take a wrong turning and
lose your way for 60 miles without find-
ing anybody to put you straight again
when I came to a gate opening on
infinity. On the gatepost was scrawled:
“Dr. X, Mrs. Flannagan would like to
see you.” Underneath was another mes-
sage: “O.K. Don’t bother. A boy,
Both splendid.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: War-time secrecy com-
plex has infected even Melbourne City
Council. Citizens hurrying to their jobs
on a Monday morning stopped aghast at
the Town Hall, presented with an aspect
of that venerable edifice they had never
seen before. The city fathers had re-
moved on Sunday eight of the 40-year-old
elm-trees, and the Coll ins-street elevation
looked positively naked. Tree-lovers
became ropable about it. The council
stoutly denies there was anything sinister
about the removal, the trees having been
condemned years ago as “unsuitable.” In
other days when the slaughter was
mooted there was a public outcry. The
city fathers now dispense with mooting.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: “Capricorn” (B. 6/8/’4l)
omitted one of the most frequently-used
Yiddish words from his slang list —
mozzle, luck. The desire to “change the
mozzle” has been strong for ages in those
who consider themselves unlucky. It is
the desire for a “change of mozzle” that
induces many Jews who never go to a
synagogue all the year round to flock
to the Jewish New Year services, so that
halls have to be hired to accommodate
the overflow gatherings. There are Gen-
tiles who help swell the rush, too, with
an idea that it may have a beneficial effect
on their luck. The whole tradition of
the Jewish New Year is that a new deal
is given with the change-over ; that’s the
whole spirit of “change of mozzle.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A brave man is Sanderson,
S.M. in Adelaide. In a factory assault
case, where each woman said that the
other had given the first blow (or good
hard push), he said, “The difficulty of
ever reaching the truth in a smoke-screen
of facts of this kind is extreme. The
only witnesses are women, and their
natural gifts make it difficult for an im-
partial observer to estimate who is telling
the truth and who is not.” But then
he wisely hedged with “I am not implying
that women commit perjury more often
than men.” Case dismissed.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Modern aviation isn’t all
destruction. A Maoriland carpenter who
had lost the sight of one eye and was
threatened with total blindness was told
by his medical advisers that there was a
dim chance of restoring his remaining
optic if he got to Melbourne. A couple
of weeks ago he crossed the Tasman by
air, was operated on at Royal Melbourne
and now is beginning to distinguish light
from darkness.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: I feel considerable sym-
pathy for Wodehouse. Because the
poor fellow invented “Jeeves” and wrote
some books of a romantic-cwm-comic
texture doesn’t necessarily mean that he
knows anything about human nature.
“My broadcasts,” he recently burbled,
“have caused violent attacks against me
in England, but I am still unable to
see anything in them which would
not be printed in any English paper.”
The unfortunate literary comedian hasn’t
grasped the fact that any Englishman who
broadcasts from Berlin qualifies as an
Aunt Sally.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The reason why telegra-
phists have to learn to write legibly is be-
cause they deal largely in code language
and must cultivate a style in which no
letter of the alphabet can be mistaken
for another. In their private correspond-
ence they are often just as bad writers
as the journalists “Oxmead” criticises
(B. 30/7/’4l). The inability to write
clearly is very largely a matter of
associations, and plenty of doctors who
could, an they would, write quite
plainly stagger across their pads like
inebriated spiders because they have
the old Elizabethan idea that lucid pen-
manship is plebeian. Similarly with pro-
fessors. A student at the University of
Melbourne, now a distinguished physicist,
once sent up the solution to a problem
to his professor and in due course got it
back with a remark written on it which
he took for a correction. After puzzling
over it for several days he plucked up
courage and approached the professor, a
man of a somewhat fiery temper. “Would
you mind telling me what it is you’ve
written here, professor?” he asked.
“That! Can’t you read, man? That’s
‘Write legibly,’ ” snorted the prof.
* * * *
“S.V.”: Melbourne continues to
have its centenaries. The latest is that of
the Elizabeth-street post-office, and the
inevitable John Batman couldn’t be kept
out of it. It was that v/orthy who agreed
in 1836 to attend to the valentines of
Melbourne’s early settlers. Their corre-
spondence had grown in 1841 to such
proportions that the Government erected
a permanent building in Elizabeth-street,
appointed David Walsh postmaster at a
salary of £2OO a year and supplied him
with one whole postman clad in a scarlet
coat and a beaver with a bold band. The
institution Batman founded is now in
direct communication with every part of
the world and can supply you with a
photogram of yesterday’s air raid on
London.
ASKING FOR MORE.
N.S.W. Premier McKeli complained bitterly that
bioan Council cut down his request for
£ 18,163,000, to carry out the policy on which he
was elected, to a mere £7,405,000.”
Oh, it’s tough when to office you’ve staged a
return
With a glittering programme of money to burn,
To find more than half of the total amount
On which you led voters to think you could
count
Cut off, by a stroke of the pen, at the fount!
You can hardly be blamed if it strikes you as
vile,
Such an obvious method of cramping your
style,
And putting your name in the pitiful list
That’s headed by Dickens’s Oliver Twist.
You feel like a spendthrift the notion who gets
His daddy will always look after his debts,
Or a guardian indulgent will never refuse
The boodle that’s needed to meet lOUs,
To head off bum-bailiffs and pacify Jews,
And finds to his dudgeon a niggardly gent.
Who docks his requirements by sixty per cent.,
And shows himself nearly as tight in the fist
As the Bumble encountered by Oliver Twist.
Oh, it’s fine to envisage the things that you’ll do
With the bunce which (in fancy) is coming to
you.
No harm in constructing your castles in Spain,
But it’s nothing but prudent on beer to remain
Till you’re sure the exchequer will run to cham-
pagne.
Remember there’s always a danger attached
To counting your chickens before they are
hatched,
Especially when politicians exist
As sanguine as ever was Oliver Twist.
■ Oh, it’s pleasant to power and place to ascend
By making it clear you’ll have plenty to spend,
But, I hardly need say, it’s another affair
To find that the splosh you were sure you
would snare
Is —most of it, anyway—up in the air.
It leaves you indignant as well as abashed,
At war with the world, as discouraged and
dashed
As felt, when his bid for more tucker had
missed,
That optimist, Dickens’s Oliver Twist.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


”The Cuv'ment oughter take over the B.H.P.
“Too right! The Medical Association has too much say!"
“Gee”: Jitterbugs, it seems, have rigid
rules of class and caste. A Melbourne
temple of St. Vitus recently decided to
reduce its admission price from 2s. to
Is. 6d. On the night of the innovation
one of the regular patrons, a youth of
17, with a tight suit, suede shoes and
gorgeous tie, approached the box-office,
shifted his gum and disgustedly exclaimed
(as near as I can spell it): “Strike me
roan! Wotsa idea reducin’ the price
down from a swye ter eighteen? Wan ter
’ave the joint full o’ ruddy lares?”
*.* * *
“S.T.S.”: A strange death has puzzled
Adelaide coroner Ziesing (acting in
the absence of Arthur Blackburn, V.C.,
now away on bigger duties in Syria). A
carpenter was working on a new
munitions building when, a witness said,
“A blinding flash of light about 6ft. wide
leapt down from the overhead high-
tension wires and enveloped his body
with a deep booming noise like a ship’s
siren-” The man was badly burned, and
died a fortnight later. The coroner was
unable to understand what could possibly
have caused metallic contact between
wires and building till the mains super-
intendent produced a magpie’s nest with
pieces of wire in it, and suggested that
a flying bird must have dropped a length
of wire on to the lines, the other end
coming down to contact with deceased’s
brace and bit, which was reduced to
molten metal.
* * * *
“Zake”: When the delivery van of one
of the city’s toniest department stores
stopped at the Soansos’ place in our
street and the carter took in a small light
parcel, feminine tongues wagged about
Mrs. S.’s lack of patriotism in not bring-
ing it home herself and help conserve
petrol. So, when about a week later I
struck old Soanso staggering home from
the station with an outsize in parcels, I
assumed word of the criticism had
reached Mrs. S. to good effect. Unlike
his missus, old S. has no social ideas;
in fact, among his cronies he often waxes
frankly sarcastic about “the wife’s
notions.” When I chiacked him about
having a small parcel sent home and
then making a packhorse of himself with
something that looked like a wool bale,
he grinned. “The small parcel came
from Farden’s,” he said with great can-
dor. “The wife gets a kick out of having
their van call. She got these cushions
and curtain materials from a cash-order
and t.p. joint, and the sight of their van
would give her a fit.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Were I a high military leader
and found my dial and dossier being
splashed over flapper-press pages, I would
consider my career as good as blighted.
Every cove so far sporting crossed swords
or batons has had the dead-hand fall
heavily on his shoulder after the guff
rags have made him their darling. First
of ’em was Smigly-Rydz. Before Hitler
hopped into Poland the nice regular
features of the marshal used to appear
in the hysterical journals about three
times a week, his cloak wound around
him like a third-rate hamfat and a J. C.
Williamson prop, cap stuck on at a
raffish angle. What he was going to do
to the Boches was a caution. Before the
first shot ceased reverberating S.-M. beat
his chief of staff in a sprint over the
border by 17sec. and nobody has heard
of him since. Gamelin was front-page
stuff till someone stuck a bayonet into
the Maginot balloon. After the little
marshal retired to his roses and his
memoirs the newspapers picked on Iron-
side. Massive, bulldog-like, the mantle
of Wellington was already conferred on
him. The flappers were still lapping it
up thrillingly when the general swam out
of the public ken into an obscure back-
water. Now it’s Marshal Budenny. The
twin horsetails sprouting from his top
lip have become a feature alongside the
comic strips. It’s a terrible handicap.
Now if the censor would allow the f.p.
to boost Keitel, List, Brauschitch, Von
Lieb and a few more the war would be
as good as over.
“Beta”: The chap
who had talked with
Crimean veterans (B.
25/6/’4l) recalls to my
mind a court case in
which the accused was
asked if he had any
brothers or sisters. “My
brother died over a
hundred years ago” was
the startling reply.
Strange as it sounds it
was true. The man was
over 70, and his father s
age at time of his birth
was 55. A son born of
a previous marriage
died at the age of five
when the father was 25.
* *
“ Nagheer ”: The
chequered and colorful
career of Jacob Mount-
garrett, Tasmania’s first,
and for some time only,
representative of the
medical profession,
should provide good
material for some future
Australian novelist,
joining the R.N. in 1798
he saw active service
under Jervis at the
battle of Cape St.
Vincent. Posted to
H.M.S. Glatton when
she brought 600 prisoners to Sydney, he
was with Lieut. Bowen’s expedition to the
Derwent River, and landed at Risdon
in September, 1803. Later he was with
Colonel Paterson at the founding ot Port
Dalrymple on the Tamar River, and did
quite a useful bit of exploring. Mount-
garrett’s Lagoon is named after him, and
he discovered the Franklin River.
Although appointed a magistrate in the
settlement he repeatedly fell foul of the
law, being charged with such unmagis-
terial actions as assaulting a senior officer,
giving assistance to bushrangers and steal-
ing stock, the latter a hanging matter. He
managed to dodge any serious conse-
quences, but Macquarie hove him out of
the magistracy after the cattle-duffing
affair. He acquired pastoral property and
also carried on a profitable sealing trade
in Bass Strait, although he lost an arm in
1815 from blood poisoning contracted
whilst doing an operation.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The “V for Victory” slogan,
like most of its kidney, seems to have
died from inanition in Melbourne, but
there is one which still keeps going in
munitions factories. If a process worker
complains of the monotony of his job, the
length of his hours, the stiffness of his
joints or brings some domestic excuse
or other forward for not on to
the minute the foreman snorts: “Oh, is
that so? Very unfortunate! But dont
forget, it’s elbow grease that Hitler will
slip on!”
* * * * ;
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Consider the
reasoned reaction of a London civilian
friend to bombing, as expressed in a letter
written after nearly a year of steady
effort by the Luftwaffe. “Whether a
Blitz, comes or not most of us now man-
age to get in a good night’s sleep Ive
talked it over with a lot of people and
they seem to have reacted much as 1
have which is to say that one is fright-
ened’ of bombs, but as there’s nothing
to be done about it the only sensible
way is to turn in as usual and do one’s
best to sleep. Only one of three things
can happen. A direct hit —hard luck but
no more worries. A near-miss unlucky
also, and perhaps a mistake to have gone
to bed. Or just the usual lot of noise
from things going up and down, in which
case one may as well be in bed as not.
Most women seem to have reasoned it
out on the same lines long before most
men did.”
* # * *
“Snarker”: Agree . with “Capricorn
(B. 13/8/’4l) that most Australians drop
the final “g” from most “ing” endings,
but I stick like glue to the contention that
they substitute “k” in “something,
“anything” and “nothing.” Still, though
we slur our speech, nobody ever mis-
takes us, as witness the time-honored
“Cumanavwun.”
* * * *
“Ex-Vic”: Once rode in Melbourne s
lone hansom (B. 13/8/’4l). Was run-
ning late to catch a Ballarat picnic train
leaving Spencer-street and got to Fhnders-
street to find the last suburban train
gone and not a taxi in sight. The hansom
was boarded and the nag clip-clopped up
Flinders-street and round the corner, per-
haps half a mile. Then 1 discovered how
that lone cabby existed. He charged me
65.!
* *
“Pawang”: “Duck’s Disease” com-
ments (B. 30/7/’4l) on the fact that
there have been remarkably few outsize
military leaders in history, most of them
being small men. Possibly it admits of a
psychological explanation, and Richard
the Third, who was not only undersized
but a hunchback, puts it very aptly in
the play by Shakspeare where he says that
he was “not made for ladies boudoirs
or to court the amorous looking-glass,”
like his handsome brother Clarence.
Peace suited Clarence, but it didn’t suit
Richard, so he upset a kingdom and
carved his way to a throne with his
sword. Plain Richard with a hump was
no match for Clarence ; but King Richard
with a crown was a different proposi-
tion. In the end Richard got the Lady
Anne, and was there ever a rougher
wooing?
* * * *
“F.S.”: The unveiling at Canberra of
the official picture of the Coronation
recalls that there are scores of dieary
official pictures of Australian historical
events and hundreds of dreary ofticiaf
portraits of Australian statesmen and
notabilities hanging in our universities,
town halls and Parliament Houses, but
how many people, even the subjects or
them, take any notice of them? If a
politician was a great man, a bad pictuie
of him may live because the subject is
famous ; and a good picture of a noodle
will be preserved because it is a good
picture, in which case it shares the same
good fortune with any beggar painted by
Rembrandt, any dwarf painted by
Velasquez or any midinette sculpted
by Rodin. W. M. Hughes was
painted by several well-known artists, who
treated him with the respect due to an
important personage and painted con-
ventional pictures of him, but the only
artist whom he really admired was
Augustus John. There’s a legend that,
when he sat for John, that unconven-
tional gipsy, having completed a portrait,
looked at it, said “You ugly little beggar!
What can I do with you?” and then
slashed the canvas to ribbons.
“Retire one thousand paces, men-I'll see if this is a booby trap or not."
VERNAL VERSE.
Wild winter’s tyranny is on the wane;
Another week or two, and Mr. Mares
Will notify the season’s come again
When earth her goodliest apparel wears. #
When youth and beauty fall for Hymen s
snares
And troths are plighted readily enough.
Spring poets, cease to slumber m your lairs
Like resting bees or hibernating bears,
It’s time to tune your lyres and do your stun:.
No bard who feels the magic call of spring
Was ever short of themes since Chaucer s
times
Or of phenomena whereof to sing
In these or less exhilarating climes.
Adown the centuries there rings and chimes
The melody which Shakspeare’s lines suffuses,
The wizardry which Swinburne’s lyrics primes.
Buck in! There’s still a plenitude of rhymes
Nor any lack of substitutes for Muses.
Sonnet or ode, it doesn’t matter which,
Ballad or triolet or villanelle,
Rondeau or roundelay may fill a niche
If it’s sufficiently .acceptable.
Even unmitigated doggerel
If full of fantasy a chord may strike
In some responsive bosom. Who can tell.
Come, see if some of you can’t ring the bell,
You mute, inglorious Miltons and the like!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE ......... 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE ............ St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SFDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
e-tv.
d
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways*
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHEIX HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE* 8W4481.
. Also at_ BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
*
18
les
eV-
-1) 1cS
qW s
l)ou
s\ce s
fa^'v
Set
m
Su'^
Cat®
S 3
. v**
♦ * v
M£LBOURAf£S
Most Popular Potbl
Next Town Hall - Little Collins Street
&3.U
POLITICAL POINTS
“Cabinet has decided that it is impera-
tive for Mr. Menzies to go to London
at once.” Thus Page, in a very excited
state, on Sunday ; and he went on to say
that “in making that decision we had
all the facts before us.” The same facts
were communicated to Evatt, Forde,
Makin and Beasley. They disagreed with
the “decision,” and it seems very unlikely
that Parliament will ratify it. What will
happen then? According to the doctor,
“a deadlock, a major political crisis that
could end only in another election” ; but
why should it when this Parliament is
not 12 months old?
Said Mr. Curtin after the “moment-
ous” Cabinet meeting, “No matter who
we are or what we are, today is a day
w'hen Australia is entitled to ask for
loyal and devoted services from its sons.”
Right ; but if only some of them offer
it while others hang back, what then?
Fadden, whom “S. M. Herald” ex-
pects to be P.M. with a power of attorney
or something (there are people who
wouldn’t mind betting that Dr. Evatt will
beat him to it, name and all), has become
a man without a party. In concert with
other Federal Ministerialists and members
of the State Opposition, he formed a show
called the Country National Organisation,
believing that the two existing organisa-
tions would swing-in behind it. But the
C.P. refused, saying it would continue
on the old basis even if Brand, M.L.A.
for Isis, remained its only politician. So
the C.N.0., which is an organisation
only in name —though it claims to have
‘ “the full co-operation of the United Aus-
tralia party,” which boasts two or three
political members and a dog or two —
is now facing the job of forming
branches.
The first vacancy in the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council since the McCahills took
charge has been filled by the appointment
of J. J. Maloney, secretary of the Boot
Trade Employees. Among those present
was the ghost of Danyell O’Connor, who
established the “app’int Maloney” tradi-
tion when he was Parkes’s P.M.G.
N.S.W. Leg. Councillors are elected by
members of both Houses. Before last
week’s affair Clyne, the Speaker, gave
orders that strangers entering the House
“to accost members” should be stopped
by “officers.” He explained that his
object was to prevent “undesirable prac-
tices,” having in mind his own “experi-
ence as a private member” and what hap-
pened at other Council elections. It
would be interesting to know what action
his Government proposes to take to pre-
vent “undesirable practices” at the City
Council election. If it has its way any
person can qualify for the vote by a
month’s residence and the election will
be held on two rolls. Under such condi-
tions doubling of the police force
wouldn’t stop some of the boys from
making a welter of it.
George Lambert, a Westralian Labor
veteran, has gone to a bourne remoter
than South America, to which he once
retired, and his seat, Yilgarn-Coolgardie,
has been lost to a Mr. Kelly, who is
Independent C.P. or something. The
defeat leaves the Willcock Government
with 26 votes in a House of 50, and it is
a bad augury for the general election,
due in eight months or so, for Yilgarn-
Coolgardie has hitherto been solid for
Labor. But Westralia doesn’t seem to
care much for Labor rule in war-time.
Makin, M.H.R., and Richards, Leader
of what is left of the State Labor party,
recently joined the hue-and-cry against
B.H.P. They were tartly told by an
“Advertiser” correspondent that “their
views do not represent the general opinion
of electors in South Australia,” and it
would be extraordinary if they did. S.A.
people must recognise, if Labor narks
don’t B.H.P.’s contribution to the
impressive industrial transformation of
the State which the depression hit harder
than any other. What it is doing in
Whyalla alone is a great thing, and not
only for the State—from Whyalla there
has gone a message of hope to every
neglected port in the Commonwealth.
Still foaming at the mouth because the
Loan Council jibbed at diverting a huge
pile of war-money to the Sydney Treasury
so that N.S.W. Labor might “honor” its
election—er—“promises,” McKell said it
was a shame and a scandal and a sin
that each of the small States should have
an equal vote on the Loan Council with
N.S.W. and the Commonwealth two
“Anticipating that the Russo-German war will extend into winter, Hitler has ordered
400,000 pairs of skis for his army.”
“Oud of mein vay, you!”
votes. The angry gentleman forgets that
this was an essential part of the Financial
Agreement, which was put to the vote and
incorporated in the Constitution. The
voting in N. S. Wales was 754,466 for
and 415,846 against. If, in his anger,
McKell smites N. S. Wales with more
outrageous taxes, abolition of State Par-
liaments and Governments may be put
to the vote, and then he will find his
unnecessary occupation gone.
“The time has arrived when the State
of N. S. Wales should say what part it
intends to play in the government of
the Commonwealth,” growled “Tiger”
McKell, back from Canberra. In a true
commonwealth, such as Britain is—and
Maoriland and South Africa—there
would be no such thing as the “State”
of N. S. Wales.
J. S. Teasdale, of the Australian Wheat
Board, giving Westralians an idea of how
much wheat their State might have to
hold after the harvest:
It would fill St. George’s-terrace from
the barracks to Adelaide-terrace, a space
1756 yards long by 30 yards wide, to a
height of 128 ft. It would take a full year,
with ships coming and going without a
break, to get that heap away.
No wonder wheat isn’t a popular subject
at Canberra any more.
Taxpayers are tired of reading that
Minister Foil, who is leading a very costly
and totally unnecessary press pilgrimage
to the N.E.1., is sitting on golden thrones
in those parts and eating peanuts off
silver plates. At Bandoeng, it seems, Foil
“sat on a golden throne and viewed a
performance of glittering Oriental
splendor.”
His interest alternated between the danc-
ing of the palace virgins and a flashing
diamond, the size of a pigeon’s egg, set in
the Sultan’s headgear.
Shareholders in companies with which
Foil was associated are never likely to
sit on golden thrones or gaze wonder-
ingly at palace virgins, and if they have
enough left to buy peanuts they eat them
out of a bag.
“The Federal Government’s scheme for
control of coal is a lot of bosh and a
waste of public money,” declared Mr.
Badly, N.S.W. Minister for Mines. Still,
something had to be done to get coal pro-
duced in Mr. Badly’s country ; the stop-
work mania has reached such proportions
that ships may yet be carrying coal to
Newcastle. Anyway, Mr. Badly shouldn’t
forget that he is out to “control” private
shale-oil plants.
Ryde (N.S.W.) electoral council of the
U.A.P. voted confidence in Menzies
and dissociated itself from the “reported
attacks” on him by Marr and McCall.
Still, McCall wasn’t without a champion.
A lady delegate described him as “an
outstanding and noble young man who
had been misunderstood”’
Heffron, the N.S.W. Minister for N.E.S.,
had the Wollongong-Kembla area blacked
out. Wardens reported lights in a Wol-
longong office, that of the Trades and
Labor Council. Strange that there has
been no report of a prosecution, though
other people have been prosecuted and
heavily fined.
Military exigencies having caused a
shortage of doctors, Victorian Premier
Dunstan, with fine logic, proposes to
supply the lack of medical attention to
the Victorian outback by subsidising doc-
tors pound for pound up to £350. A sub-
sidy would draw doctors from other parts
and cause a shortage elsewhere, but
Dunstan didn’t think of that bit.
As leader of the Opposition Mair looks
like being much more effective in debate
than he was as Premier. He got home
heavily on the whining McKell by point-
ing out that McKell laid the foundation
of his own financial troubles by refusing
even to consider the plan for one Com-
monwealth income tax ; and, the “new
order being mentioned,” he said he
wouldn’t even talk about it—“such talk
is like this V sign, a lot of piffle.” And
so it is,.
There are great hopes among clergy-
men and others who blither about
“Russia’s mighty experiment for the
world” that the Russians are about to
return to religion. Anyway, Moscow
Radio has appealed to Christians to
unite in the crusade against Hitler. Un-
fortunately it seems to be the old, old
story: —•
When the Devil was sick, the Devil a saint
would be.
When the Devil was well, the Devil a saint
was he.
The two political Evatts in the news
again, and on the same day:
“Let us beware of the appeasers,” said
Dr. Evatt, M.H.R., referring to the situa-
tion in the Pacific at a public meeting in
Kensington, Sydney.
In a resolution sent to the Minister of
Education, Mr. Evatt, the proposed aboli-
tion of caning in State schools was deplored
as a “policy of appeasement.”
The perfectly delightful resolution came
from the Cleveland Street School Parents
and Citizens’ Association. It was com-
municated to the “appeaser” when he
was down with mumps.
Contrary to wild press statements about
“crowds of Japanese leaving” on the
Kasima Maru, 19 intending passengers
cancelled their berths in the belief that
“the crisis” will “ease.” The ship left
Sydney with fewer than 100 passengers.
And then if called at Brisbane to pick
up cargo.
Sydney took time off from war and
taxation worries at the week-end to rush
out and look at something new —falling
rain. It was heaviest on the city and its
coastal suburbs, but the “parchment
areas” got some, and the dear old No-
Water Board hardly knew whether to
shout all round or borrow thirty million.
All sorts of bodies, including interested
councils, have fallen on Premier McKelPs
Greater Sydney plan like tons of chain.
Said O. D. A. Oberg, of the Citizens’
Reform Association:
There may be justification for the scheme
in comprehensive post-war adjustment, in-
cluding possibly the abolition of State Par-
liaments.
That was the unkindest cut of all.
The lethargic State Government has
for months been discussing staggering of
hours in ifaelbourne, but it still remains
on a voluntary basis and the traffic prob-
lem remains as staggering as ever. In
Washington, U.S.A., it is different. There
are 160,000 public-service employees in
that city, and an order was made spread-
ing their starting and finishing times over
an hour and a half daily. Results were
surprising: in one week trams and buses
dealt with 4,298,625 passengers—3oo,ooo
more than had previously been carried ;
vehicles actually ran 3.5 p.c, additional
mileage, congestion vanished, also fare-
dodgers, and revenue went up by 4.7 p.c.
Proportionately, Melbourne has as many
public servants or more, but the dear old
superfluous Parliament which created
them does nothing about it.
The Sydney Premier has a good press
in his own city. Others aren’t so pleased
with him. Says Brisbane “Courier-
Mail”:—
Mr. McKell talks nonsense when he says
the Loan Council flouted the electors of
N.S.W. If they have any substantial
grievance it is against those who promised
them civil loan works on a scale utterly
incompatible with national war needs. The
attitude of Mr. McKell and other State
Premiers can only win more advocates for
unification.
Right, except that there aren’t many left
who need winning.


. ,'f" Vk f H
wave A Grammy Smith .
"While the Government is urging people to
eat more fruit, millions of cases are being
destroyed or used for pig feed, a farm
produce agent says.
* GOT MO UNIONS 'N QUSS'A?"
Twenty million roubles have been handed over to the
Soviet National Defence Fund as a result of a ‘free days
work by railwaymen and their families.
) *8
Came their pasemts .
A teacher asks what is to be done with boys
who throw inkstands and kick little boys.
'' t "
SO SAY AU- OP US .
More drastic penalties to prevent profiteering
were urged by the Acting Commonwealth
Prices Commissioner, Mr. M. E. McCarthy,
in evidence before the War Profits Committee.
V ' Is NT HE a L'TTLE PET.'
“More attention is paid to the breeding of
racehorses than to the breeding of human
beings," said the Associate Professor of
Commerce at Melbourne University (Dr. G.
L. Wood).
nj{ Jl Most attractive .
A dress of glass, stockings of coal, knitting
wool and woollen cloth from milk are exhibits
in the Science Parade in Sydney.
it
YOU CAN LEAD A CAR TO WATER
&UT YOU CANT MAKE IT DRINK, f '
A woman has submitted a plan to the
Army for running cars on water.
SHREDS AND PATCHES.


PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or call for free
Booklet.
14 CastlereagH St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
PETROL FROM COAL.
TAXATION AND SQUEALERS.
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
No. 161
“TUMBA”
CATTLE DROVER POLEY
■
i
£9/16/9
(Complete)
This is a
moderately-
priced saddle
o f splendid
quality. The
seat is of hog-
skin, and the
flaps of good
for
Saddlery
Catalogue
—FREE!
No. 4. Headstall Fly
Veils, with Leather
Basil Veil,
gin., 4/-; gin., 5/-
WALTHER & STEVENSON £??:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDKEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Captain J. E. Price, son of Councillor
S. E. Price, of Geelong, came to the end
of an adventurous career when a trans-
oceanic ’plane crashed into a hillside in
taking off from Britain, the crew and
22 passengers being killed. Price was a
Geelong College boy with a passion for
flying. He paid for his training, qualified
as a pilot, bought a private ’plane and
ran a commercial service. He became
an instructor in Westralia and in M.L.,
and then started flying commercially in
Britain. Lack of residential qualifications
kept him out of the R.A.F. when the
present war started, so he went to Canada
and got a job as instructor. The family
had just learned that he was an Atlantic
ferry pilot when the news of his death
came.
Edmund Francis Herring, to com-
mand the 6th Division, A.1.F., with
the rank of major-general, in place
of General Mackay, went overseas
with the division in 1939. He is
a Victorian, was born at Mary-
borough, educated at Melbourne Gram-
mar and University, and as 1912 Rhodes
scholar went to Oxford. Called to the
Bar in London in 1920, he returned to
practise in Melbourne and had as success-
ful a career in the law as in the army,
taking silk in 1936. His military career
began when he enlisted from Oxford in
King Edward’s Horse ; he got a commis-
sion and a D.S.O. in France and then
served in Macedonia. He married Dr.
Mary Rankin, daughter of knight
Thomas Lyle, Emeritus Professor of
Natural Philosophy at Melbourne Uni-
versity and one of Australia’s leading
academics.
Melbourne lost one of its best-liked
literary figures when Norman Lilley died
at 66 last week. Beginning as a comp,
in the “Argus” office, where his father
was head machinist, he showed a writing
bent and soon betook himself to Sydney,
where he freelanced. Then he rejoined
the “Argus,” and for 25 years trudged
the city, a benign critic of the theatres
W.B. CARR,
”Father of the Adelaide Stock Exchange .”
and art shows. Also for many years he
was chief law reporter. In his latter
days an illness of long standing affected
his legs, and one of his severest trials as
a dramatic critic was finding his way to
his seat down the extraordinarily steep
steps of the Comedy Theatre. Eventu-
ally both his legs were amputated. Up to
a few weeks ago Lilley continued to con-
tribute to the “Argus’s” “Passing Show”
column. During his freelance period and
for long after he was a prolific Bulletin
contributor.
Frederick Oswald Barnett, who sub-
mitted a £15,000,000 post-war housing
scheme to the Federal Parliamentary
Social Security Committee in Melbourne,
is a public accountant whose interest in
the subject started in the depression. A
State school and Melbourne University
product (he was a schoolteacher for a
time), he is one of the livelier members
of the Victorian Housing Commission.
William Raymond Kelly, who steps
into the vacant Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court Judgeship, was educated
in Adelaide and got his law degree at
its University, though he was born in
Calcutta, where his father was a civil
servant. After a prize-winning school
career Kelly was called to the Bar in
1921 and had experience as a magistrate
in Adelaide and elsewhere before he
became Deputy-President (later President)
of the S.A. Arbitration Court and Board
of Industry. He is 42, and one of the
pillars of League football in S.A.
Freeman Freeman-Thomas, first Mar-
quess of Willingdon, dead at 75, who
among various other Governorships had
been Viceroy of India and G.G. of
Canada, knew something about Australia,
for he was A.D.C. to Lord Brassey when
that grim old gent, was Governor of Vic-
toria in the mid-’nineties. He revisited
Australia last year, and it was he who
welcomed Menzies to London on behalf
of the Government.
William Robert Dalziel, of Melbourne,
lately Deputy-Commissioner of the Sal-
vation Army, has been promoted to Com-
missionership—the highest rank in the
S.A. save that of the general. Commis-
sioner Dalziel was born in London 57
years ago and has been an officer of the
S.A. since he was 22. He has served as
Assistant Chief Secretary in Britain and
Chief Secretary in Canada, and during
the 1914-18 war he did useful service as
an ambulance officer in France. He com-
menced his Australian service in 1937
as Territorial Commander, Eastern Aus-
tralia, with headquarters at Sydney.
Maoriland now has two women Ms.P.
—Mrs. Catherine Campbell Sword (Well-
ington West) and Mrs. Mary Manson
Dreaver (Waitemata). Mrs. Dreaver got
in at a recent by-election. She was born
in Dunedin, and received her educa-
tion there and at Auckland Uni,. She un-
successfully contested another Auckland
electorate, Remuera, at last general elec-
tion. She is president of M.L.’s Spiritual-
ist Church, and is a Laborite.
Resigned his post as Inspector-General
of M.L.’s military forces, Major-General
Andrew Hamilton Russell. Health
reasons are mentioned, but the appoint-
ment of recently imported General Sir
Guy Williams as “military adviser” to
the M.L. Government had something to
do with it. Russell was born on a sheep-
station at Tuanui, M.L., 73 years ago.
Educated at Harrow and Sandhurst, he
returned to M.L. to take up sheep-farm-
ing, became an officer of volunteers, ccm-
manded a M.L. mounted brigade in 1914
and a division 1915-19. He was knighted
in 1915 and wears a whole flock of
British and foreign decorations. He went
on the reserve list in 1932, but came back
on the strength in September, 1939. He
carries on as a member of the War
Council.
Every Australasian theatregoer over
40 remembers W. S. Percy, boy star ot
Pollard’s Lilliputians and afterwards a
comedian with the Firm. He’s
frostydieaded now but still on deck
as an entertainer of soldiers in Eng-
lish camps and military hospitals.
He writes that the Tommies have
christened him “Old Pop.” His two'
daughters are doing war work in
London.
An airman Maoriland is particu-
larly proud of is Pilot-Officer Win-
ston Brooke Madeley. In his teens
he was captain of the Auckland
Model Aero Club. Later he was
winner of the Davis and Owen
Trophies, in landing competitions. He
side-stepped an pffer of an R.A.F. com-
mission to take a place in Maoriland’s
air force, went overseas last year, and
has taken part in 27 raids over Europe.
Lately he was awarded the D.F.C.
The big job of Lieut.-Col. R. M. W.
Thirkell, here displayed by Counihan, is
Technical Adviser on A.R.P. at Army
H.Q. in Melbourne. He was Director of
Civilian Defence last year. Born in the
Speck, he comes of a large sheep-holding
family whose central seat has been
Darlington Park, since 1827. In his educa-
tion he followed in the wake of the same
headmaster through three different
schools, finishing at Hutchins. By 1914
he had sailed through insurance, banking
and the public service and held a com-
mission in the 93rd Infantry Regiment.
Thirkell saw service in Egypt, the zEgean,
LIEUT.-COL. R.M.W. THIRKELL.
France and Belgium, and, though his
neck was broken and he got a 10-inch
wound in the back at Pozieres, he came
home sound enough to go back to
business with Robert Nettlefold’s and
maintain his military connections. In
1939 he was called up to organise the
Civil Defence Legion for Tassie. In
more leisured times he has boxed, ridden,
fished, shot and built and sailed yachts.
He owns the 42ft. ketch-rigged Connella,
in which the romantic Briggs was to have
taken his colony of enthusiasts to the
Marquesas. Fifty-one and doesn’t look it.
William Eustace Maclean, who after
a period of storm and stress has been
appointed for a further term as chairman
of the Speck’s Hydro-electric Commis-
sion, succeeded H. A. Curtis in 1933. He
had previously held executive jobs in
Australia, Canada, the U.S.A. and
Russia. He represented Australia at the
World Power Conference in Vienna in
1938. He was born in Sydney and is 57.
C. F. C. Macaskie, Deputy-Governor
and Chief Justice of North Borneo, who
has been visiting Australia, was born in
Yorkshire in 1888, his father being editor-
owner of the Leeds “Daily News.” Was
C. F. C. MACASKIE.
a cadet in a shipping office before he
studied law. During the 1914-18 war he
served with the West Kent Regiment —
his son, who served in the same regiment
in this war, is a prisoner of war in
Poland. For three years C. F. C.
Macaskie was Chief Secretary of Sara-
wak.
President of the Commission of Con-
trol in Syria since the Vichyites departed
is a Maorilander, Brigadier John Jnglis
Chrystal. Christchurch-born, he took a
diploma in Agriculture at Lincoln Agri-
cultural College, but after three years of
farming decided in favor of soldiering.
He went to India and joined the Hussars
at Bangalore. Joining up as a sergeant
on the outbreak of the 1914-18 war,
Chrystal attained officer rank before the
Armistice, and, remaining in the army,
saw service with the Hussars in Egypt,
Mespot and England. From 1930 on-
ward he occupied several administrative
posts in Egypt and the Levant. He is
55 and was stationed with his regiment in
Palestine when the present war broke
out.
“S.T.S.”: The death of Fred Beach,
of Mosman, Sydney, calls up old
memories in Adelaide, where, any time
up to 50 years ago, Beach’s restaurant,
opposite the Theatre Royal, was the one
popular resort of businessmen and the
place for a lady as was a lady to lunch.
With the coming of teashops, and the
tendency to lighten the heavy midday
meal of the nineteenth century, Beach
father and son transferred their business
to Sydney in the ’nineties.
“F.S.” discourses on a dead poet:
To appreciate the work of Sir Rabindranath
Tagore, it is necessary to consider it in relation
to its environment. Indian literature had pre-
viously been allegorical and romantic and
peopled with gods and demons. Tagore wrote
about peasants and the middle classes. He
assailed the purdah and the zenana by estab-
lishing a university at Shantinakatan at which
boys and girls mingled together. A sort of
Indian Tolstoy, he created a cult which became
world-wide, there being Tagore societies in Aus-
tralia which follow some vague doctrine of in-
ternational fellowship which they associate with
their master. But, unlike Gandhi, he kept out
of politics, which accounts for his title and the
claim of his disciples that he was the ambassador
of friendship with Britain. He published over
60 works of poetry, novels and essays, took to
painting at 68 and exhibited in Europe and
America, and proved that an artist can survive
to a great age even in a country where the
expectation of life is under 30. He died at 80.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
m
&
m
M.
ft
MS
.^=l=llll3=
HE
r
sf
ft
«i
Manaaer W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
“He looked round the crowded room, trying
to make out who had spoken. With one excep-
tion those present were all men.’ — Short story
Then where was his difficulty?
“Walker-Trott.” — Wedding announcement .
Perambulators seem to be indicated.
►l* 4« 4* 4 1
“In spite of all efforts to revive him, the
patient died in a comma.” — Medical report.
Paradoxically he came to a full stop.
4< 4* 4* 4*
“Anne Shirley has her first screen role since
the birth of her daughter in ‘Little Miss
Muffet.’ ” — “World’s News.”
Surely the first time that’s ever been
achieved in a movie.
“Despite many heated interruptions the chair-
man remained in a good humor. He refused
to be irrigated.” — -Suburban paper.
His was a dry humor then.
4. 4* 4« •&
“Rat skins are being used for shoe leather in
Japan.”— “World’s News.”
At such a golden chance as that
Our fashion fiends will snap.
A nd when they make our shoes from rats
The price will be the trap.
Eve.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many ratepayers thought the aldermen
w'ere wrong in voting for the destruction of
these trees. Events since have proved they
were tight.” — Suburban paper.
And they didn’t even regret it when
they sobered up.
“With bitter eyes Janet watched as Godfrey
took the other girl apart. What was her next
move?” — Short story.
A report to the Anti-Vivisection Society
wouldn’t be out of place.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Moscow Repeats Goring Allegation.”
—’ D.T.
Sounds like the usual bull.
“You cant even be decent in a fair fight."
“Many people still believe in the influ-
ence of the evil eye.”— “World’s News.”
Perchance their strange belief is true :
I’ve seen a pretty bad eye !
But still, I’m sure it couldn’t do
Such damage as a glad eye !
N.
•J*
Nipped in the Bud.
“A proposal to fight St. John s wort by run-
ning black-faced sheep instead of white-faced
sheep was discussed at a meeting of the Blax-
land Shire Council.”—“S. M. Herald.’’
Presumably it’s expected that the worts
won’t see the black faces coming, and,
taken completely by surprise, will be-
come sac suits, socks and singlets after
the next shearing. When pursued by
white-faced sheep it’s customary for the
wort (the despicable wart) to lie doggo
on the flat of its back while the white
faces pass blissfully over it. The sheep,
whose brains aren’t obvious except when
served piping-hot on a plate, fix their
eyes on the still-upright and juicy-look-
ing worts ahead, but, while sneaking up
on their prey, they forget where they’re
going.
But why waste time waging war on
worts? Wouldn’t it be simpler to blacken
the white-faced sheep with burnt cork
and then cultivate rather than eradicate
the wort to feed them on?
Perciyal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cook-general wanted. Good conditions.
No washing. No beds.” — Advt.
Any hip-holes in the floor?
, 4* 4* 4* 4*
“The kitchen of this well-planned bungalow
is complete with a remarkable range of the
very latest in hittings.”— Advt.
Detachable for when the brawl starts.
►l* -I* 4- 4*
“Extension ladders reduced.”
— “S.M.H.” advt.
On a sliding scale?
•?. 4 4 4*
“In our issue of the 23rd inst. the price of
buckets at ’s was given as 3s. 6d. We
regret the error. The price should have read
3s. 6d.” — N.S.W. North Coast paper.
One of those distinctions without a
difference, eh?
4* 4* 4* *
“Man unaffected by fall down lift shall.
—Daily paper.
He was deeply moved all the same.
4* ‘s’
“Camouflage Bulletin." — “D.T.’
Perhaps they don’t like it in black-
and-white.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Petitioner said he was an accountant when
he married respondent, who tricked him into
the marriage.”— Divorce report.
Caught him off his balance.
Special Request.
Remember, Rosita, our tryst
In that beautiful glade by the sea
When the hours of our rapture were spiced
By the kisses you yielded to me ?
How, your hand held in mine, there we
stayed
While your head on my shoulder was
set ?
And remember the vows that I made ?
Well, for heaven’s sake try to forget!
T.W.N.
“V for Viktoria.”
“Dr. Goebbels is claiming the ‘V’ symbol
as a Nazi emblem.”
Dr. Goebbels was conducting a party
of neutral correspondents through a town
in occupied France. “France is col-
laborating enthusiastically with us,’ he
boasted. “The French are on our side
to the last man.”
“What is the meaning of that placard
over there?” a correspondent asked. “ ‘A
BAS LES BOCHES’ ”?
“That means ‘Down with the Eng-
lish,’ ” explained the doctor smoothly.
“In France the English have always been
known as Boches.”
“Oh,” said the correspondent. “And
that other sign across the road —‘HITLER
THE HEEL.’ Surely that”
“Merely the English form of ‘Heil
Hitler!’ Goebbels said hastily. “An
American sympathiser, no doubt.”
“Hum!” said the correspondent. “But
that woman at the window up there
is she not shouting ‘Vive De
Gaulle’?”
“Exactly. In this country our Fiihrer
is affectionately known as De Gaulle, or
the Liberator.”
“I see. But”
Five bombers roared overhead, and
nearby there were several heavy ex-
plosions.
“The Luftwaffe at manoeuvres,” Goeb-
bels explained. “Those are practice
bombs. Pardon me, I must leave you
now.”
“But but those were bull’s-eyes
painted on the bombers!”
“One of our devices to delude the
enemy! ” Goebbels screamed over his
shoulder as he dived into the nearest
cellar.
ABIE.
Pets for the Petted.
“Elaine Barry never escapes attention. A
new, arresting costume is her red suit with a
life-sized gold lobster pinned on the lapel."
— “Women’s Weekly” film guff.
As my old Hahlywood pal A 1
Immoney used to say, these film stars
have hearts like apartment houses. If
it’s not husbands it’s pets.
I well remember the delight with which
X saw Merle Slobberon sidling down the
boulevard with a Gila monster perched
aft of her sta’bud ear. And there was
that ever-memorable occasion when
Smyrna Toy appeared in a thrilling new
perfume, and with a real, live skunk on
her shoulder, its beautiful bushy tail
coiled gracefully round her neck. Grata
Garbage, of course, was the hit of the
season when, in answer to a textile manu-
facturer’s prayer, she sponsored the new
fashion in woollies by appearing in a
chic hug-me-tight, a brown bear clinging
below his offside shoulder blade.
Carmen Home went one better. After
receiving a rather belated education in
history in the course of the filming of
“Queen Boadicea,” Guffinslabber’s great
Tudor masterpiece, she habitually carried
a hooded and tasselled elephant on her
gauntleted wrist. To the objection that
such a bird was of little use as a hawk,
she replied that it was a man-catcher.
PROP.
Paradox.
“Great Britain exports hundreds of tons of
snuff yearly.”— “World’s News.
It sounds like one of those old jokes
That grandpa often wheezed at.
But even if the statement’s true
It also can be sneezed at.
A CHEW.
The New Psychology.
“Candidates for jobs as bus or warn con-
ductors must pass the N.S.W. Transport De-
partment’s psychology test. One question given
was ‘Kenneth Rigby was five days younger
than Sir Thomas Browne, and Rigby was born
on December 28, 1605. In the year 1630
Christmas was on a Friday. On what day of
the week did Browne’s birthday fall m that
year?’ Other questions dealt with the calcula-
tion of the time of a murder from clues such
as the rhythm of a clock bell and the time the
victim had been out of doors, and the disen-
tanglement of a genealogical tree.”
The prospective tramway passenger
who puffs down to the stopping-place just
in time to see the driver jerk the vehicle
on its way while 'the troub. grins at his
discomfiture, and the fat old girl who
gets one foot down on to the footboard
as the guard pulls the bell-cord will
testify to the efficacy of this psychology
business. And who could doubt that the
bus conductor’s ability to yell out “Move
closer in to the centre, pelease,” is due
in no small degree to his skill in telling
if a cousin fourth removed belongs to
the collateral branch of the maternal
grandparent’s particular limb of the
farpily tree?
It is no uncommon sight to see a tram
swaying along Elizabeth-street with the
troub. careering along the footboard with
the agility of a mountain goat. Arrived
at the driver’s isolated compartment he
confers feverishly with his colleague. At
the busy Park-street intersection the tram
is halted while the consultation proceeds,
and in a few minutes there is a string of
held-up trams as far back as the Supreme
Court. The impatient passengers, igno-
rant of departmental procedure, cannot
possibly know that some passenger has
asked for “one and a half two sections,”
the “half” being a boy on the borderline
•age, and that the troub. and the driver
are about to pool their psychological re-
sources so as to ascertain by shrewdly-
plied questions if he is really under the
prescribed age.
So successful has been this policy, the
department claims, that it is to be ex-
tended to other groups of employees. The
following set of questions drawn up by
the Standing Psychology Committee of
the Staff Branch must be passed by those
applying for jobs as greasers, pitmen and
carriage-cleaners:
(1) A deep-sea mullet leaves Cape
Howe on a dull Thursday afternoon
swimming north-east. A four-m.p.h. cur-
rent is against him at the outset, and he
must keep a minimum of 14 miles off
the coast to avoid trawlers. Allowing for
the various turns of the tide and the pre-
vailing trade winds—it is in late summer
—what do you think would be the fish’s
reactions when, on reaching a point two
degrees west of Lord Howe Island, he
found that he was being closely pursued
by a 251 b. jewfish, taking into considera-
tion that it was still 27 minutes short of
nightfall, a strong offshore westerly had
flattened the sea, that the tide was at
flood and there would be a full moon?
(2) A’s wife X has an inferiority com-
plex due to a wart on the bridge of her
nose. B, a milkman, does ploughing in
his spare time. His wife Y, a cousin of
X, does knitting for orders, charging 3s.
2jd. per dozen square inches. C, a gas-
meter reader, has no wife, but is a
brother to X and therefore also a cousin
to Y. The three men decide to back a
horse for a place, pooling their resources.
They put £l4 ss. on, C doing the betting
and getting 11 p.c. on profits as commis-
sion. The horse runs third at 9 to 4.
Say what B will make over and above
his wages for that week if he also ploughs
a partly marshy, un-
dulating, circular
field which meas-
ures two perches
four chains across a
point 27 yards from
the circumference,
using a single-disc
plough, and if Y will
finish a feather-and-
fan-stitch jumper in
three-ply wool for a
14-stone woman
with a 48-inch bust
before B has finished
ploughing the field.
And what will X's
reaction be to thi?
activity?
(3) A portly Eng-
lish butler is up-
stairs in the earl’s
study filling his
master’s port de-
canter from a bottle.
The front-door bell
rings and he puts the decanter down
only one-quarter full. He has to walk
down 14 steps to the reception hall
and another eight to the door. He opens
it to admit a dowager duchess, a baronet,
a viscountess and three honorables. He
conducts them to the drawing-room and
departs to announce the visit. Three
minutes eighteen seconds have elapsed
between putting down the port decanter
and reaching the bottom of the 14 steps
again. Naturally he mounts much slower
than he descended, and as he reaches
the landing he glances through the mul-
lioned windows and sees the earl’s young-
est son coming from the grouse park,
gun on shoulder but carrying no game.
He re-enters the study and takes up bottle
and decanter. After he has poured out
no more than a noggin he notices that
the decanter is then still less than one-
quarter full. What connection, if any,
does the failure of the earl’s son’s marks-
manship bear to the apparent evapora-
tion of the port from the decanter?
The new crop of greasers, pitmen and
carriage-cleaners is expected to hit a
new high level in efficiency.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
* * * *
Jim Grahame: Let me explain to
“The 0.D.” (B. 30/7/’4l). In the verses
“The Plains of Hay” I described the said
plains where “from the east to furthest
west Wide boundaries have they” as I
saw them when the Dad and 1 carried
our swags across them away back in
’BB. A few trees and claypans may have
sprung up since then, but I doubt it.
They were plains in those days, scores of
miles of them, and from end to end
were then known as the Hay plains.
“The 0.D.” says I won’t find desert
pea growing on the claypans. I didn’t
expect to, and if he takes another look
I’ll wager he’ll not find the Darling pea
growing there, either, as that beauti-
ful little mauve specimen grows, and
flourishes, only on the blacksoil plains
or thereabouts.
He * * *
“Sawdust”: “Sailor Bill" (B. 30/7/’4l)
ought to take a good long draught of
bilgewater and then have another look
at a needle-tail. I’ll grant he’s got the
coloring right, but the fowl’s shape is
more like Willie Wagtail than a kingfisher,
and his favorite insect is the good old
working bee. A few of them will clean
up a dozen hives in no time. As for the
“ugly and formidable weapon” in its tail,
it really is only two very pretty feathers
projecting from the centre of his rudder.
* * * *
“Langsl an”: Not only will a nag con-
tinually refuse to cross a fence line after
the fence has been removed (B. 16/7/’4l),
but habit in the reverse order will some-
times bring him a thud. A youngster in
our district whistled his pony up at
feeding time every evening. The pony
would gallop through a gap in the fence
which had been open for months. Then
someone closed the gap with wire. Habit
beat the pony’s sight, and he crashed into
it. And even Homo sapiens isn’t immune.
When the board placed across the door-
way to keep the baby indoors was re-
moved Dad, staggering in with an arm-
ful of wood, stepped over the board that
wasn’t there. His nose still has a bend
to starboard.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat only had
two dinkum brawls in the years we were
•together, and he won ’em both. The first
was in South Aus. over whether Euryth-
mic was a better horse than Trafalgar,
and the second was over a clearing job
in the Victorian Mallee. On that job
we took in a third bloke who seemed
to think the sun shone out of Mat and
always took his side in arguments. I got
a bit jealous, as I reckoned he was try-
ing to become Mat’s mate and leave me
out. Anyhow, me and Mat got worked
up over the best way to tackle the job.
We’re swapping punches when the other
cove starts jumping around, barrackin’
flat-out for Mat. Mat stands me off,
says “Just a minute, Bally,” and whirls
on the sooner. “Look,” he roars, “we
took y’ in on this job. You’ll share our
camp, tucker,- toil an’ profits. But I’m
damned if y’re goin’t’ share our brawls!”
And he knocked the sooner for a sixer.
Then he finished me off in peace. We
dubbed the sooner “William the Silent”
after that.
H- •!■
“Old - timer”: “Beggar - me - bones,”
camped on the Darling at Menindie,
somehow got word that an old mate was
down in Wentworth, cashed up and turn-
ing it on freely. The river was a banker
and running fast, so he pushed off in his
boat at once and headed south, rowing
as though he hadn’t a moment to spare.
The craft shot past Tolarno at noon,
headed round the big bend from Tartna
Point an hour later and swept to a land-
ing at Moorara at sundown. Hopping
ashore, “Beggar-me-bones” boiled the
billy, ate, rested, smoked and then, see-
ing visions “of the future and its seas
of foaming beer,” put forth under the
stars and gave the ark its head. Some-
where short of Pooncarie the current
speeded up and the tired rower was able
to rest, merely using his oars to steer.
He forced himself to keep awake while
the boat raced on, eagerly watching for
the lights of Pooncarie. Drowsy as he
was, he was able to tell by the night that
morning was near, and, knowing that
Pooncarie should have been passed, con-
cluded that either he had dozed for a
minute or two and missed it or that he’d
swept by too quickly to notice it. At
dawn he was almost asleep on the thwart,
steering* automatically. Then the light
broadened and “Beggar-me-bones,” awful
sounds bursting from him, stared pop-
eyed at the banks, slowly sinking down
as he realised that he’d been going round
and round all night in a racing back-
water.
•I* H»
“San Remo”: A proposal to machine-
gun the seals on Seal Rock, off Phillip
Island (Vic.), has roused local nature-
lovers to fury. “Expert” opinion is
divided as to whether they are a menace.
One party alleges that the fish shortage
is brought about by these creatures and
that 100,000 seals each eat £l-worth
weekly. The opposition puts the seal
figure at 10,000 and counts the herds that
invade the waters of Westernport at a
few dozen. Moreover, it says that
fishermen have their redress in their own
hands, as they are permitted to shoot at
any of the creatures which come near
them while they are fishing. Seal Rock
“I got an old Woman's job, so I might as well look like one."
is a sanctuary for the mammals, and a
gent, with a telescope on the main island
earns an honest income selling a look
to the curious for sixpence. Sentiment
apart, there is little evidence that
the seals cause fish shortage. The
colonly has remained practically station-
ary even under protection, there being
many factors which keep the popu-
lation rising above the margin of
subsistence. Possibly one is the seal’s
natural love of juggling more than eat-
ing. I was out fishing for snapper in
Bass Strait one afternoon when all fish
in the vicinity vanished. Then a seal
made its appearance with a large fish in
its mouth. It threw its victim up in the
air, caught it on its nose, tossed it away
and then recaptured it for quite 10
minutes with every symptom of enjoy-
ment.
# * * *
“Blue”: “Nor’-west” (B. 30/7/’4l) is
possibly correct when he suggests that
dewfall is the reason why sheep can go
for long periods without water in dry
country ; but the theory does not explain
how those killers of mine managed to
survive a six-day perish with a roof over
their heads.
* * * *
“Poli”: All right, “Moonta Bloke,”
you go back and have another look at
that drawing in B. 9/7/’4l, and if you
persist that sawing a log that way is jake,
well, it is; but don’t blame me when you
get a cramp through reaching so high
or when the saw-doctor wants to know
what the crimson Hades you’ve been
doing or when the boss gets nasty about
the time it takes the pair of you to get
through a log. Who said anything about
using saw-horses? What 1 would have
done would have been to run the log
partly off the pile, chock it and hop in.
But then 1 have never travelled, not
having been to Moonta.
* * * *
“Woz”: As a city cove who will never
reappear on this page, let me have a
quick slap at bushmen and get out. Being
interested in birds, I was looking forward
to my holiday in the outback. By bol-
stering my observations with those of
bushmen in the district, I hoped to add
considerably to my knowledge of bird
lore. To begin with, none of ’em noticed
anything smaller than a crow. Repu-
tations foisted on to eagles and hawks
were fantastic and branded all of them
pests. AH the diurnal birds of prey, with
one exception, were called hawks—big
hawks or small hawks. The exception
was the wedge-tailed eagle, the largest
in the world. They called him an “eagle-
hawk.” And, of course, the inevitable
tawny frogmouth was discovered and
pointed out as the bird that called “more-
pork” at night. But when one wizard
got tangled up between a peewit and a
magpie I crawled away dazed.
* * * *
“Bally”: An expert cattle hand, he was
working in the lane leading up to the
pound—with a waddy in his hand, of
course, for they were pretty wild Here-
fords that he was sending up one at a
time. He was working one beast up
when, without a second’s hesitation, he
swung on his heels, simultaneously flick-
ing his waddy. A Hereford bullock
which was charging went down without
a twitch, and without batting an eyelid
he carried on with his job. I asked him
later how he knew a beast was charging
him from behind and how he synchro-
nised his actions so perfectly. With a
casual laugh he admitted he didn’t know ;
it was just that he “felt” something ; his
training prompted him how to act. And
I swear he thought I was a bit queer
asking such a damfool question.
* * * *
“Billy See” :• Anyway, isn’t the rabbit-
trap a positively barbarous implement?
And is there any real need that the spring
should be so powerful or the jaws so
savagely serrated? What agonies the
wretched bunny must suffer .waiting hours
for release and death! In an age when
1 stuff like rubber is dirt-cheap it should
be possible to produce a trap with jaws
sheathed in semi-plastic vulcanite or
something similar. Such a trap would
be just as effective. For, after all, it is
only necessary to secure the quarry;
it is not in the.least necessary that the
leg bone should be shattered right to
the marrow, as happens in 90 p.c. of
cases. Many trappers would welcome a
humane trap, even if it did cost a little
more. And more city folk might eat
rabbit —it certainly takes away my
appetite when I contemplate what the
wretched meat must have endured before
it became human provender.
* * * *
“Tailor’s Dummy”: Well, all I can
say is that bold Bill Partridge, who dared
the storekeeper to try to recover his
debatably sold trousers (B. 23/7/’4l),
mightn’t have been such a tough pro-
position as he thought he was. For the
bold Bill seemingly only took number
fives, which is a mere boy’s size. Even
number sixes is small men’s; number
sevens just sizable. So it takes the
wearer of a number eight or nine to be
able to throw his weight about with im-
punity. If that storekeeper had been like
some that I have encountered he would
have stripped the rammies off the “cock-
sparrow” Bill without any trouble.
_*„* , * „ <
“Sou-west : So the Windsor Park
deer released long ago in Maoriland have
become a pest (B. 23/7/’4l). Which
reminds that attempts to acclimatise the
same animal or kindred species in Aus-
tralia have never resulted in the meat
market being flooded with venison. South
Australia was one locale oi the experi-
ment, the Angus family being the spon-
sors. Have met old-timers who claimed
to have seen the Angus deer in the wilds,
but not recently. Around Pinjarrah
(W.A.) was another place where it was
thought that the vast forest lands would
provide a splendid range. But it is a
long while since a Westralian deer was
reported. Probably the dingo proved too
much for the does and the fawns, since
the harmless British deer would be prac-
tically defenceless against warrigal. But
this isn’t to advise Maoriland to intro-
duce the dingo for the purpose oi wiping
out the deer.
n * , „* , , * , . *
“Propalong : Jacky-Jacky is worse
than the Maori (B. 9/7/’4l) in his mis-
apprehension of white-pfeller business
methods. Some years ago the Beltana
Pastoral Co., on its northern S.A. runs,
issued cheque-books to the men as a
means of simplifying store accounts,
The blacks’ camp was greatly excited and
gratified, and for a time all went well,
Then one day old Flourbag waddled into
the store, produced his cheque-book with
a flourish, and asked for a particularly
killing shirt. “Can’t do, Flourbag,” the
storekeeper explained. “No more money
longa you.” “No more money?" Flour-
bag howled. “Don’t you try cheatem me,
mister. Look!” —he fanned over the un-
filled pages of his precious book —
“Plenty more tcheque, plenty more cash,
how you say no more money now?” It
took the combined efforts of the boss,
the storekeeper and two jackeroos to
convince the old chap that his credit was
really at an end, and even then he was
so suspicious that he collected his gins
and went straight off on a month’s walk-
about.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Don’t know about mud
stopping a camel’s “pads'from coming
together” (B. 30/7/’4l), but I do know
that a camel in wet country acts like a
16st. dowager on roller skates. When
Ghool Mahomet began to clean out
Richardson’s tank on Myrtle Springs
(S.A.), it was found that the Bft. or so
of apparently dry silt in the bottom was
full of water. It was a sight for the gods
to see the team hit the slush in the bottom
of the cuts. There were generally three
or four oonts down each time, on their
backs in the chains like monstrous
beetles. And it was a liberal education
to see —and hear —old Ghool, resplendent
in a patriarchal beard stained with
Condy’s crystals, come down to stand
’em up and start ’em off. I’ve seen the
same old Baluch drive a camel buggy a
mile through water in Minnegoona Lake
on the same run, and keep the growlers
on their feet —and that takes some doing.
AUGUST.
August is come with its shining dawns
And the young wheat bravely springing,
And the world is wearing a fresh young look,
Like a boy from his bath and singing.
Oh, winter is done when the frosts lie white
On the westward walls of loam,
And the Pleiades burn on their distant height
When I am making home.
August is come with its growing days
And the mouldboards busy turning,
And the earth is new in the morning light
And the pulse of spring is burning.
Oh, winter is done when the warm wind blows
And the white clouds, restless, roam,
And the banner of promise at evening glows
When I am making home.
August is come with its urgent calls
And the work that cries for doing,
And the noons are warm where the pine-trees
stand
And the birds are at their wooing.
Oh, winter is done when the river gleams
And the spilling furrows foam,
And a flood of stars in the heavens streams
When I am making home.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Now that's what I call camouflage!”
“Wang”: “Dave’s been an’ confided a
secret t’ me,” Mum announced to Dad
at dinner. “He’s been an’ married
Minnie Hawkins on the quiet when
he was down in Melbin last week.”
“What!” roared Dad. “The sneakin’,
deceivin’ blank.” He was launching
into a general condemnation of modern
ways when he paused suddenly and
stood pulling at his whiskers in
thought. “I’ve got it!” he exclaimed
presently. “It won’t turn out so bad
after all. Y’ see, old Splatters offered
me his herd in full milk dirt-cheap a
coupla days ago, but I couldn’t take ’em
’count of not havin’ the labor. But this
alters things. See what I’m drivin’ at?
I’ll go crook at Dave an’ then fergive
him an’ tell him he can bring Minnie t’
live here. But I won’t say a word t’
him ’bout them cows, an’ don’t you
either. I’ll slip up t’ Splatters’s an’ buy
’em in the mornin’.” “But ain’t that
sorta deception, too, Dad?” asked Mum.
“No, it ain’t,” retorted Dad; “it’s jist
bizness.” He sought out Dave, and after
a show of anger told him he could go
over to Hawkins’s, explain to Minnie’s
father and bring his bride home. Dave
was beaming at breakfast next morning.
“It’s all right,” he said ; “things has been
fixed up grand.” Dad didn’t press him
for details but winked covertly at Mum,
and as soon as breakfast was over got in
the car and hurried off to Splatters’s place.
“Yer too late,” said Splatters. “I’ve sold
the herd t’ Hawkins. He came over late
last night sayin’ his daughter had just
been married an’ his son-in-law wus
cornin’ t’ live with him.”
* * * *
“Peterkin”: Bore water from a mere
391 ft. (B. 23/7/’4l) had every right to
be muddy. Compared with some of the
bores I have met it was surface flow, prob-
ably draining along the bed of a geologi-
cally recent stream wherein decayed
vegetable matter had stored up gas, which
in turn, on release, stirred up mud. I’ve
seen a Perth bore sending up muddy
water from 2000 ft., though it wasn't
muddy just when it reached surface.
Cause was suspended iron and calcareous
compounds which, on exposure to the
oxygen of the air, assisted by sunlight,
became precipitated. Later it cleared,
depositing mud of the most infinite fine-
ness. I know of one Perth area where
water from 100 ft. is the color of coffee
and strongly impregnated with sulphur-
etted hydrogen, but is quite potable for
humans and excellent for stock and
poultry. And, more surprising, it pro-
motes a vigorous vegetable growth.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Let me support “The
0.D.” (B. 23/7/’4l) in his contention
that “toe-ragger” is of Australian origin,
though actually I never heard the term
used as quoted. “Toe-rag” was the idea ;
and so unsavory that, used as an epithet,
it was more likely to buy a fight than the
most direct allusion to the questionable-
ness of a person’s parentage. Akin to
the toe-rag was the “Prince Albert,”
though the P.A. mostly belonged to the
city. When the feet of one’s only pair
of socks went there was no need to dis-
card the garments entirely. Cut off at
the ankles the tops still gave the impres-
sion of full socks. Some hardy souls
needed no other footwear, though the
tender-footed might fill the gap with toe-
rags. I rather fancy the decline of both
came with the advent of feminine silk
stockings and masculine shoes. With
shoes Prince Alberts became impractic-
able. But almost any charitable female
would donate a pair of discarded silk
hose. The feet of these were then cut
off, the gap closed with a little rough
stitching—and, lo! there was a pair of
male socks, albeit a bit high on the leg.
But that was an advantage, since when
the feet wore out another amputation
and another reef gave renewed life. And
so on, until the minimum was reached —
when a further nip of a feminine lug
became necessary.
# * * *
“Atrax”: As data accumulate it looks
as if the white sulphur-crested cockatoo
may attain world’s longevity-champion-
ship honors amongst birds in Captivity.
One of 120 died some years ago in N. S.
Wales and several others are known to
have passed the century mark. Galahs
and corellas of over 40 are also recorded,
and pet magpies have achieved 25 years.
Eagles are the longest-lived of European
birds, and two of 110 and 105 are re-
corded as bormand-bred captives. Our
magnificent wedgetails, amongst the
largest of all species but belittled as
“eaglehawks,” should be able to at least
equal those years ; but Australian zoos
haven’t yet had time to test the matter,
and they are not at all the kind of birds
for beloved family pets from one human
generation to another, as “Cocky” so
often has been. Conversely, the blue
whale, hugest of all animals that have
ever lived, is senile at 45 and seldom
survives 50.
“Wippegong”: The “A.B.C.
Weekly” is all of a twitter be-
cause a visiting English actress
has travelled “virtually incog-
nito” to the Alice, been im-
pressed by the people, and
“marvelled at the prehistoric
cycads of Palm Valley.” Well,
well! If she wanted to meet
people with more individuality
than those who clutter up her
path in the Big Cities, the lady
showed wisdom in buying a
ticket for the “Indian Runner”
—or the “ ’Ghan,” whichever
she caught—but if it was
cycads she wanted, in all the
scarlet glory of their winter
seeding, there was no need to
go out of sight of Sydney’s
Harbor Bridge. Palm Valley,
as such, is scenically inferior
to most of the fronded gaps,
passes and drives which trim
the coastal belt ; it is mainly
of academic interest as the last
surviving evidence of former
splendor—never a very happy
condition to contemplate. Still,
the report wasn’t so bad for a
journal which, on the same
page, illustrated an article on
buggies with a drawing of a hooded
sulky fitted with the wheels and shafts of
a spring-cart, said shafts somehow sup-
ported by a back-band instead of a
saddle.
* * * *
“Hanko”: “Worst cow of a nightmare
I ever had,” old Ben told us, “was once
when I have a feed of fried eels an’
yaller turnips. No sooner I gits ter
sleep but what a big green frog wearin’
a butcher’s apron starts jumpin’ on me
windpipe. I chuck the cow orf a coupla
dozen times, but he alwus comes back,
the larst time draggin’ a cement garden
roller with him. • I can’t stand the roller
goin’ over me gullet, so I gits up an’
starts ter walk. I must ’a’ walked about
twenty mile that night. Anyhow, me
feet git that sore that I climb inter a
manna gum an’ sit beside a nater bear
till daylight. Next mornin’, when I gits
back ter camp, I finds meself stone dead
in me bunk. That gives me sich a shock
that I come ter life agin sittin’ in the
manna gum agin the nater bear.” Old
Ben paused to stoke his pipe. “I forgot
ter mention,” he went on, “that I have
a bottla rum with the eels an’ turnips,
but there ain’t none in the bottle when
I wake up an’ fish it from under me
bunk.”
* * * *
“A. Perist”: In using its sting the
bee at best is a blind stabber —it feels
the bulk of an animal’s flesh beneath it,
and, gripping with its legs, drives its
sabre home. When an ant of any size
takes to a bee, its honey-gathering days
are over. Only inside the hive has the
bee any sort of defence against ants, and
none at all against large ants should they
carry out an invasion in numbers. With
small ants the bee somehow straddles the
foe, manages a grip with its two front
legs, then carries the squirming little
demon as far away as possible before
letting it drop.
* * * *
“Propalong”: An Adelaide man and
a newcomer to our corner of the Murray,
he had come to try the reach. He put
out in the pram with a couple of drum
nets for a bay that he had been
advised to fish. The tail peg gave him
no trouble ; he got it placed and driven
deep in the mud. Then he slipped the
ring over the peg and backed off. He
shot the net over and stood up with a
wing stake in each hand. Then the fun
began. When he tried to place the stakes
the weight of the gear pulled the boat
back over the net. We counted five tries,
and then he got the stakes in. But they
were in too loosely, and one toppled,
fell and sank. That meant starting all
over again. Finally he got the stakes
out, side by side, with the net more or
less stretched. Now he had to part the
stakes. He pulled one up and pushed
the boat off, but the drag of the net
pulled the pram back, foul of the other
peg. He tried again. Same result. Next
time he was cunning. Slanting the stake
towards him, he drove it in deeply with
all his strength, at the same time pushing
back. The boat obeyed the sudden im-
petus, and the fisherman found himself
—for ten seconds —perched on top of the
peg, while the pram drifted gaily off. The
subsequent splash was all that was neces-
sary to complete the Australian version
of the dear old English punting joke.
* * * *
“M. U. Ray”: Talking of gummy
shark (B. 6/8/’4l) recalls the controversy
that raged in Melbourne about 20 years
ago when some newspaper or other
alleged that it was being dished up in
restaurants as Murray cod. One night in
Charlie’s cafe in Swanston-street a near
riot developed when a wrathful bloke
threatened to wreck the place because
he’d got gummy when he ordered cod.
“Y’ can’t put that across me,” he roared,
waving a couple of hamlike fists under
the frightened Charlie’s nose; “I bin
eatin’ cod too long not to know when
I ain’t got it You an’ your flamin’
shark!” Peace was restored when he
got his money back and a cohort of
waiters ushered him out. Then my mate,
making back for his seat, idly broke off a
bit of the suspect dish, tasted it and
passed another bit on to me. It was
Murray cod. Thus does propaganda
delude its victims.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I thought I’d been in
every variety of trouble that a man could
strike while driving a horse, but a
youngster recently introduced me to a
novel brand of bother. When I arrived
on the scene the moke had an arch in
his back like a spitting cat, and all four
feet would have fitted on a pocket hand-
kerchief. On the verge of tears, the kid
explained. As he was driving along, a
flapping noise had developed which
frightened the horse into an attempt at
bolting. It wasn’t until the animal had
been “sawed” down that the driver
located the source of the noise—a broken
tyre which flapped against the felloe
every time the wheel turned. To stop the
jumpy prad from clearing out while first-
aid was applied to the tyre, the young
’un had tied the reins to a spoke, think-
ing that any forward movement would
instantly pull on the bit. Unfortunately,
a clumsily-loaded lorry, passing close
during the repairs, frightened the nervous
animal. Backing away in fear the horse,
feeling the reins tighten, backed more •
and more; finishing up in the afore-
mentioned predicament. We solved the
problem by revolving the wheel forward
until enough slack was obtained to untie
the reins.
“I tell ’ee, boay, Phar Lap wadden in the same class with un."
AMONG THE TI-TREE.
There were caves in the ti-tree where we
children crept
In awe-struck silence. Here the leaf-mould
floors
Were white with droppings of small birds that
slept /
Night after night among the boughs. The
spoors
Of kitten-footed ferns made no sign here,
Or grass, or bitter sorrel; thick and grey
The mummy dust of crumbling leaves showed
sere
And dry as wheat husks. Broken branches
lay
Corroding in their ashes in this place
Where not one sun-mote tilted its gold face.
Down glades among the ti-tree red gnats flew
With peevish singing past the platinum sags;
And throngs of drifting sandflies danced and
blew
Like chrome heat-haze above the rusty rags
Of wind-scorched grasses. In their weird
cocoons
Thatched with dead twigs the native silk-
worms swung
From leafy rafters, snarling the gold noons
With floating gossamers. Blade-bright, the
young
Creek flashed from purple caves of shadow
where
Shy blackfish dreamed beneath the hollow
banks,
And spiders with their bubbles of sweet air
Glowed red as coral near the wavering ranks
Of river pampas and dark watercress.
Yabbies, like children with warm plasticine,
Moulded their rough huts from an oozing mess
Of clay and mud, where deep and gher-
kin-green
The sedge thrust upward, strong and coarse as
scrim,
Jostling and crowding to the water’s rim.
In hollows ’mid the ti-tree the dry soil
Shining like mica softly trickled down
Tn glaciers of dust to show each coil
And twist among the roots that, writhing
brown
As little scrub snakes, scared the mouse-grey
wrens
And set them shrieking. Here the native hens,
Their russet bodies poised on slender legs,
Fossicked for seeds or laid their dainty eggs
In secret fronded places—such fair nooks
As spring found here, when ti-tree flowers
showed
White as the prophets’ beards in Scripture
books;
And petals drifted till we dreamed it snowed.
Often we heard the boughs laugh, and we
knew
They talked together, growing strangely still
As elders hush their gossip when we drew
Too near to them, as curious children will.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE )
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 A
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4.739,012 10 «
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office; 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
Mew South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.—
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
m.
is
Security
Economy
Service
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
o lncorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hori. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, 1v.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
THE PIONEER MINE
FOR SALE BY AUCTION AT THE MART, No. 175 EAST STREET,
ROCKHAMPTON, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER Ist, AT 11 A.M.
MESSRS. R. FOULKES & CO. and J. J. HIGGINS & CO. (Auctioneers in Conjunction),
under instructions from the Public Curator of Queensland, Receiver and Manager in
the above matter, will submit to Public Auction the WHOLE OP THE ASSETS IN
ONE EOT, situated at Hunter’s Gully, Parish of Morinish, comprising Gold Alining
Eeases Nos. 120, 121, 172, 173 and 174, R’ton Hist., containing 300 acres 1 rood 2 perches,
together with Machine Area No. 74, R’ton Dist., containing 5 acres, all of which adjoin.
PEANT AND MACHINERY include: 110-li.p. Crossley Diesel Engine, with main and
counter shafting, pulleys, belting, etc.; 2 “Eister” Diesel engines, “Ruston Hornsby”
air compresser, haulage winch, wire rope, oil tanks and about 600 gals, crude oil, ore
crusher, elevator, chute, rolling crushers, 2 “Krupps” Ball Mills, saw bench, air blower,
tools, etc. Dodge utility, 500 ft. steel rails, 21,000-gal. G.I. tanks, etc. Main works
building, engine room, workshop, winch room, machine room, etc. Inventory of
whole of plant and machinery available.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 11) p.c.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932.. 199,670 5 „ ~100,000 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~,,100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936. . 234,481 5.8„ „ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937. 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1935.. 262,384 7.1„ ~ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939. . 262,910 7.1„ „ 141,667 30,000 2,365,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1„ „ 141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.-258,110 7.1„ „ 141,667 35,000 2,365,454
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
Banking, as well as trade and industry,
has been stimulated by heavy war expen-
diture, by an injection of funds into the
financial system through the central bank
and by sale of our most important ex-
portable surpluses to Britain under favor-
able contracts. On the industrial side
there has been marked expansion of out-
put, especially in the heavy industries,
where construction of merchant ships,
aircraft and the engines that go with
them, as well as a wide range of war
equipment, has called for new plants
and the expansion of old ones. Textile,
clothing, boot and other factories have
been kept working at full pressure, build-
ing activity has remained at a high level,
unemployment has ceased to be a prob-
lem (yePState taxes for it remain), whole-
sale and retail turnovers are still advanc-
ing, the volume of bank clearances con-
tinues to swell, and imports have de-
clined. At the same time costs and taxa-
tion have climbed, while legislative con-
trol has prevented runaway movements
in prices and helped to direct the flow
of investment. On the whole, the growth
of turnovers has more than offset the rise
in costs and taxation, and net earnings
have benefited.
Chief effects of all this upon the bank-
ing structure have been to increase de-
posits, retard the growth of advances and
expand liquids. The weight of money
pressed down interest rates, enabling the
Government to finance war commitments
at low cost, and concurrently made pos-
sible heavy taxation and loan-raising
without hamstringing industrial and trade
activity. Indeed, while the national war
effort continues to gather momentum, in-
dustrial activity and turnovers of traders
in essential goods are likely to remain at
high levels, though the taxgatherer and
rising costs can be expected to make off
with more of the public’s loose cash. The
toughest nuts which the Government,
trade and industry and the public will
have to crack have yet to be gathered in
the shape of post-war problems, and no-
body can say exactly at the moment what
these are likely to be.
The banks have been less fortunate
than other traders. The C.8.A., which
has £4,117,350 of capital to feed, of which
£2,117,350 carries a preferential 4 p.c.,
cumulative to 3 p.c., gathers over 90 p.c.
of its deposits in the Commonwealth and
the balance in Maoriland. After making
provision for contingencies, including
increased taxation, gross earnings
(£1,130,473) advanced £12,271. Exes.
(£872,363) took all the gain and £6047
besides. The net result was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 8.6 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 8.9 p.c. for the
previous term. The div. was kept at
7.1 p.c., which is worth only half that
rate on most of the ord. capital, which
was gathered at a premium of 100 p.c.
A growth of £2,682,945 in free deposits
was accompanied by an expansion of
£867,310 in advances, of £1,408,974 in
liquids, and a contraction of £522,374 in
interest-bearing deposits:
Liabilities.
1936. 1940. 1941.
Notes .. .. £14,981 £6.184 £6,184
Bills, ete. . . 1,306,628 1.463,054 1,606,203
Free deposits. . 11,583,116 15,178,855 17,861,800
Fixed deposits 14,280,550 18,380,299 17,857,925
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 10.370,658 14.093,623 15,502,597
Advances . . 22,211,474 26,274,023 27,141,333
Premises . . 1,178,436 1,281,593 1,313,001
When the books closed liquids amounted
to 41.5 p.c. of liabilities to the public, as
against 40.2 p.c. and 38.6 p.c. at the two
preceding balances, and advances were
only 75.9 p.c. of deposits compared with
82.1 p.c. three years earlier. Also, the
bank was holding £5 15s. 2d. of the pub-
lic’s money for every pound of its own.
It is a strong position.
The market prices the 10s.-paid ords.
at 14s. as against 13s. 6d. a year back.
The return at 14s. is 5 p.c. on a 7.1 p.c.
div. basis. At £8 16s. (buyer) the £lO
prefs. yield 4.5 p.c. The net tangible
cover is £3O 12s. 3d. prefs. and 21s. lOd.
ords.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co j
To Re- Re-
June, Frofit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 13,945 61 p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 12) „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13f „ .. 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 14) „ ~ 55,580 42,640 128,153
1940.. 75,152 14) „ ~ 59,305 15,847 144,000
1941.. 87,108 13) ~ ~ 66,734 20,374 164,374
War has accelerated the extraordinary
growth of this eight-year-old. Besides
opening export markets, opportunities
have arisen for the provision of a wide
range of specialised equipment for both
defence and industrial purposes, not the
least being local manufacture of rubber-
insulated electric cables, demand for
which has necessitated erection of a
second plant. Government controls and
war-time taxation and raw-material costs,
etc., have prevented profits expanding in
the same ratio as capital and turnover,
however. Still, much of the money re-
cently introduced has yet to demonstrate
full earning power.
Since 1935 capital account has ex-
panded £376,324, of which £110,595 came
in during the latest period:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £173,343 £392,500 £439,072 £549,667
Overdraft . . 15,592 238,758 643,464
Sundry creditors 16,560 107,929 168,856 446,505
Premises .. 18,669 78,119 130,751 181,392
Plant, etc. . . 59,248 115,707 191,797 311,114
Stocks .. 81,099 244,359 601,7401,151,111
Debtors, etc... 55,642 245,448 181,382 194,729
But the outstanding feature is the upward
surge in the debt (up £682,355 alone last
year) in the process of accumulating im-
ported raw material and other stocks
(£549,371 higher). Liabilities of £1,089,969
now exceed shareholders’ funds by
£375,928. A large chunk of purchases
represents security supplies on Govern-
ment account, so the risk normally in-
herent in a debt or inventories of such
magnitude is not so great as apparent.
To plant, etc., £119,317 net was added,
and an extra £50,641 put into premises
to house it. The contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£255,871) was
£119,637.
As for trading, whatever effects war
and petrol-rationing had on ordinary de-
mand were more than made up for on
defence and other activities, while, after
a steep rise from to 13d. in the
previous term, the London price of rubber
flattened out around 13yd. per pound.
Most of the year’s extra costs were
absorbed by the co., the management
contenting itself with a profit on turnover
ratio 59 p.c. of that in the previous term.
The expansion of £11,956 in claimed net
reflects a cut of £18,500 in the provision
for war-time (company) and undistributed
profits taxes (£26,500), which in their
present form bear unduly heavily on
efficient youngsters like this which have
not had time to accumulate substantial
reserves. Depreciation was £12,998
bulkier at £28,878.
On capital actually at work, the £87,108
of profit represented 17.6 p.c., as against
18.4, 25.1, 26.3 and 25.3 p.c. back to
1937. A point was chipped off the div.,
the 13y p.c. distributed being covered
with a margin of £20,374.
At the moment Government orders
are taxing capacity, and to help things
along another £116,000 of capital is to
be raised, to be called up over 18 months.
Including £30,333 uncalled at June 30,
issued capital will then lift to £696,000,
on which maintenance of last term’s level
of earnings would represent 12.5 p.c.
Since June market for the old shares
has lifted from 355. 9d. to 425. 6d., to
give an eA-rights yield from current divs.
of 7 p.c. ; a drop in the rate to 12 p.c.
would still return 6.2 p.c. Including new
issue, net tangible backing is 245. 9d.
One of the queries in the investor’s mind
is what may happen in the post-war
period in view of present expansion of
the industry at inflated costs.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
, Dividends N Towards De-
June, Loss. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves, licit.
£ £ £ £
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 374 p.c. Nil 4,660 1,135 3,539
1934.. 16,799 7J „ 74 p.c. 8,522 8,277 11,816
1935.. 23,046 10 „ 124 „ 18,129 4,917 16,733
1936.. 40,823 10 „15 „ 29,334 11,489 28,222
Added goodwill, £2OOO .. .. 26,222
1937.. 79,076 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 55,128 23,948 50,170
1938.. 101,604 10 „ 15 „ 71,342 30,262 80,432
Loss sale property, £5782 .. .. 74,650
Added goodwill, £lOO .. .. 74,550
1939.. 103,896 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,425 32,471107,021
1940.. 86,202 10 ~ 15 „ 71,425 14,777121,798
War gift, £lO,OOO 111,798
1941.. 96,942 10 p.c. 15 p.c. 71,426 £5,516 137,314
*Nine months.
The Commonwealth Board of Inquiry
into the cash-order system, which sat in
Sydney (the stronghold of this form of
credit trading) and Melbourne, has not
yet delivered its report. Evidence elicited
appeared to indicate that, in the main,
city retailers wouldn’t appreciate exten-
sion of the system with discount charges
at 10 p.c.—in the suburbs and Newcastle
the rate is as high as 15 p.c. At the same
time they admitted that “total abolition
might have a serious effect on business
as a whole,” which lends some point to
the issuing cos.’ claims that cash-orders,
by stepping up turnovers, may not appre-
ciably increase prices not to the full
extent of discount charges, anyway. Bris-
bane retailers, it was cited, decided
against cash-orders at the end of last
year: but a slack period in January
found them all reversing their decisions
within a few weeks. It was also argued
by Direct Cash Orders, controlled by the
Sydney retail trade itself, that businesses
which had attempted to conduct their
own credit trading had found the costs
in excess of the discount on cash-orders.
These are mostly businessmen’s views.
It was admitted that very little cash-order
spending was of luxury nature, but
rather encouraged the purchase of better
quality goods. The Board of Inquiry is
also investigating hire-purchase trading.
Amalgamated is interested in the out-
come of the inquiry both as vendor of
cash-orders in the three Eastern States
and furniture in two. On the cash-order
side there are 21 branches in N.S.W. and
five each in Victoria and Queensland.
Furniture showrooms number five in
N.S.W. and two in Victoria. Conditions
were just about ideal last term, and cash-
order turnover of the organisation forged
ahead by £331,828 and furniture sales by
£153,022. The parent’s own commission
earnings, etc. (£331,002), benefited by
£37,510, of which £10,740 was extra
profit. The £96,942 shown was 21.7
p.c. on ord. capital, after meeting the 10
p.c. pref. charge, as against 18.9, 23.6,
23 and 22.3 p.c. for the four preceding
years. Ord. div. was kept at 15 p.c., and a
gift of £lO,OOO made to the Common-
wealth war effort, in addition to £5OOO
already loaned interest-free.
Bigger business shows up in these
figures:
1935. 1938. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £176,874 £526,177 £526,177 £526,177
Liabilities* . . 52,248 287,750 203,827 252,736
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 102,617 14.476 25,246
Equipment .. 8,151 18,718 18,255 18,833
Investments . . 24,743 99,993 108,291 106,542
Stock.. .. 3,142 12,068 49,007 73,167
Book debts . . 216,640 669,662 666,030 699,541
Cash, etc. . . 1,504 5,405 9,848 7,004
* Including tax provision.
What lies behind the shareholding item
(mainly scrip in the furniture and Vic.
cash-order subsidiaries) is indiscernible.
Their actual earning power is similarly
shrouded in obscurity. Excluding
these investments, more or less liquids
exceeded the debt by £526,976 when the
books closed, an improvement of £5918.
With no difficulty in shifting stocks,
city stores have been battening down on
the acceptance of c.-os. But greatest
immediate threat to these cos.’ earnings
comes from the possibility of Govern-
ment interference with discount charges
and hire-terms agreements.
The market assesses the risks by
pricing the 12s. ords. to yield an imme-
diate 11.6 p.c. at 15s. 6d. The prefs. return
8.6 p.c. at 235. 3d. on their contract rate
of div. The cover per pound of paid
capital is £4 Bs. 6d. pref., 275. 3d. ord.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net _ _ To
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 5,215 8 p.e. = 5802 21,934
1932.. 2,921 6 „ „ 4352 20,503
1933.. 3,727 6 „ „ 4352 19,878
1934.. 6,335 8,, ~ 5802 533 20,411
1935.. 6,251 8 ~ „ 5802 449 20,860
1936.. 9,938 10 „ „ 7253 2685 23,545
1937.. 13,510 10 „ ~ 7253 6257 29,802
1938.. 15,717 124,. „ 9067 6650 36,452
1939 . . 14,053 10 ~ ~ 7253 6800 43,252
1940.. 12,443 10 ~ „ 7253 5190 48,442
1941.. 11,639 12 „ ~ 8703 2936 51,378
Despite fierce competition and rising
costs, due to war conditions, this 30-
year-old manufacturer of soft drinks con-
tinues to widen its connections, improve
its already comfortable finances and


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Oollins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
show an attractive return on its capital.
Early in the piece the board adopted the
sound long-range policy of steadily writ-
ing-down the book value of fixed assets
out of earnings and accumulating cash,
and then from this source financing
further expansion of the business.
Of recent years the co. has stepped
along more briskly than usual:
1927. 1939'. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities .. 1,652 5,283* 7,634* 9,859
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 40,274 28,481 28,789 28,789
Plant, etc. . . 26,526 21,433 33,618 29,94 S
Stocks . . . . 13,129 15,546 17,596 22,946
Book debts, etc.? i9qc,q 1 r, 32 486 567
Consols . j 12,909 | 45 )9 65 45,965 45,965
Cash, etc. . . 7,542 13.463 6,507 11,358
* Includes provision for taxation.
The quick growth of the plant and stock
items over the last two years indicates
rapid expansion of business, which,
judged by book debts, is mainly on a
cash basis. Other features are the small
amount coming to outsiders —it was more
than twice covered by stock and book
debts alone—and the amount held in
Consols and cash (£57,323), equal to
15s. lOd. per share.
After providing for depreciation
(£6400) and other contingencies, includ-
ing taxation, declared net earnings for
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts (£11,639, down £804) were
16 p.c. on capital, compared with 17.1,
19.3, 21.6, 18.6, 13.7 and 8.6 p.c. back
to 1935. An extra 2 p.c. (tax-free) was
added to the div., making it 12 p.c., and
the present basis of taxation favors main-
tenance of that rate, subject, of course, to
earnings being able to support it.
Buyers offer 30s. for the pound shares
without attracting sellers. The return
at 30s. is 8 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible cover is 345. 2d. book
value.
Prospects at Mt. Kasi (Fiji) have fallen
away in depth, the ore-body in the north
end having given way to volcanic ash.
The future depends on the vertical con-
tinuation of the lode in the southern end
and the success attaching to the quest
for lateral extensions along the strike.
Unfavorable developments are reflected
in revised ore reserves at the end of June
of 91,300 tons — J 0,320, valued at sdwt.,
positive and 20,970 tons (4.4dwt.) prob-
able— in total down 115,‘000 tons in
volume and o.4dwt. r in grade on the last
estimate. Copper in the ore is also un-
favorably affecting costs and recoveries.
For the year to December savings of
Is. sfd. in all-in costs (275. sd. a ton)
and expansion from 39,434 to 43,847 tons
in throughput produced an improvement
of £1958 in net earnings (£15,966 Fijian),
despite smaller recoveries (4.62dwt., down
0.28dwt.). That was after writing off
depreciation of £4007, development of
£8242 and contributing £1093 to patriotic
funds. The co. broke into the div. list
with two distributions of 3d. Aust.
(£8758), and a third has gone out since the
close of accounts. Future div. policy is
obscure. Though crushings have been
maintained, o.4dwt. loss in gold yields
has shown up for the first half of the
current term.
Arahura and Kanieri are the live-
liest of the Prattens’ Maoriland gold-
dredging group. Both paid 3s. (£45,000)
on their 300,000 issued shares in
the year to March. Arahura, in a rich
patch af the moment, is the stronger
market fancy, although on average
returns to date the scales appear weighted
in Kanieri’s favor. Lower recoveries and
cost-increases set both concerns back last
year; so did taxation, which lifted from
265. 3d. to 465. 9d. per ounce of
gold produced in the case of Kanieri, and
from 28s. Id. to 465. 7d. for Arahura.
Both cos. have similarly-rated 400,000-
c.y. monthly plants. Bouldery and
tightly packed wash has prevented
Kanieri from obtaining that yardage, but
more impressive recoveries have made
up for Arahura’s advantage in that
respect. Before retaining £15,000
(£25,000 less) for renewals and depletion,
etc., Kanieri records net earnings £15,303
lighter at 3s. Bd. per share:
Year Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs, Net
Mar. C.y. Oz. C.y. C.y. Profit.
1939). 542,000 4,131 3.66 4.72 d. £21,171
1940.. 2,985,000 14,548 2.34 3.76 d. 70,418
1941.. 3,216,000 14,269 2.13 3.99 d. 55,115
1942 f. 873,000 5,171 2.84 J 33,940
1 Four months. } Working profit.
From the outset bore value of ground
dug has averaged 3.28 gr. and recoveries
2.35 gr., an extraction of 71.6 p.c. Origi-
nal boring indicated 55,000,000 c.y. of
wash, recoverable value 3.1 gr., so that
recent results should be fairly represen-
tative of what may be expected in the
indicated 15-year life ahead. Excessive
fines in the wash gdve concern last year,
but treatment modifications got on top
of the trouble. At March 31 more or
less liquids, including dredge spares, etc.,
exceeded liabilities by £30,699.
• ••••*
The Arahura plant is eating up its
property at a pace which will take it
10 years to work out the initial selected
area (48,500,000 c.y. averaging 3.2 gr.).
An appreciable quantity of low-grade
material outside the measured block may
extend that life. From bored 3.Bgr. dirt
recoveries to date, however, have been
only 1.77gr.—46.6 p.c. Here is the dig-
ging record from the start two years
ago:
Year Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs, Net
Alar:, C.v. Oz. C.y. C.y. Profk.
1939*. 2,760,000 11,359 1.97 2.32 d. £69.789
1940.. 4,053,000 13,785 1.63 3.02 d. 53,4<1
1941 f. 1,157,000 6,321 2.62 l 47 ’°A°
* Eight months, t Four months, t Working protit.
Of the latest showing, £lO,OOO (down
£30,000) is earmarked for special re-
serves. Direct taxation charged was
£16,125 heavier at £32,095. Mining cos.
on the other side of the Tasman pay
income tax on dividends paid _at half
ordinary rates until twice capital has
been repaid, thereafter on the full
Dominion scale. And effective M.L. pro-
duction and export imposts are about
twice as onerous as the Commonwealth’s
excise levy.
* * * *
Goldmining option-hunters have their
eyes on the privately-owned Evanston
mine, described as the best new aurifer-
ous find in the West since Yellowdine.
The show is on the North Yilgarn field,
has a flat ore-body, is equipped with a
3000-tons-a-month treatment plant and
has been credited with well over half-
ounce returns. Ore reserves haven’t been
computed, but the State Mining Engineer
reckons there appears to be no cause for
uneasiness on this score. A report that
Western Mining Corp. had made a deal
with Ridge bros., Evanston’s owners,
hasn’t been confirmed.
* * * *
Burbidge, operating the old Grand
National, near Southern Cross (W.A.),
has declared a maiden div. of 6d. Returns
so far have averaged about 3dwt. a ton.
Though ore reserves aren’t disclosed, large
quantities of low-grade but profitable
material are believed to be available.
Mill capacity is around 4000 tons a
month.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet Gold Mines, Ltd., operat-
ing the lowest-grade company-worked
mine in the West, is reported from London
to be on the eve of closing down. Future
of the mine was declared uncertain some
time ago because ore grade was going
from bad to worse in depth. A subse-
quent statement indicated that better
values had been exposed. Mt. Magnet,
where the mine is located, has never won
a prize for payable deep-seated deposits.
H* •i' *l*
London-controlled Ora Banda United
(W.A.), recently reported to have
acquired an ahead-of-date plant to
handle 5000 tons a month, mentions diffi-
culty in getting delivery of some of the
machinery from America. Co. claims to
have proved a big tonnage of ore, and
to be only waiting for production to be
on the golden pig’s back.
sf * * *
Spargo’s Reward hopes to make the
Westralian gold dividend list before long.
Output for last year was 7000 fine ounces
from 19,815 tons. A new treatment plant
is to be installed. Ore reserves were esti-
mated eight months ago at 15,500 tons
(6.9dwt.) proved and 11,500 tons (7dwt.)
probable. Location of a considerable
body of ore in the footwall of the present
workings over a lgngth of 80ft. gave the
mine a leg-up last year. This ore is sepa-
rated from the main body by a narrow
strip of low-grade material. It has in-
creased the stoping width to 33ft. and the
value to over Bdwt. a ton.
* * * *
An “equitable” scheme for the reorgan-
isation of Anglo-Australian, Beryl, Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance, Gt.
Boulder Mining and Finance, Meeka-
tharra, Murchison and North Kalgurli
United —seven (the liquidated Southern
Cross was the other) of the eight De
Bernales Westralian goldmining cos.
floated in London—has been adopted by
the respective boards and shareholders’
committees. An exchange of holdings
for shares in Comet, Yellowdine and
Australian Gold Production, Ltd. (for-
merly Emu), three De Bernales cos.
formed in Perth, is proposed. All the
seven London cos.’ interests, except Yel-
lowdine and Comet holdings, are to be
transferred to Australian Gold Produc-
tion.
THE OLYMPIC TYRE AND
RUBBER COY. LTD.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS.
The eighth annual general meeting of
The Olympic Tyre and Rubber Coy.,
Ltd., was held in Melbourne on Thurs-
day, 14th inst.
The Managing Director, Mr. F. J. E. Beaure-
paire, in opening the meeting, stated that he
desired to make some comment on the affairs
of the Company as revealed in the statements.
“In presenting the Balance Sheet and Profit
and Loss Account,” he said, “the Directors
have followed the procedure adopted last year,
whereby the net profit from trading is shown
after providing for State and Federal Income
Taxes but before deducting our estimated lia-
bility for War-time (Company) and Undis-
tributed Profits Taxes, as such Taxes represent
an appropriation of the Company’s profits
which are levied according to the exigencies of
the current situation and have no fixed relation-
ship to the results of the Company’s trading.
It is therefore considered proper that these
Taxes should be included separately on the
Company’s published accounts.
WAR-TIME (COMPANY) TAX
“It has recently been said, and in thjs we
must concur, that the War-time (Company) Tax
is open to the following objections:
“(a) It bears relatively heavily on companies
whose rate of profit on capital employed
is high, and relatively lightly on less efficient
companies whose earnings rate is lower.
“(b) There are grave difficulties in defining and
determining ‘Capital Employed.’
“(c) The Capital Employed by a company may
not fairly reflect the total price at which
the shares in the company have been pur-
chased by the present shareholders. In the
last analysis, the tax is borne by these share-
holders, yet it is determined by calcula-
tions based on a capital which may be
either higher or lower than the capital in-
vested by shareholders.
“(d) It affords little incentive to cost reduction
in the case of efficient companies, and may
even induce extravagance or an attitude of
carelessness towards costs and expenses.
“(e) It pays no regard to the elements of profits
which may be defined as partly the reward
of successful management, partly a con-
sideration for the taking of special risks,
partly interest on the capital used, and
partly a bonus or ‘rent’ for the possession
of differential advantages in productive
capacity for various reasons; in particular
it makes no allowance for the variations
in the risks taken in different industries.
“With reference to profits,” Mr. Beaurepaire
continued, “some critics would appear to have
misconstrued our published statement and have
created an impression that such have increased
in consequence of the Company’s participation
in the war effort. However, a closer examina-
tion of the figures, particularly having regard
to additional shareholders’ and other funds em-
ployed, immediately discloses that this impres-
sion is entirely erroneous.
WAR-TIME TRADE
“Petrol restriction has greatly curtailed pas-
senger car tyre sales and, also, those of com-
mercial truck tyres to some extent, but this
reduction has been more than counterbalanced
by the demand from several British markets out-
side Australia (some of which we anticipate will
be retained after the war) and by the addition
of special types of tyres we have undertaken
to produce against Government orders. Thus,
our total sales have increased very substantially,
but the rate of net profit on turnover has been
somewhat lower than in peace-time—in actual
fact, the percentage during 1940-41 being 59
per cent, of that for 1939-40.
“The Company now is making as many tyres
as either of its local competitors, which factor
shows that the reduction in consumption by
ordinary tyre consumers has not affected
Olympic to the same extent as its competitors.
We have therefore continued to make progress
in terms of ratio of sales to available business.
“Because a large percentage 9f the raw
materials we use is not obtainable in Australia,
we have been urged by the Government to
establish considerably heavier reserve stocks than
would be considered necessary in peace-time.
Consequently we have employed a very much
greater amount of borrowed money than
during 1939-40.
“Notwithstanding the necessity of buying
large quantities of materials from overseas, the
local expenditure on materials of all descriptions
purchased within the Commonwealth during the
year exceeded £375,000. This is additional, of
course, to the many thousands of pounds ex-
pended in Australia on such items as salaries
and wages, fuel, electric power, etc.
“I would like to take this opportunity of
recording my Company’s appreciation of the
very satisfactory achievements of our English
and other overseas suppliers during the
hazardous times through which we are passing.
Our Company has more than doubled its
absorption of imported materials since the
commencement of war, and so far, with one
exception, no consignment ordered from Eng-
lish-speaking countries has failed to reach its
destination. This is an impressive indication
both of the recuperative powers of British
industry and of the efficacy of the protection
afforded by the British Navy.
NEW PRODUCTIONS
“As a result of the restrictions imposed on
the motor industry, it has been necessary for
us to adapt our merchandising programme to
the changed conditions now prevailing. At the
same time, every possible effort has been made
to ensure that the Company will maintain the
position it has won in the industrial and com-
mercial fields, so that losses consequent upon
depletion of selling staffs and other temporary
difficulties may be quickly regained after the
conclusion of hostilities.
“During the year,” Mr. Beaurepaire said,
“we commenced merchandising the first Aus-
tralian-made rubber insulated electric cables, and
these are now on the market in all States ex-
cepting Western Australia. A serious shortage
has recently developed, and latest advices are
to the effect that little or no further supplies
will be available from England for some time.
Our capacity has been expanded very consider-
ably in the production of special types required
for the various fighting forces and other essen-
tial Government purposes, but, in spite of this,
it seems clear that we will not be able to supply
the quantity likely to be required during the
coming year, and some form of rationing in
the use of electric cables appears to be inevit-
able. In recent months, this section of our
factory has developed to such an extent that
it has been necessary to erect a new plant
about one mile from our main installation. At
the present time the output of this unit repre-
sents practically the only source of supply of
cables in Australia which are essential for the
equipping of the new factories being erected
for the production of munitions and ordnance
requirements.
“In common with many other industries
manufacturing goods for defence purposes, we
are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain
sufficient skilled labor, despite the assistance
of the Department of Labor. Enlistments
and longer training periods of the home forces
by compulsory attendance at camps have re-
sulted in replacements by less experienced
clerical staff and factory operatives, and this
has thrown an added burden on heads of de-
partments and foremen.
“Nevertheless, our two factories are working
in shifts twenty-four hours per day all the
week, and in spite of the additions we are
continually making to our plant we find it
difficult to fulfil all our obligations.
WELL EQUIPPED PLANT
“There is no doubt that the Company is in-
deed fortunate in having equipped itself to
undertake so much work of a national nature.
Our sympathies go out to those other sections
of the automotive trade whose business has
almost disappeared through the necessity of
severe petrol rationing, and it is to be hoped
that the efforts of the Government to build
up more adequate stocks in Australia will pro-
ceed rapidly and soon cause a relaxation of the
present restrictions. We believe that every
effort should be made by those responsible,
such as oil companies, tyre companies, acces-
sory houses, etc., to supply the automotive
trade with its present meagre requirements at
the lowest possible cost in an endeavor to
encourage owners to keep their vehicles in
commission. As an example, we note with
interest that, in Western Australia, the State
Government is introducing a lower scale of
registration fees, and we trust that this lead
will be extended to other States. It has also
been noted that the Defence Department has
expressed the wish that all vehicles possible
should be kept in running order against being
required for national emergency purposes.
“We feel, therefore, that the serious matter
of a general reduction of motor registrations
throughout Australia should become a question
for the Federal Government’s attention.
REHABILITATION FUND
“Many of our employees who were with us
at the outbreak of war are on active service
with the Royal Navy, the A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
It may interest you to know that these men
are all participants in the scheme of benefits
for themselves and their dependants which 1
mentioned last year had been instituted by this
Company.
“You will notice from the published accounts
that the Directors recommend the setting aside
of a further sum of £3OOO to build up the Fund
for purposes of the rehabilitation or repatria-
tion of our employees who return from active
service, and I would again stress the necessity
for all bodies of employers to anticipate the
need for material help to carry out this very
important task when the war is won. If em-
ployers will make their own contribution to this
work it must be a tremendous assistance to the
Government when the time comes. I am of
opinion that, apart from being a duty we owe
to those who undoubtedly will need it, it is a
matter of real business efficiency that rehabili-
tation should not be left entirely to the Govern-
ment, as was the case at the end of the last
world war. It is undoubtedly sound, logical
and economical for the employer to assist
in the re-entry of his former employees into
the industry, as surely as he knows best where
they can be absorbed most usefully.
“In conclusion, there is another matter which,
may I say, is of interest to you all as share-
holders. You have noticed in the Directors’
Report that, subject to permission being granted
under National Securities (Capital Issue) regu-
lations, the Directors have decided to issue
116,000 more shares at par to existing share-
holders in the ratio of one new share for each
five shares now held.
“The additional £116,000 of capital is not based
on requirements to fulfil immediate contracts.
Many of these are associated with the war
effort and are, therefore, of a temporary nature.
The sum asked for would not cover all these
but has been arrived at with a view to its being
permanently employed after the war in the ex-
pansion of our business which will result from
the new lines of manufacture undertaken.
“The requisite consent has now been granted
and the Secretary is issuing circulars to all
shareholders advising them of the number of
new' shares to which they are entitled, as well
as the necessary forms for acceptance or other-
wise dealing with their rights to this new issue.
“The list is being prepared as at August 19th
and the circulars will be in your hands very
shortly. The closing date of the issue is
September 15th, when 2/6 per share must be
lodged. Calls at 2/6 per share will be payable
at two-monthly intervals, the last call being
payable on November Ist, 1942.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
URGING UNCLE SAM.
[Open suggestions that it is about time Uncle Sam
was in this war in a shooting capacity have begun to
appear in cables as reflecting British opinion. Uncle
Sam has been in no rush about it, though the general
opinion prevailing in the U.S.A. has for some time
been that Uncle Sam is irrevocably in the war already.
That body of opinion appears to have become rapidly
stronger since May, when the previously isolationist
“Saturday Evening Post” stated Uncle Sam’s position in
the comment here given.]
A time comes When every American must some-
how resolve one simple question:
If for anything you could do about it, your
country nevertheless becomes involved in war, where
are you going to stand?
Many keep saying that time has not come. The
clock has not struck. The fatal words have not been
uttered in the form of a resolution by Congress.
But do they see what the world reads on the
American banner? We spell it out to them.
The American Government has proclaimed that
Hitler must be destroyed.
It has solemnly pledged itself before the world to
employ its total resources to bring that result to pass.
It has proclaimed that there can be and shall be
no peace with Hitler.
It has announced that a negotiated peace would
be a defeat for democracy and freedom and the
American way of life.
It has proclaimed that the American way of life
cannot exist in the same planet with the German thing.
One or the other must die.
For all of these reasons the American Govern-
ment is giving warships, merchant ships, ’planes, guns
and ammunition to Hitler’s enemies and has com-
manded American industry to prepare for them an
unlimited arsenal, to be called the arsenal of
democracy.
Read it. Read what is written there on the
American banner. The world has read it. Hiller
knows it by heart and probably sees it in his anxiety
dreams.
To speak of this as national defence is absurd. It
is the American crusade.
Trying, therefore, to maintain the fiction that this
country is not in the war against Hitler is like run-
ning from an earthquake or hiding in the nursery.
* * * . * *
[One of the greatest of American —or of world —-
newspapers, the New York “Times,” has long insisted
that this war is America’s as much as Britain’s, publish-
ing many articles on the lines of the one here condensed.]
In New York Harbor, on an island close to the
steamship lanes, stands the most famous statue in the
world. It is not the most beautiful statue, but to many
millions of passengers coming up the bay it has seemed
to be. It stands, for one of the dearest dreams in
human history—Liberty.
The millions who pursued that dream began to
come before there was a statue to greet them. They
came for one reason, escape: escape from religious
or political persecution, from caste systems, from
overcrowding and from lack of opportunity. But
the hope of leaving all of the Old World behind could
not be realised. Their" hearts and heads forbade it.
Their roots in its culture ran too deep. And the sea
itself grew ever narrower. Emotion, ideas, even physi-
cal force can now move around the world more effec-
tively than they could cross the tiniest country a cen-
tury and a half ago.
There is no isolation. There are only lines of
defence. Distance is vanishing. Strategy is everything.
And strategy in this year of grace has become the art
and science of survival: survival in the personal sense,
survival of ideas, survival of culture and tradition,
survival of a way of life.
Those who tell us now that the sea is still our
certain bulwark, and that the tremendous forces sweep-
ing the Old World threaten no danger to the New,
give the lie to their own words in the precautions they
would have us take.
To a man they favor an enormous strengthening
of our defences. Why? Against what danger would
they have us arm if none exists? To what purpose
would they have us spend these almost incredible bil -
lions upon billions for ships and ’planes, for tanks
and guns, if there is no immediate threat to the security
of the United States? Why are we training the youth
of the country to bear arms? Under pressure of what
fear are we racing against time to double and quad-
ruple our industrial production?
We are arming solely for one reason. We are
arming against Hitler’s Germany—a great predatory
Power in alliance with Japan.
It has been said, times without number, that if
Hitler cannot cross the English Channel he cannot
cross three thousand miles of sea. But there is only
one reason why he has not crossed the English
Channel. That is because 45 million determined
Britons in a heroic resistance have converted their
island into an armed base from which proceeds a
steady stream of sea and air power. As Secretary
Hull has said: “It is not the water that bars the way.
It is the resolute determination of British arms. Were
the control of the seas by Britain lost, the Atlantic
would no longer be an obstacle—rather, it would
become a broad highway for a conqueror moving
westward.”
That conqueror does not need to attempt at once
an invasion of continental United States in order to
place the U.S.A. in deadly danger. It would be in
deadly danger the moment British sea power failed ;
the moment the eastern gates of the Atlantic opened
to the aggressor ; the moment we were compelled to
divide our one-ocean Navy between two oceans simul-
taneously.
The combined Axis fleets outmatch America’s.
The master of Europe would have at his command
shipways that could outbuild America’s, the re-
sources of 20 conquered nations to furnish his
materials, the oil of the Middle East to stoke his
engines, the slave labor of a continent—bound by no
union rules, and not working on a 40-hour week —
to turn out his production.
Grant Hitler the gigantic prestige of a victory
over Britain, and who can doubt the prompt appear-
ance of imitation Nazi regimes in a half-dozen Latin-
American nations, forced to be on the winning side,
begging favors, clamoring for admission to the Axis?
What shall we do then? Make war upon these neigh-
bors ; send armies to fight in the jungles of Central
or South America ; run the risk of outraging native
sentiment and turning the whole continent against us?
Or shall we sit tight while the area of Nazi influence
draws ever closer to the Panama Canal and a spread-
ing chequerboard of Nazi airfields provides ports of
call for German ’planes that may choose to bomb
our cities?
Victorious in Europe, dominating Africa and
Asia through his Axis partners, Hitler could not afford
to permit the United States to live an untroubled and
successful life, even if he wished to. We are the
arch-enemy of all he stands for. As long as liberty
and freedom prevailed in the United States there would
be a constant risk for Hitler that our ideas and our
example might infect the conquered countries which he
was bending to his will. In his own interest he would
be forced to harry us at every turn.
Who can doubt that we should have to turn our
nation into an armed camp, with all our traditional
values of culture, education, social reform, democracy
and liberty subordinated to the single, all-embracing
—Miami “Herald,” U.S.A.
USUAL HITLER TECHNIQUE.
aim of self-preservation? In this case we should
indeed experience “regimentation.” Every item of
foreign trade, every transaction in domestic com-
merce, every present prerogative of labor, every civil
liberty we cherish, would necessarily be regulated in
the interest of defence.
But the most tragic aspect of this attempt to
survive, alone on our continent, is that it would
amount at best merely to sustaining life in a charnel-
house. With Britain gone, with the bright lamp of
English liberty extinguished, with all hope of resurrec-
tion denied to the little democracies that have con-
tributed so generously to our civilisation and our cul-
ture, with the hobnailed boots of an ignorant and
obscene barbarism echoing, in every capital from
London to Athens, we should live in a new world,
changed beyond all recognition.
In this downfall of democracy outside the United
States there would come, for many of our own people,
a loss of faith in our own democratic system. Our
confidence would be undermined, our vision dimmed,
our ranks divided. In a dark, uncertain world we
should stand alone, deriving from no other country
the sustaining strength of a common faith in our
democratic institutions.
What would it profit us to achieve, at last, this
perfect isolation?
We have only two alternatives. We can sur-
render or we can do our part in holding the line. If
we decide for the American tradition, for the preser-
vation of all that we hold dear in the years that lie
ahead, we shall take our place in the line and play
our part in the defence of freedom.
On Japan’s Choice.
(Condensed from a New York “World-Telegram” article.)
To the question of how Japan can profit from the
present war situation, instead of being injured by it, two
answers are offered by conflicting groups in Tokyo.
Says the militarist group, this is our long-sought oppor-
tunity to grab Siberia, while the bolos are busy fight-
ing Hitler. Says the other group, now that Hitler has
taken on most of the rest of the world and betrayed
another “friend,” this is a good time for us to make
terms for Pacific peace with the United States and
Britain.
Superficially, the militarists seem to have a good
argument. But what about the China war, already
absorbing most of Japan’s soldiers and resources?
What about the Japanese troops and navy in the
French Indo-China area? What about the Reds’ large
Far Eastern army, which defeated the Japanese in
border fighting, and which apparently intends to hold
Siberia as a place of retreat for Stalin if worse comes
to worst in the West?
And what about the United States? Is Washing-
ton going to remain idle while Japan occupies Siberia,
with its naval and air bases adjacent to Alaska and
pointing at the United States proper?
Premier Prince Konoye has said: “Japan is very
anxious to maintain friendly relations with the United
States.” We believe the Prince means what he says,
and that he knows starting a war near Alaska or near
the Philippines is not the way to maintain friendly
relations.
Prince Konoye knows that Japan’s Axis treaty
has strained American relations ; that Hitler betrayed
the Anti-Comintern Pact with Japan by making the
1939 Stalin deal; that Nazi partnership is a kiss of
death; that Mussolini is now only an imprisoned
puppet, and that Stalin, the double-crosser, is double-
crossed. Is Japan next?
Hitler wants Japan to start a Pacific war, which
would help him but wreck Japan. The United States
wants peace in the Pacific. Isn’t it more to Japan’s
own interest to work with the United States for peace?
Isn’t that Japan’s great opportunity?
* * * * *
(New York “Herald Tribune” comment.)
Japan is seriously distressed by the possibility
that, if Stalin stands off the German Blitz for some
months, and calls for American material aid, the
United States may take over Vladivostok and thence
impose a stultifying air check upon Japan. Japan is
wondering if she should not be there first ; and treaties
and pacts be damned. This she cannot do and con-
tinue to crowd southward into the Malay world of
oil, tin and rubber. She has to choose between her
golden opportunities, north and south, while holding
her desperate own in China ; and no choice can be a
sure thing until Tokyo knows how long the Russians
can hold the Germans, how much the United States
would contribute to the defence of Singapore and the
Dutch East Indies, and what the United States might
do to keep sea lanes open between the west coast and
Vladivostok.
* * * . * *
{New' York “Times” comment.)
There must be numerous Japanese who now
realise that the China adventure was a hideous blunder,
who believe in the advantages of peaceful commerce
and who know that Japan would be only a satellite
Power in a world dominated by the Nazis. Such
Japanese would not willingly see their country com-
mit the incredible folly of challenging Britain and the
United States in a totally unnecessary war.
Let us suppose that the friendly part of Japan
really desires to learn how, if it had the power, it
could restore good feeling between the two countries.
Obviously the China “incident” would have to be
liquidated, the puppet Government of Wang Ching-
wei disowned, a treaty made with Chiang Kai-shek
recognising China’s sovereignty over her own terri-
tories. The United States is committed to helping the
Chinese, and public opinion would not countenance
their betrayal. The Japan of businessmen, professional
men, workers and farmers would gain enormously by
such a treaty. The drain of war would end. In
time trade with China might profitably be resumed on
a mutually self-respecting basis.
Obviously, too, Japan would have to cease the
southward drive or drift which is intended to make
her supreme in the south-west Pacific. Equality and
even the recognition of a legitimate “special interest,”
if honestly and peaceably sought, she might easily
secure. The democratic “New Order” could be ex-
pected to acknowledge the economic needs of Japan
and to make her a sharer in the benefits of a liberated
world commerce and industry.
A Japan that would take this course and accept
these conditions would be both respected and “popu-
lar.” In turning away both from her own surviving
medievalism and the crude new medievalism of Hitler
she could gain a status in the world that her warlike
statesmen, generals and admirals can never win for
her.
No Class War Now.
(Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine” article by
Nathaniel Peffer.)
In any combination of circumstances that can
now be visualised there has been warded off, at least
for the next historical phase, a class war, a war that
would rend the whole Western world to determine how
wealth shall be produced, distributed and owned.
There has been warded off, therefore, the darkest
menace that has hung over the Western world.
Five or ten years ago the prospect that seemed
on all visible evidence to lie before us was that of
class war. It might start as a series of wars in dif-
ferent countries and then coalesce across national
boundaries into a single war. Or it might start with
Western Europe arrayed against Soviet Russia and
then resolve into parallel civil wars in each country.
In either case the issue would be the same: the right
of private property and profit or the division of
wealth ; the possessing classes against the underprivi-
leged ; the continuance of the capitalistic system or
the inauguration of the dictatorship of the workers.
And in either case it would constitute the modern
equivalent of the Thirty Years’ War, fought not over
religion but over property. And since the right of
property strikes deeper in men in our time than right
of religious worship, it would be of greater ferocity.
Into it would go all the passions of a civil war —
always more implacable than wars between nations—


BRITISH NAVY'S TRIBUTE
“Submarines using your batteries
averaged 10,000 miles per month, ano
there is no recorded instance of your
batteries failing.”
This striking tribute was received from
the British Admiralty at the conclusion
of the World War, 1918. Needless to
say, Exide Batteries are again playing
their part in the present war. You,
too, can depend on Exide.
£.vii'c
đ
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
a
and a civil war fought to determine the right of men
to retain their wealth and the position that goes with it.
To say that this has been permanently escaped
may be premature, but the danger has been so greatly
lessened as to be distant. Indeed, what has been
proved, after all evidence for years had run to the
contrary, is that class is not the prime moving force
in international relations. It is not the main deter-
minant of men’s actions or of their loyalties. The
spectre of class wars, of decision by battle on the
principle of economic organisation, has been laid.
Other wars there may still be, the conventional
struggles for power and prestige and economic ex-
ploitation of weaker lands. But they are of a different
order of destructiveness. Notwithstanding all that
can be said about the effect of modern weapons, war
between nations can still be fought with a certain
impersonality, or at least with the kind of emotion
which, however hotly it burns at the time, does not
go far enough beneath the surface to leave marks.
There is physical destruction, but with restoration of
what has been physically destroyed no scars are left
and life can be resumed, with some prospect of poise
for a time. The complete reversals in diplomatic and
military allegiance in the past 20 years offer eloquent
testimony.
The emotions generated by national wars are
strong but short-lived. But in civil wars on any cause
as elemental as property and position —or, in an earlier
age, religion—the emotions are not transient and do
not have to be artificially generated or kept at. heat by
propaganda. They are genuine and relentless and
undying. They goad to a fury of slaughter and
destruction that leave ineradicable marks. There can
be compromise peace in political wars, in wars
between nations ; there can be no compromise peace
in civil wars, wars over economic rights. They must
be fought d I’outrance, if necessary to extermination
or irrecoverable ruin.
This, then, which seemed to be our danger, if
not our lot, has been escaped, and in an age tragic
at best that is no small comfort. The problem of war
remains, but war of a lower order of complexity, of
one less dimension. As such, as a derangement in
international relations, it is far from insoluble.
There remains the question of the relation of
economic groups and the principle on which wealth
shall be produced and distributed. But that, too, is
not insoluble without bloodshed if it can be attacked
without extraneous incitations to passion, without the
contrived, perhaps spurious, fanaticism of exclusive
class loyalty and the blind rigidities of dogma. So
far as its intrinsic content is concerned it is not beyond
possibility of reasonable settlement, by agreement,
with give and take, by slow adjustments rather than
violent and punitive wrenches.
Indeed, we are nearer the possibility of such a
settlement now than in 1939. The drift before then
had been steadily to the extremes, partly if not mainly
because the centre was ineffectual. The liberal con-
cept and the democratic process were lacking in
vitality. They were discredited ; their advocates had
lost morale. It can be said now that by reason of
the present war the centre has been revivified. Democ-
racy has taken a new lease of life. It is something
deemed worth fighting for. The liberal concept has
reacquired respect. The barbarities of Fascism at one
extreme and the defection of Communism at the other
(together with the excesses peculiar to Russian Com-
munism) have driven back in on the centre many, if
not most, of those who had been drifting to the ex-
tremes. A premium has been put on the middle way
as goal and on give and take as method. And with
that as the social atmosphere, it is possible to solve
the economic question without fatality to any of the
parties at issue, though not without sacrifice by some.
If we go about the business of finding solution
without blind obscurantism on the one side and hatred
on the other and before both are irrevocably driven
to extremities, we can remake the present economic
society, remake the present capitalism, without civil
wars that leave nothing to remake. And in any event
we can derive some comfort from the demonstration
that class is not the highest and most insuperable
point of conflict, that no Greek fates move class
against class remorselessly and irresistibly and ordain
that by war alone can they resolve their differences.
Chatfield on the Hood.
. [London “Times” having, in a leading article, stated
in explanation of the destruction of the Hood, that
she was blown up by a lucky hit, .although she had been
specially designed to be invulnerable to that kind of
danger”—a finding that was widely accepted—Admiral
of the Fleet Lord Chatfield made the following state-
ments in a “Times” letter.]
(1) The Hood was not the most powerful war-
ship afloat. True she was the largest, but she was
constructed 22 years before the Bismarck. In those
22 years engineering science and the power-weight
ratio have changed beyond imagination.
(2) It cannot be quite truly said “she was de-
stroyed by a lucky hit.” There are numerous maga-
zines in a capital ship in addition to the four largest
ones which lie beneath the main turrets. If therefore
a heavy shell penetrates the armor at the angle of
descent given by long ranges, the chance of one of
the magazines being ignited is quite considerable.
(3) The Hood was the most powerful ship of
her speed that could be constructed in those days.
But after the war the sailor made up his mind, after
much experiment, that a very fast ship cannot afford
to sacrifice armor to get that speed.
(4) So in the Nelson class speed was sacrificed
to ensure protection against sudden annihilation by
shell, torpedo or bomb.
(5) Since the Nelson was built, modern engineer-
ing has closed the gap between the two factors.
The Hood was destroyed because she had to
fight a ship 22 years more modern than herself. This
was not the fault of the British seamen. It was the
direct responsibility of those who opposed the rebuild-
ing of the British Battle Fleet until 1937, two years
before the second great war started. It is fair to her
gallant crew that this should be written.
Real Value of ’Planes.
[While the writer of the article here condensed —
F. A. de V. Robertson, in London “Nineteenth Century”
—does not, of course, underrate the general vital import-
ance of ’planes, he strongly debunks the notion that
’planes alone are enough.]
The public has frequently been told that when
we get enough bombers of the latest type we shall
defeat Germany. The spokesmen who hold out these
hopes are sometimes representatives of the Air Minis-
try, who live and move and have their being in an
atmosphere of bomb-worship. The same expectations
are voiced by laymen who have never analysed the
possibilities and limitations of air action, but who
are spellbound by its novelty and overimpressed by
—Baltimore "Sun,” U.S.A.
ON THE HOT END OF THE AXIS.
certain facts. Such facts include the air superiority
enjoyed by the Germans in all land campaigns
hitherto, and by the sufferings of British cities through
German night bombing.
When we come to examine the facts, what has
the bomber aeroplane accomplished so far in this
war? In Poland it met with no adequate air opposi-
tion. What resistance the Polish flying corps might
have offered was obliterated at the outset by surprise
bombing attacks on aerodromes, factories and com-
munications, but in any case the Poles had not enough
modern aeroplanes to have matched the Germans in
the air. When one potent arm of an army finds itself
unopposed, it is not surprising if it goes far towards
winning the campaign by its own exertions. But that
did not happen in Poland. The defending armies of
the Poles were broken by the German mechanised
divisions. It would be quite as accurate to say that
tanks won that campaign as to give all the credit to
the German bombers. Neither statement would be
strictly true, for it was the skilful combined use of
both which broke the Polish resistance. In war it is
almost invariably the skilful combination of all arms
which brings victory.
In Norway the German bombers met with even
less air opposition, and naturally drove the Allied
forces out of the country without much difficulty.
That does not mean that bombers will always be the
decisive factor in war ; it only means (what every-
body knows) that absolute weakness in one essential
arm will almost certainly speli defeat for the army
which suffers from that weakness.
The Battle of France was largely a repetition of
the Polish campaign, with the lessons written even
larger. The combination of tanks and aircraft defeated
the French.
Practically every war correspondent who sent dis-
patches from Yugoslavia and Greece harped on the
übiquity of the German bombers and the shortage
of British fighters, drawing the conclusion that air
supremacy was the secret of the speedy German suc-
cess. Little has been written by comparison about the
German superiority in tanks. War correspondents
usually see most of the back areas and the lines of
communications, and they have more opportunities
of talking to soldiers behind the front lines. In that
position they would naturally see little of the tanks
and much of the enemy’s bombers. Lieut.-General
Sir Thomas Blarney, who commanded the Australians,
issued an order of the day in which he said: “The
withdrawal was continually harassed by the enemy
air bombing along all the roads. Our losses through
all this have been extraordinarily light, and we have
learned how very inaccurate aerial bombing is.” From
this it appears that, so far from the German bombers
being the decisive factor in the campaign, they are
not really very formidable unless the tanks are close
at hand to exploit the moral effect which the bombs
produce.
No one has asserted that the Allied air arm by
itself conquered Cyrenaica, Eritrea, Somaliland and
Abyssinia. The mechanised divisions in the desert and
the infantry and artillery in East Africa struck the
decisive blows, though they were immensely helped
by the information which air reconnaissance brought
in and by the use of bombers as a form of artillery
in the battles. Keren and other strongholds might
have resisted much longer than they did if the Regia
Aeronautica had been able to help in resisting the
British assaults. The complete collapse of one of
their important arms was a terrible handicap to the
Italian armies. That must always be so,
whatever the arm which collapses.
The aeroplane has introduced a new
complication into naval operations. There
is a new danger to be guarded against
and some losses were to be expected.
But the air menace has not prevented the
Royal Navy from performing its proper
functions —in fact, aircraft have added
to the mastery of the strongest naval
Power. The conclusion is that aircraft
make a very valuable addition to sea
power, but by themselves they do not
rule the seas.
To most laymen, however, bombing
implies independent action by a bomber
force. Air Ministry spokesmen have
several times stated that superiority in
bombing power will mark the path to a
British victory. This claim is excessive.
It is scarcely conceivable that any imagin-
able number of British bombers could so
cut down the enemy’s production as to
make it impossible for him to continue
the struggle. Bombing of production is
on the same footing as the naval block-
ade. It works towards reducing the abili-
ties of the German army to win battles.
One can scarcely imagine either of these
measures cutting off the supply of
German war material so completely as
to force the enemy to surrender without
a defeat on the field of battle. In fact,
if bombing were ever to reach the zenith
dreamed of by its most ardent advocates,
it could not win the war by itself, but
could only make it possible for the British Army to
win it. , ... . ,
There remains one other possibility to consider
that of breaking the morale of the enemy popula-
tion. By this time surely no thoughtful student of
the war can believe in such a possibility. We must
certainly go on bombing Germany’s production, her
oil stores, her dockyards and the invasion ports. But
we shall be deluding ourselves if we imagine that
bombing by itself will win the war for us.
Pacifism and Democracy.
(i Condensed front an American ‘‘Foreign Affairs” article
by Julien Benda. )
In all countries there are democrats who main-
tain that a democratic State must, because it is demo-
cratic, refuse any kind of war —a war of defence just
as much as a war of conquest. Their thesis is that a
democracy must abstain from any international action
which is liable to cause war. In short, it must be
for peace at any price.
Those who take this position do not always say
so frankly. They are embarrassed to admit that they
refuse even a defensive war. They therefore claim
that what is being presented to them as a defensive
war is really an offensive war, planned by politicians
or industrialists who'expect to derive power or profits
from having men kill one another. I once asked one
of them whether he thought that the Greeks were
right to have stood out against Xerxes rather than
become his Helots. He did not reply. If he had
stuck to his thesis he would have had to answer that
they acted wrongly. Not long ago a citizen of a


certain great democracy exclaimed: “This policy of
our President means that we shall have war, and one
out of every four of our sons will be killed.” He
should have been told that his own policy meant that
all four of them risked becoming slaves. Maybe
subconsciously he really preferred this prospect.
Others are more outspoken. They endorse a
slogan which a group of French Socialists adopted a
few years ago: “Servitude rather than war!” Or one
that we used to hear from certain French intellec-
tuals: “In our eyes nothing justifies war.” In most
cases this position is based simply on a desire to
avoid fighting, camouflaged as well as possible under
doctrinal reasons. The desire is normal enough, and
especially today when war has become the thing we
know it to be, and when the whole nation is involved
in it.
The mistake of thinking that peace at any price
has anything to do with democracy comes from a
confusion of essential values. It is imagined that
democracy’s paramount concern is human life, where-
as it is human liberty. Human life deprived of liberty
is worthless. Therefore the democrat, in order to
preserve the advantages of democracy for his children,
admits and sanctifies the sacrifice of life. Over and
over again in the course of history democracy has
,proved this to be its supreme law.
The mistake also arises from a confusion between
the fact of war and the love of war. Democracy may
accept the one and condemn the other. War may
be imposed upon men who have no love for it what-
soever.
There are two profoundly distinct conceptions
of peace. According to one, peace is based on respect
for contracts between nations and on sanctions against
violators. This is the legal conception. The other,
the sentimental conception, expects love between men
to bring about peace, all idea of contracts or sanctions
aside. The first conception puts justice before peace,
or at least states that it is respect for justice which
must bring peace. This is displeasing to the senti-
mentalists, who, naturally, place love above justice.
At the time of the Italo-Ethiopian war, the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury startled some persons by declar-
ing that he, a churchman, favored the use of sanc-
tions against the aggressor. When told that sanctions
were liable to cause war, he answered: “My ideal is
not peace, but justice.” He was only repeating the
words of his divine Master: “I came not to send
peace, but a sword”— i.e., to make war against evil.
One of the ways the absolute pacifists have of
arguing is to challenge their opponents': “You call
yourself a democracy, that is, a government of the
people by the people, and yet you send me to war
without consulting me, in spite of myself.” Thus we
find a character in Roger Martin du Gard’s book
The Thibaults declaring that if the French people had
been consulted in 1914 80 p.c. of them would have
rejected war. This statement rests upon the hope—
apparently justified, I must admit—that most men,
even in most democracies, still have so little political
education that, if consulted individually, they will
refuse to make the sacrifices necessary for the preser-
vation of the whole. Now it is arguable that no true
democracy as yet exists —in the sense of being com-
pletely a government of the people and by the people.
But is not the reason precisely because men find such
difficulty in forgetting their individual conveniences
in favor of the collective good? If they were con-
sulted separately, how many citizens would offer spon-
taneously to pay taxes? Yet even “absolute demo-
crats” probably admit that taxes are indispensable
for the State.
“Absolute democrats” also contend not only that
there should be a referendum on war, but that only
those who voted “yes” should then have to go to
war. This is a denial of national solidarity. Yet
such people certainly accept some of the advantages
of national solidarity. If they are civil servants, for
example, they want to be paid salaries which some
(perhaps many) of their fellow-citizens might, if they
were consulted, refuse to grant. If they are interested
in art. they might find that many taxpayers, con-
sulted in the same way, would veto appropriations
to maintain the museums. The fact is that these
intellectuals would be more truthful —or, let us say,
more enlightened about their own natures —if instead
of pretending to be pure democrats they called them-
selves pure individualists or pure anarchists.
The “absolute democrats” say that when democ-
racy resorts to force it denies its essential character
and becomes similar to the very systems which it
affects to despise. This is a formalist argument. It
forgets that one can inquire on whose behalf force
is to be used. To use force on behalf of justice is
not the same thing as to use it for aggression. This
being so, the democratic system which uses force for
justice cannot be assimilated to opposite systems
which use force for aggression.
There also seems to be a widespread conception
that democracy is a sort of celestial body, aloof and,
by definition, scornful of mundane necessities of self-
defence. This idea, like the total condemnation of
force regardless of the purpose for which it is used,
plays straight into the hands of those who wish to
use force for aggression. It thus becomes itself an
agent of immorality.
Pascal said: “Justice without force is powerless.”
I should like to add: “It is essential for democracy
that justice shall have power so long as there are men
determined to ignore it.” Contrary to those who
pretend that, by very reason of its democratic prin-
ciple, the democratic State must be deprived of arms,
I contend that by very reason of its democratic prin-
ciple it must be better armed than any other State, in
order that it may be respected, by States which might
otherwise be tempted to ignore justice and strike
across its borders.
To be consistent, non-resisters must accept the
prospect that their country may be annihilated. Andre
Gide wonders: “What would have happened in 1914
if France had offered no resistance to Germany?”
Everyone knows what would have happened. When
he says that France would have been invincible if she
had used only spiritual force against Germany, instead
of opposing force to force, he forgets to inform his
fellow-citizens that there is nothing incompatible be-
tween the “invincibility” which he speaks of and the
erasure of their country from the map.
Others go even further and find that non-resist-
ance to evil is a practical doctrine, the only one which
will bring peace to the world. Tolstoy in his Intimate
Diary says that when a wall stands up to blows it
causes the aggression to continue, whereas if it gives
in it “absorbs the movement” and causes it to stop.
By analogy, war would be suppressed if people never
resisted any group which was greedy to expand at
their expense. Tolstoy omits, however, to tell us that
in “absorbing the movement” the wall ceases to exist,
that is to say, loses its life, which, oddly enough, it
might wish to keep.
Another aspect of the pacifist democracy is that
democrats often display a sort of systematic hostility
to their country’s military institutions. They haggle
over the number of men there ought to be in the
army, the number of years they should serve, how
much money should be voted to cover their expenses.
They claim that this “anti-militaristic” attitude suits
the real spirit of democracy.
In a true democracy the military element should
be subordinate to the civilian. Once this principle has
been established, we need merely see to it that the
military machine is powerful enough to perform its
tasks and so to enable the democratic State to survive.
One looks in vain through the great declarations of
democratic principle, in any time or country, for a
single text advocating a weak army. There are plenty
of statements about the ideal future world in which
this kind of institution will no longer be required.
But there is no statement that makes weakness a virtue.
Once again we find that an idea which never had any
connection with democracy has been added to its con-
cept and has falsified it.
We saw in France a few years ago what harm
the doctrine of peace at any price can do to democ-
racy. Its devotees maintained that the best defence
against a neighbor’s greed was disarmament. They
even went so far as to advocate a general strike in
—Pittsburg “Post-Gazette,” U.S.A.
NOW BEDFELLOWS.
case war came. Recently in several countries the
enemies of democracy exploited the doctrine of peace
at any price in order to prevent a war which, though
necessary for the salvation of the State, menaced the
interests of their particular class. In France men of
this sort, who for years had berated the working class
for their pacifism, suddenly found that same pacifism
beautiful and called on Labor to oppose the war which
lay ahead.
Pacifism, in the sense I have described it here,
is a parasite on democracy. It has nothing to do with
democratic doctrine. Democracy must repudiate it.
Dragnet Digest.
([General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
History may take the measure of Marshal Petain
more justly than we can do today. He is not ennobled
by being more noble than Laval. What is evident is
that the collapse of France released men and forces
that were always working against democracy, that
these men a year ago decided that the fall of Britain
was imminent and that they could gain by casting in
their lot with the victor, and that the meantime has
seen them drawn more and more closely into “col-
laboration” with the Nazi “order.” Britain’s refusal
to give in, the rising tide of American aid, may have
disquieted them, but it is now too late for them to
draw back. Their regime would not last 24 hours
in a liberated France. The great land and people of
France survive, the land contaminated by foreign
troops and traitors, the people, one must believe, as
liberty-loving as they ever were. —New York “Times.”
* * * * *
The military machines of the United States,
Great Britain and Germany are costing well over
$100,000,000 a day to build and maintain. —New York
“W orld-T elegram.”
* * * * *
Famine is settling in all over Greece. Cholera is
understood to have broken out in the Piraeus.
Numerous cases of children dying of hunger have
been reported. Women waiting outside the tragically
empty stores for their tiny bread rations are fre-
quently seen to faint from weakness. Underfed horses
have from time to time dropped dead before their
wagons, and dogs and cats lie dead in the streets of
Athens. — New York “Times” special correspondent.
*****
Everywhere in England one finds that the veterans
of the Great War apply a steadying touch to others
in time of danger. Their calm is a wonderful help.
The war on the civilian front would have been very
different without them. — New York “Times” letter.
*****
Despite strikes, opposition and a general feeling
on the part of the public that not nearly enough has
been accomplished, the United States has actually
accomplished in one year what it took Hitler eight
years to do. — Dorothy Thompson; New York “Post.”
*****
The Swedes, as a nation, nourish a traditional
fear of their historical enemies, the Russians. For
the last two decades this fear has been reinforced, in
the large majority of cases, by an equally strong aver-
sion for Bolshevism. The two emotions combine to
make the Swedes feel much more strongly about the
Soviet Union than they do about Nazi Germany. For
though it is true that Swedes have developed an ideo-
logical opposition towards Nazism, this is largely offset
by their traditional friendship for the German people.
The result of this process of addition and subtraction
is to leave Nazi Germany, in the eyes of most Swedes,
as the lesser of two evils. — Joachim Joesten, in Ameri-
can “Foreign Affairs.”
*****
When the war started London had a population
of about 8,200,000, but the evacuation of children, the
aged and infirm and the departure of the idle rich to
their country estates have reduced the population to
about 6,000,000. Since August 12, 1940, 30,000
civilians, mostly women and children, have been
killed ; 40,000 have been seriously wounded and taken
to hospital and many thousands more have sustained
slight injuries that no one ever bothers to report. Let
us say there have been 100,000 casualties of all kinds.
That is nothing like what was expected. The Govern-
ment had prepared 150,000 beds for hospital cases, and
these have averaged only about 5000 a month. The
highest number in any one month was in September,
1940, when 10,615 persons were taken to hospital. At
the present rate it would take the Germans more than
10 years to kill one-twelfth of the population. — New
York “Times Magazine.”
•ft jJc
It is well to note that when Germany and Russia
were “friends” and Russia was co-operating, the
Soviets failed to meet the German expectations on
deliveries. What can the Nazis expect when they are
foes? Sabotage will hardly decrease. The Nazis have
a large-size job cut out for themselves —even if they
won a quick war. Organisation work is one of their
main suits, but it takes time. And as for transportation,
even in Germany itself, that is a serious problem
today.— New York “Journal-American.”
*****
When the evacuation of children by sea was in
full swing last summer 350 children were going to
Canada in the Volendam. The ship, torpedoed in
the darkness without warning, was in imminent danger
of sinking. The escorts marshalled the children. There
was no panic, no flurry ; a dozen small boats were
launched into a rough sea ; and the children sang
“There’ll Always Be an England.” The children
were saved, but in the confusion a boy of nine was
left in the ship. He awakened in the middle of the
night. Asked, later, whether he was afraid he said,
“1 was rather, sir.” What did he do? His reply
was: “I went back to my cabin and went to sleep.”
In the morning he sighted two British destroyers
and waved to them. — Geoffrey Shakespeare, M.P. ;
reported in London “Times.”
% He H* sfc *
Since the days when Messrs. Hoover and Stimson
reduced the U.S. Fleet to virtual impotence, vis-a-vis
that of Japan, it has been expanded to such propor-
tions that, based on Hawaii, it not only can say the
final and fatal word to Japan but is also now playing
a vitally important role incidental to the war in
Europe, the defence of the British Isles and the ulti-
mate defeat of the Axis—if others play their parts
as effectively elsewhere. The outcome of the war for
both Germany and Japan depends on the United
States Fleet, based on and possibly operating from
Hawaii. — William H. Gardiner; New York “Times.”
* * * * . *
Along with the rest, Japan signed the Nine-Power
Treaty. Her delegation helped to frame it. It was
hailed throughout the world as a new milestone in
international justice. China was not to be dismem-
bered. Just a decade later Japan violated the Nine-
Power Pact by invading Manchuria. Since then she
has hardly ceased her aggressions against the nation
she had agreed to help. And relations between Japan
and the United States have grown progressively worse.
The United States would like nothing better than to
be on the most cordial terms with Japan. Normally,
she buys our cotton, we buy her silk. She buys our
steel, we buy her toys. She buys our gas and auto-
mobiles, we buy her porcelains and a thousand
other things. If there is conflict of policy today it
is due solely to something artificial —to the ambitions
of a military clique bent on cornering all eastern
Asia and the south Pacific for Japan’s own exclusive
use. — Wm. Philip Simms ; New York “World-
Telegram.”
* * * *
Back of France and Germany is a history of at
least 2000 years of hate and conflict. It has been one
long story of ups and downs. France goes up, Ger-
many goes down ; Germany comes up, France goes
down —and so ad infinitum. We think a time will
come when the Germans will be fat and drowsy from
too much milking of France and other countries -
whereupon the lean and hungry Frenchmen of that
day will move in and slash the Germans down. It
may not happen in our time, but that it will happen
sometime is an excellent bet on the records in the
case. — New York “Daily News.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 11l of 1941.
BETWEEN CLARA VENIS DAISY
BOUFFLER Petitioner and
HENRY HAROLD BOUFFLER Respondent.
TO HENRY HAROLD BOUFFLER late of
Moss Vale in the State of New South Wales
Traveller.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Clara Vems
Daisy Bouffler has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and has applied for a dissolu-
tion of marriage upon the grounds of your
desertion of her for three years without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance in the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the fourteenth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had by appli-
cation from the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of August, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. C. LEAHY, Solicitor for Petitioner, 39
Martin Place, Sydney.
+
Another reason why the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
I
m
ST:
«
Comforts supplied to every Transport and Hospital Ship
The departure o! every transport
and hospital ship overseas makes
further demands upon Red Cross
Funds. Red Cross Stores are placed
on board every transport leaving
Australia for distribution to the
sick during the voyage. All
hospital ships too, are fully
stocked with stores by the Aus-
tralian Red Cross Society —the
Hospital Ship “Manunda” alone
is supplied with £5,000 worth of
Red Cross Stores. In addition and
as a further precaution, stores
are established at strategic points
throughout the Empire for the
welfare of the sick and wounded.
These services must go on!
Give HELP give NOW
. . . IT’S URGENT <«
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australian RejjJ^ossJiociely^
ď
đ
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVEN#
/
d
99813
8/1 OZ 'POI JWJ 01
MADE SPECIALLY TO
SORE T H R I
PREVENT
A MIXED GRILL.
“0.T.” attends a blackout:
Though the Minister responsible for it in-
vited Sydney’s million-odd residents tp stay
indoors, hang rugs over their lighted windows
and otherwise conduct themselves as though it
were the real thing, most of them switched
off their lights, locked the doors and went
forth into the streets to view his trial blackout
on Sunday night. And, being such lovers of
free entertainment, it’s 100 to 1 they’d rush
forth in the same manner if ever an enemy
raider did arrive with the real Mackay in the
way of bombs —that is until, like Londoners,
they got used to it.
According to those running it, 800 square
miles of the city and its environs were blacked-
out. But the navigation lights in the harbor
winked on, over North Sydney way a large
green light changed to red, then back to green,
somewhere on Hunter’s Hill a moving glow
showed a travelling car, there were other odd
lights, and observing airmen reported King’s
Cross as a bad offender.
The luminous sky of an Australian early-
spring night threw down a radiance on the
harbor, and when the searchlights came on they
put a clear sheen on the water, on concrete
roads and buildings. Airmen declared that any-
body with a knowledge of the place could have
bombed chosen points. Others said it would
have had to be low-level bombing if the raider
wanted to see his objectives.
Blackouts haven’t saved cities in other parts
from death and destruction, and this practising
them in places far from danger—Minister Heffron
declares he’s going to have another —seems a
trifle absurd. A better idea might be to string
rows of electric lights up along the Hawkesbury
and in the wild country about Port Hacking
and switch them on if ever a raider achieved
these coasts.
But if the blackout did nothing else it re-
vealed to eyes long dazzled by artificial light-
ing the splendor that glows over Sydney every
clear night. From skies that have never known
the winged death or the wink of an angry shell
blazed down the magnificent stars, the display
slightly south of the zenith a spectacle to render
poets dumb. Sightseers stared up at that Aus-
tralian night glory, in astonishment, and from
its height the Cross burned down at them,
filling many a heart with wonder.
* * * *
James Hugo Gray, recently appointed
Professor of Anatomy at London Uni.,
first studied the structure of the human
body at St. Peter’s College and Adelaide
Uni., where he graduated M. 8., 8.5., in
1932. Seven years later a thesis gained
him a doctorate. He went to England in
1935. Prior to his present appointment
Gray was senior demonstrator in
anatomy and embryology. He’s in his
early thirties.
* * ❖ *
“Oxmead”: It is difficult to tell when
certain slangy colloquialisms first came
into vogue, but I think J. H. M. Abbott
is taking chances when he makes convict
Malone, at the very beginning of last
century, use such phrases as “They’ll be
a thinkin’ ’twas me done him in” and
“Terence, you’re for it” (B. 9/7/’4l). I
question if “doing in” as a synonym for
killing goes back more than half a
century, if that, and I am reasonably
certain that “for it” is an abbreviation
that was never heard before the last war.
The original phrase, of course, was “in
for it,” but the Diggers cut off the first
word without any loss of emphasis.
* * * *
“Tovarish”: I can’t understand why
Tom Collins and his A.B.C. needed to
cable for the words of the Russian an-
thems. There isn’t one really—the “Inter-
nationa//y” is the anthem of the Comin-
tern ; and a lugubrious bit of music it
is. However, “Australian” Communists
could have supplied a choice of lyrics
from the “People’s Songbook.” “If lo-
morrow Bring War,” for example:
Let them plot, let them rage; on all earth
there’s no force
That can crush Soviet power that has treed us.
We have Stalin for guide, and, through battle’s
grim course,
Voroshilov to vict’ry to lead us-.
And the official Red Army ditty:
People who sit in high places—
What gives them power in the land?
Cartridges, rifles and bayonets —
All are the work of our hand.
I hope the Red Air Force song won’t be
forgotten:
But for the workers and all toiling people,
A song of hope in our propellers whirls,
We drop them leaflets while we bomb their
bosses,
The first Red Air Fleet in the world.
“World” and “whirls.” “Bellerive,” stand
down!
* * * *
“Padre”: A young Australian officer
“somewhere in the Middle East” ex-
presses forcible views in a recent letter
to his home folks. He was amongst the
“wounded in action” at Bardia ; and he
got away from Greece minus all per-
sonal gear: —
1 am sitting in-my tent, with only a pair
of white underpants on. A few yards away
there’s a private sitting by a slit trench
thoroughly enjoying a bottle of beer. Up
it goes—head back; and now he’s wiping
his lips! These boys do appreciate their
beer! it’s as much to them as their fort-
nightly pay. And yet there is a movement
afoot within the church in Australia to
stop the sending of beer to these troops.
How narrow-minded and selfish! 1 hese
fools sit at cushy jobs where soft drinks
and iced water and luxuries are within
grasp, and they dare to grudge these lads
their luxuries. Let them think again from
our point of view.
Let me add that the officer is a staunch
churchman and teetotaller.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: “Sydney,” says the Aus-
tralian Association of Scientific Workers,
“is almost completely unprotected against
the most dangerous war weapon that
menaces civilian populations —the high-
explosive bomb.” A friend, just back
from England, says that if enemy raiders
dropped nothing but h.e. there’d be little
to worry about. Incendiaries, dropped
in thousands, do 100 times the damage,
not only in destroyed property but in
making the night wild and confusing for
A.R.P. workers and in giving the raiders
a blazing target that cannot be missed.
* * * *
“0.T.”: Is there anything more touchy
than a State politician? Victoria’s Dun-
stan became annoyed because a suburban
council discussed in “a humorous man-
ner” his Agricultural Department’s re-
quest that it join in a scheme to provide
onion-seed for Britain. • Came the in-
evitable sonorosity:—-
British people are putting up a gallant
fight against a ruthless foe, and the project
to augment their sadly-depleted onion
stocks is receiving whole-hearted commen-
dation from all sections of the community.
As a specimen of “officialese” that
would be hard to beat.
* * * *
Great Boulder and other English-
registered Golden Mile companies are
not alone in their protest against the
British excess-profits tax. West African
concerns are also growling, using the
same argument—that to goldmining ven-
tures which respond to the national re-
quest for increased outputs the offending
tax amounts to an intolerable capital
levy. All West African and Indian and
numerous Rhodesian gold-producers have
their legal domicile in London. South
African producers are mostly domiciled
at Johannesburg, and therefore not
affected by the tax.
* * * *
Anderson Tyrer, imported from Eng-
land to conduct A.B.C.’s symphony
orchestras, commenced his musical career
as a concert pianist and became a
conductor, his latest and most notable
engagement being as assistant conductor
of the Beecham Grand Opera co. He
has composed various concertos. His
“Dr. Faustus,” scored for orchestra, choir
and an orator, was performed in Sydney
last week.
# * * *
A person has been found who has
neither written nor thought of writing a
“V for Victory” pome or song. Ade-
quate steps are being taken to deal with
the menace.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”: As to “Jamwood” (B.
16/7/’4l), wasn’t it said of the author of
The Vicar of Wakefield that he “wrote
like an angel and talked like poor Poll ?
Writing and speaking are two separate
arts, and every person who practises one
of them can’t always be an adept in the
other. Writers mostly are slow, methodi-
cal thinkers, as against the quick, bril-
liant, though often erratic thinking of
good speakers. The same applies in
the plebeian Inky Way —most of the
writers I know are disappointing
talkers, while the best talkers—of the
radio and newsreel variety—generally
make a pretty poor showing when they
lake up the pen. For instance, Quentin
Reynolds struck me as being the best
newsreel commentator at large, but I
found his book, The Wounded Don’t
Cry, rather thin reading. The average
journalist must aim at the thinking
capacity of his reader. The professional
radio and newsreel talker, whose words
are gone before they can really be con-
sidered, has to make his appeal more im-
mediate and so relies mainly on good
vocal equipment and his ability to strike
at the emotions and sentiment of his list-
eners rather than at their brains. When
either dabbles in the other’s business he
usually gets the same effect as a brick-
layer might if he tried to tune a piano.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Air Ministry vouches for
this yarn. A heavy bomber was flirting
with flak fire over Bremen when a shell
burst below the rear turret, cutting the
hydraulic controls. Another gave a dis-
play inside the fuselage, setting fire to
the fabric and tail fin. The tail gunner
was wounded and helpless, and cut off
by fire from the navigator. That re-
sourceful person got to him after putting
out the fire amidships and the one on
the fin, and leaning out through the
skeleton fuselage framework to knock off
a jammed turret door. Then the landing
flares went up in a sheet of flame in the
left wing, and because of the disaster to
the hydraulic system the bomb doors
couldn’t be closed. The pilot decided that
there was nothing to do but go home,
which was 400 miles across the North
Sea. He came down —on one wheel in a
barley field —with his crew safe and his
crate repairable.
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Three brothers from the
Mallee who presented themselves for en-
listment in the A.I.F. outraged the recruit-
ing officer’s feelings by telling him that
only two could go, one having to stay
behind to look after their mother; and that
they proposed to settle the issue among
them by spinning a coin. “You can’t
allow the performance of a national duty
to depend on the spin of a coin,’’ ex-
postulated the officer. “All right,” they
said. “Then we’ll leave it to the doctor
and you can have the two of us who are
physically the fittest.” Science then took
the place of chance. The man who was
declared to be least fit had lost in the
coin-tossing.


Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
m
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
đ
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SONPty. Ltd,
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET ... . ... SYDNEY
’Phone:
’Phone:
CB3BO.
M 6505.
The n
A BOOK
WORTH READING
Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. will gladly forward, free of charge, an interesting
brochure setting out important aspects of executorship and the administration of
Estates. This publication is of particular interest to those whose Wills . have
not already been made, or who may perceive the wisdom of making revisions
to accord with changed conditions.
It is not a simple matter to carry out the terms of a Will. Trusteeship demands
knowledge and capacity which few laymen possess. Therein lies the hazard of
appointing a friend or relative as executor or trustee. The solution lies in
appointing Burns Philp Trust Company Limited. The Company will be influenced
only by its knowledge of business in ensuring the faithful interpretation of
your wishes.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE
STREET .
SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901
d
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Senator Darcy and “The Truth”
From Senator Richard Darcy (Tas-
mania) :
In B. 30/7/’4l you attack my finance pro-
posals regarding the raising of the necessary
credits (money is not used to pay for war) to
carry on the war. The report of the Royal
Commission on Banking and Finance instituted
by the Lyons Government says (paragraph 504):
“The Commonwealth Bank can lend money
or credit to the Government or others free of
interest.” That has never been denied by the
Menzies Government, but it has never been
availed of.
The necessary credits are still being raised
through the private banks, and the annual
interest bill on the first war loan of £2O million
is over £600,000 a year. This amount, which
has to be raised by further taxation, could
have been saved if the amount had been issued
through our own great Commonwealth Bank.
In the last war the Government ran up a
£360 million war debt, on which we have already
paid £4OO million as interest, and we still owe
the original sum. This is called sound finance,
and favored by the Menzies Government. Four
State Parliaments have already passed resolu-
tions demanding that the credits to finance the
war be raised through the Commonwealth Bank.
Hundreds of public meetings have also de-
manded that this be done, without results so far.
But the public is being educated in finance, and
no body of men can for ever disregard the
truth.
When the U.S.A. bankers had nearly drained
the lifeblood out of the people who were fight-
ing, Lincoln had to make a stand. He said,
“I have two enemies—the South, to which I
am advancing, and the money power behind
me; and of the two the enemy behind me is the
greater.”
Taxation will still have to be raised to pay
interest on our national debt, but there is no
need to increase it by further interest-bearing
loans. This war can be fought and won with-
out further taxation or materially increasing our
national debt.
In the course of the foregoing Senator
Darcy makes the observation: “No body
of men can for ever disregard the truth.”
Having had a long experience of
Douglasites and Labor Senators, The
Bulletin is inclined to disagree; but it
carries on with hope.
Since truth is paramount —and that is
something on which this paper and
Senator Darcy both appear to agree—let
us get to the truth of section 504 of the
Banking Commission’s report. Section
504 is governed by section 503 ; here
are both sections in full:
503. —The central bank in the Australian
system is the Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia. This bank is a public institution en-
gaged in the discharge of a public trust. As
the central bank, its special function is to
regulate the volume of credit in the national
interest, and its distinctive attribute is its
control of the note issue. Within the
limits prescribed by law, it has the power
to print and issue notes as legal tender
money, and every obligation undertaken by
the Commonwealth Bank is backed by this
power of creating the money with which to
discharge it.
504. —Because of this power, the Com-
monwealth Bank is able to increase the cash
holding of the trading banks in the ways
we have pointed out above. Because of
this power, too, the Commonwealth Bank
can increase the cash reserves of the trading
banks; for example, it can buy securities
or other property, it can lend to Govern-
ments or to others in a variety of ways, and
it can even make money available to Gov-
ernments or to others free of any charge.
Condensed, the relevant portions of those
two sections read: “Because of the Com-
monwealth Bank’s power, within the
limits prescribed by law, to print and
issue notes as legal tender money, the
Commonwealth Bank can even make
money available to Governments or to
others free of any charge.”
If Senator Darcy is interested in the
truth, then the truth there stares him
in the face. The remarks of the com-
mission relating to the loan of money
free of charge are confined to the Com-
monwealth Bank’s powers to issue notes
within the limits prescribed by law. But
The Bulletin is prepared to go further
than the Banking Commission; it is
prepared to say that even Senator Darcy,
without his having control of the note
issue, can make loans free of any charge
—if he likes. He probably has done so.
A couple of bob between friends is
neither here nor there. But nowhere in
the commission’s report is it advised or
suggested that the Commonwealth Bank
should lend money free of charge,
whether from the note-issue department
or elsewhere, or that it can lend money
free of charge without limit. The report
merely mentions what is possible, not
what is desirable.
Senator Darcy says credit, not money,
is used to pay for war. Money, money’s-
worth and credit are much the same
thing in the eyes of this paper, but if the
Senator chooses to split straws he is dis-
posed of immediately; it is “money”
that section 504 talks about, “credit”
being nowhere mentioned.
What Lincoln said about the “money
power behind him” this paper doesn’t
know. If Lincoln did say anything it
may have been taken out of its context
by those who have taken that little bit
of section 504 from its Context, often mis-
quoting it, as does Senator Darcy. But
assuming that Lincoln did say that, and
meant that, what then? Avaricious
moneylenders are not unknown. Unsound
banking practice was not unknown last
century —especially in the U.S.A. Some
money powers, including some trading
monopolies, may still be an influence not
all for the national good. But that
doesn’t help much in Senator Darcy’s
argument that “this war can be fought
anG won without further taxation or
materially increasing our national debt.”
We have to pay for this war in men
and materials. We haven’t been able to
increase our production to the extent
that the diversion to war uses is no
burden on us. The burden is in essence
a tax, and except for political obstacles
there is no reason, since we are pro-
viding war materials by “doing without,”
that the monetary cost of war should not
all be provided by a personal tax levied
in proportion to the individual’s ability
to pay. However we finance the war,
the physical tax is there. It is only
sensible, then, that we acknowledge the
lax in our money as well as our pro-
duction. If our money and balances
standing to our credit are not reduced
in proportion to war’s waste, then we
have inflation. Inflation is not costless
credit, but from the Government’s view-
point taxation is. And taxation leaves
none of the aftermath the interest
burden —that others beside Senator Darcy
are so concerned about.
Soon after the outbreak of the present
war it was stated by the Prime Minister
that the Great War had up to June 30,
1939, cost Australia £877,144,985, of
which £305,149,140 represented interest.
At March 31 last the 1914-18 war debt
stood at £262,590,000 (not the Senator’s
figure). This time, too, almost solely
because of the attitude of Labor and State
Governments, we are borrowing too
much and taxing too little. The 1939-41
war debt already stood at £104,245,000
on March 31. Canada is paying two-thirds
of this year’s war costs ($1,350,000,000,
equal to about £380,000,000 Australian)
out of taxation, and 75 p.c. of the entire
Budget is being financed by taxes. Per-
sonal-taxation and national-defence con-
tributions will in 1941-42 bring in almost
twice the sum collected in 1940-41. Yet
these heavy taxes are being raised in a
country which includes a province called
Alberta.
A Maorilander, A. Edwin, has sent the
following letter to the editor of the prin-
cipal costless credit, Douglas Credit, new
era, etc., newspaper in Australia. It is
worth wider circulation. The issue arose
out of The Bulletin’s criticism of a
booklet entitled Victory Without Debt, by
C. Barclay-Smith. A copy of Mr.
Edwin’s letter:
You tell us that a trading bank “can arrange
almost any profit that it deems expedient”; that
“banking is the closest and most jealously
guarded preserve in the world”; that “banking
is a far too luxuriant pasture to leave open to
trespassers.”
Let me point out that you and your fellow-
theorists can enter the “luxuriant pasture” of
banking without going to the trouble or ex-
pense of starting a fresh bank. To change the
metaphor, you can get into banking not merely
on the ground floor but in the basement.
Shares in the National Bank of New Zealand,
paid up to £2 10s. sterling, or £3 2s. 6d. in Aus-
tralian or New Zealand money, have been
selling recently in the open market in New
Zealand at less than £1 155., and under date
July 1 were quoted at 21s. 3d. (stg.) in London.
(A later London quote is 235. 9d.) Here, then,
is a chance for you social credit people—shares
in an existing bank, with its capacity to make,
as you say, practically limitless profits, not to
mention participation in its substantial reserves,
at less than half the amount paid up! Roll up
and buy ! Union Bank shares, too, £6 ss. paid
(Australian and New Zealand money), are going
at a premium of only ss. and 6s. Another
good chance to enter the “luxuriant pasture.”
The same remarks reply with greater or
less force to all the trading banks listed
on Australian and M.L. ’Changes.
* * * *
Senator Armstrong —one of N.S.W.
Labor’s “A” team —has complained to the
War-time Profits Committee that big cos.
aren’t paying enough excess-profits tax.
Possibly some aren’t. But Armstrong’s
argument that because big cos. earn big
profits they should be taxed heavily with-
out regard to their capital is about as
reasonable as one would expect from the
“A” group. He might as well argue that
because people earning under £8 a week,
numbering millions, earned £517,000,000
in 1938-39 out of total incomes aggre-
gating £745,000,000 they should pay a
heavier rate of tax than the compara-
tively few people who collected the other
£228,000,000. Big cos. have big share-
lists, as a rule, and if their individual
shareholders should collect a high rate
of income they pay a high personal rate
of tax. Excess-profits tax is not merely
a matter for big cos.
Shareholders in Producers’ Oilwell
Supplies, in which a Labor Senator
named Arthur was an extra-big noise
and which got into dire financial diffi-
culties, will not be troubled by excess-
profits tax this year.
* # * *
The Crown has decided to drop its
case against William Kingsley Wicks,
accountant, who was charged with con-
spiracy in the Scottish Loan case, and
in respect of whom the jury failed to
agree at the trial. The case was
one in which Albert Levitus, Ronald
Bruce Walker, Clive Oscar Airey and
Wicks were charged with conspiring with
John Woolcott Forbes, David R. Provan
and Albert Edward Walker to induce
people to buy shares in the Scottish Loan
Co., of Sydney, by means of fraudulent
tricks. Levitus got five years’ gaol and
Bruce Walker three years’. Airey was
acquitted. Woolcott Forbes, Provan and
A. E. Walker are “missing.”
* * * *
This if-you-only-knew-what-I-know
talk coming from Canberra seems to clash
occasionally with a business-as-usual-or-
better policy somewhere else. According
to the “Straits Budget,” in the merry
month of May, 1941, British Malaya
shipped 215,337 tons of iron ore from
its shores, and every bit of it went to
Japan. Anyone interested can look back
and see what Canberra was saying about
“the Pacific situation” at the time. It is
sure to be interesting, especially if the
petrol gossip of that month is taken into
account. In April of this year Malaya
sent 207,926 tons of iron ore to Japan,
compared with 222,814 tons in the first
three months of the year. The increasing
rate is not the least interesting part of
the transaction. These doings are all very
bewildering to the onlooker.


&
K-'S
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
(England)
' ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla.'d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
Newsagency Wanted.
ADVERTISER interested in the purchase for
cash of a good sound Newsagency, Book-
seller’s, Stationer’s business, Southern Queens-
land or Northern Rivers, N.S.W., preferred.
Persons interested forward all relevant par-
ticulars to 305, Advt. Dept., Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
So
UII4I
fiCQ
ld|kl
«*•&
%
L o
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
all
T.JONES £ CO
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
:!
rw** •
HITLER SEES THE SIGN
IN THE SKY
met
Ae/ids anottie/L
V/cn —
i nWest
/N THE NEXT
WARLOAN
NOWI
To aid you in aiding the drive for victory, the Com-
monwealth Government invites you to subscribe to the
next war loan now instead of waiting for the opening
date to be announced. Remember, interest starts from
the date of your subscription. The application form
gives full details of conditions.
APPLY TO ANY BANK OR STOCKBROKER
I
%
m
7/ffj
r//tj
man
Wm
mm
m
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Tes! Spark Pings can
increase yonr
car's SAFETY!
The car that is lively and respon-
sive can move more quickly out
of normal driving hazards. Keep
your car alert. New Champion
Spark Plugs provide strong,
hot sparks that ensure
speed, power and quick
acceleration. They will
soon pay for themselves
in the fuel they save.
Factories, Feltham, Eng.
Windsor, Can. Toledo,
USA.
Sillment seals Champions against troublesome
leakage, at the shoulder and past the center
electrode, common to ordinary spark plugs. This
patented feature corrects rough, uneven and
wasteful engine operation caused by leaky,
overheated spark plugs.
V
7
SJgj
C3S
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
McKell, N.S.W. Premier, inherited
from Stevens, Mair and co. a short-term
debt of £42,000,000. This grisly relic
was mostly handed down by Lang to
Stevens, but the wonderful wizard that
was did nothing about it in his record
term of office as N. S. Wales Premier,
during a large portion of which time he
was also Treasurer. A short-term debt
begins life at a low rate of interest, but
when the borrower is unable to meet
the debt when it falls due, say six
months after it was incurred, the lender
usually alters his attitude and demands
a higher rate commensurate with the
market rate for what has now become
a long-term debt. But during the U.A.P.
period of office N.S.W. was treated
leniently; and so far there is no indi-
cation of a change for the worse. The
debt, of which £10,000,000 is owing in
London, probably started as an overdraft,
but it is now in the shape of short-term
debentures and Treasury bills. The rate
of interest payable would average under
2 p.c. All very fine and cheap ; but this
N.S.W. debt represented by Budget
deficits —which should have been funded
six or seven years ago, in itself stands
in the way of further “credit expansion”
by the Commonwealth Bank. It is a
monument to the traditional inflationary
policy of N.S.W. public financiers. And
not all of it was due to Lang ; about
£3,000,000 was added during the latter
part of Stevens’s reign. More than 60
p.c. of the short-term debt owed by all
the Australian States takes the shape of
N.S.W. IOUs.
* * * *
The fortunes of war. F. T. Wimble
and Co., the printers’ supplies house, has
handed ord. shareholders a bonus of 2|
p.c. with the usual div. of 15 p.c. The
bonus comes out of profits of the Maori-
land subsidiary. Australian Gas, because
the Government in Sydney won’t allow the
price of gas to rise in sympathy with war-
time costs, continues to pay no better than
4 p.c. p.a., though the so-called statutory
rate is 6 p.c. p.a. By reason of Govern-
ment control steamship cos. are mostly
cutting their divs. (they would do well
otherwise), and the motor trade is dead.
H. B. Dickie, the towel manufacturer,
has increased its div. from 9 p.c. to 10
p.c. Cement cos. are doing well, and
newspapers —where there are no specially
adverse circumstances such as Sydney
“Sun” has encountered have little to
complain about. Olympic Tyres has
made a slight cut in its distribution, but
Berlei, the corset (etc.) co., has shown
buxom earnings; “production capacity
has been fully taxed,” and the div. re-
mains at 10 p.c. The chain-store cos.
are in the thick of the “redistributed pur-
chasing power” and are coping with in-
creased taxes and paying normal divs.
Woolbrokers have had their earnings
stabilised by the British purchase scheme,
but silver-lead cos. aren’t putting on any
fat under their arrangement. Australian
Consolidated Industries is flourishing, and
its grip on small industries outside
of glass (such as process-engraving,
plastics manufacture, tool-making, etc.)
is increasing. Cotton textiles are boom-
ing. The big 8.H.P., after providing on
a large scale for taxation and deprecia-
tion on munitions-making plant, shows
moderate profits and pays a div. slightly
lower than pre-war, allowing for the
capitalisation of share premiums some
time ago.
* * * *l*
In Australia we are very slow in getting
anywhere with the manufacture of
aluminium, and the best we have so far
been able to do is to turn out sheet
aluminium and alloys from imported
ingots. Australian Aluminium, the co.
doing the job, is one-third controlled by
Australian shareholders; the rest of the
capital is held by overseas interests. The
Commonwealth is now to import 25,000
tons of high-grade bauxite a year from
the Netherlands Indies and Borneo ;
bauxite is the ore from which alumina,
and eventually aluminium, is extracted.
Meanwhile there seems to be a good
deal of humbugging going on with regard
to the development of Australian bauxite
deposits, of which there are several within
easy reach of the coast. The Common-
wealth Government hasn’t yet decided
whether Australian bauxite is sufficiently
free from silica, but Senator Mcßride
“believes that there are adequate supplies
of good-quality bauxite, readily acces-
sible.” He adds that, according to the
Copper and Bauxite Committee, one
Boolarra (Vic.) bauxite deposit could
produce at least 60,000 tons of bauxite,
and that total Australian supplies are
enough to make this country eventu-
ally self-sufficient. If war breaks out
in the Pacific we may have to get to
work on our bauxite deposits in a hurry
in order to maintain munitions produc-
tion. If it can be proved that Australian
bauxite is anywhere near as good as the
imported stuff we should spend time and
money in developing it, and now isn’t
too soon to start the ball rolling. Broken
Hill Prop.’s steelworks, which Delprat
launched in the second year of the-Great
War, was another of those things which
couldn’t be done that have turned into
a national asset of the greatest import-
ance. The more Australian capital that
can be encouraged into new national in-
dustries the better. Absentee control
means that too much money leaves this
country in the form of profits. And it
has other disadvantages of equal moment.
The international nature of some oil cos.,
for instance, has raised political prob-
lems in more than one country.
* * * *
An interesting development has
occurred in the affairs of Tableland Tin,
operating at Return Creek, at the back
of Cairns, N.Q. On the upstream side of
the area it was decided to test the ground
to find whether it carried enough tin to
pay the expense of removing it to the
dam site, where tailings were wanted as
filling material. The first few bores re-
vealed values that set the staff hard at
work, and eventually about a million
yards of ground averaging 21b. or there-
abouts was indicated. This is well above
the average of the main dredging area,
and it represents a handy sweetener to
the 75,000,000 yards of half-pound ground
previously tested. Unfortunately it is
off the track No. 1 dredge is taking
at present, otherwise it would be tackled
immediately. No. 2 dredge is well on the
way; the pontoon is in the course of
completion on the area, and on present
estimates the big machine should be
ready for work in under 12 months.
* * * *
Though Melbourne Steam reduced its
div. from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. —a final of 2\
p.c. compared with an interim of 3+ p.c.
—the market for shares in Adelaide
Steam and Huddart Parker improved last
week. Adelaide sold in Sydney and Mel-
bourne at 28s. 6d. and in Adelaide at
28s. 10d., and Huddart Parker was up
6d, a share at 455. 6d. Intra-State
shipping cos. dropped. North Coast
Steam, largest N.S.W. fleet-owner, fell
by Is. 4d. to 395. 2d., and Newcastle
Steam showed a slip of lOd. at the same
figure. The whole industry is passing
through a period of regimentation that
isn’t doing profits any good, but the blow
has fallen principally on inter-State
shippers. The market last week seemed
to take the view that so far as these
cos. were concerned the worst was
already known, but there were doubts
about the intra-State lines, with the pos-
sible exception of Illawarra Steam, which
has already been marked down heavily
and whose scrip last changed hands at
38s. 3d.
* * * *
The Japanese steel industry, though
small in comparison with the size of the
population, is several times bigger than
that of Australia. Last figures available
are those for 1936. At that stage Japan’s
production was about 5,000,000 metric
tons of steel ingots and castings per year,
A weakness of the industry, however,
was evident in the comparatively small
output of pig iron; including ferro-
alloys, the 1936 figure was 2,250,000 tons,
indicating that imported pig iron and
scrap iron formed a big part of the foun-
dation of the Japanese steel industry. On
top of that, of course, comes the fact
that, even of the pig iron produced within
Japan, much of the ore is imported,
Since 1936 Japan hasn’t supplied its steel
figures to the League of Nations. They
were growing steadily at the time they
were blanketed,
m * *, . *
The Taxpayers Association of N.S.W.
has put out a Guide to the Pay-
roll Tax, by J. M. White and H. R.
Irving, at a cost of 2s. These practical
people have dealt with _ the relevant
aspects of the legislation in a space of
32 pages, which includes examples and
an index.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINSESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Watch Guard, a country gelding whose
galloping ability belies his appearance,
has not made any appreciable advance in
Caulfield Cup quotes as a result of his
15-to-l win in the Glenara Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday, but, if he
progresses as anticipated, he will be a
runner.
Owner A. Armstrong’s ambition is to
win an important Cup race, and natu-
rally he is anxious to give Watch Guard
his chance in the Caulfield Cup with 6.8.
Improvement will be necessary for the
gelding to be considered even with that
weight, but, although he carried only 6.9
in a field considerably below Cup
standard on Saturday, he won in really
good style from Ellison and Lusson. Run-
ning past the pacemaker, Panax, enter-
ing the straight, he wound up with two
and a half lengths to spare. Prince Ariel
probably would have got a place had he
not been disappointed in going for a
rails-run on the turn, and been hampered
again later, but it is improbable he would
have beaten the winner in any circum-
stances.
W. Short, Western District trainer of
Watch Guard, has had his share of
trouble with the six-year-old son of The
Night Patrol. He declares that Watch
Guard was just “skin and bones and long
hair” when taken out of the paddocks
as an early three-year-old, and had to be
“nursed” for about a year. He looked
a runt alongside an ordinary racehorse,
but careful treatment had the desired
effect, and he won his first two races.
He will never win a beauty contest, but
his gameness is all that counts, and he
can continue to be placed to advantage
at metropolitan meetings.
Hopes that Rivette, two Cups heroine
of 1939, would strike her best form again
this spring seemingly vanished after her
display in the Glenara Handicap. With
an apprentice allowance reducing her
weight to 8.11 she was backed heavily,
but, after making a forward move on the
outside near the half-mile, dropped back
to finish last. In view of her Flemington
placings in her two previous races, the
form may have been too bad to be true,
but she is eight years old and seemingly
on the toboggan.
Caulfield track regulars predict a
bright future for Skipton, easy winner
of the Laluma Handicap, one mile. Some
consider he might develop into a Derby
colt, but, while trainer Jack Fryer hopes
they are correct, he prefers to wait and
see how he shapes in better company
before expressing an opinion. Skipton
was well backed on Saturday, and, mak-
ing a fast move from the half-mile, took
the lead at the top of the straight to win
from Portfolio and Foxhow. Latter
should be all the better for the race, but
it is doubtful if he will improve as much
as Skipton, who has raced, only four
times, and is still green. Costing 250gns.
as a yearling, Skipton is by Marabou
(Melbourne Cup winner) from Cupidity.
Skipton, who is a fine stamp of colt,
will race again at Moonee Valley next
Saturday week, when more should be
known of his chance in the classics. He
carried only 7.10 on Saturday, but his
appearance does not suggest that weight
will trouble him. Gold Strand did not
run within many pounds of his form at
Flemington a week earlier, but probably
he requires a larger track. Liege, re-
appearing after a spell, was never dan-
gerous, but would have done better had
he not been hampered when Air Bag
lost his rider about three furlongs from
home. He looks bright and well, although
above himself in condition, and his owner
hopes that his form at Moonee Valley
next Saturday week and in the Moonee
Valley Stakes early next month will war-
rant a trip to Sydney for the A.J.C.
Derby.
Orcadian, sold recently for 380 guineas
to S. Byers, a retired publican, earned a
stake of £2BO when he defeated Tea Cake
and Operatic in the Kiata Handicap.
Support which forced his price from
sevens down to 9 to 2 reflected the
stable confidence in his chance, but,
although he won by two and a half
lengths, apprentice H. McCloud’s daring
in taking a narrow opening on the rails
rounding the turn was a big factor in his
success. McCloud possesses dash and
vigor, and is one of the most promising
young riders in Melbourne,
Big money was lost on Tea Cake, but,
although no excuse was possible for him,
he should derive benefit from the race.
It was his first since he finished third
to High Road and All Love in the Ascot
Vale Stakes, and, all going well, he might
be given his opportunity in the Caulfield
Guineas. Being a gelding, he is ineligible
for the Derbies. Aurie’s Star, backed
from sevens to 7 to 2, failed at the busi-
ness end, and either is not quite as
good as he was, or reserves his best
efforts for the Flemington straight-six.
All Veil appeared for the first time since
he won the Newmarket, but looked above
himself in condition, and was never dan-
gerous.
David Innis improved considerably to
win the Argyle Welter from Rex Buzz
and Strategy. Ten days earlier he had
finished ninth to Manstar (who won by
eight lengths) in a similar class of race
at the Valley, but on Saturday he made
all the pace, cleared away from the half-
mile, and won by three and a half
lengths. David Innis started at 12 to 1
after longer prices had been bet, but his
task may have been much harder had the
pronounced favorite, Shutone, not been
knocked almost over soon after the start.
Shutone, who had missed the start
slightly, stumbled and almost fell, and
his rider, J. Purtell, declares it was only
by the merest fluke that he retained his
seat.
Tasmanian-owned Beamish ran out an
easy winner from Greenock and Covelli
in the Plenty Trial Handicap. He
dropped a long way out of his ground
early, but moved rapidly round the field
from the half-mile, and had it won at
the top of the straight. Trainer H. Kil-
foyle has had Beamish under his care for
about a year, but the horse’s feet and
joints have given a lot of trouble, and
he has raced only six times in that period.
“They all say I shouldn’t run him in bar
plates, but I can’t very well do anything
else,” Kilfoyle said after the race.
Beamish is a five-year-old entire by Mar-
conigram, and, judged by Saturday’s con-
vincing win over \\ mile, will not be
out of place in open company.
Consistency was rewarded when
Sachem won a spectacular finish for the
Melrose Steeplechase. Four horses were
almost in line about 100 yards from home,
but Sachem, responding gamely for Mc-
Kee, raised an extra effort to win by a
long neck from Bunnegal, with Dorset
half a head away third. Sachem’s success
was the signal for one of the most spon-
taneous receptions given any winner
in recent months. He was the unlucky
horse of the winter jumping season, fill-
ing minor placings in the Grand National,
A. V. Hiskens and Australian Steeples,
and the large crowd did not overlook
that fact.
Rosebery gave £1250 for its six races
on Saturday, and received a satisfactory
return. Members of New South Wales
fighting forces were strongly represented,
but, though they greatly helped to swell
the crowds, there was a full muster of
regular racegoers and many others —
especially women —who rarely patronise
Saturday meetings, apart from Rand-
wick.
Backers received two severe shocks,
the defeat of Freckles being one, and
the .failure of the 3-to-l-on chance All
Love the other. Only one favorite won.
In the Flying Jazbeau raced with Freckles
to the straight, and then, when the former
weakened, Brazandt came along, making
short work of Freckles, whom he was
meeting 151 b. better than when beaten by
the latter at Ascot. Reading, fairly
placed all the way, was third, followed
by Sedunum, who, with the exception
of the winner, finished faster than any-
thing else in the field. His turn for a
win at something further than six and
a half furlongs is close at hand. Jazbeau,
though third inside the last furlong, tired
to nothing right at the end.
Veiled Threat never got near the front,
but John Dory, a long way back at an
early stage, did well to finish sixth. He
could not look much brighter, and his
return to the winning list is not far away.
Dashing Cavalier, a bit above himself,
was a runner, but the distance was too
short to give him much chance.
In the Sir Joseph Banks Handicap
Gundagai waited on Scarlet Ranger and
Triggerman until the straight was entered,
and then won nicely from Scarlet Ranger.
The last-named, however, hung on so
gamely that Gundagai’s rider did not
ease him to any extent before reaching
the winning-post.
In the Cape Solander Handicap All
Love showed the pace expected, though
rounding the turn she was not far ahead
of Kingsdale. She drew away just after
entering the straight, but could not re-
spond when tackled by The Champion a
furlong from home. Though the latter
carried the light weight of 6.12 the style
in which he accomplished his task put
him in a most favorable light. His win
did not surprise his trainer, G. Price,
who remarked after the race: “If he
could not have beaten All Love at a
difference of 251 b. he would have had
little claim to be considered a good colt.”
Kingsdale retains his two-year-old pace,
and of the remainder nothing did better
than Dundalk. Some of the defeated
division should have shown better form,
and it might not be advisable to take
their efforts too seriously. Their starting
prices indicated they were beaten before
they went to the post. The Champion’s
four runs have returned £490 against the
1300gns. he cost as a yearling.
Druce, favorite for the Trial" Stakes,
flattered his backers by leading into the
straight with Koomeluck and Qui Va La,
but he was beaten a furlong from home.
A rattling finish between Koomeluck
and Qui Va La resulted in the former
winning by a head, while Lady Galadeer,
who was gaining on both at the winning-
post, was only a neck further away. Mac-
duff and Regina Mea tired after being
prominent turning for home, and Man-
lock, after commencing smartly, ran so
indifferently as to suggest he is not suited
by soft going. Galtheon ran fairly.
Most of the runners for the Fourteen-
two Handicap were the same lot we see
every week, and Little Gundi, who won
the previous Wednesday, was a head too
good for Majorca, the two having the
race to themselves over the last furlong.
Her big weight, in conjunction with the
heavy going, proved too much for La
Vallee, who was too far away from the
two leaders for her third to be of any
account.
Novice added to the afternoon’s dis-
appointing favorites. Third to Rodrigo
and Bland Princess turning for home, she
eventually missed a place. Brazen Boy
and Binnia Hero fought it out over the
last furlong. Brazen Boy, who was
second-last for about five furlongs, out-
stayed Binnia Hero, but as the latter
looked susceptible of improvement he is
worth following. The same applies to
Highborn at a longer distance than a
mile.
* * * *
In his gallop with Amiable at Victoria
Park on Saturday, High Caste strode out
as freely as could be wished, and was
going better at the end than the mare,
though she went well. High Caste is such
a big-bodied horse that his legs must be
of steel to stand the hard racing that has
been his lot. As was only to be expected,
he was sweating on returning to the pad-
dock after his gallop, but he will not be
far behind any of his opponents in con-
dition when he makes his initial appear-
ance this season. At his first start last
season, after an absence from racing of
about five months, he won a six-ana-a-
half-furlongs race at Victoria Park.
* * * *
Freckles’s form in the Rosebery Han-
dicap did not flatter those backers-who
have commenced Epsom and Metro-
politan doubles with him. His weight
drops from 8.7 to 7.5, but though that is
a substantial difference the fact of Jaz-
beau being able to pace it with him to
the turn in Saturday’s race must be
counted against him. He is essentially a
“front runner,” and as it is certain some
of his Epsom opponents will be able to
keep with him for the first six furlongs
a hard-fought finish —going on his latest
effort—is unlikely to suit him. It is un-
wise to condemn a horse because of one
failure, but it is certain Freckles will need
to improve greatly upon last Saturday’s
running in order to give him a good
chance of winning the Epsom even with
his light weight.
On the other hand High Rank strength-
ened his Epsom claims with 7.12 by win-
ning a mile race with 9.0 in Brisbane on
Saturday. Earlier in the week High Rank
had failed so badly in a seven-furlong
handicap, for which he was second
favorite, that, after his win, owner
Ahearn was met with a “Please explain”
from the stewards. This he did satisfac-
torily, showing that he put £2OO on High
Rank when beaten and very little on him
when he won, which accounted for his
liberal starting price. High Rank is seem-
ingly a horse of moods, but if in the
humor on the day he should, on his best
Queensland form, play a prominent part
in the decision of the Epsom.
Metropolitan candidates in Yours
Truly and Gundagai were among last
week’s winners. Both carried consider-
ably more than they will have to put up
in that race. The Warwick Farm Spring
Handicap, though run at a quarter-mile
shorter distance, should give a fair idea
as to their respective Metropolitan
chances. Gundagai presented such a well-
trained appearance On Saturday that it is
doubtful whether his condition can be
improved to any extent, but if he con-
tinues as well as at present his backers
will be satisfied.
* * * *
The Newcastle Cup, with its £515 first
money, and a prize of £5O for the trainer
of the winner, should attract a number of
Sydney runners on Saturday next. The
topweights have dropped out, leaving
Kurrawid (7.9), Lord Valentine (8.5),
Hilarious (8.4) and Fearless (8.4) with
excellent prospects, and Scarlet Ranger
(7.4) among the lightweights, Gundagai
was too good for the last-named at Vic-
toria Park on Saturday, but he made
an excellent showing. Many Ways and
His Lordship are others likely to be
backed.
* * * *
Taking a line through their respective
defeats of Yaralla and All Love there
would not seem to be much between
Beau Son and The Champion. Each
won decisively, and by much the
same margin. Beau Son was in receipt
of 281 b. from Yaralla and The Cham-
pion 251 b. from All Love, who, on sex
allowance, is 51b. below Yaralla in set-
weight races at this time of the year.
Beau Son and The Champion finished like
stayers, but the Hobartville Stakes on
Saturday week will tell us more concern-
ing their calibre than could be learned
from their wins under light weights. On
appearance both may prove really high-
class colts, but it cannot yet be accepted
that either is up to the standard of
Yaralla and All Love.
They may be, but at present It’s Funny
and Prince have quite as good claims in
that respect, and it is improbable any
handicapper would place either of those
up with Yaralla and All Love. Prince
was a good third to Yaralla and All Love
in the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, and
though All Love gave him 81b. and a
beating in the Champagne Stakes he
finished ahead of Yaralla, who was giving
him 101 b. Prince may not be equal to
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Dionne, 1 ;
Daystar, 2; Gormic, 3.
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Glittering
Flame, 1 ; Good One, 2; Rival
Chief, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap : Colonel
Post or Justitia, 1 ; Awake, 2;
Lagoon, 3.
Carlton Mile: Sedunum, 1 ; Kes-
trel, 2 ; Sobersides, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Royal
Sceptre, 1 ; Yours Truly, 2 ; Silver
Arbor, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Cacique,
1; Brazandt, 2; Peruke or Pan
Pipe, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
{Before acceptances.)
Hurdle Race: The Stork, 1 ;
Virile, 2 ; Victory March, 3.
Berwick Handicap: Jamestown,
1 ; Portfolio, 2 ; Royal Peter, 3.
Waverley Handicap: Koorenbeen,
1 ; Jiggle, 2 ; Togo, 3.
August Stakes: Orcadian, 1 ;
Contact, 2 ; Operatic, 3.
Westminster Welter: Manstar, 1 ;
Grandsop, 2 ; Courage, 3.
Hume Handicap: Windlelon, 1 ;
Corredor, 2 ; Netherlea, 3.


Divorce Notices.
IN DIVORCE.
No. D. 244/ ’4l.
TO HUGH JACK HUGHES formerly of Auck-
land New Zealand Hairdresser.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Olive Mildred
Hughes of Auckland has filed in the Supreme
Court of New Zealand at Auckland a petition
against you for divorce on the grounds of wilful
desertion without just cause for a period of
three years and upwards and that unless you
enter an appearance and file an answer in the
said Court at Auckland within twenty-eight
days from the appearance of this advertisement
the said petition will be heard and determined
in your absence.
If you are not now domiciled in New Zealand
you are warned that the Decree for Divorce if
and when obtained may not have effect beyond
New Zealand and that you should not remarry
in reliance upon a decree in these proceedings
without first obtaining advice in the country
where you propose to remarry.
(L.s.) E. M. MOSLEY,
Deputy Registrar.
Barzillai Beckerleg, Esq., is the solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at
the office of the said Barzillai Beckerleg in
Vulcan Lane, in the City of Auckland. Friends
of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 784 of 1941.
BETWEEN CLIFFORD REUBEN COONEY
Petitioner and
MAY McKEOWN COONEY (formerly May
McKeown Horne) Respondent.
TO MAY McKEOWN COONEY late <?f 66
Hotham Street Preston in the State of Vic-
toria.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed
CLIFFORD REUBEN COONEY has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance in the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Tenth day
of November 1941 AND in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of August, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
SAMUEL COOK, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
14 Spring .Street, Sydney.
beating either in the Hobartville Stakes,
but as in his Randwick races he gave the
impression he would stay he is bound to
run well in the Canterbury or Rosehill
Guineas, and his form in either of those
races will give a fair idea as to whether
he is a genuine Derby prospect. The
same applies to Beau Son and The Cham-
pion, who, despite their recent impressive
wins, will have to show more in order
to be rated equal to Prince and It’s
Funny, let alone Yaralla and All Love.
Nor is it definite they are superior to
Henchman, but up to seven furlongs the
Hobartville Stakes should give us a fair
idea where they stand.
% * *
'On Monday morning the principal
effect of Saturday’s racing was to cause
Freckles to weaken for the Epsom. The
order of the most-fancied horses was as
follows:
Epsom Handicap.
High Caste.
Session.
Rimveil, Freckles.
Evergreen, High Rank.
Amiable, Reading, Reniarc, Duvach, Valve,
Panchio.
Metropolitan.
Lucrative.
Gundagai, Pandect, Veiled Threat.
Remarc, Reading.
Beau Vite, Binnia Hero, Katanga.
* * * *
Pandect and Murmuring arrived in
Sydney last week in charge of F. Mus-
grave, and though the general opinion
of Randwick critics is that the former has
improved in appearance since the autumn,
wins for him will not be easy. Even if
Kindergarten does not run Beau Vite and
Lucrative will be stumbling-blocks in the
longer w.f.a. races, and in the Metro-
politan he will meet Lucrative only 31b.
better than when the latter beat him in
the Sydney Cup. Lucrative has done
well at Randwick, and promises to be
at his best for the A.J.C. spring meeting.
* * * *
A couple of years often means a big
descent in the racing scale for some
horses. Bristol, winner of Tattersall’s
Cup with 8.4 in 1939, was an unplaced
runner with the minimum weight in last
Saturday’s Flying Handicap at Victoria
Park. Bringa, second to Bristol in Tat-
tersall’s Cup, is now running in hurdle
races, but Red Sails, third on that occa-
sion, is still capable of winning handi-
caps.
* * * *
B. R. Payten has a large team of two-
year-olds this season, but comparatively
few will be trained for early racing. The
colts that will are Silver Crown (Hall
Mark-Lady Zelteers), Acolyte (J. R.
Smith-Incense) and Hall Stand (Hall
Mark-Trasina). Each is in different
ownership. An interesting member of
the team is the filly Hesione, a half-sister,
by Brueghel, to Ajax. She will be raced
by her part-breeder, A. W. Thompson.
* * # *
After several rumors as to Rimveil’s
condition being unsatisfactory the latest
about him is that “all is well,” and
that was confirmed by his substantial
backing .for a couple of Epsom and
Metropolitan doubles. Four-year-old
winners of the Epsom with over 9st. are
High Caste 9.5, Nightmarch 9.4, Gold
Rod 9.3 and Hyman 9.2, so Rimveil will
not have to put up a record for horses
of that age to score with 9.2. At the
same time he is not thrown in with that
weight, seeing he failed in the Doomben
Newmarket with 9.0, and will meet the
winner, High Rank, only 21b. better.
Nor, on autumn running at Randwick,
has Rimveil any pull over Evergreen. In
the Doncaster he gave the latter 111 b. and
beat him a length, but at a difference of
131 b. Evergreen turned the tables in the
C. W. Cropper Plate. Now there is 121 b.
between them. High Caste was not a
C. W. Cropper Plate runner, but in trie
Doncaster he carried 9.12 to the 8.6 of
Rimveil and the 7.9 of Evergreen. Their
Epsom weights are: High Caste 9.13,
Rimveil 9.2 and Evergreen 8.4. From
April to October the w.f.a. scale allows
for 31b. improvement in High Caste and
61b. in Rimveil and Evergreen. Good as
he has shown himself it appears as if
Rimveil will have to improve a little on
all past form to win the Epsom.
* * * *
Despite protests from the Bookmakers’
Council and the Victorian Trainers’
Association, there is said to be little
likelihood of the V.R.C. committee alter-
ing its decision to bar bookmakers from
ownership of racehorses as from October
1. I have never held a brief for book-
makers, but to brand the whole lot as
undesirables in respect of ownership be-
cause of the misdeeds of a few does not,
in my opinion, seem fair. There are
crooks even among lawyers and doctors
—but it would be ridiculous to accept the
idea that, to some extent, it was the
same with all. There are bookmaking
owners whose horses the public would
sooner back, with the certainty of getting
a “go,” than those of owners of a much
higher social standing.
The Cheery Jack doping inquiry had
an ending that was a general surprise—
the disqualification for two years of the
horse’s trainer, R. C. Stanton, principally
on the score of alleged contributory negli-
gence. One witness, an employee at the
stables where Cheery Jack was located,
stated the horse was left in an unlocked
box. Stanton admitted he might have
been too easygoing in not protecting
Cheery Jack to a greater extent, but that
anyone would harm the horse never
entered his head. Reports of C. 1.8. men
were taken, as well as that of the race-
course supervisor, H. Saker. It was a
case in which the public might well wish
to know something more of the evidence
than was available. Incidentally, the
V.R.C. has decided to adhere to its
present practice of conducting inquiries
and hearing appeals in camera. With
so many trainers and others favoring that
idea it was thought likely the press might
be admitted to inquiries.
* * # #
The Red Cross benefit meeting at
Randwick on September 27 (date made
available by City Tattersall’s Club) should
provide some interesting racing. City
Tattersall’s Stakes, a £lOOO mile and a
quarter race at w.f.a. (allowances, but no
penalties), should bring out all the best
older horses, afid some of the Derby
candidates. Among the latter an allow-
ance of 71b. can be claimed for Prince
and Henchman. Of the £6OO prize-
money for the six furlongs A.I.F. Quality
Handicap (maximum 9.5) £5OO is donated
by Tattersall’s Club ; and the £650 for
the Red Cross Cup is the contribution
of the Allied and Associated Liquor
Trades. The gold cup of lOOgns. for the
same race is presented by the United
Licensed Victuallers’ Association.
* sjc * #
In June the English shipping com-
panies notified all that country’s blood-
stock agencies that for the duration of
the war they would accept no more live-
stock consigned to Bombay, Calcutta,
Madras, the Malay States or Ceylon.
Unless similar action is taken in Aus-
tralia, India should again become a good
market for our racehorses.
Maorilander Kindergarten greatly im-
pressed visitors to Victoria Park last
week. He galloped a half-mile with
Lucrative and Henchman, and, after being
two lengths in the rear at the turn, came
round them and led comfortably at the
finish in 471. His action is as near per-
fect as possible, but it must be added
that he had an advantage over Lucra-
tive in weight and shoes, and a strong
wind behind the horses over the final
three furlongs contributed to the fast
time. There is no doubt, however, as to
Kindergarten being a great galloper.
No announcement has been made as
to Kindergarten’s programme at the
A.J.C. spring meeting, but it will not
surprise if he runs in only one race, the
Colin Stephen Stakes. The final day of
the A.J.C. meeting and the opening day
of the V.A.T.C. meeting clash, and if a
run left-handed is considered desirable
before the Caulfield Cup the chances are
Kindergarten will be a runner for the
Caulfield Stakes. If that should be de-
cided upon there would be no likelihood
of Kindergarten appearing in anything at
Randwick after the Colin Stephen Stakes.
* * *
Yours Truly has not come up to expec-
tations based on his New Zealand Cup
win, but as he has won five races in Syd-
ney he cannot be classed a failure. The
prize-money attached to his wins totals
£1340, and to that must be added a fair
amount for half a dozen minor placings.
As his win at Victoria Park last week
showed him to be in form again, the
Warwick Farm Spring Handicap gives
him a fair chance of increasing his earn-
ings. He has 7.9, his Victoria Park win
not entailing a penalty. Yours Truly has
won twice at Randwick the A.J.C.
Autumn Cup, \\ mile, with 8.1, and the
Homebush Handicap, H mile, with 7.11.
As he has only just turned six he is not
too old yet to improve.
* * * *
J. T. Jamieson has five two-year-old
colts in work, their breeding being: The
Buzzard-Durbar Queen, Defoe-Hine
Wehi, Beau Pere-Solfast, Christopher
Robin-Futurity and Manitoba-Yarree.
They are all engaged in the Breeders’
Plate.
* * * *
The “Australasian Turf Register”
figures show that Beau Pere was an easy
first in the winning sires’ list for the
recently-concluded Australian season. His
progeny won £41,710, but he mainly
owes his prominence to two horses —
Beau Vite and Beaulivre. Of Beau Pere’s
progeny—now three-year-olds—sired in
Australia only Beau Son has given special
promise up to the present. As is gener-
ally known Beau Pere is now located in
California, and is owned by L. B.
Mayer, who, according to American
papers, gave £A31,000 for him. ' The
Buzzard is second on the winning list
with £33,864, followed by Gay Lothario
£33,744 and Pantheon £21,801. They
are all imported stallions. Spearfelt did
best of the Australian-bred sires,
comparatively few of whom get great
stud changes. The “imp.” appeals to
most buyers, and naturally breeders cater
for them.
* H: * *
That the services of Australian stal-
lions are not greatly in demand in their
own country is shown by the fact that ot
the 67 sires nominated for the 1943 A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes 42 are imported.
Of these Actor, Hellespont and Genetout
are from France, and Brueghel from
Italy.
* * * *
The highest jump at Aintree (Liver-
pool), where the Grand National is run,
is the open ditch, the fifteenth jump in
the course. In this year’s Ruff’s Guide
to the Turf the height is given as sft.
2in., and its width is 3ft. 9in. The ditch
on the take-off side is 6ft. wide, with a
guard rail in front of the ditch Ift. 6in.
Every steeplechase course in Australia
is easy compared with Aintree.
* * * *
At the commencement of last season
it seemed certain that Gordon Richards
would by now have passed Fred Archer s
English record of 2748 winners from 1870
to 1886. However, racing was so greatly
reduced last year that though he was an
easy first with 68 —H. Wragg was second
with 38—it increased his total only to
2654 winners from 1921 to 1940. When
Richards met with an accident nearly
three months ago he held the lead, but
that disposed of his chance of finishing
on top this year, and he still has some
distance to go before reaching Archer’s
total. Richards’s best year was 1933,
when he rode 259 winners, and Archer’s
highest for any season was 246. He
passed the 200 mark eight times, and
Richards has exceeded it on five occa-
sions.
* * * *
The first 49 days’ racing in New York
this year—2s at Jamaica and 24 at Bel-
mont Park —gave a totalisator turn-
over of $41,317,732 (approximately
£A 12,345,000). It was not due to remark-
able crowds, as the attendances at the
two meetings averaged only 16,150 daily.
Tote figures showed an increase of 32
per cent, as compared with last year. It
was estimated that at Belmont Park the
average customer bet $6O (about £18) a
day.
# * * *
The Japanese Derby was run at Fuchu
(Tokyo) in May. An American exchange
says the attendance was 50,000, and the
totalisator turnover exceeded the equiva-
lent of more than a million dollars
(American) for the day. There were 16
runners from the 181 originally nomi-
nated for the Derby, and a colt named
Sentlite (Diolite-Flippancy) won by
several lengths. His sire and dam were
imported from England. Diolite, who
won the English 1930 Two Thousand
Guineas, is by Diophon, and Sentlite’s
dam is Flippancy, by Flamboyant. The
second and third horses, States and Kami-
waka, are by English stallions out of
American-bred mares.
Footbrcswl
Melbourne ran to a clear lead in the
V.F. League before 25,000 at M.C.G. on
Saturday, defeating Collingwood by 17.8
to 11.21. The Magpies’ shooting was
atrocious. Even then their tally of behinds
gave them a momentary lead in the last
quarter, but Melbourne rattled on four
more goals and settled their hash. Col-
lingwood has another Coventry now —
son of old Syd—but its forwards badly
need target practice.
Richmond, after its slashing win over
Essendon the previous Saturday, went to
Fitzroy in holiday mood, looking to its
tremendous ruck for an easy win. But
Curcio and Clay went all the way with
Dyer and Hull, and the dazed Tigers saw
three goals go up against them in almost
as many minutes. ’Roy had a five-goal
lead after 20 minutes, and put up a great
show to fend the Tigers off and win,
14.15-12.16.
Told by the secretary that they were
one of the few teams on full pay, the
’Scrays were advised to show their appre-
ciation by making the game safe at half-
time against North. Eight points ahead
at the last change they were waving
cheerily to the sec. when North swept
down like the Assyrian and finished
’Scray off to the tune of 15.14 to 11.22.
Essendon entertained Hawthorn, let-
ting it down lightly with 19.17 to 14.9.
Carlton had a sort of “Chase-me-
Charlie” game with St. Kilda at Carlton
to pile up 20.17 to 11.14. At South Mel-
bourne the locals staged a ding-dong go
with Geelong, which just failed to win
its fourth game: Sowth, 10.10; Geelong,
10.9.
Melbourne should be minor premiers,
Carlton and Richmond are pretty sure of
making the four, Essendon and Colling-
wood have it between them. Next Satur-
day ’Wood has a tough proposition in
Carlton, and the ’Dons shouldn’t be wor-
ried by Sowth.
* * * *
With one round to be played, Uni-
versity and Eastern Suburbs go into the
Sydney Rugby Union semi-finals, but two
places are still in doubt. Randwick is
third at the moment and Manly and
Parramatta are together, only one point
away. All three won on Saturday. For
the last round Randwick has a stiff hurdle
to face in University, while the other two
(opposed by Drummoyne and West)
should win without much difficulty.
Manly’s defeat of University was a
sterling performance. The Villagers have
done it twice now (scoring 11 tries to
two in the two games) by dint of play-
ing an open game among the backs, same
as the Students, only better. ’Varsity this
time led 4-3 at half-time, but the Villagers
were decidedly superior in the second
half and ran out 14 to 7 (four tries to
one).
Though Parramatta pierced Gordon’s
defence for only one try, penalty goals
made it 16-3. Randwick slowed up at
the finish of its game with Drummoyne,
but was much too far ahead for that to
matter ; 32-19 (eight tries to five). And
East was never out of second gear to
down St. George 17-8. West finished
the game against North with only 11
men and a goodly lead, 17-3.
Passed dut in Melbourne, W. J. (Bill)
Johnson, honorary treasurer of the Vic-
torian Cricket Association and a selector
of Victorian and Australian teams. He
was a good all-rounder for North Mel-
bourne club, for which he played 26
years, 15 of them as captain. He it was
who sent Woodfull in as opener in an
inter-State seconds match, in which
Woodfull made 200 and thus drew the
attention of “the heads.” Johnson was 57.
Hs * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Adelaide Oval, which
under S.A. Cricket Association manage-
ment is admitted to be one of the world’s
four finest cricket-grounds, and is now
the H.Q. of most local pastimes, is on a
slice of the city’s parklands. The lease
runs out next year but has as a matter of
course been extended by the City Council
for another 20 years. The Football League
has contracted to play all its big matches
there for another 10 years. The S.A.C.A-,
with Blinman president and Jeanes sec-
retary, has cut the annual subscription
in half for a slack season, and reports a
loss of £llOO on the past year. But after
meeting this loss, reserve fund stands at
over £17,000.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The fight of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wanfs.
Young woman, educated and with clerical
experience, wants employment, preferably m
connection with war industry. Can drive car
or truck and do running repairs; used to tools.
—2217.
Youth, 19, rejected A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.,
wants position on north Queensland sheep or
cattle station. Good worker and fairly strong.
State wages and conditions. —2219.
Editor, sub-editor, leader-writer or senior
journalist available country daily; 25 years’ exp.
country and city; late First A.I.F. Refs. —2237.
Bank officer, 18 years’ exp. as clerk,
accountant, relieving manager, and still in
employ of bank, wants position in country town.
Wife, general trained nurse, having all necessary
hospital equipment, would be prepared to open
hospital in same town. N. S. Wales or Q’land
preferred.—222l.
Australian archaeologist doing research in
origins of languages and alphabets wants
moderately-priced dictionaries: Anglo-Saxon-
English, Sanskrit-English, Hebrew-English, Rus-
sian Georgian-English.—22l6.
To buy Pliny’s Selected Letters, edited by
A11en.—2209.
To borrow “Far Eastern Review” for
October, 1939.—2223.
Meaning of word “Tamrookum.” —2225.
Full instructions for making a xylophone. —■
2170.
Words of verse containing line “Britain never
watched for Bliicher as she’ll watch for Ivan
yet.”—223B.
Information Sought.
(1) Religions of A.I.F. embarkations in
1914-18 ? (2) Religions of Australia at that
time ? —2231.
(1) Church of England 166,994, Roman
Catholic 66,205, Presbyterian 51,821, Metho-
dist 34,205, Jewish 2304, others 21,721. (2)
Figures are from the 1921 census: Church of
England 2,372,830, Roman Catholic 1,134,002,
Presbyterian 636,974, Methodist 632,621, Jewish
21,615, others 637,692.
jjc jfc sfc sp
What advantage has the German Navy over
the British in the matter of gunnery, since the
Emden’s fire was so accurate that the Sydney
had to get out of her range; at Jutland three
battle-cruisers fours) blew up before serious
damage was done to the German heavy ships ;
the Graf Spee soon battered the Exeter, and
then the Bismarck sank the Hood and damaged
the Prince of Wales without those vessels even
getting the correct range? —2l77.
No evidence that the Germans have either
better rangefinders or better guns. The Sydney
did not turn away to avoid shelling but to
maintain the fight at her own range. She was
at the disadvantage that one of the earliest
salvos had hit her rangefinding platform,
which made her fire a bit ragged, but immedi-
ately after turning away—at 9500 yards —she
smashed the Emden’s wireless, wrecked aher
steering gear, shot away both rangefinders, cut
through the voice-tubes from conning-tower
to guns, pulled down the foremast with the
primary fire control and wrecked the fore-
bridge. Only five of the first 15 German shells
which hit Sydney burst. The battle-cruisers
which blew up at Jutland did so not through
German skill but through an internal fault. The
Graf Spee would have been a poor tub if
she had not battered Exeter, which had only
six Bin. guns (2571 b. shells) and virtually no
armor, while Graf Spee had six llin. guns and
eight 5.9-inchers. Exeter is still in service, and,
anyway, two little six-inch-gun cruisers which
Graf Spee should have been able to eat alive
shepherded her into harbor in a condition which
left her no alternative but to scuttle. She had
a 50001 b. broadside against their combined total
of 16001 b. Bismarck sank Hood at 21,000
yards—a magazine was hit with the first salvo
fired. Hood was an ancient ship with light
armor and old guns; Bismarck carried the
newest 15in. guns and armor to resist a 15in.
shell at 12 miles. The hit in the Hood maga-
zine was almost a miracle —try to hit Bris-
bane Town Hall tower from Sandgate jetty.
Save for the lucky hit on Hood, all the damage
Bismarck did could have been covered by a
halfpenny worth of tar. She didn’t even sink
one of the many destroyers round her, even
though she was several times within range and
sight of cruisers which she should have been
able to rip in bits with a single* salvo.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the Atherton Tableland
(Q.) ? (2) Are the Barron Falls and Charters
Towers within that area ? —1983.
(1) The Atherton Tableland, of which the town
Atherton is the centre, consists of the major
portion of the area within the Queensland Petty
Sessions district of Atherton and is situated be-
tween 17deg. and 18deg. lat. and 145 deg. and
146 deg. long., 2469-2800 ft. above sea level.
The soils throughout the region are of deep and
rich volcanic origin, richly timbered with valu-
able species, used almost exclusively for cabinet
and interior-decoration purposes. Apart from
State Forest Reserves, practically the whole of
the area is closely settled, the principal indus-
tries being dairying and pig- and poultry-raising.
Maize is the main crop, and the annual yield
approximates 22,000-25,000 tons, which is stored
in large community silos and marketed mostly
in the southern States. There are several butter
factories within the area and a bacon factory
on the boundary on a lower plateau; sawmills
are operating in various centres, preparing logs
into sawn, ply and veneer forms. (2) No.
The Barron Falls are situated between 16deg.
and 17deg. lat. and 145 deg. and 146 deg. long.,
10 miles from the coast, 19 by rail on the
Cairns-Atherton line, and 1075 ft. above sea
level. Charters Towers is 83 miles from the
coast on the Great Northern railway, 1008 ft.
above sea level, and on 20deg. lat. and between
146 deg. and 147 deg. long.
* * * *
Is my 11-year-old son, who is unable to work
and never likely to because of chronic asthma,
eligible for an invalid pension? What medical
evidence is required and to whom should it be
submitted ? —2163.
Qualification for an invalid pension is per-
manent incapacity for work; the applicant must
satisfy the Pensions Department that his dis-
ability is both total and permanent and became
so in Australia. Claim may be made on forms
obtainable at any post office, and supported by
a medical certificate setting out the nature and
permanence of the claimant’s disability, sub-
mitted to the Pensions Office, Australia House,
Carrington-street, Sydney.
* * * •
Diet for a young person to lose fat? —1944.
Breakfast: Half an orange, two eggs, one thin
piece of dry toast, coffee sweetened with sac-
charine and one tablespoonful of thin cream,
one small cube of butter. Lunch: One slice of
lean meat, two tablespoons of peas or French
beans, half a head of lettuce. Dinner: Clear
soup, two slices of lean meat, spinach or carrots,
half a head of lettuce, half an orange, tea
sweetened with saccharine, one-quarter of a
cup of milk, one slice of thin toast, and one
small cube of butter.
* * * *
Will clover which has grown during winter
harm a croquet lawn ? How can it be ex-
terminated ? —2167.
It won’t do much harm provided it is kept
closely cut —it usually grows only during winter
and should die out when hot weather arrives.
To rid the lawn of clover, however, you could
try the following: Mix 31b. sulphate of am-
monia and 31b. sulphate of iron—a quantity of
sand may be added to facilitate handling —
and distribute over 1000 sq. ft. The reaction
of vegetation to this treatment is sometimes
very severe, but it may be modified by a
thorough watering immediately after the appli-
cation. In any case, the injury to the grass
will not be permanent and recovery will be
rapid. You can reduce the severity of the
treatment by using lib. of sulphate of iron
instead of 31b., but it may then require several
applications at fortnightly or monthly intervals.
* * * v
What is the distance by river and also by
road of the various towns on the Darling River,
as from Menindie? —22l9.
From Menindie north, distances by road
approximately: Wilcannia, 93 miles; Tilpa,
180; Louth, 237; Bourke, 300; Goodooga,
440. From Menindie south: Pooncarie, 85;
Wentworth, 162. Multiply by three for river
distances.
* * # *
Some details about Captain Kidd? Any
books about him? —1943.
His origin is obscure; one chronicler says he
was born in Greenock, Scotland, about 1645.
In 1691 he received £l5O from the council
of New York for his services during the dis-
turbances in the colony after the revolution
of 1688. Later he was commissioned to chase
a hostile privateer off the coast, is described as
an owner of ships, and is known to have
served with credit against the French in the
West Indies. In 1695 he went to London with
his own sloop to trade, and a well-known New
York landowner recommended him to the
colonial Governor, Lord Bellomont, as a good
man to command a vessel against the pirates
in the eastern seas. With the King’s commis-
sion to arrest and bring to trial all pirates,
and a commission of reprisals against the
French, Kidd sailed from Plymouth in May,
1696, in the Adventure galley, a vessel of
30 guns and 275 tons. He filled up his crew
at New York, and in 1697 reached Madagas-
car, the pirates’ principal rendezvous, where,
instead of trying to hunt them down, he associ-
ated himself with a notorious pirate called
Culliford. It seems that Kidd intended to cap-
ture only French ships, and when he found none
he tackled native trading vessels and plundered
on the coast of Malabar. Complaints reached
the British Government and Bellomont was
ordered to apprehend Kidd should he return to
America. Kidd eventually went to New Eng-
land in a small sloop and wrote to Bellomont
claiming that he was able to justify his actions.
He was arrested, however, and sent to England,
where he was tried, first for the murder of one
of his crew, and then, with others, for piracy.
Found guilty on both charges he was hanged
at Execution Dock, London, on May 23, 1701.
See Encyclopcedia Britannica and An Historical
Sketch of Robin Hood and Captain Kidd.
* * * *
A few details about the Governor-General
of Australia ? —2227.
He is Alexander Gore Arkwright Hore-Ruth-
ven, V.C., P.C., G.C.M.G., C. 8., D.S.O. (with
bar), Baron Gowrie of Canberra and Dirleton,
and has been Governor-General of Australia
since 1936. Born at Windsor (Eng.) in 1872,
he was educated at Eton, and saw military
service in Africa until 1904 —he was awarded
the V.C. in 1899. He was Military Secretary
to the Viceroy of Ireland from 1905-06, and to
the Governor-General of Australia from
1908-10. He served in the 1914-18 war in
Egypt, Gallipoli and France. He was Governor
of S.A. from 1928-34, and Governor of N. S.
Wales from 1935-36. He was knighted in 1928
and raised to the peerage in 1935.
* * * *
Measurements for tennis court and surround-
ing fixtures? —2150.
The full doubles courts is 78ft. by 36ft., with
service lines running back 21ft. on each side of
the net; the singles court lines are 4ft. 6in. in-
side the doubles lines. For a championship
area 21ft. is allowed at each end and 12ft.
on each side, making the enclosure 120 ft. by
60ft. Generally, netting around the court should
be about 18ft. high—three widths of 6ft. net-
ting on poles about 3ft. 6in. into the ground,
eight poles on each side and four at each end
should be sufficient.
* * * *
Recipe for pineapple cordial? —2151.
Cut up 51b. of pineapple (without peeling),
put into an earthenware or wooden vessel and
add one gallon of water. Leave for four days,
stirring and bruising daily, then strain and add
41b. sugar; when dissolved add rind of a lemon
and 4oz. isinglass (any quantities in these pro-
portions may be used). Leave for six days, or
till fermentation ceases, skim well, put into
cask or wooden tub and leave for two weeks,
then bottle and tie down. Improves with age.
* * * *
How to make a duck car-cover waterproof ?
—2064.
Melt 2|lb. of tallow in one gallon of pure
boiled linseed oil and rub this well into the
cover, using a big wad of cotton waste; leave
to dry and repeat till inside has had two coats
and outside three. If cover is allowed to dry
thoroughly between coats it will be waterproofs
* * * *
Recipe for orange wine ? —2632.
Peel ripe oranges, cut in half across the
cells and squeeze with a press, keeping pips
out. To each gallon of sweet orange juice
allow lib. of sugar (21b. if Sevilles are used).
When the juice is mixed with the sugar add
one quart of water to each gallon. Put into
cask, which should be almost full. Bung tight
when fermentation ceases. Bottle six months
later. This wine must not be sold without per-
mission of the Excise authorities.
Information Supplied.
An extra word to “M.R.H.,” who was
answered in Brief Answers (B. 6/8/’4l), in
reference to tartaric-acid crystals. Though it is
many moons since the large tart.-acid crystals
usually sold for seltzogenes have been on the
market, yet as a constant user of seltzogenes I
can vouch that the fine tart.-acid crystals can
be used in their filling with satisfactory result.
Recently purchasing my usual quantity I
received a shock to find the price had risen
in one day to Is. extra per pound, even though
locally manufactured from argals—the residue
of the wine vats. —V. V.
Brief Answers.
Gus: No record of Petermann’s Feather....
J. 8.5.: It is the function of the Impress-
ment Staff, Headquarters, Victoria Barracks,
Sydney, to buy second-hand vehicles in N. S.
Wales. None are being bought at present....
T.M.: Apply to the Officer-in-Charge, Base
Records Office, Canberra... .P.MacC.: Suitable
seeds be onion, cabbage, cauliflower,
carrot, celery, lettuce, parsnip, swede, tomato,
asparagus 1.E.R.: “Beowulf,” like other
poems and stories of the period, was probably
recorded by word of mouth, though the original
poet probably placed it on some kind of manu-
script. There may have been several MSS.,
but the only known survival is the Cottonian
one. This is on parchment, bound up with
other MSS. on parchment by Sir Robert Cotton.
You should visit the Public Library, Sydney,
and see a number of books on the poem, par-
ticularly J. R. C. Hall’s Beowulf X.Y.Z.:
Schools under the N. S. Wales Education De-
partment do not give formal lessons in read-
ing to children under six. There are several
books on the market designed to help young
children master the mechanics of reading easily;
among the best known is The Progressive Phonic
Primer, published by Whitcombe and Tombs.
G.W.H.: (1) and (1) Schools of wireless
have been established in the capital cities of
each State. (3) Write to the superintendent,
Marconi School of Wireless, 47 York-street,
Sydney... .J.F.: “Paul Revere’s Ride” is by
Longfellow; there should be a copy of his
works in the Broken Hill library... .W.F.P.:
“The Shepherd Kings of Canterbury” series,
by C. A. Jeffries, was not published in book
form... .J.A.M.: (1) The hon. sec., Constitu-
tional Reform Assoc., Cathcart House, 11c
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (2) Cannot trace
the other League.... A.G.: You should be able
to get all the information you want on leather-
plaiting in Saddlery, edited by Paul S. Hasluck,
and published by Cassell and Co. Get in
touch with some large booksellers... .W.G.L.:
(1) If it is a first edition of Boswell’s Life of
Johnson it would certainly have a collector’s
value; the first-edition Boswell was pub-
lished in 1791 in two volumes, and a good
copy of that edition might bring as much as
£2O. (2) Description of other book too vague,
but it seems unlikely to be of much value....
G.H.: Chambers’s Twentieth Century Diction-
ary, price 14s-. 6d., should suit your needs....
R.1.D.M.: The Town Hall authorities or the
Government Architect might have some ideas.
Some time ago pigeons were considered a
nuisance on Sydney buildings, but when it was
suggested that they be shot or poisoned a public
outcry occurred... .J.F.: (1) Jacob Schweppes
was in partnership with two other Swiss citizens
—the original founders of soda water —at
Geneva in 1790, and went to London in 1794
to set up business as mineral water manu-
facturers. (2), (3), (4) and (5) Schweppes have
factories in numerous centres in England, and
at Sydney, Melbourne and Wellington. They
are branches of the original company. (6) No.
(7) “Schweppes” is a registered trade-mark
under the Trade Marks Act throughout the
Empire... .M.0.T.: Lawn Tennis Courtcraft,
by F. R. Burrow and G. P. Hughes, price 55.,
post. 4d., or How to Play Tennis, by Mercer
Beasley, price 7s. 6d., post. 5d. —from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .J.R. A.: For tech-
nical training apply to Superintendent of Tech-
nical Education, Technical College, Ultimo;
for employment apply to the Officer-in-Charge,
Munitions Employment Office, 132 George-
street North, Sydney... .L.N.C.: The High-
land Society of N. S. Wales reports that the
names Masson, Norrie and Borthwick cannot
be found under the heading “Scottish Clans,
Septs, or Dependants”... .A.C.H.: The newest
carry 16 4.5’5, four three-pounders and 70
aircraft... .J.H.: Pronounced “vishy”... :
G. 8.5.: She visited Fremantle, Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, Hobart, Twofold Bay, Jervis Bay,
Sydney. A detachment of light cruisers went
to Brisbane... .N.M.: It depends on the nature
of decoration and on the weapon in general.
Write to the United Service Institution, Young-
street, Sydney G.M.L.: Engine power and
its offtake, streamlining and reduction of wind
resistance, and wing construction... .C.R.S.:
They could pass through unless the canal were
blocked D.A.: The detailed strength of the
Japanese navy at that date was not known.
Capital-ship strength would have been about
50 p.c. that of Britain’s in numbers, but less
in fighting power. Japan has about one cruiser
to every two British, one destroyer to every
three British, and about an equal number of
submarines M.C.: Yes. The Treaty of
Independence between Britain and Iraq is dated
December 14, 1927, but the mandate was not
fully terminated until Iraq was admitted to the
League of Nations on October 4, 1932. She
was then ruled by King Faisal and a Parlia-
ment K. 8.: Swedish churns are not being
imported and are unobtainable in Sydney....
V.E.W.: Rear-vision mirrors are available for
mounting either inside or outside the car, and
are a compulsory fitting. They should be obtain-
able from any garage, service station or acces-
sory house J.N.: Nothing you can do to
repair the sink —a preparation that will stand
up to ordinary wear and tear has yet to be
discovered.... Y.Z.: Correct; four pupils of the
Keringa Park Provisional School won bursaries
at the last examination... .E.L.: The rain
gauge should be placed one foot above level
ground. (2) A windswept position, such as on
top of a mound, will cause eddies and slightly
reduce rainfall registration. Best position is on
a level stretch at a distance from buildings and
trees equal to twice their height... .E.C.S.:
The N. S. Wales Department of Agriculture
reports that the plant which produces the mate
tea of South America has not been grown com-
mercially in Australia. The tea is produced
from the dried leaves of Hex paraguayensis,
which grows as a kind of underbrush in forest
country. The main reason why it is not grown
as a substitute for tea is the amount of labor
required for hand-picking the young leaves and
preparing them for market. The N. S. Wales
Department is experimenting with the plant at
Grafton Experimental Farm Mrs. C.:
Results of the Anzac Buffet Art Union were
published on June 14, 1941, under Public
Notices in the Sydney “Morning Herald,” the
“Daily Telegraph,” the “Sun” and the “Mirror.”
... .N.R.A.: Forgan Smith was not Premier of
Queensland in March, 1923, when the Labor-
in-Politics Convention was held at Emu Park.
He was present as a delegate from Mackay,
and his private secretary states that he did not
make any such request... .L.O. : (1) and (2)
No. (3) Would probably depend on circum-
stances of internment... .F.R.: The advertise-
ment does not infringe on any of the Acts ad-
ministered by the N.S.W. Health Department,
so no action can be taken by the department
to prevent its publication... .H.T.H.: Get in
touch with the transport authorities in your
own State... .M.Y.0.: The post office is
Coober Pedy, S.A., and is situated on the opal
fields of the same name. It is claimed to be
the only underground post office in the world.
. ...C.0.H.: Get in touch with the Country
Producers’ Selling Co., 26 Bridge-street, Sydney.
For further information write to S. J. Guss,
Strand-arcade, Sydney... .F.C.G.M.: Risky to
advise without an examination. See a dentist
who has full knowledge of the case... .M.L.K.:
See “Make Your Own Leather,” page 34, B.
28/5/’41... .H.E.V.: (1) If the bill has been
taxed there will be a certificate of the Taxing
Master certifying the amount allowed. (2) Yes.
... .G.W.L.: The Law and Procedure at Meet-
ings in Australia, by P. E. Joske (Law Book
Company, Phillip-street, Sydney. About 75.).
The time for an amendment is after the motion
has been moved and seconded and put to the
meeting. An amendment to an amendment
should similarly be moved after the original
amendment is moved, seconded and put to the
meeting. Voting then takes place first on the
amendment to the amendment; if carried it
then becomes the only amendment. This is then
put, and if carried it then becomes the motion
and is put to the meeting R.M.0.: (1) A
decision of Cabinet does not become law. (2)
He cannot force you to join a union, but he
can always dismiss you. If he does you might
have an action for wrongful dismissal. (3)
You are under no legal compulsion, but must
be prepared to face the consequences. (4) As
a matter of practice, you could only join
the union for which you are eligible....
G.P.W.W.: You evidently refer to Le Diable
Boiteux, by A. R. La Sage. There are French
and English translations in the Melbourne
Public Library, also in the lending library. It is
a novel and could not be adequately described
here... .T.H.: The fruits of Averrhoa caram-
bola are three-, four- or five-ribbed, so pos-
sibly the name “five corners” is given to the
fruit in some parts. In N. S. Wales, however,
“five corners” is usually applied to a small
native shrub which has only a small fruit of
little consequence. The carambola is a tropi-
cal species and requires a warm, moist climate
and a fairly rich, deep soil; it can withstand
very little frost. The tree is a handsome one
growing up to 30ft., and might do reasonably
well in the warmer parts of the north coast.
M.W.: (1) Araluen is aN. S. Wales abo.
place-name meaning “home of the water-lily.”
(2) Don’t know M.M.: Handy Hints for
the Farm can be had from The Bulletin
office, price Is G.E.S.: Can’t give informa-
tion until you state material and age of coat.
. ...T.J.H.: The genuine moccasin is made
of one piece of soft deerskin stitched into
shape with deer sinew and ornamented with
beads. Nowadays the sole part turns up around
the foot to meet the upper—both have largely
given way to machine-made stitched shoes.
The advantage lies in the stitching—in the
Canadian winter nails carry frost right through
an ordinary 501 e... .M.C.H.: Probably a trade
secret. Try the Technological Museum, Sydney.
... .C.H.: The Mitchell Library, Sydney, can
trace no record of Maggie (or Margaret) May
Lambert, nor is the name included in Prof.
Morris Miller’s bibliography of Australian
literature J.H.: The S.S. Edina was built in
Glasgow in 1854.... W.A.W.: (1) Panzer is
German for armor. (2) See page 30 of The
Bulletin, 30/7/’41.... W.W.M.: (1) The old
basic stock is still there, but it has been overlaid
with many intrusions —Latin, Turanian, Vlach,
etc R.A.L.: All right to charge with only
12 volts in the circuit... .L.D.C.: (1) Yes. (2)
Yes. (3) Arc is of small size and candlepower;
connect in series with arc....R.N.: Get in
touch with William Adams, 175 Clarence-street,
Sydney W.F.T.: (1) Suggest Stanley
Gibbons’s Simplified Stamp Catalogue, price
125., post. 9d., or Stamps of the Empire, by
T. Todd, price ss. 9d., post. 6d. —both obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (2)
“Worker,” Dunstan House, 236 Elizabeth-
street, Brisbane. Subscription, 17s. 6d. a year.
... .R.G.G.: Four-inch plano-convex condenser
lenses seem to be unobtainable in Sydney.
They were of French origin, so it’s impossible
to say when further supplies may be available.
E.C.N.: Can trace no information about
the car St. A.McD.: The person you men-
tion was on the staff of the “Frankfurter Zei-
tung.” He arrived in Australia by way of
China about 1934, and contributed to news-
papers before becoming a “commentator.” He
is naturalised... .J.L.C.: Of a total of 331,781
embarkations, 257,963 were born in Australia.
V.H.A.: (1) Under terms of Marriage Act
(Vic.), a person can obtain a divorce on the
grounds that respondent is a lunatic or of un-
sound mind, and has been received into and
detained in any hospital for the insane or
mental hospital or more than one hospital for
a period or periods not less in the aggregate
than five years within the six years immediately
preceding the filing of the petition and is
unlikely to recover from the lunacy or unsound-
ness of mind. (2) There are Only two courses
open, either judicial separation or straightout
divorce, and in both cases the petition must
be taken to the courts.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
AT THE TALKIES
“Fantasia”
Perhaps this eighth wonder should have
been installed at Sydney Museum, where,
after training on six-day bike races and
seven-course dinners, learned professors,
Government committees and other
students of present-day phenomena could
study it thoroughly and issue a few
treatises and several reports on it.
Who, for instance, except a learned
professor or Government committee,
could decide whether or not the olfactory
and optic senses are sufficiently developed
to assimilate simultaneously widely dif-
ferent visual and oral interpretations of
a Bach toccata and fugue? And who,
except the same professors and com-
mittee, are going to decide whether the
same toccata and fugue should be in-
terpreted visually, by, among other color-
ful impressionistic things, surrealist violin
bows streaking through the clouds like
gloriously drunken seagulls? The casual
film-taster, of course, might say that the
musical rendering of the piece by the
Philadelphia Orchestra under the baton
of Leopold Stokowski is particularly im-
pressive, while Disney’s impressionistic
interpretation of it as a mass of weird
and wonderful color and movement is
a distraction rather than an added attrac-
tion. But who’s the casual film-taster to
pronounce judgment?
Similarly, a learned professor could
develop a thesis on the association of
Tschaikovsky’s “Nutcracker Suite” with
Disney’s animated flowers, dancing fish,
frost patterns and graceful fairies. The
casual film-taster, of course, would say
that this bit contains some of the purest
and prettiest fantasy that Disney has ever
turned out and is backed by appropriately
lovely music. No doubt, too, the pro-
fessors could advance a psychological
explanation of the affinity between
Dukas’s “The Sorcerer’s Apprentice” and
Disney’s version of it. And, just as prob-
ably, the casual film-taster would pro-
nounce it a champion Disney comedy
with Mickey Mouse as the apprentice who
dabbles in magic during the boss’s
absence and floods the establishment
when he starts a few thousand brooms
carrying buckets of water and is unable
to stop them. But, again, who’s the
casual film-taster?
With Stravinsky’s “Rite of Spring” the
professors would be in their element.
They could first debate whether or not
Disney is correct in interpreting the
music with a representation of the earth
cooling from a mass of vapor to a torrid
globe of steam and heaving volcanoes,
of further cooling and the conquest of
the volcanic heat by the sea, and of the
beginning of life in the water and its
development through the amphibious
stage to creatures that walked and
breathed on the land. And, having settled
the correctness or otherwise of that in-
terpretation of the music, the professors
could then haggle over the merits of the
artist’s conception of the primitive world
—whether Disney’s dinosauria are
anatomically accurate, whether they were
as awful as he depicts them, and whether
a blistering drought eventually swept over
the earth and wiped them out. And
while the professors were settling that
question the casual film-taster would butt
in again with the opinion that the piece
is an exceedingly good Disneyan drama
with very effective musical support.
Then, the professors and committees
having debated that much, they could turn
to the “Pastoral” Symphony and develop
a thesis on the relationship between
Beethoven’s music and Disney’s pictorial
representation of it as a day on Mount
Olympus with such engaging lolly-colored
creatures as fauns, cupids, centaurs, “cen-
taurettes,” the winged horse Pegasus, with
wife and family, and other delightful
characters drawn as only Disney can
draw them. And the casual film-taster,
again, could opine that it’s all a very
pleasant bit of Disney nonsense backed by
very pleasant music. Ponchielli’s “Dance
of the Hours,” too, could be considered
in academic circles to discover what psy-
chological kink caused Disney to people
it with such ungraceful creatures as hip-
potami, elephants, ostriches and croco-
diles ; and while the' baldheads were
coughing in the ink the c.f.-t. could vote
it a prize piece of Disney buffoonery.
And, finally, while the academic gentle-
men and a Government committee were
debating whether or not Disney’s idea of
Moussorgsky’s “Night on Bald Mountain”
—a fierce, ungodly monster summoning
lost souls from their graves to dance with
other infernal creatures in a fierce satur-
nalia on the mountain top —is likely to
have any dangerous effects on the men-
tality of audiences, the c.f.-t. could vote
it another excellent bit of Disney fantasy,
macabre of course, but nicely rounded off
with a peaceful pictorial scheme of
Schubert’s “Ave Maria.”
Meanwhile, pending what time the
professors and sundry other learned
gentlemen settle such questions as the
respective merits of Disney’s pictorial and
Stokowski’s musical interpretations, as
whether the two can be successfully
combined with justice to each, and
other academic points, no one will
deny that “Fantasia” is made up mainly
of several courses of particularly good
Disney, illuminated occasionally with
touches of something perilously close to
Frith in the toils of “Fantasia,” at Sydney Embassy.
genius and supported by remarkably fine
musical accompaniment. Whether the
several courses at one sitting are likely
to produce indigestion is another matter.
* # * *
As if “Fantasia” weren’t sufficient
experience for film-tasters, both amateur
and professional, in one week, several
other Sydney filmhouses had to rake up
new bills. The Prince Edward turned up
with “The Lady Eve,” all about the
methods of a female confidence trickster
in laying for a wealthy bug-hunter ; with
Barbara Stanwyck and Henry Fonda in
the main roles, it’s lightly entertaining.
The same verdict applies to the main item
at the Mayfair—“ Topper Returns,” with
Roland Young, Billie Burke and Joan
Blondell involved with ghosts, murders,
etc. —and to the Plaza bill, “Pot o’ Gold,”
a light songandance concoction with
James Stewart (displaying considerably
more animation than usual) as the
nephew of a wealthy breakfast-food
manufacturer, and Paulette Goddard, as
the bewchus daughter of a worthy Irish
family carrying on a feud with the b.-f.m.
Sydney St. James is showing “Men of
Boys’ Town,” apparently an attempt to
cash in on the popularity of the earlier
film on the same subject. Spencer Tracy
and Mickey Rooney still fill the main
parts, but the film is pretty sticky going.
Sydney Lyceum has “Freedom Radio,”
and the title just about explains it. Clive
Brook is a doctor opposed to the Nazi
regime, and Diana Wynyard, his wife, is
fiercely pro-Adolf. It works out into
an f.a.q. entertainer with some nice acting
from the principals, particularly Brook.
“Penny Serenade,” at Sydney State:
not a comedy as might be expected from
the fact that Irene Dunne and Cary Grant
are the main figures, but a highly senti-
mental tale on the marital difficulties of
a couple unable to have their own
children and just managing to make
enough to satisfy the law that they can
look after one they’ve adopted. There s
some realism in the domestic settings and
one good laugh when Grant and Miss
Dunne have their first experience in look-
ing after a five-weeks-old infant.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Fire on the Snow”
Douglas Stewart’s verse play for radio,
first broadcast on June 8, was given a
repeat performance by A.B.C. last
Friday night. The most notable work
of this Maoriland-born poet to date, it
is more important as a poem than as a
play, though the natural dramatic quality
of what it treats of—the tragedy of Scott,
Wilson, Bowers, Evans and Oates on the
Antarctic ice in 1912 —the powerful state-
ment it makes on a theme of supreme and
absolute human heroism, and, as well,
the strong reality in the cold awe of its
setting, add up to uncommonly impres-
sive radio drama.
It has none of the mechanical char-
acter common in radio plays—or rather
it should have none, given a little more
understanding in production. Practically
all radio plays suffer from one serious
and easily remedied defect —they give the
effect of the players waiting on each
other to come in with their own bits.
They do not merge ; they are so many
separate parts separately played. This
could be easily overcome by having two
or three voices just occasionally speak-
ing together. Whenever a player’s con-
eluding words are of little importance —
some of them should be deliberately
made so for the purpose—the next player
should begin while they are still being
spoken. If this happened half a dozen
times in this play it would be vastly im-
proved as a play. Perhaps radio play-
wrights should see to this in their tech-
nique ; when they don’t, it should be seen
to by the producer.
However, production and acting of
“Fire on the Snow” were as a whole
sound enough to convey a good deal of
the play’s vivid reality, and something
of the quality of its poetry. As well as
the five men, and also the setting, which
haunts the action like a relentless living
presence, the characters include a Voice
—an “Announcer” who bridges the time
gaps and so consolidates the action, from
time to time summing up, as it were, on
the progress of the men towards the Pole
and during their tragic retreat, emphasis-
ing and clarifying the heroic meaning of
their effort. This part was taken by Ida
Osborne-—a definite “find” ; a first-rate
verse-speaker who showed what the men
players did not, a right feeling for the
clear poetry of the play.
* * * *
Fifth orchestral concert of the season
at Sydney Conservatorium had as its main
features a very fair performance of Beet-
hoven’s Fourth Symphony—the composer
in his most courageous and cheerful
mood —and a first presentation of “Ballad
for Orchestra” by the Corn’s own Frank
Hutchens. The Hutchens work is a nice
piece of scoring in the romantic style
and should have a place in future pro-
grammes. Dr. Bainton conducted.
Dorothy Helmrich sang, with orchestral
background, two Handel arias and the
cavatina from Borodin’s “Prince Igor.”
She has an impressive manner.
* * * *
A patriotic orchestral concert at Sydney
Town Hall under A.B.C. auspices in-
troduced the English conductor Tyrer
Anderson, whose work “Dr. Faustus” was
the main feature of the evening. There
can be little doubt as to the meaning and
significance of this composition, as a loud,
clear voice speaks through it continuously,
only occasionally drowned by choral
inundations. It seems a pleasant-enough
treatment of the old legend, but, faulty
volume control took away most of its
value as a broadcast entertainment.
* * * *
Doris Fitton’s Independents have
moved Diana Morgan’s “The House in
the Square” on to the stage of their North
Sydney theatre and find themselves com-
pletely at home there. If the play—it
tells in half a dozen scenes spaced between
1910 and the years of the Great War
and the first year of this present war the
reactions of an aristocratic English family
to the problems of the time —has very
little new comment to make, it still offers
splendid opportunities for characterisa-
tion by the players. And the Indepen-
dents seize upon them avidly. All
through the production would be difficult
to fault. Hilda Dorrington as Lady
Mountstephan is outstanding.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Poverty Pointers shook
their heads when the Comedy Theatre in
Melbourne opened with a green curtain
and were confirmed in their belief that it
had a hoodoo on it when its first con-
ductor collapsed and died backstage and
subsequently leading American actor
Richard Faversham coughed his false
teeth out in the middle of a performance.
The hoary superstition went west last
week, when “Susan and God” celebrated
its 100th performance, the third play to
do it in the theatrical history of Mel-
bourne. “Peg o’ My Heart” (1916) and
“The Patsy” (1927) were the others, but
they didn’t have the competition of the
talkies. Part of “Susan’s” success was,
as usual, due to the free publicity given
to it by the indignation of the unco guid
at the Deity’s name being associated with
that of a common hussy.
ARTBURSTS
Albert J. Sherman, a Sydney artist, is
showing still-life oils at Sedon’s, Mel-
bourne. On the last occasion he ex-
hibited in the southern city he nearly sold
out within two days. But nowadays his
academic approach would be regarded
as a symbol for old fogeyism by the
majority of the local cognoscenti, Mel-
bourne having gone completely modern.
Whether the new fashions are any better
than the old is a matter of opinion.
From the point of view of giving some-
thing of the effect of Nature, these too-
insistent blooms of Mr. Sherman’s and
the bunches of grapes in which each
grape is painted separately with its in-
dividual highlight are no more pleasing
than the strange contortions of the
moderns.
* * * *
There is little in the show of the New
Melbourne Art Club at the Athenaeum —
reduced from ten to five exhibitors in the
latest instance—which, pictorially speak-
ing, couldn’t be called current gossip.
Like the comments on the cables by the
military experts of the dailies, the pic-
tures tell what everybody knows, and
exhibitors reveal a lack of penetration
which is almost unanimous, despite wide
differences in the way they use their
mediums. In “Trains,” “Onion Seed” and
“Industry,” Lucy Newell makes attenu-
ated use of natural patterns that would
make a surrealist’s designs look simple,
and Len Annois supplies water-colors
after the style of architects’ drawings.
Sybil Craig gives some of the turbulence
of a rock pool in “Sketch at Black Rock,”
and Anne Montgomery exploits the style
of the Japanese masters without having
noticed that a single brushstroke may be
conditioned by a lifetime of observation.
* * * *
Daryl Lindsay, Keeper of the Prints at
the Victorian National Gallery, has
brought out another interesting exhibition.
For some reason or other, Adelaide Gal-
lery has been specialising in Indian draw-
ings and paintings, and has loaned its
rich and arresting collection. They go
back several centuries and show all sorts
of influences —Persian, Chinese, Arabian,
Greek and even the Royal Academy of
England. Early Italian drawings from
the Melbourne Gallery’s own collection
include most of the Old Masters, but a
collection of English contemporary draw-
ings from the N. S. Wales National Gal-
lery looks like a poor advertisement for
the taste of that institution. The two
pictures by the Sydney surrealists, Glee-
son and Thake, which caused a recent
rumpus among the Gallery trustees, have
been hung in the august company of
Modigliani, Derain and Rodin.
Con Drew, writer of many a Bulletin
story and par., reported as in a Brisbane
hospital on 23/7/’4l, is now a patient at
Clairvaux, Ray-avenue, Vaucluse, Sydney.


THE SERVICE MAN
From Bod to Worse.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian situation
began to deteriorate rapidly at the end
of the first week in August.
On August 12 Losovsky announced
that the Germans were being held on all
fronts, and that any claims they made to
successes were lies. He accused the
invaders of every kind of atrocity—
“things which one ordinarily would not
attribute to the lower orders of wild
beasts.”
But a Red Army communique issued
the same night showed that the enemy
was making 5 disquieting progress. It was
admitted that Smolensk had been aban-
doned to the Germans “some days ago,”
and that there was fighting at Staraya-
Russa, just to the south of Lake
Ilmen on the east-west railway link
between the Leningrad-Moscow and
Leningrad-Vitebsk lines. This meant
that another German spearhead had been
pushed out north of Kholm, which was
reached before the previous week-end,
and that a drive of a further 60 miles
would enable the Germans to cut off rail
communication between Moscow and
Leningrad.
Further south another attack 104 miles
from the Latvian border was threatening
the Leningrad-Moscow railway and its
laterals in another place—at the vital
junction of Bologoe, behind the Valdai
Hills. In the south the venue of the
main battle was given as Byelaya-
Tserkov, about 45 miles almost due south
of Kiev. At an unnamed point, two Ger-
man Viking mechanised battalions and
a Black Guard division had been put to
(light, leaving 7500 dead and a large
quantity of arms and equipment behind.
A Soviet submarine had sunk a 15,000-
ton tanker in the Baltic, and 43 German
aeroplanes had been shot down the pre-
vious day for a loss of 35 Russian
machines.
On the evening of August 14 a German
High Command communique said that
“the irresistible drive” of the German,
Hungarian, Rumanian and Italian armies
between the Dniester and the Dnieper
rivers was rapidly breaking down Red
Army defences, which were threatened
with collapse. Nikolaev was cut off; so
was Odessa, which was ringed by the
Rumanians. All Soviet forces west of
the Bug, which flows into the Black Sea
at Nikolaev, were in danger of annihila-
tion. German mechanised forces had
penetrated far east of Kiev. The Luft-
waffe had destroyed two transports off
Odessa and Nikolaev and severely dam-
aged five other large ships. The Russians
had lost 121 ’planes in the air and 66
on the ground the previous day. Two
Russian' destroyers also had been
damaged. The Finns, for their part,
claimed to have ringed Russians in on
the coast of Lake Ladoga, where the
defenders were fighting to the last man.
Lastly, the southern portion of the
Ukrainian iron field, which yields 61 p.c.
of Russian production, according to the
German calculation, had been captured.
And since the German armies had
reached these objectives, and the Ftihrer
had moved up to the front lines, the
campaign could be considered as finished.
“All lies,” said Losovsky. Odessa and
Marshal Budenny were encircled only
by the German Propaganda Bureau.
Budenny’s armies were not encircled but
had withdrawn to a new front east of
the Bug in good order. The rest of the
German claims were “mere wishful
thinking.” The Germans had lost four
torpedo boats and other ships in the
Baltic ; also, 74 German ’planes had been
shot down on Wednesday against a loss
of 27 Russians.
But almost at once it was admitted by
Moscow that Kirovo-bad and Pervomaisk,
near the Bug, about 70 miles s.-e. of
Uman, had been abandoned. A London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent an-
nounced that 10 divisions of Russian
troops had been rushed from Kharkov to
defend the bulge in the" Dnieper River
in the Dnepropetrovsk area —next to
Moscow the most important industrial
district of the U.S.S.R.
The whole position by Thursday left
little room for optimism.
At their nearest point in the north at
Narva, on the Estonian border, the Ger-
mans were within 75 miles of Leningrad.
South of that city they had formed a
semicircle of approach spearheads from
120 to 130 miles away. They had straight-
ened their frontal positions so that they
ran in an almost direct line just east of
the 32nd degree of longitude, from Lake
Ilmen through Smolensk to Nikolaev on
the Black Sea.
They had made three drives, each of
which had pushed the Russians back.
A further push of 200-odd miles would
see the largest industrial and mining
centres in their hands or encircled, as
well as all the cities in Russia proper
with populations of 500,000 or over
—Moscow (4,137,000), Leningrad
(3,191,000), Kiev (846,000), Kharkov
(833,000), Odessa (604,000), Dnepro-
petrovsk (500,660), and 30 others with
populations of from 80,000 to 278,000.
The biggest ports and shipyards of Euro-
pean Russia would be cut off or
blockaded.
The week-end brought the usual bundle
of contradictions. The Germans claimed
that on Friday the Luftwaffe had shot
down 80 Russian machines ; that it had
“blasted the Soviet rail communications
between Leningrad and Moscow to bits,”
that General Kesselring’s Air Army
—transferred from western France to the
central Russian front —had up to August
7 destroyed 126 Russian supply trains
and 15 bridges; that between July 22
and August 13 Moscow, “night after
night and day after day,” had been
“forced to feel the telling effect of Ger-
man bombing,” and that its “military
and industrial centre” had been “levelled
to the ground.” The enemy alleged that
there was hopeless confusion among the
Russian armies in the Ukraine, arising
“from perhaps the greatest battle of all
time.” Odessa was a mass of flames ; a
cruiser in the harbor had been damaged
along with docks and other shipping, and
vast remnants of Budenny’s army were
being hurled back in pockets to the
Dnieper, the eastward bulge of which
must form a trap for any large force
heavily equipped and in a hurry. And
an early invasion of the Crimea could
be expected.
The Luftwaffe, enemy reports went on,
was carrying out a gigantic campaign to
prevent the escape of Budenny’s men.
Berlin jeered at Moscow’s admission that
the German armies had taken Kirovo-
bad (Gandja)—which daily papers mis-
took for Kirovo, formerly Zinovievsk —
about 100 miles n.-w. of Odessa, and Per-
vomaisk, south-east of Uman. The news.
Berlin said, was stale —a week old, as the
capture of the great iron centre of Krivoi-
Rog, over 100 miles e.-s.-e. of Pervo-
maisk, showed. The enemy “apologised”
for the necessity which forced the Ger-
man High Command to give only re-
stricted information about fighting, since
it would be handing information to
Moscow on a platter, and insisted that
the weather in the Ukraine was wet, the
rivers swollen.
The Russians have not and never have
had any clear picture of what is taking
place in the fighting. Their confusion is
so great that they do not know even what
is happening in their own lines with any
degree of certainty.
All this, if true, was serious for the
defenders, since Krivoi-Rog, apart from
its own importance as an ore centre, is
only 100 miles from Dnepropetrovsk, the
largest city and heart of the Dnieperstroy
industrial region. The Russians, however,
flatly denied the capture of Krivoi-Rog,
though they admited that it was threat-
ened. On Saturday night the Germans
asserted that not only was Krivoi-Rog in
their hands, but they were at Nikopol, 30
miles eastward.
Later they claimed the capture of
Nikolaev and failure of the Russians to
evacuate the garrison by sea.
In effect, if the enemy is not lying, he
has cut off all rail communication from
the north —from Dnepropetrovsk and
Moscow —with Odessa, Nikolaev and
Kherson. He has severed all the main
direct routes between Kiev, the Dnieper-
stroy region and the Crimea. He
threatens the main road and railway into
the Crimea itself, and has squeezed in
on the southern flank of such of
Budenny’s troops as may be in the
Dnieper bulge, at a point which a retir-
ing army would most wish to keep an
enemy out. If the Germans are at Niko-
pol they are only 70 miles from Dnepro-
petrovsk, their forces sitting astride some
of the richest mineral and industrial
centres of the Ukraine. They have
almost completely crossed the Ukraine,
nearly 500 miles from the Novgorod-
Volynsk sector, in three weeks, judging
by Russian statements as to their position
three weeks ago.
Another 200 miles would take the Ger-
mans into the north Caucasian region
and give them control of or access to
ports on the north of the Black Sea and
of the main railway to the Caucasus from
Moscow, which travels via Rostov.
Moscow reported on Saturday that the
Red Air Force was delivering “smashing
blows” in the Ukraine, wrecking aero-
dromes, plant and troop formations.
Along the whole line, from the Baltic to
the Black Sea, fierce fighting was in pro-
gress, and the German High Command
was in a “general state of dejection.” In
the Leningrad area the fight was parti-
cularly fierce round Staraya-Russa and
Kholm. In the centre, round Smolensk,
the large attempt at an offensive by the
Huns had been a colossal failure and the
district was “a huge graveyard” for them.
The Red Army was digging itself in
round the ruins of Smolensk.
In the Ukraine, according to Mos-
cow, Marshal Budenny’s armies were still
intact at the week-end, moving in orderly
fashion across the Dnieper to anew line.
Odessa was strongly held, and air attacks
against it had been consistently driven off.
The Black Sea was still under Russian
naval and air control, the Crimea not
even threatened ; and the few German
machines which had approached Moscow
were “compelled by overwhelming fire
power to turn tail.” On the other hand,
German cities, particularly Berlin and
Stettin, were “learning for the first time
from the Red Air Force what it is like to
be bombed.”
The Finns were pictured as carrying
on only an apathetic campaign which was
getting them nowhere in the face of the
scorched-earth policy. Nothing was said
of the capture of Sortavala, from which
Finnish headquarters reported that the
Russians “Dunkirked” over Lake Ladoga.
On Saturday night (10.5 Sydney time)
the German Army was painted as
demoralised by “desertions of enormous
proportions,” which the German High
Command, through a specially consti-
tuted commission, was punishing by re-
prisals against the relatives of the
deserters. The 160th German Infantry
and “many other units” had mutinied.
But on Sunday the Russians admitted
the loss of Krivoi-Rog and Nikolaev,
saying that their forces blew up the
Nikolaev dockyards before evacuating
the city. At Krivoi-Rog the Germans,
according to their own account, took 7000
prisoners. In the previous week they had
reckoned their total of prisoners at a
million.
On the whole, there is a grimmer note
about the Russian front. The Germans
have ceased to pay compliments to the
fighting quality of Russian soldiers, and
the Russians pile atrocity story on
atrocity story.
There is one good sign. Asa postscript
to their eight-point declaration of prin-
ciples, Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt
addressed a Note to Stalin stressing “the
splendid defence you are making against
the Nazi attack,” assuring him that co-
operation in providing him “with the
very maximum of supplies you most
urgently need (many shiploads have left
our shores)” would continue, and offering
to send “high representatives” to Moscow
“to discuss the position in the light of
the fact that we must now turn our minds
to a more long-term policy, since there
,is still a long, hard path to be
traversed.” Important as it is to keep
the Russians in the war, they would
scarcely take these measures if they
thought Russia was in danger of an early
collapse.
In the Near North.
“Fong Tsz”: Rumor succeeded rumor
last week. The whole Japanese battle
fleet was in Saigon Harbor. Then the whole
Japanese battle fleet was not in Saigon
Harbor. Its admirals would be stark
staring mad if it was there with any war-
like intent. Saigon Harbor is 2500 miles
from any first-line Japanese naval base,
and is entirely surrounded by British, U.S.
and Netherlander flying-boat centres a few
hundred miles away, all of them equipped
with the types of heavy machines which
followed and crippled the Bismarck.
M. Ishii, the Japanese Foreign Office
spokesman, assured a press conference
that, though there were bound to be inci-
dents along the ill-defined Manchurian
border, relations with the Soviets were
“good and cordial,” and it was expected
that the report of the joint commission
dealing with the demarcation of the
border would be available shortly.
The meeting of Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Roosevelt brought no comments from the
Japanese Foreign Office. Mr. Ishii said
the statement was “a big one which must
be studied first.”
Almost simultaneously with its general
publication in the Far East, Washington
announced that the first tanker with
aviation spirit for the Red Air Force had
left for Vladivostok. The ship, which
carries only 95,000 gallons of spirit, is
the first of several. Russian ships, too,
were reported to have loaded supplies
for Vladivostok in the Indies. Only a
few weeks ago the Japanese were rejoic-
ing at the presence of these vessels in
Thailand’s zone, as a rebuff to “British
imperialism.” Finally came the news
that the British Board of Trade had for-
bidden the export of all British goods to
Japan save under license, and that all
existing licenses were suspended pending
the issue of new ones. Trade had already
virtually ceased for some time.
As for the position in Thailand, the
Thai Government expressed “gratifica-
tion” at British and U.S. declarations that
Thailand would be aided against any
aggressor. Tokyo proclaimed that, to
“enhance our traditional friendship,”
the status of the Japanese-Thai lega-
tions would be raised to that of em-
bassies, and on Saturday morning the
new Japanese ambassador was hastily
sworn in.
An event which caused the most pro-
found sensation throughout the Near
North was the arrival in Singapore of
substantial reinforcements for the A.I.F.
They arrived in “the largest convoy that
ever reached Singapore,” were met by the
commanders of all the British forces in
Malaya and poured up the gangways,
bronzed, fit and in a seemingly endless
stream. Even the German reporters in
Shanghai, usually contemptuous of every-
thing British, referred to the Australians
almost with deference.
For hours the word “Australia,” as
rendered in the multifarious dialects of
Asia, rang through the ether. And
Major-General Gordon Bennett was
heard impressing on the Asiatics that,
while Britain’s enemies might count their
men in millions, “we measure ours in
spirit and determination.”
In Australia another “political crisis”
loomed up, and the Kasima Maru, the
only Japanese ship remaining in a trade
that had continued without interruption
for half a century, set out from Sydney.
But it was not a bad sign that 19
Japanese cancelled their passages at the
last minute. One of these was the repre-
sentative of the wool firm of Kanematsu,
whose name is perpetuated at the Kane-
matsu Institute in Sydney Flospital. A
passenger remarked that he did not think
there were going to be hostilities in the
Pacific. The vessel called at Brisbane
for wool, and her captain hopes to coal
her in the Philippines.
On Sunday night the Tokyo Broad-
casting Corporation struck a milder note,
suggesting that some discreet official had
said a restraining or reassuring word in
its ear.
Mr. Roosevelt, too, was reassuring.
He told interviewers that Mr. Churchill
and he himself were in complete agree-
ment on all aspects of the war situation,
including Russia and the Far East, and
he added: “Nothing I have done has
brought the United States any closer to
armed participation in the war.”
Blitzkrieg in Germany.
“Aileron”: The Germans are haying
so bad a time at the hands of British
bombing squadrons that they sound hard
put to it to conceal their concern. The
Russian raids on Berlin were a fleabite
to what the R.A.F. has since been giving
western Germany and occupied France.
It has been operating over a dozen
cities, including Berlin, with 800
machines, ranging from Stirlings and
Flying Fortresses to Wellingtons and
Blenheims. In point of lifting power and
flexibility of range no more powerful
bombing force has been used by either
side. The Germans more
machines in some of last summer’s raids
over Britain, but for the most part they
were not in the same street with the
four-engined monsters which formed the
staple of the extreme-range attacks on
the night of Tuesday, August 12, and
their Bombs were far less destructive than
the vast mushrooming 20001 b. horrors
in which the R.A.F. now deals.
That R.A.F. attack went on right
round the clock. It was, as one pilot said,
“a regular Cook’s tour.” There was a
visit to Berlin, and the glint of the first
flares on the golden domes of that wide-
spread, rococo city was like the striking
of a match which starts a bushfire. For
two hours the huge flotillas cruised back-
ward and forward, watching the ex-
plosions open out like flowers and the
red glare spread like a sunrise. The view
was partly spoilt by sullen weather and
heavy, rolling clouds, but the ’planes flew
low. „ .
' The Ruhr was full of the hum of four
engines singing in unison. The battered
Krupp works at Essen had three new
bonfires flaring up beside the dying


Personal and Missing Friends.
HENRY WHEATTELL (or WHEATALL)
BRIGHT (son of Henry Bright and Martha
Frances Bright). Aged 77 years. Anyone know-
ing his present whereabouts is requested to
communicate with MESSRS. DAVIES, CAMP-
BELL & PIESSE, Solicitors, 403 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
INFORMATION is required as to WILLIAM
ROBERTSON, last heard of in Queensland, a
son of Mrs. Lilian Amelia Robertson, formerly
of Imperial Hotel, Launceston. —Particulars re-
quired by
CLARKE & GEE,
Solicitors, Launceston.
WILL RUBY FRANZ, born Ist Aug., 1914,
and PEARLY MAY FRANZ, born 30th June,
1915, children of Tristam Berthold Franz, some-
times known as Frank Franz, and Elizabeth
Earsman, or any person knowing their present
address, please communicate with MULLETT
& LANGFORD, Solicitors, 395 Collins Street,
Melbourne, to hear something to their advan-
tage?
John William Cogan, Deceased.
INFORMATION is required as to the where-
abouts of PANZA MAUD COGAN, formerly
of Carrieton, in the State of South Australia,
Spinster, a daughter of the abovenamed
deceased, who is believed to have left her home-
town in or about the year 1908. Any informa-
tion establishing her identity or leading to her
whereabouts will be to her material advantage
and should be communicated immediately to
the undersigned. VILLENEUVE SMITH &
HARFORD, of Mutual Life Chambers, 44
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, Solicitors for Claude
Victor Cogan, Administrator of the Estate of
John William Cogan, Deceased.
embers of the previous week’s blazes.
Cologne, Kiel, Hamburg, Osnabriick,
Magdeburg and Duisberg were all in-
cluded in the visitation. Bombers flew up
and down the Dutch coast as freely and
at as low an altitude as those which had
circled the Cologne powerhouse chim-
neys, and the party was called off only
because Wednesday night’s atmosphere
was made mainly of pea soup and greased
lightning.
Early on Wednesday the Germans did
a little raiding on their own account.
A few ’planes turned up off the n.-e.
English coast, apparently for the purpose
of providing Dr. Goebbels with a slender
thread of fact on which to hang a heavy
yarn about “an intensive raid on a great
industrial foundry centre south of Whitby
(Yorks),” in which the raiders took the
British “completely by surprise,” and left
before they could be attacked, after
blowing up “a great industrial plant.”
Berlin Radio announced that the High
Command had decided that in future
there should be absolute frankness in the
disclosure of damage done by “British
raiders.” But the only real damage of
which German propagandists seemed to
have heard was the destruction of 61
British machines, including 20 four-
engined bombers, and not a single
German machine lost!
The Air Ministry estimated losses at
13 bombers and eight fighters in daylight
raids and 14 bombers at night. Though
the reckoning doesn’t read well, it was
small compared with the losses of 100
to 200 suffered daily by the Luftwaffe
during the heat of the August-September,
1940, attacks on Britain.
Northern France’s share of the blast
came from a few squadrons of Hamp-
dens, which devoted themselves to tearing
up the railways of Pas de Calais and
St. Omer. And Norwegian shipping had
a rough time.
In one sense the day was a landmark
in the fighter world, for it was the day
on which the Whirlwinds, daughters of
the Hurricanes, were first used as escorts.
They are among the speediest craft yet
created, and with cannon and power-
operated turrets they are horrible adver-
saries.
Wednesday night saw little aircraft
abroad because of the state of the
weather, but the daylight sweeps over the
French coast continued and 14 Messer-
schmitts were wrecked.
Thursday saw the raids in full blast
again, with 300 bombers operating
over Hamburg, Magdeburg, Brunswick,
Boulogne, Rotterdam docks and the
Frisian islands. And the fighters were at
work as usual. Three Polish Spitfire
squadrons, co-operating over France,
knocked down 13 enemy machines in 13
minutes on Friday afternoon. Twelve
British bombers were lost in the German
raids —the Germans at first claimed only
11.
There was no respite to follow. The
Red Air Force bombed Berlin and
Stettin on Friday night, while the R.A.F.
roamed over the Rhineland and the
Ruhr distributing trouble. On Saturday
night it was at it again. Cologne, Duis-
berg, Diisseldorf were in the programme.
Ostend and Rotterdam were raided in
bad weather.
The Fighter Command made two
sweeps in daylight on Saturday, bombing
railways and an aerodrome, ranging as
far afield as Brest and shooting down 19
enemy aircraft, of which six were ac-
counted for by an Australian squadron.
Four British machines were lost.
An Australian Sunderland scored a vic-
tory over a big Focke-Wulf Kurier four-
engined patrol bomber, sending her home
trailing smoke.
The almost complete lull in the North
Atlantic sea war is largely due to the
withdrawal of large numbers of heavy
enemy aircraft. Sinkings have been re-
duced remarkably according to guarded
official reports, though the Germans every
day make a point of telling of the destruc-
tion of ships by aircraft round the British
coast.
By Sunday the German attempts to
explain what was happening in Germany
were almost hysterical. It was alleged as
an example of the “horrible damage” in-
flicted by the Luftwaffe that the R.A.F.
had lost 200 machines inside a month,
and sceptics were referred to Mr. Attlee’s
announcement that July losses among
civilians in Britain had been 500—which
is less than one-tenth of the loss in most
previous months since August, 1940. The
Germans admitted to losses of 298
civilians during July, but they assured
the world that British bombers did not
and could not penetrate Berlin or most
of the other large towns they were said to
have attacked. R.A.F. photographs tell
the story.
The R.A.F. campaign, in fact, has
assumed the scale of last year’s German
offensive. It has been going on against
big cities longer and with greater con-
tinuity than any of the German
onslaughts on great English provincial
cities. The raiders have been more selec-
tive than the cut-and-run Hitlers of the
air. They are using greater and more
deadly bombs and superior bomb-sighting
to any in use last year when the first
Blitz was in being.
The R.A.F. attacks are costing Ger-
many factories, power resources, skilled
lives, continuous loss of rest and sleep.
They assure, as winter approaches, that
dozens of large communities will have to
add fear and suspense to the hunger and
cold which the R.N.’s blockade imposes
on them ever more tightly. In this respect
the hardship and general effect on morale
will be greater than in Britain, because
the British winter is mild compared with
the German winter.
And the moral effect on occupied Con-
tinental countries cannot be discounted.
In the Mediterranean.
“Ente Marid”: Though dwarfed by
other events, there has been movement
in the Middle East and Mediterranean
sectors. Bombing has continued daily on
both sides from Gondar, the last Italian
outpost in Ethiopia, to Tripoli, and from
the Aegean to Sicily. Bristol bombers
operating over Greece closed the Corinth
Canal.
The Germans claimed to have bombed
and broken up British forces near Solium
and to have destroyed munitions dumps
at Tobruk and started large fires there.
Cairo H.Q., however, says there is “no
change in the situation in Libya.”
The Italians reported the bombing of
Malta on three occasions and the shoot-
ing down of a Blenheim by an Italian
submarine.
They admitted attacks by British air-
craft on Syracuse and Catania, with
“damage and casualties.” The Germans,
after raids on the Suez zone, declared
that railway yards had been wrecked
and that at Ismailia there had been
“serious” damage and loss of life—in
fact, Canal traffic had been disorganised.
Axis shipping has had a bad time in
the Mediterranean. On Thursday and
Friday a convoy of five merchant ships
escorted by destroyers was attacked south
of Sicily. Three merchant ships and one
destroyer were hit by torpedoes and one
ship was last seen belching black smoke.
Another was listing heavily, and the crew
of a destroyer was being transferred to
another. Two of the damaged ships and
a destroyer had disappeared from the
convoy when it was next noticed.
On Friday Blenheims blew up a tanker
and severely damaged another, which was
left seemingly on fire.
H.M.A.S. Blank Comes Home.
“Nobby II”: An Australian warship
whose name has been printed in the
reports of glorious episodes has returned
home with her Australian captain and her
almost wholly Australian crew looking
fighting fit.
She had been six months in the Medi-
terranean, during which she was bombed
so often that she became one of the
world’s most seasoned target ships—but
she was hit only once. This immunity
means more to naval men than to the
public.
The ship joined Cunningham’s harriers
at Alexandria at Christmas, 1940, reliev-
ing another of her kind which had already
earned a full measure of decorations and
wound stripes. She was immediately sent
to the Aegean with another ship—the pair
became known as “The Hair-trigger
Twins”—but occasionally joined the main
pack for a full-dress hunt. Their crews’
first glimpse of the enemy came in Suda
Bay, where they were fuelling, when a
bomber tried to practise on them.
Then they were with the large convoys
in the Sicilian Straits which suffered the
first German attack of magnitude from
the air. It was in this engagement that
H.M.A.C. Illustrious was hit and H.M.S.
Southampton sunk. But the Australian
ship did not catch her first real taste of
bombing till she lay afterwards in Malta
dockyard, when about 70 German and
Italian machines came sailing over in
three waves to finish off Illustrious, which
was once hit, but not badly damaged.
The A.C.’s Australian neighbor was
“lifted about three feet out of the water”
by a “loose one” which fell between her
and the dockyard wall; but so little
harm, was done that she later plunged
into the fray off Matapan, still able to
travel full speed.
While H.M.A.S. Blank was holiday-
making amid the Ju 87’s and 88’s in
Malta, H.M.’s ammunition ship Essex
collected a bomb in her engine room.
She had just finished unloading a cargo
of seed spuds, leaving tons of 4in. ammu-
nition showing as bare as a new-born
baby close to the bonfire which the Hun
pill started. The Luftwaffe continued to
bomb the burning ship ; and as that ill-
fated vessel was only about five fathoms
from the stern of the Australian, and was
expected to blow up any second, a
prudent fire party, consisting of Lieut.
C. J. P. Guille, who afterwards got an
O. Leading-stokers P. G. Allon and
P. P. Larner and the canteen manager,
A. T. R. Hawkins —they received British
Empire Medals —went off at the double
and got the first hose going on the Essex
in much less time than it takes to tell.
Before long, there were eight hoses spout-
ing. That sort of thing is all in the day’s
work in Malta.
The ship steamed eastward to greater
things—to act “as a decoy and target” in
the battle of Matapan. She was steaming
to join Cunningham’s herd of leviathans
on the early morning of March 28 when
her lookouts sighted the Italian cruiser
fleet. Progress was regulated to entice the
Bin.-gun Italian cruisers to follow.
For three-quarters of an hour the
Italians entered into the game with great
spirit* but turned away to join a battleship.
H.M.A.S. Blank was just dodging along
outside Bin.-gun range, and the sudden
incursion of a 15in.-gun ship into the game
had something of the same effect as the
arrival of Joe Louis in the midst of a
featherweight free-for-all. Pursued by a
few 19001 b. expressions of goodwill from
the battleship, the Australian retired be-
hind a smokescreen, rejoined the fleet and
saw the fun out.
Now she became again a member of
a notable partnership in the Aegean patrol,
with the other half of “The Hair-trigger
Twins.” The pair had the reputation of
opening up at sight and without inquiring
on anything which appeared within range
in the air. For variety, she helped in
the bombardment of Tripoli, and she was
right through the Grecian and Cretan
evacuations.
Her experience in Grecian waters
began while the Germans were trying to
mine the Piraeus on the day of Marshal
List’s invasion of the country. She
was almost first off the port in the
evacuation, covered convoys, took the
passengers and crews from disabled ships
and generally learned the art of bomb-
dodging in a Blitz. This was just as well,
for on the first day of the Crete in-
vasion H.M.A.S. Blank was bombed for
five hours as she waited somewhere west
of Cape Vouxa to ward off any attempt
at naval invasion—the Juno, destroyer,
was sunk near her.
Next day she patrolled the Inner
Aegean, coming sometimes within ten
miles or so of enemy air bases, sank a
caique which was full of Germans —they
fired on her with an A.T. gun—and was
right in the thick of the great German
air attack on the heavy British fleet, firing
until she had only 100 rounds of A.A.
ammunition left.
She returned to Alexandria on the
third day, nursing minor below-water
damage. Back in Crete, she did a gal-
lant job, clearing men off the open beach
at Sphakaia, where most of the Stuka
attacks were concentrated on her. That
day she was hit by the one bomb which
she collected in six months —on top of the
workshop aft the signal deck—and she
might have got more if two-thirds of an
F.A.A. fighter squadron had not been
there to help drive away 36 German
bombers. The bomb put half the engines
out of action, apart from four killed and
eight wounded.
The taking-off of the troops from
caiques and small boats was even a bigger
job than it had been in Greece, since most
of the soldiery were completely ex-
hausted. They were decanted somehow
—A.I.F., British, Maorilanders, Cretans,
mainland Greeks,
Even after that the crew were not
allowed any rest. Not till they had
figured in most of the operations off the
Syrian coast, finishing with the bombard-
ment of Damour, were they able to come
home for a vacation.
“8.P.”: This must go close to the
record. Beryl Smith, an Adelaide girl,
went into training to become an army
nurse but was dissuaded by her mother.
Mother pointed out that Beryl’s father,
an ex-Light Horseman (he failed to get
into the A.1.F.), was doing garrison duty,
and that her twelve brothers were all in
the A.1.F., seven of them abroad —two
are prisoners of war. So Beryl, as the
last and youngest, should stay at home.
* * * *
Berlin alleges that S’Africa has decided
to build a naval base at Saldanha Bay—
at the behest of President Roosevelt.
* * * *
The King’s visit to the Home Fleet was
the occasion for a great gathering of ships,
through the lines of which it took H.M.S.
George V a full hour to steam. The
King was no stranger to it. There must
have been hundreds of officers and rat-
ings who had served with him in the last
war and who remembered that he had
been at Jutland. The main brace was
spliced in traditional fashion when he
left. But the ceremony has lost some-
thing of its old tang. Strange as it may
seem, a large proportion of modem
sailors don’t like Nelson’s blood.
* * * *
Australia has added telescopic gun-
sights to its list of war manufactures.
They are an intricate job calling for
abstruse calculations which only a round
half-dozen mathematicians in the Com-
monwealth can compass; but under stress
of isolation Australians are doing many
things which before were rated as locally
impossible—and doing them well, too.
* * * *
Escorted by veterans from Tobruk, a
large consignment of Italian prisoners,
mostly from crack regiments, and about
half officers, arrived in Sydney last week.
They were a different lot from those who
were delivered a few months ago. The
prisoners’ ration and the comfortable
voyage seemed to have made new men
of most of them and they were a fine
advertisement for the manner in which
Britain and her Dominions treat captive
foes. There was little illness on the voy-
age, and the prisoners had both their own
and A.I.F. medical officers to care for
them.
* * * *
Mr. Alexander, First Lord of the
Admiralty, said last week that a heavy toll
was being taken of U-boats —July was
the best month since he had gone to the
Admiralty in the middle of last year.
Berlin’s story of sinkings was 407,000
tons, which was only about half the claim
for the previous month. And Colonel
Knox, Secretary to the U.S. Navy, said
that “not a U-boat has been heard or
seen nor an Axis flag sighted in the area
covered by the U.S. naval patrol in the
North Atlantic,” nor, as far as he knew,
had an Axis ’plane been sighted there,
either.
* * * *
Dead on active service, James Ramage
Wright, only son of the George Wrights,
of Sydney and Mudgee. Their only
daughter is Mrs. Burdett Laycock, of
Melbourne. A Geelong Grammar boy—
he was captain of Manifold House and
senior prefect—James Ramage Wright
went to England to continue his studies
for a pastoral career. He worked on a
stud farm in Cambridgeshire and then
at Bradford. Returning home, he was
at Miowera and Canonbar stations,
after which he ran his own property,
Barham, at Linburn, in the Mudgee dis-
trict. But he heard the call of the bugle,
and went abroad at the outbreak of war
w'ith the Reconnaissance Corps of the
6th Division. He was right through the
Libyan campaign to Benghazi.
* # * *
“X.T.”: A queer mentality these Ger-
mans have! Last week they were weep-
ing for the Greeks, deserted in defeat
by the brutal englischer, who had “used
their country for a race-track” and then
starved them with the help of an “illegal”
blockade. Berlin proceeded to record the
humble gratitude of the Greek people,
and particularly the Greek press —Ger-
man-controlled, of course —to Hitler's
legions for the establishment of field
kitchens, and for the “rebuilding of 80
bridges” to permit food to be rushed to
famine districts. No wonder England's
“role is that of the bitter enemy of every
Continental nation,” and that Deutsch-
land is so generally beloved by the
weaker peoples!


Women's Letter's
From Sydney
Kit Marlowe’s “Dr. Faustus” took the
stage at Sydney Town Hall last week to
a musical setting supplied by Eng-
lish composer Anderson Tyrer. With all
his sins, Marlowe’s Faustus seems much
more of a man than Goethe’s hero. The
work made deepest impression, or so it
seemed, on the audience in the moments
of the calling-up of Mephistopheles and
in the last moments of the too-learned
doctor. The Town Hall was far from
crowded for this concert; possibly the
cold wind that seemed to take on added
fury with nightfall had kept many at
home.
The concert, which was in aid of the
Y.W.C.A. mobile kitchens, was organ-
ised by the women’s committee of the
symphony orchestral concerts as part
of the junior Chamber of Commerce
appeal.
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst
listened from the eastern gallery. Like
every second woman, the vice-regal lady
wore a fur coat. Her evening frock was
black and silver. Peter Lubbock, Joan
Holman and Colonel Wynne made up the
Government House party. The com-
poser’s wife wore lilac and silver lame
under a coat of brocade. Chief Justice
Jordan’s wife, the Alexander Gordon
lady, Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. Robert
Dixson, Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar and
pretty Deidre Dalton were others among
the musically-inclined and the fur-
enwrapped.
A foyer fragrant and radiant with
flowers and dizzy with lights greeted the
first-night audience to the new Walt
Disney film “Fantasia.” Lord and Lady
Wakehurst brought daughter Henrietta,
Peter Lubbock and Joan Holman. The
Ralph Doyles’ group included the Free
French Andre Brenacs. Sydney's
Mayoress was another noted. Goodness
knows what the musical .intelligentsia
will say to the company of bright
creatures which Disney’s brain conjures
up to the movements of Beethoven's
“Pastoral” Symphony, but everyone must
love the graceful Mrs. Pegasus watching
over Pegasus junior. Junior, incidentally,
may not suggest a steed for the poet of
Olympian heights and depths ; but he does
suggest a future seat for the topical verse-
writer in quest of mischievous browsings.
Mannequin-parade addicts will feel
quite at home with the centaurettes, and
as for the “Dance of the Hours” every
balletomane should see it. R.K.O. cele-
brated the opening with a buffet lunch at
Usher’s on Saturday. There was no fan-
tasy about the food. It was real, and
the drinks were not earnest. There were
lobster and whitebait and such liquids
that, if woman had not remembered her
waistline, nor man the day after, fantasies
might have ensued that would have made
Walt Disney’s pallid in comparison.
Knight Frederic Eggleston, who goes
off as Australian Minister to China, was
the guest of the League of Nations Union
last Friday. This was in the Palm Court
at the Wentworth, and an arctic wind
nipped ankles that were silk-shod, and
proved an advocate for the wear-more-
wool policy. Here and now it must be
said that the speeches of all were a mix-
ture of good material and unforceful de-
livery. However, China will honor the
new Minister because he is an author and
a thinker. His State Socialism in Vic-
toria is a book that commands atten-
tion.
All present at the luncheon were strong
partisans of the League of Nations ideal.
The Minister for External Affairs was a
speaker. Touching reference was made
to the union’s loss by the death of Pro-
fessor Francis Anderson. China’s
Consul-General and Mrs. Pao were
lunchers ; so was Archbishop Mowll. so
tall and broad beside his brother of the
cloth, the Chinese Bishop Song, from
Chungking.
The Consul-General for China staged
a reception at his Point Piper home for
the new Australian Minister to China.
This was held on Saturday. There were
over 200 guests, including some of the
members of the staff Frederic Eggleston
will take to China with him. Mrs. Pao
hostessed in black. Her ornaments were
of jade.
With “Juno and the Paycock” the Inde-
pendents (whose theatre is at North Syd-
ney) had a success of esteem ; with “A
House in the Square” they look like
having a success of the box office. Last
Saturday in a house full to repletion were
people from as far off as Point Piper.
There were also some people from New
Guinea, though it is not suggested that
they came down specially for the produc-
tion. From a woman’s point of view,
“A House in the Square” is a winner
in the matter of characterisation.
Two studies of aborigine heads by the
inimitable B. E. Minns have been lent
by the National Gallery to the exhibition
of Aboriginal Art in David Jones’s audi-
torium. Of all the photographs of the
rock paintings and the rock carvings one
depicting a kangaroo hunt is most
spirited. In addition to the hunters, there
are lookouts in trees, and down in the
left-hand corner seven men are having a
little wallaby drive on their own account.
Some of the figures are elongated in a
very modernistic manner. For jacket
cover of a thriller there could be no-
thing more awesome than the human
figures as shown by an early artist of
the Tallong tribe. They suggest some
macabre dance. Attracting a great deal of
notice are the water-colors by an Aranda
native. He paints his own country and
his own people.
Heaven knows how long before the
Pharaohs and the Ptolemys these rock
artists lived. The point which this exhi-
bition with its drawings of totems, its
display of weapons and shields brings out
is that the artists of today are introducing
these motifs into their weaving, painting
and even into the murals for public build-
ings and business houses. The Bodega
Wine Co.’s counter is inset with brass
figures showing an emu’s nest, native man
and woman, men dancing. The buffet
of the Great Northern Hotel, Newcastle,
mightn’t show pink elephants, but it does
display a nice line in lizards and other
bushland creatures. Margaret Preston’s
fishes (inspired by Arnhem Land) are as
variegated as a Fair Isle sweater. There
is, too, on some orange curtain material
a line of white emus, each one casting a
suspicious and haughty glance into the
tail feathers of the preceding bird.
Strelsa Heckelman, a clever young
Queensland ballet dancer, looks out from
this Falk photograph.
Enthusiasm is truly the elixir of life
judging by Ernest Fisk and his fellow-
scientists Vonwiller and Dakin at the
Science Exhibition. The last, Sunday
night’s glamor boy of the radio, was as
incisive, as attention-absorbing as ever.
The burr in his voice, so admired by his
fans, was grown in Yorkshire, so a be-
ginning scientist whispered. Knight
Ernest Fisk, in his opening remarks, told
of the radio location detector.
This was a great University rallying-
point. Science graduates had arranged
this “Science on Parade.” It is to benefit
the Students’ Fighter ’Plane Group. After
the preamble it was the thing to amble
amid Nylon stockings, a boon to woman-
hood, ladderless! This Nylon is also
used to make parachutes. Unshrinkable
woollies attracted the wool-next-the-skin
citizen. Here were hideous examples of
the vest shrunk to baby size after one
wash. Here were examples of socks
retaining original shape and length after
several washes in the new way. Synthetic
wool made from sour milk looked attrac-
tive, though any lamb would say bah to
that.
The Free French cause benefited by the
night pathetically enough named “The
Last Time I Saw Paris.” The song itself
was sung with sympathy by Muriel Wil-
son. The evening mixed dance, song and
fashions in a pleasing medley. The party
was a sparkling success, about 400 tickets
at ’ a guinea having been sold. Mrs.
Bertie Scott, the secretary, took no less
than £5O at the door, and didn’t call it
a day till eleven or thereabouts. Two
Borzois were the stars of the night. They
were led by Mrs. Lynn Vickery in the
fashion parade. General de Gaulle was
the dance’s patron ; Lady Poynter, presi-
dent of the committee. Andre Brenac
was vice-patron. He and Mrs. Brenac
entertained a large party.
Dead at 22, Noelline Blundell, of
Sydney. The Bulletin had seen suffi-
cient of her work —she was prize-winner
and frequent contributor to the O.F.M.—
to be aware of her literary promise and
rich sense of humor. Other journals and
radio stations had been impressed with
her quality. She was conducting the
women’s pages of the “Farmer and
Settler” when the fatal illness intervened.
From Melbourne
Inset from Broothorn, Ruth Robertson,
younger daughter of Dr. and Mrs. R.
Affleck Robertson, of Albury. Last week
Ruth and fiance Serg. Frank (otherwise
“Nipper”) Harrison, A.1.F., decided to
terminate the few months of their engage-
ment and be married right away, choosing
seven o’clock next Saturday at Albury
C. of E. as time and place. Ruth, who
has a clerical “hush-hush” job in Mel-
bourne, spends lunch and after five
o’clock hours gathering together a hur-
ried trousseau. She means to be a bride,
for in the family possession is some
beauteous Brussels lace. “Nipper” is the
younger son of Sidney Harrison, of
Armadale.
Recently the A.F.C. Waste Products
Depot celebrated its first birthday.
Though it started life in a small way at
the outbreak of war in Mrs. C. A.
Symons’s garage at Brighton, it moved
only a year ago to occupy the four floors
of an old warehouse in Latrobe-street.
At the moment Mrs. Symons, who is
A.F.C. Commissioner for Waste, is on a
much-needed holiday, but deputy Mrs.
H. H. Burton, secretary Mrs. O. H. Todd
(who has seven sisters in England and
her native Scotland, one of whom mans
an anti-aircraft gun), Mr. and Mrs. Ted
Lightfoot, A. H. Adeney, who takes the
metal scrap to pieces (he says he’s no
mechanic, but he used to be a cocky
in Gippsland and is therefore resource-
ful), are carrying on the good work with
a daily roster of helpers. The depot also
runs an oddments shop where, if there’s
nothing of an Eastern Market flavor to
take the eye, a further choice is at hand
in craftwork for Christmas presents.
The Woollies Appeal (depot first floor
Block Court) has made a pact with itself
to provide 1000 garments a month for
British babies aged between three and
six, and is coming up to scratch—for
there are numbers of women who won’t
knit for the home front but will do so
for abroad. Largest percentage of workers
are wives of basic-wage-earners, who are
allocated materials and who bring back
the finished articles in suitcases so heavy
they can scarcely walk, in brown-paper
parcels or (on wet days) in an old
mackintosh. One country woman who
knits for six sons in the A.I.F. is now
on to baby things she says she likes
lighter-colored wools for the evenings.
Another generous volunteer is a young
woman expecting her own first young
hopeful in a few weeks. Having finished
its layette she had some time on her
hands and completed another outfit for
an overseas youngster.
A sonata recital for the Red Cross by
Violet Ewart and Harry Hutchins was a
musical success in the Assembly Hall, for
these two talented performers are kin-
dred spirits with their respective instru-
ments, piano and violin. The audience
was in musical quality high, but in quan-
tity below par. Reason was simple—no
plan of campaign about selling the
tickets. A bit of “dog-eats-dog” attitude
from a determined committee would have
worked wonders, even though it is the
months of chilblains and sepulchral
coughs and the fire at home is much
more inviting than turning out into a
cold dark night.
On a night more akin to sou’-westers
and gumboots than to evening apparel a
Melbourne audience climbed into gala
attire for the 100th performance of
“Susan and God,” propounded for the
Baby Health Appeal. Lady Dugan, who
leads the simple life these days, made
one of her rare appearances, wearing
petunia and attended by the Paul
Henrys. The house was full and there
was brisk business in the foyer with
sales of flowers at exclusive rates and of
tickets for a case of champagne. Among
helpers were Mrs. Mac Knox, in royal
blue and silver-foxes; Peggy Churton,
in white, pink hyacinths and ribbon in
hair ; brunette Sue Styles ; Heather Fitz-
gerald, in silver lame ; Margaret Cox, in
Angora coat of sentimental blue ;
Dorothy Mattingley, in the same soft
shade of brocade; June Yencken, in
ingenue navy, pin-spotted in white. Baby
Health supporters the Walter Leitches
were present, he doing his best to boost
his own sex sartorially with topper and
carnation of blue-ribbon calibre. After-
wards there was a dance on the stage
complete with orchestra and supper.
To the Red Cross was given 1'
premiere of “Fantasia” at the Savoy
its frame of a festive occasion worthy -
a night of enchantment presented by the
geniuses of the Disney studio to what’s
left of civilisation. Here and in America
audiences are enjoying the film as a
stimulant to the eye, the ear and even
the mildest imagination. If it’s ever
shown in Europe it will be a gift straight
from heaven to hearts bitter with the
barbarism. For a few hours they can
live in another world of fantasy but full
of beauty and whimsical humor. Mel-
bourne’s first-night audience reacted in
varying degrees of favorability. Some
were loquacious, others the reverse. One
woman said it was “too, too ” and
she felt “so, so .” Another found the
film “unusual.”
Lady Dugan loved it and said so, and
also enjoyed a healthy laugh with Lady
Cross and Mrs. Paul Henry at the mush-
room dance from “The Nutcracker
Suite” and the giddy gam boilings of
ostrich and hippo ballerinas in “Dance
of the Hours.” The first three rows of
seats downstairs were given to the ser-
vices and the nurses from Heidelberg
Military Hospital. Evening dress was
prevalent; but so were cock.y little hats
which look just right for such a fixture
from the wearer’s point of view—but those
in the row just behind get to hate such
flowers and bows before the evening is
far advanced.
Possibly the largest Greek wedding of
this generation in Melbourne took place
on Sunday, 17th, when the Very Rev.
Archimandrite Theophylactos Papa-
thanossopoulos, D.D. (known to friends
in and out of his flock as “Pop”), per-
formed the ceremonial for Arginee
Kavadias and Chriss Pappas. The bridal
party, including seven ’maids and their
escorts, wore evening dress in mid-after-
noon, while the rest of the guests were in
daytime apparel. Owing to various per-
suasions of thought in two generations
of the Orthodox Greek Church, the men
present were both hatted and hatless.
Afterwards there was a cocktail party, and
500 guests (many came from Sydney)
were entertained at dinner at Navaretti s.
Off to Sydney to live at the end of
the month the Leith Gillespies and their
two children. They leave with mixed
feelings, for since their marriage some
nine years ago they have made a lot of
friends in this city. Leith relinquishes
University jobs of secretary of the
Appointments Board and man-power
officer. He also did radio broadcasts on
various subjects. His new work will be
with Communications Engineering. Mrs.
Gillespie has been doing a good job for
the past 15 months organising a women’s
roster of voluntary munition workers,
countenanced in one of the University
Engineering School annexes. She’s par-
ticularly regretful at leaving it, for just
lately the work has broadened into wider
and more interesting fields.
Like a snowstorm were the applica-
tions that arrived at Brunswick City
Council headquarters for the assistant’s
job at the Brunswick Baby Health Centre.
The work (or maybe in some cases the
short hours) appealed to some 360 women
of all grades of qualifications, of all sizes
and ages, married, single, widowed and
divorced, some confident with simple
statements, others so verbose that the
council couldn’t get a word in edgewise.
Pay is £2 15s. per week for one whole
day and three half-days of work. The suc-
cessful applicant looks like a wise choice
—Hilda Beanland, a triple certificated
nurse with a bright personality who has
worked at the Women’s and the Won-
thaggi hospital and in several Bush Nurs-
ing centres. She’s a resident of Brunswick
and is delighted to have a job so near
home, for she looks after her invalid
mother.


MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This 013 Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising l how quickly many
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys. .
Your kidneys contain IE miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
3 pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
Is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . .
Used successfully the world over by millionsi
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse v St. George’s Tee., Perth
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
The comfort of a septic tank without any water supply
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and' overflows into the soil.
Provides one of the amenities of City life.
SNO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Efficiency, mechanism and long life fully guaranteed.
đ
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied users.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Plus 20/- war surcharge.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet. 4
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
d
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Invasion
At 2 p.m. on Tuesday, August 12, the
pilot of a Wirraway on patrol off the
North Australian coast was startled to see
“transports” guarded by “warships” head-
ing for Australia—but not sufficiently
startled to forget to give the alarm. Dar-
win’s defences went into action imme-
diately. The R.A.A.F. was there with
bombers and fighters; A.A. guns and
coastal batteries stood ready, and Dar-
win’s A.R.P. personnel waited with grim
watchfulness.
They had not long to wait. Enemy
“bombers and fighters” appeared, and,
though the R.A.A.F. tore into them and
A.A. batteries belched steel into the sky,
incendiary and high-explosive bombs were
dropped on the town. Then our “Navy”
engaged the “invaders” at long range,
while R.A.A.F. bombers went at them
from the sky. Two enemy vessels were
“sent to the bottom” ; another limped off,
having had enough ; “invaders” trying to
break into the harbor fell back under
“withering fire” from coast batteries. But
further along the coast the enemy man-
aged to break through a small defending
garrison and R.A.A.F. bombers and
fighters and effect a landing. Wyndham
was immediately used as a base for air
operations against Darwin.
Things went from bad to worse.
Darwin infantry and the A.I.F. rushed
to battle stations through the swamp and
jungle. But despite heavy “casualties” the
enemy made a landing and defending
artillery had to withdraw. The landing
party advanced on the main R.A.A.F.
base, which was hurriedly evacuated.
In Darwin itself a Fifth Column
organisation had come to light. An
A.R.P. officer was “murdered,” telephone
and water lines were disorganised, the
railway was “sabotaged,” the powerhouse
and wireless station were put “out of
action.” Meanwhile the invaders had cut
the main road and taken our main camp.
It looked, in fact, as though the time
had come to throw in the towel, even if
only for the sake of Darwin’s women
and children.
Then the old Digger spirit manifested
itself again. The Aussies hurled them-
selves against the attackers in some of the
“fiercest and bloodiest fighting” this con-
tinent has ever seen. No quarter was
given and, with the thought of the
shambles that had been Darwin, the new
Diggers surrounded the invaders and
“annihilated” them.
And then, when it was all over and
the “smoke of battle” had cleared away,
the military authorities rubbed their
hands and said it had been a very success-
ful rehearsal of what would happen if
a foreign force descended on Darwin.
And Private Bill Smith wiped the sweat
off his brow and crept wearily back to
his bunk, muttering something like “Not
a casualty not even a female cor-
respondent.”
“Darwarb”: Darwin has formed a
Leaseholders and Prospectors’ Associa-
tion ; fee, five bob a year ; qualification,
bona fide practice of either art. Its aims
are to get anomalies in lease and mining
laws straightened out and to “fight for
the sanctity of the miner’s right.” Ten-
nant Creek and Queensland bodies are
invited to affiliate.
“Norther”: When a Man-power Com-
mittee visited Bowen it asked whether
Bowen could cope with a sudden influx of
population. Then it discovered, in the
person of the local correspondent of the
“N.Q. Register,” one of those district
enthusiasts who are all too rare in this
country. Grabbing his pen the patriot
declared that “we could soon run enough
houses up for all men who care to come
here” and urged the starting of secondary
industries. He then got really warm:
This district could grow enough tomatoes,
pumpkins, potatoes, garden produce, tobacco,
sugarcane, bananas, pineapples, spices, maize,
mangoes, cattle, etc., to feed thousands of
people who at present see very little of these
valuable foods. Our peak year of 471,473
packages (with an average of over a quarter
of a million) could easily be doubled, or quad-
rupled. In the last five years our local meat-
works have treated 167,354 cattle, and we have
produced 1,166,026 tons of coal. In the last
six years we have produced over a million
pounds of gold. We have done more than our
bit in raising cash for war efforts, and have
“What happened?"
“Go/ jammed in the crush at the recruitin' office!"
contributed more than our quota in man-power
for the Boer War, the 1914-18 war and the
present war. We could tin, bottle, preserve,
dehydrate, evaporate or Suncure enough food-
stuffs to feed an army. And the waters of
our coast are full of fish, and provide 10 or
15 thousand tons of pure sea salt to cure them.
Here’s hoping he gets his fair spin!
“Morganite”: A. A. Boyd, of Mt.
Morgan, must have opened the Man-
power Committee’s eyes. He laid before it
plans for treating the local output of blister
copper, reopening the Mt. Chalmers show
and utilising Baralaba coal to generate
cheap electricity for the Dawson Valley
cotton-by-irrigation project. He claimed
that the Callide alone could produce
120,000 bales of cotton a year, and that
Mt. Morgan could manufacture super,
or supply sulphur for its manufacture
elsewhere, adding that 140,000 tons of
sulphur is dumped at the mine each year,
though Australia imports 120,000 tons
annually. A few days later the Economic
Cabinet granted Mt. Morgan a £lO,OOO
loan to work Mt. Chalmers.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Old Dallas is dead at Innis-
fail. He stopped counting after he passed
70, but he was on the Burdekin when it
first grew sugar and cut wood for Fitz-
gerald’s mill. He pulled a boat from
Flying Fish Point to Sundown and back,
delivering meat to the few brave spirits
that had settled along there. One night
in Rankin-street —in times when a hurri-
cane lamp was the illuminant —Dallas
heard a disturbance. He got to the rocks
at the foot of the street as a Jap dis-
appeared in the jaws of a croc.
* * * ♦
Forgan Smith, returning to Queens-
land with a promise of £2,128,000 from
the Loan Council, announced that his
Government would be able to perform
its “first-priority” works, and that em-
ployment would not suffer, because “it
doesn’t matter which authority is spend-
ing the money so long as employment is
provided.” That’s a ruling he ought to
apply to private wage-payers when con-
sidering his next taxation programme.
* * * »
Although, unlike the disappointed
McKell, Forgan Smith has said nothing
about taxation as a result of the Loan
Council decisions, his Government has
undertaken to find extra pay for its em-
ployees and it has to finance a 2\ p.c.
pay-roll tax ; and it will lose in motor
registration fees and Commonwealth
petrol-tax allowance. In his pre-election
speech Foggy promised a “review” of
taxation and, possibly, remissions of the
misnamed “State development tax.” Like
McKell, he is probably thinking that
policy speeches and national war finance
don’t agree.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: Brisbane is to get more
than half the £994,000 coming to
Queensland, via the Loan Council,
for “semi-Government authorities,” and
Lud Mayor Chandler is “quite happy
about it.” Any Mayor would feel
that way given £500,000 to play about
with in war-time. When it was suggested
that Chandler might consider a reduc-
tion in rates on the strength of it he
refused to comment, confining himself
to the pompous statement that “I do not
favor a boom programme of works,
especially in war-time, but the council
wants to maintain essential spending and
to stabilise its labor force.” There is
only one form of essential spending at
present, and that is national defence.
* * * *
“23-4”: The Peace Memorial Scholar-
ship for 1941, worth £1350, and granted
a i Shanghai to the most successful British
candidate of pure-white descent in the
school certificate examination (Cam-
bridge University), has been awarded to
a Queensland University student,
Graham Boyce Wills. The lad —he is 17
—came to Queensland early this year
with his mother and younger brother
from Shanghai, where his father is with
British-American Tobacco.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: To fishermen “freez-
ing” generally connotes either supplies
for the icebox or a condition of the
blanky weather, but as now applied to
Japanese credits it is going to make a
substantial difference to all who use lines,
amateur or professional. Thirty years’
experience under S.Q. conditions has con-
vinced me that the average catch on gut
compared with cord lines is fully 20 p.c.
greater for reef fish, such as snapper,
sweetlip and nannygai, and 25 p.c. for
mackerel on trail lines. Even a gut
bottom of 20ft. or so on a cord line
doesn’t improve matters much. For night
fishing on deep offshore reefs the same
percentage holds. In all cases, the lightest
cord consistent with breaking strength
was used. Why, I don’t even pretend to
guess, but the fact remains that practi-
cally the whole supply of gut lines came
from Japan and it has now frozen up.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
M.K.:
Blitzing Fritzi! Blitzing Fritzi 1
Who’ll come a-blitzing, a-blitzing with me?
P.F.H.: —
To dispose of this would-be Julius Osar,
Have him hang from the leaning tower of Pisa.
R.C.N.:
Who know no law save force and fear?
Who drink by litres lager beer,
Unconscious that their doom is near?
Those Germans!
J P • After the redhead, the end’s pale
H.D.: Unfortunately, “V” stands for verse as
well as for victory J.A.P.: Say it in prose....
ER.J.: “The Racing Game” is a washout.
A.F.: If that’s what tram travelling does
to you, take a bu5....M.0.: You ve a long
way to g 0... .A.R.D.:
Reincarnation
Fires imagination
With wild speculation.
Indeed it does L.J.T.: “Just a sonnet. For
time spent on it, if ‘it’s’ in it, please Bulletin
it.” Soon as we see’d it, we w.p.b.’d it....
M.S.: Better try to find some remedy lor
Mother Earth’s ‘‘burning bowels” D.V.D.:
Cheer up M.A.: Katy has charm, but she s
a bit too feathery....R.O.: Both feeble....
J M D.: It’s not quite “Kubla Khan
HFL • Another bard has dealt even more
faithfully with the charms of Darwin . TO :
Why try to say it in verse? 1.H.F., R.H.8.,
L.H W., G.M. and W.C.T.: Misfires D.H.:
Close; try it elsewhere J.A.F.: Not for us.
...A.M.A.: It’s been done before and done
better... .1.5.: Nothing new in “The Old Cane
Chair.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
HS S : You need a couple of years’ study-
ing from life... .C.D.: “If you reject this l
won’t try again.” Hooray!.. . .P.H.: Ihe
year’s muddiest....J.S.W.: The wheeze may be
discernible to a Somerset man, but we like our
gaes to have an Australian flavor..
Niggling, scratchy lines and lifeless figines....
CBH : Too stiff; try a bolder line T.R.8..
The little thing you “knocked up quickly
was knocked out more quickly... YH.S..
Don’t know whether it’s a grasshopper plague
or your idea of stipple.


HTS
LYS
5
PROOF.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
piililMl
82 ' .
:-Y
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MaorHand’s War-time Plan.
“J. Want”: Maoriland shows practical
commonsense in its agricultural planning.
For 1941-42 a swing from mutton towards
wool is aimed at —a striking commentary
on the policy of the wool pessimists who
have been so vocal the past few years.
At the same time, the Government aims
to check any swing from sheep-raising
to dairying.
The quota for cheese export is 160,000
tons 40,000 tons more than the past
season’s record output.
The fullest wool production possible
will be striven for and many aged ewes
on the verge of culling standard when
considered from a lamb production point
of view will be used to augment the
wool-producing sheep for coming seasons.
Linen flax areas are to be increased
from 13,000 acres to 25,000 acres.
, The Agricultural Department’s first
objective is “to grow what Britain asks
of us.” A second objective is stated—
“to grow what we can use in maintain-
ing New Zealand’s standard of . living.”
This part of the scheme embraces output
of wheat from 300,000 acres, oats from
61,000 acres and maize from 12,000
acres. Production of 200,000 pork and
250,000 bacon carcasses is wanted, be-
sides meeting a limited export demand
for pork—there is a poor outlook fox-
export bacon.
A scheme “to maintain current poten-
tialities of primary production” is based
on the maintenance of 1940-41 levels of
fodder crops, and the provision of proper
reserves to meet the likelihood that
seasonal killings of stock may have to be
spread over a wider period. Enough
grass and clover seeds are to be harvested
to make the Dominion self-supporting.
Special attention is to be given to con-
servation of fertilisers and the production
of high-class young stock to replace older
animals.
Super, will be rationed on a basis of
priorities, crop maintenance needs having
preference over supplies for new crops,
which in turn will be served before top-
dressing.
Where farmers need to transfer their
activities —as in the turnover from butter
to cheese production—loans will be avail-
able through the District Councils of
Primary Production and the State Ad-
vances Corporation.
Stud Export.
“R. Ney”: In banning the export of
merino rams Australia is trying to keep
its grip on the one commodity of which
it has a monopoly in quality—merino
wool.
There is no doubt, as “D. of D.” says
(B. 13/8/’4l), that a valuable export busi-
ness in merino rams awaits our leading
merino breeders. But once any of our
wool competitors began to reach Aus-
tralian standards of quality the loss in
wool sales would far outweigh the gain
in ram sales. So far as rams are con-
cerned, it may be true that “there would
never be competitors or even serious
rivals,” but wool is what buyers of
/merino rams are looking for, and once
the best Australian merinos began to
stiffen up the flocks in countries where
cheap land and cheap labor are avail-
able Australia would shortly discover the
effect on the wool market.
In essentials the argument is this:
Should the embargo be lifted to profit
a few merino breeders and thus give our
wool competitors a chance to equal us
in yield and quality, or should the coun-
try’s most important product, which now
holds first place in world markets, be
protected?
Stopping Sand Drift.
“Underbool”: F. A. Meagher, of
Carina, which is between Murrayville
and Pinnaroo (S.A.), has taken the prize
in a competition designed to popularise
approved methods of soil-drift control in
the Mallee.
Meagher has 1890 acres—mostly sand-
hills with a holding subsoil under the
sand—subdivided into 14 paddocks. He
runs wool sheep. Crop rotation is fol-
lowed to stop drift. Wheat is rarely
sown on the same paddock more than
once in five years. After wheat the pad-
dock stays out as lay land or may carry
a cereal crop for hay, grain or grazing,
mainly barley, oats or rye or mixtures
If you re camping ’ere the night , no cuttin me fences and feeding 'em on me pastures. "
of barley-rye or oats-rye. Meagher claims
that the mixtures give a better succession
of grazing.
The wheat acreage averages about 300
acres each year, but sometimes as much
as 1000 acres is under other cereals. From
this is taken necessary fodder stores
and seed, though the greater part is used
for grazing. With wheat, 931 b. of super-
phosphate is used to the acre; with the
other crops, a bag to four acres. Meagher
doesn’t believe the increased growth of
stubble crops justifies the super.; he keeps
on using it to build up fertility, and a
prolific spread of barrel medic suggests
he is right.
Rotations are elastic, according to the
state of the paddocks. Part of the wheat
is sown on fallow and part on land
worked in autumn after carrying a feed-
ing crop that year. No stubble has been
burned for 10 years; it is either left to
grass as a holding agent or sown for
grazing. When the grass cover looks
poor, Meagher whips in a grazing crop.
He won’t leave a paddock to grass more
than three years, being satisfied that it
goes back each year. Here is a sample
of his rotation on two paddocks:
Paddock 1: Wheat, 1936 ; oats for hay,
1937; oats for grazing, 1938; grass,
1939 ; rye-corri and barley for grazing,
1940; cultivated and sown to wheat,
January, 1941.
Paddock 2: Oats, general, 1936 ; grass
for next three years; fallow, 1940;
wheat, 1941.
If possible, Meagher leaves the pad-
dock due for fallowing out to grass for
a year, grazes heavily in winter, late fal-
lows with a mouldboard, sheeps it and
doesn’t cultivate again until autumn.
The district struck two dry years in
succession in 1939 and 1940, and it was
inevitable that some blown patches
appeared. Meagher promptly cultivated
them and sowed rye-corn. This was
fenced and let seed before being grazed
and is certain to re-establish cover. He
carries 1000 pure merinos and gets rid
of his wether lambs as fats. Yes, as fats!
Canning Beans.
“Huxave”: Before the war Australia
used about 1800 tons of canning beans
a year, mainly from Japan. Later, beans
came from California. Now dollar
exchange and shipping difficulties have
given local farmers an opportunity.
Tests with the Little Navy variety in
New England (N.S.W.) yielded from 12
bushels to 30 bushels an acre. Generally
results showed that local growers could
produce beans satisfactory for canners,
who are prepared to pay up to £3O a ton
for best-quality, well-graded white beans.
Over 500 tons a year are required.
A cool growing season, with a dry
harvest period, is required. Light granite
soils produce the best bean. Crops are
sown about mid-October on New Eng-
land ; further south early spring sowing
is advisable. The crop should suit irri-
gation areas.
Cultivation is practically the same as
for French beans. Use a double-row
maize-planter and sow seeds 2in. deep in
drills 2ft. 6in. apart, about 401 b. to the
acre. If fertiliser is necessary, superphos-
phate should be worked in—approx.
2cwt. to the acre —but must not come in
contact with the seed. Cultivation be-
tween rows keeps weeds down.
In America harvesting is done with
specially-designed machines. Here pods
are allowed to ripen, then the plant is
pulled out by hand, left in heaps to cure
and finally stacked under cover. Farmers
state that mowing is unsatisfactory.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jayem”: Dehorn lambs at three days
old. Clip the wool from the frontal bone
where horns would develop, then dip a
caustic stick in water and rub it over the
clipped part for about 10 seconds. When
dry, repeat on both sides.
“Tammy Mcßerk”: Phenothiazine,
which has been attracting attention lately
as a drench for sheep worms, is also
effective for large round and nodular
worms in pigs. It can be given in the
feed, in capsules or tablets. Doses: Pigs
weighing 251 b., sgms. or about l-60z.;
25-501 b., Bgms. or about |oz.; 50-1001 b.,
12gms. or |oz. ; 100-2001 b., 20gms. or
foz.; over 2001 b., 30gms. or about loz.
Pigs should be starved 18 to 24 hours
before getting the dose. If it is to go
in the feed confine them in a pen with
which they are familiar. See that the
trough is large enough to accommodate
all the pigs, and group those for treat-
ment according to size. The dose should
be offered in the feed only when the pigs
are hungry enough to wolf it without
hesitation. Mix the drug with three to
four times its weight of dry ground feed
before mixing it in the bulk. Don't
feed in thin slops, but make the medi-
cated mixture into a thick mass.
“Canbelego”: Healthy pigs do not
cough frequently. Those that do may
have contagious pneumonia. Pigs slightly
affected make rapid recovery. When
affection is severe many will die, and
those that do recover are generally
stunted and unthrifty. It is better to
destroy them at once, as they cannot be
cured with medicines.
“Freesh”: Tincture of iodine is the
stuff for ringworms in calves. Clip the
hair away from the spot and paint it,
repeating the treatment in two or three
days.
“Goulburn”: With a good mill it is
possible to turn the cob as well as the
grain of corn into a good meal. A
ration of 201 b. of lucerne chaff, 61b. of
cob- and cornmeal and 21b. of molasses
daily is about right for a cow giving 251 b.
of milk. Increase or decrease according
to the yield. Mix the molasses with about
twice its own weight of water and
sprinkle on the feed. Don’t give corn-
and cobmeal to pigs and horses.
“8.C.”: To clean super.-bags soak
them in limewater. The sulphuric acid
in the super, will combine with the lime
to form sulphate of lime, which is harm-
less to the bags and almost insoluble.
• A wash in clean water should remove all
the sulphate of lime andjeave the bags
useful for general purposes.
“Canbelego”: Worth remembering that
in 25 weeks 40 cows can provide liquid
manure equal in plant food to tons
of potash salts, 2\ tons of sulphate of
ammonia, and \ ton of superphosphate.
“C.0.L.”: Make sure tractor plugs are
clean and that the gap is set right. Ex-
cessive carbon or oil on the points, or
bad setting, can cause loss of power, diffi-
cult starting or misfiring. Few tractor
plugs will outlast 400 hours’ solid work.
“Peapod”: To preserve rope—valuable
now because of the war —fill a shallow
trough with tar and drag rope through
it. Leave in sun to dry. Ends should
be firmly bound for an inch or so in
order to prevent fraying.
“Huxave”: One of the worst cabbage
pests is a butterfly, white with black
markings near the top and a wing span
of about 2in. Its eggs, spindle-shaped
and yellowish, are generally laid on the
underside of leaves of cabbages, cauli-
flowers, kale, radishes and turnips. The


BRITSTAND
GRADER-DITCHERS
For every clerks of Ditching anej Grading.
Does everything for which you previously'
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4’ deep, and
banks oveij.4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10.000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne,
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
Egelabra Merino Stud
H. E. KATER & SON,
Warren, N.S.W.
Established 62 years.
Four times winners of
Stonehaven Cup.
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe
Sydney Show, 1940.
Rams for Sale.
Tel., Warren 10.
k»:
9
%
m
m
mm
m
■mfc
111
m
/
II USTRALIA needs all the zinc that
is available for the making of
munitions. In order to meet this
national emergency, therefore, John
Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. has found it
necessary to restrict supplies of Cor-
rugated Galvanized Roofing Iron to
those who require this quality for the
catchment and storage of drinking
water. In all other cases, Terne-Coated
Iron is now being supplied. Plain
iron sheets are also restricted, but to
a lesser degree.
ORB
ALTHOUGH introduced to the public and the building trade for the
first time, Terne-Coated Iron is not new but has been widely used
throughout America and the Continent for many years past. It has
also been used for many years by the metal trades of Australia in the
manufacture of petrol tanks, oil and paint drums, etc. Its hard wearing
tin and lead surface possesses particularly good anti-corrosive proper-
ties and can be painted without "weathering." There is, of course, no
loss of strength or rigidity and all sizes and gauges are available.
cm&t
John Lysaght (AUSTRALIA) Pty., Ltd.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE— ADELAIDE— FREMANTLE
T7SA '
fully-grown caterpillar is about lim.
long, mid-green in color, and hard to
distinguish from the leaves. Large,
irregular holes usually indicate its
presence. Best control is to dust with
lead arsenate or derris root in the seed-
ling stage, after transplanting, and until
hearts begin to form. Derris only should
be used during latter stages of growth,
since arsenical preparations are danger-
ous. Apply lead arsenate every 10 days
and derris every seven days, 151 b. to
201 b. respectively to the acre.
“Sailor Bill”: Silver beet can stand
more summer heat than any other green.
It’s good for the table or as green feed
for the fowls. A moist, sunny situation
and well-drained, deeply-cultivated sandy
loam enriched with old stable manure
are what I give it (N.Q.), but practically
any soil will suit it provided there is
moisture. Sow the seed in drills 2ft.
apart and thin out the seedlings to Ift.
apart. When breaking off leaves take
only a few of the large outside ones off
each plant and the crop will ratoon in-
definitely. Lucullus is a good variety for
summer-growing.
“Tammy Mcßerk”: Potatoes fed to
pigs should be boiled and served with
grain or pollard and a protein supple-
ment. Try this ration per pig: Half-
pound meatmeal or -ygal. separated milk,
Ulb. to 21b. ground grain or pollard and
as many boiled potatoes as the pig will
eat.
“Sheepo”: The Service Department (B.
6/8/’4l) says that the system of lambing
three times in two years is confined to
crossbred ewes “and is doubtful.” I’ve
known merino men to try it, and in a
run of good seasons lambing percentages
have been remarkably high. In one
instance, 240 p.c. were marked in two
years, the ewes being plain-bodied
merinos, three and four years old. But
the owner knew his work; he sold all
the ewes after he’d weaned the third lot
of lambs. It’s a different story when
drought comes. I know another case
where, in hopes of rain, the rams were
joined the second time. When conditions
got worse the first lot of lambs had to be
left unweaned. When the second drop
arrived the ewes were in a weak state.
Result, half the ewes and about 20 p.c.
of the first drop of lambs died and not
a lamb of the second drop lived. Even
in generous seasons the gain in lambs
marked is invariably offset by under-
mining the constitution of the ewes and
the getting of inferior and stunted lambs.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXXII.
Branding the Foal.
There isn’t much to do about the place,
so you and the boys decide to brand old
Molly’s foal. Tom goes after the horses,
Jack gets a fire going for the branding-
iron and you make ready with the ropes
in the yard.
Getting the horses into the yard is
easy; getting all of them out again, except
Molly and her foal, is different. It might
have been all right if the confounded
heeler hadn’t slipped through the rails
and nipped the foal, which promptly
took a flier at the toprail, nearly got
over, hung there a moment and then fell
back. By that time Jack had booted the
heeler, which forgot to be silent and
bolted, only to encounter the other dogs,
which, in the manner of dogs who see
one of their kind punished by the human
master, promptly took to him. The heeler
rushed back into the horseyard ; so did
the other dogs, all yelping and issuing
challenges. The horses milled and
snorted and flung their heels about, Jack
and Tom tried to kick the dogs out and
you tripped over the ropes and were
nearly trampled on by the large and hairy
hooves of a draught.
After this preliminary excitement you
manage to get the horses out, leaving
Molly and the foal. Molly, fully aware
that you mean no good to her offspring,
begins to lumber round the yard in a
circle, the foal running on her outside.
You start to run inside, holding a looped
rope. Molly begins to think it’s a game,
and you somehow get the rope over her
back and round the foal’s neck. With
commendable speed Tom and Jack hustle
Molly through the gate, and she thun-
ders down the paddock while you take
a turn of the rope round a post and, with
the boys helping, start to pull the foal in.
Leaving the boys to hold that rope
you grab another with a loop, get behind
the foal, grab his tail and pull him round
till you get the loop round a hind leg.
About that time Molly, having missed
something, arrives back in a hurry and
tries to climb into the yard. Jack waves
his hat at her; the foal wheels round
on the end of the neck-rope, drags you
into the dust and almost strangles. You
yell to Tom to ease the line. Then a rope
you hadn’t noticed before somehow gets
round your ankle and you bite the dust
again. The foal swings back and falls
over you.
Out of a madness of dust, dry horse
manure and flying legs you arise, tear
the loop from your ankle and plunge at
the foal. Tom has also plunged, having
half-hitched the neck-rope round the post,
and you meet him head-on. Uncertain
whether it’s lightning or somebody burn-
ing blue matches, you watch the resultant
phenomena a moment, then get to your
feet and condemn Tom for a blundering
idiot. He grins sheepishly, rubs his head
and then jumps to the neck-rope as the
foal starts to strangle again.
Molly is charging up and down out-
side the rails, much to the amusement of
the heeler, which slips in every now and
again and nips her. You yell to Jack to
go and tie that purple crimson mongrel
up and turn to the task again.
Tom is kneeling on the foal, holding
its tail back through its legs, and you
grab its head and pull it round. Thus
held, the thing is helpless, and you call
to Jack for the brand and to be flamin’
quick about it. Nothing happens. You
look round. Jack is 50 yards away tying
up the heeler. You yell to him. He
starts back on the run, then stops as
Molly, not being able to see the foal now,
gallops round the other side of the yard
and sends fire and branding-iron flying.
Your elder son starts cursing, grabs
the iron by the wrong end and hurriedly
throws it away. Young Tom starts laugh-
ing. You’re worn and bruised and dusty,
so you pass him one but miss, and then
have to wrestle with the foal till you gei
him still again.
Then you and Tom have to squat there,
with the foal straining against you all
the time, while Jack remakes the fire and
reheats the iron. Molly has withdrawn
to consider her next move.
After several weeks of waiting, with
the cramp in your side getting worse and
the foal’s head feeling like a cross be-
tween a bag of super, and a header spring
pressed down hard, Jack arrives with
the iron, picks a spot on the foal’s rump,
poises the brand and then plumps it
down hard. There is a puff of smoke,
the stringent smell of burnt hair and a
convulsion in the foal.
Quickly you whip off the foreleg rope
and the neck-rope and stand up. The
foal gives a shiver and scrambles up.
Tom, suddenly realising he hasn’t re-
moved the hind-leg rope, makes a grab
at it. Just as he takes hold the foal sud-
denly lets out a shocked neigh for his
mother and prances across the yard. The
rope tautens, cuts your feet from under
you, and once more you investigate the
composition of the yard. When you get
up you see that Tom and Jack have got
the rope off, and you limp to the gate and
open it to let the foal out.
Pushing the gate wide you turn back
to pick up the ropes. Nearly a ton of
anxious equine mother charges in that
gate, knocks you flying, repossesses her
precious and leads him forth to freedom.
Spitting out more pieces of the yard and
rubbing your eyes, you climb slowly erect
and issue your final orders.
“Gather them ropes, you fellers. Jack,
gimme that branding-iron. It’s goin’
int’ the crick. Nex’ time any mare on
this place has a foal she’s got t’ have
it already branded.” You limp over to
the house for a wash and a cup of tea.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
Pride of place for a Queenslander whose theme is that the multitude of critics
makes for confusion.
Talk, Talk, Talk!
Freedom to discuss every question
without fear or hindrance has always
been regarded as one of the strengths of
democracy, but I sometimes think that,
in war-time at least, there are advan-
tages in the Nazi system of stifling all
criticism. In this country every legis-
lative measure passed for the prosecution
of the war and protection of the nation
has occasioned such an avalanche of talk
and discussion, pro and con, that the aver-
age man’s mind reels from the effort of
trying to find where the truth is.
Even well-informed and well-read
people are worried by the continual talk,
talk, talk about petrol rationing, child
endowment, taxation, conscription and
the national Government —most of it
from sections of the community with axes
to grind. Is it any wonder, therefore,
that the average man is in an absolute
fog and prone to take the easiest course
of following the lead of the section that
makes the biggest noise?
Doing business with farming and work-
ingclass people every day, I know the
effect all this talk is having upon them.
Inherently loyal and anxious to do the
right thing, all they need is to be told
their duty clearly and they will do it, no
matter what sacrifice it may entail. But
in the clamor of three major political
parties and half a dozen minor ones,
seven Parliaments and innumerable trade
unions, property-owners’ associations,
housewives’ unions and similar bodies,
how can the plain man hear the voice
of his conscience or heed the call of
duty?—W. K. D. (Q.).
Eden and Hitler
I have never felt an overwhelming
respect for Mr. Anthony Eden or his hat,
but he said something the other day
which is worthy of consideration. Every
military precaution, he declared, would
be taken after this war to see that Ger-
many did not plunge Europe into war
for a sixth time, but he distinguished be-
tween economic and military treatment
—it would be a disadvantage to Europe,
he said, if Germany were economically
ruined.
Nobody knows, least of all Mr. Eden,
whether he and his confreres will be in
a position to take precautions to see that
Germany remains militarily impotent to
start a new war, but it would certainly
be a disadvantage to Europe if Germany
were economically ruined. It was
after the last war. There were people
at that time who said of the Versailles
Treaty that it would not work, though
Mr. Eden wasn’t among them. For say-
ing this they were called disloyal. Now
if they stuck up for the Versailles Treaty
the would be called disloyal.
The last thing the framers of that
treaty wanted to do was to make Ger-
many into a strong military nation. But
that is what they did. By subjecting
Germany to stringent economic penalties
they made the German people a good
audience for Hitler. If they had acted
the other way about and done every-
thing to put Germany on her feet again,
even to the extent of deple.. ;g their own
resources, they would have male the Ger-
man people a bad audience for Hitler.
To a contented nation, his utterances
would have seemed like the ravings
of a foaming madman. In the ears of a
discontented nation they sounded like
the inspired words of a heaven-sent deli-
verer. So it was the economic clauses
of the Versailles Treaty alone which
made it possible for Hitler to make the
extraordinary demands he made on them.
We all want to win this war, but if
we do so there is no reason to believe
that the Hitler type of individual won’t
arise again, given the requisite conditions.
And it was we who gave him the requi-
site conditions. If we win this war and
don’t want another, what we should do
is to grow huge quantities of sauerkraut,
frankforts or anything else the Germans
like and give them to them for nothing.
That will at least remove one of their
excuses. Then if some potential Hitler
gets up on his hind legs and starts foam-
ing the Germans will regard him as a
pest and themselves put him into prison.
—L. L. (Vic.).
To the Last Drop
I was surprised to learn that the Com-
monwealth Government is levying pay-
roll tax on payments made by employers
to employees who have enlisted in the
A.I.F. There are many who have paid
their men the difference between their
salaries and their pay as soldiers, and to
levy payroll tax does not seem to be
honest. —H. V. A. (N.S.W.).
A Real Australian
In southern Queensland the owner of
a property in the bush advertised for
someone to manage it while he was away
with the A.I.F. and his father was with
the home defence forces. The salary was
£2OO a year and found, but the man who
was chosen on his merits to fill the job
refused to accept more than the owner
was getting to fight for him—ss. a day
and found. Here’s an example for scores
I could name but won’t. The dads don’t
mind sending their sons to fight for this
type of Australian.—23ls (N.S.W.).
Petrol Rationing
Petrol rationing is the best thing that
has ever hit the Australian pastoral
industry. On most sheep stations in
the ten-to-fifteen-thousand-head, three-to-
five-hundred-square-mile class in the
north of S.A. the boss’s car, the station
buckboard and the truck are in constant
use. The only real excuse is their handi-
ness for shifting a camp in a hurry, for
taking men and tools out to, say, a rush
job of fencing or any other last-minute
attention to improvements.
In the old horse-and-buggy days these
rush jobs were simply not allowed to
occur. It was part of a manager’s job
to keep all improvements in order all
the time. A utility truck is handy on a
run in case of emergency—it can mean
the difference between life and death for
some poor devil but otherwise good
organisation can take the place of petrol.
The farmer has more to learn than the
grazier. In this Murray mallee district
there is not one farmer who will not take
the car to go half a mile to the windmill
or to clean out the troughs. They are
all on marginal lands, battling, but none
of their children knows a surcingle from
a sulky. They receive Government assist-
ance and petrol.— Propalong (S.A.).
Planning in War and Peace
Political and industrial leaders who
talk with airy optimism of a post-war
paradise to be achieved through planning
on a national scale base their beliefs on
the simple argument—national economy
is planned successfully in war-time ; it
can, therefore, be planned successfully in
times of peace. That is attractive reason-
ing, but it completely begs the question.
Control of economic resources by a
central authority—the Government —is
highly successful in war-time because
there is one clear objective—the produc-
tion of goods and the training' of man-
power for military purposes The exten-
sion of existing industries and the de-
velopment of new ones in war-time, with
all that this industrial planning involves,
are all co-ordinated with the directly
military activities, so that there is no real
clash of aims. National defence, or, in
the case of an aggressor nation, military
conquest of other countries, is the sole
objective of the Government and the
people.
With the purpose so overwhelmingly
clear and imperative, is it any wonder
that national economic planning works
out well in war? The conditions in
peace-time are entirely different. Then
there is no clear and imperative aim.
There are hundreds of groups within the
community, each with different views as
to what would be best for the country ;
there is in addition the clash of indi-
vidual views within the groups. No
matter what political section controls the
Government, the majority of the people'
disagree with many of its aims and
methods. There is no sense of urgency
compelling the community, as in war-
time, to co-operate with the Govern-
ment’s plans.
Considering the tremendous diverg-
ence of group and individual aims, the
peace-time co-ordination of resources by
a central authority: seems bound to give
general dissatisfaction. Perhaps it would
be wiser to adopt peace-time national
planning only for such social objectives
as are universally desired—child welfare,
the support and. care of those incapable
of looking after themselves, the health
and safety of the community and so on.
The - vast problem of co-ordinating
economic resources can. be best solved,
as in the past, by the complicated inter-
play of human wants and the abilities of
individuals to supply those wants —in
other words,; by the much-maligned sys-
tem of capitalist enterprise.— Wusslean
(Vi c. } . ■ .
A.I.F. Rates for All
Here’s my idea to bring everyone not
in the fighting services up to the level
of the men in those services.
For the duration of the war and six or
twelve months after, pay all workers
A.I.F. rates. The P.M. would get, , say, a
field-marshal’s pay ; Cabinet Ministers, a
general’s pay (some wouldn’t deserve it);
politicians, a staff officer’s. Directors,
managers, men in executive positions,
etc., would have to be graded as far as
possible to their army equivalent of com-
missioned rank and paid accordingly. The
technician would get commissioned
ranks’ pay, the highly-skilled worker an
n.c.o.’s, and the skilled worker a private’s
pay, for the private is a skilled fighter.
The unskilled worker? God bless him, I
suppose he’s skilled at unskilled work.
Unemployed? There would be none.
A board —I don’t know what else—
would have to be set up to grade man-
power into its various ranks. Present
allowances to the wives and children of
A.I.F. men would be made to civilians’
wives and children.
Income tax, as such, and the collection
of it would be abolished. Firms, busi-
nesses and individuals would carry on as
usual, but with this difference. All profits
would go to the Government. Allow-
ances, based on previous balance sheets,
would be made for depreciation, restock-
ing, purchase of raw materials, etc., but
such money would be used only for the
specific purpose for which it was allotted
and would be applied for by the firm
to the Government. Each firm would
have its detailed list of workers and their
“rank” for salary purposes. Hence the
general manager would find himself with,
say. a colonel’s pay instead of £2O per
week.
Al! rents would be paid to the Govern-
ment or handed over to the Government
by the landlord, who would have to make
application for any money wanted for
maintenance.
Private cars would go off the road
automatically. No soldier can afford a
car. Where it was proved that a car
was an absolute necessity for carrying on
business—the army has them —an allow-
ance of petrol could be made.
The Digger only has occasional leave.
The civilian would also have to regulate
his outings and pleasures according to his
pay. Compared with the soldier the
civilian would still be far better off. He
would not be risking his life, and
would not have to put up with the hun-
dred and one other discomforts that are
the lot of the fighting man. — Opalite
(N.S.W.).
Government Undertakings
The good old Australian bogey has
cropped up again—unions are proposing
that war factories and workshops shall be
placed under Government control. What
will happen? Just exactly what happened
with the railways, tramways, ferries and
other undertakings which the Govern-
ment has taken over. There will be a
profit on previously profitable under-
takings for the first year; in the second
year there may be a profit on some of
them, but on very few ; from the third
year to the twentieth year there will be
increasing losses.
No one is really responsible in these
governmental!y managed, or mismanaged,
concerns. Even so-called responsible
government is irresponsible and calls in
boards, commissions, investigating and
research committees. And when the
reports arrive they are rushed into
pigeonholes, with a “Thank heaven that’s
done.”
One State had implement works. They
paid neither rates nor taxes ; even so,
for many years the concern showed
a loss. Then it started to make what
was called a profit. This “profit”
amounted to approximately 3 p.c. a
year, but as the Government was borrow-
ing money at 4 p.c., plus expenses, plus
overhead, the loss was really about 2
p.c., which of course must be added to
the previous losses, which ranged from
10 p.c. downwards. When this was
pointed out to a Government-ownership
advocate he remarked, “But look at the
benefit to the public.” What benefit?
—Curator (W.A.).
Black Brother
J. W. Bleakley, Queensland's Director
of Native Affairs, has given the Federal
Parliamentary Committee on Social Secu-
rity something to think about should
the members thereof be inclined to-
wards that politically dangerous prac-
tice. He pointed out that half-blood
abos., many of them no better than
or different from full-bloods in any
intellectual or social respect, are eligible
to receive pensions and maternity allow-
ances denied to their aboriginal neigh-
bors and relatives. Everyone who has
had opportunities of observing such mat-
ters will agree heartily with his opinion
as to the injustice of it in many cases.
We are just as glad to receive full-
blooded indigenous Australians in this
A.I.F. as we were in the last one, and
fine soldiers many of them have proved.
To exclude such men and their families
from civil rights and benefits enjoyed by
any half-caste who prefers to stay safely
“Hey, don't you know you're doin' over sixty-five?"


' I® I mm IMhhMB
i* < : ii, fki
MiaBMMi
■■
m i«iist#fii
: "
Ifc
' . :. *'.*/■* " v *
unm
HjfV
... ,
HHHHHHMHHi
i
IPr
r.
mm
iiisiii
.
H
> /
l
:
HR
■
■
SI
: ;
11 :
■
1
§ig§t
glSifs;«
mmm MmS Wmmm.
■■SB
HHI
i v>mw:iii
■
Hi
111
■
His skill comes from practice
but his energy comes from
4hsof Stout
SS.138.FP


at home is obviously unfair. A certain
degree of discrimination would of course
be necessary, but why can’t Australia
adopt the just and wise “Paper Dutch-
man” practice of the Netherlands Indies
and grant the privileges of citizenship
to any full-blood who conforms with cer-
tain reasonable and definite standards of
conduct and living? To deny them to
one who has been honorably discharged
after combatant service in the A.I.F. is
flagrantly unjust.— Dungeness (Q.).
Attention, Mr. Forde!
The idea advanced by a Queensland poli-
tician that the Government should take
over B.H.P. suggests a couple of alter-
natives which should appeal to those
who have watched our national deficits
grow and who still have a little respect
for private enterprise, which gets things
done without too much fiddling round
with boards tied up with red-tape.
First, since 8.H.P., as well as making
a profit, has done more than most Gov-
ernments to promote Australia’s expan-
sion and development, its management
could be asked to take over the control
of our country, at least until we have
settled with Hitler. This would be as
democratic as present political represen-
tation, for shareholders are as widespread
as voters were before compulsion was
enacted.
Alternatively, let the Government con-
tinue its political arguments and mem-
bers’ pay, but sublet the complete war
effort in factory and field to 8.H.P.,
to which suitable powers would be given
to go ahead as its directorate saw fit. I
venture to suggest that the war would
be won more quickly and more cheaply,
in both men and money, than ever any
Government is likely to do it. —F. M. C.
(Vic.)/ _
Imported Comic Strips
We were told that no more comic strips
would be imported. Struggling free-
lance contributors everywhere in Aus-
tralia smiled at the thought of acres of
newspaper space which they might now
fill. But the weeks went by and the,
newspapers continued with the adventures
of Flash Rogers and Buck Gordon. They
continued also to return the contribu-
tions of Australians, frequently with the
caption “No space available.” They do
both yet.
Foolish we scribblers were not to
have realised earlier that the newspapers
were buying up American comic strips by
the ton in readiness for the day when
their entry into Australia would be pro-
hibited. — Sailor Bill (Queensland).
Professors and Newspapers
While on the subject of subsidised
journalism (B. 30/7 / ’4l) I wonder
whether it is quite fair for some univer-
sity professors to be regular contributors
to daily papers. It may be that there is
no professional journalist who could
write similar articles, and in that case I
am wrong, but I doubt it. Rather, I feel
that such highly-placed contributors dis-
place good journalists on the strength of
their titles.
I have no grudge against any individual
professor—l think very highly of them
—but I think that their salaries are or
should be high enough not to have to
supplement them with linage fees. If
they feel they ought to write, several
non-commercial publications, such as the
“Australian Quarterly,” “Economic
Record” and others, would be only too
pleased to open their pages to the best
scholastic minds of the country.— Viator
(Vic.). __
“Like Big Whales”
I have just heard a talk from a
learned brother belonging to some dis-
tinguished college who proved in no un-
certain fashion and terms that “the aver-
age market price of a primary commo-
dity must be in excess of the average pro-
duction cost of that commodity if the
producer is to acquire the desired and
necessary margin from his labors for the
sustenance of his wife and family.” Truly
marvellous, and he probably got several
guineas for demonstrating in mystifying
verbiage what everyone knows.— Fancy
That (W.A.).
“The Trans.”
For a considerable time past the
publicly-owned and -controlled Trans-
continental railway has failed to live up
to the axiom of Labor leaders that, once
the property of the people, a utility be-
comes a blessing. Time and again of
late the trains have reached Perth hours
late, and important mails are so delayed
that chances for replying have to be de-
ferred for one or more days. But the
worst, is the Saturday train. All work
stopping at midday because football
matches and horse races are of more
account than public service, mails, news-
papers and parcels are stowed away till
Monday and the outgoing mail of Satur-
day evening cannot be availed of. But
perhaps it does not matter. It’s only
W.A.— Spanner (W.A.).
Free Tickets
Having at one time assisted the secre-
tary of a sporting organisation, I think
I know why the average Australian
places politicians so low in the scale
of human beings. No politician in this
country is underpaid, but few of them
regard themselves as liable to pay for
entrance to any public sporting gather-
ing ; the way applications for compli-
mentary tickets used to pour in from
them before a big meeting amazed me.
Ms.P. and aldermen, whose sole support
of sport in many cases was confined to
sitting (free) in the grandstand, sent their
cards and a scribbled note for tickets
with hardly a “Please” or “Thank you.”
In many cases they wanted tickets not
only for themselves and wives, but also
for friends they were treating.—D. (Q.).
The Races
Turf fixtures for one week as given in
the daily press: Saturday, Moorefield,
Flemington, Doomben ; Monday, Rand-
“You played my ball , madam!”
“ Oh , that was only a practice shot. You Watch this one”
wick ; Tuesday; Richmond at Menangle ;
Wednesday, Kensington, Yarra Glen,
Ipswich ; Thursday, Gosford ; Saturday,
Rosehill, Flemington, Ascot (Q.). After
reading that I reckon the racing followers
are being sadly neglected. There are
actually no races on Friday or Sunday.
Perhaps it’s because racing authorities
are superstitious.— Thorn (N.S.W.).
Two Speeds
I lodged claims for enrolment on
9/6/’4l. The Commonwealth registrar
for my subdivision, who is located 46
miles distant, acknowledged claim on
11/6/’4l, but the State officials, quartered
57 yards away, almost caused me a
nervous breakdown by awakening from
their slumbers on 17/7/’4l. 1 never ex-
pected a State Government department
to work as fast as that. C. Heops
(W.A.).
On Banking
If “No. 1 Teller” (B. 30/7/’4l) is what
his nom de plume implies, I suggest that
he give the business of banking a little
more study. Bankers themselves have
long since exploded the old belief that
banks merely lend their customers’
deposits.
What actually happens is that the banks
use their customers’ deposits of cash as
a basis for credit expansion; the usual
ratio being about £lO credit for every
£1 in cash.
Here is what a few bankers have to
say about this question. The Rt. Hon.
R. McKenna, chairman of the Midland
Bank, in his book Post War Banking
(page 76), states: “The amount of money
in existence varies only with the action
of the banks in increasing or diminish-
ing deposits Every bank loan and
every bank purchase of securities creates
a deposit, and every payment of a bank
loan destroys a deposit.” The July,
1938, issue of “Branch Banking,” an
English bankers’ journal, stated: “There
is no more unprofitable subject under the
sun than to argue any banking or credit
points, since there are enough substan-
tial quotations in existence to prove to
the initiated that banks do create credit
without restraint.” Graham Towers,
governor of the Bank of Canada, when
being questioned at a royal commission,
was asked if it was a fact that “Twelve
per cent, of the money in use in Canada
is issued by the Government, through
the Mint and the Bank of Canada, and
88 per cent, is issued by the merchant
banks of Canada on the reserves issued
by the Bank of Canada.” He replied
“Yes.”—No. 2 Teller (N.S.W.).
“Go and Get It”
Since September, 1939, many com-
mercial heads in Westralia have been
forced to realise just how much their
interests are linked with a populous and
active rural community. .Many factors
have combined to bring about a slacken-
ing in the flow of orders brought in by
their travellers, who had hitherto roamed
far afield in Westralia’s vast areas, em-
bracing the Golden Mile (Kalgoorlie)
and the outback fields, the extensive
wheat territory right into the marginal
areas, the south-west timber and dairying
belts and into the southern coastal fringe.
The era of prosperity, with a steady flow
of cash for developmental purposes, both
Government and private, made the lot
of the “commercial” much happier than
is the case today. It was a happy hunt-
ing-ground, and the fountain-pens of the
hunter worked overtime as Dad signed
the dotted line for yet another machinery
unit for the farm or, better still, in blow-
ing the proceeds of a 30-bushel crop in
a modern tourer, capable of breaking
down the run to the city by another
couple of hours.
Now, petrol rationing, the emptying of
eligibles from country centres into train-
ing camps, the exodus of mum and the
kids to the city to be near dad before
embarkation, the financial calls of the
nation’s war effort and the accompanying
taxation levies have all contributed to
a tightening of the commercial belt, with
repercussions in city head offices and
warehouses. No longer does the country
scout sit at the wheel of a high-powered
six-cylinder, the tank filled to the brim
with super-grade. He now shares his
car with another, and producer gas, more
often as not, provides locomotion.
Neither does his fountain-pen work
overtime on the order-book. Streams
of hitherto unsuspected eloquence are
essential to the writing of even
limited orders. As one small trader
put it point-blank, “Not a fraction of
an order this trip, old son. I’m endeavor-
ing to live on my grease for the time
being. If the big interests are content
to see centralisation evils still further ex-
panded, then it is to the cities that you
must look for your future orders —you
have all the customers and most of the
wealth there.”
When the smoke of battle has died
away, will the moral be assimilated by
big interests? They have monopolised
the handling of most of the country pro-
ducts, such as wool and wheat, with in-
creased costs to the producer, yet their
scouts are still chased into the country
areas, with stern enjoinders to “go and
get it.”— Ah Gee (W.A.).
Shakspeare’s Point of View
“Has any of us a stable point of view
on this war?” asked “Smilax” (B.
2/7/’4l). It is not surprising that a
generation which condemns Greek and
Latin as waste of time, and elevates
Shakspeare to a plane above the average
citizen’s reach, should be indulging in
muddled thinking. Shakspeare wrote for
his fellow-countrymen in general, and
he gave them a varied bill of fare. Appar-
ently he did not discover what later
generations accept as a creed, that poetry
and commonsense are incompatible.
Shakspeare’s historical plays afford a
pretty comprehensive survey of war-time
psychology, but in “Hamlet” occurs what
would serve as an appropriate text to
any of the types of people described by
“Smilax”:
Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel; but, being in,
Bear’t that th’ opposed beware of thee.
Surely the average man can appreciate
that as a piece of superlative common-
sense—Ay-Ay (N.S.W.).
The Poets and the War
Melbourne “Argus,” having discovered
that the war is failing to produce any
worth-while poetry, quoted what it called
“some powerful lines” by “one of the
greatest living English poets, Cecil Day
Lewis”: —
Where are the war poets? the fools inquire.
We were the prophets of a changeable morning
Who hoped for much but saw the clouds’ fore-
warning ;
We were at war, while they still played with
fire
And rigged the market for the ruin of man:
Spain was a death to us, Munich a mourning.
No wonder, then, if, like the pelican,
We have turned inward for our iron ration,
Tapping the vein and sole reserve of passion,
Drawing from poetry’s capital what we can.
This, the “Argus” suggested, offers a clue
to the lack of poetry: —
England’s young poets are not writing
war poetry today because they have already
written it against that background of more
important things to come, the Spanish war.
Our finest poets, Day Lewis, Auden, and
Spender, wrote much great war poetry
between 1936 and 1939, and now the last
two are capable only of the poetry of dis-
illusion. Auden especially writes in a
bitter, cynical vein.
It seems to suggest that when poets
become political propagandists they write
“the poetry of disillusion.” There may
be all sorts of sound reasons why Eng-
lish poets should have turned to this sort
of stuff, and why “older poets have re-
tired into a mythical ‘ivory tower,’ con-
ceiving that they can stand above the
battle,” but there is no reason why Aus-
■ tralian poets should imitate them.
Disillusion and futility have no place
in the Australian concept. The country
and its people are as optimistic as ever
they were. Far too much notice has been
taken by our writers of people like Auden
and Lewis and others of the same kidney.
Far too much notice, too, has been taken
of the alleged modern style of involved
thoughts and rhymeless prattle, most of
it meaningless to the average man, to
whom, after all, poetry should make an
instant appeal. It did make an appeal
when it had rhythm and rhyme and when
its meanings were plain. As for the
claim to modernity, the sort of stuff some
Australians are wasting their time on
was being written more than 20 years
ago in Europe.
The chubby priests may snore away
I rise not up.
I sit with legs crossed under
and observe my navel.
It is an American translation of FIolz’s
“Buddha.” After those four lines comes
the great thought: —
It fhis navel] is a blood-red ruby
in a naked belly of gold.
One begins to wonder if our poets have
read too much from books rather than
from the Australian scene ; buried them-
selves too deeply in big cities rather than
tramped the roads.
If they could lift their eyes from the
false gods that bemuse them, they would
see about them a country and a people
and a promise that would make them not
only passionately eager to write for it,
but also to die for it, for there is no land
on earth sweeter, more beautiful, more
full of drama and life; no people with
greater courage and greater humor and
greater sympathy than their own.
If they cannot find matter for heroic
verse in the spectacle of the young men
of this nation going voluntarily to far
lands to die for their own dim ideals,
they had better give up poetry and take
to picking winners or designing adver-
tisements. —C. H. S. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
ď
CYPRUS
10-jewel. The ideal
watch for active service.
With military strap.
CO/-
Military Colour
Brooches
Also Ii.A.A.F. and
Brooches, from . .
Patch
. 3/6
R.A.N.
.. 3/6
diam'ond
8- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
đ
112 MARKET ST.
| SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVIDJONES
Pelmanism
Scientific training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism trains the observation to
speed and accuracy", increases the
power of concentration and streng-
thens the will. It is a complete
mental training and it develops
personality.
The Pelman Institute
3a Gloucester House, 390 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne (Cnr. Market St.).
FIEX-I'TRACK
Flex-I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—switches— crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient —a neio layout every time.
• No track sections to
connect —just roil it
out —roll it up.
• Strongly bu i 11 —•
won’t bend or buckle.
• 10ft. (one 6ft. and
one 4ft. section) for
12/6, Plus Postage.
Nett weight when
packed, 51b.
AMPLION (A/siaj
Pty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney.
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
\
FITS OTHER TRACK?
EQUIPMENT
STOPyoupßupfure
Worries'
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 81 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
d
Mark @ LoeaHon
af YOUR RUPTURE.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAD in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street,, Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
đ
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
FOR FOXES
OR DINGOES
Don’t waste time and money putting
out baits on the off chance. Use our
Decoy Lure, which gets them every
time. Repeat orders prove it. Used
by trappers since 1915, with never a
failure or a complaint. A book of
valuable trapping instructions with each
bottle. Price 4/6, 7/9, 12/6, post free.
C. H. PIKE, Camp Hill, Brisbane, Qld.
‘Aberdeen” Cow Rugs
0
SPECIAL OFFER.
No. 22—Heavy Twill Jute, unlined, 7/8 ea.
No. 22P—Heavy Twill Jute, waterproof,
unlined, 9/8 eaeh.
From all leading: stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
pr —— ■■ rr ’ . 11 wwm*
VentriloQuism
yst,
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds of
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
lnl/ly Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enj'os an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, ill). 9/3 delivered; lib. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos. 160
Castlereagli Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Hankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
d
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Standard Model, £O/12/6. Battery Extra.
Be Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for EBEE illustrated leaflet.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYBNEY.
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive-
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturton” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. Call or write for
particulars and 30 days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDL, 1.i.b.5.t.,
sth Floor, The Block,
428 George Street, SYDNEY.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
ď
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Uet Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2C!B every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
CLIMBING
TA r M?A r jm
TCfM'Aro
ISJgEBT
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
□
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!'
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 3/6 Packet, posted.
đ
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DATS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Frea
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
LAMBS SAVED
d
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One band bolds Cord-
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient—
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t julge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAKOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/ v l5/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEARIGHT. 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
STOP-A-LEAK STICK
đ
Permanently repairs Roofs
of Iron, Slate, Tile, Sliingfo
or Composition. Stops leaks
around chimneys, skylights,
windows; mends flushings,
gutters and eaves; fills
cracks in troughs, baths,
tanks, tubs, sinks, metal
and earthenware pipes;
caulks boats, etc. The Stop-a-Leak Stick
is a tough rubbery material like black
putty that sticks firmly wherever it is
placed. It is unaffected by heat, cold or
moisture, never crumbles or dries out.
Better than cement or solder for most
mends. No skill needed in applying. Price
1/6 per stick, carriage paid.
Obtainable only from
UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb., C.l.
'tVINCHHUR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
d
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with liatteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
ftLHORNING
fir/
, Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
thenstart!
One application of
SANDOVERS CHEMICAL.
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An humane method. Price,
SANUOVERS,
Hay Street, PERTH.
. 6/6
Post Free.
BUY YOUR NEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because all
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles, radio,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVEKNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be 3in. smaller . . . 3in. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
UR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
ď
d
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
đ
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4-Jin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4§in. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUIIjT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF EIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
d
If your dog’s coat is dull,
loose or ragged—if he is listless, won t
eat or is out of sorts—start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will sopn be lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat.
đ
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS
w
Z-
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 BEGENT STBEET. SYDNEY.
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips off when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1:} pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
YV. Kopson & Co. Pty., L,td ,
376-352 Kent Street, Sydney.
MAG 336.
d
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 8.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
2Q/8/’4l (See Page 28)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 8.


mm ,
I /&;;) l«<
Vi
/* - ?L
■*////,
£
'/' u
re
V,
.ffra
m.
/ ,
fit-
I 1
v N 1 U^Jr
I
p
$
\
tiim
G
:• :S
s.
1$
■ $BB
'■
i«|p:;S||
<5
*\ ,
j§PU§g
SjpppSSSs?
SsP%sP : ssk : “S
.
[ aOiptLED
WARANTEEE
* »'•■i-.vCVILBEY ..
!
p lliil
: : ;x
x*:*x*»:
: v
*
sffl
sis
.
;SP
Spi : ' ;■: gp:
i '* :
UH
o
NUMB!
BssS
iiiii fflim
#§*■
s>
iiaiiii
iiiS
'
v %
X
_ l~s=!pMP
W&PS, ! >
iltll
i
8888
S$SB
5%*3>
B,\
: :! *
P 1
-issr: :
ill
«BWS?
1111
S
:.:/: *
>
iii«
spig
3 fcfc ' e/***2? k
;.v gg&jM&tfttvft Gr.ii>. *«* "!• ’ k» (R
a C.i»r'* ■’f .jW IK
If, 1 r, " fluyf.r gf tf ,c jr ffN
3 4 ! PINT B OZS. ’• &
tf^^QbucE:’.of *us TB * , '\ s^rsS
Hill
PPPiPppPPPP
fIU
i§l^|||||i|ll
m
pig
m
$ :
v
PP&lpgPlP-PPs
CjtlleOE
UJtSWEfrWB
GIN.
g I 8&
I I
V, !
i *
:spps|
; •: ...-•$
xgg
BssSsp:s
: xX.\v':W:x : :
:*:*x : : : : : :
jxsxv.x:->x<\
N*M4
CIJJE Y :S CASIU OE aV
„ r S -A. Qilber <■"*• .„ >/
•«,* »&»*-* im* iwn'r f sidf-
V tin* r.t-ft «“
au.tralia--^
:
MWg»
:|:|:v:>s:-'S:
rajwXSsW
:
mm
m
vx-x-XvM’Xv*
To set the seal on sociability and
cosy comfort, give your guests
Gilbey’s: a few cheery noggins or
a cocktail or two quickly release the
sparkle and vivacity that makes
good company really good.
The wholesomeness of Gilbey’s, its
delicate, distinctive flavor and stimu-
lating benefit, make it the favourite
drink for all convivial occasions.
G//V Of GfA/ffiffr/OAfS
