

vbjh
Let us brace
ourselves
to our duty
Upon this battle depends
the survival of Christian
civilisation .... We shall
do our duty and so bear
ourselves that, if the British
Commonwealth and Empire
lasts for a thousand years,
men will still say “This
was their finest hour.”
The RT. HON. WINSTON CHURCHILL, C.H., M.P.,
Prime Minister
Inserted by William A'rnott Pty. Limited with acknowledgments to "The Times" (London).
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.—N0. 3187.
Wednesday, March 12, 1941.
Axis Strength and Weakness
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post , Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


mm
a*.
llliMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. .
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining h-ow to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney •'Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S B. 241
The Red Page
WHO'S HANSARD?
On the authority of J. S. Weatherston,
at the time of his writing principal Par-
liamentary reporter at Canberra, the
question appears to be reasonably in
order. Much more so than What is
“Hansqrd”?
Luke Hansard, born 1752, began
printing the “House of Commons Jour-
nals” at the early age of 22, despite
which he survived until 1828. Sub-
sequently Thomas Hansard, proving the
toughness of the family fibre, carried on
undaunted, even when the job had been
expanded to include recording “debates
to which the newspapers paid little or no
attention.” Possibly, England being like
that, there would still be Hansards up-
holding the family tradition and stamina
if Tom hadn’t lost the contract.
Fantastic as it may seem, there were
others not merely willing but actually
eager to dare what many, lacking the
necessary courage, might describe as the
worst. These others, adding names like
Reuters and Eyre and Spottiswoode to
the deathless annals of British fortitude,
stepped, or, it would even seem, rushed,
into the breach, and, though no doubt
they suffered casualties through the years
under the withering fire of burning and
stilted oratory, held out until at long last
relieved by the forces of His Majesty’s
Stationery Office, who are still in the line,
facing all comers, from Mr. Churchill
to those mute Pitts who have never
spoken yet, but some day might.
Hence one of the most respected, if
not exactly idolised, words in the
language. This a just tribute to Luke,
the Norwich compositor who, in a man-
ner of speaking, first “faced the music.”
The inseparable affinity and lasting
quality of good names and brave deeds
—the names of Nelson, Wellington, Phar
Lap, Ajax, High Caste spring at once to
mind —is remarkably demonstrated by the
fact, set forth by Mr. Weatherston in
his admirable brief history of Common-
wealth Hansard, that there is actually no
such thing as Commonwealth “Han-
sard.” Mention “Hansard” in court and
the most learned Judge will grasp the
meaning instantly. Tell the newest office
boy to fetch “Hansard,” and he’ll head,
as if by instinct, for the shelf of those
ever-building monuments of indefatigable
industry and singular courage which
come in from time to time when Parlia-
ment is in session, to stand there in the
countless dusty row dissembling their
imperishable character in paper jackets
of the modest paleness of exceptionally
anaemic buttercups.
Yet they are not named “Hansard.”
The name, the only name, clearly printed
on each and all of them is “Parliamentary
Debates.” The application of intrepid
Luke’s surname to them is, like the equa-
torial line, purely imaginary and mythical.
In this the unwritten title “Hansard”
might be held to belong in the category
of such a pet name as two bob, which,
very few will accept as, say, signifying
that Mr. Menzies is a twin personality,
though the words are not actually en-
graved on the silver they further endear.
Of course, another way of looking at it
might be that “Parliamentary Debates”
is, taken with associations it may con-
ceivably conjure up, a somewhat for-
bidding dragon for ordinary diffident
folk to meet in broad daylight, and hence
the softening fiction of the handle
“Hansard,” which might, and, in fact,
sometimes does, stand for anything but
Parliamentary debate.
An instance in support of that last,
perhaps unfeeling, aspersion is given by
Mr. Weatherston on pp. 30-31, where,
discussing Parliamentary precedent and
procedure in relation to the inclusion or
not in “Hansard” of documents and such-
like conjured up out of hip-pockets by
earnest members and merely flourished
before the House without being read, as
.if their mere existence were argument
enough, he reports an occasion when
Mr. Beasley, at a very late stage of a
prolonged debate on the Estimates,
secured leave to insert un-
read some detailed infor-
mation, and thereby was
enabled- to edify “Han-
sard’s” limited but select
public with no fewer than six pages
of possibly absorbingly interesting data
touching on the establishment of a hog
farm in the vicinity of Canberra.
Mr. Weatherston, of course, makes no
claim on his own behalf or for his band
of braves for the superlative “in-
defatigable” that has here been applied
to them, and, though on all the evidence
it is well justified, it is not literally
accurate. They, or their predecessors,
stood up all right to Mr. Webster’s speech
of nine hours 38 minutes on July 9 and
13, 1909, and to Senator Gardiner’s
speech of 11 hours 50 minutes on Novem-
ber 13 and 14, 1918, but there was one
awful occasion when, they are not
ashamed to admit, they simply couldn’t
take it.
That was in December, 1933.' What
momentous legislation then occupied the
honorable members has no doubt been
long since forgotten by those who most
benefited or otherwise by it, and no
doubt there are minds uncharitable
enough to remember that Christmas falls
in that month, and that it’s a long way
from Canberra to Christmas anywhere.
But, at all events, honorable members
took the floor and shook the air to such
merciless purpose that “Hansard” staff
was “busily engaged uninterruptedly”
from 11 a.m. on the 6th till 6.3 p.m. on
the Bth. Even then it was not until the
last half-hour preceding the end of the
sitting that “several of the staff collapsed
under the strain.”
What restraint of understatement might
be hidden in that bare record of mere
mortality undermining superhuman forti-
tude at last is only hinted in Mr. Weather-
ston’s concise pages. The reader must
make his own drama of all such record
as that, as of such mention as: “Senator
O’Keefe thought that one of his speeches
had been censored and complained
accordingly, but later discovered that in-
advertently he had turned over a galley
slip without reading it.” Any who may
feel that a little more interlarding on those
lines and more of the quality of Mr.
Beasley’s hog-farm would have enlivened
thq record should be steadied by the
thought that when the Red Page’s copy
of it arrived Mr. Weatherston’s very
good, compact little history was already
in its second edition! One other steady-
ing, perhaps devastating, thought from
its pages:
Dr. Maloney: “The issue of a daily
‘Hansard’ would cure everything.”
Those who may read in that panacea
prescription of the Little Doctor a dread
threat to flee from, and who may con-
sider Tibet too outlandish and inacces-
sible, may find consolation and direction
in the extraordinary information put for-
ward here on the unimpeachable
authority of Mr. Weatherston, that
Tasmania has never had a “Hansard”!
It’s not far to Tasmania, after all.
Sorry, M. Romains.
When a man is writing an epic, as is
Jules Romains in his “Men of Good-
will” series of linked novels, one doesn’t
wish to interrupt him halfway to point
out that this or that section is not up
to the mark* Now at its thirteenth
volume its eighteenth “book” and
showing no signs that it is nearing its
conclusion, “Men of Goodwill” will have
to be judged as a whole when it is com-
pleted. Or the time for making up one’s
mind about it may be further off than
that: when the passages that now strike
one as pretty sententious pieces of
moralising about contemporary events —
or events as recent as the immediate
aftermath of the Great War —have be-
come by the effluxion of time a documen-
tation of the effect of war on the life
of the community as historically interest-
ing as Tolstoy’s analysis in War and
Peace.
Maybe Tolstoy in his own day was a
bit of a bore. “We know all about that.”
And Romains, so much having been said
by way of apology, is a bit of a bore
as he meanders in the new volume, The
Aftermath (Peter Davies), through the
life of France after the Great War.
Allowing for the fact that history, like
cathedrals, is always more attractive
when weather, ivy and moss have had
time to work, there is a theme for com-
pelling fiction in the readjustment of
soldiers and civilians to the conditions
of peace, but Romains is not lively
enough as a social historian to com-
mand attention. There was truth in
Aldous Huxley’s, gibe that he is like a
clergyman telling risque stories to show
what a good sport he is.
What most weakens his documentation
is that he uses letters and diaries for most
of it. Direct narrative, the better method,
is life at one remove; the epistolary
method, at two removes, is too far away.
The correspondence between Jerphamon
and Tallez in The Aftermath is remote,
wordy and dull.
Telling his stories, Romains is,very much
more to the point. The first part of the
new volume is a study of decadence—
the decadence of Claude Vorge, the
dadaist poet who is driven step by step
to attempt to commit a sadistic murder,
the strangling and outraging of a woman.
In his search for sources of power
beyond the normal, for bizarre and
monstrous satisfactions, Vorge accepts
the “Bluebeard” Quinette as his master,
and Quinette, though afraid of him, as
the representative of the diabolic prin-
ciple, his evil genius, succumbs to the
poet’s decadent charm and enters upon
an uneasy friendship. At the point at
which the woman Vorge has apparently
strangled is returning to life, Romains
switches to his social history. A brier
glimpse later shows Quinette, Vorge and
the woman apparently three friends
together.
Returning from his history to his
people, Romains shows Jallez in a love
affair with a girl from a news-stand
a beautiful little story—and embarking
upon a comipiication with a married
woman of fashion./ ,
It is an essential of Romains’s method
that both the Quinette -Vorge drama and
the Jallez love story should be left in the
air, to be resolved in Vol/ 14, or Vol. 20,
or whenever, he chooses. Until the
whole work is completed one can’t com-
plain, but it does make The Aftermath
unsatisfactory reading. Here’s a novelist
who writes'a first-class murder story and
is going to make you wait at least two
years to know what happened!
Viking Press Poems.
Viking Press, Sydney, has turned out
four booklets of poetry which in neat-
ness of format, attractiveness of paper
and typography recall the exquisite
“Ariel Poems” Faber and Faber brought
out a few years ago. The decorations
by Bessie Mitchell, resembling the “iso-
types” of modern statisticians and more
like mathematical symbols than draw-
ings, are really an abdication from the
art of the illustrator, but remain pleas-
ing because they suit the precision of
the format.
Each of the four booklets contains a
single longish poem. Betty Riddell’s
The Untrammelled, outstanding among
them, is an analysis of the limitations of
love: —
The girl-ghost of the garden locked in night
Had turned into a woman with a woe
In her blue eyes. She never could discover
What alchemy had turned her vagrant lover
Into the remote adventuring man
Whose mind went crowding, leaping
Beyond the immediate table, static chair
To the horizon where all weeping
Is muffled in the long clouds’ spreading hair.
The Breaking of the Drought is dis-
appointing from Harley Matthews, a thin
lyric made thinner by the fact that it
recalls “La Belle Dame Sans Merci”: —
She stooped and kissed my burning brow;
Her breath to me was sweetly cool,
Her eyes gleamed in the moonlight like
A sunlit pool.
Elisabeth Lambert’s The Map hardly
qualifies as a poem at all. Run the free
verse on as prose, and who can tell
from any subtlety of rhythm where the
breaks were? ; —•
I can remember when I was a child read-
ing the names with wonder. Each new
edition now reports disaster, and map-
makers are as regular with news as the
daily papers. Each new line means more
than a line drawn with temporary right-
ness on a map.
An epilogue to this plea for the blot-
ting out of frontiers reads more like
poetry, but is too obviously Hopkins-
and-water: —
Heather-mist, gold-gorse,
Pale sun-shafts filtered in fine air,
Old, olden in grace
And gay-glancing,
Shy-wooded and wondrous.
Dorothy Auchterlounie is more suc-
cessful in her Kaleidoscope. The light,
clever satire on Sydney would have been
worth writing for only one image: —
Twinkle, twinkle, little stars
On a million motor-cars,
Along the Harbor Bridge so high,
Like a coathanger in the sky.
Miss Auchterlounie’s muse arrives at
Wynyard station in the morning—
where the escalators rise,
Circling in and out of season
Like those who tread them, with as little
reason —
observes the city, pays an insurance
premium, endures the horrors draw-
ing a few shillings from the Common-
wealth Savings Bank—
Thy motions must be circumspect,
Thy wishes with a ticket checked,
And thou shalt wait in silent row
Until one calleth “Two-six-0” —
proceeds to Hyde Park and then, when
evening falls, takes proper note of Luna
P a rk and the talkies, and, fleeing home
finds the radio in full blast:— b me ’
And conversations are no more
Since radios have held the floor-
One’s private views are out of p i ace
Above the bronchial ground-bass
Of toothpaste merchants, commentators
On sundry Aryan dictators.
Jhe poems ends with the poet rightfully
Praise to the father who begot
The genius of the curious Watt
Who founded with his kitchen kettle
Our vast autonomies of metal.
The booklets are known as the Prelude
Series, and these four, if successful, are
to be followed by others.
Various Verse
Other Than Lycidas.
I was his shadow, but he did not'seem
To measure me, engrossed upon his way,
Blending his wood-notes with a lovelier iay
Born of stone stillness where the Muses dream.
Just once or twice he did vouchsafe a word
To me his acolyte, no Lycidas,
But as a deacon who attends High Mass
I hovered in his path;, 1 overheard.
Eavesdropper, I. He hardly spoke at all,
And yet 1 caught that calm apostrophe
To Memnon’s sister near the mulberry-tree
That cast its shade by Christ’s sequestered wall,
Snow-white his collar, and his chestnut hair
Darkled with dusk. He did not turn his eyes
As brooding stars to take me by surprise.
Of me, his shadow, was he unaware.
For I was poor of stature, halt of tongue,
Coarse-hosed, coarse-handed, from "the glebe
sent forth,
A parson’s Benjamin, to prove my worth;
And he was Milton, exquisite and young.
He sang L’Allegro for the world’s delight.
His very linen, it would seem, acclaimed
His destiny and calling, and there flamed
Within his nascent soul a cresset light.
He was aloof and proud to foe and friend.
He was fastidious. He was demure,
Deft in his action, in his speech most sure.
To lowly scholars did he condescend.
But most of all I. loved him when he bore
The stigmata that mark the tutored colt,
Young Samson Agonistes in revolt,
Young Lucifer upon the Stygian floor,
Or like an Adam from his dear estates
Thrust forth to dock and darnel, there to
feed ,
On bitter buds of exile, there to read
The grim reverse of paradisal gates.
Now he is blind and haggard; but he shed
The beams of his effulgence in my 'ace.
And I have watched him to the trysting-! -
Along the course that Philomel hath e
Milton is old. He is contentious, too,
An oracle, a Daniel. When he dies.
There sure shall be some portent in the
To mark the way his seraph spirit new.
Haply: but what of , him , 1
His deathless words adown the ye
Whereas for me a single bell shall
Then silence on a dotard and a
Yet shall I worship him. I his
That knew him young with dew upon
Not when he sanctioned murderJaimes"'
Not when he raged with controversial
Nothing is here for sorrow, yet 1J kn °J (hcrc
Who tend my plot till vesper.,
In me a bard when Milton, the 5 fojSeils
Mused by the Horton lanes where
blow.
Maoriland.
C. R ALLEN.
A Man.
I am the young rnan, the gay who sin gs,
The man who whistles, the on
The teller of tales to any \ayma ,_ wjngs
The lad with the long sleek s , jng «
Wlfo flies through dusk and dawn de
Wonderful things of his way *
Am I the old man, man
The foolish, am t or ° US ’^ e breaking,
With hands uncertain, vovx ran
I Rheumy eyes where real, te t wa s tender,
Once, when this withdrpd hearty
This bent body sweet and -
I am the wise man, w^ d^^nding,
Clever and cured m
Skilled in tasting, sure in
Incorruptible, all-com™„dmg k
Genial lover and grave a
Husband, father and sur
Or am I now—we shall be J^Jt,
Corrupt, careless, short P thfu] ,
Courage-cropped, no lo®g > f me „t,
Powerless of honor, WfJ?ry>
Eager yet slow, y dreary ?
Figure both composite
Take a spade, dig the earth buried;
Discover your own ,
Fashion from raw clay th£s> mar**
In which to toast the ' cnch yo ur f e
And at the same draugh d^ad for ever- B
You have lived once
N.S.W.
KENNETH W ACK EZIE


1
mm
u
m
m
■
mm
m
..
5
- :
jhgj
UNDERWEAR
For Autumn and Winter you cannot do better than buy
"Jumbuk" Regd. lor your underwear. Consistently chosen
by those who demand quality garments, it has proved its
worth over many years. The soit fabric is faultless, and
will not irritate the tenderest skin. "Jumbuk" Regd.
Underwear is made from selected long staple pure Merino
yarn and is obtainable only at Anthony Horderns'.
v>
70.1 —"Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural All Wool Underwear in a light weight.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 4C 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 8/9 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/9 13/- 14/6 16/- 17/9
Underpants to ankle 9/9 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/9 14/- 15/6 17/- 18/9
Trunk Drawers 9/3 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/3 13/6 15/- 16/6 -
70.2.—"Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural All Wool Winter Weight Underwear.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/6 18/- 19/6 21/- 23/- 24/9
With long sleeves 14/3 15/3 16/3 17/3 19/- 20/6 22/- 24/- 25/9
Underpants to ankle 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/9 19/3 20/9 22/3 24/3 26/-
Underpants, f—length leg 14/3 15/3 16/3 17/6 19/- 20/6
70.3. —"Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural All Wool Heavy Winter Weight Underwear.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 16/- 16/9 17/9 19/- 20/6 21/6 22/9 24/6
Long sleeves 1/9 extra
Underpants to ankle 17/6 18/3 19/3 20/6 22/- 23/- 24/3 26/-
70.4—"Jumbuk” (Regd.) Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear. Light weight.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/6 11/6 12/9 14/- 15/3 16/6
Underpants 9/3 9/9 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/9 15/- 16/3 17/6
Trunk Drawers 8/9 9/3 10/- 11/- 12/- 13/3 14/6 15/9
70.5. "Jumbuk” (Regd.) Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear in a med. winter weight.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6
Underpants 9/11 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6
Trunk Drawers 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 12/- 13/- 14/-
70.6. "Jumbuk” (Regd.) Cream All Wool Athletic Undershirts. No sleeves.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
At Anthony Horderns'.. Prices: 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 9/9 10/6
• Mens Mercery—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C
G.P.0., Sydney


“Co in and ask father now , Reggie."
THEY TALKED
OF “SMILER”
By DON EDWARDS.
c ‘ I I OP” FEWTRELL’S hut was down beyond the
i railway yards, on the slope towards the river.
I The lines ran close by, and when the trains
thundered past it seemed as if they were going
to smash into the place. There were a table, a few
boxes, two chairs and a camp-bed in it, and a lot of
junk over in the dark corner by the big stone fire-
place where Dinny and I were sitting.
This night was cold, with a heavy highland frost
on everything, and a big moon that made the rain-
soaked countryside look even colder. There were
lour men besides Dinny and me in the room —“Pop”
Fewtrell, Danny Coyle the fireman, with his arm in a
sling and a bandage still on his head, Harry Mead
from the Locomotive Hotel, and “Digger” Elliot from
the engine sheds. “Smiler” Swan wasn’t there this
night. He had taken the curve out of the town too
fast and his engine had gone over the embankment.
They started to talk about “Smiler,” and Dinny
and 1 edged forward a bit to listen better and catch
more warmth from the fire, but not too far in case
they said “Get home, you kids. This ain’t no place
for you.”
“ ‘Smiler’ was the best-humored cove I ever
knew,” said “Digger.”
“You ought to know,” interrupted Danny drily.
Danny was “Smiler’s” fireman and cobber. Gener-
ally he was as happy as “Smiler” had been, but
tonight he was feeling sore.
“Digger” ignored him. “I never saw him in a
bad temper but twice. Once was when he took his
engine out of the sheds and we’d missed doing some-
thing on it. He went off at us for ten minutes. You’d
have thought we’d been trying to wreck the engine.”
“I’ve often thought that,” said Danny, and
“Digger” was about to reply, till “Pop” said “Dry-up,
Danny, and let him get on with his story.”
“The other time was when he got a letter. He
read it, crumpled it up and put it in his pocket and
stood there looking angry for a few seconds. Sud-
denly he started to swear, and —well, he just swore.
I’ve often wondered what was in that letter.”
“I know,” said Danny.
We all looked at him questioningly, but he didn’t
offer any information, and it was no good asking him.
If he wanted to tell he would, but in his own time.
Danny was like that.
‘That day he took the goods out of town and
round the curve faster than ever, and he always drove
that section too fast. It was a big train, and we held
our breath as it went swaying and screeching down
the bend. He was a funny cove was ‘Smiler,’ and no
one really understood him. Then as the train roared
on to the viaduct his whistle sounded back to us,
in the way he always sounded it, like as if he was a
kid playing trains, or as if he was letting us know
that the letter hadn’t really worried him.
“It was just after that the bushfires broke out
on the mountain section of the branch line around
the timber towns, and it looked as if the people of
Ashvale would be caught, till ‘Smiler’ took a train
through the fire and brought them back. It was fun
to ‘Smiler,’ honestly it was, even though the timber
was blazing on both sides of the line and shooting
sheets of flame were licking across the track. The
wooden bridges were afire and the people were in
the dugouts when ‘Smiler’ arrived. I’ll bet the ‘toot-a
toot-a toot’ of his whistle sounded like music to them.
None of them grumbled at the speed with which
‘Smiler’ took the curves on the way back that night.”
Harry Mead interrupted: “And when he came in
to the pub all he said was ‘That fire gives you a
thirst.’ ”
They were all silent for so long that Dinny and
I thought they weren’t going to talk any more. Then
“Pop” pulled his old pipe out of his mouth, slowly,
as if he hated parting from it. While he talked he
held it close to his mouth, ready to push it in again
as soon as he stopped talking.
“I knew ‘Smiler’ all his life,” he said, “and he
was all right.”
The others nodded.
“Ever since he was a little kid. His old man
was driver on the goods between here and Uribarra.
There was no branch line then, and this place wasn’t
of any importance, even as a railway town. There
was nothing much at all except the timber all round,
a few houses, the station and sheds.
“ ‘Smiler’s’ old man never drove anything but
goods. Sometimes he would take ‘Smiler’ with him
on the footplate, and even as a baby ‘Smiler’ wasn’t
scared. He grew up on an engine, and the old man
always hoped he’d drive the express some day.
‘Smiler’s’ mother wasn’t so keen, but she knew it was
no good trying to fight against it.
“ ‘Smiler’ never thought of anything else but
trains. He spent all his spare time at the sheds, and
a lot of the time when he should have been at school.
He knew every train that went through, and all about
it, and as he grew up people used to say that he was
too interested in trains to bother about the girls.
Anyhow he never married ; he just lived on in the
house down where the branch line leaves the main
track, where he could see all the trains passing.
“I’ll never forget the day he went out in charge
of his first train. It was a day like last Tuesday, dull
and cold, with the clouds swinging low on the ridges
and rain sweeping in driving sheets across the town.”
“Pop” put his pipe back into his mouth and puffed
silently. The others were quiet, looking into the
fire and thinking of last Tuesday, the day “Smiler”
took out his last train. Dinny and I moved closer
together and suddenly felt cold.
“You never saw anyone so happy,” “Pop” con-
tinued. “You’d have sworn he was driving the express
—perhaps he was.”
We looked at “Pop,” waiting for him to explain,
but he went on talking in a ruminative sort of way, as
if we knew what he meant.
“It’s a wonder ‘Smiler’ didn’t go on to passenger
trains. He was a good driver, and keen, but I sup-
pose he didn’t want to. He had no ambition. One
engine was as good as another to him as long as he
was driving it.”
I saw Danny shake his head as if he was about
to speak, but he kept quiet.
“He never really grew up ; he was always a kid
playing trains.”
“That’s it,” said Harry Mead. “As far as trains
were concerned ‘Smiler’ was just a kid with a toy.
That’s why he got on so well with the kids, too.
They had the same feeling for engines as he had.”
Dinny and I looked at each other and nodded,
and thought of how we used to wait with the other
kids on the bags of wheat stacked beside the track
for the afternoon goods to come through. When it
was rumbling over the viaduct the “toot-a toot-a toot”
of the whistle would tell us that “Smiler” was driving,
and we would grab handfuls of wheat, and get as
excited as young colts, and throw the wheat and
wave and shout and laugh as the train steamed slowly
past us, with “Smiler” shaking his fist at us and his
broad grin belying his assumed anger. We would
have done anything for “Smiler.”
We thought, too, of how we used to walk out of
town and along the line to Greg’s Crossing after
school, and wait beside the creek till we heard the
goods roaring down the incline. If it stopped we would
hop up and live in heaven with “Smiler” in the cab
for a few minutes, till we reached the yards and he
said “Off you go now, and don’t let anyone see you.”
We all intended to be drivers just like “Smiler”
when we grew up. We didn’t even want to drive an
express ; what was good enough for “Smiler” would
do us.
“Remember how ‘Smiler’ always drove the train
out to the Ten Mile on the day of the picnic,” said
Harry. “He must have felt pretty proud, with the
whole of the town on his train, and all the kids think-
ing him a hero.” He paused. “The picnic is in a
couple of weeks,” he said. “I wonder who’ll drive
this year?”
I looked at Dinny and moved a bit closer to the
fire. The others were silent. “Pop” suddenly became
interested in his pipe, and Harry shuffled his feet and
looked uncomfortable. The room became very silent,
till the quiet was shattered by the thundering roar of
a train rushing past.
“The nine-thirty express,” said “Pop.” “It’ll
strike it cold up in the ranges.”
Danny started to speak, slowly and deliberately
as was Danny’s way. “You’re right about ‘Smiler,’
about him being a kid and that, but you aren’t right
about him not wanting to drive passenger trains.
What he wanted more than anything was to be
driving an express.
“When we’d be sidetracked somewhere or other
to let a passenger go through, ‘Smiler’ would lean
out of the cab and watch her rip past, and if you
spoke to him he wouldn’t hear you. Then, when she
had gone and you could only hear the roar in the
distance, or see the lighted line of her windows snak-
ing round the bends, he’d come to life again and say
‘lsn’t she a beauty, Danny? Isn’t she a beauty?’ ”
Danny was quiet for so long that we wondered
if ,he had finished talking. You never knew with
Danny.
Then he started again. “He drove an express
once, but I wasn’t with him then, and he wouldn’t
talk about it afterwards, as if it was too important
an experience to be discussed. It was that time
Morgan was injured at The Junction, and we were
there with the goods. They got him to take Morgan’s
place and drive through to here. I’ll bet that was the
happiest day of his life. His smile as he left The
Junction and waved to me was about twice as big
as usual.”
We waited again while Danny gingerly touched
the bandage on his head.
“And yet they wouldn’t give him a passenger
train,” he said angrily. “When he was due for one
they told him he was not practical enough ; said he
was better suited to goods trains. That’s what was in
that letter he got. It was a hell of a disappointment
to him, but he just smiled. Not practical enough.
That’s all they had against him.
“He might have been a kid who never grew up
as far as trains were concerned, but he was a good
driver. He always took the curve out of here too
fast, I’ll admit, but he used to imagine he was on
an express. He could have taken the bend fast on a
passenger train. He never went out of here driving
a long, slow, noisy goods, but always on the engine
of a fast, shiny express. I know.
“When we got out of town he came back to
earth. He was a great cove was ‘Smiler,’ and if it
hadn’t been wet and greasy the other night the train
wouldn’t have gone over. When I felt the brakes
slipping and the train getting away I hopped off, but
not ‘Smiler.’ No fear. He stuck to the end, and
nearly got her out of trouble, too. With anyone else
in the cab she’d have left the rails half a mile back. ’
Danny looked round in a challenging way, but
no one said anything. They all agreed with Danny.
Dinny and I sneaked out the door and left
them sitting there.
'T'HE night was frost-clear and the grass crackled
* under our feet. We set out along the Jine, the
rails gleaming beside us like silver ribbons under


the moon. I knew I would probably get into trouble
for being out late, so I hurried. Dinny’s people didn’t
care what he did.
We walked past “Smiler’s” house. It looked old
and dejected. A goods train was being assembled
in the yards, electric lights gleamed yellowly on the
station, and from the engine sheds came bursts of
sound, hissings and hammerings, and firelit clouds of
steam. At the wheat sheds we stopped, for Dinny’s
place was over near the main street, and mine was in
the other direction.
The distant rattle of a train on the viaduct came
to us. “Smiler” often used to drive this train. We
waited, although we knew there was no reason for
waiting. The rattle became a steady, labored growl
as the train climbed the incline on the curve where
“Smiler’s” engine had gone over. Suddenly on the
clear, cold air there came the shrill whistle, “toot-a
toot-a toot.”
I looked at Dinny intently. His lips said silently
“Smiler.” Then it came again, “toot-a toot-a toot,”
and a sharp anger possessed me at the thought of
someone copying “Smiler’s” whistle.
I could see Dinny felt the same as I did. We
separated, and as the goods rattled slowly past us
we didn’t even turn to look at it.
RAIN
By A. C. HEADLEY.
IT was almost as if the rain was being thrown at
the earth. There was a sullen viciousness in its
downward charge. Each drop hit the roadway,
sprang up and hung for a moment quivering. The
street, except for shuddering pools of reflected light,
was brilliantly black. The tram waiting-shed held a
lone occupant. He sat huddled and shivering with
cold. The rain had found him ; it came sweeping in
and spitting at his legs. His clothes were wet and he
could feel the pressure of cold where his back touched
the seat. The thinness of his face was accentuated
by days of beard. Every few moments he closed his
eyes and dozed, returning to consciousness in little
abrupt bursts. Once he saw a policeman and slipped
into the rain and darkness behind the shed. Minutes
moved slowly and the policeman was gone. He slid
back into the shelter of the waiting-room. There was
an abrupt cessation of the rain and the night stopped
dead.
The woman came suddenly out of the darkness.
The man’s eyes lifted, looked at her for a swift
moment and dropped as quickly into a doze. The
woman glanced towards him, shrugged her shoulders
and shook rain from the thin fur around her neck.
She was young. Her hair, where it was unprotected
by her hat, was wet and hung in long strands. The
powder and rouge on her face was patched and
streaked with the rain. She took a mirror from her
bag and dabbed ineffectually with a damp handker-
chief.
“Hell,” she said, “what a night.”
The man at the end of the seat gave a little
squeezed-up laugh. “It ain’t no night for your busi-
ness.”
She looked at him queerly, but his eyes were
closed again. There was a tramway timetable on the
wall, and she turned to study it. There was half an
hour to wait. She sat down in the other corner. A
car turned into the roadway, making a slapping noise
with its tyres. Her legs were cold and she smoothed
her hands over them. It started to rain again, sweep-
ing in under the shelter where she could feel the lash
of it on her legs, and hurtling furiously on the iron
roof.
Over the end of the pavement she could see the
gutter filling with water. There was a blocked drain
and the water, yellow with mud, was starting to
mount the pavement. She watched the creeping
line of it and thought about a flood scene in a picture
she had seen. Then, as though it had been turned off,
the rain stopped. The pool on the edge of the foot-
path hung for a minute and slid back into the gutter.
The only sound was the clank of water in the down-
pipe. She studied the man in the corner with the
interest of something to do.
“Ain’t y’ got nowhere t’ go?” she said.
He lumbered into awareness of her. “Somewhere
t’ go? Gawd, would I be ’ere if I ’ad? No, I’m
waitin’ for me luxury liner to leave on a work tooer.
I’m jist fillin’ in time. T’morrer I’ll be dinin’ an’
winin’ at the captain’s table.” His thin mouth twisted
and he spat into a pool of water.
She shrugged. “Y’ can’t be killed f’r astin’.”
They drifted back to their own thoughts.
There were people coming along the street now.
She saw a couple come into a pool of light, watched
their shadows die and awaken to gigantic life on the
wet pavement. On the roof she heard the first warn-
ing patter of the rain. The clear sound of footsteps
quickened. They were running when they reached
the shelter of the shed. They were young and alive.
The boy said: “We were just in time.”
They hardly looked at the other occupants of the
shed. The rain started to blow in and they moved
back towards the seat. The girl sat down and the man
in the corner awoke. “Y’ ain’t got a spare smoke?”
The boy looked startled, but he brought a packet
of cigarettes from his pocket and offered one. He
looked very self-conscious and, taking a cigarette for
himself, he lit it and puffed nervously. The man in
the corner retreated into the comfort of his own
cigarette. The boy sat down and started to talk to
his companion. In the corner the woman caught
smatterings of their talk about pictures and good
times. It made her feel small and lonely and
miserable.
“Hell,” she said. “It’s enough to drive anyone
mad.” The sound of her voice startled her.
The boy looked up. “We’ve been needing it,”
he commented. He looked scared because he had
spoken and there was a swift jerk of silence.
A heavy man came running out of the darkness.
He stood panting and grinning self-consciously. His
face was red and puffed ; it seemed to grow around
the outthrust of his thick lips. A gold watch was
tight on his fat wrist and he looked at it. “Quarter
of an hour.”
“It’s a lousy service,” said the woman.
The heavy man looked at her, uncertain whether
to speak or not. His small eyes were held in bags of
flesh. “Yair,” he admitted slowly, “it’s lousy orright.”
The man on the end of the seat shook himself
out of a doze. “Y* ain’t got a cigarette on y\ Dig.?”
With a start the woman noticed that his other
cigarette was gone.
The heavy man pulled a pouch from his pocket,
teased the tobacco into his hand and passed it with a
paper.
“A smoke,” said the man on the end of the seat,
“is as good as a feed.”
Rain was still thundering on the roof. The heavy
man was aware of it beating at him under the shelter.
He came over and sat down next to the woman, and
rolled a cigarette with heavy, meaty hands. The
woman could smell the beer on his breath. For some-
thing to say she said: “Looks as though you been
makin’ a night of it.”
“I’ve ’ad a skinful,” he said.
The boy and the girl at the side of them were
quiet with self-consciousness.
The heavy man spoke again. “I started orf at the
gee-gees. I been on it ever since.”
“Celebratin’ or drownin’?” she said.
He puffed a circle of smoke. “I done a packet.”
“They’re best left alone,” she said.
A woman with an umbrella came into the shelter
of the waiting-shed. She was tall and thin and her
frock was too young for her. Lowering the umbrella
she came back to take her place on the seat. She
took the vacant spot by the shabby man, noticed him
abruptly and edged closer to the boy and girl. The
man awoke, creaked his throat and spat into a pool
of water. The woman with the umbrella looked dis-
gusted. She sat very straight and folded her hands in
front of her.
“ Cripes, Lofty , this'll make old Musso. wild!
The woman on the end of the seat started to talk
to the heavy man. “Looks as though it’s gonner last
f’r a month,” she said.
“They reckon they need it in the country.”
“Blasted rain,” said the man huddled in the
corner, “rottin’ y’ boots. What I say is the rain.”
Everyone looked startled again.
“ ’Ere,” said the heavy man, “none o’ that.
There’s ladies ’ere.” He was half-scared that the man
in the corner might answer him back, but the man
appeared to have gone to sleep again. “There oughter
be a place for blokes like that,” he said quietly to the
woman.
The boy and the girl were trying to look as though
they hadn’t heard anything. The spinster sat very
erect and stared out into the rain.
The little edgings of talk began again. The heavy
man and the woman started to talk about the weather
and racehorses. The boy and girl were together in
condemnation of a picture they had seen. Only the
spinster and the man in the corner were silent. But
in every one of them the little nervousness of being
together persisted. The spinster watched the woman
with frank curiosity. She had recognised the heavy
man as a local butcher. She had seen him often. He
always got off the tram at the stop past which she
alighted. She looked at the woman now, noticed the
mascara and the uneven spread of rouge. She caught
the smell of cheap perfume. She looked abruptly at
her watch and then along the road.
The single light of the tram was moving forward.
She made a little fidget of readiness. The rain had
dwindled to a drizzle. Presently the tram grated past
the shed to the end of the line. The boy and girl stood
up. The conductor was busy turning the trolley-pole.
There was a minute or two of waiting and slowly the
tram grated back to the shed.
They separated, taking different compartments, as
though they were glad to be away from each other.
Only the man on the end of the seat paid no attention
to the tram. His head was hunched into the turned-up
collar of his coat. The tram moved away.
The spinster sat erectly in her compartment. They
were all in front of her in a sedate file. The boy and
the girl had found some-
thing to laugh about. The
woman was staring into
the rain and dark of the
night. In the smoking
compartment the heavy
man was puffing vigor-
ously at a cigarette and at
each stop looking back
over his shoulder. There
was ten minutes of tram
sound, then she saw the
woman get up and pull
the cord. The tram came
to a stop, and she watched
the woman alight. The
tram was beginning to
move when the heavy man
jumped off. She remem-
bered again that he got
off at the stop past hers,
and abruptly she felt de-
liciously indelicate . . .
| T was almost as if the
* rain was being thrown
at the earth. There was a
sullen viciousness in its
downward charge. Each
drop hit the roadway,
sprang up and hung for a
moment quivering. The
street, except for shud-
dering pools of reflected
light, was brilliantly black.
The tram waiting-shed held a lone occupant.
He sat huddled and shivering with the cold. The rain
had found him ; it came sweeping in and spitting at his
legs. Around his feet the grey of the pavement was
edging in and becoming black. His clothes were wet
and he could feel the pressure of cold where his back
touched the seat. The thinness of his face was accen-
tuated by days of beard. Every few moments he closed
his eyes and dozed, returning to consciousness in little
abrupt bursts. Once he saw a policeman and slipped
into the rain and darkness behind the shed. Minutes
moved slowly and the policeman was gone. He slid
back into the shelter of the waiting-room.
THE WISH.
My children in the luscious golden dusk
alone with moths and timeless minutes play.
Their breath is sweeter and more pure than musk
as they exhale the dying essence of day.
J. wish with all my heart I could rejoin
in them the frantic comrades of my youth,
when I, too, ached and anguished to purloin
more time for laughter and for telling truth
of stars and moths and moonlight. Ah! Give up
such fat senescent dreams, and seek repose
in lustrQUs women, or that dripping cup
which round and about in narrowed circles goes
until, in space and eloquence serene,
lost out of time, I can forget that l
have child, or wife, or mistress, or have been
even a moment young. So let me die
bold and upbraided, in some golden dusk
where moths and children passionlessly play.
Our breath will take you sweeter than that musk
which was exhaled by this dead summer day.
N.S.W.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
.dffblt Wne cflate mel/cwncMandMmqjucfi
THAMES STEAMERS AT AN EMBANKMENT PIER.
In olden times, and even so late as a century ago, the Thames, or that portion of it eastward from Westminster to Gravesend,
bore the not unpleasing designation “The Silent Way.” Whoever gave it that appellation exercised a certain amount of
Author s Licence, for it has never been silent, save in the watches of the night, its surface during the working hours of
daylight presenting, by the volume of traffic, a scene of great animation. For centuries it was the main “highway for that
human traffic later to be absorbed by omnibuses, tramways, motor-buses and railways. During 1940 enemy activity over
the capital, which rendered land travel at various periods of the day dangerous, and frequently impossible, resulted in the
river regaining much of that human traffic that was once peculiarly its own. Whether, when the war is over, it will retain
this patronage is another matter, but, judging from experiences provided by the last fifty years or more, the outlook does
not seem hopeful when normal times return. The steamboat pier illustrated is adjacent to Westminster Bridge, and the
tall building on the left is New Scotland Yard.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3187.
Wednesday, March 12, 1941.
TWO BATTLERS AND TWO BEARS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
j. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wesiralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.O.'),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
AXIS STRENGTH AND WEAKNESS.
In February, 1798, the young Bonaparte, fresh from
his dazzling campaigns in Italy and named Com-
ma nder-in-Chief of the Army of Invasion of England,
visited the Channel coast to “inspect the preparations
for the invasion,” which the Directors had entrusted
to other hands. He found them wholly inadequate,
and suggested that “an expedition to the Orient
would be equally ruinous to British trade.” The
Directors, who wanted to get rid of him, let him
have his way, and there followed his invasion of
Egypt. Unlike Mussolini, he gained some spectacular
victories, but his expedition was doomed from the
moment his admiral lost the Battle of the Nile, and
after he had deserted it was wrecked on the rock
of British sea-power.
August, 1805, found Bonaparte—now the Emperor
Napoleon—back on the Channel coast surveying much
more elaborate preparations for an invasion of Eng-
land, and planning the naval combinations which were
to have lured Nelson away. Again he “refused to
hazard in such a venture the fate of my beautiful
France,” and gave the army of invasion the right-
about-turn order. Hence Austerlitz, and hence
Trafalgar, concerning which he reported to his tame
Legislature that “storms caused us to lose ships of
the line, after a fight imprudently engaged.” In after
years, he told Metternich that the invasion parade
was a gigantic bluff, designed to trick Austria into a
premature declaration of war, but as a sober his-
torian has written:
It is highly probable that he meant to strike at
London it naval affairs went well, and that he was
glad to have at hand an alternative which would shroud
a maritime failure under military laurels.
Will something of the sort have to be written about
Hitler? Has he turned away from the perils of an
invasion, the failure of which, with the frightful losses
it must entail, might, and probably would, mean the
loss of the war and the downfall of his regime? The
leaders of Britain will be slow to believe it, nor will
they relax their highly-efficient precautions until they
are positive that the danger is past. Only last month
the Chief of the Imperial General Staff, before set-
ting out on the journey that has taken him to Ankara
and Athens, warned the British public that Hitler
might be “forced to attempt an invasion,” and the
Secretary for India pointed out that the invasion route
is “the only direction where he can hope for a
decision.” Mr. Churchill himself, speaking two days
later, repeated Sir John Dill’s warning, and described
invasion as “the greatest issue of the war.” “Every-
thing is ready,” he said, “and we are far stronger
than ever before —incomparably stronger than in July,
August or September.” But he added that “we must
all be prepared to meet gas attacks, parachute attacks
and glider attacks” —gliders were used in the invasion
of the Low Countries —“with constancy, forethought
and skill.”
All the same, it is clear that Hitler has turned
east or south-east to secure an easier triumph on his
own account as well as to bring the aid urgently
needed by his dejected partner, whose severe defeats
in every quarter have not only left him without a rag
of military reputation but damaged the prestige of
the whole outfit. It does not follow that the forces
assembled for an invasion of Britain or to meet an
invasion from Britain have had to be weakened ; but,
if Hitler’s Balkans and Mediterranean plans miscarry,
weakened they will have to be. Even if it is true, as
a very dubious American report has it, that he has
sent more than 100,000 troops and 1000 tanks to
North Africa, it is beyond his capacity to save more
than a remnant of Mussolini’s Italian empire ; and, if
things go wrong, it may be beyond his capacity’ to
keep Italy in the war, save as a sullen and passive
associate.
And things may go wrong, in North Africa and
in the Balkans. It is one thing to hurl a victorious
army and air force into Western Europe, using magni-
ficent roads and short airlines—to trample on neigh-
boring nations, already undermined by pacifism or
defeatism, and in any case inferior in numbers and
equipment. It is quite another thing to conduct
campaigns in distant and inhospitable regions against
acclimatised warriors who have never known defeat,
and who will have the priceless support of the Royal
Navy, the Fleet Air Arm and the Royal Air Force.
Whether in semi-tropical North Africa or in the
malarial Salonika region or in Asia Minor, with its
complexities of climate and its strange local diseases,
sickness is sure to take its toll of the Germans. And
every lengthening of the line increases the strain on
their transport and supply services.
So, while there is strength in the movements of
Nazi forces into the Balkans and North Africa, in
the position which renders them necessary there is
weakness. And, however the movements may
develop, the able commanders and hard-fighting sea-
men, soldiers and airmen who in a few months have
struck Fascist Italy off the list of first-rate military
Powers and obliged its “Caesar” to assume the charac-
ter of Ancient Pistol may be trusted to exploit that
weakness to the full.
Hitherto Hitler has professed to be opposed to
an extension of the war beyond the regions domi-
nated by his army. The dangerous weakness of his
associate, and no doubt the pressure of difficulties in-
separable from the holding down of so many peoples
who have necessarily ceased to trade with Germany
—and seizure of supplies, though it may avail for a
time, is no substitute for trade —have forced him to
change his policy and take great risks. That he is
uneasy in his mind may be judged from the fact that
he sent a courier to Ankara to assure the Turks that
he did not intend to attack them. The third party to
the Tripartite Pact and the party to the agreement
signed at Moscow, which let the war dogs loose, are
visibly uneasy, too. There has been a pronounced
change for the better in the tone of Japanese Foreign
Office communications, especially since the Japanese
Ambassador in London saw Mr. Churchill. Moscow,
for its part, has scolded the Bulgarian Government
for permitting the entry of German troops and letting
them take up positions on the Black Sea. It addressed
no reproach to Germany, the new Russian imperial-
ists being too terrified of that country to lodge a
straightforward objection to the German occupation
of Varna, though the old Russian imperialists would
have met even the threat of a German advance to
Varna with a declaration of war. Still, the note to
Sofia is the first sign of a disagreement between the
First and Second Robbers, “the little rift within the
lute that by-and-bye will make the music mute.”
Nazis Waive the Rules.
In Sydney, as a very helpful aid to the war funds,
Mr. Lindrum has been giving all-comers the fantastic
start of 95 in a hundred-up, and, being Mr. Lindrum,
he has been downing at least 95 in every hundred of
them. In the grim game he’s now engaged on there
will be no doubting that John Bull is another Mr.
Lindrum, and the way the table is sloped, the balls
loaded and the scores rigged against him, he certainly
needs to be.
Even before the war started J.B. had to watch
the other fellow getting into nick, without being able
to do very much about it. Not until the very last
12 months of some 20 years could he start training
for the contest ahead, against the other fellow’s seven
or eight years, at least. This, it should not ever be
overlooked—now or henceforth —was a direct result
of democracy as a way of life and the Parliamentary
system of government, as these were understood and
functioned over the muddled period of the ’twenties
and ’thirties. There were giants of pacifism and inter-
nationalism in those days, and under their sway the
whole democratic electorate —in Britain, Australia,
and everywhere else—insisted on the sort of negative
leaders and sentimental policies it got.
Hence the flabbiness of J.B. and co. until it was
almost, but not quite, too late. This, of course, gave
J.B. and co. an unassailable moral standing. Over
the best part of a decade, while the Nazis were get-
ting fighting fit, and in doing so breaking all the rules
about the place—the Versailles Treaty rule by rule ;
the Locarno Pact in one set smash —the democratic
peoples as a whole, and not merely their temporary
leaders, took their stand on the alleged sanctity of
the international laws they had fabricated and the
supposed strength of legalistic instruments to enforce
them.
Having thus had all the advantages in preparing,
while J.B. and co. sat in the shade and chewed the
lotus, the Nazis started the ball rolling, and at once
proceeded to show that their contempt for rules in
peace-time was mild to their contempt for rules in war.
Their idea of rules is to formulate their own. This,
as the smallest effort of memory will establish, is
■anything but peculiar to Germany’s present warlords.
The guiding doctrine for total war was laid down in
the Reichstag in 1916: “When the most ruthless
methods are considered best calculated to lead us to
victory, and a swift victory, they must be employed.”
Hindenburg laid it down that “the more pitiless the
conduct of war, the more humane it is in reality, for
it will run its course all the sooner.” In 1920 the
home-made rules under which the Germans had fought
were summed up into the doctrine: “Any instrument
or method the employment of which will contribute
to the speedy attainment of the object of war is per-
missible whatever may be said against it on humani-
tarian grounds.”
Those expressions of the then German warlords’
interpretations of the rules were largely made to justify
what was considered the worst breach of all—the use
of gas. This broke one of the very oldest “rules of
warfare”—that prohibiting the use of poison, embodied
in concrete form in the Hague Declaration of 1899.
On German stipulation and practice this present war
embraces everybody: it is total. Happily for every-
body, not so happily for those to whom it was re-
stricted, that was not so in 1914-18. Then, Germany
having broken the old-established rule, troops of the
British side, bogging in the mud of France and
Flanders, took gas and used it as a matter of course.
Once Germany had thus established its home-made
rule, gas was all in the day’s work. Some consolation
may now be found in the recorded fact that, before
the end, it had become one of the Allies’ most effi-
cient weapons.
Then, as now, there were sheltered sentimentalists
who took the line that J.B. and co. should stick to the
“rules” no matter how Germany broke them. Pro-
fessor Goodhart records in one of the informative
Oxford Pamphlets that when gas was first used in
1915 the Archbishop of Canterbury wrote to the Prime
Minister urging him not to use “the same infamous
weapon.” Asquith and Kitchener politely pointed out
to the Archbishop that “our troops must be ade-
quately protected by the employment of similar
methods so as to remove the enormous and unjustifi-
able disadvantage.” In 1925 a protocol agreeing to
the prohibition of the use of gas was widely signed
at a League of Nations conference, and though there
have been many allegations of its use since then no
conclusive proof has been produced: so far, the
present war has been “clean” in this respect.
It has been anything but clean otherwise. One
of the greatest advantages Germany has so far had
—and one, it should never be overlooked, which more
than anything else has contributed to that country’s
seemingly incomparable military ability and success
—has been its freedom to make and break rules with-
out any respect for moral scruples. No doubt it is all
highly creditable to Britain and France that they could
not, purely because of moral reasons, have accom-
plished in the past year the military successes which
today stand to the “credit” of Germany. Their own
people, as well as the rest of the democratic world on
the support of which they depended, would not have
permitted their doing the things which the Germans
have freely done. Moral scruples prevented them, in
the first place, from securing the support of the
Soviet in return for a whack of Poland and the whole
of the Baltic States. Moral scruples—their adherence
to the rules—prevented their violation of neutral ter-
ritory, even when, from a military point of view, it
was vital that they should march in, as Germany did.
Moral scruples would have prevented their machine-
gunning of helpless fleeing civilians.
These things should be remembered when the
greatness of the German military achievement is up
for admiration. It should be remembered also that
the electorate as a whole, and not the statesmen and
military leaders alone, is responsible for how a demo-
cratic side conducts a war, just as it is responsible for
its own state of defence in time of peace. Before
this present total war is over, the democratic side
may be driven to a changed conception of war —as
of something to keep clear of unless there is posi-
tively no choice, but, once embarked on, an under-
taking to be carried out regardless of any moral
scruples.
That is bitter doctrine. The bitterness of it is
that it is admitted and practised German doctrine.
Once, when war was a private matter as between
two selected sides of men and men only, the high
moral stancl at home was no doubt very pleasing. It
may not need many Rotterdams to make a wreck of
all such scruples. This is what happened to Rotter-
dam :
Two groups, each of 27 aeroplanes, systematically
bombed the centre of the town with high-explosive and
incendiary bombs, leaving not a house intact, hardly a
soul alive. Thirty thousand of innocent victims, among
whom were scarcely any soldiers, perished during the
half-hour this loathsome raid lasted—old men, young
men, women and innumerable children.
Under the Nazi formulating of the rules that was
justifiable. There cannot be any doubt that it did
materially contribute to the shortening of the war
against Holland, and therefore, in their reading of
the rules, it was justified. The singular difference is
that even today the British side could not commit
a Rotterdam without grievously shocking the very
tender conscience of all those who barrack for the
side. Perhaps this side can carry on the war all
through like gentlemen. Perhaps J. Bull is a miracu-
lous fellow like Mr. Lindrum, and can give the oppo-
sition all the advantages, and a hiding as well. Per-
haps, also, all these advantages which J.B. has had to
give away will prove disadvantages to the opposition
in the long run, as gas did in the last war. Two
things, at any rate, are worth bearing in mind.
Because of the enormous advantages it has so far
had, the German military machine’s achievements are
nothing like as marvellous as they might appear. The
other matter is that, when J.B. got down to using
gas and otherwise disregarding “the rules” from 1915
onwards, he was a dabster at it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Heads and Tails.
Whether or not the Matsuoka offer of mediation
(withdrawn as to Europe) led to bitter exchanges
between Berlin and Tokyo —this was asserted by a
German-frontier correspondent of the “Times,” which
has a nasty habit of sacking correspondents who
take it in—Japan changed its official tune noticeably
last week, especially after the Japanese Ambassador
at London had had two interviews with Mr. Churchill.
Simultaneously, the negotiations for a settlement of
the Thailand-Indo-China dispute approached finality.
Mr. Menzies grasped the opportunity to define Aus-
tralia’s attitude to the situation in the North Pacific.
He said “We sent a force to Singapore because
we were determined to fulfil our obligations.” It was
“not only a question of local defence of our shores ;
we in Australia are determined to do all we can,
not only to insure ourselves against loss but to make
our contribution to insure the British Empire against
loss.” Somebody had said in Japan “If this is aimed
at Japan it is unnecessary and it exhibits unworthy
suspicion.”
My answer is in the plain language of common-
sense. Is it an affront to my neighbor if I lock my
doors at night and insure my property against loss? It
is an elementary precaution.
There was more about Australia’s “primary responsi-
bilities in the Pacific and primary liabilities and risks
if anything goes wrong among the nations which
border that ocean.” Then came “something a little
realistic and, I hope, sensible.”
Nothing disturbs me more than to encounter that
type of mind which appears to assume that, because
we....are engaged in a deadly war —a war which will
not terminate except with our victory—we should at the
same time, because Japan has made an agreement of
some kind with the Axis Powers, permit ourselves willy-
nilly to drift into an atmosphere with regard to Japan
which is dubious and dangerous. Instructions given
to the Australian Minister in Tokyo were: “Let us get
together and discuss whatever problems exist. Let us
get to understand each other.” Open and frank
discussion is the surest way of overcoming these prob-
lems.
I do not believe in the inevitability of conflict except
in Europe, where the burglar must be thrown out of the
house. I also do not believe in the inevitability of
friendship... .Friendship is a flower requiring cultiva-
tion, and watering with understanding. But it would
be a great blunder for any country to think that Aus-
tralia was stretching out diplomatic tentacles which
meant the beginning of a separatist movement.
We shall approach every one of our neighbor
countries without suspicion and without fear. I am pre-
pared to give a guarantee on behalf of Australia that
fear and suspicion will never govern our foreign policy.
Ever since he arrived in London Mr. Menzies has
been in close touch with Mr. Churchill, and that
gentleman and the Under-Secretary of Foreign Affairs
can scarcely have been kept in ignorance of what he
intended to say. His speech seems to have had an excel-
lent effect in London and Tokyo alike. It was praised
by the conservative “Daily Express” and by a writer
in the Labor “Herald.” “Seldom has there been a
speech of this nature so warmly approved by official
quarters,” an A.A.P. man wrote. The author must
have been astonished at the reactions in Australia.
“A maladroit utterance!” shouted the conser-
vative “Argus,” whose beau-ideal of an Australian
statesman was the exploded Stevens pure appease-
ment!” “Appeasement!” echoed Mr. Beasley and
Mr. Forde. Mr. Beasley was especially indignant;
the speech, he pointed out, flatly contradicted not
only his own warnings to Australia (“you and I may
be fighting Fascism in our own country in the very
near future,” and “I have no illusions about the
shocking tragedy that may overwhelm us overnight )
but the declaration that the war had “moved to a
new stage involving the utmost gravity” issued by Mr.
Fadden, Mr. Curtin and himself. Mr. Curtin was
not so angry as Mr. Beasley, but was as angry as it
is in his nature to be. “S. M. Herald” mingled scold-
ing with faint praise.
But Mr. Menzies did not lack defenders. Ihe
“Age” gave him credit for “a noticeable service to
the cause of clear thinking ; a masterly declaration
of the true Australian mind—robust in tone, yet con-
ciliatory, firm but persuasive.” In another article it
denounced the P.M.’s critics as “angry wasps” whose
“mischievous misinterpretations ’ of his speech were
“the result only of fallacious reasoning or political
prejudice.” There was “no real conflict between
the speech and the Advisory War Council’s recent
grave statement” ; though there were “differences in
tone, in approach” and in “deductions from a given
set of conditions.” The speech had been “welcomed
as a contribution to steady nerves and sound judg-
ment” ; the statement, “many citizens have since con-
cluded,” was “issued in a mood of hysteria, or per-
haps for undisclosed diplomatic reasons,” and was
“now widely recognised as unfortunate.”
That, at least, is incontrovertible. And it is very
astonishing that the man who, with the same infor-
mation and greater responsibilities, kept his head
cool, his tongue still and his tail erect should be
assailed so passionately by persons who lost control
of heads, tongues and tails.
Bread for the Soldiers.
The affair of the Abbco Bread Co., which was fined
£1438 for a weight shortage of 5755 ounces in 3282
loaves of bread delivered in performance of a mili-
tary contract, calls attention to a lot of undesirable
things. It is doubtful if even the member of the
N.S.W. Opposition who first became curious about
the reduction of the fine to £5OO suspected the full
implications of the case.
Mr. V. H. Treatt, the N.S.W. Minister of Justice,
took it upon himself to reduce the fine against the
written advice of his own Under-Secretary (verbally
altered afterwards, according to the Minister) and in
the face of the finding of the magistrate who in-
flicted the penalty and of a report by the Superinten-
dent of Weights and Measures, who pointed out, very
pertinently, that an appeal against the conviction had
been withdrawn. All these gentlemen must have been
aware of the company’s contention that the N.S.W.
Bread Act was at fault, inasmuch as it prescribes
baking of bread in 21b. and 41b. loaves, and that
deliveries in actual weight were greater than the
amount required.
The magistrate, for his part,
had no doubt the defendant company’s manager was
practising a systematic, fraud. He did not regard
the manager as a witness of truth.
Mr. Treatt, it appears, was invited to intervene by
Mr. H. L. Bate, M.L.A., on behalf of “a Bega boy,
a country man,” who “would not dream”of doing
anything wrong. This simple child is a miller named
McLeod who has —or had —a controlling interest in
Abbco. The Minister had withstood the attempts of
two firms of solicitors to obtain a remission.
When first questioned in the Assembly about the
remission, Mr. Treatt suggested that the convicting
magistrate had inflicted such a fine because the Act
allowed him no other course.
Such cases have often arisen, and resulted in recom-
mendations being made when the lack of elasticity in
the law led to what has been considered an injustice.
The attitude of the convicting magistrate was
clearly that he had inflicted the fine because he was
convinced there was no “injustice” in thus punishing
what he chose to describe as a “systematic fraud.”
An Opposition censure motion was defeated, the
gag being applied just when the debate was becoming
interesting. The Government, with an election com-
ing on, doesn’t want to hear any more of the affair,
though the Opposition is not going to miss a chance
like that. But there is a national aspect of the matter
which makes it necessary to lift it from the squabbling
of provincial politicians.
The company was supplying bread to a military
camp. The magistrate who convicted it has recorded
that there was no proper check by the military authori-
ties concerned and that, in his opinion, the captain
responsible was mainly concerned in his evidence
with covering up any disclosure of the neglect of
Commonwealth interests. This officer, it was alleged
by the Opposition-leader, on the strength of a statutory
declaration made by a third party, is an undischarged
bankrupt.
There is talk of a demand for a Commonwealth
royal commission, and the Minister for the Army has
been going through the files. His Government can
do nothing about the reduced fine, provincial Ministers
having all the powers of dictators even where sol-
diers’ bread and the nation’s money are concerned.
But a country at war can’t tolerate these pro-
vincial impertinences. The Government carrying on
the war should make the rules relating to army con-
tracts and see that they are carried out; fixing and
imposing itself whatever punishment may be required.
The Forlorn Acres.
The unspectacular but grim tragedy of Australia’s
marginal wheat country is getting another airing as
the result of a tour through the N.S.W. portion by
A. W. Yeo, the Minister of Lands. Since 1912,
when the Victorian and South Australian Mallee, the
N.S.W. south-west and Westralia’s outer wheat-
belt were “opened up” for settlement, a multitude of
State Ministers has trooped through this marginal
country, addressed meetings, heard deputations, made
reports and introduced bills. In the early years they
saw glowing visions ; today only the tragedy remains.
It is the legacy of an obsession, held by State
Government after State Government, that closer
settlement and wheat were synonymous an obsession
that persisted despite a growing pile of evidence as
to its fallacy.
After the 1914-18 war, when the price of wheat
suddenly jumped, the marginal country boomed.
Townships sprang up and thrived, railways were en-
thusiastically run into the areas, there was unlimited
credit.
Unfounded statements as to rainfall and yield
were made by those who should have known better.
Men sold out in better districts and put their capital
into marginal-country farms; others had no more
capital than their own brawn and desire for indepen-
dence and what they could get from the Government.
Many took up blocks who would have failed as
farmers at Orbost or Bacchus Marsh. In those days
you might find a tailor or a seaman or a piano-tuner
rolling down the scrub. None of them doubted.
In the first few years the virgin soil, cleared of
its scrub cover, yielded well and wheat prices held.
But the rainfall refused to fulfil promises, the light
soil began to blow away, here and there a farm was
being abandoned, a township growing stagnant. And
the collective debt mounted to towering heights.
The crash of the falling wheat market brought
complete disillusion. By 1930 the State Governments
were trying to shut out the voices crying for help
from the marginal country, trying to avoid the settle-
ment with outraged nature and soil, trying to stave
off the inevitable hour when they would have to make
some effort to rehabilitate the lost farmers.
In succeeding years all sorts of schemes were
tried. There were debt readjustment Acts by the
bushel, Commonwealth financial aid to wheatgrowers
(running into about £15,000,000 before the present
war), visits and reports and deputations, plan after
plan. All futile. Private banks withdrew credit.
Towns fell into disrepair. The rain refused to fall.
Wheat remained bad property even if one had it.
The land, which never had been suitable for economic
wheatgrowing, resolutely refused to change itself, and
the dusty, lined men battled on, their equity eaten
away, their capital gone, a lot of them carrying on
for sheer want of the will to leave off.
The thing is a national calamity of long stand-
ing. It must be recognised and something must be
done to stop it getting any worse. Relieving the
settlers’ indebtedness to the Governments won’t bring
the rain, step up the yield capacity of the worn-out
soil or increase wheat prices. But what is to be said
to a man who has given the best years of his life to
a farm, whose energy is burnt out, who cannot be
expected to make a fresh start somewhere else, who
still feels an honest responsibility towards his creditors?
It calls, first, for a recognition by Governments
that it is sheer cruelty and waste to prolong the
agony; second, for a courageous determination to
accept the loss of what can’t be recovered ; third, for
an enlargement of holdings to allow economic stock-
raising ; fourth, for an elimination of the beaten, the
discouraged and the inefficient, with compensation ;
fifth, for a stoppage of wheatgrowing except on
approved holdings ; sixth, for a heavy reduction of
land charges and interest, with a cutting of losses ;
seventh, for a serious plan for restoration of lost fer-
tility and denuded pastures ; lastly, for an all-round
attempt to cut down debt wherever possible.
That something on those lines will have to be
done has long been recognised. It seems to be
inevitable. All that is lacking is the courage to do it.
Singapore.
“Feng-Shui” plunges into history:
In Singapore the Australians will meet examples of almost
every human race and admixtures thereof—-Chinese, Malays,
Tamils, Jawi Pekans, Siamese, Buginese from Macassar and
a settlement of natives inhabiting pile-dwellings in the shallow
water opposite Tanjong Pagar docks. They are said to be the
descendants of the Orang Laut, or sea gipsies, who were
almost the only inhabitants of the island at the time of its
occupation by Raffles. Their oldest inhabitants a few years
ago could remember the one-legged Governor, General
Cavanagh, who ruled the destinies of this depot for the East
India Company’s commerce from 1861 to 1867.
When Raffles founded the settlement his English employers
thought he had gone crazy. But the Dutch had
fastened a monopoly on the spice trade which was so
important to Europe at that time. Cold storage had not been
invented, and meat had to be drenched with condiments
to make it palatable. By cornering the spices the Dutch
could name their own price in Europe. When a glut occurred
they burnt huge piles of the commodity on the wharves in
Holland.
But Raffles, more enlightened than his employers, had a
dream of freeing the natives from the ruthless exploitation of
their white masters. He could not have realised his dream
or his directors’ aspirations better than by making Singapore
a free port. To it flocked all the dispossessed traders from
every part of the vast archipelago, rajahs who had been driven
off their thrones and Chinese merchants who were persecuted
as the usurers of the day, just as the Jews are persecuted
in Europe. The prosperity of Singapore rose like a flood, and
in a few years it was a more important entrepot than Batavia.
The Dutch became alarmed, but they were too busy sup-
pressing the piracy they had produced themselves in their
own dominions to do anything about it. They had taken
away the livelihood of scores of native sultans by forbidding
the planting of spice trees outside a certain area, and the sultans
hoisted the skull and crossbones and proceeded to harry the
commerce of all nations in a highly professional manner. It
was Raffles who did most to clear the seas of this menace.
Then the French conquered Holland, just as the Germans
have done, and the Dutch East Indies was thrown into the
melting-pot. As Britain was at war with France, Raffles was
instructed to occupy Java, which he did with the assistance of
troops from India. His administration of the archipelago for
the next six years was the brightest period in its history since
the coming of the European. He established friendly rela-
tions with the native sultans, revised the monopoly laws and
the system of forced labor and unearthed the archaeological
treasures of Boro-Budur and Parambanan.
The Foreign Office had only a sketchy knowledge of the
area over which the British flag was flying. After Napoleon’s
defeat it returned the possessions to their original owners.
It knew little of Raffles, who established Singapore, and if it
had known him better it wouldn’t have understood him. For
Raffles was a statesman who was also a humanist, a scientist
and in his way an artist.
Reformatory Treatment in Victoria.
“Pawang” : The young man had been found guilty
of receiving. His counsel said he had spent 12 years
under the control of Victorian reformatory authori-
ties. “Is that so?” said Justice O’Brien drily. “The
State appears to have spent a lot of energy in trying
to see if reformatory treatment does any good. How-
ever, I have no option. Twelve months’ imprison-
ment.”
A lot of energy has been spent. Yes, and very
little thinking. If Victorian Parliamentarians could
have spared a couple of hours recently from their
important activities they couldn’t have spent them
better than by attending the Australia Theatre in
Collins-street, where an American film, “Dead End,”
has been given a revival. All American films aren’t
silly. “Dead End” is as damning an indictment of the
reformatory system as could be imagined.
The authorities at Melbourne are quite com-
placent about their reformatory institutions and would
say that America is different. I would sooner take
the evidence of the boys themselves about it. A boy
who had been incarcerated in one for some offence
or other escaped, was apprehended and was on his
way back under custody when he jumped out of a
train travelling at full speed. That is what he thought
about it. Another, with precisely the same history,
made an impassioned appeal to the Judge not to sen-
tence him to a fresh term in a place where he had
seen so many boys turned into criminals.
Homer Lee, the great English teacher of prob-
lem children, had no difficulty in keeping his boys
with him, though he used no bolts or bars. In fact,
after he had rescued them from the courts and had
them with him for a little, you couldn’t beat them
off with a stick. Victorian problem children jump
out of express trains.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
with WIMBLES INKS"
“Jamwood”: Resigned as I was to the
flapper-press convention that there are
no young women in Sydney, the myriads
of under-50 females to be seen every-
where being either “young ladies” or
“Our Girls,” it came as a shock to read
a Sunday paper’s report of the nudist
prosecution. With profound respect the
Sunday paper applied the term “young
ladies” to the minxes whom the police
found in the altogether on the bank*
of a creek and who, like their male
associates —also in their birthday suits —
didn’t deny the imputation. From the
time ladies were invented it had been
understood that their right to the title
rested in part on their being clothed
when in the presence of unrelated per-
sons of the other sex.
* * * *
“Morimoto”: In comment on the
demise of Krivitsky (B. 26/2/’4l) a com-
parison was drawn between easygoing
Australia and uneasy Europe. I had it
brought home to me the other day when
I met a young Austrian refugee who had
been interned when Hitler entered
Vienna, had seen his family vanish and
had escaped over the border under the
noses of the Gestapo. I live alongside
a police station, and I invited the young
man to drop in some day. When I
described the location he looked abso-
lutely astonished. “Aren’t you nervous,
living so close to all those policemen?”
he exclaimed. I had always looked at it
from the opposite angle.
“El Verdugo”:, Some strange survivals
are washed up on the shores of refugee-
dom. One was advertised in the mail of
Federal members the other day. The
tradesman who circulated it printed his
name in one corner without initials in
the diffident manner of a Europe whose
class distinctions and customs have been
washed clean away. Above it, in gold,
were the arms of the old Empire of
Austria-Hungary and underneath: “By
appointment to his Imperial Majesty the
late Emperor of the Austrian-Hungarian
Monarchy.” Now the owner of this
proud warrant is telling Eddie Ward
et al. that “it would be an honor for
me if you would trust me with your
esteemed order in the near future, and I
am, therefore, looking forward to your
kind visit in my salon.” One custom,
however, has not changed in the salons
of Continental Court tailors: “I use only
the best of English materials.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The Sitwells, of course,
occupy no such position in the literary
field as Whistler once did, and perhaps
still does, in the world of art; but I can
suggest one reason why a jury gave them
substantial damages for being defamed
in print, whereas the painter was awarded
merely a farthing as solatium for his
wounded feelings (B. 26/2/’4l). Ruskin
poured his scorn on one—or, at most,
a few —of Whistler’s works ; the “Rey-
nolds’s” critic damned uncompromisingly
and comprehensively the whole Sitwell
clan and inferentially all that they had
ever done, insisting that they had gained
what vogue they had by publicity-hunt-
ing and self-advertisement, anything but
merit—a much more sweeping indict-
ment.
* * * *
“Gael”: Apparently only lack of num-
bers prevents Australia from seeing that
most humorous of spectacles, an active
Welsh feud. One body claims that Wil-
liam Morris Hughes isn’t a Welshman
because he wasn’t born in Wales; the
other says he’ll do them, though he were
born in China. To prove it, they call
him “Ein Medrusaf Seneddwr a Chymro
Ydyw.” Billy’s worst enemy couldn’t
improve on that!
* * * *
“P. Street”: Wandering round Syd-
ney’s Circular Quay I spotted a handsome
notice, “To Air-raid Shelter,” complete
with arrow. Followed arrow to entrance
to railway tunnel which has been run-
ning under the Domain for donkey’s
years. It was open and unattended, so
explored. After about half a mile I
stopped. It was cool and dimly lighted.
I imagined it filled with crowds of people
sitting, talking, spitting, smoking, cough-
ing, wheezing. A soft word echoed like
the surf. Heavens knows what the noise
would be like from a crowd. And the
smell! I came out determined that at
"No, I don't know what his name is, but he's tall, dark and rather good-looking!"
the first sight of an enemy ’plane it would
be me for the open country. I’d get
panicky in a place like that.
* * * *
“Rev. Bungstarter”: The godless
element in a northern N.S.W. town may
continue to make merry over an unfor-
tunate accident at a church picnic,
but right-thinking persons realise that
such ribald mirth is entirely out of place.
Panceolus ovatus was consumed by a
number of the party in mistake for mush-
rooms. The untoward and entirely de-
ceiving results may be summarised from
a scientific description of previous cases
of similar nature: “Panceolus spp. poison-
ing resembles alcoholic intoxication.
Conspicuous symptoms are failure of
muscular co-ordination, difficulty in
standing, inability to walk, drowsiness,
lack of control of the emotions, blood-
shot eyes, incoherent or inappropriate
speech (the afflicted laughing inordinately
at his own foolish remarks), visions of
dancing and wobbly furniture combined
with gorgeous color combinations which
he attempts volubly to describe. Tem-
porary but complete paralysis of the
arms or legs may also occur.” I am given
to understand that the description is dis-
tressingly accurate.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has at length made up its
mind to have religious instruction in the
State schools. It is the last in the Com-
monwealth (some say in the Empire) to
come in; which seems odd for a notably
religious community. The reason is to
be found in its distinctly Nonconformist
leaning, especially at the start, and in a
dread, brought from England, that the
C. of E. would tend to monopolise any
religion with which the State had to do.
But the old bitterness has now largely
died down. All the Wesleyan-Methodist
bodies amalgamated some 40 years back,
largely through the influence of the then
Chief Justice Way. For this new school-
instruction they will further group in
with the Presbyterians, Congregationalists,
Baptists, Salvation Army and Church of
Christ. Separate classes will be held by
the Anglicans, Catholics, Lutherans,
Seventh Day Adventists and, as a last-
minute surprise, the Greek “Orthodox.”
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: An example of what
Australia can do in the way of wooden
shipbuilding is the Captain Heath,
launched in Brisbane last month. Length
107 ft. between uprights, with comfortable
beam, and powered by a six-cylinder
Crossley marine Diesel engine, the vessel
will be used for servicing lights and
buoys in Moreton Bay and assisting the
pilot service. Design, building and all
materials except the engine are entirely
Queensland products, even down to the
brass bolts and castings. The ship was
named in commemoration of Captain
J. P. Heath, first port master of Moreton
Bay, who in the ’sixties planned the
system of navigation, lights and buoys so
effectively that only minor variations have
been required up to the present day, and
those mostly by reason of unforeseen
shifts of banks and currents.
* * * *
“Chewer”: Others may falter and fall,
but the Broken Hill beer-strikers man-
fully resist temptation and are now ap-
proaching their fortieth day without a
pint. For some time the battle was ren-
dered fairly comfortable by the fact that
clubs were carrying on, and he who was
not a club member generally knew some-
body who was. But the breweries sud-
denly informed the clubs that their beer
was to be cut off while the strike lasted.
There was a hurried inquiry for other
sources of supply, and the struggle took
on a grim aspect as club secretaries care-
fully computed supplies and dabbled with
rationing ideas. Anyone who hit the
Barrier just now with a 14-horse team
and a wool-wagon loaded with the right
stuff would be in the money.
“McN.”: I’d been waiting for it to
happen in Sydney, but it happened in
Carlisle (Eng.) first —a crowd rushing for
a bus knocked down and trampled to
death a 10-year-old boy. At the Sydney
city bus stops in peak hours it’s a wonder
people aren’t more grievously hurt —a
herd of cattle rushing madly through a
gate isn’t in it. Otherwise harmless blokes
and gentle girls surge forward with cold-
set jaws, a glare in their eyes and a ruth-
less determination when the bus arrives.
Mostly it’s already packed to the doors,
and the wonder is that the new mob gets
in somehow. Me? Oh, I’m hefty enough
to be among the first in.
* * * *
“Zake”: As a confirmed over-the-
shoulder reader in morning trains I enter
a strong protest against the idiosyncrasies
of persons who buy papers. One
of the most irritating, perhaps, is the
fellow who turns straight to the racing
news and for the entire journey mops
up results and form —there is nobody
like your true punter to make a hog of
himself over his sport. Little better is
the fellow who with a weird sense of the
fitness of things mucks around the
builders’ material and pest-exterminator
ads. for the whole half-hour run, ignor-
ing events pregnant with the fate of
nations, including his own, recorded a
page away. But even that friend of the
0.-the-s.-r. who immediately turns to the
main news often folds the rag in
quarters, a habit truly maddening to
the man who may suffer a ricked neck
trying to get a screw at the news. There
are also the flappers of both sexes who,
completely lacking consideration for the
man eager to soak up the latest furphies
from Vichy or the views on the Far
East situation by a Famous American
Correspondent who once spent two days
in Tokyo, makes straight for the recorded
inanities of the cocktail-sucking quarter-
wits who sup at Venetiano’s. But the
fellow who arouses real homicidal ten-
dencies is the elderly juvenile who dives
straight for the comic strips. What is
badly needed is a brochure on the cor-
rect method of reading a paper—always
keeping in mind the requirements of the
0.-the-s.-r.
* * * *
“X.X.”: The W.C.T.U. in Melbourne
was dreadfully upset when it heard that
£lOOO had been provided from the Aus-
tralian Comforts Fund to buy beer for
the A.I.F. in Bardia. The Comforts
Fund secretary promptly denied the accu-
sation, pointing out that the thousand
quid was handed to the Y.M.C.A. rep.
in Bardia, and that he would have
been the last person to spend it on
stingo. It is difficult to imagine people’s
prejudices being pushed so far as to want
to prevent a hot and exhausted soldier
10,000 miles away having a glass of beer;
but so it is in these cases.
* * * *
“8.K.K.”: “C.R.’s” Coburg man (B.
19/2/’4l) was never in the race for the
habitual-offender blue ribbon. A Kal-
goorlie man has accumulated over 300
convictions in 35 years, and a fellow-
citizen has scored his second century.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Why do so many news-
papermen persist in regarding “the
Sport of Kings” as a picturesque
synonym for horse-racing? The phrase,
as far as I know, was first used by
Surtees and put into the mouth of
Jorrocks, M.F.H. —“the Sport of Kings,
the image of war without its guilt and
only five-and-twenty per cent, of its
danger”—the reference, of course, being
to hunting The pursuit of beasts of
chase, whether ferocious or innocuous,
has been a royal pastime from the days
of Nimrod and Bahram. The Turf came
into existence in Stuart times, and the
number of British monarchs who par-
ticipated in it to any extent could be
numbered on the fingers of one hand.
* * * *
“Walker”: In an attempt to do their
bit match manufacturers have been
cutting out the striking element on one
side. This may be a good idea ; but a
better one seems to be that of a woman
that matches should be made with heads
at both ends. This would reduce the
amount of wood used in both matches
and boxes, and would also save on paper.
Difficulty would be to train men to put
the match back after using one end, but
that would come. The reform might
bring about the spectacle of a man, hav-
ing given the importunate stranger a
match, waiting for it to be returned.
LOVE IN THE AIR.
“Australian National Airways hostesses will not be
allowed to serve on the same routes for more than
a few weeks in future because too many of them
throw up their jobs to marry pilots and other em-
ployees of the company.”
If marriages are made, as we’re invited
To think, in heav’n, what matter for surprise
That maids should find their mates and troths
be plighted
So often in the skies?
These flying nymphs, these hostesses aerial
To travellers through the %-aloft expanse,
Would seem to be equipped with some material
Conducive to romance.
When pilots fall so swiftly for them, is it
Because the girls are more than passing fair?
Or is the reason, to be less explicit,
Just “something in the air”?
Who knows? And yet Authority’s dejection
At such events it’s easy to depict,
Finding that, when they’re trained to near
perfection,
Its hostesses have “clicked.”
The remedy? Quick change and sudden parting
Before th’ irreparable mischief’s done,
And two more hearts are definitely starting
To operate as one.
If hither she must go, while he’s sent yonder,
It well might quench the first faint flame of
love.
Still, you may find, as on the earth you wander,
That absence often makes the heart grow
fonder —
And so it might above.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Craiser”: William McKie, who was
City Organist of Melbourne and is now
choirmaster and organist of Magdalen
College, Oxford, selected an anthem for
his choir. They were about to rehearse
it when the air-raid warnings sounded
and the choristers had to scuttle. But
they grinned as they fled. The title of the
anthem was “Blest Pair of Sirens.”
He sji si: *
“C.R.”: A prophet must leave his
country if he seeks honor. A prestidigi-
tator who has been touring Australia has
been hilled as “the Great Magician,”
place of origin not stated. Thousands
of Australians have been flocking to see
him. When he was in England he was
billed as “the Great Australian Magi-
cian,” and thousands of Englishmen
flocked to see him. My office-boy in Mel-
bourne, who is perfectly patriotic, has
just discovered that the miracle-worker
was born in Wangaratta. “That is a bit
of a comedown, isn’t it?” he remarked.
So how can you blame the magician?
* * * *
“E.M.”: In my day, 15 years ago,
there were four places to go in a Sofia
pub—in and out, down and up. The
“down” was to the cabaret, where a very
thin dancer twirled a very cold carpet
snake which unsophisticated Bulgars
sometimes sought to feed with potatoes.
I could not find even a bathroom in
my pub. But Bulgaria was the first
country in the Balkans to have an auto-
mobile club, and no tourist could spend
ten minutes in Sofia without being seized
by two generals and instructed in the art
of getting to Tatar Bazardjik. The
common delegation for receiving tourists
who came in motors to Bulgaria con-
sisted of one manager, four waiters, two
liftmen in long coats, a soldier, a police-
man and a customs officer or so. But
that, as I say, was 15 years ago.
* * * 4=
“Quizzer”: Shortly after the Army of
the Nile began taking Italian strongposts
along the North African coast we began
to read of a certain General Berganzoli.
It appeared he had a penchant for get-
ting out while the going was good and
leaving his men to do the best they could.
From place after place he escaped, some-
times in an armored car, by ’plane and
other methods. A lot of people began
to look on “Electric Whiskers,” as he
was dubbed, as a sort of elevated coward.
Then came the A.B.C. mobile unit with
the Nile force and an announcer telling
of his interview with
Berganzoli, who was
finally landed at
Benghazi. Far from
being a coward, the
Italian, a man in his
sixties, displayed
qualities of endur-
ance many a younger
man would like to
possess. It took him
five days to get to
Tobruk, walking b>
day across rough
country, hiding by
night. Frequently he
was close enough to
the British to envi-
ously watch them
cooking their meals.
He got to Derna by
’plane and to Ben-
ghazi in a small Fiat
car. “Why didn’t
you leave Benghazi before the attack?”
he was asked. “I had orders to stay,”
he answered simply.
"A little token of esteem for driving the Wops out of Egypt."
“Bumpkin”: A world’s record for
feats of strength was claimed by Paul
Anderson, the “Young Apollo” (B.
5/3/’4l), when he fulfilled his promise to
drag a fully-manned 10-ton fire brigade
ladder carrier with his teeth the other
day in Melbourne. Not only did he get
it moving, but obligingly pulled it 44ft. to
show there was no deception, in the pres-
ence of several thousand overawed spec-
tators. Strange to say, he has never had
any connection with the National Fitness
movement.
* * * *
“Pawang”: “K.P.” (B. 5/3/’4l), quot-
ing some psychologist—American, no
doubt —declares that the chief charac-
teristics of “genius-type” children are
precocity in talking, sitting up, walk-
ing, controlling muscular action purpose-
fully, learning to read at an early
age and keeping near the top of
the class easily. Every one of these
characteristics has belonged to children
who never became geniuses, and plenty
of geniuses never had these characteristics
as children. Rhodes scholars are preco-
cious scholars, but up to date no Rhodes
scholarship has produced a genius. In
any case, how does the psychologist
recognise a genius when he sees him? The
genius doesn’t fulfil society’s conception
—he completely violates it. Otherwise
how are we to explain that Socrates got
the hemlock, Rembrandt was allowed to
die a beggar, Shelley was kicked out of
Oxford, Freud was barred from the Uni-
versity of Vienna, and in our own time
Rodin had all his portrait busts returned
to him by his sitters in Paris, although
the same busts are now regarded as price-
less works of art?
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The other day in Mel-
bourne I met a man who had lived through
last year’s Blitzkrieg in London. “How
do you like Melbourne?” I asked him.
“I hate it,” he retorted. “It’s a dull,
sleepy, boring place where there’s nothing
to do but read the papers. And there are
no papers on Sundays.” “But you don’t
mean to tell me that you’d sooner be in
“No, no, Jones —the paint is only on the SURFACE of the Wood!”
London?” “Yes, I would,” he said. “At
least, I was never bored there. There
was always something doing. Also, here
all you people seem to be at sixes and
sevens. In London we were all pulling
together.” “What was it like before the
Blitzkrieg started?” I asked him. “It was
just as boring as Melbourne.” It struck
me that there was something wrong when
an individual had to wait for a national
catastrophe like the bombing and burn-
ing of the heart of the Empire before
he could identify himself with other
people or find life other than a boring
business.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Speculations as to how
some people manage to run posh motor-
cars on wheelbarrow incomes have been
indulged by most of us. M. H. Holcroft,
winner of the M.L. Centennial prize
essay, sets out to prove that no person
in the Dominion with less than £5OO a
year can afford to run a car, and then
goes on to give statistics showing that,
instead of there being 29,454 car owners
to square with the number of adequate
incomes, there were in 1937 171,514
owners, apart from those running taxis,
trucks and service cars. But, of course,
there are lots of people who can keep
the full extent of their incomes out of
the statistics, and some more who man-
age to live on credit.
* * * *
“F.S.”: There was a breeze at the
Methodist Conference in Melbourne
when Superintendent Heading objected
to the use of the word “modern”
in a resolution proposing that evan-
gelists should put the emphasis on
the “modern approach” to the
Bible in their preaching. Another
divine suggested substituting “proper”
for “modern” and another thought
“sound” would look better than “proper.”
Most people would say: “How like
churchmen!” But I would say: “How
like artists!” At a recent exhibition
of “modern” art one of the young lions
of the movement was asked where his
committee drew the line between art
that was “modern” and art that wasn’t.
“The only art we excluded,” he retorted,
“was representational art.” “Well,”
asked his interrogator, “take that picture
you have painted. Wouldn’t you say
that it represented something? You
would not say that it represented no-
thing.” “No, I wouldn’t,” he answered.
“Then, if it represents something, isn’t
it representational art?” “I suppose it
is,” he admitted. “Then oughtn’t it to
have been excluded?”
* * * *
“Spasebo”: A Great Daily reported the
other day that in an experimental black-
out at Batavia a bomber crashed, de-
stroying a hundred native huts at Dessa.
There are tens of thousands of dessas in
Java. In English the nearest equivalent
to dessa is village.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: One thing the English
have which the Germans haven’t —a real
war bard ; and after 500 years his report
of the speech of King Harry before
Harfleur breathes a spirit which was con-
temporary when Hohenzollern was a pup
howling on the Alpine fringes, and which
was equally fitting to the time when
Archibald Sinclair quoted it the other
day:
Be copy now to men of grosser blood,
And teach them how to war.
About the best the Germans can do in
that line are yells that they will be a
nation of brethren in want, distress and
danger. It is strange that in the whole
realm of German war lyrics the trumpet
never blows without a comrade being
toppled over or somebody getting durch
die Brust geschossen, or somebody else
wondering whether he will lay his bones
under the palm trees of the south or the
lindens of the Rhine. Virtually all the
best German war poetry is defeatist. No
poet ever seems to have yelled con-
vincingly to the poor old Hun to “imi-
tate the action of the tiger,” or patted
him on the back for having had
fathers of warproof,
Fathers that, like so many Alexanders,
Have in these parts from morn till even fought
And sheathed their swords for lack of argument.
Italy’s poets have done better by Musso.’s
nation, though their heroes usually end
up like Germans.
* * * •
“The Ancient” on North Sydney’s
beginnings:
The north side of Port Jackson, in its original
state all dense bush covering wild ravines and
rocky hills, was pretty baffling to the earliest
British arrivals in Sydney Cove —the country
behind Bradley’s Head is the only bit left that
suggests what it looked like on the city side of
Middle Head. Shortly after the First Fleet
anchored in the cove, H.M.S. Sirius was taken
across to the bay behind Kirribilli Point, which
Phillip named Careening Cove, to have her
underwater parts overhauled. Peter White,
a sailmaker, went ashore looking for fresh
water, and got himself so completely bushed that
he couldn’t be found for four days. Next year
John O’Mara, a gunner’s-mate in the same
ship, was astray for three days on the heights
above Neutral Bay, and one of her officers,
Francis Hill, attempting to reach Careening
Cove from the inlet now known as Lavender
Bay, was hopelessly lost on the ridge between
the two. One of her midshipmen subsequently
disappeared in the bush above Mosman’s Bay,
and was never seen again. It was Lieutenant
Ball, R.N., commanding H.M.S. Supply, who
made the first cross-country track to Middle
Harbor. He landed on Ball’s Head and, after
the greatest difficulty because of dense forest
and rough country, managed to cross from the
main branch of the harbor to its northern arm.
THE DIFFERENCE.
“Wine does not quench the thirst as beer does.”
— “0.F.M.,” 5/3/’4l.
I trust that I shall never lack
Appreciation of the tack
That Father Noah found the knack
From grapes of making;
But, though it heartens and inspires,
It hardly meets a chap’s desires
Whene’er a healthy thirst requires
Effective slaking.
Port, sherry, claret, it’s agreed,
Chablis and hock are good at need;
Their “pull,” as adjuncts to a feed,
One never queries;
But, when I feel the genuine stir
Of drouthiness, 1 much prefer
The far more potent comforter
That foaming beer is.
Omar, in many a haunting line,
Has sung the poet’s debt to wine,
A constant pilgrim to the shrine
Where vintners’ shops were
And “old familiar juice” would flow;
But all those centuries ago
It’s obvious he couldn’t know
What malt-and-hops were.
’Tis sad, ’tis passing sad, to think
Of vats where “beaded bubbles wink,”
Vast seas of wine with none to drink;
But then, in sober
Truth, when a man is tired and hot,
And quite a worth-while parch has got,
The choicest stimulant is not
A patch upon a pint or pot
Of brown October.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


jhgj
8/I JOJ OZ *POI J#J 01
jtfwtf* morns shvntjv
"tyjwp. -mwA WMH
O
<<*
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT S ORE 'THROATS
E 1867
POLITICAL POINTS
Nearly four years in Parliament be-
fore Cameron-hating newspapers dis-
covered his surpassing merits, Fadden
has, since the end of October, become
Treasurer, Acting P.M. and Acting
Minister for Defence Co-ordination ; and
he is expected to be named full leader
of the Country party today. His col-
league Collins testifies that he is a man
of “broad vision” who will “bring to the
party that vigorous leadership which is
needed to make it a powerful force in
the nation’s affairs.” Perhaps!
Speaking at a Foreign Press Associa-
tion luncheon, at which a dozen Japanese
were among the hundreds of foreign
journalists present, Menzies “urged Aus-
tralia not to entertain exaggerated fears
of war in the Pacific.” You would almost
think he was speaking over the heads of
the foreign inkslingers to his own Cabinet
and War Advisory Council; and you
couldn’t convince Beasley and Forde that
he wasn’t.
It was funny to hear Beasley and
Forde denouncing Menzies as an
appeaser. They were members of the
Government that suspended compulsory
training, and told Australia that it could
securely rely for defence on the League
of Nations. Their defence “policy” was
collective security, with appeasement as
an unavoidable sequel.
While Hitler was performing in the
Balkans he received the stunning news
that the Aid to Britain Bill had been
passed by the U.S. Senate, the voting
being 60 to 31. It gives the President
complete control of arms production for
use against aggressors. It will admit of
British ships being repaired in U.S. ports,
British and U.S. shipping being pooled
for the carriage of war materials and
“freezing” of Axis credits. A very nasty
bullet for Hitler to chew —Mussolini, in
his present state of mind, is incapable of
chewing anything except the softest mess
of spaghetti.
If the Westralian Government has its
way, only farmers with State Agricultural
Bank accounts will share in the Com-
monwealth Government’s drought-relief
loan, of which £570,000 has been ear-
marked for the West. It seems grossly
unfair to men who have carried on in-
dependently of the State institution, which
has in any case no reputation for
generosity. Under Section 51 (fatal
number) of the Agricultural Bank Act
a farmer in a small way has been paying
the State institution £4 interest every
month for two years. His cream cheque
for December, less butter company’s
charges, amounted to £3 11s. 3d. The
State institution closed on the £3 11s. 3d.,
leaving him to look in a hollow log for
the balance and for his month’s store
account, £5 11s.
The Sydney Government has gone all
humanitarian. The nearer it gets to elec-
tion day the faster its heart beats for the
lowly and oppressed. Its latest stunt is
a free milk supply to “about 1200 chil-
dren at schools in the metropolitan area
and Newcastle,” and “before the end
of the next financial year 250,000 school-
children will be receiving a free ration
of milk every day”—that’s if the Mairs
are in office then. The indications are
that they won’t be.
How right Churchill was when he said
to the Italians (Jan., 1941) “We are tear-
ing—and will tear —your African empire
to tatters!” How wrong he was when
he told the world (November, 1939) that
“The Soviet Government, embodied in the
formidable figure of Stalin, has barred
off for ever all Nazi dreams of an advance
to the East.” His original impressions
of the Bolshies were correct, though the
British nation very properly refused to
follow him in making war on them.
Beck, who unseated the explosive
Mahoney in Denison (Tas.), has threat-
ened to withdraw his support from the
Government unless Tasmania is given a
bigger share of war work. It sounds a
bit like that old Tasmanian editor who
began a leader with “We warn the
Czar of Russia”
Does anyone ever read the Fourteen
Points now? They can never be dissoci-
ated from Clemenceau’s quip (“Fourteen
Points, and ten were enough for le bon
Dieu /”); and the world might be a lot
happier had the good Wilson stopped at
ten. The thirteenth point was the one
about the setting up of an “independent
Polish State,” with “full and secure
access to the sea,” and with its “political
and economic independence and terri-
“In the course of an inspection of a Sydney air-raid shelter the whole of the visiting
State Parliamentary party was lost.”
“We taxpayin’ blokes’ll never get another chance like this.”
torial integrity guaranteed by inter-
national Covenant.”
“Diplomats are asking why Stalin
chose to tell the Bulgarian Government”
(1) that he “cannot share its opinion that
the presence of German troops in Bul-
garia will facilitate the preservation of
peace,” and (2) that “the Soviet is faith-
ful to its policy of peace and is not in
a position to support Bulgaria, particu-
larly as the Bulgarian press without
hindrance is spreading false rumors about
Soviet policy.” Diplomats shouldn’t ask
foolish questions. Stalin’s poor feet have
been cold for two years, and he has to
keep kidding the knaves and noodles who
follow him that they are as warm as
toast.
Underneath the report of a Curtin
speech “urging a maximum national
effort to produce munitions and equip-
ment for the armed forces” was the
drearily familiar line “Ironworkers’
Threat.” The threat this time was that
“all ironworkers” would “stop work for
24 hours” unless “the dispute” at the
munitions annexe of Amalgamated Wire-
less was “adjusted satisfactorily” ; in the
meantime the munitions annexe was de-
clared “black.” The “dispute” was
“adjusted satisfactorily,” but in case other
“disputes” arise how about declaring
Comrade Thornton “black” for the
duration?
Convicted of contempt of the Indus-
trial Court, Opposition-leader Maher was
fined £2O at Brisbane for linking a basic-
wage forecast with the State election
date. For publishing his remark, the
“Courier-Mail” and its publisher, A. R.
Woodgate, were fined £25 and £lO respec-
tively. Under the Industrial Conciliation
and Arbitration Act, the parties cannot
appeal, and Maher says he is going to
move to have the Act amended so as to
admit of appeals.
“The whole system of taxation now in
operation in Queensland will be reviewed
in the light of the circumstances prevail-
ing in the next financial year.” Such was
Forgan Smith’s reply to the demands for
tax-reduction. Taxpayers who feel that
extortion is being practised at their ex-
pense thank Foghorn for nothing.
At “the request of the staff of the
N.S.W. department,” the Federal Taxa-
tion Commissioner will not call on
N.S.W. income-tax officials to pay tax on
overtime until after they receive their
assessments. Other wage- and salary-
earners working overtime still have to
pay in advance in weekly instalments,
and there has been industrial strife over
the matter. It would seem that there is
one law for department officials and
another for ordinary citizens. But the
question has been raised as to whether
the demanding of tax —often in excess
of assessment —before an assessment has
been made is in any case legal. Legal
or not, the scale of deductions in antici-
pation of tax is stupidly aggravating.
Introduced ostensibly to help wage-
earners, it has been used like a bludgeon.
Bruxner, the Deputy-Premier, has
offered to step down if anybody regards
him as a bar to a “national” Govern-
ment in N. S. Wales. If Bruxner ready
wants to make a name for himself he
should persuade the whole Sydney “Par-
liament” to step down in favor of a
single national Parliament.
By virtue of an Act passed in 1901,
when State politicians were busy invent-
ing excuses for their continued existence,
the N.S.W. Minister of Justice has to
go into every application for release of
a prisoner or remission of a fine. The
unhappy Treatt mentioned this when ex-
plaining his inexplicable proceedings in
the Abbco bread case. He went on to
say that he had caused 152 prisoners to
be released in 1939 and 135 in 1940.
They have a different way of doing these
things in England ; but there, of course,
they have only one Parliament and one
Government. Australia has seven Par-
liaments and seven Governments, besides
a multitude of other masters tax-
gatherers and members of boards and
commissions. Treatt’s office is the first
of a host of superfluous offices that
should be abolished.
The Australian-born Charles Nor-
wood, who has been pretty well every-
thing in Wellington (M.L.), said it at
Auckland:
One cannot be in Australia for even a
short period without coming to the conclu-
sion that the business community believes
that, whatever may be the sacrifices and
heavy taxation forced upon the country by
the war, the conditions now imposed will
ultimately place Australia among the big
nations of the world.
Yes, that’s how Australians feel. But
it will be necessary for the politicians
to be Big Australians too, even to the
extent of disappearing before the march
of nationhood if they can’t join in it.
The Sydney Premier has been busy
telling everybody that about £1,000,000
of his State’s loan “allocation” can’t be
spent. He is also busy trying to find ways
of spending it, and has an idea of using
half of it for city A.R.P. It hasn’t
occurred to him that the Commonwealth,
up for huge sums for war expenditure,
would gladly accept a return of the
million.
“To the women in Fascist prisons,
to the women in all belligerent countries,
to the women of the whole world, we
pledge our determination to resist the
reactionary forces causing world-wide de-
struction and to work for an early demo-
cratic peace.” Resolved by a convention
of Sydney women alleged to represent
30 “metropolitan committees.” Names
and brands of committees not published.
Richmond (Melbourne) Council is hav-
ing some trouble with its A.R.P. work.
At a recent demonstration the police
couldn’t control the crowd, mainly
youths, who broke through the cordons
and generally played old Harry, con-
siderably damaging, above all things, the
baby health centre. Next time the coun-
cil tries anything of the kind it should
make it clear beforehand that it is not
a Richmond football match.
Lind, Dunstan’s deputy, is talking
about settling returned soldiers (i.e.,
1941-?) on the land in “assured rain-
fall areas.” Victoria lost more than
£36,000,000 on land settlement after the
last war. There is no certainty that Aus-
tralia’s export markets for farm produce
will expand after this war —they were
steadily contracting long before it began.
Unless these State politicians can be dis-
abused of their worn-out notions about
repatriation and other things, the coun-
try will be in for a pile of trouble in
the still-distant peace era.
According to Board of Works figures
there is a lag of 25,000 new houses in
Melbourne and the State Housing Com-
mission’s efforts have merely been a drop
in the ocean. It has been suggested that
housing should be a direct Common-
wealth responsibility financed through
the Commonwealth Bank, and some
local politicians heartily approve. It
is more important that trade, com-
merce and industry, transport and edu-
cation should be complete Common-
wealth responsibilities, but nearly all local
politicians heartily disapprove.
Mr. Cain, the Victorian Labor
“leader,” has no doubt that “the present
alignment, in which Labor party sup-
port keeps the Country party on the
Treasury benches, will continue.” Sweet
are the uses of expediency, as Shak-
speare might have said had there been
State Parliaments in his England. But is
a people’s party with six or seven times
the C.P.’s electoral vote to be obliged
to play second fiddle to that small party
for years and years and years?


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
CD
LU
CD
CL-'
w
M
Sr
m
r A
m
B
ink
PIEIIII3EEIIE1?
m^lß^!!R¥
*
sf
-4S
fi
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
■Manager W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH!
“What did these have in common : Cleopatra,
Sarah Bernhardt, Mary Queen of Scots, and
Ann Sheridan?” — “Woman.”
Well, going by the ads., we’d say corns,
night starvation, an inability to get their
laundry white and a passion for school-
girl complexion all over.
»I« *1' -I* *i*
“In divorce a man said his wife wept all the
time on a trip from England to Australia.”
That’s a far cry.
4 1 4*
“My husband just packed his case and walkec
out of the house without saying a word.”
—Divorce evidence.
There was sure to be a woman in it.
-I- -I-
4* 4*
“It may become quite a common sight to
see an old gasbag perched on top of every
motor-car.” —Motoring journal.
But you’ll still hear her giving in-
structions through the window.
•h d*
“Do you want easy money?”— Advt.
We do, but we had no idea there were
any vacancies in the State Legislature.
•I* *Se 4* 4*
“Chased by flames.” — Woman’s mag.
It’s to be hoped that his wife wasn’t
about.
“You DO look like Bernard Shaw now , dear. Why don't you try Writing
a play or something?"
Kick-back.
“Now, with money in his pocket, he intended
to remain at home, and enjoy himself by lord-
ing it where he had once been insulted.”
— “Sun.”
Within a world where kicks abound
To make the heart feel sick,
There’s quite a kick in kicking round
With something in one’s kick.
H. M.
'l* *l*
“The hand that rocks the cradle cannot drive
a plough.”— “Argus.”
Still, it can put a few furrows in her
meal-ticket’s brow.
4 1 +
“How can I increase the growth of aspidis-
tras?” asks reader.
A generous mulch of dead matches,
cigarette butts, bottle tops, sandwich
crusts and beer drippings is usually
beneficial.
There’s a Limit.
“Record potato crop for the West Mait-
land district was Factor variety. The yield was
so heavy that pickers earned as much as 355.
a day.”— Rural weekly.
I’ve put the stripes on pumpkins,
I’ve wrapped the shells round eggs,
I’ve turned the western windmills
And put the splits in pegs.
I’ve driven bees in Gippsland,
I’ve oiled the border fence,
Strained oil from big goannas
And bottled bloodhounds’ scents.
I’ve cut up hotel cellars
Into postholes by the yard,
I’ve bagged the smoke of feathers
The fruit from frost to guard.
All this and more I’ve tackled
And sweated like a navvy.
But picking spuds! Not likely,
I’ve got a bit of savvy !
M8.
And Sew On.
“Dressmaking. The right profession for your
daughter and a nice hobby for your wife.”
— Advi.
You have them both taught, so as
eventually to save money, but after that
you lose all belief in the stitch-in-time
proverb. You arrive home to find your
wife on her hands and knees, scissors in
hand, bending over six yards of floral
silk she’d got at Splodge’s marked down
from 7/11 a yard to 8/11, and your
daughter instructing her how to cut it.
They can’t be bothered with you, so you
get your own tea, being disturbed only
four times to go down to the corner
shop for cotton, bias tape, etc.
After you’ve washed and wiped up
you settle to the fight on the radio, but
a bigger fight is going on in the sewing-
room near by, and when the machine
wins by snapping some of its works you
are co-opted to repair it.
After a few days you get used to the
new routine, but Lord help you if you
sneeze when they’re fitting a paper pat-
tern on you while the wife’s got a mouth-
ful of pins. On the fifth day you come
home to a beautiful baked dinner, after
which your slippers and pipe will be put
out ready for you. That’s when she’ll
sting you for two quid “for anew dress
I saw at Bones’s—a real bargain.”
“What about the one you were
making?” you roar.
“Oh, that! The pattern was all wrong,
and the way it said to cut it on the cross
would have made me look too fat,
and”
“What a waste” you start to moan.
“No waste at all! ” your daughter snaps
indignantly. “We’ve cut it up into the
loveliest dusters!”
E.
Astral.
“Your eyes hold stars!” I fondly told her.
Effective, that poetic line;
But then her husband saw me fold her —
And straightway I had stars in mine!
T. W. N.
Perfect Frankness.
“Major Akiyama means nothing unkindly
when he calls Britain and America ‘snakes.’ ”
— Cable.
After reading this I wrote to my land-
lord as follows:
“Honorable Mr. Goldstein, —I am an
exemplar of every gentlemanly quality
but you are a liar, a mongrel, a scoundrel
and a thief. Yours faithfully,
“Thomas Smith.
“P.S. —In calling you a liar, a mongrel,
a el and a thief, I, of course,
mean no disrespect. —T.S.”
But my landlord had the last word.
Yesterday I received his reply:
“Thomas Smith, Esquire, —Of all the
lousy, lowdown, two-timing skunks I ever
met you’re the worst you polecat!
Fraternally yours, Isaac Goldstein.
“P.S.—'The above remarks are purely
complimentary.—1.G.”
DOUGAL.
Another Sporting War.
(With no particular apologies to those
sporting scribes who love to draw the
martial analogy.)
Ping-pong! It demands not only a
cool brain, a thorough grasp of strategy
and tactics, dogged determination and a
Spartan’s stamina, but also that rare
ability to regain the initiative and deliver
a sustained series of shattering blows until
the enemy’s defences crumble and he is
completely at your mercy.
Only the bom fighter can hope to
reach the top.
I am reminded of this dictum by an
incident in my own career, at a time
when I had still to win my spurs. It was
at an inter-commercial house match. I
was drawn in a vital rubber against
“Jumbo” Pawkins, Patchwork Quilts
Ltd.’s No. 1 player.
I sensed instinctively that it would be a
regular Mont St. Quentin, and that not
until I had exhausted every weapon in
my armory would I be assured of final
victory.
“Jumbo” served first, a high-lobbcr
with a curl on it. It was all I could do to
parry the thrust. It came back to my
forehand, and my riposte, a beauty down
the table-edge, forced him to retreat. I
made a fierce sortie and his weak return
I battered wide of his forehand. The
battle was joined and his advanced gun
had been spiked!
At his next service I stood in, took it
on the half-volley and drove it smartly
back to catch him on the wrong foot.
The tide of battle had turned.
I could tell by the way “Jumbo”
grasped his bat for his next service that
I was about to face the real Blitzkrieg.
As he swung his bat grimly, even sav-
agely, it was almost with a feeling ol
elation that I tensed every muscle and
fibre to take the shock of the onslaught
Yet I was determined I would not “bite
the bloody dust.” I would fight back,
returning blow for blow!
As I waited to see which way the ball
would break I decided on my general
strategy —I would endeavor to exhaust
him in a long and gruelling struggle, hop-
ping over for the final assault only when
I judged that my heaviest guns would
take their full effect.
Up, up went my returning lob. It took
about 15sec. to come down, and
“Jumbo” was forced to go well back so
as to get on to it. Backwards and for-
wards the battle raged, “Jumbo evidently
having adopted my own plan of cam-
paign. Ping! Pong! Ping! Pong!
Ping! Pong!
After five minutes we were settling
down to a dour struggle. At the 88lh
shot I decided to introduce tactics. Sud-
denly reducing my trajectory, I swung
over a swift shot to the corner. It nearly
caught the enemy napping, but not quite.
His fire gradually became hotter, and I
was forced temporarily to yield, but I
fought back stubbornly. He pinged and
1 ponged. Deadly work!
Suddenly I became aware of the weak
spot in his defence system—a “blind
spot” short in on his backhand. I there-
upon determined to execute a pincers
movement. I would put one wide out
on his forehand and with the next
hammer his “blind spot.” His frantic
return went over the edge of the table and
I was three up!
It was then that he unloosed the full
fury of his attack. Swinging his heaviest
field pieces into action he pounded my
bulwarks. 1 had become overconfident
—it was a valuable lesson I was to take
to heart in my future battles —and the
surging tide of strife that followed
threatened completely to engulf me. But
at 9-3 against me I launched a tremen-
dous counter-offensive. Swinging my
attack this way and that and maintaining
vital pressure I managed to make it
nine all.
From then on the battle waxed ever
hotter, the fortunes of war see-sawing
until it stood at 20 all. The next point
would decide who was to be the van-
quished !
You have perhaps read of the soldier
who, after a gruelling forced march of
40 miles, reaches the front through a veri-
table hail of lead. After withstanding
for hours a terrific battering, he drags
his weary body at the order of his im-
perishable spirit over the top for the
attack, and after achieving his objective
digs in and doggedly maintains it in the
face of all assaults. A poor parallel,
perhaps, yet it may serve to give some
slight indication of what I had faced —
what I still had to face.
“Jumbo” served —a vicious swinger
carrying a lot of overspin. Girding my
loins for the final assault I crashed it
back, following it in for the kill. But
“Jumbo” miraculously managed to return
it. I tossed. Glancing at “Jumbo’s”
granite jaw I could see that sheer batter-
ing on a frontal attack would stand little
chance of rolling him up. I would deploy
to a flank and unexpectedly crash over
a shattering blow. The thought of
Bonaparte at Jena, of Monash on August
8, came to my mind.
Manoeuvring skilfully, I edged across.
I was aware of the terrible risk I took,
as at any moment my implacable oppo-
nent, becoming aware of my tactics,
might put one wide out on my backhand.
But “Jumbo” was seemingly content io
keep the ball in play, hoping that I would
make a fatal blunder.
My opportunity came, and I angled
one sharply across the table. Sensing
danger, “Jumbo” closed in, playing it
cleverly down the centre. I knew then I
would have to hack my way through.
Gathering all my forces I swung to the
attack, and a terrific hand-to-hand battle
followed. Following up a high lob I
dashed in. It was into the mouth of
hell now, but I was in perfect position
for a victory-or-death shot. Getting the
ball square in the centre of the bat I put
all my remaining strength into it. Irre-
sistibly it tore through every line of his
defences. I had won the war!
Victory had never been harder to win
nor sweeter to taste. Yet in my hour
of triumph I could not but feel sympathy
for a gallant opponent.
“ C’est la guerre, Jumbo !” I said.
“I’ve never seen such ping-pong,” he
congratulated me. “You fought like a
tiger! ”
BO.


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
RAGKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging*, WaTnful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a.
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don't wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
JThey give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Ivaste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that will make you well and keep you well.
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a “spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5% per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294.
G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Present A.I.F. commanders who dis-
tinguish themselves will not have to wait
so long for titles, if they fancy them,
as did their predecessors of the last war.
Monash was not knighted till well into
1918. White and Glasgow were C.M.Gs.
in 1919. “Pompey” Elliott never got
anything more, nor has Raymond Leane.
Iven Giffard Mackay was named K.B.E.
two months after Bardia. At the same
time Wavell, Andrew Cunningham and
Longmore shared in a distribution of
G.C.Bs. Longmore is the first Aus-
tralian to win one.
David Jackson’s name has been added
to the melancholy list of Commonwealth
politicians who have died these last few
months—on November 20 the reassem-
bled Parliament voted condolences to the
relatives of “Texas” Green, Harry
Gregory, Dr. Maloney, P. P. Abbott,
J. H. Keating, Frank Anstey and J. M.
Fowler. Jackson was for ten years (1919-
1929) M.H.R. for Bass (Tas.), which is
mostly Launceston. At Launceston he
was born and bred, and there he died —
at 51. Old Parliamentary hands remem-
ber him as a quiet chap who played
bowls uncommonly well, and could sing
a good song on convivial occasions,
though he didn’t join in the conviviality,
being t.t. Jackson was managing direc-
tor of Jackson’s Lock and Brass Works,
a business bequeathed to him by his
father, who had made him a partner
at 21.
Dr. F. R. E. Mauldon, lately appointed
to the Chair of Economics at Perth Uni.,
is 49 and was born in Sydney. He
graduated at Sydney Uni. and his first
job was in the N. S. Wales Registrar-
General’s Department. He served in the
PROF. F. R. E. MAULDON.
1914-18 war as a Y.M.C.A. man with
honorary rank as captain, and was in-
valided home, wounded, in 1918. Fol-
lowed several years of association with
the Workers’ Educational Association in
N. S. Wales in a tutorial capacity. Pro-
fessor Mauldon has written various books
on economic subjects, and thereby
achieved a doctorate in Literature. In
1935 he was economic adviser to the
Tas. Government’s Finance Committee.
Golf, gardening and walking are his
recreations.
Edward Hubert Waring, who has
passed over in Brisbane at 78, was an
authority on sugar production, and as
such his services were in great demand.
Irish-born, he came to Queensland at
16 and spent 10 years in C.S.R. employ
in Fiji before returning to the Mack-
nade (N.Q.) mill in 1899. After retiring
from the managership 15 years later he
probed the possibilities of growing sugar
in the Northern Territory, but his
report was adverse. A keen golfer,
he was made an honorary life member
of the Brisbane Golf Club in 1933 in
recognition of his services as committee-
man and links director.
This is a year of records in connec-
tion with Adelaide Uni. for George
Murray, the S.A. Chief Justice, who has
just been re-elected as a matter of course to
the Chancellor’s chair. It is exactly 60
years since he entered as an under-
graduate. Just 10 years later, after a
successful career there and at Cambridge,
he was back in Adelaide, and was elected
a member of the council, a beardless
youth among its literal greybeards. Thus
he has had half a century on the govern-
ing body, and—succeeding Samuel Way
in 1916 —half of it in the Chancellor’s
seat.
The ’plane crash which killed Frederick
Banting, Professor of Medical Research
at the University of Toronto, deprived
medical science of one of its best
research brains of this century. Only
50, he was on his way to Britain to
demonstrate a new method of counter-
ing gas attacks in any German invasion
effort, and had already done remarkable
war work on the physiological factors
involved in operating aircraft at great
altitudes and speeds. The discovery of
insulin, for which he was awarded a Nobel
Prize in 1923, was his own original work,
although he insisted on sharing the credit
with his student co-workers, and refused
patent offers which would have made him
a millionaire many times over.
Major Fielding Elliot is by no means
the only American who served with the
Old Diggers. The outbreak of the last
war found J. A. Rena, a young New
York electrical engineer, working on
mast-construction for the Marconi people
near Cairo. When the Anzacs arrived
he pleaded so hard to be allowed to join
them that he was admitted to the 2nd
Light Horse at Maadi in January, 1915.
Transferring to the infantry, he gained
a commission in France, and distin-
guished himself at Second Villers-Bret.,
taking charge of a 57th Battalion
company when his senior officer had
been badly knocked, and leading it
in the glorious advance. Rena came
out of the war a lieut.-colonel.
Freddie Kneeshaw, chairman of the
commission which will control merchant
shipbuilding in Australia, was born in
Maoriland but has spent most of his
life in N. S. Wales. In the war of 1914-18
he served with the A.I.F. as a major of
artillery. In recent years he has been
g.m. and a director of Australian Port-
land Cement and a Legislative Coun-
cillor. Kneeshaw lives at Turramurra and
is proud of his garden.
Canon Edward Howard Lea, dead in
Sydney at 76, was a distinguished and
very kindly clergyman. He was rector of
the fashionable St. Mark’s, Darling Point,
for 23 years. Retiring in 1938, he re-
tained his post as chaplain to the Arch-
bishop of Sydney, held since 1916. He
was a canon of Bathurst Cathedral, and
from 1925 to 1938 was Rural Dean of
East Sydney. He helped to found Cran-
brook School and St. Luke’s Hospital,
and was one of the Australian pillars
of Toe H.
Ivor Hele, appointed an official artist
with the A.1.F., is an Adelaide painter,
still two years short of 30. He got his
art training first under Jimmy Ashton,
then at S.A. School of Arts, and finally
IVOR HELE.
at art schools in Europe. When he
enlisted in the A.I.F. he was life class
teacher at the S.A. School of Arts. He
has won important Australian competi-
tions with historical pictures. He’s a
hefty lad, a good boxer and a strong
swimmer.
“Lao-dah”: A frenzy for scholarship
is hereditary with the Chinese, so
there is nothing surprising in the achieve-
ments of John Leong Gie. John
arrived five years ago from China with-
out a word of English and has since be-
come editor of his school magazine, cap-
tain of the school football 18 and school
pianist. This year he began a medical
course at Melbourne University after
passing through the University High
School. Sport and music are something
added to the orthodox Chinese curricu-
lum by Australian culture. John is a
son of Ernest Leong Gie, Chinese cate-
chist of the Methodist Church in Mel-
bourne.
Prof. Bernard Heinze, who has been
lent to the A.B.C. for a year by Mel-
bourne Uni., hasn’t had as much lime-
light shed on him as some visiting con-
ductors, but it was those visiting con-
ductors who most keenly appreciated the
spadework he has done in the last 15
years in bringing music to the people.
Born at Shepparton (Vic.) 47 years
ago, Heinze was educated at Melbourne
University and the Royal College of
Music, London. He laid down the
bow for the big gun in 1914, when he
joined the Royal Artillery. He was study-
ing in Berlin in 1923 when he got a call
to return to the Conservatorium of his
Alma Mater as Ormond Professor. Fol-
lowed the long series of symphony con-
certs, wherein the baton of late years has
been shared between him and a succes-
sion of imported conductors.
Justice Charles John Lowe, unani-
mously appointed Chancellor of Mel-
bourne Uni. in succession to John
Latham, whose resignation was posted
from Tokyo, was born at Panmure (Vic.)
in 1880, learned his pothooks in State
schools and graduated through Surrey
College, Melbourne, and the University
to the Victorian Bar in 1905. He is far-
famed as an after-dinner speaker, and
sauces his oratory with more than the
usual amount of forensic humor. Other-
wise has led a quiet life of service, mainly
to his Alma Mater. He is a member of
the University council and financial com-
mittee and of the council of Trinity Col-
lege. He is also on the advisory council
of the Melbourne Hospital, which is
having a gigantic rebirth at the Pig
Market. Tennis and golf are his recrea-
tions.
Major Eric Bailhache, second of Aus-
tralia’s medical casualties in the present
war, was a leading Coll ins-street specialist.
Like Lieut.-Col. Cunningham, his Sydney
colleague, he had done notable work in
the field of obstetrics and the aftercare
of mothers and infants. He undertook
postgraduate study in Vienna and Eng-
land. He was a member of the Mel-
bourne University Rifles and was an
officer in the militia before he enlisted.
Passed out unnoticed, Humphrey Hall,
a court reporter for the Sydney “Even-
ing News” and “Daily Telegraph” in
other days. Hall was an expert, and
in a period of 40 years or so of court
work got to know the Bar and the
Judiciary by its nicknames. Always
keen on the theatre, Hall wrote several
plays, and shortly before the last war
went to England in a vain effort to have
some of them produced. He had a
library of theatrical literature, including
programmes, handbills and press notices
of most of the old-timers who strutted
the Sydney boards from the turn of the
century to a few years ago. He was 77
at the end.
Medical knight John Harris, Victorian
Minister of Public Instruction, Health
and Child Welfare, has recently added
to his activities direction of A.R.P.
in Melbourne. If he is as much
criticised for this as he has been
for asserting that there is no malnutrition
amongst Victorian schoolkids that won’t
worry him. He has a brusque way with
critics. Born at Chiltern in 1868, he was
educated at Grenville College, Ballarat,
and passed through Melbourne Univer-
sity to a practice at Rutherglen. In the
DR. J. R. HARRIS.
last war he was M.O. of No. 1 Squadron,
Australian Flying Corps in Palestine.
Bowls and golf are his recreations when
he has time for any.
James M. Bertram, appointed press
attache to the British Embassy at Chung-
king, is a Maorilander, the Dominion’s
Rhodes scholar of 1931. His association
with the Chinese forces during the last five
years provided him with the material for
a book. He is a product of Waitaki High
School and Auckland University, and
has won many literary prizes. His father,
a Presbyterian minister, preached in
recent years in Melbourne and Sydney.


i tf
r.
SKSSW’
„ \
"•y*.
V-?
#
*••■«■■.
%
' \
\>
A
Vu
<MU*
M 5 / 7,
- 'Sr/
V
Vfe
•%V A
V'
<%> \
AX
k \ *
is®
«r
• V'
V
ff v .
KOUa
X
Wi
***
\
nr®®
fW?£
1
I+Z
#
"If
-:■’!
SS SS
f*#»
s+
KB*
W
„b£
i _ /J*
SEND THEM VICTORIOUS
Daily, hourly, that is the prayer of an Empire whose every
effort is bent on achieving victory and a lasting Peace.
At one with this endeavour, General Motors - Holden’s Ltd. are
applying almost their entire organisation to the Nation’s war effort.
For the time being, therefore, the production of motor vehicles,
other than for war and essential services, must accordingly be con-
siderably curtailed.
When the war clouds lift and victory is an accomplished fact,
the full energies of General Motors will be again directed to the
building of cars and trucks . . . better cars and better trucks . . .
because of the lessons learned and the skills acquired, throughout
these years of war.
Who develops Industry serves Australia
N ~
7*
Si
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BEDFORD • BUICK • CADILLAC • CHEVROLET • G.M.C. • LA SALLE • OLDSMOBILE • PONTIAC • VAUXHALL
CT 45.60


ABORIGINALITIES
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was dusk of a hot,
dry day when Mat dropped his knot in
the willows and prospected the creek
bank towards what looked like a market
garden. It was, and it contained many
large and luscious watermelons. A few
minutes later Mat was back at his camp,
inserting melon into himself with gusto,
when a bevy of excited Chinese fell upon
him. Mat shook himself free of the
Celestial nuisance, abstractedly dumped
a couple of ’em in the creek, gathered
his knot and departed. Next morning he
was invited by the Law to the courthouse,
where a bunch of indignant Chinks
waited to prosecute. Mat listened to
them giving evidence, denied everything
and was himself put in the box.
The sergeant handed him a Bible. Mat
looked at it, then looked up. “What’s
this for?” he asked. “To be sworn,”
answered the Law. “ ’Struth,” came
back Mat, “I thought y’ had t’ blow out
a blanky match.” The Beak had to
adjourn the Court for 10 minutes to re-
cover his poise.
* * * *
“Narooma”: There must be some
difference between “Wippegong’s” black-
"If you don't come up again, Jim, can I have your fish?"
fish (B. 5/3/’4l) and the kind I know,
whose mouths are barely big enough to
take a bit of green weed, let alone an-
other fish. Probably “W.” is talking
about a fresh-water fish, whereas bait-
wasters on Australia’s east coast think
of a sea-bream when anybody talks
about blackfish. It just shows that with
fish, as with trees and other things, Aus-
tralians are apt to get a bit mixed with
their local nomenclature.
* * * *
“Gulnare George”: Ned had just got
the bridle on the filly when she whirled
away, pulling Ned off his feet and swing-
ing him into the six-wire fence. Ned lost
his grip on the bridle and went through
the top and second wires, which some-
how twitched themselves round his
right ankle. He was hanging there, feebly
cursing, when a maddened boss came
along to see what the hell was keeping
him.
* * * *
“Murray Gordon”: J. H. M. Abbott
(B. 12/2/’4l) writes of Macpherson, the
Wild Scotchman, also known as the
“Queensland Bushranger.” Here are
some facts that Mr. Abbott didn’t
mention. Macpherson married a woman
called the “Scrub Turkey.” Many of the
women who followed the track and the
diggings in the early days had names like
this. Hard doers they were, but let a
man be sick and there was no better
friend, even though their language might
fry him. About the early ’nineties Mac-
pherson was in Burketown. While there
he attended the funeral of one of the
old notables of the place called Jack
Sullivan. Riding back from the cemetery
Macpherson yelled to the other men,
“Last back to the pub shouts!” The
blacksoil on which Burketown is built
is full of potholes. The Wild Scotch-
man’s horse put his foot in one and fell,
and the rider’s neck was broken. In 1905
his son, nicknamed the Young Wild
Scotchman, was storekeeping and horse-
breaking in the Northern Territory out
from the Katherine. He was killed by
the blacks not far from Cooktown.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Have sometimes won-
dered with “Gryllus” (B. 5/3/’4l) how
some birds attain their alleged ventrilo-
quial ability, but have come to the con-
clusion that the real performers are the
tall gums standing in cathedral-like solem-
nity on the ranges. A shout uttered there
will echo close to the ear, and though
you know your mate is up on the next
ridge ahead his yell often sounds from
anywhere but where you know him to
be. Out on the plains you never hear
a birdcall from anywhere but where the
maker is, except at night on a still river
reach, when the ventriloquism comes to
light owing to the prevailing acoustical
properties of the locality.
* * * *
“Pelarie”: None of the gun dogs that
have so far pointed and set through the
Aboliars’ pages are in the same class as
old Jimmy’s Spot. Jimmy himself will
vouch for it, though he hasn’t got Spot
now, worse luck —lost him one day while
on a shooting expedition in a Western
Victorian district. The dog simply van-
ished and could not be found. But a
year later when Jimmy revisited the place
he came across the skeleton of a quail
and a little further on the skeleton of a
dog holding a rigid point. As Jimmy
says, he knew immediately it was Spot,
for what other dog would have main-
tained its upright position in that windy
district?
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Jimmy had been
living in the bend so long that nobody
remembered his coming. His camp was
clean, and so was James, and even when
he got a few aboard on pension day he
retained his cleanliness. His speech
argued a better upbringing than most of
us could boast, and when in one of his
rare yarning moods he often spoke of a
distant city’s most exclusive suburb, and
expressed his intention of some day
going there to touch again an old life.
As he got older he talked more and
more about this, until most of us came
to believe that only lack of finance pre-
vented Jimmy from shaking the dust of
the bend from his immaculate heels for
ever. Then a local solicitor was seen
heading for Jimmy’s camp ; there was a
coming and going, and word got abroad
that Jimmy had been left a nice bit of
money. Sure enough, he bought some
new clothes, arranged for the care of his
dog, chained up his shack door and made
for the railway station. A few of us
were there to see him off. He leaned on
the booking-office, surveyed us and the
town and the river gums and said to the
clerk, “No, make it a return ticket,
please.” “Yes,” said the clerk, “but where
to?” “Where to? Where to?” echoed
J. impatiently. “Why, back here, of
course ; where else would a man want
to return to?” Then with a queer grin
he looked at us and said, “You see, there’s
a big place waiting for me down there.
But I’m satisfied. The Murray’s got me,
fellows. I’ll be back.” And back he was.
* * * *
“Lawnston”: Memories of the early
days of whaling in the Speck are recalled
by the sight of queer-looking metal pots,
used for all sorts of domestic pur-
poses, on Bruny Island. Their origin
has been forgotten except by the oldest
inhabitants. They are the trypots in
which the whalers boiled down the
blubber. They were left behind when
the industry evaporated.
* * * *
“Bamekaw” (T. 1.): The word “hum-
bug,” which my dictionary defines as “n.
and v. t.; fraud, sham, to delude (etym.
dub.),” is used by the Torres Strait native
to mean a variety of things except those
given by the dictionary. A doleful Binghi
who complains, for instance, that “head too
much humbug” needs aspirin ; similarly,
humbug is applied to any other member
afflicted by pain. If it is complained that
the wind (sun, rain) is “humbugging” one
can take it that the weather phenomenon
so named is unfavorable to the project
in hand, and when a buck appears in
the native court on a charge of immor-
ality and pleads that he “only make
sweetheart, but no humbug business,” he
thereby indicates that his amorous inten-
tions were strictly honorable. And now
someone has gone and thrown a spanner
in the etymological works by introduc-
ing the lolly of that name to the native
palate. No wonder the niggers consider
us a bit peculiar.
* * * *
“Flight”: An old-man pelican was
winging his way from the gidya holes to
Tottenham Creek, over the high downs
on the Barkly Tableland (Q.). Old Billy
Can was loaded to the Plimsoll, and
he didn’t have that grace in the air
which is usually his. Suddenly, from
nowhere, a magpie darted to the attack.
Billy couldn’t have been encroaching on
Maggie’s breeding grounds, for there
wasn’t a tree for miles. It must have
been puire cussedness which led that
black-and-white streak to dive at Old
Harmless. Billy let out a link or two of
speed, but it wasn’t good enough. All his
wing jugglery wasn’t a patch on the stuff
Maggie could show. Billy’s only chance
was speed, and plenty of it. Then he
did a strange thing. A bit of a wriggle
in the air, a heave and a twist, and his
wings simply whistled as he got down to
it in earnest and sped, to leave his tor-
mentor marking time in the air. Maggie
stayed to have a look at the cargo Billy
had. jettisoned ; so did I. There were a
yellow-belly about a foot long, three
black bream of an average of about 9in.,
a number of sprats and six fresh-water
crabs.
sp * * *
“Horatio”: News of the success of the
lantana bug’s operations in some centres
of N. Queensland recalls memories of
old sugar days on the Tweed (N.S.W.).
At the turn of the century pioneer cane-
growers there didn’t look upon the lan-
tana as a pest. They encouraged its
growth on worn-out land ; in fact, they
planted it, and the better it flourished
the happier they were. Their firm belief
was that the lantana was a splendid fer-
tiliser of old land and that such soil, after
a few years of heavy lantana growth, was
ready to do its job again.
* * * *
“Coona”: “Pick’s” foxes (B. 12/2/’4l)
must be a different breed from those I
have come across. Shot a hundred or so
around Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) a few
winters ago. Walked them and also
whistled them. Invariably I found Rey-
nard resting beside fallen logs or at the
foot of standing trees, and nine times out
of ten about halfway down the sheltered
side of a hill. If there were several in
the shoot I always “jockeyed” for that
position. As for trotting a few
hundred yards and turning to give a
“defiant bark” well, that’s hard to
swallow. At the slightest suspicion of
danger his tail goes down and with belly
close to the ground he endeavors, un-
seen and unheard, to put as great a dis-
tance as possible between himself and
suspected danger point. Incidentally, the
only time I have known the wily one to
bark is during the mating season.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: If the Diggers now in
Malaya get a chance to indulge in the
sport they will find that land a paradise
of big game. The backbone of the
peninsula is almost impenetrable jungle
and literally infested with tigers, ele-
phants, the sladang—the most belligerent
of all wild cattle bears, panthers,
leopards, wild boars, crocodiles, pythons
and tapirs and many sorts of deer, from
the tiny harelike mouse deer to the big
menjanganx and the rusa. In parts of
.he country tigers terrorise the natives and
have been known to charge the pile-
built houses repeatedly until they have
brought them down by the force of the
impact. Much more feared, however, are
the were-tigers, which are implicitly be-
lieved in in some districts, where sundry
individuals take the place of the one-
time witches of Europe by discarding
their clothes at crossroads, becoming
tigers and preying on their fellows. A
munshi I once had who tutored me in
Malay and had had an English free
school education had no doubts about it.
In fact, he had seen a fellow-villager do
the trick in broad daylight. Having shed
his clothes he went down on all fours,
took a leap and sprouted claws, took
another and acquired stripes, took
a third and grew a tail, and at the
fourth disappeared into the jungle. When
a wife wakes up beside her lord in the
morning and finds blood and feathers on
his lips she knows she has had the mis-
fortune to marry a were-tiger. Tigers of
the unsupernatural sort used regularly to
swim the straits from Johore, where the
Singapore Base is now situated, and land
on the island. Their average bag was
one Chinaman a day. In 1910 there was
a great hullabaloo at Raffles Hotel, a
tiger having been located under the bil-
liard room. He was dispatched by an
Australian telegraphist.
“BLACK.”
My head is bowed, my weary feet are dragging,
Where once I strode erect in manly pride ;
Old smells and sights, too well recalled, assail
me;
Invitingly the doors are gaping wide.
Yet (such is Fate!) those doors 1 dare not
enter,
Though cash and inclination I don’t lack:
A beer strike of the deepest dye has struck us
And all the taverns in the town are “black.”
The day ’twixt dawn and dusk seems never
ending
To me, and others of the thirsty ilk,
And it’s a sinful waste of hard-earned wages
To try to quench a thirst with malted milk.
Like jewels are the beads that grace the amber,
Still gleaming are the bottles on the rack,
But, like the Ancient Mariner, I’m standing
While pickets guard the portals front and
back.
The iounge is cool; there peace and calm are
reigning;
And cosy are the chairs where once I sat;
While, like a man whose life is slowly ebbing,
A billabong of beer is going flat.
But what’s the use of arid, bitter musing?
My throat is parched and dry enough to
crack;
No undertaker’s face was ever longer
Since beer was by the union voted “black.”
The sun beats down, the mercury is mounting;
It’s almost like a Sunday in the town;
My mates of brighter days are dull and cheer-
less
And look as if the drought has got them
down.
I think I’ll break my camp and roll my bluey;
A man might get a lift along the track;
And there’s a little township down the river
Where beer is still on tap and isn’t “black.”
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Take care, laad, tha don't get mistook for one o' they parry shooters."
“Wognit”: It was at 4.30 breakfast
in a Dajarra (W.Q.) droving camp. The
mob were sitting around the fire when
one of the abos. came up. “Want some-
thing, Billy?” asked the boss. “Yair,
boss,” said Billy ; “more bread, please.”
“What’s that?” said the boss. “More
bread, please, boss,” replied Billy, shift-
ing to the other foot. “What’s that?”
roared the boss, a few tones louder.
“More bread, please, boss.” ‘‘What’s
that ?” bellowed the boss, walking
towards him. “No more, boss, thanks,”
said the boong hurriedly; “full up.”
“That’s better,” commented the boss.
“Speak up and a man can hear what
you are saying.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Response to an excited
feminine announcement that the door-
mat was walking across the porch re-
vealed the hidden motive power as an
enormous elephant beetle decorated with
horns. Though not the biggest of
Queensland beetles, it must be amongst
the world’s strongest insects. Australia
holds quite a few insect records, amongst
them the heaviest moth in the world,
and another with the greatest known
wing area, totalling over 50 square inches
with a spread of 10| inches. The larvse
of Leta stacyi, the beautiful giant bent-
wing moth of the Gosford and Taree
(N.S.W.) districts, grow to 6in. long and
bore inch holes through hardwood
timbers to the sorrow of timber-getters
and sawmillers. When they achieve
moth-hood the resting insect is so
marked as to present a startling picture
of the head of a large and savage-looking
lizard. The larvae of the giant Queensland
moth, Xyleutes boisduvalli, which has a
body the size of a small banana, are
bogger still, but not such fast workers.
Queensland stick-insects (phasmatids)
also attain record sizes—one received at
the Queensland Museum was nearly 15in.
long.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A west Queensland
friend has sent me a sixpence-sized bit
of black glass picked up on his outback
property with the ribald suggestion that
it is probably from one of Leichhardt’s
lager bottles. Really, it is what geologists
call a tektite —if found in our own land,
an australite and get all hot and
bothered over if asked how it got there
and when. Some affirm that all tektites
date back to Tertiary times, a matter
of fifty million years or so; others
believe them to be fragments of meteor-
ites, and a hopeful minority have a bright
idea about them as bits of lava bubbles
shot out of volcanoes and floating about
in the stratosphere till they burst. They
have been found in all the States and the
N.T., particularly about the head of the
Australian Bight. They have been picked
up on much-used tracks, and one in the
Sydney Museum is recorded as having
dropped on a roof, so that the Tertiary
idea sounds a bit out of date. Floating
lava bubbles don’t fit into applied
physics, and tektite chemical composition
is different from that of any known
meteorite. Yet Centralian abos. know
them as “sky-stones.” My friend’s theory
is discounted by the fact that Leichhardt
never came within a hundred miles of
his property, and certainly took no lager
on any of his very meanly-provisioned
expeditions.
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”: Mustering in the
thick mulga country on the Maranoa (Q.)
has always been something of a problem.
On the station where I knock out a crust
the stragglers could always be counted
in hundreds after shearing. But Andy,
the new overseer, had brought with him a
novel technique. He used as a probe a
10ft. pole with a splintery point; if
the point had any wool adhering to it
after being plunged into the dense mulga
you knew there were sheep there. The
manager, a stern old man with red whis-
kers, had no faith in the new idea, and
decided to hide in the paddock we were
working on and see for himself. He was
surprised when a splintery stick suddenly
jabbed him in the face and a voice called
out “Red hair here” ; then a jab from
behind, and another voice boomed,
“Beaver moles here.” “Must be the boss,”
drawled the voice of the overseer. Poles
“Down a teeny-weeny bit more, Mrs. Piper."
are now the standard equipment of the
station hands.
* * * *
“A.M.R.”: The office police boy in the
T.N.G. district in which I was stationed
asked me for hn advance of 10s.
from his deferred pay to buy off a sor-
cerer! Being cynical regarding the
powers of sorcerers, I refused the ad-
vance. On the following Sunday the p.b.
collapsed and, while the hastily
summoned doctor boys were
placing him on a stretcher, died.
I approached the m.o. at the
native hospital and, advising him
of the circumstances, suggested a
post-mortem. He reported that
the only abnormality was a slight
suffusion of blood in the heart,
but not, in his opinion, sufficient
to cause death. On the p.m.o.’s
return from an outstation tour I
placed the facts of the matter be-
fore him. “Very interesting,” said
he. “Come back and see me to-
morrow.” Next morning he pro-
duced a native for my inspection
and asked if I noticed any points
of similarity between his appear-
ance and that of the deceased p.b.
I was struck by a greyness of the
skin common to both. “Exactly,”
said the p.m.o. “This boy is in
an advanced stage of beri-beri and
will pass out from beri-beri heart
within the week.” I’m wondering
how much the sorcerer knew.
“Swanlo”: Speaking of the combus-
tibility of the blackboy tree (B. 29/l/’4l),
the whole plant when about half-dry
burns freely, giving off a dense black
smoke. The soot from this settles in
the form of a fine lampblack, slightly
oily. Back in the days when the Swan
River settlement published its first news-
papers, printer’s ink was an exceedingly
rare commodity; but the colony soon
made itself self-supporting on that item.
Blackboy soot, mixed to just the right
consistency with mutton tallow, filled the
gap. And “Perth Gazettes,” turned out
by hand press in the 1830’s, still show
typescript as black and unfaded as that
of this morning’s daily.
* * # *
“Stradivarius”: I had cut my foot
while getting sleepers, and when dis-
charged from hospital called on my non-
Aryan uncle to pop my last treasure, a
fiddle. “You have bad foot?” queried
Isaacs. “Vould you like a sitting-down
job?” “My oath!” said I. “What’s it
like?” He showed me a stack of about
a hundred violins dumped in a corner
of a shed. Every one was a casualty.
Broken necks, cracked ribs, split backs
and bellies; the sight nearly broke my
heart. The whole consignment had fallen
from a sling on the wharf and had been
bought for the price of firewood. “How
much you vant for vages?” “Ten bob
a day and my pick of the barrow at the
end.” The deal was on, and I started in
right away. With a pocket-knife, glue,
sandpaper and varnish some weird sur-
gery was done. One instrument had a
sound neck and sore shoulders ; another
had a broken neck and a good torso.
By a major operation the two were made
one. And so on. The net result was 50
“old violins” all strung and ready for
“take your partners.” Which, though I
say it myself, was not bad for a cove
whose normal tools of trade are the
broadaxe and the wedge.
* * * *
“Tas”: That the taking of simple pre-
cautions may save one’s life was drama-
tically demonstrated by an Elderslie
(Tas.) farmer. Driving a cultivator drawn
by four horses, he was caught in a violent
thunderstorm. The four horses were
struck dead by lightning, but the agricul-
turist was thrown clear of the machine
uninjured. A rubber cushion and a
wooden footrest preserved him from the
pj ne overcoat.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Back to the landing board
of the hive flew a young bee so smothered
in honey as to be hardly able to walk,
Instantly two doorkeepers rushed and
intercepted what was clearly a disorderly,
even though not a drunk. A quick
examination. Then, while one held the
disorderly under arrest, the other hurried
back into the hive, to return with a bee
with sapience written all over it—clearly
a doctor. Another examination. Then,
while one of the wardens still held the
arrestee, the doctor got to work, groom-
ing the young bee with its proboscis over
every line of its body. And the patient
didn’t at all like it, tried to break away
a couple of times ; probably the doctor
was saying unpleasant things about get-
ting oneself into a mess. Finally the
young bee, groomed clean, was admitted
to the hive. A moment later a rather
elderly bee lobbed in the landing board,
also in a mucked-up condition. Out
rushed the doorkeepers. But did they
call the doctor? Without ceremony they
bustled that bee over the edge to the
ants waiting below.
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”: How does the dirt
become lodged right up through the pipe
of a hollow tree? I had always put the
blame on white-ants, but have since
found dirt-filled trunks in practically
termite-free country. Some bushmen
maintain that the dirt is carried up with
the sap, but in white-ant country the
termites can always be found in the dirt.
Do they carry it there, or merely use it
as a base for further operations.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: In the eloquent pictures
Frank Hurley has sent from Libya by
far the most striking sight, to me, was
the contemptuously thin line of Diggers
who escorted Musso.’s mob to the rear.
The thick, black, beaten stream was
strung out to the horizon, and hundreds
poured past before there appeared, strid-
ing along about a chain out from the
rabble, one of the lads we know. He
swung by, and away ahead you could
see the next one coming. No sign there
of that casual manner ; these men, right
on the job, were more than soldiers —
they were symbols. I came away won-
dering where I had seen such unaffected
mastery before; then remembered the
stock routes. The mob strung out, noisy
in a negative way, impressive to the eye
by reason of their vast numbers but
moving forward without thought of their
going, the whole mass completely con-
trolled by a few lean kelpies around the
fringe. Any rash animal had long since
learned that for experimental digressions
detection and correction were sudden and
simultaneous ; so, like the prisoners from
Bardia, they just flowed forward, their
destination decided by their guides.
“Wouldn’t you think they’d try to get
away?” the puzzled young Aussie be-
side me had said. But they didn’t; they
only plodded on —and for much the same
reasons as sheep do.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Me an’ Dubbo Dick is
fishin’ in the Murray one night,” said
Smoky Wicks. “The hole’s about a hun-
dred yards across an’ deep, an’ there’s
reckoned t’ be one cod in it the size of
a lifeboat. Dubbo’s line’s a piece of
32-gauge copper wire, strong enough
to hold an elephant. He’s got a two-
inch hook on it baited with a four-
inch lizard. He’s squatted about twenty
yards from me on a log juttin’ inter the
pool, with his boots danglin’ in the water
an’ his line thrown over a big snag a few
inches under the water. Suddenly I hear
him give a gasp. ‘Cripes!’ he calls t’
me, soft. ‘I think I’ve hooked him. I
wus jist pullin’ me line up t’ see if I’m
baited, an’ he must ’a’ follered it up
t’ the surface. I can feel him just under
me boot. I’ll play
him easy fer a
while.” Then pres-
ently Dick’s voice
comes agen, real
scare d- soundin’.
‘Come an’ give us
a hand, Smoky;
he’s grabbed hold
o’ me boot; the
cow’s pullin’ me
in!’ I rush up, t’
find Dick up t’ his
waist in the water,
hanging on t’ his
line with both
hands, an’ slowly
goin’ down. I grab
the line an’ heave
on it, an’ then with
a rush Dick dis-
appeared. I hang on
fer me life, an’ can hear him gurglin’
underneath. Suddenly I go over on the
broad o’ me back an’ somethin’ goes
whizzin’ through the air over me head to
land on the bank behind me. I lay there
winded fer a few seconds ; then I get
up t’ examine our catch just as Dick
crawls up the bank, an’ find —the biggest
cod ever pulled outa the Murray? No,
just one of Dick’s boots with the laces
broke an’ with the hook jammed half
an inch in the heel of it!”
FOUNDRY.
There’s the furnace; hear it screeching
As the ladle takes the melt;
And the furnacehand is reaching
At the sweat-rag in his belt,
For the moulds are set and ready,
Each with leader, run and core;
And the moulder needs a steady
Hand to spill another pour.
While the grinder does the dressing,
All on stone and steel intent
(Knowing leisure brings a blessing
But it’s toil that pays the rent),
The annealer bakes the castings
In a heat whose scalding breath,
With a fine sand from the blastings,
Sprinkles men with panting death.
Now a side plate’s set for squaring,
Or a stern-gland’s almost done,
And a fitter “mikes” the bearing
Of an anti-aircraft gun;
Now it’s polish, caulk or cover,
Forge the drawbar, weld the link—
Till we’re working so long “over”
That we scarcely dare to think.
And we seem so far from human
In the gloom that roars and sears
That it’s hard to think a woman
Wasted smiles on us or tears.
We’re the Foundry’s strange creations,
Things of flame or steel or sand;
But, when war-blasts rouse the nations,
We’re a rampart of our land.
n.s.w.
FRANK McCALL.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
1 THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office; 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Pref. Re-
Oet., Profit. 64 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
192 f 1,011,307 96,507 11 p.c. = 894,791 27,668
193' . 1,074,672 96,507 12 „ „ 976,135 29,698
1931.. 747,927 96,507 8 „ ~650,757 30,361
1932.. 585,299 96,507 6 „ ~ 488,068 31,085
1933.. 585,611 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 32,121
1934 585,850 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 33,396
193;,.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ ~488,068 34,771
667,761 96,507 7 „ „ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 .. 343,783
'■ash bonus (3J p.c.), £305,042 .. 38,741
1937.. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
1238 911,479 96,507 10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
1939 . 910,814 96,507 10 „ ~ 813,446 42,561
U'4 0. . 965,936 101,401 10 „ ~ 862,944 44,152
Cui standing event of the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts was the
purchase, as from June 30 last, of the
800,000 f.-p. ss. ords. in Carreras, Ltd.
(paid capital £268,000 in 68,000 £1
10 p.c. prefs. and 800,000 ss. ords.), and
with them control. The price paid was
£1,463,335 in 225,861 6} p.c. cum. prefs.,
618,737 ords. and a like number of B
shares, all of £1 each—the B shares rank
equally with the ords. for divs. but are
deferred as to return of capital. That
made B.T.’s paid capital £11,082,521 in
1,710,588 6 } p.c. prefs., 8,753,196 ords.
and 618,737 B shares. The subsidiaries
now include W. D. and H. O. Wills,
British-Australian Tobacco, the States
Tobacco Co., S. T. Leigh and Co. and
Carreras.
At the date of purchase Carreras’s net
assets, less its own pref. capital, had a
book value of £349,459. So B.T. paid
£1,113,876 for goodwill, valued in Car-
reras’s books at £6204. The question that
arises there is whether B.T. paid too
much. Judged on the basis of earning
power it did not. For the 12 months to
June 30 last Carreras netted £156,404,
which was £149,604 more than its own
pref. div. requirements. The £149,604
was £11,176 in excess of what the pref.
requirements and 10 p.c. to the ords. on
the entire parcel of B.T. shares issued
as purchase consideration would call for.
Further, savings can be expected from
elimination of competition, possible over-
lapping and administrative charges. On
the other hand, increased taxation, in-
cluding the excess-profits tax, will take
a big bite. However, for the four months
to the end of October last Carreras
netted £54,369, after allowing for
taxation. That was at the rate of
£163,107 p.a.
The following table, which shows the
weight of cigarettes and tobacco levied
for excise in Australia, suggests con-
tinued expansion of turnover of tobacco
manufacturers:
Cigarettes, Tobacco, Total,
Year, Pounds. Pounds. Pounds.
1928-29 . . 6,357,779 14,116.648 20,474,427
1931-32 . . 4,084,046 13.557,325 17,641,371
1934- .. 4,770,064 14,088,562 18,838,626
1935- . . 5,190,065 14,598,251 19,788,316
1936- .. 5.733,307 14,997,391 20,770,698
1937- . . 6,204,114 15,751,695 21,955,809
1938- . . 6,891.258 15.776,449 22,667,707
1939- . . 7,148,053 16,019,834 23,167,887
The quick growth in consumption of
cigarettes over the last five years reflects
the popularity of smoking among women.
In November last there was an increase
in duty and excise on tobacco, followed
by a lift in the retail prices of these
articles. This and the effect of taxation
upon incomes generally may retard sales
a little ; but the biggest bump to turn-
over will come from Government re-
strictions on imports of leaf from non-
sterling countries and from control of
factory output. The effect upon net
earnings will largely depend upon what
savings can be made in overhead.
For the 12 months to the end of
October last, B.T. and its subsidiaries
together netted £990,139, up £74,188 —
the figures in the introductory table show
profit claimed by the holding co. (8.T.)
alone. That was after setting aside
£114,033 (up £29,457) for depreciation,
making unspecified provision for taxation,
and allowing for the amount coming to
outside interests in the organisation. The
improvement in net earnings was due
mainly to inclusion of four-months’
figures for Carreras. The £990,139 was
enough to pay B.T.’s pref. div. (£101,401)
and show 10.3 p.c. on average ord. and
B capital. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
The Carreras deal and other things
caused wide fluctuation in the market
for B.T. ords., which ranged between
495. and 395. during 1940, the lower
figure being reached about the middle
of the year. There has since been a
steady recovery, recent sales being at
475. At this figure the return is 4.3
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, which the
market obviously anticipates will not be
interfered with.
Balance-sheet figures for the group
show marked changes:—•
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET.
-(-Increase,
1939. 19'40. —Decrease.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 9,619,186 11,082,521 +1,463,335
Outside shares . . 18,854 t 88,315 f +69,461
General reserve 006,283 733,243 +126,900
P. and 1. balance 757,114 807,658 +50,544
Deprec. reserve 1,985.489 2,168,266 +182,777
Creditors* . . 621,631 1,358,867 +737,236
Freeholds . . 1,138,241 1,208,322 +70,081
Plant, etc. .. 1,470,620 1,583,880 +113,260
Stock . . . . 6,625,660 5,947,437 —678,223
Debtors . . 1,246,264 1,520,559 +274,295
Investments . . 309,922 510,143 +200,221
Cash .. .. 124,557 1,498,919 +1,374,362
Goodwill, etc. . . 2,693,293 3,969,610 +1,276,317
* Including tax provision, etc.
t Including proportion reserves.
The decrease in stocks and sharp growth
in cash may have some connection with
Government control of imports, output,
etc. Other movements are largely on
account of the Carreras purchase. When
the books closed, stocks, debtors’ bal-
ances, investments and cash together ex-
ceeded the amount coming to sundry
creditors, which includes provision for
taxation, by £8,118,191, or £433,419
more than at the previous balance. With
virtually a monopoly of the trade, the
co. is obviously well-equipped to gather
whatever profits are to be had from it.
Australian Gas Light Co. (Sydney)
Dividends To Re— Re-
June, Profit. (All Shares). serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 278,182 8 p.c. = 324,204 35,294
1930.. 310,573 8 „ „ 328,800 17,067
1931.. 297,938 7 „ „ 287,700 10,238 27,305
1932.. 254,647 6i „ „ 256,875 25,077
1933.. 284,448 6 „ „ 246,600 37,848 62,925
1934.. 270,625 6 „ „ 246,000 24,025 86,950
1935.. 247,024 6 „ „ 246,600 424 87,374
Dec.,
1935*. 235,464 6 „ „ 246,600 77,499
1936.. 209,740 6 „ „ 249,320 37,919
1937.. 265,825 6 „ „ 258,371 7,454 45,373
1938.. 281,553 6 „ „ 269,846 11,707 57,080
1939.. 232,325 6 „ „ 287,629 1,776
1940.. 218,774 44 „ „ 218,700 74 1,850
* Balance date changed; twelve months’ figures,
including six months of previous term.
Shareholders in this big public-utility
undertaking have received shabby treat-
ment at the hands of the N. S. Wales
Government, which controls the selling
price of gas, and therefore the return
obtainable on the share capital invested
in the business. The Act of 1932
lowered the standard rate of div. for
gas cos. from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and placed
the industry under control of a com-
mission—one member representing the
Government, one the cos. and another
the employees. The professed idea was
to allow the cos. to distribute 6 p.c. to
shareholders, after paying exes., includ-
ing interest on loan funds, and setting
aside not more than 3 p.c. p.c. under
previous Act) of the capital outlay on
buildings and plant for special purposes
and depreciation.
Toward the end of 1939 the co. applied
to the commission for a slight increase
in the selling price of gas to cover a rise
in costs over which the management had
no control. The commission recom-
mended that the increase be granted, but
the Minister and then Cabinet refused
to acquiesce, and there the matter stands,
after further review of the position dur-
ing the year. The grounds of Cabinet’s
refusal have not been publicly stated,
but since the outbreak of war the public
effort has been directed to keeping the
cost of living down. In many other
industries, of equal and even more
national importance at the moment, sell-
ing prices have been increased in order
to cover a rise in costs outside the man-
agement’s control ; and this with the
sanction of the Federal Prices Commis-
sioner, acting under the National Security
(Prices) Regulations. So the board has
now asked the Federal authority to have
the gas the co. makes and reticulates pro-
claimed a “declared service” under the
regulations just referred to. The answer
has not yet been given.
As a result of the Government’s de-
cision there has been a drop from 6 p.c.
to 4y p.c. in the div., and, of course, a
sharp decline in the market price of the
shares. Little more than a year ago the
f.-p. £6 A shares fetched £7 4s. 6d. ; now
they can be had at £5 10s., or 10s. below
face value. On a 4\ p.c. div. basis those
who paid £7 for their shares are getting
a return of only 3.6 p.c. on their money,
which isn’t good enough, all things con-
sidered. On the same div. basis the yield
at £5 10s. is 5 p.c. Old shareholders,
and many widows are among them, have
thus suffered not only a sharp cut in
income from this source but heavy loss
in the marketable value of their holdings
as well; and this at a time when the cost
of living continues to climb. Debenture
holders, who stand in front of share-
holders for both dividends and capital,
receive from 4 p.c. to 5 p.c., and the
4 percents are selling around £9B and
the fives at about in the market. In
these circumstances, it is impossible for
the co. to raise new share capital, be-
cause the scrip, which has to be sold at
auction, cannot be issued at a discount.
Further, the security of share capital is
being undermined because the board is
compelled to seek debenture money to
finance urgent extension of the under-
taking. The last issue of £250,000 of
debentures at £4 2s. 6d. p.c. in May, 1940,
was fully subscribed. Obviously the in-
terests of shareholders deserve more
equitable consideration than they have
recently received at the hands of the
Government.
Last year gas sales were affected by
officially restricted consumption during
the coal strike and later by restrictions on
the use of water. But there was a
marked increase in the use of gas for
industrial purposes, thanks to the demand
for war equipment. The co.’s total sale
of gas for the year (7309-odd million c.f.)
increased by over 33 million c.f. But it
was mainly sales of residuals, especially
coke, that put the lift of £49,531 in gross
earnings:—
, 1939 N , 1940-
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Gas.. ..£2,092,300 5 9 £2,101,035 5 9
Residuals . . 179,693 6 220,734 7-J
Meter rents, etc. 32,770 1 32,525 1
Total . . £2,304,763 6 4 £2,354,294 6 51
Manufac. and
distrib. exes. 1,388,905 3 9f 1,363,983 3 8}
Other charges 327,379 10J 392,613 1 Of
Interest .. 117,003 3J 124,977 4
Depreciation, etc. 239,150 8 256,523 84
Total outgo £2,072,438 5 8t: £2,138,096 5 10
Manufacturing costs (£874,159) increased
by £70,481, owing to the lift in wage
rates and increase in the price of coal. But
there were savings amounting to £95,403
in distribution charges (£489,824). Eco-
nomies on this scale, however, cannot be
expected to continue. All other outgoings
not directly under the management’s con-
trol increased. The net result was a
profit of £218,774 (down £13,551), or 4.5
p.c. on capital. A very creditable per-
formance, all things considered.
To meet the demand for coke, new
screening plants are to be installed at the
co.’s Mortlake works, and to assist the
national war effort the recovery of benzol
will be undertaken, provided the State
Government passes suitable legisla-
tion and satisfactory arrangements are
made for raising the necessary capital.
It is figured that the co. can produce
about 1,800,000 gallons of benzol p.a.
There is £4,860,000 of capital (it
brought with it £299,340 of share pre-
miums) to feed. The debenture money
totals £2,500,000, and temporary loans
£523,394. Other outside liabilities amount
to £492,736. Freehold figures at
£164,692 ; plant, etc., £7,367,425 ; stock,
£307,290 ; debtors’ balances, £733,625 ;
cash, investments, etc., £300,724. There
is thus nothing uncomfortable about the
financial position.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends x
A B
Prefs. Profs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec.. Loss. 7 p.e. 9 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1930.. 11,334 1041 2250 Mil 6.483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 5580 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 4067 22,420
1934.. 3,609 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
3 p.c. Reserves.
1939.. 21,042 2081 9000 4,950 5011 3,608
5 p.c.
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8,250 5949 9,557
The outlook for shareholders, especially
the ords., is better than at any time
during the last decade, despite the present
upward trend of costs and the heavy
demands of the taxgatherer. To finance
trade expansion the co. had gone a bit
into debt when the big change in condi-
tions in the early 1930’s altered the out-
look, and for nine years to the close of
accounts in 1938 the ords. went hungry.
Meanwhile, trading conditions steadily
improved, the outside debt was worked
down, the accumulated pref. divs. were
gradually paid, and the ords. got back
into the picture with 3 p.c. in 1939, fol-
lowed by 5 p.c. for the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts.
Last term the co., which manufactures
men’s wear, was kept busy with contracts
for all branches of the fighting forces,
and there was a strong ordinary trade
demand, too, owing to growth of em-
ployment, which was stimulated by
defence activities of one kind and an-
other. The improvement in gross earn-
ings (£109,493) was, however, only £4936 ;
factory costs and the cost of raw
materials, which are mostly imported,
continued to climb, while competition
kept selling prices low. Including an
unspecified allowance (£2924 more than
the previous year’s) for taxation, general
exes. (£88,713) were £5198 heavier. The
small reduction of £262 in net earnings
was thus due entirely to taxation ; a tight
hold appears to have been kept upon all
controllable outgoings. The £20,780 of
profit claimed was sufficient to pay a full
year’s pref. divs. (together £6581) and
show 8.6 p.c. on capital as against 8 7 p.c.
for 1939.
It is doubtful whether much, if any,
improvement in earnings need be ex-
pected for the current term, and over-
head, including taxation, is likely to be-
come heavier before it gets lighter. Also
the tangible prop for capital—goodwill
(£10,000) is not treated as an asset herein
—is none too stout. No harm would be
done, therefore, if the div. was kept at
5 p.c. or thereabouts and more substan-
tial reserves accumulated.
Here is the business looked at from
another angle:—•
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 133,714 95,201 70,073 131,897
Premises .. 109,767 107,880 102,890 103,571
Plant etc. . . 52,005 49,167 48,050 46,883
Book’debts .. 95,313 79,006 118,685 114,551
Stock.. .. 104.129 115,221 68,588 143,966
Cash, etc. .. 16,665 2,707 5,221 6,556
The thing that catches the eye there is
the sharp growth of £75,378 in stocks
last term. To meet the outlay the co.
issued £37,364 of bills payable in London
and added £29,129 to the overdraft
(£80,281). The amount coming to sundry
creditors (£14,252) was reduced by £4669.
All stock is reported well bought and of


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patent®.— Advt.’
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE It COMPANY, T. k G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * » *
DAVIES Sc COLLTSON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
excellent value, and appears to be a wise
precaution against possible developments.
The year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£133,186) was £10,765.
The £244,736 of capital is in 29,736
A 7 p.c. and 50,000 B 9 p.c. cum. prefs.,
all of £1 each, and 330,000 10s. ords. The
market prices the ords. at 7s. 6d. and the
B shares at 265., at which figures the
return is 6.7 p.c. and 6.9 p.c. respectively.
The As seldom come on to the market.
The net tangible cover is £8 11s. As, £4
9s. lOd. Bs and 10s. 3d. ords.
“Promising Old W.A. Mines”
A. H. Malloch, of Malloch Bros., Ltd.,
Perth, says they do exist: —-
I notice in B. 19/2/’4l a reference to a
proposal by me that provision be made in
the proposed new W.A. Companies Act to
facilitate the forming of small companies for
reviving our old goldmines. Your comment on
our statement that there are numbers of lease-
holders seeking financial backing to reopen
promising old mining leases has a sting in its
tail when you ask: “Where are these many
promising old shows? Neither the Mines De-
partment nor a Bulletin man on the spot
knows of them.”
The mining industry opened up this country
50 years ago, and since the depression has
provided work for many thousands. I was
directly connected with goldmining before
starting out in business about 30 years ago, and
I know that there are scores of leaseholders
who have endeavored unsuccessfully to get
partners. In our own business over the last
10 years we have repeatedly had requests
from miners outback to try to put them in
touch with partners or backers. The problem
of locating payable gold in old leases is less
difficult than finding finance to work a mine
efficiently, especially as our Mines Department
has not made a practice of backing the
smaller mining concerns to any extent.
“Where are these many promising shows?”
We have interviewed the Under-Secretary for
Mines, whose reply was to point to the list
of “Abandoned Gold Mining Leases Which
Have Produced Gold,” containing 76 pages.
This was published a few years ago by order
of the late Jack Scaddan, Minister for Mines,
and it named thousands of leases then avail-
able. Since this was published scores of these
old mines have been reopened, and a large
number are being worked profitably. In many
cases the smaller mines are owned by indi-
viduals or small parties. The richest individual
goldmine-owner in the Commonwealth happens
to be in this list—Mr. Cassey, of Mount
Magnet, who reopened an abandoned mine—
and there are hundreds of proven gold chutes
still awaiting reopening under the better con-
ditions and higher price for gold ruling today.
W. F. Greenard, who for many years was
chief field inspector for the Mines Department,
shortly after the depression set in said that
there were 12,000 gold leases in the State which
had produced payable gold, many of which
were still available and had not been worked
out. Some were abandoned in the early days
because gold was then £4 ss. per ounce, living
costs outback were extremely high, transport
facilities were lacking, and there was the neces-
sity for using expensive steam engines for
power. Others again were deserted when water
was struck, which meant pumping equipment
which the mineowner could not afford.
Today, with gold at more than double the
price, good roads leading almost everywhere
throughout the goldfields, cheap Diesel-engine
power with simpler and more efficient pumps,
these mines present a different picture.
In looking over the reasons why good mines
were closed down years ago, many extraordi-
nary stories could be told. Parties that held
rich small mines worked hard and lived hard,
often with regular “beanos” after each clean-
up. The result in many cases was that there
were no reserves with which to carry on when
water was struck at comparatively shallow
depths
Out of my intimate experience I am urging
that leaseholders be given facilities to form
small companies to enlist financial support so
that no one backer can be liable for the whole
debt of the partnership—something on the
lines of no-liability cos.
A three-day Westralian auction of
Lancefield machinery, plant and build-
ings realised between £40,000 and
£50,000. Principal buyers included the
South Aus. Government (power units)
and local mining cos. The lots sold,
original cost £149,939, were given an
aggregate value in the last balance sheet
of £83,664. Since the co. ceased opera-
tions shareholders have received a liqui-
dation dividend of Is. 3d. per share.
Another shilling or more is expected.
* * * *
Reports on two frequently-mentioned
Pilbara goldmines the Comet at
Marble Bar and the Blue Spec at Nulla-
gine—are furnished by a Westralian
Mines Department inspector. As regards
the former, no definite opinion is ex-
pressed about either present appearance
or prospects of the Comet lode, but that in
McKinnon’s section is said to be turning
out well, with promise of being both
larger and wider than originally expected.
The reef is stated to be traceable on the
surface for over 1000 ft., seems to aver-
age 2jft. in width and prospects well
in places. Blue Spec is described as a
small mine with treatment problems
owing to the high antimony content of
its ore-body. Sufficient water is also not
yet assured here.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) goes on
making a good job of re-treating old Gt.
Boulder tailings on a joint-account basis.
Last year’s profit was £140,857, of which
Gt. Boulder took half. After deduct-
ing Australian and English taxation
(£35,489), depreciation of plant (£4800),
all administration charges and a sixpenny
dividend (£27,500), Horse Shoe’s carry-
forward is increased from £971 to £lB6O.
At Sept. 30, 1940, 250,000 tons in Boulder
No. 1 dump and 1,014,552 tons in
Boulder No. 2 dump, in all about two
years’ supply, remained to be treated.
On that date co. held £88,220 sterling and
£59,323 Australian in cash, plus £40,000
sterling worth of U.K. Government
securities and shares in unnamed cos.
which cost £25,183 but are valued in the
sheet at £9814. Less liquid items were
stores £10,301 and debtors £2518. Out-
siders were owed £50,475.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) has obtained an
extension of its option on the Maranoa
gold block, Menzies, until February next.
Purchase price if a deal is made is £lBOO.
Latest manager’s report infers that pros-
pects are favorable and mentions a recent
crushing of 50 tons from development for
23dwt 19+er sold per ton.
\ 5 * * * *
“Tedder”- Herberton (NO) always
ledder . Herberton (IN-Ud
had one star m its firmament, b ,
the Canberra now in difficulties over a
lost lode, the Cornishman temporarily
doddering and the Wild Irishman stone-
dead, the tinfield has slipped. The lately-
dead Irvinebank has bucked up, how-
ever. The Bradlaugh comes darkly into
the picture at Herberton, but not yet in
a star role, though it was once a local
luminary. It is advancing its drives on a
low-grade lode, the last 9ft. in “black”
rock, but this may be a deceiver, being
got in rich and poor pipes alike. And
Herberton has had tin pipes such as no
other field in Australia could show, stuff
that was half tinstone and might be 50tt.
across. Gilbert Petter is still prospecting
the field, and if he has rightly taken a
pot or two out of it he has valiantly paid
in to find more. His last good strike was
the Canberra. Its recent diamond-drilling
effort has not been a success, but they
hnvp a Inde of sorts minus tin and are
nave a loaeoi sorts minus im ana are
driving on it along a porphyry bar m
hopes.
F. N. Betheras, manager, left Kelsey
Creek Mines, Proserpine (N.Q.), some
months ago. He found it a different
proposition from Raub-Australian, which
he left to come back to this continent,
and the domestic arrangements were
unlike Malayan-planned outfits. F. N.
wanted to g e t into war W ork also,
m j ne? however, is continuing to show
U p we U 5 jt s small and very rich shoots
promising considerable continuity in both
length and depth. Locally it looms big,
and the zest for gold has cemented an-
other Proserpine group into one single-
minded search in the adjoining ground,
appropriately enough called the
Crusa er.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
t M.J.M. : Believe the co. to be defunct, vll
ffSTU
or the rights at 17s. 9d. (making 375. 9d. when
fully paid), are particularly attractive. Adelaide
Steam is also worth attention The other- are
JgJ t a o b * t formation f ” m t e he
years. We have no knowledge of any jnten-
tion to convert bonds into shares. It is not the
same CO. as that recently taken over by N.Z.
Forest Products. There is no market for the
CQ , g bonds .. .i.g.R. : They have attractions
a j that figure, though there is a possibility
that divs. might be temporarily withheld.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF PROPRIETORS
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
In the course of his address to the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
Thursday, February 27, the Chairman of
Directors, Sir Samuel Cohen, said:
“It is fitting that I should, before commenting
upon the operations of the Company during
the past year, refer with deep regret to the
death on December 30 last of our late col-
league on the Board, Sir Robert McCheyne
Anderson. Sir Robert, who retired from the
Board on account of ill-health on May 29,
1939, rendered valuable service to the Company
during his twelve years’ association with it as
a director, and during the latter seven years
he successfully filled the position of Deputy
Chairman.
“At the last annual meeting of the Company I
referred to the fact that, notwithstanding re-
ductions in expenditure effected by the Com-
pany, increases in costs beyond its control had
made it necessary to take steps to secure the
appointment of a Board of Inquiry under the
Gas and Electricity Act, for the purpose of
determining new standard prices. The Board
began its inquiry on October 24, 1939, and in
December, 1939, recommended to the Minister
for Works and Local Government the increases
in prices sought by the Company.
“Since then over a year has passed, and I
intend now to briefly inform you what trans-
pired during that period.
“Towards the end of April, after consider-
able supporting data had been furnished to the
Minister at his request, the Company was in-
formed that the State Cabinet had decided
‘that the recommendation of the Board of
Inquiry should not be adopted.’ On receipt
of this notification your directors immediately
conveyed to the Minister their grave concern
that the unanimous recommendations of the
Board had been rejected, and in doing so
pointed out that Cabinet’s decision deprived
shareholders of rights they were legitimately
entitled to under the Gas Act.
“Following on the rejection of the recom-
mendations to which I have referred, the Com-
pany continued during May and June to make
representations to the Minister for reconsidera-
tion of the Company’s position, and subse-
quently during July I interviewed the Premier.
At this interview I stressed the urgent need for
some degree of relief being given, and pointed
out that, although the directors and executives
had made every endeavour to combat the effect
of rises in costs beyond the control of the
Company by reductions in controllable expendi-
ture, its financial position had continued to
decline through no fault of its own.
“As a result of this interview the Premier
agreed to re-examine the Company’s position,
and on August 5 an alternative proposal, based
on increased costs incurred since the commence-
ment of the war, was submitted for his con-
sideration. Between that date and the end
of the year this proposal was under con-
sideration by the Government, and from time to
time during that period your directors re-empha-
sised to the Government the numerous reasons
that existed for some adjustment in prices.
“The culmination of nearly sixteen months of
inquiries and negotiations came on January 8
last, when we were informed that Cabinet had
given careful consideration to the Company’s
request for an increase in the price of gas but
was unable ‘under existing circumstances to
agree thereto.’ Accompanying this decision
was an intimation to the effect that, if the
Company considered that its present authorised
prices should be altered, there seemed to be no
reason why adjustments should not be sought
from the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner,
who had specific powers during the war period
in regard to prices of commodities.
“On January 15 last, following upon an
interview with the Prices Commissioner, Pro-
fessor Copland, at which it was intimated that
the Company intended to make application
to him for an increase in its selling prices of
gas, a request was officially made that gas
distributed by the Company should be declared
a ‘declared service’ within the meaning of the
National Security (Prices) Regulations.
“From what I have said you will see that
no effort has been spared during the last six-
teen months to secure some adjustment in selling
prices. The subject has been one which has re-
ceived your directors’ constant consideration.
The results of our endeavours in seeking adjust-
ments in prices have been fruitless due to
causes beyond our control. What action the
Prices Commissioner will take remains to be
seen, but shareholders can be assured that 1
and my colleagues will continue to seek, with
all our energy, the correction of what we feel
to be, and I am sure every fair-minded person
in the community feels to be, an unjust position.
Issue of Debentures
“At the last annual meeting a resolution
was passed authorising the Capital of the Com-
pany to be increased by £240,000 by the issue
of 40,000 ‘A’ shares of £6 each.
“At the time this authority was granted it
was the intention of the directors to offer the
shares for sale during March or April. Owing,
however, to the depreciated market value of
shares, the consent of the Commonwealth
Treasurer was sought and obtained to the issue
of £250,000 of debentures bearing interest at
the rate of £4/2/6 per cent, per annum, with
a currency of twelve years from May 1, 1940.
The issue was placed on the market on May 1
and was fully subscribed.
Result of Year's Operation
“The net profit for the year, including
£1776/14/3 carried forward from the previous
year, amounted to £220,549/15/7 after provid-
ing the full amount allowed by legislation for
the depreciation of assets and an amount of
£31,852 as a contribution to the Special Pur-
poses Account. An interim dividend for the
June half-year of 2 p.c. amounting to £97,200
having been paid in August last, the sum now
available for distribution is £123,349/15/7.
“A final dividend of 2\ p.c. for the December
half-year is now recommended, which will
absorb £121,500 and leave a balance to be car-
ried forward of £1849/15/7. The amount of
profit earned during the year, prior to
making provision for depreciation and special
purposes, was £475,296, compared with £471,475
for 1939. It will be remembered, however,
that a dividend of 6 p.c. per annum for the
year 1939 was made possible by the use of
accumulated profits brought forward from 1938
and previous years, and by appropriating only
a relatively small amount for special purposes.
The main purpose in making the comparison
is because it reflects the success of measures
taken during the year to combat the effect of
rising costs. Shareholders will realise, however,
that economies can only be effected once, and
that, while your directors intend to see that
costs are kept down to the minimum compatible
with the high standard of service which the
Company has set itself, it is an absolute neces-
sity that prices be adjusted if shareholders are
to receive an adequate return on their invest-
ments.
“During the year the main increases in costs
which the Company has had to bear were for
raw materials, wages and salaries, and rates and
taxes. The cost of coal and oil increased by
approximately £72,000. Rates and taxes have
increased from £96,174 in 1939 to £138,271, or
by £42,097, and represent 7 p.c. of net revenue
from sales of gas. Since the outbreak of
war and the present time, the basic wage
has increased 7/- per week, adding approxi-
mately £50,000 per annum to the costs of wages
and salaries.
“Offsetting these increases have been certain
reductions in costs to which general reference
has already been made and increases in revenue
from the sale of by-products to which I will
refer later.
“It is with pride that I mention here the fact
that 181 employees of the Company Rave
enlisted for active service in the various
branches of the fighting services. In respect to
these employees the Company is continuing its
policy of making up the difference between the
income they derived from the Company and
that which they now receive from the Common-
wealth Government. The cost in this connec-
tion during 1940 was £13,404.
Sales of Gas and Appliances
“Gross revenue from the sales of gas was
slightly higher than that obtained during 1939.
Unfortunately sales were adversely affected
by restrictions on use imposed during the coal
strike which took place during the first half
of the yeai, and by the warm weather ex-
perienced during the winter, coupled with the
restrictions on the use of water.
“Sales of appliances for domestic use con-
tinued to be satisfactory, and in the case of
gas refrigerators 1939 figures were exceeded to
a considerable extent. In fact, the demand by
customers was greater than the supply available,
which was affected by difficulties experienced by
the manufacturers in obtaining necessary parts
from abroad. There are now approximately
12,000 gas-operated refrigerators in use in the
metropolitan area.
“In the industrial field there has been a con-
siderable extension of use of gas in the manu-
facture of equipment for war services. In new
plants which have been opened many gas-
operated furnaces and other equipment have
been installed and a substantial increase in the
demand for gas for industrial purposes has re-
suited. It is of interest to note that most of
this equipment was designed by our own staff
and manufactured locally, thus facilitating the
speeding up of the output of munitions,
c i d,,
.
The return from the sale of by-products
during the year was £41,040 greater than that
° during 1939. ~ .
feature of the sales of coke was the m-
crease in demand for that required for slow-
combustion stoves. Since 1936 the proportion
of coke sold for such use has doubled itself
and now constitutes 20 p.c. of total sales.
“In order to meet the growing demand for
coke for various purposes and at the same
time improve its qualities, your directors recently
authorised new coke-screening plants for the
Mortlake Works to take the place of the plants
which have been in use for many years and
are now obsolete,
Recovery of Benzole
“During the year an urgent appeal was made
on behalf of the Commonwealth Government
b y the Director of Substitute Fuels that the
Company should assist the nation's war effort
by undertaking the recovery of benzole. After
a thorough investigation into the effect which
t bj s would have upon the Company’s operations,
both from the viewpoints of shareholders and
customers, your directors have decided that
the necessary plant should be installed pro-
vided that suitable legislation is passed by the
state Government, and, further, that satisfac-
tory a rrangements are made for raising the
necessary capital.
“The Company can produce approximately
1,800,000 gallons of benzole per annum, and this
should be a valuable contribution to the nation’s
liquid fuel requirements in addition to provid-
j n g an essential material for the manufacture
G f explosives.
“The effects of benzole production on cus-
tomers’ accounts and on the efficiency of
a pplj an ces have been matters to which your
directors have given particular attention, and
r j s possible to give every assurance that the
operation of this new activity will in no way
be detrimental
n ,‘ L r* i d j
'-°ni» lon ''vealth Coal Board
“You will have noticed that the Federal
Government has recently appointed a Corn-
monwealth Coal Board to govern and direct
the , supply, distribution and consumption of
coa * throughout the Commonwealth. Your
directors are in communication with this board
w ith the object of ensuring that there is a
complete appreciation of the Company’s require-
ments.
“In conclusion there are two further matters
J- desire to make reference,
*he first concerns the co-operation which
colleagues and I have received frorn the
officers of the Company during a most difficult
y ear > . fo F which co-operation we are very
appreciative.
The second concerns the year through which
we ave J9 st P asse d and that which we are
now entering upon. During 1940 events
transpired which few, if any, of us anticipated,
The superb manner m which the peoples of the
® ntis h Commonwealth have withstood the
tests imposed on their courage and faithfulness
to their ideals is something at which for all
time men will never cease to marvel. While it is
yet to be revealed what this coming year holds
for our nation, of one thing I am certain,
and that is that it will bring us so much
nearer that ultimate victory which shall be
ours.”
0n the Motion of the Chairman the
£A .. • . „
Statement of Accounts was received, the
Report of the Directors adopted, and trie
meeting decided to pay a dividend of
a ? er h Cem - 1 f ° r n the h l f '^ a A r .. e " d ,fH d «{?"
December, 1940, on the A and r>
shares.


Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend to be the Executor of your Estate, appoint him
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman). Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
tree of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Blade size 2in.
ALE POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor
3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
fhV.'ii'-XCJ
p iO,
M
4*
hgjghj
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
New Occidental
On N. S. Wales’s biggest goldmine
there was more work done for no greater
return to shareholders last year. Mill-
ings increased, the treatment of slimes
began and the price of gold was up ;
but grade of mill-ore fell, recoveries im-
proved only slightly at the Occidental
mill and were worse at New Cobar, and
gold excise added to costs, which other-
wise were reduced in both mills, in spite
>f higher prices for chemicals and stores
and increased wages. Working profit per
ton of ore treated fell from 30s. 7d. to
295. sd. at Occidental and from 235. 4d.
to 20s. Bd. at New Cobar. Recovery of
metals, in total, showed little alteration
at 47,8880 z. gold and 579 tons copper.
Overhead exes., apart from excise
(£39,757, against £14,577), were down,
mainly because there was no public dis-
cord among members of the board —rows
and investigations cost £1694 in the pre-
ceding year—and Government royalty
payable fell from £6150 to £4672. Net
profit was shown at £187,865, against
£187,611 in the preceding year. Holders
of the ords. received Is. 6d. per ss. share
in divs., the same as in the previous
term. Total distributions were £96,188,
including pref. divs.
Owing to the changeover to a process
of shrink-stoping, each year a proportion
of profits has had to be held back in
the shape of broken ore. Last year the
amount capitalised under this head was
£53,479, against £23,683 in the preceding
term. Though these sums have not been
charged against profits until milling takes
place, and are not included with costs, the
fact of the expenditure thereon, whether
treated as capital or otherwise, means
that profits as disclosed are not entirely
represented by liquids, but partly by the
value placed on this broken ore. An-
other item that has frozen portion of the
co.’s earnings for the time being is the
outlay on advance development and
stores. Also, a more permanent tying-
up of profits is expenditure on plant—
£29,Bol last year. Total profit invested
in non-liquids last term was £126,686.
The board announced on Feb. 19 that
the changeover to the shrink-stope
method is now practically completed at
Occidental and well advanced at New
Cobar, and that outlay in this direction
will be reduced this year. Apparently it
will not now be necessary to break ore
further ahead of the mill. More of the
current year’s income, subject to any
new capital commitments, should thus
be available for divs.
Here are details of ore reserves in both
mines at Nov. 30 and details of millings
for the year to that date:
New Occidental. New Cobar.
Paid capital .. £303,750 in 1,012,500 ss. ords.
and 202,500 10 p.c. redeem-
able ss. prefs.
Ore reserves—
Positive .. 453,976 tons. 163,290 tons.
(7.9dwt.) (7.6dwt.,
_ . . 0-95 p.c. copper.)
Probable .. 260,000 tons. \ *
Indicated .. 169,000 tons. J 6Z, 160 tons.
Treatment, 1940
Ore .. .. 97,158 tons. 51,908 tons.
Gold recovery 31,7570 z. 15,3720 z.
Copper .. 579 tons.
Proceeds, ton £3/4/4* £3/12/10*
Working costs £l/14/11 £2/12/2
Work’g profit £l/9/5 £l/0/8
* Gold tax deducted.
Comparable figures for the preceding
year are: —
New Occidental. New Cobar.
Ore reserves—
Positive .. 376,960 tons. 174,300 tons.
(8.04dwt.) (7.B4dwt„
0.89 p.c. copper.)
Probable .. 203,110 tons.) ni
Indicated .. 383,000 tons. J 114,320 tons.
Treatment, 1939 —
Ore .. .. 97,524 tons. 39,775 tons.
Gold recovery 34,3860 z. 14,0280 z.
Copper .. 515 tons.
Proceeds, ton £3/6/10.67* £4/0/10.91*
Working costs £l/16/3.70 £2/17/6.91
Work’g profit £l/10/6.97 £l/3/4.00
* Gold tax deducted.
In the Occidental head value of the
97,158 tons treated (down 366 tons) fell
from 7.99dwt. to 7.36dwt. Recoveries
improved from 88.27 p.c. to 88.82 p.c. At
New Cobar 51,908 tons, up 12,133 tons,
was milled ; heads dropped from B.sldwt.
gold and 1.31 p.c. copper to 7.2Bdwt.
and 1.15 p.c. respectively. Gold re-
coveries fell from 82.88 p.c. to 81.38 p.c.
Copper flotation wasn’t quite so good
either, at 97.34 p.c.
Deducting gold excise, recoveries were
worth £3 4s. 4d. (against £3 6s. lid.) a
ton at Occidental and £3 12s. lOd.
(against £4 os. lid.) at New Cobar.
Working costs were £1 14s. lid. (against
£1 16s. 4d.) at Occidental and £2 12s. 2d.
(against £2 17s. 7d.) at New Cobar. Work-
ing profit from Occidental was £141,518
(£149,118) and from New Cobar £53,473
(£52,770).
The slimes re-treatment plant, which
cost £10,875, has been erected primarily
to treat 75,000-odd tons of tailings. It
started on October 1, and to Nov. 30
handled 12,389 tons of I.4Bdwt. gold
values for 82.77 p.c. recoveries—7s9 fine
ounces, worth £Bl2l. It showed a work-
ing profit of £4803 for the two months.
Profits have since more than paid for
the plant. Dump material will be ex-
hausted this year; after that the plant
will cyanide current flotation tailings
from New Cobar.
The fall in values at New Cobar last
year was due to lower values being en-
countered in the main ore-body. The
value of this property is still debatable.
In Occidental’s case dilution was respon-
sible for the fall of o.63dwt.
This was brought about (and could not
be avoided) during the lock-up period of
ore in the shrink-stope on No. 10 level, as
tonnage had to be maintained, and this
necessitated the mining of low-grade ore
from the remnants of the old upper-level
stopes and sending development ore to the
mill until such time as No. 11 level was
completely broken out and capable of main-
taining our normal tonnage. Since Decem-
ber shrink-stoping has been completely
established, and the grade in future will be
average run-of-mine ore.
The average head value of 20,030 tons
milled since Nov. 30 was 7.95dwt.
Ore reserves at Occidental are shown
at 453,976 tons positive (against 376,960
tons); values are 7.9dwt., compared
with B.o4dwt. Probable and indi-
cated ore totals 429,000 tons, against
586,110 tons. At New Cobar 163,290
tons positive and 62,160 tons probable
compare with 174,300 tons positive and
114,320 probable. Gold values here have
fallen from 7.B4dwt. to 7.6dwt.; copper
has risen from 0.89 p.c. to 0.95 p.c. At
Occidental there appears to be about
nine years’ ore, reasonably well indicated,
ahead of the mill.
Nothing of a startling nature has oc-
curred at Occidental during the past term
on performances disclosed in the annual
report. However, comparative tran-
quillity surrounds operations now, and
that should be to the good. The ore
position isn’t developing at any speed,
though there is a lengthy period assuredly
ahead of the mill. Values are inclined
to shrink slightly rather than expand.
A great deal will depend on whether
the partial coagulation of profits caused
by shrink-stoping, capital outlay, stores
purchase, etc., will soon give way to a
freer flow of income to shareholders.
Without such a freeing of profits there is
nothing exciting in the picture with the
ord. shares priced at 11s. 6d. There are
reasons for hoping that the position will
start to liquefy before the close of the
present financial term, though “the board
has decided that under existing conditions
it would not be appropriate at present to
take any action for the redemption of
the redeemable pref. shares (£50,625).”
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills con-
templates plant additions at Burnie to
increase output to approximately 40 p.c.
above present level. The enlarged plant
will be capable of catering for the Aus-
tralian demand in all the papers made
by the co. Protracted deliveries for plant
and other conditions arising out of the
war have caused delays. The programme
will involve the enlargement of the pulp
mill and paper mill, the purchase of a
third papermaking machine and the ex-
tension of ancillary services. North 8.H.,
B.H. South, Electrolytic Zinc, Zinc Corp.
and Australian Glass were in the be-
ginning granted a five-year option over
300,000 shares. Already 113,000 shares
out of the total have been issued
to certain of the option-holding cos.
to capitalise advances made by them.
Now, in financing • plant extensions,
187,000 ords., representing the balance
of the option, have been offered for sub-
scription at par to the sponsor cos. All
have exercised their options, thus ex-
tinguishing the option rights. No indi-
cation can at present be given as to
whether further share capital will be
issued or the time of its issue. If more
capital is required, all shareholders will
participate in future.
* * * *
Shares were steady but quiet last
week. B.H.P. issues were a trifle
stronger, and so was the market as a
whole. North Broken Hill shares, how-
ever, could be got at 375. 6d., and
looked attractive ; Mt. Lyell at 275. 3d.
was also going cheaply. Bradford Cotton
ords. were lower at 40s. well worth
attention. Another attractive stock was
Castlemaine Perkins at 19s. 6d., and
Adelaide Steam at 295. had merit. Fol-
lowing announcement of the projected
increase in plant capacity Associated
Pulp shares moved up to 305.; there
are big possibilities ahead of this con-
cern. Australasian Paper and Cumber-
land remained moderately strong.
* * * *
An investment in the Australian
cotton-spinning and -weaving industry
giving an immediate return of 5 p.c. is
offered in the case of Bradford Cotton
ords. at 40s. The present div. rate is
10 p.c., and though, because of the great
expansion that has occurred in the fac-
tories (reflected in capital), no immediate
increase can be expected, the future is
highly encouraging. Only a fraction of
the Australian demand for drills, denims,
dungarees, canvas and duck are at
present being made in this country, and
Bradford’s great expansion hasn’t been
ahead of requirements. The industry
generally has had the friendly support
of the Federal Government since war
broke out. Bradford is now turning out
good stuff in all departments, and its
new plant is being run in in the most
favorable trading and financial circum-
stances.
* * * *
Bond’s Industries shares have steadied
around 255. Accounts made up to
Dec. 31 should be along early in April.
Pitt-street gossip says they will be “more
than gratifying.” The shares have been
one of the market spectacles of this young
year. In two months they rose from
14s. 6d. to over 255. The cotton-goods
industry in Australia has been granted a
fine opportunity since war broke out, and
though Bond’s aren’t in the market for
all kinds of cotton goods—they make
towels, knitted goods, etc., rather than
drills, denims, canvas or duck—the co.
has benefited greatly in its restricted
sphere. There is only £112,806 of ord.
capital, compared with debentures total-
ling £512,000.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam shares sold at 295. last
week in Adelaide, yielding 4.5 p.c. on
a p.c. div. basis. The co.’s chief
passenger vessels, the Manoora and the
Manunda, have been taken over by the
Commonwealth; in its last term only the
Gulf passenger .vessels and part of the
cargo tonnage remained under its con-
trol. But the co. is being paid charter
rates by the Federal Government, under-
stood to be 9s. per ton per month at
the beginning, and the agreement with
regard to possible losses is replacement
value. As is only fair, Adelaide Steam
should not suffer any capital loss by these
arrangements, even though revenue may
be affected for the present. In the last
balance sheet the fleet, plus tugs, hulks,
lighters, wharves, plant, fittings, etc.,
appeared at £1,393,658. This figure is
less than the present replacement cost
of the co.’s passenger vessels alone, and,
though war-time values in this connec-
tion may be largely illusive (the ships
cannot be sold outside the Empire, for
instance), the cost of the passenger fleet
when launched in peace-time would
come very close to the present value
of the entire fleet, plus trimmings. The
co. in addition has large investments
outside the shipping business, including
over half-a-million shares in J. and A.
Brown-Abermain-Seaham, which is doing
much better than it used to. Adelaide
Steam scrip should attract those people
who are satisfied for the present with
a 4\ p.c. return and who see their idle
bank balance losing value with every lift
in living costs.
* * * *
Melbourne Steam, which has main-
tained its ord. interim at 7 p.c. p.a.,
reports that during the earlier part of
the half-year earnings of the ships were
fairly satisfactory, but during November
and December dislocation of sailing pro-
grammes became serious owing to “in-
creasing difficulties inseparable from war
conditions.” The time occupied on
voyages was prolonged, and some voyages
were cut out. Installation of paravanes and
degaussing devices has led to lengthened
stays in port. Wages to members of
crews have been increased by awards ;
costs of stores and materials have also
risen. All these factors are making it
difficult for vessels under existing con-
ditions to give a reasonable return on
the capital invested, the chairman stated
at the half-yearly meeting. Other trading
departments of the co.’s business and the
Hobson’s Bay Dock and Engineering
Co. were kept busy. At 265. the co.’s
ords. yield 5.4 p.c. and look good for
holding purposes.
* * * *
Shares in Cox Bros. (Aust.) crashed
heavily during the past four years. The
ss. ords. were up to 235. 6d. in 1937 ;
they sold as low as par (55.) in 1940.
Recently they have been selling at 7s. 3d.
Capital expansion accounts for some of
the decline in the scrip ; earnings haven’t
been able to keep in step. The div. in
1940 dropped to 12£ p.c., from 15 p.c.
The board recently announced that the
half-year ended January 31 was satis-
factory. Sales and trading profit were
in excess of the corresponding period of
the previous year, but a greater sum was
needed for taxation. The ord. interim
was 10 p.c. p.a. The co. has a chain of
43 clothing, drapery and furniture stores
in all States except Queensland. Chief
branches are in Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston and New-
castle ; they feed the smaller State
branches. A large t.-p. business is done.
That is one of the market’s reasons for
buying the scrip with more caution than
it used to. It has to be remembered,
however, that all chain-store scrip has
tumbled in price over the past few years.
* * * *
Felt and Textiles has maintained its
interim div. on ord. shares at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a., payable on April 1. Aggregate
turnover of the co. and its subsidiaries
shows “a satisfactory increase, and profits
have been well maintained.” At 38s. 6d.
the ords. yield 5.2 p.c.
* * * *
Deposits held by the Australian trading
banks reached a record of £362,500,000
in January. In contrast, advances to
industry have declined over 12 months.
Ratio of advances to deposits in January
was 77 p.c., compared with 82.8 p.c. a
year earlier. The banks are financing
the war effort (through the Treasury)
to a greater extent than formerly.
Australian savings-bank deposits on
Jan. 31, 1941, were £245,748,000, com-
pared with £244,836,000 a year earlier.
A bigger growth might have been ex-
pected, in view of the spread of em-
ployment among lower-income-earners.
Apparently war savings certificates and
smaller war-loan bonds are drawing-off
savings to a noticeable extent.


INGENIOUS NEW AUTO INVENTION
SAVES PETROL
EXTRAORDINARY MILEAGES
REPORTED BY USERS—UP TO 32
MILES PER GALLON with FORD V 8
1000 AUXILIARY VALVES
TO BE GIVEN FREE!
m
ii
mm
mm
m
m
sM
\
■■
m
j,
mm
!Si»
m
mm
mm
m
mm
m
m.
m
9 &
Startling facts about potential
petrol power have now, after years
of study and experimentation,
taken real form through the de-
velopment of a new petrol-saving
invention already installed on many
cars.
There is enough power in a gallon
of ordinary petrol, if converted 1 00
per cent, in mechanical energy, to
run a six-cylinder car FIFTY
MILES! This new invention, known
as the AUSCO VAPORISER, has
accomplished wonders in utilising a
big proportion of this waste energy,
and is producing results that seem
unbelievable.
The AUSCO is so simple that any-
one can attach it in three or four
minutes. Fits any car. No tapping
or drilling. When installed it works
automatically, with no thought or
effort on your part.
HOW
THIS INVENTION
OPERATES
The three principles of vaporisation
—of compression and expansion,
turbulence and air mixing have
been combined in the AUSCO
VAPORISER. Anyone who has
seen a whirlwind with its spiral,
twisting action—shattering all mat-
ter within its reach—will quickly
grasp the principle used in the
AUSCO.
When the imperfect mixture of
petrol and air leaves the carburet-
tor on the way to the combustion
chambers, the AUSCO converts it
into an unusually fine gaseous
mixture of great explosive power.
This thoroughly mixed dry gas
SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASES
MILEAGE, speed, acceleration and
power, prevents hard carbon for-
mation and REDUCES ENGINE
WEAR.
RESULTS
GUARANTEED
The AUSCO VAPORISER is not
an untried device foisted on the
public, but represents a real en-
deavor to meet the insistent de-
mand for lower running and fuel
costs, and, furthermore, it is of
Australian design and manufacture
throughout. It not only economises
in petrol, but, through proper and
complete vaporisation of the petrol,
prevents mechanical troubles due
to crankcase dilution of lubricating
oil.
So confident are we that the
AUSCO will reduce YOUR fuel
and running costs that we are pre-
pared to send you one for .30
DAYS’ TRIAL AT OUR RISK.
This will prove to you beyond a
shadow of doubt that the AUSCO
is a real petrol saver. Use the
AUSCO for 30 days under ordinary
everyday running conditions and,
if you are not satisfied with the
substantial saving effected, return
it and your money will be promptly
refunded IN FULL,
AUXILIARY
VALVE OFFER
To obtain MAXIMUM mileage
after installing an AUSCO it is
necessary to make the mixture
leaner. For this purpose we are
prepared to supply you with an
Auxiliary Air Valve—one thousand
of which have been set aside for
FREE DISTRIBUTION.
This invention operates on the
SUPERCHARGER principle by
automatically adding a charge of
extra oxygen drawn free from the
outer air into the heart of the gas
mixture. It allows the engine to
“breathe’’ at the correct time. No
idling troubles—no springs or car-
burettor adjustments necessary. It
is so simple it will amaze you—so
practical that, used in conjunction
with the AUSCO, it will save you
many EXTRA pounds in fuel and
running costs.
Accept our offer to-day by tearing
out coupon, completing and remit-
ting 8/9 in full payment, and we
shall include free of charge one of
the Auxiliary Air Valves described,
to give you even greater mileage
and smoother running.
USERS’
REPORTS
The following are typical of
many reports in the files of
the Auto Specialties Com-
pany, testifying to mileage
increased and extra power
gained as a result of fitting
the AUSCO VAPORISER.
Above diagram shows an AUSCO
VAPORISER fitted between the carburet-
tor and the intake manifold. Note the
unvaporised petrol globules leaving the
high-speed jet and passing through car-
burettor throttle.
The helical vanes of the AUSCO VAPOR-
ISER catch all of these globules on their
surface. A multiplicity of opposing cur-
rents is set up by the twisted vanes of the
vaporiser and the rushing air s-t-r-e-t-c-h-e-s
these out into perfect dry gas.
Top section of diagram representing the
intake manifold depicts perfectly mixed,
highly explosive power-making vapour, due
to the turbulence created by the AUSCO
VAPORISER.
12 MORE MILES PER GALLON WITH CHRYSLER.
Pleased to report as a result of fitting an Ausco Vaporiser to my 1929
Chrysler I am obtaining 1 2 more miles to the gallon, with easier starting,
quicker acceleration and more power on hills.”
George Lawson, Hurstville, N.S.W.
SINGER MILEAGE INCREASED BY 8 MILES PER GALLON.
I have increased the mileage of my Singer car from 22 m.p.g. to 30 m.p.g.
Can you beat it?”
C. Churcher, 45 Burgess Street, Kogarah, N.S.W.
MORRIS OXFORD—IO MORE MILES TO THE GALLON.
Since installing an Ausco Vaporiser on his Morris Oxford Mr. H. Lyon,
of 58 Macquarie Street, Parramatta, N.S.W., has increased his mileage by
1 0 miles to the gallon.”
FORD VB—MILEAGE INCREASED FROM 22 TO 32 M.P.G.
Since installing an Ausco Vaporiser I have increased my mileage from
22 to 32 m.p.g. with my Ford VB, on the same run. I am writing this not
for any gain, as I am quite a stranger to you, but with the wish that some-
one else may benefit from your wonderful device. Wishing you every
success.”
S. Merrick, 6 Nottingham Street, Prahran, Vic.
POST THIS FORM TODAY!
AUTO SPECIALTIES COMPANY (Regd.),
(Box 4242 XX), 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
I accept your offer. Send me one of your AUSCO PETROL
SAVERS. I enclose 8/9 IN FULL PAYMENT, which is to be
refunded to me on request if I am not satisfied with the saving
effected after using for 30 days. Be sure to include one of the
Auxiliary Air Valves promised—FßEE.
NAME
ADDRESS
Yearly model
Name of car
B. 123.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. - BRITISH PARTNERSHIP.
[Condensed from a February “Reader’s Digest”
article by William Hard, “veteran political correspon-
dent and commentator,” who, states the “Digest,”
“toured Europe almost annually between 1917 and 1930,
reporting on political and economic conditions. A pro-
found student of history and politics,” Mr. Hard advo-
cates all-out United States co-operation with Britain
on definite stipulated conditions.]
Our [U.S.] world policy pivots, and must pivot,
on our policy towards Britain. Our present policy
toward Britain is ignominious. It needs drastic
revision.
We overwhelmingly say that Britain is “the rim
of our freedom” and “the first line of our defence.”
We thereupon say that we must and will “help”
Britain. Very well. Let us then go on from helping
Britain feebly to helping Britain effectively.
But let us ask: What will Britain do with vic-
tory? What political and territorial arrangements,
conducive to peace or provocative of new wars, will
she make in western Europe, in Africa, in eastern
and southern Asia? What commercial arrangements,
what monetary arrangements, will she proceed to
establish on her trade routes, old and new, all around
the globe? Will her world commitments and her
world activities, this time, be any more productive of
peace for the world and of peace for us than they
were last time ? Will her trade empire, which in-
cludes many regions besides her Dominions and her
colonies and possessions, be operated to our benefit
or to our hurt? Have we any binding understanding
with Britain on these points?
The answer is: None at all. The victory will have
been won with our resources, but it will be a British
victory. We shall have been stokers and oilers in the
boiler room of the British ship of State, with a British
captain sailing the ship to a purely British destination.
Shall Britain, our “rim of freedom” and our
“first defence,” both fight the war and dictate the
peace? Besides being parasites on British valor, shall
we also be satellites to British world politics?
The U.S.A. lies between the unquenchable pas-
sions of western Europe and the reawakening activi-
ties and ambitions of eastern Asia. Its internal
strength is stupendous. But it is situated to be
the prey of a European blade and an Asiatic blade
of a world scissors.
In these circumstances we ought not to be asking
ourselves simply: “What can we do to help Britain?”
We ought to be asking ourselves also —and primarily:
“What can Britain do to help us?” As soon as we
pose the problem in that way, we can begin to act
with some realistic commonsense —perhaps even with
a little audacity.
The fact is that Britain and the British Dominions
and the British colonies and possessions can help us
enormously on our Atlantic front and on our Pacific
front and on our total world front; and we ought
to bind Britain to do it. We ought to bind ourselves
to help Britain adequately to destroy the Hitlerism
which has dared to say that its next victim will be the
United States of America ; and we ought to bind
Britain to make a peace which will produce in the
world an invincible American-British zone of world
safety.
It can be done. I will suggest the four necessary
points in the bargain.
One : We have a long commitment to the south
of us. Under the Declaration of Lima of 1938 we
have associated ourselves with all the other American
republics in undertaking to maintain the “peace” and
the “security” and the “territorial integrity” of all
the signatories “against all foreign intervention or
activity that may threaten them.” We should there-
fore say: Britain shall associate itself to the Declara-
tion of Lima. It shall undertake the same obligation
that we have undertaken to help protect Latin America
against European aggression. Britain should undertake
to see to it that no ports whatsoever on the west coast
of Africa shall be used as take-offs for attacks on
Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina. Latin America would
then be truly secure.
Two: We have a long commitment in the Pacific.
A free and independent China is a benefit to the
Oriental peace which is advantageous to us. Con-
sequently an aggressive Japan is a danger to us. Let
Britain then bind herself to cease from blowing hot
and blowing lukewarm and blowing cold on the sub-
ject of Japan and China. Britain shall once for all
agree, wholly and irrevocably, to the proposition that
if German totalitarianism in Europe deserves un-
flinching hostility from Washington, then Japanese
totalitarianism in Asia deserves unflinching hostility
from London.
Three: Britain and the British Dominions and
the British colonies and possessions and the United
States shall strive to co-operate toward fairer and
fuller trade in the world. That is for two ends. The
first end is the gradual removal of one of the main
aggravations of belligerency on this planet; namely,
trade discriminations by countries having colonial em-
pires against countries not having colonial empires.
Britain shall engage to follow hereafter the policy
laid down by the National Executive of the British
Labor party:
The redistribution of colonial territories between
rival imperialisms is no solution. What is needed is a
finish to all imperialistic exploitation. There must be
equal opportunity of access for all peaceful peoples to
markets and raw materials in colonial territories.
The second end sought is a concerted American-
British economic self-defence. If at any time after
the conclusion of this war there should be a totali-
tarian continental Europe, trying to use its aggre-
gated economic power as a bartering bargaining
agency to break down the economic strength of out-
side countries, then the only answer will be the com-
bined economic strengths of all the regions and all
the resources over which the Stars and Stripes and
the Union Jack fly. Trade boards (1) among the
British countries and (2) between the British countries
and the United States, to explore and develop that
concert of American-British economic diplomacy,
should be set to work at once. The bargaining power
of a joint American-British trading area would make
the bargaining power of the totalised whole of the
European Continent look sick —sick unto death.
Four: From 1919 to 1933 Britain failed to give
democratic Germany the support that would have en-
abled it to remain a democracy. From 1933 onward
Britain failed to give Hitler’s Germany the prompt
and easy repressions that would have prevented it
from rearming itself into a military menace. Britain
has proved herself to be as incapable of operating
the European Continent as we are ourselves.
When Hitlerism (with our help) has been made
to bite the dust, and when the non-German nations of
Europe have had a full opportunity to unite them-
selves to resist any revival of German aggression,
Britain shall cease to have any political or military
or territorial commitments on the European Con-
tinent. United, the non-German nations on the
European Continent can hold Germany in check. If
they decline to unite, they should be left to the con-
sequences of their own preferences.
We Americans have had enough and more than
enough of the European Continent: we have had
more than enough of British entanglements on the
European Continent. Britain needs nothing from the
European Continent if it has the friendship, confident
—New York “PM.”
"Keep going, we’re still with you!”
and continuous, of the Americas. It can never have
it in full, and it ought never to have it in full, until it
shakes itself loose from the Old World and knows its
future to be that of an impregnable bastion of the
New World. Britain should know it and say it and
act it.
So let us suppose that all these four points are
fulfilled. Then what?
Then, under such conditions, the struggle that
Britain is now waging, with a heroism to which any
tribute is almost an insult, a heroism so high that it is
laughter for the participants and tears for the be-
holders, becomes our struggle, too. We then have a
stake in it, a valid, practical, ascertainable, measur-
able American stake.
Our present help to Britain is half-hearted and
half-witted. We have not seen and stated our stake.
That is why we have been helping under wraps. I
say: Let us state our stake to Britain ; let us bind
Britain to it; and then let us throw off the wraps and
go all out for Britain with all we have.
English Quality: U.S. Tribute.
[This striking tribute, from the leader page of the
“Saturday Evening Post,” 8/2/’4l, is all the more remark-
able coming from such a solidly isolationist quarter.]
Bravery, fortitude, heroism until it is common-
place, you would expect. These may be the quali-
ties of any great people, latent in the everyday, a
kind of moral reserve, there to answer the call of
the ancestors when the trial comes and the spirit takes
over. That the English people possess them is not
remarkable. The world would have taken it for
granted.
But there is, moreover, a quality of being English
that belongs only to this race, and it is relevant as
a curious fact that there is no word in their language
or any other to express it. There is a glimpse of it in
the bride going forth in her veils from a bomb-
wrecked house; in the variation of “business as
usual” with “more open than usual” where a bomb
had taken away the entire shop front; in the cry of a
Cockney voice to the Prime Minister, who is looking
at a ruined street, “Give it back to them, Winnie.
We can take it.”
Yet, even in such gallantries as these, the manner
is more important than the fact. Indeed, high civilian
morale under bombing from the sky has been an
astonishing revelation. The Spaniards could take it.
So could the Chinese. But the bishop writing a solemn
letter to the London “Times” to complain that the
sound of the air-raid sirens was wrong, because the
effect was to depress the spirit instead of making it
defiant, was English. So, too, was the golf club post-
ing the rules that the position of delayed-action bombs
would be marked by red flags at a reasonably safe dis-
tance and that a ball removed by enemy action might
be replaced without penalty, taking it with or without
the sense of humor called British. And the royal
Christmas card, bearing a photograph of the King
and Queen looking at the damage Hitler had done to
Buckingham Palace, was a gesture of subtle derision
fit for the book of immortal legends.
No singular English characteristic is more inten-
sified by crisis than the habit of understatement. If
this were but a foible or a superior mannerism it would
fail in the desperate circumstance. So it is more
than that. It is more than the conscious attitude of a
people toward life, regarding it as their selfish pos-
session. To life in the noble abstract they acknow-
ledge an obligation to take it well and to keep its
values true. Their theme is bigger than themselves.
They probably could not state it if they would, or if
they did they would understate it and reduce it to a
monosyllable.
The brilliant Spaniard, Salvador de Madariaga,
thinking of the Englishman, says of him: “Complex
in all his functions, thinking with his instincts, acting
with his mind, he naturally attains the supreme virtue
of the man of action —wisdom.”
It is nevertheless a contradiction in this man of
action that in his great moments with fate he can
stand outside of himself as the spectator of his own
drama. He sees himself as a player on the stage of
the reeling world, and sees himself not as in a mirror,
but directly, having in this the part of prompter, to
mark that he shall do it reasonably well. In this role
he comprehends everything but death. He may be
extinguished, yet though he “be dropped into the
rotten mouth of death” he does not die. He does not
die because he is England, and because he is England
it is England that cannot die.
War Stocktaking.
[How the war looks from Britain today, with spring
of 1941 in the offing and the storm gathering ready to
break at any moment, as summed up for New York
“PM” by the European news manager and a war corre-
spondent of United Press.]
Here is the score of the war to date as we have
seen it written in the bombs and broken buildings of
London, in the sooty winter skies and the lonely
heather of the invasion posts that ring the British
Isles:
German bombs: Can’t win the war for Hitler
unless dropped on a scale surpassing anything seen
so far.
Submarines and surface raiders: Today’s biggest
threat to Britain. Must be beaten if Britain is to be
fed and fight on more than a subsistence and defen-
sive level. Britain needs destroyers and light naval
craft more than ’planes, considerably more.
Night raids: A headache to both Germany and
Britain. Neither side has the defensive answer.
Air power: Britain’s air power is on the up-grade.
New, heavier bombers are expected to carry the war
back to Germany this year so that it really will be
felt. New fighters will make it harder than ever for
the Luftwaffe to visit Britain by daylight. Neither
side has an effective night fighter yet.
British defences: The British Isles bristle with
guns, forts, secret defence weapons, traps, mobile
defenders. The High Command is confident that an
invasion force would take a severe mauling. No
Briton believes an invasion could succeed today. That
wasn’t true last July, when Britain was wide open to
Hitler —literally. It didn’t have guns. It didn’t have
trained men or defence machines. Last July was
when Germany really “missed the bus” for a relatively
easy invasion.
British land offensives: It’s hard to see how the
British Army, even with its new millions of trained
men, could beat Germany’s crack divisions on the
Continent unless an invasion failure broke the Nazi
machine beyond repair.
Industrial production : Not disastrously reduced.
Cost: Britishers pay income tax at the basic rate
of A2\ p.c. The loss in property destruction is ter-
rific —so terrific that nobody even attempts to add up
the bill.
Morale: The London pubs have a favorite story.
It’s about a soldier home on leave. He said he was
tired of the army. A friend asked him why he didn’t
get out. “I’ve tried three times,” the soldier replied,
“but I couldn’t pass the physical exam.” That story
tells all there is to tell so far about civilian morale.
Losses: We feel that British communiques are
pretty accurate.
British bombing: It’s more accurate than German
bombing. We can say flatly that German bombing
isn’t accurate except on a target many blocks square
like a city business district. There are legitimate mili-
tary targets in and around London. Bombs have
landed all around the targets, but the objectives still
keep functioning.
Fires: After some bitter lessons the British are
getting the answer to the fire bomb menace. New
defence measures, including watches on the rooftops,


should prevent recurrence of such conflagrations as
the great fire in London’s “city” (financial district).
Labor: There’s still unemployment and there is
some clashing of gears in shifting of workers into
industries and factories where they are needed. British
industry isn’t purring like an eight-cylinder sports
roadster, but beside the pre-September, 1939, high-
wheel model, it’s whizzing at a fast pace.
In Occupied France.
[Condensed extracts from articles in New York
“Herald Tribune,” which mentions that the writer is a
citizen of occupied France, and “vouches for his
responsibility.”]
The Germans know that what is dinned into
people’s ears and spread before their eyes, hour
after hour, day after day, is bound to leave an im-
print. When the one side of a story is repeatedly pre-
sented, it takes a stout intellect to compose a for-
mula which will successfully contradict it. I find
myself shocked to discover the extent to which many
of my intimates and relatives have been converted to
Hitlerian dogma.
* * * * *
It is useless to deny that a large number of the
French viewed the assumption of power by Germany
with considerable relief. Profound as was their grief
at the nation’s collapse, they were nevertheless glad
to be rid of a Parliament and a Cabinet which had
forfeited respect. For a decade the French voter has
been blundering about, endeavoring to revamp a
system of government which no longer represented the
people. At every point the Parliamentarians check-
mated the exasperated citizen. People were restive,
disgusted, more and more determined to clean the
vermin out.
* * ♦
Disillusioned citizens watched the invaders take
over the prefectures, humiliated by their hope that
now, at least, they would be governed by soldiers
and not by the intrigues of jealous mistresses. The
fist was mailed, but at least it would guarantee public
order and it did not belong to a slacker or to a
grafter. Building upon this existing French antipathy
toward the administrators of its late republic, anti-
British propaganda has hammered away upon the
alleged fact that a British victory will mean the
triumphant return of the Mandels, the Reynauds, the
La Chambres and the whole venal crew who con-
ducted the nation to the abyss.
The politic of co-operation, however, has not, to
date, been a success. Today 90 p.c. of the people of
occupied France are feverishly partisan to Great
Britain.
* * * * *
In city and village alike, the same blanket of
foreboding weighs upon people’s hearts. It is the un-
explained retention of two million men in German
prisons. Not a family but has its father, husband,
son or other kin beyond the Rhine. Not a parent but
begins and ends the day with thoughts of the absent
and hopeful planning for his repatriation. During the
autumn the French prisoners have gradually been
transferred from France into Germany. The country-
side is manless. What folly, then, to speculate upon
any decisive national movement on the part of France,
or upon any course other than abject capitulation, so
long as its manhood, disarmed and enfeebled, is held
as hostage within the enemy country. The physical
control of these Frenchmen by Germany will be an
unanswerable trading point in any negotiation.
* * * * *
Press and radio in occupied France nearly leave
their senses at any intimation that America may
throw her full resources to the side of Britain. German
voices on the air and German-inspired articles in
French journals assume a tone of airy incredulity. In
fact, they might be dealing with some bedtime tale ip
the nursery. But no one is deceived. The entry of
full American aid into this war is the supreme night-
mare. The French fear it because it will inflict a
painfully extended period of stagnation and near-
starvation. The German people fear it because it will
assure the eventual loss of the struggle, revolution in
their homeland, and a flare-up in every country upon
which Germany has planted her boot. A terrible
feature of this war, and the Germans already foresee
it, is that it has sown the seed for a dozen future
revolts.
Plan for the Eire Bases.
[Views on both sides of the question of Eire’s
neutrality, expressed by G. B. Shaw and other Irishmen,
have already been given in “Uncabled Additions” (B.
12/2/’4l). One method of solving the real problem
—getting consent to the use of the naval bases—is
advanced by Jim Phelan in the article here condensed
from London “Fortnightly.”]
After June, 1917, the submarine menace was
mastered, mainly by control of the Atlantic from
Lough Swilly and Cobh. * At present this control is even
more essential, since enemy submarines are obviously
operating from French ports.
An attempt to use force in the acquisition of the
harbors, as suggested in at least two journals, would
be best—from De Valera’s point of view. The recal-
citrant middleen, the 1.R.A., the uncertain peasantry,
would all be lined up behind him, at last, in a little
sideline war for “justice.” But no attempt to lease
the bases, or to traffic openly for them as against the
dissolution of the Ulster “border,” can possibly suc-
ceed. De Valera would probably give both his hands
for a treaty abolishing the “border.” He would not
dare to sign it if it included “bringing back the Eng-
lish.” Political death for himself and civil war for
his country would be the only immediate results of
such a bargain. Wherefore he reiterates his negative.
Since those bases must be used against the sub-
marines unless the British propose to stand supine and
see their merchant shipping destroyed, it might appear
that the hotheads and the politically-illiterate should
have their way after all. Fortunately, for Eire and
Britain, there are other ways.
The first needs only academic mention, although
every Irishman knows it would succeed at once. If
the British Government, without a treaty, without
any buying or selling, with no guarantee or quid pro
quo of any kind, were to abandon the partition of
Ireland, there would be no further talk of neutrality
and no need to buy bases in Eire. But we live in an
age of treaties and bargains and Levantine hagglings.
Even if the treaties are misinterpreted or the bargains
and promises forgotten, we still go through the
motions of making all safe and businesslike, on paper.
Hence, no one is likely to try that way of dealing with
the submarine menace in the Atlantic.
The alternative method is equally certain but not
so speedy. It is often forgotten that there are five
times as many Irish in America as in Eire. It is
generally unknown that they are extremely well organ-
ised. British readers seldom realise that the Ameri-
can Irish do genuinely wield a tremendous influence
in the “old country”—even if neither they nor their
fathers nor grandfathers have ever seen it. The ties
between the two groups of Irish are legion. De
Valera’s protest against the British request for the
bases went to America, to the chief Irish organisation.
His electorate is really twenty millions—and fifteen
of those millions want the Atlantic “kept clean” today.
The position was not always so fortunate for the
British. For 97 years the American Irish have been
anti-British by tradition. Now they are anti-Nazi in
practice. It would be folly not to use such an enor-
mous lever, especially since there is no need to put
any pressure on it. De Valera knows. That is why
his protests went to an Irish-American organisation
instead of to the Governments of the Eastern Hemi-
sphere.
It has been said that the bonds between the “two
Irish nations” are numerous. One of the strongest
—Milwaukee “Journal,” U.S.A.
BERLIN SAYS EVERYTHING IS QUIET AGAIN
IN RUMANIA.
concerns the very bases under discussion. Parts of
Lough Swilly, Cobh Harbor, Berehaven and Black-
sod Bay were the American bases in the anti-submarine
campaign at- the end of the last war. Thousands of
Irish “came home,” in the American ships and sub-
marine chasers, to Buncrana and the coast of Cork.
They really did a tremendous job, which has been
but scantily recorded. Above all, they built a reck-
less, carefree, swashbuckling tradition, in and around
those bases, that the “boys” had come home to keep
the herring-pond clean. It holds good today.
The present United States Government has almost
a survival-interest in Buncrana and Cobh and the
other gates of the Atlantic. Already there has been
a giving and swapping, in ships and bases, until
nothing is certain except that both British and Ameri-
cans are feverishly intent on making the Atlantic safe.
Behind those decisions of Roosevelt and his circle
press the millions of the Democratic party. Quite the
largest fraction is that made up of the Irish. It
would almost be true to say that in many districts
the Irish are the Democratic party. And for the first
time in close on a century they are on the same side
as the British.
The whole question of the bases can be settled
between the Governments of Eire and the United
States without delay. The Irish in Eire are not afraid
of Nazism, in the main. The Irish in America are.
There are plenty of the latter in the United States
Government. They, with the Irish-American organi-
sations behind them, can show sufficient cause for
keeping submarines out of the North Atlantic. The
indifference will disappear, after or even before the
first talk —if only the settlement is left entirely to the
Americans.
The bases will be leased to the United States,
without haggling or quibble. De Valera will not set
up any obstacles. Because his Parliamentary majority
really exists in the United States. And no one knows
it better than De Valera.
Uprooted Peoples.
{Condensed from a New York “Times” article.)
The tragedy of flight from home or country, or
both, has already struck more than 5,000,000 men,
women and children who are now living in makeshift
homes, in internment camps or in exile. There has
been no such army of misery since the migration of
peoples in the Dark Ages.
Before the war persecution had driven 400,000
from Greater Germany; civil war had sent 500,000
Spaniards flocking to France for refuge; millions
upon millions of Chinese civilians had been driven
from their homes. With the coming of war in Europe
all previous depths of suffering were exceeded. The
fury of the German attack on Poland sent at least
200,000 Poles fleeing for safety into the Balkans. The
peace treaty between Russia and Finland sent 120,000
Finns hurrying from the ceded districts to escape
Soviet rule.
Panic-stricken refugees crowded into Southern
France in such numbers that at least 2,500,000 are
still there, unable to return to their former homes,
unable to find new homes or employment where they
are. When Russia moved into Bessarabia thousands
more fled into Rumania as if they were fleeing a
plague, and the process will be resumed as the war
spreads further into the Near East.
Flight from war is part of the price wars have
exacted since the dawn of history. Now mass depor-
tations have become an instrument of deliberate
policy. The forced transplanting of whole popula-
tions has been ordered as cold-bloodedly as if men and
women and children were mere cattle. The deporta-
tions up to the present, which have covered so much
of Europe with heartache and misery, are but a fore-
taste of what can be expected if the Axis has its way.
* * * *
War’s Uncounted Casualties
{From a New York “Times” article by Anne O’Hare
McCormick.)
The toll of dead and wounded in this conflict
does not appear in casualty lists. Actually the casual-
ties of this war are beyond computation. We shall never
know how many people died of panic, exhaustion and
grief in the flight before the German Army that
emptied towns and villages from the Belgian border
to the Pyrenees. We shall never know how many
prisoners, military and civil, perish every day among
the millions starving and freezing in internment camps.
There is no count of the suicides, the executions, the
lost, the separated families, the people uprooted from
their homes and dumped elsewhere.
One shudders to think of how many in Eng-
land have been blasted from their dwellings,
but among their own people their fate is not so hope-
less as that of the legions driven from one country
after another by bombardment, invasion and terror.
There is no casualty list for these war victims.
Add to the war toll warped bodies and warped
minds, the abnormal consequences of the abnormal
conditions in which the population of Europe is living.
The strain of air raids, blackouts, fear, hunger and
hate won’t kill all its victims, but it may cause neuroses
working in ways we cannot foresee.
Dilemma in China.
{From a New York “Times” article by Nathaniel Peffer.)
If the Russians and Japanese should come to an
agreement and Russian help to China be suspended a
serious blow would be dealt to China in two ways.
First, one source of supplies would be shut off.
Secondly, the position of the Chinese Communists
thereafter would be doubtful; they might continue
fighting against Japan as Chinese, or they might follow
orders from Moscow and open the north-west to
Japan.
That the China-Japan war is to Russia’s interest
in much the same way as the Anglo-German war is
obvious. Exhaustion of all possible opponents is an
asset in Asia as in Europe. Japan is being worn down
by the Chinese, and thus one potential menace to
Russia is diminished. China, too, is being exhausted,
whether she emerges victorious or not. And in pro-
portion as her survival can be made dependent on
support from Moscow, and more particularly on the
efforts of the Chinese Communist armies, Russia’s
position in China is advanced.
If Japan’s defeat should leave the Chinese Com-
munist armies in possession of large and rich areas
of China and the Chinese Communists should remain
amenable to Moscow’s instructions, then Russia
would have won a costless victory, a victory that
would make her supreme in Asia.
This is what makes the dilemma for the Chinese
Government. It wants and needs continued provision
of supplies from Moscow, and it wants and needs
continued support from the Chinese Communist
armies. But it cannot pay so much for that support
that at the end of a successful war against Japan, not
the Chinese Government but the Chinese Communists
and perhaps Russia through them would wield con-
trol over the country.
Therefore, the Chunking Government has fol-
lowed the policy of giving the Communists enough
arms and money and opportunity to keep them fight-
ing effectively against Japan, but not enough to allow
them to establish themselves in a position they could
exploit later for their own or Russian ends. It has
not been a straightforward policy, and when the
Communists and their sympathisers accuse Chiang
Kai-shek of deviousness they are right. He has had
to be devious.
Neither party can be straightforward with the
other. They are united only in their desire to defeat
Japan. That unity can remain unshaken only as long
as Russia continues to desire Japan’s defeat. This is
to say, so long as Russia does not reverse herself in
Asia, as in Europe, and make a deal with Japan at
China’s expense.
Alternative War Endings.
{Extract from a London “Contemporary Review”
article by Ernest Albert.)
The possibilities and problems of a reconstruction
of Europe after the war will necessarily depend on
how the cessation of hostilities will come to pass, i.e.,
in what circumstances the Nazi regime will cease to
be able to continue the struggle and hold a great
part of the Continent in subjection. As far as one
may venture a prediction, there seem to be three
possible ways:
(1) The strain of the war, the effect of the
blockade, shortage of raw materials essential for the


IiUDOIIIICrS
m
for
GEARS
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES_
V BELT DRIVES
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST. STH. MELBOURNE
hjghj
Develop a single
line of thought
in tyres and
keep your money
in Australia....
AUSTHA II A A C lIAMPIOXS
prosecution of the war, and increasing unrest in the
occupied territories as well as in Germany itself,
where the population might at last become aware of
the futility of the sacrifices imposed on it, might lead
to open revolt against the Nazi tyranny and to civil
war. The almost inevitable result would be the
Bolshevisation of the country, as in the chaos ensuing
from interior disorders the Communists, almost cer-
tainly aided by military support from the Soviet
Union, would find it easy to hoist the emblem of
the hammer and sickle on the crumbling edifice once
erected by the worshippers of the swastika. A recon-
struction both of Germany and of the territory now
occupied by the Germans would be impossible in
such circumstances. A continental Soviet Europe
would emerge, and Britain would be confronted with
the problem of how she could best hold her own.
(2) Germany might be forced to capitulate and
seek peace before a civil war breaks out. The dis-
appearance of the Nazi regime would doubtless be the
preliminary condition for the opening of peace, or
even of armistice negotiations, as the Allies would
hardly be prepared to negotiate with Hitler. As the
Nazis are well aware of this, and as they have a pretty
good idea of what treatment they would have to expect
at the hands of their own suppressed people as soon
as they lost their unlimited power, it must be expected
that the present German regime will try to fight to
the bitter end. In the absence of a party, class or
organised opposition in Germany which could wrest
the power from the Nazis before they are defeated
militarily, an orderly cessation of hostilities, carried
out by a new German Government in which the Allies
could place their trust, appears to be impossible.
Hitler will never capitulate, nor can he be overthrown
from within. Thus there remains only one means
of creating conditions for a peace of reconstruction:
(3) The termination of the war by a military
offensive of the Allies resulting in the liberation of
the countries overrun by Germany and in the occupa-
tion of a considerable part of German territory. It
is obvious that while a successful offensive and advance
of the Allied armies were in progress things would
begin to stir in Germany, and the Nazi regime would
probably be driven out simultaneously by the armed
forces of the Allies and the rising German masses;
but, in order to forestall the eventuality of Russia
reaping the fruits of an Allied victory, it would be
absolutely necessary that the offensive should be
pressed home with sweeping speed and a very large
proportion of German territory occupied.
Dragnet Digest.
Jay Lovestone, former U.S. Communist head, in
an interview: “In France Stalin’s People’s Front so
corrupted the Labor unions that Hitler can thank
his ally for finding practically no resistance to the
Nazi invasion. Stalin probably is the most ruthless
man in the world, and his converts in the U.S.A. are
pathological cases, blind to reason, justice and in-
tegrity. Their part in the Labor movement is essen-
tially one of destruction.” — New York “Journal and
American.”
* * * ( * *
General Gamelin, although not at heart a Com-
munist, was in sympathy with Communism. Perhaps
this was the reason why he had closed his eyes to
what everybody blessed with a small degree of intel-
ligence had seen coming. And then, again, he lacked
authority. His character has been described as weak,
and sometimes brutal. He apparently completely
lacked the capability of making quick decisions
Today, Maxime Weygand, Foch’s most trusted col-
laborator, Petain’s most faithful supporter, does not
simply represent the French Government in distant
Africa ; he represents France itself, this France which
he is convinced will never die, can never die, as long
as he is alive to defend it. His attitude is magnificent,
and later his countrymen will appreciate it better than
they perhaps do at present. It compensates, as far as
compensation can be used in this particular case, the
mistakes of Gamelin, the attitude of Reynaud. Above
all else, Weygand is a Frenchman, and France for
him is the only thing that counts. — Princess Catherine
Radziwill, in New York “Journal and American.”
*****
Great Britain probably will obtain about 1,300,000
tons deadweight of merchant shipping in the United
States this year. These ships, in addition to the out-
put of British and Canadian shipyards, may be
enough to replace Britain’s losses in the war at sea
—Chicago “Daily News.”
JACK AND JILL.
until the facilities for mass production can be pro-
vided in the U.S.A., probably by 1942.— New York
“Wall-street Journal.”
*****
Some of Mussolini’s soldiers in Italy were born
under Fascism. All of them have been exposed to its
propaganda throughout their adult years. Yet despite
all that indoctrination —the speeches, the parades, the
bugle-blowing, the mass calisthenics —they seem ready
to abandon the fight at the first good chance. Obvi-
ously it is not because their nature is cowardly. Given
a reason to fight, Italian soldiers are as brave as sol-
diers come, and they have proved it. Mussolini’s
army in Africa fights badly because his soldiers reject
the idea that war as an end is good in itself. They
have little interest in the goal the Axis sets before
them. It may be, too, that Fascism has taught them
to be expedient first and idealistic only when expedi-
ency allows it. The practical course for an Italian
soldier with no relish for being shot, tired and thirsty
is to surrender. In any case Mussolini’s long experi-
ment in conditioning the mind of his nation is a failure.
Out of the Italian laboratory, quite by accident,
comes proof of an old democratic axiom. An idea
needs more than loud reiteration for acceptance ; it
must also be right. And, if right, it gains currency
though expressed exclusively in whispers. — New York
“Post.”
* * * * *
In 1938 there were 291 homicides in New York
—and only 116 convictions. In 1939 there were 272
homicides —and only 92 convictions. That’s why
murders continue in New York. England—not Lon-
don alone, but all England—-had what they thought
was a crime wave in 1928. There were 11 murders
in all England, with a population of 40,000,000 and a
dozen big industrial cities, just 11 murders. And
what happened to those 11 cases? Two murderers
committed suicide. Nine were hanged. And that’s
why murders are rare in England.— New York “Daily
Mirror”
*****
The world was electrified by the valiant resistance
of the small Finnish nation to the brutal aggression of
the Soviet. For three months the Finns stood off an
enemy 40 times as strong as they were. The world
cheered, but it did little else. The Finns eventually
capitulated, yielding to Russia the valuable strategic
bases and agricultural land it coveted. The loss of
the agricultural areas, whose population to the extent
of 450,000 persons has given up its land and sought
refuge in the mother country, together with the
immense material destruction and financial strain of
the war, the partial failure of crops in 1940 through
drought and the practical impossibility of importing
food from neighboring countries, has brought Finland
to the verge of famine. We are assured by the Fin-
nish Minister in Washington that existing food re-
serves will not last more than three or four months
and that unless help arrives in time the Finns will be
reduced to eating the bark of trees. — New York “Sun”
*****
The people of the United States have set their
President a tremendous task. They have asked him to
provide aid to Britain on a scale which will enable
that country to overcome the terrific odds against it,
and they have asked that this end shall be accom-
plished without U.S. physical involvement in the war.
That is an assignment of an unprecedented nature. —
“Nation,” U.S.A.
*****
During 1940, almost 50 p.c. of Greek exports went
to Germany, including valuable foodstuffs, tobacco
and naval stores, commodities that Germany found it
quite difficult to obtain elsewhere. — New York
“Journal of Commerce.”
* * * * *
U.S. tobacco-growers, who sold $111,315,000
worth of leaf tobacco to England in 1938, exported
scarcely any to that market in 1940. — New York
“Times.”
* * * * *
One of the underlying causes of the present
conflict in Europe was the near-sighted effort to collect
many billions of dollars of reparations and war debts
after the World War. If the United States had been
willing to import billions of dollars of additional
goods annually during this period it might have been
possible to solve the huge transfer problem involved.
The United States raised tariff barriers higher than
ever, and an international financial crisis and depres-
sion followed which made for unrest and friction
between nations. The war debts and reparations
problem arose from the unwillingness of the United
States to receive payment in goods more than from
any unwillingness to pay on the part of the debtors,
reluctant as the latter may have been at times. — New
York “Journal of Commerce.”


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Bookmakers were saved a pay-out of
over £50,000 in doubles with the New-
market winner All Veil when Saul, start-
ing at 10 to 1, outstayed the 7-to-4
favorite, Apostrophe, in the Australian
Cup on Saturday. Numerous All Veil-
Saul doubles were laid, but in the aggre-
gate they did not approach the amount
laid against the All Veil-Apostrophe
combination.
Circumstances combined to defeat
Apostrophe. He was made to carry his
9.4 all the way by the lightly-weighted
Sir Rona, who set up a lead of 20
lengths at the end of the first three fur-
longs, and then was left in front when
Sir Rona collapsed about two furlongs
from home. Even at that stage he
momentarily appeared certain to win, but
Saul, who had followed him throughout,
had the last run with 161 b. less on his
back, and beat him by a length and a
half. The task faced by Apostrophe is
best reflected in the fact that Saul’s time
for the 2\ miles, 3.50 j, has been bet-
tered only once in the history of the race.
That was when Marauder recorded 3.47-j
three years ago.
Apostrophe was third-last of a strung-
out field 10 furlongs from home, and
critics blamed Creighton for moving him
up so sharply from the half-mile that he
was on Sir Rona’s girth rounding the
turn. As Creighton explained later,
however, he considered haste necessary
when he saw Sir Rona, who had been
given a breather, shoot away again near
the half-mile. He did not expect the
leader to stop as quickly as he did, but
stated that his mount was going so well
that he did not worry when he was left
in front so far from home. “His weight
beat him” is Creighton’s summing-up,
and, considering the manner in which
the race was run, most keen judges agree
with him.
Saul, a graduate from picnic meetings,
and winner of a Wagga (N.S.W.) Cup
before he was sent to Melbourne to be
trained by Duncan Mcßae, deserved his
win. It was preceded by five seconds
and two thirds in successive races, and
the Australian Cup completed 1\ miles
covered in races during the four days of
the V.R.C. meeting. He was second to
Apostrophe over If mile on the first day,
third to Dashing Cavalier and Mabson
over l-\ mile on the second day, and
third to High Caste and Positron over
H mile on the third day. Perhaps his
hard racing accounted for rumors that
circulated on Saturday morning—it was
said that he had pulled up badly after
his final sprint, and might not even be a
starter. Mcßae confesses that he is at
a loss to know the origin of such un-
founded stories. Saul is one of the toughest
horses he has trained, yet David’s son
had a “bit of a leg” when he entered his
stables about seven months ago. Plenty
of hot foments and massaging were
necessary to effect a cure, and Saul’s
record of 11 starts for two wins, six
seconds, two thirds and once unplaced
since being trained by Mcßae is testi-
mony to the completeness of that cure.
A five-year-old gelding by David from
Miss Quex, Saul is owned by Mrs. J.
Falkiner. Latter is a daughter-in-law of
Otway Falkiner, who won a Sydney Cup
with Saul’s sire, and she herself is a
first-class horsewoman who often com-
peted in show-ring events against Saul’s
trainer. Saul is a plain-looking cus-
tomer, but as tough as they are made,
and later on may shine over hurdles if
it be decided to try him at that branch
of the game. The Davids are natural
jumpers, and there is no reason why
Saul should be an exception.
Much of the credit for Saul’s success
went to his rider, Maurice McCarten.
McCarten, being of opinion that Apos-
trophe was his chief danger, planned to
follow that horse from the start and
have the “drop” on him at the finish. He
knew he had a genuine stayer under him,
and his plans worked out to the letter.
McCarten later expressed the opinion that
Saul had to be bustled too much in the
early stages of his previous races over
shorter distances than the Cup, but was
a bl e to settle down easily over the 18
furlongs on Saturday, and could have
run three miles if necessary. Although
McCarten did not say so, Saul can be
described as a real old-time stayer, who
can run a lrnost any distance provided he
does not have to be bustled early. He
gave McCarten his second Australian
gjEA having SC ° red ° n
„ c nnce 111
Tidal Wave ran on strongly to dead-
heat with Velocity for third money, but,
according to Bartle, no excuse was possible
for his failure. It was Tidal Wave’s best
f orm t bj s au tumn, however, and perhaps
j, e w j|| j m p roV e at Randwick. He re-
turned home this week with other mem-
bers of j x Jamieson . s , eam sir Rona
weakened into fifth position, but finished
ahead of Wilson, who had every chance
had he been good enough. Pantler, who
finished seventh, was so far behind Wil-
son th at hi s form was of little account ;
Lanarus, so , d on the eve of the race to ’
130 guineaSj was never dangero us; and
Companion, who finished third in the
corresponding race last year, was last
home this time,
r ‘ . ,‘ . ",
. High Caste revealed his real greatness
£ b £ adng ?,° nda and Star in
f P °. yd Stakes y a bor x e
° f . rare versatility could have won the
Kll ? g s Plat ® ° ve f . mile on Thursday
aa , ?° me j back to a muddling-run
™ le days later. The race developed
a half ' md fu Sprmt home, yet High
S a +. e ran P a | t * be Pacemaker, Lucrative,
f e to P °^. tbe straight, and went on
° an easy w £ after Tranquil Star had
T loment anly threatened danger about a
“? rlon S from home The time for the
' St ance, 1.38 x, or outside Ami-
able s Flemington and Australian record,
was proof of the slow pace early. High
Caste raced six times in Melbourne this
autumn for three wins, two seconds and
a fourth (with 10.2) in the Newmarket,
but, with any luck, his record would
have been five wins. His stake earnings
are now over the £30,000 mark, and
Beau Vite will need to be right at his
best to prevent his increasing that
amount substantially in w.f.a. races at
Randwick.
Zonda was hampered slightly by Tran-
quil Star in the straight, but, as she was
beaten by 2\ lengths, it made no dif-
ference to the result. She is a good,
honest mare, and it is unfortunate for
her connections that she has run up
against High Caste in so many rich races.
High Caste has beaten her into second
place in the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce, Ascot
Vale, Futurity and C. M. Lloyd Stakes,
and those seconds have made a difference
of thousands of pounds in stakes alone.
Zonda, incidentally, is to be retired to the
stud next season.
Tranquil Star died in her run before
the finish, but staying is her forte, and
the slow pace early did not suit her. At
the same time, she confirmed her V.R.C.
St. Leger superiority over Lucrative, who
tired badly over the last furlong and
finished last of the four runners, about
two lengths behind Tranquil Star. Lucra-
tive does not seem to be quite as good
as he was in the spring, but his two
latest defeats caused no alteration in
plans to send him to Sydney for the
A.J.C. St. Leger and probably the Syd-
ney Cup. His defeat in the V.R.C. St.
Leger was generally attributed to the
fact that he had done only a sprint pre-
paration until a week before the race,
but he was beaten very easily and, on
C. M. Lloyd Stakes running, will need
to improve considerably to reverse posi-
tions with the filly at Randwick.
Phoines compensated for his narrow
defeat in the Newmarket by winning the
Leonard Stakes by half a head from
Gold Salute. Latter looked all over a
winner when he challenged Phoines in-
side the last furlong, but Phoines showed
much more fight than he had in the
Bourke Handicap at his previous start,
and his 211 b. weight advantage was the
deciding factor in the result. Pure Gold
just beat Orcadian for third money, and
evidently is on the improve again. Phoines
is engaged in the Doncaster, but no de-
cision about a Sydney trip will be made
before he contests the Alister Clark
Stakes at Moonee Valley. That race
will test his ability as a miler. Phoines,
a four-year-old gelding by Windbag
from Message, was a weedy-looking year-
ling, and was purchased by Caulfield
trainer H. Cousens, acting for his wife,
for 100 guineas. He was too small to be
placed in training, and was spelled for a
year to give him a chance to grow. Now
raced on lease by D. A. McNichol, and
trained by F. Foulsham, he is one of the
most improved sprinters in Melbourne.
Whisper Low completed a double for
trainer J. T. Jamieson when she led
almost throughout the seven furlongs of
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes, Jamieson
having won earlier with High Caste.
Backed from fives to threes, Whisper
Low was well ridden by Bartle, who
nursed her until the home turn, where
he shot her away to a winning lead. The
result was not in doubt subsequently,
Whisper Low winning decisively from
Laureate and Vermont. Laureate ex-
perienced more than his share of mis-
fortune in running, and is a colt of more
than average promise. At the time of
writing it had not been decided whether
he would accompany his stablemate
Lucrative to Sydney, or be sent to Adel-
aide at Easter time. Adelaide probably
would afford him a better chance of pay-
ing expenses. Beau Port disappointed,
but The Trapper shaped fairly and might
repay following.
Backers of the favorite, Mabson, who
watched the finish of the Farewell Han-
dicap from positions near the winning-
post were delighted when the judge de-
clared a dead-heat between that gelding
and another Sydneyite, Evergreen. They
thought that Evergreen, on the inside,
had won outright, and were quite con-
tent to receive “half a loaf.” There was
so little in it, however, that only the
judge could give a correct decision. Ever-
green appeared to have stalled off chal-
lenges from Mabson and Sun Valley
(third), but Mabson raised another effort
right on the post. Evergreen’s form was
an improvement on his display when
favorite for the mile Elms Handicap at
his only previous start in Melbourne.
He weakened at the finish of that race,
but the drop from 8.5 to 7.9, combined
with a muddling pace, enabled him to get
10 furlongs on Saturday. The time for
the distance, 2.7, was five seconds out-
side the Flemington record.
Baldasair’s success in the Autumn
Steeplechase preceded that of his stable-
mate Saul in the Australian Cup. Solidly
backed from 9 to 2 to 7 to 2, Baldasair
hit the front about a furlong and a half
from home, and outstayed Laveur and
Turf Boy. Last-named made a great
effort under 12.7, and may have won
had he not lost several lengths when he
blundered at the fence near the nine fur-
longs.
* * * *
Showery weather made things un-
pleasant for racegoers at Randwick on
Saturday, but fortunately for the club
the rain started a little too late to affect
the attendance to any marked extent. It
was not particularly large, even as things
were, but could have been much worse.
Several well-backed horses won, but the
success of a pronounced outsider in
Grand Boy in the last race sent many of
the books home satisfied with the weather
and the day’s racing.
Brazandt showed enough of his old
dash to lead until well down the straight
in the Flying Handicap, but had no
chance against the slower-beginning Over-
bold at the finish. Brazandt may win at
one of the suburban meetings, but the
fact of his carrying only 8.1 against the
9.2 he won with at Randwick in April of
last year gives an idea of the extent to
which he has deteriorated since then.
Sir Regal ran well, but Flying Knight’s
big weight had him anchored some dis-
tance from home. He is a good three-
year-old, but, even with the minimum
7st., it was asking a lot of him to win
with 9.11. Binnia Hero, The Squire and
Katanga looked above themselves, as did
Rodborough, but he did best of the un-
placed runners, and may shortly re-enter
the winning lists, though at a longer dis-
tance than six furlongs.
In the March Handicap Gilltown
proved that he had improved further since
winning at Canterbury the previous week,
and is now quite back to his spring form.
Going to the front soon after the start, he
did not look like being caught at any
part of the last half-mile. Vestal and
Buzzal were Gilltown’s nearest followers
entering the straight, but, though the first-
named, with the advantage of 71b. allow-
ance, struggled into second place, she
never threatened Gilltown. The going
was a trifle on the soft side when the
race was run, and evidently did not suit
Scientist. Third just after entering the
straight, he merely plodded along over
the last furlong to hold that position.
There was no dash in his effort. Buzzal,
though fourth, did not raise his backers’
hopes over the last three furlongs, and
John Dory was not galloping well at any
part.
Windbrook, favorite for the first divi-
sion of the Encourage Handicap, again
spoilt his chance by commencing slowly,
and, though he finished fast, missed a
place. A longer distance than seven fur-
longs will not come amiss to him. Poi
Morse did the pacemaking, but, though
he led into the straight from Captain
Gore, Southerly and Lorchatall, he was
outstayed by Southerly, a Windbag geld-
ing owned by C. M. Sawyer, who has
repeatedly shown that an amateur trainer
can do as much with horses as many
professionals. Serenade’s form was below
expectations based on track work, but
it may not be long before he again wins
for “Miss Lorna Doone.” Rival Spear
got away badly, and was one of the
whippers-in throughout, but Ferngala and
Brunswick Joy ran fairly.
Melorado acted up to his Victoria
Park form of the previous Wednesday—
when he was narrowly beaten by Allur-
ing—and won the second division of the
Encourage Handicap. Manlock was
going so comfortably at the head of
affairs coming to the turn that a win for
him seemed almost certain, but Melo-
rado was too good over the last fur-
long. Kenil Gem outstayed Air Link for
third, and no excuse was possible for
the latter’s failure. He had a clear run
from the half-mile, and was third into
the straight. Tyrannus was prominent
most of the way, but weakened at
the end, while Avant Tout scarcely did
as well as in his recent races, and Fox
Track again failed to repeat his track
form.
At his previous start Prince looked
somewhat unlucky to lose, and was
heavily backed for the March Juvenile,
though he started at a shade longer price
than Dick Whittington. A long way back
at one stage Prince put in a fast run
from the three furlongs, and eventually
won comfortably from Two’s Company,
who did well in the run home, and St.
Pancras. The stablemates Congratula-
tions and Awake were cutting at each
other in front until well in the straight,
with the result that both tired. Neither
could have won, but differently handled
a place was probable for one or the
other. Dick Whittington was slow to
leave the barrier, and that settled him.
The Newcastle filly, My Janet, ran well.
Imported Burhan Ali won the Farm
Novice Handicap through sheer game-
ness. First into the straight he was
headed by Royal Land inside the final
furlong. The latter looked like going on
to win, but Burhan Ali kept coming, and
gained a head advantage in the last few
strides. In finishing third Jymjon, a
three-year-old grey gelding by Roxburgh,
FOR CAULFIELD.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
Narong Hurdle: Bureaucrat, 1 :
Spirak, 2 ; Frisco, 3.
Orrong Two-year-old: Dapper,
1 ; Wheatsheaf, 2 ; Pierre, 3.
St. Kilda Handicap: Bathing
Beauty, 1 ; Saki, 2 ; Wilson, 3.
Gordon Steeplechase: Shere
Khan, 1 ; Whernside, 2 ; Paren-
tena, 3.
South Yarra Handicap: Zonda,
1 ; Pure Gold, 2 ; Yuletide, 3.
Kooyong Welter: Astounding, 1 ;
Sun Belle, 2 ; Our Boy, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
By “PILOT.”
C Before acceptances .)
Three-year-old Handicap: Loyal
Lad, 1 ; Serenade, 2 ; Cape Amber,
3.
Juvenile Handicap: Escutcheon,
1 ; Congratulations, 2 ; Redbreast, 3.
Jumpers’ Flat Race: Water
Waggon, 1 ; Mab’s Boy, 2;
Heracles, 3.
Brighton Handicap: Nightbeam,
1 ; Bramol, 2 ; Tuhitarata, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Royal
Sceptre, 1 ; Tickle, 2 ; Pen Name, 3.
Flying Welter: Brazandt, 1 ; Old
Sport, 2 ; Grand Billy or felson, 3.


SYDNEY’S GREATEST EASTER ATTRACTION
hgjghj
cmpißC
BDfiYS-5 NIGHTS*
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, BETTER THAN EVER
Here are some of the Empire Show highlights which will
be featured this Easter: Empire Pageant . . . Empire Home
. . . Empire Exhibits . . . Empire Temple of Beauty and
Womanhood . . . Canadian Exhibits from World’s Fair . . .
British Government Exhibits . . . also Exhibits from Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea . . . Australian Services Display—
Munitions and Equipment.
Outstanding ring events and exhibitions, more industrial
displays, more amusements, something to interest and amuse
old and young.
8 DAYS
5 NIGHTS
gave promise as a stayer, and Dame
Pauline may yet be useful at middle dis-
tances. She is by Pantheon from Par-
fait Amour, a sister to Amounis. Lady
Marconigram was cut back at barrier-
rise, and was one of the whippers-in all
the way. Mabonga, though backed as if
he could not lose, did not look a winning
possibility at any stage. At his two
previous starts he had hard races, and
they evidently took the sting out of him.
In the Sunnybrook Welter Grand Boy
upset calculations by taking up the run-
ning along the back and then outstaying
Bramol, who ran up to him in the
straight. Miss Heroic then put in a
claim, but Grand Boy, going away from
her near the winning-post, scored by a
length. Bramol, though beaten into third
place, should be sufficiently improved by
his race to be hard to beat at his next
start. Cryon was fourth, followed by
Veiled Threat, who did not find the
soft going to his liking, and never looked
a winning possibility. Pen Name was
prominent to the straight entrance, then
dropped out; Mortine found the opposi-
tion much stronger than in the races
she won recently, and Might Not was out
of her distance. Improved by racing
Knight Folly may be a welter possibility
before long. John was one of the field,
but, though fairly forward in condition,
did not show any of his two-year-old
pace.
There was a hurdle race, and Mab’s
Boy won all the way from two others.
It is to be hoped the field was not a
fair indication of the class of jumping
races we are to witness at the A.J.C.
autumn meeting.
* * * *
While I never subscribed to the idea
that for racing and stud purposes Ajax
was worth the £40,000 (or was it more?)
once asked for him in reply to an Ameri-
can inquiry, I thought he would have
realised more than the 6500gns. for which
he was sold at auction in Melbourne
last week. As I anticipated in The Bul-
letin some weeks ago, the principal
bidder outside those associated with Ajax
in his racing days was W. J. Smith, and
he got him. Subsequently A. W. Thomp-
son, one of his previous three owners,
bought a half-share in Ajax, and
he is to be located at Widden.
Despite what his detractors may say,
Ajax was truly great up to a mile
and a quarter, and good up to a
mile and a half. It is practically certain
he will sire brilliant horses and stayers
as well. In his choice of stallions for
stud purposes, the late W. Allison, a
recognised English authority, often ex-
pressed the opinion that horses which
had shone at a mile and a quarter were
preferable to those whose best deeds
were in longer races. In Queensland,
however, The Buzzard and Spearfelt,
good stayers, have sired horses capable
of winning at short or long distances.
The owner of St. Aubins stud made a
great deal when he bought Beau Pere
for 3300gn5., and though he may not
do quite so well with Ajax he is unlikely
to regret his purchase. At last season’s
sales at Randwick the six highest-priced
Beau Pere yearlings realised a total of
a little over £lO,OOO, and, according to
American papers, Mayer gave £31,000 for
Beau Pere when he bought him a few
months ago. All very satisfactory from
a business standpoint.
* # * *
High Caste was undeniably “the horse”
of the autumn campaign in Melbourne,
and it now seems as if he was a trifle
unlucky to be defeated in two of his
races, those won by Mildura and Tran-
quil Star. If they were to be re-run
there would be no doubt as to High
Caste’s favoritism. No excuse is neces-
sary for his Newmarket failure. He
had the steadier of 10.2, was meeting All
Veil 251 b., Phoines 361 b. and Zonda
191 b. worse than weight-for-age, and the
time equalled the record for the race.
His Futurity Stakes success with 10.6
was up to the standard of the best win-
ners of that race, and then, after run-
ning in the Newmarket, he was equal to
winning at a mile and three-quarters. He
did not strike high-class opposition in the
King’s Plate, but his for the mile
and three-quarters was not slow by any
means, and Saul, who ran third, subse-
quently won the Australian Cup with 8.2.
Back to a mile two days after his King’s
Plate win, defeat of Zonda and the best
three-year-olds, Tranquil Star and Lucra-
tive, was easy for High Caste, who was
credited with running the last half-mile
in 45|sec.
It can, of course, be pointed out that
a win at a mile and three-quarters in a
weight-for-age race does not definitely
prove a horse a good stayer, but High
Caste is, at least, fair in that respect, see-
ing he has been placed with 9.7 in a
first-class mile and a half handicap. For
such a heavy horse his versatility is re-
markable. Sydney racegoers will be look-
ing forward to his next meeting with
Beau Vite, which may be in the Chip-
ping Norton Plate, 1J mile, on March 29.
The Rosehill Rawson Stakes, at nine
furlongs, is run a week earlier, but, as a
“Two singles, mate . Change a tenner?”
short rest after his recent racing may be
necessary, perhaps that may be missed.
High Caste’s earnings now total £30,190,
and nearly all that has been won since
H. E. Tancred gave £7OOO for him as a
two-year-old. According to present in-
tentions High Caste may go to the stud
in Maoriland when he has finished racing.
* * * *
Notwithstanding that at the end of last
year the stewards of the Jockey Club
ordered the abandonment of all fixtures
arranged in England for 1941, there is
a possibility of the following substitute
classics and other races being run this
year; at any rate, entries were to have
been taken on January 14. They were:
Derby, £2OOO added money; St. Leger,
£l5OO added ; Oaks, £lOOO added ; Two
Thousand Guineas, £lOOO added; One
Thousand Guineas, £7OO added ; Ascot
Gold Cup, £2OOO added; St. James’s
Palace Stakes, £lOOO added; Craven
Stakes, £3OO added; Coventry Stakes
£lOOO added; and Queen Mary Stakes,
£750 added. A big all-round drop in
prize-money as compared with previous
years, but owners and trainers will be
well satisfied if it is possible to run the
races named anywhere.
That the seemingly impossible is
always possible in racing was further
proved when All Love failed to win the
Ascot Vale Stakes. She had 101 b.
penalty, but as that carried her weight
up to only 8.10 it did not seem as if
she would be troubled by it. Perhaps
her three previous races took more out
of her than supposed, but she will have
time to freshen up before the A.J.C.
meeting. Skerries, who worried All Love
in the early part of the Ascot Vale
Stakes, kept fairly close to Yaralla in the
first half-mile of the December Stakes
but, in receipt of 71b., had no chance
against the last-named at the end. All
Love, though beaten by High Road last
Thursday, finished some lengths ahead
of Skerries on 31b. worse penalty terms
than those on which the latter was de-
feated by Yaralla. Caledon was not
among the sires nominated for the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, consequently High
Road is not in that race. Yaralla’s next
appearance will be awaited with special
interest, and it may be in the six furlongs
Fairfield Handicap (maximum weight 9.5)
at Randwick on April 5.
* * * *
L. B. Mayer, who recently bought
Beau Pere, has transferred most of his
mares from Kentucky to California, so
as to make their future progeny eligible
for races restricted to horses got and
foaled in the latter State. Pending the
completion of the stud farm he purchased
near Riverside (California) Mayer has
leased the Deep Cliffe Farm, at Cuper-
tino, for two years, with option of pur-
chase for about £A38,000. There is
nothing small about Mayer’s operations
in connection with breeding. As Beau
Pere is being limited to 20 mares this
season, his owner is evidently taking few,
if any, from outside.
* * * *
According to some racegoers who were
at Flemington Gold Salute was unlucky
not to have won the Leonard Stakes, in
which he met Phoines 101 b. better than
when the latter finished ahead of him in
the Newmarket Handicap. There was
only a half-head between them on Satur-
day, and as Gold Salute was backed
down to 3 to 1 that slight margin prob-
ably made a substantial financial differ-
ence to A. E. Cooper.
Gold Salute is good, but it is unlikely
he will greatly benefit his owner during
the remainder of the current season. For
one thing High Caste and Beau Vite
stand in the way of his success in w.f.a.
races during the next few weeks, and
he has been running sufficiently well to
keep his weight up in handicaps. In
the way of w.f.a. races the Rosehill
Rawson Stakes may give him his best
chance. There is the possibility of High
Caste being out of the way, and Beau
Vite, after his let-up, might not be quite
at his best. Anyhow, if Gold Salute can-
not win that, there will not be much hope
for him in any that follow.
* * * *
It was not generally reckoned that the
difference in distance of the Australian
Cup, as compared with the Flemington
Handicap, would favor Saul more than
Apostrophe, but it did. With Saul carry-
ing 21b. overweight, Apostrophe met him
only lib. worse in the Cup than when
he defeated him in the Autumn Handi-
cap, so figures favored the latter. It
was contended that luck was against Saul
in the Flemington Handicap, and, though
excuse for a beaten horse is not unusual,
it would now seem as if there was some-
thing in it in Saul’s case. Accounts of
the Cup suggest that, considering his
weight, Apostrophe set out after Sir Rona
rather early. There was, however, the
possibility of the latter stealing the race,
and, as Apostrophe was going well,
Creighton probably deemed it unwise to
wait too long.
Wilson again failed as a stayer, and
though Tidal Wave dead-heated Velocity
for third he was never dangerous. He
seems to be a stayer of the plugging
type, and in these days of alleged “bad
stayers” something more than that is
necessary to win long races. Dash is
now generally required, no matter how
great the distance. The time, 3.50|,
was a long way behind Marauder’s 3.47 J-,
but equalled Nadean’s second-best for
the race.
* * * *
Prior to the Ascot Vale Stakes the
A.J.C. Easter Plate was generally
reckoned a fair thing for All Love,
despite her 101 b. penalty. In conjunc-
tion with All Love’s defeat, the form
shown by Whisper Low in the Gibson
Carmichael Stakes has put a different
complexion on affairs. Each of the races
mentioned is at seven furlongs, and
Whisper Low’s did not compare
unfavorably with the 1.1 2>\ recorded by
Phoines in winning the six furlongs
Leonard Stakes earlier in the afternoon.
Whisper Low runs without a penalty in
the Easter Stakes, as does the brilliant
Astrid, who is again working, and now
promises to be herself for the opening of
the A.J.C. meeting. Reverting to Whisper
Low, she was bred by her owner, “Mr.
Constable.” She is by Beau Pere from
the French mare Aissa, who is by Her-
balist (son of Phalaris) from Amaryllis,
by Niceas, a son of Sundridge. Aissa,
who was a winner in France, is now eight
years old.
* * * *
It cannot be claimed that autumn rac-
ing in Melbourne put the three-year-olds
in a really good light. Lucrative’s form
was below that of the spring, and though
Tranquil Star beat High Caste in one
race she had no chance against him in
the C. M. Lloyd Stakes. She was also
beaten by Zonda in that race, which
should not have been so if she was all
that was previously supposed. Perhaps,
however, staying may be her real forte,
and she will be given a chance of proving
it if she opposes Beau Vite in the Cum-
berland Plate and A.J.C. Plate at the
A.J.C. meeting. It is probable she will
again beat Lucrative and Tidal Wave if
she meets them in the A.J.C. St. Leger.
The only likely addition to her op-
ponents for that race will be Scientist,
and his run in Gilltown’s race at Rand-
wick last week was not that of a staying
three-year-old. Tidal Wave was dis-
appointing in Melbourne. His third in
the St. Leger was an indifferent effort,
and his dead-heat with Velocity for third
in the Australian Cup did not entitle
him to be considered a first-class three-
year-old. He had 21b. over weight-for-
age, but was beaten by five-year-oldi
Apostrophe, who had 31b. in excess of
the scale, and the latter, though con-
sistent in average handicaps, has yet to
prove himself up to w.f.a. standard.
* * * *
J. W. Barden has no Greenlines in his
stable nowadays, and, after a lean time
recently, it was a crumb of comfort for
him when Medieval Rose won the second
division of the Victoria Park Two-year-
old Handicap. Medieval Rose, who out-
stayed the supposed certainty, Melfleur,
is by Medieval Knight from The Rose
of Erin (Warden of the Marches-Rose
of Jericho), and is a first foal. The Rose
of Erin won two races in Melbourne.
Medieval Rose’s half-sister, by Mid-
stream, is among the yearlings to be
offered by William Inglis and Son at
Randwick next month.
* * * *
At the Victoria Park meeting last week
two Sydney Cup winners made a re-
appearance, starting in the Flying Handi-
cap, a 6} furlongs race. One was Mosaic,
whose previous run was in October,
when he was third to Dashing Cavalier
and Old Rowley in the Randwick Plate;
and the other Contact. He won his
Sydney Cup in 1936, had not raced since
Tattersall’s Cup, 1937, and subsequently
did three or four seasons at the stud.
As he finished fifth in a field of 12 h
would seem as if another win or two
for him is possible, notwithstanding he
is rising 10. Mosaic did hot show to
the same advantage as Contact, though
after being last into the straight he
finished ahead of two other runners.
* * * * ~
E. McMenamin, having his first ri e
since he was injured at Randwick o
New Year’s Day, won the second division
of the Victoria Park Novice Handicap
on Alluring last Wednesday. His h nis
ing effort on that filly disposed ot a >
idea that his spell might have weaken
him, and he will be in the trim neC ,
sary to do justice to Beau Vite in


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ...
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/4.
WRITE
TO-DAY
ghjhg
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
i*
'h
s f/
*6
m
BESTH
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents: JOUBERT (r JOUBERT PTY. LTD.i
Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
*Hillmans.’ ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially CUT
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST
Four Square 8/6
First Crop, Mild 8/6
All British, Mild 8/6
Biverhead Gold, Medium 8/6
Old Peter, Dark 8/6
Cavendish, Strong 8/6
Beech Nut, Medium 8/6
Africa, Mellow and Mild 8/6
Soldier’s Own, Mild 8/6
Normandie, Medium 8/6
Winning Post, Medium 8/6
Three Bells, Strong 8/6
Bird’s Eye, Medium 8/6
Patakia (in Pipe Only) 10/-
White Podge, Medium 10/-
White Podge, Pight 11/-
Barlock Flake, Pight and Dark ... 9/6
Cahills, Medium 10 / -
Union Peader, Medium 11/-
Tender Peaf, Medium 11/-
Imperial /_
HIGH CLASS PLUG TOBACCOS.
“Skipper,” Medium 8s 8/6
“Clinker,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Three Sailors,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Big Hit,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Irish Twist,” 13s 8/6
“Royal Navy,” Nuggets 8/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 13s and 26s 7/10
Subject to 6d. lb. postage to all
States outside Queensland. Quantities
of 51b. and over, Post Free to all States.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., VAPPEY, N. 1., BRISBANE
Telegrams: “Comgrow,” Brisbane.
'Phone No. 84587.
Rawson Stakes at Rosehill and the w.f.a.
races in which he may run at Randwick
next month. With capable jockeys not
overnumerous, owners cannot afford to
lose the services of any, and that is one
reason that makes it regrettable Munro
is out of action.
* * * *
St. Andrew, who cost 700gns. as a
yearling, won two races for J. Mandel
last season, but up to last week was
disappointing during the current one.
However, the style in which he won the
first division of the Welter Handicap at
Victoria Park said a lot for St. Andrew’s
future prospects. Gallop and Bramol are
good gallopers, and led St. Andrew into
the straight, but he fairly ran over them
at the finish in a half-second faster time
than War Trophy put up in the second
division. A sister to St. Andrew was
passed in at last week’s yearling sales
in Melbourne.
* * * *
Yearling sales in Melbourne last week
were far from unsatisfactory, notwith-
standing the average was lower than last
year—l67gns. for 219, against 181ygns.
for 183. Breeders Raymond and Ranken
again headed the list in the way of high
prices, receiving lOOOgns. for the Gay
Lothario-Balkan Rose colt, who was
bought by High Title’s owners, W. J.
and C. F. Pelham. Another from
the same draft, a colt by Enfield from
Balkan Star (Lucrative’s dam), was
bought by E. R. Williams for 950gns.,
and is to be trained in Sydney by G.
Price, who looks like starting the coming
season with a big team of two-year-olds.
* * * *
On the whole, Sydney-trained horses
fared well in Melbourne, and it is doubt-
ful whether there will be a great deal to
be feared from southern visitors in the
minor handicaps at the A.J.C. meeting.
The best that can be said of Mabson is
that he is useful, but he ran good
seconds in the Brunswick Stakes and
Autumn Handicap, and then, with 7.11,
dead-heated Evergreen, another of the
N.S.W. division, in the Farewell Handi-
cap, those behind them including Sun
Valley, Carpentier and Sir Romeo.
Night beam had a comfortable win in the
Elms Handicap, and Dashing Cavalier
won the Autumn Handicap, with Saul in
third place. Dashing Cavalier met Saul a
few pounds better than Australian Cup
terms, but that run would at least have
given him a chance against the latter in
last Saturday’s race. General entries for
the A.J.C. spring meeting close on Tues-
day of next week, but, though before last
week’s racing at Flemington several
horses were mentioned as likely to visit
Sydney, it is now doubtful whether the
minor handicaps will receive strong
southern support.
* * * *
F. W. Hughes is training his own
horses until the V.R.C. committee gives
its decision in connection with the Dash-
ing Cavalier case. Well, if he has a
capable head lad to attend to the feed-
ing and other details, he may not find it
difficult to cope with working his team
if McCurley is not reinstated. An effi-
cient head lad is a great asset in any
stable, and I can recall some trainers who
would have been lost without the assist-
ance they received in that respect. Some
of these head lads have replied, in effect,
when asked why they did not launch out
on their own behalf, “Well, I don’t know
that I would be any better off. The boss
is all right; I am not forgotten when
the stable has a win ; and there’s not
much profit in training three or four
horses unless you have the luck to get
hold of a good one.”
* * * *
The presence of a few Melbourne
hurdlers at the A.J.C. meeting would be
appreciated. Owners and trainers of
jumpers in Sydney do not appear to be
making special effort to keep the game
going, but would make a fuss if clubs re-
duced prize-money. In the way of entrance
and acceptance fees racing over hurdles
at Randwick could not be cheaper. There
are two hurdle races of £5OO at the A.J.C.
meeting, and the entrance fee for each is
10s., with another 10s. to start. First
money in each is £3BO, but of course
a jockey’s losing fee of £5„ considerably
swells the cost of running.
Since the V.A.T.C. raced at Fleming-
ton its revenue has fallen off, and in
consequence the prize-money for its
meeting on Saturday next will be £6OO
less than at the corresponding fixture
last year. However, the day’s distribu-
tion will be the satisfactory one of £2700.
Sydney owners would appreciate a club
that could back the A.J.C. as the
V.A.T.C. does the V.R.C. in the matter
of stakes. V.A.T.C. profits from race
meetings go to patriotic services.
* * * *
Bookmakers have their grievances, but
one I have not yet heard ventilated is
their non-recognition in the way of
knighthoods. These are generally con-
ferred on men who have done good ser-
vice for their country or achieved marked
business success, and who, as a whole,
have done more than the bookmakers
to meet the great Australian need—the
chance to back a winner. Of course, it
would be a bit awkward if some knighted
bookmaker struck lean days, and had
to transfer his operations to the leger or
flat. “Sir Blank Blank,” licensed by the
A.J.C. or V.R.C., would seem a little out
of place in such circumstances.
* * * *
Phoines ran consistently throughout
the V.R.C. meeting and merited his win
in the Leonard Stakes. His sire Wind-
bag could race all distances, but Phoines
is essentially a sprinter. He may come
to Sydney for the A.J.C. meeting, as
may Scarlet Toi, whose win in the
Bourke Handicap suggested that in the
Oakleigh Plate and Newmarket Handi-
cap he was racing at distances that were
short for him. He is in the Doncaster,
a race that has been won by other im-
ported horses in Sir Foote and Simeon’s
Fort.
* * * *
N.S.W. Labor wishes the date of its
annual holiday to be changed, which sug-
gests that its supporters are now attracted
to a much greater extent by good racing
at Randwick on Metropolitan Day than
by its own procession and sports.
# Sfc if
Betting on New York courses is now,
by law, confined to the totalisator, but
that does not prevent illegal bookmakers
“giving it a go.” It has been suggested
that the Legislature should give the
Racing Commission power to fine these
individuals up to $lO,OOO. That should
stop them. Of late we have not heard
much concerning “bootleg betting” at
Sydney courses, but it is improbable it
has completely died out.
* * * *
The early progeny of Bulandshar and
Beau Pere in Maoriland shone on the
race track, and it is anticipated it will be
the same with Man’s Pal (Manna-Pal-
mella, by Lemberg). Critics have formed
a high opinion of Palfrey, one of Man’s
Pal’s first crop of two-year-olds, and it
is prophesied by some that he will be one
of next season’s best three-year-olds over
a distance. Man’s Pal, who did not race
at two years, won up to a mile and a
quarter at three, and his minor placings
included second to Commander 111 in
the Cambridgeshire.
* * * *
Among the brood mares sold at auc-
tion in Melbourne last week was eight-
year-old Bimilla (Excitement-Coucal),
the crack two-year-old filly of 1934-35.
Her wins included the Maribyrnong Plate
and Ascot Vale Stakes. Racehorses that
did not find buyers at the same sale
included imported Greenwich, who has
not struck his English form. The best
bid for him was 650gns.
* * * *
The V.R.C. stipendiary stewards came
in for a deal of adverse criticism in con-
nection with the Dashing Cavalier case,
and in fairness to them the V.R.C. chair-
man issued the following statement:
The committee of the V.R.C. is perfectly
satisfied with the manner in which the ad-
ministration of the racing club has been
conducted by the stipendiary stewards. We
regret very much that .any reflection has
been cast upon them. In the case of
Dashing Cavalier, where some delay in
inquiry was criticised, we know that there
were good reasons for the delay, and the
suggestions that the stewards were respon-
sible for this and that they showed a lack
of frankness are incorrect and repugnant.
* * * *
Treating partnerships as one stud, there
are 61 contributors to W. Inglis and
Son’s yearling catalogue. Of these five
are women, Mrs. G. Finlay, with three,
having most representatives. One is a
half-sister, by Hall Mark, to Benedict,
winner of several races in Melbourne,
and another is a half-brother, by Veil-
mond, to Lolorua.
* * * *
The English Jockey Club handicapper,
Arthur Fawcett, adhered to the usual
custom of issuing weights for the Free
Handicap Sweepstakes for two-year-olds
at the close of last year. The race is
unlikely to be run, but the weights show
that a gelding, Poise, was regarded as
the best of his age in England. He has
9.7, next to him coming the unnamed
Umidwar-Rosetta filly, with 9.4, and
then Morogoro 9.3. The three are trained
by F. Darling. Of course, Poise is not
eligible for the Derby, and it is many
years since a gelding was rated Eng-
land’s best two-year-old.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Atilio Sabatino had what was men-
tioned as his last fight in Australia at
Leichhardt last Thursday night, meeting
Alan Westbury. It was a great pity Sab
had it. Hailing from Puerto Rica, he
came to these parts a year or two back,
and soon made himself probably the
most popular scrapper in the country,
not only by reason of his fine showing
against Richards when Ron was right at
his top (Sab lost narrowly on points),
but more by virtue of his splendid style
and his exceptionally clean scrapping.
Sab’s eyes have been his weakness:
he’s very fleshy there and cuts easily ;
in last week’s affair it looked as if their
sight had now also started to let him
down. In the second round he missed
Westbury badly with aimed and easy
punches no fewer than seven times. He
didn’t appear to be seeing Westbury at
all —either that, or he was trying to be
very lenient. The result was that the
affair looked like developing into a fiasco,
which it presently did, though from an-
other cause —Sab doing in his right hand
in the fourth, and boxing Westbury
only with his left until, in the sixth, when
Sab was looking like a tired veteran,
and a disabled and defenceless one at
that, ref. Pearson stepped mercifully in
and gave it to the local lad on a tech-
nical k.o.
Throw ’em all in, present scribe holds
to the view that the ebony welter Kingfish
Dixon has been the best of all imports
of recent years.
* * * *
Assisted by ballyhoo from such un-
usual quarters as the “S. M. Herald,”
Sydney Stadium ran what was described
as a match for the Australian welter title
last week, Hockey Bennell v. Jimmy
Dundee. Hockey had lost to Jimmy in
a non-title scrap, but, as is now gener-
ally recognised, Hockey’s a different colt
with the title up. Of course, he won
easily. The affair lasted eight rounds,
at the end of which Hockey held Jimmy
up while Jimmy’s corner came and col-
lected him.
* * * *
Victorian boxers continue to show im-
pressive form. Jimmy Day, who has
twice gone the distance with Westbury,
was stopped in seven rounds by Terry
Reilly at West Melbourne on Saturday
night. One of the Sydney welter’s eyes
was in such a state that he could not
go on.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
{Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
For many years American players
were famed for their supremacy on and
around the greens; because of this, it
was said, they were outstanding in in-
ternational competitions. Compared with
British and Australian players, this was
the only department of the game in which
the Yankees excelled. I am convinced
that the Americans are not so much
better in their methods; it is their con-
centration alone that beats us.
As a general rule U.S.A. courses on
which tournaments are played are
much inferior to those used in Australia,
having poorer greens and indifferent fair-
ways ; these conditions force the players
to learn to overcome such obstacles as
bad lies and irregular greens.
In the famous Winter Circuit there is
not one course with greens as good as
on our public courses. The stars have
to develop a smoother putting stroke to
overcome the uneven greens or a surer
and deadlier pitch to the flag. There is
only one way to break 70 consistently
or to lower any set player’s best score,
and that, generally, is to hole more nutts.
• • • • • *
From many photographs 1 have taken
of the best putters over here one feature
is prominent; they keep the body per-
fectly still during the entire stroke.
Whether they have a purely wrist or
forearm method of putting, these are
the only portions of the body that visibly
move. Many of our best Australian
players have a pronounced body move-
ment in their putting. W. Bolger, the
1934 open champion, who is one of our
best putters, has a tiny sway in toward
the ball when the putter is on the down-
swing. This movement can be got away
with to a great extent on good, fast
greens, but on the uneven American
greens any sort of body movement means
trouble. It increases the chance of error.
In a lecture in Chicago, Tommy
Armour, addressing a meeting of profes-
sionals, selected Horton Smith as his
example of an ideal putter. He noted the
remarkable way Smith kept his body
from never entering the putting stroke.
“I have played with Smith,” said
Armour, “since 1925, and have yet to
see him move his head to watch the ball
until after it has gone halfway to the
hole.” This description applies almost
to all the best Yankee green-men, for
almost to a man they have developed this
style. The reason why so many putts
are missed by both duffer and champion
alike is that both are human and are
unable to keep the body still on every
putt they hit.
After some years of watching golf and
golfers in many parts of the world, I am
satisfied that in putting the most im-
portant thing is to let the hands and not
the shoulders hit the ball. Not only in
putting do the hands play an important
part, for those little pitch-shots around
the green that turn 15ft. putts into five-
footers are played more accurately when
an absolute minimum of body-movement
takes place. John Revolta, acknowledged
the master of niblick play, uses only
his hands and forearms in pitching the
ball to the flag. Most of his brother-
professionals who have tried to copy him
have eliminated to a great extent any
pivot or body-turn they had in their
swing.
These delicate little shots are frequently
mishit when the player tries to lift the
ball into the air by using his right
shoulder instead of allowing the loft on
the club and his hands to get the ball into
the air. In all their shots around and
on the greens the club is allowed to do
the greater part of the work ; by working
on this principle the Americans have
managed to simplify these strokes.


BRANDAUER’A
f 55
:
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a B&AXDABBR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth .... 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St
. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth|
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked.
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
Price: 37 6
Military Toilet Sets from 42/-
C. E. KITCHING
PTY.,
LTD.,
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyarii Station.)
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
“Gardens under the Rain” should be
the title the next time the Sydney Day
Nurseries and the Kindergarten Union
try to raise funds by means of a display
of the gardens at Admiralty House. Twice
this pleasant function has had to be post-
poned owing to wet weather. The com-
mittees (the Australian Mothercrait
Society was another of them) bit on the
bullet and decided to try again. They
did, and fixed on last Saturday. All
Sydney knows what the rain did that
afternoon. This time, however, there was
no postponement, and the result was as
merry a party as one could wish to see
dodging about between the crowded
marquee on the lawn just inside the gates
and the equally crowded verandahs of
the house.
Girl Guides clustered around the houp-
la like bees round a honeypot. They
also demonstrated the hardihood of the
race by carrying on animated converse
within ear-splitting nearness to the pipe
band. This sounded very brave and stir-
ring, and put a curl into the day. Both
Lady Gowrie and Lady Wakehurst came
to the party. Over one hundred young
evacuees were the guests of the Governor-
General’s wife. Many of them wore a
blue knot of ribbon on coat or dress,
and they didn’t mind the rain at all. One
small girl near the writer suddenly ex-
claimed “Oh, there’s somebody English!
Can’t you tell it by her voice?” The
voice was Lady Wakehurst’s. Lady
Gowrie, in blue and white, wrote in
innumerable autograph books. Mrs. H.
S. Foil, who was the day’s president, and
Mrs. McElhone were busied with many
things. Mrs. J. C. Leete, Mrs. C. P.
Johnson and Mrs. Stirling were there.
Knight Sam Cohen, president of the Kin-
dergarten Union, was among the much-
greeted. But the bunch of determined
joy-seekers who said “Pooh! ” to the rain
and took their jaunts down the soaking
slippery slide awoke the deepest admira-
tion.
Keenly interested in the Free French
movement is Mrs. Alec Waugh, who came
to Sydney from Melbourne for the first
general meeting. Mrs. Waugh, who was
Joan Chirnside, of Melbourne, is the
wife of the novelist. She came to Aus-
tralia last year with their three children,
Andrew, Peter and Veronica. Husband
is now working at the War Office in
London. The Waughs’ home in Berk-
shire was bombed, and Alec’s novel, No
Truce With War, met the same fate in
London just when it was all set for pub-
lication. However, the book is now run-
ning as a serial in an American magazine.
Next Sunday will see the W.A.N.S. on
parade. With the W.A.N.S. will march
members of affiliated organisations, and
altogether 4000 women, commanded by
Lady Wakehurst, will show their mettle
in this review organised on military lines.
The officers of the various organisations
will command their units without any
assistance from the army. An idea of
the size of this parade can be gained
when the organisers tell that it will
occupy a frontage of more than 400yds.,
with a depth of 110yds. This is almost
the full capacity of -the review ground.
In the march will be Air Force girls, a
mechanised unit of the V.D.L. Transport
girls, girl signallers, Girl Guides, 600
C.U.S.A. members and 200 public ser-
vice war workers.
Lady Wakehurst will take over the
command at 2.55, and before that Com-
mandant Williams will be in charge. Lord
Wakehurst will review the parade and
take the salute, and Lady Wakehurst will
lead her command past the saluting
base. All in all, the show will last
hours.
Actress Katie Towers has half a cen-
tury of stage memories to look back on.
She started her career as a play baby,
and has gone on getting brighter and
better. Now admirers are rallying around
to give this pleasant woman on and off
the stage a golden jubilee testimonial.
Katie has put so many laughs into the
lives of theatregoers that they feel they’d
like to put a chuckle into her bank
account. The veteran actress is in hos-
pital, and friends feel they want to give
her a splendid welcome at this theatrical
cavalcade in her honor. The idea is to
present the highlights of the theatre in
Australia over 50 years. Offers of help
from every mummer of note are pour-
ing in, and it looks as though the show,
which will be at the Royal, will be a
memorable occasion.
Sydney is proud of the distinction
conferred by the King on General Iven
Mackay. The quiet, dignified headmaster
of Cranbrook has slipped back into his
old fighting form as easily as if those
days of marking the progress of Sydney
schoolboys had never intervened between
the 1914-18 struggle and this sharp con-
test of brain and sinew. David Martin,
managing director of the Minerva, as
well as the rest of the citizens, was
drawn into the maelstrom of rejoicing.
When he heard that the Whites, of Kur-
raba, old friends of the Mackays, were
giving an outsize theatre party to cele-
brate, and that General Mackay’s lady
was the guest of honor, he sent out and
bought the largest orchid in Sydney for
her, and had'it waiting in her box when
the party arrived.
Maorilanders gathered in numbers and
good spirits at the Enzed Association’s
rooms in Bridge-street for a five-to-seven
last week. Knight George Davis, who re-
ceived his title in the New Year Honors
list, and his lady were the guests of
honor. The association’s president, Mr.
Taylor, chairman H. C. Jones and Mrs.
Jones (who is president of the Women’s
Social Committee) received.
Herewith a photograph of the wife
of Mackay of Bardia. It was taken since
her husband went off to the Middle East
to pluck fresh laurels for his soldierly
reputation. The news that the Major-
General had been knighted for his
exploits with the A.I.F. in Libya was Syd-
ney’s most-cheered headline last week.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
One enterprising girl arrived at the
party to Free French sailors last week
with a list of phrases written out, and
in addition a French-English dictionary
under her arm. Other girls, Mary Best
and Nanette Humphrey Bishop among
them, chattered blitnely and freely in
either tongue. The party was at the
Vere Mathews restaurant in King-street,
and there were so many flowers it might
have been a corner of the Tuileries or
a bit of the glowing Tahiti which is the
home of some of the bright-faced lads.
Publicity secretary for the Free French
movement, Mrs. Edith Beresford, has
travelled extensively in the French
domains of the Pacific, and how eyes
brightened as she inquired about mutual
friends!
Andre Brenac and his sparkling young
wife received and then moved among the
guests. Mrs. Jacques Playoust and Mrs.
Alice Brenac, of the French-Australian
League, helped to entertain. The wife
of Admiral Crace was there, and men-
tioned the coming visit of her sister from
Singapore.
Bobbing about among the various
groups could be seen Mary Best’s boat-
shaped hat with its graceful water-lily
cargo. Probably the Vere Mathews cafe
has never floated on such a wave of
laughter and gay talk. Typical of the
company was the young French lad from
the Indo-China bank in Tahiti. Gladys
Marks brought her impeccable French to
the party. Mrs. Marr Thompson, whose
brother is a pillar of strength to the Free
French movement in New Caledonia, was
a bright-eyed guest.
Mrs. Kenneth Urquhart, librarian to
the French Alliance, was smart in black
and pleased over her husband’s pro-
motion to the rank of commander in the
R.A.N. Jacques Playoust, Audrie
Ancelin, Mrs. Phillips-Fox and Janet
Solomon helped polish up the sunbeam
of the occasion.
Expert knitters, please remember that
entries for the knitting competition
arranged by the Anzac Fellowship of
Women close on March 28, and must
reach the clubrooms, Scot Chambers,
Hosking-place, not later than April 16.
The competition is being run to aid the
Babies’ Kit branch of the Fellowship,
and all entries become its property and
will be sent to clothe child air-raid vic-
tims in Britain. Prizes ranging from two
guineas to five shillings are to be won
for sets, and so on down to single gar-
ments. There is a section open to chil-
dren of 15 and under, and one for blind
knitters.
Betty Bryant, star of the film “Forty
Thousand Horsemen,” has done her bit
for the mobile kitchen which the jour-
nalists and artists of Sydney are giving
to England to help cheer the lot of the
air-raid victims. Yesterday she appeared
for the first time as a mannequin. She
displayed with grace up-to-the-minute
styles from Anthony Horderns’ at the
Trocadero. The occasion was styled
“Fashion Marches On,” and was served
to the accompaniment of teacups. The
only spots were the ones in Betty’s
leopard coat —a luxurious item in the
parade. Betty in a suit of heaven-blue
and, last of all, as a bride in ethereal
blues looked a dream girl. She sang,
too. “Make Love with a Guitar” and
“I Love You Truly” were her numbers.
Marie Ney, the Iven Mackay lady and
Mrs. John Collins were the guests of
honor. Photograph by John Lee.
Woman is to be catered for in a big
way at the R.A.S. Show this Easter. The
Manufacturers’ Hall is to bloom into the
Empire Temple of Beauty ; and disport-
ing in the rosebud garden of girls will
be mannequins dressed from crown to
heel in Australian-made clothes. In a
series of playlets they will live through
the typical day of the average girl.
The inner part of the Manufacturers’
Hall will be a theatre seating 2500. Sur-
rounding this will be a series of courts
and pavilions. At the old Spanish Inn
may be learned the value of wine in
cookery. There will be an ideal Aus-
tralian home with an ideal couple acting
as host and hostess. In the gingerbread
cottage children will present a child man-
nequin show. There’s to be a crystal
swimming pool. In short, the Easter
Show is going all modern. It’s to be
hoped they won’t begin streamlining the
cattle.
The P.E.N. Club is doing what it can
co encourage Australian writers. It has
resolved to recommend what, in the coun-
cil’s opinion, is the best Australian book
for 1941. The selection will be made
from all Australian publications, and will
be for the work of most outstanding
literary merit. The club’s recommenda-
tion will be announced in the press in dll
States. In addition, a prize of £5 ss. goes
to the author of the chosen work.
A younger committee has been formed
xo work for Air Force House. Already
the building is too small to supply the
demands on it for bed and board by the
young winged warriors. Mrs. C. Moir
is the president and Mrs. Kingsley Strack
vice-president of the new group ; and a
very active member is Margaret Beatty,
the publicity officer. The girls plan to
run a dance a month to raise funds. Mar-
garet is also a worker in the Mayor’s
Patriotic Fund younger group.
Another Salenger engagement. This
time it is Arthur, only son of the Ernest
Salengers, of Killara. His attractive be-
trothed is Patricia Wadley, daughter
of the Rupert Wadleys, of the same North
Shore suburb.
Old friends in Sydney’s amateur
theatre movements, Alfred Race and
Clarence Murphy will play in “The
Astonished Ostrich,” the Phoenix group’s
first play of the 1941 season. The
comedy is gay and sophisticated and has
pretty Gwen Logan for leading woman.
The author is Archie Menzies, the pro-
ducer Frederick Hughes. Opening night
will be March 15. The Conservatorium
and eight o’clock are the place and the
time.
Returned to Sydney last week, Aileen
Alpen, an Australian who lived in Poland
(Cracow was her address) for years.
Aileen has been living in England since
disaster overtook the much-wronged
country.
Dot Browne, social organiser of the
Benevolent Society, and J. P. Osborne are
collaborating in the staging of a sports
carnival at Sydney Sports Ground on
Thursday, March 20, at 8 p.m. in aid
of the Royal Hospital for Women. The
programme will be made up of sporting
events, including motor-racing. Musi-
cal and vocal items by leading theatrical
personalities will bring harmony to the
night.
Australia’s old friend Ella Shields in
a letter to Oswald Cheeke tells that she
is running a night club in New York.
It is a very exclusive, rather highbrow
type of dropping-in place, and has be-
come a centre for Australian and Eng-
lish residents of America’s great city.
Ella says she still loves Australia best
of all, and hopes to be back here after
the war.
Pierre Mann, up in Sydney from Mel-
bourne, where he has been busy with the
work of the Free French movement, is a
nephew of the Dr. Walter Burfitt couple.
He is a son of Captain Furneaux Mann,
who during the Spanish war was one of
the Non-Intervention Committee stationed
at Perpignan in the Pyrenees.
Every man from four upwards would
be proud to possess the model of the old
training-ship, the Tingira, which is to
be raffled for the Red Cross. A replica
of the clipper has been carved in teak
by Peter Petersen, a Norwegian resident
of Sydney. The teak is a bit of the old
ship herself. The model will be dis-
played at all committee meetings before
the Lady Gowrie Red Cross Fair on the
15th, for which it hopes to bring in a
cargo of doubloons.
Mrs. David Knox, publicity manager
for the Minerva Theatre, is going to
Melbourne next week to do advance
publicity for the Minerva’s season
there. The company will open with
“Room for Two,” and will go on
to “Susan and God.” While Mrs. Knox
is in Melbourne her doctor husband and
small daughter Anne will be looked after
by her mother, Mrs. E. Brown, of Johan-
nesburg, S’Africa.


hjhgj
\E RN a Professional Art
and earn while you learn.
'ieket Writing- is a remunerative,
iteresting occupation. H. & R.
raining is modern and thorough.
A r rite for free brochure.
department of Distribution
Hemingway & Robertson,
® ank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
fun . rack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all capital cities, Newcastle and
Launceston. 38AA/TSB
Personal and Missing Friends.
THOMAS JAMES and ALICE MINNIE LOW,
children of ARTHUR MARTIN and ALICE
KATE LOW {nee SMITH), wish to contact
those who advertised for them some years ago.
Will any relative or person having knowledge
of same please communicate with advertiser
No. 3261, CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY, LTD.,
Smith Street, Durban, South Africa?
KIDMAN. —Would anyone knowing the where-
abouts of MR. JOEL or JOE KIDMAN, last
heard of approximately 33 years ago, please
communicate with or forward his address to
MESSRS. A. N. HARDING & BREDEN,
Solicitors, “Wingello House,” Angel Place, Syd-
ney, New South Wales, who have information
that will result to Mr. Kidman’s monetary
benefit?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1905 of 1940.
BETWEEN ELIZABETH FINDLAY DOYLE
Petitioner and
ARTHUR PETER DOYLE Respondent.
TO ARTHUR PETER DOYLE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
FINDLAY DOYLE is commencing a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
in the said suit at the proper office at this said
Court on or before the 27th day of May 1941
and in the event of you not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fifth day of March, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chaffer
The autumn meetings at Flemington
drew to a close and climax with the Aus-
tralian Cup, run in perfect weather and
witnessed by so many people that the
V.R.C. officials were outdistanced in anti-
cipations of racebook requirements—the
books ran out by the time of the second
race. Clad in smiles, white gown and
cherry-red hat was Mrs. Mac Falkiner
(Jeannette Cullen that was), owner of
Cup winner Saul. Also rejoicing in pride
of possession of horseflesh was Mrs.
Harry Allen, who made an effort to come
to the meeting with the help of a stout
walking-stick—she’s convalescing from
an operation on her foot. Her big in-
terest was Velocity (owners Harry Allen
and E. J. Kennon), who tied with Tidal
Wave for third place in the big race. To-
gether were Mrs. Reg Baillieu and Mrs.
Ivor Manton, the former in a navy and
white figured frock, the latter in navy,
hat of sky-blue feathers and, just for luck,
an anklet under her sheer stocking. Punt-
ing together were Judge and Mrs. Foster.
Successful in choice of contrasting
accessories were Mrs. Geoff Grimwade,
who with her parchment crepe frock wore
burgundy gloves, bag and hat of gener-
ous proportions, and Mrs. Keith Tolhurst,
whose banajja-shaded dress with its knife-
pleated skirt went with lime-green
etceteras, including bow upon shoes. Also
wearing shoes of moment was Valerie
Palmer—hers were white with kid bows
at the back of the heel; otherwise, but
for her white hat, she was all pastel blue,
even unto gloves. Spots were profuse
and of all sizes and colors. Mrs. Des-
mond Cox wore hers as pinpoints all over
her hat and gloves, accompaniments for
a black frock. Barbara Stephens’s theme
in dots and purples played one tune for
skirt and turban and another for blouse.
Down from Albury were Lieut, and
Mrs. John Davis, John some eight pounds
heavier as a result of Peg’s cooking. Peg
conceded autumn a tunic of pastel-blue
wool worn with a black skirt, and cele-
b/ated her visit to town with a gardenia
tlicked into her turban. Mrs. J. L. Nor-
moyle brought along Mrs. Frederick
Cook, originally from England, who, plus
infant and nurse, recently arrived from
Sydney to live for the present at Frank-
ston. At the races she discovered a friend
of childhood days in Mrs. Richard Wool-
cott.
In abeyance for the moment is the
argument about women in uniform But
more and more women are needing uni-
forms, particularly of the nursing type, as
they become qualified to start getting
some practical experience in hospitals as
V.A.Ds., Red Cross auxiliary nurses, etc.
Regarding cost, which is an item in a
working woman’s budget, it seems that
prices vary considerably from store to
store. For instance, for one particular
type of V.A.D. indoor uniform the cost
varies for the dress lone from 245. to
335., and for an identical veil from 2s. 9d.
to 4s. 2d. Then come shoulder badges
at 2s. and cotton stockings which start
off at Is. 6d., though the woman who
still has any interest left in her legs
after visioning them clad in cotton can
pay up to 6s. lid. if she feels like it. The
recruit who makes her own dress doesn t
save much on this particular tailored uni-
form (she would on certain other overall
types). Cotton materials, plus buttons re-
quired, plus a mild Is. 4d. for machine-
made buttonholes, cost altogether 15s. 6d.
A Red Cross design pocket-patch is
Is. 6d., a paper pattern is Is.
But more important than the women
who stay at home are the nurses, each
of whom still has to drop about £6O of
her own savings before she can buy the
equipment necessary for A.I.F. service
abroad. Prices haven’t fallen. Each
nurse’s allowance is £4O, but she still
needs nearly £lOO to get all her kit.
Buttons alone present an interrogation
mark. Total number on each nurse’s
six cotton uniforms and one silk uniform
is 52. They look very ordinary metal, but
Florence Nightingale off to do a job for
her country has to buy them at 3d. each.
In the middle of March, if all goes
well, there will be victuals right on the
spot to buck up the inner man of the
young R.A.A.F. recruit while he’s in the
midst of enlisting. A canteen at the
recruiting office would be useful, but the
members of the committee who have been
getting on with the job haven’t hustled
unduly, for they were asked to keep in
low gear until the transference of the
depot from Vaughan House is an ac-
complished fact. The new depot will be
in Russell-street and the canteen with it
on the site of Preston Motors.
The president of the little band of
workers (official title, No. 1 Recruiting
Depot Canteen Auxiliary) is Mrs. J. R.
Murphy, who has proved her worth as an
organiser. “Assistant Minister for Air”
Mrs. J. McEwen is vice-president. The
hon. treasurer is Mrs. E. H. Young (who
is also vice-president of the C.W.A.),
and Mrs. C. H. Gillespie is hon. sec.
Donations of money will be received
with open arms, and once the canteen is
open foodstuffs will be welcome.
From England comes news of the en-
gagement of Elizabeth Margaret Lawson
(Broothorn photograph), who is the only
daughter of Mrs. J. A. Lawson, of Haw-
thorn. Her fiancd, Lieut. Roger Hough-
ton, R.A.S.C., was in civil life a solicitor.
Miss Lawson was in France studying
languages just before war broke out, but
has since discovered how much she likes
being a land girl. Before joining the
Women’s Land Army of Great Britain she
had had little experience of rural pur-
suits. She can now add theory to prac-
tical work, for she’s been attending an
agricultural college, and has been success-
ful in exams, favored for the land army
curriculum.
A reception like a plunge backwards
into the days of long kid gloves, presen-
tations upon a dais, and announcements
that music is forthcoming took place in
the Town Hall Council Chamber under
the stony gaze in oils of civic ancestors.
The occasion, at the instigation of the
Lord Mayor and Mrs. Beaurepaire, was
a reception for the carnival queens-elect,
who were presented by the chairmen of
their various committees, usually well-
established gentlemen wreathed in smiles
of beneficence in their roles of squires-
paternal.
G. D. Healy presented one of Com-
merce’s “Lilac Dominoes” (a brunette,
but not the same girl who wore a tulle
mask earlier in the day at the U.S. bridge
party). Mary Lundqvist, of the Essential
Services, was escorted by R. C. Evans,
whose signature is as familiar upon this
city’s gas bills as R. W. Chenoweth’s
is upon taxation documents. Tax-
gatherer Chenoweth was sponsor for
Betty Pritty as representative for the
Public Service —Betty being one of a
field of Public Service princesses in the
running. The candidate with the largest
number of votes becomes the P.S. queen.
Alured Kelly sponsored Jessie White, of
Industry and Munitions, who has given
up her munition-inspection job until the
carnival is over. She goes down to her
own factory once a week to talk to the
girls, visits other factories, and, in short,
is finding that public speaking isn’t quite
as formidable as she thought it would be.
William Angliss presented Strella
Wilson, who looked blooming in spite of
the fact that when someone inquired after
her health she murmured that she’d like
to borrow a pair of crutches until after
March 29. T. V. Millea introduced
Liquor queen Mrs. K. J. Corridon, im-
posing in blue lilac. A couple of beauty
girls, brunette Mabel Titus, of the Re-
tailers, and blonde Adele Cutten, of
Transport, were chaperoned respectively
by J. Briggs and one-time Lord Mayor
George Wales. Sport, like the Public
Service, still at the growing-pain stage,
was represented by Thelma Brereton,
princess of Cricket; she’s collecting votes
but she’s no girl cricketer, never having
handled a bat in her life. As offsider
she brought along Mary Kelly, princess
of Swimming, in black coat and gar-
denias in her hair. Both these girls have
full-time office jobs, and, with so many
evening engagements that they’re in
arrears over sleep, they’ve made resolu-
tions to have nine hours’ apiece every
night for a week once the carnival is
over.
At the Lord Mayor’s party Mrs. L.
Due took the bull of opportunity by the
horns and started off on her highly am-
bitious raffle, a plaque of cartoonist Arm-
strong’s “I Got a Date” in hand-beaten
copper with oxidised silver finish. The
plaque, which cost £lOO to manufacture,
was donated by Harry Heath. One thou-
sand raffle tickets have been printed at
one pound each. Proceeds are for
patriotic purposes.
Cooking pots are ready for tomorrow’s
(13th) Gargantuan meal when 2000-odd
curry tiffins will be served at the Town
Hall. There is room in the civic kitchens
for the cooking of the ton or so of meat
required, but not for the rice. H. Myer,
a mass-cookery specialist from the
Angliss Trade School, had a bad dream
one night when he saw the stuff expand-
ing so that it burst the walls of the civic
building. It is to be cooked at Myer’s
and transported by fire engine in caul-
drons lent by the Chinese shops of Mel-
bourne. The rice cooks have staked
their reputation on the fact that every
grain will be separate.
Heaters have been installed to keep
the rice at palatable temperature at the
Town Hall, and the service should be fast
and efficient, for professional waitresses
of Ferguson’s, caterers at Flemington
racecourse, are giving their time volun-
tarily. There will be three sittings, at 12,
12.40 and 1.30. Those who want to stay
on and see more of the fun can join up
with the delicate digestions (who can’t eat
curry) in the gallery, open for Is., for
there will be a lot to watch and listen to,
including the Tivoli’s new Crazy Show
doing a 25 minutes’ turn at each session.
The Railways are lending their pots
and pans—quite a gesture from an
organisation that is pledged to a rival
queen, the Queen of Transport. Fire-
men and fire engines by their co-opera-
tion are helping their own queen, for the
curry spread is for Mary Lundqvist of
the Essential Services. (The only thing
that Mary and her pals are scared of is
a big fire on the 13th.) Practically all the
food has been given, and the Parks and
Gardens are lending willow-trees and
botanical products without too rigidly
sticking to a botanical atmosphere.
Originally there was a feeling for a
kampong atmosphere, with bamboos and
monkeys swinging from vine to vine.
But that was when the idea was an inno-
cent little brainwave for a lunch in a
private house for a mild 150. Sponsor
is the Originality Branch of the Com-
forts Fund, a band of brighter-minded
women with whom Mrs. Lundqvist asso-
ciates. The president is Mrs. Jack
Kemelfield, possessor of organising ability
as well as a pleasant smile and the sort
of temperament that doesn’t get ruffled.
Mrs. Arthur Laver is vice-president, Mrs.
Norman Gadsden hon. sec. and Polly
Pyke treasurer.
One of last week’s brides was Mary
Browne (Spencer Shier photograph), who
was married at St. John’s, Toorak, to
Leading-Aircraftman Oliver Harrington
McCutcheon, R.A.A.F., usually known
as Mick. He’s the only son of the late
Arthur McCutcheon and of Mrs. Mc-
Cutcheon, of East Malvern. The tall and
beauteous young bride is the daughter of
Max Browne, of Washington-street, and
the late Mrs. Browne, and claims Aus-
tralia as her adopted country, having
arrived here a few years ago.
Bestowing her presence upon a bridge
party at the United Services Cafd Gladys
Moncrieff furthered her good wishes for
the Queen of Commerce with “I Was
Dreaming” and a couple of encores. The
party, which filled the dining-room with
players and stayers, was organised by
the women’s committee of the Commerce
group. The “Lilac Domino,” who entered
in her official disguise, was introduced,
sold raffle tickets, etc., and then suc-
cumbed to a reverie in a corner. Being
an unknown she couldn’t risk giving her-
self away by talking too much —in fact,
there seemed only one safe subject left,
the weather —so the veiled identity chose
the only alternative, silence and smile.
Assisting at the party were Mrs. G. D.
Healy, Mrs. Essington Lewis, Mrs. S. F.
Ferguson and several Americans who are
all out on the Commerce drive. Mrs.
Jim Clymer handled coin of the realm
as neatly as any bank teller. Mrs. Jud
Holt did some propaganda for a picture
night at the Village Theatre on the 25th.
Engaged last week, Mary Reid and Dr.
Alan McCay. Mary, who is the younger
daughter of the W. S. Reids, of East
Camberwell, is interested in art. While
abroad she studied at the Slade School
and more recently with Napier Waller.
Her fianc6 is fourth in the family of five
sons of the late J. McCay and Mrs. Mc-
Cay, of East St. Kilda, all five of whom
have been endowed with a fair share of
brains in a scientific direction. Norman
is an electrical engineer ; Reg, in Queens-
land, and Frank, on Fanning Island, are
with Eastern Extension. Bill, the
youngest, sat last week for his final med.
exams. Alan, who is being much con-
gratulated at the moment, is a Collins-
street dentist. When anyone commends
the fact that he’s one of a quintet of
sons Alan says he feels like a quintuplet
—the association of ideas coming from
his meeting with the Dionne quins. While
in Canada studying for his degree he
had the opportunity of attending to the
teeth of the prodigies as one of the assis-
tants to the Dean of the Faculty of
Dentistry of Toronto University.
A well-known figure in Melbourne,
though he hasn’t been in this country
very long, is Captain F. Spencer Chap-
man, who came here on a special job of
work but manages to find time occasion-
ally for lecturing or for relaxation to swing
music at the Embassy. He wears kilts,
and he’s tall, young and handsome, but
he’s also a number of other things, i.e.,
a botanist, naturalist, surveyor, teacher,
soldier, author, explorer and mountain-
climber, and his mountains are moun-
tains, Chomolhari being the most adven-
turous effort. His new book, From
Helvellyn to the Himalayas, presents a
picture of interest. His Lhasa, the Holy
City, was an earlier work, the subject-
matter for which was gathered while he
acted for several months as private secre-
tary on a military mission from India
to Tibet.
Captain Chapman has been twice to
Greenland, and also led an expedi-
tion to Lapland. He’s also had time to
qualify as a teacher, and was a master at
Gordonstoun, a school in the north of
Scotland —hence his interest in youth
movements. Last month he gave a lec-
ture to the lads at the Exhibition Youth
Centre, tough youngsters from Carlton,
who sat spellbound while in imagination
they, too, scaled inaccessible pinnacles.


MACMILLAN BOOKS
IN DEMAND
STEFFAN GREEN
By Richmal Crompton
A delightfully written story of a woman who,
having divorced her husband, felt that her world
had crumbled. How she found a new world in
the little village of Steffan Green is here told.
Price 9/6; posted 10/-
THE CREW OF THE ANACONDA
By A. G. Macdonell
An exciting story of espionage in the present war.
Price 9/6; posted 10/-
THE HERRIES CHRONICLE
By Hugh Walpole
The four famous Herries books in one volume
of nearly 1500 pages, at the very low price of
12/6; posted 13/6
AS I REMEMBER HIM
By Hans Zinsser
The biography of a doctor, which has already
been an enormous success in America.
Price 16/-; posted 16/9
These books may be obtained from, booksellers;
ivholesale only from
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON, W.C.3.
THE SERVICE MAN
Setting a Trap?
“Ek Dum”: It took the Germans
about four days to cross Bulgaria
and reach positions commanding the
entrances to Greece and the Turkish
border. They entered by every pass that
was open along the length of the Danube
—by the very routes, in fact, by which
the Germanic tribes invaded southern
Europe 1600 years ago, when the Romans
allowed the Goths to cross the Danube
and had Adrianople sacked for their
pains. In that day, incidentally, the only
community along the Aigean which held
out was one small Greek town —Gibbon
tells the story.
Moscow had known since the begin-
ning of January that Bulgaria was
threatened. In that very month it an-
nounced a new trade treaty with Ger-
many. It protested, in its fashion, against
the invasion of Bulgaria, but its protest
was made after the event, and was
directed to the victim, not to the spoiler.
It did not even yelp when Germans took
over the two ports of Bulgaria which
definitely threaten the Black Sea entrance
to the Bosphorus and the only sea
trade route available to Russian ships
to and from the Baku oilfields and the
most fertile Russian provinces.
For nearly five months of the cam-
paign in Greece and Albania Germany
did not declare war on Greece. Thus
it has been possible for Russian and
German cargoes which could run the
blockade to make western Greek ports.
With the Dardanelles adjacent, and
Turkey at peace with both Russia and
Germany, it would be possible for Russia
to deliver goods by sea through the Bos-
phorus and from Black Sea and Marmora
shores almost directly into the hands of
the German commissariat.
The advantages of the new invasion
for the Germans the disadvantages
have been mentioned elsewhere—include
control of railways and ports and native
foreign labor supplies—there has been a
labor shortage for army purposes in Ger-
many for months. They can use Bul-
garian coal and Rumanian wheat and
timber. And, as it doubtless seems to
them, they can run down through Greece,
forcing J. Bull either to land a large
number of troops in that country or lay
himself open to an Axis accusation that he
has deserted his gallant little ally Greece,
as well as Yugoslavia and Turkey.
Rome Radio asserts that a division of
Canadians has been landed at Salonika.
This, if true, does not necessarily presage
a large-scale adventure.
Indeed, Britain is not likely to be
caught in any trap or to risk another
Gallipoli.
The Black Sea entrances and the
Adriatic and the Aegean are the places
which should be sealed. Rust, stalemate
and the weariness which comes to in-
active armies as to men are the con-
ditions which British commanders will
probably be eager to enforce on the
German armies of the Grecian border
along the range of Rhodope, where
malaria lurks in every village most
summers, and rain, snow and influenza
on a wholesale scale keep starvation and
the wolves company in winter.
100,000 Furphies.
“Ek Dum”: A New York “Times”
man discovered last week that Hitler
had landed “more than” 100,000
troops, accessory dive-bombers and
1000 tanks in Libya. A “high
British official” in Washington re-
marked that the British Government
had been in touch with the source of
the reporter’s information ai\d that it
was “reasonably certain” that the figures
were, “to say the least, premature.” The
British are masters of .the art of under-
statement.
It is admitted that some German
armored forces are in Tripoli. On two
occasions detachments presumed to
be German have been discovered
nibbling tentatively at British out-
posts west of El Agheila and about 150
miles from Benghazi. But the “Times”
man’s tale, on the face of it, was more
like a Jules Verne yarn than a report
by a sober newspaper.
The movement of German troops, it
was asserted, had been in progress “more
than a week.” “The manner of trans-
port” had “not yet been ascertained,”
but it was “believed” that the route
taken was by way of islands in the
eastern Mediterranean which are free
from “British interference.”
To move “more than” 100,000 troops
and 1000 tanks, plus adequate dive-
bomber support, within a little more than
a week, even across the short gap formed
by the Sicilian Straits, would take at least
1,500,000 tons of shipping and weeks of
base organisation. It would call for a
vast air escort or naval escort; in fact,
a widespread effort by railways, roads,
ferries from Italy to Sicily, and from
Sicily to Africa, which the regularly
patrolling R.A.F. and R.N. and F.A.A.
could not fail to miss.
Yet it seems that these expeditioners
went to Tripoli to catch Suez and Egypt
in a “pincer move.” It is a first essential
of pincer movements that they should
be quick and should be watertight at the
angle, and that conditions should be such
as to allow swift inswinging of the arms
of the pincer, so that the foe may not
escape its crushing. The Tripoli force
which is supposed to form one side is
1000 miles from Suez—as far as Rome
is from London. The Balkans and
Tripoli forces are 800 miles apart.
The interior of the “pincer” is fully
controlled by an aggregation of forces
consisting of the British and Australian
Navies, the British and Turkish and
Greek Armies and several air forces, all
of some tonnage. The time element is
such that if pressure were possible from
two sides which it isn’t because of
British naval and air strength and two-
way access to the Mediterranean—
Keitel’s miserable victims would have
plenty of time to meet it.
Outside the “pincer” and quite handy
to the northern arm, Britain controls all
the oil, all the salient railways, all the
ports and landing grounds. Outside the
southern end all the resources of Africa
are in her hands. The angle-joint of
the “pincer” leaks through the Red Sea
on such a scale that it isn’t a joint at
all, and even if the Canal were blocked
it couldn’t be turned into a joint; neither
could the Tripoli-Sicilian end of the
formation.
There is some chance, irrespective of
the purpose for which they are to be
used, that a fair number of Germans
were moved to Tripoli by air. A Condor
troop-carrier can move 32 fully-armed
men. But even a squadron of Condors
needs an escort of several squadrons of
fighters, and it is doubtful, in any case,
whether the aerodromes round Tripoli
are now in a state to allow the landing
of heavy ’planes on any scale. And
equipment on the scale needed for 2\
Panzer divisions, plus all the para-
phernalia of Stuka and fighting squad-
rons, could only be moved by sea, apart
from very light tanks ; and very light
tanks would be no use against our
Hussar equipment.
The Pressure on Italy.
“Ek Dum”: Events in Albania and
Africa are running their natural course.
The Greeks have been obliged to take
consolidating steps in view of the Ger-
man advance along the northern border,
but the pressure is still being kept up at
Valona, and the central line of Greek
attack is bulging inwards towards the
Adriatic to such an extent that the
Italians were last week caught in their
own crossfire. Several hundred of them
were killed by their own shells.
One of the most dastardly crimes per-
petrated during the present war was the
bombing of Larissa after it had been
severely damaged by an earthquake
which caused heavy casualties on March
1. Athens Radio afterwards stated that
the five bombers which made the attack
had been shot down. The R.A.F. also
bagged five bombers near Corfu and
several other ’planes.
On Friday and Saturday the Greeks
were engaged in a new drive in which
they took new heights and 2070 prisoners.
Athens reports that it has been defi-
nitely established that there are 24
Italian divisions in Albania —prisoners
have been taken from each of them —
and that a “moderate estimate” of Italian
strength on the Greek front is 450,000 men.
In Somaliland the British and African
forces have begun to skitter alt over the
country. More than 10,000 prisoners
have surrendered. The end of Keren’s
resistance is very near. British troops are
in the outskirts all round the town, which
is frequently pounded by aircraft. The
Italians reported that their troops
“counter-attacked forces attempting to
filter through the Italian lines at night
and captured a number of prisoners.”
But they admitted at the week-end that
the position at Keren was “very critical”
and that their troops were “nearly cut
off” from Asmara.
Further south, in the Gojjam country,
where the fires of Abyssinian revolt have
burnt for a fortnight in the high ranges
near Burye, about 20,000 Italians and
native troops are falling back to Debra
Markos, which is connected with Addis
Ababa by 120 miles of motor road. The
Italians were driven headlong out of
Burye, many of their troops deserting.
It can be only a matter of days before
there is a general collapse of Italian resist-
ance in Eritrea, paving the way for a
new series of movements all round the
circle of the Libyan fronts.
From the corner where Italian Somali-
land joins Kenya a fresh invasion of
Abyssinia has begun. It has reached
Dolo, where the Italians have an aero-
drome connected by road with Addis
Ababa, 120 miles to the north-west.
Blitz Revives.
“Aileron”: Last week showed definite
signs of a revival of air activity over
Britain on a large scale. It opened with
a severe raid on Cardiff, Wales, and
other western towns.
The R.A.F. maintained its persistent
attacks on German objectives along the
North Sea coast and in parts of western
Germany. On March 5, a day on which
few bombs were dropped on England,
it made a whirlwind assault on French
coastal points, and particularly on
Boulogne. Apart from ground damage
it destroyed a two-engined Messerschmitt
and damaged six others, which were
“probably destroyed.” The Germans,
despite their comparative inactivity,
claimed to have bombed Portsmouth and
destroyed a minelayer.
At sea there were several flurries over
the Atlantic, in one of which an Aus-
tralian Sunderland was the centre. It
tackled three Junker 88’s, shot down
one and put the others to flight. The
fight was pushed down to within 100
feet of the sea and within 200 yards’
range. One of the two escaping bombers
was so badly damaged that there was
not much chance of its reaching home.
On March 6 there was considerable
activity over East Anglia and Kent and
part of London. Casualties were few
and damage small, though the Germans
claimed to have destroyed construction
hangars and damaged several ’planes at
Fitton. A few bombs were dropped in
the west of England at dusk.
After further attacks the Blitz came
back in earnest on Saturday night. The
dance bands were blaring and restau-
rants were full of men and women when
waves of Germans began to come over
the Thames Estuary to begin a night of
senseless and brutal slaughter in the West
End. A restaurant filled with a dancing
crowd was hit with horrible results.
Various buildings were demolished ; the
casualties included four policemen. The
Air Ministry nonchalantly remarked that
the attack was “sharp at times.” It
ceased before midnight, but the deathroll
was heavy. Four enemy bombers were
destroyed during the day.
The Germans said nothing of the
slaughter of the innocents. They claimed
to have attacked R.A.F. bases north of
London and on the east coast of Scot-
land and the Orkneys, “destroying” a
large number of ’planes on the ground,
and “violently” attacking harbor and
dock installations along the Thames,
causing several fires. They also claimed
hits on harbor works at Portsmouth.
February’s air-raid toll was light by
comparison with previous months—7B9
civilians killed and 1068 wounded.
During the week ended at daylight on
March 7 the R.A.F. made 12 raids on
Germany and occupied France. Wil-
helmshaven, Emden, Lorient a main
Channel U-boat base—Boulogne, Brest,
Rotterdam and Cologne all had a hot
time.
Nelson's Day Comes Back.
“Nobby II”: If the ghosts of Nelson
and “Blue Billy” Cornwallis and Hardy
and “Dismal Jimmy” Gambier happen
to be flying round the coasts of Europe,
it must seem like home to them again.
The Royal Navy is doing much the
same things in much the same way as
the seasoned tars who applied the know-
ledge which they had gained in the early
wars of the French Revolution to twist-
ing the tails of Villeneuve and his succes-
sors. The main difference is that they
were long-distance runners, not sprinters.
Nelson did not leave his ship for two
years during the chase after the French
Fleet which ended at Trafalgar.
It must be said for the Churchill Gov-
ernment that it has helped in the restora-
tion of the old spirit, since it has given
much of the old right of personal initia-
tive to its commanders, even though they
are easier to communicate with than in
any previous war.
Cunningham’s small bits-o’-fun have
the Nelson touch. Most of them sound
like personal inspirations carried out by
the proper successors of the young cap-
tains who went looking for amusement
along the French and Spanish coasts
from Aigues Mortes west, and round the
Channel, before Napoleon went to Elba.
The earlier generation sailed in fast
frigates, whose function was to act as
couriers and to “bring the enemy to
action,” or in two-decker 74’s, the equiva-
lent of our medium cruisers. They slipped
in with their 18-pounders under the 42-
pounder batteries of the French coast.
They landed parties. They stole cattle
and burned boats. They played merry
hell with marching troops which came
near enough the coast to be within range
of grape, and generally they kept Bona-
parte’s coastal defences on the hop and
his vessels on the run or hiding.
If there wasn’t a frigate available, or if
the water was too shallow, they were not
above using a cutter.
Their heirs operate with cruisers, from
Sydney size down to the fast m.t.bs., but
have added a dimension to their offen-
sive area since the Fleet Air Arm came
into being. The enemy operating surface
craft has learned little since the last war
despite Von Tirpitz’s sour expositions of
the effect which rusting has on the morale
of a fully-trained fleet.
A flat tub that might be a fishing barge
looms out of the mist off the Dutch coast
where some large German supply ship is
sheltering among the tortuous channels.
Its bows suddenly heave up the water in
two walls as it heels safely on top of the
minefield. A streak of foam draws a
line across the sea toward the supply
ship, which usually is in no position to
manoeuvre. The modest tap of the auto-
mobile auxiliary engine which has been
propelling the strange craft gives place
to the shattering roar of 2000-h.p. Barrels
poke their noses into the sky from the
region of her navel. And, in a whirl of
spray, white ensign aloft, the crew of
beardless boys who happen to be running
that particular m.t.b. drive her 70ft.
or 50ft. hull homeward at the speed of
an express train, pausing only to look
round as the supply ship takes a 21 in.
torpedo to its heart and makes an ambi-
tious attempt to hop over the Milky Way.
Or perhaps all is quiet on Castelrosso,
which is a little Italian island in the Dode-
canese, sitting in halcyon seas within an
easy swim of the Turkish shore. It has
been turned into a strong base. It h? s
just off the borders of the part of Asia
Minor which ambitious Germans have
marked out on their maps as their own.
In case of Turkey coming into the war
it would be a handy spot for Stukas,
apart from the fact that it is only 1 /
miles from Cyprus as the crow flies, oo
one morning F.A.A. machines swoop
over it, behave like a hailstorm and make
way for hurrying destroyers. Blue o
white and khaki-clad landing parties com
ashore quietly, eating a few machine-gu
bullets, and give the countryside thei
tender care for a little while. Presen y
they leave. They have handed Mu?s-
back his island. They don’t want i
the British Empire has so many desen
islands that in the Pacific she has e
giving them away to Uncle Sam but
Navy has had its fun. . t
The Admiralty tersely reported tnai
British forces withdrew after achiev *
their objective. The Italian accoun
that five disembarkation ships had e


Cjood
tfeaiiuy
• Good hearing is within reach of those
who suffer from deafness ... as a no-
obligation demonstration of the Western
Electric AUDIPHONE will quickly prove.
Inconspicuous, efficient and economical, it
enables the user to hear at greater
distances, to enjoy new hearing ease and
comfort. A product of the world’s greatest
sound laboratories, it is the ideal instru-
ment for YOUR needs. Bone and Air
conduction types available.
THE AUDIPHONE CO..
M.L.C. Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTY.. DTD.,
870—37 j Bo ut /.' c Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 G awl e r Place, Adelaide
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
683 Hay Street, Perth.
FINDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
Apollo House, Brisbane St., Launceston.
Western Electric
AUDIPHONE
HEARING AID
hit with heavy bombs, and when the
British withdrew under cover of night
and superior sea forces a destroyer’s
torpedo caused an explosion on a British
light cruiser. In a fight lasting half an
hour “the Italians were masters of the
situation and killed or captured 300
raiders.”
Next came the special breakfast given
for the Huns of the Lofoten Islands
off Narvik. On March 4, people in the
fish-oil factory o-n Svolvor and the crews
of the large fleet of German and stolen
vessels round the anchorage beheld some-
thing coming over the horizon which
looked like a new brand of aurora. It
proved to be white ensigns in line at the
main peaks of a surprise party of British
light naval forces. The visitors had a
mandate to cut off the glycerine supplies
which were going from the island fish-
oil factory to Germany and to clear the
locality of Germans and German ships.
With methodical precision, they landed
British and Norwegian troops on the
island, killed a few naval Germans and
burnt the factory after it had been
pounded a bit. Then they sank a cap-
tured Norwegian ship and 10 German
ships, the largest of which was 10,000
tons, heaved 225 prisoners aboard the
destroyers and embarked 300 liberty-
loving Norwegians and a few “Quislings.”
After thoughtfully supplying the remain-
ing loyal inhabitants with tobacco, soap
and “other comforts,” including no doubt
that one which Norwegians and the R.N.
mutually appreciate on a cold day—
et glas avakit —they retired without a
casualty.
Until recently the destroyer man looked
askance at the big ship as something like
an old gentleman who shoots tame pheas-
ants in a spinney. A great deal of the
revival of the Nelson spirit is due to the
Jacky Fisher theory of speed and versa-
tility, plus the replacement of sea frigates
by sky frigates. Even big ships are in-
fected with the adventurous spirit, and
an admiral can go rat- or rabbit-hunting
now. He has 32 knots under him, and
he has a perfect gunshop of small arms
suitable for all kinds of light sport, apart
from tiger and elephant guns.
Hence, though the owners of the big
ships patrol majestically up and down,
much in the manner of “Blue Billy” and
“Dismal Jimmy,” two cable lengths apart,
like the old wooden walls, they “sweep”
instead of cruise, or “range”—Nelson’s
word —and at the slightest provocation
they are mixed up in a chase. Admirals
once more have become a lean breed
built to fit into a destroyer’s gun room
—Tovey, of the Home Fleet, is one ;
Cunningham, of the Mediterranean
Fleet is another—an officer, as Collins of
Sydney says, who is “always pulling our
leg a bit.”
There are things, of course, they can-
not do, but not many when they put
their minds to it. And they have plenty
of ships to play with, which makes for
versatility and a share in the fun for
everybody. By the end of this year
Britain will have 19 battleships and
battle-cruisers, seven of them almost as
fast as most medium cruisers, but with
all the strength of fortresses H.M.S.
George V (“Prendergast’s yacht”) can
sling around about 15 tons of metal a
minute with her ten 14-inchers and 16
5.25’s all ablaze. The R.N., before 1941
is out, will have 256 destroyers at least,
which is 21 more than Japan, France,
Italy and Germany together, and this
takes no account of foreign ships at its
disposal. It will have an aircraft-carrier
capacity greater than that of the rest
of the world put together. It will have
twice as many cruisers as Uncle Sam
and a third more than France, Italy and
Germany together. It has more small
armed craft and auxiliary converted
cruisers than the rest of the Great Powers
put together.
Only in submarines is Britain weak,
but she has sufficient for her purposes.
The position throughout the world
now is that British armed ships may still
go anywhere. The auxiliaries run a
risk of meeting the overwhelming power
of a battleship ; the destroyers run the
same risks as the British badger dog when
he goes underground, and they sometimes
come home in pieces or not at all.
But the fact remains that even British
converted merchantmen are able to sail
the seven seas without hoisting the
Japanese flag and painting “South Sea
Maru” on their sides in Japanese. The
R.N. as usual shows its flag in every port
in the world outside enemy countries and
often in enemy ports as well.
Among the R.N.’s records for 18 months
are included the bombardment of every
main enemy or resistant port along the
African coast for 8000 miles from
Kismayu to Dakar.
It was the primal agency which
got the British armies safely out of
Norway, Belgium, France and Berbera.
It has battered, by sea or air,
Italy s most vital home ports from Bari
and Taranto to Genoa, and the ports
which are the main blood-vessels of the
Italian campaign in Albania, without
whiqh the Italian armies must bleed to
death.
The Italian fleets have been driven off
the sea and out of the sky. Most of the
Reichsmarine is in irons “in the brig.”
Islands inside the Italian zone in the
northern Mediterranean—Lemnos, Crete
—have been occupied at will.
The Italian straits between Sicily and
Tripoli have been mined, patrolled and
generally mastered. The F.A.A. ven-
tured into the Messina Straits and bom-
barded naval vessels there.
On the German side, every port
along the North Sea has been bom-
barded from sea or air. Under
the noses of strong naval forces,
Cossack woke the Altmark prisoners
with the historic shout “The Navy is
here.” And in the middle of the Scan-
dinavian melee, in weather which must
have made even the codfish sick, de-
stroyers waltzed into the Baltic and out
again, leaving a trail of mines. They
occupied Iceland and dived into Narvik
harbor under the barrels of superior
German guns and, reckless of conse-
quences, and with the loss of many gal-
lant lives, made the harbor look like
Tipperary Point on July 12.
If there is any fault about the R.N.,
it is an apparent overanxiety which dis-
regards the advice of a veteran of
Admiral Jacky Fisher’s day to a gun room
full of fledglings: “When a man insults
you, don’t throw the decanter stopper at
him. Be calm. Take careful aim and
throw the decanter.” Hence there have
been losses which could have been
avoided.
There also have been enemy losses
which would have been avoided had the
R.N. shown a sense of proportion and
a tendency not to take on something
which it ought not to have been able to
handle.
The Graf Spee was one instance where,
against the rules of caution, the stopper
instead of the decanter was thrown with
good effect; the Sydney’s bag of the B.
Colleoni was another —there was a
second Italian cruiser present and, de-
stroyers or no destroyers, the pair should
have been able to hack Sydney into raw
steak. A third was the first essay on
Narvik last year; a fourth the forlorn-
hope stand of Fogarty Fegen and his
Jervis Bay, which saved hundreds of
lives and millions of pounds’ worth of
cargo and shipping.
U-boats and Tonnage.
When the last war broke out a U-boat
campaign was not part of the basic
German plan. Germany had only 28
U-boats, and a large number of them
were for harbor defence. It was only in
the winter of 1914, after the first offen-
sive in France had failed and the country
was beginning to feel the pinch of the
naval blockade, that the U-boat war, in
which several British cruisers and de-
stroyers, including Aboukir, Cressy and
Hague, had been sunk, was extended to
merchant shipping.
In 1914, the total ship tonnage of the
world had been 45,000,000 tons, and of
this over 6,000,000 tons had been in Ger-
man and Austrian hands. Of the re-
mainder, 10,000,000 tons was withdrawn
from commerce by Britain for military
purposes ; 4,500,000 tons was absorbed
for war use or tied up for various reasons
by France, Italy and Russia ; 1,000,000
tons was lost through acts of God. To
carry the whole of the commerce of the
world outside Germany and Austria and
outside the ships transferred to military
uses there was available, roughly,
23,500,000 tons. The Germans sank an
amount equal to nearly half of it. The
losses were offset by construction of
6,000,000 tons to the end of 1917, and
a great deal more in 1918. Of this most
came from British and U.S. yards.
This war began, and has progressed,
statistically, on a worse basis. At the
end of 1938 the world’s deep-sea shipping
totalled 64,500,000 tons.
The British Empire (inclusive of Ameri-
can Great Lakes shipping) had 1062
fewer ships and 1,216,000 fewer gross
tons than in 1914—9061 ships,
20,719,000 tons. Great Britain and
Ireland owned 6847 ships (1744 fewer
than 1914) and 17,675,404 tons gross.
About 9,000,000 tons belonged to
U.S.A., and 15*000,000-odd tons is in
Axis or French hands. In effect, the
gross tonnage available for Britain’s
uses and those of the world was not much
more in 1939 than that available for
military and commercial purposes in the
last war, and there are fewer units —ves-
sels are much larger. Britain’s two big-
gest liners together are equal in tonnage
to the half-dozen biggest ships of 1914.
It was the convoy system which de-
feated the U-boat in the last war. So
far it has been the convoy system, plus
the Sunderland bomber, detection devices
and a perfected anti-submarine mine
technique which have kept it within
bounds in the present war.
Merchant shipping losses for the week
to midnight on Feb. 16 amounted to 17
ships (15 were British), totalling 54,443
tons; for the week to midnight on
February 23,14 ships (all but one British),
totalling 60,868 tons. Hitler, bellowing
on February 24, claimed that 215,000 tons
of British shipping had been sunk on the
previous two days. The earlier week’s
total included ships sunk by the raider
which attacked the convoy off the
Azores ; it transpires that seven were lost,
one having been sunk by a sub. 12 days
after the raider made off. The enemy
continues to publish fantastic reports of
sinkings, but it is significant that “several
great liners, each carrying 1500 to 2000
Canadian troops,” were convoyed across
the Atlantic “unharmed by bombs, shells,
torpedoes or mines.” Canadian warships
and former American destroyers took
part in this striking operation, which ran
to a split-second schedule.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The Admiralty has had
a good laugh at the German statistics of
warship sinkings. They claimed the de-
struction of 34 battleships and battle-
cruisers out of the 15 which Britain pos-
sessed in 1939; 13 aircraft-carriers out
of seven ; 102 cruisers out of 62 ; 114
destroyers out of 185; and 71 sub-
marines out of 58.
* * * *
According to First Lord Alexander,
401 Italian and German ships, totalling
2,028,000 tons, plus 60,000 tons under
enemy control, have been sunk since the
war began. In addition, 54 vessels of
281,000 tons are now in British service
and 642,000 tons of Italian and 350,000
tons of German ships are tied up in
neutral harbors. Losses of enemy ships
are apart from loss of tonnage in mine-
fields which never has been reported to
the Admiralty. At the outbreak of war
Germany and Italy between them owned
about 7,500,000 tons of mercantile ships,
so that nearly half the whole has gone
west or been immobilised in neutral
ports. One German ship, the Lech,
3200 tons, succeeded in reaching Rio last
week after a 31-day voyage, but the
captain very prudently does not propose
to return till after the war.
* H= * *
Official estimate of the number of
prisoners captured in the 62 days of the
Libyan campaign is 133,295, with 1200
guns. The price of the capture of Italian
Somaliland, of which all the vital parts
have been occupied, is only 52 killed, 151
wounded and two missing.
* * * *
Malta is suffering continual raids be-
cause of its proximity to Sicilian aero-
dromes taken over by the Germans. It is
worth almost any enemy effort to keep the
British fleet out of Valetta, where it has
a vast base strongly defended. Rome says
that German bombers are “repeatedly”
attacking the air base and port installa-
tions, and that in a recent raid three
Hurricanes were shot down and three
grounded ’planes destroyed. The greatest
raid of the week was on March 5, when
the German High Command reported
that Stukas, escorted by fighters, had
successfully attacked one of the island
aerodromes. The R.A.F. replied that
100 machines were involved in the attack,
which was fierce, that 16 were brought
down and that only one British fighter
was lost. Malta is a tough nut to crack.
Its natural surface is rock, which has
been well tunnelled out, and barracks
and other military installations are well
spread out over miles of country. Both
harbors are ideal for A.A. defence.
* * * *
To a shrewd observer in Boston, Dun-
kirk was a blessing in disguise, for it
marked “the disappearance of the
Western Front myth.”
Britain may have only a fraction of the
men assembled on the Allied front in 1916-
17, but everything she has is effective. She
may have lost most of the Continent,
but the Continent is a seething mass of dis-
content and incipient rebellion, so the
German occupation is only partially effec-
tive. Moreover, if she does not control the
land, she controls the sea and the air to
cover the enemy’s weak points with absolute
sureness. The Navy is the key to British
policy today.
In other words, the old blue-water school
was essentially right. As Tennyson wrote
53 years ago in verses inspired by a
speech delivered by Victoria’s Graham
Berry, the fleet is still our “all in all” —
with the armies and air forces of the
Empire playing auxiliary roles. Mussolini
has been whipped with comparatively
small forces ; with larger forces Hitler
can be checked and finally reduced.
Every lengthening of his lines and every
increase of garrisons necessary to keep
down sullen peoples weaken him. “Con-
quest has made me what I am ; conquest
must sustain me,” Napoleon said. It
didn’t, and it won’t —it can’t sustain
Hitler.
* * * *
The Commonwealth is considering a
compulsory-insurance plan to cover death
or injury within Australia due to enemy
action. A further scheme to cover
property is under consideration. Britain
has had its scheme in operation for some
time.
* * * *
“Tuart”: There is some grumbling
among Old Diggers at the division of
the Young Diggers into so many overseas
defence zones. The veterans point out
that they and their mates were happiest
and did their most effective work in
France when they were grouped in one
Australian army with an Australian com-
mander ; and that, under present arrange-
ments, it may be difficult for Australians
to be rested or reinforced by Australians,
although this is obviously desirable. The
Maoriland Government has had to answer
some criticism on the same score. Fraser,
the P.M., said “It was never intended that
our troops should be employed piece-
meal, for that would mean losing their
identity.”
The first echelon was transferred to
Egypt to complete its training. The second
echelon was diverted to England because of
Italy’s decision to enter the war, and was
placed in the Dover Command. The third
echelon reached Egypt later in the year,
and immediately began advanced training.
Until this training is completed the third
echelon cannot be combined with the first,
and as the second echelon is also absent
from Egypt, the N.Z. Division cannot be
formed. Had the first echelon been incor-
porated in some other formation and
suffered serious casualties, delay in the com-
pletion and employment of the division as
a whole would have taken place.
In effect, the P.M. made it clear that it
is intended that the Maorilanders should
fight as a division ; and “when the division
is concentrated and before it takes the
field it will be fully equipped.”
* * * *
“Nobby II”: The Leander class of
cruisers, to which belong Ajax, Achilles,
Sydney, Hobart, Perth and Orion, has
figured gloriously in the history of this
war. Latest triumph is credited to
Leander, one of Maoriland’s two vessels
of the type, which picked up the Italian
Government - owned merchant cruiser
Ramb I (3667 tons), flying the
British red ensign and sporting a
battery of 4.7 in. guns, in the Indian
Ocean. Ramb I, which has about
18 knots speed, hauled up her own
colors and opened fire. Captain Bevan
threw five broadsides from his six-
inchers into her and she then struck.
She was fiercely on fire and sank 50
minutes later. It is possible that the
Ramb I had a hand in the destruction
of some of the eight merchant ships
which have gone down in the Indian
Ocean since the war began. Ships of the
Ramb I type are armed only for banditry,
not for battle.
* * * *
The Admiralty at the week-end an-
nounced the sinking of H.M.S. Dainty,
a 1375-ton destroyer of the Defender
class, built by Fairfield in 1932-33 ; also
6f two armed trawlers, Remillo and
Cobbers. On Friday, H.M.S. Guillemot,
a 600-ton escort vessel, shot down in
flames a Heinkel 111 which was attempt-
ing to get at a convoy. The convoy was
unharmed. The German crew of the
raider was rescued.


!-r->
4
s
IT
c er-
•r>ns-^'° m °a ncVi
bundif^toniy
For jna. oU are hiteC t. L
tdin l ? > p loy an giv e hom e
ho" ie aT C h Ltect J e “li» able tha n > llS
irftt a l d a a nd mor 6 mo re
:autif u ’ 1 ., ;1 i save ! „ rrfl itect - -
in
He rrin « rc !r?n the
vow im i P m.at erl ° ls istakes u '. T 1
yow ' f inate rlu S takes
tiow ol } ose m hIS
M,. tuithout
e%P erv
m ai
in 1
e vit a
ble
Bathroom
FOR TEN OR ELEVEN
X OU can give your bathroom a “million-
aire” atmosphere by spending somewhere around
ten or eleven pounds. You can have a bathroom
with glistening “tiled” walls, smoothly and delight-
fully finished in any colour scheme you like
thanks to Masonite Temprtile.
Masonite Temprtile is a strong, rigid, splinterless,
grainless board (already pressed into 4 inch “tiles”)
which can be installed (over existing walls, if
necessary) with ordinary tools, then painted, lac-
quered or enamelled. Temprtile has the appear-
ance, washability and durability of real tiles—yet,
in most areas, only costs approximately 5/- a yard
plus painting. In other parts of the house, too,
you’ll find the other Masonite boards ideal for
modernisation; Masonite Quartrboard De-Luxe . .
Presdwood and Tempered Presdwood . . the boards
which have so impressed Australian architects and
builders that millions upon millions of square
feet were sold in 1940! Ash the Colonial Sugar
Refining Company (Building Materials Division)
for details.
MODERNISE WITH
ghjgh
Masonite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially they possess the advantages
ol wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used lor both modernisation and new con-
struction: ior floors, counter tops, ior "tiling''.
for partitioning —in fact, for **l,ooo uses".
MAB-4I
HITS
PRES DWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
QU ARTRBOARD DE-LUXE . . . TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) . . Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . . Adelaide . . Perth
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Rev. Peabody”: Interlarded as it is
with terms having their origin on the
racecourse, fhe Australian language is
full of pitfalls for the earnest cleric
anxious to speak to his flock in an idiom
they can understand. I note that at the
Queensland Methodist Conference where
a ballot was being held a parson declared
it would be decided on a “first-past-the-
post basis.” He was brought up by the
President: “Is that not a racing term?”
Pat came the reply, “It is a political
term, sir.” “Then,” snapped the Presi-
dent, “it is equally out of place at a
Methodist conference.” It reminds me
of the Bush Brother out of Cunnamulla
who, fed up with trying to make it clear
how Joseph, an outcast and a member
of a despised race, became a power in
Egypt, at last stated, “You will gather
my meaning, brethren, when I tell you
that this man had the inside running.”
The congregation understood perfectly.
* * * *
“Bunda”: Giving a tax-agent who had
misused money entrusted to him by a
client a chance to make restitution, Jus-
tice Brennan expressed astonishment that
there was no indemnity fund to cover this
sort of thing, as there is for auctioneers,
solicitors and commission-agents. He
intends to bring the lack before the
Government. A tax-agent is little different
from a commission-agent and could, for
the purposes of the Act, be regarded as
such.
* * * *
“Lid”: D. D. Smith, resident engineer
at Alice Springs, has an effective method
of trying out his roads. After Alice
Springs-Tennant Creek had been con-
verted from an old track into something
like a 300-mile billiard table, D.D.’s six-
and seven-hour trips over the course
became records which only he seemed
capable of breaking. Now that the road
has been carried on for another 300 miles
to Birdum, D.D. is trying his paces
again, his latest record for the 600-odd
miles being 12 hours in a “straight-eight.”
He is probably licking his lips in antici-
pation now that it is proposed to link
Mount Isa by a good road with the
Tennant Creek-Birdum route somewhere
about Tennant. Work has started on the
“And when you hear the alarm you proceed in good order to the nearest air-raid shelter .”
Isa-Camooweal road already, and that’s
not a moment too soon—it was a heart-
breaking stretch of sudden twists, short
gullies, hidden stumps, sand and other
obstacles to travellers who had to use it
as the main route from the Barkly Table-
land and other N.T. areas to the rail-
head at Isa. The one remaining link
needed now is a good all-weather road
from Birdum to Darwin the existing
ramshackle railway is not enough.
* * * m
“Philp”: Nearly roasted by 135 days
of temperatures over 100 degrees, Marble
Bar (W.A.) was almost drowned when a
cyclone hit Port Hedland and travelled
inland over the Bar. Hedland had 11.39
inches of rain and the Bar had over 12
inches —the rain gauge was blown away
after it had recorded 830 points. Build-
ings lost their roofs, windmills went like
toys and telephone and telegraph wires
were as cotton before the storm.
Further south Nullagine got 6.60 inches
and ’plane passengers reported that the
De Grey River was swollen until it was
30 miles wide in places. It is difficult to
picture the havoc these willy-willies can
cause. I’ve seen some of the lesser ones
beat the grass flat over a half-mile-wide
course, strip grapevines and trees of
their leaves, lift complete galvanised-
iron roofs and carry them for miles, and
generally leave behind them a trail of
devastation which Hitler couldn’t equal.
My father used to recount at every
opportunity the story of a G.O.M. of all
willy-willies which struck Kalgoorlie.
Fowls were carried skywards like scraps
of paper in a storm, a complete gal-
vanised-iron lavatory went high into the
air before it broke up and whirled away
on the wind, the roof was lifted off a
ragshop store and bolts of cloth streamed
across the sky. .
“Cultil”: Dr. H. W. Kerr, Director of
Sugar Experiment Stations, soothed the
fears of canegrowers regarding the super,
position—-“supplies adequate for the in-
dustry should be available” —but wasn’t
so happy about sulphate of ammonia.
That position he described as a little diffi-
cult, because it is necessary to import,
and the best the Australian Agricultural
Council could do was issue permits
covering the 1941 season. Dr. Kerr is
advocating a sugar industry college for
Queensland, where students might be
trained not only in sugar production but
also in alternative tropic crops. He be-
lieves the industry capable of producing
enough students in any year to warrant a
college as big as Gatton.
* * *
“Poi-poi”: The Northern Country
party has been heard snorting that the
nomination of Independents and Prot.
Lab. candidates has ruined its chance
of beating Queensland Labor in five elec-
torates, meaning that a split vote means
victory for the other side. It shouldn’t,
even though preferential voting is
optional in Queensland, if the N.C.P. has
as many supporters as it thinks it has.
No party can possibly advance its cause
by shirking a fight on such a ground.
* * * *
“Balander”: Whatever proportion of
Queenslanders there be who have grown
tired of the ways of the Forgan Smiths,
there was little hope for them in the
policy speech of Opposition-leader
Maher. One of the first things he was
expected to deal with was the notorious
Public Safety Act. That improvisation
brought roars of protest from all sections,
the loudest from trade-unions, but did
Mr. Maher promise repeal? He did not.
All he offered was five amendments to a
measure which infringes the rights of
Australians under their own Common-
wealth Constitution. For the rest, Mr.
Maher gave the usual promise to reduce
taxation and to protect the public against
exploitation, talked vaguely about
nationalising hospitals and providing
housing, of closer settlement and sub-
division of large holdings. A party such
as his might have been expected to
liberalise, if not abolish, the existing
transport strangulation policy. Instead
Transport regulations will be reviewed
[reviewed! ] to allow motor transport to
carry primary products to market where
rail transport is not readily available or is
not suitable.
The usual committee of inquiry will be
appointed to “consider methods of miti-
gating drought effects,” the Milk Board
will be retained with “more producer
representation,” “practical men” will be
appointed to the Development Board and
there is a hint of fixed prices for primary
products. All of which has the old
familiar ring and betrays once more the
lack of vision in State politics.


m
''■■Vi.'ilZ
tm
;• •
R
I
how COOL
IS YOUR KITCHEN?
If you have a beautiful streamlined AGA Cooker, the pride of any woman's
heart, the AGA’s heavy insulation keeps your kitchen cool right through summer.
That is one reason why AGA Cookers are so popular in tropical towns, like
Darwin, Port Moresby, Townsville.
Cooking is all pleasure with an AGA instantly ready, day or night, for every kind
of cooking.
Husbands . . . you’ve never tasted anything tenderer or tastier than an AGA grill
or roast. Tired wives should plan now to get an AGA, and take credit for
miracle-cooking. If both of you are budget-minded, get down to fuel facts
quickly. In a whole year, the AGA Model C, suitable for city or country homes,
burns only £3 worth of coke (at 30/- per ton). 40,000 happy users in the British
Empire have proved how much an AGA saves.
See the “AGA” at the ROYAL EASTER SHOW
STAND 43A,
next John Danks, off Machinery Avenue.
Or write today for illustrated Booklet R. 3.
n
LLVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 1852. {lnc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney; 432 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne; and Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents. Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd.,
Hobart.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
* ‘Ballyhoo”
Sundry attempts to introduce Ameri-
can film ballyhoo technique into Aus-
tralia have for some reason flopped. At
one Sydney address showing an exotic
concoction set in Cairo they sprayed the
joint with eau-de-camel or some equally
virile Gyppoistic scent, but they stopped
short of spraying the audience individu-
ally. Perhaps that has been the trouble—
a lack of courage to do the thing on a
really thorough scale. They should take
an example from the way they do this
sort of thing in the U.S.A.
Over there they have a race of publi-
city men known as “flacks” and experts
at pulling the right strings with news-
papers, radio people and public officials.
It would take the Americans to think
up the premiere accorded one film, “The
Biscuit Eater l .” There were no star
actors in the cast, so they decided to
make it a “doggy” premiere. It was
announced that “Bing Crosby’s dog” and
“Dorothy Lamour’s dog” and numerous
other Hollywood canines would attend.
The visiting dogs invited all the aristo-
cratic canines in the southern States to
attend, and they came by the score. It
was decreed that dogs which occupied
the first two rows in the theatre “must
wear formal dress.” Gentleman dogs
wore white ties and tails ; lady dogs wore
satin and corsages presented by the film
company.
They have other bright thoughts, too —
ushers dressed as North-west Mounted
Police riding white horses into hotel
lobbies, thousands of men and women
contesting beauty competitions for the
privilege of sitting next to the male or
female star at the premiere. For “Union
Pacific” the railroad people sent two
trains carrying the actors in period cos-
tume on a nation-wide tour, one train a
modern streamlined giant, the other a
facsimile of the first Union Pacific train.
For sheer magnificence, however, it is
unlikely that we shall ever approach the
effort turned on recently at Tacoma in
Puget Sound for the opening of “Tug-
boat Annie Sails Again.” The cast
arrived by steamer with a flag-draped
escort of 100 tugs, 100 private yachts
and 100 excursion boats, freighters,
dredges and coastal boats led by the U.S.
coastguard cutter Atlanta. A 60-piece
army band from Fort Lewis met them
at the pier. A guard of honor of U.S.
sailors marched ahead of the car that
carried the star of the film to the theatre,
while 35 private and military ’planes
wheeled overhead. The Mayor pro-
claimed a “Tugboat Annie Day” and the
schools closed; 40,000 soldiers in near-
by camps got a day’s leave; coastal
defence guns fired salutes. And a plaque
in honor of this lady of the sea was
unveiled at the civic centre!
* * * *
“The Lady in Question”
Something a bit different at Sydney
Lyceum, this offering has a story that
is simple and original, while the whole
show has that rare quality of being
human. Many films strive for this, but
rarely succeed, and then, it seems, largely
by chance. They have striven for the
human quality in the recent plethora of
family-life pictures, but have come
nowhere near it. They have tried simple
plots and simple characters, but have
succeeded mainly in producing pretty
poor films ; all have been artificial, the
fault, apparently, being with the actors.
Therein lies the success of the current
show.
Brian Aherne does the best job as the
typical French family-man, owner of a
small suburban mixed goods shop and
father of a grown-up family of two. He
achieves his lifetime ambition —to serve
his country—on a jury. It is a murder
trial, and by his efforts the pretty young
accused —Rita Hayworth, who also does
a -rattling good job—is acquitted. Sub-
sequently he takes her under his wing,
gives her a job in his shop, and has her
live as a member of the family without
their being aware of her identity.
A sparkling thread through the fabric
of the tale is Curt Bois as an account-
ant “at liberty,” who also served on the
jury at the trial, and bobs up at intervals
with a new theory that there has been a
miscarriage of justice.
“The Son of Monte Cristo”
It’s amazing how Hollywood can dig
up the offspring of famous people at the
crucial moment. Here’s Joan Bennett as
Artist Melvyn Douglas displaying his wares to Myrna
Loy and Felix Bressart in “Third Finger, Left Hand,”
at Sydney St. James.
the Princess of Ruritania travelling to
Paris for assistance to rid her country
of a tyrant and being beset by rebel
soldiers, rescued by the opportune
appearance of Monte Cristo’s son and
heir, and then lost to the rebels again.
Which, of course, means that the S. o.
M.C. goes adventuring into Ruritania
to rescue her, masquerades as a wealthy
fop in the court of the tyrant by day
and carries out his plans for the release
of Ruritania by night.
It is highly probable that every time
the opus is screened Dumas turns over
in his coffin Louis Hayward as the
S. o. M.C. could earn a place in the
waxworks at any time on the strength
of his acting, Miss Bennett bears more
resemblance to a night-club queen than
to anything out of Ruritania, while
George Sanders, as the iron tyrant of
Ruritania, is more like Hollywood’s idea
of a German military officer than any-
thing else.
* * * *
“It’s the Navy”
The only fault with this locally-
produced Department of Information
short is that it is a big subject treated
a little too briefly. In the main, however,
the film is excellent. It begins with some
striking coastal scenic shots, and then
gets on with a generalised survey of
naval training at one of tfn depots.
There are brief glimpses of various de-
partments — signalling, engineering, tor-
pedo work, gunnery, etc. —but they are
only brief glimpses. There seems to be
some first-rate material here for a com-
plete series of shorts, each dealing with
one department in some detail.
* * * *
“Diamond Frontier”
At Sydney Capitol and merely a re-
hash of Dumas’s Count of Monte Cristo
in an early South African diamond-field
setting. Victor McLaglen and a couple
of thugs conspire to have John Loder
chucked into penance vile for a decade
or so. In quod John meets an old-timer
who has a fortune in diamonds snook-
ered away. They escape together, the
old-timer is killed, Loder collects the
diamonds, returns to the home field dis-
guised as wealthy aristocrat, wreaks
vengeance and finds the goil still waiting.
Cecil Kellaway, appearing more and
more frequently these days, figures cap-
ably in a light role.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Touching the free concerts which are
proving such a success at the National.
Gallery in Melbourne, Authority moves
slowly in these matters. Ten years ago
Edward Goll, the Czech pianist who
toured Europe in his youth with Kubelik
and is regarded as the best Beethoven
exponent in Australia, made an offer
to play in the Gallery for nothing. The
trustees of the time nearly turned purple
with horror at the thought of mixing the
pictorial with any other art, and one
remarked that he hoped he would never
see the day when music would be heard
in the sacred precincts.
Now the concerts threaten to become
a permanent fixture in the musical life
of Melbourne. Latest attracted 600
listeners and twice the number of appli-
cants that could be accommodated in the
Stawell. Before the proceedings opened
and during the long interval the crowd
drifted round the walls and
drank peace from the
paintings or disputed over
the respective merits of the
new Cezanne and the Van
Gogh. The music pro-
vided didn’t fall short of
the high standard of most
of the pictures and rose
higher than some of them.
The University String
Quartet, a much improved
combination, made a
lovely thing of the De-
bussy quartet, and in the
Dvorak quintet for piano
and strings had the assist-
ance of that sensitive musi-
cian Raymond Lambert.
Rita Miller capped a richly
varied programme with
some admirable singing,
“Songs My Mother
Taught Me” and “My
Mother Bids Me Bind My
Hair” among the items.
* * *
Hector Crawford once
more had the luck of the
new hand at the game for
the second of his Sunday
openTair concerts at
Melbourne Botanic
Gardens with the Mel-
bourne Conservatorium
Symphony Orchestra per-
forming. A few hours
after he had laid down his
baton, after leading his
crew through the music
of Roger Quilter and Edward German,
a 60-m.p.h. gale was lifting roofs off
houses and laying telephone lines low
from Mildura to Portsea. For some
reason or other acoustics weren’t quite
as good as on the first occasion, and
some of Strella Wilson’s notes in the
Nuns’ Chorus from Strauss’s “Casanova”
were lost in transit, but the 50,000 citizens
who attended had a good afternoon, and
those nearest the dais heard some first-
class music.
ARTBURSTS.L
Raymond Wallis’s Pictures
Raymond Wallis, whose landscapes
and seaside bits decorate the walls of
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, gives
no headaches to the devotees of art who
visit at his shrine. His style is direct,
his touch light, his color sense excellent
and his flair for picture-making infallible.
He sees Nature’s beauties with the eye
of the common man, paints well within
the limits of his very good technique and
produces canvases which tell their story
to anybody’s eyes at a glance. His work
is very easy to appreciate and to admire.
His favorite hunting territory is around
Flinders, Vic., and his beach scenes from
that locality have all the charm and
gaiety of a bright summer’s morning.
He paints gums and pines decoratively,
which, arguably, is the best way to treat
them. Possibly he would attain a better
reputation in arty circles if he chose
scenes he didn’t like and couldn’t paint
and made a mess of ’em.
# # # ♦
“Spokeshave”: A returned Melbourne
artist who escaped from Paris had for
months occupied a dingy studio in the Latin
Quarter. He coveted the studio imme-
diately above him, which was inhabited
by an elderly Russian sculptor and was
much better lighted. His landlady had
promised him he should have it as soon
as it had been vacated. One evening she
came in and said: “Well, monsieur, he
has gone. You can have it now, at once ;
this evening you may have it —if you come
up and wash the body.” The tenant had
died. The painter swallowed hard. Then
he went up, performed the necessary
ablutionary ceremony under the old
lady’s direction and, with her assistance,
carried the corpse down a spiral staircase.


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess —no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
jghj
“Chico” Invisible Earphones
• Worn inside your ears. No
batteries. Amazingly effective,
teed lifetime. Write for free
MEAKS EARPHONE CO.—No.
Shopping Block, Market Street,
21/-pr.
cords or
Guaran-
booklet.
3 State
Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletii
readers.
The service is entirely free. AD you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Typist,. Sydney, own machine, experienced
typing MSS., desires work. Neat and accurate.
Reasonable charges.—9744.
Experienced dental nurse, Continental and
Australian exp., seeks position, Brisbane. Rets.
—9BBl.
Plans for building small light canoe. 9882.
To buy Harper’s Book of Facts. —9709.
To buy second-hand copies of How to Live
on 24 Hours a Day and similar books, by
Arnold Bennett. —9730.
Words of poem beginning:
They’re taking me to the gallows, mother,
They are going to hang me high.
—9747.
Copy of verse entitled “The Cinder Track,”
beginning:
Parade with your harps at 2.15
In front of St. Peter’s tent.
—9780.
Information Sought.
(1) Particulars of the proposed King’s Cross
tunnel in Sydney ? (2) Have there been any
previous schemes along these lines? —9817.
(1) This traffic tunnel is designed to commence
at the eastern end of Cathedral-street, Woolloo-
mooloo, where that street intersects Forbes-
street, and emerge at Rushcutter Bay Park in
the vicinity of Roslyn Gardens. Its width will
be 50ft., providing for four lanes of vehicular
traffic. It is anticipated that the whole of
the excavation will be in solid sandstone. The
length of the tunnel will be slightly over
1500 ft., and in addition there will be opencut
sections from Forbes-street to McElhone-street
at the western end, and from Amos-lane to
Roslyn Gardens at the eastern end. (2) A tunnel
scheme, similar to the one now proposed, was
recommended by the Royal Commission in
1908.
* * * *
(1) What is the area of the Pacific Ocean,
and how does it compare with the Atlantic ?
(2) Greatest depth of the Pacific ? (3) Any com-
parisons, say, with land masses and mountains,
to convey some idea of its magnitude to
children ? —9819.
(1) Pacific, 68,634,000 sq. m.; Atlantic,
41,321,000 sq. m. (2) Between the Philippines
and Japan 34,210 ft. has been recorded. (3)
If Mt. Everest rose from the sea-bottom at the
Pacific’s deepest level its summit would be
5000 ft. below the surface. In regard to area,
North and South America together cover just
under 15,000,000 sq. m. Therefore the Pacific
has more than four times the area of the two
continents. Also it has four times the area of
Asia and almost 20 times the area of Europe
or of Australia.
* * * *
Some particulars about Norfolk Island ?
9742.
It lies 29deg. 3min. 45sec. south, and 167 deg.
56min. 29sec. east; and was discovered by Cook
in 1774. The island is five miles long by three
miles wide and has an area of 8528 acres; in
form it is an irregular ellipse, with a coastline
of 20 miles; inaccessible cliffs rise from the
waterline except on the south-west. Climate is
equable, mean temperature 68deg., the average
annual rainfall 53 inches. The first colonisation
was in 1788, but the settlement was abandoned
in 1813; for 13 years it was used mainly as a
whaling station and a place of call for British
warships; from 1826 to 1855 it was made a
penal station; in 1856 the descendants of the
mutineers of the Bounty were settled there.
Population at June, 1938, was 1059. The island
is a territory of the Commonwealth.
* * * *
(1) What were the chief differences between
the Greek and the Roman manner of colonisa-
tion ? (2) What happened to the Greek colonies
with the decline of Greece? (3) To the Roman
with the decline of Rome ? —9434.
(1) Greek colonisation was like Britain’s early
colonisation, arising from the natural circum-
stances of land shortage or trade expansion,
largely private, though helped by the State,
which appointed the head of the expedition.
The colonies were independent politically,
though there were religious ties and the natural
personal associations. The Roman colonies
were first military in character, sent out by the
State for purposes of strategy, the “Roman”
colonies purely garrison in type, the “Latin”
colonies with more municipal functions. Later
there were some colonies for economic reasons,
and veteran soldiers were settled. (2) The
Greek colonies by their character as free city-
States formed part of the Greek world on equal
terms, and in fact were not thought of as
colonies at all. They declined as a homo-
geneous part of the declining Greek world. (3)
The Roman colonies lost their subordinate
character when all the inhabitants of the Roman
world, practically speaking, became full citizens,
and their decline was simply part of the decline
of the Roman world.
* * * *
(1) Is graphite plentiful in Australia? (2) Are
there variations in quality? (3) Consumption
and uses? (4) Market price, present and pre-
war? —9386.
(1) Graphite occurs in small deposits in
N.S.W., Queensland, South Australia and West
Australia. The main Australian production has
been from New South Wales and up to the end
of 1938 totalled 1900 tons. Attempts have been
made to refine South Australian material but
failed owing to marketing difficulties. (2) Re-
fined material is marketed as crystalline, flake
or amorphous, the first commanding the highest
price. Australian material is usually flake or
amorphous. (3) Graphite is used principally in
foundry work, lead-pencil manufacture, as a
lubricant, and in paints and stove polish. (4)
The pre-war price of Australian graphite was
about £2 per ton. High-grade material from
other countries, principally Madagascar, com-
manded prices up to £l5 per ton. At present
the price is a matter of treaty with consumers.
* * * *
(1) What are the duties of a Minister for
Mines? (2) Has he power to take proceedings
against a person or company issuing a false
prospectus ? —9385.
(1) The Minister for Mines is charged with
the responsibility of administering the Acts
affecting his department; in N. S. Wales, for
example, the Mining Act, the Coal Mines Regu-
lation Act, the Mines Rescue Act, the Mines
Inspection Act, etc. (2) No.
* * * *
Brief summary of the career of Warren Has-
tings ? —9902.
Hastings was born in 1732, and when 17
years old went to Bengal and took a position
as writer in the employ of the East India Com-
pany. Subsequently volunteered under Clive,
and a year or two later became a member of
the Council at Calcutta. Manifesting great
ability he was advanced from post to post,
and in 1773 became the first Governor-General
of India. After 12 years in this post he re-
turned to England and was impeached on
charges of excessive cruelty and corruption. The
trial lasted seven years and cost Hastings £76,000.
He was ultimately acquitted, the East India
Company settled an annuity of £4OOO upon him,
and he lived to see his plans for the security of
British rule in India publicly applauded.
* * * *
List of the scientific staff of Scott’s British
Antarctic Expedition of 1910?—9899.
Staff consisted of E. A. Wilson, chief of the
scientific staff and zoologist; G. S. Simpson,
meteorologist; T. G. Taylor, geologist; E. W.
Nelson, biologist; F. Debenham, geologist;
C. S. Wright, physicist; R. E. Priestley, geolo-
gist ; H. G. Ponting, photographer; C. H.
Meares, in charge of dogs; B. C. Day, motor
engineer; A. Cherry-Garrard, asst, zoologist;
Tryggve Gran, ski expert.
* * * *
Who besides Sir Walter Raleigh helped to
introduce and popularise potatoes in Europe ?
—9878.
The popular idea that Raleigh brought
potatoes from Virginia to Ireland seems to be
purely a fable. Raleigh was never in Virginia.
Probably, though it is not certain, his friend
Thomas Herriot introduced them to England
towards the end of the sixteenth century. Pos-
sibly Raleigh took them from there to Ireland.
The Germans attribute the innovation to Sir
Francis Drake and have erected a commemo-
rative statue at Offenberg. There is no certain
information available except that the modern
potato was preceded by the sweet potato. The
potato was not popularised in England until the
middle of the eighteenth century, when the
combination of cheapness and food value or at
least of filling effect began to appeal to the
poor. In France Parmentier occupied himself
popularising the tuber. During the famine
of 1771 he made numerous unheeded appeals to
the Minister of Agriculture, and later enlisted
the sympathy of Louis XVI and was given
ground to make large plantations. This he did,
and he used an ingenious means of introducing
potatoes into the diet of the poor. By day
his plantations were closely guarded; by night
they were left unprotected. In the dark the
curious and greedy came to steal what they
would not have bought, and the success of the
potato was ensured.
* * * *
Any details of the sort of equipment that
would go into outfitting a ship or fleet round
Magellan’s time ? —9827.
There is some information available of
Magellan’s own fleet, which was the best
equipped that had ever left Spain. It comprised
five vessels ranging from 75 tons to 120 tons,
and crews numbered 270 persons. Armament
included 62 culverins, 10 falconets, 10 bombards
or mortars and 50 harquebuses; also, 56001 b.
of gunpowder. In the list of navigating
appliances appear 21 wooden quadrants, 12
compasses, seven astrolabes, 23 charts and 18
hourglasses. A considerable cargo also was car-
ried, made up mostly of mirrors, glass beads
and quicksilver, commodities likely to find a
ready market with savages.
* * * *
Details of the system of government in Ice-
land?—'9B23.
Iceland is governed by the Althing or Parlia-
ment, which in 1930 celebrated its 1000th anni-
versary, the oldest Parliamentary assembly in
the world. It is composed of varying numbers
of members, not exceeding 49, of whom 38 are
elected in constituencies, each electing one or
two members by simple majorities except the
capital. In the capital six members are elected
by proportional representation. The King of
Denmark appoints the President of a Council
of Ministers, all of whom are subject to the
approval of the Althing. Men and women
over 21 enjoy the suffrage. Parliament assumed
control of Iceland’s foreign affairs on April
10 last, when Germany occupied Denmark.
A British expeditionary force occupied Iceland
a month later.
* * * *
Complete and name the author of a quota-
tion beginning “We have found a strange foot-
print on the shores of the unknown’ ? —9897.
Author was A. S. Eddington. Full quotation
reads: “We have found a strange footprint on
the shores of the unknown. We have devised
profound theories, one after another, to account
for its origin. At last we have succeeded in
reconstructing the creature that made the foot-
print. And lo! it is our own.”
Brief Answers.
L.1.N.: The apparent disproportionately huge
breadth of a battleship seen in a head-on
motion film shot is due to photographic dis-
tortion. Such shots are made with telephoto
lenses frequently from a considerable distance.
D.L.G.: That was one of Dr. Samuel
Johnson’s: “Nature has given women so much
power that the law has very wisely given them
1itt1e”....P.D.8.: “Back freight” occurs when
from causes beyond a captain’s control goods
cannot be landed at the port of destination,
and have to be conveyed back to the place ot
shipment, freightage thus becoming chargeable
against the owner for the return voyage....
D.G.R.: Saponin is a compound obtained from
the soapwort root and from certain bark,
seeds and plants. It is utilised to some extent
as a bronchial remedy and in its pulverised
form induces excessive sneezing... .C.E.8.:
There are four parts to the complete Gulliver s
Travels: Part I, “A Voyage to Lilliput”; Part
11, “A Voyage to Brobdingnag”; Part 111, A
Voyage to Laputa”; and Part IV, “A Voyage
to the Country of the Houyhnhnms”....
W.H.J.: A cannon was spiked by driving a nail
or a spike or the like into the vent... .W.A.C.:
A volume of mercury is about 13£ times as
heavy as the same volume of water J.A.J.:
Caused by action of wind and wave, wearing
away the softer rock comparatively rapidly....
5.8. M.: Should be quite reliable E.T.G.:
Light takes minutes to reach the earth from
the sun. Therefore when the sun appears on
the horizon it was actually there 87 minutes
earlier, and at sunset it is seen for minutes
after it has gone A.M.G.: Quezon was the
first President of the Commonwealth of the
Philippines. His full name is Don Manuel Luis
Quezon Antonio y Molina W.A.W.: The
Court of Dijon condemned and executed a
horse for homicide in 1639, and a mare was
burned to death in Aix as late as 1694 by order
of the highest judicial tribunal in the province.
W.H.M.: The U.S.A. one-dollar note bears
the portrait of George Washington; the 10-
dollar has Alexander Hamilton and the 20-dollar
Andrew Jackson... .G.G.P.: Mirrors are used,
as lenses that size cannot be made. A thin glass
disc more than 40in. in diameter cannot sup-
port its own weight and retain its shape....
N.J.A.: Actually thunderstorms do not cause
milk to sour. Hot, humid weather, a con-
dition favoring thunderstorms, likewise favors
bacterial growth which sours milk T.R.L.:
Not prepared to give an opinion without know-
ing the exact ingredients R.R.P.: The Story
of Mankind and The Home of Mankind, both
by Hendrik Van L00n.... J.W.H.: Dame
Laura Knight was admitted as an Associate of
the Royal Academy in 1927 and a full mem-
ber in February, 1936... .8.8. L.: An old
edition of Dampier’s voyages was presented
to the Canberra Library by John Masefield....
J.V.S.: Lough Neagh won the 1936 Chipping
Norton Plate and Journal the Autumn Cup
D.T.R.: Before the persecutions Jews were
outnumbered by 200 to 1 in Germany, and there
were 30,000,000 Roman Catholics in a popula-
tion of 75,000,000 C.D.1.: Sir Philip Gibbs.
The full quotation is, “It is better to give
than to lend, and it costs about the same”....
F.W.D.: Information required cannot be pub-
lished in Australia... .G.T.C.: The name Beef-
eater, given to the Yeomen of the Guard, is a
corruption of buffetier, one who attends the
buffet. Their dress dates from Henry VIII,
who, some have said, made them dress in thick
costumes so that they might look as fat as him-
self D.A.S.: Charcoal is practically in-
soluble except when reduced to a fine powder.
... .A.L.H.: They are obtained from a species
of myrtle grown principally in the East Indies.
The clove is the dried flower bud... .D.K.P.:
The first English opera was “Dido and /Eneas,”
written by Henry Purcell about 1689. It antici-
pated the operatic form of a hundred years
later, the text being set to recitatives and
melodies and all spoken dialogue omitted
W.M.F.: Constantine Pobiedonostzeff was pro-
curator of the Holy Synod in Russia and an
outstandingly energetic statesman. Born 1827,
died 1907 M.C.S.: The English highway sign
indicating a speed limit of 10 m.p.h. or lower
is a white ring 18in. in diameter with a plate
below giving the limit in figures... .P.L.K.:
Schiedam is on the River Schie, near Rotter-
dam, in Holland, and is noted for its gin dis-
tilleries... .D.G.S.: An alcalde is a Spanish
mayor, Judge or magistrate, or in Portugal a
justice of the peace. Not to be confused with
the similar word “alcaide,” which signifies the
keeper of a castle or prison along both shores
of the Mediterranean F.D.V.: There is a
Central African race of pigmies named the
Akka E.E.8.: The art of calculating the
configuration and extent of the earth’s surface
and determining exact geographic positions and
directions with variations of gravity, etc., is
known as geodesy. In former times the term
was applied to land surveying in general....
8.M.N.: The kusti is a woollen band of 72
threads —the number of the chapters of the
Izashue —and two branches, each branch con-
taining six knots, together standing for the 12
months of the year T.K.T.: The Minie rifle
was for a time the best in Europe. It was
invented by Capt. Minie, a Frenchman, in
1833, and has of course long been superseded.
. ...R.8.K.: The O.P. riots took place at
Covent Garden Theatre in London from Sep-
tember 18 to December 16, 1809. They were
caused by the increased prices of admission
which J. P. Kemble endeavored to institute.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
A. :
Malayan hills may be the possie
In which again it will be proved
That our boys from this young Aussie
Are fighting men when moved
By the threats and frightful actions
Of marauding Axis factions.
F.E.C.:
Whenever the sons of a foreign Power
Don hell’s paraphernalia,
Though we be gloomy let us cry
Arise! To arms, Australia !
H.L.M.:
The franchise does somewhat deter
All members in their little tricks;
Our Constitution I prefer
To Hitler’s parlous politics.
J.B.: Flat feet won’t do in a war poem.
. ...E.L.: “Vexed dejection” is about the last
word in bathos... .5.N.8.: It would be better
to murder the snorer than to write verse about
him E.L.: Rough going... .C.H.8.: How
do you scan “Straining to save ourselves from
the dictators’ foray”? .... J.H.H.: Bumpy
B. “Another budding poet,” eh? Come
again when you’re in blossom... .C.C.: Keep
at it... .M.H.M.: Try a daily N.MacP.:
Thin W.S.A.: Thanks; hardly worth re-
printing, though... .A.C. (Canada): Willing,
but woeful... .A.C.M.: “Nay, there is room
for scansion here.” Yea, too right there i 5....
C. : Amateurish... .M.K.: Do aeroplanes
“flutter”? C.R.L.: It has merit, but it adds
nothing to Kipling... .E.R.: Weak... .G.A.:
Their sincerity is their only merit E.J.8.:
It’s been done before M.C.MacK.: Half-
finished D.N.: Try a woman’s paper....
J.A.: Both have a flicker of it... .L.V.H.:
Should score elsewhere J.P.: It is better not
to say “Hist!” and much better not to say
“beck’ning”... .A.H.C.: “O set me down in a
country town.” Try the railways... .H.A.T.:
“For lo! the atmosphere achieved is peace.”
But lo! the atmosphere achieved is bathos....
H.N.G.: Why not try some suggestions for
joke-blocks? ... .8.M.8.: The feeling’s there;
the technique faulty... .G.C.G. and L.McC.:
Not up to others on the same theme... .G.A.8.,
M.H., J.J. and R.W.: Misfires... .R.C.G.:
Hackneyed Bellerive: Glad to see Pegasus
is still in form:
On looking back
To long years ago
I recall Sheet Anchor
And the great Bravo
And other fine steeds
Old sports remember —■
Popular Cup winners of
The month of November.
Of our modern turf
A great steed is Ajax,
The galloping wonder
Of the racing track.
The Trump and High Caste
I add to my rhyme,
Among the foremost
Of our Australian clime.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
B. : Quartet of expressionless automatons
didn’t say anything funny, anyway N.A.C.:
That ventriloquist-parson gag is horribly hir-
sute F.M.: Why not capitalise your obvious
flair and become an illustrator of a Euclid
textbook ?... .G.8.F.: Those profiles are as
shaky as a blancmange in a hurricane....
J.R.R.: Hands are admittedly one of the most
difficult things to sketch; the other parts of your
figures are improving... .H.C.: Nothing particu-
larly funny about “intimate” garments flapping
on a clothesline... .J. 8.: That makes the second
knockback the breadcarter got V.G.: Your
washerwoman bulges in queer places....
C.L.C.: Golfer struck a particularly bad bunker.
... .G.D.M.: Very mild dash of Unk White and
water... .H. 8.: Looks rather like a woodcut,
but why not sharpen your axe? G.N.A.:
Don’t overdo the highlights... .J. 1.: “Accom-
panying sketches were drawn from life”; aye,
and should be quartered... .F.G.: What are
they—a queue of cars at a punt or a mob
of enlarged procession caterpillars about to
cross a rivulet? ... .8.E.R.: The trailing skirts
of art still elude your grasp Bert C.:
Flapper in diaphanous nightie returning in a
strong opaque envelope P.L.: Flimsy but
not without promise 0.V.: Sozzled hearse-
driver went out on his head.


PREVENT BONE CHEWING—FEED TRI-CAL-OS
Remember your pasture is deficient in
those essential minerals which stock must
have, and which they seek, when they
chew bones. Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is the
most reliable source of those minerals—
calcium and phosphorus—for all livestock
feeding. Tri-cal-os contains over 70%
tricalcic phosphate, having a guaranteed
minimum of 33 % phosphoric acid, and
40% lime. All stock take to it readily.
All particulars about Tri—aal—os from: —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney;
G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K,
Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; or G.P.O.
Box 588, Perth.
- ejk
%
/W
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
o
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 .Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep Drenches.
“Bungaree”: “Graz” asks why tetra-
chlorethylene and phenothiazine were not
mentioned in the bluestone-nicotine dis-
cussion (B. 19/2/’4l), but he answers his
own question—phenothiazine is unobtain-
able.
There is little doubt that phenothiazine
could save the lives of hundreds of sheep
and make revenue-producers of many
thousands of others which are now thrift-
less through nodule worm. It is the only
drench given by the mouth which has
ever yielded satisfactory results against
nodule worm, and it is perfectly safe to
use. Nicotine sulphate, carbon tetra-
chloride, tetrachlorethylene and arsenic
are all toxic in certain circumstances and
need cautious handling.
The only available source of pheno-
thiazine at present is U.S.A. The small
quantity made in England is only enough
for local use, and the price is around
12s, 6d. per pound ; 6d. a dose. Pheno-
thiazine, too, would have to be obtained
under an import license.
Ordinary commercial or even pure
pheno. is not suitable as a drench. It
is used in U.S.A. in capsule form, but
the price is prohibitive. The C.S.I.R.
is experimenting to find a suitable and
simple method of giving the drug.
Tetrachlorethylene has been used as
a drench component for some time, but
few commercial drenches contain such
a large dose as that used by “Graz” in
the experiment quoted ; the sheep actu-
ally had to be drenched twice, a preli-
minary dose of bluestone being given to
close the oesophageal groove and switch
the tetrachlorethylene which followed
straight to the fourth stomach. There is
risk in the use of tetrachlorethylene, par-
ticularly in a dose of this size. Sheep
need careful handling and watching for
some time after drenching.
Pheno. certainly seems to be the
answer to the sheepman’s prayer for a
good, safe all-round drench if its prob-
lems can be solved.
to bring mating, lambing and shearing
times into co-ordination with station
management, climate and the avoidance
of canary stain. Until it achieves some-
thing concrete along these lines, north-
west W.A. will stick to autumn shearing.
Value of Subdivision.
“C.P.”: Proper subdivision, besides
making the management of property and
stock easier and giving pastures a chance
to recover from heavy grazing, also con-
tributes to the general good health of the
animals.
Even on a medium-sized property with-
out subdivision the stock have a wide
range to graze over, with the result that
October Shearing in W.A.
“Nodder”: The Westralian University
is trying to find the best time for shear-
ing in the north-west of the State.
October is recommended, but as the
present season is April-May and shear-
ing teams work to a programme that
eventually takes them southward on a
routine of dates, it won’t be easy to make
a change. From the Kimberleys in
April, the teams reach the Murchison by
September and some go down into the
wheat country right into November. An
adjustment to make it possible to shear
in the Kimberleys in October seems im-
possible, unless there are higher rates to
entice the men back to hard work under
hot conditions.
The idea of the October shearing
would be to cut out the canary stain
from north-west wool. This is caused
by high temperatures, high humidity and
long fleeces carried through the summer
months. A test shearing showed that
Kimberley wool shorn in October was
free of the stain. Large-scale experiments
to confirm this are proposed.
Apart from the routine of shearing
teams, seasonal rains, mating and lamb-
ing have all to be considered. The
University is working on experiments
"It's ’eavy goin' this season , Dad!"
in normal seasons they will select only
the plants they like and leave the others ;
thus the good stuff is eaten out. Eventu-
ally the property carries a heavy growth
of unnutritious, weedy stuff; there are
some poisoning, tainting of mutton or
butter, deficiency diseases and an increase
in parasites and bacteria.
With subdivision these evils can be
checked. As soon as it is apparent that
one paddock is losing its best plants it
can be rested. If footrot shows up in
another it can be cropped to provide
conserved fodder. Another with low,
marshy places likely to carry parasites
can be reserved for summer grazing only.
A farmer soon gets to know his pad-
docks and manages them accordingly
when their areas are small. Big areas
are likely to remain mysteries to him,
a fact which probably explains why a
small, well subdivided farm often carries
better stock and is more prosperous than
a big place with few inner fences, though
there is no difference in soil and climate.
Straw as a Binder.
“Bencub”: Always an experimenter,
and a fairly successful one, Noel Barrett,
an Edgeroi (N.S.W.) wheat and sheep
farmer, has tried ploughing in the stubble
as a means of stopping erosion. The
ground held together better, but whether
the idea was a complete success still re-
mains to be seen.
Barrett found it hard to get the straw
in. Ordinary discs wouldn’t look at the
stubble. A rotary hoe chopped it up
and buried it, but the narrowness of
the cut made it a tedious business and
the straw wouldn’t rot in the ground
because of the general dryness. A
tandem disc-harrow fitted with special
cutaway discs did the trick, and Barrett
is convinced that in a normal season two
or three workings would put the stubble
in fit condition for sowing.
Edgeroi is in the short-fallow country
of N.S.W. where crops are grown on
the same paddock year after year. Bar-
rett is satisfied that land with the straw
worked in is much less liable to erosion
than burnt ground, but admits the risk
of take-all, flag smut, etc., on unburnt
land; evolution of disease-resistant
varieties offsets this. The dry season gave
h u lm chance of comparing yields from
the burnt and unburnt paddocks.
He found more weeds on the unburnt
land, but believes they may help to stop
blowing or washing and is wondering
whether some form of crop could be
evolved to hold the fallow together until
sowing time gets near. It’s revolutionary,
for a clean fallow means plenty of
stored plant-food, but wheatmen may
yet be forced to lose yield rather than
s °ib
Barrett found a way to stop the sheep
cutting up the fallow in a dry time. He
kept a 200-acre stubble paddock, and
when it became necessary to feed his
1000 sheep he shut them in there and
doled out their rations. They ate some
of the straw, and the other paddocks gave
him nearly a week’s green pick a month,
The wool from the stubble paddock was
not very dusty and dropped only f-d. per
pound on the previous year, there were
fewer sheep losses, lambing was normal
and the farm was saved from being
turned into a dust-heap by the searching
hooves of hungry sheep.
More Medium Loam.
“Gollan Gollan”: We’re apparently on
the same sort of soil as “Terramun-
gamine” (B. 5/3/’4l) and, if his pen-
name is any guide, in the same district,
but we find of super, enough as
against his 841 b.
We tore into our medium red loam
with a mouldboard in September, 1939,
and then could have kicked ourselves
when the dry came on. After a lot of
argument and some stout battles with
temptation we managed to let the pad-
dock alone in deference to a junior school
of thought which held that to break down
the clods would give the wind
too good a chance. A lot of the clods
crumbled under the onset of dry, hot
days and the feet of the sheep, but the
October gales hardly raised a dust.
There was another fight in January,
1940, about cultivation, but the junior
had been right so far and the scarifier
stayed in the shed. It came out in May,
just in time to fine the tilth down for
seeding. The soil got another touch
when the combine put the seed in, 501 b.
with 561 b. of super. There had been
some rain, but after seeding hardly
enough to wet our whistles.
Harvest: Bencubbin, 26} bushels an
acre ; Baldmin, 21} ; Bordan, 23i ; Dun-
dee, 21 ; Eureka, 22^ —and the paddock
still had its topsoil.
Bencubbin Is Best.
“8.C.”: Under test during the severe
conditions of last crop season in central-
west N. S. Wales, Bencubbin emerged
with flying colors. It gave highest yield
at three of 10 centres, second at two and
third at three. No other variety can dis-
place it at present.
The Gluyas-Ford cross, Gluford, which
has been established a long time but has
never gained much popularity, did next
best. During recent years in the area
it has always been well up on yield, but
it takes flag smut pretty badly, and is a
gamble on large areas.
Koala; a quick-maturer, did well in its
first tests in a season favorable for late-


Abbey’s
famous
STOCKMAN
mSm v
m
32 7 6
in Black
or Brown.
For work in the yards or the saddle there
isn’t another Boot made that can equal the
Abbey “Stockman.” Look at these specifica-
tions and judge for yourself: Uppers, genuine
strong calf. Sides, reinforced elastic. Soles,
genuine Goodyear welts.
When ordering, stale size. Half-sizes also
available.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street Street
k!Mjy!
m
m
a
minimise
Bush fire Risk
Guard against destruction by bush fires
this summer by running a fire-break
across and around your property.
You cannot afford to be without “Cater-
pillar” Diesel’s unmatched economy,
when cutting your fire-break or doing a
hundred and one other jobs. Wherever
power equipment is needed “Caterpillar”
diesel power can do it faster, more
thoroughly and economically. See your
“Caterpillar” dealer or write us direct.
§H!®Sii! a
i
, )<e^ e *
* c °' 3 '
”V' ei :
W*
d»»® „ s ot
V ll °*
CATERPILLAR
(Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.)
DISTI.IBCTOKS: . -
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
TIMBER KILLER !;
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING! <
Prevents suckering! Eradicates,
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING tomato (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR.
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6
T"
rj
MH
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
ROOM ONLY 151 CLARENCE STREET ’ G P °-’ SYDNEY ' BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water Double Room's from 15/-
Double Rooms from 11/- . .
_ . __ , , , n . . Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Spacous, Up-to-date Din.ng Room—All Meals ala Carte. G C C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
maturers. It offers chances for late sow-
ing when a bad autumn or grasshoppers
have held up normal seeding. Baldmin
also yielded well, but has as weak a straw
as Bencubbin, and falls easy to flag smut.
Tests once again proved that super-
phosphate is necessary for wheat in the
area, which surrounds the centres ot
Yeoval, Nubingerie, Maryvale, Dubbo,
Gollan, Narromine, Eumungerie, Balla-
doran, Coonamble and Gilgandra.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: Ken Beaton, Wairoa,
Narrabri (N.S.W.), has grown excellent
crops of lucerne and Sudan grass under
irrigation this season. Sudan grass was
sown on a dry seedbed in December,
1940, germinated by irrigation, and given
two waterings. By February it had grown
10ft. tall and was expected to feed 500
sheep for four months. Irrigated lucerne
gives four cuts a year, averaging Iscwt.
per acre. Beaton feeds lucerne hay to
sheep by putting the bales out in the
paddocks. He claims it avoids waste.
“E.R.T.”: Victorian Department of
Agriculture is advising holders of Wim-
mera black soil to try zinc sulphate on
wheat—slb. to 101 b. with the usual super,
dressing per acre. The two manures
can be mixed at any time and will run
free through the drill if kept dry. If
the zinc is to be tried, leave some strips
without it for comparison purposes at
harvest time.
“Eureka”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
farmer first fed rabbits for three or four
days with unpoisoned baits —apples and
carrots cut into pieces about half an
inch square. A sod was turned over with
a hoe and a bait placed on the fresh
earth. These sods were turned up about
five feet apart along ridges where rabbits
were thick. Then fresh poisoned baits
were laid. One ounce of strychnine was
ground to a fine powder dusted over
151 b. of cut apples and carrots and left
to soak overnight. That did the trick.
If the apples are inclined to be sour
sprinkle with a pound or two of sugar
also. Care should be taken not to lay
the baits in a paddock with stock.
“Horsetailer”: The next time those
odd wethers or lambs smother in the race
place them on their backs, and with the
hands behind and on each side of the
brisket try four to eight minutes’ respira-
tory treatment.
“Sheepo” : Professor Clunies Ross told
the Agricultural Bureau conference at
Armidale (N.S.W.) that it hasn’t yet been
determined whether the “handle” of wool
is due to feeding, climatic conditions or
whether it is hereditary. It is known to
be an essential feature of quality wools.
Experience in some of our high-grade
wools inclines to the belief that, whilst
heredity is essential, “handle” is there-
after dominated by grazing and climatic
conditions, with health a primary con-
sideration. Wool from well-bred sheep
noted for its “handle” has in cases lost its
soft characteristics when the sheep have
been sent away to agistment country dur-
ing drought periods. Contrariwise, I have
seen big, plain-bodied wethers grow
wool of an improved “handle” after
existing for a year or two in a climate
warmer than that in which they were
bred. And the improved softness was
not as a result of hungry fineness of the
fibres. The question of “handle” and
density will need investigation if wool-
growers are to meet the uncertain future
ahead. Maximum weights of quality
wool per head must become the slogan
for all growers if the staple is to hold
its place against the threat of substitutes.
“Mullengah”: Pig experts and bacon
factory managers don’t agree with “Pin-
jarrah” (B. 19/2/’4l) that wild pigs can
be converted into good bacon. They are
difficult to fatten, are unwanted for ex-
port and get a bad name for bacon
generally.
“Kyamba”: The warning as to cooling
cream and milk as soon as possible to
avoid deterioration (B. 15/1/’4l) is
timely. Milk with its high nutrient value
is the ideal medium for bacterial develop-
ment. Milk immediately after milking
has been found in tests to contain 1480
bacteria per c.c. After standing for 18
hours at various temperatures the bac-
teria count was: 2100 (48deg. F.); 5600
(54); 156,000 (59); 550,000 (64);
6,750,000 (70). The most practical tem-
perature controller is a water-cooled sur-
face cooler or else to set the cans in a
properly insulated tank filled with cold
water which should be deep enough to
almost cover the cans. Take care also
that advantages gained by cooling are
not lost by allowing milk to stand at the
roadside unprotected and see that cans
are covered against the sun on the way
to the factory.
Outback Occupations.
No. LX.
A DISCUSSION ON WASTE.
“The trouble with this country,” you
tell the family at breakfast one morning,
“is that too much waste goes on.”
The boys keep on eating. The missus
rises, goes to the stove, comes back and
sits down. ,
“Far too much waste,” you insist. Jack
gets up and goes outside ; Tom reaches
for the teapot; the missus rises, goes to
the stove, comes back and sits down.
•‘lt’ll have t’ stop,” you say. Tom
goes outside; the missus pours herself
some more tea.
“There y’ are,” you remark bitterly ;
“even a man’s words is wasted.”
“Like some more tea, dear?” asks the
wife.
“Look, missus, we’ll have t’ come down
hard on some things. I was readin’ the
other day where it’s dead easy t’ make
y’r own soap, f’r instance. All y’ want
is some fat an’ some caustic an’ some
hot water an’ ”
The missus gets up, goes to the stove,
comes back and sits down. A slow
warmth rises in you and you set your
mOUth. « ’ll
“All right,” you say grimly. “We A
start savin’ on this farm right now. An
just t’ show y\ missus, we’ll begin ngh
here. I’m goin’ t’ make some soap.
She looks at you, a hard and Jong
look. She’ doesn’t say anything. You
wriggle a bit and fill your pipe. You
pull out the matchbox. A plump, sott
hand swoops on the box and whisks it
away. “You can start by saving matches,
she says ; “get a light from the fire.
“But I can’t carry fire down the pad-
dock. How do I get on f’r a smoke down
there?”
“Don’t smoke till you come back. Then
you’ll save tobacco, too.”
“But a man’s got t’ have smoke.
“I’m sure I can’t see why.”
You ponder this as you roll a bit ot
paper and go to the stove for a light.
Taking it like that, is she, just because
she thinks you meant she was wasting
soap! All right.
“An’ another thing,” you say, not look-
ing at her ; “can’t y’ use margarine in-
stead of butter for cakes? Butter’s gettin’
damn’ dear lately.”
“Good heavens, man, we make our
own butter.”
“That’s what I’m drivin’ at. We could
get a shillin’ a pound for it in at the
store.”
Silence. Then a cold female voice
speaks. “John Abelard Fordcubbin,” it
says, “for more than twenty years I’ve
cooked your meals and washed your
clothes and reared your children. I’ve
nursed you and them. I’ve slaved on
this farm as hard as any of you. I’ve
listened to your (sniff) silly ideas, too, and
tried not to (sniff) —not to laugh at them.
And now (sniff), just because there’s a
war and I’m old, and (sniff, sniff, sniff)
because —because (sniff) you —you want
me to use home-made soap and imm-mar-
garine.”
She puts her head down on her arm
and sobs. You lick your lips, the lighted
paper burns your fingers and you drop
your pipe. It hits the stone hearth and
breaks. So for a dreadful moment you
stand tongue-tied before the terrible spec-
tacle of your wife in tears and your pipe
in pieces. You can’t do anything lor the
pipe, so you sit down and wait till the
sobs stop.
“All right, missus,” you say wearily ;
“buy as much soap an’ use as much
butter as y’ like. I only thought it might
help the war ; I s’pose there’s other ways
we can save.”
Her shoulders move slightly. You
give them a tentative pat, hoping she 11
raise the candid grey eyes you’ve loved
for over 20 years. She doesn’t. You
move to the door, saying “Well, I better
get down the paddock.”
As you go out you spot the boys
mirror hanging on the verandah-post
above the wash-basin. In it is reflected
the kitchen, with your missus looking
after you. There is a tolerant and loving
smile on her face and a quirk of devil-
ment in the candid grey eyes. There is
no sign of tears.
You walk firmly out behind tank-
stand, stop and say in a low voice, “Ford-
cubbin, y’ blanky ol’ goat, when will y
wake up?”
You feel in your vest for your pipe.
It isn’t there. Suddenly you realise that
it lies in pieces back on the hearth. You
turn and walk back into that kitchen.
You ignore the inquiring look. You pick
up the bowl of the pipe from the stone.
It has perhaps an inch of stem left. You
clamp that firmly in your mouth, help
yourself to two boxes of matches and
stamp resolutely out again, the pipe burn-
ing your tongue, its bowl burning your
nose but your bearing one of firm resolu-
tion for all that.
You join the boys. They look at the
shortened pipe, at each other and at you.
But something in your expression sup-
presses them, and in dead silence work
begins.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
21d. per line.
This week’s award goes to a Queenslander, whose argument is that what the
past and present have taught us should not be neglected in the future.
The Job Ahead
After the 1914-18 war we allowed
national pride to carry us on to extrava-
gant expressions of national and indi-
vidual egotism. We flaunted a White
Australia policy and a high standard of
living, but did nothing to make these
ideals any more real or practical than
political war cries of parish-pump poli-
ticians. We boasted of our great natural
resources but used our potential wealth
only as backing for IOUs ; and we had a
glorious blowout until our sugar-daddies
were lost in the depression.
In the depression we felt the pinch.
We blamed the politicians and kicked
out the gangs which had led us into
the mess. Their successors could not
pierce the gloom immediately, so we put
in the boot again. Back came the old
gangs with the same old war cries and
the same old vote-catching policies, to
get the credit for lifting a depression
which just petered out.
We dreamed again of the glorious
’twenties and talked of pre-depression
high levels. Gradually we moved back
towards the pre-depression state of
national extravagance and waste.
If it were not for the inevitable car-
nage one might say “Thank God for the
war.” We have been forced into a
scheme for national development and ex-
pansion which had been neglected for
20 years. We are being shown what
can be done by a concentrated and de-
termined national effort. Does it occur
to us that these achievements under
war conditions could have been gained
with greater ease and at lower cost during
times of peace? •
Now is the time to overhaul our
sense of values and to take an active
and intelligent interest in our social and
industrial development. Now is the time
to recognise that we have broken faith
with our pioneers and the Anzacs and to
set in motion the machinery which will
prove that we are entitled to the liberty
for which our youth is fighting, and
worthy of the sacrifice it is now making.
During this war we are carrying a
very heavy burden; if we carry the
same heavy burden in time of peace the
reward will be much greater than mili-
tary victory.
We must carry our war effort on to a
great peace offensive of national de-
velopment. We must have statesmen of
integrity, with sufficient guts and honesty
to keep our finances and energy
mobilised, and to utilise these in the best
interests of the community. We must
break the fetters of selfish party politics
and give these statesmen our full co-
operation and undivided loyalty.
Can we rise to that plane of unselfish
patriotism? —L. L. S. (Q.).
Equality of Sacrifice ?
I shall shortly be called up for military
service in the 25-33 age group. Although
I am not married, I have dependants. My
employers will not make up my pay while
I am in camp, and I will have to draw
on my small savings to maintain my
home. Over six months my financial loss
will be approximately £2OO, which is
about 66 p.c. of my present annual
salary.
Is this “equality of sacrifice”? It means
that men in my age group are reduced
to the coolie standard while elderly share-
holders continue to reap large profits,
while society women can snap up (accord-
ing to the Sydney “Sun”) frocks at 60
guineas and hats at six guineas.— Con-
script (N.S.W.).
Doing Things by Halves
Why must we do things by halves?
Our political leaders warn us of a very
grave danger. Then they revise the com-
pulsory training measure so that all uni-
versal trainees must now do six months’
training a year.
So far so good. But why must every
trainee do only three months in camp,
then three months at work, and so on?
Is it fair to anybody? Or efficient? The
instructors and officers having got their
charges settled down and in the pink of
condition lose them for three months,
then have to begin again, if not at the
beginning at least a long way behind.
The trainees return to their jobs, pick
up the threads briefly, then drop them
again. The unlucky ones —the casual
workers—get a job if they can, but a
casual worker replaced seldom gets back.
Finally, production must suffer. Such
chopping and changing must bring half-
heartedness and inefficiency in their wake.
If the situation is as serious as we are
informed, why go in for half measures?
A constant conscripted army for home
defence would not only be 100 per cent,
more efficient than a half-and-half affair,
but it would also be fairer all round. —
B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Italians
I have spent years in the Tully-Ingham
districts without meeting one of “Red
Ned’s” “Aussie Italians” (B. 12 /12/’4O).
Of course there may be some, but they
are scarce. Generally speaking, we don’t
mix, because we have so very little in
common. I agree that the “Daily Yowl”
lays it on rather thick and tends to in-
flame stupid and vicious people to acts
of persecution, but that is no reason for
going to the other extreme, even if it is
done by implication rather than by direct
statement.
The Italian doesn’t cause “despaired-of
acreages” to blossom. All the cane lands
were open when he arrived. He buys
good farms ; he’s not in the market for
bad ones. As for the statement that his
name can be freely found on the A.I.F.
list, that is news for North Queensland.
Garibaldis, of course, are eager to join
up, and do, but there aren’t many of
them.
At the same time the Italian is
not a bad fellow in his own way, and
he’s handling the present situation well.
He’s staying at home and avoiding as
far as possible public places. He’s well
behaved and quiet, and, above all, he is
silent. For this most of us respect him ;
we don’t want to hear him slanging his
country’s cause —we wouldn’t regard him
as a good “Aussie Italian” if he did. We
know how long we and our children
would have to live in Italy to become
good “Italian Aussies.” —C. H. (N.Q.).
The Petrol Shortage
I have looked in vain for any sugges-
tion that the shale deposits of Australia
should be exploited to their fullest for
the production of kerosene. There aie
few, if any, of the ordinary makes of
that cannot be adapted to run on crude
kerosene, though it may need petrol to
warm up the engine.
A lorry-driver in our district has been
using a home-made and -fitted vaporiser
on his fleet of trucks for the last 14 years,
and claims that he obtains ample power
and equal, if not better, mileage than the
same trucks did on petrol before their
adaptation. He is his own mechanic, and
is confident that the oil-dilution argu-
ment is just a bogey, and that kerosene
causes less valve-burning and bearing
wear than petrol. He has used a variety
of trucks, but they have been alike in their
“Hey, how's it there's sand in my stew?"
capacity to run satisfactorily on crude
kerosene.
The fitting is ingenious but inexpen-
sive, and an efficient one was patented
by one C. J. Law about 14 years ago.
Law drove a Lincoln fitted with his “gasi-
ficator” all over the State, and I drove
its successor, a Chrysler, all one after-
noon with many starts, all on kerosene.
I can remember in my boyhood when
Hartley and Joadja, the Terrible Hollow
of Rolf Boldrewood’s Robbery Under
Arms, produced all our kerosene and
candles. If it could be done then it
could most certainly be done now. —
A. T. A. (N.S.W.).
Expensive Tokens
On Greek. Day various emblems rang-
ing in price from sixpence to two shil-
lings were on sale in the streets. The
higher-priced article was quite a hand-
some one, consisting of metal with an
enamel inset. When the object of such
drives is to raise money for a patriotic
purpose it’s rather pointless wasting
manufacturing time and metal and spend-
ing money on the construction of such
badges, which after the event are of no
use whatsoever.
No one wants value for his money on
such occasions, and a piece of card-
board bearing a suitable insignia would
fill the bill adequately. Paddy M.
(N.S.W.).
Films All-Important
While there is no evident restriction of
the importation of American movie films
and while American luxury cars are still
freely obtainable, stockowners are unable
to obtain, in sufficient amount and at
economic cost, certain new and now in-
dispensable drugs. Phenothiazine, sul-
phapyridine and sulphanilamide, for in-
stance, are three new remedies which are
abundant and fairly cheap in the United
States and England, but either out of
stock or economically out of bounds in
Australia.
Phenothiazine has been shown by con-
trolled experiments in several countries
to be far more effective than any hitherto
tried drug in the treatment of some forms
of parasitism in both sheep and cattle.
Sulphapyridine is 100 per cent, cura-
tive for acute non-streptococcic mastitis in
cows, and acts like a charm in some acute
diseases of pigs.
Sulphanilamide has revolutionised the
treatment of pneumonia and septic infec-
tions of horses, and is also of great value
in canine surgery.
We all realise the need for conserving
monetary exchange, but surely such scien-
tific boons as these should have prefer-
ence over doubtful amusements in the
national scheme.
Another matter in which animal health
is gravely threatened is the rumored de-
cision to seize all molasses for the pro-
duction of alcohol for motor spirit.
Molasses is indispensable to animal health
in some circumstances, and inability to
obtain it, both for nutritional and medi-
cinal purposes, will adversely affect
farmers and cattlemen. — Waratah (Tas.).
On With the Show!
If “Smilax” (B. 26/2/’4l) was “dic-
tator of Australia” and closed the picture
shows he’d have a lovely revolution on
his hands. Movies seldom put “false
ideas” of life into Young Australia’s
mind. Life’s a pretty Well-known pre-
scription, with or without aid of movies ;
sometimes a film will unduly accent the
bad or the good ingredients, but practi-
cally all people (young as well as old)
dilute their poison with commonsense, so
little harm is done.
And not every movie ends happily, as
“Smilax” claims. Maybe if he saw
a few more instead of seeing one or two
and then damning the lot he would feel
better. For beauty and an old-fashioned
“moral,” he should bite into cream-puffs
like “The Bluebird” ; for realisip, “They
Knew What They Wanted” and hundreds
of others ; for fantasy, “Thief of Bag-
dad” ; for music and genius-of-presenta-
tion, Walt Disney’s soon-to-arrive “Fan-
tasia,” and so on. Movies are made in
so many different ruts that to group them
all together as one big Awful ’Orror is
unjust.
And pictures often add to the book-
reading public, instead of lessening it.
“Smilax” should listen in more closely
to the hundreds who see a great book
filmed and thus become conscious, for
the first time, of its existence. “I must
read that. It’ll be a bit different, of
course, but it should be a good book,”
is the general verdict.
“Thousands of girls have their heads
turned by some real or fancied resem-
blance to some screen baggage.” And
what if they have? Take away their
film-stars and they’ll model themselves
on the most popular divorcees or
duchesses of the day. The feminine head
isn’t abnormal when it “turns” ; it was
built on a pivot, and Nature, not the
movies, is to blame.
Education can’t be ruined by anything,
not even a B-class movie. But it does
help you appreciate the technical and his-
trionic skill attached to the making of
a “good” movie.— Eve (N.S.W.).
Hollywood Cashes In
The most flagrant example I know of
cashing-in on the war is the way Holly-
wood has turned to producing films with
a war setting or war basis. At the
present time the following war films are
being shown at Brisbane theatres :
“Mystery Sea Raider,” “Spy Ring,” “The
Mortal Storm,” “Enemy Agent,” “Lone
Wolf Spy Hunt,” “Army Girl” and
“Waterloo Bridge.”
Adding insult to injury, most of these
films glorify the exploits of Yankee
doughboys and G-men.—W. K. D. (Q.).
“Escape” Reading
Those who write tripe to please the
public (B. 26/2/’4l) should not be called
authors ; they are just cheap-Jack sen-
sation mongers. “Escape” reading, as
it is called, is anything but escape from
reality. The dull, drab routine of life
is not softened by these literary excre-
tions. Like drugs, they merely accen-
tuate it. After being stimulated by these
neurotic mirages the subsequent return
to reality seems harder, colder and
drearier than ever.
The joy of living is an inward con-
dition, and one must develop inwardly
to find it. This development is brought
about with the aid of good books, good
music, art, painting and all the true and
beautiful things which give depth to our
thoughts.
The majority who read escape books
ar<? usually very young. When the aver-
age man and woman reach the forties
they grow wiser and turn to better and
deeper reading. They become tired of
literary “pinkie” with its temporary sen-
sations of false elevation, followed by
a grim-reality hangover, and gradually
acquire a taste for good wine of a
vintage which lingers pleasantly on the
mental palate long after it has been
taken. — Danbo (Vic.).
Authors Must Eat
“Thou and I” quotes various reasons
why authors do not succeed (B. 26/2/’4l),
but he leaves out the biggest reason of
all, which, as a seller of books, he should
be aware of. Booksellers receive about
2s. a volume for novels sold by them,
while Australian authors sign agreements
with British publishers which gives them
a royalty of 3d. each for their books sold
in Australia. Reverse the position and
a crop of authors of
merit would spring
up here in a very
few years from the
capable writers who
at present cannot
afford the luxury of
being novelists, and
so confine their
writing to leisure
hours as a recreation.
Another error
made by “Thou and
I” is his suggestion
that there must be
plenty of “sex” to
make a best-seller.
Jeffery Farnol, Wren,
Sabatini and scores
of others who are
well up amongst the
commercially as well
as artistically sue-
cessful have followed the tradition of
restraint in dealing with sex.
You can’t get away from the fact that
monetary rewards are the most powerful
incentive to literary success, and until


they are available in this country poten-
tial authors will stick to the law, the civil
service and business. Harry Welch
(N.S.W.).
Popularity
A comparison of the methods of
“popular” journalism and political
speech-making shows that they both fol-
low the same technique of counting noses.
Start off with big headings or high-
sounding phrases in praise of the troops
and their achievements. It is all quite
true and pleases everybody.
Then with pen or voice demand that
the Government shall strain every nerve
to secure the maximum of war effort and
spend every shilling in the production of
munitions. That is laudable public spirit,
and appeals alike to the contractors and
the workers, as well as to the workless
who are desirous of sharing in the good
work and the good pay.
Having created a good impression all
round by stating the obvious, patting
everybody on the back and stirring
patriotic as well as selfish interest, pro-
ceed to condemn some small section of
the community that can’t hit back and is
always unpopular anyway. The landlords
will do at a pinch. Nobody loves them,
so they are fair game. The words will
find an echo in the pockets of every man
and woman who pays rent.
The next item is a flood of invective
against the capitalists who batten on the
blood and sweat of their unfortunate
wage-slaves. There are infinitely more
“slaves” than slave-owners, so that this
line is quite safe.
It should now be easy, by inference
more or less direct, to prove that, while
our national safety and the lives of our
soldiers depend on the utmost effort ot.
each worker, no one can blame the
workers as a class if they cease from their
labors till they are assured of a larger
share of the war profits.
End up with the usual peroration
about patriotism and winning the war,
and wait for the increase in circulation
or the loud applause. Nothing else really
matters.— Noses (S.A.).
Dairying Costs
Dairy-farmers have some justification
in asking for increased prices for their
products, which are still on the pre-war
level. Prices of most things the farmer
has to buy have increased, and further
increases are likely. Forced to borrow
money from tlie Government to feed their
cows during the recent drought, many
dairymen have had to assume heavy
financial burdens. If they want to im-
prove their pastures they find that seed
of grasses and clovers has increased in
price and that they have to pay more for
fertilisers.
Still on the pre-war level themselves,
dairy-farmers see secondary industries
earning higher profits and wages being in-
creased. The farmers have to pay heaver
taxes, and they have to help other people
pay theirs. In other industries increased
costs are being passed on, but that is
something that the dairy-farmer cannot
do —he must sell at a fixed price. If the
prices of milk, butter and cheese cannot
be increased, the farmer should be given
concessions on income tax and should be
relieved of the need to pay sales tax on
goods essential to the running of his
business. —Cow Time (N.S.W.).
Dairying in Queensland
State taxation, red-tape regulations and
an army of inspectors make the dairy
business hardly worth the candle in
Queensland. Agriculture Minister Bul-
cock’s famous “bull tax” was regarded
as the last straw, but now farmers who
have installed milking machines, be-
cause of the labor shortage due to
enlistments, have been hit to leg.
For the efficient working of most milk-
ing machines a steriliser is considered
essential. This has attracted the attention
of the State Chief Inspector of Machinery ,
who has sent the chief boiler inspector
around the farms inspecting sterilisers.
Farmers are advised to fill in a form
making application for a third-class cer-
tificate to operate the steriliser. Before
such a certificate is granted the farmer
has to pass an examination, and before
he is allowed to sit for examination he
is required “to forward to the Chief
Inspector of Machinery a fee of 55.,
medical certificate and reference, together
with copy thereof proving all your ex-
perience with steam boilers and engines
under working conditions,” etc. Further,
sterilisers must be inspected annually, for
which a fee of 10s. or more is charged.
What does the average farmer know
about boilers and engines? Certainly
not enough to gain a certificate, even if
it is only third-class. — Legio (Q-).
Apples and Pears
I hope that a zone system for the dis-
tribution of apples and pears, with one
person having the sole right of distri-
bution in a district, will never be in-
stituted in Australia (B. 26/2/’4l).
In N. S. Wales such a system is in
vogue in newspaper distribution. The
sole gainers by it are the lucky people
who get local agencies. Their clients are
virtually at their mercy. True, if service
is considered unsatisfactory complaints
can be made to the newspapers, but they
have to be of a very loud and persistent
nature for any action to be taken by the
latter.
There are four greengrocers’ shops in
the centre nearest to my home, and three
men also peddle fruit from door to door,
so if one doesn’t suit me I have a wide
choice. Competition makes them all
attentive.— Tom (N.S.W.).
We have been told that 500,000,000
apples are going to waste this year, while
a grower in Shepparton (Vic.) says that
he made a shallow ditch, dumped 280
tons of fine pears in it and ran a tractor
over them under the watchful eye of the
Apple and Pear Board.
Complaints of the growers are loud,
but what practical measures —other than
destruction—are being taken? Even in
the hotels in Shepparton this fine fruit
was not served as a dessert. And if you
ask for fresh fruit in season at most
restaurants in Australia you are likely
to be looked upon as being a bit queer.
You are regarded as normal only if you
ask for one of the two or three monoto-
nous stock sweets. On rare occasions one
sees a few puny apples or other low-
grade fruit on a hotel table, but it is
neither attractive nor is it classed as
dessert.
Occasionally one sees an advertisement
asking people to eat more fruit, but
such advice does not tell people how or
when to eat it. Why not educate people
to eat fresh fruit as a dessert several
times a week, especially in summer, when
“ C'mon , no more nonsense —open your mouth and let me put me head in .”
it is far more suitable and healthier than
heavy sweets? —J. H. L. (N.S.W.).
Erosion
The destruction of timber is not the
only cause of soil erosion (B. 26/2/’4l).
The writer has seen quite thickly-timbered
country badly eroded, while near by well-
grassed country without timber showed
no signs of erosion.
Overstocking is as much to blame for
erosion as destruction of timber, par-
ticularly in flat or undulating country,
and, though the retention of a certain
amount of timber acts as a deterrent, a
good coat of grass is more effective both
from a practical and economic point of
view.
Until a certain type of landholder
realises this, and allows the grass on his
property to run to seed periodically, soil
erosion will continue to take its deadly
toll. —Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Blaming Conditions
A writer who can’t write because of
adverse circumstances, real or imaginary,
probably could not write in any cir-
cumstances (B. 26/2/’4l). There is, how-
ever, no analogy between such a writer
and Captain Cook. Cook did not, after
all, sail the uncharted seas at his own
expense, and he did receive some encour-
agement in his enterprise. Supposing
Cook had had to supply his own ship,
maintain his own sailors and run the
ultimate risk of his work being rejected
when complete—there would have been
no great explorer. On the uncharted seas
of the Australian literary world what is
needed is not so much encouragement for
individual writers as the creation of an
atmosphere in which the production of
charts (or literary endeavor) would be
made at least worth while. —Cookspear
(N.S.W.).
“The Defence”
My critics (B. 26/2/’4l) and I are not
in disagreement. We are discussing dif-
ferent things. To help clarify the issue
I would say that a grouch is not a criti-
cism and an assertion is not a criticism.
A criticism is an argument. Anybody
can complain about new taxes, radio pro-
grammes, rising prices, marketing boards,
contemporary art and the lack of good
Australian drama. Nobody would say
he wanted a worse world. Everybody
would say he wanted a better. The only
difficulty is how to get it.
The O.F.M. contributors who have a
criterion on the subjects they write about
and have arguments to support them
won’t be upset by my criticism. If some
are upset I am pretty sure they have
neither criterion nor argument. —L. L.
(Vic.).
Clothes Make the Man
Take a mob of average young men,
dress them like soldiers and send them
to foreign shores against enemies. They
make the world wonder at their exploits.
If they had been allowed to run wild,
dressed in ordinary duds, they would
have remained just ordinary.
Our boys in uniform are willing to
sacrifice everything from their standard
of living to their health. They cheerfully
suffer everything from a blistered heel
to a violent death. There are no words
in our language to describe fitly their
loyalty and endurance.
Our boys out of uniform are just so-so.
Often they are less than that. And fre-
quently their disloyalty beggars descrip-
tion by dictionary adjectives. Yet if even
the wasters are called up and dolled up
they become heroes almost overnight.
It may be because in the Army there
are men dressed not only in uniform but
with authority who know what they want
and know how to get it; men who won’t
allow soapbox orators to harangue the
rank and file on parade, countermanding
orders and upsetting discipline.
If that is the reason —and it is hard to
see any other—then it might be a good
idea to dress up some man or men to
stop the rot in civil life. The idea is
not mine. It was tentatively mentioned
by the Postmaster-General, who seemed
to think that if things got much worse it
might be worth while to consider the
advisability of interning people engaged
in subversive activities.
No doubt the “authorities” are “inves-
tigating every avenue” before interfering
with the liberty of the subject in civvies,
who, as long as he can choose his own
tailor, is at liberty to endanger the liberty
of every other subject, including that of
the soldier who is fighting for the lives
and liberties of subversive civilians. —
Red Tie (S.A.).
Her Worship
Stated that appointment of women as
clerks of petty sessions, with a view to
their promotion as magistrates of chil-
dren’s courts, is to be considered as a
result of a decision by N.S.W. Cabinet,
now battling hard for votes.
Woman is capable of many things, but
she is no more capable of administering
justice as it should be administered than
she is of becoming the father of a large
family. As every man who has ever
associated with the sex knows, emotion
always rules her judgment, and faced
with a couple of youthful delinquents in
a court she is more likely to decide the
verdict on their angelic or non-angelic
appearance than on the evidence, how-
ever conclusive.
Before making its decision the Cabinet
should have thought deeply about its
own wife and recalled occasions when
she has been required to adjudicate in
either family or neighborly disputes. It
could, with profit, have also considered
the remarkable growth of women’s
papers, astrology and crooning, in recent
years, each and every one of them mak-
ing its appeal to the emotions and there-
fore roping in the female in her millions.
Then there is always the startling and
—to more rugged races somewhat
shocking example of the U.S.A., where
laws, wars and outlaws are invariably
handled with an eye on the female re-
action. In that great country women
dominate elections, business and the
arts; “get your man” is the creed of
the American woman, and she gets him
every time.
Since woman was taught to read and
write a wave of emotionalism has swept
the world. Hitler early recognised this,
and one of his first acts was to shove
the frau and fraulein back into the home.
There is good reason to believe that he
believed British disarmament was due to
feminine influence and that the same
influence might prevent the British from
fighting.
The fact that it didn’t doesn’t absolve
woman from emotionalism, and that is
one sentiment that should be kept from
our courts, children’s or otherwise. —
Tummas McNark (N.S.W.).
School-leaving Age
The cost involved by raising the school-
leaving age would be out of all propor-
tion to its value (B. 12/2/’4l).
Merely lifting it to 15 would
be useless —few children can
gain appreciable benefit from
only one extra year at school
On the other hand, 16 or 17
would necessitate financial help
for the majority of parents.
Even were this on a far less
generous scale than the sug-
gested 15s. a week a child, the
expense would be heavy.
Only a minority of children
merit extended educational op-
portunities. Many are hot worth
sending to a secondary school;
others, while mentally compe-
tent for such studies, are anxious
to get out into the world. This
type simply wastes time if kept
at school beyond the primary
course, and is better at work.
Too many young Australians
already attend secondary schools,
and no good will come of add-
ing many more thousands to
their ranks. Compulsory second-
ary education will not mean, as
some advocates of a higher
school age pretend, a better
chance in life for children of the
masses. Only a certain proportion
of any community, no matter what
the educational . attainments of the
average citizen, can fill the white-collar
positions. Yet few who have attended
a secondary school desire any but white-
collar work, and most who can’t get it
are very disgruntled. Such people today
—if they are numerous —can become a
grave social menace, for it is they who
constitute the most fertile field for Com-
munist propaganda.—A. D. (N.S.W.).
It took a war to solve the problem of
our great army of youthful, unskilled
unemployed by absorbing them into
either active service or various war in-
dustries. But some day we will wake up
to the necessity of a national organisa-
tion for drafting every boy leaving school
or college into a position consistent with
his ability, temperament and education.
The Government is responsible for a
boy’s education until he is 14, but his
industrial or professional future should
also be its responsibility. At present it
usually rests with the intelligence of the
parents or the boys themselves as to
what they take up, and, as the majority
lack understanding and foresight, any old
job is taken on as long as the money is
good. But it is not realised that it is
better to be taught a skilled trade or pro-
fession at small wages than to start in
temporary and unskilled work with a
bulky pay envelope.
A department should be established
with powers compelling every mother s
son to seek employment and all em-
ployers to engage boy labor only
this department. And every boy shou d
be apprenticed until 21 and thoroughly
trained in whatever occupation he takes
up. Then, in manhood* he would be a
skilled operator, artisan, tradesman or
professional man.—Danbo (Vic.).


are you O
iverishr
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less
from Liver Complaint. Those feelings of “No energy”
and “Not too well” are but symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. Weak because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source of endless suffering.
When the Liver is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels,
life into the Liver, and tone the Stomach —thus bracing
up the system generally.
I m i
Dr. Morses
*
*
4
fcZ^
mmiutiwwwww
PILLS
They Make You Feel Brighter
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Windbum. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7 g- per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock's “Dead
Shot" Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
1
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN” T
THE LADS OVERSEAS— W
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 4/-
post free.
&
&
c°
M
a*
/ft
0;,
.• ■' 'J oVV ' f
, c V vV o,t
\v v s^ o^'
V\V
e^°


SHAPING AUSTRALIA’S
INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS
B.H.P, Steel in its many forms fills Aus-
tralia s need for the metal that gets things
done. The great tonnages of quality iron
and steel produced at The Broken Hill Pro-
prietary’s Newcastle Steel Works give Aus-
tralia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence
of the Commonwealth.
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the
fact that it is available at prices which com-
pare more than favourably with those
charged for overseas steel form convincing
evidence of the industry’s efficiency.
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace
time is only exceeded by its vital importance
in the extraordinary circumstances caused
by War.
jhkghj
ĵĥgj
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron
and steel industry must be ranked of major import-
ance, as it gives direct employment to more than
32,000 persons, whose wages total yearly more than
£9,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not
only produces iron and steel, but owns and operates
its own steamships, coalmines and ship-building
yards, and most of the raw materials used in steel-
making are obtained from properties under the con-
trol of the company.
*
■■x a
wmi
5#
I
'm
m
m
H
■■U.
. .
A.;:-:
A'?.: (
■
822&3
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Works
blast furnace plant, which produces more than 15,000
tons of iron per week.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Ferro Alloys, Rails,
Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels,
Plates, Reinforcing Bar, Tee
and Bridge Rails, Spring and
Alloy Steel, Cold-Rolled
Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent
Naphtha, Ammonium Sul-
phate, Foundry Coke, Coals,
Steam and Roasting Coal,
Household, and Bunker Coal.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY GO. LTD.
Iron and Steel Masters-—Mine and Skip Owners —Colliery Proprietors —Skip Builders
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, South Australia.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Shipbuilding Yards: Whyalla, South Australia.
