

JNUFACTI
LTD.
PORT KEMBLA
MAKERS OF:—
N.S.W.
g^M&gaa
i
is
&
of Non Ferrous
Metals and Alloys
u. ,^ v ->*as»a
- ■* * —“TS
■■■R{-t-:7----fefX3
IT ' *' ,# nPSH
I i iii
i.*i
»«
mi
■
GENERAL VIEW OF PAPER LAPPING SECTION.
For the manufacture of local and
trunk type paper-insulated lead-
covered telephone cables for the
Postmaster-GeneraFs Department,
special lapping and quadding
machinery is installed.
CABLES
TUBES
np
M, HE story of the Company is broadly one of steady
progress, and it has made a substantial contribution
to the development of Australia. Commencing with
the assistance of relatively high protective duties, it
has brought itself into a position where it is able to
carry on with a considerable less degree of protection.
The reputation of its products has always been care-
fully guarded, and its trade-mark “Kembla” is an
asset of which it may be justifiably proud.
11
MM
* '*•*’<*
. Ji-> , ~,
** ..*
.
iM^
...
A FLYER ON A TELEPHONE CABLE LAYING-UP
MACHINE SHOWING LAY-PLATE AND CLOSING DIE.
INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT TELEPHONES
There are about 39 million telephones in use throughout the
world, using about 168 J million miles of telephone wire.
Australia has about three million miles of telephone wire in
use, and about nine telephones per 100 of population, occupy-
ing seventh place in this respect amongst the nations of the
world.
In the large cities of the world, Washington with nearly 39
telephones per 100 of population heads the list. The numbers
per 100 people in the Australian capitals are: Melbourne
12.45, Sydney 11.73, Adelaide 10.75, Hobart 10.67, and
Brisbane 10.49.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62. —No. 3206.
Wednesday, July 23, 1941.
Long War Ahead?
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


I
This Book FREE to YOU!
srorrs correspondence college ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
DEMOS DIAGNOSED.
“I propose to deal with great national
aggregates of human beings as racially or
socially incorporate, not as individual persons
or self-centred citizens. They are thus to be
taken in the mass as true organisms, within a
physical or effective frontier, which must be
classed, not on common human or high-grade
lines, but as low-grade invertebrates... .Organ-
isms of such a grade must obviously be moved
wholly by the instincts and physical tropisms
necessary for continuous existence in the nutri-
tional field to which they find themselves
attached.” —Morley Roberts: ‘‘The Behavior
of Nations” {Dent).
In practically every country in the
world this Demos Invertebrate —the
“many-headed monster” ; national man-
kind in the mass —must now be somehow
vaguely aware that something disturbing
and exciting, a complication of physical
sickness and madness, has got into its
system. But if physician Roberts’s
descriptive diagnosis can be accepted, it
will follow that, by its very nature, the
patient would not, could not be expected
to, visit a doctor. At all times it would
seem to prefer quacks to physicians, the
superficial knowall charlatan to the care-
ful diagnostician. “Dr.” Roberts should
count himself lucky if patient doesn’t
arise and throw the furniture at him. A
doctor who told an individual patient that
he was not only diseased but contemptibly
so would expect resentment, and would
get it. “Dr.” Roberts has just that sort
of bedside manner: no regard whatever
for the sentimental feelings of the patient.
The most he will concede is that his
diagnoses and prescriptions are to be
taken as set down with scientific clinical
detachment, and are not at any time to
be mistaken for abuse. Nor, he insists,
is he merely using metaphor when he
classifies Demos as a low-grade inverte-
brate, hungry and half-blind, activated by
gross instincts, and subject, in a mass way,
to all the ills that flesh is heir to,
especially insanity in its many forms and
degrees. He wants this to be accepted
as a true reality, not merely as a manner
of speaking. And the individual person
can consider himself as actually a mere
cell in a nervous, highly irritable
organism, which has passions like
to his own but cruder, like hopes,
like fears, like emotions, like in-
sanities, and which is as liable as indi-
vidual cells (he’s one) to exhibit the
reactions of the exalted moron or de-
pressed idiot. The individual, contem-
plating this advance in zoology, may con-
sole himself, if he must, with the know-
ledge that the doctor does not suggest
that mass reactions necessarily reflect, or
are a true measure of, the average man.
They are a bit lower than his, though
perhaps a shade higher than those of
the organism’s newspapers in the mass.
This clinical-zoological concept of low-
grade organisms is how he sees those
separate mass bodies of mankind which,
for the sake of clarity and brevity, may
be roughly called the nations ; and, in
his view, it is because they are what they
are —hungry low-grade organisms, com-
pelled by gross instincts, subject to mass
insanity—that they behave as they do.
The world, as he sees it, is to be looked
upon as the great nutritional field of these
same hostile, hungry organisms, whose
actions, in the final analysis, are moti-
vated by their hunger, and engendered
also by the great primitive instincts of
fear and desire. Half-blind and hungry,
they seek their nutriment at the price
of war which is endless, even in periods
of so-called “peace.”
Thus the picture builds into one of the
world as a vast nutritional field, and in
this a continuous and fundamental search
for food by great and little national
organisms, hunting in fierce rivalry, and
sometimes in packs, for nutrition and the
energy needed for the elaborate
machinery of modern national existence.
The struggle is instinctive to the national
organisms warring for survival in per-
petual fear of losing some source of
energy. Hence the spectacle in recent
years of all national organisms from
Japan east across Europe to the United
States becoming more primitive and
savage and tribal, as if they were fearful
of their daily bread and the fields from
which they drew it.
It follows, in this view, that from the
first war canoe to the latest battleship
the one great end is national nutrition
and how to secure it. When to this
general view is added the finding that
there are few national organisms ready
to believe that it is better to share a loaf
than fight for the whole of it, then war
becomes permanent and inevitable as a
natural matter of course. It becomes
that all the more positively because of
the natural love of fighting in man—a
characteristic the idealist sentimentally
overlooks. At the very best the
nations thus fundamentally constituted
put up with each other, and at the worst
hate each other with a ferocity not un-
expected in low-grade “animals.”
In the view of diagnostician Roberts,
to call any instinctive acts of such low-
grade organisms crimes is as absurd as
calling a crime the killing of a sick or
wounded beast by a hyena or buzzard.
From this in turn it follows that if so-
called crimes” among national organisms
are looked at as instinctive acts, there
should be no difficulty in accepting the
view that drastic, even utterly destructive,
punishment is an instinctive answer.
“The world is full of the wrecks of
nations which hoped for the best, and
thought balance could be maintained
without fighting for it.” There are also
wrecks of nations—and nations in danger
of becoming wrecks because, in
physician Roberts’s view, so-called states-
men went to sleep on tissue-paper treaties,
and allegedly wise men were prepared to
trust the word of honor of a national
organism which tribally does not under-
stand the word.
Here, and elsewhere, it would seem the
physician forgets himself and becomes
something of a politician, or else he
temporarily loses the direction of his logic.
Accepting his general view, that
national mankind in the mass bodies
forth in the form of actual organisms of
the nature of low-grade invertebrates,
subject to hunger and to sickness just
as its individual units aTe, but motivated
wholly by instinct—accept this at large,
and it follows that any such tribe or race
may be as mad as a lunatic in a padded
cell, “or as a million lemmings bent on
death in a distant sea towards which they
strive in endless procession.” “I feel
assured from history, and from mere
observation,” physician Roberts declares,
“that great national organisms can live
in.-.. .illusions based on morbid and im-
possible ambition. As the foregone
paranoiac cannot be shown his folly, so
such nations cannot be argued out of
the glory of their dreams.” It is also
among his positive diagnoses that the
English nation, so long free from the
bitter dangers of the Continent, has an
inborn tendency to forgive its enemies, a
tendency which may merit religious, but
should never receive political, commen-
dation. It is because of this inborn
characteristic that the English are looked
upon in European chancelleries as poor,
weak-minded fools. The ' Europeans
know that “the Germans’ leader became
their leader because he is so essentially
what the Germans are.”
So far, so good. But accepting
physician Roberts’s hypothesis generally,
one would think that that relationship
and resemblance between the German
invertebrate organism and the cell “lead-
ing” it was not something peculiar to the
Teutonic tribe, but would be repeated in
some measure in all such organisms.
Nevertheless, physician Roberts goes on
to say that “so far as the responsibility
for the present war can be placed on
mere units, such as Premiers, or groups,
such as Cabinets, it must [in Britain] un-
doubtedly be placed on all the Ministers
who have held office since the last war.”
Surely this is a departure from phy-
sician Roberts’s own logic, and is an alli-
ance with the instinctive self-protective
scapegoat impulse of the very organism
he is describing, which impulse is seen
flowering on such mean stalks as the (of
course) currently popular publication
called Guilty Men. Physician Roberts
makes no such narrow selective choice
of scapegoats, it is true; but surely by
the logic of his own reasoning he should
pin guilt on none. Surely the guilt be-
longs to Demos Invertebrate, the national
organism itself!
The League of Nations was as repre-
sentative in its way as the now con-
temned Ministers were in theirs; if it
can be said —as physician Roberts says,
probably with truth—that the League
suffered from group-communicated in-
sanity, surely that explanation is valid
also in the case of that whole procession
of Ministers who in Britain (as in Aus-
tralia) legislated on defence strictly in
accordance with the then prevailing
national mood. The so-called “guilty
men” of that period were surely nothing
more nor less than representative cells of
the national organism. To speak of them
as “guilty men,” even in the qualified
manner of physician Roberts, is surely
to subscribe to the organism’s instinct for
self-protection in scapegoat-hunting. To
call them “guilty men” in any less quali-
fied sense is, of course, to pander openly
to that natural form of cowardice.
What a wholly healthy national orga-
nism, thus left on its beam ends, would
now be saying would be: What would
we have done to those politicians if they
had taken our good money and spent it
on arms in the mood we were then in?
We would have thrown them out on their
necks! Therefore, the guilt lies with us
as a mass organism. We now resolve
that that temporary softness has passed
for ever. Henceforth we subscribe to the
dictum laid down by this good physician:
Those who have good arms will have
good friends ; those who have good brains
will have good arms ; those will have good
brains who see the world as it is.
“Dr.” Roberts asserts that, though
Britain, as a living organism, is naturally
as liable to delusions as other organisms
are, “it should have been the function of
its leaders to divest themselves of mob de-
lusions.” Instead, “as responsible agents
for the British Commonwealth, the Minis-
ters listened to fools or treacherous
propaganda, and trembled for their party
at the polls.” As well, surely, they might
tremble, when that is just precisely where
Demos Invertebrate, the many-headed,
would be waiting for them, with approval
and support if they were prepared to re-
flect its mood, and an axe if they were not.
The real test for “guilty men” in the
period in question would seem to be
whether the organism they represented
allowed them any choice but to act as
they did, and whether any alternative
men could, in the circumstances, have
acted in any other way. The truth —
which no mean resort to scapegoat-hunt-
ing can now alter—is that the overwhelm-
ing mood of the mass organism known
as Britain —or as Australia —is well
known to have been at the time over-
whelmingly against defence! expenditure,
overwhelmingly in favor of “collective
security” and suchlike formulae, and
overwhelmingly convinced that peace
everlasting could now be secured in this,
very world which physician Roberts en-
visages as a vast nutritional field, swarm-
ing with hungry organisms, filled with
fear and distrust of each other, and sub-
ject, not only individually to ills and in-
sanities, but generally to the inescapable
processes of perpetual evolution.
All that being so, it seems preposterous
to suggest that an organism’s cells which
happened to be cast up because they were
representative of the organism as a whole
should be held guilty in retrospect for
what the organism insisted they must do.
It is all the more preposterous since, in
diagnostician Roberts’s view, “it is futile
to regard any of the Great Powers, even
under ordinary peaceful and sub-hostile
conditions, as intelligent organisms.”
“They are,” he proceeds, “demonstrably
stupid. They lack foresight, are easily
deluded, believe what they are told by
politicians when it is agreeable, and often
put out of office those who speak of the
future with apprehension and propose
preparation for obvious danger.” Exactly.
He admits that it is now a common-
place that the degree of disarmament
reached in Britain (and Australia) “was
due to our typical stupidity.” He would
seem to believe, however, that such typi-
cal stupidity, though it belongs to a low
invertebrate “animal,” is somehow cur-
able. Elderly teachers of history may do
nothing to that end, but those “still
young, mobile and free-swimming” may
see that optimism, enthusiasm for peace,
kindly trust in the nature of man, warm
belief in “progress,” and leagues for the
abolition of evolution are little, if any-
thing, more than expressions of unregu-
lated hope.
The teachers would seem to have the
job in front of them, all the more so
because so many of the young ones are
notoriously infected and bemused by the
virus called ideology. And it would
seem that such few as may be anything
like clear-headed realists will get no help
from the organism’s guides and reflec-
tors, the newspapers, since “to create an
illusion may actually seem a triumph for
journals of an intellectual rank scarcely
equal to the mob or mass they represent:
they even tell the public, which in any
real sense is without logic or education,
that it is capable of forming an intellec-
tual judgment.”
....the mass vocal outcries and expres-
sions of a tribe are its “mind” in action.
We may very reasonably look on the re-
actions of a nation’s massed newspapers
in the same way. If it is objected that this
would make newspaper owners, editors and
journalists into a body analagous to a
rude, primitive brain, liable to all passions
and reactions of such an organ, including
the illusions and delusions of popular in-
sanity, I should be ready to accept it as
a brilliant illustration.
Not much hope, it would seem, from
that quarter. Demos Invertebrate will just
have to make the best of whatever evolu-
tion has in store for it. It will go on
burying its collective head, if not in the
sand, then in its newspapers, believing the
first pleasing and plausible fool who
comes along. It would seem, according
to a pronouncement of physician
Roberts, that the organism called Aus-
tralia has its share of these misguiders
at the present moment: “Defence pure
and simple, wait and let them come
defence,” says physician Roberts, “is
close to a counsel of despair. The first
and foremost immunity of a human body
lies in action.... Passive defence without
powerful help at hand is but a desperate
attempt to preserve neutrality.... to sit
down in peace behind partially prepared
lines is but an invitation to assault.”
Forward, Mr. Falstein!
The eminent diagnostician proceeds to
spread out sundry of the more important
national organisms on the table for in-
spection: the Germany organism, suffer-
ing from and impelled by claustrophobia;
We may at once link the word “lebens-
raum” with a general national organic
claustrophobia genuinely felt... .National
instincts and impulses... .have flowered
in a morbid, semi-insane claustrophobia,
most powerfully reinforced by the defeat
which utterly destroyed their achieved
status. This must be taken literally: it
is no metaphor: it marks the ardent desire
of the organic German body. By naming
it thus we are bound to infer that it was
not curable by advice coming from the
west, east, south or north, or from the
round world in solemn conclave To
look on Germany as claustrophobic and its
leader as the great claustrophobe is abso-
lutely necessary if we are to understand
the case.
The French organism he sees as bio-
logically much further advanced in de-
velopment than the British, though both
of them are far ahead, and most dan-
gerously ahead, of the German. America,
an organism hard to characterise, is dan-
gerously ruled by its womenfolk, “the
worst nurses it can have.” The matriarch,
a savage survival, has always been strong
in America: she would cure world-wide
political diseases by the chanting of for-
mulas. Under this influence the Ameri-
can remains politically a child. As for
Britain, at the moment events have forced
rearmament, “but the Continent and the
world await the time when the organic
English weakness after a long and bitter
war will betray our leaders into forgiv-
ing their enemies once more, into bind-
ing up their wounds, signing trap treaties
and lending them money,” the British
being the kindest and the most foolish
people in Europe. He sees one looming
danger for the British organism:
A national organism not able by its own
forces to repel or expel exported experts
in intrigue is not in a healthy immune
state. But Great Britain, with a falling
population, exports her children, many of
whom will never return, while she welcomes
tens of thousands of aliens, who can do
nothing to strengthen, but much to
weaken, what immunity she has.
Writing considerably before the event
—probably some time last year—this in-
ventor of a new zoology was declaring
that the alliance between the Russian
and German organisms could not go on,
not because of “ideological” differences,
but because it was biologically un-
natural. “It looks as if the next
world war,” be then wrote, “should
be between Russia and Germany, with
the monarchist ideologist Japan as ter-
tins gaudens” This prognostication he
based, not on the stars nor the Pyra-
mids, but logically on the ground of his
main conception of these and other
nations as hungry organisms, instinctively
struggling for food and survival.
Unless, as he sees it, the easy admis-
sion of aliens into the organic body of
Britain is such as to set up disease nests
which may in time be fatal—Norway,
Holland, Belgium and France were thus
destroyed before a gun was fired—there
should be some hope for the future health
and survival of the organism designated
Britain through the organisms known as
Dominions, etc., remaining attached and
representing youth and new growth:
The young and vigorous family is itself
a new kind of colonial catalyst urging the
mother organism to new efforts, making it
shed old hampering prejudices, and forcing
it to free itself from the kind of elderly
and obstinate delusions which lost Eng-
land North America.
Thus is evident a new group “animal”
such as the world has never seen before.
That this represents a somewhat dis-
orderly sort of organism—crude and raw,
perhaps—might be considered by physi-
cian Roberts as no bad thing, since he
pronounces on the French as having been
too clever, too intellectual, for the world
they have had to live in. The struggle
for “food” —and, with it, for survival —
being certain in his view to go on end-
lessly, the best chance would seem to
lie with those organisms which cultural
development has not rendered too intel-
lectual and polite, the actions of which
are nationally instinctive, and which are
able to look on the world and see it, not
as they might like it to be, but as it
actually is.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — ahvays.
THE SENIOR
FAMOUS low prices
n /
s'
i
» ji*a:
l/i.
/mm*
M
»
m*
m
I*
S *:>■■■
Vfc
ill
>" . - *
H
isi
sew#?;:**
*:*??
WAR SAVINGS
m
....... s*
CERTIFICATES
W88:-
M
vm
m
&SSS*
M
:■? ?*;
m
m
m
m
mm
.
■
m
m
ih;
M
V '
■H
1
■
• ■
■Hi
‘ * •?*?!?• :■ *
m
m
m
• ■
PROVIDING
WARMTH and
SMARTNESS
English Tweed O’Coat
Dignified and aristocratic . . . Fawn and Grey
Herringbones that reflect good taste and judgment.
Expertly tailored from double woven cloth with
woven check inside. Available in the smart D.B.
and S.B. Chesterfield and S.B. Raglan
styles. At Anthony Horderns'. Price
Zl'T-
Gabardine Raincoat
A Raincoat that is indifferent to wind and
rain ... is indeed the Coat for winter
weather. Tailored by our own craftsmen
in the smart S.B. Raglan Style. Made from
woollen gabardine, in shades
of Dark Grey, Fawn and
Olive. At Anthony Horderns'.
CD
o>
00
Box 2712 C,
G.P.O. Sydney
Phone M 2401
Day and Night
D.B. POLO STYLE
Smart —Warm —Serviceable . . . adequately
describes this double breasted Polo Over-
coat. Made from all wool coatings in shades
of Greys, Browns and Lovat mixtures. Deep
full collar, all round belt, and
fully lined with art silk. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price
00
CO
a>
Tweed Overcoat
You have quality and style in these Tweed
Overcoats at a very low price. They're
made by our own Craftsmen which ensures
fit and finish. Fully lined with
art silk. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, each
55'-
i


A DAY WITH THE ALL-STAR COMPANY
By RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Beginning in the late ’eighties and continuing for a period of almost forty years
Randolph Bedford, dead a couple of weeks ago in Brisbane at 73, sent stories and
verse and articles to “The Bulletin” in a fairly constant stream. One unpublished
sketch, written during a period when he was writing plays, “The Bulletin” has
had hidden away in its drawer—
DOWN by Eclipse comer there had been the
smell of the rain on the broken earth. The
monsoon had come in its season, but the rain
had been driven further south than usual, and
the possibility of drought had changed to the cer-
tainty of flood. The creeks were running bankers ; the
basaltic soil was a black gluepot; the chocolate plains
stuck closer than a brother. The earth had been
iron and was now mush, springing into bloom of
poison-peach and rosella and lilac and amaranth
wherever the water retreated ; speargrass, growing in
the steamy air so quickly that the eye might almost
measure it; life breaking everywhere in anthill and
spider web and air.
The big coach, swaying on its leathern braces at
the tails of eight weary horses, progressed for a mile
at the pace of a bullock-wagon over the black soil,
which held like glue so that the wheel spokes appeared
to be made of the earth. They were driving from the
station a mile distant from the town into Emuford —
and thence to the long journey over the plains. The
coach-driver, Tom Tuft, a red man who had been made
a black man by the soil thrown up by the horses’
hooves and by the slowly-revolving wheels, struck the
toiling pole horses and insulted the offsider by calling
him “Mud Island.” He then remarked to the young
and mercurially cheerful man who sat next to him
that each of the horses was walking not on feet but
on four portmanteaus. And the mercurial man,
Townsville Biddolphson, laughed and shook the rain
from his streaming hat, and laughed again as if he
had not a care.
Yet cares he had a-plenty. Six of them were
inside passengers, and one of them was flood-bound
at the terminus of the Southern Queensland Railway.
And new and unknown cares waited ahead at Bal-
hinia, the terminus of the North Central Railway—a
hundred miles north of Emuford.
The inside passengers were the greatest anxiety,
for they were poor and always with Biddolphson, and
they loomed so large that past dangers faded and
future trouble became a thin shadow. They were all
dependent on Biddolphson, the careless, reckless,
cheerful financial genius who had succeeded to the
management of the Great Australian Dramatic Com-
pany when the original entrepreneur had faded quite
away, taking the last night’s receipts with him.
Irving Kemble, the tremendous tragedian who
was then principal inside passenger, had appointed
him,
“As a dee-putation from my confreres of the
company,” he said, “I am here to request you to
take over the management. If we have good houses
we will share alike as a commonwealth company. If
we have no luck we shall ask for nothing.”
“That’s good of you,” said Townsville, laughing
in the mere joy of being twenty-five years old and
alive ; “but there’s no capital.”
“My dear lad,” said the ancient and pompous
battler, “we regard that as a problem suited to your
genius. That damned impostor Carbide has left us
stranded, and there must have been at least four
pounds fifteen shillings in the house at Dingo Hollow.
I counted the house during that big speech of Saxby
Leiceister’s. There is nobody but you. We are all
dependent on you—the leading lady, the heavy woman,
the juvenile, Trewhella Jordan and the Fluffy Sisters.”
“But I only joined the show for a joke. I’m no
actor.”
“I know, my boy, but what a financier! Could
any other man have secured the patronage of the
Bishop of Sugarville? Could anybody else have cap-
tured the Liberal candidate at Woolpack Creek to open
his campaign from our stage between the second and
third acts of ‘East Lynne’? Could anyone else have
borrowed railway fares for the whole company from
a perfect stranger and carried him along with us to
collect his money at the next town?”
“At the next town we were lucky enough to draw
the money—it mightn’t happen again.”
“My dear boy, with your genius we must win—
you have, if I may put it so, been elected guide, philo-
sopher and friend to us all, and you cannot refuse.”
All the carelessness and hopefulness of Biddolph-
son came back, renewed at this confession of weak-
ness and dependence. “All right,” he said. “You
found me frozen out in Stanthorpe and now I’m to
be father to a lot of people twice my age. All right,
let her go then.”
CTHE went. 111-luck and makeshift, carrying the
current expenses of this town on to the debit of
the next, travelling on credit, getting through somehow.
At Jericho they achieved a permanent creditor.
He accompanied the show from town to town, and
;was paid a little off the account, and at last began
to like the vagabondage. The despairing townships
of Arawatta and Wahroonga furnished another travel-
ling creditor each, so that the company’s entourage
was almost as big as the company itself.
At Kimbers-road Irving Kemble brought news
that one fare less would be required from that town.
“The half of the Fluffy Sisters will stay here and
marry the schoolmaster,” he said, with real tears in
his eyes. “Thus does life rob us of our fairest flowers.”
“Fairest flowers nothing,” replied Biddolphson
joyfully. “We save a fare and the show can’t be
worse than it was. Which half is it?’
“Maudie! ”
“That’s fine. Birdie was two-thirds of the show
anyway, so there’s only 30 per cent, discount to it.”
“But who will sing the other part of T Love to
Take a Ramble in the Jewy Month of June’?”
“Let Birdie sing it as a duet.”
“A duet—alone!”
“Yes, it’s a novelty. One less fare and one less
to feed ; it’s a godsend.”
The Fluffy Sisters parted next day after recrimina-
tions, threatened assaults and tears over the matter of
certain bedraggled finery which they called “the ward-
robe.” Maudie Fluffy married her schoolmaster, and
the other half of the Fluffy Sisters remarked that
Maudie never had any style, and was a perfect
stranger anyhow; and all the women spoke of her as
having left “the profession,” as if Maudie were there-
fore completely dead.
The others of the company carried on. The
scorbutic youth who had been the orchestra having
been lost also, Saxby Leiceister, the very ladylike
juvenile from the best London theatres, represented
music by beating the piano to the tune of “Poet and
Peasant,” and by singing hopeful songs when his
fortunes as the virtuous hero were at their lowest.
Mildred Floyd, the leading lady with the yellow hair
and pink cheeks of convention, had made a fetish of a
velvet crimson dress, which she wore in the first act
as the squire’s happy daughter, and in the second act
where she starved in London, and also in the third act
where she came on with her hair down wailing that
she had been betrayed. The heavy woman, Athene
Pallas, had made her clothes on classic lines to fit
her name. She never spoke. She elocuted. Trewhella
Jordan had had but two loves —one, his own acting ;
the other, beer. He was heavy and dull, slow to
anger and to laughter, with a chronic cold that turned
his t’s to d’s, and his m’s and n’s to b’s. There was
never anything funnier than Trewhella Jordan’s inter-
pretation of Archibald Carlyle, the slow, oxlike pos-
sessor of Isabel, unless it was his idea of Levison, the
ravisher by cunning.
A T Brantown the three travelling creditors had
become vested interests, and, like all vested
interests, they quarrelled. Two of them Biddolphson
saw with joy doing those things they should not have
done, and getting themselves arrested. The third had
followed them to Uranquinty and, alas! had missed
the coach.
“Our pretty little creditor is lost,” said Biddolph-
son to Mildred Floyd as they waited for the coach
to take up the mails at Emuford Post Office. “What
shall we do without him?”
“Bethinks,” said Trewhella Jordan, “you wadded
to lose hib.”
“There were fares only for so many, and in
time of wreck excess baggage must go overboard. Now,
you Roscians, the rain it raineth every day and the
road won’t be long open. It’s nearly daylight, so get
aboard the coach and sing ‘Nunc Dimittis’!”
“You’re a wonderful man,” sighed the dyed lead-
ing lady as Biddolphson stood by the coach talking
to the inside passengers. “Won’t you come inside?”
“I like the scenery,” said Biddolphson, lying with
native ease and precision. He was beginning to be
afraid of the leading lady. In the beginning she had
appropriated him to carry parcels after the manner of
leading ladies ; next she had called him Townsville ;
and then “DEAR.” She also tried to look blushfully
self-conscious when Biddolphson was mentioned, and
she told designing girls of the towns that she and the
handsome debonair “financier” were to be married “as
soon as he could build a metropolitan theatre.” Bid-
dolphson, hearing of it, had laughed and permitted the
story to grow.
“Scenery for me,” he said; “the gipsy’s life!
You’re all snug here, so begone before the resident
travelling creditor catches us and presents me with the
D.S.O. for money-takers. I come along as rearguard.”
“Oh, do not leave us!”
“Must! I stay here as hostage for the payment
of the coach. I’ll ride after you.”
“Stand up, Mud Island!” said the driver as Irving
Kemble mounted to the box seat, and the earth-caked
horses dragged the coach over the strips of metalled
road that preceded the hundred miles of mud.
ALL the morning Tom Tuft drove the coach
through the black sludge, listening to the dignified
bragging of Irving Kemble and occasionally putting
in a statement, succinct but illuminating.
Within, Trewhella Jordan and Athene Pallas
rehearsed their great scene, and Saxby Leiceister re-
hearsed his great scene with the leading lady. Mean-
time Birdie, the dejected and remaining half of the
Fluffy Sisters, read the several little parts she doubled
and trebled, so that they might play “Uncle Tom's
Cabin” and the “Colleen Bawn” with six people, and,
incidentally, leave Birdie in a whirl of confusion as to
her identity in the play.
While the coach slipped over the face of the rain-
soddened earth the “reading” proceeded.
Hardress (Trewhella Jordan): “I tode you I
was betrothed to the richest heiress in Kerry. Her
fortude alode cad save us frob ruid. Todight by
brother discovered by visids here add I told him who
you were. (Skib thad lod. Cub down to ‘Dake her
to your breasd!’)”
Eily (Mildred Floyd): “But you —ah —anothah
will—ah —take you to her breast.”
Hardress: “Oh, Eily darlig, d’ye thig I could
forged you, bachree, forged the sagrifice bore thad
blood you gave be?”
Eily; “Oh, when you —ah —talk that wa-ay to
—ah—me, ye might take me life, me heart —me all.
Oh, Hardress, I love you —take the paper an’ tear it
(I give you the paper there).”
Myles (Saxby Leiceister): “No! I’ll be damned
if he shall!”
Hardress: “Waid there, waid there. You’ll ged
a hadd for thad ; waid! ”
Birdie; “Waid there —you’ll ged a hadd for
thad!” Her little, silly, pretty face broke into smiles
as she mimicked him. She shook her fluffy head and
laughed shrilly.
Hardress: “Doad ibidade be, by gird; I’b a
Shakspeariad agdor, I ab. Dod’t dry to ibidade be.
Scoudrel! You have beed lisdidg.”
Myles: “To every worrd. I saw Danny wid his
ear agin that dure. (Keep that confounded gamp of
yours quiet, Birdie; you’re poking the mud off that
bally wheel all over me!)”
Birdie: “What is there to do but poke the mud
off the wheel? Oh, I’m sick of me life, I am!”
Athene Pallas: “You must cultivate repose!”
Birdie: “Oh, give repose to the silverfish! I
want repose before a fire, an’ the baby asleep, an’ a
nice ’usband cornin’ home an’ reading murders to
me outa the papers. Maudie’s all right. She’s got
her schoolmaster, and she’ll play twice a year with
amachures, an’ ’ere I am slippin’ over Australia in
the mud with a lot of crooks that don’t pay their way.
Oh, I’m sick! Sick! Sick! I ’aven’t got a home!
Oh! Oh! Oh!”
The two other sorely-tried women forgot resent-
ment and ministered to her hysteria. The leading
juvenile from the principal London theatres looked
out from under the looped curtains, and Trewhella
Jordan, murmuring that there was “bore raid idside
thad oudside,” became ashamed and silent.
The leading lady began to sob and collapsed on
Saxby Leiceister; and at last Athene Pallas gave
way and she and the remaining half of the Fluffy
Sisters wept in company and swore eternal friend-
ship, pledging each other in tears.
The two actors, used to dependence on someone
to fix what they should eat or say who they should
be, were utterly helpless in this unprecedented hap-
pening of naturalness. Saxby Leiceister gnawed the
crook of his walking cane, and Trewhella Jordan,
his heavy fat face wrinkled with indecision, leaned
from the coach window.
Irving Kemble, seated on the box with Tom Tuft,
wrapped his martial cloak around him and acted to
himself for three miles through the wet aisles of bush.
First he was Sir John Moore with his martial cloak
and all the other properties ; and then he put his
hand inside his overcoat and felt the bundle which
was the wealth of melodrama and one pound in real
money, and the action made him feel like Napoleon.
That was it. Austerlitz was won and forgotten, and
he was in charge of an army of five retreating from
Moscow —maybe advancing on Waterloo. He was the
Napoleon of the Bush —until Napoleon Biddolphson,
the Napoleon who was also Aladdin, rubbing people
as if they were the magic lamp and finding money
where no money had been before, should reappear.
That made him think of Biddolphson heroically
securing retreat for them all and forming the rear-
guard ; and at that Irving Kemble forgot to act and
awoke to hear Tom Tuft saying “Here’s the change!”
And he pointed ahead to where a pale-blue creek
rushed between grasstrees and pandanus and zamias
over granite sand, and, by the creek, a hut and a
horseyard.
It was at that moment that Trewhella Jordan
cried from the depths for succor. “The girds have
faidted,” he called. “Cub dowd! ”
“Give them some cold water”
“Thad’s whad made them faidt —they’ve had too
butch.”
The coachman stopped at the change, and a half-
drowned man came from the hut. Kemble, rising on
the box, heard the sound of horses’ hoofs squelch-
ing through the mud, and there was Napoleon Bid-
dolphson, his horse and himself spattered with mud
from head to foot. Aladdin’s pipe was drawing well,
and he smiled as he pulled up his horse and emitted
a little cloud of tobacco smoke.
“He’s done it, God bless him! ” said Kemble with
that hero-worship small boys give to bushrangers.


TWO WOMEN
By A. C. HEADLEY.
NINETEEN hundred and forty-one . . .
It was cold in the kitchen and the
woman was conscious of the vague
discomfort of it in her body. Outside
in the small square of sun in the backyard
she could see her husband, and the sight
aroused in her the small sense of anger that
was as much directed against herself as against
him. She was a small woman. Her face was
thin and pinched in under the cheekbones, so
that there were two blobs of bone-stretched
skin. Her hair was untidy and she wore an
old tattered cardigan that had once belonged
to her husband. When she moved the soles
of her slippers made flapping noises on the
bare boards of the floor. Looking through the
window she was conscious that it was dirty
and also that she didn’t care.
She was aroused suddenly by the sound of
the baby’s whimper, and with a queer spiteful
satisfaction she went to the door. “You better
come an’ look after the kid,” she called ; “I
got work to do.”
He looked disgusted, but he got up and
came into the house. “If you’d leave the kid
alone,” he said, “it’d go orf again. That’s
the trouble with you women —always findin’
things to do.”
She looked at him and the little quirk of anger
got up in her again. “It’d be better,” she said, “if
you’d find somethin’ to do instead of sittin’ on your
backside all day. It’d suit you better to be out lookin’
for a job.”
He said nothing. The baby in the back room was
getting louder in its protestations, and he went into
the room and brought it out. In his arms the sobs
started to ease off. Without looking at his wife he
returned to his spot in the sun. Behind him her thin
voice told him to keep something over its head.
The woman went back to scrubbing a pan in
the greasy cool water in the dish. She was thinking
about it, thinking about being married and having a
baby. They were thoughts like the squalid narrow-
ness of the kitchen, of floors without lino., of a
mattress bulky with lumps that were hard against
your body.
“You said you was gonner do the bed out,” she
called.
He blinked in the sun and looked along the yard
towards her. “I’ll ’ave a go at it tomorrer,” he said.
“What’s wrong with today?”
He grinned. “I gotter see a coupla blokes. It
might mean that I’ll get a chance of makin’ some
dough.”
“If it’s work,” she said, “you wouldn’t know
what it was.”
She watched the way he puffed his eyes together.
“Listen,” he said, “don’t go takin’ that attitude.
If there was any work I’d be in for it like a shot,”
He meant it then. He always meant it, but it
always made her think about the job at the glass-
works that he had thrown up because it was too hard.
It had been a long time since that glassworks job, a
long time on the dole. She looked at him now, notic-
ing the thickness of unshaven beard on his face. There
was nothing much she could do about things. She
could nag, but he always came back with the indis-
putable fact that if there wasn’t any work you couldn’t
get it.
“Where’s the dough cornin’ from?” she said.
“One of Tommy Raven’s runners has knocked
it off,” he said, “and he’s give me the connection. I
get two bob in the quid, an’ there oughter be a few
quid in it. Tommy was tellin’ me”
“And did he tell y’ what’d ’appen if y’ got
caught?” she wanted to know.
He winked. “I won’t be gettin’ caught,” he said.
“I got me ’ead screwed on the right way. Tommy
was tellin’ me the other bloke used t’ take in between
two an’ three quid in bets every race.”
Almost without thinking she was working it out.
So many shillings for the day. With eight races, even
at two quid a race, that was thirty-two bob, and there
were two race meetings a week. In that moment she
began to think of the things that the money would
buy. “You gotter be careful,” she said, “that you
don’t get caught.”
ALL the afternoon she was' thinking about him,
thinking of him being caught and sent to gaol.
Then when an hour had passed since the last race
and he had not come home she was conscious of a
growing sense of dread. It was a peculiar feeling. In
it there was no feeling for her husband, only the fear
of being alone. For the first time she came to the
realisation that he was a buffer against the awkward
things of the day —the thought of the landlord and
the order man. There was nothing he did about
those things, but there was always the feeling that he
was in them with her and that the chief responsibility
was his. Sitting in the darkness she thought about it.
The feeling of not being alone ; it was the one thing
she had got out of marriage. A dozen times she got
“If We don't get this Pyramid finished by lunchtime We ’ ll muck up the Reverend Briarface ’ s
prophecy for the twenty-second of September, nineteen-forty-one A.D.”
up from her chair and went to the door to peer along
the darkened street.
At seven o’clock he came, thick and heavy with
beer. She was angry suddenly at the sight of him,
and when he came into the house and blinked stupidly
in the light she swore at him. “Where thef ’ell you
been? 1 been worryin’ me soulcase out.”
He grinned foolishly. “I been all right.”
“I been waitin’ all this time for y’ t’ come ’ome.
I don’t s’pose that means anythin’ when y’ get in a
pub with y’r friends. I’m the one that ’as to do all
the worryin’.”
He sat down heavily on the side of a chair. “1
’ad a good day,” he said, “over two quid.” He pulled
a handful of silver from his pocket.
It was surprising how the money made everything
different. She looked at the pile of it on the table.
It was the rent and the order man, and a new pair of
shoes. She scooped it up from the table while her
husband grinned stupidly.
“An’ there’s more where that come from,” he
said thickly. “Two days a week an’ I’m makin’
more’n if I was on full time.”
Already she had almost forgotten the anxiety of
waiting for him and the fear of being left alone. It
was funny how the thought of those two pounds
made everything different. It was funny the number
of things you could think of that wanted buying, and
it was funny how inadequate two pounds were when
you had two pounds. “You better git t’ bed,” she
said. “You’ve ’ad a couple too many.”
A FTER that there were Wednesday afternoons and
** Saturday afternoons when she was worried because
he was late coming home, but it wasn’t the same as
that first afternoon of waiting. The money had
changed things. It was a relief from waiting for the
scrimped tomorrows, of wondering whether the dole
would last the week. It gave her the feeling of being
alive. It was good to go into town and do a bit of
shopping.
And then there came a day when he didn’t come
home. It took a long time in coming but it came.
At eight o’clock they sent a man from the police
station to tell her about it, and she went down to see
him. He was frightened ; she could see it in the look
of him. All he could talk about was getting the money
to get him out.
“It’s a fiver for the bail,” he said ; “you could
get it orf the old man. Tell ’im that y’ want it for
y’rself.”
It was funny talking to him through the little
half-circle cut into the door. At the back of him
she could see the white walls of the cell, and there
was the sound of a drunk swearing. “I’ll see,” she
said. “I’ll see what dad says.” But she was think-
ing of the few pounds she had managed to save.
She walked back to the house very slowly.. In
some way or other she had lost that feeling of being
alone. There were other things to be thought about.
Now that he had been caught she knew that he was
finished with the betting. It was almost like the end
of that one week at the glassworks. After the few
pounds every week it was hard thinking back to the
dole, worrying about the rent and the order man.
That was what it meant. When he came out he’d go
back to sitting in the sun in the backyard, and he’d
get angry every time she nagged him about getting a
job. She was suddenly conscious of the hurt of hav-
ing to live that way again.
Her mind was filled with those thoughts about the
dole and the worrying about tomorrow. Suddenly
she was thinking of a job for herself. They were
always wanting women at the jam factory and they
paid good wages. She could always leave the baby
with her mother. It was a chance to stay clear and
to live.
The whole thing was growing into a pleasant
thought in her mind. When he came out of gaol he
would have to have a job before she would even con-
sider going back to him. Meanwhile she’d be work-
ing and having money to spend and money to pay
her debts. She was conscious of a sudden swift feel-
ing of happiness. It was almost as if she had been
waiting for her husband to get caught and sent to
gaol. It Was an opportunity to start life again.
When she got back to the house she sat for a
long time in the darkness thinking about it. Then
suddenly, before she quite knew how it had happened,
she had taken the money from the place where she
kept it and was looking at it. “It’s a fiver for the
bail.” She thought of him in the little half-circle
cut into the cell door, and it gave her a queer kind of
sickness in the stomach. With the baby in her arms
and the money in her pocket she got up and went
back to the police station.
“I’ve come to pay me husband’s bail,” she said,
and while she was saying it she was thinking of the
things she was buying for herself. She was thinking
of watching the landlord and the order man from
behind the yellow dusty curtains,in the front room.
NINETEEN hundred and thirty-four ...
It was good having a boy. It was good having
Sid. She remembered the time when she had met him
at one of the shilling dances. It was funny how she
had known that he was different from the rest of
them even then. The first night he had taken her
home he had stood there at the front gate not know-
ing what to say. And then soon they were talking
about getting married, and more than anything she
wanted to be married to Sid. There had been other
boys, but Sid was different. Sid was someone you
could rely on. They were happy, and that was the
way they were going to stay.
At the wedding her mother had cried, and it had
made her want to cry. To hear the minister reading
was something tremendous in her heart. Beside her she
knew that Sid was pale with nervousness, and she felt
strangely comforting. When it was over he had
kissed her shyly and she had known that she was going
to be safe with Sid. She would always be safe with
Sid.
< < I ’YE come to pay me husband’s bail,” she said.
1 “His name’s Dennett —Sid Dennett.”
On the way back to the house he was excited with
telling her about it. She was glad when at last they
came to the front gate in the darkened street. She
led the way into the house and he switched on the
light.
“Everythin’ will be orright,” he said. “I can use
the bail money fer the deposit, an 111 get time to
pay. Then all y’ gotter do is write to the Minister
of Justice, an’ ’e breaks it down to a fiver, an’ that’s
all y’ gotter pay.”
She was thinking of the job in the jam factory,
and of having money. She was thinking of him sit-
ting in the sun in the backyard. She rose suddenly
with the baby hoisted in one arm. The next moment
she had slapped him across the face with the back of
her hand.
He stood looking after her as she and
went into the darkened bedroom. Women, he
thought, “bloody women.”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
melioumefSmidJmiq/uel
seppelt’s
ST. NICHOLAS, COLE ABBEY.
As a result of the Great Fire of London
in 1666, out of 97 churches which previ-
ously stood within its walls but 12
survived. Two and three-quarter centuries
afterwards London was destined to
witness an even fiercer devastation, the
product of devilish principles applied to
war, associated with times it is customary
to refer to as “uncivilised.” Again,
temples of worship, builded to “the
Prince of Peace,” were “burned and
smashed” by the forces of the Evil One.
Christopher Wren rebuilt in the seven-
teenth century “ecclesiastical London,”
though many of his most famed efforts
succumbed to Nazi violence. The first
of Wren’s rebuilding efforts was St.
Nicholas, Cole Abbey, situate, or hidden
away, among the mass of “commercial
buildings” lying between Queen Victoria
and Knightrider Streets, practically a
riverside locality, adjacent to Blackfriars
Bridge. The word, Cole Abbey, accord-
ing to Stow, is more properly Cold Bay,
a place exposed to the weather, as Cold
Harbor, and such was the site at the
foundation of the church in the twelfth
century. Though not so well known as
many city places of worship, the interior
is regarded by many as of remarkable
beauty. The floor is paved with stone.
The chancel is one step higher, while the
architecture is of the Corinthian order.
Pews and pulpit are of oak, with which
the church is wainscoted seven feet high.
The altar piece is adorned with exqui-
sitely carved enrichments of shields,
cherubims, fruit, leaves and palm
branches. Priceless stained glass filled
the windows. The services were of a
more ornate character than observed in
many other city churches, which was
doubtless responsible for the large attend-
ance of worshippers. The view of the
altar was taken from under the hand-
some gallery at the west end, upon the
frontal <of which was more beautiful
carving. In some respects St. Nicholas
may be regarded as one of the most in
teresting churches of the old city. It was
completed in 1677, at an outlay of £5500.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. —No. 3206.
Wednesday, July 23, 1941.
“HOME, WHAT A PERFECT PLACE!”
“What’s the news from New South?”
“Two Coms, have had a hunger strike, and 13,000 unionists have had a sympathetic strike, and 10,000 more may strike unless they get another pound
a week, and politicians are talking of another election, and—oh yes, Cheery Jack is back at the old address, though still suffering from
the effects of dope.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.'
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; .6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, I Is.
NO ONE-MAN JOB.
In a speech which was idiotically censored until
members revolted, Mr. Beasley struck hard at the
towering figure of Mr. Churchill. Beginning with an
assertion of “the responsibility of this Parliament and
Government to maintain Australia’s status as a self-
governing Dominion, in spite of any decisions that
may be made by the British Government,” he entered
upon a review of the “serious” deficiencies revealed in
the Greece and Crete campaigns, giving chapter and
verse for his statements.
In respect of Greece Mr. Beasley quoted General
Mackay (“the whole campaign was most unsatisfac-
tory”) and “a rank-and-file soldier” (“I have never
seen so many ’planes in my life, but never one of
our own ; and when you consider that we had been
in the desert for 15 months, and that they put us
into the mountains, where our boots and socks were
always wet and our feet frozen, they asked a little
too much of us”); and in respect of Crete he repeated
the statements of Mr. Fraser in Cairo and Brigadier-
General Inglis in London, adding an extract from a
letter written by a Greek campaigner on the twelfth
day after a forced landing in Crete.
The writer, a lieutenant, since dead, said: “The
Army feeds us, but that’s about all, as we have got
no tents, blankets or anything other than what we
brought off the Costa Rica” —which had been sunk
by the enemy. The Maoriland Prime Minister,
addressing soldiers from his Dominion, said: “You
were literally blown out of Crete by an air attack
which flesh and blood could not withstand ; we must
and shall see that next time you go into battle you
will have adequate air support and ground equip-
ment.” And Brigadier-General Inglis, speaking as
“one of the high officers from the battlefield sum-
moned to London by the War Cabinet,” said: “Try
to defend a mile front with one three-inch mortar
and then guess why certain of these high officers are
not so popular as they might be in some quarters.”
We were beaten in Crete because of inadequate equip-
ment.... It was a question of saving some of the best
soldiers in the world or fighting till all were killed; so
evacuation began.
“1 should like to know,” Mr. Beasley, proceeded, “why
the British authorities did not use the eight months
that were available to them in order to make pro-
vision for the adequate defence of Crete... .The whole
situation is most serious from the Australian point
of view. Our men were told that they would be
‘fully and properly equipped,’ yet when they were
thrown into the battle in Greece they lacked almost
all essential equipment.”
On whose shoulders should the blame for this
failure be placed? Some people seem to think that the
British Prime Minister should be above criticism.
Apparently he is the be-all and end-all in Great Britain,
but I cannot refrain from declaring that he must be held
at least partly responsible for the matters I have raised.
Passing to a related subject he declared that “our
whole diplomatic strategy in relation to the Balkans
has been a failure, for we have lost all along the
diplomatic line.”
If the substance of this outspoken speech was
cabled to London, it had no restraining effect upon
the British Government. Four days after it was
delivered, Mr. Eden, the author —under Mr. Churchill,
who decides everything—of the “diplomatic strategy”
that has been “a failure,” held forth on the subject
of where “we” stood and what “we” were going to do;
We are all out to beat Hitler. We will not stop till
we have done the job, and we welcome all those who
will give us a hand to finish it. We shall intensify our
efforts until Hitler and all that he stands for are utterly
destroyed. Hitler will offer smooth assurances and
specious promises. We repel any offer. We must
mobilise all the resources of mind and body of ourselves
and of our Allies assembled on British soil. We must
begin to fashion a truly new order for Europe, for
ourselves, and for all who freely join.
The gentleman did not once mention the
Dominions. They too are “all out to beat Hitler” ;
but just as they are entitled to assurances that their
troops will not be sent into battle again under con-
ditions such as entailed so much useless sacrifice and
suffering in Greece and Crete and the enveloping
seas, so they are entitled to be consulted before any
declaration of policy to which they are expected to
adhere is made. In this case, as in so many others,
they were not.
In the broadcast speech in which he committed
the Empire to support Stalin and oppose his enemies
(“any man or State who fights against Nazism will
have our aid ; any man or State who marches with
Hitler is our foe”), Mr. Churchill said that this
“decision” had to be made “without delay,” but he
felt “sure that the great Dominions, in due course,
will concur in it” ; and the great Dominions did. No
other course was open to them, even if they objected
to the procedure and would not have expressed their
concurrence in immoderate language had time for
consideration been given. It is admitted that, as was
stated in newspaper accounts of the hasty proceedings,
they were “kept fully informed of the negotiations for
the pact with Russia,” and that “the step had their full
approval” ; even so, some of them must have been
astonished at reading Mr. Churchill’s description of
the pact as an “alliance”—“the Russian people are our
allies.” The minds of Mr. Hughes and Marshal Smuts
must have turned back to the time when Mr. Churchill
was “the most formidable and irrepressible protagonist
of an anti-Qolshevik war” (Lloyd George), was with
difficulty restrained from visiting Russia “when
Denikin’s chances seemed favorable” (Lord Riddell),
and was grievously disappointed when the British
Government cut the losses (reckoned at £100,000,000)
incurred in backing the Whites against the Reds.
There was no warrant for any entangling alliance
with Russia. That country was placed in the position
of having to fight Hitler or surrender to him ; and,
impelled by instincts which go back to the first human
tribe, it would have fought without any undertaking
from London, its Red Government was under a
special obligation to put forth all its strength on land,
on sea, in the air and in the domain of propaganda —
its propaganda machine is part of its war effort and
has been going at full blast —by way of justifying its
repeated claim and those of its agents and sympathisers
throughout the world that the forces at its disposal
were the greatest ever organised and could take care of
any enemy or combination of enemies, not only in the
West but in the East.
A diplomatic assurance that Britain would give
all possible assistance, short of weakening its own
position in the Atlantic and in the Mediterranean
zone, would have been sufficient in the first place.
The status of an associated Power such as the U.S.A.
was in 1917-18 might then have been assumed when
or if circumstances justified it. But there should
first have been a methodical examination of commit-
ments to other countries, which are extensive and com-
plicated ; a careful study of the course of events and
the development of Russian policy and propaganda
from August 23, 1939, to June 22, 1941, and an intel-
ligent survey of possible reactions in Europe, Asia
(especially Japan), the U.S.A., Latin America and
Empire countries, where the only elements against the
war —and they have been extremely mischievous and
detestably arrogant —have been Reds inspired from
Moscow. Clearly none of these necessary precautions
was taken.
Britain is under a solemn obligation to restore
Poland, not only the part grabbed by Germany, but
the part grabbed by Russia. From that the Russians
have been violently expelled, and Mr. Eden is reported
to be bringing his wonderful diplomacy to bear on
them so that they may accept the accomplished fact
and come to terms with the exiled Polish Government,
the presumption being that all hands will drive the
Germans out of the whole country. It is no doubt
held that the new war, cancels the German-Soviet
treaty of September 28, 1939, “partitioning Poland
and establishing relations of friendship,” but it will be
necessary also to make a meal of words uttered by
Molotov eleven days before: “The Polish State and
its Government have virtually ceased to exist.”
Finland is another confusing case. Just before
the close of the Russo-Finnish war it was announced
in the House of Commons that “the Allied Govern-
ments” had “informed the Finnish Government that
they are prepared to proceed to the aid of Finland
with all the forces at their disposal.” Previously the
Allied Governments (Mr. Churchill was a member of
one) had secured Russia’s expulsion from the League
for its unprovoked invasion of a League partner. The
Russian intention to commit this outrage had been
communicated by Molotov in a speech (October 31,
1939), which contained another statement of the Rus-
sian attitude:
It is evident that Britain and France are for con-
tinuing the war on the grounds of their undertakings
to Poland. There can be no question of restoring the
old Poland, so there is no justification for the war. It
is not only senseless but criminal to wage a war for
the destruction of Hitlerism, covered as a fight for
democracy. The imperialist character of the war is
obvious to anyone who wants to face realities.
Now, of course, Molotov’s Government has
engaged itself in the instrument which Mr. Menzies
calls “a pact” and “an agreement” and Mr. Churchill
“an alliance” to wage that very “war for the destruc-
tion of Hitlerism” which Molotov pronounced “not
only senseless but criminal” ; and Finland, to which
the Government in which Mr. Churchill was First
Lord offered a military alliance on March 11, 1940,
has become “a State that marches with Hitler” and
is thus “our foe.” It is all frightfully embarrassing,
especially as Europeans, unlike Mr. Churchill, have
long memories. And American reactions to the “alli-
ance” are not particularly favorable even in the U.S.A.,
though the prevailing sentiment there may be that
what Britain chooses to do is its own affair. Japanese
reactions are bad. The awkward position in which
Japan finds itself is an effect of the amazing diplo-
matic performances of Mr. Matsuoka, who has paid
for them with his position ; but the formation of
another Government under Prince Konoye’s leader-
ship and the excited condition of the national mind,
which may lead to anything, cannot be dissociated
from the hurried ceremony to which Sir Stafford
Cripps was a party at Moscow. Neither can the
sinister outbreak of “demands,” threats and strikes in
N. S. Wales, all proceeding from a Red mob which
has evidently been strengthened in its determination to
regard Red law, as laid down from day to day, as the
supreme law of Australia.
This war is far too big to be run by one man,
even if he were a man without a history of political
instability and reckless military adventures. It is dis-
turbing, as well as disappointing, to see the represen-
tatives of Dominions with a total white population
equal to the male population of the United Kingdom
relegated to insignificance and accepting the
ignominious position. Remote from the blackouts and
the bombings, and free from the British politician’s
obsession with the map of Europe, they should be in
a position to contribute fresh and useful ideas on the
subject which engages all their thoughts and on the
determining of the peace. Mr. Beasley is right: “Aus-
tralia’s status as a self-governing Dominion” must
be maintained, “in spite of any decisions that may be
made by the British Government,” which means
Mr. Churchill.
Long War Ahead?
Enough has happened in this war so far to put
the wind up all prophets who haven’t the inestimable
advantage of sharing in supernatural secrets, conveyed
to the elect per medium of such ingenious vehicles
as empty teacups and pyramids. It says much for the
hardihood of such old hands as Mr. G. B. Shaw that
when Hitler turned east, under the force of whatever
compulsion or madness impels him, they still had the
confidence in their personal powers of prognostication
to rush into print with prophecies that it would now
all soon be over. Britain and America, Mr. Shaw
declared, could now sit back and smile while Josef
ditched Adolf.
On paper it does not appear to be working out
like that; but in this war anything seems possible.
The safest bet so far has been the utterly incredible,
from Hitler’s pact with Stalin which let the war loose,
to the Churchill agreement with the same obliging
penman. Meanwhile the hopefulness of the Shaws and
their echoes and of the ineradicable host of wishful-
thinkers does not appear to be shared by people who
certainly ought to know how things are really shaping
—the war leaders in Britain and America, or in Ger-
many, for that matter: Australia’s leaders can be
counted out of the discussion, as knowing only what
they are told, and doing ditto.
The fact of Hitler’s turning on Stalin would
appear to be a full admission of the German expec-
tation — i.e., a long war ahead. Not even Hitler him-
self —though his expectations, earthly and eteTnal, seem
on the large side —-could have expected anyone out-
side his own asylum, and others to swallow his prepos-
terous pretence of assuming the role of Christian
defender a'gainst Bolshevism. He marched into Russia
because, seeing a long war ahead, he needed the food
and other supplies that Stalin was unwilling or, because
of the state of the country’s industrial, agricultural and
transport organisation, was unable to supply. Stalin,
for his part, accepted the challenge because acquies-
cence in Hitler’s demands —allowing practical German
control —left him with the probable alternative of
revolution. The notion that considerations of ideology
entered into the reckoning on either .side can be
dumped as dishwash. Probably Hitler was also guided
by a determination not to have his country’s historical
enemy ready to move in at full strength when Ger-
many had been weakened by the strain of a long war.
The expectation of a very long war ahead would
appear to be shared also by Britain’s leader. He has
indicated as much on sundry occasions, and in his first
fighting speech since announcing the signing up with
Stalin he spread out the pattern of a kind of war that
could, and might, go on indefinitely Accepting the
“bomb-hell-out-of-’em” prescription for winning the
war, Mr. Churchill put a slight dampener on the
hopeful and wishful by indicating what would be
happening to Germany in the way of bomb-
ing by next July. That is a somewhat disheartening
distance to have to look ahead, after the burblings
of Mr. Shaw, the braggings of plain and fancy Corns,
and the babblings of bishops ; but there is not the
end of the chapter by any means, nor is it even in
sight. Anyone who has so much as glanced at the
reactions of peoples to bombing will appreciate that
a war conducted wholly on such lines could go on
endlessly. Mr. Churchill himself evidently appre-
ciates this;
It is time the Germans in their own homeland
suffered. We intend to keep up bombing month after
month and year after year until the Nazi regime is
extinguished or, better still, torn to pieces by the
German people.
Year after year! Yet, with the kind of war thus
mapped out, who can possibly expect that the end
will come sooner? The choice of this kind of war is
not here in question. At the moment there would
appear to be no choice. Neither can a sentimental
humanitarian view be taken of it: anyone in Aus-
tralia who wishes to nourish such a view should go
to Britain, see what is to be seen there, suffer what
is to be suffered there and count up the dead women
and children. “We will mete out to the people of
Germany what they have meted out to us,” said Mr.
Churchill; it was added: “Prolonged cheers prevented
Mr. Churchill from continuing for more than a minute
after this statement.” This is a long way to have
come from the days when the war was a polite
academic discussion in the “Times” and elsewhere,
and when “Hun” was extremely bad language. Plainly,
in Mr. Churchill’s view, and in view of the kind of
war he envisages, there is a long, long distance to
travel yet —in suffering and bitterness both.
Such, too, would appear to be the American
expectation for this war as represented by and through
Mr. Roosevelt. In the view thus represented, the
combined industrial effort of America and Britain —
the huge volume of ’planes, ships, tanks, guns and all
manner of war materials they will eventually be turn-
ing out together—will eventually bring about Ger-
many’s defeat and Hitler’s overdue ruin. There has
been considerable criticism in the past—in America
and elsewhere —of the small numbers of ’planes, ships
and the like secured from America compared with


what was expected. The explanation of that is that
America —like Britain and France, despite the extra
time that Chamberlain secured for them all —was no-
where near ready. The war materials supplied to
Britain were all that humanly could be supplied. This
has already been improved beyond recognition, but
even the present American output is nothing to what
American industry—its programme mapped out for
a long war —will from now on be turning out in
steadily mounting volume.
In all of this —Hitler’s desperate drive against his
former partner; Mr. Churchill’s acceptance of pro-
longed air warfare f American industry, under Mr.
Roosevelt’s leadership, geared to a programme stretch-
ing on over years —the one clear-cut expectation is
of a very long war ahead. For consolation the hope-
ful and wishful can turn to the fact that all through
this war so far the unexpected has won hands down.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The beginning of another recruiting drive, rendered
necessary by the casualties in North Africa, Greece,
Crete and Syria, and by what may lie ahead, recalls
memories of the “Sportsmen’s Thousand.” As one of
the Commonwealth war historians has placed it on
record, the thing was very successful. In fact, sport
made a very good showing in the last war, as was
evidenced by the A.I.F. cricketers who appeared on
the recruiting platform in Martin-place, Sydney, on
Friday, and who could still make up a worthy eleven.
It has not done nearly so well this time.
One reason may be that there is a great deal more
commercialised sport than there was last time, together
with a great deal more journalistic pandering to the
craze for it. Now, but not then, there is horseracing
almost every day of the week within easy distance
of Sydney and Melbourne, and the starting-price busi-
ness is organised on an enormous scale, with scores
of broadcasting stations to supply the “information”
that bookmakers and punters require. There were,
of course, no broadcasting stations in 1914-18, nor
had there arrived the tin hare, now pursued with such
abandon in Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong and
dozens of other N.S.W. districts.
Some people think that the raging epidemic of
betting on the horses and dogs and the “lot’ry”
habit are contributory causes of the ugly and dis-
graceful stop-work meetings and strikes. Certain it
is that “industrial unrest” is most pronounced in
places, notably Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong and
Kembla, where horse- and dogracing has become a
kind of social disease, and where there is rampant
newspaper adulation of bookmakers and Big Punters
and their frenzied wagering. No newspaper would
have dared to make heroes of such persons in 1914-18.
Certain it is also that the State with the least indus-
trial unrest —if there is any at all —and the best recruit-
ing figures is the one —Westralia—in which commer-
cialised sport is practically confined to the Saturday
holiday.
In the Old A.I.F. there were bookmakers, book-
makers’ clerks, jockeys—there was quite a good enlist-
ment of cross-country horsemen —boxers and foot-
ballers, though in these latter groups there were
notorious non-starters. If a representative bookmaker,
jockey or boxer has enlisted this time his name has
escaped publication. The spirit which prompted the
acrid criticism of Darcy exists no longer, nor does
anyone suggest that Stadium fights, now booming once
more, should be restricted to youths under military
age, as was done after the affair of that unfortunate
youth, who was only 21 when he died. The profes-
sional Rugby League was criticised last time for run-
ning its competitions as usual. It is doing the same
thing this time without a word of protest, and with
the indulgence of a friendly Labor Government it has
staged Sunday matches. So has the other professional
code, and it boasts the added attraction of a team
from China, where there was understood to be another
war ; and if the oracle can be worked the Chinese will
stay in Sydney for an indefinite period and “take
part in the competition.” In fact, things are brisker
than ever on the football front.
Yes, someone should certainly try to start another
“Sportsmen’s Thousand.” This is every Australian’s
war, and life will be no long idyll for the notabili-
ties and notorieties of sport if Australia loses it.
Some young sporting men, cricketers, footballers,
golfers, tennis-players and the like, no doubt remain
in Australia and follow their particular bent because
they have been rejected, and others because they are
in reserved occupations. Formation of a “Sportsmen’s
Thousand” would enable the rejects, at least, to stifle
sceptics, shame slackers and encourage laggards by
presenting themselves again.
Who Wants an Election?
Mr. McKell, who has had his election and is satis-
fied, believes that another Commonwealth election
would clear the air or something. The stop-work
mob in N. S. Wales demands another election on the
ground that, by holding Communist hunger-strikers in
custody, Menzies, the workers’ enemy, is preventing
Stalin from winning the war or something. Mr.
Hutchinson, M.H.R., is dissatisfied with Mr. Menzies
as a party leader, and calls for a party meeting to
elect another. Mr. McCall, M.H.R., and Mr. Marr,
M.H.R., are also dissatisfied with the P.M.’s leader-
ship. Mr. Fadden, who has become a party chieftain
without a party organisation, says he is satisfied with
it. And so it goes on, to the disgust of people who
did their job at the polls last September and expect
the politicians to do theirs without any more paltry
wrangling.
Why should any Federal Labor man want an
election when his party is in the comfortable position
of having power without responsibility? Ever since
the September election it has received concession
after concession. Setting up of an Advisory War
Council with Labor representatives chosen by Caucus,
scrapping of all National Security regulations to which
Labor objected, weak-kneed handling of stop-work
artists and strikers, child endowment, financed by a
payroll tax on the boss, appointment of a Minister to
China, exemption from war income tax of single men
on £2OO a year —these are some of the things Labor
demanded and got. And it can have half the port-
folios in a national Government at any time. What
could it expect, except trouble in large quantities, if
it won a war election and had to exercise power with
responsibility?
Mr. Curtin must have asked himself that ques-
tion many times. He doesn’t want another election.
So long as the Menzies Government retains its present
supersensitiveness to anything that looks like a dis-
approving look from his direction, he can feel com-
fortable if Mr. Menzies and the militants don’t.
Silk Stocking Days.
An unusual case, reported in an unusual way and
rounded off in a very unusual fashion by a Cabinet
Minister, was heard in Sydney last week. The “S. M,
Herald” account began as follows;
David Jones, Ltd., were fined £llO, with £7 2s. costs,
in Central Summons Court on two informations that
they had broken the National Security (Price Fixing)
Regulations by charging too high a price for a certain
line of silk stockings.
Last night the Minister for Customs, Mr. Harrison,
issued a statement in which he said that, after
exhaustive examination by the Prices Commissioner, he
was now satisfied that David Jones’s prices were in
accordance with the regulations, if not lower than the
maximum permissible.
After the irrelevant introduction of the Minister, the
court report proceeded. No evidence was called, the
company having pleaded guilty to both charges. To
counsel’s statement for the prosecution of type
was given and to counsel’s statement for the defen-
dant company 2in.; there followed two more inches
of Mr. Harrison waving the whitewash brush. If this
is a fair sample of the “Herald’s” new method of
court reporting it is a dreadful change for the worse.
The “Daily Telegraph,” whose columns are a
shade wider than the “Herald’s,” found over twice as
much space for its report, which was precise and
detailed. It showed that under the price-fixing regula-
tions retailers’ gross profits were limited to the rates
ruling on August 31, 1939, and that before that date
David Jones sold the “certain line of stockings” at
3s. lid. a pair, gross profit being 33.614 p.c. In
November, 1939, it sold the same make at 4s. lid.
(gross profit, 46.47 p.c.), in May, 1940, at ss. lid.
(57.78 p.c.) and in July, 1940, at the same price
(45.64 p.c,). The same woman was the purchaser at the
different prices, and she complained to the Prices
Commissioner. That gentleman sent along an investi-
gating officer, who was told that it was a particular
buyer's fault, the director usually responsible being
away in a military camp, and that the company would
refund the amount of the overcharge to the public,
£495-odd, by reducing the price of stockings in the
same range to the extent of the £495-odd. This it did.
Counsel for the prosecution nevertheless said
that it was a case of “a large corporation deliberately
and flagrantly flouting the law,” and that “but for
steps taken by the Prices Commissioner the firm would
never have made the adjustment it was forced to
make.” Counsel for the defence protested that this
was “overstepping the bounds,” that the company
was making “a very modest net profit,” and that even
before price-fixing came in the heads of all its depart-
ments had been ordered not to raise the selling price
in any case without consulting higher authorities.
On the whole, the Prices Commissioner, Professor
Copland, has done a very good job. His successor has
promised to continue on the same lines, and the day
on which he assumed control saw a Flinders-lane firm
—Sargood, Gardiner—“declared,” a proclaimed reduc-
tion of 5 p.c. in the price of all goods sold by its
Melbourne warehouse following. Flinders-lane is
perhaps considered less overwhelming than Market-
street ; anyway Mr. Harrison on this occasion didn’t
rush in with a whitewash brush. There should be no
more of these impertinent interruptions.
Provincialism at Work Again.
Victoria, like other States, has a transport-strangula-
tion policy aimed at driving private-passenger and
goods carriers off the roads and forcing citizens to
use the Government services, in respect of inter-State
traffic in contempt of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion, which says (Section 92) “Trade, commerce and
intercourse among the States, whether by means of
internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be abso-
lutely free.”
Bad though the effects were in peace-time, they
became much more so when war arrived. Though the
motor industry had made great headway in spite of
restrictive laws, the country found itself short of
motor vehicles, strategic roads, drivers, mechanics and
manufacturing plants. It had read, with astonishment,
of a young Australian, congratulated on his handling
of a truck in the Libyan waste, crediting his ability to
“what I learnt dodging transport officers in the
Mallee.”
Transport by land and sea was one of the first
things to feel the war. Transference of ships to war
duties brought an acute shortage of inter-State and
intra-State vessels. Establishment of military camps
and munitions works and purchase by the Common-
wealth of surplus land produce gave the State Gov-
ernment railways as much as they could do. But no
State relaxed its repressive road legislation, except to
grant some minor “concessions” on the borders and
to remove the old evil of forcing the Australian to
obtain a police permit before he could drive his own
car over his own roads to another part of his own
country.
Lately, the Prime Minister appointed a Common-
wealth Minister for Transport. Ostensibly his job was
to co-ordinate all forms of transport by working in
co-operation with the States to relieve the strain on
railways and to have carried by road or rail what
could no longer be carried by sea.
What the Dunstan-Cain Government thinks of
Mr. Menzies’s new Minister is shown in its newest
outrage. It is to amend its Transport Act to stop firms
carrying their own goods in their own vehicles any
further than 50 miles from their place of business.
There will be no more trucks running along country
by-roads, dropping a tin of tea here and a bag of
spuds there. Instead, the firm will have to consign
the items separately and put them on a train which,
running to a fixed timetable and on a fixed track, may
or may not get the goods to the destinations in twice
the time taken by the motor-truck and at twice the cost.
There will be no more jaunts to the country by groups
hiring large motor coaches for the trip. In short, the
motor vehicle will become an even rarer sight on
country roads. So far as the pleasure trip is con-
cerned, this may be desirable in war-time, but the
measure isn’t designed for war alone ; its purpose is a
further permanent restriction on road transport.
Petrol-rationing doesn’t affect the matter; the
restriction applies equally to vehicles equipped with
gas-producers and will apply to steam or electrically-
driven ones. So far, nothing has been heard from
Canberra about it and, judging by past records, nothing
will be heard, though a national Government might
be expected to speak up against provincial laws aimed
indirectly at national progress.
Mr. Hsu and Mr. Eggleston.
“Feng-Shui”: When Governments start exchanging
diplomatic representatives with one another I am
always reminded of the game of chess, where one
player exchanges a white knight or bishop for a black
one. If there is any difference except in respect of
race and color between the two gentlemen Chungking
and Canberra are now shuffling between them I should
like to know it.
Mr. Hsu-mo was born at the silken city of
Soochow (famed for beauteous women) and educated
at Pei-yang University, Tientsin, and George Washing-
ton University, U.S.A. He graduated LL.B. and
LL.M. Mr. Eggleston was born in the city by the
Yarra and graduated LL.B. from Melbourne Univer-
sity and Leys College, Cambridge.
On his return to China Mr. Hsu was appointed
Professor of Law and Political Science at the Nan-
Kai University, Nanking. Mr. Eggleston won the
prize in the final solicitors’ exam., the Bowen Prize
for an English essay and the Higinbotham Prize for
historical and economic research in Melbourne.
Mr. Hsu was secretary to the Chinese delegation
at the Washington Disarmament Conference. Mr.
Eggleston was on the staff of the Australian delega-
tion to the Paris Peace Conference after the last war.
Mr. Hsu was chief editor of a social-welfare weekly
called the “Yi Shih Pao.” Mr. Eggleston is described
as a weighty and authoritative writer on public ques-
tions.
At present Mr. Hsu is political Vice-Minister
for Chinese Foreign Affairs. Mr. Eggleston is an in-
fluential member of the Institute of Pacific Relations.
Mr. Hsu has been a Judge and a counsellor and
director of International Affairs. Mr. Eggleston has
been a State Minister for water supply and railways.
In short, they are both perfect examples of the
brilliant young university product in every civilised
country. In their university days they were both mild
radicals, and no doubt Mr. Hsu made a hit as such
in the Pei-yang University, just as Mr. Eggleston did
at the University of Melbourne.
Individuals of this sort invariably end up as com-
plete officials. They fulfil society’s conception of
sages, and consequently when their Governments are
looking round for dignified and distinguished repre-
sentatives it is invariably they who are selected. They
completely conform to current political, social, educa-
tional and intellectual standards, and everybody would
be astonished, if net shocked, if they uttered anything
but a perfectly orthodox and accepted notion about
anything.
The memoirs of an ex-American Ambassador to'
Berlin, a very eminent professor, have been published.
The professorial diplomat learned nothing in Berlin.
All he saw was his American prejudices. He thought
Hitler was of no importance, misunderstood everything
Hitler did and misjudged everything he was about
to do.
I may be prejudiced against university products ;
but I would just as soon send Bible Joe or Roderic
Quinn to China as a successful graduate of Mel-
bourne University.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Look, Erby, Lasseter ’ s lost reef!”
“Ex-Vic.”; In lasting four years in
Sydney without encountering the cadging
female with a story (B. 16/7/’4l) “Mac-
Hoots” was lucky. Every payday outside
the place wherein I worked in Melbourne
there appeared a lady with three young-
sters. She and the eldest would bawl
popular songs of the day while the send-
mental toilers dropped coins in an inviting
hat at her feet. She had other stands
at football grounds, racecourses and so
on. After a few years some nark realised
that her brats never grew up, a fact
which interested the police so much that
the lady disappeared. It was popularly
believed that the kids were never her own,
but were hired until they grew too big,
whereupon she sacked them or some-
thing and got a new lot. A year or so
later I blew into Sydney and was passing
along Eddy-avenue when a tidy woman
with three children breasted up. Her
husband was to have met her, but hadn’t,
She needed Is. 4d. to get home. If I
would lend it her and give my name and
address she’d see I got it back. As I
coughed up memory stirred. “I’m from
Melbourne,” I said gently. “I’ve heard
you sing.” “Gawd,” she said, “I would
pick on you.” Then she gathered the
kids and fled.
* *. • • •
“Oliver Filter”: The fellow who wants
a zack for a bed” (B. 16/7/ ’4l) is a
clumsy practitioner of the art compared
with two urchins who bailed me up in
Sydney’s Hyde Park with “Buy a penny
ticket, mister?” The penny handed over,
I received a slip out of one of those books
of tickets you can buy at a chain-store
for tuppence. “What’s it for?” I asked.
The “lottery” merchants vanished among
the trees like startled rabbits. An older
boy bailed me up, and, from the desperate
expression on his face, 1 assumed that
he urgently needed the penny he asked
for and got. Passing that way again a
few minutes later, I saw the same kid get
another penny with an even more despe-
rate expression. As I paused and watched
he made another threepence by screwing
down the corners of his mouth and bring-
ing a note of urgency to his voice. The
women'are more harrowing. “Have you
threepence for a pie for an old lady?”
came from an almost incredibly old soul
1 met on Circular Quay ; “For Gawd's
sake buy us a drink, mister,” from a
nervous middle-aged woman whose path
I crossed outside a pub in Lower George-
street. Irresistible both.
* * * »
“Chink”: Apropos of Frederick Chap-
man (B. 16/7/’4l), would you care to
know, without colliding with the censor-
ship, in what part of the Middle East
your lad or cobber is located? If so,
all you have to do is to get him to dig
out a few small fossils and send them to
the retired Commonwealth palaeontologist
at his Melbourne address. That’s what
Colonel Wilfred Chapman does. He
posts to his venerable and scientific dad
odds and ends of small marine creatures
that gave up the ghost many millions of
years ago, and the old man, gazing at
particular specimens under a microscope,
promptly says, “Ah, Lower Eocene ; that
means that Wilfred is in Libya”—or
somewhere in Egypt, as the case may be.
Through the medium of these relics of
an ancient world the veteran has fol-
lowed the movements of his soldier-son
from Suez to Benghazi and back,
* * * *
“Old C.”: Why label Randolph Bed-
ford’s handwriting “the worst this side
of Chungking” (B. 16/7/’41)? Over 40
years ago, when typewriters were seldom
used, comps, wrestled with worse scrawls
than Randolph’s, though I admit that his
habit of scribbling without lifting the pen
was confusing. He was a trial also to
sub-editors, whose alterations often
necessary—always annoyed him. A. G.
Stephens once re-punctuated a column of
Bedford verse. The proof was sent to the
poet (it was the practice in those days
to submit proofs to poets), and back it
came with this note: “What
altered this? Leave it as the original or
chuck it in the stereo cauldron!”
That proof hung in the comp, room for
many years—a priceless souvenir and
warning.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The most original ex-
planation for the current epidemic of
respiratory complaints in Melbourne was
proffered by our char. She attributed it
to the amount of high explosive being
discharged into the atmosphere in
Europe, especially since the outbreak of
the Germano-Soviet war. “Well,” I said,
“you may be right.” “ ’Course I’m right,”
she replied ; “why it’s happened before
Didn’t the dust from the rupture of a
volcano in one of them foreign parts,
Crackajack or somethin’ ” “You
mean Krakatoa,” I interrupted. “That’s
the place,” she said. “Didn’t it go five
times round the world?”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A man who hasn’t Buckley’s
chance of regaining his liberty this side
of that bourne from which no notorious
criminal returns is Richard Buckley, con-
demned to a “lifer” in Geelong gaol for
the murder of Berriman, the Glenferrie
bank manager, in 1924. It was alleged
at the trial that Buckley fired the fatal
shot and that the man afterwards hanged
for the crime was his associate. Years
later Buckley was apprehended in a
suburban hideout by a squad of detec-
tives headed by a “woman,” really Detec-
tive Lacey in disguise. Incarceration has
done Buckley no harm. Though turned
80, he is well-nourished, vigorous and
healthy, and his only grudge is that the
underworld in which he flourished “did
the dirty” on him long ago. Friends con-
tinue to petition for the release that will
never be sanctioned.
“S. Piel”: Melbourne paused amid the
anxiety of war when it heard that some-
body or other was trying to get old Dick
Buckley out of prison. Thoughts went
back to the days of Squizzy Taylor, when
gang-shootings were common and the
little crook, dressed in a manner which
Hilary Lofting called “damnably well,”
swaggered about the city sneering at the
law which couldn’t pin anything on him.
He was suspected of having something
to do with the killing of Berriman, for
which Angus Murray was hanged. Taylor
fell out with a former pal, and they shot
each other to death in a gun-duel in a
boarding-house room.
“Jeff”: An impromptu recruiting
speech was given on a Melbourne tram
when a young chap with football boots
swung over his shoulder scrambled on,
treading on an old dame’s toes. She
screamed, and then plunged into a bitter
discourse on his lack of manners, intelli-
gence and patriotism, as evidenced by
his being in mufti on a tram standing on
other people’s corns when he ought to
be with the boys on the other side. He
got his chance when the lady ran out of
breath. “I’ve just done three months,
missus,” he protested. “Where,” she said,
starting again—“at Pentridge?”
» * * *
“Tummas McN.”: The Australian
Wool Board was heard recently advising
women to wear slacks in view of the
shortage of material for dresses. Many
of them were already doing so. Italy has
banned slacks and shorts as unladylike
and hands out the following smack in
the eye:
Where did this stupid fashion come from?
The answer is easy. First, trousers for
women appeared in Bolshevik Russia. Pic-
tures of Russian women in long trousers
appeared in Britain and America. Soon
female snobs of both countries were wear-
ing them.
One of these days the world will realise
just how much it has suffered from Com-
munism, and will probably place the
spectacle of a broad-beamed tart in slacks
at the head of the list,
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: London nights
must simply swarm with the furiously
gibbering wraiths of old-time clubmen.
The Athenaeum has gone all lowbrow,
the Bath Club has been burned down
without even the cachet of enemy action,
entrance fees have been abolished and
black balls blackballed in all the great
West End clubs under the pinch of
economic stress, and some have had to
close their doors altogether. On the
other hand, all manner of damned paro-
dies of those sacred British institutions
are poking up their impudent heads. The
Tighten-Your-Belt Club carries a bit of
string in the buttonhole as a sign of mem-
bership. The Anti-Rumor Club, with
over a thousand branches, including one
in Maoriland, uses a badge depicting a
rnodernly-attired St. George slaying the
dragon of Rumor. The Shut-Up-About-lt
Club has an oyster shell for insignia and
a large membership in the Navy and
Merchant Marine. A branch in Sydney
would do some useful work in lessening
the wagging of thoughtless tongues and
pens about what was and wasn’t seen
from the ferryboat this morning.
* * * *
“Gen. Horse-Sense”: The objection to
armor in modern warfare is not that it
is sissy (B. 9/7/’4l), but that it is in-
convenient and uncomfortable. Further,
the essential difference between “a large
steel shell worn outside the body and a
thin one worn under the singlet” is that,
while one is large and outside, the other
is small and inside —the clothing. Even
when fighting men regularly wore armor
{outside their clothing), none but a fool
kept it on a moment longer than neces-
sary. In fact, helmets and gauntlets
were rarely worn save on the very point
of going into action. A stretcher-bearer
might wear a “shield” with impunity, but
for the ordinary soldier it would be not
merely a waste of time, but a waste of
money.
* * * *
“Ec”: That chap who mentioned that
he had talked to a Crimean veteran (B.
25/6/’4l) must be absurdly young. When
/ was a boy an old Scotsman told
me that when he was a boy he had seen
some of Sir John Moore’s soldiers, re-
turned from Corunna, all ragged and
careworn, marching down an Edinburgh
street in the winter of 1809. Can anyone
beat that? If he says he knew a man
who was present at the siege of Troy he
is barred from the competition.
**i * *
“S.”: Sydney “Sun” got itself into a
lovely jam by running Douglas Reed’s
opinions on blackouts just after Mr.
Heffron had staged his most successful
blackout test out Randwick way. The
“Sun” had Reed headlined on the leader
page, “The blackout is a failure!” and
printed a leader on the same page de-
claring, in effect, that Reed was talking
nonsense. “Mr. Douglas Reed’s objec-
tions to the blackout over London,
appearing in another column, need hardly
be taken by Sydney citizens as conclusive
evidence that the work of Mr. Heffron
and the N.E.S. authorities has been
wasted in Sydney.” Blackouts in Syd-
ney, whether or not they're ever likely to
be necessary, at least force people to real-
ise that there’s a war on ; and the Rand-
wick effort —though the dailies, as usual,
made news out of one or two house-,
holders who wouldn’t play—was so suc-
cessful that you couldn’t have told the
miles of dark roofs from miles of bush.
Reed, who always likes to think he is right
where the best political and military
brains in England are wrong, also believes
it was “truly fantastic” to issue gasmasks
to Britain’s women and children; but
when nobody knew what Hitler would
do it would have been criminally fantas-
tic not to have issued them, and the first
to squeal would have been Mr. Douglas
Reed, however secure he feds in his “little
white house.”
* * 4 *
“Spare Corp”: Amongst queer names
that have cropped up in casualty lists
was that of Private Corpse; he was
wounded. In the last war there was a
dinkum Digger named Bogus, and there
was another named Aa. Aa was born
in the Solomon Islands. I never met
him, but I dealt with some of his papers
and have always remembered him as the
chap who would get first call at pay,
leave and other parades, even ahead of
Aaron Aarons.
* * * *
“Youanmi”; When the doctor said he
was going to “perform a tonsillectomy”
I told him to go ahead, and was amazed
on coming out of the anaesthetic to find
he had only removed my tonsils. I was
equally amazed when my dentist applied
the term “cavity” to a hole less than half
the size of a pinhead. Imagine then the
effect —my capacity for being amazed
being what it is—when, after making
inquiries for information about the
educational standard required of an
R.A.A.F. recruit, I received a letter which
stated, among other things, that my
knowledge should include “the four arith-
metical processes. Their application to
real quantities.” I suppose it merely
means that I must know how to add, sub-
tract, multiply and divide.
A PUZZLED ETYMOLOGIST.
1 know who first invented “gerrymandering,”
Founding the art whereto his name has
clung;
I’ve read about the stream from which “me-
andering”
Derives its meaning in our mother tongue.
All down the ages and in various races,
Since Abram dwelt among his flocks and
herds,
One's always coming upon men (and places)
Whose idiosyncrasies have minted words.
A Jezebel will evermore be viewed as
A dame to whom no vileness comes amiss;
The kiss that you associate with Judas
Remains a most unpleasant kind of kiss.
Boycott the landlord, Burke the suffocator,
Bowdler (you know his specialty)—each
Unknowing, but in less degree or greater,
Supplied us with a needful part of speech.
A certain Shrapnel was the first concocter
Of one of war’s grim inhumanities;
While Bright, I’m told, was a distinguished
doctor
Who left his monument in a disease.
We know who Buckley was, whose risks and
rigors
A homely saying in our memory ties;
But what of other phrase-creating figures
Whose doings are hidden from our modern
eyes?
Enlighten me —some of you surely could, sirs—
Resolve my puzzle, tote along the goods!
To have his name affixed to Jimmy Woodsers
Was there, or not, a real Jimmy Woods?
N.S.W.
T. THE R,


“I should be a politician, Prendergast; Toe talked him into joining
General De Gaulle!”
“Dhas”: “Banjo” Paterson’s claim to
the authorship of “Waltzing Matilda” has
been set out so circumstantially that fc one
can’t doubt that “Banjo” did give the
song its present shape ; but lon Idriess
told me the other day that a version of
it, closely resembling “Banjo’s” and pre-
sumed to be jus.t an anonymous bush
song was current in his boyhood ; and
another of my private detectives reports
that in the times of Marlborough the
soldiers used to sing—to the identical
tune; —•
A gay Fusilier was marching down through
Rochester,
Bound for the wars in the Low Countrey,
And he cried as he tramped through the dear
streets of Rochester,
“Who’ll be a sojer for Marlbro’ with me?
Chorus: Who'll be a sojer, who’ll be a sojer,
etc.?
On “internal” evidence, the words are
typical folk-poetry, and the tune’s a mili-
tary march, so that as a Digger march-
ing song it has probably returned to its
rightful place.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: The Digger in Malaya
seems to be running true to form. New
York “Herald Tribune’s” correspondent,
hailing “Waltzing Matilda” as the best
song of the war, says it’s about “the
plight of a merry hobo who made the
mistake of catching a strange Australian
animal.” I don’t doubt that subsequent
explanations will make it clear to America
that the jumbuck is a small marsupial
horse that lays its eggs upside-down in
the wallows of the bunyip. Which re-
minds me that Glasgow “Herald,” in a
review of “The Man from Snowy River,
once described the brumby-hunt as a
steeplechase:
All the crack horses and riders are
gathered at the station. Amongst the rest
is a stripling on a small and weedy beast.
This is the man from “Snowy River.’ But
the youngster and his horse are so un-
likely a couple that it is with the greatest
difficulty he is allowed to join in the race.
Nobody expects that he will be really in
the running. But the result proves other-
wise. The weedy beast and his rider, who
ought to have broken their necks at a dozen
places in the course, actually beat the whole
field.
* * * *
“Wodgil”; The musical reputation of
that old-time Governor Sir William
Robinson, whom Westralians called
“Fiddler Bill,” is having a bit of a rebirth.
Anyway, his “Remember Me No More”
has become a rather popular radio ditty,
and a revival of his “Unfurl the Flag”
has been solemnly suggested by a couple
of Melbourne writers as a substitute for
our several national anthems, one of
which is sung in N. S. Wales and an-
other in S.A. and perhaps in other
States. While not agreeing with “Colonel
Bungstarter’s” slighting reference to
“Remember Me No More” (B. 16/7/’4l)
I don’t want to hear “Unfurl the Flag”
again. The air is nothing to write home
about and the refrain (“Unfurl the flag
that all may see Our proudest boast is
liber tee”) is too reminiscent of the vaunt
of that American character in Martin
Chuzzlewit —“He is a child o’ natur and
a child of freedom, and his proudest
boast is that his home is in the settin’
sun.” A patriotic ditty that fell into
undeserved oblivion was “Dryblower”
Murphy’s “Five-starred Flag.” Written
and composed in Westralia, like “Un-
furl,” it has ringing lines set to a rousing
tune: —
Lift up the five-starred flag!
In Australia white it was woven for you.
Love no other land
As your Motherland,
Girdled by the ocean blue.
Brought up to date to fit present circum-
stances it would stir the blood, a thing
which “The A.I.F. Is Marching” and
“Swingin’ Along the Road to Victoree”
dismally fail to do.
* * * *
“Bo”: It was in one of Sydney’s
toniest ragshops. In front of me as I
strode towards the street doors, closed
against the chill air, a brace of expensive-
looking fur coats, two things that faintly
resembled hats, two pairs of silk-clad
legs and a host of bobbing parcels were
making for the same exit. They reached
it before I could exercise a latent chiv-
alry. As the leading lady tugged at it
with her one partly-free hand and even-
tually wedged through, she turned around
to her fellow-shopper with a “My Gawd,
Nell, this blasted door’s ’eavy!”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Hunger strikers (I am
thinking of the pair in Sydney) can last a
long time on boiled water if they have
the necessary resolution. In other years,
when fasting and comic “hypnotism”
competed sporadi-
cally with music-
halls, professional
fasters did without
bodily nutriment for
periods up to .60
days. And, sus-
tained by a spiritual,
not an economic,
motive, Gandhi has
defied death by in-
anition times with-
out number and
without having suf-
fered physically or
mentally anyway,
at 70 he is still the
acknowledged leader
of millions of Indians.
The chief danger in
fasting is that the
abstainer may even-
tua 11 y start to
consume his own
stomach. It is a
fallacy that he en-
dangers his life if he
indulges in a square
meal immediately
after his ordeal is
over. A professional
who fasted for 58 days in Adelaide was
conveyed in triumph from the glass cage
in which he had been incarcerated to the
Town Hall, where he consumed three
steaks, several plates of oysters and a
bottle of stout with every symptom of
enjoyment. During his starvation period
he smoked cigarettes incessantly and
drank soda-water.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Libel by picture has been
claimed in an Adelaide case. Cut from
a magazine and sent to a married couple,
the thing showed a lover saying “Darling,
tell me there is no one else!” even while
several other men were under the sofa.
The wife took this as an attack on her char-
acter, and as to the printed legend was
added a written “Pinch yourself and wake
up,” the husband took it as a hint to
himself to believe the worst. Evidence
turned mainly on handwriting and un-
usual spelling. To the regret of an
intrigued public the case was not pressed.
* * * *
“S. Piel”: There is nothing like a war
to make the mug easier meat and nothing
like a woman to cruel a good pitch. Up
to London recently went a Canadian air-
man, complete with uniform, D.F.M.,
D.F.C. and everything. To admiring
audiences, mostly fair and cuddlesome,
he related tales of stirring dogfights and
of his being eventually shot down,
got himself engaged to a university
student and made her presents of
jewels. Then he happened to meet
an octogenarian peer, who invited
him to his country house and lent,
him £5O. The “hero’s” next appearance
was at the Old Bailey, where he was
awarded two years’ hard for receiving a
stolen uniform, stealing jewels from his
landlady, defrauding his intended of £3O
and a bank of another £3O with a forged
cheque. All this in two months. He might
have been going yet if a sharp wench
hadn’t observed the cuff-bottoms on his
trousers, knew it was against R.A.F. rules
and conveyed her suspicions to a cop.
* * * *
“Zake”: It has taken a war and the
virtual abolition of private motoring in
England to effect a minor revolution in
the Empire’s capital. I refer to the
quaint London taxis. For quarter of
a century patrons have been ushered
with a “Where to, guv’nor?” into a quaint
square-shaped dogbox on wheels. All
cut to the one pattern, they looked as if
they’d come out of Mr. De Dion’s fac-
tory in the late-Victorian era. And were
the drivers proud of ’em? One of the best
half-minute slap-ups I ever saw followed
the remark of a half-shot Old Digger
who, stung 255. for a run to Clapham
Junction from the Strand, told the taxi-
man it was no use his “buying the
mechanical abortion” as he had no place
to keep it. Now, it seems, luxury cars
are to be used as taxis. I can visualise
the irrepressible Cockney in one of the
ancient contraptions, roaring to his mate
in the cab behind on sighting a confrere
go past at the wheel of a Rolls-Bently
phaeton or a huge Daimler saloon,
“Biime, Joe, git a noiful of ’Arry in ’is
clawsy limmerseen! Eh, ’Arry, where
did y’ drop the Dook—at ’is country
’ouse or the Cawlton Club?” Petrol
rationing, like love, levels all ranks —
even the taxi rank.
* * * *
“Pawang”: “K.P.” (B. 16/7/’4l) is
mistaken if he thinks that people who
succumb to sheer childish funk, like the
quarter of a million who bolted in U.S.A.
when Wells’s War of the Worlds was
broadcast, go off their rockers. The
250,000 didn’t go off their rockers.
People don’t go off their rockers through
sheer childish funk, but they may if they
become the victims of a conflict which
is hidden from them. I suffered from
excessive funk once when I got, or
thought I had got, too near a tiger in
the Javanese jungle, and I bolted ; but
1 didn’t go off my rocker. I might have
done so if my wife or a girl friend or
a baby had been with me, and if I had
learned subsequently that one or other
had been eaten. What would be con-
ditioning my madness would be the con-
flict between what I felt — i.e., fear for
my own safety —and what I believed —
i.e., that no self-respecting human being
rushes the boats in a crisis. The only
people whom Hitler’s bombing of Eng-
land has sent off their rockers, I should
say, were those who have become vic-
tims of this conflict.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: How many denizens of
Darlinghurst know that the bell which
summons the kids to their daily tasks at
St. John’s Preparatory School came from
the Dunbar, wrecked at the Gap in
August, 1857, with one survivor from the
122 on board her? What has become of
the bell which used to be on the old
Sydney lightship Bramble, whose inscrip-
tion showed that it had been cast in 1794
by T. Mears, of London Fleet, with
N.S.W. and a broad arrow below? That
from the Taroa, sunk by a Bass Strait
reef 30 years ago, now gives five-minute
warnings to intending passengers at the
Essendon aerodrome that the ’plane will
be starting. The Victorian Ship Lovers’
Society has the bell of the Black Ball
clipper Lightning, burned at Geelong
in 1869. The bell which is often
used at football finals played on the Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground began life on the
East Indiaman Lysander, whose declin-
ing years were spent as a prison hulk in
Hobson’s Bay in the 1850’s. For many
years later it was an alarm bell at Pent-
ridge prison.
“ Occupation?”
“Toothbrush manufacturer.”
POLITICAL PLAYBOYS.
“We are far too hard pressed now to play about
with politics.”
—Sir Ronald Cross, British High Commissioner.
With all our Empire has at stake,,
Caught in a whirl of deadly strife,
With one and all adjured to take
A stand for liberty and life,
A curious time ’twould seem to be
In faction’s petty feuds to mix.
In war what sheer fatuity
To play about with politics!
Our lads by sea and land and air
Must resolutely fight their way.
Could those who sent them not forbear
At least to fight for place and pay?
With victory the only aim
Whereon a nation’s eyes should fix
A paltry thing, a sordid game,
To play about with politics.
Leave for the piping times of peace
The party shouts, the platform dins,
Which fluent Ins on Outs release
And fuming Outs project at Ins.
He does his country hurt, I wis,
His conscience well might give him
pricks.
Who in an hour as dark as this
Would play around with politics.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Solve Your Own Producer Gas Problems
PRODUCER
GAS COURSE
• HOW TO BURN OWN CHARCOAL
• MANUFACTURE OF UNITS
• CONVERSION OF PLANT
• MAINTENANCE
Progressive farmers, graziers and garage men are
not waiting for someone else to solve their
producer gas problems. They are learning to
solve them themselves through the Kingsford
Smith College course in Producer Gas. This
course shows you how to manufacture your
own unit, how to convert your engine from
petrol, how to maintain your plant and how
to burn your own charcoal. It is a practical
course for practical men. Everything is made
clear by simple, easily followed diagrams and
instruction sheets. In addition, the course in-
cludes coaching by Producer Gas experts to
suit your individual requirements. Necessary
parts for conversion can be supplied. The
efficiency of Producer Gas has been proved
beyond all question. But if you are to take
advantage of it this season, you must start your
course now. This is an intensive short-term
course. No big outlay of cash entailed.
SEND THE COUPON FOR DETAILS NOW.
KINGSFORD smith colleges.
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas
Course.
Name
Address
B. 23/7/’4l
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
"THE ARIZONA"
COWBOY SADDLE
*
£l2/7/6
Tf made with Double
Rigging, with Two-cord
I Oinehas, 17/6 extra.
N.S. IF. Freight on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order, j
MOTHER fcSTEVENSOMH
59S CEORCE ST. SYPHEYI
i
POLITICAL POINTS
In what looks like an ignoble surrender
to the Thorntons and Wrights of the
unions concerned, Forde, Curtin’s
deputy, demands that the Government
should take over B.H.P. He asserts that
“the Governments of Britain and of the
U.S.A. have assumed control of large
monopolistic key industries.” He does
not mention names, but perhaps he could
give the name of the American concern
in which the Government ended a strike
by sending in soldiers.
It merely takes a few facts and figures
to blow out Forde’s charges against
Broken Hill Prop. The facts? “Bonus”
issue of 64 shares for 100 in 1939 was
paid for in cash by shareholders ; they had
been charged the equivalent in premiums
on previous cash issues. The figures?
B.H.P. structural steel per ton in May,
1939, £lO 2s. Bd. per ton. Last week’s
price, still £lO 2s. Bd. per ton. English
prices: Pre-war, £l3 Is. Id. Aust. ; now
£lB 7s. 9d. Aust. There has been no
increase in the price of B.H.P. steel —
amongst the cheapest in the world —since
early in 1938. And Forde wants the
Government to run B.H.P. for the dura-
tion!
Foreign Minister Matsuoka, who
achieved the unique distinction of tying
his country to the two totalitarian coun-
tries now at war, has been dropped from
the Cabinet which Prince Konoye has
reconstructed. His successor is Vice-
Admiral Toyoda, who has been a naval
attache in London and a representative
at two disarmament conferences. Wfeat
the Cabinet changes and other recent
manoeuvres at Tokyo signify no man who
is not a Japanese can say, but scores of
newspaper correspondents are saying it
with their renowned assurance.
About 13,000 miners and workers in
heavy industries stopped work for the
day in N. S. Wales last Friday as a pro-
test against the detention of two Red
hunger-strikers who have since given up
hunger-striking. Other Australians,
many of them good unionists, are
being detained in a place called Tobruk
at grave risk to their lives and health.
Will somebody propose a day’s overtime
in mines and heavy industries to help
them ?
After a battle royal in the papers,
the Commonwealth Government has
abolished the petrol cartel and assumed
control of importation, storage and dis-
tribution. It hopes to increase imports
by obtaining more tankers, and will
license importers. The Minister for
Supply says that “if all goes well” there
will be more next year but not this
year. “Challenges” by some people that
they could get petrol overseas if per-
mitted to do so fizzled out when the
“challenges” were accepted ; all the same,
the Canberra action suggests that the
cartel should have been looked into long
ago. That, or Cabinet has been scared
again into another “concession.” Not a
word has been said about dollar ex-
change.
“Had agreement on taxation uniformity
been approved by the Premiers, the Com-
monwealth’s task of financing the huge
war expenditure would have been simpli-
fled considerably.” Thus Fadden in a
newspaper statement, made in the third
person. Does it mean that he has
dropped “taxation uniformity”? His
plain duty as a war Treasurer is to go
ahead and bring in a tax that will have
the same incidence in every part of Aus-
tralia, whether the Premiers “approve”
or put their heads in a bag.
Before Sir Ronald Cross had eaten his
first breakfast in Sydney the “D.T.” was
at him, and before he had digested his
first dinner a brick came from Billy
Hughes. The new High Commissioner
for the U.K. was alleged to have said
that the feeling in Britain, thougji favor-
able to a military arrangement with
Russia, was that it was only a matter of
opinion whether Nazism or Communism
was the worse form of dictatorship. The
paper was, of course, outraged, and Billy,
who sometimes speaks like a wise old
man, performed like a hysterical old
woman. The defendant protested that
the remarks attributed to him had been
“quoted out of their context, and do
not convey my real meaning.” Menzies,
for his part, said that Billy had not spoken
for the Government, and that “if Sir
Ronald is not at liberty to make a state-
ment of what he believes opinion in
“No, Evatt, I’ll give you nothing more — l’ll go to the country first.”
Britain to be, I mistake the function of
the High Commissioner.” Then the tea-
cup tempest bubbled itself out, as teacup
tempests do.
Heartening statement by Acting
Premier Hanlon at a Brisbane recruiting
rally:
The people have reached such a frame of
mind that they are not going to allow
profits to be made out of the war effort.
Coming only a week or two after fare
and freight-rate increases on all Queens-
land railways—in some cases they amount
to 33y p.c.—imposed directly after com-
pletion of the most profitable year in
the State’s whole railway history, it was
a fine oratorical effort.
’ Reporting on the Abbco case Justice
Maxwell, the royal commissioner, found
that the “large deficiency in the weight
of bread supplied by Abbco to the Army
on June 11, 1940, was brought about
with intent,” and recommended the
removal of Abbco from the “list of ten-
derers for military contracts.” Major
Rigney, the army supply officer in the
case, was exonerated, but subordinates
were rapped over the knuckles for negli-
gence. Of Raith, the manager of Abbco,
it was said that “his evidence on any
point could not be accepted without
corroboration.”
In this war, as in the last, Westralia
has a noble record of enlistments. Last
month, when the names of 873 Westralian
soldiers appeared in one casualty list, it
was the only State that exceeded its
A.I.F. quota, and of 193,347 appli-
cations to join the R.A.A.F. it has con-
tributed 22,369—this though it has only
one-fifteenth of the Commonwealth popu-
lation. Even Labor members admit that
if conscription were put to the vote it
would be carried in Westralia, as it was
by resounding majorities in 1916 and
1917. So they would hate to see another
referendum or —worse still —a double-
dissolution election, with conscription the
only issue.
“The Russian people are now our
allies,” said Churchill on July 15, as
reported in the devoted Sydney “D.T.”
It sent the Office Historian back to Lord
Riddell’s Intimate Diary of the Peace
Conference.
April 11, 1919: ,Bonar Law and Lloyd
George talked of Churchill. L.G.: “In
certain moods he is dangerous. He has
Bolshevism on the brain. Now he wants
to make a treaty with the Germans to fight
the Bolsheviks. He wants to employ Ger-
man troops, and he is mad for operations in
Russia?”
July 4, 1919: I told Winston I thought
the Russian campaign dangerous. (The
White Armies of Kolchak, Denikin and
Yudenich, supported by the Allies, were
at this time preparing a new offensive.)
He did not like this.
March 23, 1922: The political situation
has been further complicated by Winston’s
attitude towards the Bolsheviks. He de-
clines to agree to the political recognition
of the Soviet, and may resign if L.G.
insists.
The eloquent gentleman has certainly
boxed the compass.
When McKell became N.S.W. Premier
he promised 100 p.c. co-operation in the
war effort. It would be interesting to
know when the gentleman is going to
begin. So far, except for an experimental
blackout or two and a flow of words
about shipbuilding, the censorship and
petrol rationing, 100 p.c. co-operation
boils down to a sullen refusal to partici-
pate in a uniform income tax and an
idiotic proposal for another Common-
wealth election—the second within a
year—“to enable the people to choose a
Government that has strength and
power.”
Mr. Carney, “secretary of the Sydney
district of the A.E.U.,” has a grievance
against Mr. Curtin:
It is utterly impossible for Mr. Curtin to
deal promptly with any industrial dispute
while he remains in Perth. If he is anxious
to investigate the position affecting the
engineers or any other union he should be
right on the spot.
“On the spot” is, of course, Sydney ; but
Sydney is all Australia to Mr. Carney.
Though a representative of Westralia, the
leader of the Opposition and second in
command of the Advisory War Council,
Mr. Curtin is expected to be always in
Sydney to await the lordly pleasure of
some soreheaded union secretary with a
mania for stop-work meetings.
Though it dates from May 16, the
McKell Government has done no legis-
lating yet, but it is about to start on a
programme which will mean massive
additions to the public expenditure and
debt. Meantime it has been busy snarling
at the Commonwealth Government and
setting up boards and committees. There
is to be a committee of public servants to
“consider” the licensing laws, and there
is to be a factory and welfare board “to
promote the well-being, safety and hous-
ing of workers.” On both subjects the
numerous Ministers and their still more
numerous followers ought to be suffi-
ciently well-informed to decide their own
policy if they are capable of thinking up
any.
Queensland has decided to collect income
tax in weekly instalments, as Victoria
does and South Australia does and the
Commonwealth does. McKell, whose
State is still waiting for the promised
abolition of wages tax, is credited with
favoring the idea. But why in the name
of all that’s sensible should there be
more than one deduction?
The passion for “controlling” things
is deeply implanted in the politician.
N.S.W. Mines Minister Baddeley, hear-
ing that resourceful people were getting
their own petrol from shale, said “some-
thing will have to be done to control
them.” “Encourage” them would be a
better action, seeing that the country needs
people with enterprise of that sort, but
to the Baddeley sort of politician they are
“exploiters” or something.
Presumably with some notion of forc-
ing the owner to grow more of whatever
he is growing or give up some of the
land, the Sydney Premier “foreshadows”
a graduated land tax on all large private
estates “not producing to their full capa-
city.” But who is to say when a property
isn’t at full production? Taxpayers
“foreshadow” another board, to be
advised by the usual “experts,”
There was nearly a rift in the Cain-
Dunstan lute in Victoria. Mr. Cain,
after “fierce exchanges” with Dunstan’s
Chief Secretary, took most of his party
—humorously called Labor —across the
floor. However, his amendment was
defeated and unity was saved. The vital
subject? Whether persons giving false
fire alarms should get a month or three
months.
Japanese Minister Tatsuo Kawai got
over a neat one when tackled by the in-
evitable reporter in Adelaide and asked
the inevitable question about his country’s
“southward drive.” “It is drive, drive,
drive in all talks about Japan,” he mur-
mured, “The only drive I know any-
thing about is the one I use on the links.”
A.B.C. has cut out broadcasting week-
day racing. Before earnest people could
express pleasure at a needed reform,
Commissioner Cleary had to announce
that it was a measure of economy, dictated
by the cut of 2s. from the Commission’s
share of license fees. The money saved
will no doubt be put to helping the
“A.B.C. Weekly” to go on losing £50,000
a year.
Ashley, the N.S.W. Labor Senator,
seems to have been going to too many
picture-shows. Anyway he said recently
that “recruiting will never improve until
glaitior, now so woefully lacking, is sup-
plied in militia camps.” About the same
time, Mrs. Weber, M-L.A. for Nuna-
wading (Vic.), who has a son in the
R.A.A.F., flatly condemned “glamor
propaganda”:—
Do you think a woman likes to hear over
the air that her boy should join up be-
cause he would look better in uniform?
What we want men to realise is that we
are fighting for our lives. If they haven’t
got the decency to come forward and de-
fend their country, then God help us!
Certainly one for the lady. After all,
this is a real war, not a Hollywood show.
In a Maoriland abortion case Chief
Justice Myers, discharging a woman
whom three juries failed to convict, said,
“It is difficult to see how any nation can
expect long to survive if persons minded
to destroy its embryonic life are allowed
to do so with impunity.” His remark
ought to be nailed up where everybody
in Australia can see it, Australia being
a country where the abortionist flourishes
and where there is more woe over a poor
lambing percentage than over unnum-
bered murdered unborn Australians.


IF IT HAPPENED AT ALL, DID IT HAPPEN LIKE THIS?


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night Because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest Is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unlit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay In the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
POAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR BUDGET AND TAXES.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
July Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
lleserve Fund .. .. •• •• 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE. SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PERSONAL ITEM S
To Sydney last week came Ronald
Hibbert Cross, baronet and Privy Coun-
cillor, a youthful-looking, incisive and
impressive figure, about an inch shorter
than Lincoln and Halifax and eight inches
taller than W. M. Hughes—who fell foul
of him at once and within a day or
two had chummed up with him. Cross
left Eton at 18 to go to the last war,
and graduated from the Yeomanry to
the R.F.C. Rosendale in his native Lan-
cashire sent him to the Commons in
1931 ; at 40, four years later, he was
Government Whip ; at 42 a Lord of the
Treasury. When war broke out he be-
came Minister for Economic Welfare.
He has a mind of his own, and is not
afraid to speak it, and as first British
Minister to be appointed as High Com-
missioner to Australia he will give new
status to a job hitherto confined to regular
civil servants.
F. W. Eggleston, who becomes first
Minister to China, is a large, cheerful
Melbourne barrister, with lingering traces
Going to Chungking.
of an accent acquired at a British public
school (Leys) and an inquiring and argu-
mentative disposition developed while a
stablemate of J. G. Latham on the Aus-
tralian staff of the Peace Conference. He
served with the A.I.F. in the last war, but
nobody would ever hear of it from him.
He was in the Victorian Assembly for
years and held office as Assistant
Treasurer, Attorney-General, Solicitor-
General, Minister for Railways, Water
Supply and Electricity. He has since
been chairman of the Commonwealth
Grants Committee. Eggleston’s spare
moments are devoted to writing—his
works would fill a more than modest shelf
—and his office is a sort of museum of
Bulletin caricatures, particularly Low’s.
Con Drew, who has written many a
Bulletin par. and story, has struck a
streak of bad luck in Queensland. The
goodhearted fellow is a patient in the
Diamantina Hospital, South Brisbane.
M. E. McCarthy, who will chase prices
with the axe dropped by Professor Cop-
land, was born at Myrniong (Vic.), and
educated at St. Patrick’s College, Bal-
larat. He entered the Commonwealth
service in 1912, served in the Customs till
1929 and then became secretary of the
Tariff Board. He was in the A.I.F. in
the last war and got mentions in
dispatches ; in this war he has been re-
spectively secretary to the Prices Com-
mission and Deputy Price Fixer. He is 51.
Thomas Campbell Wasson, mentioned
in a cable as having helped three
Australian air-gunners held as prisoners
of war at Dakar, was U.S. Vice-
Consul in Melbourne during the
American warships’ visit in 1925.
He played baseball in Melbourne
and made a host of friends there. After-
wards he held Consular posts in the West
Indies, Naples, Spain and Nigeria before
he was transferred to Dakar.
A. R. Code, appointed Controller of
Tank and Armored Fighting Vehicle
Construction, is a product of Melbourne’s
Technical College and the University.
His flair for big engineering problems
early brought him into association with
A. G. Michell, the inventor of the revo-
lutionary thrust-bearing for turbine-
driven propellers which enormously in-
creased speeds at sea. He collaborated
with Michell in designing much
machinery for the N.S.W. railways and
the Kiewa (Vic.) hydro-electric scheme.
His present job is that of technical ad-
viser for Vacuum Oil in Australia, but
since the outbreak of war he has been
lent to the Government in connection
with the production of machine-gun
carriers, armored vehicles and the design-
ing of that modern dinosaurus the cruiser
tank. Code was a warrant officer in the
Engineers (Militia) and an honorary tank
corps instructor.
The lads of an earlier day are not
allowing youth to have things all its own
way. Sydney’s Julian Ashton, aged 90,
has published his autobiography, and
Melbourne’s Theodore Fink, aged 86, has
written alMelbourne “Herald” review of
his old friend’s life-story. Ashton was
born in London, Fink in Guernsey.
John Earl Bowker, of Adelaide, whose
electric car is hailed as an invention of
outstanding importance, first toyed with
electricity at 14, when
a Melbourne purveyor
of electrical gadgets
gave him a job. At
16 he began to study
X-ray technology, giv-
ing his services two
nights a week at the
Homoeopathic Hospi-
tal. By 1925 he had
charge of the X-ray
and electro - medical
departments at the
“Austin,” and the X-
ray plant at Sydney’s
Crown-street Hospital
was installed by him.
Going to Europe, he
met Madame Curie.
Bowker’s' book, X-
ray Apparatus and
Technique, is the only
work on this subject
by an Australian. His
electric - car research
occupied 18 months of
his busy life.
A charcoal drawing
of Churchill brought
£2OO in Maoriland;
but the fact doesn’t
warrant a rush of
Australian artists to
the sister Dominion.
The drawing was the
work of an indomit-
.able fellow, Boulton, who has spent 10
years in the Wanganui Public Hospital as
the result of an injury received at school.
It was bought by a local firm —Kennedy
Brothers —and the cheque has been given
by Boulton to Air Force funds.
The D.F.C. which has come the way
of Melbourne-born Flying-Officer James
Hyde, serving with the R.A.F., isn’t his
first distinction. He got the Humane
Society’s medal for bravery in 1938, when
he dragged a boy from under a car in
Hampton (Vic.).
An all-rounder, still young, is Quinton
Freebairn, of S.A. He was at Rose-
worthy (S.A.) College and got a diploma
there; then he had to go to Fiji for
health reasons, and his six years in those
islands included management of a copra
plantation, teaching in the Melanesian
Mission and acting-principal of the Agri-
cultural School. Then he went dairying
in Maoriland, and now the rolling stone is
to gather moss back in S.A. as an
accountant, having recently come top of
all Australia in the Commonwealth exam.
The first casualty amongst Australian
artists in this war is Private Lyndon Ray-
mond Dadswell, wounded in the Middle
East. He was the late Paul Montford s
assistant in the decoration of Victoria’s
Shrine of Remembrance on St. Kilda-
road. Twenty-one at the time, his hand
was responsible for the 12 panels depict-
ing the various units of the A.I.F. in
action. Born at Stanmore (N.S.W.), Dads-
well was one of Julian Ashton’s pupils ;
then he worked in Montford’s studio in
Melbourne for six years. After the big
job he became sculpture teacher at the
East Sydney Tech. In 1934 he won the
Wynne Prize.
Hugh Traill Armitage, now governor
of the Commonwealth Bank, is a small,
birdlike person who has lived so long
among Government currency that it
wouldn’t be surprising if, in moments of
abstraction, he used banknotes for wash-
flannels and slaked his thirst with green
ink. He was born in Colombo, educated
at Fort-street (Sydney) and St. Philip’s
Grammar School Australia’s oldest
secondary school, founded by Macquarie
in 1812 —and got a job with the ’Wales
in the Golden Jubilee year. When Deni-
son Miller went over to the Common-
wealth Bank he took Armitage with him,
and the latter ran a very slow and un-
spectacular but winning race for the head-
ship of the bank after serving as chief
accountant, secretary, head-office man-
ager, chief inspector and deputy-gover-
New Governor.
(Modelled by Frith.)
nor. He plays a cautious game of golf
and is about the only man in Australia
who is game to speak of his farming as a
“recreation.”
A Fellowship of the Royal Society
goes to T. G. Room, professor of mathe-
matics at Sydney University, which hasn’t
had an F.R.S. on its staff since Prof.
David. Room, born in London and a
Cambridge graduate, has held the chair
since 1935. He’s 39.
Arthur Lang Campbell, chief commu-
nications censor for S.A. and Bonython
Professor of Law at Adelaide University,
was—like Bradman —born at Bowrai
(N.S.W.). He went to Sydney High
and Sydney Uni., where he took
his B.A. in 1909 and his B.E. in 1913 ;
was admitted to the N. S. Wales Bar in
A Versatile Professor.
1914; was vice-principal of St. Andrew’s
College, 1915-17 and 1919-25; and
was admitted to the S.A. Bar in 1927.
Campbell had some experience of cen-
sorship during 1915-19, when he was
interpreter and senior assistant censor in
N. S. Wales. He is a member of the
council of Adelaide Scots’ College and
president of the Students’ Sports Union
at the University, and he likes swimming,
tennis and squash.
Wing-Commander R. F. M. Dalton,
who gets the command of the new bomb-
ing and gunnery school in S.A., used to
be a fitter at Point Cook (Vic.). He took
a flying course, got his wings and reached
commissioned rank in 1929.
Hundreds of thousands of Australians
have seen the peace-time handiwork of
Major Bill Coleman, who got an 0.8. E.
for his organising of recruiting, garrison-
troop enlistment and compulsory
trainees’ call-ups as Deputy Assist-
ant Adjutant-General of the Southern
Command in Melbourne. For up-
wards of 20 years Coleman has
painted most of the scenes for J.C.W.
grand opera and musical comedy shows,
and Oscar Asche thundered and pounded
in front of his backcloths. He has been
soldier as well as scenic artist almost
since his childhood. He was a trumpeter
in the 10th Light Horse in 1906 and
gained a commission while serving with
the 4th Light Horse in Egypt during the
last war.
“Bumpkin”: A hoodoo continues to
dog the Kakariki, sunk in a collision off
Gellibrand Light (Vic.) five years ago.
Endeavors to bring the hulk to the sur-
face and remove a menace to shipping
have led to two deaths by drowning and
fresh minor shipwrecks, but she still
remains firmly fixed to the bottom. The
fatal tally was added to the other day
when Captain Robert Wate Kilpatrick
fell dead at the wheel of the old Alvina
while running salvage men from the
vessel. Thousands of trippers on the
moonlit waters of Port Phillip knew the
old skipper as master of the paddle-
wheelers Ozone, Hygeia and Weeroona.
Four years ago he gave up bay-faring
and went into retirement. War exigen-
cies sent him back, at 74, to the tiller.


I
I
4
■
MB
■
%
\
m
m
IS
m
m
M
M
\ \
I
Pouring, pouring, the never-ending
stream of Cotton Drill for uniforms for
.our Fighting Forces falls from the weaving
plants of Davies Coop & Co. Limited.
So to Australia's defences Is contributed
a great effort by the men, women and
organization of one of Australia's greatest
•industrial plants.
To-day, in the Cotton Mills of Davies
Coop & Co. Limited, busy with their
defence orders, we see an amazing
achievement, for here is a company
which, commencing operations only
fifteen years ago, has developed so well
in its peace time progress that, to-day,
it is able to help in a major way in the
National War Effort.
Davies Coop & Co. Limited has mills in
three States Victoria, New South
Wales and South Australia. The total
number of workers employed is 2750
each week, turning out a production of
250.000 lbs. weight of Cotton Yarn
which is used for the manufacture of
150.000 yards of woven cotton material,
and 60,000 underwear garments.
Davies Coop & Co. Limited is Indeed
exceptionally proud of the War Efforts of
its employees and machinery.
DAYI£S,COOP
C CO. LTD.
COTTON SPINNERS :: WEAVERS
TYRECORD. FLAX, CANVAS & UNDERWEAR
MANUFACTURERS
625 SWANSTON STREET, CARLTON, VIC.
146 WELLINGTON STREET. COLLINGWOOD, VIC.
New South Wales: .Davies Coop (New South Wales) Ltd.,
Carrington Road, Marrickville.
South Australia: Davies Coop (South Australia) Ltd.,
Port Road, Kilkenny.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The jackeroo was sitting
in the hut with us one night when the
talk turned on tracking. After a bit he
said: “I’ve heard a lot about black-
fellows and bushmen doing wonders at
tracking, but it all sounds to me like”
“Hoh,” cut in Jimmy the Gov’nor, “so
y’ reckons it’s all bull, do y’! Well, let
me tell y’, young feller, there was a time
when 1 was pretty good at it, as any of
these blokes’ll admit.” Curly’s testimony
that Jimmy could track a frog over
stony country on a wet night brought a
disbelieving snort from the jackeroo.
Then Jimmy grabbed the hurricane-lamp,
said “Come on,” and led the way out-
side. We followed. Jimmy quartered
the ground, suddenly bent lower and
started making an erratic way towards
the lake. He’d stop, pick up a stick,
examine it, grunt and go on. Then he’d
baulk, move round in little circles, grunt
again and go on. Once he looked closely
at the ground, muttered “No, that’s a
mouse mark,” and again circled. The
jackie kept asking questions and we kept
shushing him, telling him to give the
old fellow a fair go. After nearly an
hour Jimmy led us to the fringe of the
lake, stopped in front of a bit of bark
and said “He’s under there.” Curly
stepped forward, whisked up the bark
and exposed a palpitating frog. We
thumped the Gov’nor on the back and
made back to the hut, the awed jackeroo
giving forth his wonder. He never knew
our trepidation as Curly lifted that bark.
We had made plenty of noise and ad-
vanced slowly, giving them ample time
to take cover ; still, that bit of bark may
have been one of the few that didn’t have
a frog under it.
* * * *
“Simon Crusher”: So a turkey’s small
feet (B. 9/7/’4l) make it a. struggle for
him to take off on a calm day, eh? My
eye! On a breezeless day a few miles
south of Tennant Creek I took a shot
at a turk., but, mulling it, hit the bird
just at the top of one leg and broke it.
Brother Turk, took off easily in about
three jumps on one leg, and the last I
saw of him he was lighting out strongly
for the horizon with one pin swinging
under him like a pendulum. I’d have
laughed at the ludicrous spectacle he made
if I hadn’t felt sorry for him.
* * * *
“Q.A.Z.”: Dunno much about the
attraction a light has for a fish (B.
9/7/’4l), but can at least record some-
thing which seems to have a bearing on
the case. Passing Sydney Heads in the
ferry one night I idly watched a search-
light throwing a long low beam across
the water out to sea. Suddenly a fish
about 6ft. long leaped up in the beam and
flashed silver as it turned over. It came
up again and again, at least one other —
possibly more —joining it. For the five
or ten minutes I was able to watch them
they kept it up, leaping, twisting, gleam-
ing, splashing and apparently enjoying
themselves as thoroughly as birds in a
shower of summer rain.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: That Hereford steer
that bolted with the tent over its head
(B. 9/7/’4l) was no rarity—cows are
almost as bad as goats if they can get a
crack at clothing. One old devil we had
at Pingelly (W.A.) always did her best
to break through to the weekly washing
on the lines; silk stockings were her
favorite morsel, to the despair of the
womenfolk. She was also partial to
handkerchiefs and an odd pair of gloves
if she had half a chance. But she met
her downfall over a long bath towel ;
she got it halfway down and, evidently
disliking the flavor, tried to spew it up.
She couldn’t, and in the wild head-shak-
ings and cavortings that followed one end
of the towel went back over her horns
and caught there. Strawb. panicked and,
running blind, careered madly about. A
couple of dogs and a quiet old cart-horse
grazing near by read the Riot Act and
then took after the cow, adding to her
panic and to the general commotion.
Strawb. finished tangled up in a wire
fence Seemingly a very repentant bovine ;
a few days later she was again at her
favorite browsing.
* * % »
“0.P.”: I’d like to help “Maori Bill”
(B. 16/7/’4l) educate a few of those
N’York press boys meself, but teaching
’em to catch a returning boomerang with
the hands should be easy. You watch
it coming, spinning horizontally, then
clap both hands, one up, the other down,
on it. With a bit of practice it’s easier
than stopping a hard-cut cricket ball.
* * * *
“Teamster’s Second”: Bill Partridge
with his team of 10 horses drove up to
the store at Fingercherry and asked for
“a pair of white moleskins, number five,
with a stockman’s gut.” The storekeeper
“Do they like peanuts?”
“No, but I do!”
handed a pair out. Said Bill: “Now I want
a room where I can put ’em on.” He
was told he could use any of the
verandah rooms. He reappeared in less
than a minute and asked the price of
the rammies. “Six shillings,” he was
told. Bill slung five shillings on the
counter and casually drawled: “That’s
all I ever pay for ’em. An’ now I’ve got
’em on it’ll take a damn’ good man to
pull ’em off.”
* * * *
“Bukit Timah”: An Australian corre-
spondent in Malaya recently found the
A.I.F. had made contact with the Sakai,
the shy nomad aboriginals who inhabit
the mountain background of the penin-
sula, and Diggers have become pupils
of their lore. Among other things, they
told the wandering pressman that the
poisoned darts of the Sakai’s blowpipes
could kill a tiger. The Sakai make their
blowpipes of bamboo, and it is a highly-
skilled and technically delicate job. The
boring is beautifully done and the propul-
sive velocity of the weapon isTemarkable.
But none of the Sakais I knew ever
claimed to have laid low Penglima Alam,
the lord of the jungle. They reserve their
poisoned darts for small birds, monkeys
and similar small game, and death is
never instantaneous. It appears to be
instantaneous only when they don’t use
poison, but merely cover the barb with
a dab of damar and stun the smaller
birds. The poison is usually made from
a creeper (dok santieng), from a tree
(.Antiaris toxicaria), a climber (a species
of Strychnos), birds’ fat and the galls of
fowls. Excessive claims for its toxic
effect are similar to the claims once made
for the upas tree, that birds flying over
it dropped dead and that Javanese
sultans used it for the execution of
criminals, condemned men collapsing in
frightful agony when they approached it
at a distance of 100 yards. The upas
tree is known to science now. Its bark
is used for poisoning streams for fish-
ing ; the fish are anaesthetised by the mix-
ture poured into the water and easily
caught by hand.
* * * *
“Peter Pencarrow”: A farmer I knew
reckoned he could hear white-ants chew-
ing up the insides of the studs of his
house. After he had dug around and
cleared out what he swore was their nest
the sound disappeared. Then one day
he went into his bedroom and heard
them again—“Tick-tick-tick!” He called
to his wife, “Come here, mother!” When
she came he said, “Listen ; them white-
ants is back. Hear that?” She listened,
then burst out laughing. “Well, what's
wrong?” he asked. “That white-ant,”
she said, “is that writer chap that’s here
for his health. He’s working his type-
writer in his room!”
* * * *
“N7Y”: Of all the hundreds of bores
I’ve caught up with all over Queensland,
the only one I’ve struck that wasn’t
crystal clear was the Harden’s Corner
bore on Walgra station (W.Q.). Com-
pleted around 1920, with a depth of
391 ft., it was a pumping supply, unlimited
in quantity and so salt that a man
couldn’t stomach it, though stock did
well. That water, comparatively clear
for a start, turned muddy. A 27ft. mill
slung along the water from it in fine
style; a 300,000ga1. earth tank gave it
plenty of scope. But for the two years
I was associated with it the water was
muddy. The only other of which I heard
was on Glengyle station, over in Had-
don’s Corner. The late I. G. Edge told
me this flowing bore threw muddy water
for some months after the supply was
struck —about 300,000 a day. Then
there was a bit of an explosion down
below, and from that day to this that
bore has given sparklingly clear water.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: According to a Red Page
review of Sydney J. Baker’s New Zealand
Slang (B. 16/7/’4l), the author is appar-
ently satisfied that “toe-ragger” came to
the Australian back-country from Maori-
land, having entered the language there
from the Maori tan rika rika, a slave,
and used as an insult or as a term of
contempt. I doubt it, believing that the
Australian “toe-ragger” originated in the
days of blucher boots, those durable but
cast-iron-hard foot-coverings in which
the old-time swagman tramped. As he
seldom could afford socks, or wasn’t
where socks could be bought or refused
to waste good beer-money on such
effeminacies, the knot-humper wrapped
his toes in rags. In many a camp I’ve
watched a mate unwind the toe-rags while
I unwound my own, the glorious feeling
of relief after a day’s tramp under a
901 b. bluey being heavenly. Progress,
unionism and local manufactures in time
made socks easy to acquire, and the
blucher gave way to something easier on
the plates of meat. But outback a bag-
man is still spoken of as a toe-ragger —in
other words, a tramp who can’t afford
socks, and bagmen themselves still call
socks toe-rags.
*■ * « «
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow got a
job loading gravel trucks just out of Bal-
larat (Vic.), the contractor employing his
two sons, himself and Mat. The boss
and his boys were tigers for work and
Mat tried to foot it with them for a while,
but he couldn’t see why he should work
himself to a frazzle for wages while the
others earned more if they shovelled
more. So he threw down his banjo and
said “I’m snatchin’ it.” “What’s up,”
growled the boss ; “too much work?”
Mat looked at the flying arms of the two
boys. “No,” he said, “too much com-
petition.”
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: How’s this for
chance luck of the sea? Two men
bought a launch in Brisbane and set out
to take her up to Townsville (N.Q.). Sixty
miles out they found a drifting flattie
and fetched her aboard. Next day the
launch capsized on the Wide Bay bar
and their lashed dinghy went down with
her. The flattie floated clear and they
got aboard her. A mop and a tin of
kerosene had been dumped into her out
of the way and were still there. One
man found an old spark-plug in his
pocket, and with it they managed to
cut off the tin top and fix
it to the mop handle for a
paddle. For the next 36
hours he kept the flattie
head-to-sea with it while his
mate bailed with the rest of
the tin. At midnight on the
second night of drifting they
were swamped half a mile
off Fraser Island, but got
ashore through a heavy surf.
Naked except for one pair
of overalls, they lay till
morning in heavy rain. Then
the younger man walked
eight miles barefooted in
rough country, found a
forestry party, and took
them back to his 58-year-
old mate. But for the suc-
cessive chances of finding
the flattie, neglecting to lash
her in a lively sea, dumping
the mop and kerosene into
her for convenience, and
having the otherwise useless
spark-plug in a pocket they
could not possibly have
survived.
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: What a
turbulent little cuss the pee-
wee is! Most birds chase
a kookaburra away from
the happy home—knowing
the old reprobate’s canni-
balistic tendencies—but a
peewee will go out of his
way to wipe the laugh off
Jacko’s face. Cuckoos are
given just as rought a time ;
and it is not unusual for
a peewee to adopt the magpie’s aerial
attack on human intruders, though in a
milder form. Brain power, however, is
not the bird’s strong point. Every morn-
ing when the sun reflects on the wind-
screen of our derelict truck a peewee
alights on the ancient bonnet, surveys the
aggressive-looking bird in the glass, then
rushes forward, pecks savagely, backs
off and repeats the performance. I’m
wondering which will break first —the
glass or the beak.
* * * *
“B. the D.”; Standing on a hill 200 ft.
above the Coral Sea I saw a full-grown
wallaby leave the jungle edge below, hop
along the tideway for about 40 yards,
then deliberately leap into the surf and
swim, straight and strong, for the open
sea. I followed his little brown head as
it rose and fell in the heave for half a
mile —-further with glasses—still further
by an interested gull that swirled around
the strange swimmer. He had Dunk
Island four miles on his right, the Barnard
Isles 10 miles on his left, and the Barrier
Reef 20 miles in front of his nose. I
watched long, but he didn’t return.
❖ ❖ sfc
“R. Ney” : Sheep going without water?
In the 1920 drought in western Riverina
the tank in one paddock dried out and
we mustered it carefully, taking the sheep
seven miles away to water. Nearly three
months without rain went by, then came
a shower and we went out to see how
that tank was. Drinking the inch or two
of water in it were seven big bony
wethers.
THE PLAINS OF HAY.
At night and morn ere Hay was born
Smoke rose in curling spires
By sheltered swamp and billabong
Where black men had their fires.
And club and spear and boomerang
Have met in bold array;
And blood was red and blood was shed
That stained the sand and clay.
Today the tramp of soldiers’ feet,
The clang of polished steel,
The jargon of far-distant lands
And whirr of rubbered wheel
Are mingled with the bleat of sheep
While bushmen old and grey
May ride or tramp from camp to camp
Across the plains of Hay.
When the grey plains of Hay are dry
And tapered whirlwinds dance,
The traveller must set true his course
And leave no point to chance.
For from the east to furthest west
Wide boundaries have they;
Mirages mock and deserts lock
The blacksoil plains of Hay.
When summer rains fall on the plains
A magic change is seen,
And many hues of bloom and bush
Are spangled ’midst the green.
And frosted silver saltbush leaves
Make regal bold display
With desert pea as red as wine
Across the plains of Hay.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Now you girls must put me up to things. I don't even know which end
of the caddie to hold."
“A.F.”: A tractor-driver on a Maori-
land public works job went on his annual
leave, which developed into a glorious
bender. When he got back to work a
few days over his time the exclusively
liquid diet he had been on rendered him
almost a cot case and, getting a real
good sniff of benzine, he fainted. On
the way to hospital by ambulance he
partly recovered, and a “handle” or two
at the pub put him right. The depart-
ment then, on some official’s suggestion
that it might have been an epileptic fit,
insisted that he should sign an indemnity
contracting himself out of the Workers’
Compensation Act. On his refusing, he
was examined and certified fit by a
doctor. The department then requested
his explanation of what had occurred.
His letter read:
Dear Sir, —Please find enclosed the forms
you have been asking for. You will excuse
me if 1 am a trifle vague.
I frankly admit that I fainted, but the reason
was simply this:
Having some leave and meeting a few con-
genial friends, we decided to celebrate. The
celebration developed, and my share was a
fifteen-stone blonde, who proved disastrous.
I lost my glass eye (reverse action), 30s.
This, coupled with a bathtub of orange gin
and other chromatic drinks, completed the
third week.
Therefore, if this is epilepsy, nearly all the
P.W.D. are in need of indemnities.
Yours sincerely,
JOE BLANK.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”; Men for farm work were
very scarce, so when a traveller of the
track with drawling speech and crawling
gait lobbed in he was immediately
mapped up. Next day after breakfast
Ihe cocky came on him sunning himself
on a log, and on being tackled about it
the new employee explained that he
didn’t believe in working between meals.
The cocky said nothing, but went up to
the house. Half an hour later he came
back with a nosebag filled with chooped-
up meat and vegetables. As he slipped it
over the tired one’s head he said:
“There! You’ve got one good long feed
there that’ll last y’ all day. Now y’ can
hop into that hoein’!”
* * * «
“The 0.D.”: Agree that Frith’s trap is
not only the queerest of its type in cap-
tivity, but would be useless also for
our rats or bunnies (B. 9/7/’41); all
the same “Wippegong” must have for-
gotten his youth or moved in very cir-
cumscribed circles if the trap he describes
is the only kind he ever saw. There is
one with a solid f bar as a ground-plate,
the spring being riveted near the end of
the plate and bent over from there ; there
is another—a tricky bit of work —with
two short springs, one on each side of the
jaws. This is the one that has caused
more sore digits and blasphemy than any
other human invention, dictators in-
cluded.
* * * *
“Bohemian” : The post office at Ti-
tree Flat is a one-man show. Probably
in order to lighten his leaden hours the
postmaster works at night. Round the
office is a galvanised-iron fence, imme-
diately outside which was the favored
parking place for various Maori Romeos
and their chattering Juliets, all of whom
turned deaf ears to the p.m.’s adjurations
to pursue their love-making elsewhere.
He noticed that Maggie, the chief
offender, wore a bracelet, and that she
had a habit of putting the hand that it
adorned on the top of the fence. One
evening the giggling of the girls was shat-
tered by a shriek from Maggie, followed
by a frenzied “Te katipo! Te katipo! He
bite me on te arm!” She ran shrieking
down the road, followed by her swain
and the other Maoris. No mark could
be found of the katipo’s -bite when her
lover took her home and examined her
wrist. After a week of perfect nocturnal
peace the p.m., convinced that he would
be troubled no more, disconnected the
wire with which he had diverted to the
g.-i. fence the “juice” which gave him
artificial light,
* * * *
“Blue”: Of all lightning-struck trees
to be found in s.-w. Queensland, the pre-
ponderance of beefwood trees is remark-
able. Science 'apparently is uninterested,
but a sagacious bullocky 1 know has it
that the beefwood assimilates more iron
from the soil than do others.
* * * *
“4 Chips”: “Ralph the Roamer,” said
Bill, “was always tryin’ to teach tricks to
queer pets, like frillies an’ tree-frogs, but
he was too easygoin’ an’ never did much
good with ’em. Then he lobs into Kiama
an’ sees the kids catchin’ mullet be
puttin’ bread in a bottle, an’ he gets the
notion that a mullet is a pretty intelligent
sorta fish. He tries it, lands one an’ gets
the idea o’ makin’ a pet of it. Before
long him an’ that fish is real good mates,
so when he gets the call o’ the west he
takes Mick, his new pet, with him in a
small tank o’ sea water. To get him
used to the fresh stuff he takes a spoon-
ful out every day an’ puts a spoonful of
fresh in. It works orl right, an’ be
the followin’ summer Ralph’s camped on
a billabong near Moama an’ Mick’s hob-
nobbin’ with cod an’ yellerbellies in
Murray water. Then, as Ralph makes out
west still further towards the dry stretches,
he takes a spoonful o’ the fresh stuff out
every day an’ don’t replace it. Yair,
in six munce that fish’d learned to go
without water altogether! It got to be
one o’ the sights out west t’ see Ralph
gettin’ across the plains an’ that fish
kickin’ up the dust as it hopped along
beside him, even across bindi-eye country.
An’ they might ha’ bin knockin’ around
the back country yet if they hadn’t struck
a thunderstorm crossin’ the Old, Man
plain out o’ Hay. Poor Mick slipped his
cable—yair, he’d forgot how to swim
an’ drownded! ”
* * * *
“Bullack”: Jokes may be made about
the Queensland Carpenters’ Union ban-
ning the wearing of shorts, but if I were
an employer I’d stand pat on the same
decision. Nor would I have any hatless
persons pulling on my wage sheet. For
something like 35 years I followed divers
occupations, none of them fitted for the
wearing of a bathing or running suit. At
least a dozen times my old felt hat, thin
as it was, saved me from serious scalp in-
jury. As for the old dungaree pants, I
couldn’t count how many cuts, scalds,
burns, dog bites, gravel-rashes, bruises
and all the multifarious injuries a man
may meet with in the course of his lawful
occupation that the “long ’uns” kept at
bay. Recently I watched one of these
shorts-wearers laying bricks. He was
like one of those Indian fire-walkers, so
tender was he over possible injury to his
unprotected limbs. The good old plugs
who laid the industrial foundations of
Australia not only wore full-length pants
but most often underpants as well. They
had to —there were no Compensation
Acts in their days.
“Toplow”: Canecutting (B. 25/6/’4l)
isn’t the only game where the tyro is
severely punished by scratches, cuts and
wounds, yet with experience somehow
wins immunity. Once took on a job
unloading the rough Oregon pine sections
of what were to become smoothly
finished doors. These shocks came in
bundles of six—and talk about splinters!
Every night for the first week I put in
at least an hour with the tweezers. But
a fortnight later I could handle thousands
of rough shocks a day and think it quite
a catastrophe to collect one splinter.
Similarly with net-fishing. W.A. estu-
aries abound in limestone and sandstone
rocks on which grow barnacles which
make a safety-razor blade look blunt.
The tyro fisherman, walking the shallows,
as is customary, with bare feet, receives
many cuts. Yet after a while his feet
seem to get wise ; experienced fishermen
can hop overside anywhere and their feet
remain as immune from injury as though
they wore boots.
* * * *
“Goodonyer”: The officious police
sergeant of a N.S.W. North Coast town
has earned three hearty British jeers from
the community. Two cockies (one at
the wheel of his car and the other at the
reins in his sulky) were discussing petrol
rationing, the car-owner very adversely,
when Horse-and-sulky remarked that
petrol rationing wouldn’t trouble him
as he had enough petrol to do him for
12 months. This remark was overheard
by our sleuth, who peremptorily de-
manded of this seemingly fortunate man
his name and address. Next day Sher-
lock Holmes called at the address (about
six miles out of town) and demanded to
be shown this hoard of the precious oil.
An Boz. bottle of petrol was displayed.
“That will last my cigarette-lighter for
12 months,” said H.-and-s.
* * * *
“Flight”: The magpie and the butcher-
bird get whips of publicity, but as song-
sters they’ve got to defer to the thick-
headed reed-warbler. Hiding among the
bulrushes of the bore-drains, this brown-
ish bird is rarely seen. It sings all
through the night, and can easily go for
over half an hour without stopping. Its
voice has the depth of a butcher-bird’s,
the sweet trills of a canary’s and a variety
that is endless. I’ve heard it in only
two parts of Queensland —in the Boulia
district and in the Flinders.
* * * *
“Tom”: One of the minor mysteries
attaching to the efforts of our early
settlers is why they didn’t follow up their
introduction into Australia of the fox,
the hare and the rabbit by bringing out
the otter, the hunting of which has been
a popular British sport for centuries. Its
pedigree, indeed, is much more ancient
than fox-hunting, which dates only from
the late seventeenth century, when wild
deer had become scarce in most parts of
England. Previously Reynard had been
classed amongst the vermin. There was
no physical obstacle to the bringing of
the otter to Australia, for it is a hardy
beast, its chief diet being fish. Nor would
Australian conditions have been inimical
to his survival. So long as there are
permanent water and fish the otter
will thrive. They flourish in parts of
South Africa that are not substantially
different in character from many dis-
tricts in Australia.
* * * *
“N.Z.”: Maorilanders, viewing the
destruction wrought by the pests in their
own isles, will read with interest of the
'King’s decision that the number of deer
in Windsor Park be reduced by half. It
was Queen Victoria’s husband, the Prince
Consort, who had two stags and four
hinds sent out to the colony from
Windsor Park in the old Triton in 1861.
The voyage took 127 days, but one hind
only succumbed. Their descendants in
M.L. today possess the finest heads in
the world —thanks to German blood im-
ported into the original Windsor stock
by Charles 11.
“ Morning , comrades!"
JACKHAMMER JOE.
Me an’ me old jackhammer,
We belt the rock all day;
We dam’-an’-bang-an’-ram-her
As Navy boys would say;
In concrete or in sandstone
We never care a cuss—
In new or second-hand stone
It’s all the same to us.
Jackhammer Joe’s me label,
A lad chock-full o’ thrill,
Me cobber bein’ Mabel,
Me peu-neumatic drill.
My oath, she’s full of ginger;
She shakes me to the heart,
But nothin’ that could injure
Or pull me frame apart.
The gals think that I’m shakin’
With laughin’ as they pass.
I grin because I’m quakin’.
“Look at that grinnin’ ass,”
They say; an’ I ain’t able
To tell ’em it ain’t me,
But ’ealthy, ’appy Mabel,
A-chewin’ rocks for tea.
Jackhammer Joe, they calls me
For workin’ this ’ere drill.
Whatever else befalls me,
I’ll always get a thrill
A-beltin’ rocks from mornin’
Until the beery eve,
The love o’ wimmin scornin’
Without no by-your-leave.
Jackhammer Joe’s me label,
An’ I pulls up me socks,
Fer ’aven’t I got Mabel,
The best girl in the Rocks!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE J
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J, A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. DarvalL
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE.,.
The results of your life's work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Security
Economy
Service
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victorii )
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.R. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair
(Vice Chairman); Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K. 8.8., M.L C. ; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.:
Robert C. W ilson. Manager; J. G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT COUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1931 177,529 62,653 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2$ „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
To contingency reserve, £420,000 .. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 2£ p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 .. 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,563 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ „ 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ „ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 . . 1,643,304
S'urplus sale investments, £1636 . . 1,644,940
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 .. 1,623,283
1939 178,024 62,500 41 p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
Added goodwill, £4lOO .. .. 1,626,707
1940 260,096 62,499 6j p.c. = 156,000 1,668,304
Net addition goodwill", £6OO -. 1,667,704
1941 262,007 62,349 7 p.c. = 168,000 1,099,362
Continued expansion is the outstanding
feature of the latest accounts of this big
pastoral, pastoral-finance, wool- and
stockbroking and merchandising co.,
whose business spreads throughout the
Commonwealth. During the year two
station properties were bought in Queens-
land, the businesses of Borthwick and
Gooding (Sale), A. A. Laidlaw (Ararat),
C. L. King and Co. and W. J. Strang and
Co. (both Albury) were welded into the
organisation, and half a dozen new
branches were opened in Vic., two in
N. S. Wales and one in Westralia, while
a new wool store was erected at West
Footscray (Vic.).
Seasonal conditions were mixed, yet
more wool was disposed of, partly owing
to the expansion just referred to and
partly to reduction of the previous
season’s carryover:
t —* Bales Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold, etc. Forward, per Bale, t
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 £2o' 4 5
1935.. 307,648 253,841 61,935 12 13 4
1936.. 306,777 358,232* 10,480 17 12 3
1937.. 301,598 292,873 19,205 20 14 2
1938.. 314,078 257,889' 75,394 15 15 3
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
1940.. 382,132 380,422 27,876
1941.. 389,541 402,273 15,144
* Includes 25,52 s bales burnt and appraised.
f For year to June 30.
It is Britain which shareholders and
others can thank for the sale of the
Australian clip at a very satisfactory
price—13.43 d. per pound as against an
open-market average of 10.75 d. per
pound for the last pre-war season. Last
season’s average appraisement price
(12.08 d.) was only 90 p.c. of the contract
figure. The difference (£5,708,695 for
the whole Australian clip), together with
retention money (5 p.c. of the appraised
price is withheld temporarily as a
precaution against overvaluation), or
£8,303,556 in all, will be distributed by
the Central Wool Committee on July 29.
A nice sweetener to an already fat
cheque. Moreover, initial payment is
made after appraisement in the broker’s
store, the British Government carrying
all war risks, including accumulation of
stocks, now piling up in Australia because
of shipping difficulties.
Seasonal conditions and uncertainty
regarding meat exports affected the stock-
agency section of the business, but turn-
over in the merchandising and all other
departments has been “more than main-
tained.” After providing for bad debts,
the spring in gross earnings from all
sources (£972,055) was £59,332. Exes.
(£697,548) took £4690 of the increase,
mainly on account of larger provision for
taxation (£113,777, up £40,508). After pay-
ing debenture interest and sending £12,500
(up £2500) to the staff fund, the net
result (£199,658) was £2061 stronger at
8.3 p.c. on capital, compared with 8.2,
4.8, 7.5, 8.2, 7.2,. 4, 8.1 and 3.2 p.c. back
to 1933. Half a point was added to the
div., making it 7 p.c. For the 20 years
to 1930 the average was 15.8 p.c. ; but
those days are gone.
Here are the co.’s ledger accounts in
tabloid form:
„ 1938. 1940. 1941.
Capital .. . . £2,400,000 £2,400,000 £2,400,000
Debentures .. 1,417,702 1,417,586 1,412,586
Sundry creditors. . 858,692 915,152 881,960
Liquid assets .. 481,214 493,662 790,048
Advances .. .. 4,751,588 4,745,476 4,321,102
Stocks .. .. 102,067 219,408 247,553
Shares . . . . 43,268 43,305 44,121
Properties,.. . . 224 987 1
Premises, etc. . . 837,915 ) 994,905 1,132,1 1 2
Plan t • • • • 97,504 96,825
Prompt payments under the British wool-
purchase scheme and a satisfactory
seasonal outlook for the current term
are reflected in the sharp drop of £424,374
in advances. Liquids increased by
£296,386, placing the co. in an excellent
position to extend its connections further
as opportunity offers.
During 1940 the price of the pound
shares fluctuated between 275. 6d. and
235. 6d. in the market. At the higher
figure the return is 5.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 345. 2d. The
British wool contract promises to con-
tinue a stout prop for Australia’s eco-
nomic system.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
To- Nominal
wards Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1931.. 4,392 Nil 4,392 4,392
1932.. 1,044 Nil 1,044 5,436
Loss. Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,664
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,666
Profit.
1934.. 2,436 Nil 2,436 25,230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7,947 17,283
r~ Pref. and Ord.—
1936.. 15,224 6£ p.c. = 5,819 9,405 7,878
Reserves.
Share premiums, £17,235 .. .» 9,357
1937.. 22,039 9 p.c. = 12,298 9,741 19,098
Share premiums, £21,739 . . .. 40.837
1938.. 41,258 10 p.c. = 22,453 18,805 59,642
Share premiums, £12,500 . . . . 72,142
1939.. 65,477 12 p.c. = 32,600 32,877 105,019
Share premiums, £6,250 , . . . 111,269
1940.. 56,660 12 p.c. = 37.441 19,219 130,488
Loss sale Consols, £11,560.. .. 118.928
1941.. 36,118 8J p.c. = 29,750 6,368 125,296
Unlike their Australian counterparts,
trans-Tasman brewers haven’t been able
to transmit war-time lifts in beer duty
into a smaller beerglass. With the steep
rise in direct taxation and costs, it
explains the abrupt reversal of the profit
trend since 1939.
Taking over the- Waitemata brewery,
near Auckland, the co. launched out in
modest fashion in 1930. The manage-
ment began tucking up its sleeves in
1936, and, partly by new issues at a
premium, but mainly on borrowed funds,
a vigorous policy of property acquisition
on a rising market has tied a growing
slice of the trade to the co. since:
1936. 1938. 1940. 1941.'
Paid capital. £108,582 £248,344 £350,000 £350,000
Sundry creditors 18,084 46,533 189,027* 143,713*
Overdraft .. 59,425 12,367 124,731
Mortgages .. 239,442 256,014 246,935
Land and
buildings ~ 16,177 438,277 546,696 568,216
Plant, etc. .. 47,487 135,260 219,004 222,600
Leaseholds, etc. 8,264 22,417 10,472 4,307
Stock . . .. 33,106 56,732 93,810 124,044
Sundry debtors 15,706 48,422 79,197 74,253
Cash, etc. . . 11,866 9,657 9,505
* Including provision for taxation.
There was a slowing-down in the reach-
ing out process last term. Still, the book
value of freeholds, etc., expanded £21,520
net, plant by £3596 and stoqks £30,234.
The debt (£515,379) lifted £57,971 in the
process ; it calls for reduction.
Though pubs are now less remunerative,
the movements are scarcely consistent
with the declared slip of £53,242 in gross
earnings (£276,463). Tax provision
(£95,583) lightened £51,703 —a provision
for beer duty previously included therein
now appears to be deducted from
gross. Other outgoings and depreciation
amounted to £144,761 (up £19,001). The
slide in the final result was thus £20,542,
making it 10.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 18.1 and 24.1 p.c. for the two years
before. There was a slash in the div.
from p.c. to 8 p.c.
All that excludes a loss of £11,560
following sale of the Dominion’s ill-
advised (and; for the first 2\ years,
interest-free) compulsory war loan. To
make its contribution, and at the same
time pay a dividend, the co. had to go
to its bankers. Apparently anticipated
interest savings over the period exceed
the capital loss sustained.
Of the £350,000 of share capital,
£40,000 carries a cumulative 5 p.c., par-
ticipating with the ords. beyond that rate
and in surplus assets. From the ords.,
covered, by net tangibles of 275. 2d., the
market buys an immediate 6 p.c. yield
at 28s. 6d. Conscription, export difficul-
ties and the lengthening cost of war will
influence consumption, while costs can
be expected to press more heavily.
, Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards
Pref. Re— De-
April, Loss. 9 p.c. Ordinaries, serves. ficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350* Nil f ~ 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Sil Nil 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1,913 21,397
1935.. 8,299 4741 f Nil 3,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 7324+ 4 p.c. =' 6,659 6,107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 „ ~ 13,821 7,205 4,529
Reserves.
1938.. 28,945 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 10,545 6,016
Loss realisation property, £1299 .. 4,717
1939.. 28,328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,645
Profit sale property, £324 .. .. 14,969
6.97 p.c.
1940.. 15,241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
7 p.c.
1941.. 18,918 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 2,818 30,936
* Six months. t 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l,
and 6.9 p.c. for 13 months to 31/10/’32.
t Includes all arrears.
Formed to take over the business of
F. Malley and Son just after the last
war, this co. ordinarily turns out a wide
range of builders’ and plumbers’ hardware,
sanitaryware, dairy utensils, hotel- and
cafe-kitchen equipment and other lines
from works at Alexandria, Sydney. There
are four selling branches in that metro-
polis and one in Brisbane.
In these centres building activity has
behaved this way over the past three
calendar years—the figures exclude all
Government construction:
Year Dec.— 1938. 1939. 1940.
Sydney .. .. £14,042,200 £12,219,400 £11,718,200
Brisbane .. .. 1,972,800 2,030,500 1,847,400
Last term, despite the lighter demand
indicated there, Malley’s reports “a steady
volume of turnover in all departments
and branches.” But it appears to have
been “substantial” defence orders which
enabled the co. to meet sharply-mounting
costs, allocate an extra £2OOO for taxa-
tion (£11,000) and then show profits
£3677 higher.
On total capital the £18,918 represented
8.2 p.c., as against 6.6 p.c. in the previous
term. The all-round 7 p.c. paid is an
indication that, as far as it can see, the
management is more satisfied with the
outlook than a year ago, when ord.-
holders were passed by in order “to con-
serve all resources to meet whatever
emergency may arise.”
It was this move that enabled the cut
of £15,157 in the debt and improvement
of £17,486 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£137,887):
1931. 1933. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities* .. 17,714 23,833 127,620 112,463
Freeholds .. 55,632 55,859 90,738 91,755
Leaseholds . . 17,272 15,680
Plant, etc, .. 40,304 40,820 49,072 46,348
Stock.. .. 54,772 50,960 106,991 111,275
Book debts . . 24,465 32,035 139,239 136,372
Cash, etc. . . 11,677 1,642 1,791 2,703
* Including provision for taxation.
Stocks (up £4284) and debtors’ balances
£2867 lower), which might prove trouble-
some on a falling market, are the items
that take the eye. The former are re-
ported clean and in good condition, and
plant, on which £4560 was written off
last year, is claimed in a “high state of
efficiency.”
While war has brought drastic restric-
tion of private building to divert labor,
materials and money into Government
channels—only homes up to £3OOO may
be erected without Treasury consent—it
has also created a new source of demand
in the provision of equipment for the
fighting services. Still, this class of work
carries narrow profit-margins.
For the ords. buyers offer Jss. 6d., and
sellers ask 17s, At the mid-price
the yield from 7 p.c. divs. would
be 8.6 p.c. The 30,000 nominally 9 p.c.
prefs., which carry the right to a 12j p.c.
premium in the event of liquidation or
repayment, are seldom traded. The cover
is 235. Id. ords., £8 13s. lid. prefs.
Moulded Products (Australasia)
, Dividends Towards
Pref. Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Share-issue and removal exes., £5431.. 5,538
1939.. 5,448 7 p.c. = 3,597 1,851 3,687
Share-issue exes., £1251 .. .. .. 4,938
1940.. 8,455 451 8 p.c. = 5,377 2,627 2,31 V
Given management of the right type,
future of the expanding plastics industry
promises well in Australia, where the
possibilities have been no more than
scratched to date. Manufacture of
moulded products from natural and syn-
thetic resins, the base of “plastics,” ranges
from billiard balls to machinery gears
and component parts for aircraft, as well
as taking in a wide variety of ornamental
and everyday appliances. War has put
something of a brake on Australian pro-
gress because of the difficulty of obtain-
ing essential machinery and materials
from abroad. But local sources of supply
are being developed.
Setting up in 1930, this little co. was
a subsidiary of Dunlop Perdriau Rubber
till becoming a separate entity in 1936.
Following a private issue of 15,498 ords.,
public was invited in in April, 1939, when
40,000 ords. were offered at par and
taken. A further 20,000 6-8 p.c. prefs.
were put out in September last, and now,
notwithstanding £11,817 of capital still
at call, another 20,000 pound ords. are
offered, one for four at 235., to manu-
facture imported laminated plastics, for
which there is keen trade demand.
For the 2\ years prior to the public
coming in, net earnings of £4434, £5196
and £4109 (half-year) on a capital of
£24,502 were claimed. Development and
extension have pulled down the profit-
rate since ; but benefits therefrom were
beginning to show up last year, when net
ran out at 11.9 p.c. on average ord. capi-
tal. The all-round 8 p.c. distributed left
£2627 to put by before allowing for pref.-
issue exes, of £1251. Depreciation
charged was £7513 (up £2446).
Here is an indication of the direction
of recent expansion;
, M.P. , —M.P. & Subsid.— N
1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. ~ £24,502 £66,384 £88,183
Liabilities . . . . 47,524 52,506 62,405
Freehold property .. 5,339 29,945 31,183
Plant, etc 24,670 34.167 37,098
Stock . . . . 28,906 31,795 55,033
Debtors, cash, etc... 13,553 23,815 29,059
Shares . . . . 967 4,000
Attention last year was directed mainly
to accumulating stocks (up £23,238), put-
ting nearly £3OOO more than written off
into new equipment and acquiring a
£4OOO share interest in Modern Plastics
(N.Z.). Excluding this shareholding, the
more or less liquid surplus (£21,687) im-
proved £18,583.
From 8 p.c. divs. the prefs. at 255. 9d.
yield 6.2 p.c.; the ords. offer an ex-rights
return of 5.9 p.c. at 28s. Maintenance of
that rate when all the new and uncalled
money comes in will call for annual earn-
ings of £9600. Including new issue, the
cover is £6 os. Bd. prefs., 20s. Id. ords.


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting \
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Adyt.
* * * ♦
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—A DVT.
V ♦ • *
DAVIES & CO EDISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — AdVI. .
Position Vacant.
REQUIRED for Singapore, qualified Mechani-
cal Engineer-Draughtsman capable of under-
taking Bucket Dredge design, erection and
working. Only applications from persons pos-
sessing experience in the above work will be
considered. Salary, 5.5.5700.00 per month,
equivalent to Australian £1220 per annum.
Applications, with Testimonials, and stating
age, qualifications and experience, to be sent
by Air Mail to Post Office Box 194, Singapore,
S.S.
The Queensland National Bank Limited
HEAD OFFICE,
BRISBANE, 1 2th JULY, 194 K
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and sixteenth Report, with
the Balance Sheet and Auditors’ Report attached.
The Net Profit for the Year ended 30th June last, after allowing
for Rebate on Bills Current, Interest Accrued on Deposits and
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock, all assessments of Income,
Land and other Taxes, reducing Bank Premises and Furniture
Accounts £3OOO, making provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts
and all known Contingencies and including Recoveries, amount's
to
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
30th June, 1940 £22,087
Making a total of
Out of which an Interim Dividend was paid at the rate of 3 % per
annum for the Half-Year ended 31st December, 1940, amount
ing to £43,730
Leaving for Distribution
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows
Dividend at the rate of 5 % per annum for the Half-Year ended
30th June, 1941
Balance to be Carried Forward
In the year under review advances have increased by £440,976 and deposits are
greater by £20,709, which movements are mainly a reflection of increased industrial
expansion, Government distribution of credit occasioned by war expenditure, and
prompt payment by Britain for a considerable proportion of our primary commodities.
Under the arrangement with the British Government, our wool is paid for as it is
marketed, but proceeds of other produce are only received as it is shipped, and
increasing transport difficulties in this connection have to be contended with.
Drought conditions prevailed over almost the whole of Queensland and Northern
New South Wales during the latter half of 1940, which had the effect of materially
reducing the volume of primary production, but excellent general rains in the early
months of 1941 gave relief and promise of a good winter.
Share values generally have been on a lower basis over the period, the invest-
ment market being subject to a wide variety of influences in the circumstances current.
During the year the Bank purchased at a profit £12,008/12/5 of its Interminable
Inscribed Deposit Stock.
Reserves have not been drawn on during the year.
£3OOO has been written off for Depreciation of Bank Premises and Furniture.
During the twelve months the Branch of the Bank at Tingoora (Q’land) was
converted to an Agency.
By Order of the Board,
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
The Queensland National Bank Limited
BALANCE SHEET, as at 30th June, 1941.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised
Capital ..£2,000,000 0 0
Subscribed
Capital .. 1,750,000 0 0
Capital paid
up
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss
Intermin a ble
Inscribed
Deposit
Stock
1,750,000 0
860,000 0
66,172 17
2,665,298 9 7
£5,341,471
Bills payable .. .. •• 425,115
Deposits and other Liabilities 9,462,091
7 5
7 8
9 8
£15,228,678 4 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion,
Austr a 1 i a n
Notes and
Bankers & .£1,277,946 19
Commonwealth
Loa n s
(under
cost or face
0 0
0 6
0 0
Advances to Customers, Bills
Discounted and all other
Accounts (exclusive of pro-
vision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts) .. .. ...
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Stationery (at cost, less
amounts written off)
-£4,598,144 8 5
10,051,672 1 11
578,861 14 5
£15,228,678 4 9
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, for Year Ended 30th June, 1941.
To Interim Dividend paid 13th
Feb., 1941 £43,750 0 0
~ Balance at 30th June, 1941 .. 66,172 17 10
£109,922 17 10
By Balance from 30th June,
1940 £22,087 10 10
~ Net Profit for Year ended
30th June, 1941 .. .. 87,835 7 0
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance .. .. . .£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. ..£860,000 0 0
£860,000 0 0
The total amount paid to the Directors, including Local Directors in London and
Sydney, as remuneration for their services during the year ended 30th June, 1941,
was £2700.
JAMES LOVE, Chairman of Directors.
W. HAMILTON HART, Director.
D. S. FORBES, General Manager.
We report that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as
to exhibit a true and correct view of the affairs of the Bank according to the information
and explanations given to us, and as shown by the Books on the 30th June, 1941.
We have obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
12th July, 1941.
LANCE A. JONES, F.F.T.A. 1
E. D. SUMMERSON, F.C.A. (Aust.)j
Auditors.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at the Banking
House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, Nth August, 1941, at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance Sheet for the year ended 30th June, 1941.
To elect a Shareholders’ Director in the place of Michael Joseph Ryan, Esq., who retires in
accordance with Clauses 858 and 86 of the Articles of Association, but is eligible for
re-election and offers himself accordingly. To elect two Auditors and fix their remuneration for
the ensuing year.
Triton (W.A.)
Development at Triton (W.A.) just
failed to keep pace with extraction last
year, leaving ore reserves at 322,000
(down 7000) tons, grade unchanged at
6.7dwt. Though more heavily mineral-
ised at No. 14 level, a tendency for
the ore-body to pinch at depth
threatens to make development costlier
and the ore supply more difficult
to keep up. The slip of £26,887 in
declared net earnings reflects a 7.6 p.c.
drop in throughput and increased costs,
a combination of labor worries, heavy
ground and water in the stopes. Yields
were well maintained at 60s. (down* 7d.)
a ton, and that will be improved upon
when some rebate of gold tax in respect
of the final quarter’s operations comes to
hand. Here is the co.’s record since divs.
began to flow:
Yield,
Ton, Costs, Net f Divs. >,
Sept.. Tons. Dwt. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
1930.. 77,715 0.94 33/11 £91,078 -/6 £24,000
1937.. 75.825 7.11 37/5 85,228 1/- 48,000
Mar.,
1938*. 41,242 0.18 35/6 32,997 1/- 48,000
1939.. 111.408 0.4 34/10 110,167 1/- 48,000
1940.. 105,318 6.29 109,951 1/- 48,000
1941.. 97,317 6.11 41/9 83,064 1/- 48,000
* Six months.
The £83,064 of profit was struck before
appropriating £9324 (£17,092 lower) for
capital expenditure and after capitalising
£18,731 in respect of advance develop-
ment. These, two items absorbed all but
£7009 of earnings not distributed in the
shilling div. Future of the mine is de-
pendent on the Emu North ore-shoot,
exploration of the lode channel north
and south and a quest for parallel lodes
having produced little of interest, while
work on Western Gold’s Rand leases has
also been suspended after an expenditure
by Triton of £15,690. Triton has 960,000
lOs.-paid shares, 200,000 of them held
by Western Gold, on issue. Market price
of 3s. 6d. appears to place a conservative
value of £168,000 on the mine and surplus,
liquids of £60,154. Alteration to the
system of filling is expected to influence
favorably throughput and costs.
Formed in London in 1920 to acquire
the assets, mostly big blocks of Australian
mining shares, of Lake View and Oroya,
Ltd., Lake View Trust, Ltd., is now
largely interested in solid investments in
other parts of the world, at present num-
bering 486. Of these, 48 p.c. are indus-
trials, 13 p.c. railways, 10 p.c. Govern-
ment and municipal securities, 8 p.c.
banks and insurance, 7.2 p.c. mining and
5 p.c. financial trusts. Co.’s profit last
year was £85,000, and dividends of 5 p.c.
on cumulative preference stock and 9 p.c.
on ordinary shares were paid.
* * 4= *
Ingliston South, a 1934 offshoot of
Australian Mining Trust, broadcasts a
profit of £l2 for year to Nov. 30. Co.
began mining a block at Meekatharra
from which practically all the accessible
gold had been extracted. It found some
more, and paid a 4d. dividend in 1938,
but the narrow secondary-enriched vein
being worked decreased in size and value
in depth. Co. is now concentrating on
a block at Hampton Plains, near Kal-
goorlie.
* * * *
Clansmen left a reef at Norseman
(W.A.) towards the end of last year to
take an option on the Carshalton eastern
anticline at Bendigo. After a number of
encouraging reports a call of a share
to pay for plant is now announced. An
SOS comes from some Westralian
holders for an independent opinion on
prospects.
* * # *
Sons of Gwalia’s profit last year at
£76,935 shows a decrease of £17,270, of
which £lO,OOO was accounted for by
heavier taxation (£60,000). Dividend of
40 p.c. (4s. sterling per 10s. share), minus
English income tax, is Is. less than the
previous year’s payment. An interim
of Is. on account of the current year was
paid in June. There has been nothing
wrong with recent developments at depth,
and ore reserves are said to be still about
six years’ mill supply.
# * * *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) modestly states
in its latest monthly progress report that
two crosscuts, one at the No. 13 north
level and the other at No. 14 north level
of the Kalgurli lease, are being extended
east to a point 10ft. south of the North
Kalgurli main shaft at the 1240 ft. level.
Apparently the object is to intersect the
main North Kalgurli lode, which so far
has not been followed below a depth of
900 ft., in the North Kalgurli properly.
Shareholders’ committees of seven of
the De Bemales goldmining cos. —Anglo-
Australian, Beryl, Commonwealth Mining
and Finance, Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance, Meekatharra, Murchison and
North Kalgurli United —have sent out a
joint circular from Westralia House (De
Bernales’s London headquarters). They
state that they are the “only duly con-
stituted shareholders’ committees” and
are not in any way connected with an
“independent shareholders’ committee”
appointed by other dissatisfied share-
holders to watch and protect their in-
terests and which is backing litigation
recently begun against De Bernales and
other directors. They further state that
they are working out an equitable scheme
for amalgamation of the cos., that
McCarthy and Binns, mining engineers,
are checking the valuations placed on
the producing mines of the group and
that a firm of chartered accountants is
preparing valuations of the commercial
concerns of De Bernales’s private cos.
The circular asks shareholders in the cos.
concerned not to contribute to the fund
which the “independent shareholders’
committee” is endeavoring to raise to con-
tinue the litigation mentioned.
* * * *
History of Gold Reefs (W.A.) De-
velopment, N.L., which is winding up and
hopes to return to shareholders approxi-
mately 12s. per £5 fully-paid share:
Formed 1934. Took an option over 134
auriferous acres at Balgarrie, near Ora Banda
(W.A.). In 1935 exercised option over 3380
acres of deep-lead ground at Pitfield Plains
(Vic.). Glenfine South Consolidated Gold
Mines, N.L., formed, from which Gold Reefs
got 10,000 lOs.-paid shares. In 1936 Balgarrie
option abandoned. In 1938 decided to remain
in existence until Glenfine South on profitable
basis. Seems to have said or done little since.
* * * *
From London: The financial press
still devotes space to quotations of Aus-
tralian mining stocks, but the market is,
as one journal puts it, “as deserted as
Oliver Goldsmith’s village. Not a breath,
it says, stirs the leaves of Vallombrosa,
and shares change hands in negligible
amounts.” Yet some of them show good
returns.
* * *
Morning Star has got its Wood’s Point
(Vic.) mine into shipshape condition
again after the fires of a couple of years
ago which involved it in a capital loss of
£19,641. With 45,000 tons of 12-13dwt.
ore in sight, another 10-head of stamps is
to be installed, lifting capacity to 2400
tons monthly. Treatment of 13,391 tons
of ore for the year to March yielded a
profit of £22,316 ; costs, including de-
velopment, were 61s. Hd. per ton, but
recoveries averaged 10.2dwt. If ore
grade keeps up when output is doubled
there should be a handy surplus available
for dividends, which have begun to flow
again with a sixpenny distribution since
the close of accounts. Mount Coolon not
so long ago considered the outlook suffi-
ciently encouraging to lift its holding
to 102,100 shares —25.5 p.c. of Morn-
ing Star’s capital. G.M. of Aust.,
general managers, holds another block
of 16,450.
* * * *
Work on the Mt. Peter goldfield, near
Cairns (N.Q.), is quiet, mainly because
the Talisman is off gold at present. The
extra-wet season hasn’t helped this show
any, and heavy water has impeded work
in the lower levels.
* * * *
“Chemical Engineering and Mining
Review” contains details of a single-
bucket American Becker Hopkins dredge
for working shallow heavy alluvials.
Applied to Australia, the unit might have
interesting possibilities for digging wash
of restricted extent where bucket-dredging
is not justified. Weighing 90 tons and
digging 15ft. below water-level, a 1-c.y.
unit will deal with 2000 c.y. daily at a
recorded field working cost in Alaska of
nine cents a yard. Only two men per
shift are required. This is in sharp con-
trast with the labor required for hydraulic
sluicing, cost of which rarely runs out
under Is. a yard and which in addition
requires a large water supply not always
available.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Adelaide X: Don’t like the trend of legisla-
tion in other States re public utilities, particu-
larly where a relatively high rate of div. is
involved, while post-war prosperity of the
paper co. will depend on the amount of tariff
assistance forthcoming. South Aus. or Carlton
Brewery, Adelaide Steam, Queensland Insur-
ance, Woolworths and Olympic Tyres are a
likely-looking bunch. If Commercial of Syd-
ney, wouldn’t suggest the change H.W.P.:
Consider both worth holding Constant
Reader and J.A.: Can’t say.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S.A. AND U.S.S.R.
[The main aim with the items here condensed is to
show typical American reactions to the Nazi-Soviet
clash, as reflected in leading newspapers in the course
ol the week following the Nazi invasion of Russia on
Sunday, June 22. it will be seen that feelings in the
U.S.A. have been somewhat mixed, including those ot
the very strongest pro-British element. In view of the
dependence on America, these reactions should be of
special interest. It is worth noting that several of the
publications here listed saw value in the British-Soviet
alliance, recently announced. It is very probable, how-
ever, that there was much stronger criticism of it than
cables would appear to indicate.]
Nazi-Soviet Accord, 1939
[Easily the strongest case in favor of America help-
ing Russia, or, at least, continuing to help Britain,
despite feelings about the Soviet, takes the line that
Hitler has once more demonstrated that no possible
agreement with him can ever be worth the paper on
which it is written. Here are two passages from the
“10-year” compact signed by Ribbentrop and Molotov
and published in Moscow on August 24, 1939.]
Article I: The two contracting Powers obligate
themselves to refrain from every act of force, every
aggressive action and every attack against one another,
including any single action or that taken in conjunc-
tion with other Powers.
Article V; In the event of a conflict between the
contracting parties concerning any question, the two
parties will adjust their differences or conflict exclu-
sively by friendly exchange of opinions, or, if neces-
sary, by an arbitration commission.
“Dialogue in Hell”
[Early comment by a New York “Times” columnist
on the speeches of Hitler and Molotov. The suggestion
that Sir Stafford Cripps was ignored in Moscow was
fairly commonly made in other American press com-
ment.]
The war proclamations delivered by Hitler and
Molotov sound like a dialogue in hell, supposing hell
to be some subcellar in the moral universe where evil
is good and falsehood is truth. Each accuses the
other of “unparalleled perfidy”; each charges the
other with all the crimes he himself has committed ;
each calls the other a liar and a traitor.
These speeches strike the perfect key. You can-
not count on the expected or the unexpected when
you are dealing with minds moving in an unknown
dimension, cut loose from every standard of reason,
decency or consistency that shapes the common law
of mankind.
Hitler’s fantastic monologue painted a true pic-
ture of his own mental processes. From the begin-
ning he has advocated lying as an instrument of policy.
Nobody knew Hitler’s philosophy as well as Stalin, a
pastmaster in the same tactics. One cannot waste
much sympathy on the Soviet leader for the betrayal
he has suffered. He gave the signal for the war in
order to share in the plunder and to save his own skin
by turning the tide of battle westward. He cynically
cleared the way for “the clique of bloodthirsty Fascist
rulers of Germany,” to quote the words of Molotov.
By an act of retributive justice his pact with the Ger-
mans has turned out to be a boomerang.
The sad annals of appeasement furnish no such
examples of bribes and concessions as those made to
Stalin by Hitler and to Hitler by Stalin. These two
are not merely the appeased, but the prize appeasers,
and it is something to see that even between them-
selves the policy failed to work.
Hitler’s charge that there has been a “coalition”
between the British and Russians is sheer invention. It
is well known that Sir Stafford Cripps was ignored in
Moscow. He was always threatening to leave because
his position was intolerable.
The moment must arrive when the whirling-
dervish policy will appear like madness to the Ger-
man people. Hitler’s repeated allusions to Russian
efforts to undermine not only the Balkan Governments
but that of the Reich itself suggest that he is already
troubled by signs of distrust of his own regime. The
war against Russia means that he needs Russian oil
and wheat, not merely to feed his war machine for
the big task ahead now that American intervention
is an actuality, but to feed the hungry and restless
populations of the Europe he has reduced to misery.
The German people today must be asking one
bitter question: What price victories for us?
* % Hs * % .
(William H. Stoneman, London, in New York “Post.”)
The half-tragic, half-comic story of how the Ger-
mans lulled the Russians into believing that they were
safe is gradually leaking out.
The British had what they regarded as 100 p.c.
evidence of an impending German attack on the
Soviet Union as early as mid-April. [Mr. Churchill
referred openly to such a possibility in the House of
Commons on April 9.] They attempted to deliver ,
their evidence to responsible Soviet officials, parti-
cularly Molotov. 7
It was still April when the British Government
forwarded to its Ambassador in Moscow, Sir Stafford
Cripps, a mass of concrete, detailed information on
German troop concentrations on Soviet frontiers.
Cripps was told to take the material direct to Molotov.
Cripps was instructed to explain that if the Soviet
Union decided to fight it could depend on Great
Britain and the Allies for all possible assistance.
Cripps asked for an interview with Molotov and,
after waiting a considerable time, was granted an
appointment. When he arrived he was received by
Vice-Commissar Vishinsky, who explained that Molo-
tov was busy. When Sir Stafford pressed for the real
reason, Vishinsky explained that Molotov was unable
to receive him for “political reasons.” Cripps there-
uppn wrote a note to Molotov and after a lapse of a
few days returned to London. In the meantime the
Germans were using a simple but highly foxy whisper-
ing campaign to make the Russians think that they
were safe. Word was spread around Finland that
Germany and Russia were planning to divide that
country into two spheres of influence. The Finns
thereupon went to the Germans to ask for assurances
that this was not true, and more or less asked for
Germany’s protection against further Russian en-
croachment on their territory. At the same time the
rumor reached Moscow, where it served to make the
Russians think that Germany, far from planning an
attack on Russia, was actually contemplating passing
the platter to her for “a fourth helping.”
*****
A War Destiny Plotted
(Among immediate U.S. reactions as represented in
pro-British newspapers the following, from New York
“Times,” can be taken as fairly typical.]
With a sudden fury which seems to epitomise the
whole long record of their own internal violence, the
two great revolutionary regimes of modern times have
been thrown into mortal combat. This is the war
which destiny has plotted, the long foreseen conflict
between totalitarian and totalitarian. It cuts across,
and merges with, the war of totalitarian against
democracy. That it will have a profound effect upon
the course of the larger war seems certain.
The first clear fact is the final, unequivocal proof
of the perfidy of Nazi Germany. Can any American
ever again talk seriously of appeasing Hitler or trust-
ing his promises? He had given Russia the most
explicit guarantee of non-aggression. To “appease”
him, Stalin had broken the so-called “democratic
front” which Russia itself had sponsored ; he had
betrayed the international Communist movement of
which he was the leader ; he had grovelled in the
Nazi dirt at Hitler’s feet. Small good it did him. At
the first moment that seemed advantageous to him,
Hitler broke his promises and made war on his
—New York “Post.”
NOW’S YOUR BIG CHANCE, UNCLE SAM!
appeaser. Let us note that fact, for our own guid-
ance, if we note no other.
Equally clear is the moral of Stalin’s own double-
dealing. He had broken faith with his potential allies,
France and Britain. He had deliberately given Hitler
the signal to start this war in 1939 by promising a
hands-off attitude toward Poland. He had built his
whole strategy on the foundation of his own perfidy.
He had gambled the future of international Com-
munism on the prospect of a long-fought war that
would leave both Germany and Britain prostrate. He
finds himself hoist by the petard of his own diplo-
macy, with his whole regime in deadly danger of
destruction.
A Hitler victory in Russia holds ominous possi-
bilities. There would fall into his hands immense
additional military supplies—’planes and tanks and
guns and submarines. He would gain enormous re-
sources, notably of wheat and oil, which might enable
him to defy the British blockade for years. He would
be able to set up a puppet Government, more servile
than the Vichy Government in France, to direct Rus-
sian resources and hatred against the democracies.
His occupation of Russia would enable him to attack
and perhaps to seize Syria, Iraq and Iran, with their
huge petroleum resources ; to penetrate, if he thought
it necessary, India and China ; to make direct connec-
tion with Japan.
If Japan were tempted by the same uneasy alli-
ance for immediate loot that proved Stalin’s undoing,
and has reduced Mussolini to the position of a vassal,
Japan could receive clouds of ’planes from Hitler
to fulfil its ambitions in China and the Netherlands
Indies and the Western Pacific. America would at
last be threatened by Hitler on two oceans.
This is no time for idle satisfaction in the news
that two violent totalitarian regimes, both of which are
detestable to us, are now engaged in the pleasant pro-
cess of destroying one another. It is a time for action.
Jp . ' « « V *
(.New York “Herald Tribune”)
This is the great crisis of the war, and therefore
the great crisis of Western history. Beside that simple
fact, every other consideration is secondary. The
breathing space it brings to Britain and the U.S.A. is
unimportant, except to the extent to which every pos-
sible use is made of it. The criminal subversions of
Communism, the past sinuosities of Soviet policy and
the politico-economic doctrines of the Stalinist State
are as irrelevant to the West in this great juncture as
they were to Hitler when he struck his bargain in
August, 1939. For the tremendous historic forces
which Hitler has now dared to loose are likely to be
decisive in human destiny. If the democracies can
seize and ride them to victory, the future will be
theirs. If Hitler is allowed to win the gamble he has
now taken, by more of just those democratic hesita-
tions, divisions and blindnesses on which he counts,
there will be no future for anyone worth thinking
about.
Hitler already had massed against him British
sea- and air-power and Anglo-American industrial
power, by far the greatest in the world ; he has de-
liberately added to the ranks of his enemies a colossal
man-power —the one vital factor in which they were
lacking. His most powerful political strategy always
depended on the fact that the democracies could never
dare to make an alliance with the Soviets on the
latter’s terms. By kicking the Soviets into the arms
of the democracies he largely solved even that problem
for his opponents.
*****
(New York “World-Telegram.”)
In this conflict between Schickelgruber and
Djugashvili, otherwise known as Hitler and Stalin,
there do seem to be some potentialities for good to the
rest of the world. For when crooks fall out justice is
the gainer.
Our neutrality is positive—-against both of them.
It was their “treaty of friendship” which kindled
the flames that swept across Poland, Finland, Den-
mark, Norway, Holland, Belgium, France and
the Balkans and subjected the British people to
inhuman assault. It will be poetic and moral
justice if Schickelgruber and Djugashvili are
now consumed in the conflagration of their
own making.
They are both enemies of our way of life.
They have both maintained in the U.S.A. Fifth
Column agitators, propagandists and saboteurs,
seeking to destroy the unity and security of the
American people. These two dictatorships, by
force and terrorism, have extended their con-
scienceless rule over hundreds of millions of
innocent people. The fact that they have fallen
out over the loot before their conquests were
completed is a great break for our friends of
the British Commonwealth of Nations —and a
great break for us.
Our British friends—as Winston Churchill
makes clear —intend to cash in on their big
opportunity. While in eastern Europe the Red
army is engaging the energies of some two
millions of the strongest German troops Britain
strikes heavy blows in the west. ‘Let us in
America also make the most of our oppor-
tunity. While our enemies, the Nazis and
Communists, are fighting each other, let’s re-
double our efforts to produce guns and tanks
and ’planes and bombs for the British. While
they didn’t do it as a favor to us, and while we
don’t like them any better for it, the Com-
munists by entering this fight have presented
us the priceless gift of time. Let’s use every
hour of it to increase armament production for
Britain and for ourselves.
*****
(George E. Sokolsky; New York “Sun”)
Thus far we [Americans] have moved into this
war to aid the democracies. What kind of a democ-
racy is Soviet Russia? Even President Roosevelt has
been classing Stalin with the dictators. And we sud-
denly woke up to the presence of Earl Browder in the
United States and put him in gaol. And we gave
Harry Bridges a new trial because it was assumed that
he ought really to be deported. And we stopped
shipping machine-tools to Soviet Russia. And we have
been going after the Communists in the labor unions
and we broke a strike in California because the Com-
munists ran the strike.
Are we now to canonise Stalin as a fighter for
democracy? Are we to include Soviet Russia among
the democracies? Or are we to become, at long last,
truthful and admit that we don’t care a tinker’s dam
about democracies ; that Stalin may be a windfall
and, therefore, this war is O.K. with us?
* * * * ©
Isolationists’ Stand
[One unhelpful result of the Nazi-Soviet clash has
been to give isolationist opponents of American involve-
ment on Britain’s side a new line of argument at a time
when they were becoming almost wholly discredited.
The following comment on them is from New York
“Post.”]
Whether Hitler’s double-crossing of Soviet Russia
was a master stroke or a blunder in a military sense,
it unquestionably was a political coup of the most
delicate finesse. For Hitler, at the moment, is fight-
ing Bolshevism. He is again the self-appointed shield
of civilisation against Communism. And so Herbert
Hoover believes his act “will furnish half a dozen
reasons for the United States staying out.” Senator
Wheeler doesn’t think the American people will stand
for us “to tie up with the Communists.” Charles A.
Lindbergh, of, course, was “not at all surprised,” and,
although stumped by its being “a very, very unusual
development,” there’s no doubt that he will come up
with a complete set of answers.
Hitler has cast his net into the sea, and his haul
is large. All the isolationists —Communists alone now
excluded—who were in favor of letting Britain go


—Photo, by courtesy of “The Aeroplane ” England.
THE R.A.F. USES EXIDE
’Planes of the Royal Air Force have proved themselves to
be the best in the world. They are being fitted with Exide
Batteries. You, too, can depend on Exide for your car, radio
or home lighting plant.
H.vUV
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED.
a m
under and keeping their own feet dry now have been
given another argument.
And, in the eyes of these isolationists, there is a
big new argument in Ihe attitude of the Communists.
Almost any American must have felt at least a touch
of nausea at the “Daily Worker.” Unlike all the other
Nazi campaigns, which the “Worker” has viewed with
complacency, this was “an attack likewise upon the
peoples of the U.S. and the entire world.”
Well, a laugh is healthy exercise now and then,
in the midst of tragedy. The meaning is, apparently,
that the Communist sideshow will be playing on our
lot for a while instead of across the street. As if that
made any difference!
Hitler remains the enemy of mankind. He has
welded his chains on the continent of Europe as no
other man for centuries has done. His brigandage is
now being worked on a former congenial colleague
instead of against those who resisted. From one con-
quest he has moved on consistently to the next, and
the United States lies in his path. But the present
assault is using up his soldiers and munitions, frit-
tering his time, leaving his western flank exposed.
- No chatter about Communism should cause any
American for a moment to take his eyes off the ball.
This is open season on Hitler, and anyone who comes
in for the shooting is welcome.
\ * * ♦ ♦
(New York “Herald Tribune.”)
Senator Nye has not yet advanced the theory that
the Nazi assault on Soviet Russia is probably just a
British trick and that the Hitler who declared war
was really Mr. Churchill wearing a false moustache.
But the other leading isolationist spokesmen, con-
fronted by this truly staggering failure of the whole
policy of appeasement, isolationism and “staying out
of war,” are making an equally strange argument to
show that it proves the soundness of the policy.
It is really astounding to see all these sincere
and patriotic Americans continuing slavishly to imitate
Josef Stalin in the exact policy which has just ex-
ploded so disastrously in his face. Mr. Stalin was the
appeaser extraordinary, the Lindbergh-Nye-Wheeler
No. 1 of the world. Like them, his one object was to
stay out of war. Like them, he had no interest in
fighting for “a decadent British Empire.” He was
sure that he could let the democracies and the other
dictators fight it out. He had no desire to plough
under every third Russian boy. He gave the matter
profound analysis and arrived at all of a half-dozen
reasons why he should make no move in the European
conflict. He wanted to concentrate on building up
peace and prosperity in Russia, undisturbed by foreign
wars. He was sure that if he took aggressive action
he could not win and so devoted all his energy to
making Russia impregnable within her own borders.
Arriving at these conclusions, he then applied
them, in the case of Russia, exactly as our isolationists
would apply them in the case of the United States.
He made his non-aggression treaty with Germany,
precipitating the rest of the world into a war in which
he was not interested. He seized and fortified ad-
vanced bases for his own protection, but took the
utmost care to do nothing which the Fiihrer could
regard as a “step on the road to war.” His safety
hung upon the survival of Britain, but, since he dis-
liked “British imperialism,” he left the British, just as
Nye-Wheeler-Lindbergh would do, to sink or swim.
He saw his vital front line in the Balkans menaced, but
let it go ; finally he saw the Nazis deeply involved in
Yugoslavia and Greece, where one resolute blow from
Russia would have crushed them, but because he
wanted to stay out of war he made no move, just as
our isolationists would make no move now that- the
Nazis are deeply involved in Russia.
As a result he is in war ; his cities are being devas-
tated ; not only every third Russian boy but every
third Russian woman and child is likely to get
ploughed under before it is over ; misery and slaughter
are stalking his land, and Josef Stalin, the appeaser-
isolationist No. 1 of the world, turns out to be the most
disastrous “warmonger” of all, for the war he has pro-
duced is war at home, in his own towns and villages
and fields. We do not doubt that our Stalin-Lindberghs,
Stalin-Wheelers and Stalin-Nyes are as sincere in their
patriotism as is the Russian. It is no reason why
they should be as abysmally stupid.
*****
The Communist Twisters
[As in Australia, American Communists and “fellow
travellers’’ did another of their twists. This comment
is from New York “Herald Tribune.”!
For connoisseurs of the phenomena of the party
line it is indeed fortunate that the “Sunday Worker’
—“People’s Champion of Liberty, Progress, Peace
and Prosperity”—appeared too early to print any news
of Germany’s assault upon Russia. For on the very
morning when a terrible retribution overtook the
Soviet regime for its betrayal of Europe into the hands
of Hitler”, the “Sunday Worker’s” columns were one
lone hymn to peace, one protracted attack on every
measure which the United States Government has
taken to sustain those who have been battling Com-
rade Stalin’s old friend and present foe, the ineffable
Adolf.
For this reason the issue will doubtless rank with
those editions of the “Daily Worker” that preceded the
Nazi-Soviet pact a little less than two years ago as a
historical document —from Earl Browder’s attack on
American “bourgeoisie” for turning to “black reaction
and war” to the editorial which, referring to discus-
sions of the possibility of war between Russia and
Germany, asserts that the American people will not
be fooled.
It may be superfluous to recall,, since the moral
bankruptcy of the Communist party has been so com-
pletely established, the intellectual acrobatics in which
the “Daily Worker” and Mr. Browder indulged dur-
ing August and September of 1939. It may be unkind,
as the faithful party followers flex their agile mental
muscles for another punishing flip-flop, to remind them
that Earl Browder pontificated, as the great war broke
into flame, that the Nazi-Soviet deal was a victory
not only for the Soviet Union, “but for the peace of
the world.” Perhaps, for a long-term crystallisation of
the eccentricity of the party line, it is better to dwell
on the strange dualism that has permitted American
Communists to combine a vocal hatred for the
“Munich appeasers” with horror at “the more open
warmongers”—the latter being, of course, those who
seek to defend America against Hitler. This twisted
line emerged from the wreck of the united front two
years ago and is still roughly intact. Now we may
await the next contortion. Doubtless it will come
—New York “World-Telegram.”
COMES THE REVOLUTION!
promptly ; from the nature of things it is certain to
be clumsily executed, and in the perspective of the
past it will be wholly without integrity.
*****
(Walker Stone; New York “World-Telegram.”)
In three columns of black-face type down the
front page of the “Daily Worker” the Communist
party of America stated its position. Nowhere in the
statement could be found those well-worn phrases
“Wall-street warmongers” and “capitalist butchers.”
No, Hitler was again in a class by himself as the
arch-enemy of mankind.
Nor, of course, were there repetitions of recent
attacks on the programme of lend-lease aid to stop
the Nazis. To the contrary, there was a clarion call
for all Americans who cherish peace and liberty to
rally to the cause of the Socialist Fatherland.
Although the new party line for the moment may
happen to coincide with the interests of our friends
the British, and may in some instances parallel our
own Government’s programme for national security,
there is no assurance that this will long be true. Don’t
forget that in the last World War the Commies made
a separate peace with the Kaiser at Brest-Litoysk,
leaving their erstwhile allies to stand the whole weight
of the German war machine on the Western Front.
The Bolos will do it again if they think they can save
their hides that way.
*****
(Hugh S. Johnson; New York “World-Telegram”)
There isn’t the slightest doubt in the world, as
every well-informed observer in Washington knows,
that most labor obstructions at key points in U.S.
industrial war production have been inspired and
accomplished by Communist cells and influences infil-
trated into labor organisations. The devilish ingenuity
in engineering these attacks on mobilisation of indus-
try by concentration on bottlenecks has hurt us as
effectively at this stage as would the loss of lives and
munitions in battle at a later stage. It was war against
us within our own boundaries.
How now can we turn about overnight and
espouse the cause of our treacherous enemies within
unless we, too, have dipped so deep into the hellish
fluid of 1941 international treason and dishonesty that
the great American tradition of honor in foreign
relations is in the ash-can? Communist efforts to
impede our industrial effort were not so much intended
to. help Hitler as to soften up, divide and weaken our
American system for the purpose of the Soviet world
revolution, when all the nations shall have been so
tired and exhausted by universal war that, through
rebellion, slaughter and revolt, all democracies will
be destroyed from within.
That is true but academic. Our great question
today is: Will it stop now, if we turn to helping Stalin
against Hitler? I don’t know. It is too early to form
an opinion about anything. But if it doesn’t stop
wouldn’t that be a hell of a note —fighting for Com-
rade Stalin abroad while he fights us at home?
* * * * *
Sundry Commentators
(Mark Sullivan; New York “Herald Tribune.”)
Nothing that has happened reduces the interest
we have in seeing Britain successfully resist Hitler.
No difference is made by the fact that, after Hitler
attacked Russia, Britain promised to help Russia.
About that Britain judges for herself. When we made
the promise of help to Britain we did not commit our-
selves to all of Britain’s alliances, understandirtgs and
policies then existing. Neither are we bound by any'
new commitment she makes now.
Our own decision about Russia involves considera-
tions quite different from Britain’s, considerations diffi-
cult and acutely dangerous. The Administration will
be wise to make this decision squarely on the ground
of principle. About Russia many Americans feel
strongly, and their feeling will not change overnight.
The present turn in the European war justifies
some of the position the isolationists have held all
along. Part of the isolationists’ position was that, if
we intervened in the war, we would involve ourselves
in unforeseen complications. Well, the most unfore-
seen possible complication has now occurred. And
if we are completely candid we will admit that the
present unforeseen event opens up the possibility of
others now equally unforeseeable. To admit this
frankly will promote the unity that America needs.
But what if we had taken the other course? Can
the isolationists claim that the consequences of their
course would be comfortably limited to the foresee-
able? Can they say there would be no unforeseeable
and disagreeable consequence if, from the beginning,
we had followed a course which might result in Britain
falling and Hitler dominating the world?
* * * * *
(Waller Lippmann; New York “Herald Tribune”)
A clear realisation that we [Americans] are not
involved and cannot intervene in European Russia
should open our eyes to the fact that we are inevitably
involved and must be greatly concerned with what hap-
pens in Asiatic Russia. In Alaska we very nearly
touch Russian territory, and Kamchatka in Russian
Siberia is very close indeed to the Aleutian Islands. It
is of very great importance to the United States that
eastern Siberia where it faces Alaska should not be
held by a Nazified Russian State or by Japan. There-
fore, it is very much our interest that, whatever hap-
pens in European Russia, there shall not be a collapse
or a capitulation in Siberia.
We are able to help Russia effectively by our
naval and economic power in the Pacific to maintain
her position in Siberia. It should be our policy to
urge Japan and Russia to be faithful to their treaty
and to maintain the status quo in Siberia, and we
should use the weight of our influence both to assist
the Russians and to persuade or induce the Japanese.
This is the place where the United States should make
a diplomatic intervention of the most powerful kind—
an intervention to keep the Japanese and Russians
from fighting, to bring them together, and eventually
to work from there toward a Chinese-Russian-
Japanese-British-Dutch-American settlement in the
Far East.
*****
(Major George Fielding Eliot; New York Herald Tribune. )
It is unfortunate, as historians of the future will
doubtless remark, that we [Americans] are not now at
the stage of actual war with the Nazis ; for now would
be the moment for us to throw into the fight every
bombing squadron of our own, few though they may
be, to add to the destruction to be visited upon the
exposed German vital centres.
Last April, when Germany attacked Yugoslavia
and when there were not only several German armies
invading that country, but some 250,000 German
troops south of the Danube in Bulgaria, the Russians
had their heaven-sent opportunity. Had they flung
forward two army groups —one across the Carpathian
passes into the plain of Hungary, the othei across the


Pruth into the Wallachian plain, no power on earth
could have saved the German troops south of the
Danube, or a good part of those in Yugoslavia.
The Russians might have been beaten in the end,
but they would have begun the war with a smashing
victory in a cause traditionally Russian —defence of
the South Slavs—and their subsequent fate could not
have been worse than that which now awaits them as
their turn arrives on the carefully-arranged Nazi
schedule. Indeed, it would probably have been much
better, for the Germans would have been greatly
weakened not only physically but morally by such
a setback. We have one chance now, as the Russians
had in April.
If we are ever going to put in naval and air
strength, the time is now.
World Cure-all Quacks.
(Condensed from an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
Instead of maintaining the armed might that would
enable them to withstand any prospective hostile coali-
tion, the English, after the first World War, allowed
this, the only guarantee of their own security and
well-being, the only guarantee of peace in Europe, to
be cut down by economies and by the limitation of
armaments. At the same time they deceived them-
selves, though not others, that “collective security”
was genuine security and that international disarma-
ment would make the maintenance of national arma-
ments superfluous. It was not only their politicians,
including nearly all the members of the present
Administration, who were responsible for their failure
to make victory last, but also a multitude of people
organised in societies like the League of Nations
Union or sponsoring movements like the “Peace
Ballot,” which helped powerfully to bring the second
World War about by the intimidating effect they had
on feeble Governments that clung to office, and by
the dangerous illusions they spread with regard to
the nature of international affairs.
During the more than 20 years between the two
wars, more nonsense was talked and written about
peace and war and international affairs than at any
time in the history of mankind. Every conceivable
sort of political crankery flourished. There was no
scheme for the betterment of mankind, no crazy plan
for everlasting peace or the establishment of justice
and equality, that did not find zealous promoters and
credulous followers. In the once-so-proud Republic
of Letters there was a widespread surrender to in-
vading hordes of improvers, projectors and uplifters.
Those 20 years were Europe’s and, above all, Eng-
land’s Silly Season, a kind of drivellers’ honeymoon.
The Silly Season goes on, like the monotonous
swaying of revellers amid spilt wine, blood and break-
ages, after a ball that has ended in senseless violence
and destruction. Pills against war —not merely against
another war with Germany, for to devise a remedy
against such a war is not beyond the power of the
human understanding, but against all wars everywhere
and for all time. Federal Union, which threatens to
rival Buchmanism in the fervor of its purveyors and
customers, is a pill of this sort, although nothing is
surer to enable the Germans to rearm and to start
another war in Europe than to force her national
diversities and her inequalities into a uniform federal
system.
Recipes for winning the present war in every sort
of way except the one indispensable way, namely
fighting, defy the shortage of paper. A prospective
European revolution is a recipe of this sort, although
revolution is apt to be more terrible than war —to em-
ploy it as a remedy is like curing an earthquake by a
volcanic eruption.
Pure democracy is advertised as a universal
remedy. There is a simple recipe, highly recommended
by a large number of quacks, for establishing peace,
concord, justice, prosperity and happiness all round.
This remedy is called “planning”—just planning.
To control a nation’s destiny, to determine the
character and extent of its political, economic and
financial activities in advance, may be possible on
paper, but even if the planners are endowed with
despotic power and can crush resistance and silence
criticism the unforeseen will always emerge and dis-
organise the plan. We only have to consider the in-
eradicable contradictions in human nature, the mys-
terious ways of Providence, the uncertainties of short-
range and the impossibility of accurate long-range
prediction to realise that this cannot but be so. The
total failure of planning in Russia is an impressive
example, an ideal country for the planners, seeing that
she has the most despotic Government and the most
docile population in the world, vast resources and a
vast internal market, and, until the revival of German
militarism, exceptional security against foreign inva-
sion. Nevertheless, planning in Russia was the direct
cause of the great famine in the years 1932 and 1933,
in which 5,000,000 or 6,000,000 people perished, and
ir has now placed her at the mercy of the Germans.
It will perhaps be said that the abundant litera-
ture that prescribes and extols the remedies we have
mentioned can do no harm because they will never
be accepted, that the authors are mere enthusiasts —
“ Schwdrmer as the Germans say, or people who
move about in busy swarms —and do not matter, see-
ing that the nation’s heart is sound. Their importance
can, of course, be exaggerated. At the same time,
quackery is as undesirable in the Republic of Letters
as it is in the Realm of Medicine. Besides, spurious
political cures are surely as harmful to receptive un-
critical minds as quack medicines are to the over-
sensitive stomach. The hardest part of the war is
still ahead, and there will be periods in which many
will falter. The temptation to seek relief of any sort
will be great, and the political quack may wield a
dangerous power by commanding an active, even if
limited, body of public opinion.
That the nation’s heart is sound and will remain
sound is the best guarantee that sound principles will
inform those who will make the peace. But peace-
making is a tricky business, and if the nation is not
vigilant and highly critical, the peace may not be as
it should be, because concessions have been made to
quackery which is, in a last analysis, defeatist, seeing
that the books, pamphlets and articles we have re-
ferred to have one thing in common —while most of
them recognise that the war must be won, they all
propose terms of peace that would rob England and
the Empire of that armed preponderance which alone
can make victory, and therefore peace, endure.
Almost the whole of these writings are charac-
terised by an alluring but hollow philanthropy, they
are all diffusely cosmopolitan, they display a seeming
tolerance and magnanimity that is but the absence of
conviction and critical realism, they all offer plausibly
simple solutions to the most complex and intractible
problems. They cannot, in their essential obscurant-
ism, fail to promote superficiality and mental con-
fusion amongst their millions of readers, especially
their youthful readers. The assumptions that underlie
them all, namely that there is a simple formula for
everything, that nothing is insoluble, that there is a
short and easy way out of every crisis or conflict,
and a painless operation that will eliminate every evil
that has afflicted mankind ever since he was created,
that reform, no matter how sweeping and radical, costs
nothing, that a revolution which would transform the
whole of human society and achieve more than all
the wars and revolutions of the past put together have
achieved could be accomplished without sacrifice —
all these assumptions, explicit and explicited, reiterated
in every conceivable form, and conveyed with all the
arts of propaganda, cannot, in their plausibility and
absolute falsity, fail in some degree to foster that
deadly “acedia” [sloth] which has so recently brought
—New York “World-T elegram.”
THE QUICK-CHANGE ARTIST!
about the downfall [in France] of the noblest civili-
sation of our times.
British Guerrilla Troops.
[This vivid description of the training of specially-
selected British troops for guerrilla fighting is condensed
from an article by London “Times” special correspon-
dent with the army. Obviously, from the account,
Anzacs would be naturally adept at the kind of fighting
for which these picked men are trained, and if the
countries the Anzacs inhabit were ever invaded there
would be a good deal of such fighting. Picked men
specially trained on something of the lines described
would be exceptionally valuable defenders in such cir-
cumstances, and units of the kind would no doubt
appeal extra strongly to young men called up for ser-
vice.]
For all the sway of mechanisation there is still a
corner in British regiments for small bodies of rang-
ing guerrillas who would find their places in the pages
of Conrad or Dumas ; men who are masters of close
combat and the tommy-gun, who can cover 60 miles
and more a day on their feet and live where they halt.
They are experts in explosives and the arts of stalk-
ing and fieldcraft. There is the hard, clean-cut look
about them, the physical and mental alertness that
you see in Rugby internationals. I have spent a few
eventful days on one of their courses, and had not far
to look for a d’Artagnan or a Porthos.
An astonishing amount of detail and sheer hard
work has to be mastered before these men are ready
for any special service which the occasion might pro-
duce. The time is not yet when tanks and motors, the
robots of war as it were, shall have entirely suppressed
the individual spirit of adventure. These new guer-
rillas, with their ability to live on the country, are the
skirmishing troops of their units. With all the advan-
tages of automatic arms and, in certain conditions,
field wireless for communications, much of their
activity is still full of the lore that Baden-Powell
passed on to the Scout movement. The part these
hardened freelances might play in harassing the enemy
in attack or defence may readily be imagined.
The short history of the British guerrillas goes
back to the Norwegian campaign, when so-called inde-
pendent companies were raised from within their for-
mations with the idea of getting in behind the advanc-
ing Germans and harassing them. It did not quite
happen that way, but many of the men I have met
fought in Norway with telling effect. Normally the
units would have no transport, and an extremely high
standard of physique and intelligence is required for
travelling long distances across country. Besides pass-
ing all the elementary tests of military training the
new recruit has immediately to‘ march 27 miles, with
one halt, carrying full equipment.
Some of the officers and men had put up a record
march of more than 66 miles in 24 hours in full kit,
a remarkable performance, though the object of their
training is not so much the achievements of outstand-
ing feats of endurance as the maintenance of a steady
average that will allow the troops to operate well
within themselves. They can make the silencing of a
sentry an art in itself, and with the Colt automatic
they practise the “instinctive” method of firing from
the hip with bent knees and elbow and a central
stance, a method that may soon be universal.
I watched squad strive against squad in Khud
races up and down a towering hillside, and the team
record for the course —it was the time of the last man
home that mattered—was lowered in something under
10 minutes, an astonishing figure for a climb like that,
since, in addition to weapons and equipment, one
man on each side carried a Bren tripod on his back.
Later on we saw more of the purpose of all this
intensive climbing, which clearly has its importance in
defence or attack. High above country fragrant with
spring we watched the swift approach of two packets
of men. The stillness was broken by a rattle of auto-
matic fire directed against figure targets, and the echoes
had hardly reverberated round the hills before the
men were racing up the mountainside with an extra-
ordinary sureness of foot. The little scheme involved
further firing with rifles, Brens and tommy-guns, the
last levelled from the hip in much the same way as a
boxer stands on guard. The whole movement was so
rapid and neat that it was hard to realise that anyone
had been there at all until one examined the riddled
targets.
To be out with a unit on a night exercise, the sky
red with the glow of distant fires and the twinkle of
bursting A.A. shells, was not the least of our adven-
tures. For the rest I went out to the moors to join a
detachment engaged on a cadre course of fieldcraft.
All through the winter men sent from different regi-
ments to these courses have been going out in turn
into the wilds for several days, taking only what food
they could carry on foot and learning afresh a self-
sufficiency that has passed from the ken of most
people. In a mossy glade, a stream hard by, such as
Puck might have known, they had set up their little
bivouacs, simply fashioned out of groundsheets and
dry bracken or a half-felled fir-tree. Fires smouldered
with hardly a wisp of smoke to betray their presence.
Stalking, map-reading, finding objectives in the
dark and experiments in camouflage that will not be
found in the textbooks are among the subjects taught,
and even in this remote place you never see a soldier
who does not carry his rifle wherever he goes. Proud
and tough as they are, perhaps the most impressive
thing about the guerrillas is their eagerness to learn
something new.
Bombers Over a Hospital.
(From a letter written by an English hospital wardsman,
published in New York “Times.”)
Soon it will be night. I go out on to the verandah
and look out over the city. It will be fine tonight
and almost a full moon. I go back into the ward with
the usual strange feeling of anticipation. Now begins
a period of waiting—waiting for the howl of the
sirens.
There are several jobs to be done. Dressings,
and one or two injections to be given. I prepare my
tray. The nurses are going about their various duties
in their usual quiet, competent manner. They, like
everyone else, are probably dreading the coming of
night, but no one could tell this from their calm
demeanor. Funny how it takes war to bring full
regard to a profession which is the very opposite of
all war stands for.
Two minutes later the quavering howl comes to
my ears. My stomach does its usual handspring, and
then settles down. It is almost a relief after the period
of waiting.
We go through the usual routine. Beds pulled
away from windows, lights dimmed and night lights
placed at various points in case of emergency.
A probationer comes down to me from the top
floor. A patient had passed away. Would I confirm
this, the sister being off duty?
I go up and, looking down at the peaceful figure,
say to the nurse: “Poor old Tom. He’s not missing
much the way things are, nurse.” She smiles sadly
and shakes her head.
I prepare the necessary papers. While I am writ-
ing, another sound comes to my ears. The steady
drone of aircraft overhead. The nurses prepare for
their grim task in the semi-darkness of the ward.
I finish my writing and resume my interrupted
dressings. No bombs yet, anyway. Suddenly, as if
in answer to my thoughts, there comes a terrific
whistling and a crash, followed by others. The
windows rattle.
Going to the verandah again I look out.
Nothing to be seen. No flares dropped, anyhow. We
know by now that flares usually herald a big raid.
Before continuing my work I unlock the door of
the emergency theatre, and turn the heat on the steri-
liser-just in case someone is brought in.
The bombs seem some way off now. At last I
am finished and await the coming of the night staff.
Strangely enough, since the first bombs fell all
fear had gone, replaced by cold anger. I find myself
cursing the droning ’planes overhead. At last our
relief arrives. Joking and cheery as usual. Igo
through the ceremony of handing over and begin my
three-mile ride home.
Entering my own street there comes another
whistling. I throw myself from my bike and flatten
into the gutter. The bomb falls 500 yards away.
I pick myself up and curse. My suburb had
achieved fame. It had become a military objective.
Reaching the house, I go down to our shelter.
My wife and kiddies are quite comfortable. The two
little girls have been praying that daddy gets home
safe.
Next morning we heard it was Coventry, our
neighbors, who had suffered. We will not forget.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & GOLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
m
it ID
CSV
I
Spill
lEMlSfO!i!uei
SS3S
I Li
&
\ vtJsSI
-o
T-:
a
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
'Manager W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH!
“I live in a built-up area and would like
to make a small duck run. Would 1 be
allowed?” — Correspondent in womans paper.
Certainly, dear, but, all the same, we
doubt if you’ll do better than force it
into a fast waddle.
4* 4* 4*
“Even the two men, whom Helen had re-
garded as prosaic, were struck by the wondrous
beauty of the sunken lake by moonlight, for
10 minutes they stood drinking it in.’
—Serial story.
The pub must have been shut.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Anything I say to my daughter she ignores.
Mostly she treats me as if I didn’t exist. 1
really don’t know what to make of her.
—Letter to Dorothy Dix.
Why not a waitress?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Would they be better made narrower or
wider? Most mothers who make up their own
bovs’ clothes would definitely answer 'Yes.
— Woman’s paper.
And be on the safe side.
It’s no use telling a girl that she’s like
a beautiful flower if she considers that
you’re only a little weed.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Grass kills sheep.” — “S.M.H.”
The sharp blades, probably.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“More than 50 guests arrived for the weld-
ing.”—Social note.
So not even death will them part, eh?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Miss has raced her own dogs at every
coursing meeting in the State.”
—Sporting gossip.
She doesn’t need any slimming tablets,
then.
4. 4» 4* 4*
“Flashness among these criminals reveals
itself in many ways. One vicious Bowery
gangster has six hot baths a day.”
—Magazine article.
The G-men regard him as particularly
soft-boiled.
“Sheep on drought areas. Scheme to feed on
shares. ’ ’ — Agricultural paper.
The reaction on the stock markets is
awaited.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The sentimental type of ballad has been
steadily losing favor, but negro spirituals and
sea-shandies are high in popularity.”
—Musical paper.
Whether they are sung or sunk makes
little difference after all.
“According to a magistrate, the law gives
a husband the right to veto excessive expendi-
ture on luxuries.”
But not the courage to put it into execu-
tion.
Petticoat Government.
“In household affairs, women are the best
managers.”— Woman’s paper.
That home and hearth wives supervise
Best, I agree.
And, what is more, MY missus tries
To manage me!
P. C.
4* 4* 4* 4»
‘This is the last word in short-wave radios.”
— Advt.
If they’d only guarantee that we’d buy
one of ’em.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“This big undertaking handles roughly three
million parcels a year.” — “D.T.”
You’d think the bill for damages would
deter them.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Court note: He broke the engagement.
That broke her heart. Now he’s broke.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One night during a game of bridge her
husband became angry, and, saying he was
going to his club, went out, slamming the
door.” — Divorce report.
One of those peevish, tyrant hubs.,
He, uttering many a “damn,”
His declaration made for clubs.
And went out with a slam.
Hamer.
í
Disadvantages of Science.
“Why not stay young? By 1950 science will
be able to turn back the clock for humanity.
— Woman’s paper.
Turn back the clock; they say I’ll be
A little child once more,
Dandled upon my mother’s knee,
Laughing at baby lore
In nineteen-fifty. If that’s done,
Let me stay fit and free,
Content with nineteen forty-one
With Lulu on my knee.
M. Q.
Problems Solved.
“I think women are problems.”
— Correspondent, “D.T.”
But the answer to them is often found
in the back of the housekeeping book.
There you’ll find jottings such as “Pay
baker.” Your problem is to decide
whether she meant to pay him for the
bread or for the six horses he backed for
her. Another item says, “Dress, IHd.”
Straightway you suspect this, because
directly below is “Tin of tongues, £4
11s. 6d.” Not even a millionaire’s tongue
would be worth £4 11s. 6d. if tinned ;
so you realise the clue to the “Dress,
Hid.” lie is the initials in brackets be-
side it—“T.W.I.T.T.O.M.”
You study this problem for an hour.
“Twittom” hardly makes sense ; doesn’t
sound like a frock-salon or anew
material. Finally, with the help of a
friend who’s been married longer than
you have, you solve the problem. “Dress,
£4 11s. 6d.” And the “twittom” busi-
ness? “That’s What I’ll Tell The Old
î
E.
The Thief of Life.
“Eight hours’ sleep a night for threescore
years and ten means nearly a quarter of a
century between the sheets —a mighty long time
in bed!” — Woman’s paper.
Less (in your case and mine):
One year three months initiating new
boys, toe-lining “Stinker” Jones and
pillow-fighting “B” dormitory during
boarding-school days.
Approximately two years seven months
lounging in shop doorways, shining the
seat of your pants on the porches of
flappers’ homes, missing last trams
and/or losing about 4s. 9d. nightly learn-
ing devil’s pool at Paddy Kelly’s.
Three years one month searching for
elusive keyholes after lodge meetings, re-
moving shoes for silence, falling over
aspidistras and being nagged till dawn
for “the drunken beast that you are’
and hearing that “Mum was right I
should never have married you.”
Four years four months listening to
late parties below you and radios above
you ; 18 months doubling four hearts on
principle ; nearly three years swiping at
and spraying mosquitoes, and five years
tossing and turning and fretting about
your misspent youth.
All that leaves actually only four years
two months during your entire lifetime
for sleep! Is it any wonder you’re tired
when you die?
PERCIVAL.
The Last Word.
You begin work at a small “screw.”
A slight increase makes you refer to it
with dignity as your “salary.” Another
increase and you have an “income.” Then
it’s your “financial position.” Later it’s
vaguely referred to as your “invest-
ments,” and finally you’re living on “por-
tion of the interest.” To your wife all
along, of course, the cash ha.s been only
one thing—an ever-increasing amount of
dough per week, out of which to give
you an ever-decreasing amount of pocket-
money.
ELLIS D.
Valediction.
My sweet, I love your glorious wealth
Of hair, your face alive with health.
Those shining eyes that seem to be
So fired with your vitality ! /
Still, spite of all these charms, I fear
That I must say good-bye , my dear:
I cannot, after yesternight,
Finance your healthy appetite!
T. W. NATHAN.
The Good Oil.
WHERE IS HEINRICH HIMMLER?
(Exclusive to the “Evening Looking-glass.”)
Reliable sources in Stockholm report
that neutral travellers, recently arrived
from Berlin, state that a rigid press and
radio censorship has prevented the news
being given to the world that Himmler,
chief of the dreaded Gestapo, has, fol-
lowing a violent quarrel with Goebbels,
been arrested at Hitler’s personal direc-
tion and been incarcerated in the castle
of Dammkopf in Pomerania. The usually
pro-Nazi “Aftonbladet” says that this
portends big changes in the Nazi hier-
archy.
Goring, whose hatred of the Fiihrer
is well known, is believed to have engi-
neered the arrest. It is also understood
that Dr. Ley, who detests Dr. Goebbels,
is believed to have said to Dr. Clodius
at a secret party session after the arrest,
“I’ll get the little clubfooted schwein-
hund, you see!”
{Special from our London representative,
Herringfried Dome.)
All London is seething with the news
of Himmler’s banishment to, it is be-
lieved, a labor battalion in Thuringia.
One of Fleet-street’s greatest editors said
to me jubilantly only this morning “We’ve
got them on the run! ” Never were words
more truly spoken. The white-anting
which, unknown to any outside Germany
except a few of us, has been undermining
the Nazi structure for months is at last
manifesting itself. Soon the edifice will
crash to the ground from its sawdust
foundations.
Now js the time for England to strike!
While the Nazi leaders are fighting among
themselves we should land three million
men on some weakly-held portion of the
French coast, and march to meet our
Allies in the east. Such a manifestation
of our determination would light such a
torch of revolt throughout enslaved
Europe as would cause tens of millions
to arise and join our ranks. What is
that showpiece the Navy doing that it
isn’t at this moment battering at Kiel
and Stettin and sowing terror in the
heart of every blond beast in the Reich?
Himmler’s Eclipse.
{Exclusive to the “Evening Looking-
glass.”)
The Zurich correspondent of the
“Daily Wail” quotes the Vichy-controlled
Lyons radio as the source of an uncon-
firmed message that Himmler’s fall arose
out of his threat to expose Goebbels for
a slighting reference to Hitler, while the
Fiihrer was away directing the Russian
campaign. Goebbels struck first, and
reported to the Fiihrer that Himmler was
plotting to depose several of the Old
Guard and seize power himself. This
sounds logical, as it is known that Hess
was very friendly with Himmler. Circles
close to Whitehall believe now that Hess
actually flew to Britain to test a peace
offer with a new democratic Germany
headed by a triumvirate of moderates—
Himmler, Hess and Streicher.
{Special from our London represen-
tative, Herringfried Dome.)
It has now been established that
Himmler has suffered a fate far worse than
was originally rumored. London is agog
with a report from the usually reliable
and well-informed Ankara correspondent
of the Swiss “Nationalzeitung” that
Himmler was handed over to the heads-
man for high treason. It is said that Hitler
wept bitterly as he signed the order, and
at the moment fixed for the execution
sobbed out “Mein beloved Heinrich”
before he fell in a fit.
A new Blood Purge, greater than that
of 1934, is expected at any moment.
Indeed, some sources go so far as to
predict that the death of Himmler will so
infuriate the masses that Hitler himself
will not dare to return to the capital.
More than ever it is now imperative that
the idle British army strike simultaneously
through Norway, Holland, Belgium,
France, Greece, Yugoslavia—aye, and
Germany itself. It would roll the Ger-
man military machine up in a week.
{Exclusive to the “Evening Looking-
glass.”)
Further light has now been
thrown on the reason for Himm-
ler’s detention at his Potsdam man-
sion. A message from the Helsinki
correspondent of the Turkish paper
‘Cumhurryup” says that Hitler’s
personal secret police, which have
been keeping the activities of the
Gestapo under surveillance, ripped
up the basement of Himmler’s head-
quarters and found the bodies of several
minor Nazi officials who were believed
to have been blackmailing Himmler and
Ley.
{From our London representative,
Herringfried Dome.)
All London is in a frenzy of excite-
ment over the news, reported late last
night by the Moscow Radio, that before
he died Himmler sent a message to Mr.
Churchill through a neutral ambassador,
telling him of tne hopeless condition of
German civilian morale, and that the
army is likely to revolt at any moment.
What are our army authorities waiting
for? We have the men and the equip-
ment. They should be flung, four million
strong, against the crumbling Nazi ram-
parts immediately. As Londonderry said
to me....
(Published in the London “Chimes”)
An official German communique issued
today states that Hitler has conferred on
Himmler the Grand Cross of the Order
of the Frankfurt and has named him
second in succession to Goring.
BO.


BANISH
NASTY •
GERMS with
d
0
f
n
S
s
i
r SLM E? C At "W
nMr JmJTW 4r
COUCH REMEDY
LANE'S
HOT IMMEDIATELY!
No Messy Pricking, Priming or Pumping.
The genuine Lane's Thermil Blue
Flame stove outdates all pressure
stoves. It gives instant heat. No
noise and it's absolutely SAFE !
One fill of kerosene
lasts 8 hours and the
stove is entirely odour-
less. NO expensive
burners to replace and
HALF THE PRICE of a
pressure stove 1 See
your local Store.
7# GENUINE •"/
fjhei’n ll *
W SILENT BURNING
©.
jJmffu/r
Busines, Rollery, Etc.
Mariboi (Papua) Rubber
“Astounding offer for the year 1941.”
That is the way Mariboi (Papua) Rubber
Estates, Ltd., offers “beneficial interests”
at £6O an acre in a rubber plantation in
Papua. Mariboi has a number of well-
known people connected with it, includ-
ing Captain A. S. Fitch, of the Steamships
Trading Co., Port Moresby. If Captain
Fitch, who knows Papua and rubber
pretty well, doesn’t know better than to
present a proposition in those terms,
even if it be a speculation, some of his
professional friends ought to tell him.
On the Mariboi board with him are a
chartered accountant and three directors
of other cos.
The Mariboi co. started off in
February, 1937. Two classes of people
are involved—shareholders and certifi-
cate-holders. Shareholders got in early.
The others can come in now. The
co. issued 33,875 £1 ords. to Tropi-
cal Products Pty., Ltd., in part con-
sideration for two 99-year leases over
about 9000 acres of land. Peter J.
Egan was to get 2500 Mariboi shares
from Tropical Products for services. To
Steamships Trading Co. 3000 ords. were
handed in full consideration for 3000
acres. The total 12,000 acres are in
the Kanosia district, “about 45 miles
water carriage from Port Moresby.” To
Tropical Products also £1125 in cash
was payable immediately and £16,875 in
cash over a period—at the rate of £1 17s.
6d. an acre as each “certificate of allot-
ment” is sold and after one-third the
purchase price has been paid.
Those certificates of allotment are
what the public is being “astoundingly
offered.” Shares weren’t available to
the public—at least, to any extent. In
the beginning only £3OOO was put into
Mariboi in cash ; it is apparent that allot-
ment-holders were expected to provide
most of the money for development and
cash payment to the vendors. Each
lot-holder gets a “beneficial interest”
in an acre of rubber plantation
(cared for until maturity) at a cost of
£6O. In the October, 1937, prospectus
the nominal value of each certificate was
given as , £5O. The £6O “astounding” offer
of 1941 is a 44-year terms price, and
since 1937 the co. has added 2000 to its
acreage, as well as changing the shape
of the area on a sketch-map.
According to the Story of John Smith,
a piece of light drama issued by the co.
to be read in conjunction with the co.’s
prospectus, nearly 2000 acres have been
sold since operations began. That repre-
sents big money—between £lOO,OOO and
£120,000 when all the cash is in. A sum
equal to 15 p.c. of the purchase money,
it is agreed, has to be set aside as a
guarantee fund administered by trustees.
The finance scheme is the “bond sys-
tem” over again. Shareholders promote
the enterprise, lease the land and sell
leasehold and maintenance services to
certificate-holders at so much per acre.
Shareholders may make a profit on the
sale of land and services to begin with ;
in Mariboi’s case they are entitled to
5 p.c. of the certificate-holders’ gross pro-
ceeds also when the rubber-trees come
into bearing six or seven years after
planting. And they are apparently en-
titled to that 5 p.c. whether there is a
profit on lot-holders’ behalf or not.
The co.’s prospectus and sales litera-
ture make frequent reference to the
affairs of Koitaki Para Rubber, a suc-
cessful Papuan rubber-grower. Koitaki
had 2172 acres under rubber last balance
day, and the plantations then stood in
the books at £75,260, an average of
slightly under £35 an acre. These plan-
tations were not yet all producing, but
over the last six years net expenditure
on them (allowing for amortisation of
the lease) has been not much more than
£lO,OOO, though the acreage has been just
about doubled in that time.
At prices ruling on Jan. 16 this year
Mariboi spoke of “returns” to lot-
holders of £25 an acre —about 40 p.c.
p.a. It was put this way: “Estimated
annual return on today’s prices, £25 per
acre per annum for a period of 90 years.”
That was based on rubber at 154<L, cost
at s^d. —“a clear profit of lOd. per lb.”
In the term to June 30, 1940,
Koitaki Rubber’s all-in costs, includ-
ing tax provision, were Bd. a pound
for the 540,0001 b. of rubber produced.
It might cost Mariboi less—or more.
Since Mariboi’s January estimates were
made the price of rubber in London has
averaged more than the equivalent of
154 d. Australian, but the world price is
a fluctuating one, and present war-time
quotes cannot be relied on to continue.
It is not unlikely that war prices will to
some extent be accompanied by war
costs. In addition to ordinary produc-
tion costs, in Mariboi’s case it should
not be forgotten that there is the extra
cost of 5 p.c. of the gross proceeds pay-
able to the co. (shareholders) as distinct
from lot-holders.
Rubber-growing in Papua has been
proved to be an economic proposition by
Koitaki Rubber and others. Koitaki,
however, pays no 40 p.c. dividends. It
distributed 124 p.c. for 1940 out of earn-
ings of 16.2 p.c. on capital, and over the
last six years its average div. has been
8 p.c. Admittedly they were years in
which expansion was financed out of
profits, but by the same financial method
capital account was kept down. They
were good years by comparison with
those preceding. Koitaki £1 shares may
now be bought at 235. on Sydney ’Change
—5O shares would cost £57 10s. Behind that
50 shares would be 1.44 acres of plan-
tation, more than half already bearing,
together with the plant, etc., necessary
to maintain the plantations and handle
the crop. The liquid position is comfort-
able ; current income £6 ss. How long
the Koitaki leases have to run The Bul-
letin doesn’t know,
Mariboi, with trading results yet to be
presented, may have better land better
situated than Koitaki’s. It has, it seems,
the same variety of trees. But at its
present stage it is a speculation—for lot-
holders, anyway—the atmosphere sur-
rounding which is not improved by the
bond method of finance employed or by
the “astounding offer” stuff in some of
the sales literature.
Australian Consolidated Industries
shares soared up to 495. 9d. last week.
A little while ago they astonished most
people by their strong rise to 435. at a
time when most other stocks were weak-
ening. Closing quotations for June were
435. 9d., and there had been sales as low
as 38s. during the early part of 1941.
The rise of 6s. a share within a fort-
night was not prompted by any official
announcement of increased benefits to
shareholders. Last div. rate was 8 p.c.
on the bonus-inflated capital, compared
with 7 p.c. in the preceding year. The
scrip reacted to 48s. later; at that
figure the yield on an 8 p.c. div. basis
is only 3.3 p.c., so that it is the future
that is being looked to —the not-distant
future. Possibly stories of a phenomenal
export trade in bottled beer have had
something to do with the gaiety in A.C.I.
scrip.
The widespread activity in all classes
of shares on ’Change early last week
brought to brokers’ faces the first thing
that has looked like a smile for months.
The Greek campaign crashed the market,
and only during the last week or so has
it shown any real sign of revival. Last
week’s buying was particularly strong in
some stocks —A.C.I. led the way with a
rise of 6s. a share since June, but Tooth
scrip at 535. was up 2s. 6d. in a fort-
night, North Broken Hill rose 3s. (to
41s. 6d.) in the same time, Bond’s Indus-
tries 2s. (to 28s. 3d.), and Electrolytic
Zinc at 535. 3d. ex rights was particularly
strong. Paper shares were inclined to
react, but textile issues, which share with
paper stocks one of the greatest war-
stimulated markets, were fully firm.
What created all this sudden activity?
It coincided, more or less, with the Ger-
man invasion of Russia —or at least with
the second and third weeks of the battle.
Apparently the market, to begin with,
didn’t think there would be any second
or third week, or expected that Hitler
would have been much further east by
that time. In Britain warnings were
sounded about general optimism, but
sharemarkets took no heed. There was
also the coincidence of Treasurer
Fadden’s statement about Canberra “risk-
ing the use of further bank credit” in
order to help finance the war. But, logi-
cal as the buying of shares in the face
of inflation may seem, The Bulletin
has never found inflation talk a bull
point in the eyes of the sharemarket,
often as it has recommended equity
shares in good industries as a protection
against inflation. The rise in Australian
prices in any case followed higher prices
in London and New York, so we may
fairly assume that the prime impetus has
come from overseas. In the circum-
stances, then, the whole upward move-
ment may be said to be wrapped up with
war prospects, and in that case anything
may happen to the market at any time.
This page, however, believes most Aus-
tralian industrial shares to be good in-
vestments irrespective of speculative
movements in the market. It is princi-
pally a matter of the best time to buy and
the best stocks to pick.
Towards the end of last week market
enthusiasm suffered some dampening.
Broken Hill Props, dropped to 395.,
but the stocks to suffer most were those
which previously had big rises, notably
North Broken Hill and A.C.I. Norths
came back to 395. 3d., while A.C.I. fell
to 48s. seller. Tooth lost Is., to 525.
The backward slide seemed to be a self-
influenced movement, since neither
London nor Wall-street was responsible,
London being firmer than usual and
Wall-street receding only slightly.
* * * *
The City Mutual Life ballot, which
was vigorously contested, resulted in a
decision in favor of the management.
Dr. R. I. Taylor received 53,740 votes,
W. Bennett (managing director) 53,514,
and C. B. Kearney 52,857. The opposi-
tion polled as follows: T. G. Murray
23,372, M. J. O’Neill 22,226 and Dr.
M. S. Veech 21,560. It is to be hoped
that the management will now be able,
after a stormy year, to settle down to its
proper job of looking after policy-
holders’ interests on a full-time scale.
* * * *
The passing last week to the Shipping
Control Board of control over 63 large
ships in the inter-State trade did not
cause any surprise. The move was fore-
cast by the Prime Minister in a broadcast
speech last month ; the only remarkable
thing is that the Government has carried
out this part of its programme more
quickly than its promise to outlaw strikes
in war industries. Adelaide Steam will
be the co. principally affected ; 16 of its
ships will be requisitioned, apparently
apart from the liners already taken over ;
Australian Steamships (Howard, Smith)
will lose 14, A.U.S.N, seven, Huddart
Parker six, Mcllwraith McEacharn six,
Melbourne Steam four, Jas. Paterson two,
las. Patrick four, Interstate Steamships
two, R. W. Miller and Co. two. Terms
will be according to the usual charter
party of the Control Board, and com-
pensation will be “determined soon.”
The latter part of the arrangement will
be welcome news to shipowners, who were
held in a state of suspense when shipping
was requisitioned earlier during the war.
“Periodical financial adjustments” are to
be made, based on “rates of hire, com-
missions and receipts from freights.”
The Shipping Control Board will be
comprised of an ex-Judge (knight Owen
Dixon), an elderly shipping man (John
Webb), and a civil servant (J. F. Murphy).
An initial delay in putting ships to sea
is expected on the waterfront while Gov-
ernment officials make an inventory of
everything from a needle to an anchor
on board each vessel.
% * * *
Harry Brown, once Director of Posts
and Telegraphs, later with British General
Electric, is to combine the job of Co-
ordinator-General of Public Works with
that of Director of War Organisation of
Industry, working in association with the
Minister, Eric Spooner.
# * * *
It was announced in Canberra last
week that contracts worth £4,247,296 for
blankets and knitted and woven materials
had been let by the Department of Supply
to mills throughout Australia. Blankets
figure for £1,577,888, knitted goods for
£422,034, and woven materials for
£2,247,374. These money figures may
cover some of the quantity details already
published, but in any case they repre-
sent great activity.


SEND FOR THIS BOOK
The 'Task “That r Taw Aien U/ani
Whether you have already made your Will, or whether
you have postponed the matter, it is suggested that you
write for a copy of the book, " The Task That Few
Men Want.'' It will be sent to you free of charge. It
is a book which outlines a practical plan for ensuring
the protection and security of your interests, and the
faithful execution of the wishes your Will expresses—
without risk and without placing any burden on others.
BURNS PHILP TRUST GO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET
SYDNEY
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
EJ
SBS
m
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone;
’Phone;
CB3BO.
M 6505.
m.
■
m
10
10
for
20 for 10
50 for 4'3
100 for 8 4
made specially
For greater
smoking en/ogment
CRAVENA
am***
PREVENT SORE THROATS
Maoriland, which has practised all the
nonsense that financial “wizards” like
Forde, Canberra recommend, is
sobering up of its own accord. In June
Mr. Lee, a breakaway from what was
Savage’s Labor party, roared up the
Fraser Government for paying approxi-
mately £10,000,000 off its overdraft with
the Central Reserve Bank. Lee is one of
the most radical “Labor” men Maoriland
has ever seen, and his criticism was an
unintended tribute to the returning sanity
of the Government; its action indicates
that it has had so much of inflationary
measures that it doesn’t want any more.
When presenting the Budget last week
Mr. Nash pointed with pride to the
fact that since war broke out the retail-
pi ice index in M.L. has increased only
6y p.c., compared with 81 p.c. in Aus-
tralia and 11\ p.c. in Britain. Trading
banks are reducing their overdraft rates
to a minimum of 4 p.c., maximum 5 p.c.,
and deposit rates have been dropped
accordingly. War expenditure, it is esti-
mated, will cost M.L. just under
£70,000,000 in 1941-42. That is equal
to £42 per head. (If Australia spends
£250,000,000 on war in 1941-42 it will
represent a bit over £35 a head.) Maori-
land’s latest figure includes £31,000,000
to be borrowed from, and £5,000,000
debt repayment to, the British Govern-
ment, and it compares with a total outlay
for 1940-41 estimated at £37,500,000 this
time last year. M.L. is going to spend
£14,673,000 on social-security benefits
during 1941-42, and £13,000,000 of loan
money on national development. Public
works, a bone of contention last year,
are to be restricted. The Budget
avoids any increase in taxation, and
there are to be no compulsory loans
of the type raised last year. War loans
to be offered will carry 1\ p.c. (matur-
ing 1946) and 3 p.c. (1954).
* * * *
In Townsville Treasurer Fadden,
referring to the £60,000,000 ’‘gap”
in the forthcoming Budget, said many
Australians were not pulling their
weight. If they don’t pull their weight
voluntarily, he said, other means will
have to be employed, adding that there
were three types of menaces in Australia
—defeatists, fifth columnists and the
fellow who was prepared to make ail
the sacrifices possible provided he sacri-
ficed the other fellow. “Bank credit
expansionists usually want to see the
other fellow sacrificed ; sometimes they
really believe that by credit expansion
sacrifices can be made without any
sacrifices.
* * * *
Amazing how blithely some Austra-
lians talk about inflation and how “in-
evitable,” etc., it is. Inflation is one of
the ever-present dangers of war, especially
total war, but it is neither desirable nor,
on a substantial scale, inevitable. That
inflation is more a political, than an
“inevitable” matter is demonstrated by
the fact that the dictatorships have largely
avoided inflation—in Germany’s case,
anyway. The waste of war is in itself
inflationary, and it is only by compen-
satory taxation that war waste can be
prevented from causing price inflation.
Low interest rates are dependent on the
stifling of inflation. After the war is
over, and when restrictions on im-
ports begin to loosen, we may find
that some inflation of the exchange
rate will be necessary to counter whatever
rise in costs has actually taken place in
this country. For instance, since war
broke out the basic wage has risen Bs. a
week. That represents the measure of
inflation in the cost of living. Inflation
internally without inflation externally
throws a tremendous burden on the
export industries. And both kinds of in-
flation are disruptive.
* * * *
The conversion of a £74,000,000 loan
carrying 4 p.c., maturing on Nov. 15,
will be the second big operation of the
kind carried out in the last three years
In December, 1938, a conversion o
£71,000,000 was put through, the new
interest rate being 3| p.c. Depending on
the term, the conversion in November
next should be on conditions much more
favorable to the Government. The rate
or rates may average 3 p.c. or under,
But the operation may be rather embar-
rassing during a year in which heavy war
expenditure has to be provided for. In
1938 the ordinary “works” loan was de-
ferred two months so that the larger
operation would be assured of success,
* * * *
Because of a further increase in living
CQsts? Commonwealth basic wage in
s yc j ney g OCS U p j S- a week, and in Mel-
bournej Adelaide and Hobart the rise is
be same. No increase applies in the case
Q ueens i an( j but Westralian wages go
* * * •
,
One of the mysteries of the share-
market in some people s eyes is the price
paid for scrip in Wellington Alluvials
Here is a gold stock that so far hasn t
had what one could call a break, yet deal-
ings in the vicinity of 4s. represent 100
p.c. premium on the scrip. No divs. have
yet come to light, and on performance
to date it will take a long time to repay
the market price when these do start to
flow. However advantageous the asso-
ciation of B.H.P. may be mining m-
vestors should remember that Wellington
Alluvials is still a goldmine, not a steel-
works or a Barrier silver-lead show,
* * * *
G. T. Coles has declared a div. at the
unchanged rate of 171 p.c. The an-
nouncement was a pleasant surprise to
t be ma rket, which lifted the price of the
o rds. by 2s. immediately (to 625.), at
which figure the yield is 5.8 p.c. The
occasion is one that draws attention to
Woolworths ords.; these are of ss. each,
an( j ma y be bought at 165., yielding 5.6
pc> jf the usual 171 p.c. div. is main-
tained in this case, too. In recent years
Australia’s two leading chain-store con-
cerns have shown similar profits in rela-
bon to capital, with Woolworths slightly
j n tbe j eac j Woolworths shares at present
look good buyjng-
* * * *
E arn i n g S i n the cement industry are
standing up well, except in Tasmania,
where the shipping shortage has affected
Go , iath Kandos Cement, the N.S.W.
control arm of Australian Portland
Cement pty ? h as declared a div. at the
unchanged rate of 121 p.c. Income from
A K de n i;
aide Cement has had an improved year.
* * *
Germany, according to figures by air
mail from the U.S.A., is devoting 60
p.c. to 72 p.c. of its national income to
armaments and the army.” The U.S.A. s
corresponding figure is only 12-2 p.c.
Britain’s effort is “more than 50 P- c ->
and a U.S. financial authority doubts
whether the U.K, will be able to divert
much more of its production to arma-
merits. Canada’s effort is costing upwar
of 25 p.c. In 12 months the U.S.A. s war
production, it is estimated, will consume
25 p.c, of the country s national income,
It will then be somewhere near the situa-
tion now prevailing in Australia, though,
naturally, the shoe will pinch in a different
way. The U.S.A. shouldn t go particu-
larly short of petrol, for instance (thougti
voluntary rationing is now asked lor)
but already there is a great hoarding of
sugar in the States. A scarcity of rubber
and tin is also likely. Americans have
been buying cars m advance of require-
ments, believing that there will be a
shortage later, and canned foods may be
hard to buy soon, owing to a dearth of
farm labor, apparently caused by the
great war-time prosperity in U.S.A.
manufacturing centres.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES.
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT'S" Understudy)
Form reversals are always to be ex-
pected on rain-affected tracks during
winter months, but small sections of the
crowd at Flemington on Saturday voiced
their disapproval after Murmuring had
won the Lillimur Two-year-old and
Koorenbeen had taken the Murrumbeena
Handicap.
Murmuring had finished last in the
Myross Handicap at Flemington two
weeks earlier. But it was only his second
race, and he veered off the course after
being one of the leaders to the turn. That
outing, combined with subsequent work,
improved him considerably, and, although
still somewhat green, he ran much more
kindly on Saturday. Behind Leo James
and Portfolio rounding the bend, he hit
the front when fairly on the way for
home, and won stylishly from Portfolio
and the favorite, Reg, who came from
behind on this occasion.
Murmuring has been in the boom for
some time. Knowalls assert that Frank
Musgrave has another Ajax in this
Maorilaiwbred son of Bulandshar and
Tea Tattle. That’s a pretty tall order,
but Murmuring, who cost John Wren
2000gns. as a yearling, seems certain to
develop into a good galloper. In appear-
ance he is a beautiful colt, and, all going
well, it is intended to give him his chance
against the best of his age in the A.J.C.
Derby. He may have another race in
Melbourne before he leaves for Sydney
in company with Pandect, also owned by
Wren, who won the A.J.C. Derby last year.
When Koorenbeen defeated Brave
Lady and Heart’s Desire in the Murrum-
beena Handicap he recorded his fifth
win since Jack Cook brought him from
Sydney. Always well-placed, he received
a nice run on the rails when the pace-
maker, The Adjutant, veered out in the
straight, and that was the end of the race.
Objectors hooted because he had been
only seventh to Somerset over a similar
distance on the same course a week
earlier ; but, according to Cook, Ashley
Reed informed him that the gelding would
have won that race had he not been
shut out when going for an opening
which closed almost as suddenly as it
appeared. Distance form in Melbourne
has been particularly hard to follow
lately, but the explanation probably lies
in the fact that these races are being con-
tested by a poor collection of stayers.
There is not such a great deal between
the best and the worst of them, and luck
in running plays an important part in
the result.
Koorenbeen was not entered for either
of the Cups, his trainer not considering
him up to that standard. Big disappoint-
ment of the Murrumbeena Handicap was
the clear-cut favorite, Son of Aurous,
who was hopelessly placed throughout,
and finished second-last.
Several Australian Hurdle and Steeple-
chase candidates were among the runners
at Flemington. North Cape and Solecism
won their respective races, but did not
defeat strong fields. However, North
Cape finished second to Kevastar in the
Australian Hurdle last year, and appar-
ently is back to his best.
North Cape’s form in the Keilor
Hurdle won by Bureaucrat —he finished
second-last —did not say much for his
chance in the Leamington Hurdle, but he
had raced only twice since a spell, and
the betting on Saturday suggested that
he had done well meantime. From
twenties his price firmed to eights, and,
hitting the front about a mile and a
quarter from home, he won very easily
from Merridale and Shanghai. Shanghai,
who races in the same interests as the
G.N. Hurdle winner Methuen, finished
strongly, even though a poor third, and
might pay expenses before his return
home. As an Australian Hurdle proposi-
tion, however, he is hardly as attractive
as Methuen, and Merridale will have to
improve considerably to have a chance
in that race.
North Cape is a nine-year-old. Before
being taken in hand by trainer W. Crim-
Jisk he had broken down. Swimming
assisted in his recovery.
Solecism, who was an early fancy for
the G.N. Steeple, but was withdrawn
from that race, gave a brilliant exhibi-
tion of fencing in defeating Davanthus
and Leichar in the Godfrey, Watson
Steeplechase. He was challenged for the
early lead «by Lacus, and later by St.
Robert, and, although his task was made
Jess difficult when Davanthus’s rider lost
his whip after the last fenqe, he would
have won in any circumstances. Solecism
is one of many good fencers that have
carried the “S. A. Rawdon” colors, but
the distance of the Australian Steeple-
chase may be beyond him. He was out-
stayed by Cheery Jack, National Debt
and Sachem in the Kensington Steeple
on G.N. Hurdle day, and that perform-
ance led to the scrapping of G.N. Steeple
plans. Solecism is a brother to Apos-
trophe, runner-up to Saul in the last
Australian Cup.
Manstar, a three-year-old Manfred
gelding, recorded his best win when he
defeated Password and Nictate in the
first division of the Kambrook Trial. He
hit the front when fairly on the way for
home, and won well enough to indicate
that it might not be long before he re-
peats the performance in better company.
He is trained by ex-jockey J. Antonio,
who has had his share of success with
Contact. Sir Drake and All Saints, first
and second favorites, let their backers
down badly. There was no excuse for
Sir Drake, who finished last after sharing
the lead round the turn, but All Saints
was skittled and knocked back second-
last early in the race. That settled his
chance completely.
Most of Gay Lothario’s stock are good
in soft ground, and Miss Rosita is no
exception. Starting at 33 to 1 for the
second Kambrook Trial division, she
was fairly well-placed from the start, was
forced to go wide at the turn and ran on
well to win from Hectare and Wanganui.
Hectare was favorite, and may have been
unlucky. He received a check early in
the race, but he, in turn, interfered with
a couple of runners after rounding the
home-turn. His rider, S. Smith, was sus-
pended for a month. •
In the Malvina Welter Swettenham,
backed from fourteens down to tens,
must have appreciated the heavy going.
Anyway, he was in one of his galloping
moods, and, after sharing the lead with
Courage rounding the turn, cleared away
to win easily from Cumulus and Cour-
age. Cumulus was always favorite, and,
but for being forced back soon after the
start, would have made the finish more
interesting. The Adelaide gelding
Shutone, now trained by Frank Godby,
was backed from tens to fives, but fin-
ished only fifth. He was shut in at the
top of the straight, however, and might
repay following. Portico and Denis also
shaped well enough to indicate success
in the near future.
* * * *
With divisions spreading the original
six events out to nine, the programme
for the Canterbury Park Club’s July
meeting on Saturday looked, on paper,
like a benefit affair for the humbler sorts
of feed-eaters. It proved agreeably de-
ceptive generally keen racing; the
presence of a horse who’d give quality
to any meeting, from picnic class to
Derby day; also, riding that showed
there’s nothing much wrong with the
standard of horsemanship in Sydney at
the moment, with one example deserving
to go into the records as a classic.
The notable exception to the mostly
modest horseflesh was the best-looking
of all the Buzzards, and very likely also
the best of them, which is sweeping
praise, even for a colt as splendid in
form and appearance as Yaralla. Having
his first run after a spell, with only a
few weeks’ preparation, he carried 9.13
and, almost without effort, equalled the
track record for five furlongs. That
record is not of much account, being
2|sec. outside All Love’s Commonwealth
time ; but, weight, effortlessness and other
considerations brought into the reckon-
ing, it was a sterling performance.
Yaralla was a fair enough treat for the
eyes as an early two-year-old; now,
stepping into his third year, with the
Derbies, Legers and whatnot ahead, he
is a superb epitome of the thoroughbred
in Australia: a rich golden-red chestnut,
powerful enough to carry any amount
of weight, but gracefully proportioned
with it.
The First Division Nursery field which
Yaralla defeated was a rather ordinary
lot, in performance and appearance both.
Possibly out of respect for Yaralla,
one or two with recent fair form, who
might have helped make a race of it,
did not accept. The best of the field, by
past record and her run on the day, was
the Double Remove filly Cradle Song,
just big enough to look nice on a well-
nourished bookmaker’s watchchain. Like
many another of her sex who has shown
very early brilliance —on the race-track,
as elsewhere—she has proved short in
sticking quality. Still, in that field she
looked the only possible danger to Yaralla,
though even the books —gambling wildly
in asking only 2 to 1 on —must have given
her a very thin chance of bringing home
their Sunday roast. An alert, prettily-
made but colorless little person, she
looked like a toy beside the grand colt.
It was, in fact, a shame to take the
money.
Cook was on Cradle Song, McMena-
min on Yaralla, but for all the horse-
manship that was called for in the event
the monkeys out of Wirths’ Circus
would have done. It * was entirely a
matter of horse against horse, the colt
trailing the filly till they turned into the
straight, then ranging up outside her
and keeping her company to the winning-
post. Considering the way she has lately
been turning it in, the filly showed sur-
prisingly game when challenged, and the
winning margin was only half-a-neck, but
that was wholly a matter of chivalry as
between a gentleman and a lady. Cradle
Song had Ist. 11b. the better of the
weights; Blonde Dame (third, three
lengths away) had a. 2st. 11b. pull on
the topweight.
The event which called forth horse-
manship of the very best brand was
otherwise of small consequence —an En-
courage Stakes second division. Mc-
Menamin, who had the mount on the
topweight, Jubilee, is the recognised
master at getting away from the barrier.
For once he was apparently hopelessly
left. Apart from another barrier-dweller,
Jubilee was trailing last, lengths behind
the tail-enders of a fairly big and fairly
strung-out field, over the first couple of
furlongs. McMenamin looked to be sit-
ting still on him, as if he had given the
job up as hopeless. Even to approach
winning from there in a six-furlong
scamper, with the actual leading bunch
going fast the best part of a furlong in
front, looked utterly impossible.
*••••*
With three furlongs to go, and the
leaders beginning to run around the
sweeping turn, Jubilee had passed only
one horse, or rather it had dropped
back past him, McMenamin kept his
mount on the rails. The Canterbury turn,
though reputedly built on American-
model lines, looks a peculiar bend, and
a good many horses seem to take it a
bit wide. McMenamin probably kept
that in mind. Still riding without any
flurry, he kept inside the few who were
beginning to fall out, and really moved
on his mount only right on the bend.
There was just room to come up on the
inside, and, though there were still at
least eight horses well in front of him
in the straight, there was bare galloping
room along the straight rail ahead if
nothing happened. Ridden with a will
that fairly lifted him along, and respond-
ing with a finishing run that might have
been expected from a Manfred but hardly
from an Encourage Staker, Jubilee came
on and through to win in the last stride.
The official margin was a head, with Fan
Dancer second, and Ponto third half a
length away.
In the opening Hurdle event the fall of
the favorite, Glaucus, at one of the jumps
in the straight the first time round left
the procession without much interest for
most of those present. King Otho, the
most experienced of the rest, had little
trouble winning, going to the front
nearly half a mile from home, and jump-
ing well to beat Bright Court very easily
by three lengths, with Tower Hill third,
half a dozen lengths back.
On the strength of a Randwick win
at his last start, Martheus was made a
2-to-l favorite for the Flying, but, hard-
ridden to lead early from outside at the
barrier, he never appeared to be going
well, was in bother at the bend, and soon
dropped right out of it. The winner was
the Veilmond three-year-old Valve, and
it looked a performance worth noting
down, even (hough he had nothing to
carry. Well back early, he was com-
petently handled by Parsons, finishing
with an impressive burst over the last
furlong to just touch Denita off on the
post. Reception, back from the bush, was
only a neck away, third—also a promi-
ising run. As honest as they’re bred,
Denita, after winning three in a row,
was unluckily beaten over the Moore-
field mile a week earlier, and in this event
was even more unlucky not to win.
Young Thompson got one nearer to
being the season’s leading jockey in win-
ning the Nursery second division on the
El Cacique colt Cacique. The winning
margin was only half a head, but should
have been more ; Cacique ran greenly.
Garrison—a Melfort-Gloriole gelding—
just failed to run down Cacique;
Makatha was a moderate third. Line-
mond, equal favorite at fours in an open
betting race, ran poorly and needs an-
other race or two.
• •••*•
The Canterbury Handicap (1 mile 3
furlongs) was another event won by
horsemanship, though not of a very'spec-
tacular order. With Cook aboard, St.
Constant was made a strong favorite.
Climax, ridden to the front by young
Mulley, evidently intent on winning all
the way, beat off the early attempt of
Bartle on Stylish to take the lead from
her. Stylish was galloping in anything
but stylish shape as they went out of the
straight after covering three furlongs,
and Cook apparently thought they were
taking it too easily. Old Baldy responded
to his urging, but wanted to loaf again
all along the back stretch. Keeping at
him, Cook had him close up when they
turned for home. He was galloping
more generously as he easily ran up to
Climax with a furlong to go, but Cook
still had to ride him to keep him at it.
Climax hung on well enough to be beaten
by only half a length. Climax’s run was
very good ; so waS'Beau Frere’s; he was
galloping well at the end ; a close third.
«••••«
Both Cook and Thompson added to
the day’s record of capital horsemanship
in the Encourage first division. Thomp-
son had the better of it from the barrier,
quickly gaining a break that would have
won the race had Manlock been good
enough. Cook’s mount, Innisfail, over-
hauled the leader at the top of the
straight, from where they singled out and
made a two-horse event of it, locked
together and both vigorously ridden.
Innisfail won by a neck, Windbrook
showing his best for some time to col-
lect third money.
• • • • . i
Roxford showed some of his earlier
dash to make the running to the home
turn over the Ashfield Handicap mile
and a furlong, but then dropped out,
leaving the finish to the other front
runners, Trade Mark and Mortine, Trade
Mark willing fairly well by half a
length, with Triggerman, looking like an
early winner, in third place.
In the last event on the long programme,
the Veilmond four-year-old Canvasser at
last lived up to hitherto endlessly dis-
appointing promise. Podmore, who had
been caught on him right at the post on
the previous Saturday, had him a couple
of lengths in front as soon as they got
going, and kept him moving all the way
to beat Majunga and Blue Gala very
easily. Canvasser won well enough, and
usually once they do win horses with his
sort of record go on winning. But it
was very so-so company, and, apart from
that, Royal Emblem (fourth) galloped
better than anything else up the straight,
after a very rough passage.
* * * *
Some of the hacks that occasionally
raced in the early days of the sport in
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before acceptances.)
Aberfeldie Hurdle: Bureaucrat,
1 ; North Cape, 2 ; Naverino, 3.
Cooee Handicap;. Alcmena, 1 ;
Portable, 2 ; Tea Cake, 3.
A. V. Hiskens Steeple: Bright-
ello, 1 ; Highland March, 2;
Sachem, 3.
Glen Orla Handicap: Our Boy,
J : Fountain, 2 ; Grandson, 3.
Derrimut Handicap: High Title,
1 ; Knight’s Armour, 2 ; Operatic, 3.
Sunset Welter: Tolaga Bay, 1 ;
Bluebeard, 2 ; Astounding, 3.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1051 of 1941.
BETWEEN EDITH BATEMAN Petitioner and
ARTHUR ARCHIBALD BATEMAN Respon-
dent.
TO ARTHUR ARCHIBALD BATEMAN late
of King’s Cross in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH BATE-
MAN has commenced a suit against you in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office at this Court on or
before the Fourteenth day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HUNT AND HUNT, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. must have been decidedly tough.
The Australian Sportsman’s Calendar,
published in 1857, included results at the
Shellharbor meeting the previous year.
There were only three races on the pro-
gramme, but, as it took 10 heats to de-
cide them, racegoers had plenty for their
money. The Publicans’ Purse of £lO,
“for untrained hacks,” ran into five heats
of a mile each. There were eight starters,
and six ran in each heat. A horse named
Unknown was second in the first three
heats, and then won the next two and
the prize. Three other horses won a
heat each, but did not saddle up as well
as Unknown. The latter ran in the open-
ing race of the day, the Wentworth
Stakes, \\ mile heats at w.f.a., but was
withdrawn after running nowhere in the
first heat. His subsequent five runs sug-
gested that his failure at his first appear-
ance must have been due to lack of
work. An all-day marathon would have
suited him.
# # * »
An English writer says it seems strange
to see horses ridden in their work on the
Heath at Newmarket by girls, instead of
the customary stable lads. Trainers, how-
ever, have had to engage female help, as
many of the younger stablemen have
either joined the services or are doing
some kind of war work. In Sydney there
is a shortage of stable hands, but it is
improbable any move will be made
towards the employment of girls.
* * * *
Australians who are concerned in
thoroughbred-breeding will be interested
in America’s sales of last year. Year-
lings sold at auction totalled 1257 —a
greater number than in any previous
season —for an aggregate of $1,492,520,
an average of approximately £355. Of
these 696 were sold at Saratoga. The
average was below that of 1939.
The highest price paid for any young-
ster was $15,000 (approximately £A4625)
for a colt by Pharamond 11, and, as
American writers are never tired of hold-
ing forth on the superiority of their own
stallions, jt is worth noting that imported
sires did best at last year’s sales. They
were:
Lots. Average.
Blenheim II 7 $6814
Pharamond II 10 6155
Sir Gallahad 111 11 5818
Bull Dog 15 4060
Gallahad 111 and Bull Dog are
brothers, being by Teddy from Plucky
Liege, by Spearmint; Blenheim II is by
Blandford, and Pharamond II by Phalaris
from Selene. In 1939 fillies advanced
consider ably in value, but last year they
dropped, averaging less than half the
prices paid for colts. As a result of
Whirlaway’s recent wins, yearlings by
Blenheim II are likely to make a high
average next year.
* * * *
Of recent years few time records have
stood for long at Randwick, but one that
has held good is that of Mr. Kerry
at 11 furlongs. He won at that dis-
tance in 2.18 in March, 1933, Lough
Neagh’s 1.23 for. seven furlongs in Sep-
tember, 1937, has not been improved
upon, though a year later Mohican
equalled it. Phar Lap’s for
miles in 1930 is still the record at Rand-
wick, where, however, there is only one
race of that distance each year. Beau
Vite’s 2.42 for thirteen furlongs was the
latest to go at that track, Jymjon re-
ducing the time to 2.41|.
* * * *
The idea of photographing each race
from start to finish is being strongly
advocated in America. It is contended
it would tell the public exactly what
occurred in every race, doing away with
a lot of “should-have-won” comment;
would detect bad riding or worse, poor
starts, place the blame where it be-
longed when a horse went down and
when one horse impeded another. Com-
plete pictures are taken of the Kentucky
Derby, Santa Anita Handicap, Preakness
and Belmont Stakes, and, though it would
be costly, most American clubs are in a
position to stand it. The New York State
Racing Commission has been considering
the proposition for several months, but
though its members say it would be
worth a trial they have not yet taken
official action.
* * * *
Breeders of thoroughbreds in the whole
of Australia have increased greatly of
recent years.* In the recently-issued Vol.
XIX of the Australian Stud Book, 1310 are
represented, against 902 in Vol. XVII,
published in 1934. For the same period
mares included in the Stud Book have
advanced from 4620 to 5742. So far as
breeders for the market are concerned
they have not increased in N.S.W. of
recent years. At the Easter sales in Syd-
ney, 61 breeders, counting partnerships
as one, were represented, and they were
not all located in this State. At the 1938
sales 83 breeders figured in Inglis and
Son’s catalogue.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Mickey Miller retains the featherweight
title as a result of his bout over the
championship distance with Billy Rains-
bury at West Melbourne. He proved too
strong and persistent for the Victorian ;
but William was on his feet at the end.
* * * *
They like value for their money at the
Carlton (Sydney) suburban arena which
supplies its clientele with stoush and
grapple on Wednesday evenings. Last
Wednesday night’s bill was a 12-rounder,
two six-rounders and a four-rounder, and
after all that a spread of mauling to
follow; best seats, three bob. In the
main scrap an English welter by the
name of Jim Molloy outed a fairly tough
local lad, Wally Smith, inside a couple
of rounds. It was the first appearance of
James in these parts, and he looked a
pretty tough customer.
* * * *
That wonderful importation the “no-
foul rule” received another sorry adver-
tisement at Sydney Stadium last week.
Apparently the most favored interpreta-
tion of the so-called “rule” is that you
can wade in for all you’re worth below
the belt, and if the other cove is incon-
venienced thereby that’s just too bad —
for him. Above the belt the old fouls
still appear to be recognised as such, even
when the breach looks to be merely tech-
nical, if not accidental, and whether the
other party is inconvenienced or not. In
a scrap between Hockey Bennell and Bill
Fadden, Hockey looked to be nicely
ahead on points when, with a minute of
“Slip it over the bollard, mister.”
the 10-rounder to go, he was disqualified
for hitting Bill on the back of the neck.
Bill was standing with his back against
the ropes at the time, so if the punch was
a genuine rabbit-killer Hockey must have
learnt the art of delivery under Clarrie
Grimmett. The point, however, is that
Bill didn’t seem in the slightest put out
by the punch, yet it won him the fight.
Fighting later in the week at Leich-
hardt, Hockey seemed to be once again
out of luck. He appeared to win, but
had the decision given against him on
points at the end of 12 rounds. Still, to
be really worthy of the Australian welter
title, he should have been so far ahead of
his opponent, Young Gildo, that nobody
could have had any doubts about it. The
Filipino, who first came to these parts
umpteen years ago, is now a veteran by
ring reckoning, and Hockey should have
walked in. But that’s Hockey all over —
a really classy scrapper when the title’s at
stake, and more often than not an indif-
ferent performer when it isn’t.
* * * «
Another scrapper wearing the handle
of “Young” and less so than he used to
be —Young Campbell—upset arrange-
ments when he outed Australian heavy-
weight champion Billy Britt inside a
couple of rounds at Newcastle on Satur-
day night. It had been arranged that
Ron Richards would return from retire-
ment to engage Britt at Sydney Stadium.
The date fixed clashed with one already
taken by the Leichhardt people, who
declined flatly to oblige the Rushcutter
Bay crowd by putting their prior arrange-
ment off. Richards v, Britt wouldn’t
have been up to much, anyhow; with
anything like a decent fight on the same
night elsewhere it would have been
worse. Rushcutter Bay backed down.
Britt thereupon ventured to the coal
country to meet Campbell, who hadn’t
had a scrap for 12 months. Bill stopped
a violent left with his jaw, draped over
the ropes, slid to the floor and was
counted out. So Richards v. Britt is off.
Very sad; but it was doomed to be
sadder still had it taken place.
Footbrawl
The Melbourne football barracker isn t
what he used to be. The combination of
bad weather and petrol rationing re-
duced attendances at Saturday’s V.F.
League games to about 43,000, com-
pared with 67,200 at the previous Satur-
day’s games.
As the result meant one or the other
being pushed out of the lead, the Essen-
don-Carlton match at Essendon was
picked as the match of the day but drew
only a bare 10,000. The Blues, who are
climbing fast, made hacks of the opposi-
tion, their forwards going through the
defence from an always-dominant centre
to the tune of 18.14 to 12.11.
At Richmond, Collingwood downed
the leaders with a fine display of wet-
weather football, ’Wood’s short game
and the elusiveness of its little men giving
it a five-goal lead at half-time. Then
the Tigers settled down to a third-quarter
that left ’Wood standing and Richmond
a goal ahead. ’Wood got two quick goals
to begin the last. Richmond answered
with three. Then ’Wood ran away to
win 13,14 to 10.14.
At Hawthorn the locals engaged Foots-
cray in the local swamp and gave them
a great fright by hanging grimly to their
tail all the way. ’Scray skidded to a
15.12-11.14 win.
Down at Geelong the North Mel-
bourne team swapped miskicks, aimless
runs and the lead with their hosts, who
filled in their idle moments by kicking
enough behinds to win, 13.21-14,11. It
cost Geelong its distinction of being the
only team with one win for the season.
It now has two.
Fitzroy-Melbourne was a crowded
affair of stolid ruck-work and spoiling
play, score and answering score in a
wearing welter of bumps, skids and mud,
with an occasional mark standing out
like Mt. Macedon on a clear day. Mel-
bourne lasted the longer to beat the
straight-footed Maroons by 18.18 to 16.8.
Not sure whether they had got some-
how into Albert Park lake, Saints and
Sowths floundered round looking for the
ball most of the time, what time Cleary
and Matthews (Sowth) defeated Miller
(Saints) by 14.12 to 8.6. The three were
about the only men playing real football
among the herd wallowing in the slush.
Richmond, Melbourne and Carlton now
share the lead, with Essendon and Col-
lingwood next and Footscray and South
Melbourne still in the race,
* * * *
East v. University in the Sydney
Rugby Union competition was a grand
match; fast, keen and grim from go to
stop. A penalty goal gave East the lead,
but Uni. was in front, 5-3, at half-time,
thanks to a converted try. Afterwards
things went along in much the same de-
termined manner, a nice try putting East
ahead, 6-5. There was no other score.
The result places East on top, with
’Varsity second. East has been playing
a good honest type of Rugby, the for-
wards working hard, as forwards should,
the backs never shirking a tackle. The
team has been beaten only once this season
—by University in the first round, 10-9.
West has had its first win, a 9-3 vic-
tory over Drummoyne. The Parramatta
forwards keep their team well up on the
competition table. They paved the way
for a 12-8 win over North. St. George
bolted away from Gordon, whose
tackling was weak —19 to 3.
Manly adopted Blitz tactics against
Randwick. The Villagers threw every-
thing into the first few minutes and had
14 points on the board before Randwick
realised what had hit it. By half-time
the score was \9-nil, with Randwick
only then beginning to come out of its
daze. Its rally was too late: Manly,
19 to 9.
* * * *
With a N. S. Wales Rugby League team
showing in Brisbane (it beat Queensland
23-16, and there followed the familiar
squeal about “injuries”) the Sydney
League put on an A.I.F. v. City affair.
The soldiers could have had little time
for toying with footballs; nevertheless,
they put City through properly, 33-23.
* * * *
“China” and “Australia” rolled their
Soccer ball out at Newcastle on Satur-
day. “Australia” won by five goals to
two. That makes the tally two all, with
the decider to be played at Brisbane.
Miscellaneous
“Sevener”; The £2OO challenge match,
72 holes, N. von Nida v. W. Bolger,
got more publicity than a film-star’s first
divorce. It was played at
Royal Sydney and The
Lakes, and N. von N.,
getting an early break of
7 up, held it to the
finish. In collections,
etc., £l6O was raised for
the Red Cross, N, von
N. demanded a tenner
for appearance money or
exes, or something, and
there was what the
papers called a “heated
scene” between him and
the P.G.A. Complaining
that it cost him a tenner
to get into form, N. von
N. went all temperamen-
tal and swore that unless
he got the £lO they could
keep their exhibition or
challenge matches, so
there. To which the
P.G.A. replied that it
had collected £564 for
patriotic funds and
allowed 15s. a day to
members playing in
matches. Mr. Bolger,
who had lost £2OO, said
nothing.
* * *
“Clooter”: Golfers
forced by petrol ration-
■ing to consider means of getting to
distant courses might try the method
adopted by the Elsternwick (Vic.) club.
They hire a six-horse drag for visiting.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: When A. C. MacLaren was
captaining an English Test team in Mel-
bourne Bob Crockett was umpire. Chat-
ting after a match MacLaren happened
to remark on the fact that he had never
seen a bat willow in Australia. Crockett
was interested and asked him to send
some cuttings when he got back to the
Cold Land. From the six cuttings Mac-
Laren sent Crockett made a start with
a plantation on his estate at Daylesford,
and there are now 5000 trees with a
twofold purpose. They give a con-
vincing illustration of how erosion can
be prevented on a stream, and they sup-
port the cricket-bat industry.


Women’s Letter’s
From Sydney
“Ships,” says Sir Ronald Cross, the
new High Commissioner for the United
Kingdom. “Babies,” says Sir Evelyn
Wrench, founder of the Overseas League
and the English-Speaking Union. Both
arrived in Sydney early last week, and
each told us, at once, what was in his
opinion vital to our own and the Empire’s
welfare. Two right, this time.
Sir Evelyn and Lady Wrench, their
family likeness (they are cousins) plain
to be seen, were the guests of the Over-
seas League last week. Sir Evelyn
founded the League 25 years ago, and
thousands of Australians visiting London
have experienced the friendliness of the
club. Lots of them still remember head-
waiter Hayes, who received you in the
dining-room as though he were the family
butler and you a countess at least.
The party was in the ballroom of the
Australia, where president Keith Smith
and his wife received. Lady Wrench’s
frock of black-and-gold brocade was fin-
ished off with a touch of sable. The
Smith lady was caped to the knee in
white Arctic fox. Both the guests spoke,
telling in easy, conversational manner of
the uncommon round of everyday in
England. He laid emphasis on the ruth-
less war machine we are up against, and
sent out a clarion call in particular to
members of the Overseas to put every
ounce into the war effort. Secretary
Kathleen Gaden, voiceless with the
laryngitis cold that has Sydney in its
grip, was prescribed for by Sir Evelyn—
honey and lemon. He says it cured him.
Sir Ronald Cross’s six-foot-three, or
whatever it is that necessitates his travel-
ling with his own seven-foot-long mat-
tresses, stood out well against the green
background of maidenhair fern at the
Mayoral reception last Friday. The
whole of the fireplace and mantelpiece
at the top of the Mayoress’s room was
banked with fern, with a finishing frieze
of snapdragon and bush flowers. Beside
Sir Ronald stood his wife, very trig in
a fitting jacket of fur, a black frock and
the inevitable pearls.
About 100 guests popped in and out
of this party, which was a heavily-
manned affair. Cocktails and sherry were
served with the handshakes. Mayor Crick
and his Mayoress smiled in friendly
fashion, and her powder-blue ensemble
created what the spiritualists might term
a “soothing aura.” William Morris
Hughes and his Dame Mary were near
by; so were the Frederick Stewart
couple. America’s Consular group, Con-
sul-General Ely Palmer among them,
dropped in ; so did Premier McKell and
the Commonwealth Bank’s new head,
H. T. Armitage, and his wife. Shipping
knight Tom Gordon and his wife and
daughter Viki (the last amused at spot-
ting nine of their friends advertising for
domestic help on the same day as they
themselves —munitions seem to be attract-
ing the girls) were among the welcome-
givers ; so were importants of the Army
and the Navy. Mrs. Antrobus, whose
husband is secretary to Sir Ronald, helped
to decorate the party.
Centrepiece of an unstintingly admired
still-life at the Women Writers’ card
party were a noble drake and his consort
(the “Sun’s” “Cousin Marie” had brought
them from Wentworthville). True Aus-
tralians, they looked proud of doing their
bit for the Merchant Service and Aus-
tralia’s soldiers on active service. They
lay bedded on potatoes; at their
heads juicy carrots and green peas ; about
them tins of cream and plum pudding.
That their passing would be suitably
honored was shown by the large bottle
of champagne (from Josephine Marks)
that stood beside them.
This was probably a record in card
parties—Etta Cowan alone had bagged
78 tables. By 2.15, the card tables filled
the small room at “D.J.’s” and the big
restaurant right down to the lifts. There
was one wild moment when it looked as
though the Post Office might have to
be asked to lend its arched piazza. It
was one of those afternoons.
Mrs. Harold Bott was custodian of a
stall on which were etchings, cushions
(one of rose-pink, beautifully quilted, was
from Mrs. Charley Lloyd Jones), a jade
glaze pottery dish, the work of Mrs,
Clement Chapman, exquisite sweets and
bottles of perfume from Mrs. Roland
Foster. Across the way, Mrs. Toby
Browne, Pat O’Connor and Violet Roche
ran a jam and produce stall. Sydney’s
first woman journalist, Mrs. Fothering-
hame, sent along £5 10s.
Wendy and Pat Burge, Jessica Chard,
Mollie Clemens, Mrs. Enwright and the
Countess de Vilme-Hautmont sold sweets
and brought in shoals of silver from the
hundreds of women who had come from
Manly right around to Neutral Bay, from
the North Shore line and even from the
Blue Mountains. Inside the small room
buttressed by two tables, Mrs. Hope
Gibson and Mary Kelly stood counting
out the money. Receipts look like reach-
ing the £ 150-mark—a nice cheque for the
Lord Mayor’s Fund.
To stay in Sydney till her staff dribbles
from England is the intention of
the wife of Britain’s new High Commis-
sioner in Australia. The Crosses are a
pleasant-looking pair, and her clothes
prove what she has stated, that they were
not bought in a clothes-rationed Eng-
land. That scheme came in only a few
days before the family’s departure. Before
coming to Australia Lady Cross served
as voluntary aid in a London hospital,
and was also registered as an emergency
ambulance driver. Angela, Diana and
Susanna are the names of the three
daughters of the house. Canberra will be
the family’s home town.
Still another to whom Sydney staged
reception last week was Mrs. Royal
Arch Gunnison. The Information De-
partment was her host, and surrounded
her with a flutter of newspaper women
one morning in the Australia. That was
befitting, as she is a journalist and the
wife of a newspaper correspondent—he
writes for the North American Alliance.
He was here last in January when the
Pan-American Clipper service made its
debut; this time he is to write about our
war effort. She writes for the “Christian
Science Monitor,” and is going to tell
about Australian women for the N.A.
Alliance. Her hat of black Persian lamb,
showing decided Magyar influence, was
in the news. Her bright smile has been
nurtured in both Alaska and Boston.
There’s a strong dash of the English in
her—one grandmother was named Ann
Hathaway. She tucks the Hathaway after
her first name, which is Marjorie.
If you are within the law and have
paid the rent, even if, like the girl’s
in the flat opposite, the cheque had
been chewed a bit by the family’s foxy
during the blackout, you’ll find no terror
in being subpoenaed by the University
Law Society. The blue paper only
demands appearance at the Law Society’s
Ball in Grace Brothers’ auditorium. The
pleasing girl in this photograph, Desolie
Derriman, will be one of the chief wit-
nesses for the Crown. That is to say
that, with a group of other attractive
girls, she is working hard in the cause
of the Law Society’s members on active
service. The dance benefits the Law
School Comforts Fund, Photograph from
Dorothy Welding.
A cocker spaniel argued with a brick
wall about two months ago, suffering
thereby in wind and limb. Last week his
owner took him for his longest walk since
his convalescence. When she reached the
top of a hill, not far from a taxi-stand, she
noticed that her pet was having a bit of
trouble with his breathing apparatus. She
said, patting him: “Never mind, we’ll
take a taxi home,” which they did. Two
days ago the dog and his owner went
the same walk. When they reached the
top of the hill near the taxi-stand the
cocker stood, then sat down with a plain-
tive look which persisted till the lady
said; “Shall we take a taxi home?” Then
he bustled forward nimbly and hopped
into the cab ahead of her.
Every fiftieth year the Swiss all over
the world make special whoopee on the
anniversary of their country’s confedera-
tion. Up to this half-century, a Swiss
resident tells, the invitations that emanated
from the Swiss clubs dotted about the
universe were printed in Switzerland,
each batch in the language of the country
in which they were to be distributed. At
the Sydney celebration 50 years ago, he
recalls, Toby Barton was the guest of
honor. There are to be yodellers and folk
dances and a Swiss orchestra at this first
of August make-merry by members of the
Swiss Club. Flour soup will be served
at midnight. Freshly-roasted flour and
milk are the principal ingredients.
From Melbourne
A top-hole effort by Melbourne busi-
ness girls for the Y.W. appeal was £9OO
in a month ; they are keeping on till they
get £2OOO. Over 50 representatives from
various firms brought reports to last
week’s meeting about parties and other
efforts, the pace being set by two girls
from Broken Hill Smelters who raised
between them £llB. This week entries
for the doll-dressing competition are on
view at the Regent, South Yarra. Despite
a sophisticated age, interest in dolls still
runs hot in town and country ; there are
hundreds of competitors. Prizes will be
distributed at next Saturday morning’s
(26th) gala matinee.
Those practised in the art can, given
the time and place, work up spending
phobia in the breasts of an assembled
company, but it’s a different story taking
off for an auction over afternoon-tea at
Foy’s. Strella Wilson did the trick with
help from a large but by no means gala
audience. The show, for the Free French,
was organised by Mrs. Tom Patterson,
who got into top gear in three days so
that all tickets were sold. The French
flag which Strella auctioned amidst, at
the end, mounting enthusiasm went to
M. Vanderkelen. Offsider spruikers in-
cluded Marjorie Gordon, who induced
craning of necks and kneeling upon chairs
with “a bid from the nice lady with
fruit on her hat,” etc. Another assistant
was Claude Flemming, who, armed with
raincoat and umbrella, found a kindred
spirit in Lynette Dickenson, in parchment
all-over cape, which on removal disclosed
a tailored suit. Much applause went to
the perennially youthful Carrie Moore —
she yielded to persuasion and sang the
waltz song from “The Merry Widow”
twice. Among those present officially
were Air Commodore Cole and Brigadier
and Mrs. Dave Blake. Though a tea-
party may be a new experience in the
life of the Brig., he seemed to take to
it without any notable protest.
The week’s art shows were A. D. and
Amalie Colquhoun’s at the Athenaeum,
John Heath’s at the Sedon and Harley
Griffiths’s paintings at the Velasquez. A.
D. Colquhoun, who is easier to talk to
than most artists, has anecdotes to tell
about many of his own and his wife’s
pictures. To the subjects of the portraits
destiny has been variable. One of
Amalie’s represents the two sons of
the artist Carl Hampel—the elder, Gerard,
was saved, but parents and younger son
were victims of London bombing. Also
painted by Amalie is Captain W. A.
Robertson, ex- of the Water Commission,
now concefned with Air Cadet organisa-
tion. It’s a hundred to one that the
subject of A.D.’s “Head Study of a Girl”
will never see her picture. She was Joan
Scarden, now married to a first violin in
one of New York’s symphony orchestras.
A.D.’s “Janet,” whom he has painted
several times, is Mrs. Sos Robinson, who
pursues the arts by way of painting,
designing and interpretative dancing. A
funny little baby of four months, all
huge eyes and wispy hair, is Jenny
Gowans. Amalie painted her again for
“Good Morning,” giving the credit for
the good sitting (or rather standing) to
the children’s theatre at her Bourke-street
studio. Young Jenny is the child of Mr.
and Mrs. Gregory Gowans.
Bonnie babies weren’t so prevalent in
the Middle Ages and in the days when the
greatest painters of the world starved and
produced enduring masterpieces. In
many of the Madonna-and-Child pic-
tures the babies used as models had
rickets —the shape of their joints proves
a point for science. Thus spoke Prof.
W. J. Young while opening John Heath’s
show at the Sedon. The eminent pro-
fessor’s discourse, though long, was in-
teresting, and gave a new slant on the
fundamental hook-up of science and art.
Among portrait subjects by John Heath,
whose profession is dentistry, were Profs.
Young and W. H. Gilmour and well-
known specialist Dr. Raymond Hennessy.
Tonight Mollie Cook and friend Joan
Hoggart, both students of Melbourne
University, are giving a party at the
former’s home in Hawthorn to help our
prisoners of war. Mollie’s father, Colonel
T. P. Cook, was recently decorated with
the 0.8. E. for services in the Middle
East. Mrs. Cook is president of the
2/sth Welfare Association.
Now that the Messerschmitt has been
removed from the Town Hall for tours
in aid of patriotic funds, the season’s
concerts are crowding fast on one an-
other’s heels to make up for lost time.
Personality of Saturday’s Symphony
Concert was guest pianist Una Bourne,
whose reception was yet more proof of
the virtues of home products. With im-
ported celebrities off the map, local artists
are at last getting a fair go. Miss Bourne’s
talents, established throughout a long
career which commenced in Melba’s day
and continued abroad, will be enjoyed,
we hope, for many a year to come. She
wore cornflower-blue chiffon and a be-
coming coiffure for hair softened with
white, and received far more flowers than
she could carry, including blossom, for
once again the flowering trees have mis-
taken the seasons.
Tribute came from fellow-artist
Hephzibah Menuhin, looking like a
starry-eyed schoolgirl and accompanied
by husband Lindsay Nicholas. Even
nearer to the orchestra in the extreme
front row, and escorted by Doc. “Bung”
Hill, was dancer Dorothy Stevenson, in
fur coat and Edwardian hair clasped up-
wards with many combs. It wasn’t one
of the bibbed-and-tuckered audiences of
past seasons —the war, especially when a
wet night is added, is putting an end
to formal evening dress but Mary
Patterson, Joan Devine, Keitha Ross
Munro, Roma Rainford and another
handful of femininity produced trappings
of moment. The Ivan Maxwells and
Judge and Mrs. Magennis were among
steadies present.
Beverley Slaney, only child of Colonel
and Mrs. Tom Slaney, is wearing a
sapphire ring, the stone sent from abroad
by Lieut. Thomas Fenner, R.A.N.,
who is the third son of Dr. and Mrs.
Charles Fenner, of Rose Park, Adelaide.
Beverley, who is well known as a dancer
and a mannequin, is now down to earth
learning typing and shorthand. Time
and place permitting, she swims and rides.
Her Tom’s favored sports are tennis and
squash, and when he gets away from the
sea and the gulls into the country he can
trick all his pals at naming wild birds ;
he has a very soft spot for them, left
over from childhood and his own aviary.
Beverley’s photograph from Jack Cato.
A much-autographed plaster has been
removed from the torso of Roland
Barber, who six months ago had the bad
luck to break some bones in a fall. Every-
body who came to see the patient in
hospital and at home was invited to add
signatures at a price, two bob for Mrs.
Roland’s pet good work, the Knit-Bees.
Some pals added innuendoes in indelible
pencil which might bring a blush to the
brow of a Puritan, but through high rates
were all in the good cause of the Bees.
The Barbers live back-to-back in Haw-
thorn with the Norman Richards house-
hold ; since the hatching of the Bees
the families have instituted short cuts
through back-garden fences. Mrs.
Richards is president, Mrs. Barber vice-
president, Mrs. Norman Robinson secre-
tary and Mrs. Ambrose Treacey treasurer
of the limited-to-sixteen company which
meets regularly every Friday, illness or
absence from Melbourne being the only
excuse for missing out. Members bring
their play-lunch and 2s. 6d. weekly sub.
for materials, and if they’re late Mrs.
Richards says firmly “No morning tea.”
Four loaned sewing-machines are in-
stalled in her living-room for the dura-
tion. The Knit-Bees started life a year
ago with the original 16 meeting for
tennis and knitting between sets for local
needs. Six months ago they abandoned
tennis altogether to give full time to the
needs of the bombed British. They ship
their goods, all new and of high standard,
through the Salvation Army. In six
months the doughty 16 have made 12,000
garments.


«n»*ssa»/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
i
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
A Good Record
“P.D.”; The flying giants of Qantas
Empire Airways that drop into Rose Bay,
Sydney, every week have put up a pretty
good showing under conditions which
have led to limitation of services and loss
of pilots to the R.A.A.F.
For the year to March 31, passenger-
miles flown totalled 14,139,828, up
3,863,010. Actual miles flown dropped
from 1,673,061 to 1,319,551, and pas-
sengers carried from 8454 to 7433.
Passenger-mile figures were kept up—
and the national interest served —by con-
fining the flying boats, as much as pos-
sible, to long-distance passengers (over-
seas passengers for the year increased
from 1178 to 2160. For Brisbane-Darwin
and shorter-stage trippers there is a new
Lockheed 10a, “The Inlander.”
Mail carriage dropped, mainly because
of the Mediterranean situation and of
the suspension of the “all-up” scheme,
although the introduction of air mail to
the Australian troops in Malaya and the
Middle East helped to make up some of
the leeway. Mail carried by flying boats
totalled 139.85 tons; down 85.69 tons,
but still enough to daze those who re-
member that 108 letters were carried by
the old 1914-18 war-time converted Arm-
strong-Whitworth—capable of accommo-
dating two passengers and a pilot—with
which Qantas inaugurated its regular
run, an each-way weekly service between
Charleville and Cloncurry in 1922.
Despite limited services freight figures
showed an increase to 126.5 tons (flying-
boats carried 105.15 tons), compared with
122.79 tons in 1939-40 ; ton-miles flown
increased from 1,868,210 to 2,003,234, and
available capacity loading used increased
by 19.06 p.c. to 70.05 p.c.
Other facts worth noting: Flying-boats
on the Sydney-Singapore run showed a
punctuality performance of 90.15 p.c. ;
accidents to passengers and staff totalled
exactly .0 p.c., and the company now
has a staff of 409, most of whom are in
Sydney and Brisbane, the rest along the
various routes. And it all began in
1921 with two 1914-18 war-time machines
working the western Queensland districts
as a ’plane taxi service.
“23-4”: First casualty in the Austra-
lian Fighter Squadron serving in England
was Sergeant-Pilot Andy Costello, a
Queenslander, whose parents have Wind-
sor station, out from the Towers. He
was a product of the Christian Brothers’
College at the Towers, and got his “A”
flying license before the war. He
was reported killed in a night flight on
July 4.
*** * S
“Cupper”: Radio telephone communi-
cation between the Commonwealth and
Papua is now an established fact. The
official opening was performed by the
P.M.G., the Minister for External Terri-
tories and the Administrator in a three-
way talk.
* * *■ * 4
“Dip”: The Army Board has wangled
£30,000 for a technical school at Darwin,
where the soldiers may spend their odd
moments educating themselves. History,
economics, science, physiology, languages,
engineering, aeronautics, medicine and
all trades, as well as recreation and enter-
tainment, will be in the syllabus. Some
are hoping that after the war the school
will develop to university standing. Add
that to the fact that my latest copy of
Darwin’s “Northern Standard”—l2 pages.
11 in. by 17 (in.-—has a sporting supple-
ment —one sheet, UJJn. by BJin. —and
it’s easy to understand why old-timers
are retreating from Darwin to less civil-
ised places.
* * * *
“Balander”: “To observe the degree
to which my warnings against increased
planting have been carried out,” the
Queensland Minister for Agriculture has
been touring the sugar country, presum-
ably with a chain to run round the cane
stands and a staff to check up his meas-
urements to the last inch. He’d serve the
growers better if he came out with a
statement as to how much sugar his Gov-
ernment intends to allow into the main
pool for 1942. As it is, growers haven’t
the slightest idea of what is intended,
and most of them will naturally plant
at least up to last year’s acreage. Mr.
Bulcock mentioned that he had delivered
three “emphatic” warnings against over-
“Take a deep breath. Private Higgins — there's 20-tonners coming .”
planting and remarked that growers must
“surely realise the gravity of the situa-
tion.” No doubt they do, but, in the
absence of any clear statement as to the
Sugar Board’s intentions before the
present planting season ends, they can
hardly be blamed for supposing that
neither the board nor the Minister knows
how much sugar can be taken into the
pool.
* * * *
“23-4”: The Commonwealth policy of
cutting down industries non-essential to
the war effort is being felt in Queensland,
which is far less industrialised than the
southern States, and already petrol- and
paper-rationing and building restrictions
have put numbers of unemployed on the
union lists. However, just to prove that
it is not idle, Canberra has its branch
of the Department of Labor and National
Service in full swing in Brisbane. Per-
sonnel appears to consist of a director,
an employment inspector and a typist,
who have two floors of offices. Since it
was established last April, the branch
has placed six (6) tradesmen in jobs.
* * * *
“Poler”: Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner Gahan has got back safe
from a journey into the untamed interior
during which he “penetrated 300 miles.”
While in there Mr. Gahan noticed an
acute shortage of labor. An explorer
with a faculty for observation like that
is worth having. Being a railwayman, he
naturally used a flying-boat.
» * * *
“Poi-poi”: Brisbane’s Story Bridge is
a year old. An enthusiastic Bureau of
Industry official informed the press thai
traffic across it comprised in that time
29,186 bikes, 45,223 motor-cycles, 878,104
cars and utilities and 55,233 heavy
vehicles. “Nice going,” said the press,
“What was the toll revenue?” The ofii-
cial answered that estimated revenue
before the bridge was opened was £30.000
in the first year, that the loan of
£1,500,000 raised to build it carried 4 p.c.
interest, that there was an annual redemp-
tion charge of £15,000 and the loan was
for 15 years. “Yes, but what was the
first year’s revenue?” A shocked silence,
then a frigid voice replied, “We do not
give revenue figures.” Now the stag-
gered press wants to know who owns the
flamin’ bridge, anyhow.
°
**. * *
Passed on in Brisbane, aged 76, Harry
C. Pegler, sometime of Comongin station,
Quilpie—he managed the property for
37 years. Born at Lockleys, S.A., he
came to Queensland as a young man
and assisted his father in the management
of Milo station, Adavale. During his
term there the record shearing of 567,000
was accomplished. Harry was a member
and then chairman of the Adavale Shire
Council; on that shire being transferred
to Quilpie he became and remained
chairman until his retirement in 1939.
Old as he was, he took up war work and
died in harness as secretary of the Hoi-
land Park A.R.P. organisation. A great
sheepman and a lovable character was
Harry Pegler.
* * * *
“Norther”: The Cotton Board’s appeal
to dairy-farmers to grow cotton would
get more attention if the board could
find some way of providing them with
wire to fence the crop off from their
stock. There is a shortage in practically
every rural district, and orders for wire
have been unsatisfied for months. In
the bore country there is a shortage of
and bore-casing, galvanised-iron is
hard to get and so are nails. “The war”
is the official explanation, makers of the
goods being chockablock with orders.
The proud boast that an outbacker can
fix anything with a bit of wire is hard
to fulfil these days.
JK # * *
“Lid”: Last year a Townsville man
risked and nearly lost his life in
an attempt to rescue the pilot of an
R.A.A.F. ’plane which crashed in flames
at St. Lawrence (Q.). He was Geoff
Ellis, a 28-year-old observer ; despite a
dislocated shoulder, abrasions and burns,
he went back into the flames to drag his
chum out. The pilot died, but the
observer lived —to receive the George
Medal last week.
“Colbun”: Every soldier enjoys a joke
against the Jacks, and both generations
of A.I.F. in Queensland are chuckling
over a good one. A young man who had
done his first militia training period failed
to turn up when the second one became
due. An imposing force of M.P. in a
service truck, accompanied by the regu-
lation interrogator in civvies, set out after
the defaulter and drew up in full pomp
outside his suburban home ready to hale
him forth to duty. Instead of an
apologetic defaulter they met a highly
indignant father, who informed them that
were only a couple of continents
an . d a ” ocean or two late ;. H ! s “ n had
enlisted, was overseas m the A.1.F., and
his militia kit had been returned to brigade
headquarters months before, as per
official receipt produced.
* * * *
“Ki Downs”: Cause and effect, as
reported in a North Queensland paper
which told of how a man was brought
to town with a screwdriver through the
palm of his left hand and how his brother
came in next day with a bullet in his
right hand: “Shearing was to have com-
menced, but these unfortunate accidents
have delayed it somewhat.”
* * * *
“Macker”: Not sure whether it was
a cyclone, a genuine air-raid or a resi-
dent in open rebellion against the tax-
gatherer, sundry Mackay people rushed
into the streets one night recently as
they heard fences going down, voices yell-
ing and gardens being destroyed. Then
the residents rushed back inside again,
for the disturbers of the peace were circus
elephants on a rampage, and nobody can
argue with a rampaging elephant except
its keeper. It took nearly two hours for
the circusmen to get the pachyderms
under control.
* * * *
“Liopu”: Stirring note from “our Mt.
Isa correspondent”:
The weather has been supercharged with
nectar during the past week, and we have
no complaints, though the south winds are
seeking our innards.
» * * *
“Dungeness”: Paddy Hayes, a tin-
miner, reported missing in the heavy
country around Mount Spec some 55
miles from Townsville (N.Q.), came
within a short head of defeating Fadden
for the Kennedy Assembly seat in 1932.
The issue was in doubt for days until the
last few far-out returns brought in a
majority of 94 for Fadden. Paddy joined
the A.W.U. at 14, and his ticket in the
Sugar Workers’ Union was numbered 6.
The police search for him found many
voluntary helpers—the country through
which he set out to prospect an old mine
is too heavily timbered for search by air.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Enemy Still Advances.
“Ek Dum”: For a fortnight before
the outbreak of hostilities troops were
gathering on each side of the Russo-
German border. As early as May 2
Moscow forbade the transport of foreign
war material through the U.S.S.R. On
June 16 New York papers reported that
on the Russian side from 120 to 155
divisions were massed —Hitler a week
later reckoned the figure at 150 divisions.
Moscow admitted the massing and
attributed it to “seasonal manoeuvres.”
The Russian Government professed to be
ignorant of any signs of impending Ger-
man invasion, but added that any in-
vader would be “pulled up short at the
■border and taught a lesson he won’t
forget.” Which hardly suggests that
Stalin was taken by surprise.
Inside three weeks the Germans had
grabbed a slab of territory which they
estimated as “twice the size of England,”
and which looked on the map like 130,000
square miles or thereabouts. The Rus-
sian High Command vigorously denied
that any German progress worth while
was being made. When the Germans
claimed to have caused 1,000,000 Russian
casualties and to have destroyed thou-
sands of tanks and ’planes, the Russians
adopted Berlin’s figures and called them
“German losses.”
When the main German lines crossed
the border into “old” Russia they paused
along the Dnieper, Dvina and Beresina
river systems, in the same way that
Napoleon paused. They were straighten-
ing up a lengthy saliented front which
obviously was ragged in progress because
of the variation of conditions and the
differences in method called for by differ-
ences in communications and defences.
But a swarm of correspondents and
editors formed the impression that Stalin
had Hitler by the throat, and Losovsky,
the Assistant Foreign Commissar, testi-
fied that counter-attacks had hurled the
Nazis back.
On July 13 the German High Com-
mand announced another move forward
to Vitebsk in the centre and deep into the
Ukraine towards Kiev in the south, as
well as substantial progress round Lake
Peipus and the beginning of Finnish
operations. At that moment the Rus-
sian counter-attacks were supposed to be
driving the Germans into retreat at
several points. At the early part of the
week it was all too clear that the real
forward movements were being made by
the enemy. Changes in the Russian com-
mand system and the : division of the
Russian armies into three had taken place
on the day after the Germans drove to
Vitebsk and claimed to have started a
general Russian retreat from the Black
Sea northwards.
The Germans at that time asserted that
disorganisation had begun to set in in
Moscow, that 1000 executions per day
were taking place and that foreign diplo-
mats had been warned that the Soviet
Government contemplated moving east-
ward to Kazan.
On July 15 the Germans announced
that their advance was continuing “irre-
sistibly”; that an unbroken line of tanks
was rolling into Russian territory ; that
the Luftwaffe was dealing with resist-
ance wherever it cropped up, and that,
to date, 7182 Russian ’planes had been
brought down. They said that strong Ger-
man bomber forces were constantly
harassing communications behind the
Russian lines and that Russian retire-
ment was being hampered by the con-
fusion caused by swirling mobs of refu-
gees trying to get away from the battle
areas.
Berlin bragged that the changes in
Russian command and the conclusion,
after the Vitebsk defeat on July 10, of
the Anglo-Soviet Treaty proved how
serious the situation had become, since
it showed that Britain was taking des-
perate measures to stem the tide of
tragedy.
On July 16 German, Japanese and
most U.S. radio stations announced that
Molotov had assured the Japanese
Ambassador in Moscow that the British
agreement with the Soviet Union was
strictly confined to war with Germany
and was an alliance in no other respect.
Moscow had already discovered that
Goring had protested against the Russian
adventure, since he did not believe that
his Luftwaffe could face the Red Air
Force and survive, and had been sent
to a concentration camp. To this the Ger-
mans replied that Goring had just de-
livered an address to soldiers who had
been decorated for work in Crete.
Presently Moscow gave it out that
Hitler was actively epileptic, though some
authorities said his disease was merely
paranoia or carpet-biting. Berlin an-
nounced that Hitler had been present at
public decoration ceremonies and in a
few days would meet Mussolini at the
Brenner Pass.
On Thursday (July 17) the German
Government declared that the Russians
had thrown their last reserves into the
battle and that a desperate struggle in
which 9,000,000 men were involved was
in progress along the whole front. The
battle was on a scale “far exceeding
anything in history” and “great German
successes were approaching.”
The Germans said that in the south
they had taken Kisinev —which brought
them within less than 100 miles of the
key city of Odessa, the Black Sea port
of most importance to the Ukraine.
They claimed to have taken Polotsk in
the north, and Narva on the strip of
land between Lake Peipus and the
Baltic ; also Pskov, in which region, like
that of Polotsk further s.-e., there had
been bloody fighting. This, if true, meant
that they had every important rail junc-
tion in the border zone and all the river
bridgeheads from north of Lake Peipus to
the Pripet Marshes in their hands. And
Tallinn, the great port of Estonia, last
stronghold of the Soviet forces in the
Baltic States, was reported to have been
set blazing prior to its abandonment.
That day the Germans also asserted
that they had reached Novgorod in their
drive towards Leningrad. If so, they were
then 130 miles inside the border in the
Leningrad sector and only 110 miles
from that city of over 3,000,000 people
on the southern approach.
In the Narva region along the Baltic
southern shore, their spearhead—on their
own report—was only 70 miles from
the old capital. In the middle south
they had taken Novograd Volynsk, inside
the Ukraine near the Polish border, which
they had bypassed in their rush to Kiev.
Heavy fighting continued round Novo-
grad Volynsk throughout the week-end.
Kiev, which is about the size of Syd-
ney, was obviously threatened —“en-
circled” was the enemy’s term. The Rus-
sians said they were preparing to defend
it street by street, and a Stockholm cor-
respondent pictured a desperate encounter
in which 150-ton Russian tanks were
fighting Panzer units in the outskirts, A
report that Smolensk had fallen was
scouted in Moscow. On Friday morning
a broadcaster from Moscow pictured that
city as calm, with the people going about
their business as if the battle were not
raging less than 400 miles away. They
had (he said) “seen civil war, famine and
revolution,” and had “developed a re-
markable facility for adjustment to condi-
tions.” They were taking the blackout,
the watches for bombers and fifth
columnists and other inconveniences as
a matter of course. A “peculiar feature
was the complete absence of anti-Ger-
man feeling or hysteria—the German
language and literature are as popular
as ever, and I have not heard one depre-
catory word against the German people.”
Despite contradictory reports and
vigorous denials by the Russians, it be-
came certain on Saturday (European
time) that Smolensk had been taken by
the Germans on July 16, and that the
German spearheads had driven forward
from 40 to 150 miles all along the
northern and central lipe. The main
German advance on Moscow had tra-
velled 560 miles from its starting-point
since June 22.
On Friday Moscow announced that
Stalin had succeeded Timoshenko as
Commissar for Defence, and that the
system of political commissars in the
Red Army, abandoned during the Fin-
nish campaign, had been reintroduced and
extended to the Navy.
Moscow Radio still professed confi-
dence ; but the loss of Smolensk was a
blow. The district is the first indus-
trial centre taken, and it is a gateway
to Moscow. The Germans described its
taking at length. They said that on the
early morning of July 16 their advance
units came quietly into the suburbs —
Smolensk is a city of about 100,000
people—and secured jumping-off posi-
tions. Panzers and motor-cyclists rushed
a main street under a hail of shellfire.
Tanks followed 15 minutes afterwards,
sheltering infantry. One after another,
in fierce hand-to-hand struggles, houses
were cleared and enemy-held streets were
taken. The end came when the Deputy-
Commissar in control commandeered a
car and left the city to its fate. The Rus-
sians had set fire to it.
“The doom of Moscow and St. Peters-
burg,” the Germans boasted, “is now
sealed.” They asserted on Sunday morn-
ing that all sections of the Russian Gov-
ernment had already left Moscow for
Kazan, except the Politbureau and a sec-
tion of the Foreign Office staff, and that
the chimneys of the British and Czecho-
slovak Embassies were belching smoke as
diplomats burned documents.
A few hours before a United Press
correspondent wrote that seven members
of the United States Embassy staff had
left Moscow for Kazan, but the Am-
bassador said the move was purely pre-
cautionary and intended to relieve con-
gestion in Moscow offices.
In effect, the German bulge into the
U.S.S.R. is lengthening. A great deal
depends on the condition of the Rus-
sians as they retreat.
There has been rain in several sectors.
The Russians picture this as a salutary
check to the Germans; the Germans
picture it as an addition to the miseries
of a disorganised Russian Army tumbling
over itself in its efforts to find its way
behind the herds of hopeless, starving
refugees before the Panzer units strike.
Berlin continues to differentiate be-
tween the Russian soldier, whom it rep-
resents as a gallant fellow who fights to
the end and does not give up a town till
the last house is on fire, and the Russian
command, which it affects to regard as
inefficient and irresolute. It alleges the
capture of four battalions of Young
Communists, of Boy Scout age, and of
an amazon taken with her regiment,
which a commissar had assembled
hurriedly, sought to lead to its positions
and left in a forest when he became
bushed. There was also a yarn about the
, commander of a trainful of Russian
troops who had asked a German inter-
preter how ’far away the Germans were.
The interpreter obliged with information
which led the whole trainload to cap-
tivity.
Moscow’s stories are equally spectacu-
lar. They concern Germans who land their
’planes in the Russian lines (in some cases
names have been broadcast) and others
who crawl out of their units and brave
the barbed wire and machine-guns of
both sides to give themselves up. And
they mention ersatz material and even
Panzer units made of canvas, all save the
leading tank.
At sea, each side claims to have almost
blown the other out of the water. The
radio rolls transports over in dozens and
destroyers in braces.
The Finns are different. Their bulle-
tins are comparatively sober and precise.
They declared on Friday night that they
and the Germans with them had advanced
90 miles north of Lake Ladoga, cutting
off large Russian forces, and that they
had taken Vartsila, 33 miles north of
Sortavala, in territory which the Russians
appropriated last year. The Russians
burnt the town and left only two build-
ings standing.
The Russian Air Force seems to have
done its best work on the Hungarian
front. There seems no doubt that it has
heavily punished Constanza and Ploesti
oilfields, beside strafing Bucharest. The
Luftwaffe insists in almost every broad-
cast that it is devoting itself to smashing
troop concentrations and communica-
tions. It reported having cut both the
Smolensk-Moscow and the Moscow-
Leningrad railways in several places.
On Friday Moscow had a half-hour
air-raid warning. On Saturday Swedish
sources reported that the city had been
heavily bombed, large central areas dam-
aged and the Kremlin reduced to ruins.
Neither Moscow nor Berlin confirmed
this news.
On Sunday night neither combatant
had much to say about progress. Ger-
many declared that the way was now
open to Moscow, and quoted a Swedish
newspaper as opining that the fall of
Leningrad might be heard of at any time.
Moscow remarked that “there was no-
thing to show that the German thrusts
have continued towards Moscow and
Leningrad,” but that there had been
heavy fighting in the Polotsk and Smol-
ensk and Novograd-Volynsk areas.
On Monday morning British and Ger-
man radio stations were more concerned
with the sea war than with Russia, which
shows a just sense of proportion. Russia
cannot win the war for Britain, though
even if the armies fail guerrillas may
achieve something. Guerrilla war made
French heads ache during the Napoleonic
invasion of Spain tried in Russia and
other parts of Europe, it might seriously
bother Hitler.
But concentration of British effort on
the U-boat and bomber campaign, on
German naval ports and ammunition
centres is the shortest cut to victory.
“Bigger and Better.”
“Aileron”; The lull in the German air
war against Britain was interrupted on
Thursday night by a raid on Hull, alleged
to be a reprisal for an R.A.F, swoop on
Rotterdam on Wednesday in daylight.
That and a smashing raid on Hamburg
the same day were two of the most devas-
tating attacks yet delivered from the air.
The Air Ministry reported that 17 ships
(90,000 tons) in Rotterdam were broken
beyond hope of usage and a further five
seriously damaged—between 130,000 and
145,000 tons in a single day. Ware-
houses and docks were left enveloped in
fire. Three British ’planes were lost.
The day’s operations seemed to spread
something like panic through the Reich,
and at night Berlin Radio went off the
air suddenly like a goanna diving for a
hollow log. The High Command’s
attempts to make the best of a bad situa-
tion were to the effect that “in the battle
round England” a freighter (3000 tons)
was sunk and another merchantman
heavily damaged, and that “when R.A.F.
machines attempted to bomb the Dutch
coast, six were shot down by patrol boats
and three more by A.A. defences.” It
was allowed that “minor” forces
“dropped a small number of bombs
over n.-w. Germany,” but damage was
“slight, and three of the attackers were
shot down.”
That German account of British losses
is characteristic. “Genuine” losses are
credited to the Luftwaffe ; the fantastic
variety is attributed to patrol boats and
A.A. fire.
On Thursday, Cologne and the Rhine-
land were R.A.F. operation grounds, but
the sea hawks again were abroad. Three
enemy fighters and a seaplane were shot
down over the North Sea. Fighters
paused in a headlong rush to France to
machine-gun a large steamer off Gris
Nez in a wave-hopping onslaught which
was answered by hot bursts from escort-
ing E-boats. Coastal Command ’planes
got among a covey of German ships and
sank nearly 10,000 tons —a tanker and a
supply ship and two others were
damaged.
There is no doubt that the damage
being done in German factory cities and
seaports is vast, though it is being paid
for. The “Aeroplane” estimates that
since June 15 all operations in Europe
have been costing the R.A.F. an average
of 178 airmen, 36 bombers and 27
fighters a week ; but the paper adds that
the R.A.F. has now reached a size and
depth of reserve which cannot only main-
tain an attack of the present intensity,
but continue to add to reserves.
It is good news that the Luftwaffe is
suffering serious fighter losses on the
west front. Losses from wear and tear
on the east front must be substantial,
even though Moscow’s astronomical cal-
culations of machines brought down need
not be accepted.
British civilian raid casualties for the
18 months to June 30, were 41,900 killed,
452,678 wounded.
Sea Losses Down.
“Nobby II”: Figures for June show a
decrease compared with previous months,
but it is not obvious how much this
was due to the decline in war activity in
the Mediterranean, how much to the
German shift of effort from west to
east fronts, and how much to the beating
down of the U-boats,
From January 1 to June 30, 375 British
ships totalling 1,673,000 tons and 170
other ships of 735,000 tons were sunk.
The worst months were March and
April, 1941. In March 119 ships, British,
Allied and neutral, 489,229 tons, and in
April 106 ships, 488,124 tons, disappeared.
In June, 52 British ships, 228,224 tons,
19 Allied, 82,727 tons, and eight neutral,
18,285 tons, were sunk. The enemy has
achieved these ghastly results against wider
and more systematic patrols—-there were
no Catalinas and no scheduled cross-
Atlantic reconnaissances at the beginning
of the year —and against closer-knit and
more skilfully protected convoys. So
the Battle of the Atlantic is far from won.
All the same, the day of the German
surface raider seems, temporarily at least,
to have set. Scharnhorst and Gneisenau,
which, according to German reports,
accounted for 132,000 tons of damage
earlier in the year, are locked up in
Brest; so is the Prinz Eugen, which
suffered a direct hit from a heavy British
bomb. And the 35,000-ton Bismarck,
which seemingly had been allotted the


role of First Sea Murderer, is at the
bottom 400 miles or so west of Land’s
End.
The Germans last week claimed loudly
over their radios that they had sunk
778.000 tons of “enemy” merchantmen in
June, and Rome yelled about 98,000 more
tons which had gone down. Both
pretended to jubilate on the score that
“three times as much shipping per month
is being destroyed as can be built
by the combined resources of the British
Empire and the United States.” Their
rejoicings sounded miserable and uncon-
vincing.
Unless the Axis can obtain a good deal
more shipping or sink a good many more
British and Allied ships, the crucial factor
in the sea war may be not how many
British ships are sunk, but how many
German and Italian. The Admiralty
estimate of enemy losses to July 10 is
3.391.000 tons —going on for half the
tonnage owned by Germany and Italy
together in 1939. Any building which
Italy can have done since is negligible,
and German shipyards have had their
hands full with naval work, particularly
with U-boats, and have been incessantly
hampered by R.A.F. raiding.
Last month’s sinking of enemy ships
by the R.N. and R.A.F. have not been
mentioned, but in May, outside the Medi-
terranean, 257,000 tons were sunk, cap-
tured or seen scuttled, which represents
a much larger proportion of total ships
at sea than the sinkings of British vessels.
And British sinkings of enemy ships
seem to be increasing, especially in the
Mediterranean.
On July 13 the R.A.F. wrecked two
ships, one of 7000 tons, in a convoy off
Tripoli, and left a third burning. Next
day the Admiralty announced that the
tanker Strombo (5232 tons), which had
put into Istanbul seriously damaged by
a British torpedo, had been sunk on her
way to Italy for repairs, together with a
5500-ton supply ship in a convoy and a
big sailing ship carrying troops and stores
in the AEgean.
Another Tripoli convoy caught it hot.
An 8000-ton ship went down, another
was pulled up with a direct hit on the
bows, and, when the enemy tried to
retaliate, six Junkers and a Messer-
schmitt went to the bottom while their
target steamed on undamaged.
On July 18 the Admiralty reported the
sinking of two more schooners and five
caiques carrying troops in the AEgean.
On Sunday it was announced in
London that during the past week the
enemy ships sunk by the R.A.F.,
including those wrecked at Rotterdam
and a variety of vessels caught at sea
between St. Nazaire and Nordeney,
numbered 42 of 242,000 tons.
Two enemy convoys were attacked off
the Dutch coast on July 19, and eight of
48.000 tons “damaged and probably de-
stroyed.” Berlin Radio has a- worried
note when it refers to sea warfare, and
has started a campaign to suggest that
the Admiralty is in a panic. But it is
not resorting to its usual tactics of claim-
ing vast sinkings of British ships.
According to British Air Minister
Archibald Sinclair, Blenheim sinkings for
five months to June 16 totalled 300,000
tons; with subsequent destruction, the
figure has probably been raised to
500.000 tons, with damage as much again.
The respite from raiding over Britain
must have given shipbuilding a golden
opportunity to push ahead, and results
should be seen in tonnage production.
There has, too, been a chance to clear up
mines round British harbor-mouths.
A U-boat commander’s confession is
significant. He wrote to the “Ham-
burger Fremdenblatt” the “S. M.
Herald” of that battered city that
the answer to Germans who asked
why the U-boats did not close British
ports was that the R.A.F., with the R.N.,
had “laid down what was virtually an
unbeatable watch system,” and tactics
directed against the ports from under-
water had been abandoned.
First Lord of the Admiralty Alexander
says the reports which he now is receiv-
ing “would encourage any First Lord,”
but remarks that there is “no justification
for anything but a determination to face
the possibility of a long war, with the
grimmest part to come.”
Britain’s life depended on the Atlantic.
If the U-boats and long-range bombers
could be defeated, our strength would
presently become “overwhelming.”
High Commissioner Ronald Cross, who
arrived in Sydney on Wednesday, said
that there was not likely to be any in-
creased quantity of shipping available for
Australian needs ; that the total volume
of British shipping would continue to
diminish until next year, when new
British and U.S. building might offset
sinkings, but that there must be a con-
siderable period during which sinkings
would be greater than replacements.
He concluded: —*
If Australia can build ships, for Heaven’s
sake lei us have them!
All Over in Syria.
“Ek Dum”: The Syrian armistice con-
vention was signed almost at the
scheduled hour at noon on July 14, after
the terms had been flown to Vichy and
approved by the central French Govern-
ment. The fighting had lasted a month
and a week —the first Australian troops
crossed the Palestine frontier in the cold
dawn of June 8.
It was a curious campaign. The
French used troops, largely from Africa,
who have been in Syria for donkeys’
years and who still have a warm
regard for the horse ; and the Australians
followed suit by forming a L.H. regi-
ment, which operated in the rough Jezzin
country and christened itself the Kelly
Gang. Their mokes were trophies of
war: the mechanised gees which had
been their original mounts were left
behind.
The bayonet was much in evidence.
The charge up wadis was de rigueur.
Rivers were forced in the same old way
that Kipling celebrated, but with some
modern improvements which made
the going harder. The climax was
the struggle for Wadi Damour, only
equalled as an action by the memorable
A.I.F. fording of the swift-running Litani,
which, after all the preliminary bom-
bardment and machine-gunning by way
of concession to the modern methods of
canned warfare, might have been some-
thing out of the annals of the Peninsula
or planned by General Medows, of India
(“Wriggle in Johnny and follow the little
gentleman through the gap”), or by the
ghost of some Scottish subaltern from
Dargai.
Part of the character of the fighting
was due to the fact that it was largely
led by veterans of 1914-18, and that
it was more suitable to the chivalrous
temperaments of both British and French
than the blasting, wholesale mechanised
murder committed by an overwhelming
force and garnished with Flammenwerfer
to which the Hun has introduced a sick-
ened world.
An A.I.F. officer modestly deduces that,
because 20-ton tanks were pulled down
again and again by the Australian anti-
tank units, it was because they were
handled by French officers instead of
German.
The heartening truth is that the British
have begun to find their antidotes, and that
a German tank unit faced with an A.T.
unit of 1941 is very different from the
same German tank unit faced with the
elementary kind of A.T. opposition pro-
vided by French and British alike in
June, 1940.
The first man into Damascus, “leading
a South Australian battalion, was an
A.I.F. V.C. from the last war,” identified
as Adelaide’s Arthur Seaforth Blackburn.
The first hitch regarding the armistice
was explained by the refusal of General
Dentz to negotiate with the Free French.
He finally agreed. The armistice, which
is virtually a peace treaty, and which is
termed a “convention,” paved the way
for a permanent peace and for the occu-
pation of strategic points by the Allies
pending a final agreement, the French
to have full honors of war and their
officers to be allowed to retain their arms.
On July 15, Australian columns
marched into Beirut while the polyglot
population ran alongside shouting “Vive
I’Australia" in the same way and with
the same enthusiasm as they would have
shouted “Vive la France,” or “Vive
I’allemand” or “Vive le polar bear” if the
situation had been different.
The infantry entered the town three
abreast behind their bands, they went
round the Place des Martyrs, the square
where the cenotaph is, to the tune of
“Waltzing Matilda,” and then out to-
wards Tripoli. And General Maitland
Wilson, Lieut.-General Lavarack and
General Catroux were next day received
at the town hall.
General Dentz with some of his officers
—all French who wished to go be granted
safe conduct to France —left Tripoli in
the morning. The incoming generals
were welcomed with all the color which
prevails in Syria as a matter of course —
champing horses, flashing sabres, dipping
’planes, vestured church dignitaries,
jewelled ikons and colorful robes of
infinite variety—while some of the locals
no doubt lent a homely touch to the
affair by lugging after them the pet sheep
which citizens affect in the streets of
Syrian towns.
The entry of the troops, however, was
as the correspondent of a London paper
remarked, “not that of a victorious army,
but of representatives of a friendly nation
resuming former friendly relations.”
A few Australian wounded were found
in Beirut. They were loud in their praises
of the “utmost kindness” with which they
had been treated by the French, who
gave them “the same, if not better, food
and attention than their own men.” To
them, as to the rest, the armistice came
as a “wonderful relief.”
The Syrian adventure was not over
before the game of baiting Mr. Churchill
into another spectacular adventure, this
time in North Africa, began with the
spreading of rumors that the Germans
were in control there. This was at once
followed by the appointment of General
Weygand as Governor-General of Algeria,
obviously as a gesture of assurance to
Britain
Losses in Syria.
So many authorities, so many state-
ments —as usual!
Always the optimist, Mr. Churchill de-
clared on July 9 that British, Australian
and Indian casualties were “between
1000 and 1500 killed and wounded,” and
this was “confirmed from authoritative
sources.”
In a dispatch published on July 14 an
Australian war correspondent wrote:
“During this melancholy affair there
have been 100 Australian soldiers killed
or wounded.” Possibly a nought dis-
appeared in transmission.
Anyway, Mr. Spender gives the A.I.F.
losses to July 16 as 1682, “apart from
known prisoners—a complete list of
prisoners has not yet been received.”
Details, as provided by the Minister:
Killed in action, 26 officers and 210
other ranks; died of wounds, four
officers and 57 other ranks; wounded in
action, 73 officers and 976 other ranks;
missing, three officers,. 174 other ranks;
missing, believed killed, seven non-coms,
and men; missing, believed prisoners, one
officer, 63 other ranks; undiagnosed casual-
ties, including sick men, one officer, 55
other ranks.
And that leaves 32 men unaccounted for.
These repeated discrepancies are utterly
unsatisfactory.
“Fk D” • Tho t? A F and the R N
wade iLYhe
Italians in North Africa, and all the offen-
sive action seems to be coming from the
Army of the Nile. At on the
mght of July 15, a large A.I.F. patrol
burst into a sector on the perimeter, pene-
trated the Axis lines for 6000 yards and,
“after inflicting casualties on'the enemy
heavier than its own,” withdrew. The
Italian High Command claimed to have
smashed an enemy foray from Tobruk
The German reply was an attempt to
bomb supply ships coming into the port
—“a really lovely party,” an R.A.F. ob-
server reported, with six Stukas and a
Messerschmitt burning all over the sea.
There have been . otb er sorties from
Tobruk since ; as in the last war, this
sort of raiding is work in whic
Diggers excel. m
C. R. Trask, of West Footscray, who
enlisted at the Melbourne Town Hall, is
the last of six brothers to join the A.I.F.
The six brothers will be in it with the
husbands of three sisters.
* * * * ,
The Germans boast a world record for
a certain Wing-Commander Moelders,
who is alleged to have brought down
115 ’planes, the odd five Soviet machines
bagged in one day. Fourteen from the
Spanish civil war are included. The
R.A.F., always modest, doesn’t claim more
than 34 victims for its ace (unnamed),
In the last war Bishop’s 72 stood out on
its own.
*** * .
. A. R. Baxter Cox, of W-A., is aa-
judged the youngest brigadier in the
Imperial forces at 43 he enlisted in the
ast war at V- J n tbat several yo un S'
sters had brigades—Gordon Bennett, who
commands the A.I.F. in Malaya, x was a
brigadier at 29.
An Australian* in the R.A.F. is Edited
with bringing in the recoid
of all time - He lobbed home with both
elevators shot away ; one rudder out o
commission ; 40 holes in wings, pe ro
an d oil tanks ; wireless out of gear , fuse-
*age from stem to stern
undercarriage. The lad flew the wieck
back from Brernen — bls win 8 commander
said it was “one of the most remarkable
leats of the war. #
According to Fadden, R.A.A.F. squad-
rQns abfoad haye destroyed at least 75
enemy machines xhe squadron employed
m Syria, now composed of veterans, aver-
aged the destruction of two enemy air-
craft a day xb e ear i y formation of Aus-
tra ]j an bomber squadrons is promised,
„. * * *
“Kay”; Brigadier F. B. Hinton, M.C.
(g 2/7/’4l), was camp commandant at
Sydney "1 1 • \rflZ
manded the Bth Infantry Training Brigade
a t Wallgrove and Rutherford (N.S.W.).
Xb e brigade set out on a march to and
thrmio-lh Maitland On the outskirts the
through Maitland. On me outsKi 5 in
Bng.’s bootlace came undone and he tell
out to repair the damage! The usual
comments came from the ranks. “Can’t
take it!” was one. “Can’t I?” the Brig,
retorted. “I’ll be with you never-minds
when we finish.” He was, too—six miles
am be who are
UndCT “ LUCy ”
m tbe Armored
xhey’re at it again. Sydney “Sun,” in
black ty on i 6 /7/’4l:-
chief Japanese port , will be dosed
a jj foreigners for 10 days. Commum-
cation by radiophone and radio-telegraph
to Europe is restricted to Japanese and
*■>*»•> * used "* m
; bane .. Courie r-Mail,” same day:-
The Japancsc Government denies that
Kobe is closed to foreigners for 10 day.:,
in telephone and cable communications
° n ly Japanese, English and German can
be ase I d ‘ ~ ... „
Who d a cable #
“£ k q”. j know of a case in which,
a £ tef war broke out, a novice was taught
the elements of military radio by a man
whose name has been a household word
it l technical circles for more than a
decade and who is known the world over
for his original and practical work on
short-wave circuits. The student is
alread y senior to his instructor. He had a
degree. A young Ernest Fisk, it he were
to enlist, would presumably be unable
to rise beyond a couple of pips. Young
Marconi would have been in the same
box.
STATEMENT MADE BY THE CHAIRMAN OF DIRECTORS
OF THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is not the practice of the B.H.P. Com-
pany to reply to criticism of the Company s
operations, but when an ex-Minister of Customs
and Deputy Leader of the Labor party in
the Federal Parliament states that the B.H.P.
is making too much profit out of Australia s
war effort, we think it opportune that we should
place some material facts before the public.
It has been the consistent policy of The
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., to recognise
itself as having a clear and definite duty to the
Nation as well as to its shareholders, and it has
never hesitated to give practical application to
this policy.
Steel for munition making for Australia’s
use is supplied on a basis which, if applied
generally, would mean that the Company made
no profit from steel making.-
The price of iron and steel in Australia for
all purposes has not been increased since early
in 1938.
Since the outbreak of war the Company has
spent, and is committed for, over £500,000
in the provision of buildings and tools tor de-
fence purposes. During the war the Company
will not be recouped in any way whatever tor
this expenditure.
In addition to this, the Company has spent,
or is spending, about one and half million
pounds on plant which is essential to the war
effort, and which, if ordinary commercial con-
siderations had prevailed, would not have been
installed under current conditions.
Industrial Policy: My Company has always
given just and generous treatment to its
workers, and it is proud of their loyalty and
efficiency. Whenever requests have been made
which the Company felt it could not agree to,
it has immediately suggested that such requests
be referred to the proper industrial tribunal.
It has facilitated the operation of such indus-
trial tribunals and it has faithfully carried out
their awards.
Despite the fact that this Company employs
thousands of men, there have only been a few
minor stoppages of work since the outbreak of
war, and the biggest of these stoppages only
involved a small percentage of our employees.
The only disputes which have led to stoppages
have arisen in cases where the Union in question
has not been willing to await or abide by the
decision of the lawfully constituted authority.
Prices: As soon as war broke out, my
directors decided that the Company should
make little or no profit from munition steel.
A formula was fixed for the price to be charged
for this type of steel for Australian use, which
if applied to the whole of the Company’s output
would result in no profit on its steel-producing
activities. The price of similar steel made
Overseas is at least twice the price at which
it is being sold by this Company in Australia.
Though costs have risen substantially, as far
as this Company is concerned, the price of
commercial products has not been increased,
nor has this Company ever made application for
permission to increase prices.
The ability to produce steel at these low
prices is due to high efficiency and to the free
spending of shareholders’ funds on every de-
velopment that would serve to reduce costs.
Before the war started our prices for com-
mercial products were below the prices charged
in England and America, and the advantage
in favor of Australia is now even more striking.
We submit by way of comparison a range of
our current prices with comparable British
products and prices in Australian currency.
(Prices in other countries being even higher.)
British. Australian.
Pig Iron .. .. £8 7 6 £4 10 0
Merchant Bars .. 21 211 10 2 8
Structural Steel 18 7 9 10 2 8
Plates .. .. 19 6 7 10 12 4
The Company has considered it its duty to
assist the war effort in every possible way
regardless of cost to itself, and it has acted
accordingly. Mr. Forde contends the Govern-
ment should assume control of the Company in
order to achieve industrial peace and increased
output. There has been no industrial trouble
in the Company’s Newcastle Steelworks affect-
ing the production of steel.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside -back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Words of poems, “The Spider and the Fly”
and “Bernardo del Capio.”—1724.
Information Sought.
Educational qualifications for acceptance as
air crew in the R.A.A.F.? —1505.
Arithmetic: Practical uses of addition, sub-
traction, multiplication and division, fractions
and decimal fractions. Algebra: Elementary
algebraic processes, indices, brackets and simple
equations. Geometry: General descriptive
geometry, properties of triangle, right-angled
triangle, quadrilaterals, circles, measurement
of an angle and simple applications of Pytha-
goras’s Theorem. Applicants who have a
satisfactory knowledge of the foregoing are
fully qualified educationally. If they are below
that standard, but are considered of the intelli-
gence to absorb further necessary instruction,
they may be enrolled on the reserve provision-
ally. Those so accepted are taught under Air
Force supervision, and must’ complete the
course before enlistment. The course is
available only to those enrolled on the reserve
and not generally to intending applicants, who
should apply to their local recruiting centre.
* * V *
How did the A.I.F. vote in the conscrip-
tion referenda during the last war? —1604.
They voted for conscription in both cases.
Voting was: October, 1916, for 72,399, against
58,894, informal 2520; December, 1917, for
103,789, against 93,910, informal 1978.
* * * *
Any details of E. A. Mann, one-time A.B.C.’s
“Watchman” ? —1504.
He was born August 11, 1874, at Mount
Gambier (S.A.); was educated privately and
at Melbourne Uni.; was Government Analyst,
Chief Inspector of Explosives and Agricultural
Chemist in Westralia for 27 years. He was
M.H.R. for Perth from 1922-29, and later be-
came A.B.C.’s “Watchman” until September,
1940. After that he broadcast over a chain of
commercial stations and is now editing the
“Life Digest.” In the 1940 Federal election he
unsuccessfully contested the Flinders (Vic.) seat.
* * * *
Price and place to study tailoring? —1772.
Sydney Technical College has a course for
those actually engaged in the trade. Appli-
cant must not be less than 16 years old, have
had at least two years’ experience as a tailor,
cutter, trimmer or presser, and have passed the
intermediate certificate or its equivalent.
Classes are held at the college, Ultimo, and the
course, which extends over three years, necessi-
tates attendance on two evenings each week
from seven to nine o’clock. Fees are 10s. a
term or 25s. a year for juniors—students under
21 and earning less than 30s. a week —and
20s. a term or 50s. a year for seniors. For
further information write to the principal,
Sydney Technical College, Harris-street, Ultimo.
* * * *
Chances o / running a car on carbide or
acetylene gas? —1829.
Any gaseous fuel, such as marsh gas or town
gas, can be used for driving motor engines. The
use of acetylene, however, is uneconomical be-
cause of the high price of calcium carbide and
the alterations that would have to be made to
the engine. Acetylene could be produced on the
car from calcium carbide or could be taken
from steel cylinders containing compressed
acetylene dissolved in acetone or acetone sub-
stitutes. Tests show that one kg. of acetylene
is equivalent to about 2.5 kg. of benzine. A
range of about 75 miles is obtained from a
large cylinder of dissolved acetylene, but the
energy output of the engine is not as great as
with benzine.
* * * *
How long does an ordinary (not faced) brick
last when subjected to normal conditions, to
weather, soils or fresh and salt water?— 1692.
There are no books available regarding dura-
bility of common building bricks used under
Australian conditions. Broadly, a hard burnt
brick is practically everlasting, and will, stand
up indefinitely to ordinary atmospheric condi-
tions, frost and various soil acids, and salt and
fresh water. Soft bricks are less durable and
will be definitely affected by frost, soil
acids and soil water. Not possible to give an
actual figure of the life of any cla*s of brick
as it will naturally be dependent upon the
severity of the conditions of exposure.
* * * *
How to make an anti-fouling paint for boats ?
—me.
Generally paints containing copper and mer-
cury compounds give best results. If a metal
surface has to be treated, it’s wise first to apply
an anti-corrosive paint: Zinc oxide (dry)
191b., Venetian red (dry) 91b., silica 91b., resin
(WW grade) 151b., solvent naphtha 381b., man-
ganese linoleate 131b., coal tar 51b. Anti-foul-
ing paint: Zinc oxide (dry) 241b., asbestine
(dry) 71b., silica 81b., cuprous oxide 151b., mer-
curic oxide 41b., resin (WW grade) 251b., sol-
vent naphtha 341b., pine oil 41b., coal tar 61b.
Be careful with the mercuric oxide as it’s ex-
tremely poisonous. You’d be well-advised, if
possible, to buy paints ready mixed from a
reputable manufacturer.
* * * *
Explanation of water-divining? —1497.
The C.S.I.R. puts it like this: “Water-divin-
ing is not an exact science and there is no
really quantitative method of evaluating it. As
a result, it appears that there is no accepted
scientific explanation of the movements of a
divining rod. Some people consider that the
rod twists without any intention or voluntary
deception on the part of the diviner, due to
a reflex action excited by some stimulus upon
his mind. This stimulus may be either a sub-
conscious suggestion or an actual impression
from an external object or an external mind.”
* * * *
Any information on the birth of kangaroos ?
—1694.
As with all marsupials, they are born like
all furred animals (mammals), but at a much
earlier stage because there is less provision for
nourishing the unborn than in the higher types
of mammals. The teats (within the pouch),
as in all furred animals and humans, are con-
cerned solely with the milk supply, and it is
anatomically impossible for them to be con-
cerned with the actual conception of the young.
The theory of “pouch-birth” is simply dis-
proved by the fact that our opossums and
spotted marsupial “cats” often give birth to
more young than there are teats. Scientific
observations of American opossums, kangaroos
and other marsupials have proved that the
comparatively undeveloped young are provided
with remarkable instinct and ability to travel
through the mother’s fur to the pouch unaided,
and then attach themselves to teats. Their
mouths become constricted around the nipples,
and the bleeding which results from forcible
removal gives a false impression that growth
of the young is from the teats. The foregoing
is illustrated and explained in detail in The
Australian Museum Magazine, Vol. 11, Part 11,
1926, obtainable from the Australian Museum,
College-street, Sydney, for Is. Id.
* * * *
(1) What are the main gems found in Aus-
tralia, and where? (2) Where are emeralds
and topaz chiefly found ? —1668.
(1) Diamonds in the Invcrell (N.S.W.) dis-
trict ; opal at White Cliffs and Lightning Ridge
(N.S.W.), in several districts in western Queens-
land, and at Coober Pedy and Andamooka(S.A.);
sapphires at Sapphire (N.S.W.), 17 miles east
of Inverell, and at Anakie (Q.); topaz in the
New England (N.S.W.) district, and at Stan-
thorpe and Tate River (Q.). Australia is the
world’s chief producer, of opal and one of the
chief producers of sapphires. Other gems of less
importance are beryl and emerald (N.S.W.),
zircon and amethyst (N.S.W. and Q.) and
tourmaline (S.A.). Garnets occur abundantly
in Centralia. (2) South-west Africa is the chief
producer of topaz, and S’Africa the chief pro-
ducer of emeralds.
* * * *
What is the signification of the repetition
of words in scientific names of various forms
of bird and animal life? For example, Mola
mola (the ocean sunfish) ? —ll7O.
Question involves certain technicalities which
could probably best be explained personally
by one of the systematists at a museum. This
tautological repetition of first (generic) and
second (trivial) names is the exception rather
than the rule amongst the many thousands of
specific names given to animals, and is usually
found in names given a long time ago. In
the case of Mola mola, this fish was first
named Tetraodon mola by Linnaeus in 1758,
but Cuvier and later authorities separated this
species from the true Tetraodons (toad-
fishes) as anew genus, Mola. In order to
avoid tautology, purists have termed the sun-
fish Mola rotunda or by any other name, but
nowadays priority of publication overrides every-
thing else in scientific nomenclature, so the
oldest correct name for every genus and species
stands. While Mola mola is the European sun-
fish, the Australian kind is slightly different
and is known as Mola ramsayi.
* * * *
Time and method to poison a tree with
arsenic compounds ? —1756.
Best time is when the tree is passing into
the dormant stage—when the sap-flow is ceaSng.
This period varies in different districts, but gener-
ally begins about February—on parts of the
N.S.W. North Coast ringbarking has been car-
ried out to best advantage as late as June and
early July in some years. The main object in
catching the sap at the right time is to prevent
suckering. Trees can be killed by arsenic or
ringbarking at practically any time of the year,
but to prevent suckering it is necessary to
tackle them when the sap is just completing its
downward course. Pamphlet with full details
has been forwarded.
* * * *
Particulars of Mother Shipton and her
prophecies ? —1790.
Mother Shipton was a witch and prophetess,
supposed to have lived in early Tudor times.
According to tradition her maiden name was
Ursula Southill, Southiel or Sowthiel, her parents
peasants and her birthdate round 1486-88. She
became known as a prophetess while at school,
and later her most sensational prophecies had to
do with Cardinal Wolsey, the Duke of Suf-
folk, Lord Percy and other prominent men at
the Gourt of Henry VIII. Her alleged prophecies
have had in England an extraordinary hold
on the popular imagination from the seven-
teenth century until quite recently. In Stuart
times people of every class believed in her,
and in Pepys’s Diary there is reference to her
supposed foretelling of the Great Fire. One
of her prophecies was supposed to have
menaced Yeovil, Somerset, with an earthquake
and flood in 1879. On the eve of the expected
disaster hundreds moved from their cottages
and spectators swarmed to see the town’s
destruction. Again there was alarm through-
out rural England in 1881, Mother Shipton’s
date for the end of the world; people deserted
their houses and spent the night in prayer in
the fields, churches and chapels. There are
numerous books on the subject.
* * * *
(1) What dye or tint is used in coloring coral
and sea shells? (2) How is it applied? —ll94.
(1) Ordinary aniline dyes, such as are used
for dyeing fabrics, are sometimes used, but
the usual method for both shells and corals is
to use dry colors diluted with water or water-
proof colors, which can be bought at any big
firms specialising in artists’ materials. Although
the colors are very true, dry colors are liable
to fade after exposure to strong light. Water-
proof colors are more reliable. (2) Can be
painted on with ordinary brushes, but care
should be taken with coral," as it breaks easily.
* * * *
What were the detailed results of the Aus-
tralian Uni. Rugby Union tour to Japan in
1934? Manager and captain? —lß7o.
Played nine matches; won four, lost four,
drew one. Points for 128; against 118. Re-
suits: Defeated Western Japan (33-15), Waseda
Uni. (21-6), Japan (18-8), Doshisha Uni.
(23-11); lost to Keio Uni. (16-8), Meiji Uni.
(34-8), Japan (14-9) and Hong Kong (11-5);
the draw was with Hong Kong (three all). R.
Westfield was captain and R. Martin manager
—both from Sydney.
* * * *
Explanation of the movements of a horse’s
legs in (1) the trot, (2) the pace and (3)
effect of trotting harness? —1255.
(1) Where the near fore and off hind legs of
the horse move together with corresponding
action by the off fore and near hind, the gait
is termed “the trot.” (2) Where the near fore
and near hind move in conjunction, with similar
action by the off fore and off hind, the gait
is known as “the pace.” Both movements are
often loosely covered by the term “trot.” (3)
Presume you refer to “hopples,” which are used
only on pacers as a means of keeping the gait
and stopping any tendency to “break.”
* * * *
(1) Does the “no foul” rule, which has been
enforced in America for some years, cover all
fouls in boxing? (2) What are the fouls in
boxing ? —2013.
(1) No, the American “no foul” rule, which
also functions in most Australian stadiums,
deals only with the low blow, and boxers are
ordered to wear protective shields to save them
from permanent injury in case of an accidental
or otherwise low blow. (2) There are 13 fouls
in boxing. They are: Flitting below the belt,
hitting an opponent while he is down or
is getting up after being down, holding an
opponent or deliberately maintaining a clinch,
holding with one hand and hitting with the
other, butting with the head or shoulders or
hitting with the knee, hitting with the inside or
butt of the hand, the wrist or elbow, hitting
or “flicking” with the open glove, wrestling
or roughing on the ropes, purposely going
down without being hit, striking deliberately
at that part of the body over the kidneys,
using the pivot' blow or the rabbit punch,
using abusive or profane language, failure to
obey the referee after due warning.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Maxie Rosenbloom
horn ? (2) From whom, and where and when,
did he win the world’s light-heavyweight cham-
pionship ? (3) How long did Rosenbloom hold
this title, and what is he doing now ? —1567.
(1) New York City, September 6, 1904. (2) He
became recognised light-heavyweight champion
of the world by outpointing Jimmy Slattery in
15-round final of elimination tournament at
Buffalo (N.Y.) on June 25, 1930. (3) Until
Bob Olin outpointed him in 15 rounds at
New York City on November 16, 1934. He is
now a movie actor at Hollywood.
* * * ♦
Did Abe Willis, one-time bantamweight
champion of Australia, ever go to America
and fight any leading boxers there? —1874.
Yes. Willis went to America about 53 years
ago, and fought George Dixon (then world
bantamweight champion) there in 1891. Dixon
knocked out Willis in five rounds, and after
three more American contests (one with Young
Scotty, who was beaten by Young Griffo at
Chicago late in 1893) Willis returned to Aus-
tralia.
Brief Answers.
P.L.-S.: (1) Yes, she may apply to the Court
for commission. (2) If it was necessary for
the proper management of the estate, yes. (3)
If not, she will have to pay out of her own
pocket. (4) Yes, consult a solicitor. (5) Do
not follow question. “Protect herself” from
what?....N.H.G.: Information too scanty to
advise fully, but it would appear that you are
protected by the Moratorium Act... .P.J.A.:
(1) They can apply to the Equity Court for an
order appointing trustees for the sale of the
property, and upon any such appointment the
trustees will hold the property upon trust
{inter alia ) to sell it and account for the pro-
ceeds. (2) and (3) No. (4) Yes, if by “busi-
ness” you mean the property. (5) Do not under-
stand the question. He can individually do
what he pleases... .F.J.: Cause is frequently
to be found in some nasal obstruction or in
chronic infection of one of the nasal sinuses,
and the condition should therefore be investi-
gated by a nose-and-throat specialist. Change
of climate is often of great benefit. A vaccine
prepared from the organisms found after swab-
bing the nose and throat of the patient has
been effective in many cases... .V.E.: For a
few long and strong hairs, electrolysis is often
used. Numerous small hairs on the upper
lip and chin of female patients are suitable
for X-ray treatment. Both forms of treatment
are matters for a skin specialist... .D.M.:
Know of no scientific foundation for the be-
lief, though it is a matter of experience that, in
cases in which intestinal indigestion is present,
the taking of any saline purgative in the morn-
ings tends to lessen the pain in certain rheumatic
complaints... .W.C.H.; A salty taste in the
mouth is commonly due to the presence of
minute quantities of blood arising from ulcera-
tion of gums or the infection occurring in
pyorrhoea. Small lesions of nose or throat have
a similar effect, and a medical examination is
necessary before deciding upon appropriate
cure... .W.G.: Nutritive constituents of apples
are the carbohydrates. They consist almost
entirely of sugars, since only a few ripe fruits
contain starch. The average composition of
an apple (in percentages) is water 82.5, protein
0.4, ether extract 0.5, carbohydrates 12.5, ash
0.4, cellulose 2.7, acids 1.0. Cooking greatly
reduces the carbohydrate figure. Bread is a
much better food. Composition of white
bread (percentages) is water 40.0, protein 6.5,
fat 1.2, starch, sugar, dextrin 51.2, cellulose
0.3, mineral matter 1.0....G.8.: Relationships
can be summed up as follows; If A and B are
cousins, A’s child is a “first cousin, once re-
moved,” to B. The children of brothers and
sisters are “cousins-german” (“full” or “first”
cousins). Children of cousins-german are
second cousins to each other... .L.W.J.: The
theory of irido-diagnosis is that the diagnosis
of diseases depends on the observer’s
ability to note and interpret the changing colors
of the iris (or colored material) of the eye.
Not recommended for the diagnosis of the
maladies listed. .. .D.S.M.; Write to Universal
Milk Products Company, Sydney... .A.R.; A
number of books on astronomy are available
from Angus and Robertson or Dymocks.
Recommend either Astronomy, by W. M.
Smart, or General Astronomy, by H. Spencer-
Jones. The latter is one of the best books
available but is somewhat more expensive....
X.Y.Z.: No supercharger in Australia made
specially to fit the 10-h.p. Singer. A few odd
units that may be available would be expensive
to fit, and the results obtained would not war-
rant the expense. You might buy one or
two in Melbourne, either new or second-
hand.... R.H.W.: Statuette of Melba of
Darbalara is believed to be at head office
of American Milking Shorthorn Society in
Chicago, Illinois... .W.McL.: Arthur Bayley
was born in Victoria... .D.J.L.8.: Know of
no firms in Australia which undertake “to
trace lineal relations back over several genera-
tions.,” The Society of Australian Genealo-
gists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney, undertakes, for
an annual membership fee of 12s. 6d., to do
its utmost to trace family pedigrees of its
members back as far as possible. The society
has agents in London who, for “moderate
fees,” would probably be able to continue the
search where the society left 0ff....J.G.: The
Australian Museum has several sets of white
emu eggs and does not require any more at
present... .N. W.F.: Ye5....W.C.: Write to
W. D. Bailey, naval architect, Como, N. S.
Wales... J.L.8.; Write to Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... .V.R.: Overseas conditions per-
mitting, Angus and Robertson, Sydney, can get
you a copy of Smooth-coated and Wire-haired
Fox Terriers for about 9s Blue: Cannot
trace any books on the subject... .5.M.8.:
It is a patented process known as the Fowler
system. Suggest you write to Mr. Fowler,
Werribce South, Victoria... J.G.: “Waltzing
Matilda” is obtainable in a community song-
book published by Alberts, King-street, Sydney.
. ...A.W.V.: Forwarding pamphlet on the
action of lime on 50i1... J.A.M.: Apply to an
Adelaide bookseller or to Angus and Robert-
son, Sydney... J.D.H.: Write to Walther and
Stevenson, 395 Georgc-strcet, Sydney S.J.;
Suggest you write to the Officer-in-charge,
Munitions Employment Bureau, 132 Gcorgc-
street North, Sydney... .W.G.: In a longevity
test carried out on the house canary, compris-
ing an exhibit of some twenty birds, it was
found that the average life was 15 years. One
bird reached 22. The birds were, of course,
very well cared for and kept under favorable
conditions... .F.J.8.: (1) There is a market
in Australia for several thousand tons of feldspar
a year, and it is already well supplied from
local sources. The principal market is in the
mariufacturing centres in the eastern States,
and the feldspar in the crude state is valued at
not much over £2 a ton delivered. (2) B.H.P.
Cos., Ltd., is the only buyer of magnesite
in large quantities;' price paid is about £2
a ton delivered... .A.8.H.: A truck of the
dimensions given holds 6i cubic feet of broken
stone or gravel. The approximate weight of
this truck filled level with broken quartz would
be about 7jrcwt H.A.; The G.R.I. badge
was issued to members of the Imperial Forces
and the A.I.F. (1914-18) who were discharged
medically unfit not due to misconduct....
S. : A lecturer at Melbourne University who
knows both universities says that he knows
of no such difference. .. .A.W.D.: Sick pay,
£ls, should not be included in your income tax
return as income... .E.A.8.: Write to the De-
partment of Agriculture, Perth, for advice on
starting a poultry farm near Albany (W.A.).
. ...L.A.C.: Know of no circumstances in
which British taxation would amount to more
than 100 p.c. of income... .B.McA.; Lambing
sickness injection: Calcium gluconate 20gms.,
boric acid 3.6gm5., water lOOmls. Give 25mls. to
each sheep, as required... .H. 1.8.: Reyner’s Ele-
mentary Wireless Course for Beginners, 65., post.
6d., from Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
T. : Suggest you get in touch with Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .A.H.P.: The Rural
Bank will get in touch with you... J.C.S.:
(1) Know of none. (2) N0....K.T.: Grass-
tree gum is used in the manufacture of varnish,
washing blue and linoleum. Forwarding list of
addresses.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused: —■
G. :
“I couldn’t bear it,” Hitler wailed,
“I tried, but couldn’t take it.
For England laid my backbone bare
And tf mi proceeded to break it.” •
A.E.C. :
We love our boys in Air Force blue,
Young heroes all, so brave and true.
They drop their bombs with thunderous roar,
They’ll beat the Germans as before.
E.D. :
A patriotic petalled flower'our poiusettia,
For when the moonlight gilds the dark of night,
It mingles with the moon and sky
To form the blue and red and white.
D.M.H.: It might make a par D.A.D.:
Try it on the local paper.. . .P.N.: “The mighty
massive mountains in solemn stillness stand.”
The mighty missive marches A. 8.: A touch
of it in “Hail and Godspeed”... .D.C.M.:
Keep at it D.M.R.: “War? Is it war?”
Yes. Verse? Is it verse? N 0... .J.W.S.:
Chopped-up prose... .T.1.P.: E. J. Brady does
it better F.M.: “I will arise and sing a
joyous song.” And we will arise and go to
Innisfree... .8.T.; “The children, so like the
flowers.” Well, yes; but we can’t imagine little
Willie in a vase E.E.L. and M.C.G.: But
why on earth write a poem if it is not intended
to “break into the domain of the poets”?
R.W.T.: “Anyhow, it’s my turn.” Sorry ; your
about-turn E. 8.: “You great fat stars!”
Our great fat foot! G. 8.: Your touch is as
light as a Clydesdale’s P.J.1.: If he really
exists, put him in prose V.M., C.W., A.H.,
W.A.C., M.C.T. and G.V.: Misfires.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H. ; An amazing essay in anatomy
G.P.M.: Get more life into your figures
F.A.: No use for blotty little scraps in faded
ink K.L.S.: Very ornery, buddy, and note
that chaps, 12-gallon hats and high-heeled
hombres don’t grow around these parts....
E M • Don’t doubt your claim that it is origi-
nal A.W.R.: What does all the barbed wire
wound around the lady’s head represent?....
L M.D.: As a first offender you get off with
a caution W.F.: The lady would have diffi-
culty not only in fitting those feet into the
shoes but even into the box they came in....
V B.: That joke was turned out to grass in the
long ago Arthur B.: If there is a joke in it,
it is buried somewhere deep under the forest
of tags.


81l
t.
M
'sX
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
{England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensla:d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch; 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES
It is probably unnecessary to record
more than the fact that Myrna Loy
and William Powell are back in “Love
Crazy” at Sydney St. James. In case it
should be a rainy night, however, it could
be added that the show is as funny as
any the pair have made. And, just in
case the family umbrella should be in
the popshop, it could also be added that
the film kicks off with William and
Myrna as a happily-married couple of
four years’ standing whose mother-in-
law problem shunts them on to the rocks
of divorce ; William, naturally loath to
part with the bewchus Myrna, can only
halt the proceedings by being declared
insane, which he does with such
thoroughness and abandon that he has
his work cut out to convince Myrna—
and the audience —that he isn’t minus a
screw or two. A topnotch rib-buster and
a good antidote to a disastrous day at
the neddies.
Watching William Powell’s antics in
“Love Crazy” and listening to the guffaws
they drew from the audience, it struck
this commentator that screen humor has
changed very little over the years—the
main difference between films in which
the well-groomed Powell gets his best
laughs when he falls over a mat or jams
his head in a lift door and those in
which ludicrously attired comics got their
guffaws by pelting pies at each other and
falling over their own feet is in the clothes
and advance in technical production work
and extravagant presentation. Which
seems to indicate that, while bedroom
comedy runs in its limited circle and
wisecracks occasionally raise a chuckle,
the best and loudest laughs are still
evoked by the same old clowning fall-
about and damnfoolery. And Powell, one
of the funniest men on the screen, is as
much a master at that business as the
Loy is an excellent foil for him.
Sydney St. James has a good supporting
bill of three or four shorts and news-
reels. There’s a tiptop M.-G.-M. color
cartoon dealing with piscatorial doings
on a river-bottom ; a Pete Smith item on
the adventures of a couple of larrikin
lion cubs who contrive to wreck a
nursery and kitchen and have a tentative
box-on with a massive python ; a news-
reel of the Bismarck fight, and a “Crime
Does Not Pay” touch on a bribed health
department official who neglected to re-
port inefficient ratproofing on the wharves
and so was responsible for an outbreak
of bubonic plague. All entertaining or
interesting items and making, with the
main feature, jolly good value for the
price of a seat.
* J{e % *
Several films lately have carried vary-
ing doses of American propaganda for
home consumption. “Buck Privates” at
Sydney Embassy is designed to that end
and, if nothing else, may serve as a sug-
gestion to the Australian film people and
to Governments which can afford to subsi-
dise private enterprise with public money.
The propaganda purpose of the film is
to create a pleasing picture of American
conscription and of life in the camps.
Four draftees are followed through their
training course —two act as clowns, while
of the others one is a pampered million-
aire playboy and one in civvy life his
chauffeur. The Andrew Sisters supply
“musical” background, and the general
verdict is lightly entertaining.
Also at Sydney Embassy is “The Lone
Wolf Takes a Chance,” and he probably
took it with as sizable a pinch of salt
as most audiences will. Uncle Sam has
a brand-new burglar-proof railway mail
car, and only one man, the inventor,
knows the combination which opens it
safely—any attempt to force it releases
a deadly poison gas. It becomes urgently
necessary to open the car and the in-
ventor is locked, bound and gagged
inside. Is the Lone Wolf dismayed?
Not for a moment. He dashes to the
nearest movie house and nabs a news-
reel film showing the inventor opening
the car at a trial demonstration. He
projects the film through an enlarger,
which in some inconceivable manner en-
larges the combination dials from pin-
points to a size permitting the numbers
of the combination to be read. Wonder-
ful ; and should further paper restrictions
be enforced The Bulletin will consider
the idea of sending photographs of the
staff’s typewriter ribbons to its readers.
* * * *
“Road Show” at Sydney Plaza has John
Hubbard as a millionaire lured into matri-
mony by a designing society damsel and
escaping at the last moment by feigning
insanity. He overdoes it and is carted
off to an exclusive asylum, Adolphe
Menjou being a thoroughly deserving in-
mate of the same institution. Charles
Butterworth, Menjou’s wealthy nephew, is
a little saner than Uncle, but has a particu-
lar mania for fire-engines and owns a
country mansion designed on fire-station
lines where house guests are entertained
every Saturday night by burning down
the barn. Patsy Kelly is a female side-
show barker receiving unwanted atten-
tion from an amorous redskin. With
Carole Landis tossed in for decoration
and lurv interest, it should all add up to
P-P-P-POISON!
Aileen Britton and Hal Thompson in “The Two Mrs. Carrolls” at
Sydney Minerva.
a particularly good comedy, which, for
a while, it seems likely to be. But the
fairytale plot does a fair bit to upset
expectations.
# ♦ * *
A good current collection of shorts
and newsreels (inspected at Wynyard
Newsreel Theatrette) includes some illumi-
nating shots of Churchill getting a speech
off his chest. Unlike Roosevelt —“They
want guns. They shall get guns”—
Churchill seems to like rolling out the
polysyllables for all he’s worth ; at times,
in a flat monotone with a falling finish,
he is startlingly like a preacher ; then he
pours out invective, supporting his
words most of the time with gestures,
at first histrionic, but, with acquaintance,
natural and sweeping. Another newsreel
speech in a very different category comes
from a young pilot-officer of the Catalina
flying-boat which found the Bismarck,
telling how they first spotted the ship as
a vague black shadow, picked it out
definitely and then took refuge in the
clouds from the A.A. guns. The clouds
finished almost directly over the ship and,
in the pilot’s words, the flying-boat “got
everything she’d got” from the Bismarck.
The flying-boat, its hull damaged by
shrapnel, returned to its base after 18
hours in the air.
* * * *
Sydney Capitol has “Reaching for the
Sun,” which boils down to a discussion
of cases for and against simple country
life and that in a modern industrial city.
It’s rattling good entertainment, with
Joel McCrea as a clam-fisher from the
woods, Eddie Bracken as a car-factory
worker and Ellen Drew as a city lass
who weds Joel, at first tying him down
to the city existence but being converted
later to his idea of life. Albert Dekker
does a good job, but his role doesn’t
offer hirri much scope. Nicely-judged
humor, some striking drama and a back-
ground of interesting documentary stuff
of a modern mass-production car factory.
William Boyd, as Mulford’s Hopalong
Cassidy, is about the only old-style cellu-
loid cowboy in action these days. He and
a couple of cobbers are always good, and
their latest, “In Old Colorado,” is meat
for all who relish Western fare. Also
at Sydney Capitol.
STAGE AND CONCERT
, Melbourne is growing more and more
cosmopolitan. On his way home from
that very British and solemn institution
the celebrity concert at the Town Hall,
present commentator ran against a crowd
milling about in the foyer of the Central
Hall in Little Collins-street. Dark eyes
were gleaming, hands were gesticulating,
shoulders shrugging, and there was a
tempest of talk which might easily have
been taken for German, but wasn’t. It
was an audience halfway through
“Squaring the Circle,” the three-act
Russo-Sovietish comedy by Katayev
which was written in Russian and per-
formed in English some years ago in
Melbourne and now reappears in a local
Yiddish translation by S. Freedman, pro-
duction being in the hands of B. New-
man-Jubal, onetime of Vienna.
“Squaring the Circle” appeared to be
a skit or satire or joke on the Soviet
matrimonial system. Two married
couples get all muddled up together in
the same apartments, both wives find
that they aren’t in love with their own
husbands but with each other’s, and they
find they have precisely the same bad
conscience about a change-over as any
couple in a capitalist society, but they
call their desires communistically un-
ethical instead of Christianly immoral.
They go to the Soviet registry office and
have a reshuffle, but this doesn’t make
them feel any better. Their conflict is
resolved by a convenient commissar who
comes along and tells them that they
made a wrong choice in the first place
and that now they each have the right
partner. Jews seem to be natural-born
actors or with a natural-born capacity to
express their feelings. Mrs. A. Light, S.
Freedman, A. Aubor, A. Anders, M.
Wald and S. Mendelson played with a
rush and abandon that was inspiring.
* * *
Una Bourne, who many years ago
impressed Melbourne with her powers as
a youthful “prodigy,” became a protegee
of Melba and toured Australia and over-
seas with the diva on numerous occa-
sions, was the soloist at the second cele-
brity concert at Melbourne Town Hall.
She gave mature expression to the piano
part in Mozart’s Concerto No. 23, in A
major, a short piece with a particularly
lovely finish, and it was obvious that she
was feeling the music. A packed house
gave her an ovation, and the Symphony
Orchestra got another for its playing of
the long Symphony No. 1 of Brahms
with its changes of mood and its cheerful
finale. Instead of the conventional over-
ture, Bernard Heinze gave subscribers the
Toccata in C major which Bach took
from Vivaldi and arranged for the organ
and which was orchestrated by the
modern composer, Weiner. The debt to
Bach is as plain as the debt to Vivaldi,
and, if sometimes it seemed to be violins
which were streaming over the audi-
torium, most of the time it was as if the
organ itself were pealing.
* * * *
Melbourne University’s Tin Alley
Players have just tried three Noel Coward
one-acters —“Tonight at 8.30,” “Fumed
Oak” and “Still Life” —and the airy,
cynical, up-to-the-minute dialogue and
situations were right into the hands of
the undergraduate actors and actresses.
Joyce Turner, Peggy Ray, Esme Broad-
hurst, Frank Brooks, Joy Youlden and
the versatile Keith Macartney were
among those who wore Mr. Coward’s
fashionable intellectual clobber with
distinction.
ARTBURSTS
A. D. Colquhoun and wife Amalie
are holding their annual joint show at
Melbourne Athenaeum. Their viewpoint
is the same, and the observer would be
inclined to say that in the matter of
craftsmanship there is little or nothing
to choose between them. Both are
capable, sound painters, and, though no-
thing startles, nothing looks shoddy or
ill-considered. Some of the portraits
and figure studies tend towards what the
connoisseurs call “gallery” pictures. An
attractive-looking girl in an attractive
frock by Mr. Colquhoun and a girl in a
nightshirt titled “Good Morning” by
Mrs. C. go furthest in this direction.
* * * *
“F.S.”; John Heath, a
dentist who six years ago had never set
a brush to canvas and never imagined he
ever would, is holding a first show at
Sedon’s which will stand comparison with
the shows of the vast majority of Mel-
bourne artists, both in sincerity and
execution. Landscapes and still-life are
simple and direct, and there is an array
of portraits of professors, fellow-profes-
sional men and one of Levante, the magi-
cian, which are excellent likenesses and
honest in intention. There are plenty of
full-time painters and many of the tradi-
tional kind of art student who could not
give as good an account of themselves
as Heath.
* * * *
Adelaide’s Society of Arts has had two
rather unusual shows. It even improved
on the poster show initiated two or three
years back by Peter Crompton, the new
one including some sent by him from
the A.I.F. overseas, also two done by
Elizabeth Skottowe, an Adelaide girl, for
the Southern Railways in England. The
whole collection, from many countries,
shows strikingly the development of
posters of late years.
• •••»*
The other exhibition was of photo-
graphs. They reach a high level, without
quite attempting to imitate the pastel or
crayon effects of a few years back.
Adelaide Nat. Gallery likes to remember
that it was the first in Australia to recog-
nise this as an actual branch of the arts
which it fosters.


LYSACHT-S
£
ROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETT IN G, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON’T WORY I’M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS.”
The Wool Season Ends.
“Ghanam”: The wool - appraisal
scheme certainly has the merit of being
able to deal promptly with payments. In
the two seasons the scheme has been in
existence 7,127,305 bales have been
handled and £125,682,912 has been
handed over or earmarked for immediate
payment to growers. Next month 5 p.c.
retention money for the present season —
£2,594,000—and equalisation money to
meet the difference between appraised
and actual contract average—£5,708,000
—will go out.
Top figures belong to last year, when
3,621,000-odd bales were handled, yield-
ing £64,723,000. In the season just clos-
ing 3,506,000 were appraised for a return
of £60,959,528. The Central Wool Com-
mittee estimate for 1941-42 is 3,590,000
bales. Financial arrangements will be as
before—retention money will be 5 p.c.
The progress made is shown by the
fact that, despite artificials and a wider
use of crossbreds and the growth of the
fine-wool business in S’Africa, the Com-
monwealth still sells nearly as much wool
in a year as it did in two during the last
war. At the same time, growers are tar
from overpaid. In the United States fine-
combing wool in the grease early this
year was bringing the equivalent of 2s. 7d.
per pound, and mid-January average
price for all classes of wool, according
to the U.S. Commerce Department, was
31.2 cents—Is. lid. on present exchange
basis.
Twin Lamb Disease.
“J.R.D.”; Losses of in-lamb ewes
through pregnancy toxaemia (B. 16/7/’4l)
are most common during the month pre-
ceding lambing, but may begin earlier.
Cause is lack of protein. The pasture
may be short of the nourishment that
ewes with growing lambs must have. The
molasses-Epsom salts drench is useful for
affected ewes, but prevention is more
important.
During the two months prior to lamb-
ing, additional feed of a protein-rich
character should be available. Green oats
or lucerne are best, but are usually scarce
then. Where dry feed or scrub is plenti-
ful a concentrate such as blood- or meat-
meal gives excellent results.
A ewe requires at least 2oz, a day but
may be repelled by unpalatability and
smell. Accustom them gradually by
mixing a small quantity of meatmeal
through the salt, decreasing the salt and
increasing the meal progressively. For
quick results mix a feed of 30 p.c. salt,
20 p.c. meatmeal and a 50 p.c. mixture
of linseed-meal, wheatmeal and pollard.
When they are taking this freely increase
the meatmeal and decrease first the salt,
then the other meals. A calcium phos-
phate lick should be available.
Molasses in the drinking water is said
to give results. Dehydrated molasses,
particularly with bloodmeal added, is
good and can be put out as a lick without
having to be constantly replenished.
Crutching and Jetting Again.
“R. Ney”: Sheep shorn during this
month and next should be jetted the
instant blowflies become troublesome in
spring. Keep on jetting every time they
need it right up to crutching at the end
of summer. It may be necessary again
a month or so after crutching and during
winter. There may be five jettings from
shearing to shearing.
And when jetting: Fill the wool in the
crutch, well out on the sides and over the
tail; jet with the staple, upwards in the
crutch, downwards on the tail; begin
and finish in the crutch to make sure
of the most difficult area ; get the spray
into the wrinkles by drawing them out.
Color the spray as a check—a pound
of red oxide powder per 100 gallons will
do. The color will show whether the
jetting is good or not and whether the
muster was complete.
Face the race exit south-east to avoid
low sunshine on wet boards and so that
jetted sheep will remain in view from the
exit. Fix a wide and level get-away
from the jetting-box so that the ramp
down to ground level doesn’t start right
at the exit. Make sure the sheep cannot
“Next time you spill eucalyptus on my bed you can sleep in it.”
turn in the entrance ramp or jetting-box.
Give a good floor to prevent slipping.
“Warramulla” : “B-gar” (B. 28/5/’4l)
had to resort to crutching after jetting,
and believes therefore that jetting is use-
less when flies are really on the job. But
he put the cart before the horse. Had
he crutched first and jetted afterwards,
he would have saved a lot of sheep and
himself a good deal of hard labor.
From February to July of 1940, when
fly was particularly bad, sheepmen out
here (n.-w. Queensland) either crutched
or jetted their sheep, and there were
terrific losses —even up to 50 p.c. But
they learned their lesson. This season,
so far, the losses have been reduced to
a minimum, mainly because owners,
where labor was available, crutched early
and have jetted a couple of times since.
Both jobs must be done properly. A
few hits with a shearing machine or hand
shears is not crutching, and a few squirts
with the spraying gun is not jetting. Have
the crutching done thoroughly when the
fly is about due, and jet thoroughly after-
wards when necessary. By these means
we have reduced our losses this season
to about 1 p.c. per month.
Certainly jetting cannot prevent body
strike, but if the mixture gets on to the
sheep’s skin properly it will prevent the
strike from developing.
Stud Export.
“Geneticist” states a case: —■
May it please your Honors, I come to plead
for the abolition of the embargo on export of
merino rams. I suggest, with profound re-
spect, that something be done about the legis-
lators whose myopic vision and innocence of
the elementary laws of genetics have deprived
this country of an enduring and profitable ex-
port business and valuable foreign exchange,
not to mention diverse intangible advantages.
I have here a group of witnesses; a cattle
man from Hereford, England; a draught-horse
man from the Valley of the Clyde; a brace of
dairymen from the Channel Islands of Jersey
and Guernsey; a Percheron breeder from La
Perche in France; a gentleman from the vilayet
of Ankara (whose unique specialty is long-
haired goats, cats and rabbits); a brace of gold-
fish breeders from Japan; and the shade of the
late Mr. Cook, of Orpington, in Kent, whose
contribution to the breeds of the humble
domestic hen is not without merit, even fame.
These people will testify to the benefits which
have accrued to their countries over very many
years from the sale of the specialty breeds and
strains, each peculiar to its own specific
country, region or locality.
The crestfallen gentleman at the back of the
court is an ostrich-farmer from S Africa. He
will recount what happens to a country when it
prohibits by legislation the export of its
specialty. Behind him again, the abashed
gentleman holding a piece of steak to his eye
is from Italy. His evidence will be to the effect
that his unhappy country has never developed
a breed of anything fit to export. He even
envies his Latin cousin from Madrid whose
c^°Skelfsrk? “mew™.- outmoded
sport of matador-coursing waned.
There is, too, a dusty bloke outside the
court. He says he has been breeding merino
rams all his life. He says he learned the art
from his father, who, in turn, had it from his
father. He claims that he and his forebears
have done as good a job of work in their own
line as any of the first witnesses. He says that
he is confident that he and his sons and grand-
sons could continue the export of better and
to
ahead of foreign competitors as you opuld see
a white cow in a bog. But perhaps this Court
would not attach much credence to his testi-
owTland ’ 15 P P
Electric Fences.
“Molecule”: If you want to keep wild
animals out forget about electric fences
and put up post-and-rail, but if you want
to keep reasonably tame animals in then
the electric fence can be decidedly useful.
Most outfits consist of a six-volt bat-
tery and a “charger” which contains coil
and condenser, as well as a make-and-
break which steps up the current to some
thousands of volts but no amperage to
speak of, so that animals touching a
single wire receive a sharp sting. They
soon learn to keep away.
The electrified wire must be properly
insulated from the earth, and so placed
that grass, trees, etc., cannot touch it.
Unless the ground contains a reasonable
amount of moisture, the ordinary earth
circuit on which most electric fences
work will not do the job. Provision must
be made for a metallic earth —a second
wire, which need not be insulated, run-
ning either above or below the charged
wire, to which the “charger” is earthed.
I know of two experiences with electric
fences. In the first case a friend put
the thing in on a Central Queensland
property. The sheep ignored it; the
ground was dry, their wool was a good
insulator and by the time they felt a mild
shock they were through the wire. He
gave it to a neighbor. The neighbor was
worried by dingoes climbing over his
netting fence. He ran the electrified wire
along the top of the fence 12 inches above
it, and connected the earth wire to the
netting itself. Warrigal crawled up the
netting as usual, but when his paw
h d th top wire while his other paws
F u a
were on the earthed netting, fie go
f u H works, and now does his hunting
elsewhere.
‘ . f r j Anr i installed his fence in
A second Iriend msiauea ms rente, m
N.Q. this time, on the earth circuit. His
object was to keep weak sheep out of a
dam where th might bog. The earth
circuit was a suyeess, because the earth
was always moist around the dam.
— : •
'r c „ »
Iry sotne Asparagus.
“Nichol’s Pt.” ; It’s easy to grow and
hntWpd hv diseases or insects
t bothered fiy diseases or msecis.
There is a big demand from local can-
ners, the imported variety being now
scarce and deai -
Pick a sunny site and dig a long trench
about spade-width and a toot deep. Put
4j n to gj n< 0 f organic matter in the
t add heavy dress ing of
blood and bone and then about 2in. of


Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
Procurable from . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne,
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide, S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Perth
Northern. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
Geraldton
St. George’s Hse v St. George’s Xce., Perth
* I
This Men’s
Clothing
Catalogue
sent FREE
Pike Brothers are recognised as one of
the foremost Men’s Wear Specialists in
Australia, and have always made a
special study of the requirements of
the man in the country. This NEW
CATALOGUE is profusely illustrated,
and the major portion of the goods
featured are BRITISH MADE.
It is interesting to note that this
Catalogue has been printed entirely on
AUSTRALIAN MADE PAPERSwith
AUSTRALIAN MADE INKS.
A copy of this Catalogue will be gladly
forwarded to any address —FREE OF
CHARGE—just for the asking.
NKE
BROS. LIMITED
OP OUEEN SI BRISBANE
Want to make yonr car
more dependable?
Worn-out spark plugs waste fuel,
cause loss of speed, loss of power,
loss of your car’s depend-
ability. Provide your car
with the spark plugs rac-
ing champions prefer
Champions and ensure
good hot sparks under all
driving conditions. They
pay for themselves in the
fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor,
Can. Toledo, USA.
Sillment seals Champions against troublesome
age, at the shoulder and past the center electrode,
common to ordinary spark plugs. This patented fea-
ture corrects rough, uneven and wasteful engine op
eration caused by leaky, overheated spark plugs.
m
*
ri
m
Wl
ww
leak
Install new
Champion Spark Pings!
HYGEIA Dissolvenator
THIS SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM
PROVIDES THE SAFETY AND COMFORT OF A
SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY.
i
NO SMELL, NO FLIES, NO GERMS.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No emptying or other unpleasant
jobs. All matter is turned into a
sterile solution which automatically
runs off. Over 1600 in use.
Health Comfort Economy.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
PRICE, family size, £lB/8/- F.O.R. Sydney, including
10% Sales Tax, pi us 20/- war surcharge.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
26 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. 81052. OR LEADING STORES.
Fully guaranteed
as to longevity,
efficiency and
mechanism.
It is a complete
sanitary system in
itself and is not
just a modified
closet pan.
It displaces pans
and saves sanitary
rates.
The sterile solu-
tion soaks away
in the under-
ground sump.
Can be used where
septic tanks are
not practicable.
soil mixed in. Get year-old asparagus
crowns and plant them at 18in. inter-
vals along the trench, covered to a depth
of Sin. or 4in. When the top growth
shows above ground the trench can be
filled with soil or humus.
Plant in July and August. Let the
plants develop at will in the following
summer. In autumn the tops will yellow
and are then cut to ground level with
a hoe, the tops being burnt. In the fol-
lowing winter give the bed some atten-
tion by cultivating and fertilising. In
the spring, about a year after planting,
strong spears will shoot. Light cuts can
be taken from them.
Then allow to develop normally as in
the first summer, cut and burn the top-
growth in autumn, cultivate and fertilise
in winter and every spring for ten or
12 weeks you’ll be able to cut your crop.
The bed should last many years.
The spears are blanched in the same
way as celery by hilling the earth up
around them.
“Huxave” : Sunflowers are a good crop
apart from the seeds. They will grow
where maize will not and will stand up
to 6 deg. of frost. In a Canadian test
sunflower yielded 39 tons of greenstuff
as against 14 from maize. In America
an acre of sunflower heads to four acres
of maize is reckoned a nutritious silage
mixture. Cattle thrive on it. Sunflowers
for silage are recommended for red clay
belts in cool climates, heavy loam at
elevations above 1400 ft., peat and marshy
lands. In Russia, Rumania, Canada and
Rhodesia one row of sunflowers and one
of maize are the rule.
“Sailor Bill”: Cane-farmers who feed
the rollers of Plane Creek mill, Sarina
(N.Q.), which has a power-alcohol dis-
tillery—the first in Australia —are uneasy
about the possibility of molasses being
severely rationed in order that more may
be used in the manufacture of power
alcohol. The average farmer, feeding
about six heavy draughts three times a
day for about 10 months a year, can’t
do without about 80 gallons (many get
through 100 gallons) of molasses per
month. If the heavy draught doesn’t
have half a 21b. preserved-fruit can of
molasses with his every kerosene-tin of
native grass and/or cane-top chaff, he
loses his appetite. Cattle react in similar
fashion. Neither horses nor cattle, once
they acquire a taste for the sugarcane
syrup, will tolerate any chaff that is not
well moistened with it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Why does persimmon fruit fall off the tree
before getting to ripe stage? —lBlB.
It is the natural action of this type of fruit
where the sap regulates the crop. “Thinning
is essential when a considerable quantity of per-
simmon fruit does not drop prematurely,”
says a N.S.W. Department of Agriculture
publication. The thinning-off is necessary for
the longevity of the tree; overbearing is always
followed by poor cropping in the following
year. A mixture of two parts of blood and
bone and one part superphosphate (4oz. to each
tree) dug into the soil at the base when the
flower-buds break is a good tonic for persim-
mons and aids the tree to hold the crop.
* * * *
(I) What useful drug-producing plants could
gardeners, farmers, etc., be growing in case
of shortages in overseas supplies? Books on
the cultivation of these? (2) What plants—such
as flax —could he grown commercially in hot
districts? (3) Is medicinal castor oil imported
or made here? —1122.
(1) Leading manufacturing chemists state
that there is no shortage, actual or anticipated,
of any important drugs of vegetable origin.
Total annual Australian requirements of raw
material for producing any one of them is
strictly limited and easily satisfied by any one
grower in a suitable district. Commercial firms
are emphatic in warning against possible over-
production. The N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture is conducting experiments with the
production of drug plants and accumulating
a supply of seed or planting material of all the
important drug plants which will grow in the
State. Methods of cultivation vary very widely
with different plants. One of the best publi-
cations on the subject is “Medicinal Herbs and
Their Cultivation,” Bulletin 121 of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries, London. (2) The
nature of commercial plants which could be
grown in hot districts would depend upon rain-
fall and other climatic conditions. Flax re-
quires a relatively long, mild winter and at
least 25in. annual rainfall. (3) Medicinal castor
oil is mainly manufactured locally from castor
beans imported from India. The plant grows
readily on the coast, but the cost of harvesting
the beans is uneconomic.
» * * *
(1) Is there any effective way of clearing John-
son grass from the soil and, at the same time,
growing crops ? (2) Will cultivation of the soil
and sowing of lucerne encourage its growth ?
(3) Some of my paddocks are badly infested
with Bathurst burr, which has grown untouched
for many years. Is there any way of prevent-
ing germination of the seeds in the ground ?
1596.
(1) Johnson grass is a very tenacious weed
and spreads both by creeping root stocks and
seed. Prevention of seeding will, of course,
minimise spread, but with any heavy infection
it is practically impossible to clear out the roots
while continuing to grow cash crops. Small
patches can be killed by carrying out soil
sterilisation with Atlacide or sodium chloride.
(2) Cultivation of the soil will encourage growth
by providing good growing conditions and
spreading the bulbous roots, but the sowing of
lucerne will not encourage its growth and
should, if anything, have a retarding effect.
Sometimes it is difficult to establish lucerne
in heavy growths of Johnson grass, and in such
cases it is recommended that a pasture mix-
ture be sown. (3) There is no way of pre-
venting the germination of Bathurst-burr seeds,
but any good cultivation methods should eventu-
ally lead to the eradication of this weed.
Where Bathurst burr is present an annual culti-
vation or hoeing programme should be fol-
lowed until such time as the weed is brought
under control.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXVIII.
The NIGHT ALARM.
Suddenly you are awake. Wondering
why, you lie staring at the darkness and
listening. Rain is sweeping across the
roof in swift little showers. You have
a mental picture of the night, black and
lashed with that wind-driven rain, trees
whipping and water running along the
ground. You think how warm and good
a bed is and turn over, to discover that
your wife is missing.
This brings you up, awake. You listen.
Above the sounds outside you can hear
a murmur in the boys’ room. You wait,
wondering whether young Tom’s had an-
other of his nightmares on whether Jack's
back tooth is at him again. Tom is rising
17 and Jack 20, but they still call for
mother whenever anything’s wrong. You
won’t be fooled by their games, though.
Teach ’em to be hard is your motto. No
good fussing every time they
Your wife comes in. She has that
steady, capable look she wears in a crisis.
“Jack,” she says, “you’d better get the
car and take s the boys to the doctor.
There’s something wrong. They’re very
bad.”
You are out of bed before she’s
finished speaking, scrambling into your
clothes. She goes back to the boys. You
follow. Tom looks at you from great,
staring eyes. His face is tortured and has
a green look. Jack is on the side of the
bed, his head in his hands, retching in
a dry, horrible manner. A spasm of fear
goes through you.
“What’s wrong? What’s up? You
fellows bin fightin’?” you ask.
Tom lies back on the bed and moans.
Jack raises a haggard face, glares at you
and is racked again. Your wife wipes
Toms face and says “It’s beyond me.
I’ve never seen such symptoms before.
They must have eaten something. Jack,
Tom, let me wrap you in blankets and
Dad’ll run you in to the doctor.”
“Aw, I don’t wanna doctor,” Jack
wails. “We’ll be all right. Don’t fuss,
Mum.”
She looks at you and says “You'd
better get the car out and bring it round
by the front door.”
You back out and look for your oil-
skin. It isn’t there. Then you remem-
ber that it’s in the car. You open the
back door and run through the black
and stormy night to the garage. You
get there by falling over a kerosene-case
and skidding the rest of the distance on
ygur side.
In the garage you suddenly remember
the peculiar smell you’d noticed in the
boys’ room. You waste a minute trying
to place it, sure you’ve smelled it before;
but the memory eludes you. You prop
open the doors of the garage, turn on
the tail-light and get into the car. You
can’t start it because you haven’t the key,
Jack having used the car earlier that
night to visit the Thompsons, who have
a daughter. So you blunder back through
the slush. The wife meets you at the
door.
“The key of the car,” you say, your
voice hushed by the solemnity of the
occasion ; “get it from Jack.” She turns
into the room.
This time it is Tom who wails, “We
don’t wanna doctor. I won’t go.
We” “There, there,” says his mother,
“you’ll soon be nice and comfortable.
Don’t be frightened ; I’ll go with you.”
“I’m not frightened,” Tom wails, “only
1 don’t wanna doctor.”
■ “Why don’t you leave us alone,
Mum?” comes Jack’s voice. “We’ll be
all right be mornin’.”
A drayload of sleet hurtles in from
the night and hits you in the back of the
neck. You feel driblets of ice running
down inside your coat collar and you
shiver and move in off the verandah.
There is now a confused jumble of voices.
You wait, getting colder. Presently your
wife comes out and hands you the key.
You slide back through the wildness,
climb into the car and bring it round to
the front door.
The boys, sick as they are, stubbornly
refuse to move. You might carry Tom,
if he didn’t resist, but you know that
yourself and the wife together couldn't
handle the other colt. Standing there,
looking at them, you pick up a trace of
that smell again. Then you think of the
night outside, of the car purring in the
slush by the verandah, of the fall over
the kerosene-case, the chill in your bones
and the beautiful bed you left. You gaze
at your stricken but rebellious offspring
and your wrath explodes into a com-
mand: “You’ll both get in that car this
instant or I’ll know the reason why.”
Jack stands up, white and shaken.
“You might as well know now, Dad.
Young Bert Thompson gave me a cigar.
Me an’ Tom smoked it. That’s all.” He
collapses again.
So that was the smell! And for that
you have been dragged from your bed
and—and—and With an effort you
pull yourself together and, leaning for-
ward, you say, coldly, “It isn’t all. Some-
body has to put the car back and it won’t
be me.” Jack looks at you, gives a faint
grin, takes the key and goes outside. “Get
t’ bed, missus,” you say and make for
it yourself.
“You needn’t have made him go out
on a night like this,” she reproaches, fol-
lowing you.
“Women!” you think, kicking off your
muddy boots.


THE OTHER FELLOH’S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4jjd. per line; all other* at
2£d. per line.
A Darwin woman’s statement of the case for equal pay for the sexes scores
this week.
Equal Pay for the Sexes
Here’s what I see if demands for equal
pay for the sexes (B. 11/6/’4l) are granted.
I see fully half the young flappers being
told either to improve their work or to
get out and let a man take their place.
I see men more sure of employment, less
fearful of being replaced by cheaper
women and therefore more ready to
marry and to settle down. I see women
realising that they have to enter into
equal competition with men, and not to
have the dice heavily loaded in their
favor, and either buckling down to their
jobs with a will or, tiring of the struggle,
deciding that they can’t compete in the
open market with the men,
I see the birthrate improving, slowly
but surely; I see the home becoming
woman’s sphere, and her being proud
and glad of it; I see the women who still
remain in employment staying there be-
cause they can hold down their jobs,
which means that they are competent and
efficient workers.
Anyway, what is the reason for dis-
crimination between the sexes? Sex
doesn’t or shouldn’t enter into the question
of employment. Either I’m able to do the
job, in which case I should be paid a
living wage, or I’m not competent, in
which case I’ve no right to be in the job.
No employer pays Bill a different wage
from Jim simply because Jim has blue
eyes or a crooked nose ; he rates both
Bill and Jim on their working capacity,
and pays them accordingly. So why
should he penalise a woman because she
is a woman?
If men and women were judged less
on what they are and more on what they
can do, the world would be a better
place for them both. — Gran (N.T.).
Newsprint Rationing
In these days of allegedly drastic news-
print rationing, it is very disheartening to
see the endless pages of department-store
advertisements in Melbourne and Sydney
dailies. I suppose it would be too much
to ask the large retail stores to restrict
their advertising voluntarily for the dura-
tion unless they can be sure that their
competitors do likewise ; but the news-
papers themselves, or, failing them, the
Government, should limit the space avail-
able for such purposes.
The stores would be not a penny worse
off; as long as they have the goods to
sell, the public will buy them. We are told
from one side that non-essential expendi-
ture should be strictly curtailed, but it is
hard to take such appeals seriously while
advertisements such as the following
appear in the papers: “The new Chinese
Lacquer Tones.... some delicate as
precious porcelain, others... .bright as
ceremonial lanterns.” It referred to
women’s hats.
Incidentally, a limitation of space may
well have' a beneficial effect on the art
of advertising in this country. I won’t
believe that womenfolk will not buy an
article priced at, say, Bs. lid. unless
assured that it has been reduced from a
guinea. Crossed-out prices and exclama-
tion marks by the hundred are not adver-
tising’; they belong to the media of the
general store in the bush.
Finally, isn’t it time we banished whole-
sale descriptions of weddings, card parties
and afternoon teas, with full details of
the gowns worn by “important” people,
to the pages of suburban news-sheets and
parish magazines? In Britain or in the
United States no self-respecting daily
in towns of the size of Albury would
print the social “news” dished up daily
in the metropolitan papers of this country.
—Viator (Vic.).
“F.M.” (B. 18/6/’4l) should be whoop-
ing for joy because he lives in N. S.
Wales. There war news is summarised and
casualty lists and other serious subjects
are curtailed to make room for Popeye,
Blondie and their ilk when newsprint is
restricted as a war economy.— Plain Jane
(N.S.W.).
This morning at the breakfast-table my
wife handed me the morning paper, with
the remark “It’s 2d. to-day, dear.” I
remembered then that the price of our
esteemed daily had risen |d. overnight.
I also remembered that there were to be
drastic cuts in advertisements and un-
necessary articles and features. I grabbed
the paper quickly, eager to see the
changes which would not only improve
the quality of the rag, but also save
paper,
I looked at the front page. It was
covered with advertisements by our lead-
ing drapery stores, depicting lithesome
feminine figures clad in undies —long legs
enclosed in sheer hosiery—and fluffy
blondes wearing ridiculous little hats.
These ads. had not been curtailed at all.
They still spread their leisurely way over
the full width of the page.
I looked inside the paper. A jumble
of closely-typed words met my eyes.
Good heavens! Were these the Classi-
fied Advertisements? They were. I shud-
dered, and decided that in future I would
invest in a magnifying-glass.
As I turned over the pages my atten-
tion was drawn by the usual crossword
puzzle ; further on I came to the “Social
Page,” on which was a large picture of
a charming young lady. My thoughts
“What’s the name of that shi, Major?”
“WHAT ship?”
flew to the announcement yesterday of
cutting down wasted space, but I decided
to give the paper a fair chance. Perhaps
this lady had done something wonderful
for the world. Then I read the caption
and found that she had only become
engaged.
Further on still I came to the comic
strip that had occupied space in the
paper for years, bringing forth the same
old jokes at which our grandparents used
to laugh.
When I came to a photograph of a
young man and woman embracing pas-
sionately and read that this was an extract
from a film now appearing at the Regent
I threw the paper at the cat and left
the table hurriedly before I said any-
thing 1 shouldn’t in front of the kids. —
A. D. (S.A.).
Where Are We?
In one part of the paper we are asked
to cut down our expenses and invest
money thus saved in war-savings certifi-
cates. But in another part of the
paper appears an advertisement begging
us to help win the war by buying more
lamb, more butter, more apples and more
wine. At present I have a spare 16 bob
in my pocket. What I want to know is
whether I should buy a few bottles of
wine and help win the war or a war
savings certificate.
One section of authority wants to put
the cars off the road in order to save
petrol, but another section wants motor-
ists encouraged to keep their cars on the
road so that they will be in good work-
ing order should the time arrive when
they might have to be taken over for
defence reasons.
I can’t buy Australian woollen blankets
and thus help Australian industry. I
can buy blankets made in India. —
Thorn (N.S.W.).
National Fitness
Like Cameron, M.P., I am not im-
pressed with the Government’s proposal
to spend £lOO,OOO on National Fitness.
Like A.R.P., N.E.S., and most other
Home Front activities, the National Fit-
ness Campaign is not only not worth
the time, money and well-meant energy
put into it, but to some extent is a drag
upon the nation’s real war effort. Many
a man who would otherwise be pulling
his weight in the fighting forces dis-
sipates his energy and patriotism in the
cause of National Fitness or A.R.P. a.nd
feels that he has done his bit and that
nothing more can be expected of him.
One essential difference between A.R.P.
and other civilian services in England
and here is that in Britain all men of
fighting age are compulsorily serving in
.the armed forces unless their services are
deemed more useful in the factory or
workshop, and consequently the civilian
services do not compete for members
with the fighting, forces but are truly
voluntary efforts by exempted men. —
W. K. D. (Q.).
Gift of the Gabble
I am well aware that radio “talks” are
for the most part read from script, but
it’s a pity that radio “talkers” gabble
into the mike as though the Hounds of
Hell were at their heels. Time is the
essence of their contract no doubt, but
quickness of the tongue, like the hand,
is deceptive, and reading the typed or
written word at rattling pace usually oc-
casions missed commas, ignored semi-
colons, mispronounced words and other
jarring errors. Consequent corrections,
such as the repeating of a sentence or
the belated addition of an omitted phrase,
kill the illusion that the speaker is “talk-
ing” and remind the listener that he is
being read to ; a circumstance which the
average lug abhors as instinctively as it
dislikes being preached at, ,
A leisurely unseen voice, moving m
harmony with an alert eye, will defy the
most attentive ear to detect whether it is
“talking” in the radio sense of the term
or reading from prepared notes, and that’s
the voice the speaker behind the micro-
phone should cultivate whether the sub-
ject of his discourse be cabbages or kings,
_p o. M. C. (N.S.W.).
_ , .. .
Radio Advertisements
I’ve been waiting for someone to utter
a protest against the abominable
abdominal tendencies of current commer-
cial radio advertising. The bulk of air
advertising these days seems to be con-
cerned with the efficiency or inefficiency
of the human bowels. Once “B.O.” was
the shadow of fear that hovered over
the unfortunate listener. Now constipa-
tion is used with no greater subtlety and
aboutas muchrefinement of taste
There s a lot to be said for . ’
even of commercial radio stations, byt
sometimes it goes a bit too far. in
America questionable or distasteful
advertising is checked by a supervisory
commission. Is it asking too much to
have such a control exercised here.
Where some of the jokes so-called
radio comedians have uttered have been
considered a bit too raw, there has been
a threat of official action. How about.
some to keep advertising a bit clean.
Benn (S.A.).
Crete and Greece
That civilians and ex-soldiers with rank
no higher than captain should criticise
the tactics of the G.O.C. on the spot
seems rather absurd. It seems a toss-up
whether any theory was proved in Crete
or whether the Germans received rather a
jolt to their morale. Heavy casualties do
tend to upset the morale of fighting troops.
We were supposed to have beaten the
German Army at Passchendaele in the
last show, but our casualty list was a
fearsome thing and morale was rather
lost than gained.
We were defeated in Gallipoli, but
what we did to the Turks and how we
got away did not upset the morale as
much as Passchendaele.
Side-tracking our famous soldiers and
demobilising our armies and navies to
save expense and at the same time paying
out doles were the primary causes of our
losing Crete. Crete and Greece have at
least proved that, given equal equipment,
Britishers are equal to if not better than
German soldiers, and that in itself would
be rather a jolt to the German nation
after all it has been told of the effete
Britisher.—P. Lipscombe (Q.).
Complacency
Ask any merchant skipper what strikes
him most about the southern Dominions
and he’ll answer “Your complacency. ’
These skippers leave a home port in
a large convoy, inadequately protected
by an overworked Navy. While within
reach of the coast they are constantly
harassed by bombers and submarines.
For the rest of the journey they have to
contend with commerce raiders as well
as submarines. From ports constantly
bombed, even the dockers who dis-
charged their previous cargo haven’t any
home to go to when their job is finished.
Yet discharging is carried on night and
day. A quick turn-round is everything.
Such ' ships as survive in due course
reach our shores. They find a country
that knows not the devastation and horror
of modern aerial warfare. Citizens sleep
secure, and despite vague talk of E.P.S.
life is normal. Surely here, the skipper
thinks, his men can get some care. But
no ; they’re just seamen. They’re only
doing a good job of work, so they don t
get a morsel of what is gladly cast at
the feet of uniformed and well-heralded
visitors.
Then the skipper argues: “At least in
this safe haven my ship can get a quick
turn-round.” But again he’s wrong. There
are still such things as red-tape, unions,
departmental regulations, awards and —
yes —a daylight labor shortage.
Nobody worries except the skipper.
He has recollections of assisting at
evacuations from other countries that
were complacent. He doesn’t say much
but he just wonders if it can happen here.
—F. R. A. S. (M.L.).
As Another Sees Us
You Aussies have me puzzled. You’ve
got a vast, rich country, yet you crowd
most of your population into a few
huge human rabbit warrens. There you
erect huge buildings and fill them with
boards, commissions or concerns called
State departments. You then collect a
lot of waste paper on files and pour in
a collection of people to deal with the
files. As the files grow so does the popu-
lation of that building until some move
out into a bright fresh building all of
their own.
M.L. was very young when it abolished
provincial government. Yet I find you
have preserved this arcadian tradition
under the guise of State Government.
Each State has its own Governor, Parlia-
ment and a host of departments. You
pay taxes to these concerns and then pay
more taxes —sometimes on money the
States have already grabbed from you—
to another Government, apparently ap-
pointed as a Federal affair. Even the


%
•• . ' ..
■ivi.
.FSP
' • dAfJDY Of
:•
\
6
V*. ’ :
m
Vv>-
. .
-
WEAR MORE WOOL.
“ That's a good maxim," said the WoolgroWer. “Vm
conducting a ‘lVear More Wool campaign—in my flock!
Everything is going according to plan and, with Boonoke
as my ally, lam confident of success. Already my flock is
equipped with such a Weight of quality Wool that I am sure
of maximum indemnity from the appraisers
BOONOKE
Offers rams to reinforce your flock.
Ready for service.
F. S. FALKINER & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Boonoke, Boonoke North,
Conargo, N.S.W. ’Phone Urana 15. Widgiewa, N.S.W.
:<
' m
QlfituiciiVe / Um
£flflw> FROm-
EN G LAND
By Appointment,
No. 1 Quality:
Unlined . . 40/6
Lined .... 43/-
Super-Suede Quality:
Unlined .. 55/-
Lined .... 57/6
The few shillings extra you pay for
an English Woodrow are returned
to you over and over again as
dividends in the extra months of
satisfactory wear that are assured
to every wearer.
These high quality Woodrows keep
their smart shape and colour under
trying climatic conditions. See the
latest shipment at your Hatters.
v " Hats
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS AND STORES.
A MESSAGE TO
THE PEOPLE OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Directly or indirectly, everyone in
New South Wades benefits every day
from the services of this Bank. Even
if you have never entered its doors,
the Bank touches your life some-
where, by financing primary produc-
tion and home-building, and contri-
buting to the growth and activity of
the State. As part of its function
the Bank provides a cheque account
service and accepts interest-beauring
Fixed Deposits. You need not be a
faurmer nor a home-builder to enjoy
the services of the Rurad Bank.
Cheque accounts are opened and
Fixed Deposits accepted for ALL
sections of the community.
BUR Alajt ANK
OF NEW
WALES
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney.
Commissioners:
C. K. McKERIHAN (President), H. ROGERS, P, KEARNS
Your Bank—Serving You, Serving the State.
3
here is no signi
in
the word 4i Economythat
u
in ouying
absent. True
Value lies in the prudent
and frugal purchase of
goods of Quality, It is too
[R. dKunt & Company
TAILORS, SHIRTMAKERS, HATTERS
314, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY


most backway natives don’t tolerate two
chiefs in the one tribe.
I must have lobbed up in Canberra in
the dead season or something, for poli-
ticians were as scarce as ten-quid notes.
But I did once stray into a propped-up
building in Macquarie-street, Sydney.
After a short stay I decided I had wan-
dered into an institution for imbeciles.
To go from one State to another I
found was like crossing the frontiers on
the Mad Continent. An effect heightened
by the fact that what I had done in
Queensland I couldn’t do in N.S.W. with-
out courting a visit from the police. Your
Governments were all very partial to
boards, which seemed to rival the rabbit
in fertility. Red-tape seemed to strangle
everything, and no matter what I wanted
the first essential was to complete a ream
of forms.
I wandered off into the country, where
I found an abundance of everything
except rain and prosperity. But even
where the rainfall was low the country
was good. As a farmer I found the
decent-rain belt a region of amazing fer-
tility. Yet there was an air of decay and
stagnation. Towns had rows of empty
shops. “Gone to the city,” I was told
when seeking the whereabouts of their
owners. The stranglehold of the Huge
Wens was apparent everywhere. Those
left behind in the country seemed to
realise that a drastic slashing of present
institutions was essential. But they shrank
from that course, although there appeared
to be much thinking.
Your war effort puzzled me. I know
all about those great deeds overseas. Yet
here in your towns and cities life was
much the same. A lot of useless females
seemed to consider the war a dress affair.
The press in M.L. had brought home to
me long ago that this was a war of utmost
gravity for everything I valued. Yet your
press seemed full of races, comic strips,
social doings, films and suchlike. Your
papers mainly appear to have forgotten
that there’s such a language as English.
It was with a sigh of relief that I went
back to M.L. Life is not so fast there,
but there is a unified war effort; one
Government; no frontiers to cross.
Above all, a knowledge of knowing where
we are going and why.—F. B. (M.L.).
Rejected Offer
I am still wild with The Bulletin
because it published “E.V.’s” tripe con-
cerning the rejection of the 15th A.L.H.’s
offer to enlist in a body (B. 4/6/’4l).
That ridiculous offer has done more harm
to recruiting in the Maitland district than
any fifth-columnist could have hoped for.
For those who were wavering this was
wonderful ammunition to fire back —
“You don’t want men; you wouldn’t
accept the 15th Light Horse.”
What was there to stop these men
offering individually? Those measuring
up to A.I.F. standards would have been
accepted. We want every available man
as a reinforcement, and that at once, to
fill those thinning ranks overseas.
That stuff about the traditions of the
regiment was all piffle. The days of bow-
and-arrow fighting have passed. As for
Henry Chauvel, he was too good a soldier
to say how, when and where he should
fight. He was given his job and did it.
I wonder if he is proud of his honorary
colonelship?
If there was a scarcity of scarlet and
blue uniforms in the old days, there is
no lack of khaki ones now, as worn by
the original Anzacs, waiting for each
man of this wonderful regiment who
cares to come forward and help those
of his cobbers who were not content to
remain amongst the rabbits of the
Northern Rivers.
Now, “E.V.,” it is up to you, or who-
ever is responsible, to come forward and
undo the harm that has been done.
Bring along all these men individually.
They will be kept together.— Honorary
Recruiting Officer (N.S.W.).
Saving Petrol
In country districts petrol has been
rationed to such an extent that severe
hardships are being imposed. Many liv-
ing long distances from towns are re-
duced to the minimum allowed for
“pleasure.” This enables them to go to
town once a week; the rest of the week
they have to live in eighteenth-century
pioneer isolation: no church on Sunday,
no chance to attend patriotic functions,
no Red Cross for the ladies, no margin
far sudden illnesses and trips to the
doctor.
Yet on adjacent farms there is petrol,
to waste. Some farmers claimed exces-
sive amounts for farm engines; these
were never queried nor has the ration
been reduced. Others, through official
muddling, are getting enough each month
for jobs like shearing and harvesting
which occur once a year.
We are advised that those who are
suffering hardships may appeal for more
petrol, and I expect that a great number
will. They could be given a satisfactory
ration without increasing the national
petrol consumption by adjusting the
anomalies. Postmasters know more about
this than anyone else. I suggest that
they should be required to satisfy them-
selves that all tickets are really needed
before issuing them. They would not
need to use Gestapo methods. They
could get good results by making an
intelligent appeal to the consumer’s
patriotism.
1 know of farmers who get up to 50
gallons a month who could easily spare
10 gallons for a needy neighbor and
another 10 for national storage.—E. O S
(N.S.W.).
Universal Education
When I survey the intellectual pabulum
of Australia, as exemplified in the comic
strips in the dailies, the pompous leaders,
the women’s pages, the syndicated short
stories, serials and poems (?), all im-
ported, and the snippet pseudo-scientific
articles on vitamins, wondrous surgical
discoveries and whatnot issued by Ameri-
can universities and institutions of a
popular variety, I can’t help a smile of
cynical amusement when I think of Rous-
seau, Tom Paine and the other great
Rationalists of the eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries and their belief in uni-
versal education. Rousseau believed that
popularising education would bring about
a millennium future, but he naturally
thought that the educators of the future
would be people like Rousseau. He never
imagined that they would be Keith
Murdochs.
To stem this rising tide of imported
“education” the Government distributes
half a dozen literary fellowships among
Australian writers. This at least shows
“We ’ re doing our bit , ain't We?”
that it recognises there is a problem. But
how does it know, or the committees
it appoints know, who are the best
writers? A writer capable of changing
the public’s viewpoint would threaten the
Government’s viewpoint, which is the
same as Mr. Murdoch’s. If there is any
difference between the A.B.C. and the
“Herald” it is a pinpoint.—L. L. (Vic.).
“Education in Art”
There is a deal of difference between
“education in art” (B. 7/5/’4l and
4/6/’4l) and art in education. The
former has a specialised aim to train, the
latter a general one. “Scratching in
crayon” and “puddling in water-colors”
refer evidently to the methods now
adopted in most preparatory schools and
kindergartens to allow the young to learn
by practical experience to express them-
selves with freedom in line and color.
No educationist would claim that this
work is included in a school syllabus as
an “education in art,” though it may be
a means of developing in later years a
desire for such in many. In those early
years, however, art, or, more correctly,
drawing with brush and color, is a means
of developing many latent powers within
the child, both mental and physical. It
develops the powers of observation and
self-expression and the power to control
the arm and the hand.
Pencils, tee-squares, set-squares, etc.,
are tools far beyond the control of these
infants. Their reasoning is psychological
rather than logical. Perspective is out
of the question. But from these begin-
nings much can be done, and is being
done, in the more advanced stages of the
child’s preparatory school life to develop
a sense of color, color harmony and pic-
torial composition. This is continued
even more enthusiastically in many of our
secondary schools, and, with drawing
lessons, interspersed with visits to art
galleries, art exhibitions and specially-
conducted historical art lectures at the
school, an appreciation of all that is best
in art is gradually developed. It is with
the value of this in general education
that the educationist is concerned—with
its value in contributing to the balanced
development of the whole person.
We do, therefore, need in our schools
a course in the appreciation of art. This
should be included in all our secondary
schools as a definite part of the curricu-
lum. It would also be a step in the right
direction if the Universities included such
a study in their curricula as a degree
subject. The Universities of Edinburgh,
Southern England (Exeter) and London
are a few of those which do include it
and issue diplomas in art. — Joseph H,
Choate (S.A.).
Transport Grab
A year of record business, good
seasons, reduced shipping competition
and great reduction of road transport by
petrol rationing has lifted Queensland’s
railway revenue for 1940-41 to the record
figure of around £8,500,000. Part of the
profits has come from the 5 p.c. all-
round increase in freights and fares put
on less than three years ago, really well
over 6 p.c. with the accompanying next-
shilling dodge for fare-rates. With
further curtailment of ship and road
competition, revenue for 1941-42 must
inevitably reach new record figures.
Removal of the 1938 impost, particu-
larly in view of heavily-increased Federal
taxation, with certainty of increase, might
therefore be reasonably expected.
Far from it. The Forgan Smith re-
sponse has been to add another all-round
5 p.c, to freights and fares. The reason
advanced for the 1938 impost was
national insurance—which did not even-
tuate. The stated reasons for this one
are the basic-wage increase and child
endowment. Just why the Queensland
taxpayer should be expected to pay a
Federal tax twice over, once for himself
and once for the employees of the rail-
ways which he is derisively alleged to
own, is apparently not worth explaining,
Anyhow, it needn’t be explained—pro-
ducers, business, industry and plain, ordi-
nary taxpayer can just lump it or leave
it. War conditions have given the Gov-
eminent the transport monopoly which
its famous Strangulation Board failed to
achieve, and the Government obviously
means to make full use of it.
Which affords yet another sound argu-
ment in favor of unification, if only in
transport matters. — Colbun (Q.).
•
Drift to the Cities
One reason for the drift to the cities
(B. 25/6/’4l) is the stinginess of many
farmers towards their families. Too often
sons and daughters are little better than
unpaid servants, though the father’s farm
is prosperous. Naturally many of them
prefer to try their fortune in other occu-
pations, and they seldom return to the
land. Treated differently, a substantial
proportion would never have deserted
farming.
Several years ago I heard a tight-
fisted farmer bitterly revile his three sons,
who were all working in a large factory
in a near-by country town while he had
to hire help. But he had grossly ex-
ploited them, working them hard from
childhood, and all they ever got from him,
apart from food and clothes, was a little
pocket-money now and then, and occa-
sionally as a present some article neces-
sary to their work. The eldest son had
left home at 23, got a job in the factory,
and before long was earning five pounds
a week. He lost no time in acquainting
his brothers with the good news, and they
soon followed him. There was no excuse
for the farmer. He was no struggling
cocky, but owner of an attractive property
and a comfortable bank balance.— Sam
(N.S.W.).
Labor for Shearing
Shearing is now well under way, and
this is no time to interfere by trying to
organise a co-ordinated system of labor
(B. 18/6/’4l). In the Ma State at least
there is a constant demand for shearers
from July 1 to October 31, if only they
were kept informed as to where they
were wanted. Big contractors shear a
fair proportion of the total and see that
their men are seldom idle between sheds.
The big waste of labor occurs among
other shearers who go into towns and sit
about the pubs for days before finding
out who is in need of their services.
A central agent should be appointed in
each town and supplied with all infor-
mation as to sheds, shearers and shed-
hands available. Agents in neighboring
towns could exchange details of positions
wanted and available. No shearer need
then be idle for longer than it takes him
to get from one shed to another.
Last year two neighbors arranged to
have one team do both sheds. A shower
fell while A’s sheep were being shorn,
As housing space wasJimited both sheds
were filled with dry sheep. By the time
B’s shedful of sheep were shorn A’s were
dry again and shearing continued without
a break.— Graz (N.S.W.).
#
Child Endowment
So child endowment is necessary “to
halt the retrogression that would make
Australians an inferior race” (B.
25/6/’4l). My eye! Neither the men
who served Australia in the 1914-18 war
nor those fighting in the present struggle
were reared in homes that enjoyed child
endowment, and for physique and virility
either would be hard to beat. In both
wars, of those who sought enlistment but
were turned down as many were bred
j n well-to-do homes as in poor ones, and
rejection was due to other causes be-
sides the effects of inadequate nourish-
ment in youth—poor sight, asthma, bad
feet, etc.
Malnutrition amongst Australian child-
ren is mainly the result, not of inadequate
earnings, but badly-balanced expenditure.
Most Australians earn enough to enable
them, without the aid of child endow-
ment, to rear well-nourished children,
provided a sufficient portion of the family
income is devoted to buying lood. The
majority in the lower-income groups do
this, but a certain proportion spend too
much on amusements and unnecessary
luxuries, or on betting and gambling,
Child endowment will not assure the
children of this type better nourishment,
for the extra money it brings will be used
in the same manner as the main earn-
ings.—Lyle (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
LUMINOUS PAINT
ì
Shines in the Dark,
nhiminates
House Names. Numbers, Bell
Pushes. Keyholes, etc.
Save accidents by painting edges of dark steps- Great
fun with painted masks, etc. Ghostly effects.
Price Two Shillings per tube, post free.
Union Mfg. & Agency Co.. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melh.. C.l.
The Umaco Cigarette Roller
í
makes three in one minute,
large or small, hard or soft*
You can make 100 just as you
like them, with just the to-
bacco you prefer, at the coat
of 50 machine-made. Holler
takes no more room than a
pencil in your nooket. Price
RRVEN PENCK, posted any-
where, with full direction!.
Two for One Shilling.
Obtainable only from
The Union Co., 29D Elizabeth St., Melb.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will Power
Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
m
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE BOUSSEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, radio, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
î
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4£in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4iin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
J. P. TAITY e
Manufacturing Saddler,
Cunningham St., Sydney.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON •
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Let Norm. Scott, the singring stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
mmm
(mm&
PORTABLE UNITS
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 'l/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
AMPLION Ptu lhi 1
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
Also available—loo-watt
and 400-watt models.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, Jf.S.W.
Ventriloquism
ï
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds of
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FREE
Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Out or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, 41b. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers; Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
T/TINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET. SYDNEY,
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing- a steady 300 c.p. light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
Model KXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
Lantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips ofl' when
not required. Burns for 10
hours on Tj pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
ĩ
CONFECTIONERY
ONE GUINEA (21/-> will bring you
21 Selected Recipes.
Each one of the following list can be manu-
factured at under 6d. per pound.
Honey Chows
Cocoanut .Jacks
Toffee (Assorted)
Fondants
Caramels
Butter Scotch
Cocoanut Roughs
Marzipans
Licorice Allsorts
Cocoanut Ice
Nougat
Ju Jukes
Barley Sugar
Honeycomb
Milk Chews
Etc.
Retail, all the above lines are 2/- per pound
and upwards, thus showing 300% profit.
Every recipe guaranteed.
COMMONWEALTH CONFECTIONERY,
47 High St., Northcote, Nl6, Victoria.
ī
OILSKINS
for long:, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET. SYDNEY.
LAMBS SAVED
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection—No
losses. Don’t julge this instrument by other
machines, TKI A DAROUX!
In Xwo Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILER, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN A
SEABIGHX, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
• AROUX ( Bloodless )
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS.
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —•
ĭ
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing cleanness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA3774.
CLIMBING
TOMATO
I STREET
Amazing New imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 3001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-30 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
— <«
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 3/6 Packet, posted.
LJ
į
ı
ĳ
«£ui9 &
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE
CHARGER.
Standard Model, £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
Be luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGEE WIRE FENCE CO..
307 George Street, SYBNEY.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE TRIAL, in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
nEHORNIIVG
s Get rid of
Horn s BEFORE
then start!
One application of
'Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers
Htd. Chemical Dehorner
■will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An eos][,_cheaji_and humane method. Price.
/ M- - -
HARRIS, S CARRE & SAND-
OVERS, LTD., Hay St., Perth, j,
6/6
Post Free,
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOYERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
1 DAYS’ XBIAJL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . 3in. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOYERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
2
“Aberdeen” Cow Rugs
553
SPECIAL OFFER.
No. 23 —Heavy Twill Jute, unlined, 7/8 ea.
No. 23P —Heavy Twill Jute, waterproof,
unlined, 9/8 each.
From all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY„ LTD.,
SYDNEY.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
mm
WB
If your dog’s coat is dull,
loose or ragged—if he is listless, won’t
eat or is out of sorts —start him now
on a course of BARKO Condition
Powders. He will soon be lively and
eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole
system and benefits his coat.
i
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy cf The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 8.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
23/71*41 (See Page 32)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to The Bulletin Service Depaitment.
For local office address, see Page S.


"'fteSre Is tlo
lonr
sbdbstituie
0
« »
mm
irs
ir
m
Lend to Defend
■m
Sf
W*'- 45,/J
P*
■
p?m-s
‘4 ,; '% ** “is '
%■-->- AM* ', '-
, <*
a/ Sv'gHi
:■ m
WWimi
T'Wt' 4?'*
:
UK
SHREDDED WHEATMEAU
BISCUITS
72.89% Carbohydrate, 7.44% Protein,
13.3% Fat.
These nice biscuits supply all the
essentials to nutrition, in rich abundance.
They remain crisp and oven-fresh almost
indefinitely as packed in air-tight tins and
packets by Arnott’s,
I —They are non-fattening.
2 They are a wonderful aid to digestion.
This is greatly aided by the natural
roughage they contain.
3 They are ideal emergency biscuits.
TRY THEM WITH BUTTER,
CHEESE, JAM OR HONEY,
“To the sick and wounded soldier the
Red Cross provides that touch of human
sympathy and understanding that only it
can give.”
Give freely to the Red Cross,
CLmotts
F A M O U S
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL
(EiscuiJts
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR AR N OTT I S T H E Y ARE BETTER THAN EVER!
