

Imurur
amoiM
--' - r
*AI C i T o f
&
-
tm^wk
m
V/^
. t
sS-v_
, -c
>■ j;
-
-r"-. „
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Blue Boar Inn at Maldon in Essex is proud to
display its sign, which was the heraldic badge of the De
Veres, Earls of Oxford, who resided there until the middle
of the 17th century, when the house was sold and an inn
established.
The old house has known the vicissitudes of the cen-
turies but some of its early 15 th century construction re-
mains to interest the present generation.
The House of Holbrook, which was founded in 1798
in the village of Stourport, Worcestershire, has in the inter-
vening generations become known throughout the world
for the quality of its sauces and table delicacies.”
s
on
VP
m
A
O'fißms.oßAvir
woßcTstbosSS
~ ,-t.LAhD. CA-.fL'A.SOU”
UNITED KINC/QtfH AN
s
'e/jser/
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE'
ei.35.
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62. — No. 3181. #
Wednesday, January 29, 1941.
Soviet-Japanese Relationships (“Uncabied Additions")
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write , for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
LIFE WITH GREY OWL.
Before he had finished his singular
career, Grey Owl (ne Belaney ; baptised
Archie) had turned from his occupation
of fur-trapper in the frozen Canadian
North, to become a protector of all wild
life thereabouts against members of his
old profession and amateur killers of
one sort and another. He had also won
world-wide fame as author of Pilgrims
of the Wild and Tales of an Empty Cabin.
Despite the autobiography , interwoven
through the nature lore in those books,
the published findings of newshounds
who, at his death in 1938, sought to prove
him no Indian at all but a fake white,
and Lovat Dickson’s defending biography,
Half-Breed, a good deal, it turns out,
remained to be told.
It is now strikingly well told by Ana-
hareo, the Indian girl who shared in
Grey Owl’s last couple of years as a
trapper and witnessed his conversion.
Her book, My Life with Grey Owl,
vouched for by its publisher, Peter
Davies, as genuinely hers, takes on a
quality from its associations —from the
quite unusual character of its leading
figure, the magnificent setting in which
their queer love story ran its brief course
and the odd primitiveness of Anahareo
herself —which lifts it well on to Grey
Owl’s own literary plane.
When he paddled into Anahareo’s ken
Grey Owl’s raiment included a “colorful
Hudson Bay belt,” buckskin vest with
“just the right amount of decoration,”
and fancily beaded moccasins. He wore
his hair long, not plaited but allowed to
hang loosely about his shoulders, and,
stepping out of the canoe, “he stood, tall
and straight, looking wistfully across the
lake.... He stood so still that he seemed
to be a hundred miles from Wabikoh,
and in his tall set figure there was ex-
pressed such a yearning and loneliness”
that Anahareo’s “own heart quite ached
for him.”
Anahareo began to find out about him.
His origins were dim, but everyone
accepted that he was a half-breed Indian.
He had downed traps to attend the 1914-
18 war; home to his native wilds again,
and an expert among experts hunting
beaver, bears and the rest for their furs,
he had a wild streak that showed when
he came in to the settlements with his
catches and to get stores and collect his
pension. Then, on occasions, “a sort of
craziness attacked him, and he acted like
a loon in upsetting order and authority.”
Somebody had a house up on high posts,
and the Law caught Grey Owl felling the
residence with an axe. Another time a
local shopkeeper had detained a small
girl at his shop ; the girl came back with
the complaint, and Grey Owl set out
armed with knives. He forced the shop-
keeper to face up to the woodwork in
his place, and then proceeded to pin him
there with a surround of thrown knives,
warning him not to move or he’d stop
one. The shopkeeper moved a hand and
got a knife through it, and Grey Owl
had to make himself scarce.
Anahareo got acquainted with him in
the course of a few words on the excit-
ingly romantic, outlandishly primitive
subject of ice-cream. Herself in that
part of the world on a visit, she went off
with him back to his trapping grounds
over a hundred or so miles of lakes and
through snow-heavy woods. Apparently
they lived there on platonic terms, with
Grey Owl away, trapping most of the
time ; an idealistic sort of existence realis-
tically related in Anahareo’s straight-
forward tale. Back on the fringes of
civilisation, Grey Owl wanted her to
marry him; she was wayward and stub-
born about it; Grey Owl went on a
bender. After a wild sort of wooing, in
the course of which she attacked him for
no particular reason with a knife, and
then went into the woods and starved for
three days, till hunger drove her back,
they were eventually married, some time
after the beginning of their honeymoon,
by the free process of an
Indian chief passing-a'bless-
ing on them.
For a fair , portion of
the tale they ‘ lived in a
log cabin, with a tent top to it,
set up in the woods near a lake, a
spot so lonely that its very loneliness
moved Grey Owl to do it the kindness,
out of pity for it, of putting up his log
dwelling there. In other ways life with
Grey Owl had its moments of strain,
even for one of Anahareo’s wildwood
temperament. When he took her there
first, the little dwelling was lovely inside
with a decorative scheme of spruce sticks,
moose-hide bedding and other thought-
ful touches. She was settling in nicely
when Grey Owl, who had been out hunt-
ing their food, came in with the kill, and
festooned the interior with the raw meat.
He would be away trapping for a week
at a stretch, refusing flatly to- let her
accompany him. Then he’d come back
and entertain her: he had an extraordi-
nary flair, she records, for storytelling
and clowning.
The beginning of the end of Grey Owl
as a trapper came when Anahareo at
last coaxed him to take her along with
him trapping. Evidently her reaction to
the killing of a trapped animal vaguely
started the conversion. Next, Grey Owl,
shooting a bear, broke its back and had
to fire a second shot to kill it. Having
skinned it, Grey Owl cut off its head and
put it on top of a stake facing west.
Though this was a ritualistic service he
performed, in one form and another, for
every creature he killed —cutting the
shoulder-blade out of some, and burying
it; keeping other bones in a box ; with
beaver, taking the two loose small bones
out of the hind legs and throwing them
back into the water —the sorry killing of
the bear in Anahareo’s presence was part
of the change.
The next active agents in his conver-
sion were a couple of baby beaver they
caught and tamed. On the long trip
back to the settlement with the trapped
furs, the beaver ate their way through
the grub-box and started eating through
the canoe. Anahareo had to give up
paddling and nurse them, and all this
was having its effect. The upshot of these
and other like incidents was that Grey
Owl began searching his conscience, began
putting his emotional findings down on
paper, began to construct a dream of re-
building in Canada a magic forest, all
a preserve for the creatures he had spent
his life hunting, trapping and killing.
Anahareo makes no claim to a share
in this conversion, but her narrative
makes it seem conclusive enough that she
was the chief agent. But there was this
about Grey Owl: when he did anything,
from making camp or trapping to going
on a jag, he made a thorough job of it;
and now, though Anahareo had mixed
it well enough with him while, unawares,
the woman in her was making its tremen-
dous impression on his extremely sensi-
tive nature, and though their daughter
Dawn “was born to us and this made us
very happy,” Anahareo appears to have
been completely bewildered by her own
outstanding handiwork. She was- soon
“left far behind in the fight that Archie
was waging. No one could keep up with
him who did not have his fanatical zeal
for the work he was doing.” She has
her own explanations—like the rest of her
personal references, self-disparaging—but
just as likely an explanation would seem
to be that she was still the old Anahareo ;
she hadn’t changed, Grey Owl had, enor-
mously ; she found the new Grey Owl
quite incomprehensible.
They agreed amicably on different
trails, and from then on till his death
Grey Owl took to the new life with truly
fanatical zeal, wrote his books, which are
in the class of W. H. Hudson, interested
the Canadian Government in closed
seasons and vast game preserves, with,
finally, himself in the job of looking after
these, the same,, solitary lording it there
as protector, as he had formerly done as
trapper and killer. C
One for Collectors.
If Peter Hopegood’s mystical interpre-
tation -of mythology is ever accepted
either by the ethnologists or the
philosophers, his little Thirteen from
Oahu, on which Frank Johnson has taken
a plunge, is likely to be eagerly sought
after. Even if the experts reject the
bigger books of which this is the fore-
runner—and a good many of Hopegood’s
statements seem arbitrary, open to severe
criticism by anyonS with special know-
ledge—the weird symbolical drawings,
the genuine quality of some of the poems
and the extraordinary essay suggesting
that the Mother Goose of nursery rhyme
is “that Primal Darkness which mothered
and still mothers every star in our uni-
verse, and, by correspondence, is our
more intimately fecund Mother Earth,”
make Thirteen from Oahu a book that
will please the palate of anyone with a
taste for the unusual.
Anyone who ploughed through the 12
fat volumes of Fraser’s Golden Bough
(where Eliot got his Waste Land, Ronald
Bottrall his Festivals of Fire) must have
been amazed at the way myths and
legends repeated themselves all over the
world, often among peoples so far apart
in time and geography and race that it
seemed certain the fables had not been
carried from one tribe to another, but
had sprung up spontaneously wherever
men gathered into communities. To the
rationalist, that suggests that all myths,
all religions are false: the human brain,
as fixed as clockwork, thinks along simi-
lar lines wherever it may be, invents the
same childish formulas to explain the
darkness surrounding it. To the mystics,
it suggests the opposite: that in all myths
there is a grain of truth ; by intuition or
by revelation every people has some smat-
tering of understanding of the real nature
of the universe. Hopegood is one of the
mystics.
His Mother Goose essay seems to pos-
tulate not only some prehistoric unifor-
mity of revelation, but a prehistoric
uniformity of speech. Declaring that
Mother Goose is connected with the
Albatross of the Maoris (what did Cole-
ridge know about the albatross?) he
writes: —•
The Maori word Toroa (albatross) also
means to go forth, to inquire, divination.
That which goes forth and inquires in the
process of divination is the Earth-soul
(the P’o of Tao, the dooey of our black-
fellows, perhaps) and it is held, when so
venturing, to merge with the Primal Dark-
ness, Mother of All Things (including
Bight), which is Te Po of Polynesia, a term
which at once suggests in* i mate connection
with the Taoist term cited above.
The philologists might be able to shoot
some of this stuff full of holes, but that
wouldn’t destroy the basis of the theory,
the known correspondence of the myths.
Although it introduces Hopegood’s
mysticism to those who are interested,
and gives the book some value as a curi-
osity of publishing, the insertion of the
Mother Goose essay among the poems is
not a good idea. It destroys the unity
of the book, diverts attention from the
poems.
The verses are,uneven. “Dark Fabu-
list,” too didactic in any case, is ruined
by an explanatory verse in italics. The
long apology doesn’t make “The Three
Sons of Kan” a poem. A free verse item
about a dog, “Paddy Pigeye,” would have
been better written in prose. Yet there is
a group of ballad-type poems (“Beyond
the Morning Sea,” which appeared in
The Bulletin, and “Free Martin” con-
spicuous among them) that have the real
touch of True Thomas. What they mean
isn’t clear; as Yeats said of his “Jester,”
a poem of the same kind, “sometimes it
means one thing and sometimes another ;
as Blake would have said, ‘The authors
are in eternity.’ ” The exact meaning in
such ballads doesn’t matter.
When the chase has dwindled,
Martin: says the roe;
Ask for what you will . . ,
it is yours before I go.
I would like a gorget
ruddy as your coat.
I would like a white horse,
I would like a boat.
I would like a mantle
deep and dark and" blue;
I would like a sharp arrow
to sever it in two ...
Yet I charge you answer
this before I go:
Who shall wear a cloak shent
by a sharp arrow?.
Martin gives for answer:
Just before the dawn
comes a naked fellow
and lays him on the lawn.
Bloody are his limbs and crown;
bloody is his track;
and cold ... cold . . . cold
blows the wind from off the lake.
I would share my mantle,
dark and blue and deep
with that bloody cold one
who troubles all my sleep . . .
The drawings, which are not original,
are equally interesting, though not equally
attractive. The frontispiece, said Hope-
good casually when he brought in the
book for.review, is a map of the uncon-
scious mind. The moon stands for con-
templation, the octopus for the passions,
the birds for the impulses that pass from
one to the other.
James Joyce.
James Joyce, dead in Zurich at 59,
was born in Dublin and educated at a
Jesuit college. His first literary work was
a book of lyrics. It was followed by
Dubliners, short stories about Irish slum-
dom which gave no indication of his sub-
sequent development. Then he wrote
Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man,
which was a straightforward, sensitive
account of his life in the Jesuit college.
Seven years elapsed. Then he published
the gigantic Ulysses, 735 pages closely
printed, and knocked the literary dove-
cotes endways.
\yhen one thinks of a nude by Rem-
brandt or one of his drawings one thinks
of what is expressed, not of how it is
expressed. When one thinks of Ulysses
one thinks —or, at least, I do—of the
extraordinary technique of Joyce’s im-
mense opus. Ulysses appears to be an
attempt to make a sort of composite
photograph of the workings of both the
conscious and unconscious minds, and to
give the immediate effect Joyce believed
he had to invent an entirely new lingo.
By telescoping words together and using
an extraordinarily allusive language, he
tried to reveal all • the psychological,
literary and cultural ingredients in his
characters’ conditioning without the trap-
pings of the conventional novel.
The result was almost completely in-
comprehensible to the average reader,
but set the literati digging into this mine
in quest of literary origins for a decade,
just as academic students of Shakspeare
have been digging into the Bard’s works
for three centuries.
There was a tremendous,uproar. Some
critics said Joyce was a charlatan, others
said he was a moral pervert; his book
was burnt in Dublin and banned in var
ous countries, including Australia. But
the young intelligentsia for the most part
fell down and worshipped. Ulysses was
described as one of the greatest works
of all time, revealing a knowledge of
human nature comparable to or greater
than Shakspeafe’s. Joyce had revolu-
tionised literary expression. Unlike your
Galsworthys or your Chekhovs, he did
not merely describe what people said and
how they acted. He put before you the
actual stream of the unconscious. No-
body would be able ever again to write
in the ojd .manner since the appearance
of Ulysses.
It may be so, fcjut Joyce didn’t stop
there. There was a long pause, he went
blind, recovered his eyesight, and then it
became known that he was engaged on
an even greater masterpiece. It was called
Work in Progress, and would make
Ulysses look like a pigmy. Only the
first part of this titanic opus, Finnegans
Wake, has been published. Joyce’s
method here reaches its furthest exten-
sion. It contains hardly anything that
can be called English. An example:
The Mookse and the Gripes.—Bus within
a space and a wearywide space it wast
ere wohned a mookse. The onesomeness
wast alltoolonely, archunsitlike bor boardyo-
val, and a mookse he would walking go.
(My hood! cries Antony Romeo.)
Afroth-dizzing galbs, her enammelled eyes
undergoading him onto the verge violetian.
Wish a wish! Why a why! Mavro! Betty
Baraks lafing light throw those laurals now
on her daphdaph petrock.
The Joycians claimed, quite correctly,
that words are only symbols for associa-
tions, but they also claimed that, by
divorcing words from their customary
associations, their master had released a
new music or givdn a more immediate
impression. It may be so, but how are
they going to prove it?' If I write “The
sea was calm” every reader will have an
image of a calm sea; but, inasmuch as
his image will be Conditioned by his own
experience and his experience must neces-
sarily be different from mine, he will only
approximately get my meaning. But
every writer is under that disability. The
words that Shakspeare used were only
symbols for associations, and so are the
words a university professor uses. The
difference between a Shakspeare and a
professor is Shakspeare’s understanding.
Even a university professor would not
say that he had Shakspeare’s understand-
ing, though he may know more words
than Shakspeare ever heard of.
So we are left with the interesting pro-
position as to whether Joyce knew more
about human nature than did Shakspeare.
His method of presenting what he knows
is of no significance whatever. I have no
reason to believe that those of Joyce’s
numerous disciples I have talked to have
any very colossal knowledge of human
nature, so on what do they base their
opinion that he was a greater genius than
Shakspeare except on his method?
The Joycians may have been right.
Joyce may have been a genius for aught
I know. But in his earlier works he
showed some interest in human beings ;
in his later works I think one sees a
writer, not so much interested in what
he is trying to depict, but excited and
enchanted by the new device which got
him such an immense amount of repu-
tation. In his latest work all that seems
to survive is the interest in the method.
F. S.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”- —always
“THE SENIOR STORE”
FAMOUS ✓ LOW PRICES
Special Notice
When ordering under the new regulations it is
necessary to obtain a permit from the district police
and forward it with orders for guns, rifles, and
ammunition. Permits are free.
You will shoot better with these
Precision Suilt fohJ
£l9/10/- 12 Gauge D. B. B. L.
PIGEON GUN £lB
Wm. Cashmore 12 gauge D.8.8.L. Pigeon Gun, bar action, top lever,
cross bolt and side clips, rebounding locks, hammers below line of
sight, steel barrels, choke bored chambers for 2|in. cartridges, flat
file cut rib, dark walnut pistol hand stock, Deeley and Edge fore-end,
well finished. Specially proved for nitro powders. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price £l9/10/-. Sale Price £lB
USUALLY £47/10/- NOW £45
Special Hammerless Gun
- '
Chas. Boswell's 12 gauge D.8.8.L. Special Hammerless Pigeon Gun.
Anson and Deeley action, side clips, 30in. steel barrels, both full choke
bored, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, high flat file cut rib, Greener
cross belt, proved for nitro powders. Walnut stock. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price £47/10/-. Sale Price £45
(Unillustrated )
£9/10/- BAYARD D.B. GUN. £7/10/-
12 or 16 gauge Bayard D.B. Guns with 30in. barrels. Genuine
Pieper Breech Action. A good quality gun. Anthony Hor-
derns Regular Price £9/10/-. Sale Price £7/10/-
£l6/10/- ENGLISH
GUN, HAMMERLESS -
£l5/10/
£ll
Sm
AUTOMATIC REPEATING
and SINGLE SHOT RIFLE
Walther Model No. 1 Automatic Repeating and Single Shot Rifle.
Length of barrel, 20? in., bead fore sight with standard two-leaf rear
sight, walnut stock, top slide safety, all metal parts well blued. Weight
s}lb. Anthony Horderns Regular Price £ll. Sale Price £lO/5/-
Walther Model No. 2, 24iin. barrel, with wind gauge and lateral
adjustment. Weight 71b. Regular Price £l2/10/-. Sale Price £ll/15/-
£lO/5/
For hard hitting performance, for smooth work-
ing mechanism, and for dependable service,
we recommend this 20 gauge English Hammer-
less Gun. Made with 30in. steel barrels. Nitro
proved. Made by Fred Williams of Birming-
ham. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price
£l6/10/-. Sale Price £l5/10/-
w
£9/i5/- Dumoulin Hammer Guns £B/17/6
12 gauge Dumoulin Hammer Guns, 30in. or 32in. barrels, side clips,
cross bolt. Superior black finish. Chambered for 2|in. shell. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £9/15/-. Sale Price £B/17/6
; -oyv/..
mu
m
M tTLvV'
. -;."uOv
45/* Browning Mini. Bolt Action Rifle
Browning Miniature Bolt Action Rifle, about 21 inches
long, standard back sight and barleycorn fore sight,
smooth, straight head stock, easily detached. Cham-
bered for short, long, or long rifle cartridges. Weight
31b. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 45/-. Sale Price
41'
• Guns—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
'Phone M 2401 Day and Night
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


THE MARRYING RIND
By PHIL DORTER.
I TOLD Long Brown he was making a terrible mis-
take, but he wouldn’t listen to me.
“No, Sam,” he said, “I’ve had fifteen cooks in
the last two years ; the last one made scones with
borax, the one before that put cockroach poison in
my tea, the one before that spread rat poison on my
toast, the one before that”
“All right,” I said. “Get a white cook by all
means, but why in hell get a woman? You’ll only
make trouble. And, anyway, men are better cooks.”
But it wasn’t any use. Long’s like his old man
was-5«-won’t listen to anyone. The cook trouble started
about two years ago when old Ah Jong kicked the
bucket and left Long with no one to look after his
domestic problems. Since then he’s had every sort of
cook from Chinks, half-castes, Japs and even Maltese,
but none of ’em lasted more than a month. Now he
was dead set on getting a female cook-housekeeper
from down south, and I couldn’t do anything to stop
him. I argued with him that night and I argued with
him next morning, but he wouldn’t listen ; he posted
an advertisement to the papers asking for:
A cook-housekeeper (female) for back fcountry
station. Three men to cook for.
The three were Long himself, Frank, his bookkeeper,
and Jimmy Bateman, the stock inspector, who spends
most of his time at Boogoodie because it’s near the
dip where all stock go through on their way south.
The rest of the hands are abos. or half-castes and have
their own cook.
A fortnight later I pulled into Boogoodie about
sundown, ran the truck into the shed and walked
over to the verandah, where Long and Frank and
Jimmy were stretched out on deck-chairs yarning their
heads off. I gave them their mail and stretched out
on a chair myself. Presently Long passed me a letter.
“There y’are, Sam,” he said. “That should worry
you.” I read it:
Dear Mr. Brown, —With regard to your ad-
vertisement in the “Morning Post,” I would be
very grateful for the position of cook-house-
keeper on your station. I have had similar
experience on several stations. I am 32 and
companionable, and I think you would find me
satisfactory in appearance and at my work. —
Yours truly, Winifred Middle.
I handed the letter back to Long. “It smells,” I
said. “When a female tells you she’s 32, companion-
able, satisfactory in appearance and signs herself
‘Yours truly,’ there’s trouble making. Take my advice
and bum that letter before it’s too late.” But Long
only laughed.
“All right,” I said. “I’m only the mailman. But
don’t say I didn’t warn you.”
I even begged Frank and Jimmy to do something
about it, but they just grinned—they’re stuck up at
Boogoodie for years on end, and only go south once
every three or four years, and the idea of a white
woman on the station probably tickled them a bit.
Anyway, I left next morning with a letter from Long
to this Middle woman explaining that I’d meet her at
the railhead and bring her out to Boogoodie.
I HAD the truck all loaded up and waiting at the
* station for the train to come in, and I was hoping
to heaven that she wouldn’t be on it. But she was.
She got off with a couple of bags and called me over
as though she owned me.
“Are you Mr. Wilson, the mailman?” she said.
“Yair,” I told her, wondering whether she looked
more like a barmaid or a schoolteacher.
“I’m Miss Middle,” she said. “I understand
you’re taking me out to Boogoodie Downs station.”
“You’re ridin’ out there on my truck,” I told her,
and heaved her bags on the back. “Get aboard, I’m
running late already.”
“I must have some breakfast before I go,” she
said. “I’ve only had a cup of coffee this morning.”
“If you have breakfast here,” I said, “you won’t
go to Boogoodie today. I’ve wasted an hour already
waiting for the train.”
She looked at me a bit startled, and then climbed
into the cabin and sat on the other side of the bag
I’d stuck on the seat between her and me —she smelt
of powder and scent, and I don’t trust no female, even
if I am fifty-five.
About four hours out we pulled in at Munda
Downs, where old Billy Lammy’s wife, who runs the
station since Bill died, had a feed of corned beef and
tomatoes waiting for us. Then we pushed on again,
and at sundown I saw the big red roof of Boogoodie
over the scrub. The Middle woman hadn’t given much
attention to me or anything since I wouldn’t wait
while she had breakfast, but when I said “Well, here
we are,” she dropped the book she’d been trying to
read most of the way and fished some flapdoodle out
of her dillybag and started whitewashing her face
and fooling about with her hair. By the time I’d run
the truck up to the verandah of the homestead she
was sitting up full of beans and smiling like a hungry
dingo. Long had a white shirt on, Jimmy had found
a tie somewhere and Frank was wearing a clean pair
of flannels instead of his usual dirty shorts. They all
fell over themselves to help her out of the truck.
When I came back from parking the truck in the
shed the Middle woman was blowing all over Long.
“I’ve been on lots of stations, Mr. Brown,” she was
saying, “but never one like this ; it’s marvellous.”
Long grinned as though he was sick and said,
“I hope Sam here treated you all right on the way
out. He’s a woman-hater, y’know.”
The woman showed her teeth at me in what was
meant to be a smile and said “Oh, he’s very nice
really ; I think his bark is worse than his bite.”
“Lady,” I told her, “you ain’t been bitten by me
yet,” and then I went back to the truck to unload
some stores I’d brought out for Long.
At tea that night she planted herself at the head
of the table as though she owned the place. She
dished up the tucker and passed it out with “There
you are, Mr. Brown,” and “There you are, Mr. Wilson,”
as though it was her food she was giving away. I got
half my usual whack and had my tea out of one of the
fancy cups Long had had stored away for years,
instead of out of the usual half-pint mugs. When
we’d finished she started clearing away and Long
jumped up. “We’ll give you a hand, Miss Middle.
Tomorrow I’ll fix it for a boy to help you. You don’t
mind an abo. about the kitchen, do you?”
“Oh no,” she gurgled, “I think they’re cute.” I
spat in the fireplace. “And, Mr. Brown,” she went on,
“everybody calls me Winnie.” 1 went out to the bed
Long keeps on the verandah for me and turned in
for the night.
Next morning I was up before sun-up and ratted
a feed from Long’s kitchen before I got on my way.
Long came out just as I was giving the truck a last
check-over before pulling out.
“Well, Sam?” he says with a grin.
“I hope she pays her board,” I told him.
“1 reckon she’ll be all right,” he said. “She has
already told me how she’s going to do the old place
up a bit. You won’t know it when you come back
there’ll be so many changes.”
“Too right there will be,” I said. “And the main
one’ll be that she’s Mrs. Brown.”
Long only grinned, and was still grinning when
I roared the truck away.
A FORTNIGHT later, on my next trip, there cer-
tainly were some changes at Boogoodie. There
were ferns and palms in pots all over the verandah
and two boongs were watering the garden from
buckets. At tea the Middle woman behaved more than
ever as though she owned Boogoodie. All the place
was polished up so much that I was almost afraid to
sit down anywhere, and all the furniture had been
moved about so that a man felt he was in a strange
house. Later, Long asked me what I thought of the
decorations and alterations.
“The same as I thought before,” I told him. “Only
I’m certain now. You fatten your cattle before you
kill ’em, don’t you? Well, that’s what she’s doing.”
A month later I called into Boogoodie again, and
things were heading the way I’d reckoned, only faster.
Frank and Jimmy were pretty quiet at tea, and I
could see they’d taken a tumble to the Middle woman.
But with Long it was “Yes, Winnie,” and “No, Winnie,
until you’d’ve thought he was on his honeymoon
with her. Then suddenly she said “Yes, Long” to
something he’d said. She followed up quickly with
“I didn’t mean to call you Long, Mr. Brown, but I
hear the others calling you that all the time. It just
slipped out.”
“Well,” said Long. “That’s my name. You might
as well use it.”
After we’d finished tea Jimmy and Frank walked
out and sat on the verandah steps with me. “Well,”
said Jimmy. “What d’you think?”
“Don’t say I didn’t tell you,” I said.
“The trouble is we can’t do anything,” Frank said.
“She’s got Long where she wants him. We can’t
smoke in the living-room, she stopped Jimmy putting
his feet on the chairs, and she’s got all the boongs
wasting their time around the house instead of look-
ing after the cattle. Long thinks it’s all splendid.”
“Well, that’s what I reckoned would happen,” I
said. “Anyhow, I’ll have another go at Long in the
morning.”
I tackled Long next morning before I left. “Look
here, Long,” I said. “This Middle female is laying
for you. She’s one of them designing, predatory
females. She’ll be married to you in a month at the
rate she’s going.”
Long didn’t laugh this time ; in fact, if I hadn’t
known him I’d’ve reckoned he was sore. “Hell,”
he said, “you and Frank and Jimmy are three old
women. Winnie’s here as a housekeeper and she’s
doing a good job ; the place is like a home now and
we’re getting better tucker than we ever had. And
even if she was laying for me, which she isn’t, she
wouldn’t stand a chance. I’m not a marrying man.”
“Most men ain’t,” I said. “But they get spliced
all the same.” And 1 stuck my foot down and roared
the truck away.
IN the next batch of mail for Boogoodie there’s a
' letter addressed to Miss Winifred Middle. I had
a blowout, so I didn’t get to Boogoodie until after tea,
when Frank and Jimmy and Long and the Middle
woman were all sitting out on the verandah. When
she’d read her letter she jumped up with a squeal and
sat on the arm of Long’s chair and leaned all over
him. “Oh, Long,” she said, “my brother has.,just
come in from the islands and wants to see me. We
haven’t seen each other for over six years. Could I
ask him out here for a week? I’d be terribly, terribly
grateful if I could.”
Long read the letter she’d given him. “Why not?”
he said. “Have him out by all means. We’ll have a
binge to welcome him.”
“You’re wonderful,” she said. “Nobody else
would do that.”
“Nothing at all,” Long said. “Tell him to come
up as soon as he likes. Sam here will bring him out
in the truck. You’d better order some liquor, too.
Sam can bring out that as well.”
I didn’t know what trouble was brewing up now,
but I was waiting at the station on the morning Mr.
Richard Middle was due. When the train pulled in 1
didn’t see him till a voice behind me said “Would
you be Mr. Wilson, by any chance?”
I jumped around and saw a big sunburned cove
looking at me. Then 1 saw that his collar was back
to front. “Hell,” I yelped. “A sky pilot!”
He looked a bit puzzled for a moment. “A sky-
pilot?”
“Yair,” I said. “A minister.”
“Oh,” he said with a grin and taking it better
than he might have. “Yes, of course. Didn’t you
know?”
“You bet I didn’t,” I told him, seeing the whole
scheme of things as plain as my nose. But there
wasn’t much else I could say, so I told him to hop
aboard and we pulled out for the road.
If he hadn’t been a minister and if things hadn’t
been as they were at Boogoodie, he would have been
a decent bloke. He explained that he was a missionary
and he talked very well-told me about the islands and
his job and so on. He knew more than that, too.
When we were passing through a good patch of
country on Munda Downs he said, “1 hat’s good
Mitchell grass and nice Flinders. Be good country
for sheep if there was a bit more shade and top feed
for ’em.”
That’s exactly what I thought about the country
myself. “You know a lot about a lot of things,” I
said.
“Oh, I’ve covered plenty of ground in my time,”
he said. “Even drove a mail truck once.” So then
we yarned about trucks, and he rolled smokes for me
while I was driving.
When we reached Boogoodie, Long and Frank
and Jimmy and the Middle woman were waiting for
us. When she saw her brother jump out of the
cabin she yelled “Richard” and ran over to meet him
and chucked her arms around him. He swung her
off her feet and then shoved her back by the shoulders
to look at her. Then she took him by the arm and
brought him over to the rest of us. Frank and Jimmy
nearly jumped out of their boots when they saw his
collar, and even Long blinked a bit, but when they’d
shaken hands all round the air cleared. He was that
sort of bloke. Big and straight from the shoulder
with a grin every time he spoke.
While we were having tea he talked to Long about
cattle and to Jimmy about stock diseases ; he talked
to me about trucks, and he talked to his sister about
all the good times they’d had together when they were
kids. After tea we went out on the verandah and sat
there drinking and yarning about everything under
the sun. I’d put down a fair amount of beer and
was feeling it, but Long was holding his well, and we
went on yarning and keeping Winnie running inside
to bring more drinks.
T WOKE up next morning feeling as though my
* truck had run over me. My tongue was like the
floor of a blacks’ camp, and my head was trying to
tear itself apart. I sat up on the bed and rolled a
smoke and cursed the chap who first discovered beer.
I’d just struck a match to light up when from Long’s
room just along the verandah I heard a clatter like
all the hammers of hell going at once. Then Long
came rushing out, holding the neck of his pyjamas and
looking back at his room as though all the ghosts of
his grandparents were in there.
“Hell,” I thought. “D.ts.” And then I saw the
Middle female come out of the room wearing a slip-
pery silk gown that fitted her like a snake’s skin.
“Why, Long darling,” she said, “what’s the
matter?” ,
Long went back another six steps. ‘ What s the
matter?” he yelped. “Whatinell d’you think’s the
matter? What’re you doing in my bed?”
“Don’t be silly, Long,” she said. “Why shouldn’t
a wife be in her husband’s bed?”
It dawned on Long slowly. Then he just said
“Wife !”
“Of course, you silly thing,” she said. “Don’t
you remember? We were married last night.”
“No flamin’ fear we weren’t,” said Long. “I ain’t
a marrying man, and if I was I wouldn’t get married,
and if I did I wouldn’t’ve married you.”
“But, Long” she started.
But Long had the wind up properly. ‘ Don t you
‘Long’ me,” he said. “You get back to your room, x
want my clothes.” .
Then she turned on the waterworks and, just as
Long and I were both wondering what to do next,


the noise brought her
brother out of his roopi.
“What on earth’s the
matter?” he said, £nd
his sister ran up /and
howled on his shoiflder.
“He’s horrid,” she
bawls. “I wish I’d never
seen him.” Her brother
patted her shoulder and
took her into his room.
Frank and Jimmy, both
looking a bit sorry for
themselves, came out and
wanted to know what the
trouble was, but before
we could tell them any-
thing the minister came
out of his room again
and over to us.
“I say,” he said. “I
can’t quite get the
strength of this.”
Long was half-scared
and half- w i 1 d and
couldn’t speak properly,
so I butted in. “Well,
Long woke up this morn-
ing and found your sister
in his bed. She reckons
she married him last
night ; he reckons she
didn’t.”
“But,” the minister said, “but, surely”—
he scratched his head. “1 don’t quite get it.”
“Get what?” I asked him.
“The whole business. I marry Long and my
sister last night and this morning none of you seems
to know anything about it. Is it a gag, or have you
all lost your memories or something?”
I was trying hard to remember how we’d finished
up the night before, but I couldn’t, and from the way
they were looking Frank and Jimmy and Long
couldn’t either. Long said slowly “I married your
sister?”
“Of course you did. In fact, you were so anxous
that I couldn’t marry you fast enough. We had to use
your gold signet ring.”
Long looked at his finger where the ring usually
was. “Hell,” he said, “hell.” Then he was just like
his old man used to be when he got in a tight corner.
He stuck his chin out and said, “Well, I don’t give a
damn if I did. I was too drunk to know what I was
doing-. I don’t want a wife and I won’t have a wife. So
what about it?”
The minister scratched his head again. “Well,” he
said, “I’m afraid I didn’t know that, and none of you
seemed drunk last night at the time of the ceremony.
You got pretty wild later on. But that’s beside the
point. If you, Long, had no intention of marrying
my sister, and if you still don’t want to be married
to her, I’m afraid things are rather awkward. In fact,
for my sister, they’re almost tragic—she has been in
love with you for some time.”
There seemed to be no doubt that Long was well
and truly married. Jimmy and Frank and I had seen
things heading that way, and we’d all done things at
different times when we were drunk and couldn’t re-
member them next morning. The minister, I thought,
was taking this part of it very well —he wasn’t hostile as
he might have been and he seemed to see Long’s point
of view as well as his sister’s.
Long seemed to think the same as I did, and he
became more reasonable. “Well, what are we going
to do about it?” he wanted to know.
“I don’t exactly know,” the minister said. “But
I’d better have another talk with.my sister, I think.”
He was gone for only a few minutes, and when
he came back he looked pretty serious. “I’m afraid
Winnie is terribly upset,” he said. “The poor girl
didn’t realise that you were so much under the weather
or that you didn’t want to marry her, but now all she
wants to do is get away from here.”
“Well, that’s all right,” Long said.
“It certainly seems to be the only solution. Under
the circumstances the idea of Winnie staying here is
untenable. But the point is—well, I’ll have to take her
for a holiday until she recovers from the shock. That
and a separation will take time and money.”
Long saw the point straight away. “I’ll soon fix
that,” he said. “They don’t pay ministers much, do
they?”
The minister was relieved that Long had tumbled
to what he was hinting at. “It’s very, very decent of
you, he said. But Long was only too anxious to
wind up the whole business and get them both away
from Boogoodie.
\A/ELL, I took the pair of them into the railhead
and she was still howling most of the way and he
was patting her shoulder. I even felt a bit sorry for
her ; she had had a pretty rough deal in a way. Just
before the train left he said, “I’m terribly, terribly sorry
this had to happen. I feel as though I am responsible.”
He was a nice bloke, and I told him it wasn’t his
fault, and stood waving to him until the train was
out of sight.
That was the last I saw of them, but it wasn’t the
last I heard of them. On my next trip to Boogoodie
1 arrived just as Maloney, the mounted cqpper for the
“ Reckon Well get two thousand to the acre, Sarge!”
district, was leaving. He drove his car down past the
verandah and pulled up for a moment. “By the way,
Long,” he said, “you might keep an eye open for a
strange man and woman up this way. I don’t know
much about her, but he’s a big plausible chap and
often goes as a missionary. They’re wanted for work-
ing a marriage racket and for blackmail on farms and
stations down south. I heard last week that they might
be heading this way.”
I suddenly remembered that Winnie had poured
all the drinks that night in the kitchen. I also remem-
bered the substantial cheque Long had written for her
and her brother, and I went inside to the medicine-
chest to get him the brandy.
EDMUND KENNEDY
By J. H. M. ABBOTT.
J HE eighteen-forties were years of valuable
{ exploration in opening up Australia to settle-
ment. They began with the failure of Eyre to
find any rich country between the South Aus-
tralian border and King George’s Sound ; their middle
years held the successes of Mitchell and Leichhardt,
and their close was marked by the tragic fate of
Edmund Kennedy when, in 1848, he attempted a
crossing of Cape York Peninsula.
One group of explorers went northward from
the Murray, and another westward from the coast
of Queensland —both had as their goal the wide area
of land lying between the Gulf of Carpentaria and
the Timor Sea. When their work was done, all Aus-
tralia to the east of the 130th degree of longitude had
been more or less completely surveyed and mapped.
Edmund Kennedy had been chosen by Sir
Thomas Mitchell as his second-in-command in the
attempt in 1845 to find an overland route to the Gulf
of Carpentaria, but he is best remembered by the
story of his last fatal journey.
ON April 29, 1848, Kennedy started with a dozen
men to blaze a trail along York Peninsula. The
expedition was carried by sea to Rockingham Bay—
about half-way between Townsville and Cairns —
where it landed at the end of May, and Kennedy’s
job was to make his way to the coast opposite Albany
Island, at the extremity of Cape York. There he was
to be met by a schooner.
The country was wild and difficult; before long
it was necessary to leave the carts behind, and to
hack a passage, through tropical jungles, across almost
impassable ranges and precipitous ravines. Half-
starved and frequently tortured by thirst, the party
was followed continually by hostile natives. Com-
pletely exhausted, and with hardly any food supply,
they at last emerged on the shores of Weymouth Bay,
having journeyed more than 500 miles.
It was evident that Kennedy had no hope of
leading the whole of his party any further. He took
three men and an aboriginal servant, Jacky Jacky
a Hunter River blackfellow —with the surviving
horses, and pushed onward, leaving the remainder of
the party, under Carron, his second-in-command, to
rest and recuperate until he should reach Albany
Island and return with the vessel there awaiting him.
Bad luck followed them. They were compelled
to kill the horses and live upon their smoked flesh.
Presently one of the party accidentally shot himself,
inflicting a bad flesh wound. Kennedy left the crippled
man at Shelburne Bay with the other two white men,
and himself, with the devoted Jacky Jacky, went on
in a desperate attempt to reach Albany Strait, almost
100 miles to the north.
THE couple were still followed by the hostile natives.
For a week they struggled gamely onward, though
tbeij horses wexe almost entirely played out. Jacky
Jacky besought his master to abandon the famished
and leg-weary animals, but Kennedy was too weak
to hope to reach Albany without them.
They could get no sleep, and dared not light fires
at night. They could only struggle fearfully along
through the darkness, hoping to escape in its shelter.
When at length forced to halt, they had to watch and
sleep alternately, relieving one another every hour.
At last, however, far off through the tree-trunks,
they glimpsed the gleam of the distant sea, and Ken-
nedy knew that next day they should reach the base
at Albany.
Their hidden enemies became bolder as the men
they were stalking grew feebler and feebler. Taking
his musket, Jacky Jacky went out to execute a counter-
attack. He warned his master to keep a lookout, in
front and in rear, but Kennedy, always myopic, was
now almost blind through weakness, and could hardly
see at all in the gloom of the forest. Suddenly a
shower of spears was hurled at him from behind.
One transfixed his thigh, another pierced his back and
a third stabbed him in the side. Jacky Jacky ran
back to his assistance.
Kennedy told his black friend to take his papers
and try to make his escape. He asked for a pencil to
write a message, but it was too late.
Jacky Jacky related afterwards how he remained,
crying bitterly, beside his master’s body, vainly hop-
ing that he would “get well.” Then, as best he could,
he buried the body, and fled for his life into the bush.
Often, to escape pursuit, he slid silently into creeks
and waded long distances with only his nostrils above
the water. It was not until he had travelled in such
fashion for a fortnight that he reached the strait and
found the waiting schooner. Her crew saw a tottering
blackfellow, clad in tattered shirt and trousers, stagger
on to the beach, and manned a boat. Emaciated and
beaten, Jacky Jacky crawled aboard.
THE captain made all speed to Shelburne Bay, where
1 the three white men had been left behind by
Kennedy. There a canoe came off, filled with grin-
ning savages bedecked with the clothing of the mur-
dered men. One of them was wearing the trousers
Kennedy had on when Jacky Jacky buried him. He
was seized and tied up. The other natives made for
the shore. During the night, the prisoner freed him-
self from his bonds and made his escape.
The schooner then sailed for Weymouth Bay in
the hope of rescuing the main body of the expedi-
tion, but only two enfeebled survivors were found
alive. Too weak to stand they sat back to back in
despairing defiance of their enemies, holding them
off with their muskets. Of the twelve whom Ken-
nedy had led into the York Peninsula only three re-
mained alive to return to Moreton Bay—this couple
and the heroic Jacky Jacky, who ended his days, many
years afterwards, in the Hunter River country from
which he came.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j 4 ffhtt I'iinecf f ia f ie mellcimeMxmdJxmq/uei;
Seppelt's
ST. THOMAS'S HOSPITAL.
From an architectural point of view the magnificent range of buildings constituting St. Thomas’s Hospital, erected in Lambeth, on the
Thames bank and facing the Houses of Parliament, constitutes the most splendid monument to the alleviation of suffering humanity
for which the “charitable heart of London” is responsible. Yet the historian to come will relate that this house of mercy did not
escape the bombing fury of the Nazis in 1940 in their vain attempt to “level London into the dust.” The foundation of the noble charity
this hospital typifies dates back to 1213. It underwent an eclipse when Henry VIII was King, as with other “receptacles for misery”
it was swallowed up in his scheme for the dissolution of religious foundations. In the reign of charitable Edward, it was repaired,
enlarged and appropriated to its original benevolent purpose. The Corporation of the City of London purchased this almonary at the
dissolution of religious houses, and opened it as a hospital for poor sick persons in November, 1552, hence the Lord Mayor and
Commonality are governors of this hospital “together with possession of all the goods and revenues pertaining to it.” Moved to its present
site from a location in the borough of Southwark, not far from the foot of London Bridge, its erection occupied the years 1868, 1869,
1870 and part of 1871, plans being prepared by Curry, one of the leading architects of his time. There are over 1000 beds at St.
Thomas’s, and the medical school associated with it is world-famed.


SPLENDID, HERR COMRADE!
Labor Minister Holt said he had evidence that Communists were still fomenting strikes and obstructing the war effort.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Quf.ensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
WE'VE GOT A BREN GUN.
To read Sydney dailies last week was to be led off
with the fantasy notion that this place was fabled
Ruritania, mapped, inhabited and, in its romantic
way, real at last. Excited accounts, jostling for a place
amidst the widespread strike news, told of the com-
pletion, after many trials and tribulations, of a Bren
gun. In pictures Mr. Beasley was shown using the
weapon, scoring six bull’s-eyes with as many shots at
600 yards. It all suggested that there was something
magical about the weapon.
It is to be hoped there is. In view of the gener-
ally false atmosphere just now pervading the Austra-
lian scene —the oppressive news of strikes and threat-
ened strikes here, there and everywhere, its plainest
signpost—nothing short of magic seems to be called
for. Perhaps it would be more satisfactory to hope
for time —for enough of it to see the greatly-boomed
weapon multiplied by the hundreds and thousands.
Not only the Bren gun, of course, but all that it stands
for —all that is still required before this country’s war
effort is as total as this total war is yet going to
demand ; all that is required if this country is to face
with any confidence the grim prospect of war on its
own soil or near at hand ; a prospect that was fear-
fully envisaged by Mr. Curtin and others when the
war started. If it was possible then, what change has
there been to make it less so today?
Even without any of last week’s ominous
rumblings round the Pacific, these are times when it is
vital to be ready for the very worst. If that worst does
not come, well and good. But it will be no consolation
to have a thousand scapegoats to kick if it does come.
There will also be no incentive, for they will then sud-
denly discover that they are patriots, as they might
now if they were not also fools.
It means asking for a providential lot of time
if the strikes and threatened strikes are to go on dam-
aging the war effort, as they cannot help but do. But
the most ominous aspect of the situation is not in such
direct effects. It is the prevailing falseness of outlook ;
the repeated strikes, the hopeless vacillating attempts
of elected leaders to deal with them, and the public
apathy which permits both, being the most evident
symptoms.
Australia is too remote for a proper realisation of
the meaning of total war to sink in. Newspapers, radio
and films, bringing their news day by day, and even
hour by hour, supposedly perform the service of forc-
ing the war home to everybody They are a hollow
substitute for the actuality of war. Their information
is bemusing in its abundance and misleading in all
that it necessarily has to leave out. Even England,
just across the narrow strip of the Channel, had no true
understanding of war, as Continental peoples have had
to understand it, till war itself, instead of quasi-
fictional accounts of it, was brought directly home.
The English, unhappily, know now what they
never were able to grasp in the last war; what Aus-
tralia was not in the faintest degree able to grasp in
that war, and has not been able to grasp in this.
Perhaps until the bombs start falling on a people that
is something beyond grasping. Short of that awakening,
it is something at least slightly to the good that public
opinion here does react quickly and strongly to disaster.
A trouble is that if disaster is needed to produce that
reaction, so that it can only come after disaster, it
might come too late. It seems certain that if the
French and others had gone into this war in what is
their present mood, the results to date would have
been very different. They have been shocked into a
sense of realism, but after the event.
On the face of it, Australia —whooping over its
Bren gun ; countenancing its epidemic of strikes ; kid-
ding itself that all’s well with this island paradise in the
so-far-pacific Pacific ; that it can daydream along, play-
ing at war, safe under the protective wing of the
American Navy, as well as under John Bull’s
—Australia in this state of mind is exactly where
the overrun countries were before being crushed and
enslaved. It is worth asking searchingly whether
there would not be a very different face to things if the
American Navy was not in the Pacific. Take it that
that one cause of wishful-thinking complacency alone
had been removed elsewhere, and would the Australian
scene be the idle, daydreaming, strike-ridden, rudder-
less, fantastic thing it now is?
Up to a point the Australian war effort has been
extraordinarily good. In view of the widely prevailing
wholly unrealistic outlook, the strangely suffered ac-
tivities of known subversive elements, the vacillation in
leadership over one item after another of the war
effort, what has been achieved is well-nigh incredible.
From worse than a standing start, a solid army has
been built up, with divisions of it matching the records
of the first Diggers overseas, as everyone knew they
would, so that their grand showing at the taking last
week of Tobruk, as earlier at Bardia, was cheering but
in no way surprising news. Backing the several
hundred thousand fighting, trained and training men,
industry organised, and the production of war ma-
terials in huge quantities brought to a pitch which
makes the press-stunt whooping over the Bren gun just
a comic aside. But nobody in his senses imagines
that this is enough, either for the demands of fair
contribution to the total war, or for the grim prospect
of war to the last man on the last acre.
Despite all that effort, the general scene remains
unaltered. It is worth recalling that that general scene,
the chief characteristic of which is complacency, has
been violently disturbed on occasions since the war
started. It will be disturbed again, and probably before
long, even if good sense, good statesmanship and
good luck avert any further spread. The epidemic of
strikes will come to an end, because presently things
will begin to happen that will sharply change public
opinion from the apathy which tolerates that sorry per-
formance and the worse performance of elected leaders
who allow the direction of their country in war to get
thus out of hand.
The selfsame mood which allows a free go to
subversive elements behind the present troubles also
prevailed at this same time last year, and for the
same reason. The remote countries on which the
major part of the conflict centres are again in the grip
of winter. Last winter—the open season for voluble
cranks and “experts,” basing all their outpourings on
a very different year ahead from that which came—
was hampering enough to bring the war to a standstill.
It was then a “phony war,” a “bore war.” This
winter is worse —on all report, the worst for half a
century.
Hence the war on its major grounds is again at a
standstill. Hence the widespread generating of a false
atmosphere and the false outlook that must flourish
therein, nowhere more so than in Australia, where it is
almost impossible to imagine European winter condi-
tions, and where war, if it comes, will not be eased
by seasons.
Presently all this is going to change. The conflict
will be joined again—with what fierceness, savageness
and further widening out time only can tell, though the
past year should indicate. Then, when the clash of
battle—and all that that stands for —is on again,
there will be drastic changes here, too. The
tragedy of it all is that that clash has to be thus
awaited to work its effects. It seems a queer sort of
sanity that requires the excesses of madness to make
it react sanely.
Somersaulting Dupes of the Soviet.
During the month in which Stalin double-crossed the
democracies and completed arrangements with the
“Nazi assassin” for the two murderous assaults on the
Russians’ Slav brothers, titles and imprints were altered
in Australian Communist publications. In Sydney
the “Workers’ Weekly” was transformed into the
“Tribune,” the first issue of which was published on
September 1, 1939.
It came out with effusive congratulations from two
gentlemen (imp.) who have been much in the public
eye lately. “The general secretary of the Ironworkers’
Union, Mr. E. Thornton,” sent a message from New-
castle: “I welcome the ‘Tribune’ with much enthu-
siasm. Please accept my congratulations and my
assurance of co-operation in the great work being
done.” Duty had called “Mr. J. Healy, general secre-
tary of the Waterside Workers’ Federation,” to Mackay
(N.Q.); but, apprised of the glad intelligence in that
distant port, Mr. Healy wrote; “The production of
the ‘Tribune’ marks another milestone in the progress
of the workers’ press.”
In the same first issue Mr. L. Sharkey, “chair-
man of the Communist party of Australia,” had to
wrestle with an awkward conundrum —“Why did the
Soviet Government take the step of making a non-
aggression pact with the Germans?” He explained
that “it was because Hitler had been compelled to
recognise the strength of the Soviet Union. The
Nazis were prepared to throw Japan overboard, along
with the Anti-Comintern Pact. This removed, largely,
the threat to the Soviet Union and reinforced the
security of its position.”
Now that the Anti-Comintern Pact has been broken,
the Soviet, by delaying ratification, is bringing the
utmost pressure on Hitler to prevent war.
Mr. E. J. Ward, M.H.R., who has never been
particular about the political company he keeps, was
quoted as having burbled that “by breaking up the
Fascist Axis, and thus bottling up Japan, the Soviet’s
Non-Aggression Pact with Germany has done a great
service to Australia” (“Tribune,” Sept. 8, 1939). And,
“on behalf of the Central Committee of the Com-
munist party,” Mr. R. Dixon thundered that “there
must be no capitulation to German Fascism ; there
must be no sacrificing of Poland as a condition of
peace with Hitler. The Communist party will sup-
port any or every measure for the defeat and destruc-
tion of German Fascism.” This was declaimed at “a
big rally at the Sydney Trades Hall” ; another speaker,
equally vehement, was “Tom Wright, vice-president of
the N.S.W. Labor Council” (and president of the
Sheet Metal Workers, who are against overtime on
defence work).
Then “the Communist party of Australia,”
addressing the nation through the “Tribune,” let itself
go:
Communist Policy on the War for the Defeat of
Hitler. /
Men and Women of Australia:
The savage German Fascists have launched a new
aggression against Poland, and the British Empire and
France are now at war with Germany.
This war, launched for the purpose of the conquest
of Poland and its subjection to the Fascist Empire of
Hitler, of Krupp and Thyssen, the German monopoly
capitalists, is an act of stark aggression, without justifi-
cation of any kind whatever.
Therefore lovers of justice and liberty throughout the
whole world will support the struggle of the Polish
people foT their independence and against enslavement
to a foreign Power.
The “men and women of Australia” and “lovers
of justice and liberty throughout the world” were in-
vited to remember with gratitude that “the Soviet
Union was able to break up the Fascist triangle, the
Anti-Comintern Pact between Germany, Japan and
Italy, by means of a non-aggression pact.” In case
they forgot, this was repeated in another part of the
issue—“the recent Soviet diplomacy destroyed the Anti-
Comintern Pact and forced Japan and Italy into
neutrality.”
It became “clearer,” at least to Mr. L. Sharkey,
that “Hitler Germany gained nothing by the Trade
Pact with the Soviet.” Mr. Sharkey insisted that “the
non-aggression pact merely lost Hitler his allies. The
latest Soviet legislation on Foreign Trade hits directly
at the Nazis.” That appeared on September 15. In
the same issue Mr. Steve Purdy wrote that, “with the
Red Army advancing in Poland,” the Soviet Govern-
ment was “taking precautions on its western front,”
and that “the press was talking about such things as
‘Russia’s stabbing Poland in the back.’ ” Mr. Purdy
was virtuously indignant: “People who write this kind
of drivel cannot understand a socialist Government
without imperialist ambitions like their own beloved
capitalist Governments.”
The “precautions” continued, and were accelerated.
In the next issue (September 19), the Red Army was
“On the March, Pledged to save Poles from Nazis,”
and Poland’s name had become Mud.
The Red Army is now engaged in saving the White
Russian and Ukrainian minorities from Nazi invasion
and its accompanying horrors.
The 5,000,000 Polish Jews will also welcome the Red
Army as a protection and refuge from the Nazi perse-
cution of the Jewish race.
The White Russians and Ukrainians will welcome
the opportunity to rejoin their kinsfolk of Soviet
Ukraine and White Russia and live as free citizens,
instead of in the slavery and oppression of the past
20 years.
The interests of the Soviet Union herself are at stake.
No one can query her right to act for her own self-
protection.
Events had moved too fast, not only for Mr.
Sharkey, but for a “conference of shop stewards,
union executives and Labor Council delegates,” held
at Sydney on September 14. The conference “con-
demned the Nazi aggression in Europe,” and sup-
ported “the war against Hitler Fascism on the basis
that its aims must be confined to the destruction of
the Nazi dictatorship, liberty for the German people
and independence for Poland.” This resolution was
moved, “on behalf of the Labor Council,” by Mr.
Tom Wright (Sheet Metal Workers), who said he had
“never apologised for the Soviet Union, because there
is no need to do so.” Nor did “Delegate Denford
(Ironworkers)” apologise for the Soviet Union. On
the contrary, “Delegate Denford (Ironworkers)” de-
clared that, “but for the Soviet-German pact, Aus-
tralia” would have been “involved almost immediately
in a world conflict through invasion. The Soviet-Nazi
Pact has saved us that horror. It has also prevented
Italy and Spain going to the aid of Hitler, which is of
tremendous assistance to those opposing the Nazi
aggression.”
By September 22 “the truth about the action of
the Soviet Union” had become “more and more clear.”
The Soviet Union had “saved 11,000,000 White Rus-
sians and Ukrainians from the awful horrors and
slaughters by the Nazi butchers.” Moreover, it had
“defined its position as one of neutrality towards all
countries.” The Red Army was “not conquering any-
one’s territory. It has no secret agreement with Hitler
for such a purpose. The Soviet Union rejects secret
diplomacy with anyone.”
The world therefore knows to what the Soviet
Union is committed —to neutrality with every country.
The Soviet Union is now attempting to block the
Nazi invasion of Rumania by occupying the territory
through which the Nazis wish to pass from Poland to
Rumania.
The whole policy of the Soviet Union has
strengthened the position of the Western Powers and
weakened that of the aggressors.
Poland and Rumania “saved,” the Soviet Union
extended its benevolent protection to nearer and easier
countries. “The Governments of the smaller nations
of eastern Europe” went “looking for help to preserve
their neutrality,” and found it, “A peace bloc, initiated
by the Soviet Government, has been established ex-
tending from the Baltic to the Balkans.” That was on
October 3. Three days later it was affirmed that “the
pact between the Soviet Union and the Baltic States,
Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland, removes the
threat of aggression against them. The Red Army is
protecting Rumania and, with it, the Balkans.” So
“what” were “Britain and France now fighting for?”
There is no need to take the story further. No
need to enlarge on the fate of Finland, Lithuania,
Latvia, Estonia and Rumania, Time will avenge them,
for ill-gotten gains never prosper. Meanwhile they
will have cause”for grim laughter if they ever learn that
there are Communists in Australia who remain Com-
munists because they are too vain or too thick in the
head to realise that they have been “had” by Russian
imperialism masquerading as a great social experiment
and with a yellow streak as broad as a shark’s back.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tobruk.
Mr. Churchill’s words while the fighting was still on
at Tobruk were the right ones:
Our triumphs in Egypt have succeeded beyond our
dreams. Now we have 80,000 prisoners, and perhaps
more to come. Now eight or nine divisions of Italian
troops have been dashed out of existence with incon-
ceivably small loss.
We may be inclined to underrate the merit of the
achievement. It was a task of the greatest hazard, but
the risk was well run.
Most of the words heard in Australia were the
wrong ones. They came chiefly from Mr. Spender,
the Minister for the Army. Last Wednesday the
Sydney afternoon sheet came out with the screaming
—and inaccurate —page-wide headline: “Tobruk Falls
to Swift Assault.”
Mr. Spender, in making this announcement, said that
the report of the fall of Tobruk had been received
from an unofficial but reliable quarter.
Formerly it had been the practice of responsible
Ministers to stick to the official and to give out nothing
but that. Mr. Spender gave out both the unofficial and
some of his own minting.
Thus Australia was badly misinformed on a
matter of the gravest interest. Mr. Spender made his
position no better by seeking to shift the blame on
to “the Army Secretariat at Melbourne”
in placing before me a message which purported to be
official.
Apart from the fact that there is, or should be,
such a thing as Ministerial responsibility, the Sydney
afternoon sheet which had Mr. Spender’s statement the
previous day had then quoted him as himself saying
that the information was “unofficial.” The two state-
ments thus taken together made the attempt to pass
the buck look shabby.
Next Mr. Forde joined in, undertaking to seek an
explanation at the next meeting of the War Council,
and the sorry business threatened to obscure the mag-
nificent military achievements beneath a paltry poli-
tical brawl.
Meanwhile, the war went on, nowhere just at that
moment more fiercely than at Tobruk. Italians were
still turning it in in batches of sufficient size to indi-
cate that the bulk of them have no heart for the war
wished on them by the vanity of their pinchbeck
Caesar. But reports stated that “the Italian gunners
put up a tough resistance,” and “infantry garrisons
defended their positions up to the moment when they
were cut off from behind.”
In other words, there was severe fighting—all the
more credit to the great fighting quality of the
attackers, a leading part among whom was taken by
Diggers. The complete success, when it finally came,
underlined that. The official news, published on Fri-
day, listed “14,000 prisoners already taken,” 2000
Italian wounded evacuated, and “a corps commander,
a divisional commander, two other generals and an
admiral” bagged. “Our casualties are less than 500.”
Estimates lifted Mr. Churchill’s figures to a total of
more than 100,000 Italian troops captured; with
general casualties added, Graziani’s forces in Libya
reduced by two-thirds.
The whole battle, like Bardia before it, further
emphasised that in General Wavell Britain has un-
earthed that rare and priceless possession, a military
leader of the first-class.
Pacific Rumblings.
A defect in cables continues to be their failure to
give the full text of important speeches. Australia
would have been very interested to know what, in his
own words, the Japanese Foreign Minister, Mr.
Matsuoka, said in his January 20 speech.
What was served up read as if it had been pulled
out of a hat. As thus reported, Mr. Matsuoka made
a curious speech. Referring to the decision of Japan
and Australia to exchange Ministers, he said:
We expect the two countries to make contributions
toward the promotion of peace in the Pacific by further
advancing their friendly relations. Peace in the Pacific
can be achieved by cordial co-operation.
In paraphrase—which varied in different publica-
tions —Mr. Matsuoka was reported as saying that
“some British colonies were interfering with Japanese
shipping ; Japan, therefore, had been forced to organise
her defences.” In one interpretation “British colonies”
was rendered as “a British Dominion.” It would have
been specially instructive to know exactly what Mr.
Matsuoka said on this point, in his own words. The
statement as it stands is of the political sort that
permits a choice of interpretations, any one of which
could be rejected.
Mr. Matsuoka was further reported (in para-
phrase) as having said that “The United States appar-
ently believed that her first line of defence lay as far
as China and the South Seas,” He was quoted as
adding:
I frankly regret such an attitude, for the sake of
Japanese-American friendship and for the sake of peace
in the Pacific and the world generally.
Also (in paraphrase): “The aims of Japan, Ger-
many and Italy were the same. Japan wanted to create
a new order in Greater East Asia similar to that which
Germany and Italy would like to create in Europe.”
Further in paraphrase:
Much malicious propaganda had been circulated
about Italy, but he had no doubt that Italy, “Japan’s
ally,” would obtain her object before long.
Next came a cable from Hong Kong reporting
that the British Consul-General in Yokohama, Mr.
W. W. McVittie, had issued a circular in which British
residents of Japan were advised to leave that country
before the impending crisis in relations between
Japan and the United States comes to a head.”
Words spoken by John Greig Latham, the Aus-
tralian Minister at Tokyo, a few days in advance of
Mr. Matsuoka, demand repeating here:
Australia is completely and unreservedly with Britain
in this war, but has no quarrel with any country in this
hemisphere, and there is no reason why there should be
any such quarrel.
Relations between Australia and Japan have been
uniformly friendly; there has been a little trade trouble,
but there would be trade trouble between friendly
nations until all are angels.
Japan, like Britain, the Netherlands and the United
States, had declared for the maintenance of the Pacific
status quo; if Japan acted in accordance with that
announcement, there was no reason why peace in the
Pacific could not be maintained.
Lacking the complete text both of Mr. Matsuoka’s
encompassing remarks and Mr. McVittie’s circular,
one man’s reading of the signs would be as good as
another’s. But in war, when pacts have been signed
and allies proclaimed, there is no virtue in easy opti-
mism, whatever trust there may be in the possible
achievements of wise statesmanship on all sides.
The Latest Stevens Stunt.
In N. S. Wales the appointment of the Australian
representative on the Eastern Group Supply Council
at Delhi stirred recollection of a Mr. Stevens who
became local Premier on the strength of large preten-
sions as a financial wizard.
Having then just suffered the delirious excesses of
Mr. Lang, N. S. Wales was specially amenable to such
pretensions. For a time Mr. Stevens and his Govern-
ment prospered, the Lang financial jag having been
such that there could not possibly be a change from it
that was not relatively an improvement. Also, it takes
time to discover the character of such a pup as N. S.
Wales was then sold.
Damning details of the Stevens brand of wizardry
have been given in The Bulletin (19/7/’39, 26/7/’39,
21/8/’4O, 28/8/’4O, 18/9/’4O and on other dates). In
seven years of Mr. Stevens the N. S. Wales debt was
increased by £72,000,000. The beginning of the poli-
tical end of Mr. Stevens came when, having predicted
a surplus of £7700 (on the strength of which he raised
the salaries of all the Ministers and Assembly members
and officers of both Houses), he had to admit at the
end of the financial year that there was a loss of
£2,750,000 ; the real loss was a million more than that.
The Wizard’s decline set in rapidly when a
member of his Government accused a Minister of it
of telling him that a Budget had been “faked.” This
Mr. Stevens denied, but he treated the issue as one
calling for a vote of confidence, and was ousted, the
Government—the one now counting its days in the
Sydney Parliament—being reconstituted without him.
The Minister of his own Government on whose
motion the Wizard was defeated made Stevens finance
the basis of his attack, using such terms as “trickery”
and “misrepresentation,” and bellowing in advance of
the vote that, whatever its result, the Stevens Govern-
ment was “morally degraded.” Later that former
Minister, Mr. Spooner, stated:
The real story as to why I left the Cabinet is that the
Premier neglected the finances while he tried to get into
Federal politics until he created the position where we
were millions of pounds short.
Subsequently Mr. Spooner got out, contested a
Federal seat and won it. The Wizard, seeking the
same mode of escape, and with the strongest of Sydney
press backing, suffered an inglorious defeat at the same
election. He finished 7000 votes behind the winner,
Mr. Mulcahy.
Discarded even by the Sydney Parliament, rejected
in an electorate of his own picking, the ex-Wizard
was condemned to perpetual squatting on the political
scrapheap when Mr. Menzies appointed him to the
Delhi job, on the stated ground of “a recommendation
of the Eastern Group Conference at Delhi last year
that representatives should be men of the highest
standing and ability.”
The appointment might have been tolerated as
in the ordinary way of political practice if it were
not a war appointment made by a Government leading
and inspiring a country in war. As it is, it is the very
sort of thing which breeds cynicism and distrust, when
what is called for is a people’s united support given
in complete confidence.
President Roosevelt's Inaugural.
President Roosevelt made his inaugural address
almost purely an oration on the nature of democracy.
Right at the end he approached concrete statement: —•
In the face of great perils never before encoun-
tered, our strong purpcje is to protect and perpetuate
democracy’s integrity.
We will not retreat. We are not content to stand
still.
As Americans, we will go forward in the service of
our country by God’s will.
Orations by responsible Americans, no less than
the wild outpourings of countless anonymous irrespon-
sibles, have been the inspiration of false wishful think-
ing before this. There can be no doubt about the
sincerity of Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Willkie and something
like an 80 per cent, majority of Americans ; but it’s as
well to remember the emphasis always placed on the
qualification “short of war,” even though a Gallup
survey last week discovered that 68 per cent, of the
American nation now “favors aid to Britain, even
at the risk of involvement in war.” Anyway, President
Roosevelt’s oration had a line for countries which
depend too much on hopes in others:
A nation’s life is the fullness of measure of its will
to live.
On no fewer than eight public occasions last year
—once every six weeks —Mr. Roosevelt reiterated
variations on the text he laid down to Congress on
September 21, 1939:
Our acts must be guided by one single hard-headed
thought—keeping America out of this war.
To Congress last July he said:
We will not send our men to take part in European
wars.
The scene shifts to Britain, where Mr. Churchill
last week stated that “We do not require large armies
from overseas. We require weapons, ships and aero-
planes.” Speaking further in the direction of Con-
gress—where the Lend-or-Lease Bill is being examined,
prior to its practically certain acceptance in a slightly
modified form —Mr. Churchill added that Britain re-
quired more of those things than it would be able to
pay for in 1941.
Giving evidence on the bill, Mr. J. P. Kennedy, the
former American Ambassador in Britain, declared that
“unless Britain received more ships this year, ship-
ping and food problems would be vital.”
That, for the present, is the crux of the matter.
For fighting purposes Britain, on Mr. Churchill’s state-
ment, has ready some “4,000,000 armed and uniformed
men.” They and all who back them have been heart-
ened by the promised extent of American support.
But the quicker it comes —the less Congress dawdles
over it —the better. With time the essence of the con-
tract, a report that President Roosevelt proposed limit-
ing the Congress proceedings to 60 days made stagger-
ing reading.
London Ways v. Sydney Ways.
Sydney’s County Council consists of five bumbles who
represent the city and metropolitan councils in the
control of £15,000,000 worth of electrical plant which
supplies 1,250,000 people with £3,000,000 worth of
electricity, light and power, etc., per annum.
Last year’s chairman, Mr. Tressider, having re-
tired, conferences began to determine his successor.
The Civic Reform aldermen of the Sydney City Coun-
cil instructed their two representatives, Messrs. Tres-
sider and Harding, to “support one another.”
Councillor Gardiner nominated himself “for tac-
tical reasons.” Councillor Cramer, an estate agent
from North Sydney, of which he is Mayor, also nomi-
nated, because he wanted the job. Councillor Tres-
sider nominated Councillor Parry, Mayor of Canter-
bury, “because of a promise” he made when Coun-
cillor Parry helped to elect him to office for 1940.
The five members then sat inconclusively for
several hours without solving the problem. Councillor
Parry having retired to his home, one rival —so the
press reported—called him out of his warm bed to
chat about the election at 1 a.m. and at 6.30 a.m.
Next day four of the members of the council
again hastened to their palatial office. After further
argument, they elected Councillor Parry by 3 to 1, his
main rival, Councillor Cramer, having retired, explain-
ing to Granny “Herald” that “it seems as if I will
have no opportunity of becoming chairman of the
council as it is at present constituted.”
The salary attached to the chairmanship of the
council is £lOOO per year. The job is somewhat less
important than that of the Lord Mayor of London,
whose salary is £12,500 a year, with civic palace
attached.
Though there are 25 aldermen in office in London,
there is never any disgraceful wrangle when the annual
mayoral election is held. The principle is accented
that every man elected an alderman is fit and entitled,
for the benefit of his ward, to be Lord Mayor. Hence
the office passes automatically down the ranks, accord-
ing to seniority, among those who have not already
passed the chair.
This year there are 14 aldermen who have been
London’s mayor, one who is in the chair and 11 who
know they will be in a definite future year if they last
that long.
A drawback to the London system is that it is only
workable where party politics and self-interest are
strictly barred from civic and public utility manage-
ment.
Note on Important Weather.
In a normal winter ice, snow and blizzards almost
completely immobilise traffic on the Continent and
to a lesser extent in England during January and Feb-
ruary. The days close in till, even in London, day-
light hours are only from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. In the
north, they are much less. Norway, which is a vital
part of the German offensive line against England, and
parts of the Baltic are in darkness.
In February France’s main roads are open, but
the ground of the fields is a slough. In Germany and
through all the high countries to the Black Sea, there
is still snow on the ground, the rivers are frozen feet
deep, the roads are covered with ice, the passes in the
mountains choked with snow.
This winter, after a bitter and erratic December,
ice and blizzards set a vicelike grip on the Continent.
Portugal had a great winter storm which wrecked ship-
ping in the Tagus, Biscay ran mountains high. Heavy
snow fell in Southern France, a blizzard was reported
raging in the French Alps, a blinding snowstorm
blotted out the Straits of Dover. Budapest reported
Arctic weather, causing one of the worst freezes in
history over most of Hungary. Transport services in
that country were badly dislocated.
On Jan. 7 Lyons observatory issued a statement
that the winter had been the coldest in France for 40
years. Over 60 per cent, of the crops in Castellon
Province of Spain—on the Mediterranean opposite
Majorca—had been destroyed. Eastern Spain lost
almost the whole of its orange crops. And if these
conditions prevail in the comparatively temperate
region of the west and south-west, the condition of
Germany, which even in mild years is almost entirely
under snow in January, can be guessed.
The real change of season is not properly on its
way till the new moon in mid-March. It is only then
that road traffic ordinarily begins to move in Germany
on any scale.
A winter of the kind Europe is going through can
hamper even air and sea warfare. It halts general war-
fare. But it comes presently to an end.


Society
"AND I T'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Craiser”: Your true-blue bridge
addict certainly knows how to concen-
trate. During Melbourne’s biggest storm
for generations a party was sitting in a
parlor in South Yarra playing a round
in a club contest. They didn’t discover
until midnight that the house had been
struck by lightning, a chimney had
crashed through the ceiling and water had
been pouring into a room adjacent. Then
one of them remembered hearing a bang
or something. Probably he was dummy
at the time.
* * * *
“Snarker”: Of all the reasons given the
authorities in applications for increased
petrol rations, that of a Sydney woman
must stand alone. “Since my husband’s
death,” she wrote, “I have more time for
pleasure.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Fourth Communist
Army, which has been giving Chiang
Kai-shek severe headaches, once had the
American authoress Agnes Smedley as
unofficial adviser. I wonder if she got
on any better than the American lady
painter who was commissioned to paint
the late Empress Dowager’s portrait in
Peking. She did the terrible old lady in
a way that most Occidentals would recog-
nise as a face partly in shade and partly
in light. But there are no shadows in
Chinese painting, and when the Empress
saw it she saw it in terms of Chinese con-
ventions. Supposing the artist had in-
tended to belittle her Majesty by painting
her half-white and half-black, she called
for the official headsman, and it took
four eunuchs and the whole diplomatic
corps to prevent an “incident” which
might have got China into holds with
the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: A.R.P. had a distinguished
debut in Melbourne. A secret bomb-
proof but not soundproof control-room
has been provided in one of the city’s
big steel-cwm-concrete structures, and the
staff of wardens, operators and uni-
formed young ladies were all waiting the
word “go” which would start the sirens
wailing and the fire brigades, ambulances,
decontaminating squads and other units
speeding to Spencer-street G.P.0., about
to be bombed, gassed and set alight by
enemy raiders. Suddenly there was a
terrific crash which shook the bomb-
proof shelter, followed by another and
another. As a reproduction of an actual
air raid from the point of view of
noise it could not have been bettered.
The flash of vast explosions lit up
the sky and the city in every direc-
tion, the Electricity Commission’s system
went into blackout, and the only thing
mspicious about the display was that the
explosions followed on the flames only
after a long interval. Then the rain came
down in buckets. Jupiter Tonans was
the raider and was providing the biggest
storm in Melbourne’s history.
* # * *
“Chevroford”: Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, is a straight line ruled along the
course of a stream which once mean-
dered towards the Yarra and reached that
river in the middle of the site of the
Flinders-street station. Latrobe-street,
Bourke-street, Collins-street and their
little brothers were tributaries which fed
the main stream for countless years before
Batman decided that here was the place
for a village. The other night a cloud-
burst dropped one and a half inches into
the ornate drain in such a short time that
it resumed its old habits. The street was
a wall of water from one shop front to
another. The stream swept motor-cars
before it, poured into every basement,
and, when it found the entrance to a
public convenience in front of the post
office, whooped down and filled it in a
jiffy. The custodian, a woman of 50,
found herself swimming in 6ft. of water.
She struggled to the steps and fought her
way to the surface, but was swept across
the street, and would have been drowned
if a young Field Ambulance man hadn’t
picked her up from under a motor-car.
Another man was swept off his feet, and
the crowds who were sheltering under the
verandahs thought the Deluge had come.
In places buses were submerged to their
roofs, with passengers marooned on top
of them. The amount of moisture was
inconsiderable compared with what comes
down every day in the wet season in
“Up there, Baldy!”
Java or Darwin ; but Melbourne wasn’t
built to expect it,
* * * *
“Tummas McNark”: At least one of
the most eminent women in the Empire
hasn’t fallen for the foolishness of gad-
ding about in uniform, though her posi-
tion entitles her to wear at least three of
them. Our social butterflies might have
been expected to follow her lead, but
apparently they’d sooner accept the guid-
ance of flapper-press mentors than that
of the Queen of England.
* ♦ * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The stately
spouse of a business knight now bears a
well-deserved grudge against the A.B.C.
for wasting her time in listening to broad-
casts in which she was not at all really
interested. “How self-sacrificing of deah
Sir Keith to give up his valuable time
every day just to make sure that we
reahlly are told all the English news
about this dreadful war,” she gushed to
a friend. “Such a lovely voice, too, the
deah man. But, after all, my deah,
noblesse oblige, you know. Those
honored by his Gracious Majesty all feel
that they must give of their very best for
the Empiah. But it always seems a little
strange to me, even disrespectful, that
they do not use his title when they an-
nounce him.” Perhaps tactlessly, the
friend intervened to explain that it was
not Keith Murdoch but Heath Burdock
who really did the daily deed. “They
ought to be more careful,” snapped her
ladyship. “I did sometimes notice some-
thing funny about the way it was pro-
nounced, but I thought that the an-
nouncer person must have a cold in the
head!”
* * * *
“Jachris”: Sydney’s footpaths came out
overnight in a rash of stencilled white-
wash advertising a current adventure film,
and most people waited expectant to see
who would get it in the neck. Then a
copper caught a couple of laborers at the
job in the “early hours,” and the Town
Clerk was moved to dire threats: “This
is the first case for many years. I will
take the strongest possible action against
offenders.” The magistrate reckoned the
crime worthy of a fine of two quid apiece.
The advertising value of their work must
have been worth a lot more than £4.
* ♦ * *
“Pawang”: According to a report of
the British Ministry of Health, shelter-
shock has become as common a neurosis
amongst civilians in London as shell-
shock once was. Medical opinion attri-
buted shell-shock to the effect of concus-
sion of shell explosions. Psycho-analysts
had another explanation. In the case of
shelter neurosis concussion is ruled out as
a likely cause, as people in shelters are
not greatly exposed to concussion. In the
mind hospitals which the Ministry of
Health organised, it has been found that
war neurosis is largely caused by the fear
of being thought afraid. There is a con-
flict in the victim between what he feels
and what he thinks he ought to feel. It
is not tenable for him to admit to him-
self that he is afraid, so the conflict mani-
fests itself in a paralysis or some other
complaint. French soldiers were least
liable to shell-shock in the 1914-18 war
because it was not against their tradition
to know they were afraid and admit they
were afraid ; which isn’t to say that they
acted any the less bravely on that
account.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A former naval reservist was
called up for active service in Melbourne,
submitted himself to 18 months’ training,
went overseas and spent several months
dodging bombs and repelling enemy
raiders. Then he returned on furlough,
and entering his home saw a large en-
velope propped up against a vase on the
mantelpiece. Opening it he read: “As
you have apparently failed to register for
compulsory training required under the
Defence Act, Part IV, it is necessary that
you do so immediately. Failure to do
so will be followed by immediate prose-
cution. Penalty, £20.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: A puzzling dispatch from
San Francisco reports that violinist
Menuhin has been declared available im-
mediately for military service, but has
been granted three months’ leave in order
to conduct a tour of South America.
Reason given was that Mrs. Menu-
hin had an independent income de-
rived from Australia, and that her
husband was a very wealthy man.
There is likely to be no dispute
about the affluence of the fiddler and his
wife, but it is difficult to understand why
their wealth was brought into considera-
tion. The point is whether it is worth
while to risk the hands of a superlatively
good violinist by making him undertake
the training that may or may not make
him a passably good soldier.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Pressmen, meteorologists,
astronomers, amateur and professional,
and others have been comet-gazing for
the last week in Melbourne, but they
may have been beaten to it by a girl at
Vermont who telephoned to the “Argus”
after that paper had declared its failure
to observe Cunningham’s vagrant star
that she was getting a beautiful view of
it soaring over the Dandenong Ranges
at four in the morning. She described it
as like a great golden lantern, but as it
had no tail she may have been looking
at Venus. The comet’s discoverer was Dr.
Cunningham, of Harvard University
Observatory. It is not known yet whether
it will be a periodic visitant to our planet.
Among periodic planets are Biela’s, first
recorded in 1772, with a period of seven
years; Encke’s, in 1786, period three
years ; Halley’s, in 1456, period 76 years;
and Donati’s, 1858, which is not due
back for a few thousand years. Halley’s
was last seen in 1910. On a previous
appearance it is said to have caused
wholesale suicides throughout the world,
and from Russia came reports of whole
villages immolating themselves on bon-
fires in preparation for the Millennium.
* $ $ *
“Pitt-street”: The average practitioner
or disciple of astrology would no doubt
receive with the contempt it deserved
any aspersions on his honesty, yet the
chief librarian at Sydney Municipal
Library was compelled to state the other
day that 100 books on astrology had been
stolen from there in the past two years,
the greatest proportion of thefts from
any one section of the establishment. The
library will buy no more books on the
subject, the chief describing it as “with-
out scientific basis.” Psychologists should
be interested in the kind of mind that
accepts astrology and is even prepared
to steal for it. Amongst other thefts
were five volumes on beauty treatment
and a dozen on the ballet, which went
soon after ballet seasons in Sydney.
* * * *
“Nakh”; The new matchboxes with the
igniting material on only one side present
an interesting psychological problem. I
find myself taking a
match out and
scratching it on the
wrong side while I
am looking at the
sheet of paper on
my typewriter. The
explosion doesn’t
come, so I become
irritated and start
scraping furiouser
and furiouser. There
being no result, I
look at the match to
see if it is a used one
that I put back in
the box because
there wasn’t an ash-
tray handy. No, it
is a good one. I try
again, and then sud-
denly remember the
new war-time econ-
omy measures. After
repeated failures I
will eventually be-
come reconditioned
by the conscious
process of feeling for
the rough side with
my finger. Eventu-
ally the action of
striking on the pro-
per side will become
instinctive. But I will
always tend to revert at certain moments.
A friend of mine returned recently from
Europe after an absence of six years, and
going out of the back door of the house
in which he had been born unconsciously
put out his hand to steady himself on a
tank which had not been there for 30
years. His response was a conditioned
reflex, and all sorts of circumstances com-
pletely hidden from him must have co-
operated to produce the necessary
stimulus.
» * * *
“B. Wood”: Comedy is never far from
tragedy. A husband on a Sydney subur-
ban train saw his wife struggling with
other women and then saw a strange
man slapping her face. Naturally, he
rushed to the rescue, dealing out punches
to his wife’s attacker. There was a lively
little fracas. It then turned out that the
wife, having read over another person's
shoulder of the loss of the minesweeper
Goorangai with all hands, suddenly real-
ised that her son was amongst the crew,
became hysterical and gave the impres-
sion she was about to jump from the
train. The man who did the slapping, a
qualified first-aider, had merely been
applying the recognised remedy for
hysteria when the avenging husband fell
upon him.
« * * *
“Norther”: Those with a morbid in-
terest in strange deaths should add that
of a young Moree (N.S.W.) man to the
list. A boy fell into the river near a
whirlpool. His mother jumped in and
pushed him out, the young man jumped
in to save her. Another son of the
woman jumped in. She and her two sons
managed to get out again, but the other
man, a good swimmer, came up once
and then went down to death. When his
body was recovered a fishing-line was
found to have wound itself around him,
imprisoning one arm and entangling his
legs.
HOW THE MINISTER TOOK
TOBRUK.
It was six o’clock and I sprang from my couch
As the morning burned on the pitiless sand,
And I stood to arms in a sinister crouch
And seized the steel in my good right hand
And hacked at my chin with incredible pluck,
And that’s how I took Tobruk, my lads,
That’s how I took Tobruk.
“The cup is bitter!” I cried to the maid,
But 1 drained it down to the uttermost dreg.
Tbi ’planes came over to rend and raid
And I took my spoon and assaulted an egg,
Then sprang to the car and away to the ruck,
And that’s how I took Tobruk, my lads,
That’s how I took Tobruk.
The morning sped and the hot sun soared
And I paced my room like a tank on the
hunt,
Till at last, “Here’s news!” the typist roared.
“From somewhere round the back of the
front.
It isn’t official, but oh! what luck,
For now you can take Tobruk, dear sir,
Now you can take Tobruk!”
I dared not pause, I dared not think,
For someone was certain to babble or
blunder,
And Hughes was peering through every chink
And the 8.8. C. might steal my thunder.
So I summoned the pressmen, “Boys, it’s took!
And here’s how I took Tobruk, my lads,
Here’s how I took Tobruk.”
It was six o’clock and the sun sank low
And something like gunfire boomed through
the land
That though I had taken it long ago
Tobruk had the insolence still to stand.
So I muttered the password, “Pass the buck!
And tomorrow I’ll take it again, my lads,
Tomorrow I’ll take Tobruk.”
N.S.W.
MACKHOORS.


“El V.”: Ministers get some queer
commissions. One which has been served
out to W. M. Hughes—the author of it
has, he says, “spread the news of
it far and wide” takes the bun for
magnitude. It comes from a gentleman
who is “shocked to learn of the lawless
action of your Government in promul-
gating Regulation 42A”:
Dear Mr. Hughes, there have been those
before you who, in their folly, have sought
to impose law devoid of divine sanction.
Let their subsequent history be a warning
to you. In this connection may I com-
mend for your careful study the Book of
Daniel.... If after having studied the Book
of Daniel, you still have the stomach to
adhere to Reg. 42A, then I would suggest
that for your own protection you destroy
ruthlessly the Old Testament.... be utterly
ruthless in your destruction of the New
Testament.
For once in his life the Little Digger
seems to have had no reply to make.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: A New York bread-
carter will certainly need to watch his
step wherever bakers’ dozens come into
the picture. He was arrested on Nov. 14
on a charge of having altered 13 delivery
slips so that he would collect 13 dollars
more than he turned in to his employers.
The indictment which secured his arrest
was No. 13 on the Grand Jury’s calendar
and contained 13 counts of second- and
third-degree forgery. He was locked up
in cell No. 13 at the City Gaol, and was
listed for trial on December 13. The
Judge completed the good work by hand-
ing him out 13 months’ imprisonment.
* * * *
“Colbun” remembers things about
Hobart General Hospital, recently demol-
ished and replaced by the Royal Hobart
Hospital:
Built in 1841-42 as Her Majesty’s Colonial
Hospital it was used only for male patients until
1875. William Buckley, the Wild White Man,
was one of its gatekeepers for a period after
his 30 years of wandering with Victorian abos.
Thomas Griffiths Wainewright (the poisoner—
he was actually transported for forgery—artist-
friend of Charles Lamb, Coleridge and Flax-
man, the sculptor) was once a wardsman. It
was in the old No. 3 ward that Wainewright
recognised a convict enemy brought in after an
accident and told the dying man that in 24
hours his soul would be in hell and Waine-
wright’s arm up to the elbow in his body dis-
secting it. A fine portrait by the poisoner of
Dr. F. J. Clarke once hung on the spacious
upper landing of the main stairway. Another
wardsman was Benjamin Wait, an American,
transported in 1839 for participation in a rising
in Lower Canada. The grandfather of Canada’s
present Prime Minister Mackenzie King just
escaped being sent with him. Wait got away
on an American whaler, and in 1841 published
a lively book on his experiences, Letters from
Van Diemen’s Land. Amongst patients were
William Lannie, last Tasmanian abo. male (his
head disappeared mysteriously from the mor-
tuary), Jorgen Jorgensen, the self-enthroned
King of Iceland, and James Kelly, navigator
and explorer. Also A. G. Ogilvie, then Premier
of Tasmania, whose three weeks in one of
the stuffy, dark private wards after a motor
accident did much towards getting the new
and modern hospitals which his Administration
subsequently provided throughout the State.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Part of the cargo of a recent
airliner flying from Melbourne to the
Speck was a set of false teeth. Owner
was a Melbourne citizen who had lost
his set overboard while on a fishing trip
off the Apple Island’s remote east coast.
He remembered that he had spares in a
drawer in his Melbourne office, and wired
to a friend, who telephoned to another.
The Tassie P.O. completed the operation
in time for the toothless one to sit down
to his hotel breakfast next morning.
H* H? * *
“Odd Pint”: I see by the papers that
one of those Jehovah Witnesses who re-
fused to take the military oath was asked
what he would do if the Germans landed
and a big Fritz went for him with a
“The mosquitoes are giving me hell!”
bayonet. “I would trust in God,” he
answered loftily. Long ago a parson in
the outback got a forcible demonstration
of the difficulty of holding to this creed.
He had called at a station controlled by
Cuthbert Featherstonehaugh, a wild man
of those times, and in the course of being
driven round the place in a buggy pulled
by a couple of fiery chestnuts entered
into a discourse eulogising the benefits
of trusting. “Mean to say,” demanded
his host as the buggy bounced along,
“you’d trust in Providence at all times?”
“I do,” was the manful reply. Cuthbert
F. thereupon threw the reins over the
horses’ heads, let out a yell that set them
bolting and cried to the parson, “Well,
try it now.” But the parson leapt from
the bounding buckboard, evidently pre-
ferring to risk the hard ground and a
broken neck. He got out of it with
bruises and abrasions, and was noted for
his aversion to C.F.’s vicinity ever after-
wards.
* * * *
• “Bolaro”: In the Dunedoo (N.S.W.)
district sporting folk still remember a
Chinese, Jimmy Hoy, who ran some good
horses but was often the victim of jockeys
riding for the bookmaker. At Merrendee,
near Mudgee, in 1905 Hoy discovered
that the more money he put on his horse
the longer became the odds. Realising
that he was in the hands of the jockey,
Hoy waited until the horses lined up at
the starting post and, approaching his
candidate, cut the reins almost through
with a large pocket-knife. “Now you
puff ’em hard and see what happens,” he
told the surprised jockey. The rider was
too sensible to “puff ’em hard,” and the
horse won, to the disgust of the bookies.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: High gold prices have
revived interest in the auriferous rock
formation on which much of Melbourne
is built. It extends from St. Kilda Espla-
nade—the outcrop on which the Royal
St. Kilda Yacht Club building stands
shows good indications —through Prahran,
Richmond, Collingwood and Studley
Park to Templestowe. Good colors and
specimens have been found at numerous
points along the route, and in 1864 a
2ft. reef was located near Templestowe
at 160 ft. and yielded up to 30oz. to the
ton. It was lost and never rediscovered.
The whole catchment and course of the
Yarra and Plenty Rivers are auriferous,
and every tributary, as well as the river
beds, has yielded alluvial gold at one
time or another. Hoddle’s Creek, near
Launching Place, Queenstown, Diamond
Creek, Emerald, Warrandyte and Warbur-
ton have all been prosperous goldfields
before the days of deep development, and
nothing serious has been done to follow
the main leads down. Good specimen
gold was found during excavation for the
foundations of Craig Williamson’s shop
in Elizabeth-street, near the Flinders-
street junction, and a nice bit of alluvial
at North Melbourne. The dyke outcrop
at Alexandra-avenue, just across Princes
Bridge, has attracted many a wildcat eye,
but Authority has frowned on all pro-
posals to test it.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The diversifying of
Melbourne “Herald’s” Learn-to-Swim dis-
play this year by an offer of conjuror
Levante to dive into the Yarra from
Princes Bridge tied and manacled and
then find his own way to shore reminds
me. A celebrated stunting diver was
billed to dive from the same eminence.
The crowd assembled at the luncheon
hour and saw a young man climb on to
a bastion, take a graceful header, make
a perfect feather, rise, swim to the bank
and disappear. But it wasn’t the visiting
celebrity. It was just a local youth who
reckoned the feat wasn’t much to make
a song about, and hopped in ahead of
the advertised stuntist to prove it.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Recently reported in The
Bulletin that the old Kakariki, which
sank in a collision off Gellibrand Light
and in the middle of the fairway into
Melbourne, has been down below for five
years, and despite exhaustive efforts to
raise her is stiff firmly glued to the
bottom. Too right she is, and if she has
got herself well settled into the mud of
Port Phillip the suction would be equiva-
lent to doubling her volume. Unless this
was taken into account in calculating the
lifting powers of the “camels” which have
failed to budge her, those monsters would
be impotent to raise her. In effect, she
would be double her measured size and
quite a respectably-sized liner.
» * * *
“Nakhoda”: Hitler says that the gold
the U.S.A. Government is hoarding will
be worthless, as after he has finished
there will be a different system of
exchange. That may be reckoned in Nazi
circles to provide some reason for the
action of Ismaili Moslems who pre-
sented the Aga Khan with his weight
“Gad, Prendergast , there are times when I wish I Were an A.B."
in diamonds, a gift said to
be worth £6,000,000. Unless
human nature changes diamonds
will always retain their value.
But the Aga Khan’s followers
are practising an old Asiatic
custom which modern banking
hasn’t altered. Paterfamilias of
Java, when he gets a bit of
money, doesn’t put it into a
bank but loads it in the form of
jewellery on his wives and
daughters. I have seen a child
of six with jewellery all over her
and her baju buttoned up with
English half-sovereigns. As the
coins subsequently rose to three
or four times their face value
she carried an extraordinarily
good investment. Which reminds
me that, being hard up during
the depression, I contemplated
selling a house, as prices were
falling. “Don’t do it,” said a
“But the house won’t be worth
sixpence in a year or so at the present
rate of progress,” I retorted. “A house
is always worth a house,” said my friend
sententiously.
=c * * *
“S.T.S.”; An odd legal gamble has
been sanctioned by the Bankruptcy Court
in Adelaide. Shortly before going broke
a man had sold his assets under bill-of-
sale. The Official Receiver had legal
advice that this transaction should be
void as against the Court. But he had
no funds for a lawsuit. Thereupon five
of the creditors agreed to shoulder the
risk and indemnify him if he ' would
take up the case. It was successful, and
so the guarantors have now got paid in
full, the other creditors getting under
lOd. in the £.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: As far as we can gather
our local drunk met an inebriate friend
in town one afternoon ; they got to talk-
ing about fishing, and decided to give the
bream a go that night when the tide was
high. Thereupon they visited several
places, stopping for frequent refresh-
ments, and acquired the necessary imple-
ments. Somehow the friend was mis-
placed in transit, and about dark our
drunk, still clinging to the main idea, set
off for the sea to catch fish. This, in
brief, appears to be the explanation of
how he came to be found with his legs
dangling over a 100 ft. cliff, holding a
baited line whose hook swung in the air
fully 80ft. above the water. When taken
home he complained bitterly that the
theory that bream bite on a high tide
was one of the most erroneous he had
encountered.
* * * *
“K.P.”: A feature of Nazi administra-
tion has been the falling-away from the
former high German standard in medi-
cine. From returns issued by the Nazi
Government, attendances at German uni-
versities had fallen from 85,394 students
in 1923 to 43,034 in 1938, but the fall
in numbers of medical students was pro-
portionally nearly double. The principal
reason was the legalisation of the prin-
ciple that “those who feel within them-
selves a special call to Nature-healing can
dispense with higher education or any
form of examination.” In 1937 there
were 12,407 of these Nature-healers in
active competition with 48,848 trained
and qualified practitioners, and their
numbers were increasing by several thou-
sands annually. A year later the infantile
deathrate throughout Germany had
risen to 42 p.c.
above that of New
York. The diph-
theria deathrate
doubled in the ten
years to 1936, and
puerperal fever in-
creased from 5151
cases in 1933 to 7695
in 1936, 80 p.c. of
them occurring in
the Government-
controlled birth
clinics. Tuberculosis,
venereal diseases,
dysentery, typhoid,
food poisoning and
all forms of insanity
rose rapidly and
regularly from 1933
to 1938. Rickets
amongst children, a
specific proof of in-
adequate and unsuit-
able feeding, in-
creased by 40 p.c.
On its own figures
the Nazi system of
developing its alleg-
edly pure and pre-
potent life-stream doesn’t seem to be get-
ting the results for which Germany was
famous up to 1914, and 17 months of
war will not have done anything to help
matters.
A BRIGHT IDEA.
“One of the 500 applicants for six jobs as Sydney
policewomen suggests that women could do better
detective work than men because of their superior
knowledge of female wiles.”
She holds it a question
If masculine ’tecs
(Albeit the suggestion
Their feelings may vex)
Can get within miles of
Being wise to the wiles of
The tricks and the guiles of
The opposite sex.
She’d leave male committers
Of crime, she asserts,
To sleuths in hard-hitters
And Sherlocks in shirts.
But, with women transgressing,
She’s ardently stressing
A need that is pressing
For ferrets in skirts.
The minds of her sisters
Like books she could scan,
In ways that no misters
Conceivably can.
She’ll reach her objective
By methods detective
Outside the perspective
Of any mere man.
That Adams have mandates
She clearly perceives
For grappling with bandits
And lumbering thieves.
But should the offender
Be feminine gender,
She’d have them surrender
Their badges to Eves.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


a»3
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 (or lOd, 50 (or 4 2
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE'THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
“A ripe plum” was the apt metaphor
of one soldier for Tobruk, of a whole
nation for Delhi.
The first result of Stevens’s appoint-
ment to the Eastern Group Supply Coun-
cil job in India was a chorus of bellows
from Labor stalwarts. The odds are a
thousand pounds to a Warwick egg that
Labor would have rejected Stevens—
rightly—on the very grounds that Men-
zies gave for appointing him: “Represen-
tatives should be men of the highest
standing and ability.” Double those odds
that Labor in power would have given
the job to just such another from its own
scrapheap, if it had just such another.
W. Wood, described as “the principal
speaker” at “the N. S. Wales Labor party
conference,” produced the best joke of
the week, if not of the whole war; “Aus-
tralian foreign policy should provide for
an exchange of diplomatic representatives
with Russia, China, Chile and Mexico,
with a view to the convening of a Pacific
conference, aimed at a comprehensive
military and trade pact.” The joke is
that he wasn’t joking, though it must
call for a constitution of wood all
through to crack one like that uninten-
tionally.
The Federal Government ran true to
form over the license to “Teruth” to give
birth to a new evening sheet in Sydney.
It granted the license, then cancelled it
to conserve dollar exchange and shipping
space, granting it again on the ground
that arrangements had been made to
import paper and engage staff before the
war began. Another change of mind
followed an influx of weeping newspaper
directors into Canberra, but the Ministry
proposed to assuage Ezra Norton’s grief
and compensate engaged members of the
staff. After £4OOO of public money had
been paid to the latter, Harrison has
announced that the Cabinet has for the
third time decided to give Ezra a chance.
The only comfort that can be offered to
Granny “Herald,” who has been bawling
horrible, is that such a Government could
change its mind again.
There is a curious passage in Lord
Riddell’s Intimate Diary about Smuts.
Time, August, 1919, and Lloyd George
and Eric Geddes were among those
present.
L.G.; Smuts always thought the war
would end in a draw.
Geddes: Smuts was in close correspond-
ence—of quite a proper character, of course
—with Holland. The Dutch thought that,
in the final issue, the only two effective
factors would be Britain and Germany,
and that neither would be able to defeat
the other. No doubt Smuts took that
view.
Judging by his speeches and broadcasts,
Smuts has a different opinion of this
war. He is now immersed in plans for
driving the Italians out of Abyssinia and
British Somaliland, and he has reserved
a large share in the operations for his
own Union soldiers and airmen.
Caesar’s warning on Cassius, “he thinks
too much,” slightly amended to suit this
era or talkies, fits the Spender case
exactly.
“Granny,” administering a mild re-
buke : “An enthusiastic statement was
issued by the Minister for the Army.”
Sydney “Sun,” tempering the wind; “The
Australian Minister for the Army in pre-
maturely announcing the fall of Tobruk
was apparently only a few hours ahead
of the event.” Conclusions; (1) Sydney
as an address has its advantages ; (2) a
fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind.
Every sawmill in the bushfire country
in Victoria —more than 140 —has now
been equipped with dugouts as required
by the Forests Commission. Each dug-
out provides 90 cubic feet of space for
each person and must carry ample sup-
plies of water and provisions. A super-
intendent elected by vote is in charge of
each dugout; he must be one who will
have to shelter in the dugout, and he’s re-
sponsible for maintaining the supply of
water. Most deaths in the last disaster
could have been prevented if dugouts had
been compulsory. The Government in
Melbourne was lucky that, with all its
shillyshallying, there wasn’t another
tragedy this year ; rain postponed the fire
season until the dugouts were completed.
Up to January 20, total deaths from
air-raids in England were 22,569 and
30,556 were taken to hospital. Compared
with a population of 45,000,000 the fig-
ures are small, but they mean that the
“B. S. B. Stevens has been appointed Australian representative on the Eastern Group
Supply Council at Delhi.”
“Ah, that’s better, Sir Bertram! You’re getting the hang of it!”
dead in England total the population of
two towns like Tamworth and Orange,
Wagga and Albury, Warrnambool and
Horsham, or one town like Broken Hill.
The president of the Sydney Garage
and Service Station Federation, getting
in early: “If the Government forces
every motorist to redeem his petrol
coupons within the next few weeks,
petrol sales will skyrocket. This will
not help our war effort.” True. What
does the president think of the sugges-
tion that every motorist with unused
coupons should voluntarily hand them
to the Government as a patriotic ges-
ture?
None of the 10 Forgan Smith Ministers
will be opposed at the Queensland elec-
tions in March or April by a fellow party
member. An opponent for Minister for
Lands Walsh offered, but his nomination
was rejected. The Government party
endorsed 57 candidates and was deciding
on the remaining five when the printer
reached for this. Seventeen sitting mem-
bers have no opponents. The Opposition
was uttering no sounds that could be
interpreted as wild optimism.
Press yells of delight hailed Moscow
Radio’s dictum that “the Nazi doctrine is
strictly nationalistic and capitalistic.” It
is only three or four years since the
U.S.S.R. called all Fascists “blood
drunk,” but that didn’t prevent Stalin hav-
ing all his modern naval ships planned or
built in Italy, nor did the pre-knowledge
that Hitler was a “murderous thug” pre-
vent him from informing Adolf at
Christmas, 1939, that the friendship of
the German and Russian peoples was
“cemented by blood.”
At June 30, 1940, Federal taxpayers
who had instalments outstanding, num-
bered 62,883 out of 347,000 assessed.
They owed £3,069,000, of which
£1,193,613 was “overdue tax for which
no extension of time had been granted.”
It represents just under one-sixth of the
total assessments £19,449,000. No
special explanation is given of the sur-
prising fact that, whereas arrears in opu-
lent N.S.W. were £967,000 out of
£5,324,000, in Victoria £596,000 out of
£3,872,000 and in Queensland £228,000
out of £1,203,000, S. Australia was behind
only £36,000 out of £691,000.
Archbishop Mowll, of Sydney, thinks
there should be an exchange of diplomatic
Ministers with China. He did not indi-
cate to which China the diplomat should
be accredited —Chiang Kai-shek’s China,
Wang’s “puppet” China, Southern Kuo-
mintang China, Fourth Communist Army
China (now in revolt), Japanese-occupied
China, or just the common or garden
unpoliticalised China.
Pity Lloyd George is so old. In his
form of 25 years ago he would be just
the man Britain needs to ginger up its
war effort on the labor front. Probably
Bevin is the best substitute, but some of
the newspapers are beginning to hint
doubts. Incidentally, Lloyd George met
Bevin for the first time at a Labor con-
ference 21 years ago and was greatly
impressed. “A powerful fellow and a
born leader,” he said. “Mark my words,
we will hear more of Bevin.” Except in
the case of Neville Chamberlain, whom
he disliked from the beginning (“he was
not one of my successful appointments”),
the old P.M. was a good picker of
coming men.
Everyone between toddling and dodder-
ing knows that the R.A.F. has enough
on its hands without wishing more
on it. Attempts to divert it from
its dedicated task of smashing the Axis
industrial machine and crushing prepara-
tions for invasion in order to achieve
more flashy results have all failed. The
latest failure is that of H. G. Wells.
Blind, deaf or plain foolish, he sought to
add the bombing of Rome to the R.A.F.
burden. This, too, at a time when British
diplomacy was trying its utmost to profit
by the evident Italian dislike for the Ger-
mans and their German war. It seems
impossible to drive it into the noodles of
Fireside Fusiliers like Wells that results
of indiscriminate “morale” bombing of
Britain, and everywhere else that it has
been tried, have been wholly a stiffening
of morale and a determination to see it
through.
Before returning to Britain from the
U.S.A. Wells wrote this in the “Nation”:
Anyone who runs about now demand-
ing permanent world peace and who is
not prepared to scrap his own Govern-
ment and amalgamate the general con-
trol of political and economic life into a
world-wide system is either muddle-headed,
insincere or both. This means the end of
the British Empire quite as much as the
end of German imperialism. You have to
face it.
Its advocacy would also mean the end of
Wells, if he hadn’t already arrived there.
After 17 months of war and the 12-
months’ time before that which was the
vital gain at Munich, Britain’s Prime
Minister has admitted that “the bulk of
a series of new factory plants created
to equip the Army are only just begin-
ning to enter production. They may still
be structurally incomplete. There is a
very large number of plants three-
quarters or four-fifths finished.” It gives
added point to Margot Asquith’s valedic-
tory comment on Chamberlain, that if he
had not gone to Munich “we might have
had a war without having an army.”
It is plausibly argued that if the bulk
of the additional factories set up in
Britain to cope with the huge task of
equipping modern armies are only just
beginning to enter production, with the
state of war and the collapse of allies to
spur the work on, nothing short of a
similar state of war can give full impetus
to America’s effort to aid. That may be
judging America by the wrong standards.
Size has long been a national fetish there ;
records for their own sake have a U.S.
standing hardly understood in less push-
ful lands. The U.S.A. being the U.S.A.,
that might well be all the spur needed.
“Bitter complaint expressed at a union
meeting in Sydney”—the Federated Iron-
workers (Comrade Thornton) were, of
course, in it:
N.S.W. unemployed-relief tax is
deducted from wages, and then the Federal
tax is assessed on the original wage,
which a man doesn’t receive.
Nobody seems to have mentioned (1) that
the unemployed see very little of the
unemployed-relief tax-money, or (2) that
the so-called u.-r.t. is a tax on gross
income, or (3) that the Federal tax,
though a war tax, is reducible by ss. a
week for each dependant, or (4) that
union dues, State taxes, insurance pay-
ments, medical and dental expenses are
also deductions from Federal tax,
though not from the alleged u.-r.t.
As the law stands, the State can smite
the workers with “ordinary” taxes on all
amounts paid in taxes, though the Com-
monwealth can’t and won’t.
“The Tasmanian Government has in-
vestigated fully the potentialities of an
industry of many years’ standing in the
State, and I shall see that the Common-
wealth Government makes a response to
the State Government’s efforts.” Speaker,
Forde ; industry, shipbuilding ; prospects,
good. In the 33 years to 1872, 419 ships
were built in the Speck. It is even on
record that at one time Hobart ship-
yards could claim a greater output than
the Clyde.


"ONE MAN AND HIS DOG.”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £30,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,500,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a ' spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5% per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention,
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
an d more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Oriel College, Oxford, has admitted
J. B. Brigden, secretary of the Federal
Department of Supply, to its select band
of fellows—the first to be elected outside
the British Isles. Brigden is an econo-
mist who served with the A.I.F. in the
1914-18 war, went to Oriel as Kitchener
Memorial Scholar, and has since served in
Australian university posts, as head of
the Queensland Bureau of Industry and
chairman of the National Insurance
Commission. Oriel was founded by
a king’s almoner in 1326 in a house
once owned by Eleanor, wife of Edward
1, and 10 fellows are part of the original
foundation provided under the charter of
Edward II —later four more were added.
It has had many distinguished fellows —
Keble, Whately, Thomas Arnold of
Rugby, Matthew Arnold, J. H. Newman,
Pusey and Froude. Cecil Rhodes was
a member of the college, and left it a
lai'ge bequest. So was Andre Hayward—
in his poetic moments better known as
“T. the R.”
The new N.S.W. State president of the
R.S.S. and A.I.L.A. is George Murphy,
custodian of the Sydney Cenotaph.
Formerly Sheriff of N. S. Wales, he is
Comptroller of Prisons. He succeeds L. C.
Robb, in whom the executive passed a
vote of confidence combined with an
expression of regret at the fact that his
resignation had been brought about by
“wilful distortions by certain persons of
views expressed by delegates at a recent
Federal conference.” George Murphy
was every inch a fighting soldier, lived
mainly under fire at Gallipoli with the
18th Battalion, where he commanded the
rearguard on Plugge’s Plateau and on the
Beach at the evacuation ; fought in Sinai,
France and Belgium, was mentioned in
dispatches seven times and won a D.S.O.
and bar and a C.M.G.
In the New Year Honors there was an
0.8. E. for Edward Thomas Both, of
Adelaide —the man who invented the
“iron lung” and the “instant diagnosis
E. T. BOTH.
cardiagraph.” He is 32, was born at
Caltowie (S.A.), and served his appren-
ticeship as a maker of scientific appa-
ratus as a helper in the physics laboratory
of Prof. Kerr Grant at Adelaide Uni.
His inventions include various electrically
propelled vehicles, an intrascope for view-
ing the inside of gun-barrels, an electric
stethoscope and a sound-ranging artillery
device. Keen on tennis, he was promi-
nent in pennant play in Adelaide a few
years ago.
Frith and party witness an accession
to power;
The lift door banged, Frith rose up from the
penitent form on which he had been patiently
waiting in the passage of the Commonwealth
Bank as the new acting-Priminister Artie
Fadden, arriving for his first morning’s work,
ACTING-PRIMINISTER FADDEN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
approached him in a breath-taking burst of
speed. “I see you’ve had your teeth out,” said
Mr. Fadden, swinging round Frith as round a
pylon. A moment later we found ourselves
in Mr. Fadden’s room, apparently having been
sucked in after him in the vacuum of his wake.
“Don’t mind if I go on working?” panted Mr.
Fadden, disappearing suddenly behind a large
pile of files topped by what looked like an
Indian maharajah’s Christmas card. I left
softly. A backward glimpse showed Frith
tying two knots in his neck in process of fol-
lowing the hurdle race of Mr. Fadden through
his files. Interviewed on his return to the
office. Frith was asked; “What sort of a sitter
is this Fadden bloke?” To which Frith replied
feelingly: “Sitting? It was like chasing Musso.
through a spaghetti drying-plant. But I did
my best.” The “best” is presented herewith,
accompanied by the artist’s condolences to the
Prime Minister’s staff, who are going to miss
the unhurried technique of the Menzies era
when they worked for a P.M. who behaved as
if he owned the patent rights on time. Mr.
Fadden was once town clerk of Forgan Smith’s
city, Mackay (N.Q.). He had one term in the
Queensland House. The timetable of his rise
to greatness in Federal politics has been as
follows: December, 1936, elected as C.P. man
for Darling Downs; April, 1939, withdrew
from C.P. room because Earle Page was rude
to Menzies; March, 1940, came back to C.P.
room and became assistant Treasurer; October,
1940, C.P. deadlocked when he nominated for
leader, but consented to elect him acting-leader
as it also deadlocked on everybody else. By
virtue of his new position, he became deputy-
Priminister and Treasurer on October 28, dur-
ing the greatest world crisis in history, and, 10
months after first becoming a Minister, he is
acting-Priminister. He is an able speaker on
financial subjects and, like B. S. B. Stevens
and Eric Spooner, a trained accountant.
Ivor Hele, appointed Australian official
war artist, first studied art at the age of
eight under James Ashton, afterwards
going to Paris and Munich. On his return
to Adelaide he taught for a time at the
S.A. School of Arts and Crafts. In 1936
he was awarded first prize for “The Pro-
clamation” in the S.A. centenary com-
petition. Two years later his “Sturfs
Reluctant Decision to Return from His
Exploration of Centralia” netted him the
Commonwealth prize for the best depic-
tion of an Australian historical subject
at Sydney’s Sesquicentennial. Adelaide-
born and 28, he is at present a private
over there with the 2nd A.I.F.
Harold Herbert, whose appointment also
as an official artist with the A.I.F. has been
gazetted, is a watercolorist whose land-
scape work is represented in most Aus-
tralian galleries. He was born in Ballarat
(Vic.) 48 years ago, and educated at Bal-
larat College. Has acted as art critic for
Melbourne newspapers for several years,
and was appointed a member of the
Commonwealth Ar t
Advisory Board in
1926.
The U.S.A.’s new
Ambassador to the
Vichy Government,
Admiral W. D. Leahy,
used to call into Syd-
ney fairly frequently
just under 40 years ago.
He was then a junior
paymaster in Uncle
Sam’s Navy, and came
this way on American
supply ships which were
then carrying foodstuffs
to the army of occu-
pation in the Philippine
Islands after the
Spanish-American war.
Charles Taylor, West-
ralian Deputy Commis-
sioner for Repatriation,
who has been ap-
pointed Deputy Assis-
tant Commissioner of
the Red Cross inquiry
bureau for prisoners of
war, missing and
wounded soldiers, will
serve overseas in an
honorary capacity, and
be in charge of a staff
of Red Cross officials.
Returned Diggers of
the 16th Battalion will
remember Taylor on
Gallipoli. He was
wounded in an attack on Hill 60, Suvla
Bay.
First South Australian member of the
2nd A.I.F. reported killed in action, Cpl.
Frank Launcelot Young, was born in
Adelaide and educated at St. Peter’s Col-
lege. About three years ago he shifted
to Sydney, where he enlisted. A keen
footballer, he played in Adelaide for
North Adelaide and in Sydney for North
Shore. He was 24, and leaves a widow
in Sydney.
The New Year Honors surprise packet'
contained something for Maoriland-born
Air Vice-Marshal K. R. Park. He -is a
son of Prof. Park, ex-Dean of the Mining
Faculty of Otago University, Dunedin.
His military career kicked off at Gallipoli,
where he won a commission in the field.
Transferring to the R.F.C. in France, he
commanded the 48th Squadron of Bristol
fighters from 1916 till the curtain was
rung down on hostilities. In 1929 and
1930 he was selected to organise the
R.A.F. pageant at Hendon, and on the
accession of King George VI he was
one of the four air aides-de-camp to his
Majesty.
Max Meldrum, winner of the, Archi-
bald Prize for the second time, came to
Australia with his parents when he was
14 from the same city which Raeburn
had glorified with his portraits. Winning
a Melbourne Nat. Gallery travelling
scholarship, he arrived in Paris soon
after the death of Manet and Monet;
Rodin and Whistler were still teaching
there, but he went to Julien’s academy.
He found it much like the Nat. Gallery
school in Melbourne, but at the Louvre
he fell under the spell of Velasquez, and
set out to rediscover the Spanish master’s
methods. Back in Melbourne, Meldrum
painted assiduously, made a second visit
to France, where he married a French-
woman, and returned to find controver-
sies raging around him. He gradually
gained admirers and a few steadfast
pupils, and now is a trustee of Mel-
bourne Gallery and frequently commis-
sioned for portraits, many fine examples
of which hang in Australian galleries, at
the Law Courts in Melbourne and at
Parliament House in Canberra.
Wing-Commander Frederick Sidney
Cotton, recently decorated for photo-
graphing enemy bases, was born at
Bowen (Q.) 47 years ago, when his
father, A. J. Cotton, owned Brom-
ley Park and Goorganga. He joined
the British Flying Corps in 1915,
and while on service with the instruc-
tional staff invented the Sidcot flying suit,
which became standard equipment. In
1919 he took part in the London-to-Cape-
town flight, and afterwards made the first
aerial survey of the flying route to New-
foundland, later establishing the first
regular flying service to Newfound-
land and Labrador. Joining the
R.A.F. when war broke out again, he
was appointed wing-commander in
charge of a squadron of expert recon-
naissance fliers on North Sea and Con-
tinental duty extending as far east as
Prague.
This is Melbourne’s ex-Lord Mayor,
A. W. Coles, who relinquished the fur
cape and was returned to Canberra for
Henty in the last election. He served in
the 1914-18 war as a captain, is manag-
ing director of the elongated stores be-
tween Bourke-street and Little Collins-
street, is president of the Victorian
Master Drapers’ Association, and during
his term as Mayor developed a penchant
A. W. COLES.
for opening art shows until Hitler ex-
ploded, when he threw himself into the
local war effort.
Daisy Bates, the spinster friend, 80
years old, of the aborigines, has been
living in Adelaide to write up her records
of 35 years among them. After visiting
Canberra to arrange them in the archives
there, she hopes to get back to Ooldea,
on the East-West railway line, to give
special attention to the half-caste prob-
lem. She is famous socially in Adelaide
for sticking, like Queen Mary, to the old
fashions of dress ; and to prove it she
lately gave to the papers two photographs
of herself in today’s costume and in the
very same “tailor-made” when new in
Perth in 1905. The only changes are
about Sin. off the old trailing skirt, and
that the former big flowery hat has now
become a plain straw “boater” with
hatpin.


CAVE <" m sol
f ON THESE
beautiful editions
3P
I
m
mf
gV
■
0$
cfN
/ P |
': - __..J
s
WvV;
»!•
aasamaM
- ; 4''.«|
H 1 *HU
iiiHHHHnnHn
: ■ :
r ptflVS OF
fwnmlt)3
m _ ..in
in
40 FAMOUS BOOKS OFFERED
to you at great savings. Each volume is absolutely new, beautifully printed in clear
type and attractively bound in decorated cloth or buckram. To order conveniently, simply encircle
the numbers on the order form, tear off and post to ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
1 .—EXPRESSIONISM IN ART.
By Sheldon Cheney.
The recognised authoritative work on Expres-
sionism. It is a complete study of the technique
and theories by which painters and sculptors,
architects and dancers have returned to the
essentially expressive and creative art. 30/- for
15/-; post 1/-.
2. FIFTY FAMOUS PAINTERS.
By Henrietta Gerwig.
Biographies of the fifty most famous painters
of the world, from the Renaissance to our day,
with critical summaries of the art of each
country. With 52 plates, many in color. 18/-
for 9/6; post lOd.
3. HOW TO STUDY ARCHITECTURE.
By Charles Henry CafHn.
Traces the course of civilisation in its par-
ticular relation to architecture and the develop-
ment of architecture in response to man’s pro-
gress in civilisation. 30/- for 15/-; post !/-.„
4 —MEN AND MEMORIES.
By Sir William Rothenstein.
A panoramic history of the Arts from 1872
to 1922. A delightful and penetrating record of
an age and the men who made it: painters,
writers, sculptors, statesmen, financiers. With
96 lithographs. Two volumes in one. 31/6 for
15/-; post 1 1 4.
5. MICHELANGELO, THE MAN.
By Donald Lord Finlayson.
A new biography, showing the human side of
one of the giants of the Renaissance. With 20
full-page illustrations. 22/6 for 10/6; post lid.
6. A PRIMER OF MODERN ART.
By Sheldon Cheney.
The most complete guide to modern art by a
great authority, it gives a clear exposition of
the theories and practices of the modernists in
painting, sculpture, architecture and industrial
design. The author also discusses the important
examples, of which 175 are reproduced. 30/-
for 15/-; post 1/1.
7. STORIES OF THE SPANISH
ARTISTS. By Sir William Stirling
Maxwell. Selected by Luis Careno.
A first-rate introduction to the Spanish school
of painting, written in an anecdotal way, in the
form of biographies of the great masters from
the Primitives to Goya. With 30 illustrations,
many in color. 18/- for 9/-; post lOd.
B—THE COLLECTOR’S MANUAL.
By N. Hudson Moore.
An authority on antiques offers a definite
guide for the collector of art objects: furniture,
clocks, pewter, brass, copper, glassware and
other decorative items found in the homes of
our forefathers. With 336 engravings. 30/-
for 15/-; post 1 /2.
9.—THE FURNITURE DESIGNS OF
CHIPPENDALE, HEPPLEWHITE
AND SHERATON. Introduction and
Critical Estimate by Arthur Hayden.
Here in one large volume are reproduced in
replica the original design books of the greatest
masters of English furniture, whose influence is
still felt on furniture-makers after nearly two
centuries. 42/- for 21/-; post 1/2.
10 —OLD FURNITURE BOOK.
By N. Hudson Moore.
An entertaining and informative book about
the household goods of the first colonists in
America. There are chapters on French furni-
ture,, clocks and musical instruments. With 127
photographic illustrations. Indexed. 17/6 for
9/6; post 9d.
I I .—THE HISTORY OF HERODOTUS.
One of the wonder-books of our civilisation
—the source of our knowledge of the ancient
world. A book of travel, a book of folklore, a
reference book, a textbook, and a story for
wung and old. 21/- for 12/6; post 1/-.
12.—A TRUE HISTORY OF THE CON-
QUEST OF MEXICO. By Captain
Bernal Diaz del Castillo.
The vivid and incredibly frank chronicle of
Cortes’s intrepid expedition into Mexico, told
by one of his companions in that fantastic
enterprise. Gives an unusual picture of the
leader, his aims and his powers—a classic on
one of the most astonishing conquests in the
world’s history. 27/6 for 15/-; post 1/1.
I 3.— BEETHOVEN.
By Robert Haven Schauffler.
A monumental biography of the man who
freed music. A work worthy of the greatest
figure in musical history. Illustrated. Two
volumes in one. 25/- for 15/-; post 1/2.
14.—THE BOOK OF MUSICAL KNOW-
LEDGE. By Arthur Elson.
As complete as an encyclopaedia, as readable
as a novel, this magnificent book gives the his-
tory, technique and appreciation of music, to-
gether with the lives of the great composers.
Profusely illustrated. 25/- for 15/-; post 1/2.
15— DEBUSSY, MAN AND ARTIST.
By Oscar Thompson.
The first American and best existing bio-
graphy of the great French composer of Pelleas
and Melisande and other famous operatic and
orchestral compositions. Complete analysis of
the music, and many illustrations. 21/- for
10/6; post 9d.
I 6—A HISTORY OF MUSIC.
By Grace Gridley Wilm.
A surprising amount of information, not only
regarding the great composers and their works,
but also about the evolution of instruments, the
main forms of music and systems of notation.
A valuable guide and reference work for stu-
dent and layman alike. Illustrated. 21/- for
10/6; post 9d.
1 7 HOME BOOK OF THE OPERA.
By Charles Annesley. Introduction
by Olin Downes.
This book contains the plots of nearly 300
operas. Every notable opera is included, and
many lesser-known ones are described in detail.
Includes an index of composers, giving the dates
of their birth and death, the operas they com-
posed and the date of their first performance.
Illustrated. 25/- for 12/6; post 1/1.
18— HOW TO UNDERSTAND MUSIC.
By Oscar Thompson.
A practical guide to the pleasures of music.
Does not try to teach the rudiments of music,
but treats it from the point of view of the
intelligent layman. 18/6 for 10/6; post 1/-.
19— RIMSKY-KORSAKOFF MY
MUSICAL LIFE.
The autobiography of Russia’s most cele-
brated and beloved composer. A panoramic
view of the Golden Age of Russian music.
With 16 photographs, an index and an intro-
duction by Carl Van Vechten. 25/- for 12/6;
post lid.
20— SYMPHONIC MASTERPIECES.
By Olin Downes.
A revealing outline of the great works of
symphonic music, by the distinguished music
critic of the “New York Times.” With musi-
cal themes and other illustrations. 21/- for
10/6; post lid.
21— THE THEATRE.
By Seldon Cheney.
A veritable encyclopaedia of the world of the
theatre. A history of 3000 years of drama,
acting and stagecraft. A valuable and im-
mensely interesting work. Lavishly illustrated.
25/- for 12/6; post 1/-.
22 THE ADVENTURES OF PERE-
GRINE PICKLE. By Tobias Smollett.
A remarkable, lusty tale about the adven-
tures of a delightful, fun-loving scoundrel.
Complete and unabridged. Illustrated. Two
volumes in one. 42/- for 15/-; post 1/2.
23.—THE APOCRYPHA.
A beautiful edition of the authorised trans-
lations of the 14 “lost books” of the Bible.
One of the most remarkable of all the great
classics of the world, including the books of
Judith, Tobit, Bel and the Dragon, Susanna,
Wisdom of Solomon, Esther and the Maccabees.
21/- for 9/6; post lOd.
25. DROLL STORIES.
By Honore de Balzac.
There may be some dispute as to whether or
not these stories are immoral; no one, however,
can dispute the judgment of the ages that these
grotesque, comical, human and pathetic stories
are immortal. Complete edition in English
with the marvellous illustrations by Gustave
Dore. 30/- for 15/-; post 1/2.
26. EMERSON’S WORKS.
“There is amazingly much in him he
gathers into one discourse the wisdom of 20
sages.”—John Macy.
Here are the essays, poems, lectures of
America’s greatest thinker, in a magnificent
book of 1710 pages, four volumes in one.
Large, clear type; bound in buckram. 25/- for
12/6; post 1/5.
27. THE MARCH OF LITERATURE.
By Ford Madox Ford.
The story of the great writers and the mas-
terpieces they created, from Confucius to the
present day. A first-class historical and criti-
cal work that shows the influence of literature
on the current of the world’s thought and
action. 878 pages. 27/6 for 15/-; post 1/2.
28. THE PLAYS OF IBSEN.
Authorised translation, containing the 11
plays that made Ibsen famous, including Peer
Gynt, Ghosts, The Master Builder, Hedda
Gabler, Rosmersholm, etc. With an introduction
by H. L. Mencken. 21/- for 10/6; post 1/1.
29. ROMANCES OF HERMAN MEL-
VILLE.
Besides the celebrated Moby Dick, this mag-
nificent 1660-page volume contains all the other
novels by this American genius: Typee, Omoo,
Mardi, White Jacket, Israel Potter and Red-
burn. Seven volumes in one, all complete and
unabridged. Illustrated in color. 21/- for
12/6; post 1/4.
30. TALES OF MYSTERY AND
IMAGINATION. By Edgar Allan Poe.
This marvellous collection of thrilling, creepy
tales has become one of the imperishable
American classics. A de luxe edition, 8£ x lOf
inches, large, clear type, with 100 exquisitely
beautiful illustrations in color and line by the
distinguished artist, Harry Clarke. 412 pages.
Four-color jacket. 31/6 for 18/-; freight 2/6.
3 I .—THE AGE OF FABLE.
By Thomas BulflncK.
The legends of mythology help us to under-
stand much that is fine and noble in English
literature. A complete and handy reference
volume with 200 illustrations and an index.
15/- for 8/6; post 1 /-.
3 2.—THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE
OCCULT SCIENCES.
Introduction by M. C. Poinsot.
The most comprehensive general work on
Astrology, Palmistry, Physiognomy, Phrenology,
Numerology, Oracles, Omens, Dreams and the
whole Empire of Magic, including Hypnotism,
Luck and Talismans, etc. Easily understand-
able and workable charts, tables and illustrations.
25/- for 12/6; post lid.
33 —FAMOUS UTOPIAS.
The complete text of More’s Utopia, Cam-
panella’s City of the Sun, Bacon’s New Atlantis
and Rousseau’s Social Contract. The four most
famous “Ideal States” in literature, all in one
volume. 21/- for 9/6; post 9d.
34. HEBRAIC LITERATURE. Trans-
lated and edited by M. H. Harris.
Selections from the Talmud, Midrash and
Kabbalah. Inspiring thoughts and sayings of
the Rabbis. A book of great wisdom, much
learning and vast humor. 21/- for 9/6; post lOd.
35. ORIENTAL PHILOSOPHY,
By Francis Grant.
The story of the teachers and teachings of
the East, written with great charm and clear
insight into the mind and world of the Orient.
Illustrated with reproductions of paintings by
Nicholas Roerich. 25/- for 12/6; post lid.
36—THE PHILOSOPHY OF
DESCARTES.
Translated by John Veitch.
The only comprehensive edition of the work
of this great French philosopher in English. In-
cludes the Method and the Meditations, to-
gether with an analysis of his brilliant philoso-
phical system. 24/- for 10/6; post 9d.
37.—THE PHILOSOPHY OF
SCHOPENHAUER.
Contains his celebrated “The Wisdom of
Life,” as well as all the other essays, superbly
translated into vigorous English by Bax and
Saunders. 25/- for 12/6; post lid.
38 —THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPINOZA.
Translated by R. H. M. Elwes.
Including those justly-famous works “On the
Improvement of the Understanding,” “The
Ethics” and “The Correspondence.” Three
volumes in one. 25/- for 12/6; post lid.
39. —THUS SPAKE ZARATHUSTRA.
By Friedrich Nietzsche.
The epoch-making philosophical work in
which the much-challenged “Gospel of the
Strong” is expounded. The philosophy of The
Superman, which has come to dominate the
political as well as the philosophical world, is
here presented for the first time. One of the
great classics of all time, in a large and digni-
fied format, reprinted from the translation by
Thomas Common. 21/- for 10/6; post lid.
40. FABRE’S BOOK OF INSECTS.
The wonders of the unexplored world of
insects, told by the “Homer of Nature.” With
12 marvellous full-color plates, each separately
mounted by E. J. Detmold. Enclosed in a
decorative gift box. 30/- for 12/6; post 1/4.
41. THE GREAT CHEMISTS
(CRUCIBLES). By Bernard Jaffe.
This magnificent history of the lives and
achievements of the great chemists won the
Francis Bacon award for the Humanising of
Knowledge. It has been compared to Microbe
Hunters for its brilliance and vitality. Illustrated.
30/- for 12/6; post 1/1.
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Please send me the book I have encircled below.
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27
28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 29/1 /’4l


ABORIGNINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat could be obtuse
when he thought the occasion warranted
it, as when his new boss, who obviously
had never handled a shovel in his life,
started to chip him about the time he was
taking to shift the bluish glue from the
bottom of a ditch. “I expect you,” the
boss remarked, “to accelerate your pro-
gress with this excavation.” Mat leaned
on his shovel. “Eh?” he inquired. The
boss tried again. Mat looked blank. The
boss’s face began to turn red. “I am try-
ing to impress on your bovine sensibility
the necessity for intensified movement!”
he roared. “I’ll have a coupla bob each
way that,” said Mat, still looking puzzled.
“Heavens, man!” gurgled the boss.
“Don’t you know the King’s English?”
Mat drove his shovel into the mud. “Aw,
is that what’s got y’ worried?” he re-
marked. “Well, cheer up, I never thought
he was anythin’ else.”
* * * •
“Dickie Beech”: If ancient abo.
weather-lore is correct, coastal S.Q. is in
for very heavy floods during this wet
season. The sea mullet have commenced
their northward migration several weeks
before the usual time —250 cases were
netted at Coolangatta, near the N.S.W.
border, on January 13. Estuary mullet
are correspondingly ahead of the calen-
dar in roe and milt development in pre-
paration for joining the migrating
shoals when they arrive. The ti-trees
are following suit in putting out their
sweet-smelling blooms, although the
mobs of parrakeets whom Brother
Binghi regarded as the unerring heralds
of a good mullet season have not yet
arrived in force to fuddle themselves on
the golden honey. The Spanish mackerel
came down much earlier than usual from
their northern breeding places, and reef
fish have been unusually scarce on in-
shore grounds. There has been an un-
seasonal persistence of n.-e. winds into
the summer months. All of which phe-
nomena occurred early in 1893 before
the great floods and were impressed upon
my youthful mind by the warnings of old
Comoy, big medicine man amongst the
Tweed River abos., that big pfeller rain
he come and ribber he get plenty saucy
quicktime. Plenty saucy he was, too, a
fortnight later, when Brisbane nearly got
washed into Moreton Bay. It would be
worth while for meteorologists to collect
what is still left of abo. weather wisdom.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Late spring floods like
those now gallivanting around north-west
N. S. Wales are great distributors of both
beneficial and pestiferous flora. The
waters wash out young plants and deposit
them miles away in heaps of silt caught
by piled driftwood, against fences, hay-
stacks, etc. Most of the plants keep on
living while being tossed along in the
flood, and quickly root again in the silt.
Which is why you often hear a wonder-
ing outbacker say, “Funny how them
burrs got there ; never seen any about
here before,” or “Gosh, y’orter see the
beaut, pumpkins growin’ out at the back
of the Nine-mile.” After a big flood in
the Riverina it was nothing to find the
whalers living on watermelons and
tomatoes for months.
* * * ♦
“Cape Voltaire”: One sometimes finds
vindication even in this world. Quite a
few Bulletins ago I described the turn-
ing and capture of a sleeping turtle on the
surface of a quiet sea, a trick commonly
practised by the amphibian natives of
W.A.’s north-west. Arose the inevitable
scoffer who, while inferring that the tale
originated in the gifted imagination of a
travelling lady novelist, declared that his
abo. lugger-boys simply went into con-
vulsions of laughter at the mere idea.
Obviously punctured, I hid my diminished
head. But now, reading The Cruise of
the Cachelot, written back in 1897, I find
Frank Bullen, prince of sea writers, bear-
ing witness to an identical feat. Turn up
page 115. In Bullen’s account a Portu-
guese Cape Verde Islander does the trick
single-handed. So Bullen’s man goes one
better than my abo. boys, though prob-
ably his turtle was smaller.
♦ * * *
“Atrax”: A press-quoted extract from
Bulletin No. 2 of the Dog Tick Research
Association concerning the best method
of removing ticks from tykes runs thus:
“All that is necessary is to hold the tick
with a small pair of forceps and give it a
sharp pull.” If the quotation is correct,
either there is another kind of tick in S.Q.
than that observed by the association
or its research activities have been very
limited. I have removed hundreds of the
pests from successive generations of dogs
—also some dozens from myself—and in
five cases out of six the forceps do the
job. But, in the sixth, where the blood-
sucker has had time to bury its barbed
beak well down into the true skin tissues,
the only effect of pulling is to detach the
body —a dangerous procedure, as the
poison is contained in the salivary glands
which remain behind in the head and are
probably stimulated to discharge their
venom. The accepted bush method of
dealing with a dug-in tick is to dab it well
with kerosene to kill it and then to shave
off the posterior part level with the skin
with a razor or fine scissors. The point
will come out in a day or two.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Sabdar Singh owned a
farm and a family, both large and both
acquired with a minimum of deference
to Australian law, and when he bought
a car nobody was surprised when it was
treated from the start with the same
cheerful neglect he lavished on all his
property. Some of the fowls promptly
laid in it in preference to the steep hay-
stack and the overcrowded harvester. The
entire family romped round the roads in
the new chariot for some months, then
we found them bogged on the back
track. “She ought to pull out of there
easy enough, Sab,” said Nugget. “Give
us ago at her.” And, taking the wheel,
he quickly drove to firm land. • “What
you do?” asked Sabdar, and Nugget
merely slipped the gear-lever back into
first and lifted his hands. The big Hindoo
pushed it back to neutral, again into first,
and for a solemn minute repeated the
movement, “Huh!” he grunted, straight-
ening up. “Blurry agent never show me
that one.”
* * ♦ *
“P. Pilot”: The ordinary black-lip
oyster of the N.Q. reef waters is as much
dependent on rain for its condition as
the cow which browses on the mainland.
During drought periods in those waters
oysters would be perished, dry, stringy
and insipid. But within a week of boun-
teous rains the bivalves would be plump
and luscious. Perhaps the expectation of
getting heavenly juice is a reason why
they bare themselves at low tide.
* * * *
“Boll”: We had been looking for a
sign for months. Some said it was good
for an inch if a curlew sings out; two for
a mopoke ; and half a dozen when they
both sing out together. They sang ’em-
selves hoarse, but must have then died of
broken hearts, for we heard them no
more. We saw a ring round the sun, and
“Twenty -one and a half."
a ring round the moon ; red skies in the
morning and misty stars by night. Clouds
gathered and hung like a pall for weeks,
and frogs bellowed in deceitful, lying
chorus. It remained dry as an A.B.C.
programme. Then, three nights ago, a
stream of bitter profanity issued from the
babbling brook. Old Ned sat up in bed.
“Wassamarrer?” he asked. “There’s an
adjectival centipede in my expurgated
bunk,” was the reply. “Now that’s a sure
sign,” said Old Ned. Followed a vivid
description of Old Ned by the poisoner.
By the time he had stopped the rain
started, and it’s been raining ever since.
* * * *
“Cardonia”: The claypan at times pro-
vides bitter disappointment for the thirsty
in the Centre. When full the water,
though apt to be a trifle milky, has a soft-
ness agreeable to the parched palate and
makes excellent tea. But let the parched
wayfarer arrive just as the last of the
water is vanishing! Surveying the ex-
panse of still-moist mud, commonsense
suggests that a hole sunk at the lowest
point should uncover supplies. And
that’s where the catch comes in. An inch
takes the spade through the layer of clay ;
four to six inches through the under-
lying damp sand, and after that comes
only a dryness equal to that of the sur-
rounding country. The explanation lies
in the formation of the pan. Lying dry
in the sun it will be covered with myriads
of small cakes of dry clay, each with its
edges upcurled. The texture of this clay
is exceedingly fine —colloidal is the scien-
tific description. Then comes a shower.
The first of the rain may pass between
the clay cakes and enter the ground be-
neath, but, like blotter, the clay takes up
the moisture, rapidly dissolving into a stiff
sort of jelly. Once this state is attained
an unbroken sheet will be spread all over
the bed of the pan, an elastic sheet which
defies leakage or percolation. Thus the
soil directly under a claypan knows less
of actual soakage than that of the rapidly-
drained country above it.
* * * *
“Stiffy”: Old “Feathers” Mulligan told
his story with much disgust. “The so-
and-sos half-inched me best three Leg-
horns, so I got the ugliest, ferociousest
bulldorg you ever see, tied ’im up in the
run and felt content that me chooks’d be
safe. Well, they took me rooster, a
couple of ’ens and they took me dorg,
too! ” After the sympathy had died
down, “Feathers” went on: “But I’ll
catch the blanky thieves ! I’m sittin’ up
ternight with a gun! ” Next day we heard
the sequel. “They got the last of me
chooks last night! ” “Weren’t you sitting
up with the gun?” we asked. “Feathers”
drew a deep breath. “Yair, but I must’ve
dozed off for a minute, because when I
woke up me fowls were gone —and so
was me gun! ”
* * * ♦
“N. Sylvester”: So “Mugga” (B.
25/12/’4O) doubts if even the largest
crocodile could bite a man in half? I
turn up the log of the Clarice, a pearling
lugger of the ’eighties, operating on
W.A.’s north-west shell beds, skippered
by an uncle of mine. One bright morning
in Collier Bay two dinghies were out, my
uncle in one, Geddes, his partner, in the
other, six Gascoyne River “boys” diving
from each, bringing up shell from a five-
fathom bottom. Suddenly a crocodile
got among Geddes’s boys. All at surface
broke for the dinghies. But the saurian
was quick ; just as Dandy Dick reached
the dinghy it grabbed him by an arm.
Geddes tried to pull him aboard. The
croc, gave a queer heavy sort of twist
and Dandy’s arm was gone. The
brute next took a grip right across
its victim’s pelvis. By now the other
dinghy was alongside. With the end of
an oar Uncle bashed the saurian head,
paying special attention to the eyes. Sud-
denly the croc, repeated that queer twist
—and “Mugga” would have had no
doubts left.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: If we must be so darned
technical over our humorous drawings
(B. 15 /12/’4O) we’d better have Ted Scor-
fieid on the mat beside his colleague
unless he can explain why his bricklayer
is working on a type of scaffold that was
obsolete 20 years ago (B. 1/1/’4l). Per-
haps it is the prolific scope afforded by
the precarious-looking pole-ancLcord scaf-
fold which appeals to black-and-white
humorists. At any rate, nuts and bolts
fastening “ledgers” to “toms” are non-
existent in any drawing of a building I’ve
ever seen. Also, the bricklayer of most
artists’ conception wears bowyangs and
smokes his pipe upside down —both habits
that are “not done” in mortar-splashing
circles. Moreover, bricks are never
stacked flatwise—they are always placed
on edge—although illustrations invari-
ably favor the former. Finally it is a
physical impossibility to carry a hod in
the manner usually depicted—side on or
hanging halfway down the back a la Dick
Whittington’s bundle.
PRENTICE.
Heave around the windlass! Fetch her mud-
hooks in!
If your old peajacket’s getting worn and thin,
If you’ve sold your seaboots, sons of Salt and
Sin,
When the slop chest’s opened you may gel
some clo’es—
Heave away, my bullies! Heave, and up she
goes!
Lay aloft, my hearties! Shake the dishcloths
out!
Lubber-hole it, sonny, if your mind’s in doubt.
Do not squint to 100-ard as she goes about
Wench has left the pierhead, drying of her eyes.
Face the futtock rigging—nimble, if y’re wise!
Crawl along the footropes! Since the game
began
Grit has helped the greenhorn—show it if you
can.
Learn to be the makings of a sailorman!
Little Johnny ’Prentice, sawney that you are,
Facing to the music, bound for Malabar.
Study navigation! Likewise mind the tale
Mumbled by the bos’n by the weather rail
Waitin’ for a pilot somewhere off Kinsale;
Let it be a warning, sonny boy, lest you
With some foreign baggage meet your Waterloo!
Learn to box the compass! Con the Merchant
Act!
But the cream of knowledge, when your sails
are backed,
Comes from hardy lessons in the school of
fact —
If the silly parrot only shut his head.
Why, that sailor’s parrot might not now be
dead.
Broaching brandy cargo, drinking of it neat,
Often leads to trouble in the Merchant Fleet.
Keep unwise temptation fastened to a cleat,
Hove in short behind you as the seas you
sail—
Like the captain’s monkey always kept his tail.
Seven days of labor once a week to do,
Thin pea soup and hard tack and the salt-pork
stew,
With lobscouse and limejuice, make a man of
you.
Little Johnny ’Prentice, captured young and
green.
Brought in, taught in the Mercantile Marine:
Taught to soak the biscuit, taught to chew the
junk,
Taught to sleep with water slopping in your
bunk.
Never cheek your betters, never grouch or funk,
And you’ll find your sea legs, sawney though
you are,
Little Johnny ’Prentice, bound for Malabar!
VICTORIA.
E. J. Brady.


"It Won't trouble you at night, madam. It's had a Truby King training."
“Gryllus”: I join issue with “Flight”
(B. 8/1 / ’4l) concerning Willie Wagtail s
allegedly self-sacrificing existence of a
strenuous and constant daily toil for the
protection of his missus and the rearing
of their family. I grant that he does a
fine job of publicity and vocal swash-
buckling, but any bird who has put in
an honest day of real work is tired
enough to go to bed at dusk and sleep
till dawn. Not Bill. Instead of pounding
his ear under a wing he keeps the whole
neighborhood awake with paeans of self-
praise about what a sweet pretty creature
he is, alternated by shrill offers to knock
the stuffing out of everything within ear-
shot. It is his long-suffering wife who
does all the real family work. After his
nocturnal carousals he takes a hearty
breakfast, pushes her out of the nest, and
gets in for a good long sleep while the
lady sees to feeding and protecting the
family. He is not above grabbing the
children’s tucker from her should he
fancy any of it. After a hearty supper
he gets into his hidey-hole again at dusk
to practise his voice exercises between
naps. Every nesting season I have to
keep stones on fire window sill to shy
into the figtree from which the noisy
little fraud who considers that he owns
this property wakes me up at untimely
hours.
% * # 4?
“D.Mc”: “I ’elped a bloke once with
’is love affair, but no more,” said Joe
Staggers. “When Big Ned, the sleeper-
cutter, took to wearin’ socks an’ flash
ties an’ puttin’ ’is whiskers in curlpapers
we knew it was the little widder what
owned the best farm on Manges Creek.
But Ned didn’t make much ’eadway, an’
’e confides to me that she’s a flamin’
’ero-worshipper, always maggin’ about
blokes what do brave things. Well, we
cook a ready-up, me to be paid a fiver
for gettin’ inside an old tiger-skin me
grandfather had brought from India so
as to give Ned his chance. I’m to jump
outa the corn patch back o’ the widder’s
barn an’ make ’orrible noises. He’ll be
moochin’ about by the creek pretendin’
to look for his rogue cow. Well, accord-
in’ to plan, I appears an’ lets out a
’orrible roar; the widder screamed fer
’elp an’ Ned comes tearin’ up from the
creek, and she flew into his arms. But
the goat ain’t satisfied. He rushes over
to me, an’, forgettin’ I ain’t got a grip
on nothin’, grabs me by the tail an’
starts swingin’ me round his head. O’
course I goes flyin’ out of the tiger-skin
an’ lands over the fence into a patch o’
burrs. Ned ain’t paid me that fiver yet.”
* * * *
“Suguba”: On a certain island in
Torres Strait lived a jocular old fellow
named Wakemab. He had the playful
habit of persuading men from neighbor-
ing villages to stop the night with him,
and decoyed them to sleep on a reef that
was covered in the night. In the morning
he would hack off the heads from the
corpses as a pleasant reminder of his
sense of humor. After he had practi-
cally exterminated all the men from four
villages, a party from the fifth went to
investigate. But the joke was still good,
because it was unsuspected, and Wake-
mab disposed of these visitors in like
manner —except one who, having a sore
foot, arrived late, to get a good view of
the proceedings. Back in his village he
spilled the beans, and the remaining men
reached for their war gear. Wakemab
saw that the game was up, and the men
decreed that he should leave the island
at once and for ever. Accordingly he
walked across the sea to the coast of
New Guinea, where, taking up a position
off Malukau Island, he was turned into
stone. Before the final petrification, how-
ever, he warned the warriors that if any
of them came near him in their canoes he
would be their doom. The sophisticated
Islander of today professes to disbelieve
the old Straits folklore, but when I asked
my “boy” to take me in his canoe for a
little fishing round the Wakemab Rock
he muttered something about a fierce
whirlpool, and “plenty shark and devil-
fish there,” and generally gave me to
understand that my life was much too
valuable to risk in such treacherous
waters.
9 * * «
“Bogaduck”; Surprised that “Mick the
Miler” is making a song about flyblown
mushrooms (B. 8/1/’4l). In my corner
of the bottom end of S.A, it’s always
been a rule that you want to get on to
the mushrooms pretty soon after they’ve
come up or you’ll find them riddled with
maggots. What I do think astonishing,
however, is the way the flies will blow
a dead yacca plant. A few years ago
we thought we had a quick and easy
method of killing off the yacca which
smothers so much of the good land in
our heavier-rainfall areas; you ran a
fire through the yacca, and then, with an
oilcan, injected kerosene into the heart
of each sprout. Within a few hours the
green sprout wilted ; within a week the
whole of the inside of the underground
heart of the plant was a mess of noisome
rottenness. In this would shortly appear
a seething mass of maggots. A simple
calculation showed that nearly two mil-
lion blowflies would be bred on an acre
of kerosene-poisoned yacca, so we went
back to ploughing or grubbing.
* * ♦ •
“Old-timer”: The day was a snorter,
and the mob in the Moonbi pub were
filling in the time between drinks with
skiting about the canine wonders they
possessed. Jemalong Jim had just finished
a wondrous tale of a dog that could tally
sheep when a sulky pulled up outside and
a thirsty man entered. “Gimme a long
sleever o’ beer,” he said, “an’ a dish o’
water f’r me dawg.” The mob watched
him absorb the beer while a dusty red
kelpie lapped gratefully from the dish.
The man put his empty pot down and
watched his dog as it finished its drink,
had a roll on the floor and shook itself.
“Righto, Ruff,” he said, “you go back
an’ pick up the sheep an’ send Bob in
f’r a drink. You bring the sheep along.
’Way back! ” The dog disappeared. The
mob refilled and got on to dog-lore again,
everybody assuming that the drover’s
mate would soon appear. Long Lucas
had just launched into a saga of canine
sagacity when a black-and-white dog,
dust-covered, trotted into the bar and
made itself known to the drover. “Hello,
Bob,” said he, giving it a thump. “Y’
wasn’t long. Ruff bringin’ ’em on?
Righto, there’s y’ drink.” As Bob began
to lap at the dish a long silence fell on
that bar, and it was many a month before
anybody ever skited about clever dogs
there again.
* * * *
“Odd P.”; Sam, who is afflicted with
an impediment in his speech, tells me that
he was standing outside the Commercial
Hotel in Wagga (N.S.W.) one dry day
when a bloke said to him “Could y’ do
a drink, mate?” Sam started to say
“Betcha life,” but by the time he got it
out six o’clock struck and the pub doors
were inexorably shut, Sam says the bloke
was so wild he wouldn’t wait while Sam
explained that he knew the back way in.
It was such a shock to Sam that he’s now
in Sydney undergoing treatment.
* * * *
“Yagan”: That idea “blackfellow die,
jump up white man” was due not so
much to the aboriginal’s mysticism as
his naivete. The abo. for uncounted
"Pass us a couple more rocks , Blue — I wanter make a cert of submergin'!"
ages had lived on a continent peopled
entirely by his own race. Never having
known invasion, he therefore believed
that Australia constituted the whole
habitable world and so had no concep-
tion of the existence of other races. Also,
having no means of travel other than by
foot, the idea of leaving his own country,
even his tribal country, never entered
his imagination. Further, although a
wanderer, the aboriginal nevOTtheless had
a strong attachment to many places
within his tribal domain. Practically every
large rock, peculiar tree, pool, river,
creek, hill, valley and plain had its par-
ticular name and was remembered as
being the favorite camping place of
families still alive or passed away not
too many decades previously. So when
the abo. saw white people suddenly
appear in the land and settle down he
naturally formed the idea that the new-
comers were black men somehow
bleached white! And since they dis-
played such strong affection for their
camping place he concluded that they
had been there before and so endowed
them with the personality of others,
passed away, who had also loved that
spot held, in short, that they were
relatives of his, members of the tribe,
returned from some extended wanderings.
Early settlers in W.A. were even given
totem names.
* * * *
“Bufo”: Amongst changes wrought by
the war has been the withdrawal of pro-
tection from peregrine falcons in the
U.K. The reason lies in the casual-
ties which they cause amongst R.A.F.
carrier pigeons. A Cambridge Pro-
fessor of Social Anthropology has
suggested that an ancient Chinese method
of protecting pigeons from hawks should
be tried before the peregrines are exter-
minated altogether. It consists of a
whistle made from a small light gourd,
attached to the roots of the tail feathers.
The shrill sound which it produces when
the bird is in flight resembles that of a
hawk, and is said to keep off all birds of
prey. Experiments with light metal
whistles have proved this to be correct.
Trained falcons loosed after pairs of
pigeons, one equipped with a whistle and
the other without, invariably selected the
silent flier for attack. The dodge should
be worth the attention of Australian
pigeon-fliers. One or other of our
museums could probably produce a
specimen of the Chinese gadget as a
model, but with a little experimenting it
should be possible to devise a more
effective one in light metal.
* * * *
“Yalgan”: “Anthropo’s” mention of
the abo. cloak or “bowkka” (B.
11/12/’4O) recalls a story from the folk-
lore of the Swanland tribes. The girl
wedded by tribal decree to an ancient
husband ; the young, impetuous lover;
illicit love, then flight. Knowing they
would be pursued, the lover, when night
came, took twigs and branches and wove
them into a semblance of two forms
sleeping side by side. Over these dum-
mies he placed his bowkka. With the
woman he then took up an ambush. Time
passed ; then came a stealthy approach,
and a dim form with spear upraised. But
the lover was quicker, for he had his
spear ready shipped in his woomera.
Then the woman’s horror to find that
the dead man was not her husband but
her brother, he having taken up the pur-
suit to avenge the stain on the family
honor. To conceal their crime they
buried the body in the sand and lit a
fire on the grave. Afterwards the elderly
husband resigned his claim, and the
couple as man and
wife were read-
mitted to the tribe.
Then one day she
noticed her lover-
now-husband cast-
ing eyes at a
comely young
lub r a. Seething
with jealousy, she
cried the killing of
her brother to all
the tribe. Enraged
and alarmed, her
husband speared
her, but not before
she had told of the
whereabouts of the
secret grave. The
body was exhumed,
and the killer in
turn fell by the
spears of the tribes-
men. A story of
just punishment
told by many races
and in many tongues, yet nevertheless
sung as an epic of abo. love and life at
many a Swanland corroboree.
THAT WAS A FLOOD.
“Y’d think be the papers,” the old hand
sneered,
/They was havin’ a flood outback,
With their ‘Trains Held Up’ an’ ‘Tosses Feared’
An’ their screamin’ headline tack.
There’s maybe a trickle o’ water about
Where previous no water was seen,
But 1 bet it ain’t like when the Murray broke
out
In the summer of ’seventeen.
“Steamers was bushed from the source t’ the
mouth,
An’ towns in the tops o’ the trees.
They stopped railin’ sheep t’ the markets down
south,
’Cos they found they could swim there with
ease.
The cod got corns on the ends of their fins
Through swimmin’ from Louth t’ Coreen,
And whalers was washed from their boots t’
their chins
In the summer of ’seventeen.
“She was ten fathom deep from the bed t’ the
crest;
At Echuca she’s ninety mile wide.
She filled Riverina from east t’ the west
An’ then she poured over the side.
We went many months without seein’ dry
ground;
Our whiskers grew long an’ turned green.
Every pub in the land was empty an’ drowned
In the summer of ’seventeen.
“It’s clear from the papers,” the old hand
declared,
As slowly his bluchers he shed,
“That a few drops o’ water has got ’em all
scared;
It makes me feel happy instead.”
He drew off his footwear and said, “Now y’
know
When I talk about floods what I mean:
I’ve had them webs what y’ see on each toe
Since the summer of ’seventeen!”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
‘‘THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria ; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.O.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ẁ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance
Industrial
, —Ordinary Department--, Dept.
Income. Claims. Exes. Surplus. Funds.*
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1930.. 195,250 33,922 77,966 6,714 365,456
1931.. 167,941 43,469 59,619 2,766 433,075
Written off, £5894 427,181
1932.. 143,238 50,791 63,839 2,367 458,156
Written off, £4834 453,322
1933.. 147,281 47,371 66,436 1,338 488,134
Written off, £6371 481,763
1934.. 157,314 56,331 62,018 900 521,628
Written off, £7322 .. .. .. 514,306
1935.. 151,952 46,265 60,104 1,230 561,119
Written off, £4974 .. .. .. 556,145
1936.. 157,771 45,755 65,486 4,706 607,381
Written off, £4779 602,602
1937.. 152,314 58,018 56,527 628 640,999
Written off. £4207 636,792
1938.. 150,993 64,995 40,586 3,516 685,720
Written off, £3221 682,499
1939.. 145,171 64,727 36,403 3,202 729,742
Written off, £2717 .. .. .. 727,025
From Accident Dept., £l5O . . . . 727,175
1940. . 148,928 48,631 36,611 3,472 794.333
Written off, £2683 . . . . . . 791,650
* Net funds apart from capital, contingencies
provision ( £4955) and Accident fund (,£2481).
The outlook for policy-holders looks
more promising- than at any time since
the co. kicked off 20 years ago with the
blessing of well-established farmers’
co-operative organisations throughout the
Commonwealth and Maoriland. In the
Industrial branch, which had always been
a drag, the growth of liabilities under
policies persistently outstripping the
growth of funds, the writing of new
business was discontinued from the be-
ginning of 1938, with benefit to both
policy-holders and shareholders. Also
there were changes on the board, which
hasn’t been as united as it might have
been in the interests of policy-holders.
Indeed, about three years ago the N. S.
Wales Government stepped in and placed
the co. under the care of the Public
Trustee in order to prevent the McArthur
group, operating through a small con-
cern known as National Stock Exchange,
Ltd., gaining control. Control, of course,
meant control of the assets, which then
belonged entirely to policy-holders, the
paid-up share capital and more besides
being unrepresented by tangibles in the
books. There has since been a complete
overhaul of the organisation, which is
now heading in the right direction, though
it has some distance to travel yet before
all the leeway made in the earlier years
is regained.
At the close of last accounts the actu-
ary completed his valuation of liabilities
under policies. The result was “a highly
satisfactory surplus.” It would have been
more satisfactory had the board taken
policy-holders into its confidence and
published full details. The year’s incom-
ings exceeded outgoings and charges plus
the growth in actuarial liabilities by
£20,337 in the Ordinary, £1172 in the
Industrial and £l5O in the Accident sec-
tion ; total £21,651, This, together with
£570 of the previous year’s carry-for-
ward, was used to rub goodwill (£4000)
out of the accounts, lower the advance
for establishment charges to the Indus-
trial section (now £13,608) by £1172, and
to distribute £17,057 (up £3586) as rever-
sionary bonuses among policy-holders.
These bonuses ranged from 255. to 295.
p.c. on whole-life and from 20s. to 245.
p.c. on endowment policies. In the previous
year the bonus was a uniform 20s. p.c.
To what extent further improvement
in bonus rates to policy-holders can be
looked for it is difficult to say at the
moment. Much will depend upon the
effects of war casualties upon the death-
strain. Costs continue on the up-grade,
taxation won’t make new business any
easier to get, and low interest rates are
likely to prevent further expansion of the
surplus from that source.
The co. assumes that its funds will earn
4 p.c. Last term the net effective rate
on the assurance fund in the Ordinary
branch was 5.3 p.c. as against 5.2 p.c. and
4.7 p.c. for the two years before.
Here is the financial position in tabloid
form:
1937. 1939. 1940.
Government securities.. £149,600 £114,760 £110,970
Mortgages . . . . 182,591 298,421 337,809
Loans on policies . . 88,751 70,336 67,702
Book debts, cash, etc. 72,200 43,960 42,886
Equipment . . . . 13,024 10,072 9,782
Freehold . . . . 252,303 323,748 374,983
Total tangible assets .. £758,589 £861,297 £944,132
Liabilities* . . . . 5,947 18,997 33,799
Net tangibles .. . . £752,042 £842,300 £910,333
Assurance funds . . 768,773 832,215 892,238
Paid capital . . . . 108,475 108,475 108,475
* Apart from premiums paid in advance.
Most of the funds are invested in free-
holds (up £51,235), mortgages on real
estate (up £39,388) and Government secu-
rities (down £3790). The year’s improve-
ment in the net tangible position was
£68,033 as against £43,683 in the previous
term. When the books last closed net
tangibles exceeded the assurance funds,
which exactly equalled liabilities under
policies, by £18,095, an improvement of
£BOlO over the twelvemonth. Two years
back the assurance funds totalled £15,864
more than net tangibles. The £18,095 is
what there is in the way of net tangibles
to represent £108,475 of share capital.
In the Ordinary branch an extra
£89,031 of new business was put on the
books, despite increasingly difficult con-
ditions :
Ordinary:— 1938. 1939. 1940.
Policies issued . . 1,062 999 1,287
Assuring .. .. £340,998 £324,169 £413,200
First premiums . . 7,541 7,626 9,754
Renewal premiums. . 109,974 100,592 99,645
Interest and rent . . 33,478 36,953 39,529
There was little change in the average
amount per policy (£321) or in the average
premium p.c. (£2 11s. 6d.). They are
satisfactory figures. Exes., less taxes, etc.,
took 32.8 p.c. of the year’s net premiums
as against 33, 33.9, 41.9 and 47.5 p.c.
for the three preceding years —heartening
movements which need to continue.
The excess of incomings over outgoings
was £20,281 better at £64,685, owing to
a lighter crop of claims (£48,631, down
£16,096) and an improvement of £2576
in interest, rents, etc. (£39,529). The im-
provement in the claims position was
mainly due to a contraction of £12,996
in the volume of surrenders (£6399).
In the Industrial section the expense
rate dropped from 63.2 p.c. in 1937 to
26.8 p.c. for each of the last two years
because of the halt in writing new busi-
ness.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
To Re—
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 134,340 15 p.c. = 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 13i p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 .. .. 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 „ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 51 „ „ 41,821 1,590 293,146
1935. . 80,286 10 „ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
1937.. 83,845 10 „ ~ 76,043 7,802 315,558
Reserves disappear, £11,150.. .. 304,408
1938.. 99,109 121 p.c. = 95.054 4,055 308,463
1939.. 98,753 121 „ „ 95,054 3,699 312,102
1940.. 97,359 121 „ ~95,054 2,305 314,407
Notwithstanding that plant capacity of
the industry as a whole is capable of
taking care of a larger demand than exists
at the moment, efficient cement manufac-
turers continue to win very satisfactory
returns on their capital, thanks to main-
tenance of building activity, expenditure
on water supply and irrigation schemes,
construction of tram tracks, erection of
silos, defence works and the growing use
of cement for home building, especially
by the Housing Commission in Victoria.
This co. and Kandos (paid capitals
£760,433 and £763,862 respectively) are
equal partners in Australian Portland
Cement Pty. (paid capital £2,000,000), the
operating co. in which they merged their
interests in 1930. The works are at
Fyansford (Vic.) and Kandos (N.S.W.).
Chief competitor of the Victorian plant
—on which a lot of money was recently
spent to the benefit of both capacity (now
over 300,000 tons p.a.) and costs —is
Goliath, a low-cost producer at Railton
(Tas.). It was to help overcome this last-
mentioned factor in competition that im-
provements and extensions were made at
Fyansford, where the co. is now also
engaged in making potash. The Kandos
plant (capacity 200,000 tons p.a.) has four
competitors in its home State, where
aggregate annual productive capacity is
around 720,000 tons.
Last term output of the operating co.
(its year ends May 31) continued to ex-
pand, particularly in Victoria, where the
remodelled plant worked at “high out-
put” throughout the year. Costs were re-
duced, and the selling price of cement was
lowered by 3s. per ton. The curtain is
kept drawn over its figures, but it passed
on £90,000 (same as for the two preced-
ing years) in divs. to the holding cos.
This Australian holding co. gathered a
further £14,440 in interest, commissions,
etc. —it acts as selling agent for the
operating co. in Vic. After allowing for
taxation (£4OOO, up £1500) and some
sundry exes., the net result was £1394
lighter at £97,359, or 12.8 p.c. on capital
as against 13, 13, 11 and 11.1 p.c. for
the four preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 12j p.c.
As for the current term, present indi-
cations are that business will be main-
tained at a satisfactory level, the chair-
man says. Although some easing of the
States’ expenditure on works will become
a necessity, increased Federal spending
for defence purposes can be expected
partly to offset this. Advancing costs are
likely to prove a more formidable ad-
versary than retreating demand.
Here are balance-sheet figures, which
don’t tell very much:
1935. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £760,433 £760,433 £760,433 £760,433
Sundry creditors 8,545* 2,265* 76 76
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,021,443 1,003,750 1,003,750 1,003,750
Book debts . . 5,843 1,222 483 110
Consols & cash 84,706 123,221 118,651 122,886
* Includes tax provision.
Obviously the holding co.’s position is
very comfortable, which adds to the
attractiveness of the scrip as an invest-
ment.
The market price of the two holding
cos.’ shares, and the yields therefrom,
compare as follows;
Face Mar- Net
Value ket Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Aust. Cement 20/- 40/6 124 p.c. 6.2 p.c. 28/3
Kandos .. 16/- 32/3 124 „ 6.2 „ 38/8
* Per pound of paid capital.
Over the twelvemonth the price increased
by 4s. Australian and 2s. sd. Kandos,
and present yields are still very satisfac-
tory, all things considered. The slightly
lower yield from Kandos is due to that
co.’s proportionately bigger equity in the
operating concern.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Scpt., Loss. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
1931.. 8.267 Nil 61,651
Written off, £6383 .. .. .. 55,268
1932.. 4,088 Nil 51,180
Profit on sale property, £6301 .. 57,481
Profit.
1933.. 184 2Jp.c. = 4,813 52,852
1934.. 3,054 24 „ „ 4,813 51,09:1
1935.. 9,944 5 „ „ 9,626 318 51,411
1936.. 9,188 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
1937.. 13,690 64 ~ „ 12,033 1657 52,630
1938.. 11,887 64 ~ „ 12,033 52,484
1939.. 15,669 74 „ „ 14,440 1229 53,713
1940.. 14,479 74 ~ „ 14,439 40 53,753
Earnings depend largely upon activity in
the building trade, where competition is
keen, there being some 14 brick cos. in
the Melbourne metropolitan area. De-
livery charges, which are on a mileage
basis and part of the costs to the buyer,
practically restrict the co.’s sales of ordi-
nary building bricks to areas north of
the Yarra. On the pottery side, stone-
ware sewerage pipes and sanitary fittings,
etc., are made and sold throughout
Australia and Maoriland ; while returns
from share-interests in brick-and-tile
works at Auburn, Oakleigh and Black-
burn and from £27,000-odd of Govern-
ment securities bring in about as much as
the co. nets from its own trading.
The monthly recorded value of build-
ing permits in the metropolitan area for
the year to June 30 last was £774,000,
compared with £702,000, £669,000 and
£667,000 for the three preceding years.
After providing for taxation and striking
off £7ll (down £2892) for depreciation,
the profit from trading was £7310 (down
£66). The return from investments was
£7169 (down £1124), making the net re-
turn from all sources £14,479 (down
£1190), or 7.5 p.c. on capital as against
8.1, 6.1, 7.1, 4.7, 5.1 and 1.5 p.c. back to
1934. The div. was kept at p.c., mak-
ing the average over the last eight years
5.5 p.c. Visibly that left £4O for reserves
(£53,753), which are not large in relation
to capital. Obviously much depends upon
what was spent on repairs and main-
tenance of plant (chief earning asset) and
charged against takings.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1930. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital . . 192,528 192,528 192,528 192,528
Liabilities . . 8,304 6,542 7,099 11,222
Freeholds . . 75,767 75,017 75,552 77,721
Plant, etc. . . 71,839 64,378 62,557 61,272
Stock . . . . 21,169 27,396 26,672 26,412
Shares other cos. .. 41.821 44,321 44,321 44,321
Book debts .. 18,695 19,729' 23,403 21,834
Cash, etc. . . 28.536 29,157 31,686 35,974
When the books last closed, outside lia-
bilities were more than three times cov-
ered by cash, etc., alone. Including
stocks, the year’s shrinkage in the more
or less liquid surplus (£72,998) was £1664,
owing to the net growth of £2169 in the
freehold item.
Since the close of accounts there has
been no slackening in building activity
in Melbourne, though pressure in this
respect can be expected to ease as the
year advances. The toughest nut to crack
will be mounting costs, including wage
and taxation increases. The p.c. div.
is, therefore, by no means secure.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the f.-p. pound shares, covered by
255. 6d. in net tangibles (book value), at
17s. 6d. The return at 17s. 6d. is 8.6 p.c.
on a 7.5 p.c. div. basis, or a shade under
6 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution.
Beard, Watson and Co, (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re— Re-
July, Profit, 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Deficit.
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit. 18.1 p.c.*
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
5.4 18.9 2J
p.c. p.c.* p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 22,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1938.. 26,850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 13,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940.. 29,196 1627 3255 19,084 5,230 26,974
* Including arrears.
There is £464,187 of capital to feed in
30,000 first 7 p.c. and 52,500 second 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 381,687 ords. Under
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
which has outlived the purpose for which
it was originally created, the pref. divs.
are subject to a T2\ p.c. cut, reducing
them to 5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively,
with the right to advance with the ords.
beyond these points to their original con-
tract rates.
After a four-year drought, the ords.
got 2\ p.c. in 1934, followed by 4.5 p.c.
and then 6 p.c. in ’37. The rate dropped
to 5 p.c. again in ’3B, and has remained
steady since. With 5 p.c. to the ords.
payments to the first prefs. automatically
fell from 6 p.c. to the minimum 5.4 p.c.,
the seconds continuing to receive their
minimum 6.2 p.c. throughout.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was little slacken-
ing in flat-construction and home-build-
ing and the furnishing that goes with


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney'
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ENGINEERS !
SAWMILLERS
Worn Files and Rasps Re-
sharpened at a Fraction of
Replacement Cost.
All Work Guaranteed.
FILE
RECONDITIONING CO.
Government Contractors,
Central House,
Little Regent Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MA8409.
— -ESTABLISHED 1834. .
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!, PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C, Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
fol
(■o*m
hAU.tS
fßtt
of EXTR^^’^Because
S a b° n “ S ° f C.O.R P '“ s . at means
9a"° n °c e ni°'' « nov/e* v "
'* ,, p, us contains ani mote per
only
mote
iall° n
T.VJ-
•" i,es Contains ■"«'% scie ntitie
fact
gain
9» tto l‘ h see.Vt ot ** *it at * he r
| n a tV<esee'e prove
>s;°co.r pump '
and Wo® . l£2>mr
. rrUnrTU^ 1 L : „Toifl *®° r
stall'
(lord
asure
tt nits*'
trie
tpritis^ l
of
alorifi t
f Herman pla , n
val« e
a
%ntfa*
TAKE YOUR RATION
TICKETS TO THE RED,
WHITE & BLUE C.O.R
PUMP and obtain the
benefits of Australia’s only
petrol-benzol blend . . .
British petrol plus Austra-
lian benzol.
00SB
(fat that £ntfU Spfa
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.) C196/16/PB
them, though taxation and costs con-
tinued to mount. So, after providing
for contingencies and setting aside a
larger but unspecified amount for the tax-
gatherer, the board was able to write
profits only £2773 short of the previous
year’s at £29,196. That was equal to
6.2 p.c. on capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined), or enough to pay the prefs. their
full contract rates and show a wink
under 6 p.c. on the ords. The £5230 of
profit put on the shelf lifted the tangible
support for capital to £26,974, which is
none too stout a prop—goodwill (£67,660)
is not treated as an asset herein.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —•
1936. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* . . 131,810 133.903 99,981 127,440
Freeholds, etc. 272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant,
etc. ' . . 36.573 31,272 26,586 27,450
Stocks . . 207,890 222,748 181,718 250,371
Book debts . . 84,446 91,339 112,191 75,476
Cash, etc. . . 8,511 6,203 5,147 5,033
* Including provision for taxation.
The growth of £68,653 in stocks and
reduction of £36,715 in debtors’ balances
suggest that trade may have eased a little
toward the close of accounts. The sum
of £10,432 was snipped off the mortgage
(now £61,000), and the amount coming
to trade creditors (£66,440) increased by
£37,891. Much depends upon the nature
of stocks, with which capricious fashion
has played havoc more than once. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£203,440) was £4365.
During the current term trading con-
ditions are likely to become more diffi-
cult.
In 1940 the ords. fluctuated between 13s.
and 7s. 6d. on the market. Last week-end
the figure was 12s. 6d., at which the
return is 8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The first and second prefs. at 17s. 6d. and
18s. respectively yield 6.2 p.c, and 6.9
p.c. on the basis of last year’s distribu-
tion. The participating rights can be left
out of the reckoning for the present. The
net tangible backing is £l6 7s. sd. firsts,
£8 15s. Bd. seconds and 21s. sd. ords.
Placer Development, Ltd.
At the annual meeting of Placer, held
in Vancouver, the chairman told share-
holders that the co. still retains its hold-
ing of 300,000 shares in Bulolo Gold
Dredging, upon which it received, since
the last meeting, two divs., each of $1.50
a share. During the year to May 31,
1940, Bulolo handled 18,353,000 c.y. of
gravel, over 3,500,000 c.y. more than the
previous year, for an operating profit of
$4,806,408, nearly a million dollars
greater than the preceding year’s profit.
During the period June 1 to October 31,
1940, the co. dredged 8,145,000 c.y. and
recovered 77,1540 z. fine gold.
Pato Consolidated, in which Placer’s
holding is 1,150,000 shares, or about 36
р. of the issued capital, during the year
ended April 30, 1940, handled 16,667,000
с. for 76,072 fine oz. of gold—produc-
tion and yardage being considerably in
excess of any previous year. Ore reserves
are estimated at 320 million yards of
closely drilled and fully developed gravel
averaging 15.8 U.S. cents a yard, and
252 million yards of scout-drilled and
partially developed gravel averaging 13.5
U.S. cents, values being calculated on
the basis of $35 an ounce for gold.
In addition, Pato has large untested areas
of potential dredging and hydraulic
ground.
Though the Anori hydro-electric plant
worked satisfactorily throughout the year
and, in conjunction with the recon-
structed San Juan plant and the auxili-
ary Diesel-electric plant, provided an
uninterrupted power supply for dredging
and hydraulic operations, mining opera-
tions have increased to a point where
no reserve power plant capacity is avail-
able. To remedy this plans are in
preparation for the addition of a third
unit of about 4500 h.p. to the Anori
plant, almost doubling its capacity.
From May 1 to October 31, 1940,
Pato handled 8,023,000 c.y. for 64,7390 z.
Divs. of 10 cents per share were paid
in December, 1939, and June, 1940.
Asnazu Gold Dredging, in which
Placer holds 615,000 shares (41 p.c.),
owns and operates one dredge, and has
a second dredge and hydro-electric plant
in course of construction. It was antici-
pated that the hydro-electric plant would
be completed about the end of 1940,
and the dredge about six months later.
During the term to April 30, 1940, the
co. handled 1,057,200 c.y. of gravel for
12,2130 z, gold, which averaged 43.33
cents a yard. For most of the period
the dredge was operating in heavy,
bouldery ground, which reduced yardage
and increased costs. The profit, before
allowance for depreciation and depletion
charges, was $156,671. A 5 p.c. dividend
was paid in Dec., 1939. From May 1
to Oct. 31, 1940, 515,500 c.y. was
dredged, yielding 560 loz., averaging
38.03 cents a yard.
Rutherglen Gold Dumps treated in
the year to April 30, 1940, over 156,000
tons of slum for a working profit of
£19,574 (Aust.), subject to depreciation
and depletion.
Gold Dumps Pty., another Aus-
tralian pup, handled over 257,000
tons of slime at its Carisbrook, Jubilee
and Llanberris plants for an operating
profit of £11,255, after provision of
£16,975 for amortisation.
Maryborough Gold N.L., in which
Placer is interested through Gold Dumps,
from the end of May, 1939, to April 30,
1940, made an operating profit of £3700
(Aust.), subject to depreciation and de-
pletion.
A new mercury deposit was recently
discovered in the Boonara Range, about
five miles from Kilkivan (Q.). The lode
is in weathered andesite country, and this
makes up a belt some 10 miles across,
including Kilkivan and Cinnabar town-
ship, carrying prospects of quicksilver.
A lease has been taken up over the new
lode, which is low-grade, but the ore can
evidently be picked to a commercial
grade. Queensland Quicksilver, Ltd., is
increasing its output and adding to the
number of retorts in use. A few flasks
a month seems to be the mercury limit
at present, and operations could do with
a bit of gingering up.
* * * *
The Gordon tinmine, Irvinebank
(N.Q.), was the outstanding producer in
the North towards the end of 1940 ; its
last crushing of 160 tons averaged a shade
over 6 p.c. oxide. For the last few
months it has been working a 12ft.
chlorite lode in the main winze. After
good ore showing for 40ft. the last few
feet have seen values falling off. Pros-
pecting drives are expected to locate the
ore-shoot, as on this field the latter have
the nature of jumping off a few feet
along a head that usually carries shine
tin. Ore has been averaging £B-£9 per
ton,
* * * *
Ebagoolah was an old goldfield on the
miners’ track from the Palmer to Coen,
on the York Peninsula (N.Q.), It was a
busy centre for a few years, but when
the oxidised ore gave place to sulphides
the old digger left. The Hamilton King
workings have just been reopened, and
eight men put on to clean them out.
First reports are of a leader showing free
gold, and further sinking and driving are
to be carried out.
* * * *
“O.B.”; Litigation having ended, the
further development of Mt. Charlotte, at
the north end of the Hannans (Kalgoorlie)
golden belt, promises to be one of the
main features of 1941 Westralian mining.
Property includes Paddy Hannan’s re-
ward lease. Paringa co. holds a big wad
of shares, and, according to a recent
statement by its chairman (C. S. Beale),
boring done in the Mt. Charlotte proved
the existence at depth of a big tonnage
of profitable ore. An agreement between
Mt. Charlotte and Paringa provides for
the raising of £150,000 working capital
and gives Paringa the right to treat
500,000 tons of Mt. Charlotte ore a year
at its mill at the north end of the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile —about two miles
from Mt. Charlotte.
* * * *
There is still an abundance of
visible and partially visible gold ore in
the West, but the grade milled steadily
falls. In 1903 the average was 21.62dwt.
By 1930 it had fallen to 12.93dwt., and
last year it was below 6dwt. In recent
times the higher price of gold has enabled
a lower grade to be treated at a profit,
and this is one of the reasons for the fall.
The enhanced price has also made pos-
sible more exploratory work in following
lower-grade ore-bodies, which in some
cases has resulted in the discovery of new
makes of profitable rock. Since 1903 the
quantity of ore treated has risen from
two million to four million tons, gold
has doubled in price even in London,
and wages paid have increased from
£8,000,000 to £10,250,000. Number of
men employed in the industry has de-
creased from 20,000 to 15,000.
* * * *
Federal Minister Holt whooped the
other day about the value placed by
someone on potash deposits in the Lake
Campion district (W.A.). There was,
he said, 2,000,000 tons of 50 p.c. alunite
clay there worth approximately £5,000,000
on present market quotations. A man
on the spot says apparently Holt is not
aware that a co. in which Douglas Maw-
son and others were interested was
formed in Perth years ago to make a for-
tune out of these deposits. Tests made
abroad, however, showed that, because
of kaolin in the deposits, potash couldn’t
be profitably extracted, and so the ven-
ture was abandoned.


DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE
Enrolment for Military Service for Home Defence
NOTICE is hereby given that, in pursuance of Australian Military Regulation 141 A, all male inhabitants of Australia:
(a) who were, on 13th December, 1940, unmarried or widowers without children, and
(b) who were born between Ist July, 1906, and 30th June, 1921 (that is, those who reached the ages of 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26,
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 33 years during the period Ist July, 1939, and 30th June, 1940), and
(c) who reside in the Metropolitan Area as defined in Schedule 1 hereto or within a distance of 10 miles reckoned by the nearest
practicable route from any of the towns prescribed below in Schedule 2,
are required, unless within any of the classes of persons specified below, to enrol for military service in the manner hereinafter described
within 30 days after 25th January, 1941.
CLASSES OF PERSONS EXEMPT FROM ENROLMENT.
Persons who are in any of the following- classes are NOT required to enrol:—
(a) Persons who are not British subjects;
(b) Persons who have not resided in Australia for six months;
(c) Persons whose bona fide residence is not within the Metropolitan Area as defined
in Schedule 1 hereto or within a distance of 10 miles reckoned by the nearest
practicable route from any of the towns prescribed in Schedule 3 hereto;
(d) Persons who are enlisted in, or appointed to, the Naval, Military or Air Forces;
(e) Persons who have already reported for military service after having been called
upon to do so subsequent to 30th November, 1939;
V> Persons temporarily absent from Australia;
<g) Persons who are members or officers of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or
of a State;
(h) Judges of Federal or State Courts or Police, stipendiary or special magistrates
of the Commonwealth or of a State.
ENROLMENT COMPULSORY ON CEASING TO BE EXEMPT.
i A* l male inhabitants of Australia who were on 13th December, 1940, unmarried or
widowers without children and who are within the age group specified above but who
are not required to enrol within thirty days after 35th January, 1941, by reason that they
are within one or more of the classes specified above, must enrol within thirty days after
they cease to be within those classes.
METHOD OF ENROLMENT.
Enrolment under this Regulation shall be effected by tilling in an enrolment form in
accordance with Form MSA and sending it by post, or delivering it, to the Area Officer or
the Area in which the person enrolling resides, or to the nearest Area Officer, at the places
set out in Schedule 3, or delivering it to a postmaster. Copies of the enrolment form ma>
be obtained from any Area Officer or Post Office on or after 25th January, 1941.
Any person claiming to be exempt from Military Service on the grounds of reserved
occupation, great hardship or any other ground under the Defence Act or National Security
Regulations should apply for such exemption on the enrolment form.
ENROLMENT MUST BE COMPEETED ON OR
FAILURE TO ENROL INVOLVES A MAXIMUM
MENT FOR THREE MONTHS.
BEFORE 24th FEBRUARV, 1941.
PENALTY OF £2O OR IMPRISON-
NOTIFICATION OF MARRIAGE OR CHANGE OF ADDRESS OR OCCUPATION.
Any person who, after enrolment—
(a) marries, or
(b) changes his address, or
(c) becomes employed or ceases to be employed in a reserved occupation
shall within fourteen days of the happening of any of those events notify' the lull particulars
thereof to the Area Officer of the Area in which he is residing, or to the nearest Area Officer.
FAILURE TO NOTIFY SUCH HAPPENING INVOLVES A MAXIMUM PENALTY OF
£2O OR IMPRISONMENT FOR THREE MONTHS.
SCHEDULE 1.
METROPOLITAN AREA.
The whole of the Metropolitan Area, being defined by a line from Itarrenjoey, thence in a Westerly direction to a point 10 miles North of Hornsby,
thence in a South-westerly direction to a point 10 miles West of Parramatta, thence in a Southerly direction to a point 10 miles South-west of Liverpool,
thence in an Easterly direction to a point 10 miles South of Miranda, thence to the sea coast.
ẃ
TOWN. AREA.
Aberdeen 2B
Adaminaby 3
Adelong 50A
Albion Park 31
Alectown 5415
Alstonville -11
Arcadia 1815
Ardlethan 50A
Ariab Park 50A
Armidale 33
Ashford 35
Attunga 33
Austinmer 34
Baan Baa 33
Baltimore 548
Ballina 41
Bangalow 11
Baradine 215
Barellan 56A
Bargo 3
Barmedman 56A
Barraba 33
Bateman’s Bay 3
Bathurst 54A
Batlow 56A
Baulkham Hills . . 20/19
Beckom 56A
Bega 3
Bellata 35
Bellingen .'. 13
Belmont 2A
Bemboka 3
Bendemeer 33
Bendick Murrell . . . 50A
Ben Lomond 33
Bentley 41
Bermagni 3
Berowra 18A
Berridale 3
Berrima 3
Berry 34
Bethungra 50A
Bexhill 41
Binalong 56A
Binda 3
Bingara 35
Binnaway ; . 2B
Binya SCA
Blackheatb 20/19
Black Mountain 33
Blacktown 20/19
Blayney 54A
Bod alia 3
Bogan Gate 548
Boggabilla 35
Boggabri 33
Bombala 3
Bonalbo 41
Bonshaw 35
Bonville 13
Boolaroo 2A
Boomi 35
Boorowa 56A
Bovvning 3
Bowral 3
Bowraville 13
Braidwood 3
Branxton 2B
Bredbo 3
Breeza 33
Brlbbaree 50A
Broadwater 41
TOWN. AREA..
Broke 2B
Brooklyn 18A
Brushgrove 41
Bugaldie JB
Bukkula 35
Bulabdelab 13
Bull! 34
Bundanoon 3
Bundarra 33
Bungendore 3
Burraga 54A
Barren Junction .... 35
Burringbar 41
Byron Bay 41
Camden 3
Campbelltown 3
Canberra 3
Candelo 3
Canowindra 56A
Capertee 54A
Captain’s Elat 3
Caragabal 5(>A
Carcoar 54A
. Cargo 548
Carrathool 568
Carroll 33
Casino 41
Cassilis 2B
Cathcart 3
- Catherine Hill Bay .. 2A
Central Tilba 3
Cessnock 2B
Chinderah 41
Clarencetown 13
Clunes 41
Cobargo 3
Cobbitty 3
Coff’s Harbour 13
Coledale 34
Collarenebri 35
Comboyne 13
Condobolin 548
Condong 41
Coolac 56A
Coolah 54A
Coolamon s(iß
Coolongolook 13
Cooma 3
Coonabarabran 2B
Coonamble 548
Coopernook 13
Cootamundra sfiA
Copmanburst 41
Coraki 41
Coramba 13
Cowra 56A
Crook well 3
Cryon 35
Cudal 548
Cud gen 41
Cullen Bullen 54A
Cumnock 548
Curlewis 33
Currabubula 33
llalgety 3
Dalton 3
Dapto 34
Darlington Point . . sfiß
Deepwater 33
Delegate 3
Delungra 35
Denman 2B
TOWN. AREA.
Dora Creek 2A
Dorris:o IS
Douglas Park 3
Drake S 3
Duhbo 54 B
Dundee S 3
Dunedoo 54A
Dungog 13
Dungowan 33
Dunoon 11
Dural 1«D
Duri 33
Eden 3
Edgeroi 35
Ellalong !I5
Elong Elong 548
Elsinore 35
Emmaville S 3
Emu Plains 20/1!)
Engadine 31
Erina ISA
Ellalong ISA
Euchareena 548
Eugowra 56A
Eumungerie 548
Eungella 11
Evans Head 41
Exeter 3
Forbes 548
Forster 13
Frederickton 13
Frogmore 56A
Galong 56A
Galston 188
Ganmain 568
Garab 35
Gerringong 34
Geurie 548
Gillenliah 568
Gilgandra 548
Glenbrouk 20/19
Glencoe 33
Glen Davis 54A
Glenfleld 4B
Gleniffer 13
Glen limes 33
Glenorie 188
Glenreagh 13
Gladstone 13
Gloucester 13
Goolgowi 56A
Goolmangar '4l
Gooloogong 50A
Goonellabab 41
Gosford ISA
Goulburn 3
Graben Gullen 3
Grafton 41
Grafton South 41
Gravesend 35
Greenetborpe 56A
Grenfell 56A
Gresford 13
Greta ‘IB
Griffith 5<;A
Grong Grong 568
Gulargambone 548
Gulgong 54A
Gundagai 56A
Gundy SB
Gunnedah 33
Gunning 3
TOWN. AREA.
Gurley 33
Guyra S 3
Gwaliegar 35
Hall 3
Hannani Vale 13
Han wood 56A
Harden 56A
Harwood Island .... 41
Hay 568
Hazelbrook 20/19
Helensburgh S 4
Hexham 2B
Heron’s Creek 13
Hillston 56A
Holmesville 2B
Huskisson 34
lllaho P6B
Ingleburn 4B
Inverell 35
flainberoo 34
Jerry’s Plains 211
Jiggi 41
Jllllby ISA
Jindabyne 3
Junee s(iß
Kandos SBA
Kangaroo Valley .... 34
Karuah 13
Katoomba 20/19
Kellyville 20/19
Kelvin 33
Kempsey 13
Kendall 13
Kenthurst 20/19
Kentucky 33
Kiama 34
Kinchela Creek 13
Kincumber ISA
Koorawatha 56A
Kontingal 33
Krambacb 13
Kurrajong 20/19
Kurri Kurri 2B
Kyogle 41
Lake Cargelligo .... 36A
Lansdowne 13
Laurence 41
Laurieton 13
Lawson 20/19
Leadville 54A
Leeton 5611
Lidsdale 34A
Limbri 33
Lisa row ISA
Lismore 41
Lithgow 54A
Liverpool 4B
Long Jetty ISA
Loomberah 33
Lome 13
Luddenhani 20/19
Lue 54A
Lyndhurst 54A
Macksville 13
Maclean 41
.Maitland 2B
Mallanganee 41
.Mandurania 54A
Manildra 5411
Manilla S 3
Marrar
Marsden Park
56 B
20/19
TOWN. AREA.
Martin’s Creek 13
Marulan 3
Matcham ISA
Matong SOB
Menangle 3
Menclooran 34A
Merriwa 2B
Merriwagga 36A
Merrygoen 34A
Michelago 3
Millie 35
Millthorpe 5415
Milton 34
Milvale 56A
Minto 4B
Mlrrool 56A
Mitchell’s Island .... 13
Mittagong 3
Mogriguy 548
Molong 548
Monteagle 56A
Moorland 13
Moree 33
Morpeth 3B
Morisset 3 A
Morumbateman 3
Moruya 3
Moss Vale 3
Mount George 13
Mount Victoria ... 30/19
Mudgee />.... 34A
Mulgoa 20/19
Mullaley S 3
Mullumbimby 41
Mungindi 35
Murrumburrah .... 56A
Murrurundi 3B
Murvvilluinbah 41
Musvvelibrook 2B
Muttama 36A
Nabiac 13
Namhucca Heads .... 13
Nana Glen 13
Naradhan 56A
Narara ISA
Narellan 3
Naroonia 3
Narrabri 35
Narrandera 368
Narromine 348
Nelson’s Bay 13
Nemingha 33
Newbridge 34A
Newnes 54A
Newcastle 2A
Newrybar 41
Nimbin 41
Nimmitabel 3
Nowra 34
Nundle 33
Nymboida 13
Nyngan 348
Oberon 54A
Orange 548
Onrimbah ISA
Oxley Island 13
Pallamallawa 35
Panibula 3
Parkes 548
Paterson 13
Peak Hill 548
Penrith 20/19
TOWN. AREA.
Perthville 54A
Picton 3
Pilliga 35
Pokataroo 35
Port Kembla 34
Portland 54A
Port Macquarie 43
Prospect 20/19
Quaker's Hill .... 20/19
Quandialla 56A
Queanbeyan 3
Quirindi 33
Kamornie 44
Rankins Springs . . 56A
Rappville 41
Ravensworth 2B
Raymond Terrace . . 3B
Repton 13
Richmond 20/19
Riverstone 20/19
Robertson 34
Rockley 54A
Rocky River 33
Ragan’s Hill 188
Rooty Hill 20/19
Rowena 35
Rylstone 54A
St. Mary’s 20/19
Schofields 20/19
Scone 2B
Shell harbour 34
Singleton 2B
Smithtown 13
Somerton 33
South West Bocks . . 13
Spring Hill 548
Spring Ridge 2B
Springwood 20/19
Stanwell Park 34
Stockinbingal SCA
Stoker’s Siding 41
Stuart Town 548
Stroud 13
Swansea 2A
Tabulam 41
Tallimba 56A
Tahmoor 3
Tambar Springs .... 33
Tamworth 33
Taralga 3
Tarana 54A
Tarcutta 568
Taree 13
Tathra 3
Taylor’s Arm 13
Tea Gardens 13
Telegraph Point .... 13
Temora 56A
Tenterfleld 33
Terrigal 18 A
The Entrance JBA
The Oaks 3
The Rock 508
Thirlmere 3
Thirroul 34
Tingha 35
Tintenbar 41
Tomerong 34
Tomki 41
Tomingley 548
Toongabbie 20/19
Toronto £A
Tottenham 548
TOWN. ABEA,
Trangie 348
Trundle *‘4o
Tuggerah ISA
Tullamore 548
Tullibigeal
Tumbarumba 5614
Tumblong 56A
Tumut 56A
Tuncurr.v 13
Tweed Heads 41
Uki 41
Ulan °4A
Ulladulla 34
Ulmarra _ 44
Ungarie 36A
Upper Orara 13
Uralla 33
Uranquinty 561*
I'rvinga 43
Valla 43
Wagga AVagga 568
Walcha 33
Walcha Koad 33
AValgett 33
Wallabadah • 33
Wallacia 30/19
Wallendbeen 56A
Wallerawang 54A
Wallsend 3A
Wamberal ISA
Wardell 41
Ward’s River 13
AVarialda 35
Warren 3411
AV aterf all 34
Wattamondarra ... 56A
Wauchope 13
Wee AVaa 35
Weemalah 35
Weethalle 56A
AA'ellington 54H
Werris Creek 33
AA’estdale 33
W’hitton 5011
Wianggree 41
Wllberforce 20/19
Willow Tree 2B
AA’indsor 20/19
AVingello 3
AVingen 2B
Wlngham 13
Wollombi 2B
AVollongong ,34
AA r olumla 3
Wongarbon 548
Woodburn South .... 41
AVoodstock 54A
AA r oodville 2B
AVoplbrook 33
Woolgoolga 13
AVoy Woy ISA
AVyalong AA’est .... 56A
AVyangala 56A
AVyee 2A<
AA’yong ISA
Wyndham 3
A’amba 41
Van co SGB
Yass 3
Yenda SGA
Yeoval 548
Yetnian 35
Young 56A
ẅ
Area No. TOWN.
Name of Area Officer and Address.
2A
2B
13
33
41
35
ISA
188
30
S«
NEWCASTLE Capt. W. H. COOP,
Drill Hall, King St., Newcastle
W’est. ’Phone: Hamilton 1452.
WEST MAITLAND Capt. W. J. KINGSMILL,
Drill Hall, West Maitland.
’Phone: Malt. 766.
Capt. S. W. ALDENTON, M.C.,
Drill Hall, Kempsey.
’Phone: Kempsey 150.
Capt. E. J. MOUNTAIN, M.C.,
Drill Hall, Tamworth.
’Phone: Tamworth 367.
Capt. R. C. GIBSON,
Drill Hall, Showgr’d, Lismore.
’Phone: Lismore 1144.
Major G. B. McPHEE,
Drill Hall, Inverell.
’Phone: Inverell 632.
Capt. B. A. CBESSWELL,
Penshurst St. (nr. Victoria St.),
Willoughby. ’Phone: JA 4581.
Capt. A. W. IRVINE, M.C.,
71 Byedale Road, Byde.
’Phone: Byde 1553.
MILLER’S POINT Capt. B. BLYTHMAN,
Drill Hall, Argyle St.,
Miller’s Pt. ’Phone: BW 7673
LEICHHARDT Lt. H. G. A. EDEN,
Drill Hall, Hill & McKenzie Sts.,
Leichhardt. ’Phone: LM 2005.
KEMPSEY
TAMWORTH
LISMORE
INVERELL
WILLOUGHBY
BYDE
20/19 PARRAMATTA Capt. G. S. MILLAR,
Macquarie Hall, Macquarie St.,
Parramatta. ’Phone; UW 9580.
w
Area No. TOWN.
Name of ]Arca Officer and Address.
178
45A
458
3
53A
538
53C
53D
55
NORTH SYDNEY Capt. E. G. HENDERSON.
333 Military Road, Cremorne
Junction. ’Phone: XM 5660.
ARNCEIFFE Capt. E. H. S. GUYOT,
Drill Hall, Burrows Street,
Arncliffe. ’Phone: EX 1070.
KOGARAH
GOUEBURN
MARRICKVIEEE
ASHPIEED
BEEMORE
BANKSTOWN
FOREST EODGE
Capt. A. S. STEFANSON,
Drill Hall, Kogarah.
’Phone: EW 1305.
Capt. H. C. MANFRED,
Drill Hall, Auburn Street,
Goulburn. ’Phone: Goul. 945.
Capt. H. C. COTTON.
R.A.A. Institute Drill Hall,
Addison Rd., Marrickville.
’Phone: EM 5502.
Et. C. R. BROWNE,
Drill Hall, Eiverpool Road,
Ashfleld. ’Phone: EA 4338.
Capt. T. J. PATTINSON,
Drill Hall, Belmore.
’Phone: EE 1822.
Capt. R. J. E. DOWSETT,
New Telephone Bldg.. Kitchener
Pde., Bankstown. Tel. EE 1515.
Capt. H, S. HAMILTON,
Drill Hall, Hereford Street,
Forest Eodge. ’Phone: MW 1047.
34 WOLLONGONG Capt. H. H. E. HAEEETT, M.C.,
Showground, Wollongong.
’Phone: Wollongong 4fi.
W. H. HIEEESS,, Eieut.-Col.,
Chief Enrolment Officer.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
WifiMiA!
HilHin
IHI
PI f
&
V^*rS
‘A
#5
V '
-p
W. 6. Bulfin
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belraore Park
round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service. Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
SMOKE-OH!
ẁ
A man faces an ugly situation when
his wife sets out to make herself plain
to him.
4* 4* 4* *
“None but the brave deserve the fair”
—and none but the brave can live with
some of ’em.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She arranged an appointment with the
Emperor, hoping thus to deliver him into the
hands of his enemies who wished to kill him.”
—Short story.
Might be termed an assassignation.
“I sometimes pretended to thrash my wife,
but never did it seriously.”
— Husband, in divorce suit.
He was just playing hidings.
4* 4* 4* 4*
As the confectioner said when he saw
a tribe of aborigines, “Ah! Liquorice
all-sorts!”
* * *
“The warder has not attended his duties at
he has be “
Ohvinnslv there’* a Vrpw” loose some
where loose some-
To a Lady.
’Tis strange that you should irk me so,
That every little thing you say
Should make me feel I want to go
A t least a thousand miles away !
Indeed, my thoughts of peace and bliss,
When you are near, are turned to
strife.
’Tis strange that I should feel like this —
For, after all, you’re not my wife !
T. W. N.
The Traitor.
He .wished it was dark. The light from
the setting sun threw everything into bold
relief. He knew that if he was seen
visiting this place he would be marked
down for contumely, a betrayer of those
principles for which his people were
fighting.
As he hid in the shadow of the tall
building he had a moment of self-analy-
sis. Why, he asked himself, could he not
be the same as the others? Why must
he feel this urge to go against them, this
passion to pull down the edifice of sacri-
fice they had erected? Surely it would
not be difficult to abandon the treacher-
ous project, to turn and walk back
whence he had come? He glanced
furtively across the street at the house
and knew immediately that he could not
go back, that he must go on whatever
the consequences.
There was nobody in sight except
two watchful men in plain clothes. He
knew they were watching the house.
Their backs were towards him. Holding
his breath he slipped across the sunlit
space into the shadow opposite. He had
not been seen. In another second he was
inside.
He waited until it was dark, then
emerged furtively through the door.
There was a crowd on the street. He
slipped into it, breathing hard with relief.
Then his breath caught as a hand fell on
his shoulder, a face scowled into his and
a voice full of hatred and contempt
hissed “You Judas!”
Sunk in the misery of his discovered
perfidy, the man who had ratted on the
beer strike slunk away.
M8.
Wisdom.
“The jealousy caused if one wife were
selected and another rejected for canteen work
would be terrific. The whole prospect is a bit
frightening, but the problem is one that must
be tackled. I wish Solomon were on my staff!”
—Minister for the Army Spender.
Our Percy knows how well they fight
With verbal sticks of dynamite.
If Solomon heard Percy’s cry
We’re game to bet he heaved a sigh.
Turned over in his grave and said,
“No, thanks, old man, I’m better dead!”
D. McM.
The Man with Reversed Eyeballs.
It was on a bleak morning in February
that my celebrated colleague brushed
the cocaine from his coat with more
than usual care and rose as Mrs. Hudson
admitted a plump, pear-faced stranger.
“Mister Holmes?” he inquired gut-
turally.
“Herr Hitler?” returned Holmes.
“Then you know me!” our visitor
hissed, paling,
“Your disguise is puerile, even if I
were not expecting you,” explained my
friend. “The notorious Hitlerian fore-
lock, now brushed back, once covered
that pale patch on your forehead, and
your left trouser-seat still bears the chalk
mark of our übiquitous customs. What
do you want?”
“I have been duped, foully duped, Herr
Holmes. They told me the British were
"No, gimme a repaint; good balls only put another 25 yards on to my slice.”
a sentimental race, and I have risked a
visit to you by one of our intrepid Red
Cross ’planes. Some imbecile policeman
took me to hospital, where, no doubt by
mistake, I received a blood transfusion.
I escaped; and here I am. Herr Holmes,
you solve difficult problems ; you are un-
married ; you are fond of music. Think
of our great Aryan masters —Beethoven,
Wagner, Bach. Ah! I see you are
touched. Psychology has not failed
me. For their sake will you help me?”
Holmes crossed the room and swept a
minor chord from his violin.
“Herr Hitler,” he said simply, “the
blood transfusion was no mistake ; it was
1 who planned it all. The donor was a
pure Hebrew, and, as Dr. Watson here
will tell you, that blood has now satu-
rated your very bones. You will be re-
turned, suitably labelled, to Germany to-
night. You are now a Jew.”
“So! ” breathed Hitler heavily, and his
eyeballs revolved slowly through 180 de-
grees and stayed there. He thus became
thoroughly introspective, despite drastic
purging in Berlin, and lost the war.
DR. WAT.
Kicking Against the Pricks.
“The prick of a pin can be dangerous.”
—Medical journal.
Disastrous, in fact, as I know to my cost.
I had jabbed one in deep, ’spite of
warning;
But the nag that it pricked in “Accept-
ances” lost —
Now I’m walking to work ev’ry
morning.
K.
Catastrophe.
“Street accidents often leave a lasting im-
pression on the mind of a witness.”
Medwal journal.
Yes, indeed! I have just seen an acci-
dent myself which I am sure I will never
forget. My nerves have been distraught
ever since.
I was walking down the street behind
an old gentleman and he stepped off the
pavement rather abruptly. Just then a
car whizzed around the corner, and—oh,
it was horrible! The poor old chap leapt
back on to the pavement, and I just had
to stand there helpless while the parcel
he dropped smashed and the contents
guigled down the gutter.
NAT.
Momentary.
“The day that we are living is the only one
that matters,” declares a writer.
This sentiment appeals to me —
Though yesterday was grey
And gloomy. I’ve let pleasure be
My purpose for today.
I drown dull care in wine and strut
With Pan, and laugh at sorrow.
Today is all that matters —but
TU change my tune tomorrow !
P. O. M. C.
A Bom Leader.
General Junca Gorgonzola, the Fascist
commander of the garrison at Midi
Gardia, was reclining on his brocaded
day bed languidly spraying himself with
eau-de-Cologne while Bogzinta Spaghetti,
his valet de chambre, de-loused his jet-
black bifurcated beard. The heavy silk
damask curtains had been drawn across
the wide windows, and a Marelli oscil-
lating fan created a pleasant breeze.
Ever and anon the general’s glance
would stray proudly down to the array of
medals on his parrot-green tunic. Pride
of place was occupied by the Order of
the Vermicelli Winder, first class, which
had been conferred on him for his gal-
lant exploit in booting aside a Pekinese
that was yapping dangerously around
Signor Mussolini’s heels while the leader
was haranguing the populace after the
Walk on Rome. Then there was the
Funiculi Funicula medal, awarded to him
during the ’33 autumn manoeuvres for
showing the Bersaglieri how they could
play “Santa Lucia” on their mandolins
while travelling at top speed.
Gorgonzola had been apprenticed to a
mandolin-stringer’s laborer, but during
the first World War had become an
anarchist. Seeing its possibilities, he had
joined the Fascist revolution and had
come to prominence in the party by sug-
gesting the tassel in the Duce’s cap.
The introduction of sprigged boots as
standard equipment for Blackshirt militia
had been his idea, and for this brilliant
conception, which pointed to that still
greater speed that was to be the corner-
stone of Fascist military strategy, he had
been appointed to command the Lom-
bardy Leopards.
During the Spanish campaign he had
been given a division, and at the ter-
rific flight from Guadalajara he led his
troops with conspicuous success, being
three-quarters of a mile in front of the
nearest of his troops after the first half-
hour. It had earned him the Order of
the Spurred Beaver.
Now he was in North Africa, awaiting
the word from the high command that
would take them on the long stroll to
Alexandria. It would perhaps not be
quite so comfortable as sitting sipping
Chianti on the Corso at Rome, He might
even have to leave his manicure set, rose-
water and brilliantine behind. But cer-
tain sacrifices must need be made to
ensure the glorious Fascist victory. The
decadent British would doubtless rush
helter-skelter for their ships at the first
rumblings of the mighty Fascist caval-
cade.
Suddenly the quiet of the siesta hour
was broken by the crack of a distant
cannon. Then came a lazy whine, which
increased until the huge shell burst with
a shattering roar on the escarpment just
beyond the fort.
“Corpo di Bacch’! Whatta was that?”
and the general jerked spasmodically up-
ward, leaving half a fistful of face" mat
in his valet’s hands. “Make-a for the
dugout, queeck! I, your general, will
follow later.”
As the valet tore out of the door a
blurred streak shot past him and van-
ished. When he reached the first level
of the concrete shelter the general was
there mopping his face.
“Basta! It is-a hot, this Africa,”
gasped the commander.
As the barrage from sea, air and land
became hotter the general went deeper,
until by that lifting of the barrage which
presaged the infantry attack he had
reached rock-bottom at 120 feet. It was
then that a message came in that the
Australians were inside the defences.
“Aussa-trayliens! ” burst in Spaghetti.
“My bruth’ he havea da fruit shop ina
da place call’ Footscray. He tella me
they so savage they eata their young
anda in battle sucka da blood from their
capteeves”
From the dugout entrance boomed a
loud and slightly nasal voice. “If any
o’ youse blanky macaroni-eatin’ blankards
are down there you’d better come up.”
With a shriek at the prospect of be-
coming a drink for the terrible warriors
from a savage country. General Gorgon-
zola dived for the secret exit that led
to a clump of camel bush outside the
fort. Within a few minutes he was a
speck of dust in the general direction of
Tripoli. Far behind him panted the faith-
ful Spaghetti, with his G.5.0.l a bad
third. Truly General Gorgonzola was a
leader par excellence!
BO.


ItebeS lout coif
-■
mm
» iw ■■■:
iliiiil
|
iliilil
MMMM
&&«&»
jwt- </• i-v
iliM
(J3uift to
)dern tic
any modern . . .
a delightful home can be yours at moderate outlay
when Wunderlich Durabesfos (asbestos-cement) flat
sheets are used for exterior /walls and Wunderlich
Terra Cotta Tiles for roofing. Both materials are
widely employed for low cost, modern spacious homes
throughout the Commonwealth.
Consult an architect or builder for estimates.
CLIP AND MAIL THIS COUPON
to Wunderlich Limited,
G.P.O. Box 474aa, Sydney.
9 fi/ease senJ.me your Book
WDUOOBESTOS HO
\\Afa/vp
► V^c/t/ress.
Wunderlich Limited, Manufacturers of Building
Materials of Quality, (Estd. 52 years), Sydney,
Newcastle, and Branches in all States.
DURRBESTOS
BUILDING SHEETS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Basic Wage — ls It Fair?
T . • , . rr .
In tunes like the present great efforts
can be made only when there is national
unity. Dictator countries have achieved
an outward appearance of strong national
unity at the point of the gun. In them,
wages and profits are a matter of decree
rather than arbitration and effort. In
Australia arbitration still operates in
spite of the war and the wide powers
granted to the Federal Government in
the middle of 1940. Except as to taxa-
tion, there has been no lowering of living
standards among basic-wage-earners.
There has been much talk about the
“new order” that “will have to come
after the war.” Labor will have to be
given a better deal, it is said, and old
ideas readjusted. It is all talk at the
present time, and the talkers are naturally
vague about it all. Nobody knows what
the world will be like when the war is
over in any case.
Premature talk can be mischievous. It
may tend to implant misleading ideas
before the time arrives for any “new
order.” And, above all, it may create
the notion that the starting of a “new
order” rests entirely with Australians
themselves, or, perhaps, with Britishers
themselves.
It is possible to readjust equities in
the income of a country as between any
sections or classes, but no country is in-
dependent of the rest of the world. The
German people have forced us into a huge
wasteful war ; in peace-time other coun-
tries can force economic problems upon
us. A large part of Australia’s living
standard depends on the profitable ex-
port of its land produce. For exports
to be profitable prices overseas have to
be favorable. Australia has little or no
control over world prices. Therefore
any “new order” in Australia is to a
substantial extent at the mercy of the
world.
There isn’t the slightest doubt, how-
ever, that the lot of the workingman in
Australia can be improved. In particular
cases he is entitled to a greater share in
the production of this country. But he
WQ / t do much d for hin / self simply
b warring against the machinery of pro-
diction and those in control of it. Trucu-
lence and animositys whe re they exist, are
a waste of time, and in their turn breed
intolerance on the part of the employer.
Thus we find the components of industry
at loggerheads—Labor using direct action
against Capital instead of the channels
provided by the Arbitration Courts, and
Capital nursing a grouch against Labor
f° r a on § Period afterwards.
The present war is an all-in affair. The
men on ac^ve service are taking their
chance, and on the home front long
hours are worked. In Britain conditions
a re far worse than in Australia, where
good overtime is paid and there is no
air-raid strain. In fact, if it could be
said that Labor’s part was being intelh-
gently studied, and consideration given to
the domestic difficulties created by over-
time, then Australian woikmen on the
whole would be taring extraordinarily
W£ h m the circumstances.
But the root of nearly all industrial
strife—lack of intelligent co-operation
between all concerned—has not been de-
stroyed in this country, even by the
present fateful state of the world. No in-
telligence whatsoever was shown in the
drafting of the scale of Federal income-
tax weekly deductions, for example. In
the table of deductions now in operation,
between wages of £3 17s. a week and in-
comes of £lB 10s. there are only 15 rates
0 f tax—all relating to rises in income of
£i ? except between £3 17s. and £4 10s.
Qn £4 10s. a man pays 2s. a week ; on
£4 io s . 6d., 55.; on £6 10s., 95.; on
£g IQs. 6d., 14s. It need hardly be said
that the actual scale of taxation isn’t so
erratic; but the deductions in anticipa-
tion of tax are stupidly aggravating to
everyone. Imagine the feelings of a work-
ingman with a family who is taxed ss. a
week more because he receives 6d. a week
extra. Against Canberra’s 15 rates, the
N.S.W. wages tax has 146 rates between
£3 17s. lid. and £lB 10s. —the income
rises are 2s. and the tax rises a penny.
This taxation scale is a gross blunder.
The taxes are necessary and, in the main,
just —the lower-wage man gets off lightly
—but, although there was the precedent
of State weekly taxation-deduction
grades to go by, officialdom, because it
didn’t like handling pennies or something,
put out the present ridiculous and
grievance-breeding scale. In delicate
circumstances Taxation Departments
should be particularly careful about these
matters. The products of the labors of
the men being taxed may be of the great-
est importance to the winning of this
war. The Taxation Department exists
to help all national efforts, including the
war effort, not to hinder them. Take the
taxpayers away and the department is of
no importance. Take the workmen away
and nobody is of much importance.
As in few other countries, the Aus-
tralian workmen’s remuneration is well
looked after by the Arbitration Courts.
Since war broke out 17 months ago there
have been no fewer than six increases in
the Federal basic wage. These have kept
wages in step with the increasing cost of
living, so that there has been no invisible
loss to wage-earners by such inflation as
has already taken place.
The most recent rise to be announced
dates from the first pay in February. It
ranges from Is. to 3s. a week —according
to the State. Latest wages rates are here
compared with earlier awards:
Dec. Feb. May Aug. Nov. Feb.
1,1, L 1, L L
’39. ’4O. ’4O. ’4O. ’4O. ’4l.
Sydney .. 82s. 82s. 83s. 85s. 85s. 88s.
Melbourne .. 80s. 81s. 82s. 84s. 84s. 86s.
Brisbane .. 765. 775. 78s. 795. 795. 82s.
Adelaide .. 775. 775. 78s. 80s. 80s. 82s.
Perth .. 775. 775. 775. 795. 80s. 81s.
Hobart .. 775. 78s. 78s. 80s. 81s. 83s.
Since the Empire’s declaration of war on
Sept. 3, 1939, the Sydney basic wage has
been raised 6s. a week, fully offsetting
increased costs. In Melbourne, which
has received a particularly big share of
war work and war jobs, the rise has been
identical; and Brisbane and Hobart have
had the same experience. In Adelaide ss.
was added; in Perth, 4s. Perth
is now the cheapest city in which to live.
Brisbane used to be.
In spite of all the excitement and noise
of war, then, the wage-earner has lost
nothing except the extra amount that is
being taken from him in taxation. The
man on small money isn’t suffering
severely either; bigger incomes are being
attacked most, and of the extra
£17,700,000 of income tax being raised
this year, by far the greater proportion
is coming from incomes that were taxed
heavily previously. Income tax now takes
as much as 14s. in the £ on the higher
incomes.
The indirect taxes which the wage-
earner pays —higher sales tax, customs
duties, excise, etc. —are passed on by
him. The Arbitration Court sees to that.
Thus, recent heavy additions to some of
these taxes are no added burden.
Company profits are first of all taxed
by the Federal authorities at the rate
of 2s. in the £ on all profits, plus 2s.
in the £ on all undistributed earnings.
There are State taxes as well. Then
there is a war - profits tax of at
least Is. in the £. When profits are
handed on to shareholders there are no
rebates of tax, and shareholders pay the
stiff rates of general taxation applicable
to them, according to the size of their
incomes. Nobody escapes ; “private cos.”
are adequately provided for.
Is the Australian wage-earner, then,
getting a fair go? The answer is that if
he was getting a fair go before war broke
out he is getting particularly favorable
treatment now. It is, however, true that
before the war there were workers who
had cause for complaint on some grounds
or other. But though workers may not
have been getting a fair share of results
in some industries, there were other in-
dustries in which they were getting more
than a fair share, and the figures of the
highly prosperous bottle manufacturer
have to be compared with the returns of
the struggling colliery-owner and the
wheat-farmer before the picture can be
seen in its proper proportions. Wages
can’t be based on conditions in the most
prosperous industry any more than in the
most struggling.
Improvement in wage-earners’ condi-
tions will, after the war, come most
quickly through co-operation between
employer and employee. The working-
man has plenty of real friends in this
country, and he will have many more if
he shows a conciliatory spirit in his nego-
tiations for better living conditions when
such things are possible. Preoccupation
with Red ideas and methods must give
way to Australian principles. Credit-
expansion trickery is a thing to be fought
against; it is no good to Labor —if it is
good to anyone. And for the present
both employer and employee should real-
ise that they have big obligations to the
State and its fighting forces. At our own
expense we have to keep those forces in
the field.
B H.P. shares have again weakened.
At 455., cum rights to the new 22 for 100
par issue, the yield has increased to £3
14s. per cent, on a 1\ p.c. div. basis. Last
year’s profit (to May 31, 1940) was dis-
closed at £979,138, compared with
£1,431,513 in the preceding year. A
coal strike occurred in the 1939-40 period.
This year there seems to be little doubt
that B.H.P. will be in a position to show
£1,500,000 of profit —unless it wants to
be conservative to the point of gloomi-
ness. Wages and other costs have risen
against the co., and so have taxes. But
output has risen vastly ; according to the
last available figures, 1,720,000 tons of
steel p.a. was the capacity of the B.H.P.
and A.I. and S. plants in various parts
of the Commonwealth. A £1,500,000
profit would be equal to 10.7 p.c. on the
enlarged capital when fully paid. For
a long time B.H.P. had much dead money
on its hands. But last term Australian
Iron and Steel earned 6.2 p.c. on ord.
capital, which B.H.P. owns, and pref.
arrears have now been wiped out. Most
of the other subsidiary and associated
cos. are particularly busy. Of course,
there is no knowing what B.H.P.’s profits
will actually be for the year to May 31.
Monthly production figures are no longer
available. But shareholders are bound
to reap some benefit from the expansion
(and consolidation) of activities before
very long.
* * * *
G. J. Coles has maintained its interim
ord. div. at 1\ p.c. in spite of the threat
of heavier taxation. Last term it paid
an interim of p.c. and a final of
10 p.c., making 174 p.c. for the year.
Woolworths, the other big chain-store co v
handed out 6 p.c. and 114 p.c., to make a
total the same as Coles’s. It would seem
that the Coles concern is confident of
paying at least 15 p.c. for 1940-41, and
Woolworths should in that case have no
difficulty in following suit. If each co.
manages to maintain its distributions at
174 p.c., then the yield from Coles scrip
at 675. 6d. would be 5.2 p.c., and from
Woolworths ss. shares, at 175., approxi-
mately the same. A final div. is due from
Woolworths in February. Both cos. had
ample div. coverage in their last terms.
The diversion of income by war taxing
and spending to the lower-income classes
should help the turnover of chain stores
and thus offset to some extent the in-
creased taxation burden.


LUDOWICI CHROMOL
ruDOWICI
§6
CHROMOL
SUPER HEAT RESISTANT
E BEATERS
Two types are supplied from this leather
the standard flat sheet and the new strip
type. Both have been built to fulfil the
main requirements of a good firebeater
resistance against heat and toughness to
withstand hard wear and tear. The new
strip type was very successful last season
and was found to possess many advantages
over the older flat type.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST AND ALL PARTICULARS.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL STOCKIST.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Ill^i
mm
Vh
t
T
■ HE thing we call “luck" is
|J merely a freak chance —an
* accidental happening or a rare
coincidence. The man who “trusts to
luck" is chasing the rainbow par-
ticularly where money is concerned.
The wise man creates his own good
luck; builds it up week by week on
the solid foundation of a Savings Bank
Account. He puts his trust not in
horseshoes, rabbits' feet, and four-leaf
clovers but in the safe protection of
his Bank Book. Start with a few shil-
lings— next pay day.
coifimonutfflLTtt
snuincs BflnK
OF AUSTRALIA
iPPPItiS!
cOV\O
pwifi
>-o N
i£r£J3
A/
m
ttt
jsa
m
JV)«
M
n/j
! N London
£Mnd
COMPAMV.U
<a
fpisia
Ac
sa&?
•.’ ;•; ••!V-VA'».f.Ja;}K
-i -v- ••: Ar Mfe...
'"*r
e 'io
*trr
fsr
Zi*9
Pry
m
toff
T A
6&(V
ms
Gordon’s
St may eoit a little mote
but iti WELL wotthttf
Okt top* 9™ diitiUM in the ,mitd
The accounts of Bond’s Industries,
Sydney, closed on Dec. 31, and last week
there was a big rise in the £1 shares —up
Is. 10yd., touching 17s. 6d., and still
in demand. Highest price of the
shares in 1939 was 45., lowest 2s. ;
in 1940, highest 145., lowest 4s. The
market closed for 1940 with buyers
offering 14s. 6d. The wide fluctuations
have been mainly because of recent rapid
changes for the belter in trading, and
because there is something like a pimple
of capital on a pumpkin of debenture
debt. Hitherto most active interest
has been in the debentures, which
represent the funding of the debts the old
George A. Bond co. found itself unable
to pay. There is £512,000 of debenture
debt, bearing interest at 4 p.c. until
May this year, when the rate returns
to £5 Bs. 6d. p.c.; the co. has paid
the higher rate recently because of its
improved finances. There was £8 7s. 3d.
per cent, per debenture owing in arrears
on Dec. 31, 1939 —a total of £42,816.
The stock is hard to get at £95.
Paid capital totals £112,806. Because
of great activity in the cotton section and
improved orders for hosiery, in 1939 net
profit rose from £19,658 to £27,774. The
later figure was arrived at after setting
aside £14,000 for possible fluctuations in
stocks and £20,500 for debenture interest.
Stock values have gone up rather than
down since then. The final showing
represented 24.6 p.c. on ord. capital. Out
of that, 20s. per cent. (£5128 altogether)
was paid off debenture interest arrears,
and what was left was used to reduce the
p. and 1. debit from £129,998 to £105,107.
There is a capital reserve account of
£166,167 against fixed assets which more
than offsets this. The liquid position has
improved considerably in recent years
and is now quite comfortable.
Standing in the way of divs. to share-
holders is the £42,816 of interest arrears,
also the p. and 1. debit of £105,107. It
is possible that the latter can be cleared
off otherwise than out of earnings. Once
a clean-up of these items is achieved, the
way should be open for good divs.
to shareholders. Certainly earning-power
on shareholders’ account has been helped
lately by the big wad of cheap debenture
money—the return on debenture and
share capital in 1939 was 7.7 p.c. ; but it
isn’t unlikely that there will be a further
very substantial increase in profits when
the results to Dec. 31 are known, and the
year now current should also be fruitful.
Cotton-goods are in great demand ; the
co. makes towels as well as underwear.
The co.’s board is strong and experienced.
* * # *
In the Sydney market Bradford Cot-
ton’s fully-paid shares are selling at 41s.
6d. On a 10 p.c. div. basis this scrip
yields 4.9 p.c., and an interim is due in
February. The shares have been firming
of late, notwithstanding the great enlarge-
ment that has taken place in capital
account in recent years. Here is a record
of capital issues since February, 1938:
Feb., 1938, 53,750 ords. to shareholders.
April, 1939, 20,000 6 p.c. prefs. to share-
holders.
Mid-1939, 43,000 f.-p. ords. and 93,167
prefs. to shareholders in Austral Silk and
Cotton.
Dec., 1939, 34,000 f.-p. ords. to Dunlop-
Perdriau and 239,964 ords. to share- -
holders.
Sept., 1940, 57,000 f.-p. ords., under-
stood to be part-consideration for a Sydney
freehold.
Issued capital stood at £633,039 on June
30 last. It has now risen to £690,039, of
which £153,104 is in f.-p. 6 p.c, prefs.
All the ords. will be fully paid by June
30 this year. Meanwhile, paid to 155.,
they stand at 355. 3d., which works out
at 40s. 3d. when paid up. They will
participate in the interim div. next month,
but won’t collect as much as the fully-
paids. The expansion of the business has
been rapid and, seemingly, sound. Earn-
ings should soon start to get the benefit
of the many developments that have taken
place in the business. A good deal of
the new capital has been “dead” for a
fairly long period.
* * * *
Again deposits of the Australian banks
show a large increase, and again most of
the increase has been availed of by the
Government. The growth in deposits
over the 12 months to Dec. 31 last was
£29.7 millions, and for the final quarter
of the year alone it was £ll.B millions.
Over the year advances to trade and in-
dustry generally fell £11.7 millions; dur-
ing the last quarter, £5.2 millions. The
position may be tabulated thus:
Quarter to
Liabilities. Dec.,’39. Sept.,’4o. Dec.,’4o.
Deposits—
Current £127,789,000 £140,586,000 £152,838,000
Fixed 200,269,000 205,360,000 204,913,000
Total £328,058,000 £345,946,000 £357,751,000
Assets.
Coin,
notes £37,312,000 £40,007,000 £42,933,000
Treasury
bills 23,205,000 34,210,000 41,405,000
Gov’ment
securities 24,107,000 44,341,000 50,257,000
Advances 293,911,000 287,468,000 282,240,000
The growth in Treasury bills and Gov-
ernment securities over the year was
£44,3 millions; over the final quarter,
£13.1 millions. Here is credit expansion
on behalf of the Government, but only
within limits. The enlarged holdings of
Government paper (part of the growth
represents relief to the Commonwealth
Bank) are not being used as a base on
which to expand advances to private in-
dustry ; as we have seen, advances of
that kind are actually being reduced —
there is no great demand for this accom-
modation. The Defence Department in
the present case is being treated as an
ordinary borrower, and its debt is not
regarded as a liquid asset. Possibly the
fact that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is such a large employer and con-
sumer during this war has speeded up
the process by which debts are created
and extinguished, and thus industry itself
is functioning without so much time-pay-
ment of a high-flown kind as formerly.
* * * *
With Australasian Paper ords. at 365.
lid. last week, the investor for holding
purposes would do far better by picking
up Cumberland Paper ords. at 325. 6d.,
or the second prefs. (participating) at near
the same figure. Though Cumberland
ords. haven’t quite as good an equity in
A.P.M. as Australasian Paper ords., their
disadvantage doesn’t justify a difference
of nearly 4s. 6d. a share in the price.
Over the past 10 years Australasian Paper
ords. have averaged 7.8 p.c., Cumber-
land ords. 7.2 p.c. For eight years divs.
in both cases have been 8 p.c.
* * * ♦
The 12s. 6d. shares of Castlemaine
Perkins, the bigger Brisbane brewery, are
selling at 20s. Last year an 8 p.c. div.
was paid out of earnings disclosed at
9.4 p.c. on capital—after setting aside a
sum for taxation (apart from excise)
equal to over 7 p.c. on capital. The scrip
returns 5 p.c. at present price and div.,
and should be an excellent holding pro-
position. The co. has a strong grip on
the trade in the northern State, through
its tied hotels and otherwise.
* * * ♦
The cut in John McGrath’s interim div.
to 6 p.c. p.a. (against 10 p.c. p.a. this
time last year) disappointed the market,
which also got no solace from the an-
nouncement that, “with regard to rumors
of a further issue of shares, the directors
wish to state that they have not con-
sidered any such new issue.” It is pro-
posed, however, to increase the nominal
capital of the subsidiary, Commercial
Steels and Forge Co. (Australia) Pty.,
from £lOO,OOO to £500,000, and to issue
100,000 of the additional shares. By
reason of the depressed state of the motor
trade, it is expected the parent will have
enough funds from liquidation of stocks
and debtors to take up its quota of this issue.
* * * *
The City of Melbourne cash and con-
version loan—£2ls,ooo at p.c., 10 years
—was fully subscribed. It is the lowest
interest rate for public-body borrowing
in modern times.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
SOVIET-JAPANESE RELATIONS.
[Cabled last week that the Japanese Foreign Minister,
Mr. Matsuoka, had said that “Japan desires to remove
mutual misunderstanding, and, if possible, bring about
fundamental and far-reaching adjustment in the diplo-
matic relations with Russia.” Also that the Soviet-
Japan Fishing Agreement had been renewed, and that
Chiang Kai-shek was having further trouble with the
Communist section of his forces. In the article here
condensed from the New York “Herald Tribune”
supplement Alexander Nazaroff examines what he holds
to be the recent very considerable improvement in the
relationships of Russia and Japan and the possible
consequences.]
Enmity between the Soviet Union and Japan has
existed for so many years, and relations between the
two countries have so often verged on war, that Eng-
land and America have got used to taking that state
of affairs for granted. Thus when Germany, Italy and
Japan signed their triangular alliance —an alliance
which incorporated the Far East into the orbit of the
European War —it was believed that the new pact was
directed against Russia as much as against the United
States, and that it would eventually push the Soviets to
the Anglo-American side of the fence. Unless we
want to run the risk of wishful thinking that view
must be studied carefully.
The first indications that a Soviet-Japanese
rapprochement was in the making began to crop up
early in 1940, when Moscow and Tokyo suddenly
found an amicable way of settling a number of minor,
yet significant, issues which for years had poisoned
their relations. Thus, after an unjustifiable default of 21
months, Tokyo paid Moscow the remaining 5,809,565
yen due for the Chinese Eastern Railway (in Man-
churia). The Soviets returned the courtesy by giving
Japan important fishing rights. Also, the old
frontier dispute over the region between Manchu-
kuo and Sovietised Mongolia—which resulted in
bloody fighting between the Red and the Japanese
armies in 1939 —is being amicably settled. From
1934 to the end of 1939, relations between Mos-
cow and Tokyo were marked by “frontier inci-
dents” that involved casualties on both sides.
Almost 300 of these incidents occurred each year ;
they seem to have ceased completely.
On August 1, 1940, Molotov delivered a
speech in which he not only noted “the normali-
sation of relations” between the Soviets and Japan,
but also said that, “if both sides respected each
other’s interests,” these relations could be “still
further improved.” Moreover, he dropped a hint
that, should Japan choose to expand southward
(into the sphere of Anglo-American interests, and
not north-westward, which might threaten Russian
interests), nothing would stand in the way of
Soviet-Japanese friendship. The Japanese press
took up the subject of a non-aggression pact with
the Soviets, and a new ambassador, Lieutenant-
General Takekawa, known as a pro-Russian, was
dispatched to Moscow. Finally, during Molotov’s
visit to Berlin, no secret was made of the fact that
the Soviet Union’s co-operation with Japan was
among the issues discussed.
Whether or not this Russo-Japanese co-opera-
tion has yet been cast into the concrete form of a
non-aggression pact or some other such document
seems to me to be immaterial. For I am con-
vinced that the rapprochement is already there.
Unless Japan collapses as a result of some ex-
traneous factor, such as war with a third Power or
revolution, it would seem probable that the Soviets
intend to remain at peace, to maintain good relations
and to intensify their trade with her at least until after
1942. For not until that time will Russia be prepared
to engage in any large-scale conflict in the Far East.
This I believe to be Moscow’s minimum programme.
Its maximum programme I believe to be much
wider. Should Japan prove to be “amenable to reason,”
the Soviets might not be averse to a permanent poli-
tical co-operation in Asia based on the division of
China into Russian and Japanese “zones of interests.”
The old enmity between Russia and Japan was
rooted in a grave conflict of their vital interests in the
Far East. Russia has always striven to reach the
shores of the Pacific Ocean, and to establish herself
there, for Russia’s economic development in the next
100 years is bound to depend largely upon the ex-
ploitation of the huge and potentially rich eastern
Siberia and of her other Asiatic possessions. Eastern
Siberia can be fully exploited only if it has
Coast outlets; shipping all its products by rail to
European Russia would be prohibitively expensive.
On the other hand, Japan must either expand from
its overpopulated islands to the shores of Asia —those
shores in which Russia has been so vitally interested—
or, eventually, suffocate.
The long and difficult war that Japan is waging
in China has had an important side-effect which is
often overlooked: it has eliminated Tokyo’s potential
threat to Moscow not only for the time being, but for
some years to come. As long as war in China is in
progress, Tokyo certainly will not seek to multiply its
troubles by attacking the Soviets. If Japan wins the
war —or remains master of the huge and very rich
slice of China that she now holds —she will for all
present purposes have no need for attacking Russia’s
Far Eastern possessions. If she loses the war, she
will have no strength for attack.
It is this hew situation that has made the present
Soviet-Japanese rapprochement possible. But this may
be asked: Granting it is true that Japan no longer
threatens Russia, is it certain that the Soviets do not
contemplate an aggressive war against Japan? Would
not Moscow want to recapture Port Arthur, the
Kwantung Peninsula and other assets that imperial
Russia lost in 1904? If ever the Soviets did harbor
such intentions this certainly does not seem to be the
time to carry them out. For at the moment they are
far from being ready for a serious aggressive war in
e . Far E * s [ Meanwhile, serious as her difficulties in
China may be, Japan has by no means come near the
end of her military might and resources—Moscow is
under no iH usion as to that. j apan cou l d probably
„ , ■ • .. c , . A ",
achieve a superiority of neaily two to one. And
1200 miles of the Trans-Siberian Railroad runs within
65 miles of the border of Manchukuo. What havoc
Japanese raiding parties and aviation could play with
, ° v .. . r
now or vital supplies.
An aggressive war against the much better situated
Japan would be fought with such risks for the Soviets
that, for the present, it seems fairly safe to rule it out
of their plans.
After 1942 the picture will begin to change. Until
then the Soviets must maintain good relations
and, above all, considerably intensified trade with
Japan. The latter is a very important point. Until the
beginning of 1940, commerce between the two coun-
tries lagged ; but since then the Soviets have decided
that it was far more convenient and less expensive to
buy many of the articles needed for their rapid indus-
trialisation of the Far East from Japan than to ship
them from European Russia. Accordingly, a policy
of good relations and intensified trade with Japan is
the road that Russia seems due to travel.
Does it mean that the Soviets would be eager to
fight Japan after 1942, when they are more or less
ready? I doubt that very much. Since the very begin-
ning of Japanese aggression in China, Soviet spokes-
rnen and papers have been loudly voicing their sym-
pathy for its victims and condemning Tokyo s im-
perialists.” Moreover, Moscow has been supplying
Chiang Kai-shek s Government and armies with war-
—New York “Journal and American.”
STEP BY STEP.
planes, armaments, technical experts and what not —
that is to say, it has been indirectly fighting Japan.
The conclusion usually drawn from these facts is that
the Soviet Union wants to see China’s victory and
Japan’s defeat. It is a logical conclusion; but is it
also a correct one? I am not sure.
It has not always been fun for Russia to have a
powerful Japanese nation of 72,000,000 men as her
next-door neighbor in the Far East. But would it be
fun for her to live beside 466,000,000 Chinese consoli-
dated into one powerful State by victory over Japan?
And China has strong territorial claims against Russia.
Is it, then, such a neighbor that Stalin and his lieu-
tenants crave in the Far East? The answer seems to
be obvious.
On the other hand, the Soviets would not want
Japan to swallow China whole and eventually to
digest her entire potential strength. That is why—in
order to limit the scope of the Japanese aggression—
they have been helping China.
I believe the Soviets wish one of two things:
either the endless continuation of the Sino-Japanese
struggle, with no decision one way or the other ; or,
better still, a gradual partition of China between Russia
and Japan, with a weak Chinese buffer State left in
between. It is significant that such a partition of
China has been virtually in progress for some time.
A mixed Soviet-Japanese commission is now
working on the demarcation of the frontier between
Manchukuo and Soviet Mongolia. Whose territory is
it that Moscow and Tokyo are thus “amicably” divid-
ing? China’s territory, of course.
Before 1931 (the year of the Japanese aggression
in Manchuria) the Chinese Governments of Peiping
and Nanking protested time and again against the
camouflaged Soviet annexation of Mongolia. So the
question may well be asked: if China should win the
war, would she not reopen her claim on Mongolia?
For sections of Mongolia and all of Tannu-Tuva are
very rich in copper, tin, lead, gold, silver and other
mineral resources.
Much has been written about the Soviet penetra-
tion into Sinkiang, a huge Chinese province lying im-
mediately south and south-west of Mongolia, and into
the neighboring province of Kansu. Of these prov-
inces, at least Sinkiang is to a great extent under Rus-
sian control. There are Soviet airports, filling stations,
depots and settlements there ; Red Army units guard
caravan paths ; Soviet engineers carry on prospecting
for oil, coal, etc. There is, of course, a plausible ex-
cuse for it: it is through Sinkiang that Soviet trucks
carry war materials to Chiang Kai-shek’s army. But
penetration is penetration.
Do not these facts suggest that Moscow and
Tokyo may eventually reach a secret accord on a
major programme of co-operation in China? Tokyo
might receive the Soviet blessing for expansion in the
east of China as far south along the Pacific shores
as it pleased. For their part, the Soviets might “pene-
trate” in the west from Sinkiang to Tibet and still
farther south —possibly to the shores of British-
controlled Burma.
The Soviets possess a very effective weapon for
bringing pressure to bear upon China. The Chinese
Communist party, which forms the left wing of sup-
porters of the Chungking Government, and the two
Chinese Communist armies that are incorporated into
Chiang Kai-shek’s forces are said to be more loyal to
Moscow than to China. Relations between these Com-
munist elements and the rest of Chiang Kai-shek’s sup-
porters have always been bad ; there have even been
minor clashes between China’s Communist and non-
Communist troops.
Should the Soviets come to terms with Japan,
could they not easily cause the two Communist armies
to rebel against the Generalissimo? Moscow, of
course, could also cut the flow of its supplies to him.
To find a pretext for such moves should be easy for
the Kremlin.
Chiang Kai-shek’s non-Communist supporters,
and probably also the Generalissimo himself, are fully
aware of the Soviet infiltration into Sinkiang and the
ambiguous role of the Chinese Communists. But what
can they do? They are in a tragic predicament. With-
out Soviet war materials they would find it difficult to
go on fighting. In dividing China with Japan, Stalin
probably would remain “neutral,” as he remained
while dividing Eastern Europe with Germany.
I know that the picture of Far Eastern proba-
bilities that I have drawn is not a pleasant one. And
I wish I were wrong. But such is the conclusion that
I draw from a careful analysis.
U.S. Cotton via Russia.
[Whooping about the re-signing of the Russo-German
“Pact of Friendship,” Moscow papers listed among the
increased supplies Soviet Russia now proposed sending
to Germany “large quantities of cotton.” A Bulletin
comment added “presumably American.” A New York
“Post” article now to hand gives the following infor-
mation.]
The U.S. is sending cotton —an essential war com-
modity— to Nazi Germany at the rate of about 50,000
bales a month. The cotton is moving by way of
Soviet Russia at considerable cost to the Germans.
American merchants are making a normal profit on
the transactions.
These facts are established by a study of official
figures of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the
Department of Commerce and the New York Cotton
Exchange. The figures show that:
(1) For the first time since 1934, Russia is buying
cotton in large quantities from the U.S.
(2) For the first time in many years, Germany is
buying cotton in large quantities from Russia.
There’s no way of proving the final destination
of the actual cotton shipped to Russia. It might go
on to Germany or it might merely replace Soviet-
grown cotton furnished to the Nazis. It makes no
difference which method is used. The point is that
U.S. merchants, either unwittingly or with their
tongues in their cheeks, are carrying on business with
the Nazis through the “back door.”
The Soviets don’t need U.S. cotton. In no season
since 1934 has Russia purchased as much as 1000
bales from the U.S.A. Yet in October, 1940, Russia
suddenly evinced a great interest in American cotton,
buying 54,000 bales in that one month. In November,
it bought 44,761 bales. Up to mid-December, its pur-
chases, according to the New York Cotton Exchange,
amounted to 30,000 bales.
Nearly 129,000 bales in less than three months!
More than Russia’s total purchases in the record
1934-35 buying season. More than the “private cotton”
purchases of any other nation, including Great Britain.
By themselves, these figures might indicate only
that Russia has found some mysterious use for tre-
mendous amounts of cotton —say, in armament manu-
facture or in industrial production. But placed next
to the records on Russian exports of cotton to Ger-
many, they take on a new and significant meaning.
At the same moment that Russia entered the
American cotton market, it began exporting huge
amounts of the commodity to Germany for the first
time in years. According to an authoritative report
from Switzerland, Russia today is sending 100,000
bales of cotton a month to the Nazis.
That total is extraordinary, for it represents more
than 25 per cent, of the Soviet’s entire cotton pro-
duction. The conclusion is inescapable: directly or
indirectly, the U.S.A. is helping to supply the Nazi
war machine with desperately-needed cotton.
England’s Defence Armies.
(Condensed from an article by the London “Daily
Telegraph” war correspondent .)
By far the greatest army that England has ever
contained within its borders is strung along the coastal
defences and swarms in the counties inland. The
transformation that war and the Army have wrought
on the holiday beaches of England is something that
cannoi be gone into with detail. There is something
very touching and also heroic about the present deso-
late and forbidding aspect of all those scenes of former


happy indolence and lightheartedness. Now they speak
of the toil of the Army on the defence works put
up in the summer, and of the present incessant watch
and ward.
The general picture of the Army’s activity has
greatly changed in the last month or so. July and
August saw the problem of the beaches in the fore-
ground. Today—and this is indicative of the advance
in strength—one finds the emphasis laid on the mobile
forces inland.
It is to be an easy winter for no one, even though
there be no invasion. But in recent weeks 1 have
been the guest of two battalions filling very different
roles, and it happened that both the R.S.Ms. made
to me remarks which I found very pleasant to hear.
One of these battalions is a young East Anglian
unit which has recently been entrusted with a stretch
of coast which it is bound to defend to its last gasp.
The natural beauty of the scene is greater than the
urban amenities, which, in fact, do not exist.
It is just the place for the man who cares for
nothing so much as communing with wind and wave ;
but not all recruits are of that sort. Watch and ward
will necessarily become monotonous as the nights
lengthen, and it is a Jong way to the nearest Palais
de Danse. But the regimental sergeant-major was
entirely sure of the temper of the new men.
“My job for donkey’s years,” he said, “has been
licking territorials into shape, so I know what I am
talking about when I say that you could not find a
more willing or useful lot of fellows that these ‘27’s
and 28’s.’ 1 don’t suppose one of them had ever slept
out of his bed all his life till he was called up, but
1 believe every man jack thinks of nothing so much
as doing the job in hand properly.”
When last 1 had met the commanding officer of
the battalion he was a company commander last
winter in the British sector of the Moselle. Two of
his sergeants were decorated with the Military Medal
in the fighting in France in the spring.
Thus is exemplified the formation of new units
within a cadre of veterans. The war in France was
short; but the severity of the experience has earned
for the B.E.F. the prestige of veterans in the eyes of
the new classes.
The other battalion I visited, one of North Coun-
trymen, represented the very extreme of mobility ; it
was a battalion of motor-cyclists, formed to play the
part of divisional cavalry, and on the day I was with
them their exercise was the tackling of an assumed
landing of German parachutists.
It was an astonishment, if one were new to the
developments of the motor-cycle in war, to find what
these cycles and sidecars were capable of in rough
country —bowling across scrubby heather and actually
negotiating ditches after the fashion of a caterpillar-
carrier.
The R.S.M. told me that their machines were the
men’s personal pride and hobby. “Mostly,” he said,
“they are miners, and this is a new life for them.
There is no time to be bored. They know they have
got the pick of the jobs in the army, tearing about
here, there and everywhere. And it isn’t that they
haven’t seen what’s what. We were in the thick of
things in France.”
The army looks admirably fit.
A German Appeals to Germans.
[This item is from “an appeal to the German people”
published in New York “Herald Tribune” on Christmas
Day and written by the foremost German novelist,
Thomas Mann, now in exile in the U.S.A. Its import-
ance lies not so much in any likelihood of its influenc-
ing those to whom it is addressed as in the probability
that a fair number of Germans must share the views and
feelings its author expresses.]
So now once more you prepare for the Christian,
the Germanic, feast, for the second time in the war
your present leaders have foisted upon you and the
world. Grieving, many of you, for sons and fathers
perished in the onslaught upon your neighbors ; heavy-
hearted surely all of you at the thought of how long
this is to go on and to what it will come at the last.
You lay out the presents; they will be rather
sparse, for good things are not easy to come by,
though your masters in your name have plundered the
Continent they have overrun. But the Christmas
candles burn. Tell me how by their light do the deeds
look to you which your leaders have forced you as a
nation to commit in the last year? How do they look,
all the vilenesses they deliberately have made you
guilty of, the fathomless misery and human anguish
which National Socialist Germany—a Germany no
longer permitted to be either German or Christian —
has piled up all round its borders? Tell me, how do
these deeds harmonise with the beautiful old hymns
you are singing with your children, your own hearts
full of sweet, childlike emotion? Or do you no longer
sing the old songs? Instead of “Holy Night,” have
they ordered you to sing the bloodthirsty party hymn
of hate, a hodgepodge of street songs and cheap tabloid
propaganda that take an obscure good-for-nothing and
make out of him a mythical hero? I doubt not you
will obey, for your submissiveness is boundless and
grows, let me tell you, every day harder to forgive.
Boundless, well-nigh unforgivable, is your trust —
or, rather, let us say, your credulity. You believe a
miserable forger of history, a counterfeit conqueror,
when he tells you that through him and through you
a world shall dawn where all those values will have
perished that make not only a Christian a Christian
but quite simply a human being a human being: I
mean justice, freedom and truth. You believe him
when he says that he, the man of the millennia, is
come to put himself in Christ’s place and to substi-
tute for the gospel of the brotherhood of man in God
the code of body and soul destroying force. You
believe him when he says you are the masterfolk,
called to the creation of a “new order,” where all the
other peoples shall toil for you, as slaves. And as
slaves of his unholy fanaticism you go fighting on,
berserkerlike, for this hideous new order —for a world,
that is. wherein to celebrate the feast of peace and
love would be a far worse blasphemy even than it
is today.
But, above all, you believe that it would be the
end of the German people, that it would be all over
with them for ever were they not to “win” this war.
In other words, if they were not to follow a criminal
madman through thick and thin and to the uttermost
end —an end which will not, I should say, look much
like a triumph. Yet he tells you this, so that you may
consider your fate indissolubly bound up with his own
—a fate sealed, indeed, when the confidently awaited
end arrives and his fine-laid schemes suffer shipwreck.
In that highly probable event, the kindest thing that can
happen to him is that his name be quite forgot.
But you? But you yourselves? So it would be
the end of you, the end of your existence as Germans,
were not this man, but rather reason and human de-
cency, to prevail? No! A new beginning of German
life it would be, the winter solstice, new living, new
hope, new joy! For in our—not the National-Socialist
—new order, of justice and the common weal, of
responsible freedom and free responsibility for all, a
new order for which a socially regenerate England
fights, and with her a richly resourceful world, you
will find your proper place—that “place in the sun”
which no one can attain by shrouding the world in
terroristic darkness. In this new order opportunities
for self-realisation, for the satisfaction of your deep-
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
CUTTING THEIR PUDDING BEFORE ITS COOKED.
est needs, will be open to you, quite different from
those in the world of slaves, where your role would
be that of chief slave.
Do we not all know that it does not make you
happy at all to act as the enemy of mankind —that at
bottom you find it a desperate and frightful misery?
1 live in the world from which, though you belong to
it, you are shut off ; I know, and I say to you: Never
will that world accept or tolerate the “new order,”
the sub-human terrorist Utopia for the sake of which
your leaders are driving you to starve and die. Never
will the great Christian peoples of the world suffer it
that peace, when it comes—and it is longed for by
you, too —shall be celebrated upon the grave of free-
dom and human dignity.
In the next few years you can, if you will, multiply
tenfold the sum of human agony which by your
credulous submissiveness you have already brought
about. But in the fullness of time the measure will
be the measure of your own agony. And how, at the
end of all the madness, things will be in Germany—
of that one cannot bear to think.
Italy’s Economic Plight.
(From a New York ‘‘Journal of Commerce” article.)
Far more serious to Italy than the military re-
verses she has suffered is her economic plight. To a
greater extent than any other major country in Europe,
Italy depends upon imported raw materials for her in-
dustries and army. Coal, iron and other metals,
petroleum, lumber and cotton must all be brought in
from abroad. Furthermore, the larger part of Italy’s
imports was normally seaborne, less than 20 p.c. of
her.purchases of foreign goods having come from Ger-
many in the pre-war period.
Blockade virtually ended Italian overseas imports.
Petroleum has been obtainable only from Albania,
whose oil is relatively poor in quality, and Rumania,
supplies from which are required by Germany. As a
current study by the U.S. Department of Commerce
points out, shipments by rail of 1,000,000 tons of coal
monthly from Germany severely strain the rail links
between the two countries.
Italy ostensibly openly prepared for aggressive
warfare for years before she entered the present con-
flict. However, her ability to accumulate adequate
reserves of raw materials was severely hampered by
lack of foreign exchange, and by the drain of her
other wars. Like the French, the Italians greatly
underestimated the material requirements of modern
warfare.
The absence of striking power in the Italian army
and navy probably stems in large part from the lack
of adequate supplies of needed raw materials. Military
strategy doubtless is severely handicapped by the need
for limiting consumption of petroleum and other
strategic supplies. Germany made herself self-sufficient
as regards a wide variety of raw materials before she
declared war, and now draws upon the resources of
the greater part of Europe to supplement her own pro-
duction. Unless Italy receives substantial economic aid
from Germany, her economic position may become in-
tolerable, making it necessary for her to withdraw
from active hostilities, either through the adoption of
a purely defensive strategy or the negotiation of an
armistice with Great Britain. Whether or not such an
outcome can be brought about without internal poli-
tical upheavals is yet to be seen.
The Empire and World Order.
[Since the collapse of France, and with it the
puncturing of the policy of Continental alliances, and
with this again the notable improvement in unfettered
Britain’s war performance, there has been a continuous
strengthening of the belief that a great future lies ahead
of a united British Empire. London “Times,” in the
article here condensed, looks to that future, with
particular reference to the “world order” fetish of
League of Nations Unionists and their kin.]
As Bismarck united Germany through Prussian
might, so Nazi Germany through her might has set out
to unite Europe. The plan is coherent as well as
bold. If we are to defeat it, we too must
have a vision of the future rooted in our
own tradition. The British Empire and
Commonwealth is inspired by very different
ideals, and built on very different founda-
tions, from those of Bismarck’s Reich. These
ideals, these foundations, have stood the
test. We believe in them. It would be folly
to toss them aside in favor of unknown and
untried devices for the creation of a new
world.
The British achievement in what used
to be called “empire-building” has been ad-
mired and envied in foreign countries —not
least in Germany—more often than it has
been understood. Some still think of one-
quarter of the earth’s surface painted red
and labelled “British possessions.” Others,
more sophisticated, have read into the his-
tory of the last 100 years a revolt of these
former possessions—a revolt, they think,
which has already destroyed the reality of a
British Empire and will shortly reduce Great
Britain to the dimensions of a small island
Power. Others again, encouraged by an
unfortunate British habit of nonchalance,
are content to believe that the British Empire
is a unique and incomprehensible accident,
and can therefore teach nothing in regard to
the establishment of a world order in which
the uninitiated foreigner will be in a
majority.
It is odd that this peculiar taint of
British insularity should be supposed to
attach to an institution about which some
wit has probably already remarked that it
is neither British nor an Empire. Racial
homogeneity is the exception even in those
countries predominantly peopled by settlers
from Europe. In South Africa those of
British stock are well in a minority
among the white population. Canada, apart from the
original juxtaposition of British and French settlers,
has shared with the United States the tradition of
offering a haven of refuge to representatives of many
European nations. In the diversity of its peoples the
British Empire is already the prototype of an inter-
national order.
The same may be said of its geographical disper-
sion. The conception, popularised by Germany and
Japan, of continental blocs is wholly artificial and has
no root in economic realities. It may be rash to assume
that any international order which we may be able to
establish after the war will be coterminous with the
world. But it cannot at any rate be limited by con-
tinents, The British Commonwealth has never allowed
itself to be circumscribed by geographical limitations,
precisely because it has never claimed to form a geo-
graphical bloc. The status of Canada as an American
nation is enhanced, not diminished, by her status as
a member of the British Commonwealth.
Throughout the Empire this natural diversity is
matched by an equally striking diversity of institutions.
Students of the practice of the League of Nations, as
well as of innumerable theories of world government
propounded in recent years, are familiar with the em-
barrassments inherent in the attempt to mould the
whole world, or even whole continents, into a uniform
pattern. One of the most vital lessons which the
British Commonwealth can teach the world is that
there is no single formula of international order. An-
other is the emptiness of formal commitments. In the
heyday of the League it was sometimes remarked that,
while nations having little in common rushed eagerly
at Geneva to assume obligations of mutual assistance
or compulsory arbitration of disputes, members of
the British Commonwealth steadfastly refused to accept
any such engagements towards one another. This
paradox deserves to be deeply pondered. The struc-
ture upheld by solemn constitutional commitments col-
lapsed as soon as danger loomed on the horizon. The
structure built on the habit of uncovenanted co-opera-
tion to meet practical needs stands more solid than
ever in the hour of peril.
If therefore we wish to apply to the international
problem the lessons of the British Empire and the
Commonwealth, we shall carefully eschew any pre-
conceived institutional framework and not seek to im-
pose on the world any uniform pattern of organisation.
Habit is the most powerful of all factors in creating
stable institutions. The close of the war will leave us
with a multitude of urgent needs to be met in many
countries —the relief of hunger, the struggle against
disease, the reorganisation of transport, the mainten-
ance of order, and the return to civil life. Co-operation


on an international scale —most notably with the
United States —will be imperative if we are to deal
effectively with these problems ; and out of this prac-
tical co-operation a framework of organisation must
be allowed to develop by stages. Several thoughtful
writers have urged that a settlement of the territorial
problems of Europe should be delayed after the end
of the war until passions have had time to cool. The
same delay, though for rather different reasons, may
well be desirable in the building of an international
order. In any statement of our peace aims today
some definition of the direction in which we propose
to move is perhaps more important, as well as more
practicable, than a definition of the goal at which we
hope to arrive.
Most essential, however, as the foundation of an
international order are those principles for which the
British Commonwealth stands. There are still blots
which have to be erased —backward peoples under
British rule whose backwardness is, in part at any rate,
a reproach to ourselves. But today Great Britain and
her partners in the Commonwealth stand, with the
other great English-speaking community, for known
values which are sharply contrasted with those of the
dictators. The contrast may perhaps best be summed
up as a difference in the respective attitudes to the use
of power. If the power of Britain were destroyed,
the British Commonwealth of Nations would cease to
exist. In this sense it is founded on power, just as
the predominant influence of the United States in the
Western Hemisphere is founded on power. But this
power is not naked force aiming at the predominance
of a single group or single race of men. It has been
harnessed to certain ideals which are, slowly and im-
perfectly, coming to fulfilment —the ideals of equal
care for the needs of all, of equal opportunity for the
capacities of all, of government by and for the gov-
erned, of free collaboration between peoples, and of
the principle of trusteeship for those not yet mature
enough to speak for themselves. Such power is the
symbol, not of oppression, but of hope.
Germany’s Substitutes Industry.
(Condensed from an article by the Manchester
“Guardian’s” scientific correspondent.)
The German chemical industry is the core of the
scientific part of the German war machine. The
damage done to it is difficult to assess accurately, but
it seems certain that a multitude of factories, utilising
the most complicated scientific processes and organ-
ised to work together down to the minutest detail, is
particularly susceptible to dislocation. An exception-
ally effective instrument so long as its refined organ-
isation and highly-skilled staff are not interfered with,
its efficiency may decline catastrophically after the
internal organisation of the laboratories and shops
inside the factories has been upset and communications
between the factories in different parts of the country
have been cut. The army of chemists, many of whom
are engaged in severe mental work, will be exposed
to nervous strain, and it seems probable that the
higher the grade of work the more it will suffer.
The American Chemical Society’s journals have
published a review (by William A. Hamor, of the
Mellon Institute, Pittsburg) of the condition of the
German chemical industry in the period before it was
directly attacked, and they have also published a
number of observations on German chemical develop-
ments by American Consuls in Germany.
In 1939 the German chemical industry employed
582.000 persons, including 12,000 professional chemists.
The output of carbide and cyanamide increased from
275.000 tons in 1929 to more than 1,000,000 tons in
1939. Acetylene, which is the raw material of buna,
the German synthetic rubber, is easily obtained from
carbide. Germany’s annual need of rubber is 100,000
tons. One quarter of this is provided by buna. But
it was planned to increase the output of buna to
60.000 tons by the end of 1940.
Germany’s output of synthetic petrol in 1939 is
said to have been 2,500,000 tons, and Hamor reports
the opinion that she will not be handicapped by lack
of aviation fuels, as she should be able to manufac-
ture fuel of the appropriate quality from Rumanian
and Russian petroleum. Some authorities think, how-
ever, that the shortage of liquid fuels will be desperate
if the war lasts three years. Alcohol is no longer added
to petrol in the northern provinces, but lead tetraethyl
is. Bromine is required in the manufacture of lead
tetraethyl, and a new method of deriving it from the
potash deposits has been worked out. A new bromine
antiseptic has been introduced to replace iodine.
It is well known that small quantities of castor
oil greatly increase the oiliness or lubricating power
of lubricating oils, especially in aircraft engines. The
Germans claim to have found a satisfactory substitute
for castor oil by treating petroleum lubricating oil
with electric discharges.
A model research plant at Dendendorf has worked
on both the production and use of wool substitute
made from wood. This material is the mainstay of
the German clothing industry, though the annual pro-
duction of 200,000 tons does not meet the demand.
Chemists have recently found that they can also make
this wool substitute from potato leaves. A similar
substitute for jute is also being manufactured. The
Germans make a wool substitute from milk casein
named tiolan and another product named Pe-Ce from
polyvinyl chloride, which resists acids but will not
stand ironing. Fishing nets are made out of it.
Enormous bearings two feet wide for big machines
are being made out of wood which has been impreg-
nated with resin and highly compressed. Synthetic
waxes for replacing carnauba wax in polishes and
creams are being made from mineral paraffin. Efforts
are being made to increase the production of synthetic
fatty acids from paraffin to 40,000 tons to replace
organic fats used in soap manufacture. Germany’s
annual consumption of fats in industry is 400,000 tons,
of which about 60 p.c. to 70 p.c. is used in soap.
Fish protein is being used as a substitute for the
yolks of eggs. Glycerine is being produced from sugar
beets by fermentation. Sweet fodder for cattle is
being produced from wood, and a fodder named
“amino chips” from sugar beets and synthetic urea.
At the present time, when there is such a demand
for boards of pressed materials for stopping up win-
dows, it is interesting to see that the German produc-
tion of pressed boards will be increased from 46,000
tons to 75,000 tons.
Even before the chemical industry was attacked
industrial accidents to workers were increasing, and
on the average every German worker was losing more
than two weeks a year through sickness. An industry
which was already showing signs of strain may rapidly
deteriorate when directly attacked, in spite of an
immense accumulation of skill and capital.
Tube ‘‘Night Life.”
(From an article by a London A.R.P. correspondent in
Manchester “Guardian.”)
Tube “night life” is beginning to assume a regular
form. There is no noise of bombs and barrage, but
there is the traffic of train and passenger. Though
most of the shelterers stay put, some of the younger
take trips not only to friends on their own platform,
but sometimes to friends at other stations.
Patrons of those 80 stations which can give ade-
quate shelter now go fairly regularly to the same sta-
tions and to the same places on the platform or in the
corridors. Queues for admittance form early, but the
London Transport Board is lenient, and they wind into
the bowels of the earth about 3.30. Down below a
blanket or a bag is sometimes left to mark a berth
while the owner emerges for a spell on other business
than keeping a place. Nor is the claim often jumped.
Much going and coming is not allowed by the officials.
It is especially put down on the part of children or at
the rush hours.
The shelterers below are ruled by the station-
master, who usually is in charge of more than one
station, and by his foreman porter, assisted where
necessary by the police (women as well as men). In
addition there are shelter wardens from the various
“WHAT HO, CAESAR!”
local authorities to help. The atmosphere is generally
a friendly one. Disputes are determined by the station
staff, police or wardens, with the surrounding shel-
terers as an unofficial jury. Usually from them comes
the final word that silences the inevitable backchat
from the rebuked shelterer.
Government is tolerant. Gambling is stopped as
soon as it is discovered, and sharks are recommended
to take the fresh air. A quiet game of solo, however,
is regarded with a friendly eye. Drunkenness is severely
and speedily dealt with, and the general expression
of ill-will which it encounters from the vast majority
is usually as effective as the methods of the law. The
occasional bottle of beer is regarded with acquiescence
by the police and with envy by the public.
On Saturday nights there is something of an in-
flux of fish and chips, with sweets for the children.
Music is allowed and welcomed, provided the musi-
cians stop when the vast majority want to go to sleep,
which is about ten, and provided there is no attempt
to take a collection. There is singing, with an occa-
sional chorus for “the ladies only,” which takes the
place of a comic turn, judging by the subsequent
laughter. Favorite tunes vary from station to station.
By eleven most of the shelterers are asleep. The
later tube services are now much reduced for lack of
passengers, so there is not much noise from them to
wake the sleepers. Maintenance gangs still carry on
their work on track and cables and clear the litter
which a few careless hands still throw on the track.
Hitler’s “League of Nations.”
(From a New York “Times” article.)
The same sardonic theatricalism that impelled
Hitler to force the French to capitulate in the famous
armistice car in the forest of Compiegne inspires the
Germans to describe the bloc they are imposing on
Europe as a “league of nations.” This is the brand of
satire the Nazis relish ; it illuminates the real charac-
ter of a revolution motivated by a spirit of vengeance
and directed by a leader driven ahead by the desire
to get even with the rest of the world.
Applying the name of League of Nations to a
forced draft of conscript States emphasises as well as
anything the quality of Hitler’s new order. As he in-
corporates Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria into the
system, encircles Yugoslavia as Sweden is encircled,
puts the pressure of all on resistant Greece, the whole
continent will be bound by a silence as complete as
the tomb-like quiet of the occupied lands. One voice
—very loud and familiar —will speak for all. No State
can keep out of this “league,” or get out once it is in ;
none, we are told, can maintain even a “silent partner-
ship with the British firm” and play even its mum and
minor role in the future of Europe.
Opposition to Britain is, in fact, the only binding
principle. Hitler’s league is simply a war front against
the British. It is significant that the new continental
order begins “west of Russia,” and in this connection
the most interesting item in the announcements from
Berlin is the statement in one of the most conserva-
tive of Nazi organs, the “Hamburger Fremdenblatt,”
that recent diplomatic developments in Europe and
also in the Far East are proceeding “with the authori-
tative co-operation and full approval of the Soviet
Union.” There is no reason to doubt that Stalin,
whose policy is dictated by fear of Hitler, has given the
go-ahead signal. That circumstance simply adds the
plaster cornice to a fake structure, exhibited before
the foundation stone is laid and doomed to fall long
before it is built.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
In London’s most severely bombed districts the
National A.R.P. for Animals Committee is busily en-
gaged rescuing dogs and cats left among the ruins.
One of the societies constantly patrolling these areas
with four or five vans has during the worst periods
collected as many as 100 or 150 animals a day to be
painlessly destroyed. It is difficult work, as dogs and,
still more, cats become wilder and harder to handle as
the bombing goes on. —Manchester “Guardian
London correspondent.
The London Passenger Transport Board
has installed apparatus at a number of its sta-
tions where people shelter, brings food to them
every day by train, and employs a staff of
green-aproned women with red handkerchiefs
round their heads to wait on the hungry
crowds. From large long-spouted pots tea or
cocoa (at Id. per cup) is poured into waiting
mugs. For Ud. you can get a mug of milk
for the children, and all you spend to get the
baby’s bottle warmed is a polite word to one
of the waitresses. From the shoulders of the
waitresses hang basket trays filled with cake
and buns at Id., apples at \\d., cold meat pies
at Ud., bars of chocolate (2d.) and packets of
biscuits (2d.). Soon it is hoped to offer hot
soup, hot meat pies and sausage rolls. — Man-
chester “Guardian” London correspondent.
* * » *
Contracts have been signed for the largest
single order for serge battle-dress placed
since the war began —5,000,000 jackets and
6.000. trousers. Nearly 250 clothing con-
tractors, in England, Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland, will be engaged on the
work. The 9000 miles of serge, taking 10,000
tons of wool required, will be manufactured
by 150 firms. Nine thousand miles of lining
material will also be used. More than
200.000. brass buttons will be sewn on the
uniforms. — London “Daily Telegraph.”
* * * *
“London is being bombed nightly and yet
the courts are dealing with 1000 cases a week
of people who won’t properly screen their
lights,” said Sir Gervais Rentoul at Maryle-
bone Police Court. “Unless there is an improvement
exemplary penalties will have to be imposed. We
must have an absolute blackout.” — London “Daily
Telegraph.”
,** * * *
My company operates within the Metropolis
every night, as contractors for the principal dis-
tributors of newspapers, nearly 100 vans. The drivers
and vans leave the garages at varying times from
8 p.m. onwards and work throughout the night taking
the newspapers to railway stations and newsagents in
most parts of Greater London. The drivers do their
work entirely in the blackout hours and in the time of
the major air raids and our answering barrage. Long-
distance lorry-drivers ply both ways between London
and provincial towns, leaving one point or other in
the blackout, driving throughout the night and arriv-
ing at their destination, either London or in the prov-
inces, with important and urgent goods which have
been collected only the previous afternoon. Many
other drivers of commercial vehicles are carrying on
in difficult circumstances and are serving their coun-
try in the most effective fashion possible without regard
to the risks which of necessity they must often face.—
F. C. Arnold, Chief Engineer, Thomas Tilling, Ltd., in
London “Daily Telegraph.”
*****
Statement by C. Donald Dallas, president of
Revere Copper and Brass, Inc. (U.S.A.): “The United
States shipped 3775 tons of zinc to Japan in October,
bringing the total to 12,042 tons for the first 10 months
of the year, every pound of which was badly needed
by domestic fabricators engaged in supplying U.S.
and British defence needs. The same zinc which was
delivered to Japan was so badly needed at the time by
US brass manufacturers that fabricating plants all
over the country are being forced to curtail production
schedules when they should be increasing. The result
is that deliveries which are desperately needed by
Great Britain are being. seriously delayed. There is
available to brass manufacturers less than one-halt
of the amount of zinc needed to meet present require-
ments. — New York “Herald Tribune.”


SP ORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOU R HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Many people visited Randwick on
Saturday in the cheering belief that win-
ners would not be difficult of selection.
They reckoned that three or four races
were as nearly as possible “certainties,”
and, though they were correct in respect
of The Miller, Astrid, Beau Port and
Feminist, Caesar’s Challenge Stakes win
gave them a nasty jolt. The Elk’s forced
last-moment withdrawal from the Bondi
Handicap was rough on the books, but
their suggestion that they should be
allowed to pay out at tote odds on The
Miller did not meet with the approval of
the stipendiary stewards. It was per-
missible under the new rules, but the
stewards did not reckon it would have
been quite fair to backers of The Miller.
An attendance of 23,300 exceeded that
of the corresponding day last year by
3000, and the tote turnover was £31,399
10s. against £28,390 ss,
Few odds-on favorites at Randwick
have given a more disappointing display
than did Gold Salute in the Challenge
Stakes. Track work gave him a great
chance, but though he looked well he
ran one of the worst races of his career.
He commenced slowly, was unable to
raise sufficient pace to get further
forward than seventh at any part, and
then ran in and out down the straight.
On the other hand Trimmer showed so
much dash that he had a clear lead at the
three furlongs, and when he turned for
home ahead of Flying Knight, Waireka,
Tuhitarata and Yuletide he appeared a
certainty for a minor place at least.
However, he could not respond when
Flying Knight tackled him at the leger,
and the latter, after looking a winner,
was outstayed by Caesar, who, as in most
of his races, was a long way back at the
half-mile. Waireka and Tuhitarata, in
turn, looked a place possibility in the
straight, but Yuletide hung on well to run
third. At no stage did Panchio, Penthides
and Petruchio raise the hopes of their
backers, and the honors of the race were
entirely with Caesar and Flying Knight,
the latter carrying 41b. over weight-for-
age. As Caesar’s last two runs have re-
turned £1495 he has fully atoned for his
failures over a long period.
At the inquiry by the stipendiary
stewards into Gold Salute’s effort, owner
A. E. Cooper said that his erratic be-
havior was due to his being raced in
rings. He forgot to tell his trainer that
Gold Salute did not do well in races
when geared in that fashion.
The January Handicap proved as soft
for Feminist as the betting suggested.
Second to Breeze to the turn she went up
to the latter entering the straight and had
matters her own way over the last fur-
long. Marengo started a run at the leger,
but, failing to sustain it, was outstayed by
Breeze for second money. The time for
the mile and a quarter was 2.9|, and the
A.J.C. has rarely received such a bad
return for a £5OO open handicap.
• •••••
Crowon, who is improving with each
race, was not as much fancied as Ginger
Hugh for the Novice Handicap, but won
after a sharp tussle with Marlong, who
shared the lead with Silverpan and Melo-
rado just after entering the straight. Mar-
long stayed better than in her races at
Randwick a little while ago, and beat
Ginger Hugh for second. Still, the latter’s
run put him in line for a win in a race
of this class, and Melorado should score
at six or seven furlongs. Emerge and
Glendower, who have country form to
their credit, did not show up, and Eager
Fox is not improving.
The Elk, second favorite for the Bondi
Handicap, was kicked on the shoulder
while in the weighing-yard, and the
stewards ordered his withdrawal. In con-
sequence The Miller became a pro-
nounced first favorite, and won, after
entering the straight behind Overjoyed,
Serenade and War Trophy. After The
Miller took command War Trophy fought
on gamely, but the former was doing the
better at the winning-post.
Both Overjoyed and Serenade tired in
the straight, while Many Ways and Sally
Rich finished strongly. Overjoyed, how-
ever, should be a possibility for a six-
furlongs race in the near future. Dawn
Mary dropped to the rear early in the
piece, and was one of the tail-enders at
the winning-post.
Melvale, who ran third in the De-
cember Stakes, was expected to improve
upon that form in the Widden Handi-
cap, but, though favorite, gave his sup-
porters a disappointing run, hanging out
most of the way. Gold Strand was first
into the straight, but Beau Port had him
beaten shortly after starting upon the final
furlong, and then stalled off Henchman,
who not only lost ground through sidling
down the barrier at the start but inter-
fered with Kimbell and Prince, the last-
named doing well to get second after
being ahead of only one other runner at
the half-mile. Beau Port is a well-grown
grey colt by Beau Pere from Grey Port,
and at the yearling sales cost W. C. and
H. M. Douglass 2200gns. He is one of
the kind likely to improve with racing,
and the autumn should see him a lot
better than at present. Henchman is a
neatly-turned son of Harinero. Gold
Strand weakened at the end, and for the
time being Tanda has probably had
enough racing.
Astrid read like the winner of the Vali-
care Handicap, and the only surprise was
that Stainless paced it with her for three
furlongs. In the straight Astrid went
right away, leaving Stainless to beat Pre-
pare for second money. Melfleur was a
close fourth, but, apart from the first
two, the form was of little account.
Astrid and Beau Port made the same time
—l.2 —but the former carried 61b. more
than the latter, and won in much easier
fashion. The progeny of Brueghel (sire
of Astrid) have done sufficiently well to
assure his yearlings being in demand at
the coming sales.
Sioneel attempted to win the Padding-
ton Handicap from barrier-rise, but Beau-
caire was pressing him all the time, with
the result that Sioneel was a tired horse
commencing the final furlong. Then
Tuckerbox dashed up, quickly putting the
result beyond doubt, and further prov-
ing himself a really good mile welter
horse. Mabson ran into second place
after Tuckerbox got to the front, but did
not stand any chance of overhauling him.
Überous ran on well to take third
money from Beaucaire, who, though he
tired at the end, ran better than recently,
and, though he may never fulfil the
promise he gave early in his two-year-
old career, should add to his winning ac-
count. Speardale ran fairly, though with-
out ever being dangerous, and Climax,
though third at the turn, dropped right
out. Leeds, who was backed, has not yet
struck his old form, but Buzzal did suffi-
ciently well to suggest that his turn for a
win may not be long in coming.
* * * *
The Kurnell Handicap, run at Rand-
wick on Monday over six furlongs 17
yards, lived up to its reputation as a con-
solation event for unsuccessful runners in
the Challenge Stakes, Flying Knight, who
was just beaten by Caesar in that race on
Saturday, winning very narrowly from
Many Ways, with honest old Red Thes-
pian taking third share of the stake.
Trimmer again failed his supporters
badly. Ridden by Darby Munro, he
missed the jump, but was taken along to
make the pace with Flying Knight, who,
however, always had his measure. At
the end, as on Saturday, Trimmer
dropped right out of it. Many Ways
came with a late run and just failed to
get up.
At the V.R.C. spring racing Session
proved herself above the ordinary run
even of good ones by winning the Bur-
wood Handicap (one mile), the Wakeful
Stakes (one mile) and the Oaks (1| mile).
Next saddled up on January 18, she won
a Flying over seven furlongs at Rosehill.
She looked to have a mortgage on the
Adrian Knox Stakes (one mile 27 yards),
and had not the slightest trouble in living
up to those appearances, beating Stylish
by a clear four lengths, with the next of
the four runners, Alluring, a couple of
lengths further away.
Having at her last three starts won the
Denman Handicap, Tatt.’s Cup and the
January Handicap, all at Randwick,
Feminist looked to have as strong an
advance hold on the Anniversary Handi-
cap as Session had on the Adrian Knox
Stakes. The result was practically iden-
tical. After Yours Truly and Kurrawid
had in turn led the small field of five till
they straightened up for home, Feminist
came on the scene to win by several
lengths from Kurrawid and Tuckerbox.
* * * sl-
owing to the heavy track, which obvi-
ously upset several runners, form in the
William Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley
on Saturday might not be a good guide
to autumn sprint prospects. There was
no fluke, however, in All Veil’s decisive
win from Magic Circle and Phoines in
the slowest time in the history of the race.
He had proved himself in the mud on a
previous occasion, and if the going be soft
on Oakleigh Plate or Newmarket day
he might be more than an outside possi-
bility in either of those races.
All Veil deserved his success, which
yielded £525 in stakes, a trophy valued
at £25 and some nice bets. Three of his
four previous races had resulted in
seconds to Aurie’s Star (twice) and to
Pamelus, and friends of part-owner Bill
Balloch had chided him good-naturedly
about his persistence in attempting to
beat the cracks. Balloch, however, had
the last laugh, and he also had a smile
coming at the expense of All Veil’s other
part-owner, George Barton. Latter is
home in Maoriland, and on Saturday
morning cabled Balloch wishing him luck
with All Veil but, at the same time, in-
structing him to invest £lO for him on
Mildura. The Mildura bet would have
been only a “saver,” but Balloch, know-
ing that Mildura is useless in the wet,
saved Barton his “tenner” by disregard-
ing instructions. He backed All Veil for
Barton and himself, and had the satisfac-
tion of seeing the three-year-old Veil-
mond colt challenge Phoines at the top of
the straight and go on to a two lengths’
win. All Veil, who is described by Bal-
loch as a colt of wonderful temperament,
has been a bargain at his yearling cost of
250 guineas.
Magic Circle, though she had no
chance with the winner, made a good
attempt to win the William Reid Stakes
for the second year in succession. Owner
Ned O’Dwyer would have fancied her
strongly on a firm track, but she had dis-
appointed him on two previous occa-
sions in the wet, and he invested only
lightly on Saturday, Magic Circle ran on
well to beat Phoines for second money,
but the probabilities are that Phoines will
improve more of the two. Phoines went
amiss after his win in the Moonga Handi-
cap at Flemington in October, and Satur-
day’s race was his first since. Lack of a
previous run caused him to weaken after
he had dashed to a clear lead on the
bend. His autumn engagements include
the Oakleigh Plate, Newmarket and Don-
caster.
A plunge on Cumulus characterised
William Reid Stakes betting. One book-
maker laid a bet of £lOO to £lO against
her, but the general opening quote was
less than half that price, and, while weight
of money forced her price down to
favoritism at 5 to 2, Pamelus eased from
5 to 2 to eights. Cumulus, seemingly
troubled by the going, dropped a long
way out of her ground early, and was
running on in fifth position, behind
Operatic, at the finish. She should not be
condemned because of this failure.
Pamelus, under pressure some distance
from home, was one of the first horses
beaten. Unishak, winner of the Oakleigh
Plate last year, raced for the first time
since July, and dropped out after sharing
the lead with Phoines at the half-mile.
• c • • • •
Fate has been unkind to Mildura since
he arrived in Melbourne last spring. An
injury on the morning of the race necessi-
tated his withdrawal from the Cantala
Stakes, and a heavy track disposed of his
chance in the Eclipse Stakes. He would
have been favorite for Saturday’s race
had the going been firm, but again rain
settled his chance, and he started at 12
to 1 after easing from sixes to fifteens.
For a first-class horse, Mildura is a com-
plete duffer on heavy ground. He could
not get out of his own way, and trailed
the field throughout. Victoria Derby
winner Lucrative was to have been a
runner, and M. McCarten made a special
trip from Sydney to ride him. It was
considered inadvisable, however, to run
Lucrative in such heavy going, and his
reappearance will probably be delayed
until the C. F. Orr Stakes on February 8.
Companion is becoming a severe head-
ache for many punters. A disappoint-
ing favorite at Flemington a week earlier,
he “rubbed it in” with a vengeance when,
easing from 5 to 2 to 7 to 2 in a field of
five, he just beat the 11-to-8 favorite, Car-
pentier, in the Caldermeade Handicap.
Trainer and part-owner Roley Trihey,
however, was not particularly keen on
Companion’s chance. He declared before
the race that he was in the dark
concerning Companion’s ability to handle
heavy going, and expressed the fear that
as his horse had feet only about the size
of a pony’s they might sink too far into
the mud and anchor him. It was a
feasible theory, as Companion is by no
means a small horse, but Trihey’s fears
were unfounded.
While Carpentier was worried in front
by Romany Chief and Maldevon at dif-
ferent stages, Companion had the box-
seat. He had Carpentier covered halfway
up the straight, but a sudden check almost
cost him the race. It enabled Carpentier to
head him again, but, although Carpentier
battled on gamely, Companion wore him
down to win by a head, with Fearnought
half a head away third. Backers of Fear-
nought considered him unlucky, but Com-
panion would have been unlucky to lose.
Companion is engaged in the Australian
Cup, but after his recent failures at
Flemington he may find it difficult to im-
prove on his third in the corresponding
race last year.
General rainfall throughout Victoria
coincided with a temporary breaking of
the drought for Melbourne bookmakers.
They have had a gruelling time lately, but
scarcely one of their number wrote
Delver’s name in the Niddrie Handicap.
Form said nothing for her chance, and
she eased from 20’s to 50 to 1, but, aided
by the going and more so by a lucky rails-
run, she came from second-last at the
half-mile to beat Narwal and The Circus
in a head and a half-head finish. Always
a very light bettor, Dr. C. N. Raphael,
who owns Delver in partnership with his
wife, invested £lO on the win tote, and
“about £3” for a place. As the stake was
worth £2BO, and Delver paid a win tote
dividend of £l4 ss. 6d. for 55., Dr.
Raphael had no complaints. Excuses were
possible for some of the beaten runners.
Narwal had to be checked just when he
looked to have the race won ; The Circus,
backed from 10 to 1 down to 9 to 2,
struck his share of trouble; Leicester
Square, favorite at 9 to 4, also was
blocked more than once ; and the pros-
pects of well-backed Foxhow, who just
missed a place, were not improved when
he was sent to the outside at the barrier.
Delver, a daughter of Parenthesis and
Varietas, has an interesting history. An
offer of 50 guineas was refused for her
as a yearling, and later she was sold to
Flemington trainer Yin Ryan for 100
guineas. She showed good pace in her
early trials, but Ryan had been out of
luck for some time, and, after refusing
an offer for her at auction, agreed to sell
when Dr. Raphael offered him a substan-
tial increase on the price he had paid for
her. Ryan lost a useful galloper, but,
little more than an hour after seeing
Delver win, he had the satisfaction of
saddling Averne for the latter’s success
in the Tweedside Handicap for maiden
three-year-olds.
Few bookmakers or backers considered
Averne when betting opened. She had
not raced for over five months, and had
never previously raced on a metropolitan
course, but obviously her track work had
left little to be desired. From 20 to 1 her
price firmed to eights, and she led all
the way to win from Miss Veronica
and Goldsmith. Trivalve’s half-brother
Triumvir, always a warm favorite, fin-
ished a poor fourth without ever being
dangerous. Apparently he was troubled
by the going. Averne is raced on lease
by W. Martin from “S. A. Rawdon,” and
was broken in at Tatura by her lessee.
Martin won races some seasons back with
Neuve Chapelle, a sister to Averne.
A touch of Ripley was associated with
Swettenham’s success in the Warrook
Highweight. He had been trying so long
to win a race that it seemed almost im-
possible to believe that at last he had suc-
ceeded. Now in his sixth year, and a
maiden until Saturday, Swettenham had
invariably run well enough, in good and
bad company, to encourage further sup-
port at his next start, and it would be
interesting to know just how much he
has cost his connections and the public.
His race on Saturday was only his second
after a long spell, and Swettenham won
stylishly enough to indicate that he might
continue to compensate for past failures.
Dashing to the front about three furlongs
from home, he won as he liked by four
lengths from Fort Belvedere, with Royal
Roger third. Betting on the race was re-
markable in that five of the six runners


Crusabcr Cloth
Monarch Qualitp
7<4e KUuj, &h
AuAbicdian
IWf ANY Australians, formerly accustomed to
wearing expensive English cloths, have
found that Monarch Quality, Crusader Cloth,
compares favorably with any cloth anywhere.
They have found that they can maintain an
equally good appearance but with most
gratifying advantage to their pockets . * . .
This is really not remarkable. The best
Australian wool goes into Monarch. It is
woven by skilled craftsmen on the most
modern machines in the world. It is dyed
with the costliest dyes and guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. That is why there is so
much additional wear in all Crusader Cloths.
Your Tailor will gladly show you the new
Monarch Pattern Book . . . You will be attracted
by the smart patterns and colorings and by
the feel of absolute goodness in every cloth.
Monarch Quality gives your tailor his
chance to “turn you out” just as you wish
to look . . . Talk it over with him, to-day.
-e
vt
*
JS.
K
«SS
Im.
H
*
ii
/:
Vi
vsws
p >
WS ts
/, I
f
{l i s )m
m
%m
started at 7 to 2 or 4 to 1. Only runner
neglected by backers was Corn Comb,
who, having his first race for three years,
started at 50 to 1 and was last all the
way.
Easiest win seen on a metropolitan
track for some time was recorded by
Bianca in the Cranmallan Trial. Favorite
at 6 to 4, she cleared away over the final
half-mile and won by eight lengths from
Request, with Jerry Cronin three lengths
away third. Jack Smedley, trainer of
Bianca, had intended entering her for the
Hobart and Launceston Cups, but
changed his mind after studying local
programmes for immediate meetings. He
decided that there was better value to be
had in starting her in the £4OO Cran-
mallan Trial than in going to the expense
of a Tasmanian trip to have a crack at
the tougher opposition in the £5OO
Hobart Cup. Bianca is an aged mare by
Frilford from Nambrok Queen, and,
with successive wins at Pakenham and
Moonee Valley, has struck her best form
rather late in life.
He * * *
The Australia Day Cup, principal event
of the Williamstown meeting run at
Flemington on Monday, attracted only
half a dozen starters (for a prize of £750
and a £5O trophy), but, in its way, it
turned out an interesting event. For a
start, the first leader was Grandson, who
is not often seen in that capacity. After
a few furlongs, Lanarus took over from
Grandson, then Con Devon had a turn in
front. Next Bathing Beauty took over,
and, coming to the turn, was joined there
by Counsel. That was the last change,
Bathing Beauty drawing away in the
straight to win very easily, from West
Wind, whose saddle slipped, giving Gil-
more a very uncomfortable bareback ride.
* * * *
D. Munro is undeniably a great
rider, but he has not been a lucky one
for G. Price’s stable in big races this
season. He failed on Beaulivre, who
started at even money for the Epsom
Handicap, and on Gold Salute, who was
at 5 to 4 on for the Challenge Stakes ;
while he also rode Mildura when heavy
going settled that horse’s chance in the
Eclipse Stakes. Some backers expect
jockeys almost to carry horses home,
but, no matter how capable they may
be, that is impossible if their mounts are
either not good enough or will not do
their best. It is decidedly unusual for a
jockey to ride three odds-on chances at
Randwick in an afternoon, but Munro
had that experience on Astrid, Gold
Salute and Feminist on Saturday, and
the one that failed was the one that
would have given most in the way of a
winning fee. However, four winning
rides gave Munro a profitable time,
despite Gold Salute’s failure. Winning
fees provided for in the rules carried £67,
and it is probable the owners concerned
went much further than that in gratuities.
* * * *
At Randwick on Saturday a backer
took 100 to 1 that Munro would ride
four successive winners. He had reason
for bewailing his bad luck. Munro won
on Beau Port and Astrid, then missed
on Gold Salute, and won on Feminist
and Tuckerbox. As Beau Port started
at 9 to 4, Astrid 6 to 1 on, Gold Salute
5 to 4 on and Feminist at 9 to 4 on, that
backer had nice odds to his pound.
* * * *
It is a pity that a young and energetic
man in Dr. Leslie Utz should have found
it necessary to resign from the A.J.C.
committee. War duties are responsible.
Prominent breeder and owner H. S.
Thompson is a candidate for the vacancy,
and racing men are wondering whether
he will have any opposition. On Satur-
day I heard a well-known man asked
“Why don’t you have a try for it?” The
reply was: “What would be the use?
There’s a lot of ‘the old school tie’
business about election to the A.J.C. com-
mittee. What I mean is that it is gener-
ally recognised that if you are not spon-
sored by a certain club you have no
chance, and it is improbable I would
have that backing.” Over a number of
years the A.J.C. committee has done a
great deal of good work in the uplift of
racing, but all bodies are liable to become
grooved to some extent, and the election
of “an outsider” with progressive ideas
might not have a bad effect. Not that
he could accomplish much if unsup-
ported by the other eight members of
the committee, but he might have the
racing public behind him in what he re-
garded as desirable alterations, and that
would eventually count.
« * * *
The false rail was in use at Randwick
on Saturday, and that, of course, meant
slower times than under ordinary con-
ditions. Caesar’s 1.12£ was, however, a
quarter-second faster than High Caste
put up in last year’s race. The record
is The Marne’s l.lOi, next coming Air
Queen with l.lOy. The false rail was
not accountable for the slow time of
1.91 in the January Handicap. The
three runners went at a very easy pace
for the first six furlongs. Many years
ago 2.9| would have been quite good
time in a mile and a quarter race at
Randwick —Carbine held the Australian
record at that track with 2.7 —but things
have changed, and some heroes of the
past would have stood little chance of
running either short or long distances in
time that now scarcely evokes comment.
* * * *
Runners for the Widden Handicap at
Randwick included Drifter, a good-look-
ing and well-grown chestnut half-brother
to Fly. He is by Air Balloon. Although
Drifter did not show up he belies his
appearance if he does not turn out well,
and may do better over middle than short
distances. He is trained for R. Wootton
by P. Nolan, who has an unusual number
of chestnuts in his team.
* * * *
Astrid’s two wins have naturally
caused a deal of speculation as to how
she will fare when she meets All Love.
Although Astrid’s wins were decisive,
sight must not be lost of the fact that
she has yet to meet anything of the
class defeated by All Love in the Mari-
byrnong Plate, and in that she disposed
of her opponents almost as easily as
Astrid did of those which finished be-
hind her at Randwick. The A.J.C. Easter
Plate of £760 for first should give Astrid
a great chance. Up to the present
she has not incurred a penalty, while All
Love has to put up 101 b. extra, making
her weight 9.3. As Astrid and All Love
are to race in Melbourne backers will
be able to form a fair idea of their
relative merits before the A.J.C. autumn
meeting.
* * ♦ »
While the tote backers of Astrid for
the Valicare Handicap had the satisfac-
tion of being able to say “I was on the
winner,” they got very little more out
of it, the profit on each ss. invested being
9d. The race looked such a certainty for
Astrid that it is surprising as much as
£904 was put through the straightout
machine. Evidently Astrid’s backers
reckoned a return of a few pence on their
outlay would be satisfactory. Those who
backed her on the place tote profited to
the extent of 3d. for a ss. outlay.
* * * *
“Your horses may be better than ours,”
remarked a Melbournite at Randwick on
Saturday, “but they are not so consistent.
I have been reading one of the form
guides,” he continued, “and could not
help being struck by the fact that ‘last’
appeared a couple of times in several
horses’ performances, then ‘won,’ fol-
lowed by another ‘nowhere.’ I don’t claim
we are perfect in Melbourne, but
evidently we do not tolerate as much of
that sort of thing as you do.” The funny
part is that Sydneyites return home with
similar views concerning the “hotness”
of Melbourne racing. No doubt things
that are undesirable happen in each city,
but in respect of crookedness in racing
imagination plays a big part everywhere.
Many losing backers would paint a saint
black.
* * * *
Peter Pan and Piccadilly were sires
represented by two-year-old winners last
week. At this period of the year, with
the sales again at hand, a win or two
often makes a great difference in the
price of the progeny of any sire. Inci-
dentally youngsters that reached high
prices because of the success of some-
thing by the same sire early in the
autumn never justified what was paid for
them by supposedly good judges. Repic,
the Piccadilly youngster who won in Bris-
bane last week, is out of Recede, a
daughter of Rossendale and Poltara.
* * * * *
The far-fetched idea that “a good
horse is good in any going” received an-
other setback in the William Reid Stakes
at Moonee Valley. Mildura, as winner
of a Newmarket and Doncaster, comes
under the heading of “a good horse” on
a firm track, but he has always shown
himself unsuited by a soft one. As
he had worked well it was early in the
week anticipated he would be at a
short price for the race mentioned, but,
with the going heavy, he closed at long
odds. It was a correct summing-up of
his chance, as he was last early in the
piece, and finished in that position.
The day prior to the Eclipse Stakes at
Flemington in November I saw 2 to 1
taken about Mildura, the general quote
being 6 to 4. Then, after it had rained
heavily for a couple of hours on the
morning of the race, the books decided it
was safe to make a set against him, and
he receded several points. Their judg-
ment was correct, as over the last half-
mile he could not raise a decent gallop.
The Moonee Valley six-furlong record
is l.lli, and the fact of the William
Reid Stakes taking 1.16 i gives a good
idea of the condition of the track. The
going must have also bothered Pamelus,
as he did very little better than Mildura.
* * * *
Lucrative’s owner did not take the risk
of running him in heavy going in the
William Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley


DEDUCTED
FROM
TOUR BILL
C )
%
l|s) ♦ \/5>
ngM)
6X
m
(D
nits
USUAL PRICES:
£ii|ii|- mini- £l4/14
ALL LESS
2
L
m
the
£
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
w
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M6SO6


on Saturday, and, in consequence, M.
McCarten had a resultless trip to Mel-
bourne. If McCarten had remained at
Randwick he would have been certain
of some good mounts, but as Lucrative
did a lot for that rider in the spring he
probably felt it was only fair that he
should forfeit Sydney possibilities in
order to oblige his owner by riding him
last week. Anyhow, Lucrative will be a
good autumn mount in the St. Legers
and other races. Whether he is a genuine
stayer has yet to be determined, but while
he is not in the Australian Cup he is a
Sydney Cup entrant. Other three-year-
olds in Tidal Wave and Pandect are in
the latter race as well as the Australian
Cup, and in connection with their staying
pretensions it is worth recalling that in
the Melbourne Cup Tidal Wave was third
with 7.1, Lucrative fifth with 7.6 and
Pendect ninth with 7.6.
* * * *
Attendances at recent mid-week and
Saturday meetings in Sydney have shown
such an upward tendency that it is stated
clubs are making provision for further
increase. Owners and trainers are hope-
ful they will not be overlooked in these
days of clubs’ prosperity, and that addi-
tional prize-money will be the outcome.
One thing fairly certain is that they will
have to share in any depression clubs
may experience, and it is therefore only
reasonable for them to expect considera-
tion when things are good.
» * * *
It was no secret that the owners of
Ajax were not unanimous as to his being
trained for autumn racing. The matter
was definitely settled last week, when
the possibility of soreness affecting
his preparation caused Ajax’s retirement
to be announced. Better he should drop
out with his honors thick upon him than
take the chance of his being somewhat
discredited by defeat in what might have
been his last two or three races. That
has happened to other good horses, and
demonstration of the fact that a cham-
pion in anything has been kept going a
little too long is always regrettable.
Ajax finishes with 36 wins out of 46
starts to his credit, and was only once
unplaced, his earnings totalling £40,275,
those ahead of him in Australia being
Phar Lap, Amounis and Gloaming. Ajax
retires without being asked to prove him-
self a genuine distance horse, but he was
great up to a mile and a half, and a
stallion that can get that far can gener-
ally be relied upon to sire something
capable of going further. Heroic was not
tried to any extent as a two-miler, but
his sons won important handicaps up to
two and a quarter miles. Ajax is to go
to auction, and only that the American
breeder, L, B. Mayer, recently secured
Beau Pere he might have been in the
market for him. Perhaps W. J. Smith
may wish for something to replace Beau
Pere, and may be a bidder, but the
chances are the chestnut will be retained
by one or more of his present owners.
* * * *
It is mentioned by “The Horse and
Hound” that the three place-getters in the
1936 Derby were sold last year to leave
England. Bahram was bought fof
America, Robin Goodfellow (second) for
Maoriland, and Field Trial (third) for
Australia, G. Raymond, of the St. Albans
stud, Victoria, is given as the purchaser
of Field Trial, who is very sure with his
mares.
♦ * # «
Entries for the Australian Cup, of
£3OOO, are on the light side by compari-
son with those for the Sydney Cup, of
£7OOO, the respective totals being 45 and
94. As usual the entrants for each race
include some horses that on past form
would need the minimum weight and a
hundred yards start to be possibilities, but
the seemingly impossible has happened in
connection with both races in the past,
and may do so again. It would have been
a lucky backer who could have selected
Mildura and Indignity for last year’s
Newmarket and Cup double. Yet it came
off, notwithstanding that less than a fort-
night before the Newmarket 100 to 1
was laid against Mildura for the sprint.
“You can take them out but you can’t
put them in” is the argument of many
owners when nominating horses for races
that at the time of entry seem quite out
of their reach.
* * * *
“Win the war” pluck in misdoing is
not always rewarded. F. Bach showed
it in racing Brulad as Daylate in Bris-
bane, where the former was a winner and
consequently known to many racing men.
Daylate also won in Brisbane at the
commencement of this month, but, con-
sequent on being identified as Brulad, the
Q.T.C. stewards retired him and his
owner for life.
* * * *
High Caste easily won the last two
w.f.a. races in which he ran, the Lin-
lithgow Stakes and C. B. Fisher Plate, at
Flemington, beating Beau Vite, Beaulivre
and Maikai in the latter. As he never
looked brighter he will probably have
another good innings in Melbourne. Beau
Vite, who beat him in the L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes, will not be among his
opponents, and as the A.J.C. handi-
capper made him give Beaulivre 101 b. in
the Challenge Stakes he, for one, would
probably rate him better than the latter
at any distance up to a mile and a half.
High Caste may also stand a better
chance of winning the Futurity Stakes
than when Ajax beat him last year. He
has a substantial penalty, but he is essen-
tially a weight-carrier, and seven fur-
longs at Flemington will probably suit
him better than that distance at Caulfield.
* * * »
On behalf of G. Tancred the Defoe-
Hine Wehi colt was bought for 950gns.
by J. T. Jamieson at the Wellington year-
ling sales last week The colt is a brother
to Sir Crusoe, one of Maoriland’s good
sprinters. Beau Vite’s owner, R. Stewart,
gave 600gns. for a colt by Phaleron Bay
from Martial Lady, a half-sister, by Lord
Quex, to Beau Vite. Naturally the breed-
ing attracted him, but the odds are against
his getting another Beau Vite, for whom
he gave 900gns. as a yearling. The Man’s
Pal filly bought by Jamieson for Sir
George Allen for 425gns. is a half-sister
to the New Zealand Cup winner Cerne
Abbas. Man’s Pal is by Manna, an
English Derby winner.
* * * •
Contact, winner of the 1936 Sydney
Cup, is again an entrant for that race. An
aged runner has not won the Sydney Cup
since Kingfisher in 1877, and at eight
years the odds are decidedly against Con-
tact ending the long sequence of failures.
Evidently the owner and trainer of Con-
tact are fired by this season’s deeds of
Old Rowley (Melbourne Cup) and Fern-
ridge (Perth Cup).
* * * *
If an owner has the luck to own a few
good horses in America he can probably
run into more prize-money than in any
other country. Last year C. S. Howard
had great earners in Seabiscuit, Kayak II
and Mioland, and as other horses owned
by him won races he headed the list of
winning owners with $316,905 (approxi-
mately £A98,000) up to the beginning of
December. In 1939 Howard’s horses won
$246,905. About £A 174,000 in two years
is enough to make Sydney owners envi-
ous. Howard’s principal winner in 1940
was the three-year-old Mioland, with
$98,750 (approximately £A30,400).
* * * *
There will be no congestion at the
totalisator windows at two of New York’s
minor tracks next year, Jamaica has
arranged for 450 windows, and Aque-
duct for 427. It is evidently intended to
avoid the long and wearisome payouts
which have told against the complete suc-
cess of the totalisator on some Australian
tracks.
* * * *
Nominations for the Doncaster Handi-
cap and Sydney Cup point to a fair
number of Melbourne horses competing
at the A.J.C. autumn meeting, A couple
of surprise entrants for the Sydney Cup
are Dhoti and El Golea, both of whom
are better credentialled as sprinters than
stayers. They are also in the Doncaster
Handicap. Lucrative is in both races,
though on the opening day it is probable
the St. Leger will be given preference
to the Doncaster. Hall Mark was the
last Melbourne-trained Doncaster winner.
* * * *
A Wellington writer says Kindergar-
ten’s win in the Wellington Cup was the
most decisive seen in an important race
in Maoriland for some time. Fifth into
the straight, Kindergarten headed Bell
Cane nearly a furlong from home and
then ran away from the field. Royal
Chief drifted out of the race after going
a mile, and the rear was brought up by
Catalogue, who broke down.
Proud Fox, who is an entrant for the
Sydney Cup, was unplaced, but on the
second day, when carrying 8.0, was
beaten only a head by Wardress (7.7) in
the Wellington R.C. Handicap, a mile
and three furlongs, Royal Chief (9.9)
being a moderate third. Gladynev ran
in the Cup, and, one of the outsiders,
was tenth. The Telegraph Handicap, of
£lOOO, 6 furlongs, run the same day as
the Cup, was comfortably won by the
three-year-old Sir Beau in 1.1 He must
be a really smart sprinter, as, with the
minimum 7.0, he carried 8.11, sharing
the position of top weight with Sir
Crusoe. There were 15 runners.
* * * *
The best three-year-old pacer in Maori-
land is Special Force, some of the critics
claiming that he is one of the best of his
age ever seen out over there. At Timaru
early this month he won the New Zealand
championship, 1| mile, a special race for
three-year-olds. After commencing slowly
Special Force joined Statuette in the lead
at the half-mile, which was run in I.los.
The mile took 2.15, mile and a quarter
2.48 J-, and the mile and a half 3.20 f,
Special Force beating Statuette three
lengths.
* * * *
Kindergarten’s owner was not anxious
to ascertain what Australian handicappers
thought of him. He is not in any of the
Sydney or Melbourne big handicaps. As
he is undeniably Maoriland’s best three-
year-old, it is probable he will be raced
in Australia next spring. H. Wiggins,
who rode Kindergarten in the Welling-
ton Cup, is getting in the veteran class
among Maoriland jockeys. He won the
Wellington Cup on Insurrection 19 years
ago.
» * * *
At recent sales in England some
stallions were almost given away. For
instance, five-year-old Dubonnet, winner
of the 1939 Goodwood Cup, and second
in the Cesarewitch the previous year, was
sold for 90gns. He is by Papyrus from
Chincona. The latter, a 10-year-old mare,
was sold the same day for 330gns., which
suggests Dubonnet was a bargain. The
fees of many English stallions continue
to be reduced. In November Colombo
was dropped from 300gns. to £l9B, and
Singapore and Chulmleigh to £9B. Since
the Jockey Club’s announcement that no
fixtures were being made for this year it
is probable there have been many other
reductions. At this juncture it is scarcely
worth while breeding thoroughbreds in
England,
* * *
Another good Bulandshar two-year-old
colt came to light at the Wellington Cup
meeting. This was Burra Sahib, who is
out of Provence, and is owned by F.
Ormond. He won the Wellington Stakes,
a w.f.a. race of £7OO for two- and three-
year-olds. His weight was only 6.12, but
he ran the five furlongs in Imin. He was
one of the outsiders, the favorite being
the well-performed Pay Roll, who
finished fifth. Pay Roll, who is a filly
by Croupier, is in the A.J.C. Derby.
* * * *
There were 92 entries for the Santa
Anita Handicap, of $lOO,OOO, to be run
on March 1, and Challedon was placed
on top with 9.4. Next to him were
Kayak II 9.3, Heliopolis 8.13, Mioland
8.12 and Hunters Moon IV 8.10. Helio-
polis and Hunters Moon IV are recent im-
portations from England. The minimum
is 7.2, and Two Ton Tony is certainly
flattered in being allotted 7.10, only 61b.
less than Gallahadion, winner of the last
Kentucky Derby. At his last start in
Sydney Two Ton Tony ran nowhere with
7.9 (minimum 6.7) in a Three-year-old
Handicap, seven furlongs, won by Don
Byrne (7.11) at Randwick. If Two Ton
Tony were in the coming Doncaster Han-
dicap he would be very close to the mini-
mum, if not actually on it. However, on
his arrival in America he was boomed
as a good-class Australian three-year-old
and was weighted accordingly.
« * * *
Six brood mares are being sent from
the St. Aubins stud. Scone, to L. B.
Mayer’s stud in California. Four are
by Heroic and two by Beau Pere. One
of those by the former is June, a smart
sprinter, whose appearance suggests she
should make a good brood mare. Rich
prizes for two- and three-year-old races
in America are so numerous that some
enterprising Australian may yet be
tempted to breed a few horses to Ameri-
can time with a view to racing them
there.
* * * *
Sydney entries for the Armidale Cup,
run on February 5, are numerous, and
a glance over the weights suggests that
Novice (8.8), Article (8.7), Glorious (8.0),
Gallop (8.0) and Beau Ercil (8.5) are
among the possibilities. The weights
for the City Handicap on the first day
are framed on the same lines as those
for the Cup. Last year Sydney-trained
Cigarette won the Cup from Jocular and
William Wont.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
American golfers don’t stand up to
adverse weather conditions as well as do
British or Australian players. This is
directly due to tournament committees
postponing their events if rain is fall-
ing when the first pair are scheduled to
hit off. Very few competitions in the
States are played in the rain. At Pine-
hurst, in the Mid-South open four-
ball championship, the second round
was put back a day because rain began
to fall heavily at 9 a.m. and spoilt any
chance of a gallery.
Gene Sarazen seems resigned to retire-
ment on his farm property 50 miles from
New York. During the Pinehurst event
he was full of conversation relating to
Jersey cows, milking, etc. As soon as
the event was over the former British
open and American titleholder drove to a
near-by farm to buy a couple of bull
calves.
But Sarazen is still as keen as ever on
his game—so much so that I saw him
break his brassie over his knee on the
16th fairway when he mishit his second
shot on the par five. The feeling must
have been catching ; E. J. (“Dutch”) Har-
rison, just behind us, treated his putter in
a similar manner on the green. I have
been surprised at the number of profes-
sionals over here who break their clubs
after duffed shots.
Martin Pose, present Argentine open
and French open champion, who visited
the United States in the early part of
1940, is returning to the U.S.A. to com-
pete in the winter circuit. This year Pose
was accompanied by Enrique Bertolino
and Aurelio Castanon in a very brief
tour which didn’t give the Argentines
much chance of success. Pose, outstand-
ing player of the trio, was not satisfied
with his play and has decided to return
and show his true form in 1941.
Clayton Heafner, affectionately dubbed
by sporting writers the “Candy Kid”
—he was once a chocolate-maker —•
played three of the greatest rounds ever
returned over the tough No, 2 Pinehurst
course ; he scored 67, 66 and 67 in suc-
cessive days of play, the last two rounds
being in the Mid-South open champion-
ship. He and Ed Oliver pipped Dick
Chapman, the amateur champion, and
myself with best-ball rounds of 64 and 68.
Heafner has one of the soundest styles
among the best professionals. He is
nearly as long as Thomson and Snead
from the tee, using a driver. He
has a fine aggressive type of game, and
I think will be worth watching this year.
A player with the same build as myself,
and perhaps weighing almost a stone
heavier, he appears quite strange using
a heavy set of ladies’ clubs. (My driver
weighs 15i0z.)
“Dutch” Harrison played sensational
golf to win the Illinois open title over 54
holes, with rounds of 71, 67 and 64 ; his
score of 202 was five strokes lower than
that of Ky Laffoon, the Red Indian who
was a member of the 1934 American team
that toured Australia. Dick Metz, Chi-
cago open champion, was third with 73,
72 and 63, and Willie Goggin was fourth
with 209.
There are some oddly-named profes-
sionals in the States. In a recent tourna-
ment Denny Champagne and Chet Beer
were partners, while some years ago,
when Arthur East was a professional in
Chicago, the present Lakes Club (Syd-
ney) man was partnered by Jimmy West.
Nicknames have taken the place of first
names in newspaper reports ; it’s always
“Bashing” Smith or “Siege-Gun” Thom-
son.
At Pinehurst, where Donald Ross has
built the great No. 2 championship
course as well as two other outstanding
18-hole courses among the North Caro-
lina sandhills, the veteran designer told
me that he plants 5000 young pine-trees
each year to supplement the thousands
that are already on the property.
Since Sam Snead was married m
August he has won the Canadian open
championship, the Scranton 5000-dollar
open tournament, and was runner-up to
Byron Nelson for the national profes-
sional championship. All three inside of
five weeks, and from them Snead won
nearly £2OOO in prize-money. His victory
in the Canadian open a few days after
the ceremony was a fine wedding present.
Ins and Outs
The downpour in Brisbane shortened
the Victoria-Queensland game by a day.
Cook, opening for Queensland, spent
almost another whole day putting to-
gether 117 runs, and the result was a
first-innings win for the Victorians.
Queensland made 336 (Rogers 92 and
Raymer 50 adding to Cook’s lot), and
then, fielding, gave most of the Victorians
two or three chances till they’d reached
460 (Tamblyn 136, Johnson 85). Rain
finished it when the locals had seven
down for another 336, Rogers this time
the century-maker.
* * * *
Non-competitive cricket is a dreary
business at the best of timesthis
season’s inter-State games have become
progressively drearier. Some 3700 paid
£156 (part of it to patriotic funds) to see
Saturday’s play in Sydney’s Victoria v.
N.S.W. Nine Victorian wickets went for
229 runs. O’Reilly (he captained in Mc-
Cabe’s absence) got four for 43, Pepper
five for 78. Meikle, in eighth wicket,
alone showed any enterprise ; he topped
with 46.


CHAMPIONS
TIMES
with the aid of
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION COMBINE
the
ŵ
Messrs. A. C. Severin & Sons, of Brocklesby (near Albury),
winners of the Championship of the Southern Slopes in
the N.S.W. Wheat Crop Competitions of 1936 and 1937,
recently crowned these successes by winning again for
1940. On each occasion the champion crop was SOWN
WITH A SUNTYNE.
THE SUNTYNE COMBINED
GRAIN AND FERTILIZER
DRILL AND SPRING TYNE
CULTIVATOR
vwm
This is just one of the many crop competition
successes by Suntyne users in every wheat*
growing State in the adverse season just ended.
They have emphasised again that, whether
seasonal conditions be good or bad, the Sun-
tyne is the machine to win you the best
possible crops.
EQUIPPED FOR TEAM OR TRACTOR HAULAGE
Why Sunshine Combines give the best crops
GRAIN :
FEEDS a
EVENLY o
AND
SURELY
SUPER.
FEEDS
EVENLY
AND
SURELY
o
0
\J
.. BOTH ARE PLANTED
UNIFORMLY ON A
FIRM, LEVEL SEED BED
Despite super-
ficial resem-
blances, the
Sunshine grain
run excels all
others because
of its perfect
design and
FINE FINISH.
ẁ
Through years
of test it has
been proved to
give the best
possible control of the seed. Feeds con-
tinuously and uniformly at all speeds. No
“patchy” sowing. No cracked kernels.
p
Note shape of outlet.
The shape and design of the star and the
outlet ensure an even, regulated flow of
fertilizer.
Aote
super
that grain and
are planted well
under share
before soil
can close
the furrow.
8 row 17 tyne sft. cut
12 row 25 tyne 7Jft. cut
14 row 29 tyne BJft. cut
16 row 33 tyne 9Hft. cut
18 row 37 tyne 10 2/3£t. cut
20 row 41 tyne 12ft. cut
24 row 49 tyne 14ft. cut
All sizes are available M-ith standard
box and fittings. In addition, 14 row
and larger sizes are offered with
enlarged box of approx. 50 per cent,
greater capacity. These machines are
strengthened to carry the extra capacity.
KEENLY PRICED.
CASH OR TERMS.
Ask your local agent for the free
catalogue, or write direct to
H. V. McKAY
MASSEY HARRIS £?£•
(/we. in Victoria )
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS,
SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.
Also at CONCORD WEST (near
Sydney).
93-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Cr. Hurray and King Streets, PERTH
Queensland: H. V. McKay Massev Harris
(Qld.) Pty., Ltd., SOUTH BRISBANE
| tmsM
j STICK TO THE
| RIGHT METHODS,
| USE THE BEST
I EQUIPMENT—
I
I SUNSHINE
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
J.S.:
We are leaving Australia, the land of our birth,
To fight for our country, the best on this earth;
We will defy old Hitler, and Musso. too.
Or any Dictator who tries to break through.
Oh, this is our warning, the onus is on you,
Now if you come on the bounce you will get a
dinky-di trounce
From the boys in the Army, the Navy and Air Force
too.
It is a hundred to one that we will skither the Hun.
For we of Australia, the land of the cherries.
Will stand on our dig., and down with the Jerries.
L.S.E.:
Oh, the war!
And a telegram from R.W.T.:
A constant casualty Digger had a little wife her
shoelets full of awe clattered behind him all his life
and so he went to war (paragraph) she followed him
but yet he broods (the chatter will not cease) to
digg of all the properest goods she is the little
piece (paragraph) horsworns the coolth of the canteen
torswords the flowing flagon throughout services digg
is seen upon the water wagon.
H.A.B.: Don’t like the “it hath got”
L.S.C.: Your swaggie has a short, sharp jump-
ing movement which is incompatible with the
dignity of a poem P.McS.: Our motto is
“No mottoes” A.R.: “Backward, roll back-
ward!” Don’t worry: it’s coming L.E.S.:
“This heritage set in the scenic North” sounds
less like a line of poetry than a bit out of a
travel talk R.W.: Seems to begin in the
middle 1.A.G.: Lacks form A.V.H.:
The girl should love it P.M.L.: Close shave.
. ...R.McE.: Experientia docet, wc trust....
Blackheathan: “Yer bloomin’ well can’t
Blarney.” True M.N.L.D.: The late Mr.
Gray has a corner in “homeward wending”....
L.N.: Bill nearly made it A. 5.8.; Full of
echoes... .E.W.K.: Something to it; but what
the blithering blazes are the fairies doing,
“Blithering high, blithering low”? M.E.0.:
Amateurish D.K.L.: Inadequate R.G.:
That’s a hairy ancient J.McD.: Don’t think
Sydney could stand being addressed as “O
Queen of Austral paradise” R.P.: Not up.
... .H.N.R.: Even if it were funny it would still
be off our beat F.8.L.: “Midnight
Marauder” sandbagged 8.F.C.: The cover-
ing letter was more interesting than the yarn
C.G.N.; “The Most Terrible Thing on Earth” is
just that... .G.D.P.: The office flapper thought
it too mushy F.D.N.: “The Sad Truth”
very sad... .8.D.C.: You’ve an unhappy knack
of selecting the hoariest of plots 8.D.A.:
Not very interested in Red Indian stories
G.8.R.: Nor in an account of your “local
Darby and Joan” L.C.D.; Send “Prob-
lems of a Young Country Girl in the City”
to Dorothy Dix 8.F.M.: Dislike that “Fine
Old Gentleman.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.5. P.: Aim to cultivate a lighter touch.
S.L.: Not interested in couple of fashion-
plate figures with worded balloons shooting out
from their mouths C.S.: Taken out and
dynamited... .W.F.: Grateful for the covering
letter; so it is a hippo! F.D.; Don’t draw
on the idiotic assumption that Dads and Daves
are congenital idiots 8.P.: Your ink seems
to run to about 2000 flies to the gallon
Harry L.: Schoolgirlish J.P.: Too straggly,
though you’ve got the humorous touch....
Jack C.; Is the thing in the corner a hollow
log or a sleeping swaggie? H.S.: Wheezes
feeble; drawings vile L.W.; There is a fatal
sameness about all your figures N.S.N.:
Awful example of how a subject should not
be treated.
“K.Mc.”; If “Pawang” (B. 18/12/’4O)
were to see universal trainees before and
after their 70 days’ camp he would not
cast doubts on the efficacy of the physi-
cal training given. True, many allow their
muscular development to become floppy
once training is over, but a muscle once
expanded more readily responds to future
exercises. Military training noticeably
improves deportment. Such training is
needed to keep youthful shoulders erect
and chests expanded from school age
until they are ripe for the sergeant-
major. Manual workers have good
muscles, as “P.” says, but their avocation
exercises don’t obviate round shoulders,
bent backs, flat chests and bad feet.
* * * *
“Ek D.”; The death sentence inflicted
on a woman found with a plan of the
Isle of Wight likely to be useful to the
enemy, and proved to have cut a mili-
tary telephone line and committed other
offences of like tonnage, is a symptom of
the change which has taken place in John
Bull since the Norwegian and Dutch and
Belgian invasions. Proceedings of this
sort are under the Treachery Act, which
received the royal assent last May. Under
this it is an offence for any person to do
or attempt or conspire with any other
person to do “any act which is designed
or likely to give assistance to the naval,
military or air operations of an enemy,
to impede such operations of his Majesty
or to endanger life” with intent to help
the enemy. British subjects are tried
before civil Courts and are subject to the
civil penalty of hanging. But enemy
aliens may, by direction of the Attorney-
General, be tried before a court-martial.


SYDNEY CHURCH GF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
River Road, Greenwich, North Shore,
and
Moss Vale.
For girls of all ages from Sub-Primary to
Leaving Certificate Honours. The schools are
ideally situated, excellent cuisine, qualified
mistresses, good examination results. lue
school at Moss Vale is in 381 acres, with
special facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The first night of “No Time for
Comedy” was quite an occasion. The
Royal had a massaged look and a mer-
curial air, like most of its audience. Just
before curtain-rise the rain that had
sloshed on the pavements and poured
along the gutters turned to a sulky trickle,
to the discomfiture of the few wary ortes
who arrived waterproofed and um-
brella’d. The comedy is a light whisking
up of brittle laughter and a sentimental
triangle of brains that may be a little
cracked, but of hearts that don’t break.
It was all very amusing, and Marie Ney
and Jane Conolly, and Catherine Dun-
can, too, deserved all the kisses that were
blown to them mentally.
Frocks on and off stage were worthy
the eye of discernment. In the second
act Marie’s (she nearly loses her husband
to the blandishments of Jane Conolly’s
Mandy) very long frock of stiff, gleam-
ing satin had its skirt patterned in pea-
cock tones, Mandy stalks her man in a
sweeping witchery of powder-blue, but-
toned down the front. The wide sleeves
show cherry-red lining, and the skirt
opens on a panel of the same as she
swishes about her affairs.
Gladioli and handclaps welcomed
Gladys Moncrieff, who wore white crepes
enriched with orchids. Just-returned
singer Muriel Wilson popped into
Gladys’s box, a glitter of sequins. Other
smart callers on Gladys were Florence
Bennett, whose black marquisette frock
was patterned in large flowers, and Mrs.
Ernest Lashmar, whose ground-length
dahlia-red cape matched her chiffon
frock, Mrs. Max Munro’s white satins
were spattered with large gold spots. Mrs.
Sep Levy wore mauve orchids on black
lace. Mrs. Bertie Kelly and Mrs. Doris
Olding were among the first-nighters.
Mrs. Reg Jeffries, Mrs. David Martin,
Mrs. E. James and Mrs. Don Symington
were other well-knowns. Pearly satins
were worn by Mrs. Jean Gerardy. Mrs.
lan McLaurin was there ; so was Sheila
Helpmann, from Melbourne.
“Gone with the Wind” was almost
the epitaph for many a hat at
Randwick’s Anniversary meeting last
Saturday. Only the cunning of their
wearers saved disaster. Of styles there is
nothing much to report. Most women
just wore what they had and enjoyed
themselves. Elizabeth Considine’s hat
with its double-leaf brim deserves a men-
tion. The under one was of white
panama, the top of black. A large pink
rose bloomed in front of it. Mrs.
Graham Body, of Inverell, wore cool
green and white printed silks. Her
tuscan hat had a sharp uptilt to the right.
Dr. Joe Coen introduced daughter Pat,
just from school, to Randwick. Pat got
her red, white and blue motif from a
red skirt, blue blouse and wide white
hat. Mrs. H. Cary’s powder-blue gloves
matched her hat. The Tom Gordon
lady wore black flower-patterned crepes.
Mrs. Forrest Hughes and Miss Weston
Maher were together, Mrs. Jim Capel
with soldier husband, Justice de Baun
and his wife and Philippa Stephen were
others who faced the gale.
Since the blessing of St. Canice’s last
Saturday Esmey Burfitt, a daughter of
the Dr. Walter Burfitt couple, of Eliza-
beth Bay, has been Mrs. William Hers-
covich. Bridegroom is a New Yorker.
Bride’s brother, Squadron-Leader Tom
Burfitt, flew to Sydney in time for the
reception.
This is the day on which entries close
for the All-Sydney Blitzkrieg tennis tour-
nament in aid of the King George V
Memorial Hospital. This tournament will
be in two sections —ladies’ doubles and
mixed doubles. It will be played out on
private courts throughout Sydney. The
first round must be completed by Febru-
ary 23 ; the semi-finals are dated for
March 23. The finals will be played at
the White City courts on April 5, when
trophies will be handed out to the win-
ners. Exhibition matches by Adrian
Quist, Jack Crawford, John Bromwich
and Dinny Pails wifi put added sparkle
into the afternoon. For an entry fee
of 2s. 6d. you will have good fun and
help a good cause. Ring R.P.A. Public
Apneals Office, Martin-place, today,
82687.
Father Dennis Kelly, one of the raider
victims, was the guest of the Catholic
Women’s Association last week. The
rooms vibrated with about 140 women
and a sprinkling of men. Father Kelly’s
tale of his experiences was easy and
breezy. Particularly fascinating was his
story of the raiment worn by the people
in his lifeboat. When the raider struck
the padre’s room was undamaged, but
some of the cabins were a complete
wreck. The Rev. Dennis got busy and
handed out his own garments to men
and women alike. The result was that
everyone in his boat wore clothes marked
with his name. “The Germans,” he
ended, “must have thought they were
collecting the whole Kelly family.” When
their captivity started he asked his
fellow-prisoners would they like him to
say morning and night prayers. The reply
was, without one exception, “Yes.” And
down in the hold of that ship, humid and
suffocating, and not too sweet smelling,
for the pigs and the hens were only parti-
tioned from them, the raider victims
knelt and prayed night and morning in
unison.
The Germans were openly impressed
with the discipline and spirit of their
prisoners. When they were put ashore
at Emira Island the women all joined
in making a set of vestments, in which
Father Dennis Kelly said midnight mass
on Christmas Eve. When he is at home
in Liverpool he is chaplain of the Sea-
men’s Institute. Dr. Joe Coen made the
speech of thanks.
Comforts Fund workers in Sydney felt
the joy of deeds well done when Major
Gorman, who returned to Sydney last
week from the Middle East, said that half
an hour after the fall of Bardia a big
Jruck of comforts deposited its load right
up in the front lines, after a little trip of
350 miles. The major is Commissioner
of the Australian Comforts Fund, and
he declares that there has not been, nor
could there be, trading in cigarettes, socks
and suchlike sent through the Fund.
News of the arrival of consignments is
at once made public, and joy is spread
through the camps of Palestine, Egypt
and Libya.
Mrs. M. J. O’Neill, of Chatswood, is
president of the Catholic Women’s
Legion, which, together with the Catholic
Girls’ Patriotic League, has now a mem-
bership of over 8000. These are war-
time movements, and have in particular
care the C.U.S.A. huts at the military
camps. Another soldiers’ service is C.U.S.A.
Hall in Harringtomstreet, where enter-
tainments are held and where, as in the
C.U.S.A. huts, all men in uniform are
welcome. All the members are voluntary
helpers, and are smartly uniformed in
green. One of the Legion’s money-
spinners is a shop in Rowe-street which
specialises in home-made preserves and
fresh eggs. Raymond Sawyer photo-
graph.
Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress held
reception in the Town Hall drawing-
rooms for Major Gorman, and ardent
workers of the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund
were among those who came along to
greet him. The Julius lady was present;
so were the W. E. Youngs, from New-
castle, and also that city’s Deputy Town
Clerk. Mrs. J. C. W. Beveridge, presi-
dent of the Country Women’s Associa-
tion, was another who had speech with
the visitor. Two N.S.W. workers at least
are helping to bring the womanly touch
into the soldier’s hours of leave. They are
Mrs. Geoff Moriarty and Mrs. Lindsay
Dale. First the rest-room at Tel Aviv
and now the Australian Services Club at
Alexandria know the worth of their con-
stant labor. Both are Australian officers’
wives.
Patience, younger of the Cay sisters,
became Mrs. Sydney Black in All Saints’
Church, Woollahra, one evening last
week. The bride’s father was Captain
A. L. Cay, R.N. Her mother was
one of the Laidley family. In its
quiet way the wedding was a social
occasion. White satin, her mother’s
wreath and veil and a posy of gardenias
suited the bride’s slim grace, just as the
moth-browns and golds in sister Pene-
lope’s lace frock suited her. ’Groom’s
mother is Mrs. R. A. Black, of Lindfield.
His station is at Glen Innes. Recep-
tion at the Forum Club was hostessed by
Rose Merivale, Penelope Cay and the
bridegroom’s mother.
Artist Erik Langker, now in St. Luke’s
Hospital, was somewhat cheered in his
•ii „ ,’ i 0 I mint-
illness to learn that Sydney Long s paint-
mg of Narrabeen had won the Wynne
Prize for landscape. All the artists who
have seen this exquisite color poem are
delighted at the icwar o j ‘
Erik and his pretty little wife were down
a Wollongong when the beginning of h s
illness overtook him. By a con
dence brother-artist Neville Smith, who
was holidaying with them and v* io
stayed on alter the Langkers return t
town, jarred his foot in the baths the da>
after they left, and is now in hospi a
at Castlecrag.
A cheerful bit of Adelaide news is
that Lord Mayor Barrett’s newly-
appointed secretary is Helen Mumme
the first woman to hold this post
in the city Educated at St. Peter’s
G.C., Helen has been on the T.H. staff
for three years, and succeeds R. N. Ham-
mant, who has joined the administrative
department of the Air Force. Beaure-
paire of Melbourne, is another L.M. who
dictates to a woman secretary.
r
The engagement is announced of Beres
Mary Imelda, eldest daugh •
Mrs -T-L Higgins, of TAnng S A n f
a° u Fmd v y i Ch ri. eS | i ’ f
Auburn Vale, Charlevi e, y w ,
Mrs. E. F. Leeder, Leura ( • • •)>
the late C. C. Leeder. ?
Dulcie Holland, one of Sydney s young
composers, studied music in London with
John Ireland. Dulcie, a pretty goo
pianist by the time she was seven, began
even at that early age to write music.
Alfred Hill’s harmony classes at the Con.
helped her on her way ; so did working
with Roy Agnew. Dulcie’s works are
for voice and for orchestra. In par-
ticular her talent is drawn to chamber
music. John Lee photograph.
The toast at the Women Pioneers’
Club last Thursday was “the illustrious
memory of Governor Phillip.” It was
honored by a great assembly of the
members, and if Governor Phillip thinks
nautically on whatever quarter-deck he
walks in celestial seas he must have
thought they looked trim and steady
craft. Trim and steady, that’s the look
the descendants of pioneers should have.
President Mrs. Wentworth Grayson did
the occasion proud with a new hat. It
was wide and white and was a cunning
mingling of charm and dignity. Her
frock was of dull sapphire blue. She
owned up to buying a new hat every
year for the Anniversary Day doings in
the Market-street fastness.
President of the Australasian Pioneers’
Club Kelso King spoke his eulogy of our
first Governor below the portrait of that
splendid pioneer. It was draped with
the Union Jack. The speaker went on
to talk of the present war and the way in
which young Australia was surging to the
defence of the Empire. He spoke of the
intrepid manner in which the English
are standing up to their ordeal. Only
last week Lord Stonehaven, one of our
former G.-Gs., wrote that his London
house had been blown up. Instead
of lamenting, he had said, “But I
am better off than most, as I have
another home in Scotland.” Carlotta
Doyle, who founded the society, was
present; so were Mrs. W. A. Lingham, its
first president, writer Mrs. Horace Buck,
and Red Cross Commandant Da Silva
Waugh. She has been running a
dressing station for some of the raider
victims down in a hotel at the foot of
Pitt-street. The Historical Society’s Mr.
Kramp and Aubrey Halloran were guests
of honor. Authoress Mrs. Bertha Phelps,
of Mungindi, and Mrs. F. H. Wright., of
Melbourne, were among the noted ; so
was the Childs family.
There’s no doubt that the Australian
temperament understands gaiety. The
Australian Boys’ Choir singing “The Blue
Danube” got all the rhythm, the sun-
flecked light-heartedness out of that ever-
green. Director Vincent Kelly should be
proud of his 12 months’ labors with the
boys. They sang with good taste and fine
shading classic and popular numbers at
the patriotic concert which they gave in
the Con. last week. Like a breath of salt
sea breeze and heather was their render-
ing of the Robert Louis Stevenson poem
“Over the Sea to Skye.” The Women’s
Auxiliary of the A.I.F. Engineers and
Technical Units Welfare Committee will
benefit from the concert. Night’s soloist
was David Maddison, w“ho, in addition to
being a clever pianist, has just scored nine
A’s in his intermediate. It doesn’t sound
bad for a 14-year-old. David also gained
highest marks in the State for the recent
advanced grade music examination. Thea
Rowe helped the night’s good work.
The choir is made up of Melbourne lads.
There is one improvement the 1940
Archibald Prize exhibition has over that
of other years. The National Gallery
authorities provide a typewritten cata-
logue. Therefore it was possible to view
all 156 entries without wearing out a pair
of shoes, rushing back and forth from
the list posted in the middle of the room.
Max Meldrum’s winning portrait of
Forbes McKenzie withstood the pro-
longed stare of the art knowledgeable and
the merely curious. There is certainly one
thing this exhibition does —it draws the
artists to the Gallery. Sooner or later
they all do a mooch around the entries.
There are crowds of well-known
women in this show. Poetess Mary Gil-
more looks as though she is about to put
the case for abo. sister. There’s Dorothy
Helmrich, very elongated and all in bronzy
flame tones. Mrs. Frank Medworth, with
very rosy cheeks, painted by her husband,
strikes a Romany note. Jeanie Rankin,
this year, has been painted by Clement
Kennedy. Poets Rod Quinn and Douglas
Stewart look as though reflecting where
to tether Pegasus. There is Mary
Edwards, by Mary Edwards. But
to this writer Mrs. J. Edmondson, small,
gloved, hatted and furred, with that re-
peated orange note through the canvas, is
after four days the most living memory.
“I can’t shake, because I’m handi-
cupped,” said Ralph W. King at Gover-
nor Phillip’s party at the Australasian
Pioneers’ Club. Mr. King is deputy
chairman of the house committee, and his
hands were filled with cheer for some of
the guests. These clubrooms in Phillip-
street are practically a pictorial history
of the Pacific. Pioneers of note gaze out
from the walls. Even the stairway is
thronged with a ghostly company \nd
to every picture hangs a story en-
deavor and achievement. Honored among
the others is a portrait of Lord Wake-
field, an admirer of the great coloniser,
who spent much time, and money estab-
lishing memorials in England to Phillip’s
glory.
Kelso King and his lady were host and
hostess at this pleasant five-to-seven.
There were Cobcrofts, Donkins, Kings,
Blaxlands and Johnsons in the groups.
Thomas Gordon and his lady Were there.
Mrs. George Dansey’s black breton was
worn with just that balance that made it
smart without being rakish. Some of the
women survivors of the raider outrage
were interested guests. A group of them
had been entertained at dinner by the
Tom Gordons the previous night. Banker
Alfred Davidson and his wife, the Victor
Wilsons and Captain Patrick and Mrs.
Patrick were in the meetings and greet-
ings. A number of the Women Pioneers
came on to this later celebration, among
them Mrs. Wentworth Grayson, Car-
lotta Doyle, Mrs. Lingham and Nina
Flood.
Here’s the Girl in the Flat Opposite’s
story of the week. She was steering uncle
from the country through the Pitt-street
and King-street crowds when suddenly
the old man stopped, positively bristling.
“Damn it all, what are all these Boy
Scouts doing hanging around the town?
Why aren’t they busy doing their daily
good deed?” Then niece explained that
his “Boy Scouts” were brawny samples
of the A.I.F. in shorts.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL next-of-kin of GEORGE MURRAY
DUNN, Solicitor, formerly of Ireland, but be-
lieved to have died in Victoria, or anyone
knowing anything of him or his next-of-kin,
communicate with COURTNEY & DUNN,
Solicitors, 127 Queen Street, Melbourne?
GRAY, William John and Georgina Alice,
children of William James Ernest Gray and
Georgina Gilchrist Gray (nee McKay), or any-
one knowing their whereabouts, kindly com-
municate re estate of John M. McKay with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
TO CHARLES LOVERIDGE formerly of
Kalgoorlie in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Machine Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the Twentieth day of September One thousand
nine hundred and forty has been issued out
of the Supreme Court of Western Australia
citing you to appear and answer the petition
of EVELYN NELLIE LOVERIDGE of Kent
Street Busselton in the State of Western Aus-
tralia Married Woman praying for dissolution of
marriage IN DEFAULT of you so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce sentence
therein AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are within
THIRTY DAYS after the date of the publica-
tion of this notice to attend in person or by
your Solicitor at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia and there
to enter an appearance in a book provided
for that purpose.
G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, of the firm of MESSRS
CURRAN AND CORSER, of Nos. 37-39
Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
To be advertised:
(a) The Bulletin Newspaper, published at
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales
One advertisement.
(b) The West Australian Newspaper, pub-
lished at Perth, in the State of Western
Australia. Qne advertisement.
Melboure
Chatter
Steaming khaki, women’s hats drooping
in the rain and frocks shrinking upwards
were features of Friday’s button day—
but there were other more important
features. It was the biggest and best
march the city has seen for a year or
more and there was cheering right along
the route. Restraint disappeared on the
first notes of the brass band, and the
troops got the sort of greeting to warm
them to the toes in their damp boots.
Early in the morning long before the
commencement of the march there were
get-togethers alongside Alexandra-avenue
between the troops and their families.
There on the wet lawns they opened
thermos flasks and ate sandwiches and
saveloys, for the men with the little carts
and the kerosene-tin fires were punctually
on their beats. In town windows with a
view were at a premium ; so were roofs,
and small boys climbed up over the grille
gates at the Post Office, hanging on like
flies and twisting their necks at incred-
ible angles. Some Old Diggers knocked
on the door of the A.I.F. Women’s Asso-
ciation rooms in Collins-street asking for
a few inches apiece of window space.
The request was gladly granted, and the
Old Boys did a spot of cheering in a
medley of tenors and bassos worked up
on lungs that no man in the Second
A.I.F. would be ashamed of.
The button-day collection was in aid
of soldiers’ families’ funds and of city
huts, and was organised by the A.I.F.
Women’s Association and by the League
of Soldiers’ Friends, which operates the
hut at St. Paul’s, and the Catholic Wel-
fare Organisation, whose hut adjoins St.
Francis’s Church. Stalls, lucky wheels,
raffles, etc., did well considering the
weather. Particularly excellent spruikers
were some R.A.A.F. lads who boosted
wheels until their voices faded away into
shadowy whispers.
A record was touched with figures from
the canteen at Laverton when in a two-
hours’ evening session one day last week
1750 men clamored for and got atten-
tion. Their needs were varied, and ran
from pies and hot dogs oozing with
tomato sauce to cakes and ice-cream, tea,
coffee, milk, etc. The canteen, which was
opened last May next to the recreation-
hut, was made possible through a gift of
£lOOO-worth of plant and equipment from
A. L. Lane, of Lansell-road and of Port-
sea, who felt that he would like to do
something on a generous scale for the
R.A.A.F.
With the growth of the station a
big demand is daily put upon the can-
teen, but with its elaborate system of
hot water and refrigeration it is with-
standing all tests. It is operated in three
shifts daily by a committee of volunteer
women workers, of whom Mrs. F. J.
Lukis, wife of the station’s commanding
officer, is president. The secretary is Mrs.
A. D. Carey, who is the better-half of
Laverton’s administrative officer. Wives
of other officers and men take their turn
on duty; so do some girls from Laver-
ton village and from Werribee and a few
extra helpers from town.
Peggy Finkelstein need not have wor-
ried her brunette head about the risk of
rain on her wedding day. When she let
her imagination really run wild she had
a picture of goloshes and an arch of
umbrellas up the garden path and a bog
of debris from plastering. But it was a
midsummer day of such temperature that
the only moisture visible in the atmo-
sphere was upon the brows of the inhabi-
tants of this city. The marriage in St.
Paul’s was followed by a reception in
Merriwee-avenue, where by some miracle
of management the house was tidy as
always and the woody garden as elfin
as ever it was.
Alterations are in progress, and a
flat is being built adjoining the house
for the newly-wedded pair. Mrs.
Finkelstein was awakened on her daugh-
ter’s wedding morn by the thud of
hammers and a sudden shower of plaster
in her room, but all was clear when the
first guests arrived. With luck the flat
will be ready for the honeymooners when
they return from Sydney next week-end,
though bridegroom Dr. Brian Hughes
won’t spend much time at home during
the immediate future. Having just fin-
ished his final med. exams, he enters
Royal Melbourne as a resident next week.
Unofficial master of ceremonies at the
reception was A. E. Kimpton, who in
lieu of a speech orated several pages of
verse of his own invention, combating,
phrase for phrase, a serious rival in the
Finkelstein canary, who sang louder and
louder as if not only its own life but the
happiness of bride and ’groom depended
upon a hearing. The Kimpton poem was
no highbrow accomplishment, but a tied-
up-in-blue-ribbon romance in jingle all
about Peg and Brian and a persistent
courtship of some five years’ duration.
The bridal gown of heavy white crepe
was classically draped around the hipline
and the decolletage was subdued with a
yoke of marquisette fitting demurely
around the throat and scattered here and
there with embossed leaves. Velvet leaves
formed the headdress, an anchorage for
a swimmy length of tulle veil. Among
the ’groom’s pals present were several
newly-fledged young doctors, among them
Graeme Grove and Peter Davis (Peter
was a henchman not so long ago when his
brother John married Peg Tronson). A
bride of only a few weeks who was
present was Mrs. John Atkins, whose
husband is in the Navy. (Before her mar-
riage she was Peg Hamilton.) Her pretty
young sister Kathleen was there in a
simplicity frock of haze-blue spotted with
white. Another exponent of sweet and
dewy youth was Burwin Salek, wearing
black and relief at the neckline in the
form of real lace. Some day she may
become a city careerist, for she’s lately
slipped into a job in real estate.
Participating in an engagement that
bridges oceans is Elizabeth Wilkinson
(Spencer Shier photograph), who is the
daughter of Mrs. N. E. Wilkinson, of
Kooyong. Miss Wilkinson’s fiance is
Lieut, J. A. Bartels, 2nd West African
Field Company, Nigerian Reinforce-
ments. He served in the 1914-18 war and
won the Military Cross, and before this
war commenced pursued mining interests
with headquarters in Bukura, Northern
Nigeria. The couple met in London in
1933 and again in 1938, and between
times Lieut. Bartels has been in Australia
on leave.
Harold Herbert is delighted at his
appointment to go abroad as an official
A.I.F. artist. Whereas in the past he did
his daily dozen round the Block at just a
fair walk he now goes at a hand gallop.
He’s intensely interested in the job ahead
of him and feels that his experience in
painting in the atmosphere of Morocco,
also in arid parts of Australia, is going to
be of great use to him. The jovial
Harold is sure to get on well with the
troops, and if he meets any Italians he’ll
probably carry on long conversations in
his two words of their language plus his
vocabulary of soups, picked up in the
Italian restaurants of Melbourne. He’s
never been to Italy, but he’s sat and
looked at it from a mountain peak on the
other side of the border.
Helen Paine, daughter of Judge Paine,
of the Adelaide Court, has been
appointed Almoner to the newly-formed
Fighting Forces Family Welfare Bureau
in S.A. Helen, who gained her diploma
under the S.A. Board of Social Study
and Training, will complete her studies
at the Victorian Institute of Almoners at
the end of this month. She will probably
spend a month with the F.F. Welfare
Bureau of the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic and
War Fund in N.S.W. before taking up
her duties in Adelaide.
Mrs. H. N. Lord, of 2 Hepburn-street,
Auburn, who inaugurated a comforts and
correspondence circle for lonely soldiers,
is, speaking personally, a surprise. One
would expect a middle-aged woman with
a kind heart and maybe a motherly
bosom, but Mrs. Lord is young, with a
good complexion and a taste for smart
hats. She writes hundreds of letters every
month by hand (she thinks the personal
touch is worth the extra effort). Her
husband, who’s a one-finger specialist on
a typewriter, assists with circulars and is
rapidly qualifying for a place in the
ranks of fairly accurate speedsters.
Mrs. Lord believes that not only letters
but a name card and a “God bless” in a
parcel mean a whole heap to a lonely sol-
dier. If he has any sort of imagination he’ll
keep the card and wonder about it. Mrs.
Lord’s first effort in forming her circle
was to write to Padre Dakers, A.I.F.
Abroad, last May for names of soldiers
who miss out on mail days. At that
time mails were very irregular, and it
was some time before she received word
of his collaboration. The padre has sup-
plied two lists of candidates for atten-
tion, and a third list is due at any
moment; also a list is expected from
Padre Kettle. Padre Dakers’s interest-
ing letters are tempered with admiration
and warmth of feeling for the troops,
and he mentions various artiples that
are particularly welcome. Among these
are face-washers and laundry, toilet and
shaving soap.
He says that in great request are strong
leather bootlaces, shoe cleaner, magic
mils for cleaning tin plates, A.P.Cs.,
knitted caps to wear under tin hats,
insect powder, razor blades. Hair clippers
and scissors are needed —Mrs. Lord
suggests that any donation of these two
articles should be sent straight to the
padre, who is incidentally quite a good
amateur barber. He also is the sort of
good scout who understands human
nature. During the winter in North
Africa, when he wrote recommending
woollen hug-me-tights, he added: “Send
a spot of sentiment along also ; the boys
like a hug-me-tight message with their
knitwear.”
Mrs. Lord expects that there will soon
be 200 corresponding couples on her
circle. She doesn’t want it to grow too
big or unwieldy, and tries when possible
to get the young lads adopted by girls
of their own age. At the moment she
has a number of women on her waiting
list. Some of these have sons of their
own at the war, but are anxious to send
gifts from time to time to other lads who
don’t know the joy of having their names
called for mail from Mum, Dad and the
kids. In search of names of “old boys,”
Mrs. Lord has been in touch with several
Victorian orphanages and with the Tally-
Ho Boys’ Training Farm. In some cases
such institutions are the only homes that
young soldiers have known.
Recently engaged is Yvonne Warr
(Jack Cato photograph), younger daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Wallingford Warr,
of Caulfield. No plans have yet been
made about the wedding, for fiance Geof-
frey Brewer, who is the younger son of
the H. W. Brewers, of St. Kilda-road,
expects a call-up into the Air Force at
any moment. Though Yvonne is not yet
20, she has tried various branches of an
art and beauty career, such as dancing
in several J.C.W. shows and walking the
floor for some of the city’s largest firms
as a mannequin. But for the war she may
have had her feet planted on the path to
Hollywood, for she passed many search-
ing screen tests and had some experience
of movies in the making when she was
cast for the part of the heroine in “Dad
Rudd, M.P.”
The portrait of Dr. J. Forbes MacKen-
zie which was awarded the Archibald
Prize was exhibited last year at Max
Meldrum’s show, which was the first ex-
hibition held in the Velasquez Galleries.
The picture was a commission and a
presentation of esteem from some friends
and admirers on the occasion of Dr.
MacKenzie’s retirement from St. Vin-
cent’s honorary staff after 30 years of
service to that hospital. In the group
which will soon meet for a little
ceremonial of presentation are many of
the doctor’s medical confreres and past
students.
Rosalind Patkin, a brunette whose
smile is a joy to behold —it turns up at
the corners and has dimples to match —
was married last week to Norman Sharpe
in the Toorak-road Synagogue. The
bride, who is the elder daughter of the
Joseph Patkins, wore a gown of white
crepe with high cowl neck and short
sleeves, and was all in the picture for sim-
plicity with two white orchids in her hand
and a sheath of tulle veiling. Sister
Norma attended in white marquisette,
with gardenias in her hair and an
eighteenth-century posy clasped in her
fingers. After the ceremony there was
a wedding reception at Grosvenor. The
honeymooners are in Sydney for three or
four weeks, and on their return Rosalind
will become chatelaine of a huge man-
sion in Hotham-street, St. Kilda, com-
plete with swimming pool. The ’groom
offered to buy it for her should she say
the word, and after some consideration
she decided she wasn’t frightened of
housekeeping on such a large scale.
Ola Cohn’s “Pioneer Woman” is com-
pleted and will soon be on its way to
Adelaide to commence a life of medita-
tion in the Garden of Remembrance.
Before the big job of packing and moving
with block and tackle commenced Miss
Cohn took the opportunity of holding a
private view in the courtyard of her home
in East Melbourne, plus an exhibition of
her work within doors and without. The
time was opportune otherwise, for Miss
A. Miethke, who presides over the S.A.
Pioneer Women’s Memorial Trust, was in
Melbourne for the N.C.W. conference,
and was present to open Miss Cohn’s
show from the outside steps leading to the
upper storey of the house. On this landing
also traces of Miss Cohn’s imagination
are visible. She’s carved a tall, slim figure
upon one of the stairway posts.
The “Pioneer Woman,” carved from
Waikerie (S.A.) limestone, is seven feet
high, but with her pedestal is given an-
other couple of feet and looks indeed a
colossus (or is the feminine “colossa”?).
Miss Cohn, who commenced this piece of
work some 18 months ago, says she found
signs of fossils in the three-ton slab of
rock. In her speech Miss Miethke ex-
pressed admiration for the statue, but
Miss Cohn’s admirers would be vain to
hope that the work will cause no con-
troversy in Adelaide. It might even pre-
cipitate a verbal battle royal. This young
woman in limestone takes some getting
used to, even for those with advanced
views regarding art. But who knows?
To live with her might be to love her.
Some day she might be the equivalent
of “Our Harbor” to the citizens of
Adelaide.
During the S.A. centenary celebrations
there was established a memorial to the
pioneer women which took the form
of a Flying Doctor base at Alice
Springs. Then for the sake of pos-
terity and to keep the memory green
before the eyes of future generations who
are never likely to visit “The Alice,” the
Garden of Remembrance was built right
in the city of Adelaide. There the statue
will be placed, with tablets on one side
sculptured by Miss Cohn and a sundial
on the other—the allegory being that
though hours vanish they are recorded.
The sundial was designed and constructed
by Adelaide’s brightest-brained astrono-
mers. Instead of being flat it’s on a
slope, which, for a sundial, is apparently
very tricky. There are only three of its
kind in the world.


THE SERVICE MAN
Tobruk—and After.
“Ek Dum”: The capturing of great
Italian strongholds in Libya is becoming
routine.
In each case the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
and the R.N. have joined with medium
mobile artillery to provide an overture
and keep the enemy awake while the
potential attackers stoke up on sleep.
Then sappers de-fuse the landmines,
tanks rumble over the wire wagging a tail
of Australian infantry loaded down with
mortar, bomb and bayonet, who pierce
the outer carapace of the defences, let in
enough air to keep the fires of attack
burning and spread the flames of war
sideways and outwards till the protective
kernel of the place has been scored away.
The result at Bardia left the main
Italian armies undefended from the air
and outranged by heavy artillery, which,
with the warships, 15-inch-gun monitors
and heavy bombers, made resistance
hopeless, and so resulted in the surrender
of the town largely intact, with huge
amounts of undestroyed and undamaged
war material and prisoners galore. Pic-
tures of the heart of Bardia town show
that, whatever happened to its environs,
the main streets were scarcely scarred.
Tobruk was not as easy to come at for
several reasons. The lines of communi-
cation had lengthened another 75 miles.
The terrain, as the British Army of Egypt
moved westward, became more rugged,
and the town itself lies in a crease
between headlands as high as those of
Sydney, which join together to enfold a
long, deep inlet which, in ancient
times, used to bear the name of Menelaus,
husband of Helen of Troy.
Apart from its natural defensive quali-
ties, Tobruk was a naval base and was
somewhat better served by artillery.
Among many museum pieces, it had in
harbor the remains of the ancient 9000-
ton battleship San Giorgio. The British
Navy had proved too much for this in-
genious ark, and the Italians shore-
mounted her guns. Shore-mounted 10-
inchers —the Italian models are built to
fire a 9971 b. armor-piercing or 8841 b. h.e.
shell —are weapons to be treated with
respect.
Generally speaking, Tobruk had worse
approaches, fewer fortifications, more
guns than Bardia.
The troops employed were “British and
Imperial,” including Australians from
N.S.W., Vic. and W.A. The R.A.A.F.
worked with the R.A.F. Sappers were
largely Australian. A detachment of
Free French also took part.
As with Bardia, the fighting was patchy.
There were hot corners and cool corners,
straight runs and ambushes. But the
casualties were not heavy on either side
—ltalian, possibly 2000; British, 700, in-
cluding 500 Australians.
The Italian commanders. General Bar-
beris, in supreme command of the Tobruk
Army, General Pitassi-Manello and
Admiral Vieltina, in command of the
naval base, surrendered ceremoniously.
It was about 36 hours after the fight
began that the Australian Bren-gun car-
riers rattled down the main road into the
town. The job had been done in 20
hours less than it had taken to capture
Bardia. General Wavell himself was
present to see a Digger’s hat replace the
Italian flag on Tobruk flagstaff.
This was a just conclusion, for it had
been primarily Australia’s show. General
Wavell cabled to the acting Prime
Minister:
The success is chiefly due to the excellent
plan of attack prepared by the commander
of the Australian division, and executed
with great dash by the Australian infantry
and British tanks supported by British and
Australian infantry and British machine-
gun units and with the co-operation of
the R.A.F.
The attack penetrated quickly and deeply
into the defences, and was the cause of
the main collapse later. The successful co-
operation of supporting groups and of
operations of the armored division in par-
ticular against south-west and western de-
fences resulted in several strong points
and many prisoners being captured by all
three units of supporting groups. Particu-
larly good work was done by the Free
French troops operating in the western
sector.
An R.A.A.F. prisoner in Tobruk had
done much towards mobilising the
Italians for surrender after it was certain
that the town could not hold out.
When the victors were able to look
round and lick their wounds, the result
was all that could be desired. There
turned out to be about 25,000 prisoners
to add to the 70,000-odd already British
guests. They included the 61st Division,
some thousands of Blackshirt troops, 1500
matlows and the 700 human sardines out
of the cramped San Giorgio. There were
at least 200 guns, the usual vast stores of
ammunition, hundreds of trucks and
armored vehicles.
A more heartening sight than the
material captured was the destruction
wrought. Neutral correspondents saw
what happens to an enemy naval base
when the R.A.F. and R.N. get at it. The
pier was cut in halves, a submarine’s con-
ning tower poked out of the waves of the
port, in which the upper works of the San
Giorgio also made an island. A burning
Italian liner made a torch whereby, in
the evening, the masts of many sub-
merged vessels and the battered ware-
houses could be seen against the back-
ground of blazing dumps. A few hours
after the victory the San Giorgio blew up.
The first phase of the war in North
Africa may be said to be over. The
“Well, I dunno, Percy, the Digger lid always seemed to fit me all right!"
second will involve the subjugation of
the rest of the country east of the Gulf
of Tripoli, and then that of Tripoli
proper to the Tunisian (French) border ;
the final, the tearing of Italian power in
Abyssinia, Somaliland and Eritrea.
The British forces are definitely en-
gaged in the exposition of a new role
with such energy that even Rome has dis-
covered that something distressing is
going on (“the news from Tobruk is not
good but it must not frighten us”).
Bardia was scarcely in British hands
and the air situation under control before
the Italian Empire of Ethiopia suffered
what might be termed a severe kick in
the neck, since it was aimed across the
throat of Italian East Africa in the scrub
country behind Kassala near the Abys-
sinian border.
When last heard of the British Sudan
Expeditionary Force —largely South Afri-
can —was 80 miles on its way to Asmara,
the capital of Eritrea, perched up on high-
lands as tall as Kosciusko. At the same
time a few British expeditions, with the
blessing of Haile Silassie, are setting fire
to rebellion in darkest Abyssinia. The
basic organisation, planned months ago,
had the assistance of experienced Austra-
lians who went through the Abyssinian
war, and to the original nucleus have
been added some other parties, one of
which is led by a subaltern who appro-
priately comes from Hay —next door to
“Hell and Booligal”—supported by a cos-
mopolitan squad whose normal habita-
tions are spread from Papua to Long-
reach (C.Q.), and from Longreach to New-
castle (N.S.W.).
Already the successes of the British
Middle Eastern forces have proved to
the enemy that there is more than one
Axis in the world war, and that the Brit-
ish Army understands the use of axis
war strategy as well as anybody.
In every part of the Mediterranean
war arena Germany and Italy are in a
bad way. Germany can’t immediately
help Italy against Greece on any large
scale because of weather and winter trans-
port difficulties.
The Dodecanese are already virtually
surrounded. Hitler can’t attack Greece
by driving through Bulgaria without
bringing Turkey into the fray. And as
the islands are within sight of Asia Minor
and inhabited by a population with
plenty of Turkish affinities, Italian war
with Turkey would at once present
Rhodes and the adjacent islands to the
lords of Ankara.
There is plenty of talk about the Ger-
mans subjugating Malta as a preliminary
to German help in Africa. It is 60 miles
from Sicily to Malta, a large nutlike
island which consists almost entirely of
very hard rock, ideal for tunnelling out
for defence, a factor of which the British
have not been unmindful.
From Malta to Tripoli, the nearest
point of Italian Africa, is another 200
miles; from Malta to Derna is about
500 miles. Germany has no navy m the
Mediterranean ; the Italians have none
that dare venture out. They could not
use transports to carry large numbers of
troops and supplies capable of giving any
relief to Libya. The R.A.F. controls
the air.
With all their great concentration of
air power in the North Sea, plus U-boats
and E-boats, rafts and a respectable light
navy, the Germans have not been able
to land a man across the Channel, only
20 miles wide and fringed by well-forti-
fied German occupied territory which
actually has the nearest British port under
long-distance gunfire.
From Mr. Churchill downwards, every
Englishman and American with any
authority is warning Britain that a further
attempt at invasion of England or Scot-
land may be expected within the next
60 or 90 days.
One thing is certain. Though the
way is still long to Tripoli and the
Jebel el Ahkdar and the desert lands
of Sirte, and some other natural difficul-
ties lie between, Italian Libya is a gone
coon.
Bombers' Chance with Italy.
“Aileron”: It took only three or four
days to prove to the Germans that their
success in bombing the British convoy
fleet in the Sicilian Channel was a fluke.
Subsequent attempts on Malta were
dismal failures, and with the earlier ven-
ture cost more than 90 Stukas and heavy
Junker bombers.
In theory, Malta should be a good
mark. Barracks and hospitals are scat-
tered all over the island, the main con-
centration of force being the peculiar
double harbors of Marsamuscetto and
Grand Harbor, which lie on the north-
east divided by a long narrow peninsula.
Grand Harbor is the southern section,
and the side nearest Africa has several
deep inlets diving into its side at right
angles, in which dockyards and other
naval facilities have been built. Valetta,
the main town, lies on the central penin-
sula, with Floriana behind it. On the
s.-e. side of Grand Harbor is another
town, Vittorioso.
The whole area of the island is 95
square miles, with population about
270,000. But neither Germans nor
Italians have done its defences much
harm.
When the weather improves and the
situation in Africa is consolidated and
the fine Italian aerodromes have been
repaired, the Italians will have every
reason to regret that they have begun
the slaughter of civil populations in
British Mediterranean possessions and of
Greeks in undefended towns. Greece, in
particular, will take a long time to forget
Corfu.
Even with existing machines, large,
weakly-defended Italian cities exist only
by British favor. In no bombing attack
has the R.A.F. or Fleet Air Arm met
with Italian fighter resistance which the
bombers themselves could not handle. In
Italy and in Africa the Italians have been
almost wiped out of the sky.
They have no fighters which stand a
chance with Spitfires and Hurricanes.
Germany, whatever her superiority in
bomber numbers, cannot spare fighters
to help a crumbling ally on anything like
an adequate scale. The bulk of German
bombers have been built under the con-
viction that their main usage would be
on short routes between Germany and
conquered France and the British Isles.
Hence, save for a few, the bulk of Ger-
man machines are short range. Those
which have long range are reserved for
special and crucial tasks because fuel, and
particularly lubricating oil, has to be
conserved with the greatest care.
Mr. Churchill admits that there is still
a great superiority in bomber-attack
strength on the German side, but when
Britain’s advantage in long-range craft is
joined to the possession of first-class bases
in Libya it will give the R.A.F. a won-
derful flexibility in action and compel
Germany to keep a very close guard on
her back door.
The possibilities of the situation may
be guaged from the fact that one batch
of ’planes from Britain on Oct. 31 last
bombed Naples, 1290 miles from any
bomber station in Britain. The Mark 1A
Wellington, which isn’t as heavily-
powered as the newer Mark 11, can carry
a military load of 41481 b., with 550 gal-
lons of fuel and a crew of five (with
parachutes), for 2840 miles, cruising at
an economical speed of 180 m.p.h. at
15,000 ft.
With 13 or 14 hours of darkness there
is barely enough night to allow of the
raiding of Italy and return between dark
and dawn, which is the prudent limit
time for unescorted heavy-bomber ex-
peditions. A Naples raid from Britain
calls for 151 hours in the air, allowing
for climb and an hour over the target.
Soon, in addition to longer range and
more heavily-armed and protected
British-built bombers, the new American
Consolidated 824 will be in service—one
U.S.A. machine about which all British
authorities are reasonably enthusiastic. It
has a top speed of more than 300 m.p.h.
and a range of 3000 miles at economical
speed.
When African aerodromes come into
use there will not be a single Italian port,
factory or railway junction which is not
within comfortable range of the R.A.F.
for night attacks. And when the Italians
are pushed out of southern Albania south
Germany and Austria will also be be-
tween two night fires, while southern Italy
may have reason to forget that Vesuvius
and Stromboli have any claims to be
called volcanoes.
Calm Before the Storm.
“Aileron”: The most striking feature
of the week’s war has been the quiet of
the North Sea fronts.
Bombing has been extended to some
extent in the Mediterranean —Malta keeps
catching it; Alexandria is reported by
Rome to have had raids; Italian or Ger-
man ’planes flew across Greece to Salo-
nika ; the relentless R.A.F. keep up a
screen of bombs in front of Wavell’s
armies advancing in Cyrenaica. On the
night of Jan. 23-24 the R.A.F. plastered
Maritza aerodrome on Rhodes, the
largest island of the Dodecanese.
For six nights to January 26-27 Lon-
don had no raids, and the attacks on the
rest of England have been a corsainsh
sort of business carried on by seemingly
aimless Junkers and Dorniers, which
occasionally lay an egg or two without
any specific military objective in view.
About the largest claims of the Ger-
mans during the week in the northern
zone were the sinking of a 4000-ton
merchant ship 300 miles off the Irish
coast, and earlier in the week of an
8000-ton ship off Harwich.
The last substantial raid, on January
19 was not heavy by the yardstick o
normal daily raids for months past. The
Germans had been compelled to pierce
a wall of mist over the Channel iney
apparently intended to concentrate on
Southampton and London. The attach


%
*
*0
*•/
/ ‘V
JOUBERT *• JOUBERT
Agents
P■ 1
LTD
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
Perth ....
6PM
6AM
6KG
6GE
Northern. .
Kalgoorlie
500 watts
2000 watts
500 watts
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ......
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
•DAY
CHISMISX, 319 George Street, Sydney.
on Southampton was mainly incendiary,
but the fires were soon put out. The
Germans admitted the loss of five
bombers.
British raiding over the Continent also
eased. The largest raid was on the Ruhr
on January 22. The whole area was
under thick cloud, but the R.A.F. pene-
trated it and did widespread damage.
However, if the air is not full of
bombs, it is full of grim warnings that
the first real bit of spring will bring the
main trial of strength over Britain and
in British seas.
John Bull Shows His Toys.
“Nobby II”: The sending of H.M.S.
King George V to carry Lord Halifax,
the new Ambassador, to the U.S.A. is a
typical British gesture.
Britain’s military and naval people
have a quaint sense of humor which
induces them every now and then to take
the wind quietly out of somebody else’s
sails. A few years ago, when a foreigner
arrived in England to give the first
demonstration of the slotted wing, the
spectators suddenly became aware of a
second machine doubling and outdoing
every astounding feat of the visitor.
It belonged to the R.A.F. For years
we were told of the monster U.S. flying
fortresses with irresistible gunpower and
unparalleled size ; when war broke out,
Britain was found to have a bigger one
than the fortress with about umpteen
times the protection, five times the gun-
power and four times the arcs of fire.
When Americans found an “inter-
ceptor” fighter that could dive at 550
m.p.h. they wrote magazine articles about
it; whereat it was revealed that Spitfire
pilots long had been doing that sort of
thing as matter of routine and saying
nothing about it.
Now comes the battleship. A few weeks
ago a trusting Australian press was shout-
ing that a new U.S.A. 35,000-tonner
which can do about 28 knots and which
carries the same guns as the Nelson and
the Rodney—nine 16in. —was the “most
powerful in the world.” And suddenly
old John Bull turns up on the Atlantic
Coast to give the U.S.A. a look at the
King George V, which has been in ser-
vice quite a time.
She has the speed of a battle cruiser
—over 30 knots. Her 10 big guns are
arranged in two fore and aft turrets of
four each, with an additional two-
gun turret. Each of the four-gun
turrets can serve a helping of 62401 b. of
shell against the 60001 b. thrown by the
triple 16in. turrets of H.M.S. Nelson and
the new Yankee. And each of the 10
large shells has at least enough muzzle-
energy to lift a weight 1| times that of
the Sydney Harbor Bridge a foot off the
ground.
In addition, she carries 16 5.25 in. guns
of a new type of which the specifications
are not known but which are said to
have a greater range, rate of fire and
hitting power than our 6in. guns.
Three out of the five of these ships
were launched in 1939, two others were
building, plus the 40,000-ton Lion and
Temeraire and a couple more monsters
of unknown capacity which are on the
stocks.
A Balance Sheet of Death.
“Ek Dum”: The honor roll in Eng-
land last month was much reduced from
previous months. In all the attacks,
which tore savagely through the hearts of
great cities London, Birmingham,
Coventry, Manchester, Bristol, Sheffield,
Southampton, Portsmouth and Plymouth
—the Germans succeeded in killing only
3793 and injuring 5044 seriously enough
to send them to hospital.
Out of the 3793 killed, 1434 were
women and 521 children under 16 years,
against 1691 men (a few deaths are un-
classified). Of the hospital patients, 1775
were women and 307 children. Since
the German air attacks were launched
on England the total death roll has been
22,569 killed —including 2351 children—
and 30,556 wounded seriously enough
for hospital treatment.
The Germans have paid a grim price
for their slaughter of innocents. Nearly
6000 German ’planes have been shot
down. They had lost, over Britain, up
to October 18 —later details are not fully
made up—11,389 of the flower of their
youth, the picked pilots, gunners and
observers of the Luftwaffe. This was
outside casualties caused by the R.A.F.
in occupied France, in the Ruhr, Berlin,
Kiel, Hamburg, Wilhelmshaven, Bremen,
Mannheim, Cologne, Essen —where a
quarter of Krupps’ works was blasted
into ruin in one raid—and numerous
other lairs of German industry. The
losses in September, when the German
invasion fleet of rafts lay crowded with
men, must have been very heavy.
British deaths in air raids in five months
were about 6000 more than are normally
killed in the United Kingdom in a
year by accidents. In killing these mainly
helpless people, a great many of whom
were killed while rescuing child and
woman victims of the Luftwaffe from
fire, scalding and suffocation, the German
High Command learnt one thing defi-
nitely—that it can do damage only as a
sneaking creature of the night, which
also means that its raids must be indis-
criminate and without the exactitude of
aim needed for fully effective attack on
military objectives.
Time and time again it has been
noticeable that German losses have sud-
denly risen whenever the Luftwaffe
attempted day raiding, no matter how
great the escort of fighters or how hur-
ried the raids.
A good example was the week ended
Nov. 2, In the previous week, the Ger-
mans had lost 40, and in the week before
that 31 machines. Then they were duped
into making a few daylight appearances.
On Oct. 29 alone they lost 32 machines.
Their total losses for the week amounted
to 41 bombers and 49 fighters.
The British that week bombed 73 large
centres in Germany, apart from Italy and
Norway and the French, Dutch and Bel-
gian coasts. Their losses were only eight
bombers and 31 fighters. British per-
sonnel loss was 55 against 189 German
airmen. And British figures included the
Middle East, where the Germans had no
’planes.
Looking Ahead.
London “Observer” recently discussed
the possibility of building huge aircraft
for sea convoys, and envisaged “a new
and bolder conception of sea power
specially adapted to the needs of the
British Commonwealth.” Sunderlands
can stay in the air 14 hours, but the Sun-
derland is a very small step towards the
ideal of immense ships carrying heavy
gun turrets and efficient armor which
would make them proof against the one-
man fighter or even the super-fighter with
cannon armament.
There is nothing visionary about this
conception. It is one which must be
giving aerial authorities on both sides
nightmares.
The Americans are already building
bombers far larger than the Sunderlands,
and production of something which will
dwarf anything now in existence or con-
ceived is only a matter of time and
opportunity.
At the beginning of 1939 Brassey’s
Naval Annual reported that “giant naval
aircraft capable of carrying very heavy
loads over long distances are now assured
of a great future in the overseas com-
merce of the world.”
The Annual quoted Sikorsky, the
American designer of heavy craft, as
having said in June, 1938:
I do not see any limitation to the size
of the flying-boat. It is reasonable to pre-
dict that even 1000-ton boats will be
built within the decade... .Boats from 100
tons to 1000 tons, with luxurious accom-
modation, can be built within the next five
or six years.
The Sunderland is a 21-ton boat.
Golden Hinds and American Clippers—■
passenger boats, suitable for easy conver-
sion to military purposes—are half as
big again, or more.
Even in 1939 the Seversky Aircraft Cor-
poration had designed a ship to carry a
payload of 43,0001 b. for 5000 miles at a
speed of 250 m.p.h. Produced in a
military version, it would be a devastating
craft, capable of carrying batteries of
naval two-pounder pompoms and even
six-pounders. It could carry a bomb-load
ten times that of any military or naval
aircraft in existence today. And it
could fly non-stop from Singapore to
Fremantle and back at 20,000 feet; also,
it could alight almost anywhere at sea
and refuel from a tanker.
Development of heavy long-distance
craft of this sort, whether for civil or
military purposes, affects Australia and
Maoriland more than any other parts of
the Empire, most other parts already
being within range of enemy air attack,
Unless Australia had the answer to them,
apart from the effect which they would
have on commerce in the hands of an
enemy they would lay Australia directly
open to invasion by heavy bombing
squadrons and render ordinary defensive
aircraft almost powerless,
On the other hand, any part of the
Dominions with building facilities which
could cope with this type of machine
would have a fine start over most of the
rest of the world in commercial aviation
when the war ends, if it laid building
plans now.
The Commonwealth Government might
well look ahead. Though the designing
and construction of giant machines are
giant tasks, Australia has done some
things as big or bigger in flying and other-
wise. The job is no larger than the
building of a modern destroyer once the
plans are made.
“Ek Dam”; General Wavell made
special reference to the fact that a de-
tachment of Free French took part in
the capture of Tobruk. The victories
must have an effect in African French
possessions and in Syria. In the French
colonies west of Tripoli, where General
Weygand is in control, there has never
been any love lost for the Italians, whose
fifth-column activities before the war
were extensive and well financed. And
there are signs of a stiffening of the
French backbone. It was announced
officially in Vichy during the week that
France had refused to surrender her
fleet to Germany for use against Britain.
The statement added that “France was
insisting on full observance of the Armis-
tice terms with Germany.” It is a nice
commentary on German honor that an
attempt was made to break them. It
had been reported that Hitler had asked
on December 29 for the use of the French
Navy and mercantile marine; for Tou-
lon and Marseilles and a corridor across
France, so that German troops might
reach them ; for the use of Bizerta (North
Africa) as a naval base for Italy, and
for the demobilisation of French troops in
North Africa and Syria. Immediately
afterwards, French warships were
allowed to pass through Gibraltar Straits.
Technically, France is still at war with
Germany until a peace treaty is signed.
* ♦ * *
Unmarried men and childless widowers
bom between July 1, 1906, and June 30,
1921, have been warned that if they have
not done so already they must fill in an
enrolment form for compulsory military
training between Jan. 25 and Feb, 24.
It doesn’t necessarily mean that those
enrolled will be called up, though some
will be. Mainly the registration is de-
signed to provide an estimate of man-
power and exemptions in specific areas.
* * * *
“X.T.”: From the Sydney “Sunday
Telegraph,” 19/1/’4l, page one:
The ordinary speed of the Stuka is 242
miles an hour, but during the vertical dive
it attains 435 miles an hour.
Same issue of the same journal, page
10:
Technique requires nerveless pilots able
to sit tight while 1100 h.p. jerks the ’plane
from level flight into a blood-sucking 600-
miles-an-hour dive.
Incidentally, if Germans have to be
“nerveless” to stand the racket of dives
by 1100-h.p. engines—same power as
the old British Spitfire and Hurricane
engines which thousands of British lads
have been handling without disaster for
a couple of years —what must be the
qualification of the blokes who are being
fitted out with the new Hurricanes and
Spitfires which have 2000 h.p. in the
nose?
* * * *
“Nobby II”: Australian war services
overseas have not been confined to the
A.I.F. in the Tobruk lines. Australian
destroyers under Captain H. M. L. Waller
have been continuously operating with
the British fleet in the sea attacks on
Libyan ports since December. They
have shared in bombardments, have
formed prisoners’ escorts and have inter-
cepted enemy shipping. Sir Andrew
Cunningham, C.-in-C. of the R.N. in the
Mediterranean, remarks that their work
has been carried out “under considerable
difficulties” and has been of “great
value.” In the past six months the
R.A.A.F, Short Sunderland squadrons
have shared in the British Coastal Com-
mand’s sinking of 50,000 tons of Ger-
man shipping and attacks on U-boats—
the C.C. made 166 of these assaults—
and numerous rescues of torpedoed and
shipwrecked sailors and passengers. The
Coastal Command since June has
escorted 4700 convoys, making 16,500
separate flights for the purpose. In this
work, too, the R.A.A.F. has shared.
Normally each Sunderland is one hour
in every five in the air, which means
about 250,000 miles a month.
* * * *
Shipping losses for the week ended
Jan. 12-13 again were less than half
the weekly average for the war period—
nine British vessels, totalling 30,226 tons ;
no allied or neutral vessels. The weather,
however, has been almost impossible for
U-boats ; and bombers were blind in the
seas round Britain owing to snow and
fog.
♦ * * »
“Nobby II”: Both Germans and Italians
claim that German bombers again
attacked a British naval formation in the
central Mediterranean on January 24,
hitting a battle cruiser and two other
cruisers. Italian Radio also reports a
German attack on Alexandria and heavy
damage to two cruisers there under re-
pair, They declared, too, that the
monitor Terror, which carries 15in. guns
—she was at Singapore some time ago —
along with H.M.S. Gloucester, sister ship
to Southampton, is being repaired at
Alexandria after experiences before
Tobruk. It is possible that they sustained
some damage. A more curious emana-
tion from Rome Radio is the “unim-
peachable” statement that Southampton,
which the Admiralty reported that its
own units had sunk after she had been
battered in the Sicilian Channel air
battle with the Germans, is also being
patched up at Alexandria. The one con-
firmed report of a loss is that of the
destroyer Hyperion, which struck a mine
when acting as a rearguard to a mine-
sweeping flotilla in the Adriatic. The
other destroyers were unaware that she
had been damaged. Because Hyperion’s
captain knew that there were Italian war-
ships about, he kept quiet till the light
flotillas had finished their job ; then sent
his SOS. When a destroyer was sent to
his assistance, Hyperion was found in a
condition to be written off. She was
honorably sunk under the noses of the
Italians by a British torpedo,
» * * *
“Wodgil”: The Greek who suggested
that the Nobel Peace prize should be
awarded to the Italian Navy deserves a
place in history alongside the American
General Bliss. That warrior, attending
a meeting of representatives of allied
generals and admirals at Paris in 1918,
threw open the door and burst violently
out of the room. “What’s the matter?”
asked a member of his staff who was
waiting for him. “Oh, they’re all at sea
in there,” he exploded, “That is, all ex-
cept the heads of the Italian Navy. They
never go to sea in any circumstances.”
* * * *
“Ek Bum” on an adventurous missing
Aussie:
One of the leading figures in the organisa-
tion of the Abyssinian internal campaign
against the Italians, Arnold Wienholt, has gone
missing. Arnold was a born fighting man,
scion of an old Queensland pastoral family,
and for a short term was a Queensland M.L.A.
When the last war broke out he was one of
the first into it, and as well helped several
rejects for the first A.I.F. contingents to find
their way to England to join the R.H.A. In
intermediate years, after serving in East Africa,
he did a lot of big-game hunting, came to
know the natives, and was severely mauled by
a lion. He was one of the earliest foreigners
in Abyssinia when Italy invaded it, and he
didn’t wait for the present war to break out
before he was engaged in the organisation to
bring Haile Silassie and his sons to Egypt—
the Negus was flown from England by Young
Menzies, of Drummoyne, pioneer of the
Tasman. When The Bulletin last heard of
him Wienholt was at Berbera just before it
was captured by the Italians on August 20.
He had been at Aden for some time waiting for
the show tip start, then had flown to Khartoum
to start things moving. He has been missing
since September and is presumed to have died
of wounds.


Mwjskghes
8
11 1 f eats
PROGRESS
HE 'National Mutual's'
Seventy-First Annual Report reveals the continued progress of this
soundly administrated, purely mutual Association.
Total Funds at 30/9/'4O £47,495,193
Total Income for Year ended 30/9/'4O £6,323,079
23,750 New Policies Issued assuring £8,596,926
Payments to Policyholders for the Year £3,816,246
(The above figures relate to Ordinary Assurance Business only. The Association does not
transact Industrial Assurance Business.)
For absolute protection and unrivalled benefits, assure with the progressive office —
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD.
(Inc. in Viet.) Established 1869.
350 George Street, Sydney.
(The Association has funds available for loans at current interest
rates on municipal and public body debentures and first mort-
gages of suitable City, pastoral and agricultural properties.)
PURELY MUTUAL NO SHAREHOLDERS
NORT H OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
An Expensive Abo
“P.D.”: Mulga wires from Darwin
have been humming with rumors —
“Northern Territory administration offi-
cials hinted today that the Native Affairs
Department may soon be abolished....
One high official said that even if the
department were not abolished it would
die within 12 months.”
In 1934-35 the N.T. Native Affairs
Department was a comparatively modest
affair with an expense sheet on these
lines:
1 superintendent Darwin compound ... £402
1 matron Darwin half-caste home .... 100
1 superintendent Alice Springs half-caste
home 276
1 matron Alice Springs half-caste home 75
Maintenance of abo. affairs for the year 4741
Assistance to missions 1120
Total expenditure for the year, £6714.
Next year (1935-36) saw a little expan-
sion. The Darwin superintendent suf-
fered a drop of £62 in his annual screw,
but an assistant chief protector of abo-
riginals appeared with a yearly remunera-
tion of £462. The matrons and the super-
intendent at Alice Springs got the same as
before, but the bill for maintenance of
abo. affairs jumped to £6921 and the mis-
sions got £1235 —a total of £9409 for the
year. In 1936-37 the assistant chief pro-
tector landed an increase of £l7 a year,
making his pay envelope up to £479 ; the
Darwin superintendent got a £l5 rise,
bringing him up to £355 ; and a patrol
officer appeared with annual pay of £420.
Maintenance of abo. affairs increased to
£9828 and the missions got £l4lO, bring-
ing the annual expenditure to £12,943.
The following year (1937-38) was ex-
pensive. The assistant chief protector
went up to £504 ; patrol officer to £440 ;
superintendents at Alice Springs and Dar-
win whacked up £690 between them,
while the two matrons shared £283 (they
earned it). There also appeared an assis-
tant superintendent at £336 a year and
one clerk at £282. Maintenance of abo.
affairs ran out at £15,127 and assistance
to missions at £2510, making a total for
the year of £20,172.
In 1938-39 the bill for maintenance of
abo. affairs dropped to £13,996 ; but the
pay of the assistant chief protector was
increased to £532; that of the patrol
officer to £466 ; of the two superinten-
dents to £710; of the assistant superin-
tendent to £346 ; of the clerk to £292. The
missions received £3337, and there
appeared a typist at £267 a year. Total
for 1938-39, £20,230.
Next year (1939-40) saw the disappear-
ance of the assistant chief protector and
his £532 a year, but he was replaced by
a Commonwealth Adviser on Native
Affairs at a cool £l5OO, and a secretary
at £7OO. There also appeared a district
officer at £6OO ; another patrol officer,
making two of them at £9OO ; a head-
“Er — ahem—l Wonder if your husband Would like to meet your blood
donor, Mrs. Smith ?”
teacher at £446 ; two more clerks, making
three of them at £1074 ; and an assistant
at £298. The two superintendents shared
£758, the assistant superintendent rose to
£352, the typist to £271, while the two
matrons shared £345. Maintenance of
abo. affairs amounted to £13,438, and
assistance to missions to £4250.
By 1940-41 there emerged the fully-
fledged Government department with an
expense sheet:
1 Commonwealth Adviser on Native
Affairs £ 1500
1 secretary 638
1 district officer 606
2 patrol officers 824
2 cadets 608
2 superintendents 770
1 assistant superintendent 392
1 head-teacher 434
2 matrons 354
3 clerks 1128
1 assistant 358
1 typist 282
Maintenance of abo. affairs (estimate) 13,140
Assistance to missions (estimate) 4,250
Total expenditure for the year, £25,284.
The total expenditure for the seven
years reviewed adds up to £104,684, That
doesn’t include some £40,000-odd spent
recently on a compound at Darwin and
other expenditure incurred by occasional,
and mainly fruitless, inquiries into abo.
conditions and affairs. Abos. and half-
castes involved totalled 16,000. They
could have taken much better care of
themselves than the department does if
they had been kept away from the towns
and left to the supervision of the N.T.
police and pastoralists, who know Binghi
better than anyone does.
Contact with white civilisation and its
ways is about the worst fate that can
befall Binghi, and for years people who
know him and his habits have been urg-
ing that he be sent to his native bush and
kept there. It is being done at last,
mainly because of the growth of Darwin’s
white population. And the sad irony of
it all is that “when all half-caste children
and natives have been transferred from
Darwin to missions and ration centres,
the department [of Native Affairs] would
be unnecessary.”
“Poi-poi”; J. P. Fry, the Brisbane
optometrist who was member for Kurilpa
from 1938 to 1932 and lost the seat when
the Forgan Smiths first came to power,
is to try a comeback at the next Queens-
land elections, probably late in March.
He had two years on active service in
1914-18, then devoted a great deal of
time to the interests of incapacitated Dig-
gers, for which they gave him a certifi-
cate of honor. He was Whip and later
deputy-leader of the Country Progres-
sive National party, and this time is
U.A.P. His only son, a major, is abroad
with the new A.I.F.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The flaming beauty of
Australia’s coastal tropics has at last
found a true interpreter. During five
years on Bedarra Island, 800 miles north-
ward of Brisbane, Noel Wood set him-
self to the task of analysing and inter-
preting the amazing contrasts and changes
which dazzle and confuse eyes trained in
the lower light values and duller atmo-
sphere of non-tropic latitudes. A color-
ist of genius, he did not fear to essay the
expression of what he learned, often re-
gardless of rules and precepts set by
painters who had never understood or
really seen the new world of light and
beauty which it was his self-made task to
capture upon canvas. Thirty-five studies
in oil exhibited in Brisbane have proved
his mastery. For the first time Australia’s
tropic north has been painted in all its
beauty of light and color from soft cool
dawn to melting evening shadows, and
the fierce glory of the tropic sun between.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Strenuous endeavors
being made by Tambo (C.Q.) to attract
a resident doctor recall a quaint bit of
local medical history. Sixty-odd years
ago the first local quack found the place
too lonely and departed, leaving 14 very
sick patients in the newly-built hospital.
The nearest doctors were in Rockhamp-
ton, 300 miles away, and in those rail-less,
coachless days, with abos. none too re-
liable in places, none of them would face
the long journey. A ram shepherd on
Mansion Downs station, Jack Hordan
by name, had acquired a reputation
amongst the station hands as a good ama-
teur doctor, and, happening into Tambo
soon after the doc.’s departure, was asked
by the anxious committee
to take over the job. Ex-
plaining that he was not a
doctor but did hold a
dental qualification, he
agreed to do what he
could until they could get
a qualified man. So com-
petent did he prove that
the Tambo people decided
to keep him on. He re-
mained in charge for 10
years, and after the pas-
sage of a Medical Act for-
bidding unqualified practi-
tioners practised for many
years as a chemist and
dentist in Winton.
* * *
A note from Will
Lawson: —
Sitting in a tram at Bris-
bane’s West End terminus,
marooned there by a cloud-
burst —over 3in. fell in an hour
and the lines were blocked
with silt—l looked out on the
dark river and recalled how as
a boy I saw that mysterious
water rise and rise till it
poured over the landscape in
the great 1890 flood; and in
1893, in another fiercer flood,
it tore down the old Victoria Bridge, sent its
fragments whirling out to sea, set steamers
adrift to strand on flats far from normal river
bounds and wrecked thousands of homes.
Brisbane has not had a bad flood since
those long-gone days, largely, it is said, be-
cause the river has been dredged, sharp cor-
ners cut off and straight overflow channels
cut to shoot the floodwaters into the bay;
also, it must be remembered, it has not rained
as it did in ’9O and ’93 —not till the other day.
Brisbane is claimed by engineers to be safe
from any flood. But in every river in the
world there has been a flood which has been
called the “flood of history,” like that in the
Nile in the days of Tiberius. On the Brisbane
this flood of history was told of by the abos.,
who said that the water flooded the flats on
the south side, rose over the high banks where
Grey-street bridge stands today, poured down
the hollow where Tank-street now is, across
the site of the £1,000,000 Town Hall, and
found its way into the river again by the creek
at Creek-street.
Such a flood seems incredible now, yet if
the recent downpour had continued such a
flood would have been possible, for it was the
heaviest rain ever recorded in Brisbane.
It is 51 years since the 1890 flood and 48
since the 1893 flood; surely time enough to
prove that the engineers are right. But, accord-
ing to Inigo Jones, the matter lies not with
engineers but with the gods—or their symbols,
the stars. ...
Inigo Jones, writing in 1935, gave it as his
belief that floods in the Brisbane may be
divided into four classes: small floods which
occur frequently and now are scarcely noticed;
larger floods up to 20ft., occurring in a cycle
of 35 years, to which the 1890 flood may have
belonged, though more likely it is in the third
class of severe floods occurring at intervals of
59 years. To this class the 1893 flood defi-
nitely belonged, its predecessor having been
the 1841 flood which rose 3in. higher. In this
case the interval was 52 years. The 1890 flood
would be caused by the same influences as the
1893, the 59-year term being based on the
length of the two Saturnian epochs.
Reckoning from a point between 1890 and
1893, and allowing some elasticity, Inigo Jones
predicts a severe flood in the Brisbane in 1949.
Whether the precautions taken on the lower
river to carry floodwaters away will fully
serve their purpose remains to be seen. But
he points out another safeguard provided by
Nature: “The wonderful topography at the
head of the river is what might be termed a
heaven-sent means of flood prevention which
it seems almost impious to neglect.
Though it drains an area of 1834 square
miles, the Brisbane and its tributaries do not
extend far inland. The water comes from a
semicircle of valleys, converging on the Bris-
bane. By means of holding dams m these
valleys the flow of floodwaters could be regu-
lated. To illustrate this, it may be mentioned
that the 1893 flood came in two big waves
with a lesser flood between them; steamers
stranded in the Botanical Gardens by the first
big flood were refloated on the second. BY
regulation of the flow by dams, the flood-
waters would have taken a week or more to
pass harmlessly through the city. , e ? pec „
great flood about the year 1949 would be ren-
dered innocuous, and even if another noo
of history” comes —in a hundred years tnayt)
—it also would do no serious damage. With-
out additional safeguards, its coming could be
a terrible tragedy.


CONVENIENCE
SO commonplace to-day that
it is accepted as a matter of
course, a cheque account is
one of the most useful of
modern conveniences. An-
other banking convenience is
an interest-bearing Fixed De-
posit for the investment of
surplus funds from £5 up-
wards. Both Fixed Deposit
and cheque account facilities
are provided for all reputable
persons and firms by this
Bank.
rur
OF NEW
(IH
'' 'i
»v!S&aiS£
WAIES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
Commissioners :
C. R- McKERIHAN (PRESIDENT) H. ROGERS P.
K
■ KEARNS
SUNDRY SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Night Train to Munich”
There is a strong flavor of “The Lady
Vanishes” about this Gaumont British
comedy-thriller at Sydney St. James,
largely owing to the fact that, as in the
earlier show, part of the action takes
place on a Continental train, and also be-
cause those two prize-goat English travel-
lers, Basil Radford and Naunton Wayne,
figure in much the same roles as they
did in “The Lady Vanishes.”
The story follows the misadventures
of a Czechoslovakian scientist engaged
in important armament research work.
He skips his homeland one jump ahead
of the Nazis, is tracked down in Eng-
land, kidnapped with his darlin’ darter,
packed on to a submarine and hauled
back to the Third Wreck. Thereupon
British secret service agent gets hot on
the trail and manages, after much ex-
citement, to get scientist and darter
safely into Switzerland, where they were
last seen waving fond farewells to a
batch of Storm Troopers on the other
side of the border.
One scene is a gem. It takes place in
a sub-department in the German ad-
miralty building when a clerk has been
reported and hauled over the coals by
his department chief for making the con-
temptuous remark “This is a fine country
to live in.” His explanation, accepted
with a caution by his d.c., is that the
remark had been misinterpreted, and
actually had been uttered in praise of
his noble faderland. The clerk is dis-
missed and the d.c. is seen rolling the
expression over with various shades of
accent just to see how it sounds. First,
“This is a fine country to live in!” ; then,
“This is a fine country to live in” ; and
finally, with deep conviction, “This is a
bloody awful country to live in!”
* • * *
“Arise My Love”
An f.a.q. entertainer at Sydney Prince
Edward. It kicks off on a good note
of comedy with aviator Ray Milland
about to be executed by Spanish firing
squad for having fought for Democracy
in Spain, and being rescued in the nick
of time by furrun correspondent Claud-
ette Colbert, who poses as his missus and
sobs soulfully on the shoulder of the
commandant until she melts his ferrous
heart. Thereafter Miss Colbert’s and
Mr. Milland’s adventures are mainly in
stormy Europe and on the ill-fated
Athenia, the pair of them meanwhile
developing a strong heart-interest in each
other.
That much of the film which is carried
out in a vein of comedy is tophole; Miss
Colbert and Mr. Milland are adepts in
that particular sphere, and occasional
situations which crop up have a fair
measure of originality and humor.
Further comedy flavor is provided by
Walter Abel, figuring as the harassed
head of the Paris office of an Amurrican
news syndicate who conveys perfectly a
mood of bad temper, blind fury and
desperation by a gentle, if somewhat
strangled “I am not happy.”
The main trouble with the film, and
one which spoils a good deal of it, is a
fault into which more and more Holly-
wood films are falling, viz., that of dish-
ing out propaganda and high moral talk
about the war, almost as though it be-
longed exclusively to them. When the
film lapses into propaganda or allegedly
serious consideration of Europe, it is
horribly dull, and when Miss Colbert
promises to save America or something
by writing a book about Europe it’s
difficult not to think of Madame Tabouis.
“The Lady With Red Hair”*
Current offering at Sydney Century,
this opus is based on, or rather twisted
out of the beginning of, the career of
actress Mrs. Leslie Carter, who made
her first appearance about 1890 and was
still on the stage over 40 years later.
As the film has it, Mrs. Carter owed her
dramatic career to the fact that when
she divorced her first husband she failed
to obtain custody of her cheild and then,
determined to make as much cash as
possible in the shortest possible time to
fight the Court’s decision, chose the stage
as the most likely proposition. She
forced herself on David Belasco, who
took her in hand and, after failing with
his first attempt, made an actress of her.
The film appears to have been kept
strictly within limits which could not
possibly offend anyone connected with
the main characters (Belasco died in
1931 and Mrs. Carter in 1937), and
mainly for that reason it is a timid,
rather sentimental piece of work. Miriam
Hopkins, in particular, is heavily handi-
capped by the sentimentalism which has
been piled on to her role as Mrs. Carter.
Claude Rains, as Belasco, comes out of
it much better; he turns in one of those
colorful, living portrayals which he can
manage so successfully when the oppor-
tunity presents itself. Richard Ainley,
as Mrs. Carter’s second husband,
wanders devastatingly through the film
like a lost calf.
* * * *
“Honeymoon for Three”
Support at Sydney Century and a
breezy stretch of damnfoolery played for
all the laughs it offers. It’s all about popu-
lar novelist George Brent, engaged to
secretary Anne Sheridan, but with a wan-
dering eye that rests easily on any fancy
female who happens to be around. In
this case it’s a wench with whom he
dallied at college some years earlier and
who, despite a respectable husband, is
all for reviving old desires. The respect-
able husband is Charlie Ruggles, and
since he has had the author chappie held
up to him for years as the criterion of
manliness, and since he is both anxious
to inspect the criterion and, if possible,
palm his missus off on to him, it goes
without saying that there’s a fair percent-
age of guffaws to the film.
* * * m
“Sporting Blood”
This, at Sydney Capitol, is a combina-
tion of the meatier parts of two or three
pretty venerable themes. Robert Young
is a young racecourse tout —with, of
course, a wide streak of good beneath
his hard-boiled exterior —whose debts
force him to return to the ruins of the
family home in Virginia where his father
had many years before blackened the
family name. Thereafter the story
follows a couple of well-defined and
familiar tracks—family feud eventually
righted by marriage of younger genera-
tions, with the financial and matrimonial
position depending upon the right horse
winning the big race. The right horse
never having been known to let them
down, wedding bells and cash jingle har-
moniously.
STAGE AND CONCERT
No Place for Marie Ney
Stalking across the stage of Sydney
Royal like a warhorse harnessed to a
bathchair, Marie Ney proved con-
clusively that “No Time for Comedy”
is no fit vehicle for her great talents.
Written by one S. N. Behrman, the play
is (a) a comedy on the long-deceased
theme of the playwright who’s tem-
porarily written out; ( b) a common or
garden triangle, causing a common or
garden catfight; (c) a sermon on the
war, as unctuous as anything ever
written by Mr. Behrman’s neutral com-
patriots.
Hal Thompson, though he caricatures
his playwright’s lugubriousness to the
point of farce, makes him genuinely
funny. Marie Ney, as his actress-wife,
is half a dozen complimentary adjectives:
but she has to deliver some uncomfort-
ably melodramatic lines —“I shall wait
for Gay to come back to me... I shall
wait . . . eternally” ; and she has also
to deliver Mr. Behrman’s cheer-up mes-
sage direct to the audience, and Mr.
Behrman is a painful bore. Also, as her
husband complains, she talks too much.
Some good work by Catherine Duncan,
Richard Parry and Jane Conolly helps
to lift the show to the level of fair en-
tertainment. John Macdougall, who gets
a laugh or two as an English ass with
an Oxford accent, would be better if he
weren t quite so bloomin’ winsome, and
if he could imitate an Oxford accent.
Marie Ney should be playing Lady
Macbeth.
Melb. Princess
A disgusted management is turning
them away in hundreds every Saturday
night at Melb. Princess, where Archie
Crofts has presented the floor of the
house to the military and naval forces
and the stage to anybody who has talent,
or hopes he has. There is five bob for
every performer among them, good, bad
and indifferent, and that, too, comes out
of the pockets of the Hon. Archie, who,
incidentally, is member for Monash in
the Upper House. Sailors from Darwin,
aircraftmen from W.A. and A.I.F. men
from Tassie do their stuff surrounded by
a bevy of fetching and disturbing dam-
sels clad in superfluous raiment.
Eric, the cheer leader, rescues a blush-
ing ladi in blue armed with a mandoline
from the predicament he finds himself in
when he essays to fill the theatre with a
voice that has grown hoarse roaring into
tempests by bringing the orchestra in,
and then as much of the audience as has
tumbled to what tune the tar is singing.
The item ends in rapturous applause from
all and sundry, and the tar goes off quite
satisfied that he has brought the house
down. Then the Hon. Archie gets to the
mike and thanks all and sundry, becomes
uplifted by patriotic sentiment and, being
a politician, has to be tactfully prised
off the mike by Eric.
What must be disappointing to the
management is that the weekday show,
minus the philanthropic Crofts and the
inspiring presence of the lads in blue,
grey and khaki, is mostly ignored by
the theatregoing public, although it is
literally bursting with talent and dancers.
Earl and Fontaine are as good as you
would get anywhere, while Stella Lamond
and Max Reddy are definitely funny.
* * * *
Melb. Tiv. is cashing in on recent mili-
tary exploits of the A.I.F. by posting
Jim Gerald and a platoon of vaudevil-
leans on guard over a harem in Cairo
populated by the Tivoli Tovelies. This
causes complications resulting in the pla-
toon making a reappearance at the base
hospital, where the said Tivoli lovelies
have become Red Cross nurses. In be-
tween these alarums and excursions are
some good acrobatic stuff by Snowy
Towers and remarkable wiredrawn
dancing by the two Aristos, male and
female. The rest of the bill is up to
standard.
* * * *
At Melb. King’s the Great Levante
successfully escaped from the packing
case In which he was incarcerated by the
staff of Macßobertson’s chocolate fac-
tory. This week he is offering to do the
same to a cream container filled with
milk provided by the Peters ice-cream
people. It is rumored that next week a
leading brewery will challenge him to
escape, sober, from a barrel containing
their product. After that his job will be
to escape from the King’s Theatre.
ARTBURSTS.
The Archibald' and Wynne Prizes
Max Meldrum, of Melbourne, who
won the 1939 Archibald Prize, is again
the winner of the 1940 competition with
a portrait of Dr. J. Forbes MacKenzie
in academic robes. The picture is painted
in the characteristic Meldrum style, as
if seen through spectacles considerably
out of focus, thus submerging detail,
irrelevant or otherwise, and simplifying
problems of light and shade. Probably
the result is quite a good likeness of
Dr. MacKenzie.
Unsuccessful entries include careful,
competent work by such well-known
practitioners as Norman Carter, Charles
Wheeler and Will Rowell. There is a
crisp, posterish sketch by Fred Leist;
and quite a number of reputable artists
have turned in excellent self-portraits.
The number of entries, 156, is said to
constitute a record, and, as usual, at least
half the entries belong to the impossible
class.
Among unconventional exhibits of
note are Frank Medworth’s portrait of
his wife and. William Dobell’s impres-
sion of singer Dorothy Helmrich. These
are very frank performances—too much
so, apparently, for the judges’ taste.
Wynne Prize goes to Syd Long, whose
picture “The Lake, Narrabeen,” is cer-
tainly the pleasantest and most interest-
ing landscape on view. Many well-
known painters are represented in the
competition—J. Salvana, Howard Barron,
Robert Johnston and Ernest Buckmaster
among them, but none appears to be
making the slightest progress.
The Sulman Prize, for 1940 awarded
for a genre painting or subject picture,
goes to H. F. Abbott, of Sydney, for
“Vaucluse Interior,” a rather labored
performance.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. : Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South M ales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Shaving Comfort Is Yours
Make your morning shave the joy it should be by
using ECLIPSE RAZOR BLADES— British made The
ECLIPSE BLADE fits almost any type of Razor.
Observe how it whirrs its way through the stiffest
beard, smoothly and crisply. ISo skin soreness follows
the use of an ECLIPSE BLADE— no .cuts or ugly
nicks ECLIPSE BLADES reach the zenith of shaving
efficiency. Per packet of 5 blades 1/6. They are
made in England.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
To buy light canoe, suitable one or two per-
sons. Quote price.—9413.
Description or sample of the tartan of the
Kirkaldie clan. —9418.
Words, words and music or gramophone
record of Johnny Coleman’s song “Pat Malone
Forgot That He Was Dead”; also of “Sailing
Down the Chesapeake Bay.”—9412.
Dental surgeon, Australian and Continental
experience, accustomed sole charge busy prac-
tices, wants engagement Brisbane. Good refs.
—9415.
Information Sought.
What was the biggest souvenir collected
during the last war ?— 9359.
The R.S.S.I.L.A. Year-Book gives it as a
15in. German naval gun taken by the 3rd Bat-
talion at Arcy Wood, near Chuignes, on
August 23, 1918. The gun, with mountings,
weighed over 500 tons, had a range of over
24 miles, a barrel 70ft. long and shells weigh-
ing nearly a ton. It swivelled on ball-bearings
bigger than a man’s head, and was loaded,
elevated and trained by electricity. The Year-
Book records that an Australian officer spent
about a week sawing a couple of feet off the
muzzle as a private souvenir.
* * * •
I am writing a play and I find difficulty in
distinguishing between acts and scenes. What
actually constitutes the beginning of a new
act —passing of time and introduction of new
characters maybe ? —9284.
A play or a story can be analysed into five
phases: (1) Introduction, (2) struggle, (3) sus-
pense, (4) climax, (5) falling action. If you
were writing a five-act play it would develop
naturally with each of those phases represent-
ing one act. The same analysis applies to three-
act or one-act plays. For the three-acter, Act I
would be introduction; Act II, struggle and
suspense; Act III, climax and falling action.
In other words, first you get the audience
interested in what’s going to happen; then you
get it extremely interested in what is hap-
pening, the plot working up to its conclusion;
then you satisfy the audience by working out
the plot and rounding it off. The scenes are
merely for the dramatist’s convenience. The
act is a whole, the scene a part of it, a
mechanism to enable the writer to build up the
whole. There are no hard-and-fast rules.
But these are the underlying principles. The
crisis, the “big scene,” often comes in Act II.
Read The Playwright’s Craft, by Harrison
Owen (Nelson), a newly-published book for
the beginner.
* * * *
(1) When introducing a man and his wife
to another man and his wife, what is the cor-
rect procedure? Do you say “Mr. and Mrs.
Jones, meet Mr. and Mrs. Smith” ? (2) When
introducing a single man to a married couple?
(3) When introducing a man and his wife to a
party of people ? —9306.
(1) Never say “meet” anybody. If you wish
to be informal, say: “Mrs. Jones, I don’t think
you and your husband have met Mr. and Mrs.
Smith,” at the same time bowing to both
couples. Or simply: “Mr. and Mrs. Smith—
Mr. and Mrs. Jones. (2) Always introduce
the gentleman to the lady. Correct procedure
is: “Mrs. Blank, may I introduce Mr. Dash?”
and, turning to Dash, “Mr. Dash, this is Mr.
and Mrs. Blank.” (3) At such a function as
a private party the fact of all being guests con-
stitutes an introduction in itself, but, as a rule,
as each fresh couple arrives the hostess, turning
to the rest of the party, says: “This is Mr.
*nd Mrs. Blank.” Then to Mr. and Mrs.
Blank she introduces all present. At a formal
affair everyone is announced on arrival and
thus know each other as fellow-guests.
* * >K *
(1) I desire to put on flesh and build up my
body to correct strength again. I am advised
to eat a lot of cheese to help do this. How
much can be eaten at each meal with safety?
(2) Is cheese easily digested and what is the
best cheese to eat for digestion and food value ?
Is Kraft cheese better than or inferior to
ordinary cheese? Of the latter, which is the
better, the matured or semi-matured Cheddar,
for ease of digestion and food value? I am
told cheese made with all cream in it is better
and easier to digest than that made from milk
with cream skimmed off as in ordinary block
Cheddar cheese. Is this so? What are some
kinds of full-milk cheeses ? Has Kraft all the
cream in it ? Is cheese actually an aid to
digestion ? (3) Which is the better, Ovaltine
or Bourn-Vita? Is Benger’s Food as good as
or better than either ? (4) What is the best wine
to aid digestion with meals? What wines are
the best —the heavy ports or the light wines ?
Please recommend types of wines for meals and
in between meals. —9299.
(1) The amount of cheese to be eaten with
comfort by the individual depends entirely on
his powers of digestion. Since cheese is much
infiltrated with fat, it is not an article of diet
easily dealt with by delicate stomachs, for
the fat forms a coating which hinders the
access of the digestive juices. The larger the
lumps eaten, the slower will this access be.
For this reason cheese should be pulverised, and
dry cheese is more readily assimilated than
moist. (2) In the process of “ripening” cheese,
fatty acids are produced which may hinder
digestion in the stomach; but once in the in-
testine it is very thoroughly absorbed, and
90 p.c. of its energy is available. Cannot
pass opinion on the various brands of cheese,
or (3) on other proprietary articles of food
designed to increase body-weight. (4) No wine
aids digestion, though most produce a tem-
porary sense of well-being. The fact remains
that alcohol (including all wines) exerts a re-
tarding effect on digestion out of all proportion
to the strength of the beverage consumed. From
the purely health point of view there is no
need to drink wine at meals nor between meals.
* * * *
(1) I have read a great deal about South
American Indians who shrink the heads of
victims to a third of their normal size. Is this
fiction or actual fact? (2) Are any specimens
to be seen in Sydney? (3) Any information
available about the shrinking process? —9410.
(1) Certainly not fiction; it was a practice of
the Jivaro Indians who dwell on the slopes
of the Andes in Ecuador. (2) Yes. At the
Australian Museum. (3) The process is de-
scribed in the latest issue of the “Australian
Museum Magazine,” from the eyewitness
account of Up de Graff, who accompanied a
Jivaro war party in 1899. The head and part
of the neck were severed from the body, and
the flesh was slit up the back of the head and
the bones carefully removed, leaving the flesh
and hair only. The slit was then sewn up,
the lips skewered together, the eyelids drawn
down, the eyebrows held in place with small
pegs and the nose and ears plugged with
cotton. The aim was to preserve the normal
proportions of the head when it was filled out
with hot sand. Next each head was placed in
a pot filled with fresh cold water, and brought
slowly to boiling-point. Just at this point, so
that the flesh might not be softened, the head
was withdrawn and found to have shrunk to
one-third original size. Hot sand was then
poured into the head to toughen and shrink it
even further, the sand being renewed as it
cooled; the outer surface was ironed over with
hot flat stones. The treatment was carried out
over a period of 48 hours to draw the oil
and fat from the face, which by this time was
considered “cured.”
* * * *
Reference was made ( B. 13/11 / ’4O) to a
handbook dealing with blowfly strike. Where
can this handbook be obtained? —9162.
The pamphlet (No. 98, “The Prevention and
Treatment of Blowfly in Sheep”) can be obtained
from the Council of Scientific and Industrial
Research, Melbourne, on sending Is. in stamps.
* * * *
(1) Would the amount of bromide in a regular
morning dose of Bromo-Seltzer be harmful to
a woman who wishes to make the very best of
a botched digestive tract ? (2) I am acquainted
with a woman of 40 who was treated last year
without operation for duodenal ulcer. She
was apparently cured, and resumed an ordinary
sensible diet. There are symptoms of a re-
turn of the trouble, and as the woman loathes
the diet that was prescribed for her I should
be glad of information regarding up-to-date
treatment. —9077.
(1) The amount of bromide in the prepara-
tion would not be dangerous. (2) The diet
proved to be helpful consists of lightly-cooked
eggs, fish, chicken, milk, milk puddings, cream,
custards, jellies, well-cooked rice, stale bread
or rusks. Food should be taken at short
intervals and all indigestible articles and sour
or highly-seasoned foods should be avoided.
Injections of histamine are sometimes of great
value, but this treatment can be prescribed and
administered only by the medical attendant.
« * * *
(1) Where in N.S.W. should I send soil to
have it tested to find out what farm crops it
is most suitable for? (2) Where to send pre-
historic animal bones to find out their species,
age, etc.? (3) What was the capital city of
Australia before it was shifted to Canberra ?
(4) Which State had the bigger settled popu-
lation 40 years ago, N. S. Wales or Vic.? —
9151.
(1) Chemistry branch, Dept, of Agriculture,
Farrer-place, Sydney, with explanatory note.
(2) Curator, Australian Museum, College-street,
Sydney. (3) From the inauguration of Federa-
tion until the opening of the 1927 Federal
Parliament at Canberra, Parliament sat in Mel-
bourne. Thus Melbourne was regarded as the
Commonwealth headquarters; it was never
officially regarded as the Federal Capital and
seldom referred to by that title, except sarcasti-
cally or ironically. Canberra is the first and
only Federal Capital. (4) N.S.W., pop. in 1900,
1,360,305; Vic., 1,196,213.
* * « «
(1) In partnerships in S.A. does the death
of a partner necessitate dissolution of the part-
nership in order to settle the deceased partner’s
share of the business? (2) Where insurance
policies are taken out to liquidate each part-
ner’s interest ■ are premiums deductible as a
business expense? When policies mature are
they taxable under State or Federal income
tax? (3) Where insurance is taken out to
cover the economic loss to a company of a
key executive, Would it be within the law to
have, the policy proceeds payable to the com-
pany at maturity? If so, would the proceeds
be retired to the treasury of the company?
(4) Is there any publication which covers in-
formation regarding the law as it applies to
business insurance? —9065.
(1) Yes. Subject to any agreement between
the partners the death of one partner operates
as a dissolution of the partnership. (2) Cannot
follow first part of question. If it means are
premiums paid on policies on the lives of the
individual partners for the purpose of pro-
viding a fund to purchase the share of one
partner on his decease allowable for income-
tax purposes as a trading deduction the answer
is “No.” The proceeds of a matured life
policy are not “income” within the meaning
of the Income Tax Acts. (3) Provided the
company had an insurable interest in the life
assured and that it was within the powers of
the company as defined by its Memorandum
of Association, yes. Don’t understand the
second part of question. (4) Not specifically,
but see Macgillivray’s Insurance Law, Porter’s
Laws of Insurance or Joske’s Insurance Law in
Australia, all from Law Book Cos. of A/asia,
Ltd., Adelaide.
* * * *
I am a man of 73 and suffer from gallstones.
The attacks occur about once a month, the
pain persisting until I am able to vomit. Is
diet of any use in preventing these attacks? —
9025.
Milk, yolk of egg, cream, liver, sweetbreads,
kidneys and brains are best avoided. Fats
should be eaten in small amounts only, and
rich, fried or twice-cooked foods avoided. Evi-
dence exists that olive oil is of use in some
cases of gallstones. A wineglassful may be
taken early in the morning or one tablespoon-
ful before every meal. The patient does well
to take no alcohol, though a little light wine
or a small dose of spirits may be given. Plenty
of water should be swallowed during the day.
An ordinary mixed diet, free of the fatty sub-
stances listed, and taken in small quantities,
is advised.
* * * =?
Formula for preparation and use of lime-
sulphur garden-spraying compound? —92so.
Proportion of ingredients: lib. each of stone-
lime and sulphur, five gallons of water. Place
lime in a strong container, cover with hot
water, and while the lime is slaking add the
sulphur (thoroughly pulverised); stir thoroughly,
using sufficient water to make it into a thin
paste. After the balance of water is mixed
into it strain the mixture through fine gauze
and place in airtight jars or barrels. Protect
face and hands while doing the work. The mix-
ture is more effective if warmed before being
applied in the garden.
* * * *
Brief description of the operation of an elec-
tromat ic traffic-control system ? —9408.
The electromatic vehicle-actuated system has
three components —detectors, controller and
signal lanterns. The detector is a device for
indicating to the controller that a vehicle is
approaching the intersection. It is a pressure-
operated unit flush with the surface of the road-
way and extending over about half the width
of same. Its distance back from the inter-
section depends upon the nature of the
thoroughfare and the speed of the average
traffic. The controller is a mechanism to switch
the signal lights, in accordance with the mes-
sages conveyed to it by the detectors. Natu-
rally it is impossible for all vehicles to get the
right-of-way immediately on arrival at the inter-
section, but the controller is arranged so that
every vehicle is passed through at the first
safe opportunity. This is done by a timing
device which notes the time of arrival and
the speed of each approaching vehicle and
regulates the signals so as to pass them through
in the most efficient order. The signal lanterns
themselves are well enough known—red, amber
and green lenses, mounted in the most con-
venient position for adequate visibility.
* * * *
I have had pimples on the back and shoulders
since about the age of 12 ( am now 28). Pimples
are fairly numerous and come to yellow heads,
finally leaving a slight pit or scar. Cause and
treatment ?— BBIB.
The condition is almost certainly that known
as acne, a particular infection of the skin due
to a specific germ. Treatment by certain local
applications, by suitable vaccines or by X-rays
is usually very effective, but cannot be detailed
with safety except after careful examination of
the indvidual case.
* * * «•
Particulars of Workers’ Compensation In-
surance in Queensland ? —9360.
Queensland employers must insure their em-
ployees against injury, the business being
handled by the State Government Insurance
Office. Separate sections deal with (1) ordi-
nary industrial accidents, including certain in-
dustrial diseases, such as lead poisoning, and
(2) miners’ phthisis, including contraction of
similar diseases by workers in the quarry, flour
and bread industries. Liability for accidents
has been increasing in recent years, and from
July, 1936, the State Insurance Office increased
premium rates in a graded manner for certain
occupations where the claims ratio was more
than 50 p.c. of premiums.
* * * *
I am 26 and healthy. Small tufts of my hair
appear to fall out as if moth-eaten, leaving bald
patches. Cause and treatment? —9084.
This form of baldness is known as alopecia
areata. There are many theories as to its
cause, which means that the cause is not cer-
tainly known. But the outlook as to ultimate
recovery is good. Stimulant remedies applied
to the scalp are useful. Try the following;
Lactic acid five parts, castor oil five parts, recti-
fied spirit to make 100 parts. Apply this daily,
cautiously at first, -but more vigorously as the
scalp gets used to it.
its * * *
Recipe for a hardwearing floor polish con-
taining beeswax and turpentine? —9264-
Slice ilb. beeswax into 4-pint pure (not
mineral) turpentine, stand container in boiling
water (do it outdoors —vapor is inflam-
mable), stir till wax melts, then add one pint
boiling water, one teaspoon soft soap, a piece
of washing soda as big as a walnut, two table-
spoons methylated spirit and two tablespoons
liquid ammonia. Stir well, leave for two days,
drain off water and store polish in tins or
jars. Apply thinly with fluffless, rag and rub
well in, using very little—only a smear—at a
time. Quantity given will last ordinary house-
hold some months.
Brief Answers.
N.H.M.: Princess Elizabeth is heir-pre-
sumptive to the English throne. Should a son
be born to the present King and Queen he
would become the heir-apparent... .R.F.C.:
The oldest Australian soldier to be killed in
action in the 1914-18 war was probably Pte.
H. J. Gibbs, who was killed on the Somme in
1918 at the age of 64. The first Australian
killed was most likely Able Seaman W. G. V.
Williams, who was mortally wounded on the
Bitapaka-road in the advance from Kabakaul
against Herbertshohe and Rabaul on September
I], 1914 G.H.L.; The John Forrest Ministry
holds the record for duration of office in West-
ralia. It took office on December 29, 1890,
and remained in there for 10 years 1 month
and 17 days. The Colebatch Ministry was
that of shortest duration. It lasted one month.
P.R.M.: Production of whale oil in 1937-
38 totalled 3,635,010 barrels (six barrels to
the ton). From the Antarctic came 3,340,330
barrels, from the Arctic 19,250 barrels, from
Africa 54,352 barrels, and from other whaling
grounds 221,078 barrels.... P.F.R.: In the
year ended June 30, 1940, there were 12,429
building permits issued in N. S. Wales. These
included houses, hotels, flats, shops, factories,
etc J.G.8.: The first aeroplane flight from
England to Australia was made in 1919 by Ross
and Keith Smith J.8.E.: There have been
dozens of such men, but know of no list ot
them M.C.: If you know nothing about
the hotel business, keep out of it... .S.D.W.;
All gifts and comforts fund parcels forwarded
to R.A.A.F. personnel at Singapore are admitted
duty free.... Blinds; Holland blinds, if in
good condition, can be painted with Dulux,
which is flexible. Know of no firm doing the
work, but it can be done at home P.K.:
(1) The treatment is useless. (2) No patient
should be given the treatment, no matter what
his condition.... J.8.P.: (1) No; threadworm
ova are microscopic in size. (2) Yes; little round
lumps, looking rather like pocket editions ot
walnuts. (3) Ova of ascaris would be visible.
(4) Probably the worm oxyuris vermicularis, but
can’t say for certain without examination....
C.H.: Probably due in your case to digestive
inefficiency. See a doctor about it. A mouth
wash containing Listerine or Alka-Thymol
(any chemist) is very useful D.P.; A con-
densed report on rheumatism among soldiers
should shortly be available in the English medi-
cal journals, but none has come to hand so
far May be able to give further information
later Marcus: (1) Condition would prob-
ably mean an abdominal operation is your sus-
picions are correct. (2) and (3) Nobody can
advise you on the matter but a doctor.
Department of Defence.
Enrolment of Additional Age Groups.
An advertisement appears in this issue of The
Bulletin requiring all unmarried men or widowers
without children who were born between W h
1906. and June 30. 1921— i.e., thoset who reached the
ages of 19 to 33 inclusive during the period .July 1,
1939, and June 30, 1940—t0 enrol for military ser-
vice for Home Defence. . , . , .
The following are not required to enrol.
( a J Persons who are not British subjects.
(b) Persons who have not resided m Australia lor
six months. , ~ . .
(cl Persons whose bona fide residence is not within
the metropolitan area as defined, or within a distance
of 10 miles reckoned by the nearest practicable loute
from the places in which the proclamations are
(d) Persons who are enlisted in, or appointed to,
the Naval. Military or Air Forces.
(e) Persons who have already reported for military
service after having been called uipon to do so sub-
sequent to November 30, 1939. .
(f) Persons temporarily absent from Australia.
(g) Persons w'ho are members or officers of the
Parliament of the Commonwealth or of a state.
(h) Judges of Federal or State Courts or Police,
Stipendiary or Special Magistrates of the Common-
wealth or of a State. ~ , , , , o( .
Any person who, although not liable to enrol a
present, either because of residence outside the ladius
of any proscribed town or for any other reason, must
enrol within 30 days if his exemption for enrolment
ceases ; i.e., if he changes his address to within the
PI Enrolmentform’s are now available at all necessary
post offices, drill halls, area offices and other con-
venient places, and enrolment must be completed
before February 24, 1941. . , ,
Posters have been erected at the post offices and
other 8 places. All men in the specified age groups
should 1 consult lists in the advertisement and also
investigate whether the poster has been exhibited at
the local post office. If the name of the home town
is not included in the advertisement, and no poster
lias been exhibited at the local post office, there
should be no element of doubt
Generally speaking, towns with a population of 000
and over form the basis of the appointment of places
for enrolment, but many additional p aces have been
included although the population within the town is
probably below 500: the population within 10 miles
radius of the town, however, would probably consider-
ably exceed 500. In some cases towns within tne
10-mile radius of other larger towns have alsobeen
included. These additional towns have been published
for the convenience and reference of those required
to enrol, which should reduce confusion to the
out that this enrolment is largely for
the purpose of a census to ascertain the numbers
available for service in the Australian Military
Forces No decision has been reached as to what
a,? c groups, if any, will be called up for enlistment
of when any such enlistment is likely. This will be
•i matter for investigation by Army Headquarters and
anv decision reached will be announced in due course.
Men affected will be communicated with direct.
The enrolments and enlistments under universal
training during 1940 affected only a certain number
of country centres and the radius was five miles.
The radius has now been extended to 10 miles and
the number of centres very greatly increased. Those
men 90 to 24 inclusive, who were exempted in the
1940 enlistments because they resided at a gieatei
distance than five miles from the training centre
must now register if they come within the 10-mile
ra Men desiring to make application for exemption
should make such application on the enrolment form
where provision has been made These applications
for exemption will be dealt with in due course An
acknowledgment of the desire for exemption will be
forwarded direct to each applicant and they will be
advised later when full details of reason for exemp-
t!°Alia Persons' who enrol must notify area officer in
the event of marriage, change of address or ceasing
to be or becoming employed, in a reserved occupation,
within 14 days. All enquiries should be addressed
to the nearest area officer. If advice is required as
to reserved occupations, man-power officers aie
stationed at the same places as area officers.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
H
m
O
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’EAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDAJLE. N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
FOR PROFIT IN PIGS
iftji-GxJL-O*.
BONE FLOUR IS THE BEST
MINERAL SUPPLEMENT
It means good litters, strong bones, minimum
losses before weaning, thrifty growth, and
highest factory returns. Tri-cal-os is bone in
the fine powder form which pigs most easily
digest and assimilate. It contains a guaran-
teed minimum 33% phosphoric acid and
40 % of lime.
iw
AH particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058
Melbourne; G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 58s’
Perth. ' ’
THE MAN ON THE LAN D
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb-raising in Queensland.
“Ghanam”: Scarcity of ewes is the
greatest problem connected with lamb-
raising in Queensland. Graziers round
the edges of the Darling Downs and the
Maranoa might well help the supply by
putting long-woolled British rams on
their cast-for-age dams.
November mating and April lambing
are necessary on the Downs, and early
maturity must be aimed at to market
before the heat and worms arrive in
October. The Dorset Horn has been
recommended since it is the only British
breed which will mate the year round
and which is early maturing. There
must be no check in growth. Border
Leicesters have been successful in recent
years. Queensland Agricultural Depart-
ment points out their skin value as an
added incentive to breed them. They
are certainly hardly and mature early.
Pure Corriedale ewes breed a good lamb
and make fine mothers in a trying time,
but they are not easy to get.
Conditions are very different from those
in old-established lamb districts, where
the main recipe for success is a bit of
lucerne and a bag of super. On the
Downs, super, is not used because of the
heaviness of the soil, and needs have
to be adapted to a confined summer
rainfall and pastures in which clovers are
scarce and lucerne is limited. Worms are
legion in summer, but the farmer has
one advantage—his is rich and diverse
crop country of which the only fault as
grazing land lies in the fact that it is
uniformly too good. Still, crop land
makes for fodder reserves and compact
farmsteads and freedom from grass seed,
which is the bane of some other lamb-
raising districts.
Bencubbin Is Best.
“Ben Cubbin”: Jack Green, manager
of the Government farm at Condobolin,
hasn’t been able to find a late maturing
wheat to beat Bencubbin in the central-
west of N. S. Wales.
Baldmin yielded well, but its prone-
ness to disease, especially flag smut,
rubbed it out. Baldmin’s straw is too
brittle for the hot, dry harvest weather
of the west. Dundee and Garra couldn’t
get near Bencubbin, and Eureka, though
it has rust immunity and good grain
quality, didn’t yield nearly as well and
matured much too late. Eureka is a
wheat for districts with heavy soil and
humid and wet summers. Totadgin,
closely related to Bencubbin, also failed.
For a quick maturer in his district,
Green stands by Gular. It is a premium
wheat and a good standby when sowing
is delayed after May. Green says Cail-
loux has no future in that country and
Pusa 4 is a doubtful proposition. Koala,
a product of Temora farm, has been
showing some promise for the past three
years as a quick maturer, but has yet
to prove itself. For a hay wheat,
Baroota Wonder suits the central-west
down to the ground.
Green insists that superphosphate must
be used, and heavily. Where only 561 b.
an acre is applied he believes the wheat
has used it all by the time the plants
are a foot high. Anything under 601 b.
an acre in a normal season he reckons
false economy. He puts down the net
profit from properly applied super, at
3s. 6d. an acre.
Super. in the Mallee.
“B. Cub.”; Tests with super, in the
Victorian Mallee over a number of years
showed clearly that the painstaking
farmer can find the right amount for his
paddocks by experiment.
Wheat sown without super, gave 24.4
bushels an acre for early and mid-season
plots and 18.6 on late-sown. With appli-
cations of 301 b., 601 b., 901 b. and 1201 b. per
acre yields rose progressively to 31.8 for
early-, 29.6 for mid- and 24.5 for late-
sown. With 1501 b. of super, an acre
there was no practical difference be-
“Hey! Wot 'ave I told you kids about eatin' between meals ?”
tween yield from that plot and the one
that had 1201 b.
With wheat at 2s. 6d. a bushel at
sidings and super, costing £5 10s. a ton
on the farm, most payable dressing under
conditions similar to those of the central
Mallee was 901 b. an acre. It worked out
like this: Thirty pounds of super, per
acre cost Is. 6d. and yielded an average
of 21.8 bushels worth 6s. 9d. for a return
of ss. 3d.; 601 b. cost 3s. and returned
23.2 bushels worth 10s. 3d. for a return
of 7s. 3d. ; 901 b. cost 4s. 6d. and returned
24.2 bushels worth 12s. 9d., return of
Bs. 3d. ; and 1201 b. cost 6s. to return
24.6 bushels worth 13s. 9d., return 7s. 9d.
It seems that the Mallee soil, or at least
that part round Walpeup where the ex-
periments were conducted, has sufficient
of the minor mineral elemehts necessary
for good wheat growth. A test with
super, at 901 b. an acre, plus the addition
of elements like zinc sulphate, magnesium
sulph., borax, copper sulph., iron, man-
ganese and potassium sulph., failed to
raise yields noticeably. In wheat the
best increase came from the zinc, a mere
1.3 bushels, and in oats, as might have
been expected, from the copper, which
gave a bushel more.
Some Wheat Figures.
“8.C.”: Australian Wheat Board chair-
man McPherson estimated the 1940-41
harvest at 82,400,000 bushels, a big drop
in comparison with the Commonwealth
Statistician’s estimate, which made it
91,900,000 at the beginning of December.
McPherson states that 195,750,000
bushels of the 1939-40 crop were de-
livered to the A.W.B. The Statistician
gave the total crop as 210,248,000 bushels,
so that nearly 14,500,000 bushels must
have been held on farms for seed and
feed. “Of the 195,750,000 bushels de-
livered to the board, only 25,200,000 re-
mained unsold on December 31” —a Can-
berra report makes it 33,000,000. And
“except for 20,000,000 sold to Britain and
being held in Australia, only 15,500,000
bushels sold remained unshipped.” In
plain English that means that 60,700,000
bushels is still in storage from the 1939-
40 crop. The A.W.B. ought to be thank-
ing its stars that the recent harvest was
well below average.
The board sold 73,000,000 bushels of
1939-40 wheat to Australian millers for
home and export flour, and this, added to
the 60,700,000 still in storage (sold and
unsold), means that it managed to ship
over 76,500,000 bushels. There is thus a
carryover of 25,200,000 to be added to
the 62,000,000 which the board expects
from the 1940-41 harvest, making
87.200.000 bushels for it to deal with this
season. It is to reserve 64,500,000 for
local and export flour —it got rid of
73,000,000 to that market last season —
leaving only the equivalent of the 1939-
40 carryover for export. The figures are
based on the supposition that 20,000,000
bushels of the board’s estimated
82.400.000 bushels for 1940-41 will re-
main on farms, but if the Statistician’s
December figure holds good there will
be nearly another 10,000,000 bushels
needing attention.
Nothing is heard of acreage restriction
these days, though there had been some
voluntary restriction. The drought settled
that. The 1939-40 grain area was
13.295.000 acres, for an acre average of
15.81 bushels and a record yield of
210.248.000 ; 1940-41 area was 12,352,000
acres, for an acre average of 7.44 bushels
and an (estimated) total of 91,900,000.
Nobody will ever know how many acres
were given over to stock last year. Aver-
ages for the previous 10 years were:
Acreage, 14,175,000; acre yield, 12.54;
total yield, 177,726,000 bushels. Every-
thing indicates another acreage drop in
the coming seeding.
Oats for Grazing.
“A 1 Budda”: The first and most im-
portant lesson to be learnt from recently
completed tests with grazing oats at the
Government farm, Walpeup (Vic.) —they
covered green-feed weight, nutritive
values and number of sheep carried —is
the necessity for early sowing.
Three plots were sown with a combine
in April and simultaneously fed off
during the growing period. The number
of sheep was adjusted according to the
amount of feed available and a record
of the grazing kept. Each plot was
grazed four times from July to Novem-
ber in 1935 and 1937, and five times in
1936.
At the first feeding-off in July, most
feed came from the early-maturer Mulga,
but Dawn, a mid-season oat, ran it fairly
close and was ahead in the August and
September grazings. For the late graz-
ing, Algerian came to light. Being a
late-maturer, it responded well to the late
spring rains.
Normally the feed value of oats is
greatest in winter, but after the native
pasture has gone to seed in November
green feed then is very useful for late
lambs. Throughout the grazing period
Dawn gave 10 per cent, more feed than
Algerian, and Mulga 6 per cent. less.
The ability of oats to recover and pro-
duce grain after grazing is important. A
Palestine x Dawn R 4-1-1 cross, Fulghum
and Ideal showed out best. A lot depends
on how the rains fall, of course, but
generally early-maturers cannot be grazed


STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them —
at trifling cost—and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9'9'-
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
Pe£c vk^
Tut Jfj
rTiir Jfl
LowVouam
The Nciv and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DAWKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder .
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone; M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 6505.
'TM li
«?■
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from
Double Rooms from
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0.,
5/6
11/-
Hot and Cold Water
SYDNEY.
BED
Single
Double
& BREAKFAST
Rooms from 7/6
Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte.
Telephone; 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral.
Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
as late as Algerian if hay or grain yields
are sought.
A heavy seeding rate seems necessary,
In the trials a rate of 30lb. to the acre
gave 15 7 C wt. for feed, 601 b. gave
16 7cwt and 901 b gave 20.4 cwt. Should
the season turn out so good that
grazing is unnecessary, there will still
be a heavier return from the heavier seed-
ing. Size of grain has to be taken into
account when deciding seeding rate,
Burke grain is about 30 per cent, smaller
than Mulga, so that Mulga would be
sown at 601 b. an acre and Burke at 401 b.
Tea in Australia.
,
BuU-ant Bill . Though its n
argued that N. Queensland could grow a
the 50,000,0001 b. of tea which Austrah
now imports each year, and though Min-
ister for Agriculture Bulcock admits tha
good tea has been grown in parts ot
Queensland, he stiff considers that econo-
mic features prevent the establishment o
the industry.
Tea plants do not reach maturity tor
four or five years, and require six or
seven to come into full bearing. Careful
husbandry and cultivation are needed.
Men will not tackle the monotony of
picking little leaves off a bush all day,
and an average daily maximum for a
woman picker is 501 b., equivalent to
1211 b. of the finished product. The crop
continues through the year. The picked
leaves cannot be stored but must be
treated as soon as possible, necessitating
continuous factory work. A good annual
average yield is 6001 b. per acre. To pick
the 24001 b. of green leaves required for
this would, at a daily wage of I0s„ cost
£24—over 9d. per pound. Processing,
packing, transport and marketing costs
would bring Australian tea grown under
award rate up to 6s. or 7s. per pound by
the time it reached the consumer. Thus
th e-State agricultural authorities,
All the same a patch of tea bushes
sufficient to provide tor an average house-
hold would show a good saving on the
grocer’s bill with tea at present prices,
Most of coastal Australia north of Vic-
torja j s su j ta bl e according to Von Mueller,
A morning’s picking would yield enough
i ea f for 61b., and there is nothing in the
processing which could not be managed
j n avera g e kitchen. Anyhow, it’s me
£ or a s b ot at homegrown without any
awar( j ra t e tied to it, and the missus
a g rees to pick and process if I provide
the material.
And w hile on the subject, what about
the highlands of New Guinea? There’s
pj en ty of cheap female labor available
f or raising tea on a commercial scale.
“Kyamba”; Although rainfall and its
distribution are the chief controlling fac-
tors of wheat yields, experiments on
fallowed land in five S.A. districts have
pointed to the value of super.:
Yield Yield With
Annual Without Most Economic
Rainfall. Manure. Amount Super.
District. In. Bush. Lb. Bush. Lb.
A .. 16.20 19.31 27.51 (2cwt. super.)
B .. 12.75 9.34 12.17 super.)
C .. 10.12 8.20 12.38 (lewt. super.)
D .. 11.80 9.25 10.34 (Jcwt. super.)
E .. 11.19 7.46 8.32 (iewt. super.)
The last district was not suitable for wheat.
“Mt. Boppy”: In a dry year G. W.
Evans, Glenevan, Tumbarumba (N.S.W.),
has proved that better pastures pay. He
has subdivided his farm into many small
paddocks for rotational grazing and top-
dresses with super, every year. Last
season, one of the driest on record, he
carried six sheep to the acre and cut a
yield of 541 b. of wool per acre, for which
he got an average of 17d. per pound.
“Horsey”: One set of air-raid casual-
ties in Britain are farm animals.
A National A.R.P. for animals pro-
vides the services of 1050 vets, and a
steward in every parish throughout Eng-
land, Scotland and Wales. All work free
of charge, taking care of farm stock
and warning and helping farmers during
Blitzes. Casualties to the middle of
October, largely thanks to organisation,
had been only 1500, including all types
of stock.
“Murphy”: The shortage in spuds
continues in Queensland, which owns
about as much good spud land probably
as all northern Europe put together.
The reasons officially given are poor
season, enforcement of maximum price
control scheme, which increased the de-
mand, shortage of shipping space, and
high costs of importing by road or rail.
However, it’s all right. W.A., thousands
of miles away, is gradually supply-
ing the shortage, and there are hopes
that supplies will be had presently from
Victoria, N.S.W. and Tasmania. Nobody
seems to have thought of Patagonia and
the Ukraine as sources of supply yet.
Meanwhile two lines were put up for
auction in the Roma-street markets the
other day—“very poor quality,” but they
brought £l5 10s, and £l6 per ton.
“Canbelego”; Rhodes grass—in the
right districts —makes good hay, and
when grown on fertile soil will yield two
cuts of lj to 2 tons per acre each. In
good seasons, when a surplus of grass is
needed, close the paddock to stock until
the grass is ready for cutting. If the
weather is dry, Rhodes grass will cure
rapidly and will be ready for the stack
about 48 hours after cutting.
“Putrefact”: “Zedo’s” manure heaps
fB. 8/1 /’4l) sound good, but under Aus-
tralian conditions are a prolific source of
flies. Also, lack of water hampers de-
velopment of nitrogen bacteria and thus
destroys the manure’s asset. In semi-
intensive farming animal manures are
awkward to handle. However, it would
be foolish not to get the utmost benefit
from animal dung by judicious manage-
ment of pastures and livestock. Humus is
sadly lacking in most of our soils nowa-
days.
Outback Occupations.
No. LIV.
REPELLING INVADERS (2).
A herd of meat-ants, having had their
nest by the stable rooted up by the tank
plough, have taken refuge under the
house and dug a new city there. The
house is a bare foot above ground, and
the space beneath has been used as a sort
of dump for all kinds of things, from
spare fence posts to rabbit-traps.
For a while you try to ignore the ants.
But you discover that, though the meat-
ant is a fellow who usually minds his
own business and will let you alone if
you let him alone, there is one thing you
can’t do, and that is ignore him. By the
time you have caught meat-ants cleaning
the mutton-fat off your new working
boots you decide that the missus is right
and the things must be eradicated.
Obviously the thing to do is pour
carbon bisulphide, or Paris green, or
even sheep-dip, down their holes, but get-
ting at the holes is the problem. You
can’t shift the house, and you’re hardly
prepared to rip up the flooring. The last
might be all right if you didn’t know
darned well that if you ripped up the
kitchen floor the ant-bed would be under
the boys’ bedroom or vicka versay, as
the new shire clerk often says when he
means something is the other way about.
You are still pondering over the prob-
lem one night while reading the war news
and suddenly you get the great idea.
“Wife,” you announce, “the cheapest
way to deal with them ants is to block-
ade ’em.”
“Is this another of your ideas?” she
asks, with that hint of alarm which a
loving woman can use so deftly to make
her husband bite.
This time you don’t bite. Rapidly you
sketch the plan. Keep all foodstuffs under
lock and key. Not a crumb, not a drop,
not even a smell of food is to be left
lying around. The ants, facing starvation,
will make for other parts. “It’ll be like
the Exodus out of Egypt,” you declare,
astounded at your mental ability.
“Well,” she says, “unless you do some-
thing there’ll be an exodus out of Ford-
cubbin’s farm.”
For three days the plan goes well.
Large meat-ants, obviously starving,
search every nook and cranny of the
house. A few begin to look drought-
stricken. You can’t exactly see their
ribs, but there is a haunted look in their
eyes, and two that tried to climb the
kitchen wall were too weak to do so. You
set all hands to watch for the first sign
of evacuation.
On the fourth night there is a disturb-
ance in the fowlhouse. You grab the
gun and rush out into the night, expect-
ing to see a fox. But the dogs are silent,
and there is nothing in the fowlhouse
except the screeching chooks. Puzzled,
you look closer. An army of meat-ants
is attacking the poultry. Roosters lose
all dignity, old hens rush in all directions.
You can’t shoot meat-ants, so you open
the fowlhouse and shoo all the chooks
into the open.
“Is this your Exodus?” demands the
missus.
“Oh, give it a rest, woman! ” you snap,
and make for bed.
Next day there isn’t an ant in the
house. But several millions are travelling
backwards and forwards under it. You
trace their trails and watch them. They’re
bringing in stores from afar. Captured
insects of all kinds, fat from the sheep-
skins, grains of wheat from the shed,
pollard, a wide variety of tucker gathered
from the surrounding district.
Defeated, you face the inevitable. You
set the boys to gather all available bottles
and fill them with carbon bisulphide and
stand them near the house. You get into
your oldest clothes, with gloves on your
hands and mosquito net over your face,
and you crawl under that house and drag
out the accumulation of years.
By night the yard is piled with the
greatest heap of rubbish it has ever seen ;
you have found the mattock you lost two
years ago,, and the cat that died a month
ago ; your elbows, knees and shoulders are
sore, and your head aches from being
continually bumped on the joists and
bottoms of the wall-plates. Your eyes are
red with dust and your throat dry. You
have lost count of the number of times
you have crawled under that blanky
house, and that night you crawl into bed
with a sure knowledge of the way a shirt
feels after it has gone through a mangle.
Your dreams are haunted by marching
ants ; you see them chew your arms off
and roll your head away, and you wake
up in a sweat.
Next day, weak but determined, you
crawl under again and search with a
torch for the ant-bed. After an hour you
come out, faintly order water and send
Jack under. He comes out. Tom goes
under. All three of you agree that there
isn’t any ant-bed under there. You take
tea and force your protesting body under
once more. You find a hole, another
and another. But there isn’t an ant in
sight.
Just as you come out again, hardly able
to drag one leg after the other, the missus
cheerfully announces “You can stop now,
dear, all the ants have gone. They’ve
opened up their old bed over by the
stable. They must have been working on
it for days, only we didn’t notice it.”
“If,” you say firmly, “anybody laughs
I’ll knock their flamin’ block off.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4Jd. pet line; all others at
2£d. per line.
First place for a farmer’s wife who suggests a way in which uniformed women
could be of real value.
Land Armies
Lady pea-pickers, enthusiastically pub-
licised by the flapper press, are in holts
with the trade-unions. In the country
we have our own opinions, not all of
them publishable.
It seems, on the surface, a splendid
thing to help in time of need. There
are degrees of helpfulness. Country-
women deprived of the support of soldier
husbands, are “carrying on” with con-
siderable success. They could do with
assistance. Not necessarily tractor-drivers
or shearers —but certainly domestic
helpers.
Any farmer’s wife tackling outdoor
work side by side with rearing a family
will tell you nothing pleases her better
than to find her house kept in order and
her mind relieved of pressing domestic
worries. Domestic labor has always been
hard to find—but it was never harder or
more necessary than today.
Domestic work holds no interest for
our uniformed women. Yet here they can
really help—without stirring the righteous
indignation of unionists and unemployed.
Tractor-driving may be a glamorous form
of national service for women, but
housework would be more practical.—
Farmer’s Wife (N.S.W.).
Inter-State Transport
I wanted to transport a load of live-
stock from a point 30 miles beyond
Naracoorte (S.A.) to Harrow (Vic.), a
distance of 90 miles by road. No rail-
way goes within 20 miles of either load-
ing point or destination. I applied to the
Victorian Transport Strangulation Board
for a permit to engage a South Australian
carrier to do the job, adding that the
truck I proposed hiring was fitted with
a gas-producer and would therefore save
the use of petrol.
Permission was granted—provided that
the S.A. carrier registered his truck for
12 months in Victoria (cost, nearly £3O),
after which he could later apply for a
refund of 11 months’ registration. In
short, he would have to lend the Vic.
Government £27 for two months free of
interest —it takes a full month to get that
refund—and I’d have to pay an extra
£2 10s. odd for the right to drive a truck
80 miles on Victorian roads.
South Australian road transport laws
are bad enough, but for sheer harshness,
red-tape, total disregard of the require-
ments of the farmer and downright stu-
pidity, Victoria’s are worse. Drive a
motor truck with an S.A. registration be-
yond Kaniva, Edenhope or any other
Victorian town marking the 20-mile
border limit and, even if you are carting
your Own produce to market, a road
patrol will pounce upon you, and your
subsequent heavy fine will give the im-
pression that you are being treated like
a common criminal.
In the name of commonsense, let the
Commonwealth take over the whole busi-
ness of motor registrations, and put a
stop to the senseless attitude that our
State borders are the boundaries between
foreign countries. — H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Lady Blarney
Surely this mean outcry against Lady
Blarney’s trip to Palestine does not really
represent this country. From time im-
memorial, every section of the commu-
nity has enjoyed privileges not open to
all other sections.
City aldermen and their wives have
free tram passes, policemen get into the
races free, railwaymen and their families
travel free in trains during their
annual holidays. Newspaper men get
free issues of their own paper to carry
their meat home in. Actors and actresses
get passes to theatres to see how bad
the other fellows really are.
Don Bradman got a commission with-
out previous experience and Billy Hughes
can say what he likes about the Army
heads, in spite of the War Precautions
Acts, etc.
If it were put to the real A.l.F.—those
who are actually fighting under Blarney
—there would be a 100 p.c. vote for his
missus to stay with him. There are
several Australian ladies, great and near
great, over there. One more won’t swamp
the place.— Bullock Bell (Q.).
“The Leaving”
The 1940 leaving certificate honors
lists are out —lists, in order of merit, of
the most successful score or so students
in each subject. To the youngster leav-
ing school, looking for a job, or praying
for an exhibition or uni. scholarship, it
means a lot to appear in this list —first
or second in the State in a couple of sub-
jects and the job or scholarship is more
or less in the bag. Consequently the
youngster with particular talent in a sub-
ject puts all he’s got into it for five solid
years to try to get his name at the head
of the list.
Australian kids who had put five years
swotting and brainfag into their German
lessons must have been tickled pink to
read the honors list for that subject.
First five places in the State were filled
by Hans Hirschmann, Hermann Meisner,
Hans Sander, Paul Foulkes and Edwin
Salpeter. These were all from the one
State school, which, since it serves Potts
Point, Elizabeth Bay, Bellevue Hill, Rose
Bay and Vaucluse, as well as King’s
Cross and Bondi, has received more than
its fair share of refugees.
It is hardly a fair thing that Australian
youngsters should have to compete, in a
foreign language examination, with others
for whom it is a native tongue. Natu-
rally it is in order that young refugees
be allowed to sit for our examinations
and qualify for entrance to our unis., but
when it comes to prizes and honors in a
European language, with scholarships de-
pending upon the results, then it is only
a fair thing to exclude them.
There is another angle on the matter.
One Sydney school, shortly after the first
influx of refugees a couple of years back,
found it necessary to make refugee
children ineligible for school prizes, not
merely because of the unfairness where
foreign languages were involved, but be-
cause some of the foreigners had been
university students in their home country
and were attending high school only to
qualify for the uni. here.—P. M. (N.S.W.).
The Fifth Column
An insidious department of the fifth
column never mentioned is that group of
wishful-thinkers who have succeeded in
convincing themselves, and would try to
convince everyone else, that the Allies
have won the war and all that is left to
do is. draw up a post-war reconstruction
plan.
There is among this group a strong
tendency to face away from the indis-
putable facts of the war. These are,
briefly, that, to date, Germany has won
every major diplomatic and military
battle, with the exception of the victory
at Bardia, and that the heroic defence of
England is, after all, not an offensive
movement which could end the war. The
Prime Minister’s New Year message to
Australians went closer to the real facts
than any speech or newspaper report to
date, including Mr. Churchill’s.
The outlook now is immeasurably
brighter than during September of last
year, but we are still outnumbered in
’planes and soldiers ; and it is not likely
that Germany’s output of war materials
will be allowed to slacken to suit wishful-
thinkers. Germany has the entire re-
sources of Europe at her disposal, and
these are considerable.
But the real menace of the wishful-
thinkers lies in the ostrich-like policy of
taking Britain’s invincibility for granted.
It is a form of madness that could
do more harm in the long run than
any factor. — Celt (N.S.W.).
Retaliatory Bombing
“Blitz’s” assertion (B. 15/1/’4l) that
the German civilian is more likely to
crack under the strain of indiscriminate
bombing than the British is a purely
speculative opipion. Germany proved a
tough nut to crack in the 1914-18 war.
Halt the world had to be mobilised
against her, and even after the U.S.A.
had entered the war and ultimate victory
for the Allies appeared inevitable she
resisted for nearly two years.
The German people suffered far greater
privations in that war —they were half-
starved in the last two years—than did
the British ; but they bore them with
fortitude enough. German military pub-
licists have spread the legend that their
country’s defeat was due to the break-
down of civilian morale, not to failure
in the field, and it has been avidly seized
upon by British propagandists of the
school that believes that any war can be
won by naval blockade alone. It is false.
There was no serious disaffection in Ger-
many until her military position was
hopeless and her Government preparing
to sue for peace.
In previous wars the Prussians, who
are the driving force in modern Ger-
many, have shown great staying power.
So have the Austrians. Indeed, there are
few more striking instances in history
than the conduct of the Austrians during
the Napoleonic wars. Crushingly beaten
again and again they never hesitated to
take the field against Napoleon whenever
the opportunity offered, and they fought
the better each time.
“Fanatical adherence to a theory or
ideal and humorless insistence in carry-
ing a theory to its logical conclusion,”
which “Blitz” rightly notes as character-
istics of the German, are not usually
associated with inability to stand pro-
longed strain. The French Revolution-
ists, the Moslems in their ages of great-
ness, and the seventeenth-century Puri-
tans also possessed this type of mind.
If “Blitz” has the slightest knowledge of
history he will know how formidable
were all three.
Retaliatory bombing of German cities
by the R.A.F. would seem more likely to
stiffen German morale than to destroy it.
— D. Aitch (N.S.W.).
“Blitz’s” suggestion that Britain retali-
ate against German bombing of civilians
might be sound if the R.A.F. were
numerically stronger. Under present
circumstances, the systematic destruction
of invasion bases and other military
objectives in Germany and German-
occupied territory is doing a maximum of
damage to the enemy’s war effort with a
minimum loss of ’planes.
Any attempt to emulate the German
policy of trying to raze whole cities to
the ground would weaken Britain’s air
offensive, for no immediate breakdown
of German civilian morale could be
hoped for, while the consequent lessening
of attacks on military objectives would
aid rather than hinder German plans for
the invasion of Britain. And, apart from
material considerations, there remains
the fact that it is not the British way to
murder defenceless civilians, even if the
enemy has resorted to such a barbaric
practice.— Pierrot (N.S.W.).
Women War Workers
In happier circumstances Australia
might well split its sides at the wrangling
and limelighting indulged in by a few
relatively unimportant women’s organisa-
tions.
Meanwhile, the women of Britain con-
tinue to play their heroic role in the very
front line of battle, despite Hitler and his
bombs. No such niceties or petty
squabbles occupy their energies. They
have a job of work to perform. The
same is true, happily, of 99 p.c. of their
Australian sisters, who are valiantly play-
ing their part in a multiplicity of ways.
They are spread from the Leeuwin to
Cape York, and are to be found in hun-
dreds of knitting circles, comforts funds
associations and kindred bodies. No
gaudy uniform distinguishes them ; they
know no rank above that of private.
Plain Mrs. Efficiency carries out the duties
of super-marshal or commandant with-
out fuss or ostentation. To them I dips
me lid. — Ricardo (N.S.W.).
“Give Till It Hurts”
There is at least one thing that we
would do well to import from Uncle
Sam, and that is his last-war loan slogan of
“Give Till It Hurts.” That spirit, and/or
something in the nature of the Keynes
Plan, is needed if we are to conserve re-
sources and make provision for the un-
predictable future.
There are about 400 names on my
firm’s payroll, and I have been watching
with interest for any marked difference
to the War Savings group as a result of
the wads of overtime, plus all-round
salary increases, which have brought a
wave of prosperity. Do they thriftily
and patriotically set aside those margins
to aid their country? Do their names
appear in any of the public subscription
lists? Not on your life! To the con-
trary, a number of people have pulled
out of the group to offset the new tax-
ation, and the rest appear to be living
and spending for the present.
“Give till it hurts” is what an all-in
war effort means and calls for. If those
to whom the war means only good em-
ployment and fatter wage envelopes are
not prepared to be thrifty for their coun-
try’s sake (and the sake of the merchant
marine), then it is time that we found
the national moral courage to disregard
all squeals and protests made in the name
of a spurious “democratic freedom” and
impose the discipline of the Keynes
Plan, or something like it, for democ-
racy’s greater good. We do not seem to
have the sense, good taste or imagina-
tion to do it voluntarily.— Tinmuth
(S.A.).
Diplomacy, etc.
Hitler has long been going through
the alphabet promising to pay A with B’s
money, and B with C’s property, and C
with the colonies belonging to D —and
to forth.
On the same lines the Labor party,
promising higher military pay, higher
pensions and better conditions, nearly
ousted the Menzies Government. The
L.P. never mentioned that a Gov-
ernment can have nothing of its
own, but has only that which belongs
to the people. So the people would have
to pay out of their own pockets for their
own improved conditions. The Nationals
might take a leaf out of Hitler’s book and
another leaf out of Labor’s book, seeing
that “Bribery by the people, from the
people, for the people” is so popular,—
Popularity (W.A.).
Navy and Air Force Historians
Although the A.I.F. has an official
correspondent with one of its sections
and an acting official correspondent with
another, no one has been appointed
“My missus be wantin' piece of calico, bit hoarder ’n' this, an' not quite
so long."


specially to chronicle the doings of the
Royal Australian Navy and the Royal
Australian Air Force.
The Navy and Air Force are doing
great jobs in this war, and the work of
both is certain to increase. Unless ap-
pointments are made without delay much
valuable material, especially personal
accounts of actions, will be difficult to
collect by the men eventually given the
task of compiling the war histories of
the two services.
Apart from the interest to the public
of dispatches forwarded for publication
from time to time, official correspondents
are necessary to obtain information which
makes all the difference between a mere
record of facts and a living narrative,
such as the official history of Aus-
tralia’s part in the 1914-18 war. — James
Mahoney (N.S.W.).
The New Oppressed Class
When I was a boy society was supposed
to be divided into two classes —“the
workers,” the oppressed class, who pro-
duced most of the wealth but were
cheated out of a fair share of it by the
other class; and “the bosses” (anyone
who had his own business), whose share
of the profits of industry were out of . all
proportion to their just deserts.
Things have changed. Because of de-
fence and munition contracts most of the
skilled and semi-skilled workers of the
country are in work at comfortable award
wages, and some of the unions whose
members are earning from £6 to as much
as £l3 a week have placed a ban on
overtime because the Government will
not exempt overtime payments from war
taxation!
The oppressed class of today is no
longer the workers ; it is the middle class,
the small professional man, small trader
or manufacturer, who has guts enough
to get out and work for himself, but who
has neither strong financial interests nor
a powerful trade union to see that he gets
a fair reward for his labor. The earn-
ings of this class average no more than
most awards provide for —much less, in
fact, than disgruntled boilermakers and
ironworkers are earning—and in the
struggle for existence they must be at
the beck and call of the public all day,
and all night if necessary. There’s no
award.to see that they get a fortnight’s
holiday each year on full pay or sick
pay when they are too ill to work.
If the unions get their way and over-
time wages are exempted from tax, the
middle class knows that it will have to
pay the extra to make up the deficiency.
—Solicitor (Q.).
Only 28,000 Workless
In the fifteenth month of the war we
find a gentleman described as “the Min-
ister for Labor and Industry” shaking
hands with himself because the number
of unemployed in N. S. Wales is down
to 28,000. The majority of these men,
it is officially staled, have been without
work for one year or more. Some have
been unemployed for more than four
years, and others have been without work
for eight years or longer. The average
age is 43. Victoria has achieved the seem-
ing miracle of scaling its registered un-
employed down to the region of 8000.
And yet these politicians are continu-
ally blabbing about a total war effort.
War is not merely a question of fight-
ing ; it is also a question of politics. For
success in war a country needs men,
arms, food, brains, a fighting spirit and
as many allies as possible. Yet here in
Australia, with a population of about
7,000,000 people, there are some half
a million men (whether registered or
not) who are not in full-time em-
ployment, If we add to these all
those engaged in non-productive “work,”
we should find, I think, that the actual
number of men engaged in full-time war
production is comparatively small.—
Ex-Imperial Officer (N.S.W.).
The Education Fetish
Perhaps we have, as Herbert Mulvihill
(B. 22/1 / ’4l) suggests, made a fetish of
education, but it doesn’t follow that
“education is the eternal enemy of
originality.”
An uneducated man might possess more
originality and initiative than one who
has enjoyed the benefits of a good
schooling, but the ability of any person
to be original in thought or action goes
further than the possession or lack of a
good education. Environment, home-
life and general upbringing all play their
parts. It’s the man who from childhood
has led a sheltered existence, with no
need to think for himself, who sticks in
the old conventional channels. And he’ll
be the same whether educated or not.
Herbert Mulvihill’s list of unschooled
men who achieved prominence means
nothing. A list twice as long could be
made of people who have left their mark
on the world with the help of a jolly
good education. Anyway H.M. forgets
that many of those he mentioned pro-
bably made up their deficiency in
academic training by educating them-
selves in the essentials of learning, so
that by the time they reached promi-
nence they were no longer uneducated.
But 99 out of 100 men would be incap-
able of doing that.
It’s not the education that counts —it is
the individual and his capacity to use
what education he has. Guy W,
Warren (N.S.W.).
The Family in Fiction
While agreeing with Chas. Halbert (B.
8/1 / ’4l) that “the motive of popular
literary tastes is the need of many readers
to project themselves into environments
different from their own,” I do not con-
sider that talented writers are thereby
justified in producing purely “escape”
literature. The course of English fiction
in the last couple of centuries demon-
strates beyond dispute that, while popu-
lar literary taste to a large extent deter-
mines the nature of popular writing, the
reading public’s choice is strongly influ-
enced by the type of work that authors
are most keenly interested in creating.
“There you are, John, I thought you said I couldn't go from top into
reverse .”
Many a novelist of real talent has suc-
ceeded in winning the attention of a
large number of readers, not by trying
to “give the public what it wants,” but
by giving with full sincerity glimpses of
those aspects of life which have seemed
to him of importance,
§o we find continual changes in the
topics favored for fiction, that
are going on today and which are influ-
enced by those writers who are prepared
to risk getting off the beaten track and
prospecting in the less well known but
potentially richer fields of literature.
Dickens was able to weave sound social
reform stuff into his books without spoil-
ing their value for the reader ; and I see
no reason why a writer who can really
write should not make the family as
absorbing a theme for the novel as pre-
marital love and its problems.
Henry Bordeaux —unhappily not typi-
cal of modern French novelists —believed
in the supreme importance of the family,
and his books owe their lasting greatness
to this belief. Australian writers could
make their contribution to post-war de-
velopment by portraying the essential
value of family life in their writings.
Those who are sincere and have real
talent should not lose by it. —D. I. G.
(Vic.).
Other Fellows’ Minds
A daughter happened to pick up a
Bulletin and read the O.F.M. page. She
handed the paper back to me with a
grin and said “They’re all grouching
about something.” Armed with this view-
point, I read the page, and found she was
mainly correct. Young, able-bodied men
complain that they are taxed to provide
old-age pensions ; old-age pensioners pro-
test that virtue is not always rewarded
with riches; married men inveigh against
the self-indulgence of the bachelors and
spinsters; the spinsters complain about
everything on earth, from baby bonuses
to snifters.
Writers complain that they are unable
to write because their effusions would be
crowded out by overseas competition;
lovers of the drama who, presumably,
have never tried to do anything more
exhausting than writing an article about
it complain that there is no drama in the
country; married males complain that
unmarried females are taking the bread
out of the mouths of their families ; and
one gent, even goes so far as to suggest
that married women should not be
allowed, presumably by law, to work out-
side their homes if their husbands draw
good wages.
It is generally believed that Australians
are free-spirited, independent, resourceful
and not given to blaming their conditions.
Is this a myth, and are we a nation of
grizzlers? Or are the people who are
doing something too busy to write about
it?—L. L. (Vic.).
Skilled Tradesmen
Almost every day something is pub-
lished about the need for skilled men,
such as fitters, mechanics and metal
workers generally, for the fighting ser-
vices and munitions factories. Yet in
motor garages throughout the country
are skilled men who are spending their
time repairing cars used for pleasure.
They are men who would need very little
training to fill many of the jobs which
are vacant, but no attempt has been made
to rope them in. If the country’s need is
so great that constant appeals for men
have to be made, surely many of the
mechanics in garages could be diverted to
work of greater national importance than
that which they are now doing.—Two
Strand (N.S.W.).
In Praise of Mulga
Old man Drought has again paid one
of his unwelcome visits to south-west
Queensland, and amid the tragic scenes
of fast-drying tanks, with their ever-
lasting “catch” of sheep too weak to
drag their feet from the clinging clay
after watering, and the hundreds of
crows waiting to peck the eyes from
their helpless victims, the hardy mulga
has once more proved itself the friend
of the sheepmen. The number of sheep
that owe their existence to the mulga
alone must run to hundreds of thousands
in this part of the State. To further
prove its worth the mulga leaves shed
very easily in drought time, and the
scrubs will run a creditable number of
sheep on windfalls alone. Hence the
oft-heard expression here that a good
wind is as welcome as a shower of rain.
—Mick the Miler (Q.).
Charity
With measured step I was patrolling a
narrow slum street yesterday morning.
Women were leaning over their front
fences. About a stone’s throw away an
old woman stumbled over the gutter and
fell sprawling on the dirty footpath. Be-
fore I got to the scene of the accident
there was a small crowd of kindly females
on the spot, two of them kneeling beside
the patient. I was told, not too politely,
to look the other way and mind my own
business, so had to make a show of lick-
ing my pencil and taking notes.
Within three minutes from the first
alarm a pillow was placed under the old
grey head, a cup of water was being
pressed to the pale lips, first-aid washing
and dressing were being applied to a
badly-cut knee, and what looked like a
flask of brandy was being offered to the
stout lady with a black eye who appeared
to have taken charge of the proceedings.
Common people, but that’s how they
behave when a direct appeal is made to
their common humanity.
We are all being asked to “give” to
the distressed people overseas, and all
sorts of entertaining tricks are tried to
get us to fork up. At the same time the
press shows us mostly pictures of the
Lopdonqrs “taking it” in the best of spirits,
while the seamy side of their distress is
not given.
Speaking from experience, I’d say that,
if instead of shattered cathedrals and
merry parties in dugouts we were shown
real tragedies as they happen to human
beings in the bombed areas, the “appeal”
would be much stronger.
Piles of ancient architecture reduced to
rubble move our hearts less than a broken
saucer in our own kitchen. Women and
children accidentally hurt or struck down
by the hand of an enemy claim and get
our help whether we are rich or poor,
saints or sinners, or iust coldblooded
impersonal cops.—Now Then (S.A.).
For the A.B.C.
With my English market smashed by
the war, my American ditto lost, I was
faced with the prospect of pick-and-
shovel work at 60.
As a last resource I blew into an
A.B.C. station and inquired the prospects.
I was received like an Australian citizen,
capabilities were inquired into, and a
date fixed for an audition, with a view
to radio talks. Later I was courteously
reminded by post of the audition date,
and duly attended. At the audition every
help was given to minimise nervousness
and assist the aspirant to put his stuff
across. Notified later, by post, that voice
was suitable —“Please call and arrange
for talks.”
So the perishing freelance
gets a little sustenance from
radio, and finds in the
national stations many old
writers and buskers who
otherwise might be selling
matches in the gutter —for
all that the average news-
paper, theatre or commer-
cial radio station would do
to employ them.
The A.B.C. is a good
employer even to its
casuals. Its cheque comes
quickly, within a couple
of days of a talk or other
item. And that’s refresh-
ing to the writer who
knows what it means
sometimes to wait years
for a cheque from a pay-
ment-on-publication paper or magazine.
—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Slums
Seven years of rent-collecting from
upwards of one thousand properties has
failed to win me over to the average land-
lord’s complacent philosophy that there’ll
always be slums and people misguided
enough to pay exorbitant rentals to live
in them (B. 8/1 / ’4l).
To say that the tenants themselves are
to blame for the existence of slums is a
queer contortion of the truth, for, while
grubby walls, dirty windows and untidy
backyards are admittedly not the hall-
mark of desirable citizenship, they do not
in themselves make a property into a
slum. To my way of thinking, a slum
may be defined as a property that lacks
one or more of the essential things neces-
sary to constitute it as a place fit for
human habitation. And, to our national
disgrace, there are thousands of houses
in this country which fall into that
category.
Monotonous terraces with individual
frontages of 20 feet or less with not even
a microscopic strip of front lawn to
separate them from the dusty street; an
unbelievable number of dwellings that
cannot even boast of bathrooms ; count-
less old-fashioned villas whose sanitary
conveniences are in such a shocking state
of disrepair that they invite diseases;
50-year-old two-storeyed properties whose
walls and ceilings are pock-marked with
damp patches where the rain drips
through incessantly and where the water
service is so rusted that the house-wife
must wait for hours for the dribble of
water to fill the bath.
Those are the real slums, and their
multitude of structural defects and short-
comings cannot be blamed on the tenant.
A landlord is rightly entitled to an
adequate return on his capital, but having
in mind the fact that thousands of erst-
while tenants are at present in khaki
protecting the material and human
wealth of this country, and that next to
Government bonds house property is the
most solid of all investments, there is no
excuse in allowing a certain class of vora-
cious landlords to batten on the work-
ing man’s pay envelope to the tune of a
coldblooded 12 to 15 per cent.
A few years ago, a start was made at
Fishermen’s Bend (Melbourne) to erect
workers’ homes to replace notorious slum
pockets in the suburban area. Today,
there is not one of those houses without
a creditable front lawn and a brave show
of flowers, and this in spite of the fact that
• the soil is of a very sandy nature swept
by strong sea breezes. —Melton (Vic.),


Lady Keeble.
(Miss Li Hay McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do yow best,
moreover, makes your
best better, than you
thought it possible
to be.”
m
w
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism defi-
nitely cultivates t'he
imagination, and I do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody mho
would not benefit by a
Course.”
The Baroness Orczy.
“Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph.”
ft
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all ■who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
V
: V-.i
Sir Arthur QttiUer-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,-
England, writes —-
“The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
mure lime and- labor
than I can reckon.”
Pelrnanism
is the
Accepted Scientific Method
of Training Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelrnanism deals with fundamental personal attributes and qualities
which, when developed, establish mental and physical health, increase
resistance to the pressure of outside influences, and make possible adjust-
ment to conditions that might otherwise destroy happiness and success.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman.
The most important are
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
• • I
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
PELMANISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and
will, so are his personal efficiency and
his standing with his fellows. If these
habits are good he will be strong and
successful in his undertakings.
A Doctor writes; “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instpad of merely seeing. ■
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes : “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. lam losing fny
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling- of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: '“I am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control or self-reliapce. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. I am easier to live with. Ido not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon over-
come. Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. I realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work ”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “I have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the * finish that which 1 pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.” ,
A Motor Mechanic writes: “I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing.’'
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A tSank Officer writes: ‘"Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes; “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless*
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr, Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355,
Dame Sybil
Thortidike.
“Pelmanism- gives a .
mental -clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them rightly.'’
'
Dr. X'". W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own career,”
m
m
t
>v-
Lord Baden Powell.
“No man—no matter
how educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession-—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself.”
m
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
ẅ
.H. M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and nearly
100,000 other ranks have taken the Pelman
Course. Approved by the War Office.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
.To the I’elman Institute, S Gloucester House,
i liiulers Lane, Melbourne. ■
. P' ease s end me, free and post-free, a copy of
' The Efficient Mind.”
Name
A<l dress
103
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ŵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that 1 do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular,
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/- )
SEND “THE BULLETIN” TO
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 47-
post free.
-O\S
v<V e*
0
■’*!>
>\o m’
>' e 1,1
S,\' s
c"
••■’ . *■* ..**'
.-■*
tP&yr*?


SHAPING AUSTRALIA’S
INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS
B.H.P. Steel in its many forms fills Aus-
, *
tralia’s need for the metal that gets things
done. The great tonnages of quality iron
and steel produced at The Broker! Hill Pro-
prietary’s Newcastle Steel Works give Aus-
tralia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence
of the Commonwealth.
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the
fact that it is available at prices which com-
pare more than favourably with those
charged for overseas steel form convincing
evidence of the industry’s efficiency.
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace
, time is only exceeded by its vital importance
in the extraordinary circumstances caused
by war.
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Weeks
' blast furnace plant, which produces more than 15,000
tons of iron per week.
■
w
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron
and steel industry must be ranked of major import-
ance, as it gives direct employment to more than
32,000 persons, whose wages total yearly more than
£9,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not
only produces iron and steel, but owns and operates
its own steamships, coalmines and ship-building
yards, and most of the raw materials used in steel-
making are obtained from properties under the con-
trol of the company.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Ferro Alloys, Rails,
Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels,
Plates, Reinforcing Bar, Tee
and Bridge Rails, Spring and
Alloy Steel, Cold-Rolled
Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent
Naphtha, Ammonium Sul-
, phate, Foundry Coke, Coals,
Steam and Roasting Coal,
Household, and Bunker Coal.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD,
Iron and Steel Masters—Mine' and Ship Owners —Colliery Proprietors Ship builders
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, South Australia.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Shipbuilding Yards: Whyalla. South Australia.
