

CHEFS EVERYWHERE USE LEA*-PERRINS
your grocer
for it.
u
Secret
u
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3191.
Wednesday, April 9, 1941.
Chaos at Canberra
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“Handling
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 141
The Red Page
EPSTEIN AND OTHERS.
In spite of the war and what goes with
it —or it may be because of the war —
three autobiographical books arrive:
Jacob Epstein’s Let There Be Sculpture
(Michael Joseph, Ltd.); Memoirs of a
Fighting Life, by Colonel J. C. Wedg-
wood, D. 5.0., M.P. (Hutchinson); and
It Was Good While It Lasted, by Henry
Longhurst (Dent).
Epstein, with the singleness of purpose
to remain absorbed in his art though the
heavens fall, should be a vigorous ex-
ample at this time, when many capable
of creative achievement throw up their
hands, baffled. He neither flees in panic
nor turns his back. He has complete
confidence in himself, In the importance
of what he is doing. The war will prob-
ably inspire him ; should it do so, there
is no creative artist living who could
make a more savage comment.
Yet the impression is that the war has
encroached even into Epstein’s house of
rock; interrupted and distracted him;
impelled him to get done a necessary job
of explaining and defending his artistic
position and his created work with some
urgency. This explaining and defending
is the main purpose and the larger part
of his book: quite half of it is made
up of articles, letters and reports appear-
ing in the press in the course of con-
troversies. Almost anything in the way
of a fight can make good reading, and
there is good art criticism in some of
the reprinted articles defending him, but
there is also included a mass of jour-
nalistic twaddle that no doubt gives
Epstein a lot of personal satisfaction to
see exhumed but is of mighty little
general interest.
It is of still less service towards giving
Epstein himself a stature comparable to
his art. It dwarfs him ; makes him seem
sometimes petty and querulous. The
provocation is understood, and it’s hardly
a disparagement of Epstein, and of the
rest of Epstein’s book, to have the feel-
ing that he should have remained above
all this, and let his work be its own, and
his own, explanation and defence. “My
language is form, in all its variety and
astonishing wealth.” “I rest silent in my
work.” His work is not exactly in-
articulate.
* * * *
Wedgwood also feels the necessity of
doing a good deal of self-explaining
and self-defending, of a more personal
character than Epstein’s: he and his first
wife divorced, which used to be fatal
for an English M.P. Being well experi-
enced in war —having, since he is now in
Britain’s Home Guard, taken an active
hand in three of his country’s wars —he
may have been even more directly im-
pelled by the war to get his defending
and explaining done.
The chief fault with his book is that
a good deal of that, as in Epstein’s, is
very small beer—and there are few con-
coctions thinner to the taste than the
stale small beer of forgotten party politics.
But there is better stuff in it much
better ; the description of the River Clyde
landing, along on the tip of the Gallipoli
Peninsula, in which heroic action
Wedgwood won his D. 5.0., can bear
examination as literature: it stands up
on that ground to the splendid stuff in
Masefield’s Gallipoli.
Wedgwood himself stands up to the
war on the solid ground provided by the
natural preferences of a man of action.
He finds it quite agreeable, but he ad-
vances another reason —also naturally in
character —for welcoming it:
Is not England at last taking its proper
place, sacrificing all, standing alone against
evil? Alone in arms, but backed by the
prayers and carrying the hopes of all the
peoples of the world. Few would not find
it exhilarating thus to stand armed in the
last ditch with good comrades in so
righteous a cause.
There is an air of splendid swash-
ouckling in his passion for adventure.
He says; “I like this Parliament better
than any in which I have sat; I like this
time better than any in which I have
lived.” After 35 years in the Parliament
which he entered in 1906 at the age of
33, he finds the House of Commons for
the first time united ; after that lifetime
spent mostly as a solitary, free of party
and in opposition to nearly everyone, he
has the novel experience now of most
in the Parliament agreeing with him, and
he with them.
In the Home Guard “the irrepressible
rebel Shinwell mishandles a rifle” by his
side. “All are happy. Those who want
them have got jobs, paid or not —it does
not matter, for soon all will be equal in
poverty as in fraternity.” The “desert
island existence under an Admirable
Crichton, in the shape of our Prime
Minister,” is his ideal.
In the “desert island” existence “we
can none of us look forward beyond
the day,” so it’s as well to get everything
shipshape in the way of explaining and
defending now just a sensible pre-
caution, like making a will. If his final
note, “To be concluded, sometime, some-
where,” is able to be realised, well and
good. If not, his whole life testifies to
his having the rugged courage to wel-
come the alternative.
* * ♦ •
Longhurst’s comparatively light and
flippant autobiographical book is clearly
a direct product of the war. It is written
—natural enough in an evening news-
paper journalist—as if in a hurry not to
miss an edition.
Longhurst regards his own life as the
happiest of gifts. He has little inclination
to explain, and still less to defend, him-
self. He admits that his main occupa-
tion —writing about golf—may in itself
be considered a trivial business, but it
isn’t in his nature to be worried about
that. He accepts the kind of life that
goes with it most gratefully, and pro-
ceeds to live that life and write about
it with the keenest of gusto. He finds
the war nothing else but a dashed
nuisance. It put a stop to writing about
golf. Also, it gave impetus to the urge
to get his life-story down and into print:
Bombs on all sides —six more have come
hurtling down within half a mile while I
have been writing the last sentence —seem
to remind me to conclude this book while
yet there is time It was good while it
lasted? Why, yes. But then, life will
always be good.
• * * *
On a strict autobiographical test,
Epstein’s book is the best of this trio.
Epstein on Epstein is very well worth
reading, this embracing, of course,
Epstein on Epstein’s art. There is a much
larger ratio of this sort of writing, as
against the incidental and anecdotal, in
Epstein’s book than in either of the other
two.
Epstein is worth reading on his im-
portant sitters Conrad, Shaw, Haile
Silassie, and a string of others—but he
remains on the stage with them, and,
as it should be, it is his that is the domi-
nant character. Cunninghame Graham
may be striding about the studio, Don
Quixote come to life; Hugh Walpole
may be on the sitters’ stand, insisting
on being passed on to posterity not as
Walpole but in a pose aping Benito
Mussolini; with his bust of her natural
schoolmarmish-looking self almost com-
pleted, Lady Gregory may turn up one
morning with an astonishing head of
curls and ask to be finished that way;
Lord Fisher can be reading a supposed
letter from Lord Nelson roasting all hands
and the cook over the battle of Jutland;
Beaverbrook, Paul Robeson, Einstein,
Tagore and a string of others can stay a
while and pass on —the figure in the lime-
light is Epstein, This a result not of
vanity but of egoism proper to the
creative artist.
He insists, with convincing sincerity,
that the welter of controversy provoked
by his work has always been repugnant
and depressing to him. He asserts that
he has never sought merely to shock.
“Sculpture, drawing and painting I have
felt a natural call to do, and I have
had the opportunity to create a body of
work which, taking all in all, I am not
ashamed of.”
He has proved that he could make
more money by painting than by sculp-
ture, but carving monumentally on
colossal rock mass has remained his
preoccupation. He might work on one
of those huge carvings for nine months
or more, and still not finish it; and all
that he regards as his major works re-
main his own property. He believes in
solitariness for the same reason that the
furious welter of controversy is repug-
nant to him—because of his preferred
absorption in his creative work.
I have always felt myself to be alone, and
not part of a group, and I do not care
for the gregariousness that makes most
artists hanker after societies. I believe in
individual artists....
* * * *
On the strict autobiography test,
Wedgwood’s pugnacious narrative ranks
some way below Epstein. Anyone con-
cerned with creative effort must find even
the exhumed controversies in Epstein’s
book of some interest, if only because
Epstein’s own personality and indivi-
duality and his high seriousness of mind
invest them with a certain fictitious value.
It is hard to imagine very many, outside
of members of the House of Commons,
finding a like interest in the small beer
of Wedgwood’s book. The Colonel’s
fighting life would be of little account if
it had been restricted to what passes
for “fighting” in the political arena.
Wedgwood is probably as much an
original as Epstein, but he does not alto-
gether so emerge from his book. For
all his political independence he looks,
in the political arena, like any other poli-
tician. Even where his political “fight-
ing” gains from his character sufficient
strength to make it good reading, it
remains thin stuff taken as literature. His
real fighting life, as when he was among
those present on the River Clyde, is of
a different substance:
Five tows of five boats each, with some
20 men in each, came on to V beach simul-
taneously with ourselves, and in 10 minutes
there were some 400 dead and wounded on
the beach and in the water. Not more than
10 per cent, got safe to shore and took
shelter under the sand-dune edge
Thereafter the wounded cried out all day
and for 36 hours —in every boat, lighter,
hopper, and all along the shore That
night we landed the rest of the Munsters
and the Hampshires (some 1000 in all)
For three hours 1 stood on the end of the
spit of what had been rock in two feet of
water helping the heavily-laden men to jump
ashore on to the submerged dead bodies,
and trying to persuade the wounded over
whom they had to walk that we should
soon get them aboard.... wounded men
were brought to the end of the spit and
could not be got aboard, because the other
stream was more important and never-
ending; and there they slowly sank and
died.
The description of the fighting on shore
is just as vivid. In between active fight-
ing he was back in the sort he seems to
have equally relished in the House of
Commons. He tells an extraordinary
story of having gone to America —not
for the Government, but quite indepen-
dently—with a private plan, which was
submitted through Colonel House to
President Wilson, to the effect that
America should say to Germany: “This
has gone on long enough; if you will
stop now, if you will make peace on these
terms, then we will guarantee that
Peace.” Nothing came of this directly,
but three months later America entered
the war, and in London Wedgwood re-
ceived a ’phone message asking him to
call on House. “I only wish to tell you,”
House said, “that your visit to America
was the most useful we have had in this
war.” House would not say why, but
Wedgwood believes that Wilson some-
how got the plan to Germany, and “Ger-
many’s insolent rejection enabled him to
see clearly what they were driving at, and
who was the reasonable party.”
It was a bluff, and it worked —not the
only bluff to do so in Wedgwood’s narra-
tive. He has more than once invited poli-
tical opponents to meet him, not merely
“outside” but on the sands of Boulogne,
“where I have always presumed duels to
be still permissible.” “Nearing seventy,
I may as well admit now that I was
always quite hopeless with an automatic
and should still hate to be shot at from
twenty yards.”
It is characteristic of him that when
the House of Commons met on “that
great Sunday,” September 3, 1939, and
an air-raid warning was sounded shortly
before the meeting-time, he alone of the
members who had gathered in the House
sat on in his place, refusing to budge.
He did so not out of bravado, but by
way of protesting against panic: he did
more than anyone else to ensure that
Parliament would continue to meet in
London. He has a soldier’s belief in
the Good Example.
* * * *
The other book included here, though
autobiographical, can hardly be called
an autobiography. Longhurst conceives
“it to be of no interest to you” that he
was born in the village of Bromham;
Epstein takes it for granted that the fact
of his having been born in New York’s
teeming East Side is well worth setting
down, and proceeds to give very interest-
ing details of his earliest experiences as
they influence his subsequent life-work:
Wedgwood, though less clear in the
account of his beginnings, is very proud
of his ancestry and of everything and
everyone associated with the Wedgwood
pottery enterprise started by his grand-
father.
Longhurst skips all this essential part
of an autobiography, and takes up his
story in the full swim of his journalistic
career. As a result, it is a very vague
Longhurst that figures in his narrative.
The other two men are visible and recog-
nisable ; Epstein the more impressive
figure, Wedgwood the more complex per-
sonality ; Epstein complete and clear at
a glance, Wedgwood a man of parts that
have to be fitted together. Longhurst is
nothing at all by this sort of reckoning.
Like the others, if not more so, his
book has its meed of small beer —the
“trivialities” of chasing around watching
and writing about golf. There is merit
in it as a social picture of a period which
has had its share of solemn denuncia-
tion, but which Longhurst, for his part,
found bright, lively and nothing but
vastly enjoyable. He creates an impres-
sion that these recent ’twenties and ’thir-
ties have been much overcondemned;
that they may yet be looked back on
with the same nostalgic hankering of
“Those were the days” that people older
than himself profess to have for the time
before the other war.
Everything, everywhere (or almost)
comes agreeably to him, from watching
Lord Castlerosse drinking to watching
Joe Louis fighting. Father Coughlin
preaching or Lord Beaverbrook getting
through a day’s work at home, striding
about “in the altogether,” except for a
hat! Non-golfers may find his proces-
sion of golfers of little account, but some
of these others are of a different stature:
Castlerosse drinks like a giant. He does
not call, as little men call, for a small
whisky or a large whisky. He calls for
whisky. And woe betide the waiter who
does not bring a pint tumbler.
The proportion of whisky to soda is
approximately half and half, and it’s an
impressive spectacle to see him lower the
whole of this gaseous mixture in a single
draught and wave imperiously for another.
With a light lunch a pint of beer, three
of these whiskies, three beakers of vintage
port and three or four “balloons” of old
brandy are a not unusual ration. Hardened
men stagger from the table after mistaken
attempts to keep pace. His lordship....
shows no sign of having taken anything
stronger than water.
The interest in Longhurst’s book lies
mainly in such contemporary biography,
with which it is very liberally enriched.
Unlike the obtrusive Epstein, Longhurst
stands aside and lets his leading character
of the moment have the floor. He views
them all humorously. He is to perfection
the eternal looker-on.
♦ * * *
Among them, these three authors have
something fresh to say on most of the
prominent British figures of their period,
and on some others as well. Wedgwood’s
gallery includes a fine full-length portrait
of Mr. Churchill, whom he admires with
the same intensity of enthusiasm with
which he formerly attacked him. By
now Mr. Churchill is one of the most
readily recognisable of men, but it adds
to the picture to hear him interjecting in
the Commons with a quite priceless, if
Rabelaisian, pun. Another view of Mr.
Churchill:
On the evening that Hitler marched into
Vienna I found Churchill in the Man-
chester express. He had been lunching
with the Cabinet to meet Ribbentrop. I
expressed some surprise. “Well! I sup-
pose they asked me to show him that,
if they couldn’t bark themselves, they kept
a dog who could bark and might bite.”
Epstein’s biographical gallery includes
Gaudier Brzeska turning on Ezra Pound
at an art exhibition and snapping at him
“Shut up, you understand nothing! ” One
comment on Shaw: “I leave out any
question of aesthetics, as that would be
beyond Shaw’s comprehension.”
Conrad had a demon expression in the
left eye, while his right eye was smothered
by a drooping lid, but the eyes glowed
with great intensity of feeling. The droop-
ing, weary lids intensified the impression of
brooding thought. The whole head re-
vealed the man who had suffered much. A
head set on shoulders hunched about his
ears. When he was seated the shoulders
gave the impression of a pedestal for the
head.
* ♦ ♦ •
Epstein’s own justification of his crea-
tive work is, in particular, on these lines:
I must maintain that my statue of Christ
[the first one, with the wounded right hand
and the pointing finger] still stands for
what I intended it to be. It stands and
accuses the world for its grossness, in-
humanity, cruelty and beastliness....
Of his “Genesis”:
This figure, when shown, aroused a
storm of protest, which was as unexpected
as it was vehement. Our emasculated
period was shocked by a figure without
“sex-appeal,” without indecencies and with-
out charm. It was not the eternal feminine
of eroticism, and perhaps for that reason
aroused the ire of women. Women com-
plained that I had insulted their sex;
there is something in this complaint.
Of his religious figures generally:
I have carefully refrained from advo-
cating religious or idealistic propaganda
of any sort, and have always put out my
sculpture as sculpture.
He states that actually his religious
statues “have had strong support from
the clergy,” that what has baffled him “is
the almost insane hatred of the average
man and woman.” His outstanding
merit in his own eyes is that he believes
himself “to be a return in sculpture to
the human outlook, without in any way
sinking back into the flabby sentimen-
talising, or the merely decorative, that
went before.”
* * * *
The three books are well illustrated,
Epstein’s naturally again an easy winner
in this, with some 40-odd photographs
of his own selections of his best.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Business Sincerity
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Where There’s
Jj
V
On duty DAY OR NIGHT
The Esse is always hot, ready for instant
That early cup of tea, those .sudden unexpected
guests are so smoothly catered for. Your cooking
will become an absolute delight and you'll
undoubtedly experience the thrill and satisfaction
of knowing you are being economical by
actually 75%. The Esse literally pays for itself
out of fuel savings.
Refuelling is necessary only twice in twenty-four
hours—thermostatically controlled, burning day
and night, the large fume-free ovens are evenly
heated and ensure purity in cooking.
The “PREMIER”
With Auxiliary Oven
Here is a cooker which is specially designed
when cooking for a large number is required.
It has abundant oven space and every facility.
You see it illustrated here, but smaller and
larger models are also available for your
inspection—Showroom, Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street.
HEAT STORAGE
COOKERS
:*fK
There’s a delight in COOKING
and a SAVING
of pounds every year
I
■
mm
iiiilli II
II
I s : i?
v ...
i
■
™— ~~—
WMWMmi
MM
''
■■'■
S:’ ■'
■
Has
O
p , : '
:>
s z/
iir
nsrnm
mm
FO
W
tm
m
■vx?" } », •£
H tflH :'
83*5
CS
J
WAR SECRETS
SPREAD' LIKE
A BUSHFIRE!
• Esse Cookers—Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
SOLE N.S.W. AGENTS FOR ESSE COOKERS
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
Famous Low Prices
’Phone: M 2401 Day or Night. Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
An ESSE COOKER Has the
Necessary Essentials
Flexible Cooking Capacity
Better Cooking
No Daily Lighting
Automatic Heat Control
Solid Construction
No Smoke or Soot
No Blackleading
Attention only Twice a
Fully Guaranteed
British Manufacture
Here is an interior view of the Premier Esse Cooker.
Only the best materials are used and the design of the
cooker contributes to its hard wearing qualities. The
insulating material is lasting and the Esse Cooker
throughout is built to give permanent and efficient
service.
PRICES AND CATALOGUE GLADLY SENT ON APPLICATION
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY. LTD.,
BOWEN STREET, BRISBANE
Are Sole Queensland Agents
for ESSE COOKERS


“’E’LL MAKE SOMETHIN’ OF TMSELF”
By A. C. HEADLEY.
44 ’ f— ’AD all the advantages the others never ’ad,”
I said Mrs. Haigh complacently. “That’s what
I makes it diff’rent. An’ all the time I thought
’e was gonner make somethin’ of ’imself.”
She was a large woman and her body seemed to
be disgorging itself from the tensed tightness of her
frock. When she spoke her mouth dropped, loose
and wet, and the sound of her breathing was almost
as though she were trying to keep alive. Across from
her sat old Mary Funnel, barely listening, her mind
trying to find things to talk about. Now Mrs. Haigh
turned her back and looked with small eyes across
the room to where her son was sitting. “Yeah,” she
said, “that’s what makes it diff’rent. There was
schoolin’ to begin with.”
The boy in the corner was brought from the
blankness of his resentment and stabbed into thought.
He could hear his mother’s voice droning on outside
of his mind. It was a long time thinking back to
when he was fourteen and wanted to leave school
like Danny and Joe had done before him. It was a
long time thinking back to the beginning of that
mysterious whim of his mother’s that he was to have
something she vaguely described as “advantages,” and
eventually, because of them, to “make somethin’ of
’imself.” It was a long time thinking back . . .
\k/HEN he got to the old burnt-out flourmill they
“ were waiting for him in the dark gloom of the
chimney, Danny, Joe and the others squatting down
on piles of bricks they had made into seats. Danny
was swearing, his voice beginning to take on a hard
masculine note, and when he saw him he called
“Look ’go’s ’ere.” There was something large and
competent about Danny now. It was something to
do with the new job he had taken in the machine
factory.
They were all smoking, puffing self-consciously
at their cigarettes. Danny alone was at ease, blowing
the smoke through his nose with the assurance of a
veteran. He asked Danny, “Y’ got a cigger?”
“ ’Elp y’rself.”
He opened the tin, pinched tobacco into his hand
and began awkwardly to roll it. Then suddenly the
paper was damp with the sweat of his hands. “I ain’t
much good rollin’,” he admitted.
“Hell,” said Danny, “give it t’ me.”
Danny formed it into a cigarette and they sat
there smoking and talking. Danny was telling stories,
and he laughed every time anyone else laughed, but
most of the time he found the stories hard to under-
stand. Danny had picked up the stories at the
machine shop, and he took a salacious pleasure in
retailing them. When Danny’s supply was done the
others had jokes to carry on. He sat there listening,
laughing with the others and not quite knowing what
it was all about. He saw Danny watching him with
a knowing look in his eye, and when there was a lull
in the talk Danny said: “Dick thinks that babies
come from under cabbages.”
He was conscious of his face growing hot and
red and he felt curiously ashamed of himself. They
started to make jokes about him, jokes that he didn’t
understand.
Danny was trying to kid the others into doing
the drawback. “I can take it down,” he said, “an’
drink a glass of water an’ then blow smoke.” He
inhaled deeply, opened his mouth and started to talk,
then after a pause he allowed the smoke to flow back
out of his mouth. There was a sly grin on Danny’s
face. “I can make smoke come out me ears,” he said.
“Put y’r ’and on me chest.”
He placed his hand on Danny’s chest and waited
while Danny took a pull at the cigarette. His eyes
watched Danny’s ears and the next moment he jumped
with the sting of Danny’s cigarette on his hand. They
all laughed at the simplicity of him.
His swift anger at Danny dropped and vanished.
It was funny how he was always envious of Danny
and trying to be like him. It was a kind of revolt
against his mother’s idea that he was going to be
different and have “advantages the others never ’ad.”
Much better to be out like Danny working or even
like Joe swinging on the trams down at The Bridge
with his papers. One thing about it they always had
money, money that his mother knew nothing about.
There were always ice-creams and bottles of lemonade
in the pictures on Saturday afternoons. It was dif-
ferent to the money he got, the pennies for running
messages. But somehow more important in his admira-
tion of Danny were the swearing and the dirty jokes
and the easy nonchalance of a cigarette.
All the time he was growing more and more dis-
satisfied with being at school and more and more
envious of Danny. Danny was growing quickly now
and his talk was beginning to include sheilahs. Listen-
ing to Danny he found something frightening and at
the same time glamorous about the whole thing.
♦ ‘VEAH,” said his mother, nodding at old Mary
* Funnel, “there was the schoolin’ —keepin’ ’im on
when ’e could’ve been bringin’ money into the ’ouse.
And all the time me thinkin’ ’e’d make somethin’ of
’imself.” Once again her eyes shot balefully across
the small room to where he sat on the battered couch,
his head pressed against the drop of the stairs.
'“THERE was a time when he stayed away from
* school for a week and Joe and he went to the pic-
tures each day, staying in the show until they had
seen the programme twice through, and when he was
late telling his mother that he had been kept in. It
was good sitting in the dark and being vaguely
frightened that someone he knew would see him and
tell his mother. In the end a letter came from the
school, and he could remember his mother screaming
at him. Later he heard her telling his father about it,
her voice a thin, high-pitched whine. “Somethin’s
gotter be done,” she said.
After that his father came up the stairs and
whaled into him with a razor strop. He remembered
“ He's expectin' to be called up for the Air Force."
yelling to his father that he didn’t want to go to
school; that he wanted to get out and get a job like
Joe and Danny, and the fact seemed to linger in his
father’s mind because he heard him- talking to his
mother about it.
“Things ain’t too good down at the works,” he
said. “I might be gettin’ me time any day. ’E might
as well be in some kind of a job ’stead of foolin’ ’is
time away at school.”
But there was no getting past his mother’s stub-
bornness. “ ’E’ll be thankin’ us when ’e’s a bit older.”
Lying on the bed with the smart of the strap still
on him, he thought of school and the exams, and hav-
ing thrippence for his dinner. He thought of the
house where he lived, with the rotten walls and the
leakings from the washtubs, their peculiar musti-
ness of smell making the place near the back door
soft and marshy. He thought of the beds without any
sheets. There were the hard lumps of crushed kapok
that pressed into his body while he slept. There were
those things and the superiority of Danny and Joe.
He was glad when his father lost his job. . There
was talk then of making ends meet and he knew that
at the back of his father’s mind was the thought that
he could leave school and get a job. But his mother
crushed the idea completely. “ ’E’s gonner ’ave a
chance to make somethin’ of ’imself.”
So it was school and studying for the exams.,
sitting at home in the room lit by the yellow light of
the gas and trying to concentrate while all his thoughts
were with Danny and Joe.
The dancing craze had taken Danny. He’d bought
a pair of shining black pumps and had started to take
lessons, and his talk was, more than ever, concerned
with sheilahs. His own thoughts were beginning to
stir into an interest in girls. It was a kind of second-
hand interest that had grown out of his talking with
Danny and Joe. When Danny started going to the
shilling dances he was conscious of a feeling of envy.
Somewhat diffidently he asked his mother about get-
ting a job, a job like Danny’s where you stood over
a machine all day and got dirty, and when you came
home and got cleaned up you went to a dance. But
his mother was adamant. “You can git them silly
ideas outa y’r ’ead,” she said.
Then he failed in an exam, and had to do the
year over. His mother had been angry over his
failure. “You been flyin’ about with Danny an’ Joe
too much,” she said. “That’s been the trouble.”
The funny part about it was that her ambition
for him seemed to have no focal point. He was stay-
ing at school because it was one of the “advantages
the others never ’ad,” but beyond that there was no
definition of a future. There was no point to which
the cramming of this book knowledge was tending.
So far as he was concerned he had no interest in the
proceeding at all. His only thought was connected
with the eventual future of going to work in his “good”
suit and wearing a collar and tie. What he really
wanted was a job like Danny’s. Danny was getting
two pound three a week ; it was different from the
kids at school when they left and found a job at
twenty-five bob.
Joe was growing into the same pattern as Danny
now. He was going to dances and taking sheilahs
home. They were both growing smart and sure of
themselves.
And suddenly he had left school and was looking
for a job. He had come to the final examination, and
after that there was nothing else except going on to
the university, and his mother had no cognisance of
that in her idea that he was to have “advantages the
others never ’ad.” There were a couple of months, of
looking for a job, and then he was working in an
office in the city for twenty-five shillings a week. He
could feel that his mother was vaguely proud of her-
self over the whole thing. He heard her talking to
his father. “You’ll see,”
she said, “ ’e’ll make some-
thin’ of ’imself.”
“I ’ad a dollar on Pen-
theus t’day,” said his father.
“It was beat ’alf a ’ead.”
He was sick of the job
in a month and more than
ever envious of Danny and
Joe. It was as though he
was out of it and away from
them in a way strangely
like being on the outside of
those dirty jokes when he
was younger. At the end of
a year he hated everything
that had to do with the
office, and the money his
mother allowed him out of
his wages was unsatisfac-
tory.
Her answer to that
was: “You don’t want to
waste your time flyin’ about
with Danny an’ Joe. You
don’t want to be the likes of them. You oughter
be studyin’, Irvin’ to make somethin’ of y’rself.”
There wasn’t much “flying about” with Danny
and Joe that he could do out of a few shillings a
week. For one thing dancing lessons were two shil-
lings each and you had to have a lot of lessons before
you could dance properly. More than ever he wanted
a job like Danny’s. One night he told them at the
office that he was leaving, and he went home and
told his mother that he had been put off because
things were slack. She took it philosophically. “There’s
more jobs than one,” she said.
Again came the period of looking for work, and
then another job he didn’t like any better than the
first. He didn’t stay there very long before he was
telling his mother that he had been put off because
things were slack. It was a comfortable explanation.
And jobs were getting hard to find. People every-
where were beginning to lose jobs they had held for
years. That was in the early days when times were
merely bad. After a while there was talk about the
depression. He was out of work for a long time and
he was getting older.
“There’s a job going down the shop,” said Danny,
“but I s’pose it ain’t good enough f you.”
It was the kind of job he wanted more than
anything—a chance to live like Danny, to work and
get dirty and drink a few beers on pay night. It was
a chance to knock around with the girls from dances.
He told his mother. “It’ll be something,” he said,
“till things get better.”
She was against the idea, but he could sense the
small growth of it in her mind. He could see that
she was beginning to think about the money he might
bring into the house.
“I could write for jobs in the papers,” he said.
Next morning she woke him up and told him
that there wouldn’t be any harm in taking the job for
a few weeks. She cut a lunch for him and he went
with Danny down to the machine shop.
There were machines and the roar of wheels
taking the slap of the belt all day. Sitting on a stool
he drove a drill through countless parts that he fitted


into a thing the foreman called a jig. The first time
he broke a drill he had visions of getting the sack.
The noise the broken end made before he lifted the
drill and shut off the machine with his foot was as if
it was trying to broadcast his mistake. But one of
the men came over and ground a new point on the
drill for him, and he went back to making holes in
the tin of parts at the side of the drilling-machine.
Around him was the sound of men swearing, and in
the lunch hour, sitting with Danny and the others, he
had the feeling of having found his place. When the
day was over he had a couple of drinks at the pub
with Danny and they came home to get cleaned and
go to a dance.
At the dance he stood self-consciously with the
group of boys at the end of the hall. Near him the
band thudded out its rhythm and the saxophone
player crooned the choruses. There was the scrap-
ing sound of feet moving around the hall, and he
could see Danny and a girl threading their way ex-
pertly through the dancers. Now that he was here
he was frightened to ask for a dance,
“They’re not gonner eat y’,” Danny said.
He was envious of the way Danny moved slickly
around the hall and a little ashamed of his lack of
confidence. During every dance he made up his
mind to have the next.
“Hell,” said Danny, “a knock-back’s nothing.”
The orchestra played “God Save the King” and
he still hadn’t danced. But there were other nights,
and before long he was dancing every dance and
growing smart and confident with the girls, like Danny
and Joe. There were girls he took home from the
dances. They would stand in the comforting darkness
of the lane and talk.
A ND now his mother was talking, telling everything,
as she always did, to old Mary Funnel. He
looked across at the bulk of her framed against the
yellow curtains. Her voice droned on and stirred the
edge of his imaginings. “And now he wants to marry
this girl ’e’s picked up at some dance ’all.”
|_J E could remember Lil and the first night he had
* *■ walked home with her. He could remember his
shyness and the way he had tried to think of things
to say. They had stood there in the darkness and he
could sense that she was feeling as uncomfortable
as he was himself. They were both trying to make
talk. And then he had kissed her and after that it was
better. They had stood in the darkness of the lane
for a long time before she told him that she had to go.
It was something about her father didn’t like her com-
ing home late from dances.
HIS mother’s voice penetrated his thoughts again.
“Yes, ’e wants t’ marry this girl. ’E’s gotter
marry ’er. An’ what’s he to keep her on now he’s
out of a job? No ambition—that’s been the trouble
with ’im all along.” Her breath came out in a long
wheeze. “And I always thought ’e was gonner make
somethin’ of ’imself.”
But she was wrong. He had made something of
himself. Ambition had been stirring in him since
those early days when he had been smoking cigarettes
down at the mill. It was the ambition to be the kind
of people that Danny and Joe were. It was the
ambition to work with his body and to get dirty, and
to find pleasure and life in the cheap dance halls,
and now suddenly he was safe. It was true what his
mother had said, but it was all part of this idea of
his of manhood. It was all mixed up with the swear-
ing and the dirty jokes and the nights you spent in a
pub and being proud of never being sick from beer.
It was part of the quiet disappointment of having a
couple of bob on a horse that was beaten, and play-
ing cards in the park while you were waiting for a
job to turn up. It was true about not having a job,
but even that wasn’t important.
“ ’E’s ’ad all the advantages the others never
’ad,” said his mother ; “that’s what makes it diff’rent.
1 always thought ’e’d make something of ’imself.”
Old Mary Funnel nodded dully. “Yes,” she
agreed, “you’d ’a’ thought ’e’d make somethin’ of
’imself.”
SMALL GIRL CRYING
By CHARLES SHAW.
THE holiday camp was on a low headland whose
south and west sides were fringed with thick,
high ti-tree. Winds seldom troubled the tents,
except when a strong north-easter managed to
get a breath round the northern point. Then the tent
sides rippled and the long flag of the marram grass,
with its pale underside, seemed to Jean to flow in
little waves that ran off to the ti-tree and hid them-
selves. She had always imagined the dark aisles in
the ti-tree to be full of mystery ; she was certain there
were fairies in there, and that the hollows in the sand-
hills were peopled at night by small dark creatures
that nobody ever saw.
But when you were 13, and big for your age,
you gave up a lot of childish fancies, though you
were still doubtful about the dark and couldn’t walk
in quiet places without feeling that eyes watched you.
This feeling of being watched had troubled Jean as
long as she could remember. She never knew it when
other people were about, only when she lay awake in
the night or walked alone.
She liked the camping. There were always plenty
of other children, her younger sister and their cousin.
On sunny days they swam and paddled and shrieked
in the shallow little bay below the headland, or made
toboggan slides on the sandy slopes. Sometimes they
walked into the bush, climbing low trees and dodging
among the ti-tree. She and the other girls made little
secret childish plans, and twittered and gossiped about
each other. She liked the prawning at night and the
fishing with her father on the dawn tides, when the
whiting ran past the sand at the bay mouth and the
shy bream nosed over the deep bottoms off the rocks
below the headland.
And at night the campers gathered to yarn, the
men in a group, the women gravitating round the
light, the children big-eyed and full of whispers. You
could look along the headland and see lights in other
tents, making them Chinese lanterns or illuminated
caves. Sometimes a person passed across the light
and the magnified shadow loomed on the tent wall
so that you and the other little girls could squeak
and clutch each other and pretend to be frightened.
Out beyond the light and the tents would be the
moon, and the ocean under it, black and silver and
ever-sighing. If there was no moon, and clouds hid
the stars and there was a wind on the sea, you could
sit in the trembling tent by the light and feel that all
round you was a black world of water and wind and
strange things crying. The little ones lay in their
stretchers and watched you silently, and you felt the
comfort of your mother and looked at the steady
light and could feel a delicious tremor along your
nerves.
Sometimes they held a concert in the biggest tent.
There would be items and community singing, and
always the camp could produce a funny man who
made the little boys shout and their little sisters
giggle. And there was another man, with an old,
tired, kind face, who told the children stories. Jean
loved his stories. She was always first to his tent
when the children gathered and always sat where she
could not miss a word. As soon as they had arrived
the day before she had looked to see if he was there
and waved her hand to him before she got out of
the car.
She was busy now, setting the table for break-
fast, thinking that it was their first day in the camp
and wondering if Myrtle and Dot and Freda had
come with their families. She hoped they had, for
they saw each other only this once a year during the
school holidays, and it would be awful if none of
them came. They were all a bit younger than herself,
but they had lots of fun together. She was anxious
“Doing anything tonight, Dig?”
to get the breakfast done and look among the tents
for them.
Her mother came from the spirit stove with a
panful of eggs, and Jean went to call the little ones
from their sand heap. Her father was coming up/rom
the sea with his gut lines that he had been soaking
and rigging. There was movement all among the
tents and the sound of an axe on iron pegs. A little
thrill of pleasure mounted in Jean, so that she trilled
lightly and had a skip in her walk.
Myrtle and Dot had grown a little, but were as
noisy. Freda was much taller and strangely quiet.
As Jean walked down to the beach with them she
noticed that Freda was watching her. She had little,
flashing seconds of worry, wondering what was up
with Freda. The year before she had been as mad
as any of them ; now she said little and was watchful.
After the swim the four of them sat on the sand.
Myrtle and Dot chattered and giggled, Freda remained
inscrutably watchful. Suddenly Jean realised that she
wasn’t listening to the chatter, that her giggles were
slightly forced. Dot shrieked thinly when an impu-
dent little boy threw seaweed, and Freda said “She
acts like a kid. Don’t scream, kid.”
“Oh, pouf!” pouted Dot. Jean caught Freda’s
full blue gaze. It said, as plainly as anything, “Isn’t
she a kid? We aren’t kids any more.”
Jean put out a hand and touched Freda. Neither
spoke. A strange, new sensation of breathlessness
held Jean, and she was suddenly conscious of the
sun’s heat as a slow warmth along her limbs. She lay
back on the sand, idly moving her fingers, content,
not wishing to talk or giggle, deliciously languorous.
I UST before they began their tea a small boy came
to the tent and piped that the children were to go
to Mr. Horn’s tent after tea for a story and to sing. As
soon as the meal was over Jean hurried the things off
the table, hurried her mother with the washing-up.
She wanted to be in the first row.
She put on her new blue dress and her beach-
sandals without stockings. Mr. Horn sat in a chair
at the door of his tent. Some children were already
there when Jean arrived. She sat her sister down,
leaving her brother to manage for himself. Then
she sat on the grass. Mr. Horn looked at her. She
felt her face warm, and an unexpected shyness caused
her to stand up and go to a chair in the rear of the
circle. Other children arrived. Soon there was a
score or so. Myrtle and Dot came together, but there
was no sign of Freda. Two or three grown-ups joined
the circle.
Mr. Horn began to tell an African story of a
small negro boy and a magician. Jean tried to listen,
but her thoughts wandered. She found herself watch-
ing the small faces around her, the young eyes fixed
on Mr. Horn’s face. Behind her she could hear the
sea. Thoughts crowded. Mr. Horn’s voice cut through
them like the sound of someone talking in another
room. Jean tried to listen to him, tried to recapture
the fascination of his tales, the absorption she had
known in other years. A sense of irritation rose
inside her. She wanted to get up and walk away.
The story wasn’t true, she thought passionately. It
wasn’t true, it was just a story, it —suddenly she
realised that all the other stories she had listened to
were just stories. It was a shock. Beliefs toppled
inside her mind. Mr. Horn had suddenly become a
tired-looking old man. He was strange. She hadn’t
seen him like this before. He was saying something
about the magician. It was silly. She knew it was
silly. She had a wild feeling that she was being dis-
loyal, that she ought not to sit here among all the
believing children when she didn’t believe. Why did
he have to talk on? Why couldn’t he tell them
something?
The children began to sing. Their high voices
welled up around Jean, a flood of silver sound. She
tried to join them, but something rose in her throat
because she tried, or because it was so queer that she
should have to try what once came so easily. An
agony of loneliness swept over her. She couldn’t
sing with them, couldn’t listen with them. She wasn’t
one of them any more. Through a flood of tears
she saw a crowd of little children in a little world that
she had known a year ago—-a little world going away
from her under the thrust of something beyond her
—a little world she was leaving and to which she
would never go back. She sat there and looked at it
going away, and couldn’t see any other world for her.
It was as though she stood in the dark on a deserted
* street, looking back at the lights she had left, know-
ing she could not go back to them and seeing only
the dark ahead.
She dropped her head to hide her tears and
helpless confusion. Dim conceptions loomed and
she shrank from them. Of a sudden she was con-
scious of the firm bumps of her breast under her new
dress, of the bareness of her legs. In an agony she
rose and backed away from the singing, then turned
and walked off into the ti-tree glades where there
were no fairies and no eyes watching, only the sense
of something lost and something strange she had to
find.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
cf / ia i ie Tnellcmn&daridlmuf/uefi
Seppelt's
LUDGATE—STORY OF AN OLD ROMANCE.
Few names associated with the topog-
raphy of London are more familiar to
British citizens, the Empire over, than
Ludgate. Ludgate Circus, the eastern
end of Fleet Street, and Ludgate Hill,
leading straight to St. Paul’s Cathedral,
which may be said to dominate it, have
given by means of various forms of pic-
torial representation, in an Empire sense,
no less than a purely London one, a “local
standing.” The very name goes back
to early antiquity, and the question
whether or not any such King as Lud
ever existed is still unsettled. Anyway,
the name of this City gate, abolished in
1760, whilst it stood, was with consider-
able appearance of probability accepted
as being derived from Flood, Flud, Vloat,
Fleote or Fleet, streams which ran into
Fleet Ditch. In 1375 it was constituted
a prison for poor debtors, who were free
of the City, and afterwards greatly en-
larged by Sir Stephen Forster, concern-
ing whom romance has wound a story.
He had been a prisoner in Ludgate and
was begging at the gate, when a rich
widow passing asked him the sum which
would procure his discharge. On reply-
ing £2O, then a considerable sum, she
generously advanced the money. On be-
ing free the lady took him into her
service. He later married her, and,
achieving great success in trade, became
Lord Mayor of London, and obtained
the honor of Knighthood, In his pros-
perity Sir Stephen thought of the place
of his confinement, and, acquainting his
lady with his design for enlarging the
prison, she determined to contribute to so
benevolent a plan. They caused several
houses near the gate to be pulled down,
and in their place erected the strong
square stone building seen in the illustra-
tion, to which they attached a Chapel.
This was in 1454. These good people
also made ample provision for the welfare
of the wretched prisoners. In the Chapel
was this inscription:
Devout Soules that passe this way,
For Stephen Forster, late Maior, heartily pray.
And Dame Agnes, his Spouse, to God conse-
crate.
That for pitie this house made for Londoners
in Ludgate,
So that for Lodging and Water prisoners here
nought pay.
As their keepers shall all answere at dreadful
doomes-day.
Much of London’s charm lies in its “long
ago past,” and familiar Ludgate provides
an instance.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3191.
Wednesday, April 9, 1941.
JUST IN CASE.
“That’s the way it goes, honorable signor. And when they hear the thud, honorable assistants come in with honorable stretcher, bucket and mop."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HBAjJ OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opp . G.P.0.).
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, lbs.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rales.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
' months lls
TWO MORE GREAT CRIMES.
These are days big with the fate of nations. With
the usual preliminary barrage of lies, Hitler is
waging war on two more small countries, which
desired only to live at peace with their neighbors, in
the spirit of utter savagery in which he let hell loose
on the harmless Dutch in Rotterdam, and in which
his forerunner Tilly wiped out Magdeburg and its in-
habitants in 1631. Other countries, impelled by fear
and greed, may come into the struggle on the Nazi-
Fascist side. Others again, driven by the supreme
interest of national safety, or —as in the case of heroic
Greece and Yugoslavia—by the feeling that death
itself is preferable to existence in an Axis-dominated
world, may throw in their lot with the embattled
democracies.
The crime against Yugoslavia and Greece is foul,
and in due season it will receive its fit punishment.
But it is no unmixed evil, for it increases the loath-
ing with which Hitler and Mussolini are regarded
in countries not yet subjugated, and it relieves the
pressure on the United Kingdom, while it commits
Germany to a hazardous diversion of forces and ex-
tension of lines. It was precipitated by the utter
defeat of the Italian Navy in the Battle of Cape
Matapan, and by the virtual completion of the con-
quest of the Italian empire in East Africa, which
climax to a wonderful campaign will set considerable
British imperial forces free for employment in a
more important zone at a time when British sea-
power can most palpably be placed at their service.
Wavell’s smashing victories in Libya had already
compelled the Germans to send reinforcements to
that remote region. They made their presence felt
last week when they and such Italians as they could
muster to help them were allowed to take possession
of what is left of Benghazi and its now worthless
harbor and push a few score miles to the east. There
they were brought to a standstill.
It is not at all probable that they are in any
great force. It is still less probable that they will be
able to launch a dangerous campaign before the hot
weather sets in and the unacclimatised Germans are
forced to realise how very different a North African
summer is from a Baltic winter. It has been revealed
that Benghazi and the country about it were held by
very small forces which contented themselves with
making things uncomfortable for the German van-
guard in “a series of skirmishes.” Australians were
not among them, but the R.A.A.F. was on hand and
in excellent trim. On Thursday, using single-seater
modern fighters, it brought down six German ’planes,
three of them Messerschmitt 110’s, without losing a
machine. In conjunction with what is left of the
R.A.F. in that part of the world, it has also bombed
Tripoli and punished the German mechanised forces.
It is stated that “the Australian squadron has borne
the full brunt of the German Air Force in this area
for six weeks” ; that “the pilots have prevented the
enemy from doing more than slight damage to our
troops and transport” and (significantly) that “they
have had terrific distances to patrol.”
News of the withdrawal from Benghazi started
an outbreak of pessimism among armchair experts.
Wavell was blamed for giving up the useless place,
and one genius rebuked him for not having gone on
to Tripoli, which is 250 miles due south of Sicily.
If he had done that he would have placed his army
in a perfect position for the enemy to cut it in two.
Wavell is a general in the Wellington tradition. He
has done at Benghazi what Wellington did time and
again in the long Peninsular campaign. After the
victory of Talavera in 1808, Wellington retired to
Portugal. In 1809 he retreated again to the impreg-
nable lines of Torres Vedras. In 1812 he took the for-
tress city of Badajos, won the battle of Salamanca and
entered Madrid, but once more he deemed it ex-
pedient to return to Portugal. In 1813 he went for-
ward again, and this time he did not stop till he
reached Bordeaux. During all those years he had to
contend with criticism as rash and presumptuous as
that levelled at Wavell. It is a precedent that may be
worth bearing in mind.
The fact is that two movements of troops across
the Mediterranean have been going on at the same
time, and obviously recent naval engagements and the
Blitzkrieg on Malta, of which we hear little, have
been associated with them. Comparatively small
bodies of German troops have made the short passage
from Sicily to Tripoli; much larger forces of British
imperial troops from North Africa (Australians and
Maorilanders among them) have been landed without
loss in Greek islands and on the mainland. It is not
necessary to believe the German story that “British
may have 350,000 or more troops in Greece” to be
satisfied that John Bull has sent to his game little ally
as many soldiers and airmen and as much modern
equipment as would be needed to counter the threat
that has been hanging over the Greeks for weeks. It
is certain also that strong naval detachments have
arrived in Greek and Yugoslav ports.
The hearts of all democrats will be with our sol-
diers, seamen and airmen and their gallant Greek and
Yugoslav companions in the campaign launched by
the faithless and ferocious enemy. Horrors have
already been suffered by the invaded peoples; set-
backs may be in store for all the allies ; but the final
outcome cannot be doubted, God may seem for a
time to be on the side of the big battalions, but He
never gives a crowning victory to great criminals.
What Turkey will do is not yet clear. Three
hours before Hitler struck at the little Balkan peoples
the Soviet signed a pact of friendship and non-
aggression with the Yugoslav Government. In itself
it means nothing, but it may possibly have some in-
fluence on the Turkish attitude. Much more impor-
tant is the news from America and the Philippines.
The British Commander-in-Chief in the Far East
has been engaged in conferences with the represen-
tatives of the American Army, Navy and Air Force
at Manila. Under instructions from the U.S. Gov-
ernment, whose example was promptly followed in
Latin America, many Italian and some German ships
anchored in U.S. ports have been seized, hun-
dreds of officers and seamen who resorted to sabot-
age have been clapped into gaol and an Italian naval
attache has been ordered out of the country. In
reply to a German protest, Secretary Hull said with
crushing force: “In the first place, you do not say
upon what principle of international law or upon
what treaty provision you rely. In the second place,
you seem wholly to disregard the plain provisions of
our Statutes which make it a felony for anyone wil-
fully to destroy or injure a vessel in any harbor of
the United States.” And there was much more.
It brings back vivid memories of the events of
March and April, 1917.
Chaos at Canberra.
With Mr. Menzies away, Mr. Cameron out and Mr.
Hughes a light of other days, the Government at
Canberra is the weakest that the Commonwealth has
ever had. For a parallel to the picture of complacent
ineptitude it presented last week one must go back to
the most delirious days of the Scullin Government;
and even that Administration, though rent with faction
and tottering to its fall, cut a more respectable figure
anyway, it did not surrender abjectly and fatuously to
the Opposition, The conduct of the business attempted
was so feeble and confused and the nature of it so
profoundly unsatisfactory that it would have been a lot
better for the country, as well as for the prestige of
the Government and Parliament —which should be
trying to convince an overgoverned people plagued
with income taxes which differ in every part of the
Commonwealth that there should be only one Govern-
ment and Parliament —if members had not been called
together at all. As it is, many Australians will pay dearly
for the “work” done during the 63 hours or so for
which the House was occupied (the Senate, as usual,
was engaged for fully half the time), some with the
loss of businesses and more with the loss of jobs.
One of the few measures introduced was the long-
promised bill to amend the Broadcasting Commission
Act. It proved to be worthless to the public and
worse, the only material changes proposed being to
transform the “officers” (how many wasn’t stated, but
on June 30 there was a staff of 604 persons, drawing
£164,000 in salaries) into public servants, with secured
jobs and superannuation rights, to remove the concern
from the Postmaster-General’s Department and to
make it accountable to a functionary described as “the
Minister.” This unspecified person is presumably the
Minister of Information, who has already surrounded
himself with a huge staff and adds another thousand-
pounder every week or so. For this year’s spendings
£198,000 was voted to “the Minister,” and all the indi-
cations are that this won’t be nearly enough. “The
Minister” has grandiose plans for making his depart-
ment a permanent charge on the taxpayer. He has
authorised the publication of a weekly paper, “Air
Force News,” which has begun to compete with
private weeklies covering the same field and is grabbing
such advertisements as it can get. Newsprint ration-
ing? That’s only for capitalistic concerns.
During the desultory debate—it was left un-
finished, the common fate of discussions on A.B.C. —
mention was made of the “A.B.C. Weekly,” which,
launched at a time when newsprint was becoming
scarce and dear, has contrived to lose listeners’ money
at the rate of £lOOO or so a week. No indignation was
expressed at this wicked waste; on the contrary, the
general feeling seemed to be in favor of prolonging
the wicked waste indefinitely.
People concerned for the future of Australia are
becoming alarmed at the reckless extravagance they
see on every hand. They have accepted with resigna-
tion the tremendous taxes which have been imposed
on them, even the hastily improvised Fadden income
tax, so grossly inequitable in its incidence ; but they
would like to feel that they are getting value for the
money. This, as they know, is not the case.
Those whose private business or friendship takes
them to military camps or barracks can recite in-
numerable instances of questionable expenditure. For
example, the enlistment of large numbers of elderly
gentlemen who are not even returned soldiers, the
dumping of good food, the large-scale gifts of military
uniforms to time-expired men (some of them have
been caught lining up for free feeds), and the use or
abuse of fleets of trucks and cars, many of which
are now hired from private owners on a hang-the-
expense basis, with the undertaking that they will be
returned in good order or replaced. And they have
reason to suspect, from what has come out in courts
and in Parliament itself, that “a lot of funny business
is going on.” Even while Parliament was “deliberat-
ing” last week the Auditor-General reported to it that
“irregular circumstances” had attended the “arrange-
ments for the purchase” of motor-cycles (£88,000), tele-
phones (£45,000), switchboards (£170,000), folding
boats, meat, fruit, vegetables and refrigeration equip-
ment ; and that in Queensland alone. The report
should have given rise to a debate touching the whole
matter of army contracts, but debate there was none.
Another opportunity for a debate was given when
Mr. Cameron challenged the Minister for the Army
on regulations governing the setting up of tribunals
to hear appeals from persons interned as aliens and
the ponderous procedure prescribed in such cases.
This is a matter in which the public is keenly interested.
Where men are gathered together for friendly con-
verse, no local phase of the war is discussed with
greater animation. And some of the things that the
ex-Minister for the Navy brought out from personal
observation as a major on home service (though he
was careful not to go beyond what he could legiti-
mately reveal) were startling. He spoke of six
tribunals having been established at seven guineas a
day for each chairman and five guineas a day for each
member ; of men being taken from more important
duties to prepare evidence and to act as transport
officers and hangers-round for the appellants and
their witnesses; of enemy aliens interned in one
State being permitted to have their cases heard in
another State ; and much more of the kind. But the
House was intent only on expressing its dislike for
Mr. Cameron and its warm regard for the Minister,
who is “Percy” to “the boys” on both sides of the
House, as the Acting Prime Minister is “Artie.” And
when “Percy” had replied, emotionally but not ex-
plicitly, nothing more was heard of the matter save
cheers for and protestations of confidence in “Percy.”
The same novel camaraderie distinguished the
passage of the two child-bonus bills ; and it became
boisterously jocund at times. Though there was no
dearth of waiting critics, the bill imposing the 2\ p.c.
payroll tax, after a very short second-reading discus-
sion in the House, was whisked through the committee
stage without debate. To this unusual proceeding
there were angry objections from the few Ministerial-
ists who hate the payroll tax, and triumphant jeers
from the Opposition, Labor members —some of the
new hands, especially—exulting in the spectacle of
the “Government” letting their party do the governing
irresponsibly. When the sober Duncan-Hughes
(Wakefield, S.A.) objected to the disorderly scenes and
said they would be resented in the country, he was
mimicked by one of the N.S.W. Labor members and
others burst into derisive song. Mr. Curtin inter-
posed with a rebuke, addressed not to the licensed
buffoons, but to the protesting member. Afterwards
he effusively congratulated the author of the twin
measures —“Harold” to the boys.
Wage-payers will not join in the congratulations.
Neither will many wage-earners, who would rather
forgo the child bonus or the prospect of receiving it
than risk the loss of their jobs. Even before the
bonus and tax bills were slammed on the Statute Book
protests against the crude and unjust tax came pour-
ing in ; but they went unheeded.
Yet anomalies and complications are already
arising. Middle-class family men, heavily hit by the
Fadden income tax, have learned that the abolition
of the exemption of £5O for each child will cost them
more than they will get from the endowment, though
“Harold” himself, as a bachelor, will pay no more—
for the present. And so many people are employed
in the six sets of State Government offices that a
considerable part of the endowment money will go
to family men in those offices. Since economy is
never practised by State Governments, it will mean
additional State taxation. Queensland seems to be in
the worst case. In that State ss. a week has been
added to the basic wage for males, calculated as
required for a family of five (in other parts of the
Commonwealth the fixed wage is based on the require-
ments of families of three and four), making it £4 95.,
and the basic wage for females has been increased by
3s. a week to £2 Bs. That will cost the State Govern-
ment, which, by drawing on loans, is just about making
ends meet, another £475,000 p.a., and the 2\ p.c. pay-
roll tax will increase the amount to be raised somehow
by £294,000 p.a. It is a poor lookout for distressed
industries and for businesses working on a small
margin or at an actual loss.
The payroll tax cannot be justified, and the child
bonus itself could not have been introduced at a more
inopportune time. Something on the lines of Maori-
land’s social-security scheme might have been intro-
duced, after careful study of its provisions and opera-
tion. The sister Dominion’s Social Security Act is
the work of a Labor Government and is on a contri-
butory basis. Contributors pay a registration fee of
ss. to £1 a year, and a tax of 5 p.c. on “salaries,
wages and other income,” which entitles them to bene-
fits for unemployment, sickness, invalidity, widow-
hood, orphanhood, old age, miners’ phthisis or heart
disease and “emergency” ;. to medical and hospital
treatment, with free medicines and drugs, and ante-
and post-natal advice in the case of mothers, and to
family benefits—“4s. a week for each child in excess
of two, in all cases where the average weekly income
does not exceed £5.” In the reluctance of general
practitioners to co-operate on the terms specified the
Government has struck a snag which will have to
be removed somehow; but other parts of the plan
seem to be working well. In any case, it is a real
and comprehensive effort to provide for the needs of
the people without giving them a nasty taste in the
mouth, and not a hasty attempt to buy popularity with
other people’s money, regardless of whether they can
afford to have it taken from them and of the differing
basic wages and income taxes.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Motsuoka in Europe.
Modern Europe has never seen a pilgrim quite like
Mr. Matsuoka or a pilgrimage quite like his.
For a few March days the world that doesn’t
revolve round the Axis had a much-appreciated respite
from Mr. Matsuoka’s eloquence. It ended on March
23, when he arrived at Moscow saying that “the
Tripartite Pact” was “the pivot of Japanese policy.”
The weather or something froze the gentleman
to silence again till he reached Berlin, where the
obedient populace was called out of its air-raid
shelters (there had been some brisk R.A.F. bombing
a day or two before) to cheer him. Passing through
streets decorated with flags and flowers, he was
received by Hitler, was assured by Ribbentrop that
“Italy and Germany” had “already won the war”
and proposed the Fiihrer’s health “in full confidence
of a certain Italo-German victory.” And to a body of
journalists he explained how he became an Axis man.
I returned to Geneva in 1932 convinced that Britain
and America were eternally opposed to Japan’s recon-
struction of the Far East, and that therefore our place
was by Germany’s side. I remained of that opinion,
and therefore fought until the Tripartite Pact was per-
fected.
Meanwhile, Yugoslavia, as was thought, had been
handed on a platter to the Axis by its Tsvetkovitch
Government. Mr. Matsuoka’s jubilation knew no
bounds. His sentiments were echoed in Tokyo, and
there was an outbreak of triumphant newspaper
articles. “Nichi Nichi Shimbun,” for example, rejoiced
at “this diplomatic victory for the Axis, which will
deal a serious blow to the Anglo-American camp and
accelerate complete German mastery over the Balkans.”
But even while Mr. Matsuoka was letting himself
go in Berlin, there arrived news which again reduced
him to silence. The Yugoslavs dismissed their
cowardly Government, and took instant preparations
to dispute “German mastery” over their part of “the
Balkans.” The Italian defenders of Keren and Harar
hastily retired from those places. Worse still, the
Royal Navy and the Fleet Air Arm came up with what
was left of the Italian Navy and sank at least three
cruisers and two destroyers without suffering a scratch.
Doubtless thinking deeply, Mr. Matsuoka moved
on to Rome. Report says nothing of what passed
between him and the hapless ruler of Italy—the Italy
that has “won the war” —but at a Rome banquet the
effusive wanderer declared that “the world” had
“rarely seen the equal of the friendship between Japan
and Italy—it is a vindication of our destiny and our
common ideals and will last for ever.” Then, turning
on the gush with full force: “You, my friends, inspired
by the Duce and other illustrious chiefs, are remaking
the glorious history of the great Roman Empire.”
In his book Twenty-five Years, Viscount Grey
of Fallodon paid a tribute to the Japanese statesmen
and diplomats with whom he had dealings “when he
was Secretary of State at the Foreign Office.” “In
all that period,” he wrote, “the obligations that the
alliance might entail upon us, the advantages Japan
might claim from it, were never unfairly exploited
by them. We found in the Japanese Government and
its ambassadors honorable and loyal allies.” Japan
itself derived substantial benefits from the alliance.
It is difficult to see what it has gained, or can ever
hope to gain, from the performances of Mr. Matsuoka
and his new-order men.
Tribunals for Enemy Aliens.
Said ex-Minister Cameron in the House on April 2:
I have endeavored by every method available to me
to get certain matters in regard to the internment and
release of enemy aliens attended to by the Government.
Having failed, he took the last resort of a motion
condemning the Minister for the Army, Mr, Spender.
His attack was directed against the system of
allowing interned enemy aliens to go before a tribunal
and appeal. There are six of these tribunals, pre-
sumably one for each State. Chairmen get £7 7s.
and members £5 ss, a day, and there are a Clerk of
the Court, a Crown Prosecutor and four shorthand
writers attached to each one.
Their job is to decide, not whether a person is
an enemy alien or otherwise, but whether, being an
enemy alien, he should or should not be interned.
Just before the war something like 8000 refugees
from Central Europe arrived in Australia. They were
flying from a political system, and there was nothing
to show that any of them had lost his love of country.
The Australian authorities made few inquiries, still
fewer attempts to check their past history. To the
surprise of the Australians among whom they moved,
many of them came well equipped with money.
Everybody knows how the Nazis had spread their
agents throughout the world. It is ridiculous to sup-
pose that they would miss such an opportunity of
getting agents into Australia, especially since the
Nazi machine was being geared for war at the time.
Since war began there has been a constant mutter
of public inquiry concerning refugees from enemy
countries. Press and politicians have been frequently
heard demanding that they be rendered powerless to
injure the national war-effort. N.S.W. Deputy-
Premier Bruxner even threatened to use the State
laws against them if the Federal authorities refused
to act. In Sydney the police staged an exhibition of
arms and other dangerous implements taken in raids
on alien quarters. When ships were mined on the
Australian coast and sunk by raiders in the Tasman
and near-Pacific, the Commonwealth Attorney-General
was heard fulminating against spies. Responsible
persons assert that they have been startled to meet an
enemy alien whom they knew to have been interned
walking freely through Australian streets.
Yet, in the face of all this, the Australian Govern-
ment, exercising its duty to the nation by interning
the enemy alien, is obliged by this absurd and
dangerous appeal system to —as Mr. Cameron put it
“put itself in , the hopelessly ridiculous position of
appearing before a tribunal to defend its own actions.
The member for Barker asked the House to
consider the type of men who are interned:
Some of them are dyed-in-the-wool members of the
Nazi organisation. Some claim to be anti-Nazi, but on
those claims there must rest grave doubts. Some are
half-German and half-Jew. Others again are Italian
Fascists. One man, responsible for sinking 81 British
ships during the last war, is an applicant for release.
He added that he could give plenty more details,
that he had attended tribunals and seen what was
happening. He called attention to the activities of
social butterflies who have taken aliens under their
wings. He spoke of two Melbourne “socialites” who
broke every regulation in their visits to internment
camps, of “highly-placed busybodies” smuggling letters
and cables out of the camps, of pressure brought to
bear on tribunals.
Among other astounding aspects of the tribunal
business Mr, Cameron pointed out one that entitled
the appellant to have his case heard in the State in
which he was arrested, so that an alien arrested in
W.A. and sent, for military reasons, to a N.S.W. camp
could put the country to the expense of having him
and witnesses and guards transported to the West.
The House, he said, should demand to know how
the tribunals came to be established, and the
Minister should state clearly in his reply the purpose
of the regulation that was being challenged.
Far from doing so, Mr. Spender professed to
be touched on the raw by what he called charges of
incompetence or negligence, and indicated that he stood
by the tribunal system. “In time of war the sense of
justice must not be blunted.” In time of war the
sense of justice of the people demands that potential
mischief-workers shall be rendered harmless by the
responsible authority.
Then arose Mr. Fadden, Acting-P.M. He, too,
appeared to be touched on the raw because the
“charges” were levelled “against a Minister who had
given 100 per cent, loyalty, 100 per cent, ability and
100 per cent, industry in the interests of the Cabinet.”
There was no other speaker. The House did not
appear to be interested in the disclosures.
"Guaranteed by the Government."
Sydneysiders can now feast their eyes, if they feel
like it, on the latest film to be produced under a
N.S.W. Government guarantee —the Government
stands losses but doesn’t share in profits, if any.
The first guaranteed film was “Dad Rudd, M.P.,”
one of those overdone caricatures of Australian
country life. The second was “Forty Thousand
Horsemen” (£15,000), which was successful to the
extent that the Government was relieved of its
guarantee. The third is “The Power and the Glory.
Like “Forty Thousand Horsemen,” it got a gratifying
free advertisement from the censors, one comically
labelling it “suitable for adult exhibition only,” and
another declaring it “suitable for general exhibition” ;
but it is unlikely to rival the box-office vogue of
“Forty Thousand Horsemen.” It is unconvincing
melodramatic stuff about German agents and a U-boat
in pursuit of a refugee Czech professor and his lovely
daughter, who have discovered a new poison gas. or
something, the scene being set in Czechoslovakia and
Australia
The concern which made this opus is Argosy
Films, and it received a £25,000 Government guaran-
tee for two films —the second has yet to appear. The
£25,000 guarantee was given during the year to June,
1940, the total for the twelvemonth being £52,000.
During the same period the Government spent a
whole £59,013 on the National Art Gallery, the
N.S.W. Public Library, the Conservatorium of Music
and the Australian Museum. The general-reference
section of the Public Library got books worth £3500,
the country circulation department received £1444 for
purchase and repair of books, and a whole £lO was
spent on books for subsidised schools.
So much for the Mairs and their ideas of extend-
ing knowledge and promoting culture.
The Eureka Flag.
Claiming that “a banner of working-class traditions
with an Australian application should be flown,”
officials of the May Day committee in Newcastle
(N.S.W.) propose that the Eureka stockade flag—the
Southern Cross on a blue ground —shall be carried at
the head of the coal city’s May Day procession instead
of the Red Flag.
A lot has been heard about the Eureka flag
recently, chiefly from agents and dupes of Moscow
who, aware that Australians would not now be pre-
pared to march in public carrying Red Flags, portraits
of Stalin and the Hammer and Sickle, are working
Eureka for all they think it is worth.
They are fond of telling Australians that it was
at Eureka that the Australian worker first asserted
his right to a fair go. Nothing could be further from
the truth. Eureka was an armed revolt, mainly led
by foreigners. They and their followers, few of
whom were Australians, were employed by no-
body ; they were miners working for themselves on
the Ballarat goldfields. Some of the foreigners aimed
at setting up a republic. That constituted authority
provoked the miners by harsh regulations administered
by bullying officials doesn’t alter the fact that Eureka
was no more a pioneer labor movement than is a
strip-tease act by a disgruntled movie actress.
As for the Eureka flag, the five stars on a blue
ground can be seen these days wherever Australian
warships are doing their duty. In addition to the five
stars the flag carries a Union Jack in the top-left
corner and a large star of union underneath it. The
same flag, with a red ground, can be found in Britain,
North Africa, Greece and Malaya, and a lot of Aus-
tralian workers are with it.
It mightn’t be a bad idea if some of these “indus-
trialists” asked themselves whether they are doing
the Labor movement any good by falling for the
Eureka banner joke. British workers, with fire and
death falling from the skies, or going down with
torpedoed ships in the Atlantic, seem rather proud
of their old Union Jack. Australian workers, who
have gained what they have gained by virtue of their
British blood and whose only hope of holding their
gains and improving on them depends on whether or
no that Union Jack keeps afloat, shouldn’t be afraid
to march through their streets with its colors stamped
on a corner of their own flag.
To the average Australian, the combination seems
a pretty good one to march under, which is probably
why so many are doing so in sundry parts of the
world at the moment. Seeing that the manufacture
of Eureka as a working-class tradition has some
sinister backers, May Day and other demonstrators
would win greater public support under a flag that
stands for everything Australians think worth while,
including a fair go for workers.
Argentina Under Suspicion.
A recent announcement that Germany was building
up funds in New York faster than they could be spent
—on propaganda or other things—astonished many
Australians. The cabled explanation of the method
was not very enlightening. What apparently was hap-
pening was that gold reserves of conquered countries
were being sold by Germany to a friendly “neutral
and the friendly “neutral” was holding the gold or
selling it to the U.S.A.
The friendly “neutral” then paid Germany with
American dollars, and these dollars were left with the
U.S.A. However, they are of limited use to Ger-
many, because whatever goods are bought with them
have to run the British blockade. An interesting
aspect was Germany’s trust of the U.S.A. as custodian
of about £75,000,000 sterling.
A synchronous announcement should cause a
bit of head-scratching among Australians who know
how strong a competitor Argentina is with Aus-
tralia for the British meat trade. It was made by the
usually-solid “Christian Science Monitor,” which
stated that Argentina was receiving attractive offers
for wool and hides from Russia and Sweden, and that
the goods were probably destined for Germany. It
was pointed out that the wool embarkation tariff
charged to Sweden is 500 dollars a bale. Only a
country at war could or would pay such a charge.
The statement added that Argentina was closely
watching the U.S.A. attitude towards exports to
Russia. If this is true, somebody on the British side
should closely watch Argentina. That country has
obtained a good many concessions on the British home
market, owing largely to enormous British investments
in its meatworks and other industries, to the detri-
ment of the Dominions,
One of the momentous events of last week was
the seizure of Italian and German ships in U.S. ports
to prevent their being destroyed by the officers and
crews —in some cases the warning received by the
Washington Government came too late. The U.S.
example was followed in Latin American States, such
as Costa Rica, Venezuela, Peru, Mexico and Ecuador ;
but there is no mention of its being followed in
Argentina. This is curious.
Birth Control First.
“E.V.”: Statistics which showed that the birthrate of
N.S.W. had fallen from 27.6 per 1000 in 1905-06 to
17.3 in 1938-39—-barely enough to maintain population
at its present level —disturbed the sleep of only the few
reformers who were ready to use the fact as an argu-
ment for the urgent necessity for a “new order.”
But even the news that, among a population increased
by the pull of the city, the number of living children
under 15 had fallen from 732,000 to 690,000 between
1933 and 1939 did not disturb the Premier, Mr. Mair.
Mr. Mair merely said with his usual complacency
that the number of marriages of young servicemen
might upset the statistician’s calculations.
The real reasons for the falling birthrate are not
far to seek. The big city with all its distractions and
congestions is one of them. This cause operates in
all the States. In the big cities, girls prefer good
jobs and a good time to marriage ; and Hollywood,
the press and “reformist” speakers are all so solicitous
that they should continue the good time after they are
married that the race can go hang.
Queensland is a State in which it is easier to
read the signs than in N. S. Wales, because of the
steeper division of population between country and
city. In Brisbane and suburbs, at the 1933 census,
there were 76,600 children under 15 against
an adult population of 193,000—about eight children
of school age to every 20 adults. Charleville, a
small western town with 3205 people and old-
fashioned ideas, had 1113 children under 15 and 1731
adults ; Dalby, another small town, had 893 young-
sters and 1720 grown-ups ; and out in the pastoral
north-west Hughenden had 631 adult males, 447 adult
females and 561 children under 15.
In many other Queensland districts similar com-
parisons with the pampered capitals can be found.
The highest birthrates are in the least comfortable
and therefore the hardiest districts. Brisbane’s birth-
rate is under 16 per 1000 of mean population. In
Cape York Peninsula, where conditions are perhaps the
worst in Australia, the mean rate in 1938-39 was 64.9.
The revelations of the drying up in Sydney were
followed by a statement by Dr. Wallace, Acting
Director-General of Public Health. Dr. Wallace
said: “The problem is caused not so much by young
married women refusing to have children as by older
women refusing to have more than one or two,” by
“the increasing sale of contraceptives and knowledge
of birth control,” and by “the large increase of abortion
among married women in the last 10 years.”
There has been seen at picture shows, in intervals
between “sessions,” an advertisement for a contracep-
tive to which attention was called by a romantic pic-
ture of a young couple holding hands, and which was
recommended with the assurance that it is safe, sure,
“reliable” and non-injurious. Presumably this sort of
thing is quite legal in N. S. Wales —anyhow, the
N.S.W. Government never interferes.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Cauboy”: The insertion of a notice
in a Melbourne play-programme craving
indulgence for any deficiencies in a lead-
ing actor who had been too busy with
military duties to attend rehearsal re-
minds me. The juvenile lead of a cora-
pany which had a long lease of
the old Palace was addicted to
beer. On the night of a new
show he was dug out of a
brewery or somewhere. The
cast and the producer were in
a state bordering on nervous
breakdown. Every member of
the staff had been recruited to
prompt the sozzled mummer;
there was a man with a script
behind the fireplace, another at
each wing and a couple in the
flies all ready to help him over
his hurdles. When the curtain
descended for the last time the
cast could scarcely totter on to
take the applause of the en-
raptured audience. So they
were not exactly delighted on
the Monday morning when the
critics all said that the only
actor in the cast who seemed to know his
lines was the juvenile.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s possibly finest site,
the King William-North Terrace corner,
opposite Government House, has its scaf-
folding down after some two years of
chaos, and the new Bank of N.S.W. rises,
a white cube, to about nine storeys
matching the Shell Building close by
Ideas differ on these rebuilding plans.
The A.M.P., like the ’Wales, scrapped its
dignified old stone building for a modern,
roomy and severely practical affair on
the same site. The Bank of Adelaide
meanwhile is retaining its old frontage—
with modifications, but extending heavily
along Currie-street. The Savings Bank
of S.A. combines the two ideas. It has
come out into King William-street to
build loftily, and its fine old Currie-street
home will be left as a bargain for any
institution not quite so big.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Motorists who used the
Svvanston-street route through Melbourne
became familiar with the Whistling Cop
who directed the traffic near the National
Gallery. Nobody knew what tunes he
whistled—whether it was grand opera
or the latest song hit —but he whistled
incessantly, only pausing to give a broad
smile to a lady motorist in a tangle. One
of the cheerfullest and friendliest traffic-
directors in Melbourne, he is now to be
located on the South Melbourne side of
the Spencer-street Bridge, still whistling
as courageously as ever. I have heard
that he took to whistling after a bereave-
ment. If true —and I hope it isn’t—he
couldn’t have chosen a pleasanter way of
resisting misfortune, all things considered.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: Our suburb’s drunk does
things when in his cups that would never
occur to him when sober. He got off
the bus a stop too early one night and
went wavering along the street to its far
end, when he discovered that he was mis-
placed and started back. Halfway along
he turned up a side street and found one
of those small, four-sided hurdles which
are used to fence off open manholes.
Two hours later, again finding the hurdle,
he pulled up and considered. Being
steadier by this, he decided that it might
be a good plan to take the hurdle and
set it up on the road in front of his own
home as a landmark. After which he
went to bed. For nearly a fortnight that
hurdle stood in the middle of our street
while traffic and pedestrians dodged it
religiously, and it never occurred to any-
one to wonder what it was doing there
until the culprit, sick of the sight of the
thing and full of Dutch courage, tele-
phoned the local council and asked them
to (1) get on with whatever job they in-
tended doing and (2) remove the thing, or
else he d take to it with an axe. Asked
how long it had been there he replied
“Munce, I reckon. I’m alwish failin’
over er flamin’ thing when I come home
at night.” It was removed next day.
• * * *
“Old Unionist”: “Remember the Rich
Baker” was a slogan which helped to put
the Wade Government out of power and
Labor in—for the first time in N.S.W.
It comes back to mind in connection
with Sydney’s recent fine-reduction
rumpus. The Rich Baker (who was pros-
perous rather than rich) was Andy
McKye, a Manly character of a sportive
and jocular mood. He was a good em-
ployer, his hands having had years of
service with him, but he hated being told
what he had to do by the union, and so
for what were deliberate breaches of in-
dustrial awards was punished by a series
of fines. These were in part remitted
"What are you two up to?”
The part where he says you don't understand him.”
by the Government, and Labor, looking
for election ammunition, seized the
opportunity. In a few weeks the Rich
Baker was famous. He is still on deck,
hale and hearty.
* * * m
“T. McN.”: The tactics of advertisers
in using popular heroes or dramatic or
even tragic events as aids in boosting
their goods seem to be exceeding all
limits. Dunkirk, Churchill, the Anzacs, the
A.1.F., the R.A.N. and the Air Force have
all been used in this manner, and, though
perhaps advertising agents can’t be ex-
pected to know good taste from bad,
editors of responsible newspapers should.
One of the latest offences is a full-page
carrying a large portrait of Nelson and
a sketch of the Victory. Across the
top in bold type is the Trafalgar signal
and then this:
Trafalgar, October 21, 1805. Struck down
on the quarter-deck of the Victory the dying
Nelson’s last words, “Kiss me, Hardy,”
have sent an echo down the years—the
echo of gratitude for duty well done.
Then comes in 2in. letters the word
“Duty,” and below it a puff for a patent
medicine.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Melbourne’s Labor Day pro-
cession—it used to be the Eight Hours
Day procession—this year battled its way
through rain and gale, the longest Labor
dragon for a decade. But it was robbed
of its pomp and glory through the
absence of the traditional banners, the
only one hoisted being blown to ribbons.
The usual anti-capitalist slogans were as
evident as ever, much to the surprise of
refugees from Europe, who couldn’t
understand why the police didn’t rush in
and truncheon the demonstrators. The
only evidence of the appearance of a
new fashion was the number of motor
vehicles harboring union officials. Com-
plete mechanisation can confidently be
expected next year.
* * * *
“Q.Y.”: Brisbane once had a visit from
a poltergeist, one of those disorderly
spectres who kick up shindies and chuck
things round instead of sticking to the
customary decorous lines of groans and
chain-rattling. An old dilapidated house
at Kangaroo Point, standing in a weed-
grown wilderness which had once been
a stately garden, became suddenly
haunted. Neighbors complained that they
could not sleep for the screechings,
stampings, bumps, thumps and strange
voice sounds in some harsh, unknown
language which often echoed from it of
an evening. The police investigated,
found nothing, and in a nasty double-
meaning way suggested rats. But the
complaints continued, and after two con-
secutive nights of ghostly uproar vouched
for by a resident with some political
weight behind him, minions of the law
were secretly stationed in neighboring
houses. Four nights later the pande-
monium broke out again, and the force
converged at the double —to find a
patriotic Scot, nobly primed with his
national beverage, marching up and
down playing the bagpipes to his own
vocal accompaniment in the Gaelic. His
explanation that his wife objected equally
and vociferously to whisky, bagpipes and
Gaelic alike and that he had to practise
these arts away from home was accepted.
* * * *
“Plum”; In view of his diagnosis of
more natural food as the cause of the
1841 toper’s resistance to the jim-jams,
“Lord Luyus” (B. 26/3/41) would be
interested in an experiment recently re-
ported in the American “Journal of the
Medical Sciences.” Thus:
A chronic alcoholic who was admitted to
the Psychiatric Service four times during
the past year with delirium tremens volun-
teered for the study after fully recovering
from his last episode. He consumed 121
quarts of whisky (90 proof) in 14 days, and
each day _ received 50mg. vitamin B 1 and
500 mg. nicotinic acid. He ate practically
nothing during the experiment, although
he consumed large quantities of milk
daily, using it as a chaser. On the 13th
day of his drinking he developed delirium
tremens.
Whether the administration of the anti-
deficiency substances and the milk de-
layed the sad ending was not clear to
the experimenters.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Victorian National Gallery
director MacDonald has just been re-
valuing pictures lent to country galleries
and, in the light of present market values,
has felt compelled to write down their
values for insurance purposes from £4334
to £561, one in particular having, in the
opinion of the director, slumped from £945
to £l5. This seems an unfortunate con*'
mentary on the judgment of past buyers,
trustees and officials of the Felton Be-
quest and the N.G., but there’s nothing
quite so mutable as art fashions.
* * * 9
“Dhas”: I know that P. G. Wode-
house is writing a humorous novel in a
German prison camp; that Somerset
Maugham, after writing a book to prove
that France was invincible, escaped by
the skin of his teeth ; that Aldous Huxley
and poet W. H. Auden (about whose
departure there was somewhat of a
literary rumpus) are—or were —safe in
America; that poet Stephen Spender,
asked if he were going to join Auden,
said he was going to join the army ; that
Charles Morgan has gone back to the
Navy. But what’s happened to the rest
of the literary lights in the war, par-
ticularly the nabobs who used to live in
Italy and the south of France? Maybe
Ezra Pound, being an American, is still
secure at Rapallo. Where’s Roy Camp-
bell, the South African satirist who, in
the intervals of fighting for Franco in
the Spanish war, lived in the Arles dis-
trict of France and whose last poem,
besides some satire of the English,
included a dreadful pasan on “victorious
Mussolini”? The most recent news of
Ernest Hemingway, who was more mildly
engaged in the Spanish affair—driving an
ambulance for the Reds—was that he
and his new missus were off to China.
9 9 9 9
“Colonel Bungstarter”: As I was turn-
ing out an old drawer, a faded photo-
graph of a Transvaal military police post
came to light. On its front wall was
tacked a notice:
REWARD—DEAD OR ALIVE.
Englishman, 25 years old, about sft. Bin.,
indifferent build, walks with a forward
stoop, pale appearance, red-brownish hair,
hardly noticeable moustache, talks through
his nose, and cannot pronounce the letter
“s” properly.
He was a war-correspondent who had
escaped from a Boer prison camp. They
never caught him. Today I heard over
the wireless that same difficulty with the
letter “s” and the slight nasal accent.
Many a press photograph shows that
Churchill still retains the forward stoop,
but not the “hardly noticeable mous-
tache.”
* * 9 *
“K.P.”: Why the universal and un-
compromising denunciation of the “com-
forter” or “dummy” which every normal
baby so obviously regards as second only
to breast or bottle in interest and
pleasure-production? I have been told
by medico colleagues that I should know
better because the things may convey
disease germs. But they are a lot less
likely to do so than many other articles
which the best-welfared infant manages
to suck so rapturously whenever it gets
a chance, its own thumbs included. A
young mother fresh from the clinic ex-
plained haughtily that dummies cause
adenoids, but nothing better could be
invented for preventing any tendency
to mouth-breathing. I have been in-
formed in a lecture by a specially-trained
nurse that they interfere with the stimu-
lus toward natural sucking, but a
moment’s observation of how the
dummy-addict uses the affair blows that
notion clear off the map. Another
woman expert referred to “that chief
danger to modern infant health the
dummy.” The same old model made
of bone was frequent in Egyptian tombs
of thirty and more centuries ago. I’ll
admit that the kids who sucked those
ones are all dead, but it wasn’t dummies
that made them mummies.
9 * =K *
“Strict Veg.”; The flower of patriotism
flourishes in strange places. Tile eye of
a Melbourne artist who was browsing
around the picturesque environs of
Dudley Flats was attracted by the ex-
traordinary spectacle of a Union Jack
flying from a flagstaff which surmounted
an immense municipal rubbish heap
spreading over half an acre. After climb-
ing over ranges of kerosene tins and
mountains of rusty galvo., he discovered
the home of an old-age pensioner set
in the centre of the dump and made
of its characteristic material.
9 9 9 9
“Oxmead”: Prince Paul, the deposed
Regent of Yugoslavia (B. 2/4/’4l), is a
son of the first King Peter’s brother,
Prince Arsene. The Obrenovitch dynasty
was extinguished by murder in 1903, and
the rival clan, the Karageorgevitches,
came back from a long exile in the per-
son of Peter the First. He had two sons,
George and Alexander, and a daughter,
Helene. George, the elder, was a rickety-
rackety royalty, whose escapades made
him so notorious that he was induced,
or obliged, to give up his right to the
throne in favor of his yoyinger brother.
He is still alive, I believ(e ; Helene also.
Alexander, of course, j succeeded his
father, and was assassinated over six
years ago.
ROOSEVELT.
Some trusty friends in days agone
We’ve found at times of trial and test
When anxious eyes were turned upon
The Great Republic of the West.
Withal, I venture to suggest,
Of all at Washington who’ve dwelt
Our histories will record the best
By far was Franklin Roosevelt.
He took his stand, forthright and true,
Contemptuous of bluff and kid!
He made no bones on what he’d do.
And what he said he’d do he did.
He held his course, all strife amid,
With stern resolve that none might melt.
Who of us wouldn’t doff a lid
And drain a cup to Roosevelt?
A _ hand outstretched his own to grasp,
’Cross waves that toss and winds that whip,
He greeted with a comrade’s clasp
And welcomed with a kinsman’s grip
In token of a partnership
More close than any pacts have spelt.
A bond that none may rend or rip
We hold with Franklin Roosevelt.
Who’d harm the one must halt the twain
From now, wherever blows are dealt.
Fill up the glasses once again
And drink a toast to Roosevelt!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Wot a stoopid place to put a clothesline."
“Bohemian”: Captain Stone, in com-
mand of the American squadron that
recently visited Auckland (M.L.), put a
touch of piquant humor into his public
speeches. In his farewell oration he was
unconsciously a lot funnier than he
thought. He wanted to bring a Maori
phrase or two into his discourse, and was
advised to say in parting “Kia ora”
(good luck) “to all of you.” The cap-
tain apparently got somewhat mixed in
his references, for he brought out “Karori
to all of you.” His audience almost wept
with delight, astonishing the captain, who
thought he had expressed a hearty, seri-
ous sentiment. Afterwards it was broken
to him that karori means rats.
* * *
“R. Volt”; The resourceful Aus-
tralian! The flying doctor at Wyndham
(n.-w. Australia) had been treating a
Fitzroy Crossing man by wireless. He got
worse, and the doctor decided to pay
him a visit. The medical ’plane was
sick in the engine, so the doctor went
by mail ’plane to his destination. There
he found that what the patient badly
needed was oxygen, and he was in a
quandary until a bushman in the one-
horse township remembered an old oxy-
acetylene welding plant which for some
mysterious reason had landed at Fitzroy
years before and been forgotten. The
cylinder was located but the key was
missing, and the bushman volunteered
to risk an explosion by opening the
cylinder in a most irregular fashion. He
succeeded, an oxygen-tent was con-
structed, the patient recovered sufficiently
to be flown back to the base and by
latest reports was progressing satisfac-
torily.
* * * *
“Clooter”: It comes from one of those
unimpeachable authorities in a high posi-
tion close to the head of affairs and
somehow got to the Athens correspon-
dent of a London paper, and it tells ail
about Balbo’s death. A sparking plug
attached to the ’plane’s magneto was sub-
merged in the petrol tank. When the
’plane had used enough petrol to expose
the plug the spark ignited the air-and-
vapor mixture in the tank and “pow! ”
went the outfit. “It is understood” that
the method was invented by the Gestapo,
who used it against the anti-German
Spanish General Mola. Correct or not,
it’s an ingenious explanation.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: The quaint Mr. Mair
having stated (a) that the N.S.W. Licens-
ing Act needs amending, and ( b) that his
Parliament will not
amend it, the licens-
ing magistrates have
had to take it into
their own hands to
inject a modicum of
commonsense into
the administration of
a cockeyed law.
According to Chief
Licensing Magistrate
Scobie, the Bench
has agreed on fixed
penalties for after-
hours’ drinking:
after 6 p.m. but be-
fore 7 p.m., it’ll
corst yer five bob ;
after 7 p.m. or on
Sundays, ten bob.
That means that
anybody wanting a
couple of drinks in
a Sydney lounge be-
fore dinner (allow-
ing for increased
lounge prices, the
fine and, say, eight
shillings costs) can
have for about fif-
teen shillings the two
drinks he’d get in
Brisbane for less
than two shillings.
Anybody wanting a
nightcap after the
theatre can have it
for about £l. All right if you’ve got the
money! But the magistrates’ decision
also means that drinking between 6 and
7 p.m. is considered the most trivial of
“offences” and drinking after that hour
also of very slight importance. If Mr.
Mair had a tithe of the magistrates’ intes-
tinal fortitude he’d either see that after-
hours’ drinking was stamped out by solid
fines or stop wasting the country’s time
and money on these pin-pricking prose-
cutions.
* * ♦ *
“Philo”: A word that lam perpetually
stumbling against and that always bothers
me is “highfalutin.” Everybody knows
what it means, but even the dictionaries
have little or nothing to say about its
derivation or what part of speech it is.
Sometimes I find it used by authors of
repute as a noun ; just as often, by writers
of equal distinction, as an adjective. An-
other alternative is to finish it with an
apostrophe, as if it were a sawn-off parti-
ciple, “highfalutin’.” Some put a hyphen
after the first syllable, and I have even
seen it written as “hi-falutin,” which
makes it more puzzling still. I want to
know if its rightful place in the language
can be pinned down by a quotation from
Chaucer or Shakspeare or anywhere else,
and whether it has anything to do with
fluting. Tastily, is there such a thing as
“lowfalutin” in the sense of soft-pedal-
ling, and, if not, why not?
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The latest addition to the
theatrical amenities of Melbourne is the
Gong Modern Art Theatre, directed by
B. Newman-Jubal from Vienna, which is
to present plays unlike anything ever seen
in Australia. By a coincidence a similar
amateur co. with similar aims, which was
launched by a number of young amateur
enthusiasts some 15 years ago, was called
the Gong. Its first production, if I re-
member rightly, was a temperance tract
disguised as a play by Tolstoy. Doors,
it was announced, would be closed at
eight on the rising of the curtain, and
latecomers would get a frigid reception,
so everybody turned up early. They were
confronted with a scene of bustling acti-
vity. Stage carpenters, who had obvi-
ously never hit a nail on the head in
their existence, were knocking the scenery
together ; actors were taking a last look
at their parts amidst the uproar, and the
eminent young producer was instructing
actresses how to make-up their noses
and the scene-painters how to put the last
touches on a backcloth representing a
Russian village. The curtain went up at
9.40 and the play proceeded, punctuated
by the sound of sawing and hammering
backstage, where the scenery for the
second act was still under construction.
It was the first and last time that Gong
sounded.
* * * *
“Pawang”; A Melbourne man who
works nine storeys up in a city building
told me the other day that he was suffer-
ing from shock, having seen a girl killed
in one of the lifts. At the time of the
disaster he felt nothing whatever, but a
few hours later he began to feel dread-
fully upset, and he now finds it quite im-
possible to use that lift. “I feel so horribly
about it,” he said, “that I would have
to walk up and down the nine flights if
there wasn’t another lift.” His is a com-
mon case. A doctor who deals a lot with
motor-accident cases tells me that men
invariably suffer more from shock than
women when they are witnesses of a
road smash, but that the effects are not
immediate. It is in the tradition of
women to let themselves go, and they
are always difficult to manage at the time
of the occurrence. But they suffer much
less afterwards. The male tradition is
different. A man is expected to keep a
stiff upper lip, and whatever emotion he
may be feeling he suppresses. So he is
easy to handle at the time of the accident.
But he tends to suffer afterwards much
more than the woman who screams,
weeps or throws a fit.
“K.P.”: The war has cleared up a
question in practical demography which
seemed to hold disturbing possibilities.
Prior to 1940 birthrates in most
white countries, including Australia,
had dropped to or below the point
of mere replacement of parents. The
obvious explanation was contracep-
tion or just mere selfishness. Con-
traception failed to explain many
investigated cases of sterile or one-child
marriages, and an increasing number of
investigators became disposed to believe
in the influence of some deeper factor,
dietary or otherwise, which was diminish-
ing reproductive power, particularly
amongst the higher types, and might
eventually reduce it to a level from which
the race would dwindle rapidly into ex-
tinction. War marriages have swept such
gloomy speculation clear away—the
maternity hospitals in every Australian
city are crammed with best immigrants
and appealing for help to cope with the
ever-increasing flood. The same thing is
happening in Britain, Canada and South
Africa, and for the same reasons. Young
parents of today can reproduce their kind
as well and often as ever their great-
grandparents could, provided the induce-
ment is there. And if the white man is
to survive in a post-war world that in-
ducement must not be allowed to slacken
as it had slackened before 1940.
He * * *
“Bo”: Amendments to be made to the
N.S.W. Local Government Act will
confer on councils power to close dis-
used brick pits or to order owners to
fence them in where the waterholes con-
stitute a danger. The measure will con-
jure a sigh of reminiscence from count-
less dwellers in Sydney’s non-seaside
suburbs who learned to swim in those
same waterholes. To the zest of dog-
paddling among the swollen carcasses of
sundry animals —“last round the dead
dog lousy!”—and dodging snags—always
the greatest danger in holes which were
often as deep as 100 ft. —was added the
thrill of defying both the Law by swim-
ming in the nude and parental prohibi-
tions. Occasionally the kid who was
posted at a vantage point to keep “joey”
would yell out in a cracked voice “Nit;
’ere’s the D.!” and there would follow
a wild rush to get out of the water, snatch
up the clobber and escape the clutches
of The Creeper, the “plainclothes bloke,”
who never seemed to wake up to the fact
that his bowler hat was a mark that any
waterhole addict could recognise at a
quarter of a mile. My most painful
recollection is of a panic which led to
the indiscriminate grabbing up of clothes
and to my being abandoned without a
stitch to wait upon the friendly dark. Of
course there were tragedies, and such was
the chastening effect of them and the
concomitant lectures that it would some-
times be at least two days before every-
one was back at it again.
“Come on, George. It looks easy enough."
BATS.
“A bat flew into the Chamber and was greeted
with cheers. One member shouted above the uproar
‘The Government has bats in the belfry,’ and
there were also cries of ‘The Government has gone
batty.’ ” —Canberra item.
How clear it shows, if any proof were lacking,
What sparkling humorists, what souls of wit
We find where, well-upholstered benches pack-
ing, , .
The makers of our laws serenely sit.
At flippancies which set the ribs a-cracking
Some of our Reps, are obviously It,
Quick to discern that even bats may be
Fitting material for jeux d’esprit.
In this august abode, this House historic,
They couldn’t help but see, it’s manifest,
Something hilariously allegoric
About the inrush of the winged pest,
Conclusive evidence that Hamlet’s Yorick,
With all his store of fancy and of jest,
Had nothing on the merry, mirthful band
Who rule the roost in this enlightened land.
The bat arrived and fluttered round. There-
after
The Chair’s authority was in eclipse;
The crowded Chamber echoed, floor to rafter,
With sly suggestions from sardonic lips;
Loud bursts of inextinguishable laughter
Greeted the innuendoes and the quips
Stirred by the coming of the mouselike thing
That hits the breeze o’ nights upon the wing.
Ah! in some other sphere of life, one fancies,
These ultra-jovial souls who frame our laws
Might have been starved at music-hall seances
For their ability to raise guffaws,
Or swapped their risible extravagances
With Harry Lauders or with Bernard Shaws.
What knotty points, I wonder, were they at
To find such recreation in a bat.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


59813
8/1 JOJ 0 Z *POI JOJ 01
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
~
PREVENT SORE
ii'l'tililM
POLITICAL POINTS
A plain tale has put down the Sydney
parochialists, editors and politicians, who
howled that Melbourne was getting the
bulk of the war contracts. Machine tools
were mentioned as a shocking example,
and figures were called for at Canberra.
They showed that N.S.W.’s share of
orders to Feb. 15 was valued at
£1,071,292, Victoria’s at £1,033,492, S.A.’s
at £184,473, Queensland’s at £105,354,
W.A.’s at £56,700 and Tasmania’s at
£2lOO. But no doubt a new “scandal”
will be dug up directly.
On the bill taxing payrolls to provide
most of the child-endowment money, the
House made a sorry show of itself.
Through blundering on someone’s part,
no second-reading division was taken,
though one was called for ; then Prowse,
the Chairman of Committees, who was
inaudible to some of the dissentients —
all Ministerialists —reported that the bill
had been put through the committee
stage. This brought strenuous protests
from Cameron and others, and Francis
went through the form of moving for
its recommittal, but withdrew his motion
after a private talk with Fadden. Mean-
time a succession of points of order had
been taken, chiefly to silence Cameron,
who acidly reminded the Opposition
that not one of its members had said
that the payroll method was the right
method. Curtin protested that he was
“a realist.” He is certainly no tax-
reformer.
A lady reporter from a flapper paper
has been allowed to trip to Malaya to
tell us all about the A.I.F. Presumably
this is in pursuance of the policy of
taking “softening influences” to the
troops, whose unofficial spokesman pro-
tested vigorously that they didn’t go
abroad to be softened they went to
fight. Who sanctioned this odd feminine
pilgrimage has not been revealed. In
the case of General Blarney’s wife it was
the War Cabinet, and the Full Cabinet
overrode the War Cabinet, ordering the
lady to return instantly. Her reply, as
every woman knows, was “Don’t be
sillay.”
From proceedings that were most im-
perfectly reported:—
“When I entered this House on the fifth
of November sixteen hundred and five”
“You mean the eighth of November.”
“What sort of a bloke are you, doin’
a man out of three days?”
“I protest against the scene that was
witnessed in this House before dinner.”
“Ho, do you? Play the game, you cad!”
“ ‘Ain’t it Grand to Be Bloomin’ Well
Dead.’ Sing up!”
It was all heard in the Australian Par-
liament in the nineteenth month of the
war.
Speaking on the A.B.C. Bill Cameron
(U.A.P.) said he suspected that one effect
would be to transfer control of broad-
casting to the Department of Informa-
tion. “And,” he added, “we all know
what the Department of Information is,”
The trouble is that we don’t, though we
know it is costing us plenty. As the
Hebrew comedian put it, “Too much is
plenty.”
An awful risk was taken by a Shop
Assistants’ delegate when he told Sydney
Labor Council that the League of Young
Democrats was an offshoot of the Com-
munist party, and that Hughes had “done
the right thing” in banning it. “Fascist!”
“Throw him out!” were among the re-
marks hurled at him. The deluded fellow
thought a man was entitled to express his
opinions at the Trades Hall.
The Serb revolt against the Axis would
not have astonished Viscount Grey had
he lived to witness it. In 1915, when the
Serbs were about to be attacked by the
Central Powers and Bulgaria, Grey urged
them to buy the Bulgars off with con-
cessions in Macedonia. No use!
Serbia was quite intractable. In vain I
pointed out that France, Britain and
Russia could send no troops to help Serbia;
that if she would only concede what was
necessary to secure Bulgaria’s friendship
there was every prospect of a victory in
which Serbia would gain far more than she
was now asked to concede; whereas if Bul-
garia attacked her she would lose every-
thing she now had. It was all in vain.
The Serbian Minister closed one conversa-
tion with me by saying they would all
rather die than let Bulgaria have Monastir.
A preference for death put an end to all
argument, and I became respectfully silent.
Grey’s words came true. The Serbs lost
their country and a great part of their
army. But the stubborn fellows came
back
“Lord, give us strength to destroy the homes and mangle the bodies of two
more peaceful Little Peoples!”
The P.M. has cabled to his offsider at
Canberra that he desires a “semi-secret”
session on his return. What on earth is
a “semi-secret” session?
Tas. Labor has decided to drop the
word “State” from schools, holding that
some sort of stigma attaches to it. Yet
a very great proportion of Australia’s
best men are proud to admit that they
got their schooling from State teachers.
Tas, Labor evidently believes that it is
countering some alleged snobbery.
Actually it is catering to it.
While the Parliament at Canberra
was speeding to another recess, the
Auditor-General bespoke consideration
of some facts about army contracts. In
a Queensland case a contractor for re-
frigerator units was found to be supply-
ing reconditioned second-hand ones, and
most of them broke down. All that was
done was to accept his offer to replace
them with new ones. “There may be
circumstances unknown to this office
which prompted the infliction of what
appears to be a very light penalty,” is
the A.-G.’s dry comment. Then he went
on to point out peculiarities in other
contracts, especially where military
officers entered into negotiations with
contractors without consulting the proper
authority and where contractors were
setting out to produce considerably more
articles than the number ordered.
Auditors-General are useful people to
have about the place—or would be if
the politicians ever took any notice of
them.
Brisbane City Council was heard con-
gratulating itself on having a surplus of
£lOO,OOO for the financial year. “Was
heard” is right. There is now a dead
silence, the Commonwealth payroll tax
and the new State basic wage having
shoved another £90,000 on to exes. Just
as well the American fleet wasn’t late.
Victoria’s C.P. Government has entered
on its seventh year. It is a record reign
for the representatives of a minority so
small that it couldn’t run a Senate ticket
without risk of losing deposits. Of course,
the Government wouldn’t have lasted a
week without Labor support, and the
concessions Labor has received were not
worth its sacrifice of equitable represen-
tation in the constituencies. With Parlia-
ment in recess, Dunstan bids fair to crack
Lawson’s record as long-distance Premier;
he has only 32 days to go. It is improb-
able that he will stay in office much
longer. A heart attack prostrated him
for two months, and he still has to take
things easy.
Parliament is out of action once more.
A couple of voices were heard before
the rush to the Big Cities set in:
Mr. Brennan (Lab.): I am sorry to have
to tell you, Mr. Speaker, that in my opinion
Parliament never was rated lower in public
estimation than at present.
Mr. Spooner (U.A.P.).: If people could
take a peep into this Parliament today
they would be struck by the tomfoolery
and political senility of some members.
Neither gentleman did anything to sup-
port Cameron in his attack on the dan-
gerous internment-appeal system.
Protestant Labor parties never last
anywhere, and Queensland has taken a
long farewell of its P.L.P. Three years ago
the party ran 23 Assembly candidates
and scored 46,568 votes, which wasn’t
half bad; one, G. A. Morris, became
member for Kelvin Grove. In process
of time the inevitable schism arrived, and
only three P.L.Ps. turned out on March
29 ; all were beaten, and Morris, stand-
ing as an Independent, lost his seat to a
Labor member, finishing third in a field
of three.
At a time when thousands of Austra-
lians are ruefully contemplating their
income-tax assessments, one of the lottery
concerns which infest the country, under
State Government patronage, has had
the gall to come out with a leaflet to this
effect: —
No Income Tax on Prizes.
In these days of increasing taxation we
all wonder how to make provision for
future taxes.
By purchasing tickets in the Lottery sub-
scribers Do Not Pay any Federal or State
Income Tax on Prizes.
Then subscribers should —and would if
there were a Government at Canberra
worthy of the name. While the alleged
Government is taking 10s. and more
from every pound of income in excess
of £l5OO it is a political crime against
the nation to let lottery prizes of £5OOO
and £6OOO go untaxed.
Queensland Labor had barely stopped
cheering to get its second wind when
somebody remarked that the Common-
wealth child endowment scheme would
clap another £294,000 a year on the
additional £475,000 arising from the
basic-wage increase. State taxpayers,
already paying through the nose, haven’t
dared to speculate how Forgan Smith
will raise the money.
So far from the Lang-McKell fusion
in N.S.W. reducing the number of Labor
parties there it seems to have increased
them. A lady who was a suburban
mayoress in her own right is coming out
as a representative of “the new Aus-
tralian Labor party.” The N.A.L.P. con-
sists of former Non-Coms, who refused
to follow Lang into the McKell paddock.
Its principal plank, it seems, is abolition
of State Parliaments, so here’s luck to
the lady!
The ideas of Mr. Max Falstein (Labor,
Watson, N.S.W.);
The Opposition is really the Govern-
ment of the country. There is no need to
waste time in debating any bill implementing
child endowment. This bill [payroll tax]
could have been passed 10 minutes after
the member for Fremantle resumed the de-
bate,
Mr. Falstein is the gentleman who wants
to send an Australian representative to
“neutral” Russia. Stifling of debate on
the expenditure of other people’s money
has no doubt been raised to a science
there ; but the Opposition is not “really
the Government” in that country. On
the contrary, it is “liquidated” whenever
it shows its head.
Rain and floods have been washing
parts of Queensland again. Tully had
30 inches in two days and there were
tales of rail and road washaways, rescues
by police boats and forecasts of heavy
damage. There is no confirmation of the
rumor that the Government intends to
apply its Public Safety Act and arrest
the local weather man.
The enormous sick bay Melbourne is
erecting on the Pig Market site was in-
tended to replace the Public Hospital in
Swanston-street, and all sorts of sug-
gestions have been offered as to what
is to be done with that huge out-of-date
structure. One was its demolition and
the erection on the site of a new Town
Hall. Events have moved fast, and the
hospital is now by no means superfluous,
even with the new one opened. It will
probably remain as a temporary military
hospital or an emergency and accident
depot. There is a shortage of beds and
the State Government is short of funds
for fancy projects.
Tasmanian Labor is dabbling with the
idea of reducing the voting age to 20.
Treasurer Dwyer-Gray thinks it would
be a good idea to give the vote to youths
and flappers of 18, accompanied by com-
pulsory education to that age. No
wonder Tasmanians clear out to Vic-
toria !


AT THE MARE NOSTRUM HOTEL.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Around 5 p.c. Annual Yield
with Safety
Your investment—even as little as £2o—in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
gives you an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies yielding, at
present prices, around 5 % per annum. Moreover, your investment is
definitely safeguarded by Custodian Trustees: Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd.
Now is your opportunity to share in the increasing activity of Industrial
undertakings. Write for Booklet No. 1, post free, on request to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons
Recognise backache as a signal that there
Is something wrong with your kidneys.
, kidne y g contain 15 miles of tiny tube^
and filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered, of waste matter and acid poisons.
Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
blogged causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
byes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
hess. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before it is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does—take DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY i'lELft tQ-day,
PERSONAL ITEMS
The medal of the Australian Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy was awarded to
Essington Lewis in Melbourne last week
as a recognition of his work for Aus-
tralian steel and allied industries. The
Director-General of Munitions has gone
far since he started as a B.H.P. under-
ground hand, working up through the
jobs of shift boss, foreman and man-
ager to general manager. Before he
was appointed to one of the key
jobs in Australia’s war effort he was
managing director of five big concerns
and a director of 11 subsidiaries. He was
an inter-State footballer in his youth.
A son, who looks a fighter from the
ground up, is in an A.I.F. camp.
One of the reasons why Justice Lowe
got the Chancellorship of Melbourne
University in succession to John Latham
is probably that his main interest is
American and Australian co-operation.
He was last year’s president of the
English-Speaking Union, His view is
that a university post these days is a
form of war service. A son is a heart
specialist, senior lecturer at the Univer-
sity and a captain in the military forces.
A daughter is in the Pathology School.
The family being a sort of link between
two professions, it is natural that the
JUSTICE LOWE.
father should be president of the Medico-
Legal Society, which meets once a month
to discuss legal problems that interest
doctors and medical problems that in-
terest lawyers.
Lt.-Col. C. W. Thompson, who was the
first medical officer ashore at the Gallipoli
landing and had a dressing station going
on the beach inside ten minutes, has had
the “Last Post” sounded for him. He was
senior m.o. at Prince Alfred (Sydney)
when the 1914 call came. Enlisting
promptly, he went away as the “quack”
of the Ist Batt. ; later in the war he com-
manded the 14th Batt. Active service
took a heavy toll of him ; he was twice
wounded, and suffered from the after
effects of those injuries and the full five
years of field seriice. After practising
at Bathurst and Hamilton (N.S.W.) he
retired a year ago.
Jack McLaren, author of a raft of
books on the South Seas, novels and
tales of adventure, has come to light with
another book in the middle of the Blitz-
krieg. More remarkable still, the Stanley
Paul firm has risen from the ruins of
Paternoster Row and put the MS., the
original of which was lost when the Row
was demolished, between covers. It is
called Their Isle of Desire, and is placed
in Papua. McLaren was born in Mel-
bourne, the son of a Presbyterian parson,
and was educated at Scotch College. He
roamed the world for many years before
he settled down in London. Paul has
contracted to publish two more of his
novels.
Jack Ellerton Becker, director of
S7\. s Music League, which numbers
about 1200 young musicians, had a life
ambition realised when Governor
Barclay-Harvey opened the Music League
Chalet and Sports Park at Mount Lofty.
There under ideal conditions Becker’s
youngsters are to enjoy regular vacations
throughout the year. He gets able assist-
ance from his fellow-directors, Harry
Green and Lieut.-Col. H. E. Adkins, of
Kneller Hall, London, the latter acting
as overseas adviser.
Henry George Smith, onetime Regis-
trar-General of Tasmania and private
secretary to Premiers Lyons, McPhee and
Ogilvie, is dead. He served in the First
A.1.F., winning a D.C.M. and getting
a commission. Amongst other jobs he
was secretary of State committees for
the royal visits in 1927 and 1935.
At 37 Charles K. Murphy has been
named Clerk of the Tasmanian House of
Assembly. He was Assistant-Clerk since
1925. A native of Stawell (Vic.), Murphy
got his education at Melbourne Scotch
College and The Friends’ School, Hobart,
after his father took charge of St.
Andrew’s Church there. He was one of
the crew that sailed the late Owen Tin-
ping's Valkyrie to Sydney from Hobart
in 1928, and was a keen footballer. He
is Hobart’s Chief Air Raid Warden.
The Barrier’s oldest medico is dead at
72. He was Dr. George Henry Sawtell
Dobbyn, and he was attending a patient
a few minutes before the end. The doctor
will not be for-
gotten while Broken
Hill has a racing
club, for he was a
pillar of that insti-
tution throughout
his 40-odd years in
the city. He played
polo for many
years, and was re-
garded as one of
the best at the
game in the coun-
try. He was just
under 30 when he
arrived at the
Barrier from
Beechworth (Vic.),
became State m.o.
and helped to
found the old
L.V.R.C. At the
finish he was the
oldest member of
the Broken Hill
Club.
Peter Newbury,
dead at 50 in Mel-
bourne, was one of
the best-known of
Victorian painters
of landscape. He
was a National
Gallery product,
but had been influ-
enced by Max Mel-
drum’s forthright
imp re ss i onism,
although he was
WALTER LIN DRUM.
(Modelled by Frith.)
never his pupil. Newbury, a consistent
shower at local exhibitions, won the
Ballarat Crouch Prize three times, was
immensely popular with private buyers
and had works purchased by most Aus-
tralian galleries. A very agreeable fellow
with a pleasant turn of humor, he had a
wide circle of friends, lay and artistic.
He was a foundation member of the
Australian Academy, and after the death
of W. B. Mdnnes was appointed draw-
ing master at the National Gallery.
Paul Hasluck, of the “West Aus-
tralian,” has been appointed for twelve
months to the Department of External
Affairs at Canberra. Hasluck, who is 35,
was temporary Lecturer in History at the
W.A. University, secretary of the W.A.
Historical Society and founder of W.A.’s
annual Drama Festival. He is a poet
with one published volume to his credit
and an authority on native problems.
“S.” reports an interview:
“Want to meet a genius?” they asked.
“Poetess; or with secret weapon?”
“Not this time,” they said. “Frith’s got
Walter Lindrum.”
That was different. Gathered around Lin-
drum, who’s a quiet sort of bloke, were The
Bulletin’s three most formidable billiardists:
Frith, who in 1921 made a break of five;
Scorfield, who made a record break of two
cues in 1927; and the present writer, who
(Scout’s honor) once cleaned up Uncle George
at the Scotch College Club in Melbourne, Uncle
George not having played for 10 years. Asked
if he’d ever had a shot at billiards, Lindrum
said he’d tried. And, in fact, with a break of
4137 under the old rules and a world record
of 3262 under the new, he met the company
on pretty well equal terms. He recalled that one
time when he was playing a bloke in Geelong
he broke ’em up and went out in one burst of
102 off the red. Yes, said his opponent, he’d
like another game. “But what start will you
give me?” “Dunno,” said Lindruhi; “I haven’t
seen you play.”
“And something else that hasn’t already been
written about you?”
“Well,” said Lindrum, “Lindrums have been
playing billiards in Australia for 103 years.
My grandfather played John Roberts’s father
an exhibition match in Adelaide in 1838.”
And something else that The Bulletin
galaxy didn’t know was that George V, who
gave Lindrum the cuff-links that are his chief
pride, had a passion for billiards and was as
good with a cue as he was with a shotgun: a
100-break man.
Walter was born in Kalgoorlie, and loves
the place. His eyes brighten when he tells you
about the fine houses that have gone up at
Lamington Heights and even at Parkeston,
once given over to a galvanised-iron pub and
a two-up school.
Lindrum (his score against old man Time is
42) is going to continue with the patriotic
matches and exhibitions that have kept him
working up to 14 hours a day since the war
started. So far his efforts —or, as he prefers
to put it, the generosity of the public at his
performances—have brought in £20,000 for
various war funds, including £l7OO made in a
12-hour Blitz in Melbourne.
W. R. Kelly, President of the S.A.
Industrial Court, was called to the Bar
in 1921, was a stipendiary magistrate
before he was 28, and before that was
Mayor of Yorketown. He has been
chairman of the Police Appeal Board
and a royal commissioner on two
occasions. He has presided over the
Industrial Court for 10 years, and nowa-
days also brings his judicial talents to
W. R. KELLY.
a task as chairman of the S.A. Football
Tribunal. A painstaking, fair-minded
Judge, respected by both sides in any
of his jurisdictions.
Reported from New York that Mar-
jorie Lawrence (now Mrs. King) is to be
the principal and the only non-Mexican
singer in the coming season of a national
opera co., sponsored by the Mexican
Government. Season opens on June 8
in Mexico City. Incidentally, the Dean’s
Marsh (Vic.) girl, who got such a meagre
reception from some of her own fellow-
countrymen when she paid us a recent
visit, is one of the first 50 musicians
mentioned in a list of living musicians
of all nationalities published in U.S.A.
If he had given no other public service
Dr. Frank Wall, of Sydney, dead at 61,
would have earned an enduring niche in
Australian history by acquiring the secret
of the McGarvie Smith anthrax vaccine
and turning it over free. Dr. Wall was
born at Coogee, son of George Wall,
one-time Mayor of Randwick, and got
his medical degree at Edinburgh Univer-
sity. He practised at Burwood (N. S.
Wales) for 27 years. He was named
M.L.C. in 1917 for his services in prepar-
ing a report on the State’s public hos-
pitals ; was made a member of the Board
of Health in 1925 and of the Medical
Board two years ago. During the 1914-
18 war he was registrar of Randwick
Military Hospital, with rank as major.
A son is serving in the Second A.I.F.
F. H. Stephenson, passed over in Mel-
bourne, was one of the pioneers of King
Island, that fertile little spot in Bass Strait
between the Speck and the mainland.
Later he became part-owner of Yam-
bacooner station, which owned its own
line of little steamers to transport cattle
to the mainland. He served for three
years with the A.I.F. in the 1914-18 war,
returned to Australia and retired from
business.
Bishop Battye, of Newcastle (N.S.W.),
has declined an invitation to be the suc-
cessor of Bishop Nutter Thomas in Adel-
aide. Dean Jose, who is looking after
things in the interval, announces that C.
of E. law prevents any further decision
until the end of May. The diocese of
Adelaide covers only the southern part
of the State, the upper half, Willochra,
having by an odd coincidence another
Bishop Thomas.


BRANDAUER3
ft*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BEANDADEE * CO, LUL BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
AUSTRALIA STILL PROSPEROUS.
WHAT OF THE FUTURE?
Financial Developments Fully Recorded.
April Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published hv The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
a
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Agents;
JOUBERT Cr JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY SHOWS
“The Annual”
The gloomy weather predictions of
the N. S. Wales State Meteorologist held
no terrors for the Sydney R.A.S. Annual
—sorry, it’s to be known as the Royal
Empire Show this year—which got away
to a good start at the beginning of what
threatened to be a cloudy and unsettled
week. At least it must have been a
pretty good start, because a Bulletin
Showman who went out that way a few
days ago hasn’t been heard of since,
Pending what time the Show’s attractions
release him with his report it is sufficient
to record that Farmer Cowbails with all
his wares, with Strawberry, with Dobbin,
with Rover, with the pigs, with the fowls
and with, in fact, almost everything
except his actual farmhouse, is there in
full force
There in force, too, are the ring events,
with special emphasis on Empire pageants
to be held each night of the Show. The
woodchoppers are sharpening their axes,
the sheep-dogs are ready for their trials,
the police are polishing their neddies for
their musical ride ; today there are to be
buckjumping and steer-riding, tomorrow
a rodeo
In some places, such as the Commemo-
rative Pavilion, notes of war are in evi-
deuce in the form of’planes, guns, shells,
torpedoes and so forth. And the Manu-
facturers’ Hall has been given over to a
“Temple of Beauty,” where “perfectly
shaped girls rehearsed the tableaux and
play featuring women’s underwear and
health hints”-which possibly accounts
for the missing Showman.
&
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Point in Time”
In this play, turned on by the Gregan
McMahon Players at Melbourne Comedy,
Ambrose Pratt, the Melbourne writer,
endeavors to contrast the philosophies of
the East and West, with special refer-
ence to Lao-Tze (590 b.c.) a Celes-
tial Gandhi who preached non-resist-
ance. China at the time was in
a state of chronic internecine war-
fare, and today she is in the same posi-
tion, complicated by foreign interven-
tion. Mr. Pratt makes that point abun-
dantly clear by placing his story in the
living-room of a Christian Chinese mis-
sion which is besieged by the Japanese
and defended by a Chinese detachment.
But Mr. Pratt prefers to select for illus-
tration one of the minor points of Lao-
Tze’s wisdom —that, when life is thinning
out, man rejects all rules of conduct and
acts in conformity with his nature. The
Japanese want 10,000 gallons of oil stored
in the mission compound and are trying
to starve the garrison into submission, the
European missionaries perforce being
obliged to starve with them. The Chinese
commander has determined to blow the
oil up rather than let it get into the
hands of the enemy, and the missionaries
will be blown up with it.
There were many good points about
the play viewed as a story, and if pro-
ducer McMahon had brought the cur-
tain down with a mighty explosion it
would have been a fine finale to what
was, in essence, excellent melodrama.
But the silent puff of pink smoke left the
audience somewhat deflated, and it was
left with the philosophic aspects of Mr.
Pratt’s opus.
The dramatic acts got valuable assist-
ance from J. Clifford Dood as an an-
thropologist who regards an old skull as
of more importance to the world than
conventional ideas of loyalty and honor.
Grace Crotty as a nurse was good, but
Margaret Reid as a teacher was stagy,
and Lance Nicholls as an Australian
airman was unnecessarily noisy. Gregan
McMahon was superbly made-up and
acted with distinction as the old sage,
even if his sagacity was more inherent
in his manner than his discourse Best
performance, however, was that or
George Henderson as the Chinese com-
rnander. #
.
A festival or Lirama
TheJnterWarsrty Festival of Drama
at Melb. Uni was the first of its kind m
Australia and possibly an ev^ nt ?
national significance even though Bns-
hane, Adelaide and Hobart were
unable to send their teams of mummers,
ea y* n S on iy Sydney and Melbourne
hey a praiseworthy first effort,
Cousin Muriel, a serious attempt o
deal with an interesting domestic prob-
I 6™ Clemence Dane, was the Sydney
selection, and it was extremely well acted
by a team consisting of Marian Johns,
Maxwell, Alathea Siddons C v
Coppard, Guy Manton and Barbara
Glasgow, and produced by May Ho m-
.
. Melbourne s choice, Rope, y ■
nek Hamilton, was not of much artistic
import. The story of the bngi young
man who P lans a passionless, motiveless
and clueless murdei only to find that
>t is not passionless motiveless or
clueless is more in the ine .
mercml theatre. Still, A *
Reginald Peach, Gar ner ,
Turner, Gwenda Wlls ° n ’ Nichol-
son, Nancy Fryberg an , ?
v.ded an even more technically proficient
performance than the lasses and lads
from Sydney, and a constderaWy better
one than the professional mummers wtio
did the thing on the commercial boards
some years ago in Melbourne. Bill
Pitcher was particularly good as the un-
masker of the far from passionless
•
* * * *
Sydney Con.’s first chamber music
con cert of the 1941 season the stage was
taken by tbe A.B.C.’s string quartet—
George White, Robert Miller, William
Krasnik and Osric Fyfe, and the attend-
ance was i ar g er than is usually expected
at tbese performances. The Haydn
Q uar tet (Op. 26, No. 6) was tastefully
played, though more in a Mozart than
a Haydn manner. An early Bela Bartok
q Uar i e t proved interesting—one of those
mo dern compositions capable of 47 sorts
interpretation. Dvorak’s A Major
Quintet, with Olga Krasnik as pianist,
seem ed in many ways more congenial
pj ay ers than either the Haydn or
j be g ar tok work. The piano part stood
out distinctly and balance was good
throughout.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Tree of Liberty”
The best fruit on this growth at
Sydney State is the stretch of fine acting
turned on by Cary Grant, figuring in the
main role as a rugged, almost illiterate
settler in the days preceding the
American War of Independence. He
takes as his wife a highborn damsel of
the sassiety of those days and transfers
her from her gilded setting to what is
little more than a humpy on a thousand
acres in the wilds. He has, however, the
essential qualities of a pioneer and, with
the passage of years and his own sweat,
transforms his holding to a magnificent
home and plantation.
Grant makes his part of the business
feasible and dispels any doubts as to his
ability to switch from the light comedy
roles he has been playing for the last
two or three years. The character as he
plays it —and he plays it thoroughly in
speech and manner exudes coarse,
belligerent force, subdued at first by
clumsy shyness, then, as he finds his own
measure, accentuated by a certain cocki-
ness, and, finally, solidly backed by the
sound realisation of his own strength.
If there are some minor flaws towards
the end of the film they are the common
ones of sentimentality and the fault
of the story, not of the acting.
The concluding episodes of the film
—possibly because it tries to cover too
much ground, or possibly because a
good deal of that ground is a long way
removed from the present time and these
parts —seems a little patchy or, perhaps,
rushed. Grant’s entry into politics on the
strength of his ability to make a ready
and accurate estimation of political
matters; his home troubles with his wife
and children; his part in the war, its
causes and development and the manner
in which it resolves his domestic prob-
lems, and so forth, are all piled up on
each other until the strength of the
original theme is considerably undermined
by the emphasis of the several cross-
threads of the narrative.
Martha Scott, as Mrs. Howard, makes
a fair fist of the part, though uneasy in
spots, particularly when required to rush
to her dressing-table for the family tra-
dition in the form of a necklace to help
her over the rougher patches of her mar-
ried life. Richard Carlson, as Thomas
Jefferson, is all right as the youthful
friend of the family, but as a wise old
man he still looks like the youthful t.o.f.
Alan Marshall does a light, capable job
as Mrs. Howard’s aristocratic brother;
Cedric Hardwicke, who can look down
his nose with about the same emotion as
a man looks along rifle sights, is another
and still more aristocratic brother torn
from his perch of British customs and
traditions by the war.
* * * *
“The North-west Mounted”
There is a little rhyme which, if mem-
ory serves correctly, runs something as
follows:
Cecil B. de Mille,
Much against his will,
Was forced to leave Moses
Out of the “Wars of the Roses.”
True as that may be, Mr. de Mille has
to some extent made up for the omission
by managing to work the adventures of
a Texas Ranger into this current item at
Sydney Prince Edward —a good enter-
tainer in the rugged outdoor action class,
and, as the title implies, mainly about the
doings of the Canadian “Mounties.”
It kicks off with Gary Cooper —
the Texas Ranger, of course —arriving at
a Mountie depot with an extradition
order, or its equivalent, for a bad lad
who had done someone in way down in
Texas. The bad lad, it transpires, is also
wanted by the Mounties, he being a
whisky-runner and one of the leading
lights in the rebellion that is brewing and
threatening to go off at any moment.
Mr. Cooper’s chief rival for the appre-
hension of the bad lad is Mounted Police-
man Preston Foster, also his rival for
the fair hand of Nurse Madeleine Car-
roll. Further complications to the situa-
tion are Miss Carroll’s brother, Mounted
Policeman Robert Prestop, whose in-
fatuation for a half-breed wench is the
spark to the whole piece—she lures him
from his post as sentry, and an approach-
ing troop of Mounties on their way
to save a store of ammunition from fail-
ing into the hands of the rebels are am-
bushed and practically wiped out in as
excitin’ a stoush as any action-addict
could ask for. The massacre of the
Mounties and the delivery of their blood-
stained red coats being the sole incentive
necessary for the Injuns to rise in rebel-
lion with the half-breeds, it only remains
for Mr. Preston and his remaining half-
dozen men to ride down into the Injun
camp in the best Newbolt or Kipling
style (a tiptop scene of its kind, inci-
dentally), recover the coats, tell the Injun
chief that the Great White Queen will
lick the pants off him if he misbehaves
and put the handcuffs on the chief bad
lad and whisky-runner.
In case his admirers should fear that
Texas Ranger Gary Cooper has been
sadly missing from the foregoing excite-
ment, it should be related that it subse-
quently falls to him to save Nurse Car-
roll’s brother and the Mounties from the
disgrace of being and of having a de-
serter in the ranks. Need it be added
that he does it in the best Cooper style?
It’s a much better film than the bare
account of its content might suggest.
Cooper, of course, is what he always is—
one of the most natural and convincing
actors on the screen —though, in fairness
to Mr. de it must be mentioned
that the Mounties and Mr. Preston Foster
hog most of the limelight, while Cooper
practically takes second place. The rest
of the cast all fit their parts pretty well,
Akim Tamiroff, as one of the ’breeds,
and Lynne Overman, as a Scots trapper,
being particularly good—and amusing.
Overman, incidentally, is one of those
consistently excellent supporting players
who generally contribute a good deal more
to a film than they are given credit for.
The film’s in technicolor, the scenery
is all that might be asked of the setting ;
there’s good vigorous action practically
throughout, and, if any further recom-
mendation is need, on the same bill is
Professor Robert Benchley, dealing in
his best academic style with some of the
peculiar and interesting habits of hus-
bands —so help ’em!
* * * ♦
Fable of Australian Filmdom
“P.M.” relates a fairy tale:
Once there was a little boy named
Aussie. He wanted to make pots of
cash like his Uncle Samuel, who made
his pile painting luverly pictures, which
everyone paid to see because all the Art
Critics said they were so super-collahsal.
So Aussie bought himself a tin of paints,
and set out to paint luverly pictures like
Uncle Samuel. He decided that he had
better do exactly the same as Uncle,
so he picked out a couple of Uncle’s
worst efforts, which did, however, look
easy to copy.
Well, Aussie’s first paintings, although
they showed promise, were not quite
good enough for everyone to pay to see
them. However, all the Art Critics
decided to try to help Aussie, so they
said his paintings were luverly and almost
as good as Uncle Samuel’s. They even
awarded Aussie’s work the Grand Order
of the Three Gilded Planets.
When anyone said of Aussie’s pictures
“They look pretty crook to me,” all the
Art Critics pounced with the excuse that
“Poor little Aussie only had a sixpenny
tin of paints and had to use the wood-
shed as a studio, whereas Uncle Samuel
has a five-guinea set of oils and works
in a penthouse. In the circumstances
Aussie’s work is quite super-collahsal.”
But before very long the people stopped
taking any notice of the Art Critics, and
few came to see Aussie’s pictures. Poor
Aussie, however, drank in all the nice
things said by the Art Critics, who
knew what they were talking about, and
decided that his pictures were even much
better than he had suspected himself.
So, as one would expect when a little
fellow like Aussie was told by Men
Who Should Know that his work was
good, he decided that it was really very
good, and that there was no need for him
to try to do anything to improve it.
He was forgetting that the Art Critics
did not pay to see his work.
There was among the Art Critics, how-
ever, one with a heart of gold who saw
that Aussie was heading for doom. There
was only one thing to be done. Aussie’s
latest masterpiece was a local-color can-
vas called “The Flower and the Tory,”
so the stern but golden-hearted Art
Critic picked Aussie up in one hand,
“The Flower and the Tory” in the other,
and took them to his office and sat them
opposite each other. For a moment he
said nothing. Then, pointing to the pic-
ture, he said, “Aussie, my boy. That
painting, Aussie. It’s rotten.”
And they lived happily ever after.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wang”: I blow inter a pub in a place
called Gulligulli one time,” related Dan,
“an’ at chuckout time I’m a bit pickled.
I hoist me knot an’ start orf t’ look fer
a possie to doss. In the railway siding
I sight a harvester standin’ near some
trucks. I work me way inside it, drop
the tailboard arrangement back in posi-
tion, an’ there, snug as a bug in a rug,
I polish off what’s left of a bottle o’
whisky I’d brought with me an’ drop to
sleep. I’m wakened by me bedroom
wobblin’ about, an’ pushin’ up the back
door I find meself lookin’ out on a road
in broad daylight. There’s an’ ole bloke
walkin’ behind the harvester, an’ when
he spots me he gives a yell, an’ the turn-
out stops, an’ him an’ a young bloke
drivin’ it yank me out. Then I discover
that the harvester’s jist been unloaded
from a railway truck that’s left Gulli-
gulli a day an’ a half before, an’ I’ve
been asleep in it the whole time, an’ that
I’d come miles. Well, the upshot of it
is the ole bloke gives me a job at a quid
a week an’ keep. After a month I ask
fer me wages. He hands me fifty bob.
‘What’s this?’ I asks him. ‘l’m due for
four quid.’ ‘That’s all yer entitled ter,’
he ses, sourlike. ‘The fare from Gulli-
gulli t’ here is thirty bob. You don’t
expect me t’ transport yer all that way
fer nothin’, do you?’ ”
,
Mats Mate”: “Can y’ ride?” the
boss wanted to know when Mat spoke
lip for a job. Mat said he could.
“Righto,” said the boss and led the way
to the horse-yard. There was a youth
there trying to quieten a wild-eyed hack
that was rearing and plunging about the
yard like a mad thing. The boss turned
to Mat. “That’s your prad,” he said.
Mat didn’t say anything, but he looked
a lot. “What’s the matter?” queried
the boss. “Don’t y’ think y’ can get
on him?” Mat eyed the prancing animal.
“Aw, it ain’t that,” he said. “What I’m
thinkin’ about is how I’m goin’ t’ get
off him.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The art of camouflage
is surely one of Nature’s master strokes.
Nocturnal birds, for instance, invariably
spend their daylight hours perched on a
limb close to the tree-trunk, which forms
a harmonising background to the bird’s
color scheme. Some go farther and roost
with the head and beak pointing sky-
wards, in exact imitation of a snapped-
off dead branch. The rabbit, too, has the
deceptive art well developed. Few new-
chums can see a bunny in a “squat” even
when he is pointed at, for the dry grass,
leaves, bark, etc., match his fur; but the
amazing thing is that a freak-colored
rabbit knows he is different. Still, how
is a black bunny aware that against, say,
a bluegum (which would reveal his com-
mon brother) he can huddle—and look
exactly like a fire-blackened root? And
how does a white or piebald know that
against ti-tree bark he is completely
camouflaged?
Somerset”: The source of our pride
is rising five and beginning to take an
interest in pictures, one of his favorites
being Jolliffe’s “Andy” in The B. “Andy”
was missing from a recent issue. Said
the colt, “Where’s ‘Andy’?” “I don’t
know; p’raps he’s having a holiday.”
Short pause ; then, “Aw, I know. He’s
busy helping Mum at last.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The “rogue” horse, with
his flair for untying knots, opening gates,
wriggling sliprails down with neck or
rump and turning taps on —leaving them
running, of course, after drinking—is no
novelty. Neither is the cow that uses its
horns to push back the slide-bar on the
wooden gate or lift the sliprails down.
But I’ve known only one bovine which
delighted in hanging “ornaments” on her-
self. Leave a D-handled shovel, fork or
spade standing up and Daisy would
manoeuvre patiently for ten minutes or
more in order to get the trinket hanging
pendant-like from her horn. Once thus
adorned she would mince around like
a schoolgirl wearing big-sister’s evening
dress.
* * * *
“Mournpoul Sands”: The true bull-ant
(Myrmecia genus) invariably exhibits a
wholesome aversion to fire. Bushmen
working in bull-ant country always light
a few gumleaves and twigs on any near-
"Get to him, boys. Straight for his boiler-room. Spike.”
by nests so that they can work undis-
turbed. Nor does the bulldog display
any liking for natural heat. In n.-w.
Victoria’s Mallee district, when tempera-
tures have been over the century, I have
tried vainly to entice from the shade of
their nests those pugnacious toilers.
* * * *
“Tar Mack”: “Flyin’s a funny game,”
said Scotty. “There’s always somethin’
unexpected happenin’. Take the time
when Mack and I were flyin’ freight
to the New Guinea goldfields in one of
those big buses that look as though
they’re made out of corrugated iron. We
took off from the coast with a couple of
tons of mixed freight on board, and when
I say mixed freight I mean mixed freight,
from gelignite to sucking pigs. Well,
over the mountains we got inter a strong
up-current, and though I kept the ship’s
nose down she climbed like a lift. When
the altimeter clicked over to twenty thou’
I said to Mack, ‘Better give us some
oxygen or we’ll pass out.’ He hooked
it up, and I’m thinking over me past life
and wishing it hadn’t been quite so hectic
when me offsider slumped into the co-
pilot’s seat and started to laugh like mad.
‘What’s so damn’ funny about being lost
five miles on top of a blasted jungle full
of cannibals?’ I shouted, but he got
worse. Then as he rocked backwards
and forwards I nearly broke my front
teeth with the yell of laughter I let out.
‘Whacko!’ I said. ‘Hang on while I do
a few sideslips,’ and we both roared as
I put her down hard. When we eventu-
ally lobbed after doing the craziest stunts
the trump went crook, sayin’ that they
were just about to send a search party
out ‘Stop it,’ said Mack ; ‘y’re killin’
me,’ and then collapsed on the ground,
still laughin’, Brushin’ me aside the
boss stepped inter the bus to see if his
precious machinery parts were safe. Then
he discovered the cause of our light-
heartedness. Mack had connected our
oxygen tubes up to a cylinder of laughing
gas we were bringing back for the
dentist.”
„ 0 * * *
bailor Bui : One of the most in-
flammable things in the bush is a dead
messmate. A peculiarity is that, though
it smoulders rapidly and strongly with
plenty of smoke, there is little flame. We
had one standing in a firebreak between
two blocks of cane, one of which we were
burning. A flying spark lodged on the
yellow dust about Bft. up the decaying
tree. Petrol couldn’t have ignited quicker.
*„* . * *
Gryilus : A curious and distinctive
feature of Australian bird life is the large
number of diverse species which make no
nests. lacky and Mrs. Kookaburra may
tidy up their tree-spout nursery-to-be,
but they never trouble to line it. Curlews
seem to be able to make their egg-mark-
mgs match the kind of ground on which
they are laid. All of the 46 species of
owls peculiar to the Australian region
and most of our other nocturnal birds
evince no disposition to provide mod.
cons, for the young family further than
the selection of a reasonably sheltered
spot. The brown quail makes a clumsy
try at a ground nest, but its painted,
black-breasted and other relatives use a
hollow in the lee of a stone or grass
clump. Flock pigeons lay on the bare
ground, squatters use a grass clump
or a shallow, scratched-out hollow.
Falcons disdain nest-building, although
some species pirate the nests of other
birds for their nurseries, ruthlessly mur-
dering the lawful owners. Various sea-
birds coyer acres of the surfaces of
northern islets and sandbanks with their
scattered eggs. Somehow it reminds one
of King’s Cross.
* * * *
_ “A.D.T.”; “Gryllus’s” list of snake-
killing birds (B. 19/3/’4l) is incomplete
without the plain turkey. Here on the
Barkly Tablelands (Q.) the turk. is sudden
death on young Joe. And what about
old Billy Brolga? That silent worker
does more in that line than that blatant
self-advertiser the kookaburra, and can
deal with much bigger snakes. And what
gave “G.” the idea that baby snakes were
harmless? The venomous ophidians are
born or hatched fully armed. The limited
distension of the young ’un’s mouth is
its victim’s only protection.
* * * *
“Flight”: According to “Hanko” (B.
19/3/’4l), a groundlark forced aloft by
hawks goes up in the shape of the letter
S. Those I’ve seen flushed by travelling
sheep and harassed by hawks have gone
up almost vertically, a feat impossible to
the hawk, which has to take wide spirals,
It’s when the little fellow has hit his
“ceiling” that his real trouble commences,
Essaying a return to earth, he has to run
the gauntlet. But his strategy is sound,
He drops like a stone. The hawks tilt
and dive. At the last split second, with
inches to spare, the lark puts the two-
wing brakes on. The hawks misjudge the
dive and brush feathers from their backs
as they go under the lark. More often
than not he escapes,
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry is always skit-
ing about the big cherries he grows. He
got into an argument with barman Dick,
“I had some in the show last year,” said
Harry. “How did you get on?” asked
Dick. “Well, I collected a second prize,”
said Harry. “There you are then ; they
weren’t the best,” Dick crowed. “Yes,”
countered Harry ; “but they put them
in a class for tomatoes by mistake.”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: “Steer for the lump
of dirt,” directed Bluegum, pointing to
Maria Island ahead, and handing over
the yacht’s helm to the skipper. Presently
a voice roared down the companion-
way demanding that Bluegum bring up
the chart—“there’s a rock ahead.” But
the old salt, who knew that coast better
than any barracouta, only replied:
“Nuthin’ t’ touch y’ here, Cap.” In
the commotion that followed the crew
tumbled on deck to look, but we could
see nothing. Five minutes later we were
all on deck again, and
after a third fruitless
look we were thinking
hard things of skipper
when on the port bow
a whale surfaced and
blew. “The chart,
Cap.,” said Bluegum.
“But the Admiralty
don’t map them sort
of rocks.”
* *
“D ungen ess”: A
keen fisherman, the
new boss at Boiling
Downs came home
from the Eight Mile
hole full of sinful
pride about the cod
which he had caught
and left moored safely
to a snag to await
Sunday’s dinner. All
of 151 b. it was, and he
spared no detail of the
masterly technique by
which the quarry had
been lured and over-
come. Next day a
swaggie turned up
with another cod, a
wisn of a thing which
he wanted to swap
for stores. Put on the
scale it pulled them
down to a mere 91b.,
and the angler, smil-
ing his superiority,
explained that the
house was amply sup-
plied already from the
result of his own skill.
The swaggie told a
hard-luck story about
having run away from
a ship and being on
the verge of starvation, interspersed
with expressions of admiration for
the boss’s piscatory skill, and ulti-
mately was good-naturedly given 4s. 6d.
worth of flour, tobacco and tea in full
quittance for his minnow. It went to
the men’s mess. On Sunday the suc-
cessor to Zane Gray drove over to bring
in the moored monster. He found only
the tie-rope, coiled sailor-fashion, hung
neatly to a branch, and still slimy from
use. It was then that he realised two
things—that cod are not as heavy as they
look to inexperienced captors, and that
he had bought his own fish.
* * * *
“Bughouse”; I thought everything
that could be said about tektites, or
australites, had long ago seen print.
Hundreds of them probably fall on this
planet every day ; one that fell not so
long ago in W.A. was still warm when
dug out from a few inches below the
surface, though it is strange that so many
escape the friction-generated combustion
that seems to overtake the metallic
meteorite. Outer space is proably full of
such floating masses, great and small. It
is such wanderers which will present a
serious menace to interplanetary travel
should mankind ever attain the ability
to leave this globe. Noting its mechanical
and physical triumphs, won during the
space of my own short life, I am not
averse to granting to some future race
of supermen the power of voyaging out
into the ether. But if so their ship will
need to be an ironclad.
THE LUCK OF HOLY DAN.
We called him Holy Dan because
He never swore or tried
To win a wicked world’s applause
By cussin’ bullock hide.
And if he got in trouble where
A mighty oath would win,
Dan offered up a simple prayer
And laid the greenhide in.
The drought came and our bullocks died,
But Dan’s stayed on their feet —
Sixteen of them, and not a hide
Was left for crows to eat;
And people spoke in whispers of
The luck of Holy Dan.
They reckoned it was far above
The luck of any man.
At last Dan’s big red leader died —
Thin as a lath, poor beast!
There was but little left save hide,
On him no crows would feast.
And Holy Dan knelt down and prayed;
“O Lord ! Thou knowest best;
Yet, I beseech Thee, give me aid.
O Lord, please leave the rest! ”
But Daniel’s prayers had gone awry,
For, one by one, his team
Laid down their weary bones to die —
Twas like a horrid dream
To Dan, till one beast stood alone.
Again Dan found his knees
And prayed, and often he would groan:
“O Lord! Leave this one, please!”
As though in answer to his prayer,
There rose a thundercloud.
The bullockies who’d gathered there
Burst into laughter loud.
The cloud came low, the laughter grew,
It shook the air around;
It broke that thundercloud in two
And Holy Dan was drowned.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Old-timer”; Dick the Dasher, fre-
quently short of cash but never of ideas,
was sinking a well west of Balranald
(N.S.W.) and struck black sand at 20
feet. With visions of spouting oil
gushers Dick cut a heap of wild tobacco
to cover up the well, took a sample of
the sand and headed south. A week
later he was back, having been assured
by somebody in Melbourne that what-
ever was the cause of the sand it wasn’t
oil. He went on with his well and a
few days later struck a fine gritty sub-
stance containing what looked like pieces
of shell. This time he had notions of
a big shell-grit depot in the west, but
sent the sample south instead of taking
it in person. Back came a carefully-
worded epistle to the effect that it was
supposed the area had once been a vast
inland sea and the deposits had probably
lain there millions of years. “Gripes!”
muttered Richard. “Y’ never know. A
man might run across one of them
treasure gallons I read about once.” And
with the same old gleam in his eyes he
climbed down into his well. The last
I heard of him he was hoping to find a
bit of that “there ambergrease stuff,
what the Chows paid big money for to
use f’r makin’ birdlime or somethin’.”
* * * ♦
“H.1.C.”: At this time of the year the
emu feels rather festive. It is also the
period on many C.Q. stations when the
general lambing is in progress. The con-
currence of the events is a headache to
the sheepman. The sight of a mob of
ewes and lambs spread over the downs
is always a spur to the gay young bird
to tear through them, splitting them up
and letting an odd kick go as he spins
through the mob.
* * * ♦
“Padflogger”: That scheme of “M. the
Miler’s” for locating stray jumbucks (B.
12/3/’4l) recalls the sundowner’s trick
of rabbiting in the bankrupt ’9o’s. Stuck
for a feed, the knot-carrier turned to
underground. First a good length of
fencing wire—pinched from old Sheep-
dag’s fence. One end hammered, usually
between stones, until it was flat and
jagged. Threaded down a rabbit burrow,
20ft. or more might disappear, but in-
variably some obstacle would be encoun-
tered —a telepathic touch knew instantly
if it were a living body or merely a dead
end of dirt. If living, the wire was
slowly twisted, the jagged end gathering
up Bunny’s fur to a final grip that could
not be broken. Then slowly and re-
lentlessly the underground mutton would
be dragged out. A bit hard on the
rabbit —but those were hard times, and
men were built to match.
* * * •
“N. Sylvester”: The safest place dur-
ing a thunderstorm is out on the water
in a small boat; the worst, camped on
a big ironstone ridge. W.A. has some
quite considerable ironstone masses
around her inland ; one not far out
from Coolgardie is estimated by the
millions of tons. To see the lightning
flash and crack over such mountains is
to gain an impression of the heavenly
artillery never to be forgotten. Mere
man crouches stunned beneath the vivid
flashes and the terrific crashes. And
dangerous, too, for death from lightning
was far from unknown in the rush
days when prospectors climbed all
over such iron outcrops. Water,
on the other hand, seems to take
the sting out of the celestial elec-
tricity ; I have never yet heard
of anyone being struck while out
in an open boat. Nor have 1 ever
found any spot where the light-
ning actually struck the earth,
though I’ve seen trees and even
telegraph poles well shattered.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Cyclones do a lot
of damage in nor’-west W.A.
townships largely because, build-
ing costs being high, one nail and
one brace are used where two
would be better, and also because
many Nor’-Westers have lost
the realistic view that enabled the early
Groper pioneers of such regions to
survive. When I first saw Cossack, often
assaulted by the willy-willy, most of
its structures were anchored down by
means of chains and wire ropes passed
over the roofs and fastened to some-
thing heavy embedded in the soil. Roe-
bourne was much the same. These
structures survived blows the wind
velocity of which would lift a man
bodily and carry him hundreds of yards.
And there is no reason to be caught by
a willy ; it always gives ample warning
of its coming. Undersea the diver be-
comes aware of a peculiar vibration in
the water. Along the coast the mariner
notes a strange flatness on the sea, an
oiliness of the waves, which break along
the beaches with a strange hollow boom.
And, once it strikes, its direction can
be noted and word telegraphed on ahead,
but before the poles go down. Thus
a community often has hours to get
prepared, sometimes a day, for it is re-
markable how some of these blows hang
on for near a thousand miles. A few
years ago the father of all blows came
ashore north of Cossack, travelled right
down the W.A. coast, a matter of about
2000 miles, and finally got lost in the
Southern Ocean off the Leeuwin. Folks
along the coast awaited its coming as
though it had been the air mail.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Out from Pinjarrah
(W.A.) there’s a cocky who reckons he’s
got the makings of a good argument in
support of water-divining. When he
took up the property 20-odd years ago
he discovered water not far from the
base of a big red gum that had been dead
for some years. Later a diviner fol-
lowed the course of the underground
“Well be showing to ‘ capacity ’ to-night .”
“Hurry up with those pants!"
stream which fed his well, and averred
that it passed underneath another big
gum some hundred yards distant. The
incident was forgotten until the other
day, when lightning struck the living gum.
Supposition is that the dead gum was
destroyed in the same manner, attrac-
tion being the underground stream, which
might exercise a similar influence on
the diviner’s fork.
* * * *
“Double One” : White-ants sometimes
cause the dirt that lodges right up
through the pipe of a hollow tree (B.
12/3/’4l), but more often it is due to
air pressure. When a tree grows and
forms a hollow it will at times create a
vacuum. Heavy rains soften the earth
below the tree, and the mud then rises up
the tree just as water does in a pump.
I have proved the existence of such a
vacuum when falling a tree by making
the tiniest hole in the hollow and hearing
the air rushing in. I have also proved
that white-ants will do it by stacking
posts together which were stood on their
ends. The termites filled up many of
the interstices with dirt almost to the top.
* * * *
“Phosphates”: An Italian farmer in
Queensland received an assessment for
super-tax. Toni objected strenuously to
such a glaring injustice and made a
special trip to town to see his accountant,
who assured him that everything was in
order. “But,” protested Toni, “I no
usa da super. —I only usa da blood-an’-
bone!”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Three months of
work by old Danny McGlew, the dis-
trict’s sole remaining expert in the noble
craft, had gone to the making
of a cabbage-tree hat, and
Uncle reckoned it cheap at
three quid. Uncle and I were
away at the township when
Danny brought the master-
piece home, but the money
was ready under the kitchen
clock. Auntie paid it over,
put the precious article on
the bed for safety, and, feel-
ing nervous about a snake
which had been heard in the
roof, went over for a chat
with Mrs. Bails across the
road. We returned before
she did, and Uncle, rather
somnolent from the town air
or something, reckoned he’d
have a lie-down. A moment
after the bed springs had
creaked there came a terrific
roar. Dashing in, I found
him bundling up Auntie's
most-prized wedding present, a crazy
quilt. “Snake!” he hissed. “Felt the
cow slither. Got him in here ’fore
he could bite me!” Intrepidly he
rushed the folded quilt to the wood-
heap, laid it on the block and smote
mighty axe blows where a revealing
bulge showed. Just as we opened it
gingerly out, a waddy handy in case of
any signs of life in the fragments, Auntie
arrived. I draw a veil of family decency
over the ensuing scene. She might have
eventually forgiven him for his remarks
about the mad ways of women had
not the real snake emerged the very
next day and swallowed her two pet
finches while she was out looking to see
where the speckled hen was laying.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: It’s a pity that the
baobab tree of the Kimberleys isn’t of
a less shy growth, for it might have stood
as a rival to the prolific coconut. Filled
with nutritious principles, it for a start
doesn’t waste its strength growing leaves.
Foliage is slight, but nevertheless graceful.
To compensate for foliage scarcity, nuts
grow thick, and filling the nut is a soft
white pulp, itself eatable, but carrying
a handful of large, seeds with a distinctly
almond flavor. These the abos. munch
with gusto. Cuts across the bark draw
a white gummy sap which dries into a
farinaceous food, in taste and texture
resembling macaroni. But even at that
the list is not ended. Strips of bark
soaked in hot water make a drink which
has a mucilaginous but highly agreeable
flavor.
* * * *
“Aratta”: “Me an’ the boss is hangin’
over the sliprails one Sunday mornin’,”
said Jim, “when suddenly Beauty, the
pride of the farm, what’s grazin’ in a
paddick a short distance off, gives a
snort, staggers to her knees, then gets up
an’ goes tearin’ away, shakin’ her head.
The boss gives a yell an’ scrambles
through the rails, an’ runs across an’
picks up the golf ball that’d whacked
her behind the ear, an’ stands there
cursin’ a young bloke carryin’ a golf
stick who comes hurry in’ up. We recker-
nise him as the new bank clerk. He’s
full of apolergies, but the boss is feelin’
pretty sore. T think more of that cow
than I do of anything else on the place,’
he barks. ‘Why can’t y’ watch where
y’re hittin’ ’em?’ The young chap
mumbles somethin’ ’bout muckin’ his
shot up somehow, an’ the boss flares up
again. ‘Bah!’ he yelps. ‘Anybody can
hit a ball straight. Gimme that stick
an’ I’ll show yer!’ He puts the ball
down, makes half a dozen swipes an’
misses each time. ‘lt isn’t as easy as it
looks, is it?’ ses the young chap,
grinnin’. ‘l’ll do it or bust,’ grits ole
Greybox. His next swipe catches the ball
fair an’ square; it lands on ole Beauty’s
rump an’ sends her bellerin’ like mad all
over the shop. ‘Good shot!’ cries the
young chap. ‘Good shot be damned,’
roars the boss; ‘if that damned cow
hadn’t been there it’d have gone another
hundred yards! Hi, you,’ he bellers to
me. ‘Turn that there blarsted nuisance
outa the paddick. I’ll show this bloke
just what I can do now I’ve got the hang
of it! ’ ”
WEEDS.
They are the gallants in the field
Of green that hungers for the sun.
Too rank with life ever to yield
Before their swift wild race is run.
Smothered, like guilty waste, to death
For grasses coaxed along to root,
They snatch at air for sun and breath
Defiant to the last green shoot;
For in their veins the roving blood
Of nature’s wildest urge has part
Where it can reign upon a bud
And blossom in a savage heart.
And when the pampered flowers are thrust
Backwards to death by iron rule,
The weeds will cool the burning dust
Like waters from a secret pool;
For though they are no privileged child
Of gardens wide or tended birth,
Theirs is the freedom of a wild
Old truth primeval in the earth.
Sentenced to die by temporal powers,
They will attend earth’s dying hours.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.


What are the
Duties of
Executor ?
to
OS
SB
OOUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems of
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outline of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 62 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
awdiyfye/tcty tfumpanif ltd
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N S W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
Mining Notice.
Cuthbert’s Misima Goldmine Limited.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fifth
Annual Ordinary General Meeting of Share-
holders in the Company will be held at the
Conference Hall, Bank of New South Wales,
341 George Street, Sydney, on Wednesday, the
30th day of April, 1941, at 12 o’clock noon, for
the purpose of receiving the Accounts and Re-
ports for the year ended 31st December, 1940,
to confirm Interim Dividends paid, also the
election of Directors, Auditors and the trans-
action of the Ordinary business of the Company.
NOTICE is also given that the Transfer Books
of the Company will be closed from the 21st
April, 1941, to the 30th April, 1941, both dates
inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
CHAS. C. BOWN, Secretary.
22 Bridge Street, Sydney. 31st March, 1941.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. \V. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * • *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. 7 2 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1930.. 76,430 75,000 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18.071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80,009 65,143 Nil 14,866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 ~ .. 309,714
Loss. 5.8 p.c.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87,254 308,135
Added patents, £968 .. .. .. 307,167
1938.. 213,884 58,125 Nil 155,759 462,926
29 p.c.
1939.. 353,504 290,624 Nil 62,880 525,806
Patents disappear, £59,593 .. .. 585,399
5.8 p.c.
1940.. 382,417 58,125 Nil 324,292 909,691
Despite the rapid industrial development
at Kembla during the last few years, in-
cluding the big works-expansion pro-
gramme of A. I. and S., there is little plant
idle there now. Victories on the battle-
field cannot be won without adequately-
equipped armies, and so greatly has the
demand for defence equipment increased
the steel appetite of Australia and the
rest of the British Commonwealth that
the big B.H.P, organisation, of which
this co. is part, had to divert its growing
volume of steel exports, especially to
Eastern and Southern Asia, to meet
Empire needs. Until rising costs recently
forced a lift in selling-prices, Australia
was in the fortunate position of being
able to obtain steel at pre-war prices,
which meant that the Government and
others were obtaining the cheapest steel
in the world for war and domestic pur-
poses.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, A. I. and S. made further
substantial additions and improvements
to plant and equipment. The high-
tension power line for conveying
electricity from the steelworks’ power-
house to the co.’s southern (Bulli and
Mt. Keira) collieries has been in opera-
tion since June last, to the benefit of
costs.
Except for a 10-week period when the
trouble on the coalfields caused an almost
complete stoppage, operations in all
sections of the undertaking were con-
tinuous. After providing an extra
£22,167 for depreciation (£572,939, equal
to 7.5 p.c. of the book value of fixed
assets at the end of November, 1939),
and making a larger but unspecified
allowance for taxation and other con-
tingencies, declared net earnings were
£28,913 better at £382,417, That was
after £59,593 had been taken from some-
where to rub a like amount of patent
rights out of the books. The £382,417
was sufficient to pay the prefs., whose
slate had been cleaned in the previous
year, 5.8 p.c. (reduced from 7± p.c.)
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act) and show 6.9 p.c. on the £4,700,007
of ord. capital, which is held by B.H.P.
No ord. div. was paid, the money being
wanted in the business.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
, 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £5,700,007 £5,700,007
Sundry creditors. 649,937* 2,983,951* 2,931,362*
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 7,552,120 7,523,607
Shares in other cos. 391,809 386,498 380,498
Stocks . . .. 209,009 766,557 870,297
Book debts . . 317,722 632,801 705,079
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 17,103 17,982
* Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
The year’s surplus earnings, together with
the allowance for depreciation, etc., went
mainly into plant extension (the net
reduction in the book value of fixed
assets was only £28,453), stocks (up
£109,740) and debtors’ balances (up
£132,878). When the books closed, out-
side liabilities, which include a substan-
tial amount coming to 8.H.P., exceeded
more or less liquids by £1,271,404, an
improvement of £296,086 over the
twelvemonth. Shareholdings are mainly
scrip in Southern Portland Cement.
Although they are entitled to advance
with the ords. beyond 5.8 p.c. to their
full contract rate (7£ p.c.), the market,
doubtful as to what the future might
hold, prices the prefs. at 265. 3d. (295.,
including div. arrears, a year ago). The
return at 265. 3d. is 4.4 p.c. on the basis
of last year’s distribution. The backing
is £6 12s. 2d. in net tangibles.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
, Nov., Loss. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
'1930.. 2,628 Nil ~ 65,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,661
Trade-marks disclosed, £lOOO .. 49,651
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 24 p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2| „ „ 12,281 61,280
1934.. 13,038 24 „ „ 12,281 757 62,037
1935.. 11,057 24 „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936. . 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
1937.. 29,515 6 „ „ 29,474 41 51,251
1938.. 21,291 4 „ „ 19,649 1,642 52,893
1939.. 34,685 7 „ „ 34,386 299 53,192
1940.. 33,872 7 „ „ 34,386 52,678
Small as it was, the decline in declared
profit-earning wasn’t exactly what had
been expected. Under the Imperial meat
contracts, which were implemented too late
to affect the figures for 1939, a troubled
year for meat-exporters, the co. sold
practically the whole of its frozen-beef
output to Britain at enhanced prices.
But the same contracts entailed higher
payments to the beef-raiser, whose hand
was strengthened by the call for fat cattle
from N.S.W. and Victoria because of
drought—a demand so strong, in fact,
that the beef requirements of the Aus-
tralian forces in the Middle East weren’t
being fully met at one stage. Other costs
put on bulk, too.
Effect of British purchases shows up
in trade figures, which record expansion
of £501,557 in the value of beef ex-
ports despite 7 p.c. contraction in their
physical volume in the 1940 fiscal year:
, r Beef, per
Year. Centals.* Value.* Pound.!
1936-37.. .. 2,338,542 £3,036,239 3.47 d.
1938- .. 2,938,035 4,323,680 3.68 d.
1939- .. 2,719,638 4,825,237 4 09d.
1940- .. 2,566,567 4.10 d.
* Including veal. + Six months. I Crops and hinds.
For the old Q.M.E. the result of
operations, after meeting heavier tax
bills and striking off £7875 for depre-
ciation, was a profit £Bl3 lighter at
£33,872, or £514 short of the amount
the unchanged 7 p.c. div. called for.
Whether that distribution was really the
strain it looked, however, partly depends
on the extent to which “all contingencies”
were first provided for.
With pressure on refrigerated space
anticipated in view of shipping uncer-
tainties, extensive additions have been
made to the chilling, freezing and re-
frigeration sections of the Ross River,
Townsville, works, fixed-asset outlay of
£70,000-odd being incurred during 1940,
allowing for amounts written off;
_ . 1931. 1935. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £654,975 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* .. 17,610 190,827 319,459 221,363
Property, live-
stock, shares
in other cos. 423,532 399,091 329,155 391,715
Stock.. .. 35,243 141,332 283,079' 47,201
Stores . . 20,180 19,698 18,992 42,704
Debtors & cash 244,282 185,033 267,043 317,980
* Including provision for contingencies.
The £235,818 reduction in stocks reflects
prompt payment by Britain under the
new method of marketing. It enabled
the co. to meet the year’s capital expen-
diture, lop £98,096 off the debt, carry an
extra £23,712 of stores and further fortify
the holding * of cash, etc. Consols
(£90,000) and deposits (£155,000) account
for £245,000 of the last line of the table.
Because of the plant additions, the more
or less liquid surplus (£186,582) lightened
£63,073.
As for the current term, seasons are
satisfactory, the Army continues a large
consumer of canned meat, and the
British contracts run on till September
next. Thereafter the outlook will be
mainly dependent on the shipping posi-
tion, the uncertainty of which has
prompted the Federal Government to
formulate plans for assistance to lamb
and mutton people.
The post-war situation is more
obscure. Q.M.E. should be in a stronger
competitive position, but, with imported
meat likely to be beyond the reach of
Continental pockets, much depends on
continuance of British preference for the
Dominion product. Until three or four
years back, when Britain withdrew re-
strictions on Australian chilled beef and
agreed to waive duties on beef from the
Dominions, at the same time imposing
levies and quantitative restrictions on
shipments from the Argentine, that
country had a stranglehold on the Eng-
lish and Continental markets with chilled
baby beef.
At 10s. 9d. the 15s. fully-paids return
an immediate 9.8 p.c. Visibly the cover
is 16s. 7d., of which ss. Bd. is represented
by surplus liquids.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.a. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1930.. 39,410 1200 Hi p.c.= 34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 0 ~ ~ 18,580 471 157,552
1932.. 20,529 2312 6 ~ „ 15,793 2,424 159,976
Ordinary.
1933.. 22,998 8 p.c. = 15,038 7,360 167,336
1934.. 23,886 124,, „ 19,354 4,532 171.868
Staff fund, £5OO 171,368
1935.. 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 1 i QQ
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. j 5 ’ 199 176,56,
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,567
1936.. 32,865 15 p.c. = 28,986 1 „
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. | 3 > St9 179 ’ 946
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000. . 199,946
1937.. 35,765 174 p.c. = 33,880 1 . „, Q om QO ,
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. j 401,625
1938.. 34,306 10i p.c. = 31,523 1 9 „„„ 9fl , Rns
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. j Ud ’ bUS
1939.. 30,768 15 p.c. = 29,100]
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. J- 203,276
Extra tax prov., £l5OO .. J
1940.. 31,593 15 p.c. = 29,100 ]
Staff fund, £5OO . . .. [ 202,269
Extra tax prov., £3OOO .. J
Reduction of the interim announcement
from 74 p.c. to 5 p.c. was interpreted by
many as presaging some cut in the div.
last year ; but a final of 10 p.c. leaves
the full distribution unchanged at 15 p.c.
Still, the market has lowered its quote
for the pound shares from 495. 6d. to
40s. over the last 12 months, which can
be taken as an expression of its opinion
that trading may be more difficult in the
current term, while expenses aren’t likely
to be lower.
Few concerns have done as well for
their shareholders as Gordon’s. The co.
grew up on cash-orders—it pioneered this
form of consumer-credit, and now enjoys
hand-picked connections. A large fur-
nishing and furnishing-drapery business
is also done from the George-street, Syd-
ney, and Newtown stores, and investment
of approximately a third of its funds out-
side the business provides a handy third
line of income.
In its early years the co. had something
of the Midas touch. From the begin-
ning in 1903 to the end of 1930 £222,400
of bonus scrip was handed out and an
average rate of div. of 124 p.c. main-
tained. When depression reduced trading
requirements, £174,833 of the £329,667
of capital was handed back, and that was
more than shareholders had subscribed.
In the past decade those on the register
have averaged 12.6 p.c., despite, intensi-
fication of competition, and a one-for-
four gift issue conferred further benefits
in 1935. For the purpose £37,800 of
inner reserves was brought from hiding,
indicating that the full story isn’t all
being told in the published p. and 1.
account.
Trade was depressed in the first half
of the last term, but “marked improve-
ment” coincided with the increasing
tempo of war expenditure in the second,
particularly on the furnishing side, which
was helped by the growth in home-
building. Allowing for minor reserve
adjustments and £2343 charged for de-
preciation, the net result ran out £825
higher at £31,593, the profit rate on capi-
tal being 16.2 p.c., as against 15.8, 17.7,
18.4, 16.9, 18.6 and 15.4 p.c., to go back
six years. That was before making the
usual £5OO contribution to the staff fund
and sending £3OOO (up £1500) to an inner
tax reserve—“provision for all taxation
on the profits of the year” was previously
charged in p. and 1.
Finances are in fine nick:
1934. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £154,834 £193,632 £194,000 £194,000
Sundry cred.* 57,491 60,705 63,105 69,071
Overdraft . . 95 7,173 10,513 8,403
Property and
plant, etc. 116,933 118,622 114.247 111,962
Stock ] r 24,856 36,074 45,389
Hire agree- t 90,110 j
ments j [ 102,475 119,372 122,283
Book debts . . 40,894 67,058 74,861 71,186
Shares, deben- ] f
tures, etc. i 61,277 50,935 50,935
Mortgages . . 1171,401 1 8,285 7,986 7,862
G o v e r nment
securities .. J [ 76,817 76,817 79,817
Cash, etc. .. 656 28,784 18,882 14,349
* Including taxation.
Apparently anticipating further cost-
increases, the management added to
stocks (up £9315). When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded liabilities,
which include tax provisions, by £314,347
(325. sd. per share), or £BO3B more than
at the end of 1939.
At 40s. the pound shares return 7.5
p.c. so long as 15 p.c. goes out. A 124
p.c. distribution, requiring £24,250, would
yield 6.2 p.c. Visibly the net tangible
cover is 40s. lOd. per share, of which
15s. 9d. is represented by Consols, other
investments and cash. With reserves


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID DP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!, 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office; 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor me original.
V in these M,®Jj
mm
ftrrmiu
H d «
i
i"pT" r ’ i~tt;t! i
fijgLV
\ IB i
nrrrm
m -
■'» i
SW
MVP
r»iw
nf*
’ l *A r-B m
ISHH
:pp
gstm
[:*' \ i ifTmiuiiii |y
ill ii i I
,-ji
Trouble-free accurate timekeeping at a low
initial cost, with practically no expense at all
for maintenance -—< (about l/- per year for
electric current))—-'these clocks are entirely new
and tbe most practical Chiming Clocks yet
made. They have a Smith’s English
Synchronous movement with self-starting
motor and self-correcting chiming mechanism
.—a new high grade sturdy design throughout
requiring NO WINDING, NO REGULAT-
ING, NO CLEANING, and there are NO
SPRINGS TO BREAK.
£
'V
This 4/4 Westminster Chiming Clock in a selected walnut
case of beautiful design and finish, measures 134 ins. z
ins. x 6 ins. PRICE £5/19/6.
This handsome Clock also in a choice case ol selected
walnut has a 4/4 Westminster Chiming Movement and
measures 144 ins. x 84 ins. PRICE £5/19/6,
AIR-CONDITIONED SHOWROOMS
PROUDSfWCLTD.
CORNER OF KING & PITT STREETS. SYDNEY
heaped £8269 in excess of capital, the
policy now appears to be to distribute
profits as they are earned.
A year or so ago the sharemarket was
dreaming dreams about the Pratten
Maoriland gold-dredging group and pay-
ing 365. for Arahuras, 325. for Kanieris
and 265. 4d. for Barrytowns. They sub-
sequently toppled as low as 18s., 225. and
11 s. (sellers) respectively. The collapse
in Barrytown, in a rich patch at the
time, is understandable. But Kanieri
still lingers about 225., despite a working
surplus, after deducting Dominion war
and gold-export taxes, barely short of
£BO,OOO for the year just closed:
Year Treated, Gold, Net Working
Mar., O.y. Oz. Real’n. Surplus.
Arahura . . 4,073,000 13,783 £122,925 £75,501
Barrytown.. 2,692,000 .6,259 54,949 23,370
Kanieri . . 3,216,000 14,266 128,414 79,997
Arahura wasn’t so very far behind in
the profits Derby either. Both distri-
buted £45,000 —3s. a share —during the
year. Arahura now stands around the
same figure as Kanieri in the market,
but it is exhausting its property at a
faster rate than its sister float. There
have been no difficulties in the remission
of divs. from M.L. to local holders.
SP * J*c *
Kelsey Creek G.M., holding the rich
Duffer mine at Proserpine (N.Q.), is pre-
paring to increase output by completing
a long tunnel to connect with the bottom
(No. 4) level. This is between 200 ft.
and 300 ft. below the mine brace, and
will give ore and mullock a cheap exit
via the adit. Expenditure on plant and
development has been generous the past
12 months, but the grade of ore remains
around soz. to 6oz. gold per ton, while
the copper content is not negligible.
Prospects of permanence of lode arc
said to be viewed favorably, and sloping
has been carried on below No. 4, with
a good shoot of ore still persisting down-
wards.
♦ * ♦ *
“Tex”; Mt, Morgan (Q.) wants nothing
more than a long dry spell to score a
big notch in the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s copper-production scheme.
And can the co. get it? No, With the
last two four-weekly periods right down
because of the number of rainy days,
there have now been two big wet bursts
in the present four-week period. It’s
bad luck, but from the g.m. down to the
powder-monkey all talk optimistically of
what they will do in May —on records
the driest month in Central Queensland.
* * * *
The increased war demand for man-
ganese ore has resulted in the opening-
up of further deposits around Kenil-
worth and the Mary River district,
behind Gympie (Q.). A couple of the
outcrops are really rich, and fancy prices
have been obtained for small high-grade
parcels. Average prices run £4 to £5 a
ton, with a penalty for silica but a good
premium for extra manganese dioxide.
* * * *
To date the mercury mine of Q.S.
Mines, Kilkivan (N.Q.), has provided
half the funds for its development. To
hurry things up and prove an additional
35 acres recently acquired, 50,000 new
ss. shares are offered those on the register
—at a discount of Is. if taken up before
April 25. Full subscription has been
guaranteed in return for a 10 p.c. com-
mission. Under the present management
the mine has yielded 22721 b. mercury
from 226 tons ore. Previous occupants
won 56001 b. between 1935-38. There is
highly remunerative war-time demand for
the silvery stuff. Recent development is
said to have yielded some of the richest
ore yet won.
In the Quamby part of the Cloncurry
(N.Q.) district there are some new de-
velopments in copper-gold ores. These
differ from the main copper deposits of
Cloncurry in that they consistently carry
3dwt. to 4dwt. of gold in a more siliceous
ore. By selection the copper can be
trimmed to 10-15 p.c. ore, and with the
gold content it can make the grade for
the long trip to Chillagoe, In this area
the Volga mine seems to be opening up
an extensive ore-body, some 3000 tons
already showing up in the stopes. A trial
parcel of this went 14 p.c. copper and
2jdwt. gold. The Joker, which has been
previously worked, is getting out parcels
that carry 4dwt. gold, with a copper con-
tent good enough to warrant further
development.
* * * *
Extracts from an up-to-the-minute
Mines Department report on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile:
The mines continue their normal output,
and in most cases are increasing their re-
serves. Future is bright. Outputs should be
maintained.
Lake View group looks particularly well.
Approximately 700,000 tons a year is being
milled. Ore reserves at nearly 4,000,000 tons
are sufficient to supply the mill for six years.
Gt. Boulder development has been spread all
over the mine during the past year, and has
resulted in a substantial increase in ore reserves.
At the end of 1939 the mine was 3i years
ahead of the mill; now it is five years in
advance.
Boulder Perseverance development was in-
creased slightly in 1940, and favorable results
were obtained on the 7th, 11th, 16th and 22nd
levels.
In South Kalgurli it is probable that the
main shaft, sunk to 1920 ft. years ago, will be
deepened to exploit the downward continua-
tion of one payable cross-lode exposed at the
15th, 16th and 19th levels and another exposed
at the 16th level.
All the mines in the North Kalgurli group
look well, and the ore in sight is sufficient to
assure continuous profitable working for years.
Mt. Charlotte has sufficient ore indicated
to attract a big co.
Hannan’s North (8.H.P.-owned) is doing
well in a small way.
The report adds that B.H.P. is work-
ing magnesite deposits at Bulong, 20
miles east of Kalgoorlie. They look
good, but a lot of work is required to
prove their worth.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) reckons its
Maranoa option to be real good, and has
asked the State Government for £6OOO
out of the Federal grant for further de-
velopment. Co. has already spent be-
tween £4OOO and £5OOO of shareholders’
funds in prospecting, and has about
£lOOO left.
it * * *
Some Westralian gold options:
Carbine has secured free of cost six months’
extension of its option on two 24-acre blocks
adjoining its holding at Grant’s Patch, near Ora
Banda.
Dundas, a nine-year-old Adelaide venture
which has successively failed at Buldania, Ora
Banda and Yellowdine (W.A.), has taken an
option on a reef near Teetulpa (S.A.) which
is described as “in the prospecting stage.”
Princess Royal has given Sterling Gold
Mines, a neighbor, a sub-option over its option
at Marie’s Find. In the event of a deal, pur-
chase consideration is £3250 cash and the right
12 months hence to buy 50,000 Sterling
contributing shares at 3d. a share. The arrange-
ment relieves Princess Royal of the necessity
of making calls to provide for mine purchase
and to buy and install plant.
* * * *
London-controlled Tindals (W.A.)
reports gold production of £A32,131
from its Coolgardie mine for the quarter
ended December, 1940. Operating profit
was £A7399. Figures are lower than for
the previous three months mainly owing
to stoppages in connection with plant
extension, capacity of the mill having
been enlarged from 5000 tons to 7500
tons a month. Further expansion (to
10,000-12,000 tons monthly) is in pro-
grass. Deepest level (750 ft.) is being
prepared for production.
* * * *
Increasing shipments of graphite are
going forward from the newly-reopened
field in the Hundred of Uley, south of
Port Lincoln (S.A.). Operated towards
the end of the Great War, the mine
closed down through lack of support
from Australian foundry-owners and the
extraordinary cheapness of Madagascar
graphite owing to the slump in the
French franc. The South Australian pro-
duct now is being used for lubricating,
lead pencils, crucibles and as plumbago
in foundries.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.D.: Doubt it, though not familiar with
ths particular Act. It is customary only to read
the minutes of the previous shareholders’ meet-
ing on such occasions. Other books and infor-
mation aren’t necessarily available to share-
holders... .R.M.8.: (1) and (2) No. (3)
Messrs. Christmas, Creed, Chatterton and
others Ironbark: Of doubtful present value.
The future is obscure. If the balance owing
is only a few pounds it might pay to continue
with the speculation.


Business, Rollery, Etc.
Money Without Guts
Somebody named C. Barclay-Smith
has written a book entitled Victory
Without Debt. It is somewhat cleverly
written ; that is, the style is forcible,
and the author presents his fallacies
impressively. He lashes out at the banks
with a show of great vigor.
The book is stocked with quotations
of the kind that suit it. Some of them
appear to be in actual sympathy with Mr.
8.-Smith’s claim that “the Common-
wealth Bank could make the full amount
[of this war’s cost] available to the Com-
monwealth Government’s account with-
out debt or interest, and without in any
way endangering the financial structure
of Australia.” Others are so worded that
they might or might not fit in with Mr.
8.-Smith’s argument. The author appar-
ently chooses to believe that they do
suit him. The only quotations he dis-
agrees with are those of ex-Treasurer
P. C. Spender and other “orthodox”
economists. And he disagrees with them
violently, if not convincingly.
The following wild stuff is Mr.
8.-Smith’s own. “If the bankers’ debt
system survives, there will not only be
no victory ; there will be no peace, no
future, no life worth living. Only stark
poverty and durance vile.” There is a
charge of “straightout theft of the
people’s credit.” And, “if we would
find a ‘fifth column,’ we don’t need to
look past the private banking system
within the borders of our own country.”
Mr. 8.-Smith gives the Government hell;
“the Governments and municipalities are
becoming little more than tax-collectors
for the private credit racketeers.”
A great deal is made of profiteering
said to have been indulged in by banks
during the last war. Probably some
banks did make more money than they
were morally entitled to last war,
though there is no evidence of this
in the accounts of Australian banks.
Profiteering was common among all types
of business during the 1914-18 affair.
Australian shipping cos. made enormous
profits then, but they aren’t making them
this time. And it’s a guinea to a goose-
berry that Australian banks at present
aren’t making anything like the margin
of profit on funds handled by them that
they made 25 years ago. For one thing,
loans aren’t being raised so freely, taxes
are more the mode of finance and interest
rates are controlled. But lest this should
be construed as a defence of bank profits
and not as a blowing-up of a few of
Mr. 8.-Smith’s more obvious fallacies
and fantasies, let it be admitted that
banks at the present time are doing
quite well, and that their 5 p.c. to 8 p.c.
divs., though low in comparison with their
own funds, are high enough considering
the Empire’s struggle for its existence. So
are the divs. being paid by many other
institutions, and the wages being received
by thousands of wage-earners.
Some part of Mr. 8.-Smith’s criticism
of Australian financial methods at first
hearing sounds sensible. He doesn’t like
debt. But then he doesn’t like taxes,
either—though he believes in public spend-
ing! His contention that the Common-
wealth Bank should be in charge of all
“credit-creation” and, presumably, bank-
ing is theoretically debatable if not poli-
tically practicable in present circum-
stances. But if his destructive criticism
occasionally has its points, his “remedies”
are fantastic. The highlights are his
rudeness and melodrama.
“We are at war!” says Mr. 8.-Smith
as an opening paragraph to his book.
Later on: “The war with Germany—and
the Great War which has developed from
it —has its roots in the same foul soil, i.e.,
a hellish policy imposed by world govern-
ment of Money Power. This power is
the devil incarnate.” That is the type of
book it is—bank people, apparently, are
not humans at all.
As to his “facts”:
The facts about money are as follows:
(1) Banks do not lend money deposited with
them.
(2) Every bank loan or overdraft is a creation
of entirely new money (credit), and is
a clear addition to the amount of money
in the community.
(3) No depositor’s money is used when a
bank lends money.
(4) Practically all the money in the com-
munity begins its life as an interest-bear-
ing debt to the banks.
As to (1), if banks don’t lend money
deposited with them, why do they pay
interest on fixed deposits? Just out of
charity? No. 2, if it means anything,
need not worry anyone ; if a bank likes
to extend credit, new or old, it has to
pay someone for the privilege and run
the risk of losing on the loan. No. 3
may be answered by the question, If a
bank had no deposits and little capital,
how much money could it lend? No. 4
would be correct with the addition of
“and as a debt by the banks to some-
one else.”
It is a fact that banks, in favorable
circumstances, are able to extend credit
on a large scale ; but they can do so only
by increasing their debts as well as their
assets. By credit-extension, it is true,
they increase the volume of their business
and the probability of making profits, as
well as the chances of making losses.
But their profits are confined to the
margin of interest earned over interest
paid, plus exchange earnings, etc. ; they
do not add to their own private assets by
expanding credit. Credit, even when
expanded by the banks, is almost always
owned by someone else.
One of Mr. 8.-Smith’s super-fallacies:
All that a bank does in lending anybody
£lOOO is to open an account in the person’s
name and write Limit £lOOO across the top of
the ledger. The borrower then operates on this
credit by cheque.
Has the author of this 96-page thriller
ever tried to obtain an overdraft? In
order to borrow £lOOO he would prob-
ably be asked for £2OOO-worth of
security. And not out of nastiness,
either. Banks are always afraid of the
borrower being unable to repay for the
simple reason that they will need the
money eventually to repay someone else.
How easy a banker’s life would be if
lending money simply meant writing
something in a ledger and collecting the
interest! We’d all be in the banking busi-
ness.
Another rugged rock of 8.-Smith in-
accuracy :
The first Great War—thanks to the bankers’
debt system—increased taxation, direct and in-
direct, from one-tenth of the national income
to nearly one-half of it. To you and me that
means that nearly one-half of our incomes
already go to pay interest on the nation’s debts.
Total taxation, direct and indirect, last
year was computed authoritatively at
£144,397,478. The national income for
the same period was estimated at
£860,000,000. The actual interest bill in
1939-40 was about £50,000,000. High
enough indeed, but still nothing like half
the national income.
The oracle definitely dislikes tax-
gatherers as well as bankers:
Loans leave a trail of unrepayable debt and
interest, whilst taxation lowers the living stand-
ard of the people to the point where “pro-
gress halts on palsied feet.”
Money, and plenty of it, is the secret
of the whole thing, he reckons:
Money is the prime mover, not only of goods,
but of labor and machinery... .Who wants
the supply of money to be doubled and the
volume of goods to remain stationary? No-
body but a fool. If by some miracle, how-
ever, the public had twice as much to spend,
retailers would be obliged to double their
orders, and the supply of goods and services
would have to be doubled.
At the present moment our Federal
Government, represe'nting the public, has
all the money to spend that it requires,
yet it is unable to spend all its defence
fund because many of the articles it wants
don’t exist as yet. And it is taking more
than money to bring them into existence.
Overtime is being worked in most defence
industries ; this extra production is the
result of sweat, toil and organisation.
Perhaps the following paragraphs are
the essence of Mr. 8.-Smith’s logic;
Even a cursory glance at the money system
is sufficient to show that this is the only
factor which is in short supply in this abun-
dant world.
And why money, of all things, should be
in short supply when it can be created as
effortlessly as writing figures on the credit side
of a bank ledger is one of those extraordinary
anomalies that historians of this era will
some day regard with incredulity and amaze-
ment.
The stark fact is, however, that practically all
human problems have their origin in the chronic
shortage of money
No, his name is Barclay- Smith, not
Micawber-Smith. Here he goes again;
Now, say the Government had the wit —
and the patriotism—to resolve, in this time of
great national peril, that for the future the
Commonwealth Bank would provide all addi-
tional monetary requirements for the prose-
cution of the war, and that the incidence of
taxation would be reverted to as it stood at
the outbreak of the war.
The process involves no difficulty... .There
is no interest charge—though a nominal amount
of ss. per cent, might be paid for cost of
bank administration.
And there is no repayment of principal. Why
should there be? The money was created by
no more effort than was required to write the
credit figures in the bank’s ledger.
Money without substance! Mr.
8.-Smith is not even a pioneer in
his “unorthodox” ideas about money.
Over 200 years ago a Scotsman named
John Law, or Lass, tried out a system of
his own on the French. Victor Duruy,
a French historian, not a banker, wrote
this:
Law, son of a goldsmith, was initiated at
an early age into the work of banking, and
later became accustomed to the combination of
gaming by which he made his fortune. He was
endowed with great mental capacity and great
powers of speech; he dreamed of creating
a new factor, credit, basing his plans on a
half-truth: that the prosperity of commerce
and industry depends on an abundance of
money.
Law formed a bank.
Everyone hastened to secure its paper, which
greatly facilitated commerce. Activity revived in
all business, and the State established the repu-
tation of the bank by ordering officials of the
Treasury to receive its notes as coin. The
bank lent the State 1,600,000,000 livres of paper
money with which the national creditors were
paid and which came back to the bank in
exchange for shares in a Louisiana com-
pany. But the loss clearly had to fall on some-
one, and it came on those who didn’t know
when to get out. To maintain the extraordi-
nary business operations and to satisfy so many
insatiable appetites, Law was obliged to create
continually more and more paper The sys-
tem rested only on the confidence of the public,
and this confidence could not sustain it long.
....Law escaped from France, pursued by the
curses of the people.
That Law issued notes and not cheques
doesn’t alter the analogy. Nor the fact
that shares in a speculative company in
Louisiana were involved as a side-issue.
It may be thought that the rudeness
and the nonsense of Mr. 8.-Smith has
here been given more publicity than it
deserves. But his inflammatory stuff
appears to have had a wide circulation ;
and he has written more, and promises
to write further, thrillers of the same sort.
To those people who have foggy ideas
about credit, it can be said in truth
that credit is simply what we understood
it to be when we were children. It is
“time to pay” —not a term for non-
payment. Other so-called types of
“credit” are mostly trickery and deceit—
and in the past they have been indulged
in by “orthodox” and “unorthodox”
financiers alike.
Costless credit can be costless only in
a one-sided way. It may be costless to
a Government, but it is as costly to
someone else as it is costless to the
Government. It is taxation, in other
words, and is best recognised as such ;
and taxation should be levied scien-
tifically, not haphazardly.
Man lives by his labor, assisted by
nature, and assisted or hindered by the
“organising” efforts of his Government
and financial and industrial systems. He
doesn’t live by ledger-entries of banks
or note-issues by Governments. We
aren’t fighting this war with “credit,”
either; we are fighting it with contri-
butions of labor and materials, per
medium of taxation. And we are doing
very well, even though, theoretically at
least, we would be better off to tax even
more and borrow less. The Bulletin
has no time for creating debt in order
to finance non-reproductive expenditure.
But more than that, it dislikes the idea
of creating “credit” on the security of
munitions that won’t exist once they have
been used against the enemy.
The level of “real” wages for the Sep-
tember quarter of 1940 stood at 1197
in an index, compared with 1184 and
1209 in the two preceding quarters.
Wages being paid in September last would
buy the same amount of living necessi-
ties as they would in March, 1939. Since
the real wages of September last were
computed the Federal basic wage—a
money wage—has been lifted from 82s.
for males to an average of 85s. It isn’t
likely that living costs have risen in pro-
portion, especially as sales tax is taken
care of by arbitration-court awards.
When later computations of the Com-
monwealth Statistician are released it will
probably be found that real wages have
risen slightly. So Tar our standard of
living has been assailed very little by the
cost of war, except among the middle
and higher incomes. The war taxes
originally presented in the last Federal
Budget envisaged the levying of taxes on
incomes down to £l5O a year, but in the
“compromise” that followed the exemp-
tion rate was lifted to £2OO. Income tax
is the only contribution to the war
effort made by those on arbitration-court
wages. People on fixed incomes and
those relying on returns from businesses,
property, etc., have to bear the burden
of extra income taxes, sales tax, land tax
and increased wages (where they employ
labor). Already something of a “new
order” exists in this country. The wage-
earner is comparatively well off, and no
one will begrudge him his position so
long as he recognises it.
A £50,000,000 loan bill was rushed
through Parliament at the end of last
week. Most of the money to be
raised is earmarked for expenditure next
financial year. So far during 1940-41
outlay on defence hasn’t been at the rate
estimated in the Budget—£lB6,ooo,ooo a
year. Up to the end of February
£92,500,000 was spent from all sources,
and during March £20,000,000 will be
laid out, making £112,500,000 for the
nine months, compared with an estimate
of £136,500,000. Mr. Fadden, asked by
Labor members to explain why defence
expenditure was under Budget estimates,
said the monthly rate of outlay during
the early months of the year was below
forecasts, but was now mounting rapidly.
Overseas outlay on defence figured on the
low side because adjustments with Britain
on A.I.F. account were in arrears.
Strikes had affected war expenditure in
Australia. Mr. Forde said lack of organ-
isation was the more likely reason.
Labor, as usual, yelled for greater use
of the “national credit” in preference to
borrowing. The Acting Prime Minister
replied that it was already being used to
the limits of safety. It is possible that
if a large loan is raised shortly it will be
used temporarily to reduce indebtedness
to the banking system, remaining avail-
able, however, when it is wanted for
defence expenditure.
* * * *
Dunlop-Perdriau’s offer of 30s. a share
for Barnet Glass prefs. was well above
the market price of 255. 9d. recently paid
for the prefs., and will probably be
favorably received by the holders of the
prefs., whose approval to the extent of
150,000 shares is required by the Dunlop
co. before it will close the deal. There
are 200,000 prefs. issued. When Dunlop
acquired control of Barnet Glass in 1929
by buying the majority of the 550,000
ords. at 325. a share, it guaranteed the
8 p.c. pref, div. for 10 years, plus par-
ticipation rights. This guarantee was
subsequently extended two years. But
the Barnet Glass manufacturing activities
have since been merged into the main
Dunlop .factory and the premises at
Footscray have been sold to Bradford
Cotton, with which Dunlop-Perdriau has
become associated. “Rationalisation” of
the Barnet Glass distributing organisa-
tion took place in 1939. However, it
paid an all-round 8 p.c. in its past term,
and has maintained interim distributions
in respect of the current period. The
Dunlop-Perdriau offer will remain open
until April 28. The 30s. a share tendered
is above the average price of the scrip
in the two years preceding the 1929
merger.
* * * *
Holeproof Hosiery, the Melbourne
concern that also owns the Berkley mill
in Sydney, relied mostly on its Bruns-
wick plant for profits during the year to
December 31. At the annual meeting it
was stated that the Berkley mill, acquired
a little more than a year ago, “has been
gradually brought into line with our
methods and standards, and should be a
profit-earning unit.” This Sydney mill
enables the two northern States to be
served expeditiously, and is some insur-
ance against war-time transport difficul-
ties. Last terra a third unit was added
to the co.’s organisation when the Great
Eastern mill in Camberwell, Melbourne,
was opened. Production of men’s half-
hose began in November, and is now in
full swing. No profits from this branch
showed up in 1940, but since 1941 began
results have been encouraging. At the
Brunswick headquarters full time was
worked ; the chief problem was that of
replacing skilled workers who enlisted or
were called up for home defence. The
lower profit earned was principally due
to heavier taxes. The co. is stocking up
with raw materials and plant spares in
view of the uncertainty of the overseas
shipping position.
* * *
Priminister Menzies has had something
to say in Britain about protection of
Australia’s manufacturing industries after
the war. He pointed out that new in-
dustries to help Britain’s war effort could
scarcely be regarded by British manu-
facturers as a temporary proposition.
New Australian factories are coming to
stay, and they need not be detrimental
to British interests if Britain buys more
meat, etc., and other land products from
us in preference to S. American countries.
* * =H *
It was suggested last week that Federal
income-tax deductions from pay en-
velopes will be lifted for two months
after June 30. Whether 12 months’ tax
is to be raised in six months, as is the
case in the present year, hasn’t been
announced.
* * * *
Howard Smith’s chairman says freight
increases sanctioned by the Prices Com-
missioner aren’t adequate to meet in-
creasing costs of running coastal ship-
ping. He forecasts an increase in freights
if shipping divs. are to be maintained.


Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend to be the Executor of your Estate, appoint him
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS*
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V, Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others.
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTING Mi
dfgfdgfdg
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - stnooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Blade size 2in.
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted, concrete laborers, metal men.”
— “S.M.H.” ad.
Only solid workers need apply.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Here’s a plant that will bring joy to all
gardeners.”— Gardening note.
Yes, we know—the quart of beer
hidden in the toolshed.
“Be fair to your fur.” — Woman’s mag.
Don’t make it blush by calling it a
skunk.
•j# *!•
“She had smacked him in the face to test
him to see how he would act.”
— Woman’s paper.
A fishing smack?
4* -I- 4* 4*
“In the future we may travel in robot ships,
controlled from the shore, without visible
workers on board.” — “Sun.”
In the meantime we’ll stick to the old,
crewed methods.
•F 4* 4* 4*
“There are some girls who impress you in
the same way as a thoroughbred horse.”
— Woman’s mag.
Quite! Some show splendid form.
Others are just nags. But they all carry
tales.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A statistician has discovered that there is
least divorce between couples where the hus-
band is a butcher.” — Weekly paper.
In retaliation, many divorce lawyers
are becoming vegetarians.
“Two girls in New York have seen the same
talkie film over 100 times.” — Film guff.
Who hasn’t?
4• 4* 4* 4»
The latest feminine hat is on straight
when it’s on crooked.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“No work of fiction worth mentioning has
come out of Nazi Germany, says a literary
critic.”
Goebbels will resent this.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Remember, hothouse forcing has its advan-
tages. I know of nothing edible under glass
which takes more than a week to reach
maturity.”— Radio gardening talk.
Apparently he’s forgotten the railway
refreshment-room scone.
“I pulled the old door down. I get a kick out of opening and shutting
this one!”
Lament for the Lost.
“Blushing has become a lost art.”
— Woman’s paper.
When girls knew when (and how ) to
swoon
A careless crack by some buffoon
Would set the ladies’ cheeks aflame;
And thus, our great-grandparents claim,
The timely blush was, in a sense,
A healthy moral influence.
But nowadays the second gin
May bring a stain incarnadine —
Naught else. The coy and downcast eye
Is legend of a time gone by.
A t least, we’re saved now from the gush
They drooled about the “maiden’s blush.”
P. M. L.
Much Ado...
“A lot depends on one’s point of view.”
— Woman’s paper.
Mrs. Bragalot had had after-
noon tea for the first time with
her new neighbor. That night
she said to her husband, “She’s
about the dullest woman I ever
met. Why, she hardly opened
her mouth all the afternoon! I
had to make all the conversa-
tion, and you know how terribly
hard that is! ”
At the same time the new
neighbor was saying to her
spouse, “I had that Mrs. Braga-
lot from next door in to after-
noon tea. My dear, she talks
more than any woman I ever
met. Why, try though I did, I
couldn’t get a word in edgeways
EVE.
His Status.
“A wife deserter,” said the Law,
“Who shouldn’t be at large!”
And brought him from a distant town
To answer to the charge.
His statement was a masterpiece
Of true simplicity.
“A wife deserter ? Bunk !” he said,
“I am a refugee.”
N. A.
Evans.
Something Different.
“Too many of our authors write in an atmo-
sphere of gum-trees, droughts, bushfires and
mortgages.”— Book reviewer.
(The opening lines from the latest
“sophisticated” Australian work, “Hunter
and Hunted,” is a complete answer to
the critic .)
The beautiful Lady Caroline Steponit-
Stopit was the most powerful political
and social leader in that Queen City of
the South, Sydney. Her salon was pat-
ronised by patrons of art, wits and diplo-
mats.
To-night the spectacle was one of
magnificent splendor, nearly every
member of the vast assemblage display-
ing the Grand Order of the Buckshee
Gold Pass, First-class, including sleeper.
It was said that Lady Caroline could
make or unmake a Cabinet Minister by
the mere lifting of an eyebrow. Even
the Chairman of the Cucumber Board
deferred to Lady Caroline.
As from a hidden band floated the
seductive strains of “God Only Knows
How Dry We Are” Lady Caroline moved
among her guests, bowing with queenly
grace.
At the first opportunity she slipped
unnoticed into the conservatory to meet
her secret lover.
In a flash Handsome Harry Peel, Chair-
man of the Orange Juice Board, was
crushing her to his chest. Hot, passion-
ate words fell from his lips.
“Hurry, my love, you are in great
danger,” trembled Lady Caroline. “At
any minute Clarence will return from
the hunt!”
“Bah! ” snorted Handsome Harry.
“Who am I to fear an autograph-hunter?
To-night is ours.”
“At last!” gasped Clarence Steponit-
Stopit, dramatically springing from behind
a palm. With lightning speed his hand
flew to his hip pocket and in a trice
he had Handsome Harry cornered with
his fountain-pen and autograph book.
With a cry of horror and dismay,
Handsome Harry sprang through the
glass wall into the black night.
Lady Caroline calmly returned to her
salon to make sheep’s eyes at the Chair-
man of the Lamb Board and with a
long, wailing “Yoicks! ” Clarence jumped
forward, hot on the scent of another
autograph.
D. McM.
Getting the Good Oil.
(There is no need to introduce our readers
to Miss Polly Guffalott. Wherever copy, red-
blooded and meaty, is to be got there will she
be found. The countless thousands who eagerly
devour her authoritative articles in the “WeeWy
Bobbypin” unanimously vote her Australia’s
tops writer. And they are right. A construc-
tive thinker, a fearless, trenchant critic and an
acute observer, she brings a sparkling wit, vivid
descriptive powers and a polished style to her
task. And now Miss Gulfalott’s facile pen has
been co-opted to bring to the myriads of
“Weekly Bobbypin” readers the real low-down
on a real war. From the battlefront, or as near
to it as this intrepid young writer can get,
she will send dispatches which, we confidently
predict, will prove to be some of the war’s
major sensations. The first of her brilliant
articles, dispatched from Somewhere Abroad,
appears below.)
When I first arrived here at Slingslang
(I am not allowed to mention where it
is, but my readers will guess when I tell
them it is somewhere south of Suez), the
really important thing that struck me was
how positively ruinous the climate would
be on one’s complexion. Despite the
application of two thick layers of vanish-
ing cream and washing my face in spirit
soap the next morning, my usually soft
skin was quite dry and hard. Perhaps
it is due to the withering mistral or har-
mattan that blows here all the year.
The heat is definitely awful. Even
in only a slip, brassiere, briefees and the
lightest floral silk dirndl one feels abso-
lutely overdressed. I thought I’d have
died!
I got suck a thrill the first day I
arrived. Looking for a human interest
story which would appeal to sweethearts
at home, I came across a sentry standing
at the gate of a barbed-wire enclosure.
He was tall and sunburned and very
determined, for when I went to walk
hrough he stopped me. Even when I
told him how very important my busi-
ness was he refused. It may be all right
to use ordinary caution, I suppose, but
I sometimes think that the military mind
is too fussy. He said he had orders not
to allow anybody in, yet I’d seen him let
a man on a motor-bike through only a
bit ahead of me. He called the place
Gun Park. He was kidding me, think-
ing I was green. As if 1 couldn’t see that
there wasn’t a tree in the whole place!
He was evidently trying to keep me from
finding out something.
Just as I was demanding to know
where was the major or commodore, a
lieutenant came up. He had a most
intriguing little clipped moustache, those
deep blue eyes that go so well with tawny
hair and a most adorable cleft in his
chin. He proved very helpful, too. When
I told him all about my job he seemed
most impressed. He assured me that
every man in his regiment eagerly sought
my articles whenever they could get hold
of a “Weekly Bobbypin.” I admit I was
thrilled.
He also told me quite a lot that I am
sure will interest those sweethearts and
wives who are anxiously wondering
whether their menfolk are getting the
right food, etc.
First, it will make those at home
happy to know that the army is very
considerate in not overtaxing the strength
of the troops. The lieutenant mentioned
that he had been out that day in charge
of a section of Bren gun carriers. I
asked him if the men found it very
burdensome carrying them about in the
heat, but he assured me that native
bearers, who could be employed cheaply,
were used for the purpose. I was so
glad, because it is bad enough for our
men to have to put up with this awful
climate without lumping big guns (up
to 15 inches, I believe) about on their
shoulders and having to fight with them
when they got them there.
A change of diet more in keeping
with life in the torrid zone has, he in-
formed me, been decided on. It had been
found that thick soup followed by a hot
roast dinner and boiled pudding and
custard was inclined to overheat the
blood. The substitution of clear soup
and ices instead of the boiled pudding
has led to improved health all round.
Discipline has not been relaxed just
because the troops are on active service.
Still, mothers, sweethearts and wives with
men in the ranks will be relieved to
know that it is not as severe as
in other armies, though I under-
stand that the colonel had, in my
informant’s own words, to “roar
some of them up” that morning
because they hadn’t neatly folded
their pyjamas and put them under
their pillows for morning inspection. It
does seem a bit silly, doesn’t it, but then
the army is like that.
I had a frightfully good bit of luck
this afternoon. Out for a stroll in the
hope of meeting some troops who could
give me some real highlights about their
training, I came to an enormous camp.
I slipped in while the sentry had his back
turned. Soon I had quite a crowd of
soldiers round me and they told me quite
a lot. One man had the really dangerous
job of pulling all the pins out of the
Mills bombs so that they wouldn’t stick
in the hands of the man who fired them
off. I nearly died with excitement.
Just as I was telling them all about the
Most Beautiful Outdoor Girl compe-
tition our paper was running, they all
stood stiffly to attention as a red-faced,
cranky-looking man of some importance
came up. He wanted to know who the
had given permission for snooping
females to get in. It was quite disgusting
the way everybody kowtowed to him.
I’d have told him how rude he was only
I didn’t want to cause a scene. Before
he let me go he insisted on reading all
the notes I had made, though why such
a cranky-looking man should laugh so
beats me. The hot sun must have affected
him, I suppose.
There have been rumors that some of
the men are leaving here shortly. But
from what I understand, the plans are
definitely indefinite.
Bo.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHY ARABS STAY OUT.
[Condensed from an American “Foreign Affairs”
article by Albert Viton, in which the writer makes a
sweeping survey of Near East and Middle East countries
and the stand their Arab peoples are taking in this war.
Detailed examination of Egypt’s position was made in a
recent “Uncabled Additions” article.]
At the moment of France’s collapse and of Italy’s
entrance into the war, Britain’s meagre, rather poorly
equipped forces in the Near East were left to cope
singlehanded with a situation for which they were
quite unprepared. Had Mussolini been willing to risk
a Blitzkrieg in the middle of June, his forces could
very likely have reached Suez. By then the French,
no longer an asset, had become a positive liability
to Britain.
Britain’s other Mediterranean friends have not
proved much more helpful. In all Allied quarters it
had been expected that Egypt and Britain’s Arab
allies would enter the conflict when the war spread
to the Mediterranean. True, the treaties granting
Iraq and Egypt their independence did not oblige
them to declare war on Britain’s enemies, but merely
to harmonise their foreign policies with those of
Britain and, in case of war, to place their communica-
tions and other resources at the command of the
British military authorities. But the spirit of those
treaties, as interpreted in numerous semi-official state-
ments, proclaimed a different attitude, and the failure
of the Arab States to declare war on Germany did
not augur well. The Arab press and responsible
statesmen nevertheless declared that they would not
hesitate a moment to throw all their resources behind
the Allies if the war should spread to the Mediter-
ranean. Such a course was not only a matter of
moral obligation, but of self-interest, for every Arab
knew that Fascist Italy was as much his enemy as
Britain’s. Yet when the crisis came, not a single
Arab State moved. Neither Egypt nor Iraq has yet
moved to honor its promises. The Italian forces
advanced across the Egyptian frontier, but Egypt re-
mained at peace and Britain had to fight the invader
alone.
The explanation for this extraordinary fact carries
us into the very heart of Arab politics, in which
many factors must be taken into account. First, much
of the confusion now existing in the Arab camp is
to be traced directly to Axis activities. Propaganda
has followed two distinct lines. First, pamphlets,
radio broadcasts and paid agents have been used to
produce a defeatist atmosphere by proclaiming
Britain’s imminent collapse. From, four to six times
every day, Bari and Berlin broadcast news of terrific
British defeats, with announcers usually making the
obvious deduction that to side with Britain in such
circumstances would be foolhardy.
More vicious were the stories of British atrocities
against Islam. Those have been manufactured on a
mass production basis along with secret documents
purporting to reveal Britain’s evil designs on Arab
lands. One of Berlin’s favorite stories has been about
an alleged treaty between Britain and the Zionists by
which the former undertook to deliver to the latter
vast stretches of territory reaching from the Medi-
terranean to the Euphrates and beyond. So often
was the story repeated that, apparently finding it
was taking root, the London and the Jerusalem radios
had to issue official denials.
Other favorites in Berlin have been stories about
misbehavior —especially towards mosques and holy
places—on the part of Australian soldiers and about
their inhuman cruelty. Some of those yarns have
been rather lurid and apparently appealed to the Arab
imagination, for the British again issued official
denials.
Much more significant than propaganda in creat-
ing an anti-British climate of opinion have been the
social, cultural and political conditions in the various
countries. It must always be borne in mind that in
the Near East politics is still an intensely personal
matter. Ideological differences, or even rival class
interests, hardly count in political struggles. If Ali
Maher Pasha happens to be Premier of Egypt and
advocates the honest fulfilment of treaty obligations
towards Britain, that in itself, without regard to the
interests of the country, is sufficient to drive Nahas
Pasha—leader of the Nationalist, or Wafd, party —or
any other political bigwig who covets Ali Maher’s
job, to assume a diametrically opposite view. The
same has been true of Iraq, where personal hostility
to Nuri es-Said Pasha has impelled rival politicians
to combat his pro-British policies mercilessly. Even
the Zionist National Home has suffered immeasurably
from, this emphasis on personalities. Such conditions
naturally play into the hands of Axis agents. By
supporting, financially and otherwise, rival political
groups, they are able to atomise public life and to
destroy British efforts to create stable political con-
ditions.
To these perennial sources of antagonism the war
has added new ones. In each Near Eastern State
there are groups which for one reason or another have
an interest in coming to terms with the Fascist Powers.
In Iraq strong army and pseudo-Fascist cliques, im-
pelled* by a thirst for power, have resisted the pro-
British policies of the older generation of statesmen
that has ruled the country since 1921. Anti-British
propaganda has probably played a larger role in
Iraq than in Egypt.
If Egypt and Iraq have been very small assets in
Britain’s war effort, Syria has been a liability. Since
the collapse of France, Axis agents have made
Damascus and Beirut centres of anti-British propa-
ganda, while valuable British troops have been
detached to guard Palestine’s northern frontier.
In Palestine the British have the loyal Zionists to
rely on: the Arabs have remained passively neutral.
But even in Palestine the situation is far from satis-
factory. The country is bankrupt. Exports of citrus
fruits—the main article of export —were cut in about
half during the last season ; the flow of foreign capital
has declined ; and unemployment has jumped to un-
precedented heights. Thus far, the exigencies of war
have failed to bring together into some form of a
united front the numerous parties which divide the
475,000 Jews in Palestine. The National Home is
today far more divided than even the Arabs.
No Arab bloc has crystallised, even in face of
the greatest threat to Arab existence in five centuries.
Petty dynastic rivalries and personal feuds among
the rulers have stood in the way. Pacts of friendship
and brotherhood have gone overboard when they
collided with political realities. What, for instance,
has become of the Treaty of Arab Brotherhood and
Alliance signed at Bagdad in 1936, once hailed as
the dawn of a new era in the Near East? Indeed,
far from uniting their forces to help Britain fight the
Fascist imperialists, some of the Arab States have
actually exploited Britain’s peril to blackmail her into
territorial and other concessions.
All talk of a Pan-Islamic front has evaporated
into thin air. Individual Moslem leaders have come
out against the Fascist aggressors and in favor of
Great Britain; but they have been unable to get
together on a united appeal which alone might impress
the Islamic world. Personal jealousies and ancient
rivalries have again stood in the way. How can Ibn
Saud co-operate with, let us say, Haj Amin el-Husseini
or the Shia sheikh Kassif al-Gita, who only last year
issued a fetwah forbidding the faithful to make the
pilgrimage to Mecca? The sheikh of al-Azhar —a
venerable gentleman—is convinced that he or his king
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
THE STICKING POINT.
ought to lead Islam. Needless to say, no Moslem
dignitary outside of Egypt holds a remotely similar
view. It is not easy to see how these dynastic and
personal rivalries can be surmounted, now or for
many years to come.
The chaotic conditions are largely responsible,
no doubt, for Britain’s passive policy towards the Near
Eastern peoples so far in the present war. Most
competent British authorities, having despaired of
the Arabs, now know that, if imperial communications
are to be safeguarded and the Fascist advance stopped,
the job will have to be done by British Empire troops.
The Little Nations Help Britain.
{From a New York “Times” article.)
More than a thousand Polish airmen and ground
force are in the R.A.F. and others are grouped in the
Kosciuszko squadron, which already has downed some
150 German ’planes. There is also a Polish brigade,
reconstructed overseas, defending part of the Scottish
east coast. Polish submarines, destroyers and trawlers
are operating with the fleet. Polish troops, the Brigade
Gorska, are fighting alongside the Greeks in Albania,
and there is at least one Polish battalion with General
Wavell in Libya.
The Belgian, Dutch, Norwegian, Czech and French
nations all have contingents in the British air forces,
as they have soldiers and sailors fighting alongside
the British on land and sea. Norwegian ships with
Norse crews are playing an important part all over
the world in feeding and supplying England, and there
are eight thousand Norsemen in British naval and
military training centres.
The Netherlands has put a million tons of ship-
ping at British command, and its colonial fleet guard-
ing the East Indies is at Allied disposal should the
war turn in that direction. The Belgians have ten
thousand men in fast mobile units with British armies
at home and abroad. Twenty thousand more in the
Belgian Congo are ready to co-operate with the British
and the Free French in the African campaign. The
Czechs already have a brigade, sent in from Palestine
after escape from Syria, operating with the British
in Libya. Even little Luxembourg boasts 250 men
serving in the British army.
This help of the little nations overwhelmed by
Germany is growing. And the very existence of these
embryo forces is an encouragement to their captive
countrymen to prepare for the day when revolt against
the invader will have promise of success.
Imprisoned Reynaud, Gamelin, Daladier.
[This intimate account of the prison-life of France’s
former leaders is condensed from an article by Hans
Habe in February 15 “Collier’s.” The writer, former
editor of the Viennese newspaper “Morgen,” enlisted
in the French army in this war, was taken prisoner by
the Germans, escaped, and was in Riom, where the
ex-leaders are imprisoned, before eventually making his
way to America.]
The Castle of Chazeron, situated in the heart of
France, today houses important men. Not so long
ago each lived in his own mansion. Today each is
assigned one room, austere and unfriendly though
spacious. In front of each room an armed guard
paces.
For many months the castle has sheltered France’s
former rulers. They await their trials behind its high
walls. Gamelin, former commander in chief of the
French army, on whose word every Frenchman’s life
depended for nine months, occupies a damp, unheated
room —as does Daladier. The castle is large enough
so that the prisoners can be kept separated from one
another.
A glance across the high walls of the castle reveals
an ancient, austere building in the midst of a vast,
neglected park. Every morning between nine and ten,
and every afternoon between four and five, solitary
men can be seen walking up and down separate paths
bordered by lime trees. The men are absorbed in
their own thoughts or exchange a few words with
their wary guards.
Of the 80 rooms in the castle only 10 are occu-
pied. Each of the former masters of France must
content himself with one room. To those who remem-
ber Reynaud’s suite in the Premier’s mansion in Paris,
his book-filled room in the castle seems particularly
sad. The contrast is more striking than if these rooms
were real prison cells, for Chazeron is full of objects
that evoke its former splendor. It is true that the
rooms are unfriendly and almost impossible to heat,
but they are furnished with antiques from the castle,
so that sometimes the prisoners must forget momen-
tarily where they are. The unceasing tramp of the
heavy steps in front of their doors soon brings them
back to reality.
The prisoners must wash in their rooms and are
allowed only one bath a week. There is only one
bathroom in the entire castle. The food is rationed
and is about equal in quality and quantity to that
served in a small restaurant. The army chef who
cooks for the guards cooks also for their Excellencies.
The prisoners of Riom have ration cards like all
French citizens, and regularly receive allotted portions
of sugar and soap. They are allowed to receive one
extra parcel a week from outside.
Until recently the guard consisted of 24 police
officials and 150 Gardes Mobiles. The entire personnel
has been changed twice. Every one of these guards
was once a French voter. One of the guards was
severely reprimanded and later dismissed for allowing
Gamelin to paint the portrait of his three-year-old
daughter. Painting is Gamelin’s avocation.
When the French commander in chief was dis-
missed I was at the front, near the Belgian border.
I remember the deep impression made on us soldiers
by the removal of Gamelin. The day before, in the
fighting line, we had listened to Gamelin’s order of
the day, which repeated that once given by General
Petain at Verdun: “All troops unable to advance must
die where they stand: they must not retreat.” And
the next day Gamelin was dismissed.
During the days that saw the completion of France’s
defeat many wondered what had happened to the
generalissimo. Some asserted that he had committed
suicide, like Samsonov after the disaster of Tannen-
berg. Others maintained that he had taken a boat to
America under a false name and in disguise. None
of these rumors did justice to the disciple of Foch and
Joffre. Up to the days immediately preceding his
arrest he was frequently seen at the Hotel du Parc in
Vichy, and they say that the day before his imprison-
ment he talked with Petain for three hours.
During the period of his glory he often com-
plained that he had no time to give to painting. Now
he is working simultaneously on two pictures, a still-
life and a portrait.
The character of the supple little man Paul
Reynaud, known in the Palais Bourbon as “the little
Chinaman,” has not changed in the least. Even in
Chazeron, Reynaud remains the charming Frenchman
whose Gallic intelligence allows him to adapt himself
to any situation.
He was arrested at Barcelonette, his birthplace in
Southern France. Almost without exception the im-
portant politicians of pre-war France came from the
south of France. Most of the men of Vichy are from
the north.
Reynaud’s arrest took place under dramatic cir-
cumstances. Immediately after his resignation he
went to St. Maxime, a small resort on the Riviera,
west of Cannes. He intended to see his only daugh-
ter, who is now 18 years old and to whom he is
extremely attached. In 1919 Reynaud married the
daughter of Henri Robert, president of the French Bar
Association. Later he and his wife were divorced, and
he has since become devoted to his child. Outwardly
a cynic and a favorite of the salons, Reynaud was in


reality a frustrated family man who spent every free
moment with his daughter or his mother in Barcelon-
ette.
During the last two years a woman succeeded in
dominating him. She was the Countess Helene de
Fortes, an adventuress in the grand manner. The
Countess de Fortes was born Mademoiselle Rebuffet
in Paris. For the past 15 years she has served various
masters. After the pact of Munich, her favorites were
German. Reynaud was infatuated with her and clung
to her desperately.
On that day last June she was going with him to
St. Maxime. In circumstances that remain unex-
plained his car became involved in an accident. The
countess was killed and Reynaud injured.
It has recently become known that Reynaud had
an opportunity to escape before he was taken to
prison. The British Government was ready to dis-
patch a warship for him to Marseilles. One of the
strongest points in Reynaud’s defence is that he re-
jected this offer.
For a time Chazeron also harbored Guy la
Chambre, former Air Minister, who, accompanied by
his charming and famous wife, one of the most fas-
cinating actresses of Paris, flew directly from New
York to gaol. Like Pierre Cot, his predecessor in
office, Guy la Chambre was living in New York when
the Riom Court was constituted. But whereas I saw
Pierre Cot with his beautiful Venezuelan wife dining
in a Russian restaurant in New York only a few days
ago, Guy la Chambre took the first available Clipper
to report to his Government. Vichy has little use for
such chivalrous gestures —the former Minister was
promptly taken to Chazeron. La Chambre tried in
vain to obtain an audience with Petain. Later he
was transferred to the Castle of Bourassol, which shel-
ters the “second-class” former “Excellencies.”
When you speak with the guards of Chazeron —
day and night 18 of them patrol the high grey walls
of the castle —you can feel that what most impresses
these simple men is not their prisoners’ downfall but
their solitude. Formerly, their antechambers were
crowded daily with hundreds of distinguished visitors.
It comes as a shock to learn that Daladier, the “bull
of Vaucluse,” who, people feared, might become an
all-powerful dictator, has not received a single visit
since his imprisonment. The only person who asked
for permission to see him was his son, Jean Daladier,
but his request was refused because of his previous
political activities.
No other visitor appeared. After three months
of solitude Daladier asked, for the first time, for the
Marquise de Crussol. For many years the marquise
had been Daladier’s friend and adviser; in Paris
she was known as “Madame Lucifer.” The differ-
ence between the two men, Daladier and Reynaud, is
clearly revealed by their women. The two men came
from the middle classes. Both had a secret respect for
names, titles and society. Both were attracted by the
life of the salons. But whereas Reynaud, an educated
and witty man, chose an adventuress with great intel-
lectual qualities, Daladier was attracted by the
Marquise de Crussol, who was noted for her aristo-
cratic elegance. Reynaud’s “Lady of Catastrophe”
remained at his side after the little man had lost
the great game. The marquise left Daladier with a
smile after his fall.
France and the Blockade.
(From a New York “Sun” comment .)
Of all the countries of Europe France was, until
the German invasion, the most nearly self-sustaining.
The country produced 96 p.c. of the wheat it con-
sumed, 95 p.c. of the barley and 97 p.c, of the meat.
Only 5 p.c. of the eggs Frenchmen ate were imported.
Such things as France did have to import, as
potatoes, came mainly from neighboring countries
now under Nazi occupation. In the case of potatoes
it was Holland that supplied the deficiency. Sugar
imports, netting about 115,000 tons a year, came from
Czechoslovakia, Poland and Germany.
German requisitions have taken, it is estimated,
some 900,000 pigs and 200,000 cattle from France,
and a Swiss paper says that not only had the Nazis
taken 800,000 tons of wheat prior to last September
—heaven knows how much since —but that swastika
markers had been placed in fields of growing wheat,
to indicate that the grain was reserved for the Nazis.
At the same time German promises to send food from
occupied to unoccupied France, where the influx of
refugees has swollen the population far beyond the
capacity of the soil to feed it, have not been honored.
The substance of these facts has been admitted
by the Vichy Information Ministry at various times.
There is nobody in France who is not aware of them.
In France as elsewhere Nazi invasion has been fol-
lowed by wholesale plundering of food reserves. When
Vichy journals say that the food shortage is imputable
to the British blockade, they do not deceive us, and
they certainly do not deceive the French, who have
seen the Nazis at work.
The Omnipotent State.
{From a London “Contemporary Review” article by
J. Hampden Jackson.)
We are fighting against Hitlerism, but what are
we fighting for? International decency, the rights of
small nations, a better world-order all that, of
course ; all the slogans of the last war. We have got
no further in this war than paving the way through
hell with good intentions. The one thing that is
certain is that we are fighting against Hitlerism, that
is, against totalitarianism in general and against the
Nazi form of it in particular. And in fighting totali-
tarianism we are adopting totalitarian methods our-
selves.
This paradox is not particularly sinister. What is
sinister is the vague but widely-held belief that, what-
ever the outcome of this war may be, the authority
of the State will be extended to more and more walks
of life. In other words, it is becoming accepted in a
fatalistic sort of way, not only that in fighting
totalitarianism we must adopt totalitarian methods, but
that victory over totalitarianism must also be followed
by the adoption of those methods.
This was implicit in the attitude of the British
political parties long before war broke out. During
their nine long years in office the Conservative party
succeeded in bringing foreign trade and finance under
Government control, in putting most of the home-
produced foodstuffs under Marketing Boards presided
over by the big producers and distributors working
with official blessing, and in encouraging monopoly
organisation of the iron, steel, coal and cotton in-
dustries. The National Capitalism they evolved in
these years differed from the State Socialism of Hitler
and Mussolini only in one incidental and in one
essential respect: incidentally it did not go so far ;
essentially it was carried out with the consent, be-
cause in the interest, of the director class which has
been so well represented in both Houses of Parliament,
in the civil service and in the Cabinet.
Against this National Capitalism the Labor party
has had little to say. Labor would presumably be
satisfied with it if representatives of the trade-unions
were added to the various Marketing Boards and con-
trolling committees. State Socialism in the interest
—New York “World-Telegram.”
HUMPTY DU MPTY.
of the people in their capacity as producers is at the
bottom of the Labor programme. It was also at the
bottom of the programme of the three parties which
have made totalitarianism what it is in Europe today
—the Bolsheviks, the Fascists and the National
Socialists.
Our politicians, in a word, have abdicated from
their function as politicians. They have adopted a
bureaucratic ideal and have become administrators or
would-be administrators. The function of a politician
is to uphold the guiding principles of society and to
see that the administrators carry out those principles,
and none but those principles, in their bureaucratic
activity. The only great principle supported by poli-
ticians today is Planning, and planning is not a prin-
ciple but an administrative expedient. In the twentieth-
century waste and disorder planning is no doubt
necessary, but planning apart from a guiding principle
can solve nothing. “The conquest of waste and
disorder” is the slogan of every totalitarian dictator.
The problem of our time is to find ways of pre-
venting this increasing Etatisme from destroying values
in which most of us believe. Those values may be
expressed in the eighteenth-century terms Liberty,
Equality, Fraternity, in the nineteenth-century terms
democracy, decency, humanitarianism, or in twentieth-
century terms that have not yet become current. It
matters not how they are expressed: the point is that
nearly everyone still believes in them passionately, and
that there is no guarantee that our drift towards
totalitarianism will do anything but destroy them.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The Germans are using Communism to establish
their domination over France exactly as they used
it to conquer France. It will certainly be recognised,
when history can judge impartially the causes of
France’s collapse, that Communism has been the
Trojan horse of the Nazis. Various slogans have
been circulated by the Communists: “The rich
wanted the war and plotted our defeat in order to
overthrow the Republic” ; “The Germans are not our
enemies, the rich are” ; “The victory or defeat of
France is just the same to us.” If any collaboration
between the French and Germans exists in the real
sense, it is between the Communist leaders, their mys-
tified followers and the Germans. Nothing is more
agreeable to the Germans than a propaganda that
divides the French, scoffs at patriotism and prevents
France from regaining the strength that moral unity
would give her. — Captain Bruno Leydet, French Army
officer, in New York “Journal and American.”
* * * 'Jf. #
The Police Department estimates that 25,000 men
of the more than 1,000,000 registered in New York
City under the Selective Service Act have been con-
victed of felonies, and thus are excused from military
training because Army regulations forbid enlisting
men with felony convictions. The Army’s regulation
barring felons is 107 years old, based on an Act of
Congress of 1833. But since the definition of felony
varies widely from State to State, the Army has
adopted its own definition: any crime punishable by
imprisonment for one year or more. — New York
“Herald Tribune.”
*****
These are hungry days in Spain. Ration cards
provide minute quantities of olive oil, chick-peas,
sugar, meat —four ounces of meat every three or four
weeks —and most of the basic necessities. Certain
articles, such as fish, ham and potatoes, are sold with-
out food cards, but potatoes at the moment are not
to be had, in Madrid, at least, and the other items are
expensive. Most of Spain is suffering even more
than is the capital. Sometimes it is only one article,
such as bread or oil, that is lacking, but undernourish-
ment is uniform. — New York “Times” Madrid corre-
spondent.
♦ * * * *
Georgi Malenkov, Secretary-General of the Com-
munist party, reporting to the First National Congress
of the Russian Communist party on the progress of
the Soviet programme for decentralisation of industry
and production increase, must have given the com-
rades a shock. He stated that, far from increasing
production, such essential industries as lumber and
building materials have shown a decrease. The oil,
paper and timber industries, ordered to reduce costs,
have augmented them. Railroad and water transport
is behind schedule in loading ores, petroleum, salt,
wheat, wood and coal. Coal, oil and textile industries
in the Urals, the Don, Kharkoff, Gorki, Yaroslav,
Stalingrad and Dnepropetrovsk districts are back-
ward and in extreme confusion because no inventories
have been kept. Malenkov further reported that Rus-
sian industry is waterlogged because of “top-heavy
bureaucracy... .buck-passing... .armchair manage-
ment.... red-tape”—defects which the Communists
have always attributed to the capitalistic system, which
they claimed to have banished from the Soviet State.
—New York “Daily Mirror.”
» 4> «
Down to and including the time of
Munich, I supported the policy of con-
ciliation. In this I was in agreement
with the majority of my countrymen. I
went further than the majority in believ-
ing that war should, at this moment in
history, be avoided, however great the
provocation. I changed later through
the influence of the same events that
changed Chamberlain, Lord Lothian,
Lord Halifax and most of the previous
advocates of peace. In view of what has
happened since, it would seem that it
might have been better for the world if
Germany had been opposed at an
earlier stage ; but I still think that the
arguments for the policy of conciliation were very
strong... .1 scarcely dare to hope that the world after
the war will be a good world if we win, but if we
lose it will be hell, probably for a long time to come.
It is a tragic alternative, but it must be met with such
hope as the times permit and with a determination that
in winning the war we shall not lose what we are
fighting for. — Bertrand Russell in a long New York
“Times” letter approving the present war: he opposed
the war of 1914-18.
One reason for opposition to the Nazis in the
occupied countries—in addition to alleged physical
persecution and political oppression—has been Ger-
man economic exploitation, which has taken various
forms, among them: (1) The transfer of laborers to
the Reich. A British source puts the total number
of civilians transferred from the assimilated lands at
1,200,000 to 1,500,000, and adds to that figure about
1,000,000 working prisoners of war. (2) Taxes and
levies to pay the cost of occupation ; in France this
has been set at twenty million Reichsmarks a day.
(3) Confiscation of property; the value of Jewish
property alone seized in Czechoslovakia has been esti-
mated at $600,000,000. (4) Forced sales at rates of
exchange favorable to Germany, by which vast quan-
tities of agricultural products have been “sold” to
the Reich. — New York “Times.”
*****
The instructions which Robert the Wise, King
of Naples, gave to his ambassadors to the Papal
Court at Avignon in 1314 contain the following warn-
ing to Italy : —-
The Kings of the Romans have usually been elected
from the German nation, a savage and intractable people,
devoted rather to barbaric ferocity than to Christianity,
who do not regard robbery as wrong. Hence between
Germans and Italians there is no sympathy but rather
repugnance. In view of recent troubles the utmost care
should be taken that German ferocity does not turn the
sweetness of Italy into bitterness. The Pope should
therefore try to prevent the election of a King of
Germany; if this fails, he should refuse to crown him
Emperor, and be careful to see to it that he does not
set foot in Italy.
—Quoted in a London “Times” letter.
*****
Forty-five corvettes and 13 minesweepers have
been launched by Canadian shipyards to date, Muni-
tions Minister C. D. Howe announced recently.
“Launchings of 14 or more corvettes and 18 more
minesweepers are anticipated by May,” he said.
Canada’s war-time shipbuilding programme from
its inception includes: 60 corvettes for the Royal
Canadian Navy and 10 for the Royal Navy ; 38 mine-
sweepers for the Royal Canadian Navy and 12 for
the Royal Navy ; 10 wooden minesweepers for the
Royal Navy ; 20 fairmile boats for the Royal Canadian
Navy ; 20 merchant vessels ; and a large number of
small craft. — “Christian Science Monitor.”


S PORTING
NOTIONSS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES.'
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
A wet morning disposed of the possi-
bility of a large attendance at Randwick
last Saturday, when the proceeds went
to the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic and War
Fund. Rain overnight had softened the
track, and that may have accounted for
the failure of some of the fancied horses
to do as well as anticipated. Beau Vite,
Astrid and Yaralla started at odds-on,
and neither of the first-mentioned two
was a winning possibility from the top
of the straight. With every favorite
beaten, and three winners at 10’s, 20’s
and 33’s respectively, the day was not
enjoyed by many punters.
Weight-for-age races have been respon-
sible for great surprises at Randwick at
different times, and few greater than
when Tranquil Star won the Chipping
Norton Plate. Generally regarded as
little more than a match between Beau
Vite and High Caste, neither had a
chance in the run home against Tranquil
Star, who headed Lucrative and Beau
Vite after going five furlongs. When
High Caste was second into the straight
his backers expected him to make short
work of the filly, but she ran away from
him over the final furlong.
Opposite the leger Lucrative looked as
if he might get third, but was outstayed
by Beau Vite, who, however, was merely
plodding along at the end. There was
nothing in the form of either Pandect or
Velocity to please their Cup backers
greatly. Mosaic was last practi-
cally throughout, but the slow pace for
the first half-mile disposed of him. High
Caste was kicked while at the starting-
post, receiving a deep cut high up inside
the near hind leg, and that was probably
why his finishing run was slightly lack-
ing in determination.
Overbold, favorite for the Liverpool
Handicap, never ran worse. Last most
of the way, he finished ahead of only
Bonnie Loch, who did sufficiently well to
the straight entrance to indicate that a
return to his form of earlier in the
season is not far off. Petruchio had a
useful lead after going two furlongs,
but, though he was first into the straight,
Bona Fide had him beaten a furlong
from home, and she, in turn, was cut
down by Tuhitarata, who was second-
last early in the race.
Bona Fide hung on gamely, but the
black horse was too good. Ido not
know whether Tuhitarata is hard to train,
but this was only his fourth run this
season, and he has won three times.
Ensign’s fourth was of little account as
he never looked like getting a place, nor
did Amiable threaten danger, though she
ran on fairly. The going was a trifle too
soft to permit of Mildura’s being seen at
his best.
Veiled Threat was not prominent in
the Warwick Farm Cup until the half-mile
post was reached, where he moved up
smartly, and though Gold Salute, Scien-
tist and Gilltown were ahead of him
entering the straight he had the race won
a furlong from home. At the leger
Katanga looked as if he might get second,
but he was easily beaten for that posi-
tion by Binnia Hero. As Gold Salute
was fourth, after doing the pacemaking,
he may yet uphold his owner’s opinion
that he will stay. The track was not
favorable to fast time, so 2.33 i for the
mile and a half was far from slow.
When Veiled Threat previously ran at
Randwick on a track that was somewhat
soft he sprawled, but this time he tra-
velled smoothly throughout. Scientist
again failed to stay, but at a mile and
a quarter he and Gilltown may fare
better before autumn racing is over. Lady
Buzzard shaped fairly, but John Dory
was disappointing, and over the last half-
mile Feminist was never in a position
that gave her a look-in. Veiled Threat’s
win was his fourth this season, and he
is now a long way ahead of the sum
he cost as a yearling.
• •••••
Pennywise won the Trial Handicap in
style that should give her a chance in
something better. When Koomeluck ran
past Article, Burhan Ali and Air Link
after entering the straight he appeared
to have the race won, but Pennywise’s
finishing run was too much for him. As
she was well back at one stage there was
a deal of merit in Pennywise’s win.
Alluring (third) and Southerly were
always prominent, but the latter was
actually nearer the front at the winning-
post than at any other part. The stable-
companions Burhan Ali and Air Link
were not far away from the place-getters,
and, at a lighter scale, the former may
win at middle distances.
Astrid, at odds on for the fillies’ divi-
sion of the Fairfield Handicap, was costly
to many backers. She never appeared
to quite head Cradle Song, though there
was little between them at the straight
entrance. Then Astrid tired, but, though
Cradle Song led at the leger. Steal On
settled her a little further on, and won
by three-quarters of a length from Two’s
Company, who was several lengths be-
hind the other runners up to the straight
entrance. Matters were made worse
when her rider lost grip of his near-side
rein a furlong from home.
The first three badly beat the re-
mainder, and, temporarily at least, Astrid
appears to have lost the pace she dis-
played when she won at her first two
starts. She bled after the race. Steal
On, who is by Brueghel from Set Fair,
by Backwood from Steady Glass, is
trained by T. McGrath for Dr. J. Harris,
who has her on lease from W. H. Mac-
kay until March, 1943. She cost 80gns.
as a yearling.
Yaralla’s defeat in the colts and geld-
ings’ division of the Fairfield Handicap
was an even greater shock for backers
than Astrid’s failure in her division. The
way in which Mannerheim stuck to
Yaralla right into the straight told
against him when, inside the last furlong,
he was asked to raise an effort to stall
off Prince. The task was too much for
him, and the latter went on to win from
Dick Whittington, who was a long way
back at the three furlongs. Henchman
was making a good run when he fell at
the turn, and he interfered with Dick
Whittington to some extent.
Prince’s stable-companion Fort Mor-
gan was fourth, and others that ran well
were Felt Yet, America and Tidor. Prince
was a sound second favorite. The Mel-
bourne two-year-old Laureate was a
runner, but his showing did not suggest
success at the A.J.C. meeting. An item
of interest was that the time was half a
second slower than Steal On recorded.
In the Cabramatta Handicap Rimveil
ran up to his Villiers Stakes form, and
scored so decisively that he would prob-
ably have won even if the hot favorite
Remarc had not fallen when in a good
position three furlongs from home. At
the turn Rimveil was third to Tel Asur
and Sethia, and, settling those two as soon
as Bartle called on him, was going away
from his followers at the winning-post.
At the same time Scarlet Toi ran fairly,
while Red Thespian in coming home well
to dead-heat Sethia for third demon-
strated he was not a back number. Metal-
lic’s form was fair, while that of Ever-
green was disappointing, though it might
be possible to excuse him on the score
that he was not suited by either the
welter scale or the going.
* * * *
While trainer Harry Freedman is in
Sydney in search of A.J.C. St. Leger
honors with Lucrative, two other mem-
bers of his team, Dapper and Palencia,
kept the home fires burning by landing
a double at Mentone on Saturday. Both
were ridden by Freedman’s apprentice,
J. Crilley, but, whereas Dapper was
favorite, Palencia was a 20-to-l shot.
Dapper’s race in the Avon Handicap
was his first since his recent transfer to
Freedman’s stable, and, smartly away, he
led throughout to win easily from De-
mure and Blissful. A chestnut colt by
Gay Lothario from Mons Star, he has
the splendid record of three wins from
four starts, and has been a fine bargain
at his yearling cost of 625 guineas. The
only time he blotted his copybook was
in the Alma Stakes won by All Love, but
obviously his form in that race was all
wrong. Demure, a Hall Mark filly
trained by Jack Holt, made a promising
debut. She revealed pace and gameness,
and will not be a 50-to-l chance at her
next appearance. Blissful shaped well
enough to indicate that she can be placed
to advantage, but solidly-backed Milne
disappointed, even allowing that he was
forced wide on the turn.
Palencia had failed at the business end
of a mile in each of his two previous
races, and there was little incentive to
back him over the mile and a half of the
Mewburn Trial Stakes. Weaker com-
pany, combined with the fact that he
was ridden patiently, however, enabled
him to come from sixth on the turn to
beat the pacemaker, Parmacia, in the last
stride. Manawatu was a good third,
and Woodgate, a maiden performer,
showed up well enough in fourth position
to indicate that a win should come his
way shortly.
Palencia may have won in any cir-
cumstances, but his task was made
easier by the falls of Miss Veronica
(favorite) and Alacrity and the result-
ant interference to several other runners.
It was the first mile and a half race ever
run at Mentone, and 20 horses started.
Sydney-owned but Melbourne-trained
Billposter notched his first Victorian suc-
cess when he easily defeated Spearwings
and Suliman in the Powerscourt Handi-
cap. A betting drift from 3to 1 to fives
was not a true reflection of his chance,
as, making a long, sustained run from
the half-mile, he had the race won at
the top of the straight. Billposter was
having only his fourth race since he
came to Melbourne to be trained by
Besanko. His time for the 10 furlongs,
2.4 i, was really good considering that
rain had taken the sting out of the
track, and, despite increased weight, he
should be hard to beat in the Williams-
town Easter Cup next Monday.
Billposter’s betting drift was due in a
measure to heavy support for Sir Romeo,
who was backed from sixes down to
favoritism at fours. Sir Romeo, how-
ever, was in an ungenerous mood, and,
failing to stretch out properly at any
stage, was never a possibility. Both
minor place-getters, Spearwings and Suli-
man, ran well without ever really troub-
ling the winner, but Haughty Stare and
Koorenbeen could not maintain the solid
pace they set.
Former W.A. apprentice K. Crosse,
who recently had his indentures trans-
ferred to W. O’Dwyer, made his Mel-
bourne debut on Saturday and looked
like being an immediate success when
Beaufder, his mount in the Tinamba
Handicap, appeared to be going com-
fortably in the lead rounding the home
turn. Con Naru, however, wore her
down after a grim struggle over the last
half-furlong and won by half a head,
with Limerick Lace third. Con Naru is
one of the most remarkable horses in
training, in that track gallops do not
figure in his preparation. All his work
is done on the roads, beaches and
hills, with swimming thrown in for good
measure.
Improving on their form in the Welter
at Kyneton three days earlier, when they
had finished fifth and last respectively,
Conflagration and Exchange staged a
thrilling finish for the first division of
the Boisdale Welter. Exchange made
most of the running, and close to the
post looked like giving bookmakers a
50 to 1 result, but Conflagration, backed
from fives down to threes, snatched a
head win in the last stride. Explaining
Conflagration’s improved form, trainer
Basil Conaghan stated that she dashed
through the tapes before the start of
the Kyneton event, got her tongue over
the bit and choked up during the race.
To ensure that there would not be a
repetition, her tongue was tied down on
Saturday. Old Somerset, who started
favorite, appeared to move a trifle short’
in his preliminary, and did not warm
up until the race was practically over.
He came from last to finish third.
Windrobe recorded a good perform-
ance to win the second Boisdale Welter
division. She dropped a long way out
of her ground early, and was still badly
placed when Rainhazard rounded the
bend with a lead of about six lengths.
Rainhazard stopped suddenly in the
straight, and, just when Colignan seemed
likely to justify his favoritism, Wind-
robe challenged on the outside and won
going away. Pine Peak finished third
after having every chance, but whatever
chance Manetis possessed was lost at
the start. He swerved round at barrier-
rise, and was left. Romanette, from
W.A., made her Melbourne debut in this
race. She had nothing to do with the
finish, but she and her stablemate Atorna,
who ran in the Tinamba Handicap,
should pay expenses of the trip.
A bright future was predicted for
Heart’s Desire when she dead-heated for
first with The Aisle in the fillies’ divi-
sion of the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
last season, but it was not until Satur-
day in the Stratford Handicap that she
recorded her first outright win. She has
changed stables meantime, and “Snowy”
Wolters, who has had charge of her for
five or six months, considers that he
has discovered the secret of her likes
and dislikes. She does not like gallop-
ing in a field, and on Saturday Wolters
instructed rider R. Heather to let her
see plenty of daylight rounding the
turn into the straight. Heather carried
out his instructions, and Heart’s Desire
showed her appreciation by finishing
strongly to win decisively from Carlton
and Strand. Averne, always a short-
priced favorite, showed no fight after
leading to the turn and missed a place.
* * * *
If Saturday’s form at Randwick could
be accepted as absolutely correct, there
should be a comparatively small field for
the Doncaster Handicap. In respect of
performances Rimveil and Tuhitarata
stood out. The latter finished strongly
to win the Liverpool Handicap, and is
evidently as good now as when, with
7.8, he ran second to Geebung in the
1939 Epsom. In that he was beaten a
neck, and will not need to improve to
any extent on that effort to make a big
bid for the Doncaster. He should be
certain to beat again Bona Fide and
Petruchio, who were his nearest fol-
lowers on Saturday, and Overbold and
Mildura are others he appears to hold,
the terms on which he meets them being
in his favor, taking into consideration the
way he beat them. Amiable, who looks
particularly well, may be better suited
by the mile, but, on figures, she will be
no better off by comparison with Tuhi-
tarata.
Rimveil’s win, however, impressed me
more than that of Tuhitarata, as he went
right away from his opponents in the last
half-furlong. He has 41b. more than
when, with 8.2, he won the Villiers
Stakes with a remarkable run over the
last three furlongs, and meets High Caste
141 b. better than weight-for-age. It is a
big pull for a three-year-old that has
FOR RANDWICK.
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
FIRST DAY—SATURDAY.
First Hurdle Race; Blackie
Miller, 1 ; Guardsman, 2; The
Winger, 3.
Autumn Plate: Beau Vite, 1 ;
Dashing Cavalier, 2 ; Gold Salute,
3.
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes;
Yaralla, 1 ; All Love, 2 ; Whisper
Low or Dick Whittington, 3.
Doncaster Handicap: Rimveil, 1 ;
Tuhitarata, 2 ; Evergreen or Scarlet
Toi, 33.
A.J.C. St. Leger; Tranquil Star,
1 ; Pandect, 2 ; Lucrative, 3.
Vaucluse Handicap: Rylstone,
1 ; Tel Asur, 2 ; Bramol, 3.
SECOND DAY—MONDAY.
Easter Plate: Whisper Low, 1 ;
All Love, 2; Cradle Song, 3.
Sydney Cup: Veiled Threat, 1 ;
Velocity, 2 ; Pandect or Katanga, 3.
FOR WILLI AMSTOWN.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
FIRST DAY.
Seaford Trial Hurdle: Dartbrook,
1 ; Mamburdi, 2 ; Royal March, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap:
Manford, 1 ; Vanessa, 2; Prime
Factor, 3.
Easter Stakes: Billposter, 1 ; His-
torian, 2 ; True Flight, 3.
Encourage Stakes: Ingoda Boy,
1 ; Glengold, 2 ; Curia, 3.
Seaside Handicap: Pure Gold, 1 ;
Chatsbury, 2 ; El Golea, 3.
Werribee Highweight: Pannade,
1 ; Koorenbeen, 2 ; Royal Comet, 3.
SECOND DAY.
W.R.C. Easter Cup: Billposter, 1 ;
Sun Belle, 2 ; Historian, 3.


> s >S'o;
o t/f ’*<f>
s /,>:.
'« . V w w
wv,
?«/,
%
T.JONES & CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
S 3?
BN
*
n
• J
1
m
*2/
Cmsabcv Cloth
Monarch (SJualitp
Kbu
AuditocUlan f li/oMieAi!
]y/f ANY Australians, formerly accustomed to
wearing expensive English cloths, have
found that Monarch Quality, Crusader Cloth,
compares favorably with any cloth anywhere.
They have found that they can maintain an
equally good appearance but with most
gratifying advantage to their pockets . * . .
This is really not remarkable. The best
Australian wool goes into Monarch. It is
woven by skilled craftsmen on the most
modern machines in the world. It is dyed
with the costliest dyes and guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. That is why there is so
much additional wear in all Crusader Cloths.
.I Your Tailor will gladly show you the new
I Monarch Pattern Book ... You will be attracted
i|| by the smart patterns and colorings and by
II the feel of absolute goodness in every cloth.
Monarch Quality gives your tailor his
|| chance to “turn you out” just as you wish
| to look . . . Talk it over with him, to-day.
claims to be considered a really good
miler. On Saturday there was nothing
in the running of Nightbeam, Gilltown,
Tel Asur, Sethia or Metallic to suggest
they were possibilities, and Rimveil
should again beat Scarlet Toi, who he
meets on the same terms.
Of the three from B. Payten’s stable—
Burhan Ali, Air Link and Evergreen —it
is probable Evergreen will be the elect.
Nothing that is favorable can be written
of his run in the Cabramatta Handicap,
but I am inclined to overlook that effort
on the score that he was not suited by
either the high scale of weights or the
going. He is not a big fellow and he
stopped altogether at the finish under his
9.0. He did not run up to either his
Melbourne or Rosehill form.
As I am writing early in the week
(Monday) it is impossible for me to
form an idea as to the extent High Caste
is likely to be affected by the kick he
received or Remarc by his fall, but a
mishap to any horse a week before a big
race is likely to tell against its chances.
Certainly it did not do so when High
Caste was a doubtful starter for the last
Epsom right up to the day of the race,
but while I think High Caste and Remarc
will play prominent parts if they are quite
right it might now be as well for those
who fancy them to wait until Saturday
before betting.
Of the Doncaster horses which did
not run last week Delmestor and Breeze
may be as well worth consideration as
any. Delmestor has a weight she can
comfortably handle, and Breeze, who
continues to work well, has only 21b.
more than when she ran second to Rim-
veil in the Villiers. There appears doubt
as to whether Reading will be a runner,
and though Rathlin, St. Andrew,
Chatoona, Calruin and Halifax have all
recently shown form it is questionable
whether they are up to Doncaster stand-
ard. I cannot say anything concerning
Warbird’s chance, and, omitting High
Caste and Remarc for reasons already
stated, I reckon that form now points
directly to Rimveil and Tuhitarata,
though I shall still keep Evergreen on
my side.
* * * *
Yaralla’s defeat at Randwick did not
lessen his chance of winning the Sires’
Produce Stakes. His 9.5 on a soft track
pulled him up at the end of six furlongs,
but that does not mean he is going to
find seven furlongs beyond him. He
will have 91b. less weight, and with that
off his back the distance of next Satur-
day’s race will probably be within his
compass, no matter what the condition
of the track. Freely used to shake off
Mannerheim, he could not respond when
tackled by Prince and Dick Whittington,
whom he was respectively conceding 261 b.
and 171 b.
With a quieter race possible for him
in the early part, the odds are much
against either beating him on level terms,
nor do I think Henchman will be equal
to the task. Many of the latter’s backers
believe he would have won last Saturday
if he had not fallen at the turn, but he
was in receipt of 101 b. from Yaralla.
Henchman may get the distance, and
Dick Whittington is sure to, but it seems
as if Yaralla’s greatest danger may come
from All Love and Whisper Low.
All Love failed badly in the Ascot
Vale Stakes, but her easy win in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes must be
remembered in her favor. She has gone
on well since her return from Melbourne,
but at a difference of only 21b. she will
be troubled to beat Yaralla. A good
two-year-old colt is generally preferable
to a good two-year-old filly in the AJ.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, and I doubt
whether this year will be an exception.
Cyden, in 1926, was the last filly to win
that race. Whisper Low is undeniably
good, but, though she won at the recent
Rosehill meeting and has since done ex-
cellent work, she cannot well be given
preference to Yaralla.
At the same time I expect her to win
the Easter Stakes, for which she has
escaped a penalty, and will be getting
10lb. from All Love. It must also be
the AJ.C. handicapper’s opinion that
she will beat All Love on those terms.
When weighting them for the fillies’ divi-
sion of the Fairfield Handicap last Satur-
day he put only 51b. between them. Even
if Astrid’s attack of bleeding after her
Fairfield Handicap run did her no serious
harm, it would now appear safe to count
her out as an Easter Stakes possibility.
Queensland will have a good represen-
tative in Triad, but she has 51b. penalty.
Cradle Song, though only third in her
division of the Fairfield Handicap, ran
an excellent race, but, while I do not
think she can be classed the equal of
Whisper Low, All Love may have diffi-
culty in giving her 101 b. Results of the
Sires’ Produce Stakes and Easter Stakes
should give a good idea as to the prob-
able result of the Champagne Stakes,
though for the last three years the Sires’
Produce Stakes winner has been beaten
in the Champagne Stakes. Lucrative
started favorite for the latter last year
and was beaten by John, who was not a
Sires’ Produce Stakes runner. Up to the
present those unpenalised for the Cham-
pagne Stakes include Whisper Low, Dick
Whittington, Henchman and Cradle Song.
* * * *
Unless Lucrative, Pandect and Scientist
improve greatly on last week’s form at
Randwick the St. Leger is likely to prove
a soft thing for Tranquil Star. The way
that filly left her opponents at the finish
of the Chipping Norton Plate made one
wonder how far she would have beaten
them in another half-mile. High Caste
lost ground in the straight, and at the
winning-post Tranquil Star was getting
further away from Beau Vite and Lucra-
tive. On track form I reckoned the last-
named would be a tough opponent for
Tranquil Star or anything else, but his
showing of Saturday did not uphold that
idea. He may improve, but at present
his prospects of turning the table on
Tranquil Star are not bright. It is cer-
tain now that she can gallop as well on
a soft as on a firm track. Fillies have
been out of the AJ.C. St. Leger list for
many years, the last successful being
Lady Valais’ in 1924, and her 2.59| is
still a record for the race.
• • • • • *
Pandect should be all the better for his
run, but he will need to improve several
pounds in a week in order to beat Tran-
quil Star, whose owner is now probably
sorry he did not nominate her for the
Sydney Cup. Scientist could not see
out a mile and a half in the Warwick
Farm Autumn Cup, which suggests he
will be troubled by the St.
Admittedly he met a han leap
included some good oider horses, but
he finished many lengt s
ner, Veiled Threat, also a three-year-old
to whom he was giving only 31b Tidal
Wave would appear Sydney s only hope.
getteTln 3S Me hour etAu\t£n
Cups it seems almost too much *, expeet
him to win. After the defeat of three
odds-on favorites at last week
happen in racing but it will be a fhock
for most if Tranquil Star does not win
th st ipopr H
ne s l g . # *
The 11 runners in the Warwick Farm
Cup held engagements in the Sydney Cup,
and, as in the Liverpool Handicap, the
form of some seems sure to cause their
withdrawal from the more important
race. Last year the place-getters in the
Warwick Farm race were Yours Truly,
Gold Spark and Own Folk in that order,
They ran in the Sydney Cup, and not one
of the three gained a place. It may be
the same this time, but I do not think
so. Veiled Threat won in the style of
a stayer on Saturday with 7.7, coming
away at the end, and with his 101 b.
penalty will carry only 7.12, which
should not pull him up. Other three-
year-olds in Pandect and Velocity are
sure to run well, even though the latter’s
form in the Chipping Norton Plate did
not put b j m j n tbe w> f a> class. Perhaps
be may be much better suited by a
lighter scale, and under 7.5 may be quite
a different horse. As a dead-heater for
third in the Australian Cup, and sub-
seqUently a winner at a mile and a half,
be bas laying credentials.
......
pandect has had such a quiet time
since last spring that his backward posi-
tion the Ch i pping N o rtoil Plate could
scarcely be counted against him. It
t wisg tQ overl( f ok that form in
view . Derby win h
he
was prominent in the Mel-
bourne Cup until well in the straight.
* ££ C hist
f . Catnrdav At anv rate the St
s h oul d wind him up'.
Katanga now reads much better than his
stable-companion Feminist who shaped
80 indifferently with 8.13 last week that
it is hard to see her winning the Cup
with only 31b. less.
......
Wilson ran nowhere in the Cabramatta
Handicap, but, while the distance of that
race was short for him, the two miles
may be too far, notwithstanding a lot


was once expected of him as a stayer.
Mosaic’s 9.10 is likely to stand in the
way of his third Sydney Cup win, and
last home in the Warwick Farm Cup
with 9.7 did not say much for Dashing
Cavalier in the Sydney Cup with only
31b. less. He is an erratic customer, but
is unlikely to effect a surprise on this
occasion. The St. Leger should decide
Lucrative’s chance.
Binnia Hero did so much better at his
last start than in his previous recent
races that he may flatter his backers with-
out quite winning. Fearless and
Anpapejo might be better suited by
a shorter distance. Remarc is a Wil-
liamstown Cup winner, but, even if his
fall of last week does not affect him
adversely, he has done only a Doncaster
preparation. Scientist has not raced like
a stayer, and Lady Buzzard may find the
opposition too strong.
1 expect it to be a three-year-olds’ race,
with Veiled Threat, Velocity and Pan-
dect in the places, and if an older horse
proves too good for them it may be
Katanga. John Dory’s chance was dis-
counted by his Warwick Farm Cup run,
though, like some other competitors
during the day, the going may have been
against him.
* ♦ * *
At last season’s sales at Randwick
yearlings by Veilmond were not in strong
demand, the highest price realised being
160gns., but this year the position may
be different. All Veil won the New-
market Handicap for him, he had two
winners at Randwick on Saturday, and
if Rimveil should win the Doncaster and
Veiled Threat the Sydney Cup all the
yearling authorities will discover that the
good points of Veilmond’s progeny
stand out like quills on a porcupine, and
there will be quite a rush to secure one
of the 17 by him that are catalogued
for W. Inglis and Son’s sale. There is
a lot that is amusing where judgment in
the selection of yearlings is concerned,
and nearly every year we see a youngster
purchased at four figures by some know-
ledgeable individual prove a failure, while
a cheap lot bought by some individual
who does not profess to “know it all”
proves a bargain.
Several little known sires will be repre-
sented at W. Inglis and Son’s yearling
sales on April 15, 17 and 18, and of these
Conspirator’s progeny, on appearance,
make special appeal. They have good
legs, substance, height and length. The
half-brother to King’s Head may be the
best, but other attractive colts are those
out of Regulation, Belfern and Lady Toi.
The fillies from Argosette and Jean’s
Lassie are also good. Conspirator, who
showed staying form in a few good races,
is by Blandford from Comedy Star, by
Sunstar from Comedienne.
Hall Mark is well represented numeri-
cally, and 13 of his 21 youngsters cata-
logued are chestnuts. Three of that
color bound to command attention are
the colts from Lady Zelteers, Trasina and
Rythona ; and the fact of being a three-
quarter brother to Hua will help to a
substantial price for the colt out of
Gladioli. In the same draft a colt by
Manfred from Birthday Gift should sell
well, and there is bound to be competi-
tion for the Melfort-Queen Balak, Mar-
conigram-Turtle Dove, Marconigram-
Magyar and Madagascar-Sweet Maggie
colts. The J. R. Smith youngsters are
well grown and look as if they would
come with age.
Brueghel has a specially good colt
in the half-brother to Tel Asur ; and there
is a nice chestnut filly by that sire from
the once-brilliant Arachne, who won
one Oakleigh Plate and was second in
another. Another filly that, on relation-
ship to a good performer, is bound to
attract attention is the half-sister, by
Brueghel, to Delmestor. All Veil was
sold privately for 250gns. as a yearling,
but it would be safe to bet that his brown
half-brother, by Marconigram, will reach
a higher figure.
* * * *
Entries for next Saturday’s A.J.C. St.
Leger closed on June 6, 1939, and
totalled 417. There may be half a
dozen runners, and, apart from the
much smaller return to the club in entry
fees, nothing would be lost if nominations
did not close until three months before
the race. It is an old English custom
which might well be dropped in con-
nection with Australian classics, and
the ban on geldings for those events
could also be removed without doing
injury to our bloodstock.
* * * *
Mishaps to High Caste and Remarc
and the good form shown by Rimveil
and Tuhitarata naturally caused an
alteration in Doncaster quotations, while
Veiled Threat’s win sent him to the top
of the Sydney Cup list. On Monday the
order of the most fancied horses was as
under: —
Doncaster Handicap.
Rimveil.
High Caste.
Tuhitarata.
Remarc.
Mildura, Scarlet Toi.
Amiable, Evergreen, Reading, Over-
bold.
Sydney Cup.
Veiled Threat.
Pandect.
Katanga.
Lucrative.
Feminist, Velocity.
* * * *
Favorites have not won the Doncaster
Handicap out of their turn in the last
20 years, those successful during that
period being Valicare, Winooka, Hall
Mark and Gold Rod. High Caste,
who started favorite last year at
3 to 1, was unplaced with 9.0, and com-
mencing with 1921 winners’ prices have
been as under:
1921 — Speciality, 7.9 (J. Toohey), 16 to 1.
1922 Julia Grey, 8.12 (J. Toohey), 10 to 1.
1923 The Epicure, 8.2 (J. Toohey), 25 to 1.
1924 Whittier, 9.5 (F. Dempsey), 10 to 1.
1925 Fujisan, 8.1 (G. Harrison), 20 to 1.
1926 — Valicare, 8.9 (J. Munro), 5 to 4 on.
1927 — Don Moon, 7.12 (K. Daniels), 12 to 1.
1928 Simeon’s Fort, 8.5 (W. Duncan), 9 to 1.
1929 — Karuma, 8.4 (J. Toohey), 8 to 1.
1930 Venetian Lady, 8.5 (D. Munro), 25 to 1.
1931 — Sir Chrystopher, 8.5 (J. Munro), 7 to 1.
1932 Jacko, 6.10 (D. Lightfoot), 25 to 1.
1933 Winooka, 9.13 (J. E. Pike), 3 to 1.
1934 Chatham, 10.4 (J. E. Pike), 6 to 1.
1935 Hall Mark, 9.8 (K. Voitre), 9 to 2.
1936 Cuddle, 9.4 (M. McCarten), 12 to 1.
1937 Sarcherie, 8.10 (R. Maxwell), 12 to 1.
1938 Hamurah, 7.9 (F. Hickey), 12 to 1.
1939 Gold Rod, 9.2 (M. McCarten), 4 to 1.
1940 Mildura, 8.8 (D. Munro), 7 to 1.
As a trainer, G. Price has the good
record of having prepared three of the
last five Doncaster winners Cuddle,
Gold Rod and Mildura.
* * * *
Two-year-olds are eligible for the
Doncaster, but with the Sires’ Produce
Stakes run the same day the nomination
of anything of class of that age is always
improbable nowadays. At that age Briseis
won the Doncaster with 5.7, and Cross-
fire with 6.2. On the final day of the
same meeting the latter won the Free
Handicap, 1} mile, with 7.3. At three
years Briseis won the Victoria Derby and
Melbourne Cup, so it will be gathered
that her Doncaster run earlier in the
year did her no harm. Trieste, winner
of the Carrington Stakes at two years,
ran in the Doncaster at the same age
with 8.2 —the minimum then being 6.0
—and finished seventh in a field of 36.
Present-day handicapper and pressman
W, J. Frank scored a third in a Don-
caster with two-year-old Pharamond,
and Wallace (7.11) and Waterfall (6.13)
were other Doncaster runners at two
years. A year later Wallace won the
Sydney Cup with 8.12, and Waterfall
the Caulfield Cup less than six months
after running in the Doncaster. La
Carabine was also an unsuccessful two-
year-old Doncaster competitor, and her
later performances included wins in two
Champion Stakes. Carrying 6.9, she was
second favorite for the Doncaster at
6 to 1. Those old-time trainers must
have known how to handle two-year-olds
when they were able to run them up to
a mile in good open handicaps, and then
win good races with them at three years.
* * * *
At Victoria Park last week several
horses that would have been backed for
the Flying Handicap were withdrawn.
As each was scratched it lessened the
possibility of fair prices being on offer
against something else with a good
chance. I suppose owners best know
their own business, but races at Satur-
day meetings are going to be hard for
the next few weeks, and a win in a
£lOO race, at 3 or 4 to 1, is better than
defeat in one of £5OO at 10 to 1.
* * * *
There were 28 races at last year’s
A.J.C. autumn meeting, and nine abso-
lute favorites and two sharing favoritism
with another runner were successful. A
couple of winning favorites, however,
did not benefit backers to any extent,
Reading starting at 14 to 1 on for
the St. Leger, and Ajax at 9 to 4 on for
the C. W. Cropper Plate. Winners that
started at double figures during the meet-
ing were: Mosaic (Sydney Cup), 10 to 1 ;
John (Champagne Stakes), 15 to 1 ; and
Baveon (Woollahra Handicap), 20 to 1.
Even if shipping difficulties had not stood
in the way it was not a meeting that
would have caused any bookmaker to
decide that his state of health absolutely
necessitated a trip to England in May.
* * * >l-
- year first favorites were un-
placed in the Doncaster Handicap and
Sydney Cup. High Caste was the popular
pick for the former at 3 to 1, and Yours
Truly for the latter at 3 to 1. Neither
was one of the first six at the finish.
The two previous Sydney Cup favorites,
Defaulter and Genetout, also missed
places.
« * sr *
The A.J.C. Racing Calendar shows
that from July 13, 1940, to the 22nd of
last month 2952 different horses had
raced in New South Wales. A great total
for a little over nine months, and giving
a fair idea of what a big industry horse-
racing is in this State alone ; also what
it means financially to the large number
of people directly and indirectly con-
cerned with it.
« * * *
Fast track gallops have been numerous
at Randwick during the past fortnight,
and if horses could always be relied on
to do as well in public as in private it
would be easier to pick winners. Touch-
ing on track work reminds that 40 years
ago I had a standard for mile gallops on
the course proper at Randwick, and it
generally worked out fairly correctly in
respect of important mile handicaps.
Nowadays the time on which I based my
ideas as to possibilities would not be
worth a rap. Horses now do 3sec. better
over the same ground. Admittedly they
were then more heavily shod for work
than is now the case, but in track work,
as in races, horses show greater speed
than those of 40 years ago.
* * * *
Gladynev’s new owner in Maoriland
may be some time in getting a return of
what he cost. Gladynev was topweight
with 8.12 in the Hawke’s Bay Cup, H
mile, at Hastings on March 27, There
were 15 runners, with Gladynev third
favorite. His weight was too much, and
he did not get a place. Gladynev may
never again get such a good chance of
winning an important handicap as in the
Caulfield Cup, in which he was weighted
several pounds below his best form.
* * * *
The Brisbane A.T.C. will race at
Doomben on July 5 and 12, the prize-
money totalling £7750. Doomben New-
market carries £3150 and the Doomben
Cup £2OOO and £1 gold cup. Entries
for both close on May 26 and for the
minor races on June 23.
* * * ♦
History does not always repeat itself,
but it does at times. It might therefore
be well for backers to remember that
in each of the three principal two-year-
old races at Randwick last autumn the
favorite was beaten. Flying Knight,
5-to-4 favorite for the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, finished nearer last than
first, Lucrative (11 to 2) winning from
Pandect; Trueness, 2-to-l favorite for
the Easter Plate, missed a place. Session
(3 to 1) winning from Lady Neith; and
John (15 to 1) upset calculations by
beating Lucrative (9 to 4) in the Cham-
pagne Stakes. “Can’t happen this time,”
I can hear someone say, but in racing
upsets are always possible.
* * * *
Whenever I hear growls from owners
and trainers concerning what appears in
papers it occurs to me that they
occasionally have reason to be thankful
for what doesn’t appear. Some owners
and trainers have an idea that all sporting
pressmen are either deaf and dumb or
blind. They are not, but some refrain as
much as possible from belittling the busi-
ness which gives them a livelihood. Many
people are prepared to think the worst
of racing, and it is therefore inadvisable
they should be able to say: “These
men get their living out of it, and see
what they say.” As in many other
businesses, there is dirt in racing, but
nothing near the amount its opponents
would have you believe. Therefore when
owners and trainers are inclined to con-
demn pressmen they should remember
the times they have left unsaid things
which would have upheld public opinion
even though, from an inner knowledge
of circumstances, they were aware that
such opinion was erroneous.
* * * *
Lord Lonsdale, who is better known
by name to most Australians than any
other English sportsman, was 84 in
January. Where there is racing of any
account in England he and his notori-
ously long cigars are still features.
* * * *
Kindergarten had an easy win in the
Awapuni Gold Cup, of £5OO, 1 \ mile,
at the Manawatu R.C. meeting on March
20. There were four starters, and, with
the field cantering along, the first five
furlongs took I.lB|, but as the time for
the full distance was 2.18 that meant
for the last half-mile. Sir Crusoe and
Belle Cane filled the other places. Tote
betting on the race was so light and
Kindergarten was such a hot favorite
that his backers received a dividend of
a little less than they put on him. Either
the horses now racing in Maoriland are
moderate or Kindergarten is an excep-
tional colt. It is to be hoped he comes
to Australia in the spring, as his presence
will add to the interest of w.f.a. racing
in Sydney and Melbourne. His win was
his eighth in succession, his other three
starts this season giving two seconds
and a third.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Barth-Strickland Fiasco
The consensus of opinion after the
encounter of Maoriland heavyweight
Maurice Strickland and the American
paleskin Carmen Barth at Sydney Stadium
on March 31 was probably that it
occurred one day too early. Despite the
wrong date, the crowd took it more with
mirth than with anger. It was too full
of downright suddenness to allow fair
time for getting hot under the collar.
With legs and arms that could mast
a schooner, Strickland towered over
Barth as Johnson once towered over
Burns and Stribling over Palmer. Barth
helped the effect by crouching low.
Strickland’s effective method of attack
was to lift him bodily out of that crouch
with right uppercuts heavily, not to say
ponderously, delivered. Having thus
raised him to punching height, Strickland
in the first round floored him with a
right cross. Carmen took his time get-
ting up, and Maurice continued attack-
ing with blows that looked like a huge
piston-rod in slow motion.
Carmen survived, and it subsequently
came out that betting, which had at first
favored Strickland’s chance, turned in
Carmen’s favor. Considering that Car-
men lost the round most conclusively,
that, if true, would seem to indicate
just how reckless some people are ready
to be with their money.
In the next —and last —round Carmen
made a bull-ring rush at Maurice and
drove him against the ropes. Off such
balance as he has, and aided and abetted
by Carmen crowding him, Maurice went
through the ropes and fell heavily on
the back of his neck. All past classic
long counts were then made to look like
indecent haste by Mr. Wallis. Big Ben
must have stood still in astonishment
at that new measuring of time. Mr.
Wallis’s explanation was that Maurice
appeared to have a hoof tangled in the
ropes, so he had suspended counting.
When, a few years later, Maurice got
back into the ring, Carmen hustled him
to another side and tumbled him out
again, this time for the count. Presently,
with all hands standing up in the pews
making rude and unseemly noises,
Maurice swarmed back into the ring
fairly hogging to fight someone, prefer-
ably Carmen. Soon there were cops in
the ring, and the crowd was heading for
the exits, laughing horribly and mutter-
ing the old, old mutters.
The interesting pair left Australia in
the same boat.
Jfc sj: sfc *
A 1 Bastien, the Victorian middle-
weight, boxed a 12-round draw with
Young Frisco, “champion of the Orient,”
at West Melbourne on Saturday night.
Frisco was imported by the Stadium con-
cern “to meet Richards.” He will need
to improve a ton.
V * * *
Exit Max Baer. He was stopped in
eight rounds by Lou Nova at New York
on Friday. The exploded Galento beat
Nova.
Ins and Outs
O’Reilly’s team of youngsters from St.
George gathered in Sydney’s cricket
premiership for the second year in suc-
cession. Bill and co. gave Northern
District a dreadful doing in the last
round. O’Reilly took seven for 37 (the
total was 106); then Morris (120 n. 0.),
Steedman (68) and Moss (41) put on 240
for two wickets. The Dragonslayers
closed at that, and Stapleton (three for
29), Cristofani (two for 40) and O’Reilly
(two for 46) ended N. District’s interest in
the matter at 123. O’Reilly brought his
tally of wickets for the club to 324 (the
highest in its history)—he headed the
averages, with 46 wickets at 8.2 —and
Cristofani, Lindwall and Stapleton were
always handy in support of the big?
fellow. Morris’s batting brought the
crowds along and gave him a better
club average—B9o runs at 80.9 per dig —
than Bradman’s. He, too, had good
helpers ; Steedman, Moss, Stapleton and
Fisher got runs when they were needed.
• •■••••
Other teams added their measure of
interesting cricket at times, and crowds
all round were better than for some time
past. Gulliver, of Mosman, scored 376
runs (37.6 average) and took most
wickets —59 at 12.5 apiece. Jackson, of
Waverley, had an average of 42.5 and
bagged 50 wickets at 12.1. Mosman, led
by McCabe (though injuries kept him out
at times), had a chance of tying with St.
George, but was surprisingly beaten in
the last game by Waverley, and dropped
into third place. Waverley was second,
seven points below the leaders.


Drink to
VICTORY!
I**,
«
Keep coo/
w/ri>
' ' V
6&>-
mx
m
■?m:
m-
TOOTHS
>• LAGER
OBTAINABLE IN BOTTLES AND HALF BOTTLES
K 1988. F.P.
p iH A COOL PL
SAW
30
§T r Mi
-CO FRaMMT 7“
sI H * Ca I’im|


Personal and Missing Friends.
KIDMAN. —Would anyone knowing the where-
abouts of MR. JOEL or JOE KIDMAN, last
heard of approximately 33 years ago, please
communicate with or forward his address to
MESSRS. A. N. HARDING & BREDEN,
Solicitors, “Wingello House,” Angel Place, Syd-
ney, New South Wales, who have information
that will result to Mr. Kidman’s monetary
benefit?
MOFFATT. —Would anyone knowing the
whereabouts of DENIS DE LACY MOFFATT,
last heard of at Wollongong, New South Wales,
please communicate with or forward his address
to THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 400 Queen Street,
Brisbane?
ANY person knowing the past or present
whereabouts of JOHN SMALL, a son of MAR-
GARET SMALL, who was a daughter of
DUNCAN McRAE, late of Cowies, near Gee-
long, in the State of Victoria, Farmer, De-
ceased, or any issue of the said John Small,
are requested to immediately communicate with
THE BALLARAT TRUSTEES COMPANY,
Trustees Chambers, 8 Malop Street, Geelong,
Victoria.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Perth
I*
1
• Enjoy new
hearing ease and
comfort with
the Western Elec-
tric Audiphone.
• If you are considering the purchase of
a Hearing Aid, try the Western Electric
AUDIPHONE before making a decision.
Based on 57 years’ scientific experience, it
stands supreme as a masterpiece of com-
pactness, efficiency and economy. On your
person it is hardly seen, yet it enlarges
the hearing circle to a remarkable extent,
enabling the user to take part in group
conversation, to enjoy almost unbelievable
hearing ease and comfort. Both bone and
air conduction types available. Let us
recommend the type best suited to your
needs.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, U Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GAURARD PTY.. DTD.,
370-374 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T- & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gaw I e r Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 3 3 Hay Street, Perth.
EINDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
A nolle House. Brisbane St,. Launceston.
Western Electric
'AUDI PH ONE'
HEARING AID
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Warwick Farm meeting last Satur-
day had just enough of the breath of
autumn to provide proper setting for a
dress rehearsal for the A.J.C. Easter
opening. But most of the women de-
termined not to hatch out their Easter
styks till the appointed hour. There
were vice-regals behind the bar of their
special enclosure. Queensland’s Governor
made one of the party. Henrietta and
Christopher Loder were in the family
group ; so was Peter Lubbock. Mayor
Stanley Crick and his wife were import-
ants because all the gate-money goes to
the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund. The
women’s committee of the fund and the
wives of members of the executive were
bidden to lunch by Lady Wakehurst, who
suited her dressing to the day and was
snug in cocoa angora.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron at
Kirribilli was the beacon light for which
North Side yachting addicts made last
Saturday night. The Women’s Auxiliary
was holding its night for the Navy, and
all good men brought their best girls
along to the aid of the party. A rough
count-over on Sunday morning gave the
committee the idea that there would be
at least £3OO in the locker. Mrs. Don
Taylor, who was Queen of the Fishpond,
reported £7O on the incoming tide. The
outgoing tide, of course, washed away
bottles of champagne and other strong
drink ; also silk stockings, theatre tickets,
and what all. Chocolate wheels, hoop-la,
stalls and the dancing were others in the
big money.
Knight Robert Garran did a sort of
Paul Revere ride through the U.S.A.
and Canada for the benefit of members
at the P.E.N. dinner last week. He is
the P.E.N. president, and is just newly
returned from making academic whoopee
across the Pacific. He saw motor cars,
lorries and aeroplanes being turned out
with eye-blinking rapidity in factories
whose output is to back up Britain’s war
effort. In the few months he spent with
them he saw and felt the tide of enthu-
siasm for England rise into a great
seventh wave of help.
Americans think Australians more like
themselves than the Canadians are.
Maybe Robert Garran singing ~“Waltz-
ing Matilda” to them helped the feel-
ing of kinship along. The speaker
owned to doing this, and to the song’s
making an instant hit. He told of the
Cleveland Exhibition where Magna
Charta was the lure of all; of visiting
the cottage of Barbara Frietchie, the
old lady who hung the flag she acknow-
ledged out of her window to greet the
enemy Southerners. He went south and
got caught up in a merry-go-round of
eggnog parties—an old Southern Christ-
mas custom. He was guest at a Foreign
Policy Relations luncheon —and in the
galleries (and it a Saturday afternoon)
there were 700 listeners to the speeches.
The speech of the day, clever and con-
vincing, was by a woman.
Listening to Robert Garran was like
having a seat in a magic ’plane. The
North and the South, the East and the
West stretched like a bright carpet be-
neath. Suddenly the ’plane would dive
and a glimpse was given into the homes
and the council chambers and great
conference rooms, and talks and debates,
mostly on the subjects that are exercising
Australian minds, were heard—the liberty
of the individual, the government of the
people by the people!
The Women Writers cast a wide net and
drew a catch of actors and actresses to
their lunch last Thursday. Strangely
enough, none of them proved a very good
afier-lunch speaker. The serious pedal
was pressed down by all. Marie Ney
was annoyed by Sunday closing of
theatres in Britain. Claude Flemming
spoke of friendship between Australia
and America. Gerald Kirby told that
Rachel Crothers had started her “Susan
and God” as a satire, had then seen the
light, and finished it as a serious play.
Marjorie Gordon’s speech was restricted
by laryngitis. There was a tremendous
roll-up of Women Writers. At a table
with Mrs. Ivy Moore sat Pierre Mann,
ardent worker in the Free French move-
ment, who returns to Melbourne to carry
on the good work there. Mrs. Beresford,
another enthusiast for Free France, was
a guest of Mrs. Moore.
Consul-General for the Netherlands
Elink Schuurman and his bright-faced
wife, celebrated their country’s gift of
a splendid vessel with a cocktail party.
This took place in the soft dusk of one
of the hottest April days on record.
People who have travelled in the ship
have a particular word for the nursery,
and tell that among its equipment is a
completely fitted up grocer’s “shop” with
jars and tins labelled tea, sugar and so
on. There are scales, too, for weighing
the goods.
The guests were received by the
Consul-General and Mrs. Schuurman
and Mr. and Mrs. D. Lammers. Mrs.
Schuurman’s frocking was gold in
tone* her hat black. Rose-red was
the romaine afternoon dress worn
by Mrs. D. Lammers. A necklace of
beads to tone was effective. Sydney’s
Mayor Crick and his Mayoress, Com-
modore Muirhead-Gould, the Com-
mander Urquhart couple, Major Rex
Bennett and his wife, Mrs. Albert Doyle,
Mrs. Neil McEacharn and Dame Mary
Hughes were of the company.
Attractive North Shore line girl Mollie
Carr has been appointed Red Cross
almoner to Yaralla, recently established
as a military hospital. Mollie started her
career at the Sydney Hospital as assist-
ant almoner, and from there went to
Crown-street, where she has been for less
than a year. She is evidently the com-
plete almoner, and is the first to be
appointed by the Red Cross in Aus-
tralia. She has as nice a voice and smile
as there are in Sydney. She is a trainee
of the Board of Social Study. Falk
photograph.
Every woman loved the fishtail train
to the bride’s frock at the fashion display
in aid of the 2/Ist Pioneer Battalion
Comforts Fund. This crammed Prince’s
one afternoon last week. By half-past
two there was a queue of women stretch-
ing from the restaurant steps into Martin-
place, like the Peri at the gates of Para-
dise. As the fashions and frolics didn’t
get under way until three, one or two
of those who waited wished their edu-
cation had included standing on the hands
as well as on the feet.
The music was good, and A. E. James,
who was responsible for the dresses,
added a song or two for good measure.
With Eileen Boyd he sang “Lazybones,”
and then dashed in style through
“Shortnin’ Bread.” Eileen in the “Indian
Love Call” lifted a voice rich and ring-
ing. Betty Bryant, of “Forty Thousand
Horsemen” fame, was one of the man-
nequins; Katrin Rosselle another. At
the end of the room near the door you
could, for sixpence, dip a hand into the
lucky tub and draw out maybe a bottle
of wine, a lottery ticket, or just one of
those little gadgets that seem to grow
so thickly in lucky dips. Mrs. W. H.
O’Malley Wood was president of the
party. Doris Fitton provided the com-
mentary.
Every woman who goes to the Show
this year will make straight for the
Temple of Beauty. This is really a trans-
formed Manufacturers’ Hall, its presid-
ing genius a statue of woman and child
symbolic of motherhood. This statue is
32|ft. from its base (which is a plaster
elobe representing the world) to the head
of the babe. Mr. and Mrs. Wynne
Robertson have modelled this giant figure
section by section from a miniature
design by Dr. Arthur Fleischmann. They
have done this work in six weeks, coming
from Melbourne to fill the commission.
Mr. and Mrs. Robertson have had much
pleasure in working on this statue. She
mentions with pride that her husband
worked with Rayner Hoff on the War
Memorial. Photograph by Nadel Studio.
One of the unusual exhibits along the
highway to happiness in the Manufac-
turers’ Hall is the display of men’s under-
wear. Figures of handsome gentlemen
in perfect evening suits stand about a
cocktail bar. But the suits are of trans-
parent tissue, and all the undies are plain
to the view. The Powder Bowl, an out-
size in compacts containing a huge swans-
down powder puff, has for centre a
mannequin making herself up with the
aid of the mirror in the compact lid.
The whole highway is a series of
novelties. There’s a corner of Kensing-
ton Gardens with its statue of Peter Pan.
There’s Hansel and Gretel’s gingerbread
cottage. There’s a glass slipper which
houses a family of smaller shoes fit for
Cinderella. These fly in and out with
lighthearted abandon, just as your
feet will flit about if you wear the ad-
vertised brand.
The Overseas League went merry and
bright one afternoon last week to
honor Canada’s High Commissioner
C. J. Burchell, his wife and daughter.
The three came down from Can-
berra specially for the party. Lieut.-
Colonel Moore Cosgrave, who is
Canadian Trade Commissioner and who
is returning to his own land on a visit,
was farewelled. He is one of the vice-
presidents of the Overseas.
Tea, mingled with talk about taxes
and plans for Red Cross Day (which
is June 20), was served by Mrs. Penfold
Hyland to all the presidents of Red Cross
branches. The assembly was at Toft
Monies, the Penfold Hyland home at
Elizabeth Bay. The Owen lady in a speech
said she was confident that once people
had got used to paying the increased
taxes they would give as before to good
causes. With the exception of Alderman
E. S. Marks, who is chairman of the
Red Cross Day committee, all the guests
were women. The need for more Red
Cross homes was the alderman’s theme.
June 20 is to be studded with badges
from country to city. A queen com-
petition is expected to pile up an Everest
of silver.
Honorable mention to Clem Dawe for
a new idea. He referred to the people
in the theatre boxes, the other afternoon,
as the cave-dwellers.
Pretty Anne Colvin, of Roseville, was
starry-eyed under a tiny Dolly Varden
hat that looked like a bunch of love-in-
a-mist when she married her Gilbert Mc-
Kinlay at St. Andrew’s last Monday
night. Her long dinner frock was of
blue and silver-embossed lame, and her
small blue and cream posy was tied with
silver ribbons. Anne’s parents are the
R. J. Colvins, of Roseville. Gilbert
comes from Launceston, where his father
runs one of the historic island’s big
department stores. The Royal Yacht
Squadron at Kirribilli went gala for the
wedding reception, at which about 140
guests, country, inter-State and Tas-
manian, kissed the bride. Honeymoon
is being spent in this State, but the Gil-
bert McKinlays’ home address will be
Launceston.
Harald Bowden did a bit of quick
reckoning in the interval of the Kate
Towers matinee and said, what with a
penny here and a penny there, the grand
total would be well over £3OO. That
was heartening news, because the empty
seats in the circle didn’t make for the
happiness of the late-comer. However,
many had paid for reservations but found
they couldn’t come. Some of the audience
had sent along cheques of appreciation.
One of these was Mrs. Wallace Horsley
(a daughter of J. C. Williamson). Her
help had been so great that a grateful
committee had placed a spray of exquisite
orchids on the railing of her box.
Josephine Marks, all in white, just in-
side the Theatre Royal doors, announced
at a quarter past two that the sweets were
sold out. Programme sellers did brisk
business because each programme carried
a lucky number, and any woman might
go home set up with silk undies or silk
stockings. Honors of the programme,
truth to tell, went to the stars of other
days. Carrie Moore sang, and came
back, to tumultuous applause, and soon
had everybody in the audience joining
her in “Lily of Laguna.” Fred Bluett
showed how a funny song should be
sung. Minnie Love and Marie Le Varre
were a spirited pair. Marie Bremner and
Betty Bryant, heroine of “Forty Thou-
sand Horsemen,” were pretty enough to
have won a poem from the poet of the
Schubert ballet. In Lynne Golding this
had a nightingale that seemed to dance
on winged and singing feet. At the end
of the matinee Katie Towers, surrounded
by all the performers, met the warm-
hearted applause that her 65 years on
the stage deserves. Every turn was a
success, but Clem Dawe and the entire
audience carolling “Sarah, Sarah” (one
of England’s shelter favorites) was a riot.
Mavis Ripper came up from Mel-
bourne last week bringing trunks full of
the clothes she makes out of materials
she has had woven in many cases from
her own designs. There was a grand
parade of these at Prince’s, followed by
drinks, sandwiches and savories. There
were sausages, too, that didn’t even look
first cousin to the saveloy Fred Bluett
had been maligning at Katie Towers’s
matinee. The clothes started as slacks
and ended up in glamor dresses. Sandra
Jacques, Sue Other Gee, Jasmin Barton
and Mrs. McNeil Ackland were somewell-
knowns showing off the creations. Among
onlookers were Valerie Purves and Mrs.
Pardey from Melbourne, Mrs. Grace and
Mrs. Wunderlich, Amber Jacobs, Mrs.
Randolph Kidder, Mrs. Wilson Flake,
Diana Massie and the Poynter sisters.
The clothes were served to music so soft
it seemed more like a melodic memory.
It happened last week, but it might
have added a recherche note to our street
decorations during the visit of the Ameri-
can fleet. Suddenly, with carefree
abandon, out of a window in a high
Darlinghurst flat the wind whisked a
corset, and dropped it with nonchalance
on a safety-zone standard.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked.
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
Price:
Military Toilet Sets from 42/-
C. E. KITCHINGS
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1462 of 1934.
BETWEEN ARTHUR BATES Petitioner and
IVY IRENE BATES Respondent.
TO IVY IRENE BATES late of 126 Ren wick
Street Redfern in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that ARTHUR BATES
has commenced a suit against you in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to this suit in the proper office
of this Court on or before the Eleventh day
of June One thousand nine hundred and forty-
one and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of March One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, City Mutual Building, 60 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 183 of 1940.
BETWEEN GRACE MAUD MARKS Peti-
tioner and
SYDNEY JOHN MARKS also known as
Edward John Clarke Respondent.
TO SYDNEY JOHN MARKS also known as
Edward John Clarke late of Goondiwindi
Queensland.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GRACE
MAUD MARKS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-seventh day of
June One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of March,
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LUMSDEN, DOYLE & CO., Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 77 King Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2274 of 1940.
BETWEEN PATRICIA ALBERTA BARBARA
WATSON Petitioner and
GEORGE SAMUEL WATSON Respondent.
TO GEORGE SAMUEL WATSON late of
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PATRICIA
ALBERTA BARBARA WATSON has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-seventh day of June 1941
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of April One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
E. W. B. SHERLOCK, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2280 of 1940.
BETWEEN ALICE McEVOY CULVER Peti-
tioner and
ALAN JOHN CULVER Respondent.
TO ALAN JOHN CULVER late of 52 Glou-
cester Street Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE
McEVOY CULVER has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twenty-seventh day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this First day of April, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
No longer is a woman J.P. a rara avis
in the State of Victoria. There are now
listed 100 such women openly avowed
to be citizens of good judgment and un-
blemished name. Last week the Vic-
torian Women Justices’ Association went
below ground for an at-home in honor
of the Lady Mayoress. In her welcome
to Mrs. Beaurepaire, president Mrs. Olive
Gray had the assembly on its tiptoes.
She said there was someone else present
just as worthy a citizen who should have
been welcomed first. Tension was con-
siderably relieved when Madame X’s
identity was divulged as Mrs. Beaure-
paire’s mother, Mrs. N. D. McCabe.
Among country members invited to
the party was Ballarat’s full quota —Mrs.
L. Evans, Miss E. Goulie and Miss E. B.
Turner. Miss Turner was accompanied
by her mother, who took a lively interest
in proceedings. Tea with luscious cream
cakes followed on an address by Miss
Francis Pennington and a parcel of speeches
from various sources. Miss Pennington,
a Housing Commission member, gave in
her lecture on housing problems an out-
line of work already done and of the
ambitious programme ahead. She said
that although only half of the Fisher-
men’s Bend estate is in use there are
living there already 300 children under
14. The commission is fighting for dental
clinics and dispensaries in several
suburbs. It is all for youth movements,
boys’ and girls’ clubs, etc. It condemns
time-payment in no uncertain terms, and
is at the moment agitating for a central
depot where furniture, furnishing, etc.,
may be left, for many people would be
willing to give furniture to less fortunate
families if they had somewhere to send
it. Linen and curtains are also needed.
Miss Pennington says there are hundreds
of homes in slum “pockets” where sugar-
bag makeshifts are used instead of blinds
and curtains.
All four seasons descended upon
Garden Week. During the hottest days,
when summer returned with a vengeance,
the coolest place in the Alexandra Gar-
dens was an air-raid shelter. This was
exhibited by C. E. Isaac as a pictorial
explanation of one method of disguising
militant utility beneath the innocence of
flower-beds. The type of hidey-hole was
a combination of Anderson shelter and
trench dug four feet into the ground. The
encompassing mound was terraced for a
gay display of flowers. Grass was used
on the slopes, but the designers recom-
mend creeping plants for a permanent
shelter, as grass would be tricky to cut.
Rain or no rain, chops cooked out of
doors are succulent to the tooth and
teasing to the nose. At the barbecue on
Saturday in G. T. Brown’s garden in
Mathoura-road, Toorak, chop-eaters,
soon smudged from ear to ear, didn’t
mind if an occasional spatter of rain
caught them in the eye. The midday
meal in the open air abetted the After-
Care Hospital and the Originality Branch
of the Comforts Fund. Often in years
gone by the Brown garden has known
the aroma of open fire grills and
“murphies,” which picnics, all for the
Animal Welfare League, were organised
by Miss M. Norwood, very much on
deck also on Saturday.
Mr. Brown, known to everybody as
“Hopper,” was c/re/-in-chief over a line
of squat brick fireplaces under the
willows, and assistance was also on tap
from Val Dimelow, Don Hallenstein,
Jack Torrance and other buddies handy
at wielding grillers, stoking fires and
doing other bushies’ jobs with a will and
a deft hand. A methodical touch was
a soap and towel attachment for the
garden tap, and there were also rubbish
tips here and there nevertheless the
four “Hopper” Brown dogs had a grand
time snuffling for bones in the bushes,
except at measured interludes when the
Aberdeen among them had a dust-up
with Judy Halley’s Scotchie.
On the gate were Mrs. F. Lonie and
Mrs. J. Shaw, entertained by the family
parrot with “Come on, Hopper, how about
a beer?” and other apposite remarks.
A niner was present; also other liquid
refreshment. Tea appeared during the
afternoon, and wheels, dartboards and
other chancy gadgets did well. Among
those who helped were Mrs. E. Paton,
in a green tweed coat, and Vera Whiting,
in a check suit. Vera won a capon from
the wheel and wondered what in the
world she’d do with it. Others, who on
the contrary kept on trying to win next
day’s dinner, included the Lloyd
Brinds, the Maurice Slomans, Dr. Alan
McCay, Mrs. Ralph Hunt and the Guy
Barrengers, Guy in a khaki greatcoat of
generous proportions.
Herewith from Spencer Shier a country
bride, Dorothy Ingram, eldest daughter
of Cr. and Mrs. J. T. Ingram, of Egre-
mont, Lurg. ’Groom Harold Gardner
is the son of the Singleton Gardners,
also of Lurg. The wedding will take
place at St. Andrew’s kirk, Benalla, on
Easter Saturday.
Shorter than usual was the ceremony
of the Eighty-Sixth Annual Commence-
ment of Melbourne University. Chan-
cellor Justice Lowe and Vice-Chancellor
J. D. G. Medley gave addresses, but they
were briefer than many already on
record ; also there were fewer graduates
than usual. Afterwards the Chancellor
and the Vice-C., with Mrs. Lowe
and Mrs. Medley, stood in the Arctic
gale outside the Cloisters shaking
the hands of several hundred people who
filed past, hanging on to hats and hair.
When the sanctuary of the buffet in
the Union House was attained the Chan-
cellor decided to call it a day. He shed
his academic robes, pushing them out
of sight on a spare chair and attended
to the inner man with hot coffee. Re-
splendent as a couple of golden pheasants
were attachments of the Department of
French, Dr. and Mrs. Alan Taylor—the
doctor’s elaborate paraphernalia acquired
at the Paris University. Not outdone in
color of hoods or accessory trappings
was Mrs. Russell Grimwade in lipstick-
red ensemble worn with silver foxes.
Dr. Esme Anderson was a well-turned-
out figure in all-black. The Stuart Crows
were proud parents present in honor of
son Maurice Stuart Crow, candidate for
the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
J D. G. Medleys’ son David received a
B.Sc.
Events of University Commencement
Week included the garden party, a con-
ferring of degrees, productions of
Clemence Dane’s “Cousin Muriel” and
of Patrick Hamilton’s thriller “Rope,” a
dance in the Union House and a women
graduates’ dinner. Present at the dinner
were some 200 women grads,, their
learning sitting lightly or not so lightly
upon them (depending upon the careers
they have chosen since their student
days). Afterwards there was a general
drift towards the maths, theatre for
addresses from Dr. Flora Innes, of India,
and Dr. Mary King, of Hong Kong.
Regarding the dramatic efforts, “Cousin
Muriel,” a very worthy production pre-
sented by the Sydney University Dramatic
Society, marked the beginning of the
Inter-University Dramatic Festival.
“Rope,” the Melbourne offering, was
produced by Peggy Tellick and enjoyed
a two-nights’ season.
Golfers make good knitters. At the
opening of Victoria Golf Club associates
and their friends who knew one another s
prowess fairly well in relation to steel
shafts discovered virtues akin to needles,
steel and otherwise. The garments on
display were made by golfers during the
summer vacation. Some of these women
are also neat machinists, for coats, dresses,
pants for small boys, etc., were included
in the show of goods to be shipped to
Britain. Canadian foursomes were
played during the afternoon, and as in
other years gone by Mrs. Len Buxton
entertained a couple of hundred fellow-
golfers to tea.
Congratulations are being offered to
Dr. Elizabeth Shepherd, winner of the
Aurelia Henry Reinhardt Fellowship.
This fellowship of 1500 dollars entitles
the winner to a year’s research in a
country other than her own. Dr. Shep-
herd has chosen California, and hopes to
leave for the U.S. early this year. Her
subjects will pertain to literature. For
her doctorate of philosophy, which she
acquired some years ago in London, she
chose English language. Dr. Shepherd is
a graduate of Canterbury University.
Last year she was bursar at the Mel-
bourne University Women’s College, and
she spent the summer working at Mari-
byrnong.
Broothorn made this portrait of Eliza-
beth Neate, who will be Titania in the
Tin Alley Players’ production of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream.” Elizabeth
clings to her maiden name on the other
side of the footlights only. Husband
John Doyle will be in the orchestra, and
if original plans are adhered to he will
play the trumpet solos. Lance Carlson
is to be Bottom and Keith Macartney
has a two-fisted job as Puck and pro-
ducer. The production is a breakaway
from the old traditions and from Men-
delssohn’s music. The characters will all
be “sharp,” the fairies in the chorus will
have a pinch of shrewishness mixed up
with their sugar and spice. Margaret
Sutherland has written the music, and
the Martin sisters are doing the decor.
It’s the Tin Alley’s most ambitious effort
so far, and it will run for a week from
the 26th. The decision about the pro-
longed season, which should be a
record-breaker for the Union Theatre,
was reached through the interest of
several metropoliian schools —some want
a night apiece reserved for their young
pupils.
R.A.A.F. Auxiliaries are going flat out
to make a success of the dance in St.
Kilda Town Hall on the 18th. By the way
extra tickets are selling it looks like be-
ing a capacity house. Tickets are only
7s. 6d., and there won’t be any thumb-
screws about raffles, badges, balloons, etc.
The only etceteras are one wheel and a
hot-dog stall. The dogs will range from
Alsatian to terrier size, and all are guaran-
teed pedigreed, to the palate at least.
Hot soup also will be procurable. Alan
McCulloch is providing decoration for
the dog stall with his color drawings.
Alan’s most recent imaginative effort
was Pot Luck, a Patriotic Party Book,
containing an assortment of recipes
picked up by Mary Lundqvist in Sweden
and other foreign parts. Profits go to
the Red Cross and Comforts, and the
Wasps are sponsors of the little book.
Therein the McCulloch imagination runs
riot in line and letterpress. Entertain-
ing contents include a cocktail party epi-
demic, an excellent illustration of hors-
d’oeuvres from Russia (pre-Bolshevik
era), smoked goose and pickled herrings
as seen through an artist’s eyes, a
page on kids’ parties and how to amuse
the little darlings, some tipsy puddings
(illustrations), smorgasbord secrets,
treated seriously and otherwise, and a
crazy discourse about skaaling in Scan-
dinavia.
In their new domicile, No. 5 North-
road, which is within a stone’s-throw
of the beach at Brighton, Mrs. E.
Prytz and Mrs. M. E. Turnbull rallied
their friends to a late-afternoon party.
Both hostesses wore black, and for
decoration of the reception room they
depended upon a superabundance of
gladioli. A giddy little hat that caught
the eye was above the brow of Mrs.
Viv Cumberland. Its ingredients were
a nosegay of flowers, a scrap of ribbon
and a wisp of veil. The Bruce McLeans
were there ; also the Lu Conollys, Ro
Gregerson and the Bartons, Flying-
Officer George and brother Geoff.


THE SERVICE MAN
Blitzkrieg Comes to the
Balkars.
‘Ek Dura"; In the, lark of Sunday
morning, April 6, Hitler’s armies
attacked Yugoslavia and Greece. Yugo-
slavia was invaded with the same excuses
with which Hitler had invaded Poland
and Norway that atrocities had been
committed on Germans by a people who
had been asking for nothing but to be
left alone, and that Britain was seeking
to use the country as a stepping-stone
to attack Germany. The “crime” alleged
against the Greeks was that they had
accepted British assistance after the out-
set of “the war with Italy.”
During the previous week the Premier
of Hungary, Count Teleki, had com-
mitted suicide, perhaps because he was
not ready to live to see his country, from
which the approaches to Belgrade are
easiest, turned into the threshold of a
slaughterhouse for friendly people.
There was no declaration of war on
Yugoslavia and Greece. The procedure
was fully in keeping with Hitler’s
Order of the Day for the assault, which
was couched in the language of the
robber and the thug.
Its first lines showed the cynical in-
tention to attack, the premeditation of
the whole thing and how little any act
of Yugoslavia’s counted in producing the
new invasion:
Soldiers of the south-east front, your
hour has come! Since early this morning
the German people have been at war with
the Belgrade Government. We will lay
down our arms when this band of ruffians
has definitely and most emphatically been
eliminated and when the last Briton has
been expelled from the continent.
He told the Yugoslavs, as he told the
Poles and the Norwegians and Dutch
before them, that they must thank
Britain for their plight. The rest was
a raving tirade in which the King of
the Yugoslavs and his associates were
characterised as “criminal usurpers,” and
the abuse was salted with hysterical tales
of how German diplomats and consular
employees were “daily subjected to the
most humiliating attacks”:
Bandits held a German school in ruins.
Innumerable German nationals were kid-
napped and attacked; some were killed.
This is the answer to my eight years’ effort
to bring about closer co-operation, a task
which 1 have pursued most assiduously.
Britain’s aim in the Balkans, it was
alleged, was the realisation of a plan
which had been postponed because of
the “gigantic victories of the German
armies” —a plan for general mobilisation
in Yugoslavia and the landing of more
British troops in Greece. He, Hitler, had
warned Greece of the consequences of
Britain landing more troops there. His
own stroke was being delivered at a
moment when co-operation between
Italian and German units had “banished
the danger to Axis interests in the
African theatre”!
The first British and South Africans
to reach the outskirts of Addis Ababa
laughed at this bombast from the heart
of Mussolini’s conquered Empire. The
Italians near the Eritrean border had
just suffered another Adowa at the hands
of the forces which had conquered Keren
and Asmara.
Before Hitler spoke the German High
Command announced that, because of
British troop movements in northern
Greece and their co-ordination with
Yugoslav forces, the German army had
resorted to a “counter offensive” and had
crossed the Yugoslav and Greek frontiers
at several points, while the Luftwaffe had
successfully attacked aerodromes as well
as the “fortress” of Belgrade.
Salonika also was bombed. German
communiques spoke of destruction in
both places of military aerodromes,
barracks and other objectives and the
shooting down of Yugoslav ’planes (“63,
without loss”), and of a “particularly
successful” attack on Belgrade.
Earlier in the week the Yugoslav Gov-
ernment had declared Belgrade an open
town and undefended. In any case, its
air defences can be worth little. The
city hangs over high bluffs looking across
the river and bleak plains. It is con-
centrated. All its features stand out and
it could be blasted to pieces in next to
no time. It is a better mark than
Coventry, and attack on it by a German
force such as those used in Britain could
blot it out. Its fate is wrapped in silence.
Berlin declared that an afternoon raid
following a series in the morning was
“made in mass.” After the first raid.
early in the morning, Belgrade Radio
went off the air, but this may have been
only so that it could not be used as a
guide to aircraft.
Mussolini, of course, has joined his
fellow-bandit. An official Italian state-
ment declared that “Italian sea, land and
air forces” would fight in Yugoslavia,
and Germans stated that Italian ’planes
had “bombed an important objective in
southern Yugoslavia.”
Every German communique stresses
the fact that it is Serbia, not the old
Croat-Slav country north in old Austro-
Hungarian territory, that has been
bombed or invaded. Hitler is trying to
turn the Croats and Slovenes against the
Serbs, as he turned the Slovaks against
the Czechs.
The invasion has not terrorised either
the Serbs or the Greeks. When the
news reached Athens a wounded soldier
cried: “We will throw them into the sea
—the Baltic Sea.” The King of Greece
issued a proclamation in which he said
that with Britain and the United States
on their side and in unison with their
brothers of Yugoslavia the Greeks would,
fight to the last man.
Britain this time was not caught
napping. Mr. Eden and Sir John Dill,
C.1.G.5., have been in Greece for days.
Sea movement of troops obviously has
been going on ever since Hitler’s inten-
tion to attack Greece became clear.
Berlin suspects that there are 350,000
or more British soldiers in Greece,
though Gayda merely declares that there
are more than 100,000. Admiral Cun-
ningham’s victory came at an opportune
moment, and Germany’s boast that the
eastern Mediterranean has been mined is
probably just as idle as Hitler’s shout
about “the destruction of the B.E.F.
which purged northern Europe of British
troops.”
Nothing has been heard of Turkey,
but any movement in the Plovdev region
by German troops would bring the Turks
to the brink of war, A few hours before
the Huns launched their attack the Soviet
signed a pact with Yugoslavia, by virtue
of which each will “maintain a policy
of strictest friendship if either is attacked.”
All the little Russian-ravaged countries
of northern Europe had non-aggression
and friendship pacts with Moscow. Ger-
many and Italy and Japan used to have
an Anti-Comintern Pact. Pacts with
European Axis nations and their friends
are worth about as much as pacts with
an orang-outang.
A British official announcement that
thrilled the Empire was made on Sunday
night.
After the entry of German troops into
Bulgaria, the British Government, having
consulted the Australian and Maoriland
Governments, sent an £rmy to Greece,
and Australians and Maorilanders are
part of it. The R.A.F., which has been
operating in Greece since the beginning
of the campaign, has been strongly rein-
forced. An American Associated Press
correspondent reckons the British im-
perial force at 150,000, with “more arriv-
ing daily,” and reports that, as well as
being in Salonika, British imperial troops
are stretched across the Trikkala defence
line from Corfu to south of Larissa.
Reading between the lines, the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland troops withdrawn
from Britain are part of the army. It
was stated by the Maoriland P.M., and
here quoted, that the three echelons from
his Dominion would fight as one
division, and before silence settled on
Australia’s official war correspondent he
mentioned that Australians and Maori-
landers from Britain were companions
in the Voyage Magnificent,
Early accounts of the fighting were all
from enemy sources. Germans and
Italians allowed that the invaders of
Greece were meeting with “tenacious
resistance” (from British forces, the Italian
version said) in the Struma valley, and
the German bulletin refers to “difficul-
ties” there. Ankara supported a Greek
claim that on the eastern front Greek
troops were holding on everywhere.
Turkish Radio said that a German
drive was made from the Hungarian-
Rumanian-Yugoslav border towards Bel-
grade across from Szeged, 90-odd miles
away across Dunavska Plain. The in-
vaders used two motorised and infantry
divisions, while 12 to 15 divisions were
concentrated in Austria near the Yugo-
slav border in the west —it is here that
two German, main rail links to Italy run.
The actual attacks on the Greek border
seem to have been clustered around the
point where the Greek, Yugoslav and
Bulgarian borders join, and where an
enclave of Bulgaria runs westward from
the Struma towards Lake Doiran. Here
a thrust seemed on Monday to be in
progress towards the Vardar valley, which
leads to central Greece and the road to
Fiorina and the rear of the Greek armies
attacking the Italians.
It js early to say how the fighting is
going or, in this rocky and broken coun-
try, actually how much fighting is in pro-
gress. But the Greek Government reports
that “powerful German forces,” well
equipped with abundant tanks and heavy
artillery, are taking part in the Struma
and Beli operations ; that the areas in
which they attacked were held by only
very small Greek forces; that a very
violent struggle was put up with restricted
means ; that up to Sunday afternoon only
one fort fell; that 10 tanks had been
destroyed and five or six ’planes shot
down, and that in places the Germans left
bodies piled high before Greek defenders
without being able to advance. But the
Greeks evacuated one fort and “some
areas of Greek territory” on Sunday to
“avoid unnecessary sacrifice.”
Turkey has been officially assured by
the Germans that it has “nothing to
fear.”
Wavell's Campaigning.
“Ek Dum”: The German and Italian
advance on Benghazi might not have
been so much of a surprise if all eyes
had not been turned on Britain’s vic-
tories. On April 1 G.H. Cairo reported
that advanced forces had met infantry
and mechanised enemy units near Mersa
Brega, which is several miles nearer Ben-
ghazi than El Agheila, yielded up the
week before.
The Mersa Brega business was
described by Cairo as “looking like an
attempt to test our strength.”
On April 2 H.Q. added: “Operations
north-east of Mersa Brega continue. Our
advanced forces are withdrawing.”
The Italians claimed that their
mechanised forces and those of the
Germans had “overcome the enemy and
occupied Mersa Brega” ; and that their
’planes had sunk a ship at Benghazi;
while the Germans spoke of a joint attack
on Monday, which had resulted in the
capture of prisoners and tanks:
The German losses were slight. The
enemy withdrew.
Cairo’s next communique admitted the
capture of Agedabia—still nearer Ben-
ghazi. Rome said that Agedabia was
taken on Wednesday and that German-
Italian forces had reached Zuetina, 20
miles to the north-west, while British
troops were retreating northwards :
We captured a number of prisoners and
armored and unarmored vehicles. Our
losses were extremely light.
A headquarters spokesman at Cairo less
than 48 hours before had said that “no
particular significance attached to the
action in the Mersa Brega area,” and that
“it was unlikely that the enemy would
embark on large-scale operations in Libya
at this time of the year.”
Then the R.A.A.F. was reported to have
been in action over Jedabia, about 100
miles from Benghazi, which the Italians
and Germans had attacked from the air.
It brought down a Messerschmitt and
damaged a number of Italian Breda 20’s.
The swiftness of the British withdrawal
over so long a distance as 95 miles—
which will bring the main line to the
region of the great Cyrene ranges, prob-
ably with the valleys of the Jebel Akdhar
in front —could not have been achieved
effectively on the instant, and must have
been carefully prepared for, even though
frontal forces were comparatively light.
There is no definite information as to
the strength of the Germans —in Berlin a
Swiss newspaper has been told that there
are four divisions fully mechanised,
which it is difficult to believe unless the
Germans are using Italian or French
Moroccan materiel. Newspaper experts
came forward with the perennial griev-
ance that they are not allowed to run the
campaign and put the Middle Eastern
Command right about its errors.
The Middle Eastern Command and
the Mediterranean Naval and Air Com-
mands have never made any signal
errors. They withdrew from British
Somaliland, and were able as a result to
retake it almost unresisted in their own
time without having the country rav-
aged, as they would have done had they
made a stand to hold the place against
the Italians. They let the enemy keep
order in northern desert Kenya till it
suited them to drive them out.
When Graziani pushed on to Sidi Bar-
rani the Fleet-street and Pitt-street mar-
shals would have had the Middle Eastern
Army fight on the defensive while the
weather was likely to suh Graziam for
months ahead. Instead, Wavell became
an attacker instead of ade en er that at
a moment which would just allow him
a sufficient period before summer to sweep
over Cyrenaica, consolidate h,s mam
lines and lay down new bases, and also
to clean up Ethiopia. He moved so
secretly that, when he began his Sidi
Barram operation ever, battahon com-
manders involved thought that they were
beginning a routine raid. Wavell himself
stayed in Cairo and went ostentatiously
to a dinner party full of Americans. He
j not to be much more communi-
“ Nobody can
plans; nobody knows them. His
P > the battle for Egypt
out of E t
Now summer is striking Cyrenaica, and
summer j s a || favorable to defence along
stro ng well-watered lines, especially
conducted against
whose communications are over 600
miles mainly of desert country and on
routes of which 150 miles of flank must
unless { £ b
threatened. The naval situa-
* . coasta , roads are und
flre _ is £avorab|e to the A .O.T.N.
r . , ,
The air and naval campaigns have been
as sound as the land campaign. Instead
of yielding to the yells to bomb Rome,
Air y chi< . f B Marshal , Longmore has prac ;
tically bombed the Colonial Regia Aero-
nautica out of existence—the Italians lost
178 ’planes in N. Africa alone last month.
Back from Benghazi.
“El V.”: General Wavell, who is a
whale for surprises, gave the world
an extra one by evacuating Benghazi,
which British and Australian troops occu-
pied on February 6. This was done
in the face of “the determined advance
of strong Italian and German forces,”
and it was “in accordance with the suc-
cessful Sidi Barrani policy of choosing
our own battleground.”
The Italians had left Benghazi swiftly
to its fate because it would be a horrible
spot to be caught in by a British fleet or
a British air wing, with the A.I.F. on
their tails. It also was easy to cut off
southward.
They dropped it like a hot potato so
soon as Derna fell into British hands.
The weaknesses of its position were soon
shown when the Hussar mechanised
cavalry and other forces cut across coun-
try and completely surprised Mussolini’s
hordes on their way thence to Tripoli.
Benghazi has a harbor of no naval
value. The line of communication south-
ward down the 130 miles of gulf coast-
line to El Agheila is not such as to in-
spire any German with enthusiasm. It
has the sea for background all the way,
and a long swim ahead to Tripoli. The
whole east flank on the Egyptian side
has a vast stretch of desert teeming with
British lions and fighting kangaroos and
Indian cheetahs, who hold it to the depth
of 200 miles from the coast.
Back not so far from this line in the
coastal belt is the plateau of Cyrene,-
fertile, healthy and well-watered wooded
mountain country; then a land scored
from north to south by vast wadis, which
run all the way to the sea and are wide
enough to hold a town. Derna lies in
one of these depressions, which is like
a giant’s motor road. Bardia harbor, the
only one along the Cyrenaican coast
worth while beside Tobruk, is the end of
another. The road almost the whole way
from Benghazi to Egypt is along a sea
coast depression below the sea cliffs.
A British eastward move back to the
hills, even to Bardia, would be good
strategy. The key to Libya is not Tripoli
but the Mediterranean. With the new
supremacy of the R.N. gained in the
recent battle, there is little chance ot
further large bodies of enemy troops
finding their way from Italy to Libya
by sea, and air carriage has its strict
limitations.
Most of Libya is worthless. Summer
is imminent. At present all supplies for
Benghazi and places west of the Libyan
border have to be carried from Mersa
Matruh, itself 250 miles alone from Alex-
andria. To give the troops Cairo leave,
to bring up reinforcements and needed
stores of material means traversing hun-
dreds of miles, which costs time and im-
mense labor on land or valuable ship-
ping time and protection at sea.
To fall back quite a distance is sound
for two reasons. Concentrated forces
can securely guard against attack on
Egypt from the west—the task of moving
on 400 miles across the desert in summer
to take Tripoli was never worth while.
They also will be brought close to tne
Aegean war centre in case they shout
be needed there.
In those circumstances Wavell doubt-
less felt that the Germans and Italians


We know you want to help your fighting men
to win this war. Whatever your age or position,
you can do your bit by lending your weekly savings to
Australia. The time to help the country that you love is
NOW. Join a War Savings Certificate Group in your office
or factory.
If no one has organised a Group in your firm, find out how
to start one today. Special War Savings Group subscription
books are available free of charge. Apply to:—
The Organising Secretary,
WAR LOANS AND WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES CAMPAIGN,
Commonwealth Bank,
SYDNEY MELBOURNE - - - - ADELAIDE
BRISBANE HOBART PERTH
Cerfj U * ,e *
JOIN THE CROUP <
in your office or facfory
INSERTED BY COURTESY OF GLADSTONES PTY., LTD.
could have Benghazi and with it a peck
of summer troubles, while he himseif
moves his troops into a healthier moun-
tain atmosphere, which shortens his com-
munications and eases transport problems.
Certain it is that neither Wavell nor
Benghazi’s Governor, Maitland Wilson,
who looks like a twin brother of Charles
Rosenthal, showed any disposition previ-
ously to retire in the face of odds. Usu-
ally they have been at the wrong end of
four-to-one propositions.
Even at Keren, where numbers and
equipment were strongly against them
and the enemy was entrenched in a posi-
tion that looked impregnable, they took
the place in a time which, in the circum-
stances, must have been a record.
All that has happened at Benghazi is
that John Bull has drawn back his fore-
arm, which has a hard-clenched fist at
the end of it.
All Over in Abyssinia.
“Ek Dum”; Finis has almost been
written to the Abyssinian campaign. The
main forces, which swept down from
Kassala, via Agordat and Keren, and
which commanded the Massawa Road
last week, are on the jump down only
50 miles from the coast and stopped only
by a blown-up road. Part of this army
was detached to invade Abyssinia by the
main Addis Ababa road and swiftly took
Adowa across the border, 100 miles
away.
Meanwhile the long-distance S. African
and British expeditionaries who had
taken Italian Somaliland, Harar, Jiga
Jiga and Diredawa pushed up the Abys-
sinian railway and reached Addis Ababa
on April 5.
The Moyale forces from Kenya are
sweeping the Italians out of the country
to the south of the capital. Those from
Adowa are cleaning up the Magdala-
Dessye and Gondar roads. The Gallabat
invasion, gathering rebels in thousands,
was at the week-end on its way from
Debra Markos. When the Asmara force
reaches Dessye and cuts the road to
Assab the Abyssinian war will be over
finally.
Cunningham Puts to Sea.
“Nobby II”; At noon on March 27
Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham heard
at Alexandria that Italian warships had
been seen by scout ’planes south-east of
Sicily. His flagship, Warspite, Devon-
port-built, probably conforms to the
usual custom of having a large part
of her complement from her birthplace.
Hence, both she and her two Scottish-
built sister-battleships, Barham and
Valiant, must have been full of tars whose
homes by Plymouth and Clydeside have
lately been savagely bombed.
Cunningham wasted no time. In
half an hour or so Vice-Admiral
Pridham-Wippell, who was in the ill-
fated battle-cruiser Audacious in 1914,
and whose 56 years and tough experience
have not burned the spirit of adventure
out of him, was on his way to a station
off the south of Crete. There he was to
play the game of sandpiper to lure the
Italians to their castor oil.
He had a choice collection of four
Leanders with him. There was Orion,
his flagship, Flag-Captain Back; there
was H.M.A.S. Perth, commanded by
Bowyer-Smyth, descendant of one of
Charles IPs accession baronets and mar-
ried to an Australian girl; there were
the inevitable Ajax (Captain McCarthy),
the new powerful Southampton-class
ship Gloucester (Captain Rowley), 9600
tons, and a fine bunch of seasoned de-
stroyers. Among them were Havock,
which careered into Narvik Fiord behind
Warspite and came home covered
with glory, and H.M.S. flotilla leader
Stuart, 1530 tons, a Geordie immi-
grant, 23 years old. Mr. Menzies
told newspapermen in London that
it had been customary in Australia
to remark that Stuart was tied together
with string. Actually Stuart has had 361
knots in her, and her five 4.7’5, lighter
guns, ample torpedo tubes and com-
plement of over 180 men make her some-
thing to approach warily. Her captain,
Hector Macdonald Laws Waller, is a
product of the Kelly country.
Pridham-Wippell’s Orion was 40 miles
from the Italians when he received his
first report of the enemy and trans-
mitted it to the C.-in-C. at 7.49 a.m.,
March 28. He steamed towards Cun-
ningham, who was 95 miles s.-e. and
steering n.-w.
Orion made contact with the Italians
just after 8 a.m., having steered a north-
erly course to approach them. Up to
that time heavy ships had not been seen.
About 9 a.m. the Italian cruiser screen
turned abruptly and made for Italy—
cruiser screens usually operate about ten
miles out from heavy units.
Orion followed, and presently Prid-
ham-Wippell’s eyes were gladdened by
the sight of a Littorio battleship. He
slid warily away to draw the leviathan,
which appeared to be Vittorio Veneto,
flagship of Grand Admiral Riccardi.
Of 35,000 tons, she carries nine 15in., 12
6in. and 12 3.Sin. guns, and the biggest
naval complement in the world (1600),
and is as fast as most British Bin.-gun
cruisers (31 knots) —only a knot slower
than Orion,
Pridham-Wippell edged carefully off,
keeping about 16 miles from the big ship
and moving all the time towards Cun-
ningham.
A few minutes afterwards H.M. air-
craft-carrier Formidable, which had been
ploughing along over the horizon, sent up
some squadrons and emptied the pepper-
pot round the Littorio ship. She, with
the rest of the Italian forces, veered off
to the north-west and joined in the rush
towards Italian bases. Taranto was then
between 450 and 500 miles away as the
crow flies, and the Littorio ship, unfor-
tunately for her, was not a crow.
At their first onslaught the bombers
of the Formidable got home on her.
Formidable, launched in 1939, carries
about three squadrons of machines which
are comparable with the latest land
’planes—Blackburn Rocs with Boulton
Paul four-gun power turrets, Fairey Ful-
mars (of Taranto fame), which have
eight guns in the wings and an exceedingly
choice collection of torpedo bombers.
The Italians have always scorned to build
aircraft-carriers, believing them to be of
no use in the close waters of the Medi-
terranean. They, therefore, found them-
selves only able to answer air attack with
the limited water-landing aircraft which
a fleet possesses for reconnaissance.
As the F.A.A. ’planes came back to
their ship a second enemy force turned
up about eight miles west of Gavdo,
which is 30 miles south of Crete —two
Cavour battleships of 23,000 tons, four
cruisers and three destroyers.
Once, amid the smokescreens and
against the land, sight of the enemy was
lost as he made a sharp turn for home,
but the F.A.A. continued to dog the Lit-
torio-class ship and her flotillas. By
5 p.m. she had been struck several times.
R.A.F. Blenheims arrived about that time
from Crete or the Greek mainland and
scored two direct hits on a cruiser,
one on a destroyer and possibly two on
another cruiser.
An hour before this Pridham-Wippell
reported to the C.-in-C. that the Vittorio
Veneto (or whatever she was) had beer
slowed down. Orion, Perth, Ajax and
Gloucester were pushed forward to make
closer touch —since the aircraft had
arrived there was no need for them to
stand in range of the Italian 15-inchers,
which had planted several shells close
to Orion. Vittorio Veneto (or sister)
was again hit by aircraft; so was a
second cruiser. When last seen by For-
midable the Littorio ship’s quarter-deck
was awash ; she had a heavy list, and her
speed was down to eight knots.
It was just after dusk when Pridham-
Wippell’s four cruisers were again in
touch with the Italians. By this time the
fleets were coming together fast.
A fleet of any size at sea covers a
considerable space of sea scouting
screen, cruiser force, battle-fleet screen
and battle fleet spread themselves over 30
miles of water or more from front to
rear until it is time to play. The closing-
up process and the deploying into battle
formations had to be carried out in the
dark. Off Crete and Matapan dusk
would fall somewhere after 6.30 p.m.
As the British fleets joined each other
the new dispositions began to be made.
Scout destroyers were sent out in the
increasing darkness with orders to attack
limping Italians whose hulls were already
damaged by torpedoes and whose crews
must have been weary of being bombed
by the F.A.A. and R.A.F.
Just after 10 o’clock, when the fleet
was in the Matapan region, it was re-
ported to the C.-in-C. that an Italian
Bin.-gun cruiser, which proved to be
the 10,000-ton Pola was lying hove-to
and damaged three miles to port.
He turned the battle squadron towards
her. Suddenly, coming in from the
other direction, there appeared out of
the gloom a 5000-ton cruiser of the
Colleoni type, leading two sister-ships
of the Pola, towards which they were
making across Cunningham’s bows. They
were 4000 yards away, one silverplated
by the searchlight beam which Grey-
hound, one of Warspite’s attendant de-
stroyers, threw suddenly on her. The
three reconditioned Jutland battleships
opened fire at once. At what was prac-
tically point-blank range, 32 15in. shells,
each weighing 19511 b. and leaving its
muzzle with energy enough to lift 84,000
tons a foot off the sea, crashed into the
heavy cruisers. In a moment or two
they were “practically wrecked so far as
fighting was concerned.” No cruisers
in history had ever taken full battleship
punishment at such a range.
One ship had her fore turrets shot
clean off by the blast of the attack —
something like 200 tons or more of steel
wrenched from its moorings—and every
officer and man in the fore part of the
ship was killed.
The battleships turned to avoid de-
stroyers which formed the cruisers’ rear-
guard and were seen to fire torpedoes.
The British destroyer screens were
spread out in a fruitless search for the
Littorio battleship and the remainder of
the Italian squadrons. Greek ships
steamed across the north-western horizon
in an endeavor to cross the path of the
fleeing enemy. Very heavy gunfire was
heard from a direction in which there
were no British ships, suggesting that the
Vittorio Veneto was engaged by mistake
with some of her escorts or was sinking
something which could not survive or
perhaps being scuttled herself by execu-
tioners. But not a vestige of the two
Italian fleets was visible next morning
save the stunned and shivering Italian
survivors on their rafts and the masses
of floating wreckage.
While the search went on after the
battleship attack, Australia’s Stuart and
Britain’s Havock rushed up to the dis-
abled cruisers to finish them off. Even
a dying snake has still fangs, and this
kind of attack can be very dangerous
to a small attacker when any of the
ancillary armament of the victim sur-
vives, for the slaughter has to be done
within range of even the lightest
weapons on the doomed cruiser, fired
point-blank from a higher elevation than
the destroyer guns.
In this case it also was done in the
dark. Havock was presently heard sig-
nalling to the C.-in-C. that she was under
a cruiser’s stern and out of torpedoes:
“Shall I board her or blow her stern
off with a depth charge?” Stuart tor-
pedoed a cruiser and found herself
engaged in a hot shooting match with her
objective and another limping Italian com-
panion, which appeared to be fighting-
game to the last in spite of the shock
of the hammering. The 1629-ton Vittorio
Alfieri incautiously ventured within 100
yards of Stuart, and had her bridge
and much of her fore and after works
blown away at the first broadside, after
which Havock torpedoed the remains,
which went up “in one great flash.”
After this interruption, Stuart again
turned her wrecking guns and torpedoes
on the two cruisers. In a few minutes
she left them drifting and blazing from
stern to stem, with Davy Jones on the
point of reaching for them. From
another cruiser her heavy fire drew only
a death rattle in reply as her shells set
the Italian on fire.
Stuart had one of the busiest single
hours ever vouchsafed a small ship in
the dark. Captain Waller said: “The crew
were absolutely marvellous. A large
proportion were recently joined reserve
ratings. Some joined only on the day
of sailing.”
The Australian ship had fought with
three 10,000-ton cruisers, certainly badly
battered but still formidable, had helped
to destroy them, and had turned aside
to cripple a modern flotilla leader more
powerful than herself.
When March 29 dawned the smooth
surface of the sea was blotched with
oil. The scent of cordite hung in the
air. The horizons were hidden in smoke.
Scurrying destroyers found miserable
boatloads of shivering, half-dead Italians.
Nothing could be seen of the Littorio
battleship. Captain Despisi, of the Pola,
who was captured, said that he thought
she must have been sunk. Admiral Cun-
ningham believed that the battleship
probably escaped, but added that she
would need at least three months for
repairs after reaching port.
About 1000 Italian officers and men
were rescued. The rescue work was
interfered with by an incursion of
Stukas, but Cunningham sent a signal
to the Chief of the Italian Naval Staff
suggesting the sending of a hospital ship
to pick up survivors. He received a
signal of thanks.
The affair was not a great naval battle.
It was rather a great engagement rank-
ing with Dogger Bank, not with Jutland.
It was brilliantly planned on the British
side. It was a grand feat of scouting
and contact work for four cruisers and
an aircraft-carrier to catch and hold an
enemy formation of the superior size
and speed of the enemy, especially since
the Italians in their two forces had II
cruisers against Britain’s four, some
of them armed with Sin. guns against
the British six-inchers, and most with
superior nominal speed.
As after Jutland, it will be long before


PR/CE CONTROL
ffl
HimniilllllHlH
The AGA is a rigid controller of kitchen
costs. With an AGA it is easy to budget
for your fuel. Model C (illustrated), for
instance, suitable for city or country
homes, cannot burn more than £3 worth
of coke (at 30/- per ton) in a whole year.
Just add up your present fuel bills for a
year. See how much you would save with
an AGA, cooking for 2d. a day. 40,000
satisfied users in the British Empire are
saving on fuel, with the AGA.
The AGA Cooker burns continuously;
ovens and hot plates are instantly ready,
day or night, for every kind of cooking.
Flavour is retained, grills and roasts are
tastier, tenderer; meat shrinks less, with
AGA cooking. Delicious meals just cook
themselves, then stay hot, ready to serve.
Yes, it’s miracle-cooking . . . with a beauti-
ful, streamlined AGA Cooker, insulated
and enclosed to keep kitchens cool and
spotlessly clean.
Find out now about cooking the modern
way . . . with an AGA.
See the
AGA
Actually Cooking
at Sydney’s
ROYAL EMPIRE
EASTER SHOW
Stand 43a, next John
D a n k s , Machinery-
Avenue, or write for
illustrated Booklet R 4.
LEVIN & CO.
LTD.
Est’d 1852 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney,
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
and at Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents: Col-
ton, Palmer and Preston, Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G.
Webster and Sons, Hobart.
JkOmmL^katShrm.
COOKER
Smokers are saying—
“V m not cutting down
my smoking, Vm smoking
*Hillmans”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially CUI
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST
Four Square
First Crop, Mild
All British, Mild
Kiverhead Gold, Medium
Old Peter, Dark
Cavendish, Strong
Beech Nut, Medium
Africa, Mellow and Mild
Soldier’s Own, Mild
Noxunandie, Medium
Winning Post, Medium
Three Bells, Strong
Bird’s Eye, Medium
Datakia (in Pipe Only)
White Dodge, Medium
White Dodge, Dight
Barlock Flake, Dight and Dark ...
Cahills, Medium
Union Deader, Medium
Tender Deaf, Medium
Imperial
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
10/-
10/-
11/-
9/6
10/-
11/-
11/-
11/-
HIGH CLASS PLUG TOBACCOS.
“Skipper,” Medium 8s 8/6
“Clinker,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Three Sailors,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Big Hit,” Dark 8s 8/6
“Irish Twist,” 13s 8/6
“Royal Navy,” Nuggets 8/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 13s and 26s .... 7/16
Subject to 6cl. lb. postage to all
States outside Queensland. Quantities
of 51b. and over, Post Free to all States.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., VADDEY, N. 1., BRISBANE
Telegrams: “Comgrow,” Brisbane.
’Phone No. 84587.
the full toll of victory and defeat is
known. But the 10,000-tonners Pola,
Zara and Fiume were sunk ; a sister of
the 5069-ton Colleone was probably
sunk; and the destroyers Vincenzo
Gioberti, Maestrale and Vittorio Alfiere
are at the bottom. The Littorio ship—
probably the Italian C.-in-C.’s flagship—
was seriously damaged below water, and
several other Italian vessels were known
to be battered or holed.
Rome admitted the loss of “three”
medium cruisers and two destroyers,
adding that many of the crews were
saved. Its statement declared that the
losses inflicted on the R.N. could not be
completely ascertained, but were “heavy,”
The British Fleet travelled 700 miles
in 34 hours before it met the Italians.
It travelled more than 700 miles for
home afterwards. It had lost one aircraft
and its destroyers had a few slight bruises,
but not a single seaman lost his life.
Over Britain and Germany.
“Aileron”: Last week’s weather was
mainly on the side of Britain. At the
end of March 31 the R.A.F. Bomber
Command reported a “successful and
busy day.” There were bombing and
machine-gunning of supply ships and gun
emplacements on the Continent, burning
of a couple of oil tankers, hitting of a
destroyer off the Frisian Islands, dis-
persing of a parade at Terschelling,
Holland, and plastering of a ship in a
convoy. Other forces dropped on
Emden the heaviest bombs yet used,
which, one pilot declared, made “whole
buildings take the air.” Bremen ship-
yards had a destructive visit; so had
Rotterdam and a German oil town. The
bombers lost two machines.
The enemy was over several parts of
Britain and for several hours attacked
a north-eastern town —Great Yarmouth,
the Germans reported—damaging many
shops. One bomber crashed in flames
in the Midlands. The German report said
that, besides Gt. Yarmouth, Falmouth
Harbor and an aerodrome or two were
attacked, a 1000-ton ship was sunk and
another ship was damaged. The record
of destruction claimed by the enemy
for March 16-31 included 11 balloons
and 55 British ’planes against 24 German
machines.
At night on April 1 five raiders were
shot down over Britain —three within an
hour. The R.A.F. continued its strafing
of shipping as far east as Denmark, and
great attention was given to “gun em-
placements.” Two enemy bombers were
brought down by protective patrols over
the Irish Channel, and another bomber
crashed in Waterford in Eire.
The Germans reported having de-
stroyed 42,000 tons of ships at the
entrance to St. George’s Channel. There
certainly was some fighting there —apart
from the machines sunk in the Channel,
one fell in flames into the sea off east
Devon.
Weather that day prevented raids on
Germany, but April 2 saw ships attacked
incessantly off the Dutch coast —a Blen-
heim scored four hits on one. Various
aerodromes in France and the Lowlands
were machine-gunned and bombed.
Britain had no raids after dark, but re-
ceived isolated attention in the daytime.
The Coastal Command and the bombers
each lost a machine, and a Junkers 88
was shot down in flames into the
Channel. Luftwaffe machines operated
at several points over England and Scot-
land.
The weather cleared over Britain at
the midweek. On Thursday there were
more German raids than for days pre-
viously. Bristol —the Germans say—was
heavily bombed again, and there were
losses of further buildings and lives.
Eight persons were killed in a raid on
a Home Counties village. London,
though it had an alert, enjoyed its 14th
night clear of raiders.
Activity round the coast continues. A
paddle minesweeper, the Lorna Doone
(410 tons), brought down a ’plane, and
H.M.S. Locust shot down a Messer-
schmitt while guarding a convoy in the
Thames Estuary.
At Brest, despite ground mist which
obscured the target, several violent on-
slaughts were made on the harbor, which
holds the battle-cruisers Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau.
There is talk of anew explosive—it
certainly will be a revolution if there
is one. Scientists have searched for years
without changing explosives very much.
Lilies from German Prophecy.
“E.D.”: In 1937 “Schwarze Korps,”
the official organ of Hitler’s Black
Guards, issued a map which showed the
progress of the plan to subdue Europe.
The timetable was set out as follows:
Spring, 1938; Absorb Austria.
Autumn, 1938: Bring Hungary within
Axis orbit.
Spring, 1939: Absorb Czechoslovakia.
Autumn, 1939; Absorb Poland.
Spring, 1940: Bring Yugoslavia within
German orbit.
Autumn, 1940: Bring Rumania and Bul-
garia under control.
Spring, 1941: Holland, Belgium and the
parts of France since actually taken
over are shown as occupied; also
Denmark, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria
and Rumania have been transformed from
country under occupation or influence into
territory under “Great German” control.
And the Ukraine and all the country to the
Caspian Sea, including the southern
U.S.S.R. wheat and larger industrial centres
are represented as within the German orbit.
Greece and Crete are marked on the
map as German-conquered territory ; the
Dardanelles as occupied, along with all
Asia Minor west of a line drawn from
Kerpe on the Black Sea to Adalia on the
south, and including Istanbul, the Ismid
naval base, the Eski Shehr air base, the
Bosphorus, the Dardanelles and Smyrna.
There are other things which are im-
pressive in German military literature —
none more than the Schiiddekopf book
(B. 31/7/ ’4O) issued by the Sixth
(Military Science) Department of the
German High Command to instruct Ger-
man staff officers in British defence
geography and forecast the methods by
which war would be waged. It was to
be in three stages. Each party would en-
deavor to secure superiority by massed
air attacks ; if neither obtained a decisive
victory—as neither did in France and the
Low Countries —hostilities would proceed
to a war of annihilation, such as actually
has been carried on against British cities
and German factory towns and ports.
The third stage, if these tactics threat-
ened to waste resources unduly, would
be followed by a period of furious air
raids.
It is interesting to note that in 1939
this German reckoned the strength of the
British first line air force at 1750 —to be
increased to 2370 by March, 1940, plus
400 machines overseas and a Fleet Air
Arm of 500. He placed British building
capacity at 3825 machines a year by the
middle of 1939 and 7650 by the middle
of 1940. But he reckoned reserves at
100 p.c. And Schiiddekopf made a very
accurate estimate of the Dominion air
forces.
Also, the Germans were not bluffed
about the quality of the R.A.F.
One Feuchtner, writing in the semi-
official German air journal “Der Adler”
(The Eagle), just before war broke out,
remarked that British admissions that
Germany had the fastest fighters and
bombers were made “only for propa-
ganda purposes.” He asked “Why do
the British leave all flying records to us
unchallenged?”
As a final bit of prophecy, the esti-
mation of the main seats of war by Dr.
Schiiddekopf was a notable effort. He
plumped for the present north Europe
battle zone, the zone from the Caspian
Sea to Suez and Libya, including Greece,
and the East Indies area from Hong
Kong to Darwin, Papua to the Bay of
Bengal. . . ,
These have become the main actual
defence areas.
British shipping-loss figures for the
week to March 16 were corrected to
90,400 tons by the addition of four
vessels one British and three neutral.
For the week ended March 23,
10 British ships of 24,490 tons,
six allied ships (27,528 tons) and
one neutral (6673 tons) were sunk.
Weekly averages have been: August,
84.000 tons; September, 103,000 tons;
October, 86,000 tons; November, 86,000
tons; December, 70,000 tons; January,
55.000 tons ; February, 74,000 tons ; first
three weeks of March, 84,000 tons.
Excluding Dunkirk, war’s average was
65.000 tons per week,
* * * *
Uncle Sam seized 28 Italian, two
German and 36 Danish vessels in his
first raids. Four Danish cargo boats were
taken over in the Philippines. The
seizures totalled 70 ships of 320,000 tons.
Seamen were interned and many charged
with sabotage or attempted sabotage, and
the Italian Naval Attache has been ex-
pelled for his part in the plot to burn
or disable vessels. In various harbors
19 French vessels, including the Nor-
mandie, have been placed under sur-
veillance.” The enemy attempt to de-
stroy ships was not limited to the U.S.A.
Mexico seized 11, besides clamping down
on Nazi associations. At other ports in
Latin America, German and Italian ships
were set on fire. From Callao two bolted,
and two were burned when they were pre-
vented from escaping by the authorities.
* * * *
Announced that Mr. Churchill has
taken charge personally of the Battle of
the Atlantic, of which few details are
being heard. Mr. Cross, the Shipping
Minister, told Empire pressmen that
Britain holds more food and material
than in September, 1939, and, though no
more foreign ships are available for pur-
chase to increase the fleet, it may be
possible to secure increased help from
Uncle Sam. Sir Arthur Salter, head of
a mission to the U.S.A., said at Wash-
ington that Britain had tonnage enough
to see 1941 through.
* * * *
London “Gazette” has had its first long
list of A.I.F. decorations. General
Wavell’s list included four Victorian
D.S.Os. —Lt.-Cols. A. H. L. Godfrey,
T. G. Walker, A. G. Arthur and I. R.
Campbell—l 2 M.Cs., five D.C.Ms. and 12
M.Ms. N.S.W. got six D.S.Os.—Lt.-Cols.
F. O. Chilton (who was first Governor
of Bardia), K. W. Bather, V. T. England,
J. N. Abbott, D. Macarthur-Onslow and
A. G. Torr —15 M.Cs., five D.C.Ms., 31
M.Ms. To Queenslanders, who were not
much engaged, went two M.Cs., one
D.C.M. and two M.Ms.; to West-
ralians, three M.Ms. The London list
mentioned C.B.Es. for Brigadier Allen,
the pioneer brigadier of the expeditionary
force, for Brigadier S. R. Rowell and
Colonel G. A. Vasey. There was a pretty
little bunch of ribbons for both ward-
room and lower deck of H.M.A.S.
Hobart —an 0.8. E. and M.B.E. and five
B. medals.
* * * *
“El V.”: A yarn from a daily press-
man shows that life had its brighter
moments in Jarabub during the siege.
Italian bombers swooped down one day
and laid their eggs on what they pre-
sumed to be the savage Australian in-
vader. The Australian wireless unit
picked up a wail from Colonel Costiani,
the besieged commander, to the Regia
Aeronautica: “We said bomb enemy
outside Jarabub, not inside. Please do
not bomb fort in future. It has bad
effect on natives.”
* * * *
Malta is going through a very trying
time. It has been under martial law for
nine months, it has had full conscription,
it has been bombed hundreds of times,
and last week all hands, including
women, were put to work on digging
defences and shelters. This isn’t quite
as desperate as it sounds because women
do a great deal of heavy work even in
normal times. Malta’s surface consists
largely of hard bare rock, and much of
it has been tunnelled into for ages.


bUDOUIICIS
for
GEARS
PULLEYS
BELTING
HANGERS
BEARINGS
SHAFTING
CLUTCHES
COUPLINGS
PIVOT DRIVES
V BELT DRIVES
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
Makers of Quality Leather Products since 1858
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 YORK ST. SYDNEY - 20-26 QUEEN’S BRIDGE ST. STH. MELBOURNE
X
K
%
o
WSS&
o
C>
111 l
%
cP v
v>
“ROOM ONLY"
OfliLY TARIFFS
Singles - 5j- to 1 Of-
Doubles - 8 /- to 18/6
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
$. D. HORNE
Manager
A. 12.41
IN THE CENTRE
01 INTEREST
Right in the heart of Melbourne, the Victoria
is handy to theatres, main shopping centres,
trains, trams, and business and professional
centres. Luxurious and comfortable, the
Victoria is Melbourne's most popular hotel,
and the largest non-licensed hotel in Australia.
Each year more than a quarter million guests
enjoy the Victoria's comfort, luxury, and
convenience, as well as the special guest
service which cares for your every need.
THE
VICTORIA
PAL ACE
MilßOt/RNES MOST P
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET - NEXT TOWN HALL
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A New Overland
“Norther”; Estimated cost of the new
overland telephone line from Darwin to
Adelaide is £120,000. It is just on 70
years since the original line was built, a
job that deserves more notice than it has
received in Australian history, and should
long since have given Australian novel-
ists and film-makers a big theme.
S.A. had 180,000 people when it
undertook to build the overland from
Port Augusta to Darwin by an under-
taking with the British-Australian Tele-
graph Co., which was to lay a cable to
lava from Darwin. The whole line was
to be open for use by January 1, 1872,
and its distance was estimated at 1500
miles through country only once before
traversed by whites —John McDouall
Stuart’s party.
The country was short of water ; all
rations would have to be carted from the
northern and southern ends; the blacks
were believed to be hostile. Topography,
however, was good, the only hills of note
being the Mac Donnell Ranges, and a pass
through them was known. Three con-
tracts were let, one to E. M. Bagot from
Port Augusta, one to an Adelaide firm
from Darwin, and the third or central
section was undertaken by the S.A. Gov-
ernment, whose P.M.G., Charles Todd,
was to supervise the lot.
Lack of water and suitable timber for
poles, absence of roads and the immense
distances for hauling supplies created
huge difficulties on the southern and cen-
tral sections, and in the north swamps
and the terrific rains almost baffled pro-
gress. Todd found an alternate route
through drier country. The first pole was
reared at Darwin on September 15, 1870.
One of the first things discovered was
that bushfires and white-ants played
havoc with wooden poles, and ultimately
the whole line was built of iron poles,
its final cost being more than £300,000.
It took 23 months to build, using about
36.000 poles, some of the wooden ones
being carted 350 miles from the depot
and the iron ones up to 500 miles. About
10.000 sheep and cattle were driven an
average of 500 miles to supply rations ;
a 50ft. wide track was cleared through
the scrub ; stone, sand and building
materials had to be carted in for the tele-
graph stations placed 200 miles apart,
and a 22-room station was built at Dar-
win. The blacks turned out to be friendly.
and not a single white man was killed
during the work.
On 22/5/72 Todd sent the first mes-
sage from Darwin to Adelaide. Part of
the line was still incomplete, and the link
was made by horsemen —perhaps our
only version of the pony express—to get
the message to Adelaide on 20/6/72.
On August 22 the first telegram went
through from Darwin to Adelaide. But
the cable company had also had trouble,
and it was late in October when the first
London-Adelaide message got through.
The new line will operate a telephone
channel and three teleprinter telegraph
services. A carrier system is being talked
‘Well, you wanted it to run straight through your property, didn't you?"
about. That would make three simul-
taneous conversations possible, two being
reserved for the Defence Department,
and an appliance to baffle line-tappers
will be installed.
It is estimated to occupy eight months
in building, and will bring Darwin into
direct telephone contact with the south.
The Civil Aviation Department’s aeradio
station at Darwin is to be used for radio-
telephone work between Darwin and
Sydney, whence it will be fed into the
continent’s telephone system so that
Darwin may talk to anybody in Australia.
It sort of makes the North feel less
isolated.
“Tooley Buck”: Impassable roads and
floods made it necessary to postpone
Assembly voting in some Gregory and
Carpentaria districts, and Clarendon
station looked like being among them till
a dark-skinned horseman hove out of the
rain blur, wrung the water out of his
pants and announced that he was Albert
and had brought the voting papers. He
had left McKinlay, roughly 100 miles
north, plugged steadily southward
through mud, water and rain, swum the
dangerously-flooded headwaters of the
Hamilton and delivered the goods in time.
In his spare moments Albert is a police
tracker.
* * * *
“Rummplace”: Bundaberg’s J. F.
Barnes, who startled the North when as
a publican he issued summonses against
his fellow-Bungs for breaches of the
Liquor Act, came out for the State elec-
tion as an “Andy Fisher Laborite.” Part
of his platform was a liquor plan: Pub
hours to be 8 a.m. to 11.15 p.m. on week
days, 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and 5.30
p.m. to 7.30 p.m. on Sundays ; a £lOO fine
for serving liquor after hours ; increased
fines for being drunk and disorderly in
hotels, and police to patrol hotels to
stamp out bad language. The crusader
sold his pub to concentrate on the elec-
tion and opened at long odds, shortening
to evens on election eve as a “punter”
backed him with good money. The
“punter” won over £2OO when J.F.B. got
there by a long neck from the Forgan
Smith man, McLean. The winner says
he will force his liquor plan through
Parliament if Labor members will back
him up, though his comment “I’ve shown
that the mighty Queensland Central
Executive isn’t worth sixpence” is hardly
likely to please them. Said the loser: “I
think Bundaberg today is beginning to
wonder what it has done.” Bundaberg
doesn’t seem to be worrying.
* * * *
“Yungerman”: We’ve had a dose of
rain in the past few days, especially out
west. The Balonne reached its highest—
34ft. since 1912; Roma and Yeulba
roads, near Surat, went under ; so did the
Yalebone and Bungil bridges on the
Maranoa road and the Yungerman on
the St. George road. There were floods
in most of the rivers and creeks in the
west and south-west. A motorist bogged
near Maneroo had food dropped to him
by ’plane, and the same ’plane was called
on to drop supplies to station-hands and
shearers marooned at Toobrac. Long-
reach’s total rain for the first quarter of
1941 —2116 points—is already over the
total for the whole of 1940. It looks
like a big year for grass, water, fat stock,
blowflies, grass-seeds and bogged travel-
lers on the black-soil country.


Q N
BANK
THE ARMY CALLS!
Eligible Recruits for the A.I.F. are Needed
IMMEDIATELY
JOIN THE A.I.F —SEE THE WORLD
AND KEEP WAR OUT OF AUSTRALIA
Soldiers of the A.I.F. are serving in England
Egypt — Palestine — Libya—Malaya and — ? ??—?? ?
JOIN THEM—THEY NEED YOU!
SINGLE MEN AND MARRIED MEN WITHOUT CHILDREN
ARE REQUIRED AGED BETWEEN 20 AND 40
Apply to your nearest Area Officer and Town Hall, Melbourne,
Recruiting Officer for information.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. .
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq. ; C.M.Q.
Generai. Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’OORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIM WADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
DE/1
:s
“Chico” Invisible Earphones 21/- pr.
• Worn inside your ears. No cords or
batteries. Amazingly effective. Guaran-
teed lifetime. Write for free booklet.
HEARS EARPHONE CO.—-No. 3 State
Shopping Block, Market Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulleth
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
„„ The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady writer, knowledge music, organising,
dramatic, microphone experience, available to
write, broadcast, attend correspondence of
occasional radio advertisers. —9846.
Woman writer (27) wants work. Has had
copywriting and publishing experience.—9991.
Children’s nurse wanted, Tas. country home.
Maid kept. £1 weekly. Refs.—9853.
Ex-warrant officer A.I.F. seeks position as
travelling secretary or caretaker. Refs.—9685.
Caretaker for trout-hatchery country district
N. S. Wales; light duties. —9988.
Experienced dental mechanic seeks position
in Brisbane. Refs. —9698.
Exp. wool and sheep man, middle-aged,
plain and mulga country, horseman, s.s. expert,
accountant, wheat-farming, offers services.—
9691.
Gentleman, 50, with sedan, technical exp.
(ex-garage-owner), four languages, would like
position or occupation in or around Sydney.—
9550.
To buy Wisden’s Cricketers’ Almanacks prior
to 1934.—9829.
Wanted to buy copies of Gilbert’s The Savoy
Operas (words only), in reasonable condition.
—9832.
To buy Morley Roberts’s The Promotion
of the Admiral and Other Stories. —9841.
To buy sheet-music of Provost’s “Intermezzo”
(upon which the film of that name was based).
—9662.
To buy reproductions of Wheatley’s “Portrait
of Governor Phillip” and “Bligh Being Turned
Adrift from the Bounty by the Mutineers,”
plain or colored.—9617.
To buy B.H.P. Shapes and Sections Hand-
book, 1930 or 1937 edition.—9840.
Words of the old soldiers’ song beginning
with “The bells of hell go ting-a-ling-a-ling.”
—9590.
Words of song “Mr. Hooligan.”—9871.
Words of a song entitled “Sari Maria” (or
something like that). It is a South African song,
written in Cape Dutch, and the South African
footballers (the Springboks) who were here a
few years ago used to sing it.—9834.
To hear from collectors interested in post-
marks.—9572.
Any particulars concerning Percy F. S. Spence,
an artist who lived and worked in Sydney in
the latter ’eighties. He had a picture, “An
Australian Bushman,” exhibited at the Royal
Academy, London, about 1901.—9552.
Information Sought.
(1) What position is now held by Lord Gort?
(2) Was he held responsible in any way for the
Dunkirk defeat? (3) Who should have been
blamed? (4) How many ’planes has America
delivered to England since the outbreak of war ?
—9857.
(1) Inspector-General of Training in Britain.
(2) No. (3) There was no individual to blame.
The B.E.F. put up a great show. (4) To the
end of 1940, 1500 odd, so far as has been dis-
closed.
* * * *
Why is Winston Churchill only an hon. when
his father was a lord and his grandfather a
duke (seventh of Marlborough ) ? —9757.
Winston Churchill’s father, Lord Randolph
Churchill, was only a “courtesy” lord, by
virtue of his being the younger son of a duke.
His title had no status in law and was not
hereditary. Winston Churchill is not even
entitled to the prefix “honorable” through
inheritance. His membership of the Privy
Council makes him a “Right Honorable.”
¥ ¥
What were the average prices of greasy wool
sold in Australia from 1920 till present appraise-
ment scheme came into operation ? —9989.
Average prices of greasy and scoured wool,
Commonwealth: 1920-21, £l6 11s. sd. per bale;
’2l-22, £l6 155.; ’22-23, £23 18s. 7d.; ’23-24,
£3l 7s. lOd.; ’24-25, £34 19s. Bd.; ’25-26,
£2l 14s. 9d.; ’26-27, £22 Bs. 5d.; ’27-28,
£25 4s. 9d.; ’2B-29, £2l 11s. lOd.; ’29-30,
£l3 ss. 9d.; ’3O-31, £ll 2s. lOd.; ’3l-32,
£lO 18s. 5d.; ’32-33, £ll 9s. Id.; ’33-34,
£2O 4s. 5d.; ’34-35, £l2 13s. 5d.; ’35-36,
£l7 12s. 3d.; ’36-37, £2O 145.; ’37-38,
£ls 15s. 5d.; ’3B-39, £l3 4s. 2d.
* * * *
Why is knitting wool marketed in skeins
instead of in balls ? —9709.
The ball make-up is restricted to fancy yarns,
most of which lend themselves to this type
of pack, or baby wools, where the pastel shades
usually require additional care in handling and
also warrant the use of boxes as an additional
protective covering. Apart from the time and
consequent labor charges involved when balling
yarn, this method involves the use of a label
on each ball and a box for each pound, whereas
the skein and lib. make-up require only small,
gummed skein tags and paper wrapping.
Freights are based on the amount of space
taken and not the total weight of yarn in-
volved; therefore the freight charges on 1001 b.
weight of knitting wool packed in loz. balls,
11b. boxes, would be at least double that of
1001 b. of yarn packed in the 11b. bundle
make-up.
* * * ♦
(1) Is the word Dago applied only to the
Italians? (2) How did the term arise? (3)
Is a river in Italy correctly spelled Po ? —IOOB.
(1) British sailors originally applied it to
Portuguese and all Mediterraneans. (2) It is a
sailor’s rendering of the common Christian
name Diego, which is pronounced roughly in
Italian “Dee-ehgo.” (3) Po is right.
* * * *
My Australian terrier suffers with a rash
every summer. Cure ? —9720.
The cause of 99 per cent, of skin troubles is
improper feeding and/or worms. Correct the
former and eliminate the latter. Then apply
daily oil of cade, green soft soap and methy-
lated spirit mixed in equal parts. After worm-
ing give the following: Reduced iron 12 grains,
sulphate magnesia 60 grains. Mix and divide
into 12 powders; give one twice daily with
food.
* * * *
(1) Symptoms of milk-fever in cows? (2)
Is it wrong to drench if the cow is unconscious ?
(3) Any method for prevention of grass
staggers ? —9905.
(1) Occurs usually within a period of three
days following calving. The heavy-producing
cow in high condition is the type most likely
to develop milk-fever. Symptoms are well
known, the outstanding features being rapid
loss of consciousness following initial unsteady
gait and collapse. Cows in a herd which can
be regarded as being susceptible to an attack
should be kept off young spring pasture for
some time before calving, and be provided with
hay and other supplementary feed. A good
practice is to sprinkle the hay with a strong
solution of molasses and water. Susceptible
cows might also be given a drench composed
of calcium chloride, 20z., dissolved in a pint
and a half of hot water to which is added
21b. of molasses or treacle. Good results have
been obtained by giving this drench twice during
the week before calving and once immediately
after. When a cow has gone down with milk-
fever the first essential is thorough inflation
of the udder after proper sterilisation of the
milk-fever outfit and cleansing of teats. The
cow must then be propped up on her brisket
and kept in the normal sitting posture until
recovery takes place. (2) The danger of
drenching while the cow is unconscious cannot
be overemphasised; there is always the danger
of the drench going into the lungs. If the
cow does not get up within a few hours after
udder inflation and has sufficiently recovered
consciousness to allow of drenching, the drench
recommended here should be carefully
administered. It is important not to unduly
raise the head, otherwise the animal may
easily be choked. (3) The addition of Epsom
salts to the drinking water is recommended and
has given satisfactory results. First add loz.
for every five gallons in the trough. Then add
daily loz. for every cow drinking from the
trough. The giving of molasses, as in cases
of milk-fever, is recommended.
* * * *
Any advice on beekeeping for an amateur,
completely ignorant of the subject? Any litera-
ture on the subject? —9Bß7.
First read books on the subject and then
engage in practical work with, say, two or three
hives of bees. The apiary may then be extended
as experience is gained. The best time to
commence with practical work is during spring
or early summer when the colonies have the
most part of the productive season ahead of
them. Very little practical work could possibly
be carried out during winter. It is advisable to
commence with factory-made hives, which are
of standard size. Later on, should the bee-
keeper desire to make up any of his own bee-
hives, a factory-made one could be used as
a guide in construction. In using new frames
for extension work, it is most important that
they be wired and fitted with full sheets of
comb foundation. This will assist the bees in
comb-building and induce them to build straight
in the frame. Apply to the Vic. Department
of Agriculture for literature on beekeeping.
* * * *
(1) How many times did Ken Overlin, nofv
recognised as world’s middleweight champion
by the New York Boxing Commission, fight
Atilio Sabatino in Australia, and how did the
contest, or contests, result? —9883.
They met twice. Their first contest (over
12 rounds, at the Sydney Stadium, on June 23,
1938) was declared a draw, and their second, in
Melbourne, nearly a month later, on July 15,
was called “no contest” by the referee in round
six.
* * * *
(1) When and where was boxer Charlie Frost
born ? (2) In what years was he boxing ? (3)
Did Frost ever win the Australian featherweight
championship ? (4) Did he defeat many first-
class men ? —9978.
(1) April 14, 1877, at Brewarrina, N.S.W.
(2) 1899 to 1910. (3) No. (4) He defeated
Teddy Savral, Monty Andrews, Hock Keys,
Frank Thorn, Tommy Jones and others.
* # * *
How to polish or renew finish on old cedar
furniture ? —9593.
Wash each piece of furniture with warm
soda water —£-cup washing soda in one gallon
warm water, then rinse off and wipe carefully,
afterwards drying in shade. When bone-dry
apply raw linseed oil sparingly and rub in
well, doing small area at a time and polishing
as you go. Any furniture cream or wax
(see reply to 9557) can be used for a finish, but
raw oil and elbowgrease are usually sufficient.
* * * *
(1) What is the area of British Isles? (2)
Of England, excluding Wales? —1004.
(1) 94,278 sq. miles. (2) 50,328 sq. miles.
* * * *
Would wax floor-polish given in B. 28 /1 / ’4l
(9264) do for polishing car? —9557.
Yes, but it was primarily made up for
timber. You will find this one better for car
bodies: One liquid ounce of boiled linseed oil,
250 z. beeswax, 250 z. cerasin, H-pint pure tur-
pentine. Melt wax and cerasin at gentle heat,
mix well and when cool add turpentine and oil
slowly till mass has reached honey consis-
tency. Use as ordinary wax-turpentine mixture.
Brief Answers.
R.A.M.; Write to the Officer-in-charge,
Munitions Employment Bureau, 132 George-
street North, Sydney C.H.: Blanched
almonds can be ground in the kitchen mincer,
or you can buy almond flour or ground almonds
from any grocer... .N.P.: Any good oil paint
can be used, but Dulux will make a perfect
and lasting finish 0.F.: Making saltwater
soap at home does not pay and is a messy
job. Ask your chemist; there are several
brands, 6d. per cake W.McA.; Try the
Union Mfg. and Agency Cos., 299 Elizabeth-
street, Melbourne J.P.F.: Water has to be
hot enough to make scraping bristles off easy.
Quantity doesn’t matter.... H.A.W.: Get in
touch with Supt. Vermin and Weed Destruction,
Lands Dept., Melbourne, who will be glad
to give advice about making house and sheds
sparrow-proof and methods of poisoning, and
will supply design for sparrow trap that can be
easily constructed P.H.Y.: The pine hedge
can be cut down now while the sap is not
active. Stir about the stem-base and give a
light watering, and fresh growth will soon take
place... .R.G.0.: Watering the pot with arsen-
ate of lead (one teaspoonful in a quart of
water) will kill that cutworm V.M.N.: The
lawn can be rejuvenated by topdressing with
light loam, working it through the spongy grass
with a flat board. If you are not prepared to
do this, then dig out the grass and level the
area before replanting... .M.R.: Probably
faulty drainage is the trouble. Dig a trench
about 2ft. from the base and fill with stones.
When leaves fall prune the hibiscus back and
give a dressing of manure. For leaf troubles,
spray with Ume-and-sulphur (trade formula on
bottle) M.A.G.: Try Nosco Weedkiller
(powder) or Weedicide (liquid), both arsenical
preparations.... J.F.R.: Yes, equal hands divide
the stake D.M.S.: Your question is obscure.
A gyroscope holds to its axis; it doesn’t
measure speed... .E.K.S.; There are probably
nearly as many variations of solo whist rules
in Australia as there are schools playing the
game. The average computation of values in
Sydney seems to be: Abundance declaree or
misere ouvert, six times solo; abundance or
misere, three times solo; bids of six, seven and
eight, one chip, two chips and three chips more
than solo respectively... .R.S.: (1) The figure
is termed a lobe. (2) Not aware that ancient
geometers were concerned with it. Euclid
doesn’t find any significance in it. But there
are some very knotty trigonometrical problems
involved in areas of lobes and spandrels....
J.A.Y.: Obtain needles and other spares from
Marcus Clark and Cos., Sydney, sole distributors
of those machines X.Y.Z.: Paling and Cos.,
Sydney, can supply “Graduation Ball,” “Syi-
phides” and “Ballet Album,” each 2s. 6d
P.S.E.: (1) Too large an order, and, anyway,
those things are all matters of individual opinion!
(2) Bach’s “Fantasia Cromatica” is in D minor.
. ...W.H.: Get in touch with the Department
of Supply, Melbourne M.G.: Last appear-
ance of Halley’s Comet was in 1910... .R.M.:
Hopeless grammatically; just a poor piece of
journalese E.S.: The Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook has not been brought out
for some years now J.N.S.: (1) J. R.
Mackay’s efforts in Sheffield Shield cricket were
727 runs, averaging 55.92. (2) and (3) It was
the Australian selection committee’s job to pick
the team for England in 1905, and they chose
D. R. Gehrs in preference to many other
players. (4) and (5) Mackay did play in S.
Africa later with much success until an eye
affliction affected him. (6) Mackay was a
dashing batsman, but not in the Trumper class.
T.A.D.: For instruction in short-story
writing, get in touch with Bernard Cronin, 27
Moorhouse-street, East Camberwell, E. 6, Vic-
toria C. 8.: Write to Base Records and
R.S.L., Tasmania J. 8.: Lochano won the
1912 Doncaster ridden by J. Williams
N.S.L.: Suggest you send it to the G.O.C.
Northern Air Command.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
C.H. :
Och, Paddy! where are ye?
The fight’s well begun—
Hear the whirr of the airplane
And the roar of the gun!
’Tis a world’s fight, my hearty,
For Freedom ’gainst Might,
For Love against Hatred,
For Day against Night.
Come, tense up your muscles,
And show them your fist;
Your place still awaits you
In the heart of the Blitz.
Och, Paddy! where are ye ? ? ?
E.P.M.: Some good thoughts, but they
march raggedly... .5.0.8.: Birds are birds,
not “feathered flautists” J.P.G.: A glimmer
in the last line... .T.E.; It was better before.
. ...P.C.C.: Try “Cricket” on a daily
M. the M-: Had a bit of trouble with your
rhymes? R.C.8.: “Dashed olf” pome dashed
off again W.K.S.: Elementary A.M.P.:
“Australia, the new Jerusalem!” Come off
it....L.G.: “Form” does not rhyme with
“adorn” R.E.: “From the days of Alfred
and Blake to Raleigh and Drake.” Would
that be roughly about the time of Canute
and Nelson?... .J.E.D.: First part’s too
melodramatic... .H.H.: Whitman’s a dangerous
master .... R. 5.8.: Lightweight LJ.H.:
“Golden sunbeams,” “gleaming sand,” “stately
palms,” “softest breezes,” “starry heavens,”
“dale and hill”—all tags... .R.M.H.: Thinnish.
... .F.C.F.: Marred by crudities such as “duty’s
best”... .P.A.: Too rough, even for ballads.
... .M. 8.: Try elsewhere... .T.L.S.: You can
hardly say that the “ruthless elements” roll
on in “glee”... .H.D.R.: Chaotic, indeed....
E.L.: The thought’s there; the execution isn’t.
... .F.T.8.: Why the dismal finish?... .G.R.C.:
The setting is its only merit... .D.8.R.: That
“drama of the great open spaces” should be
lost somewhere out there... .J.R.: All right,
but this isn’t the place for it... .P.R.C.: It’s
not the worst we’ve read, but it reminds us
of some of them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.R.: “Are these sketches of any use?”
Certainly. Nailed over the cracks in the fowl-
house they should ensure the birds’ winter
warmth.... Bobs: Concentrate on drawing be-
fore bothering too much about stipple tints
R. : The lady’s legs would arouse a
flamingo’s envy... .CJ.P.: Make your humor
a bit more telling and you’ll be among the peter
ticklers... .F.E.: Leave the back-street sirens to
Percy Lindsay... J .E.K.: “I could forward an
affidavit that this is an original work”; unneces-
sary, nobody else on earth could have turned
out anything like it....W.8.: Give us curves,
brother, not angles... .M.C.: The blockmaker
had one look at it and passed out... .D.E.R.:
We hoist our hat respectfully to the first bull
we’ve seen with the hindquarters of a Tam-
worth boar... .H.L.G.: Joke and drawing the
weirdest mesalliance in black-and-white history.
. ...W.R.N.: Keep it up, but watch tendency
to heavy shading... .E.D.: Warby trainer and
his pot-bellied jockey warned off the course ....
S. : Perhaps you’d do better if you didn t
wear boxing gloves while drawing.


IMPROVE YOVR WINTER PRODUCTION WITH
oftuL-CaJL-OU
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os supplies calcium and phosphorus in the form which stock
most easily digests and assimilates. Regular feeding of Tri-cal-os
prevents deficiency diseases and bone troubles, increases the milk yield,
ensures early maturity and maintains good all-round condition. Con-
taining over 70% tricalcic phosphate, Tri-cal-os has a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid, and 40% lime.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from —«
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
=K
O
VS
A
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: X-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Export of Merinos.
“Ghanam”; The N. S. Wales Graziers’
Conference has voted 47 to 38 for the
removal of the export ban on stud
merinos.
The embargo was clamped on ten years
or so ago, when the U.S.S.R. began buy-
ing whole shiploads of ewes and S.
Africa made it plain that it was prepared
to collect the best of this country’s rams
regardless of price and local competition.
Some stud breeders were wroth at the
move, which brought down the fancy-ram
values, but it saved Australia from the
likelihood of its striking similar competi-
tion to that which is beginning now in
Corriedale-type wool. Both Australia
and Maoriland allowed the large-scale
export of Corriedales, particularly to
South America, which already has an
industry based on their own stock.
There is plenty of country in Southern
Asia and some even in Europe where the
Tasmanian-type merino might do well
if the right grasses and methods were
introduced. At any rate, with gradually
rising costs of production, the time is
coming when a lot of overseas countries
which could not previously compete with
us could do so if they had the sheep to
breed from.
There is widespread delusion among
sheepbreeders that Australia took the
lead in merino-raising because it had un-
exampled climate and grass for merinos
and a heaven-sent genius for the
work. The real fact is that when the
industry began here it was carried on on
land which cost nothing and with labor
which was far cheaper than it was in
Europe. We had a long start on the rest
of the worn-out Old World ; but would-
be exporters of stud stock should remem-
ber that every marked improvement stage
in merino quality has come either
with importations of new types the
Saxon, Rambouillet and Vermont —or
through pasture improvement with im-
ported grasses or legumes.
Farming conditions in relation to soil
and feeding are becoming largely stand-
ardised the world over in view of the uni-
versal use of certain fodders, the under-
standing of fertilisation and soil-inocu-
lation principles and of the scientific
essentials of stock-breeding. The only
advantages the Commonwealth still has
over other countries are wide areas of
open grazing land (becoming more re-
stricted every year) and superb basic
stock.
The basic stock is the master key to
the situation. Other countries will be
all the more anxious to obtain it after
their experience of this war, and it
appears that the Graziers’ Association
would be prepared to hand it to them
on a platter for the price of a few extra
thousands to a handful of stud breeders.
The great bulk of the industry would
suffer if the embargo were raised. Ram
supply would cost the Australian grower
more by reason of foreign competition,
and he would likely find himself unable
to buy the best rams. And shortly there
would be a marked fall in world prices
for finer merino wools because of
increased supply from countries other
than the Commonwealth. Prices have
fallen to some extent already, relatively
to demand and supply, through our kind-
ness in giving the S. Africans the means
to compete with us.
Importance of Water.
“Clyde”; Despite the frequency of
dry spells water is usually so plentiful
on the average farm that it may easily
be regarded too casually. With all the
recent talk of fodder conservation there
should have been something also about
water conservation.
It’s a good idea to study not only the
average annual rainfall but also the stock
requirements and make provision for
them with storage. Work on the fol-
lowing basis; A horse, 10 gallons a day ;
dairy cow, 15 gals. ; pigs and sheep, two
gals, each ; and about six gals, daily per
100 fowls.
Whether the storage is in tank or dam
it should be fenced off from stock,
especially in dry seasons, and it should
“Think it’ll rain, Pat?”
“Maybe, and maybe it Won’t. An I’ve bin ’ere forty year, so I ought t’ know.”
always be large enough to allow for
plenty of water to be carried through
the driest year. Most farms can provide
an additional tank-site or two, and sink-
ing a tank is a profitable occupation for
slack periods.
Shortage of water will pull down the
milk yield of a dairy herd almost over-
night. Milk is generally 87 per cent,
water, and a single cow may absorb up
to 40 gallons of water a day according
to her size, production and the state of
the weather.
Stock should be allowed to drink as
often as they wish, though working
horses should be watered before being
fed. If sheep or cattle are being hand-
fed the feeding should be done near
water. Stock in good condition will enter
on a shortage of feed and still hold well,
but if they go short of water condition
will fall at once.
Purity is important. There’s seldom
any great danger from running streams,
springs, bores, large dams or tanks, but
the stagnant swamp or isolated water-
hole in creek or river should be viewed
with suspicion. It often holds the larvae
of parasites, disease germs and excess
organic matter. Even in running or
underground water there may be too
much mineral content.
Fencing off the supply helps to keep
it pure, and the drinking troughs and
automatic waterers should get a thorough
cleaning at regular intervals. If there is
any doubt about the quality of the water
Agricultural Departments will generally
give a free analysis of a sample. Send it
tightly corked in a thoroughly clean bottle.
Goodbye to Pear—What of Fly ?
“G.H.H.”: With the completion of
the work of the Commonwealth Prickly
Pear Board (1921-40), the transference
of its staff to the Queensland Lands De-
partment and the publication of the last
of its bulletins, the cactus invasion is
passing into history.
In the middle of 1920 Professor T.
Harvey Johnston (Adelaide) initiated the
research and technique. The caterpillar
Cactoblastus was imported but was
wiped out by disease in confinement.
It was not successfully established until
a much later date. Unknown to the
board there came with it a bacterial
disease which caused the utter collapse
of the pear, and pear was conquered well
within 20 years.
Blowfly research, on the other hand,
began in 1910 but has had no compar-
able results. Recently physiological and
toxological inquiries can result only in
an improvement of specifics. Professor
Johnston’s 1920 suggestion—to seek some
method to control the bacterial activity
in fleece, since this is the only incentive
to flies —has not apparently been tried.
Professor Seddon isolated the organisms
in water-rot, and hence laid the foun-
dations for this research. Now is the
time to further the investigation. Mean-
while something could be done to stop
dissemination of water-rot during muster-
ing, crutching and shearing. It has long
become evident that the handling of
sheep gives the greatest chance for the
bacterial infection to spread.
Sugar Beet for Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: The sugar beet is little
known in Australia or M.L. In Europe,
where long winters have to be got
through, it does far more than help eke
out the sugar supply; as stock feed it
has a prominent place.
The Maoriland Agricultural Depart-
ment has recently completed trials which
seem to spell the beginning of a new beet
era in the Dominion.
Two pig groups of eight Tam worths
were put into one-third-acre grass pens
with open front huts. Each was set the
same basic ration meatmeal and as
much sugar beet as they would eat. One
group was given lib. of kibbled barley,
the other jib. crushed barley per day.
Meatmeal (dry) was fed at 7 a.m. An
ample day’s sugar-beet supply was put
into the yards at noon. Barley was
trough-fed, dry, at 4 p.m. The troughs
were wide and flat-bottomed to ensure
that eating would be slow.
The pigs consumed from 121 b. to 161 b.
of the roots per day. The trial covered
the period June 13 to August 9 —57 days.
The first group made an increase of
281 b. more than the second, but ate 2281 b.
more barley. The pigs on the smaller
barley ration ate considerably more beet.
Trials like this are not entirely satis-
factory to determine comparisons accu-
rately because of the wide variations in
constitution and other features between
animals. But the results proved that
fairly forward store pigs, fed with ylb.
meatmeal and 11b. to Ijlb. of other con-
centrates, added to sugar beet, can make
a through-the-winter 11b. gain per day
and see spring in with prime bloom on
them.
The report on the trials claims that
they showed that a 40-ton crop of sugar
beet, fed to suitable pigs with concen-
trates, could be expected to return £4O to
£55 per acre in terms of pig meat;
With this programme, thousands of pigs
could be taken close to bacon weights by
spring, to be topped in three or four weeks
on milk or whey.
To Maoriland the experiments are im-
portant. Thousands of animals usually
are slaughtered as light porkers in
autumn to avoid the difficult and risky
task of wintering them. If enough beet
is planted they can in future be brought
to topping-off stage for spring baconer
usage.
Bots in Horses.
“The Perch”: Bots can injure a horse
by the fly, looking for somewhere to
drop its eggs, annoying it at work or


iims
A 34.
Kromo-Elk Hide Cossack...
Another Abbey Special ... 351-
Here’s value if you are looking for a stout boot that
will stand any amount of hard wear. In brown Kromo-
Elk Hide, with heavy soles, and full range of sizes
and half-sizes. (Note; This is a particularly big-
fitting boot.)
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street, 234 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria and Tasmania: Queensland:
William Adams & Co., Ltd., Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd..
521 Collins Street, Melbourne. 102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
South Australia;
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Where the going is wet,
heavy or hilly, “Cater-
pillar's" track - type
tread demonstrates its
versatility with gripping
non-slip traction. 80%
of its heavy duty, eco-
nomical engine power
is converted into steady
draw-bar pull.
See your Dealer or
write us direct.
Pictured below is
a "Caterpillar"
Diesel D 2 Tractor
pulling a 3-fur-
row mould board
plough and 5-ft.
harrow, plough-
ing swamp land
nine inches deep,
at a total fuel
cost of 1/3 per
acre.
zdxfdsfds
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO BING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
[ AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
LBEARS HEAVILY FOB a WHOLE YEAR!
f Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
► n.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY.
m
m a
.j-
-rj
m
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 5/6 Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 11/- Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone; 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
grazing, by the larvae withdrawing nour-
ishment from the horse’s stomach and
contents, by obstructing the intestines,
by irritation and damage of the mucous
membrane lining the stomach, by irri-
tation and injury of the intestinal walls,
the rectum and anus. Bot larvae attach
themselves with tiny hooks, and should
these penetrate stomach or intestinal walls
peritonitus may be set up. Still, bots
seldom actually cause death.
The eggs are pale yellow and are
attached to the horse’s coat. When the
animal mouths the spot the moisture and
friction of the lips cause each egg to open,
and the tiny larvae emerge. They burrow
into the muscles under the tongue, and
after three or four weeks pass into the
stomach or intestines. In three or four
months the larva is full-grown and passes
out to the ground, where it burrows and
j ater emerges as a fly to lay more eggs.
A 2 per cent, lysol emulsion will wash
bot eggs from the horse’s coat. Rub the
solution in briskly. For heavy infes-
tations, clip and burn the hair,
if you suspect bots in the stomach
feed the nag for two days on bran
mashes, fast for 12 hours, then give a
carbon bisulphide ball—six drachms to
a 10001 b. horse. No food or water after
that for at least four hours, and don’t
give a purgative.
Be careful when giving the ball. If it
should break in the horse’s mouth and
the drug get to the lungs you’re in for
trouble. Reduce the dose for young and
small horses. Regard ancient or decrepit
na gs as risky subjects for treatment.
“Canbelego”: E. H. Herne, Boscawen,
Nowra (N.S.W.), has proved that with
right management sheep will thrive on
the right kind of coastal alluvial country,
On his dairy farm of 112 acres he runs
50 Romney Marsh-merino cross ewes,
mating them with Southdown rams. Five-
months-old fat lambs this year returned
235., which, with 16id. per pound for
wool, meant a return of 30s. per sheep.
Herne can run up to six sheep per
acre on his Brundee flats of rye grasses
and clovers.
“Sailor Bill” : Although the aged
foliage of lantana is harmless to stock
even when eaten in large quantities, the
vigorous growth which follows the cut-
ting back of the pest is always rich in
prussic and other vegetable acids, and
is poisonous. The same applies to young
zamia palm fronds. The young
“needles” of the grass tree are, on the
other hand, fairly good stock fodder,
In the 1903 drought in Central Queens-
land every grass tree was hopefully in-
spected by Strawberry from time to time,
“T” ; “Pierrot” (B. 12/3/’4l) says
landholders must let grass run to seed
periodically to prevent erosion. What
would he do in a case like this? In
1939 the pastures were swept by fire.
The grass had no chance to seed. Next
year brought severe drought—no grass
to seed. This year looks like being a
good season and the land is fully stocked
to recoup some of the loss of previous
years. If the grass is to be let grow to
seed to prevent erosion will the bank
manager understand?
“Atrax”: The old argument as to
whether a tomato is a fruit or a vege-
table has been settled with considerable
shock to vendors of the canned form
of the article. Until November, 1940,
canned tomatoes were exempt from
sales tax like canned peaches. Then the
Sales Tax Exemption and Classification
Act came into operation and they were
turned overnight into vegetables with an
impost of 5 p.c. The Taxation Depart-
ment did not trouble to notify canners
and growers until last month, when it
demanded an adjustment for underpaid
sales tax, retrospective to November 11
and including all sales in the interval,
Webster and the Encyclopaedia Britannica
agree that the tomato plant bears “fruit,”
but in a land where the dingo is a
marsupial and a Government uses the
Sugar Acquisition Act to squelch a pony
racecourse, any department, board or
commission can declare the laws of
nature void.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXIV.
LIFTING THE CORRIEDALES.
You and Jack, your elder son, are
lifting a couple of hundred Corriedales
in the wool from a place in behind the
river. From there to the main road is
about four miles, through three station
paddocks. You got there the night
before, saw that there were no sheep in
the station paddocks, camped overnight
and were up at dawn for the start back.
When you see the fog you’re glad the
Corries were mustered the night before
and you push off with the dog, Mac, hold-
ing the leaders and you and Jack riding
at the tail.
You can’t see more than 100 yards
through that fog, but you know Mac
can be trusted to hold the leaders.
“We oughter waited till the sun came
out,” says Jack, fog-wreaths drifting
round his horse’s legs.
“That’s no good,” you say; “it might
be 10 o’clock be then and we’d lose three
hours. We gotter get these sheep home
be dark-”
Jack pushes off on the flank and fades
into the fog. The sheep don’t like the
going, and you have to shove the tail
along. Presently Jack reappears.
“The leaders are goin’ like steam,” he
says. “Mac can hardly hold ’em.”
You send him back to the lead to help
the dog. Time passes as you and the
sheep drift ahead. Trees loom out of
the fog, and somewhere off to the right
a dog barks. Must be the station home-
stead, you think ; then you start wonder-
ing if it was Mac.
Barks come out of the fog again, this
time more to the right. Then you hear
a voice shouting. Gripes, you think, they
must be breaking away there, and you
turn your horse and canter into the fog.
Presently a fence looms up. You stop
and shout “Hey, Jack!”
“That you, Bill?” shouts the fog.
“None of your silly jokes,” you cry,
and follow the fence till you come to an
open gate. You get down and look at
the ground. It is well marked with fresh
sheep tracks.
Cursing, you climb aboard the prad
and head off into the fog, yelling to Jack.
A voice answers from the left, and you
make that way. A stranger on a black
horse comes out of the grey blankness.
“Hey,” you ask, “seen any sheep about
here with a lad and a dog?”
“No,” he says. “Wisht I could. Listen,
mate, I opens the gate, sees the leaders
through, then makes back to the tail. Get
slewed in this blinded fog, an’ here I am,
an’ somewhere else there’s a thousand
big wethers, a sulky an’ me mate an’
three dogs.”
You regard him for a long moment.
“Yair,” you say, “an’ in that some-
where else there’s 200 big Corriedales in
the wool, my boy Jack an’ another dog.”
He rips out a. curse and is swallowed
in the fog, yelling. You head back for
where you think the gate is, yelling, too.
It takes half an hour to find that gate,
which you ride through and close. Then
you head for where the Corries ought to
be, shouting at the top of your voice and
cursing in between shouts.
An hour later the fog begins to lift.
Big, open spaces of country appear.
Away across a plain you can see a bunch
of sheep accompanied by a single horse-
man. By the time you get near enough
to see that it’s Jack and the Corries the
fog has almost cleared and the sun is
coming out hot.
By the time you catch up Jack has
opened the gate on to the main road and
the sheep are running through and head-
ing the right way.
“Good on y’, boy,” you pant, canter-
ing up. “I got slewed in that blasted fog.
There was a big mob of wethers loose
in there somewhere; see anythin’ of
’em?”
“No,” says Jack. “I heard a lot o’
yellin’ but I just kept goin’. But we got
some strangers. Y’ can pick ’em out.
See ’em ; they’ve been crutched?”
Your 200 Corriedales have grown. You
can see the white crutches among them.
“There’s a brush yard down the road
about a quarter of a mile,” you tell Jack ;
“we’ll hafter get ’em in there an’ hand-
draft ’em. We’ll chuck the strangers over
the fence back into their paddock.”
At the brush yard you and Jack slip
off the horses, block the entrance and
get to work. Those strangers are big
and strong. They have to be caught, up-
ended, dragged or carried across the
yard, and lifted over the top barb be-
cause the wires are strained too tight to
push them through. Sweat pours from
you. The slight moisture of the fog
dries off the ground and the dust rises.
You debate with yourself whether to cut
a panel of the fence and save the lifting,
but decide against it. Your fingers get
sore, your muscles ache, but you work
grimly on, and at last you and Jack
hoist the last stranger over the fence and
watch it bolt after the others. You
stagger to the shade and sit down.
You’ve just lit your pipe when a man
comes walking along the fence.
“Hey,” he says, pointing to the dis-
appearing strangers, “what’s the idea of
putting them in here?”
You gape at him, and a slow, awful
feeling mounts from your stomach.
“Isn’t that —isn’t that Melton station
country?” you gasp.
He shakes his head. “Melton ends
back at that cross-fence,” he says, point-
ing, “Mister, if them’s Melton sheep
you put in you’ll have t’ come an’ get
’em out again.”
You slide down from the log you’re
resting on and put your head in your
hands.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4j|d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
A butcher’s experience with inspectors heads the list this week. Our system
of government spawns inspectors.
Inspectors
I am a butcher in a N. S. Wales
country town ; staff, one boy. I register
my yards, and two policemen act as
inspectors. The small property surround-
ing the yards is visited by one rabbit
inspector and one stock inspector.
I register my place of business as a
shop, and it is visited by a nuisance
inspector (local) and a Government in-
spector from Sydney. I make a few
sausages and therefore must register as
a factory. To see that I do I am visited
by yet another inspector. I’m compelled
to buy a stamp for every pig I kill. The
local stock inspector collects these from
me and hands them to the district in-
spector, who cancels them.
I must give the police 48 hours’ notice
on a prescribed form of my intention
to kill my own stock so that they can,
without notice, enter my premises and
inspect such stock. Once a month they
call and collect payment for my having
complied. There are other visitors: a
wages-tax inspector, an inspector from
the Industrial Registrar’s Office and one
from the Employees’ Union.
When the inspector of weights and
measures calls I’m informed of a place,
day and hour when it will suit him to
test ray scales. I hump a bulky, break-
able instrument across the street, where
he places a compact, unbreakable weight
on it. Time taken, 20 seconds ; fee, ss.
I have offered my services (and am
still offering them) to fight against
oppression which is attacking from the
front. But I have a feeling that some-
thing like it is creepihg up, unnoticed, in
our midst.—A. N. S. (N.S.W.).
After the War
Most of the post-war plans aired so far
by would-be leaders of the new social
order and hinted at by present-day poli-
ticians have been vast projects, aiming at
the employment of thousands in jobs that
will take half a lifetime to accomplish.
With the exception of land-settlement
schemes, mooted by people who have
apparently forgotten the costly blunders
of the nineteen-twenties, these plans all
suffer from one very serious defect: they
can have little appeal to the individual.
For that reason alone they should be
looked upon with suspicion.
Most men are not ants, willing to strive
indefinitely for the general benefit of the
community. Given a fair choice, the
average intelligent man will accept a live-
lihood offering a personal return more or
less proportionate to the amount of hard
work and thinking he puts into it rather
than a very safe but poorly-paid position
in a grandiose undertaking of potential
value to the community. In other words,
he is more interested in something that
he can call his own.
While it may be necessary to embark
on a number of large post-war recon-
struction schemes, the needs of the indi-
vidualist should never be forgotten. Given
another start, many a new Digger who
has given up a business of his own or a
professional practice to serve his coun-
try will soon be a happy, useful civilian.
Put on a slow Government-works job,
he will soon get fed up with it and look
around for a private opening.
Wherever possible, we should aim at
getting men back into the kind of job
they were in or wanted to be working at
before the war, otherwise we are certain
to breed dissatisfaction. The cost to the
State will be small compared with the
capital sunk in our previous soldier-
settlement mistakes. — Wusslean (Vic.).
National Government
Some newspapers have worn the
National Government theme threadbare.
Few people, least of all the politicians,
take any notice of their demands, and it
is doubtful if we would be any better off
if we did have a National Government.
Possibly, we would be worse off, for a
strong Opposition prevents the Govern-
ment from going to sleep on the job.
With a National Government there would
be a tendency for criticism to be stifled
—it would not be “in the interests of
unity.”
No one can say that Beasley has not
done the Commonwealth a great service
in his criticism of some shortcomings of
the Government, and Beasley is only one
critic. In a National Government Beas-
ley would be a certainty for a portfolio.
He would have to look after his own de-
partment, and would have no chance of
acting as a spur, which he is doing now.
Labor can give just as much to the
war effort as an Opposition as it could
in a National Government partnership.
Recent events have shown that the Labor
party is willing to co-operate with the
Government on big issues, and with such
co-operation there is no need for the
incessant demands being made for
National Government.
If the newspapers want to run a cam-
paign that really would be popular, let
them swing their influence behind the
movement for the abolition of State Par-
liaments. — Paul Pilgrim (N.S.W.).
Soldiers and Civilians
Surely “Red Tie” (B. 12/3/ ’4l) has got
hold of the question civilian v. soldier
by the wrong end of the stick? What
makes him think that there is a “rot in
civil life,” and that all soldiers are im-
mortal heroes immediately they put on
their uniform? Isn’t it possible for each,
in his own sphere, to do his job with
courage and without complaint?
Civilians, we are told, are none too
pleasant characters. Yet Mr. Jones, as
Private Jones, is without blemish! But
isn’t “Red Tie” stating the case back-to-
front? For example, what makes the
Briton a good fighter is the standard
of his ordinary life. The Briton “can
take it” because for hundreds of years he
has been “taking it,” and still he comes
back for more. Why, the Germans will
never understand. It’s very doubtful if
the British do themselves. Their present
struggle is just part of their spirit.
The main point is that the greatness
of the British character makes the Briton
a grand fighter, not, as “Red Tie” argues,
that because they are good fighters there-
fore the British are a great race. There
is a world of difference.
And while “Red Tie” is reading of the
exploits of soldiers overseas, let him
glance at the other columns also, and
read how the British people—the plain,
common British civilians —are holding
out against the most furious attack of
all times. — Homo (N.S.W.).
Waste
Why not cut down on the absolute
waste of metal used in tobacco con-
tainers? For every pound of tobacco put
up in them three-quarters of a pound of
metal is used; taking one fourth of the
weed consumed by the public the plate
used in a year amounts to nearly 1350
tons, with about 13 tons of pure tin.
Surely, if the best of cigars can keep
in a wooden box, there is no necessity
to use metal for the stuff sold for every-
day use. — Platman (Q.).
Allow me to add to “Fair Go’s” (B.
19/3/’4l) smack at the Lord Mayor’s
Patriotic and War Fund of N.S.W. for
the extravagance of its first annual re-
port—which would be an extravagance
in any form other than
a newspaper report. In
a well-known daily paper
flaring headlines an-
nounced that Sydney’s
Lord Mayor called for
showers of confetti and
torn paper in the streets
to make the American
naval visitors “feel at
home.”
In the early days of
the war a superfluity
officially banned from
manufacture in England
was confetti. I wonder
if the childish and waste-
ful display impressed the
Americans more than
sane expressions of good-
will? And I do not
remember reading of
Mr. Wendell Willkie
being showered with
confetti to make him
feel at home during his
recent visit to England.
—Plain Jane (N.S.W.).
Rejected Without Thanks
Fourteen lads, many of whom are
known to me personally, offered their
services to the local Artillery Battery and
were accepted. In succeeding weeks they
were issued with uniforms, they passed
the medical examination, and, after sign-
ing the attestation form, were sworn in.
About a month later they prepared to
go into camp with their unit. Many
joined a n.c.os.’ class and all informed
their friends and employers.
But on the eve of their departure
these 14, indiscriminately picked, were
called before their C.O. They were told
that, although the Army had not found
fault with them, their unit was over
strength, and they were to return their
uniforms and would, if they enlisted in
the local infantry, receive an honorable
discharge. However, the infantry was
also over strength, and so they are left
out of the militia and without anything
to show that they have not been thrown
out.—J. B. M. (N.S.W.)j
Who’ll Make the Peace?
Politicians and soldiers made a bad
peace last time. This time there must
be no Clemenceau. Reparations out
of all proportion to the capacity of the
peoples to pay them drag down victor
and vanquished alike.
It is not too early to think of such
problems. A clear peace aim on our
part can be a decisive factor in winning
the war from the moment enemy morale
begins to crack. If the people of the
enemy believe that there is more to be
gained from a peace than lost by a war
there will be a greater readiness on their
part to sue for peace.
But a punitive, vindictive peace leaves
them little choice between continuing
the war and ending it. And, paradoxi-
cally, the peace ideal that might induce
a collapse of enemy morale is for us a
greater incentive to winning.—J. B. (Vic.).
Echuca
“Belfield’s” review (B. 19/3/’4l) is
partly but not wholly true. Echuca, in
common with other towns which depend
upon agricultural and pastoral produc-
tion, is passing through a lean period, but
it passed through similar periods before
it thrived 15 years ago.
Henry Hopwood founded Echuca.
Town-planning was an unknown art
in his day. The business centre
was established in High-street near
his punt in a bottleneck between
the Murray and Campaspe rivers.
When the town grew a second business
centre was established in Hare-street, and
for many years the rivalry between the
two streets was keen. During the most
recent period of prosperity erection of
business premises was overdone, largely
through a desire to become established in
Hare-street.
With an average rainfall of 17in., the
Echuca district has seen two of the last
three years fail to reach lOin. Those
who have lived on the land and watched
for rain know what that means. But fifty
miles from Echuca three great drag-line
excavators work day and night construct-
ing a man-made river—the Mulwala
Canal. This canal will cross the Edward
River near Deniliquin and continue to
Womboota. The Deniboota irrigation
scheme will serve 300,000 acres of fertile
land, which will be subdivided; and
Echuca is the main centre for this area.
When old man Drought comes again, as
he surely will, he will find his grip on
Echuca has weakened, as it has weakened
on the Goulburn Valley.
Once Echuca had 70 pubs, ten times
too many. Now Echuca has 12 pubs, still
twice too many. Surplus pubs are im-
porters, not exporters, and only those
who cater for visitors to Echuca’s genial
climate need remain.
Echuca does not face stagnation. On
sale days the air over the line is still full
of the dust of thousands of stock, and
the council is spending over £lO,OOO on
saleyards. Although there are now three
vacant shops in its main shopping block,
these will be reoccupied, as empty shops
in the past have been. Rain and mud
will come again, and mud means money.
—Welfield (Vic.).
Albany
Albany, Westralia, can be cited as an-
other outstanding example of the strang-
ling effects of centralisation. It is the
oldest settled portion of this State, the
Residency Point 115 years ago. The
mailboats gave Albany its first era of
prosperity, and this trade was retained
throughout the eighties and nineties of
last century. But from the beginning
of the present century residents saw
their shipping trade gradually slipping
north to the artificially-constructed harbor
of Fremantle.
The mailboats were the first to go. Then
followed the Blue Anchor, Blue Funnel,
Aberdeen White Star, White Star and
goodness knows how many miscellaneous
callers of all nations. The closing down
by Millar Bros, of their Denmark timber
mills, 30 miles from the port, was an-
other blow.
Looming up also was the menace of
centralisation of shipping nearer home.
Albany, in her heyday of prosperity, par-
ticularly at the period when the Great
Southern districts and the South Coast
trade gave such impetus with new settle-
ment, was serviced with vessels of at least
eight Australian shipping companies
operating independently. These would
literally race each other into port from
east or west to swing their winches on
to even 20 tons of cargo. Moreover,
machinery for the development of the
Great Southern farming lands, then com-
ing under the axe and plough, was landed
at Albany from eastern States and sent
north by rail.
Bunkering operations contributed im-
mensely to Albany’s port trade, and the
capacious holds of seven hulks were
being constantly emptied and replenished
by fleets of colliers from eastern States
coal ports.
Today two empty hulks, at anchor in
the stream, afford sardonic evidence of
what a policy of shipping centralisation
can mean to a hitherto prosperous port.
It is true that the advent of oil-burning
vessels was a contributing factor in later


years, but Albany’s bunker trade had
ceased even before that era.
The knockout to the coastal trade of
the port came with the decision of the
shipping companies to form a merger.
No longer is the old order of competition
found on the Australian coast, and an
outport has to provide a more tempting
bait than a mere 20 tons of cargo to
attract a crack liner to its jetties.
Albany’s residents, and those of its
vast and fertile back areas, however, are
alive to the necessity of bringing about
inland development which will serve to
recapture, in part at least, a rightful share
of tonnage. The raising of lambs for
export, with local treatment works, fruit-
growing, timber export, dairying and pig-
farming now form the nucleus of home
and export trade for the port of Albany,
and give promise of offsetting the
baneful influence of centralisation. —
R. G. (W.A.).
Reformatory ?
Nearly ten years ago I played in a
school football match against a boys’
reformatory team. I was minding a stocky
14-year-old whose assurance and confi-
dence earned my immediate worship. He
told me he had been landed for breaking
into a shop with some companions, and
he poured the story into my eager ears.
I remember asking him “What did your
mother and father say?” He answered
offhand: “Aw, dad was doing time him-
self.” “And what are you going to do
when they let you out?” “I can make
plenty of money. There’s four of us
knock around together and we’ve got
dozens of plans.”
I’ve never heard of him since—l only
knew him as “Bob” —but whenever 1
hear discussions on the suitability of
reformatories the memory of Bob and
his gang of four planning for after their
release always springs to my mind.
“Pawang” (B. 12/3/’4l) is the latest
to evoke it. His predecessors have been
Judges and lawyers, doctors and
psychologists, criminologists and wel-
fare workers, and from none of
them have I heard the reformatory
system adequately defended. Most of
them agree, in fact, that the reformation
effected is usually on far worse lines than
the original. But perhaps the most heart-
felt indictment came from the prisoner
whom “Pawang” mentions, and who pas-
sionately appealed to be sent to the clean
atmosphere of a gaol rather than the
tainted surroundings of a reformatory.
That young thinker had first-hand know-
ledge of his subject, and his plea was
deeply sincere.
You can’t cure tuberculosis in a damp
room or drunkenness in a wine cellar.
By the same token you don’t cure the
delinquent child by putting him with
others far worse than himself, whose
dares he tries to attain, whose brags he
tries to better and whose evil he tries to
outdo. You’ve got to find out why he
goes wrong. There is a reason all
right. If it’s bad companions or squalid
conditions, then he must be taken
away from both. If it’s neglect
or overindulgence by the parents, he
must be sent away for a time until things
are resolved with the aid of the social
service worker. But if it’s something in-
born in the child, he needs medical atten-
tion, either temporary or permanent.
“No boy is a bad boy” was Father
Flanagan’s principle in “Boys’ Town,”
and it’s a good solid principle. If a boy
goes wrong there’s a reason, and it’s the
reason that needs treating.— Pip (Vic.).
Drill
It was one of those days when a jelly-
fish in the sun would have disappeared
faster than a flatite on rent day. The
school children were lined up, jumping
up, playing up and fed up, while the
glare of the sun shimmered over them.
The technical name for all this was
“drill.” The master, in the shade of the
verandah, bawled instructions, and the
perspiring kids hopped, flung out their
arms, touched their toes, etc., in resigned
obedience.
I question whether children enjoy
this sport in summer. Many’s the time
I remember wrapping a hankie around
my knee and limping more or less con-
vincingly all morning in order to dodge
the drill drudgery at noon. And the
number of others who’ve done the same
thing is an ugly thought. So why do
education authorities insist on wearying
the kids physically and then expecting
them to be alert mentally almost in the
next second?
If drill can’t be abolished, couldn’t the
children be lined up on the shady
verandah in summer? It might be tough
on the verandah boards, but it’d be easier
on the juveniles.— Elm (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
Here are some details of the child
endowment system (B. 26/2/’4l) at
present in force in Maoriland. Parents
of two or more children are entitled
under the Social Security Act to a benefit
of four shillings a week for the second
and subsequent children. There are, of
course, certain limitations.
Maybe it doesn’t seem much at first
sight, but to a man with a wage of £5
a week and, say, four children it is as
good as a pat on the back from the boss
plus a good rise.
The general rule is for the mother or
guardian to collect the money. If a case
is found where the benefit is abused the
Social Security Department can appoint
an outside person to collect and authorise
the agent to expend the money in the
children’s interests.
Maoris are amongst the beneficiaries
in great numbers, they being about the
only native race in the world with a
rising birthrate. Benefits under the
family endowment are the same for the
Maori as for the pakeha.
Maorilanders have got used to such
things now. —B. V. S. (M.L.).
Housing Problems
The housing problem looms heavily
over at least three States, and even a
post-war return to normality will not dis-
pose of the embarrassment. Home build-
ing has not kept pace with the normal
demand created by new marriages, and
the war has brought its own emergencies
(my suburb is being combed desperately
for accommodation for munition
" Want me to Wait or call back later ?”
workers). Yet, paradoxically, a very
large number of elderly couples and
widows whose families have fled the old
nest continue to inhabit houses twice too
large for their needs and, often, means.
It seems to me that the situation could
be helped—and not as a temporary ex-
pedient, but a permanent policy —by
building small cottages for the old folks.
After four or five decades in their own
little castle they can seldom be induced
to go into sub-let rooms, yet a house
built for a family entails rent and labor
beyond their capacity. “A poor thing
but mine own” is their preference ; and
they will hang on to the empty and over-
size nest while harassed young couples
start married life in apartment-house
accommodation where they miss, and
eventually dodge, the way of life
that is the warp and woof of successful
fruitful marriage.
Little homes, semi-detached, of, say,
two rooms and a kitchen, the pair sharing
laundry and other conveniences if neces-
sary, would meet the case and be a god-
send all round. They would have to be
strictly reserved to the old people, at a
cheap rent —no workshy brides.
Incidentally, a most gracious and
timely gesture from the past has just been
announced in Adelaide. From the accu-
mulated proceeds of an estate (£30,000)
one new pair of cottages is to be erected
yearly in perpetuity. They are to be let
at a cheap rental to tenants who can
satisfy the trustees of their eligibility to
such consideration, regardless of age or
status. The task of the selectors would
have been greatly eased had the cottages
been reserved for the aged poor. How-
ever, it is up to our future Government-
housing-schemers, whether State or Com-
monwealth, to follow and enlarge on that
lead. Such little homes would cost less
in cash, labor and material than the
building of equal numbers of family
homes, and would free those larger
homes that are now only half-occupied.
—Whitworth (S.A.).
Victorian Workers’ Houses
The outcry by the Fibrous Plasterers’
Union against the fabricated concrete
houses the Victorian Housing Commis-
sion is building for people removed
from slum areas and for workers who
want cheaper houses reminds me of the
row the Plasterers’ Society kicked up
about 30 years ago when the fibrous-
plaster business started. The trowel and
float men said that the fibrous plasterers
were really only laborers, as there was
no skill or art in fixing .big sheets of
fibrous plaster on to walls and ceilings.
Now the fibrous plasterers are saying
exactly the same thing about the new-
style concrete houses. They say that the
builders of these are not tradesmen but
only assemblers. And a move is on foot
to condemn these new houses and stop
any further erection of them, merely be-
cause they are cheap to build as com-
pared with brick or wooden buildings.
I have made a thorough inspection of
some of these houses and found them
better than many 1 have lived in. They
are rain- and windproof; mice, snakes
and goannas cannot crawl up inside the
walls and on to the ceilings as they can
in fibro-walled buildings ; lumps of
plaster cannot fall from the ceilings.
They are roomy and much better lighted
than the average house, and they cost
only about a quarter of the price of a
wooden house of the same size. They
can be let much cheaper, and they must
be like veritable palaces to those who
are moved into them from slum hovels. —
I. Grills (Vic.).
Tourist Bureaux
Recently I moved from one State to
another. Listening to the radio in my new
State, I was amazed to hear a “session,”
sponsored by the tourist bureau of my
home State, trying to induce people living
here to go there for holidays. My amaze-
ment sprang from the fact that several
times a week in the other State I used
to listen to a “session” sponsored by the
bureau in this State, inviting people
from that State to come here on holiday.
Tourist bureaux, of course, are run by
the respective railway services. That may
be the explanation of this seeming
anomaly of States spending hundreds, if
not thousands, a year in other States.
The whole thing, however, is too ridicu-
lous for words. State Governments are
virtually inviting people to ignore Com-
monwealth savings campaigns by asking
them to spend large sums travelling to
remote parts on vacation. —J. B. (S.A.).
Broken Hill and Beer
Broken Hill, cosmopolitan enough to
give a universal reaction, compact
enough to keep in sight all eddies, has
administered a shock to Cold Tea’s
oldest argument against Beer.
Broken Hill’s Industrial Council edict
barring all alcoholic liquors in the licens-
ing district until pubs retail the amber
fluid at lOd. a pint and 6d. a half-pint
was hailed with delight by the Chamber
of Commerce. It has become the cause of
dismay and anxiety, for it has reduced
the city’s trade to less than it was during
the worse phase of the depression—that’s
using the Chamber’s own words. The
butcher, the baker, the clothier and the
candlestick-maker are down on their
knees before the Industrial Council ask-
ing that august body to allow the beer
taps to be turned on again as oil for
the community’s trade, otherwise the 200
hotel employees on “victimisation pay”
will be joined by a couple of thousand
other workers on half-time or less.
Yet no one knows where the beer
money has gone. Certainly the banks
are not handling it. Nor is the racing
club —its communiques are as gloomy as
those of the Chamber of Commerce.
The simple fact is tli&t Is. a pint,
whether measured in cash or the sweat
to earn it, is too much to pay for the
worker’s oik
When men can’t meet over the Satur-
day-morning pot to tell each other what
the boss said to them and what they
said to the boss, and what they did that
the boss could not do, they become dis-
contented.
1 should like taxation experts and
economists to come here to study
the local phenomena. If they do they
will realise, as Broken Hill does now,
that much of the teasiness and readiness
to strike by industrial labor is primarily
due to the fact that, owing to unbalanced
taxation, it takes too much of the
worker’s sweat to pay for his first neces-
saries—beer and tobacco. — W. I. U. OF A.
(Broken Hill).
Erosion
Probably it’s a waste of breath reply-
ing to a man who says “Frankly, I don’t
give a damn about posterity” (B.
26 /3 / ’4l). But before giving him some
facts to chew over I must remind
“G.A.M.” that his own children are close-
at-hand representatives of posterity, and
the “better farms” which he claims will
be there in 100 years will certainly not
be there if there is wanton slaughter of
timber such ag has occurred in Victoria’s
Mallee and mountain areas. Every time
a north wind blows in summer, tons and
tons of Mallee soil are wafted over
southern Victoria and frequently reach
Tasmania. These dust baths have been
getting worse and more frequent every
year, and they are a direct result of
wanton tree-destruction.
Farms in the Mallee are being aban-
doned because the top soil has blown
away. The farmers are walking off,
broken in spirit and pocket, simply be-
cause their grandfathers “didn’t give a
damn about posterity.” In South Gipps-
land, a wetter and much hillier part of
Victoria, where huge tracts of country
were once covered by magnificent forests
of mountain ash —the best and tallest
hardwood trees in the world—there are
now bare, eroded hillsides growing no-
thing much else but bracken and other
noxious weeds,
I know just as well as “G.A.M.” that
trees have to be cleared to make way
for farms, but it is the wanton and sense-
less destruction of useful trees which
rouses my anger.— Trevdee (Vic.).
N.S.W. Fencing Laws
Some simplification of N.S.W. fencing
laws is required. The ancient Dividing
Fences Act applies only to freehold land ;
the Crown Lands Act and the Pastures
Protection Act both deal with fencing,
but do not cover the whole position, and
in some instances the Local Government
Act, the Public Gates Act and the
Western Lands Act may have a bearing
on a particular case.
Present complications and confusion
could be avoided if there were a con-
solidation of the material clauses in the
Acts governing fencing in a single Act
that dealt with all classes of fences in
every part of the State. Properties
alienated from the Crown to become
outright freeholds come under the Divid-
ing Fences Act, one of the most ineffec-
tive and futile enactments on the Statute
Book, working satisfactorily only when
applied to allotments in townships or
villages. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
End' of an Experiment
“Dickie Beech” (B. 5/3/’4l) is right
about sea-mullet along the S.Q. coast.
The fish could be caught in huge quan-
tities, the quality is excellent and the
demand is good, but there is a snag—
processing.
An attempt was made near Southport
about 20 years ago to salt and smoke fish
to send out west, where fish is a luxury,
during the winter months. Trial parcels
were sent beyond Longreach. They
arrived in good order and compared
favorably with imported fish as regards
quality and cost. Everything seemed
promising, so a small plant was set up,
men were engaged and instructed, and all
was set when the first fish arrived.
It was two boatloads of sea-mullet.
As soon as it was delivered and paid
for the men struck for double wages.
And that was the end of the experiment
except for getting rid of the rotting fish,
—Returned Empty (Q.).


High Living
at Easter Time
Results in Biliousness and
Bad Heads
At this period of the year most of us are
inclined to over-indulge in both food and
drink. This, coupled with the lack of usual
exercise and other methods of living, upsets
the system. There is no need to describe
the symptoms, which are known only too
well. For disordered systems arising from
such conditions Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are invaluable. They act directly, though
gently, on the liver, increasing the digestive
secretions, thus assisting nature to cope with
the surplus food. Upon the first indication
of bilious symptoms a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills should be taken, or, better
still, if used regularly they will keep the
digestive organs in proper working order.
If going away for Easter don’t forget to take
a bottle of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
with you.
mi
Dr. Horse's
PILLS
I
tfdrtk Liver
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Windburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7$ per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s * Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from the W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W..
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington N.£.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
m\w~
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
to
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 4/- _ c°i
v
post free.
&
4
Kv>
. x
*\
oO^'
.\\ e
■ a
v
s \V


1" 'I,! 1 !;
Si
V^'
>
mm®mMmmm
rr
sS&fef/ A s
o
■
i 5
.
r ,x.-c-
-sVS^
cm
m
Si
5
FOR
lioi
The heavy, surgical steel —not wafer —of genuine
GEM Blades takes a super keen edge that stands
up to the toughest beard, gives double the usual
number of shaves per blade. Each shave with
genuine GEM Blades costs less than with cheaper
substitutes.
GEM RAZORS WITH 2 BLADES -
ON SALE AT ALL STORES, I'- COMPLETE.
sfdsfdsfs
DouMe
Life
BLADES
