

jjo that they may turn the wheels
%
,5®
1
«s
f
l
m
m
money won’t be much use if this
“*• war ends in disaster, which it will unless
our armies are properly equipped.
Will you lend all you can, now , to keep the
wheels of war industry turning; or will you
leave it to the other fellow until it is too
late?
If you have £l,OOO lend it—if you have
£lO lend that, or arrange to invest by instal-
ments. But whatever you do, act quickly!
Apply at once at any hank, money order
post office, or stockbroker. Interest is
for 5 years or 3\Jo for 9/15 years .
Invest in the
WAR
AND
WORKS
LOAN
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3195.
Wednesday, May 7, 1941.
Evacuation and After
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by. Post as a Newspaper.


Learn '
Story
Writing
at HOWE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
s.s.m
The Red Page
TWELVE WAR BOOKS .
Had E. N. van Kleffens’s The Rape of
the Netherlands, mentioned here a few
weeks ago, been added to the latest dozen
for review, the books would have cov-
ered practically every aspect of the war
up to the most recent events in Libya
and the Balkans. Into Battle, Mr.
Churchill’s speeches from May, 1938, to
November last year, recalls the Eire bill
and Munich—the pre-war scene as well
as the war. A. H. Narracott’s War News
Had Wings covers the early days m
France. Carl J. Hambro’s I Saw It
Happen in Norway and Captain Pierre
Lapie’s With the Foreign Legion at
Narvik cover the Norwegian business.
The anonymous Diary of a Staff Officer
gives the fall of France. Basil Woon’s
Hell Came to London tells the civilian’s
experience of bombing.
Rounding off the picture are J. W.
Fletcher’s Winston Churchill; E. Colston
Shepherd on The Military Aeroplane;
three books of war verse; and J. B.
Priestley’s Postscripts, telling J. B. Priest-
ley’s enormous audience to cheer up.
Two in this collection are of permanent
* value: Into Battle (Cassell) both for its
historical interest and for Mr. Churchill’s
fiery oratory ; and I Saw It Happen in
Norway (Hodder and Stoughton;
Moore’s Bookshop) for its historical
value as the statement on the German
invasion by the President of the Npr-
wegian Parliament.
A passage from Into Battle, showing
Mr. Churchill’s irony at its best —he is
talking of the strange lull in Europe in
August, 1939, just before war broke out:
But to come back to the hush I said was
hanging over Europe. What kind of a
hush is it? Alas! it is the hush of sus-
pense, and in many lands it is the hush of
fear. Listen! No, listen carefully; I think
I hear something—yes, there it was, quite
clear. It is the tramp of armies, crunching
the gravel of the parade-grounds, splashing
through rain-soaked fields, the tramp of two
million German soldiers and more than a
million Italians—“going on manoeuvres” —
yes, only on manoeuvres! Of course it’s
only manoeuvres —just like last year. After
all, the Dictators must train their soldiers.
They could scarcely do less in common
prudence, when the Danes, the Dutch, the
Swiss, the Albanians—and, of course, the
Jews—may leap out upon them at any
moment and rob them of their living space,
and make them sign another paper to say
who began it. Besides, those German and
Italian armies may have another work of
Liberation to perform. It was only last
year they liberated Austria from the horrors
of self-government. It was only in March
that they freed the Czechoslovak republic
from the misery of independent existence.
It is only two years ago that Signor Musso-
lini gave the ancient kingdom of Abyssinia
its Magna Charta.
Mr. Hambro’s account of the happen-
ings in Norway is as worth while for its
story as for its authenticity, a book that
nobody will find made stale by the march
of events. Highlights are his picture of
the utter stupefaction of the Norwegian
Cabinet when confronted with the in-
vasion ; his analysis of the “betrayal” of
Norway, in which he declares that there
was no widespread treachery, that Quis-
ling’s Cabinet (except for two men who
promptly repudiated the traitor and
joined the army) was composed of un-
known men, and that rumors of treachery
Were spread by German agents in Stock-
holm and accepted as gospel by corre-
spondents of the world’s press. (How
much of the “news” that now comes from
America, and, like the Stockholm reports,
is believed authentic because it comes
from a neutral, can one really trust?)
Mr. Hambro describes military as well
as political events, and describes them
well. The story of the bus-drivers:
Some of the bus-drivers in Oslo became
quite famous. The Germans had comman-
deered the big buses running in every direc-
tion from the capital and forced the drivers
to take German soldiers to the different
fronts. Some of the drivers agreed to put
a stop to this system. And one day three
of the great buses driven from Oslo to
Honefoss went over the precipice near
Solihogda; there were 60 men in each bus
besides the driver. All were killed. But
the Germans stopped the fourth bus, and
they let the drivers alone afterwards.
Except for Hell Came to London, the
rest of the dozen are readable but un-
important, Mr. Fletcher’s Churchill
(New Century Press, Ltd., Sydney), de-
scribed as a “condensed life,” is a slight
little biography, enthusiastic in tone and
dismissing far too easily the criticisms
over Gallipoli, Antwerp and the expedi-
tion to Russia. Proceeds go to an Eng-
lish war charity and the Australian Red
Cross.
The second Norwegian book, With the
Foreign Legion at Narvik (John Murray),
bearing an introduction by P. C. Wren, is
what one would expect: a good, straight
narrative of the Legion’s part in the cam-
paign, told with the cheerfulness of the
professional soldier and chiefly interest-
ing for its anecdotes of actual warfare.
War News Had Wings (Frederick
Muller, Ltd.) and The Diary of a Staff
Officer (Methuen) both suffer from the
fact that the battle for France, especially
as seen by airmen, has been pretty well
covered by earlier books, Narracott,
London “Times” correspondent, has little
to add to the story Noel Monks told
in Fighter Squadrons. His writing isn’t
so cheap and flashy as Monks’s, but
neither is it powerful, and he shares with
Monks the illusion that news about other
war correspondents (“And there was old
Bill Scooper-Drooper of the ‘Daily
Screech’—what a lad!”) is as important
as news about the war. Anyone who
knows the story of the R.A.F. in France
will find most news interest in Narra-
cott’s account of the hostility of the
people of Alsace Lorraine to the British.
The staff officer’s Diary (he was an air
intelligence liaison officer) is better stuff,
an object lesson to the correspondents
in the presentation of news: all that he
saw and heard while France was falling
is told tersely and dramatically, and only
important matters are recorded. The
crowd who blame “Fascism” for the col-
lapse of France might take notice of
the staff officer’s assertion that the
Parisian regiments stationed at Sedan
stood up to the noise of dive bombing
for two hours and then ran like rabbits.
Woon’s Hell Came to London (Peter 1
Davies), a simple, sincere, mainly good-
humored account of what a civilian has
seen of the bombing, is well worth read-
ing. Woon is extremely annoyed with
the American Ralph Ingersoll, who de-
clared that Hitler had London beaten
and didn’t know it. “No amount of
bombing —no amount, Mr. Ingersoll—
could ‘take’ London, either then, now,
or in the future.” Three oddities;
Page 171: Inside a police cordon there
stands a venerable wineshop, apparently un-
damaged. It is closed, however, and the
explanation is in the window:
TIME BOMB, GENTLEMEN, PLEASE!
Page 194: Camels at the Zoo didn’t
even get up when a bomb fell within 10
yards of their cage.
Page 197: The diamond business is
among those now booming. Stones are
being bought in large quantities as invest-
ment.
The Military Aeroplane, an Oxford
pamphlet by the editor of the “Aero-
plane,” is not as good as it might be
because Mr. Shepherd can’t
about the new types of fighters, bombers
and night fighters with which Britain
hopes to gain mastery of the skies. The
best of it is a section on dive-bombers:
The success of the German campaigns in
Poland and France has given a fictitious
reputation to the dive-bomber. In a hastily-
created air force like Germany’s it is a
means whereby mediocre bombers and
poorly-trained but courageous pilots can be
flung into action to support an army.
Dive-bombing is a costly way of employing
good bombers and good pilots, for the
casualties which must be accepted are enor-
mous. All it can do may be as well done
at smaller cost by precision bombing.
The three verse books are all full of
admirable sentiments and execrable
poetry. Herbert Palmer, who can write
good verse when he wants to, submits
in The Gallows-Cross (Dent) a sort of
facetious hymn of hate and shows a re-
markable talent for bathos:
Now God be praised that I have seen this day;
Our nursemaid England takes the soldier way;
And like a strayed poet, sorry for his sins,
Begins to write anew and flout the bins,
Annulling ode and epic scratched in mud
With a red sonnet written in heart’s blood.
So now that crooked cross, that spider spell,
That fourfold gallows shall go down to Hell;
And at its fall strange wonders shall arise-
For there shall seem an end to fraud and lies.
And prisoned fishes with the birds shall sing:
“Wave fin and feather, and salute the Spring!”
In The White Cliffs (Methuen) Alice
Duer Miller writes a long, “popular”
poem (it has been immensely successful
in America) telling what an American
visitor thinks of England. Only in the
concluding four lines does the verse
achieve any literary value:
I am American bred,
I have seen much to hate here —much to
forgive,
But in a world where England is finished and
dead,
I do not wish to live.
Fear No More (Cambridge University
Press; Angus and Robertson), an
anthology of mainly “Georgian” short
poems by living English writers, is re-
markable for only one thing: all the
verses are anonymous. Clearly, one is
meant to read it for its “message,” not
for its literary quality. There’s a queer
mixture of middling and bad stuff in it.
The editor, like the contributors, re-
mains anonymous and fears no more.
And then there’s Mr. Priestley, also
unafraid. Postscripts (Heinemann) is a
collection of his Sunday cheer-up radio
talks. Radio talks should never be re-
printed ; they can masquerade only as
essays, and the sort of heart-to-heart chat
professional cheerer-uppers deliver on
Sunday nights is emphatically not an
essay.
Book News from London.
How is it in the writing and the pub-
lishing world in England? The latest
issue of Jonathan Cape’s “Now and
Then” said that only minor incidents had
troubled them at 30 Bedford-square.
Cape is (or was) lucky. Publishers who
have been Blitzed include Hutchinson,
Collins, Eyre and Spottiswoode, Allen
and Unwin, Simpkin Marshall (3,000,000
books destroyed), Ward Lock (printing
works escaped), Sheed and Ward, Burns
Oates and Washbourne, Harrap and Co.,
Nelson and Sons, William Blackwood,
Whitaker and Sons (of Almanack fame;
all records destroyed), Sampson Low,
George Gill, Hodder and Stoughton
(stock damaged), Cassells (main building
saved by spotters; bindery destroyed),
Longmans Green.
Longmans Green lost 6000 titles and
recommenced business the following
Monday with 12 titles. Hutchinsons have
re-established in Exhibition-road, declar-
ing that the publication of their large
spring list will proceed. After waiting
for somebody to remove a 10001 b. time
bomb from their front doorstep, Mac-
millan’s customers were able to see “Wel-
come” on the doormat a week later.
Simpkin Marshall have already been
merged into a co-operative concern. This
is the spirit that published 11,000 new
books in 1940.
The writing of books, as well as their
publication, has, of course, been affected.
Lord David Cecil, in the “Times” Literary
Supplement, said: “It has been a meagre
period for literature. One chief form of
the art, the drama, lately so full of
promise, seems to have come to a stop
with the closing of the theatres. Nor is
the novel in a much better case.” Poetry,
he stated, had proved itself the most
powerful branch of letters. Even so:
Literature in every form has stayed where
it was in 1939. No new vein has been dis-
covered and the old vein seems to be pro-
ducing less and less.
All this is more regrettable than surpris-
ing. The war has made it almost inevitable.
A great many young writers are taking an
active part in it, and so have no time to
write. But even those authors who, for
one reason or another, are at leisure, are
submerged by the war atmosphere. If their
bodies are not conscripted, their souls are.
They cannot forget about the war, it seeps
into every cranny of their consciousness.
They must write about it if they are going
to write at all. And unfortunately this
particular war has turned out to be very
hard for such people to write about. For
they have not, most of them, a stable point
of view from which to envisage it.
The new voice of England, the
chastened voice, sounds out strongly in
Lord Cecil’s concluding paragraph:
If the war can give us a glimpse of the
true tragic vision, it will confer a benefit
on literature too great to be exaggerated.
It is surely significant that Mr. Eliot should
be the one writer who appears to have
gained in stature since the war. For he is
a Christian, and Christianity is steeped in
the tragic sense. It accepts suffering as an
inevitable feature of a sinful world. But it
teaches that it is in suffering, if properly
understood, that we can achieve the in-
tensest vision of God. The Christian resigna-
tion, which is the pervading mood of
East Coker [Eliot’s latest book], is not a
repudiation of life. It springs rather from
Mr. Eliot’s conviction that life in its evil
as well as its good, its frustration as well
as its fulfilment, is the expression of a
Divine will, a fleeting shadow of a Divine
and eternal spirit.
From other sources we read of the
year’s work of the English novelists
being damned with faint praise (“the
English novel has not done so badly,”
writes Sir Hugh Walpole). Although
Thomas Moult will have it in his Best
Poems of 1940 that the poets “have sung
as bravely and impressively as ever,” the
critics, examining his wares, declare
otherwise. “So far the present cataclysm
has had a numbing effect rather than an
exalting influence on the poetic imagina-
tion,” writes Campbell Nairne.
PAT LAWLOR.
Various Verse
Australian Holiday, 1940.
We have passed between the steep, scarped
sides of the valley
And emerge with the fields which slope to the
gradual shore,
They are golden and ripe for the harvest, fall-
ing
In an ordered sequence of contour; behind
them
The wooded land leans to the broad back of the
hill.
We have measured the punctual miles by sign
and speedometer,
Preparing ourselves for the certain onslaught
of Beauty—
The sweep of the bay spread out to the wide-
armed sky,
But she tricks and surprises us now as always,
disarming
The mind made ready buttressed and guarded
against her —
Sweeps past the sentinel vision and captures
the heart.
Beneath us
The bay is spread to mirror the matchless sky.
In this infinity
Air and water are silent —there is.- only the
ripple
Which plucks at the fishing-boats swaying at
anchorage
And the movement of light thrown up on the
clean-painted hull.
The gulls wheel over, stayed in their perfect
flight
For this timeless instant,
And peace presents us
With the very pattern of calm. See, at the
horizon
Pennons of smoke trail the unmindful steamer
And the clouds lie at invisible anchorage.
Nothing disturbs the tenor of our ways,
No unimagined terror blots the sun,
No horror screams across an unstarred night.
We turn to peaceful homes when day is done.
Not death and darkness are our company
As others who untented warfare keep
Where spattering shot and steady fusillade
Of gunfire pierce the faint defence of sleep.
Our hearts know no constriction, fear-beset
When the charged bomb blasts out a sky’s
eclipse,
Blots beauty from the eyes and stamps a horror
Over the child’s lately laughing lips.
This is the hour when life and laughter
Die defeated at twenty-one
And Death alone of his generation
Takes the tally when war is won.
This is the hour for us when living
Grows more urgent from day to day
And imperceptibly but most certain
The night encroaches upon the day.
They have equalled the birth of the child with
cannon and gunshot,
Preparing themselves for the certain onslaught of
warfare,
Their young men ripe for the harvest; dying
In approximate order and sequence. They
cancel
Death with the arms for destruction.
While we, the uncertain survivors, stand on the
seashore,
Conjure the distant vision and take pocket
handkerchiefs
To wave at civilisation, apprehending
A little of death and despair.
Here for our diversion
Intolerant youth plays cricket on the sands;
Scornful of wisdom, looking out to sea.
Makes no inquiry into time, accepts
The going down of sun, the risen moon,
And turns home hungry in the silver light
Nor looks again to the white lonely shore
And the small shivering ripples on the sand.
But elder wisdom in this evening air
Sees an infinity of sadness, hears
Crying when waves with ebbing sigh are drawn
Back to the lonely sea.
Perceives man’s life
An ebb and flow under the distant stars.
N.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
This Earth Is Become My Flesh.
This earth is become my flesh; and I must graft
All my deciduous literary culture
On to its tortured, sturdy, evergreen growth
(That ought to mystify the botanists).
Tidal slack channels —a pungent waste.
Over me swings a cadenced mutter of limbs,
Where winds have burnished their white agonies,
Tossing the tasselled sleep of tawny grass.
Here I turn out my leaves like the eucalypts
Against the blistering roses of summer noon;
Breathing their sultry odor —blown like grapes
To satin fullness of their purple veins.
This earth is become my flesh: surely as this
Loamy rubble of ebbing shore assumes
Its image in a mailed rabble of crabs,
Gravelling mud with ineffectual claws;
Or river-gluten petal of jellyfish,
To languish into casual extinction
Over the tidal rime and silted ripples,
With plovers scribbled anonymities;
So surely does this earth assume my flesh.
I take its crumbling pressure in my palms;
And I must roll its foam against my lips,
And fill my lungs up with its scum of air.
And why should it deny my indigo dream,
My pillared ivory night of incredible stars?
The radio sends “L’apres-midi d’un Faune”
To tremble through me into watered golds:
Calling me to a lust of satyrs somewhere
Importuning with nymphs in a landscape of
Claude;
And Watteau has embarked for Cytherus,
The painted loves and silver-braided foun-
tains ...
And when an autumn evening smokes above
The hills like rosy incense round the moon,
The creaking marble gods in gardens jet
A frozen sigh toward their dim Valhalla.
Now is my flesh become the crucible
Of all that breath has ever certified:
I am the sunlight fluttered over corn;
And fume of evening threshed with beetles’
wings.
I am darkness and a harsh bow drawn
Across the sobbing strings of lyric trees;
Ripple of lightning through a ragged cloud;
Thunder and blood; guns under the sand.
I am the ti-tree arms, the hide like bark;
The laughter out of dust; my earth receives
The signet of the ages... All that I lack —
Nirvana, to be constant as the hills.
TASMANIA.
A. L. MCLNTYRE.


¥
uvaMuaaNn
* ■
-
■V
■
mm
m
m
I
mm
mm
f- ■■■fi
p '
ll»
.. £r.|
J
■
Si
mm
JII
&
B
*
d /
■ /
.... /
■n ■ ■
r
W 9
-W:
For Autumn and Winter you cannot do better than buy
"Jumbuk" Regd. for your underwear. Consistently chosen
by those who demand quality garments, it has proved its
worth over many years. The soft fabric is faultless, and
will not irritate the tenderest skin. "Jumbuk" Regd.
Underwear is made from selected long staple pure Merino
yarn and is obtainable only at Anthony Horderns'.
70.1.—"Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural All Wool Underwear in a light weight.
Sizes —inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 8/9 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/9 13/- 14/6 16/- 17/9
Underpants to ankle 9/9 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/9 14/- 15/6 17/- 18/9
Trunk Drawers 9/3 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/3 13/6 15/- 16/6,
70.2.—’"Jumbuk'' (Regd.) Natural All Wool Winter Weight Underwear.
Sizes —inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 13/3 14/3 15/3 16/6 18/ 19/6 21/ 23/ 24/9
With long sleeves 14/3 15/3 16/3 17/3 19/ 20/6 22/ 24/ 25/9
Underpants to ankle 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/9 19/3 20/9 22/3 24/3 26/-
Underpants, leg 14/3 15/3 16/3 17/6 19/- 20/6
70.3.—"Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural All Wool Heavy Winter Weight Underwear.
Sizes —inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 16/- 16/9 17/9 19/- 20/6 21/6 22/9 24/6
Long sleeves 1/6 extra
Underpants to ankle 17/6 18/3 19/3 20/6 22/ 23/ 24/3 26/
70.4. "Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear. Light weight.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves 8/3 8/9 9/6 10/6 11/6 12/9 14/- 15/3 16/6
Underpants 9/3 9/9 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/9 15/- 16/3 17/6
Trunk Drawers 8/9 9/3 10/- 11/- 12/- 13/3 14/6 15/9 -
70.5. "Jumbuk" (Regd.) Natural Wool and Cotton Underwear in a med. winter weight.
Sizes—inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 , 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves : 8/11 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6
Underpants 9/11 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6
Trunk Drawers 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 12/- 13/- 14/-
70.6. "Jumbuk" (Regd.) Cream All Wool Athletic Undershirts. No sleeves.
Sizes-inches 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 50
At Anthony Horderns'.. Prices: 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 7/6 9/9 10/6
• Mens Mercery—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Box 2712 C
G.P.0., Sydney


NERVES
By A. C. HEADLEY.
JOE CHAMBERLAIN was excited when
he came into the gym. With his hat
tilted on the back of his head he came
over to where Danny was skipping. He
looked hot and elated, and there was satis-
faction in his broad features. Danny stopped the rope,
and of a sudden the gym. seemed lazy and quiet.
Joe wiped a hand over his fat face. “Danny,”
he said, “I got a fight for y’—a real fight.”
It was something Danny had heard before, and
he stood there watching the perspiration beginning
to roll from the ends of Joe Chamberlain’s hair and
waiting for him to go on.
“This time,” said Joe, “it ain’t no tuppenny-
’a’penny match. It’s a real fight. It’s somethin’ that’ll
put you right on lop.” He mopped suddenly at the
dampness of his face with a damp handkerchief. “This
ain’t talk, Danny.”
Danny grinned. “Orright, Joe,” he said, “what’s
it all about?”
“It’s with one of the blokes the Stadium is bringin’
out from America. They think you can put up a
good fight without heatin’ ’im.” He winked with the
whole of one side of his face. “And maybe you’re
gonner beat ’im, Danny. Maybe you’re gonner beat
’im.”
Danny was quiet for a moment thinking about it.
He thought of all the years he had been fight-
ing, and he was conscious of a swelling sense of satis-
faction. This was something. For one thing it was
a fight at the Stadium. Not that there hadn’t been
other fights at the Stadium. There had been six-
rounders aiid an occasional eight. A main fight at the
Stadium made all the difference.
“It’s a feller named Frankie Grazberg,” said Joe.
“Accordin’ to the ratio’s he comes fifth, ’E won’t be
no easy nut, Danny, but we got three weeks.”
Suddenly Danny felt queerly confident. There
was something he had been fighting for since the
first time he had stepped through the ropes, and this
was very close to it. It was all part of learning to
block a lead and crashing his right hand on an un-
protected jaw.
“I’ll be fit orright, Joe,” he said. “I’ll be so fit
he could hit me with an axe an’ I wouldn’ feel it. I’ll
make somethin’ of it, Joe.”
ALL the way home he kept thinking about it and
how excited Theda would be. This was the oppor-
tunity for which they had been waiting. It was the
chance of money for them to live as they wanted to
live. He could almost see Theda’s face when he
told her. He grinned at the thought and felt happy.
As far as Theda was concerned it wouldn’J: be the
importance of the fight, but rather the importance of
the money it would mean. A main fight at the Stadium
meant, if you did any good, that the money at the
suburban stadiums got better. You got a name, and a
name was money. That was what Theda would be
thinking about.
Theda was tall and slim and cool. Against the
blackness of her hair her face was pale and smooth.
Fler cheekbones were high and touched with tight-
ness, and her mouth, square and red, was alive. She
had married Danny a long time ago, and while he told
her about the fight she thought of it. She had mar-
ried him not long after he had started fighting when
he was getting four and five four-rounders a week. It
was good money he was making, but that hadn’t been
as important as the money he was going to make.
It wSs something different from the boys at the fac-
tory, who would probably never earn more than five
pounds a week. Theda had wanted more than five
pounds a week, and so she had married Danny. Even
in those days Danny was earning much more than that.
“Gee, Danny,” she said, “it’s great. They pay
good money for a fight at the Stadium.”
Danny was confident. “It ain’t gonner be just
one match,” he said. “I’m gonner beat ’im, Theda.
After that it won’t be chickenfeed.”
She thought of the four-rounders that had con-
tinued long after they were married. It was still
good money and much better than she could have
expected if she’d tied up with one of the boys from
the factory. That was with the exception of Lou.
Lou had done all right for himself. They had made
him a foreman, and then he had started out in a
slipper factory of his own. She thought of Lou with
his hair slicked down and his face always black with
beard even after he had shaved. Lou was going to
finish up by being somebody. It was irritating think-
ing, when Danny was struggling into the six-rounders,
of how easily it might have been Lou instead of
Danny.
She thought of it even more when Danny was
forced into lay-offs. Those were the times when
there was no money coming in and they were using
the little money they had managed to save. It was
easy for Danny to be out of the game for a few
weeks. There was the time when his nose had been
broken, and those other times when the skin around
his eye was an open cut. The first time that eye had
gone Danny had patched it up with sticking plaster
and had another fight. They had needed the money,
After that it was two months before Danny could
fight again. Lou didn’t stand still for a couple of
months with no money coming in. Lou had his head
screwed on the right way. Dimly now she realised that
Danny was still talking about the fight. She caught
the end of a sentence,
“Yes,” she agreed, “it’s a great chance.”
“It’s not this one fight,” he said ; “it’s what it can
lead to.”
She was thinking of what Lou had told her about
what fighting could lead to. “There’ll be a couple
more years of fighting for Danny,” he had told her,
“and after that there won’t be anything except a few
four-rounders because someone has taken pity on him.
He’s been too long fighting the same fights and he
won’t get any better. He makes good money when
he fights, but he won’t always be fighting. You’ve
got to be the champion these days to make fighting
worth while, and Danny won’t be any champion. He’s
taken too long to get where he is.”
And here was Danny talking confidently about
the things Lou had said he would never have. Danny
had once told her about the money that the cham-
pion got—four and five hundred pounds for just
one fight. She was glad now she hadn’t told Lou she
would leave Danny and go and live with him. All
men were alike when you had to live with them, and
it was easier to live when you didn’t have to worry
about money. That was why she had thought that
one day she would go and live with Lou. But now
this thing that Danny was telling her would make
things different. Staying with Danny was something
like clutching at the solid foundation of respectability,
You didn’t have to worry about whether a man
would get tired of you ; not that Danny ever would,
He was too simple and solid. And now that he was
going to make something of himself she didn’t have
to worry about going to live with Lou. She felt sud-
denly solid and respectable,
“You’ve got to win, Danny,” she said,
“Yes,” he said, “I gotter win. I got three weeks
to git into proper shape, and this Frankie Grazberg
don’t get here till a week before the fight. That
oughter mean somethin’.”
“You’ve got to win, Danny,” she said.
"What's he so gloomy about? I heard he backed four winners yesterday."
“His missus heard it first."
■ She was thinking that she had to meet
Lou that night. She was glad now of the
bulwark that Danny’s news offered her. It
meant that she was not clinging desperately
to a single iron in the fire. There was
the thought that Danny would win this fight and,
because of it, other fights—fights that meant money
and security. And even if it came to nothing it would
do Lou good. Lately he was getting too confident and
sure of her.
“I’ve got to go over and see Gladdy tonight,”
she told Danny.
WHEN she came away to go back to Danny she
was thinking of the things Lou had told her.
Somehow or other she had told him about this fight
of Danny’s. She had used it as a kind of furtive
excuse. ”1 couldn’t leave him now, she said, not
when he’s got an opportunity like this. He’d go to
pieces, Lou, and maybe he wouldn’t even fight. It
won’t be long to wait, Lou, till after the fight.”
For a wonder Lou had taken it very quietly. He
had read somewhere about this boy that Danny was
going to fight. “He’s pretty well up in the game,”
he told her. “There ain’t much chance of Danny
beating him. He’s a coon, too. Danny ain t never
fought a coon. Coons is tough.”
When she reached home Danny was waiting for
her, and she could see that the excitement of getting
the fight was still close to him. For something to say
she said “This boy you’re going to fight, he s black,
isn’t he?”
Danny’s eyes opened. “How’d y’ know that?”
“Gladdy saw it in a paper,” she lied easily.
Danny grinned. “She knows more than I do. I
don’t know whether he’s a coon or not.”
“Coons are hard to fight, ain’t they, Danny?”
she said.
He nodded. “They tell me it’s hard to ’urt ’em.
It’s no use going for their ’eads, you’ve gotter keep
at the body. But if this boy’s a coon it’s one coon
that’s gonner be ’urt.”
But already he was thinking about his opponent
being a coon, and somehow it didn’t seem to be like
fighting anyone else. Somewhere he had read about
the thickness of a coon’s skull and how hard it was
for a coon to be hurt. “I’m gonner beat him,” he
said, “whatever he is.”
THERE was a piece in the paper the next morning
about the match. Frankie Grazberg had a decision
over the champion of the world in a non-title bout,
and the champion was evading him.
It looked like he had something to beat. He was
thinking it when he went along to the gym. He was
thinking of the decision over the champion of the
world. A fighter had to be good to be that high up.
“I see the papers have got hold of it,” he told
Joe. “They make out this Frankie Grazberg is pretty
good.”
Joe nodded. “Maybe he is,” he said, “but you
ain’t exactly a mug y’rself. What if he did get a
decision over the world’s champ.? Maybe the champ,
was sick or somethin’. You don’t wanna think how
good he is ; you gotter think how good you are.”
Danny was thinking about it, thinking of all the
time before he had fought his way out of the four-
rounders. There were a lot of fights he hadn’t
won in those days, and the boys who had beaten him
didn’t have any decisions over a world champion.
“I’ll beat him, Joe,” he said, “I’ll beat him.”
There were hard days of training and hard
days of anxiety. He could feel himself getting hard
and solid with condition. But the anxiety was making
him unsure of himself. In the gym. they were starting
to talk about Frankie Grazberg.
“Coons,” said Jimmy the slapper, “is diff’rent.
You gotter ’andle ’em diff’rent. I’ve seen blokes who
could never ’andle a coon.”
And the papers were starting to talk about the
fights that Frankie Grazberg had had. They talked
about the power of his right hand, and when Danny
got to thinking of it he could see it smashing over on
to his jaw, could almost feel the deadness of it and his
legs weak and helpless. They seemed to think that if the
fight went the full distance he had a chance, but none
of them seemed to think that it would go the distance.
They said he didn’t have a punch, and that made him
angry, because he’d won his last two fights by a knock-
out. Then somehow he thought of those other fights
and of how he might have won them much earlier if
he’d had a punch. He thought of how tired the
other boys were before he managed to clip them into
unconsciousness. And coons were different.
Theda was talking about how much it meant, and
that got on his nerves, too. It was a fight, that was
all. Even if he lost things would be just the same.
But there she was harping on about what it meant, so
that it got on his nerves after a while.
And Joe Chamberlain. He could see the anxiety
of him. There were things he found out about Frankie
Grazberg and tried to drill into Danny’s mind. “This
ain't no ordinary fight, Danny.” When Danny went
to bed at night he could still hear Joe talking about
Frankie Grazberg’s right hand. “You gotter watch it,
Danny.”
People in the street, the people he knew, were
telling him he had a real fight at last. Fellers at the


gym. had been to see this Frankie Grazberg at work
and they came back to tell Danny how good he was.
Danny thought it was funny how he lost his
temper with people over little things and the way
everything seemed to make him jumpy and irritable.
THE day he went to weigh in was the first time
Danny saw Frankie Grazberg. He shook hands
with Frankie and could feel the strength in the grip of
his right hand. When Frankie took off his gown
he could see the sleek muscles of his dark body.
When he came away from the weighing Danny
thought about that. About the sense of power in
that shining body. He thought, too, of the things Joe
Chamberlain had told him, and of Theda telling him
what it meant, and of the boys in the gym. betting
their money against him. He went home that after-
noon and went to bed. He lay on the bed and thought
about the fight, and the sense of defeat was beginning
to crowd into his soul. Yet somehow it wasn’t fear.
It was nerves.
Sitting in the dressing-room he could feel the
weakness in every limb and the awful emptiness in his
stomach. His lips were dry and he kept swallowing
the quick spit in his mouth. After a while he was in
the ring, and across from him was Frankie Grazberg.
Danny could see the white line of his teeth. From
somewhere far away came the sound of the bell, and
behind him Danny felt arms lift and push him for-
ward into the ring. Frankie Grazberg was moving
towards him. It’s his right you have to be careful
about Watch his right, Danny thought. He saw
the right move. It was hardly a punch, but it took him
on the side of the head and, though the punch didn’t
hurt, Danny realised that somehow he was on the
canvas and that somehow there was no strength in
his arms to help him to rise. A punch like that
couldn’t have hurt. Yet somehow his arms wouldn’t
do the things he wanted them to. There was the sound
of crowd noise breaking the silence and Danny knew
that the fight was over.
THE funny part about it, Danny, is that from now
on you are going to think that things might have
been different if you’d put up a decent fight. You
are going to think that Theda would not have run
off with another man. You’re going to think of the
quarrel with Joe Chamberlain and the way it sent
you back to the four-rounders. You’re going to think
about the way your head shakes when you walk.
You’re going to think of what the newspapers said
about you after that fight. You’re going to think
about how things would have been different if you’d
made a good fight of it.
The funny thing is that you will never realise
that it was the hardest fight of your life. You
weren’t knocked out in the first round, Danny. It
was the last round, Danny, and you’d taken a lot of
punishment. For three whole weeks you’d been
hammered, and it was a hammering that took the
strength out of you.
Remember when Theda told you that Frankie
Grazberg was a coon? That was when you first
started to take punishment. That was the bell that
sent you out of your corner. You made a good fight
of it, Danny, but you can’t beat yourself. Even
coons are not that hard.
A BLOW
FOR THE FAMILY
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
RICHARD WILLARD was a big man in the
town, but his brother Percy was only a sort
of amiable hanger-on to the fringes of the
family prosperity. Richard and his wife and
their children lived out near the leases in a big,
impressive house behind the yard full of horses and
drays and building material that he controlled, but
Percy’s place was just an ordinary little house in a
crowded street in the town. He was a good, practical
carpenter and builder, and got on well enough to con-
tent himself and look after the children, and he was
easygoing and kindly and everybody liked him, though
it was obvious that he would never amount to much.
Sometimes, of course, the families visited each
other, but not very often, because the great turmoil of
cooking and cleaning and sewing and mending that
was always going on in the little house made Freda’s
head ache, and because when Ruth went out to the
yard she was always overawed and silent at first and
then too effusive. But it was great fun for the kids,
though even they were uncomfortable sometimes. One
such visit was quite momentous.
Percy’s elder pair, Joe and Julia, were to go out
with their father in the sulky, and there was the usual
fuss of preparation. Little Julie scampered and frol-
icked, but Joe was inclined to be grave, because of
his heavy responsibilities. He had been told that he
would be held accountable for his sister’s safety, and
had been given all sorts of warnings as to the conse-
quences of being rough with his smallest cousin, Kevin.
He had doubts about himself, and besides the big
house behind the yard always rather weighed him
down with its spacious, silent rooms and wide veran-
dahs. Auntie Freda was stiff and starched, too,
always distantly polite or frigidly reproving and not a
bit like his laughing, busy mother. The yard itself
was grand, but he always entered the house on the
defensive.
It was good bowling past the houses and then
the noisy mines in the sulky with dad, but they soon
reached the end of their journey. They were made
welcome politely, and dad went off to do some work,
and Joe hoped that Aunt Freda would let them play
in the yard instead of limiting them to the vicinity of
the house. In the yard, long lines of stalls stood
empty, except for one which housed a sick horse,
and there were all sorts of exciting tools and machines.
But the hopes were in vain, of course, and after they
had been warned he felt resentful and sulky. What,
he asked himself, could a man do with a bunch of
girls and a useless little cry-baby like Kevin? The
four children, Joe and Julia and Gwen and Kevin,
looked at each other with vague distaste, wondering
how to start something.
“How do they cure sick horses?” Joe asked.
“Dad’s pony never gets sick.”
Kevin didn’t know. He and Gwen didn’t even
know that there was a sick horse in the yard, and Joe
was thoroughly disgusted. From the verandah he
could see all sorts of things in the yard that promised
fun ; but there was absolutely none in the fenced-in
garden around the house.
“Is there a man in the yard looking after the sick
horse?” he asked.
“I don’t think there’s anyone,” said Gwen,
“There’s never a man at the yard during the day except
the blacksmith sometimes, and he’s not there today.”
“Shave or haircut?”
“Well, I’m going down to have a look at the sick
horse,” Joe declared boldly. “Who’s coming?”
The smaller children looked shocked.
“We’re not allowed,” said Gwen. “Mother said.”
“Our mummy said you had to behave yourself
and look after me,” little Julie reminded him primly.
Their opposition and disapproval moved Joe to
fury. He hated them for being female and infantile
and timid, and it became necessary to swagger in
order to demonstrate his own courage and years and
strength. Scornfully alone, he stalked toward the
yard, a small, rebellious figure crunching over the
gravel.
“If any of you pimp on me, look out,” he threat-
ened over his shoulder. “You three go away some-
where and play your own sissy games and don’t go
into the house till I get back, see?”
T N the yard the time passed quickly. First, he
' inspected the sick horse, which was an enormous
draught, with hooves larger than dinner-plates. It eyed
him calmly, and did not appear to be very sick, but
when he approached it it snorted violently, and he
received about half a pint of saliva and some chewed-
up chaff in his face. He washed in one of the troughs,
spent an interesting period at the junk-heap and even-
tually reached the blacksmith’s shop, where there were
many fine tools and no blacksmith.
He played with the charcoal for a while, and
he drove a lot of old horseshoe nails into the
big wooden block on which the anvil sat. He
wished that he had a box of matches so that he could
light a fire in the forge. Then he became aware of a
small figure in the doorway. It was young Kevin,
and he was happy to find that the little boy had some
masculine desires and courage after all.
“They say they’re goin’ in to tell on me,” Kevin
said, bursting with a sense of his own importance and
bravery. “They didn’t want me to come.”
“They won’t be game,” said Joe boldly. “Don’t
you worry ; they’ll be too frightened of what I’d do to
’em. Come on in an’ you can be the man that holds
things while I hit ’em.”
“It’ll make a noise and somebody’ll come,” said
Kevin timidly.
“Don’t be silly,” said Joe, feeling immensely
senior and superior. “They’re used to noises from
down here. They won’t notice it. I bet Richard and
Stanley have a lot of fun here when they’re home. I
wish they were here now instead of a little shaver
like you.”
“They’re not allowed here either,” said Kevin,
heaping charcoal on the imaginary fire in the forge.
“Mum won’t let them come, except sometimes with
dad.”
“Well, they must be poor old things,” offered
Joe, tenderly placing an old shoe on the anvil. “If I
was them I’d be here all the time, you bet, I’d be
down here every day after school and every week-end,
and no one would stop me.”
“They couldn’t do that,” said Kevin, “ ’cause
they go to boarding-school at the coast. They only
come home for holidays.”
“Well, I wouldn’t go to any sissy school at the
coast, either,” snorted Joe. “Not with all this here
to have a good time.”
“You’d have to,” said Kevin. “We’ve all got to
go to school at the coast. Mother says she won’t
have us mixing with the children at a State school.”
THE difference between his own home and this
grand, big one had never meant much to Joe, except
when he regretted that his own place was so far from
the yard ; but now, suddenly, he saw what the people
here thought about it. He saw in a flash that tight-
lipped Aunt Freda thought herself vastly smarter
than his smiling mother, that sour old Uncle Richard
thought he was better than dad, and that when young
Richard and Stanley came home from their boarding-
school they would probably be ready to patronise and
sneer at him. Standing over the anvil hate for them
all flooded through him, and he hated stupid little
Kevin, too. He wanted to cry, but he wouldn’t if it
killed him. He had to do something and Kevin’s silly
thumb was resting on the anvil, so he hit it. Maliciously
and without any attempt to make the act appear acci-
dental, he brought his hammer down. He hit as hard
as he could, a good, vigorous blow for dad and
mum and himself, a blow for his own particular
family against the rest of the Willards.
Kevin’s thumb was swollen and red immediately,
with an angry nail from beneath which the blood
oozed. Kevin’s face was amazed and terrified, and
he was bawling at the top of his voice. He looked
funny with black from the charcoal all over him and
his expression of astonished pain, and Joe was savage
and glad, and hoped that the thumb was broken.
Then there were people running over the gravel, and
Aunt Freda was in the smithy, looking far less calm
than Joe had ever seen her look before. Kevin was
making a blubbering explanation, insisting in the face
of disbelief that Joe had hit him on purpose.
“Surely it was an accident, Joseph,” said Aunt
Freda.
“It wasn’t,” said Joe sullenly. “I did it on pur-
pose, so there!”
“He did!” yelled Kevin. “He did, too! He just
looked at my fum an’ then hit it.”
“You nasty little beast!” said Freda to her
nephew. “Now you’ll stay locked in a room until
your father comes for you.”
There were tears from Julie, and there was dis-
tress everywhere. Unrepentant, but miserable, Joe
cried too when he was alone in one of the lofty
rooms of the house. When the lump in his throat
became really large and sore he began to wonder if
such a complaint could kill anyone, and if they would
be sorry when they unlocked the room and found
him dead. He nearly forgot his original grief, but his
hatred for his uncle and aunt and all his cousins
remained fiercely intact all day and for a long time
afterwards.
But the worst of that day was going home sitting
beside his dad in the sulky while he kept asking “But
what did he say? What made you do it, son?” And
there was no possible way in which he could answer
and tell his love and loyalty for his easygoing, unsuc-
cessful father.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
TneilmimeJSxmdJmiq/uei>
Seppelts
HIGH ALTAR AND CHOIR OF WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
With feelings of profound thankfulness
British citizens the Empire over were
filled when 1940 passed with this wonder-
ful church suffering only minor damage
from the German attempt to smash
London, and thereby not alone reduce
the morale of its citizens, but inflict at
the same time a grievous blow to citizens
in every part of the British Common-
wealth of Nations. In the illustration is
represented what has, not inappropriately,
been described as “the heart of the
Abbey.” It has probably witnessed
scenes of more Imperial importance than
any other piece of ground in the realm.
Its material beauty is compelling. The
spiritual influences which through the
centuries have radiated from it are not
for human computation. It may not be
generally known that on Saturday, July
9, 1803, an incident occurred which
threatened the Abbey with destruction.
About two in the afternoon the square
tower over the centre of the cross aisles
was discovered to be in flames. This
part of the roof, which is flat, supported
by braces of timber and plaster, was soon
ablaze. Primitive fire-fighting appliances
added to the danger. From its great
height it was impossible to convey water
speedily to the flames. Soldiers and
volunteers formed a chain to the river
side, and, buckets being procured, these
were passed along filled and then hauled
to the top by a rope. The fall of molten
lead and half-burnt timbers was a serious
impediment to the workers. However,
the flames were checked and confined
to the tower. The burning wood as it
fell to the floor of the Abbey was ex-
tinguished, and the organ, choir and vari-
ous monuments escaped with compara-
tively little damage. The Dukes of
Cumberland and Gloucester were present
and did their bit in the work of “saving
the Abbey.”


“HEIL, ARTIE!”
“Mr. Fadded intimated that the Government proposed to take action against a section of the Press. He described editorial comment in some newspapers on the Greek
campaign as ‘un-British, un-Australian, and unpatriotic.’ ‘I will name the papers in due course,’ he said. ‘All I will say is that a certain line of action has been taken.'"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Str,eet, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreignj;
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months. £1 25.;
3 months. Us
EVACUATION—AND AFTER.
The Royal Navy and the Merchant Navy have done
another grand job. As at Andalsnes, Namsos, Narvik,
Dunkirk, Cherbourg and Brest, they have plucked an
army whose doom had been pronounced by the
exultant enemy out of the jaws of death.
Not through any failing in fighting capacity or
leadership, but simply because they and their weary
allies were tragically inferior in machine strength and
numbers, on land and in the air, our soldiers were
forced back to the Greek coast. A division of Austra-
lians and a division of Maorilanders were among them,
and for an agonising period, unnecessarily prolonged
by a still unexplained absence of official news, their
countrymen trembled for their fate. Australia and
Maoriland, while proud of the high courage and en-
durance shown by their own sons against overwhelm-
ing odds, being for the most part without protection
against dive-bombers which darkened the Greek skies,
will be eternally grateful to the intrepid seamen who,
helped by a supreme final effort of their tragically
outnumbered comrades of the Fleet Air Arm and the
R.A.F., saved nearly all except the fallen from death,
wounds and captivity.
But something more than gratitude is due to the
seamen. Considerations of justice and safety demand
that they shall be preserved for the essential jobs they
have all along done so splendidly, instead of being
sacrificed to a false military policy, the outcome of
politics and sentiment.
Ships and ships’ companies are increasingly pre-
cious. If they fall below the numbers required to
protect vital imperial points and, above all, to keep
Britain supplied and safe, the war is lost. Yet time
after time we have seen large numbers of warships and
larger numbers of merchant ships taken from these all-
important tasks to carry insufficient armies to foreign
lands, where no military decision was possible, except
for the enemy, and carry the survivors back, them-
selves exposed to a strain as great as or greater than
that endured by the soldiers, and inevitably weakened.
How profoundly the world was impressed when
the forces of Cunningham, Wavell and Longmore, co-
operating in a real and necessary imperial task, struck
at the Italians in North Africa, and what a grand
campaign they fought! Combining perfectly, though
on paper each arm was decidedly inferior to the
enemy’s, they defeated the Italians in every action,
and exposed Mussolini to world ridicule. Had Italy
been the only enemy, it would have been forced to sue
for peace, and that without the necessity of landing a
single soldier on Italian soil. Such is British imperial
sea-power, rightly exercised and rightly associated
with British imperial land-power and air-power, all
concentrated on a great objective, with a lively sense
of the value of time.
When combination and concentration ceased to
operate ; when the victorious fleet, army and air force
were divided so that a hopelessly inadequate measure
of assistance might be sent to the Greeks, what a
change for the worse occurred! Even while the
desperate campaign in Greece was in progress the
British Prime Minister admitted that Wavell, when in
the full tide of his victories, had never had more than
two divisions in action at one time. Only two divi-
sions, and the one that did a large part of the work,
our own Sixth, was removed from the scene where it
had achieved so much and might have achieved so
much more to engage in what the Australian corre-
spondent Hetherington describes as “a losing fight
from the moment the first shots were fired.”
Heroically as they strove, the Sixth and the
Maoriland division and the British infantry never had
a chance. For armored support they had one British
brigade, which could not possibly prevail over three
German mechanised divisions, nor could the few
squadrons that Longmore was able to spare for the
scattered Greek airfields cope with a large part of the
German air force securely based. And because Long-
more’s bombers and fighters and Cunningham’s ships
could not be everywhere at the same time, German
Panzer divisions were hurried over to Africa and hun-
dreds of dive-bombers and troop-carriers descended
on the same region. Straightway a distant and unre-
garded threat to Egypt and the Canal zone was trans-
formed into a dangerous thrust. And the peril in-
creased when, the Greek armies having been broken
and the British imperial force forced back to the
beaches, Lemnos, with its fine harbor, and other Greek
islands in the /Egean fell into the enemy’s hands,
to be interposed between the British and the Turks
and to become, with the islands of the Dodecanese,
bases for another attack on Egypt, particularly Alex-
andria, and for assaults on British positions in Iraq,
whose pro-Axis military party did not dare to move
while the Anglo-Australian army was driving the
Italians out of Cyrenaica.
“When we reached Benghazi, and what was left
of Mussolini’s legions scurried back over the desert
roads to Tripoli, a call was made upon us which we
could not resist.” So said the British Prime Minister.
“In their mortal peril the Greeks turned to us for
succor, and, strained as were our resources, we could
not say them nay. By solemn guarantee given before
the war Britain had promised them her help.” True,
but none of the Dominions gave any such guarantee
or promise. Canada, which has a population greater
than that of its three sister Dominions, exercised its
perfect right to withhold assistance. So did South
Africa, whose Prime Minister has pledged himself to
consult the Union Parliament on the sending of Union
troops out of Africa. Very probably neither Govern-
ment was asked for help. The Australian and Maori-
land Governments were, and they consented to their
divisions forming part of the expeditionary force —as
it happened, a greater part than either bargained for.
For their decision, though some Australian Ministers
have evidently failed to realise it (products of a
Federal system under which passing the buck has
become second nature, they have not been trained to
think for themselves or to accept responsibility), they
will have to answer to their peoples and to history.
Anyway, save for exhibitions of sublime bravery,
what good has come of any of these descents on
the Continent? In spite of the latest, Greece and
Yugoslavia are conquered and shattered countries,
their peoples divided, their kings in exile. In similar
circumstances our ancestors who fought Napoleon
retired from Europe—not for the first time—trusting
to individual and national hatred of the conqueror
and his new order, to the unworkableness of that im-
provisation and the unceasing pressure of the British
Navy to restore the situation. The Navy was their
supreme weapon of offence as well as defence. Their
army was of secondary importance—small by
European standards, but sufficient because of its
quality and of the universally respected character of
the British soldier to defend the Empire, which was,
and is, chiefly an island Empire.
The Empire-makers were emphatically not
crusaders. To Chatham, Clive, Hastings, Wolfe, Cook
and Raffles only England and the Empire mattered.
An opportunity for a crusade was given when the
Germans and Austrians invaded Denmark in the six-
ties of last century, and even Palmerston flatly re-
jected it. Crusading did not become fashionable until
the League entered upon its disastrous career. Pre-
viously a great British army had been improvised as
a prop and support for the military power of France.
The army was disbanded, the growth of the R.A.F.
was stifled and naval programmes were cut; neverthe-
less, the idea that Britain had a grand new destiny, as
lawgiver and policeman, on the Continent became so
dominant that, as Admiral of the Fleet Fisher bitterly
recorded, the Navy was described in the House of
Commons as “a subsidiary service.” And though
French military power lies in the dust, this dan-
gerous delusion still prevails, and even Mr. Menzies
seems to have surrendered to the vision of the British
soldier striding across the Continent and freeing all
the peoples held in subjection—even those who don’t
particularly want to be freed —with Mr. Churchill, like
Marlborough, riding on the whirlwind and directing
the storm. In his latest speech, as reported, Mr. Men-
zies mentioned all the needs of the army, but didn’t
mention ships.
The Germans have, in fact, turned British prin-
ciples of war, adding to them methods of barbarism
which it is not in the British nature to follow, against
Britain. Their deadliest work on the Continent has
been done with a few armored divisions —comparable,
though not in humanity, with the old British army—■
and with a few thousand bombers and fighters ; and
their best bet against Britain is their unspeakably
cruel counter-blockade. Yet whenever their seamen
and airmen have met British seamen and airmen on
anything like fair terms they have been beaten. Only
when the odds have been heavily in its favor
has their Luftwaffe ever prevailed over the R.A.F.,
and none of its squadrons has in 20 months inflicted
nearly as much military damage as the Fleet Air Arm
did in one raid on Taranto. And, leaving lucky hits
by stray bombers and U-boats out of the reckoning,
their one successful sea-fight against British warships
occurred when their battle-fleet caught an aircraft-
carrier, a couple of destroyers and an auxiliary cruiser
covering the embarkation from Narvik. The serious
handicaps imposed by sideshows have cost us many
a fine ship and thousands of splendid seamen.
We will have to go back straightway to our
ancestors’ conception of war, modified by modern
inventions and conditions. Sea-power sustained us in
the past; only sea-power and air-power and enough
land-power to maintain an active defence of what
we have and hold —that, of course, means equipping
the army with the best weapons, improvements on
those which the enemy took from us as models—can
give us victory. Ships and ’planes and the men to work
them; they are what we need above all. The men
to plan and direct the necessary combinations, the
Cunninghams and Longmores and Wavells, we have
already.
Uncle Sam—So Far!
Slowly, not to say ponderously, Uncle Sam has
moved nearer and nearer to actual involvement on
Britain’s side in the war. President Roosevelt’s leader-
ship in that direction has all along been marked by
calmness, deliberateness and a quite singular—history
might call it a quaint —ingeniousness. He has worn
the traditional tail-coat and top-hat of Uncle Sam
like an elder statesman indulging a happy bent for a
little private conjuring. So far the principal exhibits
he has drawn out of the hat have been the swap with
Britain of 50 destroyers for naval bases, when Britain
urgently needed destroyers to replace those lost or
damaged at Dunkirk; the lease-lend arrangement,
when the end of Britain’s means of continued buying
hove in sight; and now the patrolling of the Atlantic
by United States warships and ’planes, already operat-
ing “2000 miles out,” and gratefully acknowledged
by Mr. Churchill as an important contribution towards
Britain’s eventually winning the Battle of the Atlantic.
No doubt still more of these quaintly ingenious
conjuring tricks will need to be performed by Mr.
Roosevelt before the U.S.A. stands square beside
Britain, equally involved in the business of winning
the war. That Mr. Roosevelt has had to resort to
these dodges is a measure of the very strong opposi-
tion against such involvement. Australia, if not the
world at large, was badly misled about that, as about
many other matters of vital importance.
For years before the war started the U.S.A. was
misrepresented as fairly hogging for “action.” How
far that was from the truth is now plainly evident.
As late as his third-term election campaigning last
October Mr. Roosevelt found it expedient to
“repeat again” that “I stand on the platform of our
party: ‘We will not participate in foreign wars.’ ”
Since then he has had to move with the greatest of
care. From time to time he has made clear and
strong pronouncements committing the U.S.A. on
Britain’s side as good as up to the hilt; but actions
so far have not kept pace with the implications of
those pronouncements.
Shortly after his election the President laid down
as United States war policy:
We are committed to the proposition that principles
of morality and considerations for our own security
will never permit us to acquiesce in a peace dictated
by aggressors and sponsored by appeasers.
Last month President Roosevelt further clearly defined
the U.S.A.’s position in relation to the war. He said,
“Our democracy has gone into action,” that “action”
to be carried on “until victory is won.” On other
occasions this year President Roosevelt has laid it
down as the aim of the U.S.A. to send to the democ-
racies “in ever-increasing numbers, ships, ’planes,
tanks, guns” ; the U.S.A. to become “the arsenal of
the democracies,” supplying “all-out aid” towards
“total victory” over “the most ruthless brutality in
history.” How, and to what extent, the U.S.A. will
implement these forthright words of its President is,
no doubt, the U.S.A.’s own business. Americans,
fearful that, for all their President’s resounding words,
the United States war effort drags on the lines of “too
little and too late,” freely voice criticism that Mr.
Fadden, in Mr. Roosevelt’s shoes, would regard as
unspeakably shocking. Thus, Mr. C. L. Sulzberger,
special correspondent of the New York “Times,” in
a very vivid account of the last days of the fighting
in Greece;
The Athenians face the future with sad courage.
They asked me how Britain and America expected to
win the war in this way. Roosevelt had promised all
aid in October last year, but not a single cartridge
had yet arrived.
There has been similar specific criticism in the past
regarding ’plane supplies in particular. Supplies in
general were stated—by American observers —to be
lagging many months behind schedule. Since then
there has been a widespread occurrence of strikes in
all manner of industry connected with war production
—all of this a steadier against too wild enthusiasm
over such agreeable reports as that regarding the in-
tention to supply Britain with about 20,000 American-
made fighting ’planes in the next 18 months.
A question insistently raised by American critics
of the U.S.A.’s war effort up to now is whether this
can ever hope to match such intentions without the
impetus that would be provided by outright partici-
pation as a fighting partner alongside of Britain. Other
grounds for participation are advanced in terms that
none but Americans themselves are properly privi-
leged to employ. One of these outspoken critics —
Mr. Mark Sullivan, in the New York “Herald Tribune”
—gives in a few pungent sentences what many others
are asking:
When “victory is won,” can we claim to have a
full share in that victory if our contribution to it has
consisted only of materials? In the peace conference,
will the democracies who have spilt blood give an equal
seat at the table to the nation that has spent only
money? Is it conceivable that the strongest of the
democracies should fight the war for democracy merely
in the role of caterer of arms? Can we go along as
if the other democracies were merely, so to speak,
subsidised partners, fighting the joint war of all the
democracies, using our arms but spilling their own
blood?
Mr. Sullivan added:
Conceive, if you wish, that the war could be won
without our contributing any more than treasure, while
the other democracies contribute blood. Conceive
that—but consider how the other democracies would be
likely to feel towards us after “victory is won.” It is
a question whether the other democracies would feel
much more bitter toward the enemy than resentful to-
ward the ally who confined its participation to the
role of Croesus.
More and more the question is being raised as to
whether victory can be won on such terms at all.
Whatever President Roosevelt’s present feelings about
this may be, public opinion on United States partici-
pation is still anything but favorable. On the very
day that Mr. Roosevelt made his pronouncement that
“Our democracy has gone into action until victory
is won,” the Gallup Survey people took a vote on the
direct question: “If you were asked to vote on the
question of the United States entering the war against
Germany and Italy, how would you vote —to go into
the war, or to stay out of the war?” The vote was 17
p.c. in favor of going in, 83 p.c. in favor of staying out.
The exact worth of these votes is by no means
clearly established, and events, plus Mr. Roosevelt’s
astute conjuring leadership, may reverse that attitude
in time. The vital question is, How much time?
Accepting that Mr. Roosevelt’s words all mean what
they seem to say, and that this positively represents
irrevocable United States policy, the question might
fairly be asked by other than Americans (many


Americans, too, have already asked it): To what
desperate point must J. Bull and Co. carry the fight
before Uncle Sam picks up his musket?
As to that, it may be of some encouragement—
certainly it would seem to be of some significance—
that such an important national publication as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” which has taken a strong
isolationist stand and all along trenchantly criticised
Roosevelt policy as leading the United States directly
towards war, now resignedly accepts that the United
States is actually in the war, is about to “take over
the war,” about to “assume a role in which it must
either go on and 0n... .or fail.” The isolationist
“Post” adds:
There is the truth; and there is a sense of grandeur
in it. The battle of Britain becomes but a terrible
episode. The London-Washington Axis is a pontoon.
This is our walk with destiny, towards an end we
cannot see....
Perhaps, then, it may be expected that the steps
on that walk may become bolder than they have been.
President Roosevelt’s hitherto evidently necessary
resort to conjuring tricks in leading his country have
had the good conjuring merit of giving surprises and
quite agreeable entertainment. They have already
several times helped J. Bull out of rather awkward
situations ; and now American ships and ’planes are
“patrolling” additional vast areas of the Atlantic,
towards helping J.B. to win the vital battle of that
ocean. Damaged British ships have also begun to drop
in on American ports for repairs. These happy effects
Mr. Roosevelt has produced from the hat with the
manner and the patter of a tiptop conjurer. And so
far this has been, if not enough, at all events very
agreeable.
If the war can be won —as many, inside and out-
side of America, insist it can be —in this manner, well
and good. Otherwise Mr. Roosevelt might be forced
by the logic of his own words into the more sombre
role of tragedian, as President Wilson was before him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Men and More Money!
Army authorities are disappointed with early results
of the new recruiting drive. In 11 days only 1442
men were accepted in N. S. Wales, and from that State
at least 2800 men a month are required.
Along with this apparent apathy of eligible fight-
ing men goes what the chairman of the Commonwealth
Bank Board calls “the public’s appallingly poor
response” to war loans.
In the last war there were 10 loans and for each
an average of 83,000 applications. Average investment
in all of them was £250. In loans in the present
war the average of applications is only 21,000.
We had fewer than 5,000,000 people in 1914-18.
We now have over 7,000,000. On the part of a great
number of people there is a detached attitude towards
the war.
Recruitipg figures show a similar difference. In
April, 1915, while Australia was wondering what sort
of a fight its men had got into in the Dardanelles,
total enlistment figures for the Commonwealth were
6250, the lowest for any month up to that date.
When the story of The Landing was released, recruit-
ing jumped, as these figures show:
1915: May, 10,526; June, 12,505; July, 36,575.
By July all Australia had realised that the war
was to be a long and grim one and recruits estab-
lished record figures. In May, 1941, the Empire is in
even worse position after 20 months of war and appar-
ently the recruiting position is bad.
But, although the Australian population has
grown by 2,000,000 since Gallipoli, it has to be re-
membered that in the past months the stress has not
been on the call for fighting men alone, nor has the
call been limited to soldiers. Day after day the
public has been told that it is a war of factories ; there
has been a constant call for trained men for machines.
Thus we find possibly 170,000 Australians now
engaged in making war-machines and munitions as
against perhaps 2000 in the last war. That must have
its effect on army recruiting. Again, there was no
R.A.A.F. until the closing months of the last war, and
then it was only a small unit. Today many thousands
of young Australians are in the R.A.A.F. and it is still
calling for men. This, too, must affect army recruit-
ing. Indeed, it was found that hundreds, turned away
from the R.A.A.F. because of some minor defect that
would keep them out of an aeroplane, left it at that,
assuming that the A.I.F. would also turn them down.
This is being corrected by the plan of having A.I.F.
recruiters accompany R.A.A.F. recruiting trains.
In the matter of war-loan subscriptions it has also
to be remembered that 5,000,000 Australians of 1914-
18 had little experience of taxation. A small Federal
income tax was only then coming into being. There
were no State wages taxes. Today, Federal income tax
alone is 10s. in the £ on incomes exceeding £l5OO and
then rises steeply, while heavy taxes are imposed by
all the States on almost every form of human endeavor.
All the same, there is “a detached attitude of
mind on the part of a great number of people towards
the war.” An attitude for which at least some of the
responsibility rests on the Flapper Press.
Pages of guff are given over to punters, playboys
of the sporting field and the jazz joint and the capers
of “glamor” girls. In 1914-18 Australians, reading of
the doings of the A.I.F. abroad, never found the
marriage of a young film woman splashed under
black headlines, and they weren’t expected to become
hysterical over the sayings of a football hero. Nor
did they have dog-racing almost every night and
horse-racing almost every day, with a vast network
of commercial and national radio stations blatantly
assisting to spread the s.p. betting plague. In those
days you could never have read, while an Australian
army was falling back before dreadful odds, that
“it’s all over, and Jenny Jingle is the Best-Undressed-
Girl-of-the-Year.” Nor were responsible Ministers
continually rushing into print to deny that they had
failed to see that some particular State got its share of
boot-polish orders for the troops.
There is much more, but it all boils down to the
plain duty of the Commonwealth Government. That
duty is to declare at once a state of national emer-
gency, to use the power it has to force every possible
person into war work who is doing something frivolous
or unessential, to understand that the times and the
danger call for something more than inert acquiescence
in everything London dictates, to see that members of
the national Parliament are “detached” from their
“detached attitude.” Once the people were shown
that their Government meant business they, too, would
quickly show that the old spirit burns.
Tweedledum v. Tweedledee.
On Saturday N. S. Wales is to have the luxury of a
State election. It is a luxury with which the people
would have preferred to dispense, as they have indi-
cated by absenting themselves from election meetings
in unprecedented numbers.
It is pretty certain that most of the absentees are
of the same mind as Mr. Eric Spooner, M.H.R., who,
before he became M.H.R. for New England last
September, had learned all there was to learn about
the N.S.W. Parliament and Government and their
ways. Now Chairman of the Commonwealth Man-
power Committee, Mr. Spooner last week described
State Governments as “excrescences” which are
“hindering the war effort,” and urged the Common-
wealth Government to “smash right through them,”
taking control of State railways and roads for a be-
ginning, and “co-opting” such other State depart-
ments as can be utilised in the war effort.
Yet both Ministry and Opposition are appealing
for support on win-the-war programmes, and each in
its propaganda rather suggests that if the country fails
to recognise its surpassing merits as an organiser of
victory the Empire will be the sufferer. Neither offers
to do with less loan money and reduce the extrava-
gant outlay on such things as £875 p.a. for 90
Assemblymen and £14,000 more for 14 Ministers (all
with free transport and many with private secretaries),
so as to make the difference available for war expendi-
ture. Nor is either willing to let the Commonwealth
Government educe order from the income-tax chaos
be levying and collecting one tax which will have the
same incidence in every part of Australia.
Short of agreeing to the abolition of their super-
fluous Parliament and Government, that is the best
service they could render Australia. But the Mair
Government proposes to continue with its two income
taxes, though it promises to shave a bit off one. The
McKell Opposition talks of abolishing the wages tax,
without undertaking to give any actual relief, except
in one quarter.
The crowd in office has been there for nine years
and has become an irritating composite picture of
complacent inertia. Though it has massively increased
the public debt and made the deficit chronic, it still
harbors the notion that it is a Government and a half
and that the people should keep it on the Treasury
benches for all time because it “saved you from Lang.”
That gentleman, after splitting his party for the third
time, is now a strangely silent and subdued follower of
Mr. McKell. His leader has some attractive qualities,
and could probably form a pretty good Government,
as State Governments go. Since the change of leader-
ship the party has won by-election after by-election,
but it had been so reduced by Langism in its various
manifestations that it needs to gain 15 seats. This,
however, it has a distinct chance of doing, especially
as there are many signs—one is the flight of Lands
Minister Yeo from Castlereagh to Liverpool Plains—
that country electorates are dead tired of the alleged
Country party, whose calm, settled, self-satisfied
stodginess is relieved only by the occasional imper-
tinences of Mr. Bruxner.
There is alleged to be another Labor party in
the field: the “State” Labor party. It is the Hands-
off-Russia mob taking a good name in vain. The
first item on its programme is the recall of the Aus-
tralian soldiers and seamen serving overseas. That
alone ought to ensure the defeat of all its candidates.
And We Turn Them Away.
One feature of the last war to which no one can look
back with pride was the treatment of the men of
the merchant navy, who made such a splendid con-
tribution to the victory, only to see cranks and
dreamers fling away the fruits. They found a fit cham-
pion in the great Fisher, who, in his Memories and
Records, wrote these burning words;
The magnificent Merchant Navy of the British
nation! Seven million tons sank under these men, and
the record of so many I’ve seen who were saved was
“Three times torpedoed.” And for them no peerage or
Westminster Abbey. Except in rare cases, they didn't
even get paid for the clothes they lost, and their pay
stopped the day the ship was sunk. And, for some
damned red-tape reason, thousands of merchant-sailor
prisoners didn’t come within the scope of the millions
of money in the Prince of Wales fund and the Red
Cross.
We hope to change all that. For who is going to
deny, when we all stand up for them, that the Merchant
Navy shall be incorporated in the Navy of the Nation,
and with all the rights and money and rank and uni-
form and widows’ pensions and pensions in old age?
....The great Merchant Navy that saved our country.
Fisher did not write in vain. In the present war
British and Australian seamen who may fall victims
to any of the hellish devices which the enemy has
prepared for their destruction know at least that their
country will not let them or their widows and children
want. In effect, they have been granted pension
rights equally with the soldiers they have carried to
so many distant lands and frowning shores, all the
while keeping the countries of the Empire supplied
with all their needs. Because the bombing ’plane has
been added to the “improved” surface warships, sub-
marines and mines which lie in wait for them, and
because they cannot be protected as their forerunners
were when the Royal Navy had the assistance of
French, Italian, American and lapanese warships, they
are under a greater and more continuous strain than
seamen of any previous age had to endure, and they
have suffered cruelly. But under that strain they have
never flinched. When it was necessary to save the
army from the hell of Dunkirk and of Greece, the
merchant navy was there.
But something of the old irrational belief that
the merchant seaman is a non-combatant, though he
plies his trade on perilous seas and under skies still
more perilous, lingers still.
On April 30, “S. M. Herald’s” war correspon-
dent, at the end of a glowing dispatch on the achieve-
ment of the A.T.F. and N.Z.E.F. in Greece, gave an
account of what the seamen who bore them there and
stood waiting for them in port had to endure. It was
necessarily incomplete, but any reader with imagina-
tion could fill in the gaps.
As soon as the Germans invaded Greece, they began
bombing the Piraeus. One heavy raid resulted in the
blowing up of a ship loaded with explosives. This
wrecked part of the harbor, and next day there were 24
sunken ships there. As the German army advanced the
raids on the Piraeus became more intense.
In another part of the paper there was a letter from
the journalist A. M. Pooley, who is secretary of King
George’s Fund for Sailors. It was to the astonishing
effect that “seamen of the mercantile marine, under
the present legislation, are excluded from all the bene-
fits of the Patriotic and War Comforts Funds, State
and Commonwealth, on the ground that they are not
fighting men.”
Seamen of the mercantile marine cannot obtain a cup
of tea or a cup of coffee or a sandwich from any can-
teen, even on production of an identity card or paper.
Mr. Pooley went on to say that his committee had
asked the leaders of the State parties for a legislative
amendment which will remove this rank injustice to
seamen. But in a country with seven Parliaments,
none of which is in session, the legislative machine
works too slowly. It is really a case for immediate
action under the National Emergency regulations, so
that hospitality will straightway be extended as a
right to seamen in any Australian port, continental
or territorial.
Of course the people who control these funds
have no feeling whatever against the merchant seamen.
The ban on comforts, which canteen workers them-
selves would be glad to provide, is merely a case of
unthinking conservatism.
Coles's Twenty-three Points.
“Lord Luvus” : Cr. Arthur W. Coles, M.H.R. for
Henty (Vic.), has come out with a 23-point plan for
intensifying the war effort. Like Woodrow Wilson’s
14 Points, a number of them are vague generalisa-
tions, such as the proposal to enlist all the best brains
of the nation to assist the Ministry. Well, that is
what the Ministry thinks it is doing. It would never
say that it wanted to enlist the worst brains. The only
difficulty is to know which are the best brains. Any-
body can state a general principle like that as well as
Mr. Coles can ; but when we come to particular in-
stances there are a thousand different opinions. So
that Coles point said exactly nothing.
Another, however, states that only goods essen-
tial to the war effort should be imported. That car-
ries the necessary corollary that only goods essential
to the war effort should be manufactured and sold.
Now Mr. Coles is managing director of a chain-store
co. which sells all sorts of articles, largely of feminine
consumption. I would say that three-fourths of them
are not essential. Mr. Coles’s customers wouldn’t. If
you asked most young women in Melbourne or Sydney
whether the goods purveyed from Coles cosmetics
counters or Coles lingerie departments were unessen-
tial to their beauty, let alone to the war effort, they
would be most indignant.
Mr. Coles, however, is telling the nation what it
ought to do, and I suppose he would have an opinion
about it superior to that of the young women or he
wouldn’t broadcast his opinion. It would be inter-
esting to know if he thinks his cosmetics and cognate
departments are essential war-effort activities. If he
does, he should certainly tell us why he thinks so. If
he doesn’t, then, logically, he ought to close them.
He oughtn’t to wait until the Government makes his
various proposals compulsory, because then he would
lose an opportunity of setting his fellow-storemen a
good example.
It might be argued that if he closed his stores,
or the unessential parts of them, thousands of em-
ployees would be thrown out of work and become a
charge on the community. But he has provided for
similar disruptions of private economy in some of his
other points. He says that the Government should
supply capital for expansion of the war industry and
that, to implement this programme, men and women
should be transferred from other industries by restric-
tion of goods for domestic consumption, while workers
being trained for change of industry should receive
payment at subsistence rates. Until the Government
came into line on this point Mr. Coles could imple-
ment his programme on his own hook and thus show
us how it would work out.
Until he makes his position clear on this point, I
will find it difficult to regard his 23 Points with the
unsophisticated enthusiasm I once felt for the 14 Points
of Woodrow Wilson.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: Ever since that hysterical
welcome to the Yankee sailors Sydney
has been a bit ashamed of the way flapper
dailies and flappers flung themselves at
their feet. The “Daily Telegraph,”
unrepentant, thought that there was still
a thrill for the girls in the story of the
two gobs who deserted at Brisbane ; so its
reporter bailed up the Navy Minister and
questioned him about them. “Good God,
man!” said Billy, “there’s a war on and
you ask me about two sailors!” The
“D.T.” (scenting an opportunity to attack
the National Security Act the sailors
had been detained for nine days and the
Act allows ten days without a charge
being preferred) persisted. Had the Navy
Minister received any “advice from
Washington” about a couple of wandering
gobs? Billy exploded. “Two sailors!
You haven’t heard half the news. There’s
a sow farrowing in Roma!” Perfect,
Billy ; perfect!
* * * *
“Wusslean”: J. Miller, who spoke at
the conference of the Victorian Local
Option Alliance, told why France caved
in to Hitler. He said: “The tragedy of
France was that its consumption of
alcohol was seven times that of Aus-
tralia, a fact that had a direct bearing
on its ultimate downfall.” On the
strength of this and similar statements
the Alliance called upon the Government
to curtail Australia’s liquor bill. Appar-
ently it did not give a thought to the
curious anomaly of Great Britain, with
about the highest per capita consumption
of beer in the world, still battling along
nearly 11 months after its major ally
called the fight off.
* * He Sc
“Wodgil”: 8.8. C. is under heavy fire
because of “its fatuous presentation of
war news” (B. 30/4/’4l). My grievance
against 8.8. C. commentators is that they
are so deadly dull. One would fairly ex-
pect them to be a trifle more interesting
than Professor Roberts and “The Watch-
man,” but the Slocombes and Lakims
never rise above that dreary level. I
find even Priestley funereal, not only in
manner but matter; and the good Priest-
ley, though he seems hardboiled in his
books, has an odd streak of credulity
in his composition. When our fellows
took Benghazi and were cheered through
the streets of that town by obsequious
Italian shopkeepers and market gardeners,
Priestley was delighted. “Why did these
Italians cheer the British?” he asked,
raising the pitch of his sepulchral voice.
“Because they are democrats! Yes,
friends, because they are democrats, and
because they know we are fighting for
them. And so we are fighting for
democrats everywhere.” When the enemy
came back to Benghazi the same docile
“democrats” turned out again to cheer
their oppressors. I waited with weird
expectancy for Mr. Priestley’s next effort,
but he must have been too overcome
to give the backsliders a lick with the
rough side of his tongue.
“Jamwood”: The raciest radio-talker
I have heard —and that goes for the
whole English-speaking world—is Profes-
sor Dakin. The prof, tackles that most
unpromising of subjects science, and
contrives not only to make it absorb-
ingly interesting but to give it a humor-
ous twist. A Liverpudlian by birth,
Dakin was educated at the universities
of Liverpool and Kiel, and travelled
widely before he settled in Australia.
Professor of Zoology at Sydney Univer-
sity the last 12 years, he was one of the
original band of professors at Perth Uni-
versity, which started in a humble way in
1912, and expanded when money came
pouring in from the Hackett State ; and
they were a very remarkable band:
Dakin himself (Biology), Murdoch (Liter-
ary), Ross (Mathematics), Shann (Econo-
mics) and Whitfeld (Mining and Engi-
neering) would have adorned any foun-
dation in the Empire. Murdoch himself
is a capital radio-talker, and so I think
Shann would have been but for his un-
timely death.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”; Boys with bicycles
will do well to be wary of affable strangers
in a hurry who want the loan of the
machine for a few minutes. To a Bris-
bane lad in a riverside suburb street
came one such feeling through his
pockets anxiously. “Look here, son,” he
said, “can you do me a good turn? I
“But I assure you toppers are always worn with corsets .”
must have left the keys of my house in
the shed when I came ashore from my
boat, and I’m in a tearing hurry. Now,
if you’ll lend me your bike I won’t be a
moment getting them, and you won’t lose
anything by doing me the turn, son.
Thanks, so much” Later on a dis-
consolate 15-year-old was informing a
sympathetic cop that neither the polite
stranger nor the iron steed had returned.
$ #
“Blue”: Tell “F.S.” (B. 23/4/’4l) that
the eye does play a part in preserving
balance. Watch a baby taking its first
steps. As it waddles forward towards its
kneeling mother its eyes rest unswerv-
ingly on her face. Any man whose legs
have become wonky from long confine-
ment to bed will assist his balance by
fixing his eye on some point ahead
of him until his nerves of orienta-
tion return to normal. Blind people walk
hesitatingly. If “F.S.” isn’t convinced
let him walk 20 yards at ordinary walking
pace with his eyes shut,
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Reference to the Australian
affection for theatricals from afar (B.
30/4/’4l) reminds me of Horace Denton.
One of the boldest spirits in the original
Actors’ Union, he suffered his full issue
of boycotts; but Home Denton was a
man of resource. Known as a dramatic
juvenile, he decided to turn to vaudeville,
rehearsed with a clever young actress a
short act, and, synchronising his visit
with the arrival of a liner from ’Frisco,
called in his best Yankee props (the suit
he had used as George Washington Bangs
in a comedy-drama) on the Tivoli man-
agement. The “newly-arrived American”
got an immediate audition, the audition
getting him an engagement. With that
act Denton passed, after about a year
on Australian vaudeville circuits, to South
Africa and then England. He has been
circling the world (Desmond being his
vaudeville name) ever since, and has made
one or two reappearances in Australia.
* * * *
“Max”: Before Melbourne people suc-
cumb to the lure of a sound shell for open-
air concerts (B. 23/4/’4l), let them inquire
into the experiences of the lovely little
city of Napier (M.L.). When the earth-
quake of 1931 presented the city fathers
with a great deal more beach than they
had had, one of these sound contraptions
was erected in the centre of a fine garden
arrangement on the shingle just outside
the parade wall. It has become the
despair and curse of residents who
occupy the beautiful villas in the hang-
ing gardens and terraces on the hills over-
looking the town. Sounds on the beach
are magnified with a penetrating quality
which has to be endured to be believed.
Bands and noises of every horrible de-
scription seem to accompany every in-
vasion of trippers, who come in hordes
by cheap train excursions.
* * * *
“H.A.C.”; The increased price of beer
is making milk more popular. In the
Adelaide factory where I earn a crust
the men at lunchtime used to stream out
to the nearest pub for beer. Today a
truck pulls up at the door and the men
buy pint bottles of iced milk instead.
Out of 80 employed in one department,
53 had a bottle of milk beside their
lunch-tin. Waiting for a bus I watched
the men coming out of the main gate of
another factory on to a road with a pub
on one side and a milk bar on the other.
A tally showed that about 40 p.c. went
home without stopping to have a drink,
35 p.c. went to the milk bar and the rest
to the tavern. I find that the same thing
holds good in engineering shops, factories
and office blocks. The man or woman
worker in S.A. who does not sit down
to lunch with a pint or half-pint bottle
of milk is the exception, and increasing
numbers on the way home now sink a
pint of milk instead of beer. The wharf-
lumper or the foundry worker doesn’t
see anything sissy about drinking milk
either, and that is perhaps the strangest
part of it.
* * * *
“Sideshow Sam”: Our business is get-
ting a rough spin in Britain nowadays.
Young showmen have been called up for
the fighting forces, blackouts render it
impossible to keep fairs open after dark,
petrol restrictions and military require-
ments make transport very difficult by
road or rail. But what hits the profes-
sion hardest is the ban on the importation
of coconuts, which settles the most popu-
lar and paying of all show items. Shoot-
ing galleries, too, are wiped out because
ammunition factories are not making any
more small-bore, low-power cartridges.
A more sophisticated public has been
steadily losing interest in shies at Aunt
Sally for years past, even when the tough
old lady has been livened up by elec-
tricity, and it looks as if merry-go-rounds
and swings are going to follow her into
the discard. But Punch and Judy have
got a fresh lease of life, especially with
Hitler and Mussolini in extremely un-
dignified parts as additions to the histone
cast.
* * * *
“K.P.”: An unusual research job car-
ried out by the Ministry of Health in
Britain has been the investigation of the
cause and prevention of snoring, the prac-
tice of which art in air-raid shelters has
interfered seriously with the sleep of
other occupants and led to many com-
plaints. The cause was found to be the
falling back of the tongue towards the
back of the pharynx, with consequent
setting up of vibrations by the air passing
to and from the lungs, particularly when
the head is bent forward. When the
head is turned to one side and the chin
well raised the cause is removed and
peace falls upon the night. The first
step towards cure was found to consist
in discarding pillows in favor of a bolster
with a hollow in it for the neck and back
of the head, so shaped as to keep the
chin well up. To deter the sleeper from
rolling on his back and thus getting into
diapasonal form again tins or other suit-
ably angular articles are slung round the
waist or slipped into special pockets in
the night gear. Many a wife and not
a few husbands will be almost inclined
to forgive a war which has brought about
such a discovery as this.
* * * *
“Cook’s Mate” recalls an old scandal:
Riding out to Botany Bay on April 29 to take
a look at the big shallow sheet of water that in-
spired Jarnes Cook to annex East Australia to
the about-to-be-disrupted British Empire of his
day—that being the date he arrived there in
H.M.S. Endeavour 171 years ago—l passed
through the Sydney suburb of Matraville and
thought about its namesake, James Matra, or
Magra, who was an officer in the little ship.
There is an entry about him in Cook’s
journal—the thing occurred off the Queens-
land coast. “Last night, some time in the
middle watch, a very extraordinary thing hap-
pened to Mr. Orton, my clerk. He having
been drinking in the evening, some mischievous
person or persons took advantage of his being
drunk to cut off the clothes from his back;
not being satisfied with this, they some time
after went into his cabin and cut off part of
both ears as he lay asleep in his bed. The
person whom he suspected to have done this
was Mr. Magra, one of the midshipmen.”
Cook disrated Matra, but thought better of it
after the Endeavour had been on the coral reef
and Matra’s conduct was outstandingly helpful
and courageous. There is a note in the journal
three weeks later—“ This day I returned Mr.
Magra to his duty, and I did not find him
guilty of the crimes laid to his charge.”
* * * *
“Goget”: I met McLedger in the
vestibule of the N.S.W. Bank head-
quarters, and took the opportunity to ask
him what he knew of the probity or other-
wise of a mutual Pitt-street acquaintance.
“Ah’d not like to say anything against
him,” says McLedger, who is a cautious
man, “but ye see these wee lions” —point-
ing at the sleepy beasts that guard the
’Wales portals. “Yes,” I said. “Well,”
said Mac, “when our friend comes in
here those beasties wake up and growl.”
jp * * m
“Sideshow Sam”: Case of a policeman
being mauled by lions at Lismore
(N.S.W.) reminds me of the time a
monkey bit and scratched a sergeant for
interfering with an illegal game on a
N.Q. racecourse in the conduct of which
the ape was abetting by drawing num-
bers from a box. And also there was the
case of the extremely dapper and digni-
fied Judge who came across two elephants
from a resting show during a country
walk. They were enjoying a bath in a
very muddy creek, and while his Honor
was talking to their attendant evidently
made up their minds that the Judge
would be better for a bath, too. A
couple of trunkfuls of filthy water
brought disastrous results to the judicial
dignity and dapperness.
EUPHEMISTIC.
“How can we regard Japan as our friend, as Mr.
Kawai, the Minister from Japan, would have us do,
when Mr. Matsuoka, Japan’s Foreign Minister,
declares his country’s interest in the triumph of our
foes ?” — “8. M. Herald.”
Friends with Japan? Well, that we’ve been
before.
But now what comradeship is ours with those
Who, in a world that’s racked and rent with
war.
Proclaim themselves as being something more
Than friendly with our foes?
With all our neighbors in Pacific seas
We’d live in amity. But it depends
On what assurances and guarantees
They’re ready to accord our enemies
Whether we’ll rate them friends.
We’re one with Britain, whatsoe’er she face;
But as for those who sneer when danger
lowers
Above her, and exult —why, we’d disgrace
Our birthright and be traitors to our race
If such were friends of ours.
These honeyed words—what sugar they discard,
Weighed in the scale with treaties and with
pacts!
What bond was ever mortared, firm and hard,
That rests on mere professions of regard.
Unbacked by deeds and acts?
Friends! We’ll be friends with one and all, I
guess,
Who stand beside us in these darkened days.
But Mr. Kawai could have done no less,
What time he held his outstretched hand, to
stress
What he regards as amicableness
In more convincing ways.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Childmind”: The privations of war!
Now, according to Customs Minister
Harrison, there are to be no more im-
ported comic strips. This blow falls at
a critical moment. Mickey Mouse is just
commencing a new adventure connected
(apparently) with Aladdin’s lamp ; Pop-
eye, accompanied by Sweepea and
Wimpy, is booked for a new bout with
the harpies; Tarzan is just about due
for his 8167th escape from captivity,
rescuing thereby his 4235th goil;
Brick Bradford and Buck Rogers also
are in situations from which all well-
wishers will hope to see them extricated.
But no! A pall falls and the rest is to
be silence. It cannot be. I’m sure the
next news on the subject will be that
the kindly Minister has allowed at least
a three months’ stay of proceedings.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”; Brisbane small boys
have evolved a new racing stunt which
may yet supplant the ponies and the dogs
in a war-restricted sporting world. The
contestants are bantam roosters harnessed
to carts made from Meccano parts, and
the races are held on a concrete car-
drive. Stimulated by handfuls of grain
at the winning post and the enthusiastic
applause of their respective owners, the
birds have put up amazing track times.
Further training is expected to get rid
of a tendency to run off the course or
to take a fly at a competitor, cart and all.
* * * *
“S.”: Touching the N. S. Wales elec-
tion campaign (with a bargepole, of
course), the ribald are finding consider-
able delight in studying the rival adver-
tisements in “S. M. Herald.” McKELL
FACT versus U.A.P. FICTION,” de-
clares a Labor hullaballoo on page 3 ;
turn to page 4, and there, right on the
back of that nasty allegation, in equally
glaring type, is the Government’s bomb-
shell, “MAIR-BRUXNER FACTS versus
McKELL-LANG PROMISES.” It is a
pretty comment on
State politics when each
side hopes to win an
election by alleging that
the others are liars.
Myself, with my bound-
less trust in State poli-
ticians, I believe ’em
both.
* *
“R. Volt”; If the
circumstances weren't
known, future natural-
ists might be trying to
explain why the goats
which have lately been
terrorising Nyngan
(N.S.W.) are related to
those on Horsburgh
Island, one of the Cocos
group. Von Muller, of
the Emden, supplied his
crew with fresh milk
from a herd of goats
he kept on his warship,
and when the vessel
was driven on to the
reef by H.M.A.S. Syd-
ney’s bombardment
some of them swam
ashore with those of
the sailors who were
unwounded. Some of
the sailors were eaten
by the immense land
crabs which infest the
atoll, but the goats sur-
vived to multiply ex-
ceedingly. When the
Sydney’s crew had
" B etween you and me and A turret , PrendergAst, I'm frighlf'l'y seasick!
rescued what remained of the German
crew of the Emden, the goats which re-
mained on the cruiser were picked up and
placed aboard the Sydney. How they got
to Nyngan somebody else can say, but it is
a curious sidelight on the vicissitudes of
war that they should be blood relations
to the horned ruminants of Cocos.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Victorian National
Safety Council now has a scheme where-
by night fliers can make an emergency
landing with a reasonable amount of
confidence. It is an adaptation of the
impromptu effort put up by hundreds
of motorists when the Dutch entrant in
the Centenary air race sent out an SOS
and owners of cars converged as one
man on the Albury racecourse. In a
test at Donald the other night, an
R.A.A.F. ’plane made a perfect landing
while the headlamps of a regiment of
local petrol vehicles threw a gleaming
circle on the landing-ground, while red
tail-lights outlined the boundaries and a
green light showed the pilot where his
wheels should touch terra firma. The
Donald emergency committee chairman,
incidentally, owned an old horse 50 years
ago with which he used to rescue the
mailcoach from Melbourne when it got
bogged in the local creek at night-time.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Dr. Mollison, Victoria s
Government Pathologist, has caused some
alarm amongst the epicures of Mel-
bourne. He reported at an inquest that
a slaughterman who ate three fresh mus-
sels collected on the foreshore of Port
Phillip died 24 hours afterwards as the
result of the activities of a small organ-
ism which sometimes makes its home in
the bivalves. Fortunately the organism
is as gradual at reproducing its kind as
the human population of Australia.
« * * «
“C.H.”: In the bar parlor of a country
pub, Bung had tuned-in to the 8.8. C.
news session. A little man who had
been gazing long and earnestly at Nor-
man Lindsay’s idea of Stalin as a large
rat with a heavy moustache laid aside
his Bulletin and listened. “Russia has
ratified the pact with Japan,” quacked
the instrument. The little man started ;
his gaze moved to The Bulletin ; his
mind moved to the large rat with the
heavy moustache. “Did you hear that?”
he asked. “He’s ratified it. That’s what
he’s done! Old Joe’s ratted on the Japs
already! ”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The wicked-uncle case in
S.A. has had the same result in the High
Court as in its own Supreme Court. A
lady no longer young found, when her
otherwise kindly guardian died, that he
had deposited nearly 1000 Adelaide
Steamship shares of hers with the Bank
of N.S.W., to secure his own debt to it ;
and she claimed to have them back. The
bank had acted in all good faith, and
had received the necessary documents
signed by her, so it was simply a ques-
tion of which of two innocent parties
should suffer. Judgment was for the
lady, and the bank appealed. The High
toned down the lower Court’s “heartless
fraud” to “age, and his needs at the
time, in contrast with his generous kind-
ness and protection for many years.” But
it was no less firm.on the principle that,
when one person offers you the property
of another, you should take pains to find
out whether the latter is acting with full
understanding and without undue in-
fluence. So the bank loses.
* * * ♦
“Monument Hill”: I suppose that for
almost every month of the 20-odd years
I lived in Perth I saw and heard some
visiting Maorilander cornered by one of
the natives on the subject of earthquakes.
Stripped of superfluities, the conversation
generally ran something like this: “You
“Dunno Wot time I'll be back. This job's tougher than I expected."
have no snakes or
bull-ants or trapdoor
spiders in Maoriland,
have you?” “No.”
“But you have earth-
quakes?” “Some-
times.” “Well, thank
heavens for Perth
and its snakes and
ants and spiders!”
The tranquil West-
ralian capital must
be thought fully
scratching its collec-
tive head, since the
most severe ’quake
in its history startled
it out of its wits last
week- The centre of
the disturbance was
reckoned to be some-
where off Geraldton,
and effe c t s were
evident 150 miles
south of the capital,
500 miles east.
People on upper
floors of city build-
ings received the
most indelible im-
pressions—according
to builders working
on the new 11-storey
Perth hospital, that building swayed at
least six inches several times. From now
on, of course, visiting Maorilanders will
not be called on for first-hand descrip-
tions of their ’quakes, but will be button-
holed and forced to listen to a detailed
account of the event which shook Perth
to its foundations.
He * * *
“Cockaigne” considers the Londoner’s
fortitude;
It never enters his head that it is possible to
lick him. He sees vast areas of the immense
urban territory he inhabits blasted into ruin,
endures the roaring of flaming fires about the
small area that is his home environment,
listens to the shattering explosion of great bombs
falling out of heaven into his backyard, is
sprayed by machine-gun bullets in familiar
streets —and doesn’t lie down to it. Nothing
can break his will to survive and win. How is
it so? Maybe the answer is written in the
pages of London’s history for a thousand
years. There is a long tradition of great dis-
asters and of the greater courage that overcame
them. From the days when the Romans built
a little city on the Thames about Walbrook
and the Fleet, through the Saxon centuries and
down the centuries succeeding the Con-
quest, the Londoner has taught himself to live
through periods of overwhelming misfortune
and to come up smiling into better times. In
the seventeenth century the Great Plague wiped
out nearly 70,000 round the Thames estuary,
and the Great Fire destroyed almost the whole
of the city within the walls. If he could live
through two such catastrophes as these, one on
top of the other, maybe the Cockney doesn’t
see why he shouldn’t stand up successfully to
anything the Huns can do to him. At any
rate, nothing will convince him he isn’t going to.
* * * *
“Ehoa”: New Year’s Day in Dunedin.
The crowd that had been “oot tae” its
Highland sports poured into the dive
at the Old Provincial Hotel, where the
burly head barman was Harry Dunn, the
wrestler. Beer flowed freely, and a new
hogshead had to be placed on a bench
behind the barmen —at the Provincial the
goods came direct from cask to consumer.
To Tom Sontag spoke Dunn in jest;
“Pass me up another barrel, Tom.”
Rising to the challenge Tom said “Right,
Harry, where will you have it?” “Right
here on the counter,” says Harry ; “I’ll
put it on the bench.” Tom walked the
full hogshead across the floor to the foot
of the counter; then, taking a breather
and grasping each end of the hogshead,
he heaved it on the counter. Harry,
seizing it in his tough arms, edged
himself round and transferred it firmly
to its place on the back bench a foot
higher than the counter. Weight: 3201 b.
at the least. Them were the days!
* * * *
“Bo”: Sydney’s veray tonay Ku-ring-
gai Council, within whose boundaries
some of suburbia’s naicest people live
(beg pardon, reside!), has been shocked
to the depths of its corporate being by
the vulgarity of a Gordon tobacconist.
Beneath the awning of his shop the
fellow had a sign bearing the single
word “Smokes.” A council officer visited
him and intimated firmly that the “vulgar
Americanism” would have to be removed.
To make doubly sure that the offender
didn’t misinterpret the oral instructions
as a final demand for rates or an inti-
mation that the garbage service had been
reduced, the deputy town clerk followed
it up with a letter requiring “the oblitera-
tion of this word by some effective and
unsightly means.” The tobacconist
doesn’t know exactly what would be the
most unsightly method of obliteration,
and doesn’t intend to obliterate anyhow.
But he ought to put in an application
to the Pure English Sub-committee of the
council for permission to erect a sign
stating that he is “a vendor of ingredients
which, rolled in suitable paper or
placed in a wooden receptacle, and sub-
jected to conflagration, exude fumes
which the user may inhale and exhale
alternately.”
A RESERVED OCCUPATION.
“A M.L. poultry expert has been exempted from
territorial sendee because of his recognised ability
as a chick-sexer.”
There are lots of men essential to a nation’s
Normal activities, one’s well aware;
“Reserved” is what we style the occupations
That make them citizens we couldn’t spare
For being drilled and trained to be defenders
Of these fair shores ’gainst foemen’s knavish
tricks.
And one such job’s determining the genders,
So it would seem, of embryotic chicks.
Twould be a shame a chap should risk a bullet
Whose precious gifts enable him to tell
Whether the yolk inside an egg’s a pullet
In posse or an unborn cockerel.
These are the brains imperatively needed
To save our poultry-farmers from a fix.
And few, how few, there are who have suc-
ceeded
In getting ranked A 1 at sexing chicks!
Myself, I never know if eggs are housing
Partlets or Chanticleers, when such are laid.
I’ve sort of classed the game with water-dowsing
As an empiric and mysterious trade.
But circumstances ever alter cases;
Key industries and those who in them mix
Are always cropping up in novel places.
And, clearly, one of them is sexing chicks.
“What did you do in war-time, Dad?” —I’m
hearing
Some boyish voice inquire in days to come —
“Say, did you march to battle, volunteering,
At call of bugle and at beat of drum?”
“Not I, my son, I braved no raids or Blitzes
And sent no passengers across the Styx.
I never got a chance of killing Fritzes;
My country needed me for sexing chicks!”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


CRAVENA
are kinder . .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS *
10 for 10° 50 for 42
20 for 10 100 for « 4
cs
m
mm
m
m
2819
POLITICAL POINTS
London “Times” has come out for an
Imperial Cabinet, but when the matter
was mentioned in the Commons
Churchill dismissed it in a few hostile
words. A few days later, Menzies said
it had been “the subject of some dis-
cussion, but the time is not yet ripe for
such a move.” So he became a Yes-
man in London.
Queensland has a new “party,” com-
posed of 25 Commonwealth and State
politicians. Title: Country National
“party.” Organisation: None at present,
but the “party” has hopes. Object: To
remove an impediment to Fadden be-
coming P.M. if anything happens to
Menzies.
Thomas Mann, the German writer,
now in exile, quoted approvingly by the
“Argus”:
A country is safe when it is capable of
hearing the truth from the press. The
shrinking power of democracy in Europe
portrays itself in the decay of its press,
which is neither able nor willing to keep
the public informed.
On the same day “the Chief Common-
wealth Censor, Mr. Bonney, arrived' in
Sydney from Melbourne by ’plane and
spent some time at a meeting of the
War Cabinet.” War Cabinet’s Mr.
Fadden had darkly threatened to name
and deal with newspapers which pub-
lished comments not to Mr. Fadden’s
liking, and sent for Mr. Bonney, Mr.
Bonney is editor of the “Argus.”
N. S. Wales has never had a duller
election campaign than the one limping
to its conclusion. Mair, Bruxner and
McKell got fair crowds for what they
were pleased to call their policy speeches,
but they and the candidates, with one
exception, have since spoken to benches
three parts empty. The exception is the
Rev. Macdonald, of Mosman, who haa
2000 people at his first meeting, and after
a speech which closed on a deep note
saw a forest of hands go up when a vote
of confidence was called for. Even in
State politics brains and character appeal.
In N. S. Wales as elsewhere Labor’s
strongholds are industrial and semi-indus-
trial suburbs and mining districts, but
McKell and his associates are basing their
hopes of winning the Assembly election
on unseating C.P. members. They con-
tend that the Commonwealth election
showed a distinct slump in C.P. stocks,
and that there has been a persistent
decline since, accelerated by Bruxner’s
bad blunder in insinuating that Labor
control might wreck the Rural Bank.
And they may be right. Certainly the
N.S.W. Country party, as run nowadays,
has lost whatever capacity to inspire en-
thusiasm it may have had, and what it
stands for, other than a plum-tree part-
nership with the U.A.P., is now a
mystery.
In the world where politicians and
pressmen mingle watchful waiting was
the attitude last week. Spender (“Palm
Beach Percy”) had undertaken to name
“the company of fainthearts and feeble
guts, the whisperers and defeatists, those
pigeon-hearted people” “if” he could
“find them.” Fadden (“Call me Artie!”)
“described editorial comment in some
newspapers as ‘un-British, un-Australian
and unpatriotic,’ ” and “intimated that
the Government proposed to take
action.”
I will name the papers in due course.
A certain line of action has been taken.
The Bulletin would be delighted to pub-
lish the names if it had them. Percy and
Artie must have decided, on second
thoughts, to keep them locked in their
swelling buzzums.
Evatt and Beasley made it crystal-clear
to Fadden and Spender that they would
not tolerate a press gag in any shape or
form. Then, turning on Mcßride, they
declared themselves “gravely concerned,
not only at admitted shortcomings in
the munitions programme, but more par-
ticularly at the attitude of ‘hush-hush’
with which the Munitions Administra-
tion is attempting to silence helpful criti-
cism designed to increase the tempo of
production.” These men should be
Ministers, together with Cameron and
Abbott, and things are working that way.
Foil, the Minister for Information, who
aspires to inflict his superfluous and
grossly extravagant department on the
country permanently, made his little con-
tribution to the smoke-screen thrown up
SELF-PORTRAIT.
"In his latest speech Hitler again assured the world that he was everybody’s friend except
the ‘criminal’ Churchill’s. He had smitten the Greeks and the Yugoslavs out of pure kindness
of heart.”
by Fadden and Spender when a smoke-
screen became expedient. He said: “My
liaison officer in London expresses sur-
prise at statements that Australians dis-
approved of Australian participation in
the Greek campaign.” “My liaison officer
in London”! How many “liaison offi-
cers” has this Minister appointed, and
what are they drawing, in salaries and
expenses? It is characteristic of his Gov-
ernment to maintain a “liaison officer”
in London when there are already a High
Commissioner and a large Australia
House staff with nothing much to do.
It has happened at last:
The provincial Legislatures are surrender-
ing the income-tax field to the national
Government, which has promised to make
good the revenue lost. The arrange-
ment will ensure a level income-tax rate
throughout the country and prevent the
present uneven burdens resulting from dif-
ferent rates imposed in different provinces.
An excellent thing—for Canada. That is
where it has happened.
Churchillian references to the inactivity
of Turkey when the horror fell on Greece
and Yugoslavia annoyed Turkish news-
papers so much that one questioned the
wisdom of British leadership. The same
paper and others demanded to know
why so little military assistance was given
to Greece when there were half a million
soldiers to spare in the U.K., a number
sufficient, they asserted, to save the
Balkans and spare Egypt another in-
vasion. Puzzle left unsolved.
A uniform-income-tax resolution was
adopted at the Canberra conference of
Associated Chambers of Commerce, but
delegates from Melbourne and Adelaide
dissented. Abolition of State Parliaments
was also urged, but the motion was with-
drawn when the S.A., W.A. and Tas.
delegates objected. Provincialism for
ever!
Told that Fadden and Maher had been
delivered of their new party, the presi-
dent of the U.A.P., which got four (4)
Queensland Assemblymen elected last
month, said he was surprised and pleased.
The presidents of the Country party,
southern and northern, which between
them returned 14 members, said they
were neither surprised nor pleased. “So
they have jettisoned their own party!”
the northern gentleman exclaimed. The
southern gentleman remarked with
asperity that Fadden and Maher had
obviously been itching “to escape from
the C.P. organisation and go back to
their former political allegiances,” and
that the “majority of the electors” would
regard the move with “suspicion.”
How war conditions and taxes are
eating into British fortunes is shown in
the Rothermere case. Any newspaper-
man anywhere in the world would have
wagered his week’s salary that North-
cliffe’s brother and successor died a mil-
lionaire. Actually he left estate valued
at £335,000, and the Treasury takes two-
fifths in death duties.
In Australia, persons who dodge
income tax on the grand scale are, as a
rule, fined “200 p.c. of tax evaded,” re-
ducible to 100 p.c. at the discretion of
the department and to less if a board of
review so decides. Names are not pub-
lished except in departmental reports.
Uncle Sam has a sterner way with these
gentry. Schenck, the Russian Jew, who
piled million on million in the moving-
picture business, has been sentenced to
three years’ imprisonment, plus a fine of
$20,000, for cheating his adopted country
of its dues. Possibly in his enforced
seclusion Schenck will learn of the com-
positions made in the Abrahams and
Nathan cases; if so, he will be sorry
he didn’t transfer himself, his offsider
Moskovitz {he is doing a year) and his
harem to Australia.
“Describing himself as a bridge be-
tween these heroic men and their country,
Mr. Spender said he would not let the
army down.” That’s how it went in the
newspaper reports ; and, after some plain
and fancy invective which must have
astonished Palm Beach, Percy intimated
that he was a prey to carking suspicion:
I have had my suspicion for some time
that enemy agents are still secretly at work
in the Commonwealth, and I am doing
everything possible to have them rooted
out.
Does that mean that he intends to set
up more tribunals to hear appeals, with
a chairman at £7 7s. per day, four mem-
bers at £5 ss. per day, place of hearing
to be determined by the appellant and
all incidental expenses paid?
“The British Empire must now depend
on its own strength. The late deplorable
events on the Continent have left us
alone in the contest.” “Times,”
12/2/1806. It’s taken some people a
long time to wake up.
“A 23-point plan for achieving a total
war effort” has been submitted to the
Government by Mr. Coles, M.P. So long
as there is nothing over 2s. 6d. we’re
all for Mr. Coles.
Australian artists feel like buying
drinks all round since it was announced
that the Federal Government is to ban
the importation of comic strips into this
country. Australian authors will be glad
of the drinks —there is no ban on im-
ported literary stuff of low class, though
there ought to be.
It seems a long time since Bishop Burg-
mann said something fulsome about “Rus-
sia’s mighty experiment for the world.”
Silence has also descended on Professor
Beasley and his Society for the Promo-
tion of Cultural Relations with the
Soviet. The ordinary bloke who realises
that his leg has been pulled is generally
vocal about it, sometimes humorously.
Bishops and professors are different.
McKell, stumping the N.S.W. outback
in search of votes, dragged up once more
the —to Labor members —dazzling vista
of a splitting-up of huge estates in the
saltbush country. Present lessees are to
be deprived of some of their “hundreds
of thousands of acres,” which will be
handed over to settlers. But what have
the settlers done to deserve this?
In the innocence of its heart, Canberra
agreed to pay 3s. lOd. a bushel at ports
for the next wheat crop, and asked
farmers to register their holdings and
take out sowing licenses. It mentioned
a limit of 140,000,000 bushels. Now,
according to J. W. Diver, a Westralian
member of the Wheat Board and presi-
dent of the State Primary Producers, “the
acreage applied for could easily produce
250,000,000 bushels.” Diver appeals to the
farmer “to be honest with his neighbor
and his industry.” Wheat cockies are as
honest as most folk, but when Govern-
ment becomes a good old grandma
human nature will keep breaking in.
Churchill, in the first of the speeches
for which families from which Young
Diggers went waited with dread expec-
tancy —not in vain the second time:
There are less than 70,000,000 malig-
nant Huns, some of whom are curable,
and others killable.
That must have shocked some of his
ardent admirers. Still it puts a period
to the sickening pretence —he was never
a party to it —that we are fighting, not
Germany, but a brutal German-oppress-
ing minority called Nazis.


THE EVER-READY HAND.


Invest in Established Companies
Even if you wish to invest only about £2O of your Capital
you can obtain an interest in 20 leading Australian Companies
by investing in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
which provide security by “spread” of investment. Union
Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd., act as Custodian Trustees
of the securities backing the Trust Certificates.
Booklet No. 1 explains it all; your copy will be mailed free
on application to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
FORTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL SHEEP SHOW
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST STUD SHEEP EXHIBITION.
Conducted by THE N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS’ ASSOCIATION.
To be held on the SYDNEY SHOWGROUND
18th, 19th, 20th and 21st JUNE, 1941.
SEE THE PICK OF AUSTRALIA’S FLOCKS.
PRIZE-HONEY AND TROPHIES EXCEED £lOOO.
ENTRIES CLOSE
Sheep
Fleece Classes
Junior and Senior Judging Competitions
Sheep Dog Trials
Saturday, 17th May
Saturday, 17th May
Saturday, 17th May
Wednesday, 21st May
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
STUD SHEEP SALES, Sydney Showground, viz.:
British and Down Breeds Friday, 20th June
Merinos, Corriedales and Polwarths, commencing Monday, 23rd June
Endeavour House, G. C. SOMERt ILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ronald Cross, who will succeed Sir
Geoffrey Whiskard as British High Com-
missioner in Australia, is an old Etonian
and a merchant banker who .has had wide
Ministerial experience. During the 1914-
18 war he served with the Duke of Lan-
caster’s Own Yeomanry and the R.F.C.,
and in 1931 he went into the Commons
as a Lancashire representative. He was
Government Whip in 1935, a Lord of
the Treasury and Vice-Chamberlain of
H.M.’s Household in 1937, and in 1938
was named Parliamentary Secretary of the
Board of Trade. In the first year of the
Nazi onslaught he became Minister for
Economic Warfare and then Minister of
Shipping. He has three daughters. Colin
Colahan, the Melbourne artist, painted a
portrait of Mrs. Cross which was ex-
hibited in London last year.
The subject of Frith’s very imaginative
drawing is the most interesting can-
didate for the N.S.W. Assembly, the Rev.
Donald Peter Macdonald. Born at
Stornoway, Scotland, he came to Aus-
tralia in boyhood, returning to enter
Glasgow University and qualify for the
ministry. For upwards of 20 years,
broken by a war experience as 2nd Divi-
sion Artillery padre, he was Presbyterian
minister at Mosman. When he preached
his last sermon he had to step over people
to reach his pulpit, so crowded was the
congregation, and when he opened his
campaign in Mosman Town Hall there
were at least 2000 people inside and
many more outside. Macdonald has
charm of manner, character and a fine
intellect, and is not too old to go far in
REV. D. P. MACDONALD.
the new career he has chosen. A sub-
scriber to the U.A.P. since it was formed,
though he has never had any use for
pre-selection, he will get thousands of
U.A.P. votes, but he is for national unity
in politics and all other domains, holding
that the war has “rung the death-
knell of party politics.”
It seems likely that J. L. Price may be
succeeded in the Reps, by a namesake,
but no relation, and, except for ability
and popularity, almost his opposite.
Grenfell Price, only son of a well-to-do
family, was after Oxford just a junior
master at St. Peter’s in Adelaide, when
he was chosen as first head of the new
residential college, St. Mark’s; but since
then he has never looked back. Still
holding that post, and still on the right
side of 50, he has been a one-man Gov-
ernment commission to report on
libraries; also has gone officially to the
U.S.A. and elsewhere to report on
colored races. He has written several
books on history, especially as it is
affected by geographical conditions, and
for the past year he has broadcast his
views on the war six evenings in every
week.
Glasgow-born of Irish-English parents
and Australian - bred, white - haired,
dapper and of boyish figure, Herbert
Magee is the very mildest-looking man
that ever doubled tax or cut off hope
about forgetfully-understated income. He
went from Melbourne 18 years ago to
fill the dual job of State Commissioner
of Taxes and Federal Deputy-Commis-
sioner for Queensland, and if any denizen
of that State has since managed to get
away with a spot of tax-evasion it certainly
hasn’t been Magee’s fault. Yet, strangely
enough, he will take with him to his new
job as chairman of the Board of Referees
under the War-time (Company) Tax
Assessment Act the warm and enduring
regard of many Queensland friends pos-
sessing taxable incomes within the mean-
ing of the Acts.
A slight exaggeration crept into an
“S. M. Herald” literary article alleg-
ing that The Bulletin’s old friend Will
Ogilvie had gone to the minstrels’ Val-
halla some time before “Banjo” Pater-
son; Will Ogilvie is still very much alive
in Scotland. To an Australian friend
Ogilvie wrote on Feb. 14 that he was
“very proud of the doings of the Aus-
tralians in Libya,” and had written a
rhyme in their praise that was printed in
London “Daily Sketch.” The slayer of
the “Herald” had apparently confused
the poet with Albert Ogilvie, late Premier
of the Speck.
Maoriland poet Arnold Wall, whose
verses have been appearing in The
Bulletin since 1905, has written in to
find out if he’s entitled to the Oldest
Contributor’s banner. As far as Maori-
land is concerned—C. H. Winter having
kept his own counsel the last couple of
years—the banner is his. If a distinction
is made between poetry and ballads, Wall
could win in Australia, too, for Rod
Quinn’s Muse is pretty well resting on
her laurels these days. Wall’s steady pro-
ductivity has been a fine thing to wit-
ness, and his verse has lost none of its
old lyrical precision. But the balladists
must be allowed in here, and E. J. Brady
and Will Lawson, still regular contribu-
tors, were both in the field before 1905.
It was an invitation from Arthur Adams,
then editor of the Red Page, that started
Wall contributing to The Bulletin.
Lieut.-Col. Leonard Guscote Haydon,
D. 5.0., who passed over at Heidelberg
(Vic.), the other day at 70, was an English
doctor who had a lot to do with the early
history of bubonic-plague prevention.
When the disease became a deadly
menace amongst the crowded millions of
India he was sent by the British Govern-
ment to Bombay to help combat it.
After the outbreak was driven under
hatches he came to Victoria as locum
tenens to his brother, a Melbourne
medico, and the Victorian public health
authorities got him to bring some speci-
mens of the bacillus with him for re-
search work. The Boer War took Dr.
L. G. Haydon to S. Africa, where his
experience was useful for dealing with
the plague amongst the Natal natives.
He became C.H.O. for Natal, and was
later put in charge of plague-prevention
at Capetown. He got his D.S.O. while
serving with the British forces in
German S.-W. Africa, and was subse-
quently appointed senior medical officer
of the S. African Union. He retired to
Australia when General Hertzog became
P.M.
Dr. Hugh Christian Trumble, new
Professor of Agronomy at the Waite
Institute, S.A., was born in Melbourne
38 years ago, son of that mighty
bowler Hugh Trumble. H.C., who
has degrees in agriculture from both
DR. H. C. TRUMBLE.
Melbourne and Adelaide Unis., joined
the Waite Institute staff at the begin-
ning of that institution’s career. He has
twice toured abroad seeking further
knowledge. Used to play cricket; now
prefers tennis and golf.
Gone to press for the last time, A. L.
(Bert) Pogonoski, proprietor of the Cess-
nock (N.S.W.) “Eagle,” and sportsman.
In his young days, when footracing was
booming, he was in the first grade among
the peds. Later he turned to horse-
racing, owned Milantheon, and was
secretary of the Cessnock Jockey Club
from its inception. He was 59 at the end.
Christopher James Parr (he preferred
the second name when he was knighted),
who died in London last week at 72,
was an Auckland (M.L.) lawyer who
made his way into Maoriland politics
by the usual route of municipal service.
He was Mayor of Auckland and had
been chairman of the Auckland Educa-
tion Board when Eden (Auckland’s
Toorak) sent him to Parliament in the
Reform interest. He was Minister of
Education in Massey’s 1919-25 Adminis-
tration and Postmaster-General under
Coates for a few months. He went to
London as High Commissioner 1926-29 ;
was leader of the Legislative Council
1931-33, and High Commissioner again,
1933-36.
Dead at 77, Ebenezer Furley, of Syd-
ney, who as shipping editor of the old
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” for 40 years
could remember the time when sailing
ships were met at the Heads by news-
papermen avid for the latest news from
abroad. He retired 12 years ago. For
the last 35 years he had resided at
Cronulla, N.S.W., where he was known
as “the Admiral” and was able to in-
dulge his fondness for boating.
The meteorological service of Aus-
tralia having been transferred to the
R.A.A.F. “for the duration,” State
Meteorologist of N. S. Wales David
John Mares has been gazetted a wing-
commander. Son of American parents,
D. J. Mares was born in Sydney in 1879
and got his schooling at Fort-street and
St. Andrew’s College. He had top score
in meteorology in the P.S. exams, of
1910, and was appointed to his present
job in 1917. Spends his holidays fishing
and complains that it always rains on
these occasions.
A figure in the Sydney grocery trade
was O. J. Matthews, who died last
week. He got his training in the whole-
sale side of the business with Robert
Little and Co., of Sussex-street, was later
manager of John Bardsley and Co., and
in 1921 founded Matthews, Thompson
and Co. He was manufacturers’ rep. on
the Export Sugar Committee and presi-
dent of the Food Manufacturers’ Asso-
ciation. He took a keen interest in hos-
pital work and was a life governor of
Royal Prince Alfred.
Thomas Nave has retired from the S.A.
Railways after 50 years’ service. Born
at Folkestone, England, 66 years ago,
Nave came to this country as a boy of
ten. He commenced work in the loco-
motive branch, and after 30 years of it
was transferred to the accounting sec-
tion. He was a foundation member of
the Adelaide Repertory Theatre, and is
still one of its soundest character actors
and most experienced producers.
A. Andrewes Uthwatt, recently
appointed Judge in the Chancery Division
(England), is an Australian. Victorian-
born, he went to school at Ballarat,
thence to Oxford and the English Bar.
Recently he was appointed chairman of
the special committee charged with the
ticklish job of framing the basic prin-
ciples of emergency legislation concern-
ing war-time contracts and war-damage
to buildings and property. The outcome
was the War Damage Bill, shortly to be
presented for the Royal Assent. Uthwatt
has been elevated to the Bench without
taking silk, and that doesn’t often happen.
A former president of the B.M.A. in
S.A., Charles Ernest Cameron Wilson
has officially retired at 65 from his
familiar role as head medico of the
Children’s Welfare and Public Relief
Department and doctor for gaols. Actu-
ally he is continuing duty until Dr.
Frank Mugford, who has nominally suc-
ceeded him, returns from war-duration
service abroad with A.I.F. First active
with stethoscope and scalpel in Mel-
bourne General and Women’s Hospitals.
C.E.C. then went to West London and
Manchester ; practised at Wallaroo and
Kadina for 24 years (becoming Mayor at
the latter place), and joined the public
service in 1927. Ornithology is his hobby.
“Spokeshave”: Hugh J. Ward (B.
30/4/’4l) was proud of both his sons
and brought both up to be tap dancers,
with hopes of their flowering into actors
and entrepreneurs, like their father. But
it was not to be. As “Cauboy” notes,
Mel B. went in for conchology and
spends most of his time up to his waist
in water on the Barrier Reef, while Hugh,
Jun., developed an affection for deep-sea
fishing. Young Hugh is somewhere or
other round the Australian coast looking
for fresh fields to supplement the nation's
supply of what the Americans call sea-
food.
“Nobby II”: Something more about
Commander H. J. Buchanan (B. 23/4/’4l),
back in the Commonwealth with a
lot of unexpected experiences behind
him. When war broke out he was given
command of H.M.S. Valentine, a 1090-
ton escort vessel. In May last year he
was bombed off the Scheldt while sup-
porting the French army. Apparently
the bomber was one of the best shots
in Germany since he put one egg down
the funnel and another beside the bridge.
The tattered remains of Valentine were
grounded, the crew escaped, and within
a few weeks HJ.B. was acting as assistant
harbor-master at Dunkirk. He was the
last man off the Mole when the evacua-
tion was completed. He commanded
H.M.S. Vanity, doing convoy work until
his return to the Commonwealth.


R.A.S. RESULTS 1941
23 out of the 24 CHAMPIONS
IN BEEF AND DAIRY CATTLE SECTIONS
WERE FED “MEGGITT’S”
ALSO 572 OUT OF 619 PRIZES
IN CATTLE SECTIONS WERE
WON BY MECCITT-FED STOCK
The remarkable health-giving and conditioning
qualities of Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal are
shown by the fact that it was fed by more
than nine out of every ten of the successful
Beef and Dairy Cattle exhibitors at this Show,
Their experience has been that no other feed can
give the same results in conditioning stock and in
producing a u bloom” on the coat, which is
indicative of perfect health.
In the feeding of Dairy Cows for maximum
production also, Meggitt’s has given equally
outstanding results. Practically every cow in
Australia which has made an outstanding pro-
duction record has done so on rations containing
Meggitt’s, and a very large number of Dairy
Farmers also feed this concentrate to give them a
profitable increase in milk or butter fat yields.
Meggitt’s is equally valuable and equally as
widely used throughout Australia in the rations
of Calves, Pigs and Poultry. It combines highly
nutritive with health-giving qualities, which make
it the No. 1 concentrate.
The services of the Special Advisory Department maintained
by Meggitt, Limited, are available free to any stock owner who
requires information on rations. Informative literature is also
available free on application.
mm
iiMil Wm%m
mHhb
il
.^r
hi
ONE OF THE MEGGITT-FEB CHAMPIONS, NAVUA LASSIE BELLE
(owned by Navua Pty., Ltd.), Champion Jersey Cow.
This cow produced 5171 b. butter fat in 373 days.
yUBIH
jWN
V
Ki
m
WK&\
ii:
«' - v , ; : ■>
»
■
ONE OF THE MEGGITT-FED CHAMPIONS, COONONG KEVMAN
(owned by D. K. McCaughey), Champion Shorthorn Bull.
megcittS
UNSEED OIL MEAL
Manufactured from Pure Linseed from which portion of the oil has
been extracted by hydraulic pressure only,
MEGGITT LIMITED, HEAD OFFICE, 67 York Street, Sydney.
Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney. Works: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.
yOs6ITTS
9 -* \^sEi
EGG IT*' \t
AUSTRO
vV


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bull-ant Bill”: In Queensland’s south-
west if you mention Jacky Howe or any
other of the classical gun shearers of
blade days to a real old hand you will
get an uninterested “Yairs —they could
get the wool off all right.” Then if your
interest is regarded as more than merely
conversational: “Jack Harvey had all
that lot beat ’oiler when it come to a
real all-round job.” The particular feat
which enshrines the heroic memory of
the late Mr. Harvey was performed some
40 years ago and brought him a substan- 1
tial cash return from backing himself. It
consisted of shearing, killing, skinning,
dressing and cutting up a sheep, then
cooking and eating a chop from it, all
in ten minutes by stop-watch. At least,
so tradition avers amongst home-grown
elder sheepmen from Goondiwindi west-
ward, and their stories don’t vary. Yes,
the fire had to be lit and ready and the
operator was sole judge of what consti-
tuted cooking. Anyhow, he had to eat
the ghastly result.
* * * *
“Thames”: If great mounds of
pounded shell still exist about the sites
of long-defunct Tyre and Sidon (B.
2/4/’4l) it’s a wonder some enterprising
individual hasn’t hopped in and con-
verted said dumps into lime. The pro-
duct should be nearly 100 per cent. pure.
W.A. does something along similar lines.
When a cement co. started operations
quite a few years ago available limestone
supplies were found to be not quite pure
enough. Then somebody suggested the
great banks of giant oyster shell that fill
the bed of the Swan from Perth half-
way down to the sea. Now grab dredges
fish up this shell, which is automatically
washed and then shipped on to barges.
So pure a product that the resultant
cement is comparable with any in the
world.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Petrol restrictions and
the prospect of more have actively
revived western Queensland’s interest in
horse transport. Ancient buggies, jinkers,
sulkies, wagons, carts and drays are being
overhauled and repaired and junk heaps
searched for still-usable tyres, axles and
other ironwork. The few remaining ex-
ponents of the almost forgotten trades of
carriage-building and wheelwrighting are
coming into their own again—and not
forgetting that prices are better nowa-
days than when they learned the trade.
One big pastoral company is already
arranging for breeding a suitable type of
nag for distribution amongst its various
properties, and breakers are set for steady
jobs with engagements for months ahead.
Bullockies, too, share in the revival, and
Strawberry, Tinker and co. are back in
their bows on many a western road with
the long whips cracking over them.
* H= * *
“Padflogger”: If blanket prices keep
on soaring quite a few Australians will
be getting back to the wagga or Murrum-
bidgee rug. I was shivering one night
in a 6ft. by Bft. tent when a camp mate
donated a big wagga. The benefit was
instantaneous. For the beauty of a wagga
is its weight and size. Other bed cover-
ings, such as eiderdowns and blankets,
are too often light and too often skimped
at the bottom end, while the wagga, with
just ordinary luck, can be made as big as
its user wants it. Whilst its weight confers
the boon of keeping out the chilly night
air, however, it is a bit heavy for the track,
though most penurious knot-carriers I
have met put night ease ahead of a little
extra daytime labor. But its greatest
recommendation is cheapness. Three
opened-out wheat sacks make a good
wagga. Lacking a bag needle for sewing
together, a straightened-out sardine tin
key makes a fair substitute, though the
obliteration of Norway has rendered these
scarce. I’ve even seen fellows do the job
with a pointed stick and a morsel of
soap. Save the string that originally
sewed the bags, wax ends with soap,
poke holes through with pointed stick
and the string will follow. Thus at the
cost of no more than a shilling one is
fortified against the winter cold.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: I love to hear of these
water-diviners tracing the course of
underground streams in places such as
“out from Pinjarrah, W.A.” (B. 9/4/’4l).
Pinjarrah, situated on the western slope
of W.A.’s Darling Ranges, is a region of
swamps, lakes and flowing streams. It
would be difficult to sink a hole of any
depth anywhere in the locality without
striking water. Once I was conducted
to the ranges behind the town and shown
a veritable waterspout, a jet quite 15in. in
diameter, spouting out of the hillside. In
honor of the now-deceased defender of
“Show me some swords, please."
Mafeking, this has been named the Baden
Powell Waterspout. This never-failing
supply has been earmarked for the town
of Pinjarrah, should that rather primi-
tive burg ever attain to the necessity of
requiring a reservoir. Actually, beneath
all that country lies an immense water-
table, not flowing but stored in the under-
lying porous rock. At Mandurah, about
14 miles nearer the coast, I know of a
spear bore sunk in the rock from which
a 2in. stream may be pumped weeks on
end without perceptibly lowering the level
in an open well near by. Water-diviners
prowling over country which normally
enjoys a 40in. rainfall move me to
wonder whether most of these successes
in divining aren’t won on similar regions.
A water-diviner might win great laurels
on Cape York Peninsula, but I never
heard of any of the cult doing big things
around such places as Coolgardie.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Of the birds that invade
the gardens of Melbourne’s suburbia, the
imported blackbird is easily the greatest
nuisance. Besides garnering the choicest
of the fruits and berries, Blackie is wilful
enough to uproot plants and seedlings in
sheer devilment, and to excavate dust-
baths in seedbeds where you’ve developed
curvature of the spine in the effort to
make a fine tilth. Though they snap up
a lot of lawn-grass seed, sparrows mas-
sacre aphis and scale insects, as do silver-
eyes. Goldfinches visit the garden solely
to pinch cosmos and marigold seed, which
no gardener begrudges to them. Thrushes
come to hunt for shellbacks, and gener-
ally end inside a cat. Indian mynahs
rarely venture into small gardens, the
larrikins from Curryland being content
to trill from the housetops and do their
scrounging and fighting in the gutters and
roadways. Apart from silver-eyes, few
native birds appear in cottage gardens.
Where there’s a gum, perhaps the chicka-
wee; where there are creepers, maybe
the blue wren.
» * * *
“E2C2”: I met my first chained-up
cat (B. 2/4/’4l) years ago at Castle Hill
(N.S.W.). A neighbor had a big half-
Persian which had an insatiable appetite
for young chickens, so a scheme was in-
augurated for alternate days for freedom.
When Fluffy was securely tethered with a
light chain the chicks roamed free ; on
the cat’s day off they were immured in
a strong coop.
“Billy See”: Chained-up cats, is it?
I’ve seen ’em by the dozen. In the W.A.
fishing village where I have a hutch
campers arrive by the hundred, some
staying for months, and invariably they
bring the family tabby along. Some cats
stay willingly, but others have the hom-
ing instinct so developed that even though
their human friends are present they obey
the urge to get back to the older and
empty nest. So it’s a common sight to
see tabbies tethered to the ole wagon
wheel. But a chain isn’t necessary, since
the feline isn’t subject to fits of frantic
barking or jumping as is the dog —a
length of cord suffices.
* * * *
“Hanko”: It’s bad graft to essay even
the feeblest of jokes in the middle of a
big lift. We were upending a concrete
base-block on to a tankstand and the
hefty slab had us scratching. “Dammit,”
the boss wheezed, glaring at Choom,
“y’ain’t liftin’ a pound. Y’ain’t even got
y’r feet orf the ground!” The pained
expression that shot over Choom’s
strained dial undid me completely. I
went limp. We scraped clear as the block
thumped back. The boss sacked me on
the spot, and when that didn’t quench
my hilarity he, too, began a long guffaw,
to which Choom joined a nervous cack-
ling. So we went on digging postholes.
* * * •
“Guy W.”; Came across a line of
hairy procession grubs crossing a country
road. Then a truck went by, one wheel
of which cut the line. The leader, appar-
ently sensing that something was wrong,
brought the leading half to a halt; the
rear half were piling up on the dead
bodies in the middle. I waited for a
while, but still the mad confusion went
on, so I threw the dead ones away and
straightened out the second line, expect-
ing it to catch up with the first lot. But
every leader I tried was hopeless, and in a
few moments they were again a tangled
mass. Then I picked up the old leader
and dropped him in the middle of the
crush. Within a minute he had started
out again, with the others slowly
straightening out behind, stray ones push-
ing to get into line. Another minute and
they were all on their way again, going
as strongly as before. Apparently in the
grub world, as in ours, only an occasional
one has the qualities of leadership.
“B. A. Ker”: Despite popular opinion
on the scalp-pricking qualities of the
curlew’s cry, I submit that the bird is a
merry songster compared with some of
his compatriots. Anybody who has
camped by a swamp or lagoon which was
the happy hunting-ground for nocturnal
birds of prey will, I think, agree. My
first experience with the worst feathered
banshee of them all was when, as a
youth, I contracted to clear scrub on a
N.S.W. s.-w. slopes property. Going out
to start I met an old trapper. “There’s
a mad woman up on that range,” he de-
clared. “Every night she comes down
the gully screechin’ ’er ’ead orf.” I’d for-
gotten his words when I turned in that
night—until an awful, insane screech
shattered the silence. Only once it came,
but I didn’t sleep again that night. At
about the same time next night it came
again. After the third night I packed
up. On the way back I met the trapper
again. “Go on back, son,” he grinned ;
“I was only havin’ you. It’s a giant
screech owl.” I went back, but I never
did learn to hear the screech without
shuddering.
*
“Wang”; “I’m escortin’ Soapy Waters
home from the Damper Bend pub one
day,” related Dan, “where a party of us
had been havin’ a celebration. Soapy’s
well pickled an’ singin’ at the top of his
voice when the John, who’d on’y been in
the place two days, hoves in sight. He
tells Soapy t’ dry up ; but Soapy laughs
at him an’, clappin’ his hands on the
John’s cap, shoves it down over his ears.
The John grabs Soapy. ‘l’ll want you as
a witness in the mornin’,’ he ses t’ me as
he runs him off. Next mornin’ Soapy’s up
before Toby Wilkins, J.P. ‘Y’re a dis-
grace t’ the township,’ ses Toby, eyein’
Soapy stern, ‘an’ I’m goin’ t’ make an
example of y’.’ ‘What!’ yelps Soapy,
‘an’ y’ call y’rself a cobber of mine!
You wus tighter than I wus yest’day, an’
you’d have sung, too, on’y y’ wusn’t able
t’ fer the hiccups.’ The John roars fer
silence, an’ Toby’s lookin’ as mad as a
meat-axe when a big well-dressed bloke
blows in. As soon as Toby spots him he
leaves his seat, an’ goes over an’ shakes
hands. ‘Lumme! ’ he cries, ‘if it ain’t ole
Finny Fisher ; I ain’t seen y’ fer years.’
‘What! ’ yelps Soapy, ‘Finny Fisher what
useter live at Bingyfullup. The cow’s
owed me seven quid fer ten years.’ ‘All
right,’ growls the bloke, sourlike, ‘l’ll
pay y’ y’r damn’ money now,’ an’ he
yanks out a roll. ‘Wait a tick,’ ses Toby.
He scribbles on a piece of paper. ‘Sign
this receipt,’ he ses t’ Soapy, who does,
an’ Toby hands it t’ Finny. ‘There y’are,
Finny,’ he ses, winkin’ at him cunnin’.
‘Now, give us the dough.’ Finny does,
an’ Toby hands a quid t’ the John, one
t’ me an’ pockets the rest. Then he
turns t’ Soapy an’ ses, ‘Y’re fined a quid
fer righteous behavior, another fer wit-
ness’s costs an’ a fiver fer damages t’
me fer slanderous talk just now. An’
y’re damn’ lucky Finny turned up like
he did. It ain’t cost you a bean, so t’
speak.’ ”
* * * ♦
“Sailor Bill”: Another poisonous plant
which Binghi used to render edible (B.
16/4/’4l) was the cungevoi lily of the
N.Q. scrubs. Still plentiful nowadays,
this lily grows in moist shady places and
produces many dark green leaves like
Eucharist lily leaves. Binghi dug up the
medium-sized tubers, and, taking them
to a flowing stream, pounded them with
stones for at least three hours. Running
water was necessary to carry away the
poison given off by the bruised tubers,
which when dried out were reduced to
a coarse flour by patient grinding. The
cungevoi lily juice will cause severe pain
and swelling if it gets into the human
mouth.
* * * *
“Gab”; The boss had put on a new
boy, and at the first chance he got he
took him aside and said with fatherly
concern: “Now, look here, this is a
pretty lonely sort of place, and as some-
one’s sure to let you know I might as
well be the first to tell you—one night
when left alone here a chap hanged him-
self. Now you wouldn’t do anything
like that, would you, son?” “Aw, cripes,
no,” was the answer ; “that other chap
must’ve been a bit off his rocker.” A
couple of nights later the boss and I
had to go into town, and after the boy
had assured us he wouldn’t be nervous
we set out. We arrived back at about
3 a.m. to find the new hand asleep on
some bags in the stable. “What’s the
idea?” demanded the boss after we had
awakened the lad. “Well, I didn’t like
sleeping alone in the other place where
that silly : hanged himself.” The
boss and I decided it would not be pru-
dent to tell him that he had slept right
underneath the very crossbeam where
“that silly ” had hanged himself.
MALLEE MOODS.
There was no glory in the morning,
Crude in its bowl of heat.
Scorched by the north wind’s burning breath,
Hot from the night’s defeat.
Red was the sun in the dust haze,
Sickly the scrub, and grey,
The hopeless fallow sifting, sifting,
Sifting my heart away.
There was no singing this afternoon,
Only the weary clank
Of the futile windmill’s pump-rod
Sucking an empty tank.
Harsh in the glare of the sunset
The cry of the watchful crow;
The ragged wethers drifting, drifting
Drifting phantoms of woe.
But there is softness in the evening
When bronze-wing pigeons come,
With the faint scent of dew on dust,
And secret crickets strum
Their eager promise of the rain.
All hope is young and green,
And the south wind is blowing, blowing,
Blowing my courage keen.
Now there is beauty in the mallee.
While hidden voices croon
Over a black and silver sea,
Under the gentle moon.
Its shores are on starry horizons,
Its tides of coolness sweep
In waves of comfort flowing, flowing—
Flowing to bays of sleep.
N.S.W.
EX-VIC.


“So you re going to join the Quartpot!”
"Yes boss , I'm fed up with this open-air life.”
“Youanmi”; On behalf of fellow-
Aboliars and my friends the emus, I
call for the expulsion of “T.McN.” from
the precincts of the Abo. Council. The
emu, unfortunate bird, has been cursed
and reviled over the length and breadth
of this continent by every farmer who
knows it, it has suffered the indignity
of having its name attached to a popular
beverage, and, a few years ago in West-
ralia, it was even attacked by soldiers
with machine-guns. Proudly it weathered
all those adversities, but I doubt if it
will survive the latest and crowning in-
sult heaped on it by “T.McN.” when he
labels Ted Scorfield’s drawing (B.
23/4/’4l) of an ostrich (which does lay
a pale ivory-colored egg) as that of an
emu. I hope, for his own sake, that
“T.McN.” never comes face to face with
an emu.
* * * *
“Bene”; Claims for the fox’s propen-
sity to feign death when in a tight corner
are fair enough when TEsop tells the tale,
but “Naturala” (B. 23/4/’4l) will find
few bushmen ready to confirm anything
quite so fantastic. The fox, like the
possum, is often merely stunned when
given a severe blow on the head by one
inexperienced in delivering the coup de
grace, and this no doubt lends much sup-
port to the traditional view. As for his
catching crows by such a device, it has
to be remembered that no Mohammedan
views pork with more disfavor than
either fox or cat regards carrion-eating
fowl.
* * * »
“Salmon Gums”; In his dissertation
on the age of tree-growth, “Joypet” (B.
16 / 4/’4l) might have given a thought to
the Westralian blackboy. Experts regard
ac h or ' zon l a l layer of rain-covered
leaves” which radiate from the spongy
core as the product of one growing
season. These “leaves” number about
If) to the inch, so that a “boy” of 20
feet—about their limit in height—would
have been about 2400 years above
ground. Just how much of its life is
spent below ground before it allows its
black head to follow the green fronds
which for perhaps centuries have been the
only indication of its presence is a matter
for debate, but periods ranging between
500 and 1000 years have been men-
tioned. And since the green fronds in
their young stage —they are added to
each growing season are particularly
palatable to kangaroos, the “tree” prob-
ably suffers a setback not experienced by
“J.’s” nominations. Incidentally, imme-
diately prior to the outbreak of war, tons
of the gum which is exuded from the
blackboy were shipped to Germany.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Mrs. Bunch, so christened
by the female child of this house because
of her extremely matronly figure, is dis-
tinctly a lady of intelligence. For the
exercise of her profession as an orb-web
spider she has chosen the verandah eaves.
Each evening she spins a new web two
feet or more in diameter, captures and
consumes her sumptuous nightly meals
and tops off the feast about dawn by
devouring most or all of the web. That,
I’m convinced, is done in deliberate
appreciation of the fact that if she were
to leave the old ones in place the result-
ing accumulation would lead to her
ostracism in the cause of domestic clean-
liness —as it surely would. In summer
we often dine on the verandah, and to
protect the table lamp from wind close
all the sliding glazed panels except one
to leeward according to wind-direction.
Outside that one Mrs. B. spreads her net
from gutter to weather rail to take ad-
vantage of the light-attraction to insects,
and even if if. is closed when she does so
she always picks the correct one amongst
a possible three extending over 30 feet
and round a corner. Since electricity
reached these parts it is no longer neces-
sary to shelter the light except in wet
or stormy weather—for which she duly
allows well in advance of lighting up,
so we have the pleasure of her company
just outside, almost as one of the family.
« * * «
“Gravelsnatcher”: Westralian char-
coal-burners have noticed a black fluid
deposit on the leaves of trees which over-
hang the smoke exits. Some of the more
curious have gathered it as it drips off,
and aver that in every respect it is indis-
tinguishable from Stockholm tar. The
quantity gathered by the leaves, which
probably represents only a small percent-
age of what is carried away in the smoke,
is sufficient to suggest possibilities to
those awake to the potentialities of coal-
tar by-products
'* * *
“Arev”; Dad was angry. He had heard
that young Bill had been seen visiting the
scrub at the back of the hotel, the spot
where the town’s s.p. merchant conducted
his nefarious trade In the feed-shed he
, ,
tackled his son. See here, my boy,
dad began, “is it true that you’ve been
putting money on horses?” Bill looked a
bit sheepish. “Yes, dad.” The old man
fixed a baleful eye on his offspring,
“Well, I never thought you were such a
goat, Bill. Only mugs back horses and
keep bookies in silk shirts. Here have I
been paying you good wages, just as if
you was working for a stranger instead of
the father what’s reared you.” Bill
shifted uneasily and tried to speak, but
dad silenced him. “And to think you’ve
been slinging my good cash away on
dead-legged mokes. I never thought a
son of mine could be such an aleck. Why,
that bookie must laugh up his sleeve at
mugs like you helping him to live without
working. How much did you put on
with him?” “Five pounds,” muttered
Bill. Dad nearly hit the roof. “A fiver! ”
he roared. “You’re a bigger damn’ goat
than I thought y’ were. If I” “But
the horse won!” interrupted Bill. “Eh?”
“Yes, at fives ; I got thirty quid back.
Johnny Jackson gave me the office that
Irish Twist was a monte for the Grass-
fed.” Dad stared indignantly at his son.
“Well, that’s a fine way to treat your old
father, I must say,” he said. “Get the
oil about a cert, an’ don’t let him know
until after the blasted race is over!”
* * * *
“Blue”: Having ridden a horse on to
a mulga snake, walked over one, and
almost picked one out of a boredrain in
mistake for a stick, I don’t consider the
variety pugnacious. In each instance
Joe’s first and last thought was retreat.
The specimen that “cleared out”
“Ophir’s” camp (B. 16/4/’4l) was prob-
ably too busy scooting from something
out there in the darkness to bother where
he was going.
* * * *
“Foxy”: Red and Charlie were sitting
on their bunks in the little iron hut dis-
cussing the supplies they needed to bring
from the homestead in the morning.
“It’s about time we stung the missus
for a change,” declared Charlie ; “I’m
sick of mutton three times a day all the
year round. It wouldn’t hurt her to cook
a fowl for us now and again.”
The following morning as they stood
at the kitchen door with their chaffbag
waiting for the usual post-and-rail tea,
etc., Red caught sight of a ham hanging
near the chimney. “By cripes, missus,” he
exclaimed, puckering up his face, “some-
thin’ smells pretty crook around here ;
one of the cats must’ve died under the
floor or somethin’.” The missus looked
alarmed. “Oh! how awful!” she said.
“I’ve had a bad cold lately and
haven’t been able to smell anything.”
“We’ll have a look for you while we’re
here,” said Red. “You don’t want the
kids down with diphtheria.” With a
wink at Charlie he dropped on to all
fours and started sniffing along the floor.
At the spot directly under the ham he
sniffed extra hard and exclaimed “It’s
round here somewhere,” then sat on his
haunches and sniffed like a retriever. He
pointed his nose at the ham and stood
erect to get a close-up sniff and his
face registered disgust. “Rotten! ” he
said, and unhooked the ham, to the
amazed “I can’t believe it!” from the
missus. The ham was quickly passed to
Charlie, who in turn screwed up his face,
holding the ham at arm’s-length. “I’ll
bury it for y’,” he said as he disappeared
round the corner. Next morning, with
his mouth full of ham and eggs, Charlie
opined that the missus certainly knew
how to cure a ham.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Australia’s oldest known
white cockatoo has died at Mitchell (Q.),
aged 64. Caught by the late John Easton
as a fledgling in 1877 it had lived in one
house ever since and become a famous
local character. Possibly as a delicate
tribute to a long and worthy life the
“N. Q. Register” announced the sad news
on page 64 of its issue of 19/4/’4l) —
which adds up to 64.
*
“Sailor Bill”: The scrub turkey, like
his plain cousin (B. 9/4/’4l), kills snakes,
but he never tackles the job single-
handed. A yell for help brings its mates,
and they promptly surround the snake
and dance, brolga-fashion. Now and
then one hops up close and deals Joe
a sharp peck. Joe doesn’t know which
of the dancers to go after, and he is thus
always the loser. By the time he gives
up the ghost he has nearly as many
holes in him as a fishing net.
“I'm no good at paintin' circles, Sarge!”
THE ADVISER.
We met him where the road to Breeze
Crosses the track to Tanglewire;
Beside some dead and stunted trees
He had his billy on the fire.
“Prospectin’, eh?” he said. “Well, well!
I wish y’ luck but think y’re daft.
I give the game a tidy spell;
Chasin’ the ’weight’s a crazy craft.
“Y’ hear that someone’s struck a ‘shelf’
In likely country. Orf y’ go,
Making’ a packhorse of y’rself;
An’ when y’ get there—out she’ll blow!
For munce y’ll pan a flamin’ crick
Workin’ like mad; an’ you can bet
That in the end what’s in y’r kick
Won’t pay for half the scran y’ve et!
“Now, just you take a tip from one
Wot’s specked and ‘blown’ in all the States:
The jig is up. Prospectin’s done.
Go back to where you come from, mates.”
With that he hacked a hunk of bread
And poured his tea out thick and black.
Long Alec winked and slyly said
“Is that why you are makin’ back?”
The ancient wiped his whiskers clean;
And scorn was patent in his eye.
“Me goin’ back? To town you mean?
No crimson fear!” was his reply.
“I jist got word from Barbwire Bill,
Me mate, to join him at a noo
Leader he’s struck at Corkscrew Hill—
Ten ’weights, he says, it’s goin’, too!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A Ma
First Thought
is for His
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
saJi
important steps:—
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 62 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Consvdt your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
OS
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
ltd,.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M, Hughes
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. Writ-
Feb., Profit. 124 p.c. ten Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
7 p.c. To Reserves.
1931.. 283,019 280,000 3,019 4,940,010
4 p.c.
1932.. 160,954 160,000 964 4,940,964
5 p.c.
1933.. 209,559 200,000 9,559 4,950,523
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
54 p.c.
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.*
1937.. 254,383 235,333 1
To special centenary fund, }■ 4,995,914
£20,000 .. .. J
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
1939. . 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
1940.. 196,958 194,500 2,458 5,009,809
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
Registered headquarters, if they still
stand, are in London, where the co. was
formed 103 years ago. But all except
a fraction of the Union’s business is done
in Australia (the co. is strongest in Vic.
and N. S. Wales) and Maoriland—it was
the first bank to become established in
the Dominion, and now gathers roughly
one-quarter of its deposits there—where
it completed 100 years of business on
March 7, 1940.
The latest accounts, which cover the
first year of the war, reflect the initial
changes in the financial structure which
followed the shift from a peace to a
war economy. These changes have their
roots in the development of a maximum
war effort. This effort is concerned with
the direction —many wish it were with
greater speed —of men, materials and
money into appropriate channels by Gov-
ernment control in one way or another
of practically every phase of economic
life.
So far as the trading banks are con-
cerned, Government finance and sale
under contract to Britain of the export-
able surplus of our chief primary pro-
ducts have become the dominant factors.
Before the war payment for exports was
made by the trading banks granting
credits in Australia against final payment
in London. Under the British contracts
cash payments are now made in Aus-
tralia, thus enabling London funds to be
concentrated in the hands of the Com-
monwealth Bank. Also, credit expansion
and other methods of pump-priming have
been resorted to by the central bank,
which has bought long-dated securities
in the open market and made large ad-
vances to the Wheat Board.
One effect of all this, together with
substantial Government spending on war
account, was to pile up deposits in the
banks; another was to reduce the
seasonal demand for advances, especially
from primary producers. Both show up
in the Union’s figures:
Liabilities.
1938. 1939. 1940.
Notes •• •• £7,509 £7,556 £7,555
Bills . etc 1,521,063 1,667,251 1,888,584
Deposits . . . . 36,986,969 38,743,599 41,549,130
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 12,925,304 13,530,209 20,066,649
Advances . . . . 34,275,684 35,483,941 31,885,921
Premises .. .. 457,200 538,546 613,008
Deposits increased by £2,805,531, appar-
ently mainly in respect of current
accounts; the rates paid for fixed de-
posits were reduced early last year. The
contraction in advances was £3,598,020.
The money went into liquids, up
£6,536,380, of which £4,560,721 was in
respect of Government paper (Treasury
bills and long-dated securities) and
£1,879,974 cash, etc. When the books
closed liquids amounted to 46.2 p.c. of
the liabilities to the public, advances were
equal to 76.7 p.c. of deposits, and the
bank was holding £4 16s. sd. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It is a very strong position, which
will enable the bank to assist industry
in the production of essential war goods,
and to aid the Government further in
financing its war commitments.
Chief danger in the methods of finance
recently employed lies in excessive use
of central-bank credit, with consequent
heavy depreciation of the currency. To
this the Government and central bank’s
advisers appear to be alive. Hence the
decision to mop up current savings, or
most of them, by public loans and sting-
ing increases in taxation.
As for earnings, whatever the Union
missed on the swings it more than picked
up on the roundabouts last year. After
allowing for contingencies, gross earnings
(£1,272,326) improved by £30,344. A
pleasing feature is the reduction of £4920
in Australasian exes. (£716,370); London
outgoings (£64,118) were £6877 heavier.
The tax bill (£294,880) showed an increase
of £56,516. The net result was thus
£28,129 lighter at £196,958, equal to 4.9
p.c. on the £4,000,000 of capital, which
has the support and assistance of
£5,009,809 of reserves. On capital and
reserves combined the year’s net earnings
were only 2.1 p.c. The div. was kept at
a nominal 7 p.c., which, after allowing
for exchange and for taxation at the
current rate of 7s. in the £, is now equal
to 5.7 p.c. in Australian currency.
The £l5 shares paid to £s—the other
£lO is a reserve liability callable only
in the event of liquidation—fetch £6 10s.
in the market as against £7 2s. a year
ago. The drop is due mainly to growth
in taxation and partly to general market
reaction to war developments. The return
at £6 10s. is now 4.4 p.c. in Australian
currency.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Net Towards
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £■ £
1935.. 352 Nil 352 6,688
Added intangibles,' £3343 .. .. 10,031
1936.. 5,623 Nil 5623 4,408
Reserves.
Share reserve, £27,250 .. .. 22,842
Net addition intangibles, £6480 .. 16,362
1937.. 10,887 6 p.c. = 8904 1 WD ,
Written off intangibles, £560 3 17,780
Share premiums, £23,750 .. .. 41,535
Net addition share reserve, £13,750.. 55,285
Added intangibles, £2544 .. .. 52,741
Loss.
1938.. 21,773 4 p.c. = 7455 23,513
Added intangibles, £342 .. .. 23,171
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,810
Profit.
1940.. 18.728 Nil 18,728 20,082
1941.. 25,309 5 p.c. = 14,249 11,060 9,022
Impressive results have been achieved
by the new board and g.m. Herbert
Phillips over the past two years, and
shareholders are now back in the pic-
ture, with every prospect of remaining
there. With the assistance of new stores,
the favorable movement in profit-earning
in that period has been £46,290 —from a
loss of £20,981 to a profit of £25,309.
Moreover, the Maoriland and Westralian
offshoots, in “a desperately bad state”
when the present board took office, are
on a profitable footing, too —between
them they cleared £10,982 last term —
though it is early yet to assess what the
parent’s investment of £74,270 therein
might eventually be worth.
All told, there are 19 stores in the
chain, 16 operated by the N.S.W. parent,
two by the M.L. co. and one by the
Westralian subsidiary. The parent’s turn-
over, £708,851 in 1940, isn’t now dis-
closed, but it was “substantially” greater
in the term just closed, while the 1940
gross profit rate of 28.56 p.c. was also
improved upon—among other things, in-
dicating better buying and a tight grip
on outgoings. In the early stages of
reorganisation, one difficulty was the
limited finance available and, before
rehabilitation of the co.’s credit, the un-
willingness of many suppliers to talk busi-
ness other than on a cash basis. Other
obstacles were commitments of £31,158
in respect of apparently unnecessary cash-
registers, excessive and, in cases, badly-
bought stocks, and some poorly-situated
shop units taken under long lease, which
are still something of a drag.
The year’s profit (up £6581) was de-
clared after striking off £2236 more for
depreciation (£13,388) and earmarking
£12,500 for taxation and contingencies,
as against £lOOO in the previous term,
when there were tax allowances for pre-
vious losses. So trade was much brisker
than bare profit-figures suggest. The
£25,309 was 8.8 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 6.5 p.c. in the term before,
and after two years on the outer share-
holders were handed 5 p.c. That mod-
erate rate was partly dictated by the final
commitment of £15,000 in respect of
cash-registers and the necessity to buy
goods, often ahead of requirements, as
and when opportunity offers in these
times of uncertain supply.
Finances are easier now:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £56,007 11284,397 £284,763 £284,974
Sundry creditors 26,252 76;355 83,268 96,071
Freehold .. 18,801 19,246 19,305
Leaseholds . . 8,969 53,118 48,508 43,926
Plant, etc. . . 21,441 83,736 91,145 99,655
Stock.. .. 38,789 87,593 106,110 141,136
Debtors, etc... 5,724 7,949 6,089 5,335
Cash . . . . 708 2,424 2,581 2,585
Shares subsidiaries 109,320 74,270 74,270
The addition of £12,803 to the debt is
accounted for by the tax and contin-
gency allocation included therein. The
stockholding rose £35,026, and plant
£B5lO net because of cash-register pay-
ments. When the books closed more or
less liquids showed a surplus of £52,985
over liabilities, or £21,473 more than at
the previous balance. Shareholdings (face
value £136,450, less £21,180 uncalled)
appear less a paper reserve of £41,000
in respect of free promoting shares.
Immediate outlook is bright enough,
though costs, taxation and official frown-
ing on the expansion of “unessential”
enterprise may limit much further growth
in profit-earning. The stock position is
“reasonably well covered.”
From 10s. 6d. a year ago, the pound
shares, covered by 19s. 4d. in net tan-
gibles, lifted to 225. in anticipation of
the accounts. Reaction has followed to
17s. 6d., to return an immediate 5.7 p.c,
A conservative board will continue to
give reserve-building preference over divi-
dends.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net t Dividends ■, Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 2,853 4 p.c. Nil 2,738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,366
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,501 9*p.c. Nil 6,252 2066 6,706
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written off intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1936.. 13,727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,476 2252 5,471
Added intangibles, £25 .. •• 6,496
1937.. 14,172 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2697 2,799
1938.. 15,923 6 „ 6 „ 13,992 1931 868
1939.. 10,773 6 „ 5 „ 14,075 4,170
1940.. 6,420 6 „ Nil 5,220 1200 2,970
1941.. 16,412 6 ~ 6 p.c. 16,005 407 2,563
■“lncludes special payment of £725.
The most pleasing performance since the
co. took over the then 48-year-old
builders’ hardware and agricultural-
implement business of D. and W.
Chandler in 1922. By lessening imports,
war created additional manufacturing
opportunities, and, though there are diffi-
culties in the way of acquiring raw
materials in these days of great steel
demand, all factories worked to capacity
last year, with the exception of the sheet-
metal plant in Lonsdale-street. This was
disposed of at a “satisfactory” figure, and
the board is now seeking a buyer for the
building, part of which is let.
Roughly half the co.’s turnover must
now comprise its own manufactures.
Sales are made through seven retail
branches in Victoria and two in N.S.W.,
all mainly in country districts, and there
is a subsidiary in Tasmania. The hole
in 1940 earnings occurred at the N.S.W.
end. In the reorganisation that followed,
a wholesale and importing business taken
over a year or two earlier was resold
to the original owners, and last term one
of the branch shops here was also dis-
posed of, all without visible capital loss to
the parent. N.S.W. affairs are now on a
profitable basis, though the board
hints that a suitable offer for its Ma State
interests would hardly meet a deaf ear.
Despite the drought, which meant a
reduced volume of business from land-
men, gross earnings, including £lBll sent
on by the subsidiary, advanced £3988 to
£106,019. With the running sore in
N.S.W. plugged up, there was a saving
of £6004 in exes. —£89,607 after provid-
ing £2025 for depreciation and £3400
more at £5OOO for taxation. The net
result at £16,412 thus benefited £9992,
equalling a shade over 6 p.c. on capital,
and an all-round distribution at that rate
was made. In the previous term ord.
holders had been passed by.
In the same period W. R. Hart and
Sons Pty. (paid capital £44,739), the
Tasmanian subsidiary, netted £2931. Its
net tangibles amount to £47,781, of which


a scrap ot paper
. . . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared —Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
and general insurance co.ltd. a
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
W ingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * ♦ *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A,. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* ♦ • *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
“RENDROCK” AND OTHER
EXPLOSIVES
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
A thorough, comprehensive and efficient service
—founded on traditions of more than a century
of sound banking—combined with a progressive
policy and extensive organisation, enables THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, LIMITED, to offer every facility for
the transaction of all classes of Banking business.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman);
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend; Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
Do You Read
“CURRENT
PROBLEMS”?
Alive National
Alert International
Authoritative Industrial
Published on the 15th of each month.
Annual Subscription 12/6.
To:—•
The “C.P.” Publishing Co. Pty., Ltd.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a sample copy of Current Problems.
Name (in Block Letters)
Address
£2(5,539 is represented by an investment
in the patent’s shares.
Some good work was done on the
financial side:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £176,750 £266,754 £266,754 £266,754
* Liabilities .. 64,903 125,197 129,033 67,715
Freeholds .. 43,000 71,906 71,906 71,906
plant etc 22,123 32,838 32,902 25,436
Stocks ' ' 148,554 175,795 167,436 151,865
Book debts 25,761 73,353 81,515 56,393
Cash etc. . • 825 8,625 3,010 3,612
Shares other cos. 16,000 42,916 42,906 42,906
Reflecting a more stringent credit policy,
outstanding accounts were reduced
£25,122 net. With reductions of £15,571
in stocks and £7466 in plant, the money
helped to cut back the debt by £61,318.
There should be no worry in the stocks
item; “great care” has been exercised
in their valuation, and replacement costs
continue to lift. Including these stocks,
more or less liquids show a surplus of
£144,155 (up £21,227) over liabilities.
As for the current term, the new 2\
p.c. payroll tax to be paid whether
profits are earned or not —will add to
the burden of costs from July. But the
board “faces the future with optimism.”
In the market immediate yields of
8.6 p.c. are offering from the ords.
at 13s. 9d. and 6.2 p.c. from the par-
ticipating prefs. at 19s. These rights
give the prefs. full participation with
the ords. in new share-issues and in divs.
above 6 p.c., but their participation value
looks doubtful with reserves in need of
stiffening—goodwill, etc., of £8212 is not
treated as an asset in these calculations.
Industry’s response to war loans hasn’t
been paralleled by that of private sub-
scribers —“unworthy of Australia,” de-
plores Commonwealth Bank Board chair-
man Claude Reading, quoting figures to
show that the three loans raised in the
present conflict brought in only 21,000
private applications each on the average,
compared with an average 83,000 for all
loans raised during 1914-18, when the
population was 30 p.c. less. Taxation, of
course, is a much more onerous item
these days; moreover, £20,000,000 has
been subscribed to war savings certificates
since Sept., 1939, mainly by the low-
income group. Still, the level of most
incomes has risen substantially as a result
of war spending, and the proper home
for this increase, after satisfying essential
needs, is its direct return to the Gov-
ernment in the form of loan subscrip-
tions. Successful financing of the war
and the avoidance of inflation can be
secured only if every individual plays his
part by saving all he can and lending to
the war effort, even to the point of sac-
rifice, which is merely a temporary de-
ferment of one’s spending after all. But
that is something the necessity of which
Britishers and Canadians appear to be
more alive than Australians. It has
already been hinted that if loan sub-
scriptions aren’t voluntarily forthcoming
they will be forcibly extracted. That
step should not be necessary.
* * * *
The National Mutual, the Common-
wealth’s second-largest life office, trans-
acting Ordinary business only, has de-
creased its expectation of future interest-
earning from 3 p.c. to p.c. at a cost of
£515,001, which has been transferred to
actuarial reserves out of the latest
£1,637,659 triennial surplus. The move
is to policy-holders’ good. While im-
mediate bonuses have been affected, the
aim is to strengthen the protection for
policy contracts and to ensure mainten-
ance of satisfactory rates in the future
by offsetting some of the effects of higher
taxation and the reduced yield now
obtainable from new investments. The
N.M.L. now employs one of the strongest
bases of valuation in Australia.
sp * * *
At 13s. 3d. Cuthbert’s Misima (Misima
Island, Papua) is returning 15 p.c. gross
from 25.-a-share divs., the rate for the
past four years—on 4.Bdwt. recoveries,
2s. 4d. was actually earned during 1940.
At the annual meeting shareholders were
informed (1) that ore grade had reached
a minimum, and was expected to im-
prove ; (2) that reserves in the southern
section, where years’ work was esti-
mated in the oxides at Dec. 31, would
permit of “payable operations indefi-
nitely” ; while (3) the northern sector,
where little work has been done to date,
should also prove “a valuable asset.” A
market apparently preoccupied with war
considerations wasn’t impressed.
* * * *
For reasons not obvious, Maoriland
gold dredging is under a market cloud.
Kanieri ords., for example, can be had
around par, despite consistently good
returns from the outset. The co. earned
£BO,OOO on working account in the year
to March, and current term has opened
with a first month’s surplus of £9014.
Ngahere Gold may be partly respon-
sible for present lack of confidence. That
disappointing venture’s pound paids
slumped to a new low of ss. last week.
Floated on a prospectus which mentioned
3gr. values and initial annual earnings
of £170,000 net, diminishing to £70,000,
the co, showed only average Igr. re-
coveries from its first year’s dredging of
the Grey River ; profit was £9132. No
explanation is offered. Working some of
the best-grade wash indicated by the bore
plan, recoveries have been no more than
I.3gr. Even that grade, if maintained,
would be reasonably profitable, however,
provided dredge turnover could be
stepped up to near the plant’s rated
350,000-c.y.-monthly capacity. Best effort
in any month to date has been 319,000
c.y, ; average has been some 100,000 c.y.
less, largely because of a crop of mechani-
cal troubles, including breaking of both
bottom and top tumblers. A debt of
£76,930 stands in the path of any return
to shareholders.
* * * ♦
Gordon tinmine, at Irvinebank (N.Q.),
which dropped its grade late last year,
is picking up, its last crushing of some
30 tons producing just under three tons
of oxide. There was a rise in ore value
from £9 in February to £l3 in March,
These crushings represent the richer
patches picked out, but there is a far
larger bulk of low-grade stuff estimated
to go 2 p.c. In the main winze, after
sinking through a poor area, a short
drive has located 10 p.c. ore, which seems
to be following a chlorite wall under-
foot. After a temporary falling off the
ore-body is now reported improving in
value and size, so that the Gordon may
soon regain its 1940 position as cock-o’-
the-walk at Irvinebank.
* t- * *
Recent exposures of ore at depth in
the Happy Jack section are estimated to
have added another year at least to the
life of Wiluna (W.A.), which was recently
officially stated to be about two years.
There are whispers in London that a-
part return of capital is under considera-
tion. There is probably about £700,000
Australian cash in hand. Management
is extracting remaining ore with the
utmost expedition and minimum expense.
For the year to March monthly figures
indicate a working surplus of £288,300
(up £11,350) after paying for develop-
ment. Outgoings were actually £85,600
lower, but the gold yield fell away
£74,300 owing to a drop in recoveries—
at 2.Bdwt. (3.ldwt. in 1940) surely a new
record in the West for profitable deep-
level mining.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J-L.D.: (1) A doubtful proposition, even
for three-fourths of the current market
for the scrip being covered by the cash holding
j n j une . (2) Prospects are governed by too
wide a range of seasonal and world conditions
to attempt long-range prophesying, but im-
mediate outlook isn’t bright. The commodity
is heavily overproduced. (3) Can’t say....
M.K.: You have no check.


*4/
*
m
Soiy
Agents: JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT
PTY
LTD
Not Fair to Appoint a Friend Alone
If you want your friend to be the Executor of your Estate, appoint him
Co-Executor with Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. It is not fair
to appoint him alone. Write for a copy of “Your Executor and
Trustee” that explains why.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.,
E. R. Knox, H. Norman Pope, Allen 0. Lewis, J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. p. Cureton, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration, £57,500,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANDAUER’S
BK
t*"*
PENS
i
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOKR * CO. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Burden Belongs to All
Australia has increased its factory pro-
duction at a great rate during the first
10 months of 1940-41. Much of that
increased output is, however, for defence
purposes. Imports of goods, high during
the same period, are now falling sharply,
and they may shrink even more when
the “Atlantic ferry service” starts taking
still further shipping from the Pacific.
The same lack of transport will reduce
our exports of land produce and income
therefrom. Unfortunately the surplus of
unexportable land produce won’t be
much of a substitute for the goods we
find ourselves unable to import or manu-
facture. We look like being faced with
a real shortage of some goods we want.
Also, we shall have to take care of the
landmen who are unable to sell their
production. Losses like those now being
announced on the apple and pear crop
may extend to other crops. The nation
will have to pay, and taxation will be-
come a more serious problem than ever,
J. M. Keynes has quoted statistics indi-
cating that people receiving below £250
a year take 64 p.c. of the total con-
sumers’ goods sold in the United King-
dom. At first sight this may seem
astounding; but in the 1933 census
it was disclosed that only 13.2 p.c. of
the Commonwealth’s male breadwinners
received more than £5 a week. The posi-
tion has improved since that depression
period, but investigation would show that
the about - £5 - a - week - earners haven’t
much more than trebled in number since
1933. If more than 50 p.c. of Australian
families were living on over £5 a week
it would be surprising.
Mr. Keynes’s abstracts from official
records point strikingly to a fact very
relevant to the Empire’s war effort: We
can’t do much without assistance from
the £5-a-weekers. The so-called wealthy
and the actually wealthy have their
tax limitations. Late in 1940 it was
disclosed that, of personal incomes total-
ling £745,000,000 throughout the Com-
monwealth, persons receiving under £4OO
a year (£8 a week) represented
£517,000,000, or 70 p.c. Yet these people
contributed only £lOO,OOO in Federal in-
come tax in 1938-39. .So it was proposed
last November to call on the under-£4OO
class to make a bigger contribution to
the war effort; by reducing the statutory
exemption from £250 to £l5O it was esti-
mated that £5,000,000, instead of
£lOO,OOO, would be gleaned from this
large but lightly-touched body. Labor
and some Government members objected,
and the statutory exemption was settled at
£2OO. So the position for 1940-41 even-
tually resolved itself as follows: Persons
on incomes of over £lOOO, earning alto-
gether £85,000,000, were to pay
£20,000,000 in income tax (an increase
of £13,800,000 over 1939-40 rates) ; per-
sons in receipt of £4OO to £lOOO were to
contribute £8,000,000, against £1,300,000 ;
those on under £4OO a year were to
throw into the national effort consider-
ably less than the £5,000,000 originally
planned. Summed up, incomes aggregating
£228,000,000 were to pay £28,000,000'
in taxes, whereas incomes totalling
£517,000,000 got off with well under
£5,000,000.
The fact that something like 90 p.c.
of Federal income tax is this year being
drawn from 30 p.c. of the income-earning
population cannot be accepted as good
war economics simply on the ground that
the 30 p.c. is represented by those earning
above £8 a week. Even from incomes of
£8 to £2O a week, totalling £143,000,000,
no less than £8,000,000 is being gathered,
as against perhaps £3,000,000 from the
under-£B-a-weekers, earning altogether
£517,000,000 a year. The average man
on £8 a week to £2O a week doesn’t win
that income merely by a fluke of for-
tune ; in the majority of cases at least he
fully earns it when his work, responsi-
bility, etc., are set alongside the effort of
the man getting under £8 a week. It is
true that many men around the basic-
wage level have backbreaking jobs to
do, but their unions would be the last to
agree to mechanisation, replacing that class
of work. Many men on higher pay have
nerve-racking jobs that are every bit as
killing as heavy, laboring work. They
may have gone to far more trouble, too,
to learn their job. So it is foolish to
think or suggest that people earning
under £8 a week should be scarcely
touched until all the higher incomes have
been reduced by taxation to the vicinity
of £8 a week.
The man on the basic wage is insured
against indirect taxation; the man
on a higher income is not. The basic
wage covers increases in sales tax,
excise, customs duties and other taxes
that are added to the retail price of goods
and services and which enter into the cost
of Jiving. Therein lies a weak spot in
our economic system ; it is difficult to
apportion the burden of war so long as
the incidence of certain taxes floats round
and settles haphazardly, usually on the
person in the middle-income class. Those
people on fixed incomes of over £8 a
week are paying for this war more
heavily than anyone else.
By collecting the huge sum of
£186,000,000 in loans and taxes in 1940-
41 and spending the greater part of it
the Commonwealth Government has
transferred a large quantity of spending
power from the higher incomes to those
on lower wages and salaries. Employ-
ment among wage-earners has increased
very much over the past 12 months, and
there is the danger that these new wage-
earners will want to buy things involving
materials and labor urgently required for
the war effort. This is another reason
why the under-£B-a-weekers should either
be taxed more heavily or required to set
aside part of their income as a loan to
the Government for the duration of the
war, as is being done in Britain under the
Keynes plan. If the Keynes plan is
adopted in Australia at all it should only
be to implement a taxation scheme. War
spending is a tax, and the less we finance
it on borrowed money the better.
A Canadian authority has said, “It is
no use saying the working man, now that
he has full employment and good wages,
should be given a ‘break.’ War demands
are inexorable, and if those who use the
bulk of non-military production will not
reduce their demands the only way the
situation can be adjusted is by a rise in
the price level proceeding faster than in-
creases in wages.”
Compulsory saving is being urged in
Canada. It is pointed out that, as the
defence authorities must get what pro-
duction they require whatever happens,
if the people persist in bidding for goods
which are not available, they will not
succeed in increasing the supply but only
in running up the prices. That is the
difference between the free production
conditions of peace-time and the waste-
ful conditions of war. There are people
—mostly city people—who find it diffi-
cult to realise the plain, simple realities
of the picture in front of us. Such
people, however, are probably non-pro-
ducers since birth, and if taken round a
country farmlet would be amazed to
learn that a hen has to be fed before it
will lay an egg.
The week that marked the Grecian
Dunkirk opened with a more confident
tone on Australian ’Changes, and there
was a firm undercurrent to the limited
trading for the rest of the week. But for
the fact that the war loan had first call
on investable funds the small amount of
scrip available suggested that buyers may
have had to lift their limits to clinch deals.
* * * *
Because “adequate supplies of good
film” are now coming forward, lack of
which has been a bugbear of recent years,
box-office receipts of Greater Union were
most buoyant for a decade during 1940,
aggregate net earnings of the four
operating cos. in the group springing from
£1705 to £52,754:
1938. 1939. 1940.
Profit. Profit. Profit.
Greater Union Pty.. .£25,063* £12,949* £37,561
British Empire Films 5,131 14,499 10,075
Cinesound Produc-
tions .. .. 10,989 935 2,821
National Theatre Sup-
plies 2,472* 780* 2,297
Group total ..£11,495* £1,705 £52,754
* Loss.
Greater Union Pty. is concerned with the
exhibiting side of things, British Empire
Films with distributing the British and
American product, and Cinesound, hav-
ing ceased feature work, with newsreel
production and processing and copying ;
the Supplies co. carries on the business
implied in its title. Higher Common-
wealth land tax must have been a slug
last year; but, owing to the offsetting of
past losses by G.U.T., income taxation
was no doubt comparatively light to what
may be expected in future.
Provided quality films continue to be
forthcoming and the group is now
“reasonably protected” in this direction,
chairman Norman Rydge declares —pros-
pects of shareholders in the four public
holding cos. have more glow in them than
for a long time. Proportionately to their
interest in G.U.T., this is how the group
profit would divide among these holding
cos.:
Last
P.C. Equity Dis-
Paid Interest Group closed
Capital. G.U.T. Profit. Profit.
West’s .. £270,009 26.2 £13,822 £4317
Spencer’s .. 297,714 26.7 14,085 347*
Gtr. J.D.W... 397,029 32.5 17,145 3764
Amalgamated 182,000 14.6 7,702 3489
* Loss.
Profits of the operating group, however,
are being devoted to debt-reduction.
Compared with £289,217 on October 4,
the overdraft is now down to “approxi-
mately £240,000”; at the beginning of
1939 it stood at £343,364. Other details
of the financial structure are kept from
view. In 1937 a scheme was afoot
whereby shareholders in the holding cos.
would exchange their scrip for shares in
Greater Union ; but it was shelved pend-
ing the earning of “satisfactory profits.”
Some investors are now wondering
whether revival of the proposals is any
closer.
The increased profit, largely discounted
by the sharemarket, caused no excitement
in the holding concerns’ scrip, despite
announcement that takings in the current
term have been ahead of those for the
corresponding period of 1940. For the
first 40 weeks of that year a surplus of
£43,905 had been declared ; so the £8849
apparently netted in the final 12 weeks,
which covered the busy holiday period,
may have disappointed.
* V * *
Shipping investments exhibited no
response to the further increase in inter-
state freights sanctioned by the Prices
Commissioner —p.c. on pre-war
charges, except to Tas. and Westralia,
possibly the leasLprofitable cargoes,
where the increase is 2j p.c. Certain
bulk cargoes are subject to differential
treatment, a lift of Is. a ton being
granted in the case of iron- and limestone,
for example. The last increase—ls p.c.
on pre-war rates —occurred in October.
Stringent control is being exercised over
shipping freights, and it is very unlikely
that the rates now announced are more
than sufficient to meet the position. The
war-time requirements of heavy industry
have greatly increased the proportion of
low-profit bulk cargo being carried, while
reduced passenger bookings, requisition-
ings and interruption to services have
further affected revenue. At the same
time marine insurance, wage loadings to
seamen and waterside workers, lifts in
running and repair exes, have added
heavily to costs. It remains to be seen
whether even the new margins will enable
maintenance of shipping divs.
* * * *
Reduction in Mt. Lyell’s interim
announcement from 9d. to 6d. a share —
2s. was last term’s full rate —was accepted
with equanimity. Development of the
co.’s undertaking to meet the Common-
wealth’s demand for the red metal, at
present twice current production, no
doubt influenced the decision ; costs have
risen, too, of course. But the long-term
view is sound, and will unquestionably
benefit from the arrangement whereby
£4 per ton of copper sales is being ear-
marked to spur development and exten-
sion of the industry. Opening of Cable
Makers’ N.S.W. works in June will
create yet another new source of demand
for copper.
* * * *
For contravention of the National
Security (Prices) Regulations, all except
proprietary lines of Robert Reid and Co.,
softgoods warehousemen of Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and London,
have been made “declared” goods, i.e.,
subject to full control of the Prices Board.
Fines totalling £l5O were also imposed—
a paltry sum considering the principle
violated. For the Prices Commissioner
it was stated that, owing to excess charges,
there had been an increase in gross profits
in 1939-40, compared with the previous
year, of £78,000, but these excess charges
“will not be allowed to remain in the
hands of the company.” As the basis
allowed by the Prices Commissioner in his
calculations is Aug. 31, 1940, the figure
indicated may overstate the true position.
It must also be admitted that conditions
in the trade during 1939 were such that
the co. was able to earn only 2.3 p.c. on
its £744,277 of share capital, and that,
if the principle is accepted that share-
holders are entitled to a fair return on
their investment, then net 1940 earnings
of 7.6 p.c. on shareholders’ funds can’t
be considered excessive. Still, a company
is entitled to apply for variation of its
permitted profit-margin if special circum-
stances appertain. It has no right to take
the law into its own hands.
» * * *
The Commonwealth Board of Inquiry
into the cash-order system is sitting in
Sydney, the stronghold of this form of
credit-trading. Evidence so far elicited
appears to indicate that, in the main, city
retailers wouldn’t relish an extension of
the system with discount charges at 10
p.c.—in Newcastle the rate is as high as
15 p.c. At the same time they admit that
“total abolition might have a serious
effect on business as a whole,” which
lends some point to the issuing cos.’
claim that cash-orders mean brisker
stock-turn and thus do not necessarily
increase prices not to the full ex-
tent of the discount charges, any-
way. Brisbane retailers, it was cited,
decided against accepting cash orders
on Dec. 31 ; but a slack period
found them nearly all reversing their
decisions within a few weeks. It was also
argued by Direct Cash Orders, controlled
by the Sydney retail trade itself, that
businesses that had attempted to conduct
their own credit trading had found the
costs far in excess of the discount on
cash-orders. Contrary to some opinion,
both parties to the inquiry agreed that
very little cash-order spending is of a
luxury nature.
* * * *
Thanks to British purchases, final
prices of £l7 11s. for No. 1 pool and
£lO 4s. for excess sugar are anticipated
for the 1940 Queensland output, com-
pared with £l6 19s. 7d. and £9 Bs. Bd.
respectively for the season that went
before. Total production has been esti-
mated at 762,000 tons, down 129,200 tons
because of drought. Gibson and Howes,
however, wasn’t affected ; its irrigation
system is fine insurance against dry
seasons, and after producing 8755 tons
of raws in excess of mill peak a large
quantity of cane has been carried over.
Still, taxation reduced the net result from
12.2 to 11.2 p.c. on capital, and div. has
been cut by a similar margin—to 8i p.c.
So far sufficient shipping has been pro-
vided to take care of the exportable sur-
plus.,. But the future in this direction is
none too certain for the bulky com-
modity, and some measure of production
control may be forced on the industry.
It would be a starting-point towards
tackling the long-term problem of over-
production which was looming large even
before outbreak of hostilities, and which
threatens to become more acute still in
the post-war period unless definite steps
are now taken.


"STILL AVAILABLE!"
IP *
Btisinesssah-Usual
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF
TARPAULINS
There is no need to accept a substitute for the best for
"Birkmyre" Tarpaulins are still available.
The canvas from which they are made is manufactured from
highest grade raw materials and the proofing, by the world
famous BIRKMYRE process, has no equal. In various weights
and colours. If any difficulty is experienced in getting supplies,
write Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
PHONE IN EVERY ROOM
I ii
winjij
••Or
*
'A
-o
3R
i
SB
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
W. G. Bulfm
SMOKE-OH
“To be married today. Three ceremonies.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
That’s making more than doubly sure.
4* *!• *l* *F
“Photography. Junior receptionist, able to
spot.”— Ad., “S.M.H.”
King’s Cross Katie says she’s been
waiting all her life for an offer like that.
•F -I- *1- "I-*
“As he spoke of his wife’s indiscretion the
man’s words became gravy.”— Woman’s paper.
We know—thickened.
4* 4* 4*
“For the first 100 years of Australia’s history
outlaws were a constant menace.”
—Radio history lecturer.
In-laws have now replaced them.
*F -I* 4*
“Some of the girls were as pretty as a pic-
ture.” — Gossip page.
And all hand-painted.
►F 4- *l* *F
“In certain spheres the average trained woman
worker is equal to, if not better than, the
average trained man, and vice versa.”
—Radio speaker.
Nothing could be fairer.
■F *F *F *F
“Big reductions in all sizes of underwear.
—Ragshop ad.
Rather inconsiderate, seeing that
winter’s coming on.
•F »F *F
“As her train stopped she stepped out, sur-
rounded by an admiring crowd. Her face
broke into a dimpled smile and then got into
a taxi.” — Short story.
One of those independent faces, eh?
-F *F *F *F
“Most stage stars slim and like it.”
—“ World’s News.”
Old-time actresses objected to having
their lines whittled down.
“A Michigan (U.S.A.) woman claims to have
been divorced seven times.”
The news has created consternation in
Hollywood, and several stars have de-
manded a recount.
4* v 4*
“Twenty-five p.c. of all marriage proposals
take place in automobiles.” — News item.
They’re a menace to pedestrians, too.
“The convicted man’s wife still had faith in
him. T dod’t believe he is guilty,’ she said.
It was obvious the woman was suffering.”
— “D.T.”
From a heavy code id the dose,
apparently.
'l* *l* 'I-
“The two-pocket vest is a distinct possibility
in the near future.” — Men’s fashion note.
The innovation is said to have the
warm support of tramway ticket in-
spectors.
•F
“Glass hats were shown at a recent New
York fashion display.”— News item.
The new season’s millinery styles are
likely to be more cracked than ever.
Red Menace.
“The girl of today is too sensible to indulge
in blushing.”— Woman’s paper.
The modern maid’s averse to gush
And thinks false modesty is rot;
But, though we never see her blush,
’Tis clear she colors up a lot!
T. W. N.
Reactions.
Gertie Gadabout snubbed the account-
ant because he was too fond of admiring
figures. She was always having brushes
with the artist over the nasty habit he
had of drawing comparisons between
other girls and herself. She gave the
shopwalker the go-buy when she dis-
covered he had a counter attraction. The
engineer stood riveted to the spot when
she told him that someone had given her
the oil about his bolting from his wife.
She told the insurance man that it was
against her policy to go out with a man
who had poor prospects. The tailor was
on pins and needles to take her out, but
it didn’t take her long to get his measure.
Anyway, she’s doing fine with a nice
chap from the country, and it looks like
a ring event since he told her that her
calves would take first prize against all-
comers.
D. McM.
The Lying Truth.
With liars this world of ours largely
abounds, and some have the genius touch.
We’re accustomed by now to the whop-
pers they tell, yet they really don’t worry
us much. But the one who most surely
deserves to be dumped in the cosiest
pocket of hell is the liar who beats you
by just half a sec. to the one you were
going to tell.
E.
Reversed Melodrama.
“Having, as you admit, spent a week-end with
him, it would be as well for you to marry him,
as he suggests. Apart from other considera-
tions, you should consider what effect your re-
fusal might have upon him.”— Dorothy Dix.
“So you refuse to marry our poor mis-
guided son?” asked the sorrowing mother.
A sneer was on the coral-tinted lips
of Jennifer Oomph as she lit another fag.
“Cuthbert came of his own free will. Why
should I marry him?” she said in her
harsh voice.
As with dignity the broken mother
tottered from the heartless creature’s
presence, she was met by poor plain Jane,
whose sincerity was only excelled by her
freckles. Feeling keenly the shame that
“Give me one of the kids, lady—l hate to see you uncomfortable !”
had fallen on her, she would have passed
by, but Jane stopped her.
“Would you have any objection if
Cuthbert and I were to get married?”
she asked.
“But you know —you must have
heard”
Plain Jane checked the stammerings
with a gentle smile. “Whatever has hap-
pened makes no difference to me. I only
want to make Cuthbert happy,” she said.
A week later Cuthbert walked from
the altar with shy steps but with his head
proudly erect once more. He could look
the whole world in the face. Plain Jane
had made an honest man of him!
H. M.
Sound Tactics.
“Girls should be introduced to their male
friends, who should also be brought home and
introduced to mother.” — Woman’s paper.
When by Christina’s comeliness you’re
charmed
And she decides to show you off to
mother.
Don’t raise objections or become
alarmed.
Nay, rush this chance to meet the lady,
brother —
To be forewarned is still to be fore-
armed !
P.M.
Fellow-feeling.
“Can anyone see the sense in sitting around
at afternoon tea and pulling another person’s
reputation to pieces?” — Woman’s paper.
Yes, for when tea my hostess serves
Of afternoons
And chatter wrecks Jill’s rep. and swerves
To shatter June’s,
In catty collocation I
Observe the sense.
And with my sister-gossips vie
A glib and gifted tongue to ply
In self-defence!
MISS SMITH.
A Bad Riddance.
“The prudent housewife does not impetu-
ously discard things for which she has no
apparent or immediate use. Often they can be
used, on being renovated or modernised, even
after years.” — Woman’s paper.
Aunt Maggie has the disease in a bad
way, but it’s my Uncle Claude who
suffers from it.
He didn’t notice the insidious onset.
When Aunt said casually “Here’s that old
rocking-chair Dad used to have; it
seems a shame to chop it up. Put it
away somewhere —it may come in for
something sometime,” he just put it in
the only available place, the garage. It
was supplemented by the bed-settee with
one leg off, the ottoman with the springs
coming through the lid, the back from
the old-fashioned sideboard that was cut
down and the old iron bedstead that
Aunt had paid ten bob for at an auction
sale and then found had one leg missing.
Uncle started stacking the stuff across
the rafters until they sagged with the
weight. Then he encroached on the floor
and wall space. The ottoman he cannily
put at the end wall. Tipped on its side
with the lid facing the door, it acted as
a cushion between the car’s bumper-bar
and the wall. Thereafter the crunch of
the bar into the wooden lid informed him
that he was in far enough to be able to
open the car door six inches and squeeze
out between the baby’s old high-chair
and the dirty-clothes basket that the Irish
setter pup had chewed.
It was not until Aunt Maggie an-
nounced in her masterly way that she had
got a buyer for the house and that they
were going to live at Rosehurst to be
near her sister Lucy (“Poor thing, she’s
so lonely now Eric and Joan are married,
and after all there’s nobody like your
own near you”) that his real worries
about the collected junk of years began.
When the removalist came to give an
estimate he took one look at the garage
and declared “This stuff’ll just about take
the small pantechnicon on its own —that’ll
be another three quid.”
That settled Aunt. Reluctantly she
ordered its disposal.
There wasn’t a vacant block within
half a mile on which Uncle Claude could
burn or dump it. He’d have needed a
dirtbox the size of a gasometer if he’d
desired to take advantage of the muni-
cipal garbage service. In desperation he
chose the back lawn as the scene of
conflagration.
It took him all Saturday afternoon to
pull everything out, and it was dark be-
fore the job was finished. He put off
lighting the fire till the morning. That
night it rained heavily, but Uncle, view-
ing the soggy mess, wasn’t beaten yet,
even though next day was moving day.
There was a stormwater channel run-
ning between two houses a street away.
Just after dark he made his first trip
with the handleless jam pan, an old
hamper and a dummy figure that Aunt
used to use for fitting dresses before she
developed a 54in. bust. Furtively he
tossed them in and hopped back for
more.
It was on his fourth trip with a rusty
old bolster and a battered tin trunk that
he noticed a P.D. car near the channel
and a couple of cops flashing torches.
He returned with his burdens and then
hurried back to where the fast-growing
crowd were gathering. Someone had re-
ported seeing a man throw a human body
into the channel.
Up till midnight he had distributed
quite a lot over the district, in gutters,
lanes and backyards. The rest he stacked
in the car next morning to take out to
a more sparsely settled suburb. It was
bad luck that a vigilant officer from
the Transport Department, discovering
Uncle did not have a license to carry
goods, warned him that a summons would
be issued in a few days.
Uncle was so stunned he took the
stuff to the new home. It has formed
the nucleus of a bigger and better junk
collection, for which Uncle has now built
a garage big enough to take a couple of
caravans.
BO.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. AND CONVOY NEEDS.
[Cables last week reported that Mr. Churchill’s
grateful acknowledgment of President Roosevelt’s
Atlantic patrol plan had been interpreted in the U.S.A. as
a thinly-disguised request for convoy escorts, the patrol
plan being described by New York “Herald Tribune'’ as
“merely a confusing half-measure compared with con-
voys.” The convoy issue had already been under discussion
for some time—isolationists of course opposing; those in
favor arguing that it was useless for America to pro-
duce war materials if they were only to be sunk in the
Atlantic. Generally, it may be said that the majority
of Americans supporting President Roosevelt’s war policy
accept that there must soon be some form of convoying
by America. Losses of materials in transit have been
placed as high as 40 p.c., but this has twice been denied
in London and called “exaggerated” by Mr. Roosevelt.
However, the position is viewed in America as most
serious, as indicated by some of the comment on it here
cpndensed.]
Call for Help
(Raymond Clapper, in New York “World-Telegram.”)
The call for help is becoming more desperate.
For the first time a London newspaper has thrown
aside tactful restraint and has urged that the United
States send its naval vessels in to convoy ships. Eng-
land needs, said this newspaper, every American cap-
tain, every engineer, every American seaman who can
be spared.
Some of our best-informed officials believe we
must soon begin to convoy. I am convinced that this
step is coming. It may be nearer than any of us think.
Berlin seems confident that American aid will
be too little and too late. Colonel Lindbergh agrees.
Time will tell. It is very late now.
The sea war is growing more costly every day.
Shipping losses suggest quite pointedly that the British
Navy is proving inadequate to the task. Some
suggest that we turn over more destroyers to
England ; but there is expert opinion behind the
idea that American warships would be more
useful under American naval officers. The in-
clination seems definitely in that direction.
The U.S.A.’s industrial effort is certain to
produce astounding results in time. It is this
crisis right now that will really tax us. The test
is whether we can muster the immediate equip-
ment and the will to make it most effective,
whether we can supply enough in time to keep
the battlefront standing in Europe.
* * * * *
Sinkings Outstrip Production
{From a New York “Herald Tribune” article by
Mark Sullivan.)
They are talking about convoys, urgently,
and they are getting up another slogan—actually,
revival of a World War slogan—“bridge of
ships.”
Axis submarines are sinking merchant ships
much faster than new ships are being built by
Britain and America combined. During March
the pace of sinkings was about twice the pace of
new construction. That is the stark and sombre
fact.
Sinkings are not the whole story. Many
ships not completely sunk by a submarine are
damaged, and repairing takes time, more time
than during peace. Repair of ships and new
construction in British yards are retarded by
bombings from German ’planes.
Also, destruction of ships by Axis sub-
marines is more easy in this war than in the
Great War. Axis submarines and ’planes now
co-operate. The ’planes hover over sea lanes
like eagles, sight the ships and communicate the
location to submarines. And the submarines hunt in
packs. This increase in submarine effectiveness is,
perhaps, the most portentous development of the war
at this time—-at the moment more decisive than tanks
or ’planes.
Lngland is being prevented from getting enough
food, enough gasoline, enough armament from
America ; hampered in sending armament and sol-
diers to northern Africa and Greece. England still has
large stores of food and other supplies ; and her ship-
ping situation, while critical, would not become fatal
for some months. But—if the present disparity, the
present superiority of sinkings over new construction
could not be overcome, Britain would lose the war.
How overcome it? There are two ways. The
two, if carefully compared, will yield a conclusion
which will presently emerge, cind which America must
look in the face. The two ways are: one, build more
ships than the submarines can sink ; second, stop the
submarines from sinking the ships.
America is taking the first way. We have started
a huge shipbuilding programme, the “bridge of ships.”
But we cannot possibly build enough ships until a
year or so from now. And time is the decisive factor,
Besides, as we build more ships, so does Germany
build more submarines.
Moreover—and this is what America must look
in the face—even if we could produce enough ships
next week, producing new ships is not, alone, the best
way. Building more ships is like pouring the ships
down a sinkhole. It is like sending more soldiers into
a battleline but letting them be killed off. Here, as
often, the best defence is offence. In this case, offence
means attack those submarines.
Attacking submarines is for a navy to do, pri-
marily for the British Navy. But the British Navy is
doing as much as it can—and as much as it can is
not enough.
That raises America’s problem. As it is com-
monly put, shall American naval vessels, destroyers,
be used as convoys? Convoying means not merely
protecting merchant ships, but hunting down the sub-
marines that threaten the ships. That our naval
vessels should be used as convoys is almost a settled
conclusion, a settled necessity. The real problem is
whether to turn American destroyers over to the
British, to be manned by British crews —that is, “lease-
lend” American destroyers, as we can under the new
law. Or send out our destroyers as American vessels,
as a part of our Navy, manned by our regular Navy
men, carrying the American flag, to convoy ships
carrying supplies from America to Britain and the
other nations we are helping. This choice is now
under urgent discussion within our Government.
*****
“The Battle of the Shipyards”
(From New York “Times” articles by Hanson W.
Baldwin.)
The shipping losses of the war already have been
tremendous—more than 5,318,000 tons of British,
Allied and neutral merchant vessels have been sunk —
and this year German submarines, surface raiders,
mines and ’planes will probably sink between 3,500,000
and 5,500,000 tons of cargo carriers. The output of
British and American shipyards combined will not
be able to replace that tonnage this year, though next
year—if the war lasts that long—the replacement rate
may overtake the sinking rate.
Britain’s need for shipping is almost limitless
and will increase as the scope of the war increases,
and the only way shipping losses can be prevented this
year from reducing Britain’s shipping tonnage below
the irreducible minimum needed to sustain her war
effort is the acquisition of more tonnage to add to the
output of the shipyards, by certain economies in opera-
tion, and the withdrawal of British-owned or -con-
trolled ships from certain trade routes for operation
in the transatlantic and war services. British ships
are being withdrawn from the Pacific trade, and there
is now a possibility that 22 Norwegian freighters, ply-
—Chicago “Daily News.”
A VOICE FROM THE DEEP.
ing in the North American-South American trade
under British control, may be withdrawn from the
run for other more important war duties.
The “battle of the shipyards,” perhaps the most
dramatic and least publicised phase of our tremendous
attempt to make the United States an “arsenal of demo-
cracy,” is literally, at the moment, the most important
single factor in the war. Its importance is underscored
by the impending visit of Sir Arthur Salter, British
expert on economic warfare and shipping, on an extfa-
ordinary mission, the purpose of which is to arrange
complete co-ordination of Anglo-American shipping
and to discuss a very considerable expansion of the
present shipbuilding programme.
The German assault upon shipping is approach-
ing a critical phase; this year the crucial year of
1941 probably will see the Germnn challenge met or
Britain overwhelmed.
Ships of every type from harbor craft and “ugly-
duckling” freighters to great battleships are building
in American yards. The objective is twofold—the
creation of a great American fighting fleet capable of
meeting any combination of enemies in both oceans ;
and the construction of sufficient merchant tonnage
to offset the world losses caused by the German cam-
paign and to supply our own vital military and eco-
nomic needs and also those of Britain.
Merchant shipbuilding has not yet approached
our World War effort and is meeting difficulties. The
merchant shipping of the world already has been
“spread thin” on the routes of trade and a constant
and increasing demand for more bottoms is not being
met. There is no use building merchant ships unless
men-of-war are built to protect them. The shipbuild-
ing programme is therefore both mercantile and naval,
Taken together the two programmes represent almost
a $10,000,000,000 effort, some 6,000,000 tons of naval
and merchant shipping.
The problem has been one of superimposing a
growing, and presently a gigantic, need for merchant
ships upon a naval building programme unprecedented
in world history. Our present merchant shipbuilding
programme, although it represents a very considerable
effort, does not approximate our World War effort,
Yet the programme is large. Some 190 merchant
vessels were on order at the beginning of the year
(modern vessels of advanced design ranging from 5000
to 12,000 gross tons), in addition to a considerable
number of vessels building for private account. These
included a large number of tankers (the tanker loss in
the war has been very heavy), many of them of grea
capacity and high speed. All of these are turbine- or
Diesel-driven. To this programme was added the 2DU
ships of the emergency programme. Contracts tor
most of these have now been let; new yards are being
constructed to build them, and it is hoped that the first
few will be ready for service late this year.
These emergency ships are of deliberately simpli-
fied construction ; according to Rear-Admiral Emory
S, Land, chairman of the Maritime Commission, they
will be “box-shaped ships with sharp ends.” They
are of the simplest character of construction. Both
the 200 American ships and the 60 “ugly-duckling
freighters that are building for the British will be of
identical design, except that the British ships will burn
coal, the American ships oil. They will be about 7500
gross tons, 9400 deadweight tonnage ; they will have
speeds of about 10 or 11 knots (barely if at all superior
to a submerged submarine); they will develop about
2500 horse-power, and will be 425 feet long with a 58-
foot beam.
Under the present construction schedule most of
these 451 merchant ships will be completed by the end
of 1942, and if a speed-up of the programme is pos-
sible it is likely they will all be completed before
then. Twenty-two merchant ships of about 170,000
tons, it is estimated, will be delivered in the first
quarter of this year ; about 30 of more than 230,000
tons in the second quarter ; about 32 of almost 250,000
tons in the third quarter and some 50 ships of more
than 375,000 tons in the last quarter of the year,
when the first of the British-ordered emergency
“ugly-ducklings” are expected to be ready. This
is an anticipated total of somewhat more than
130 new ships of 1,000,000 tons.
There has been much criticism of the
present programme by those who have com-
pared it with World War statistics and found it
wanting. There can be no doubt that as the
merchant-ship programme stands today it is not
conceived in sufficient scope, nor is it adequate
to meet probable future needs of either this
country or Britain, much less both of them.
Even the contemplated additions of 200 to 400
ships may not be adequate. But there are
several factors that make it difficult to com-
pare our present programme with World War
days. One is that the present naval programme
is far larger than during the World War and a
greater part of our shipbuilding effort is ear-
marked for naval rather than merchant ships.
And during the World War our shipbuilding
effort was keyed to the needs of the A.E.F.
in France.
The emergency losses came upon us more
quickly this time than last. And secemd, the
entire policy is different. The Maritime Com-
mission today does not believe that we did such
a good job in shipbuilding during the World
War. Our effort was spectacular, the commission
thinks, but not very successful. Admiral Land
recently testified before Congress that “they
built 2300 ships and not one of them got into
service during the war.”
Terrific expansion has already been accom-
plished ; in January, 1937, about 102,000 people
were employed in Government and private
yards ; in January, 1941, more than 259,000 were
so employed.
There is disinterested and determined effort to
prevent “fly-by-night” firms, companies, who have
their “offices in their hats,” ex-Admiral Lord calls
them, from reaping the rich rewards of many World
War shipbuilders. Moreover, the Maritime Commis-
sion remembers only too clearly how shipping glutted
the world market after the World War, and is deter-
mined, if possible, that there shall be some governor
on the mad machine this time.
On the other side of the fence are those who hold
that more vision and vigorous effort are needed, that
the shipping emergency is now so great that cost
should not be considered and that we must think again
in the superlatives to which the United States of 20
years ago was accustomed. Certainly a vast increase
in, and speed-up of, our present merchant shipbuilding
programme will have to be made if the shipyards of
America are to build another “bridge of ships” across
the Western Ocean.
jJj
Choice for Americans
{From a New York “Post” article by Paul A. Tierney.')
The British Navy cannot do three jobs at once
and do them all effectively; it cannot maintain a
blockade of Europe, sustain British armies overseas
in Africa and elsewhere, and at the same time
adequately convoy merchant shipping.
American merchant shipping to replace submarine
losses cannot come into mass production for another
year or 18 months.
So, although I am confident the British will never
crack and that they will defeat the Germans in the
end, I can, nevertheless, see an imminent danger that
for the next year or two the British may be compelled
to fight a purely defensive war.
If the American people should decide to employ
the American Navy in convoying goods across the
Atlantic, not only would shipments be accelerated,
but the British would be able to continue, possibly
even extend, their offensive military operations.
I found in England many persons in all stations
of life who believed that in all respects, except for
the formalities of a declaration, the United States was
already at war with Germany. This is a view which
is widely held in the United States, too, for that


Pure Shelljtshness!
There’s nothing like a
Guinness with
Lobster
GUINNESS
Sole Supervising Agenfs for Ausfralasia. 7377
SWIFT & COMPANY, PTY., LTD., 26-30 Clarence Sf., Sydney . . . 81311
matter. Since the passage of the Lease-Lend Bill we
have been nationally committed to the principle that
the defence of the United States against totalitarianism
begins in Britain. It is now for the American people
to decide whether they will go a step further and
speed the war to a quicker, cheaper and decisive end.
He H* * * sfc
U.S.-British Fleet Merger
o Condensed from an article in “United States News.”)
Plans rapidly are being matured to put the United
States Navy to strategic use in close collaboration with
the British Navy.
Present moves to consolidate the strength of the
British and American navies are the outgrowth of
policies followed by the two countries over the last
20 years. Ever since the first World War, an informal
understanding between the countries has kept the
British Fleet on guard in the Atlantic and the United
States Fleet on guard in the Pacific. But President
Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill are agreed
that this arrangement does not go far enough. They
both believe that a practical merging of the fleets is
needed to prevent Germany, Italy and Japan from
overrunning the world.
Here are some of the things that are being
planned or considered, so as to get the full strategic
advantage of the two great navies under the Lend-
Lease plan:
(1) British ships will be repaired in American navy
yards. This will be of vital importance to the British
because their own shipyards are crowded and are
exposed to bombing. Frequently a ship undergoing
repair is bombed before the repairs are finished and
the work has to be done all over again. The U.S.A.
has seven navy yards on the Atlantic coast: at Ports-
mouth, N.H. ; Boston ; Newport, R.I. ; Brooklyn ;
Philadelphia; Washington; and Charleston, S.C.
These yards originally were developed in the days
before the main fleet was moved from the Atlantic to
the Pacific in 1919. They are not so vitally needed
by the American Navy now, but can be made imme-
diately available for the use of the British.
(2) The United States will transfer to Britain
ships and ’planes not needed for defence. These will
consist for the most part of “mosquito boats,” sub.
chasers, destroyers that have been converted to other
uses, and patrol ’planes. If the British are short of
trained crews, they may have to depend on American
volunteers to man the ships this country provides.
(3) Britain, in return, can transfer to the United
States any ships that are especially needed by the
American Navy. Reports that one or two big British
battleships may be transferred to the U.S. in exchange
for destroyers keep cropping up, but no such plans
have yet been acknowledged by responsible American
officials.
(4) Rearrangement of the positions of the British
and American fleets is being considered. For example,
the United States might transfer some of the cruisers
and destroyers now on duty in the Atlantic “neutrality
patrol” to the Far East, and permit the British to
send a corresponding number of their ships to the
Mediterranean and the Atlantic. In this way the
United States might help the British to strengthen
their convoys, without this country herself undertaking
convoy duty.
(5) If England were conquered but the bulk of
the British Fleet left intact, the British Fleet and
the United States Fleet probably would change places.
The British Fleet would go to Singapore and stand
guard there over British India, Malaya, Australia, the
Netherlands Indies, Hong Kong and as much as pos-
sible of British Africa. It also would watch the Pacific
for the United States and Canada. The United States
Fleet would go around to the Atlantic side and stand
guard against an invasion of the Western Hemisphere
by Germany.
Radio Beams Guide Bombers.
C From an article in New York “Herald Tribune.”)
The method by which Nazi air raiders carry out
“area bombing” missions with astonishing accuracy
on nights so dark and in weather so thick that they
frequently never see their targets, either before or
after dropping their incendiary and high explosive
missiles, was revealed through military information
which has trickled out of Germany to the United
States. The system used is a refinement of the radio
beam navigation procedure.
German bombers, flying either in or above cloud
blankets that effectively screen them from British
ground and air defences, follow a narrow radio beam
from their Continental bases which leads them un-
erringly across their predetermined objective, regard-
less of cross winds that might drift them far off a com-
pass course. As they approach their invisible target,
a second directional beam, emanating from a point
far up the Channel coast or even from Norway, inter-
sects the one they are following.
This is the signal for the bombardier and other
members of the crew to be on the alert—that, at the
normal cruising speed of their ship, they are within
five minutes of the target. The auxiliary radio re-
ceiver, which is tuned to the frequency of the inter-
secting beam, causes two tiny red lights to come on
in the bombardier’s compartment as the ’plane cuts
through the intersecting beam. These lights shout the
silent command “Prepare for action! ”
Over the target itself another far-off German
radio station has laid a second intersecting beam, even
narrower than the first, and tuned to a frequency
which lights a single red bulb on the bombardier’s
instrument panel. Hands on his bomb-release switches,
he waits for its fateful flare in the darkened cock-
pit, then dumps his explosives and incendiaries in
swift succession.
Other ships, following in the first bomber’s wake,
flare out slightly by prearranged plan to the right or
left after the “alert” signal is received, but before
reaching the “zero beam,” in order to spread a de-
structive pattern of demolition and death on the objec-
tive below. Some have orders to drop their bombs
instantly when the single red light flashes, others to
delay one or more seconds so that the bombardment
pattern will be elongated, as well as dispersed to the
right and left, by the flaring-out manoeuvre.
The Germans have no monopoly on this method
of “radio bombing,” which is also said to have been
used extensively by the R.A.F. in its night raids in
Europe. However, they do enjoy the advantage of
operating from a long coast line, whence it is easy
to lay down intersecting beams. The British, compara-
tively speaking, are forced to operate from the apex
of a triangle and can do little more than lay a single
directional beam which serves only to lead their
bombers over the more distant objectives at which
they must strike. Accurate radio cross-checks, to tell
them when they have reached a target, are almost
impossible to obtain.
British ingenuity has attempted to disrupt the Ger-
man radio bombing technique both by laying down
false directional beams on the same frequencies used
by the Nazis, thus leading their airmen astray, and
by radio “jamming” with high-power transmitters on
these frequencies to make the German beams “un-
readable.” These efforts are said to have been only
partially effective, however, as the Nazi airmen, after
a little experience, have been able to distinguish their
own beams from the counterfeit British ones and to
follow them despite manufactured interference on
the ether.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
After the United States placed its embargo on
high octane gasoline for Japanese aviation last July,
exports of this product to Japan jumped in September
to 115,051 barrels, the monthly high for the year.
And the total for 1940 was high above 1939. This
was accomplished simply by changing the definition
of aviation gasoline—and letting shipments go ahead.
—New York “Post.”
*****
Erland Echlin, former London correspondent of
“Time” magazine and of “Newsweek,” has been
detained under defence regulation 188 and lodged in
Brixton prison. Persons detained under 188 are not
necessarily accused of any specific act, and Echlin
may have been arrested because his general attitude
was not considered friendly.-—New York “Post”
London correspondent.
If Suez were lost, Singapore could be attacked
from one side by Japan, from the other by Italy and
Germany. If Suez and Singapore were in enemy
hands the Japanese navy could come into the Medi-
terranean and into the Atlantic, as in fact it did in
the other war, and the Italian and German navies
could come into the Pacific. The combined navies
of these three totalitarian Powers, if they could be
used as one force, would have been immeasurably
more powerful, perhaps decisively more powerful, in
either ocean than these same navies separated by the
great British wedge from Suez to Singapore. — Walter
Lippman in New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
There have been 62 air raids on Berlin and 38
on Cologne, both cities in which I spent enough
time to know that war from the air has not yet
become for Germans the terrible thing it can be.
In all Germany there is no Coventry. The best con-
sensus I could obtain was that, while British air raids
have effected both material and moral damage in
Germany, the British air effort has not been suffi-
ciently sustained or concentrated to give Germany even
one horrible example of what bombs can do. — Lyle C.
Wilson in New York “World Telegram.”
* * * * *
Since the start of the war four of II Duce’s
battleships have been hit —three at Taranto in the
celebrated November raid, and one at Cape Matapan.
But only two can now be safely considered out of
action —the 35,000-tonner hit at Cape Matapan and
one of the older Conte di Cavour class of 23,600-
tonners air-torpedoed at the entrance to Taranto
harbor. The others, a 35,000-tonner and a 23,600-
tonner, should have been repaired by now. Three of
Italy’s seven heavy cruisers have also been sunk. The
destruction of lighter vessels, however, is proportion-
ately much less. Allowing for units that have prob-
ably been completed, Italy must now have 13 light
cruisers; two to four of the oversized destroyers ;
56 destroyers; 64 torpedo boats; 90 submarines.
Mussolini thus still has left plenty of the light vessels
and submarines that remain Britain’s chief naval
headache.— New York “PM.”
♦ * * * *
“In the spring of 1937 the French and British
awakened to the fact that Germany controlled the air
of Europe, and that the Nazis could and would bomb
Paris and London to dust if their plans of conquest
should be opposed by force of arms. This realisa-
tion played a decisive part in every diplomatic nego-
tiation and every vital decision made by the French
and British Governments during those desperate years
when Austria and Czechoslovakia were devoured, and
all the smaller nations of Europe began to quiver in
fear, while so-called great Powers stood by mentally
paralysed and physically impotent.”— William C.
Bullitt, former American Ambassador to France.
* * * * *
Dr. Alexander Sachs, the well-known American
economist, declares in a study he has just completed
that by placing an artificially low value on the’franc,
as compared with the mark, the Reich Government
has set up a system of payments by the French equiva-
lent to $2,920,000,000 annually. Not the least interest-
ing point in Dr. Sachs’s study is his comparison
between the payments being exacted by the Reich
from France and the payments called for from Ger-
many following the Versailles Treaty. He finds that
the present burden on France is 3.15 times that pro-
vided for under the London settlement of May, 1921,
and that it is five times the average schedule of pay-
ments under the Dawes plan. But, as this economist
points out, even the money difference does not tell
the whole story, because the Dawes plan “was geared
into foreign loans and other means of outside help
aimed at the economic rehabilitation of the country.”
Dr. Sachs’s study shows the deliberate financial and
economic dismantling of the French nation. — New
York “Herald Tribune.”
If Hitler has his way the German people will
endure a harsher servitude than they endure today.
For whatever their success in forcing other peoples
to work for them there is one task that they will not
be able to delegate. That task is the policing of their
“New Order.” It will be a task by the side of which
the task of the Roman Empire was child’s play. If
Hitler should win, his boast that no other soldier will
stand where the German soldier stands today will
have a terrible sound for the German people. It
will mean that the German soldier will stand there
always.— Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * * *
“Nearly 300,000,000 men, women and children in
Europe are now on rations, with all except those of
Britain and Germany getting less to eat than after
three years of the first World War, and nearly
100,000,000 more persons are facing starvation. This
is no discussion of temporary empty stomachs. It is
extinction of millions unless something is done for
them.” — Former U.S. President Herbert Hoover.
* * * * •
Every passer-by halts at the entrance to St.
Paul’s. The heroism of the men who dug out a time
bomb from there is as well known to Britons as the
exploits of Nelson and Wellington. If anything can
be called the national shrine of this Second World
War, it is probably the filled-in spot before St. Paul’s.
—New York “Herald Tribune” London representative.
* * * * *
There are a number of excellent theoretical
answers to the night bomber, of which we are now
seeing a good deal; unfortunately the emphasis is on
theoretical. Any one of them should do the trick.
So far, a couple of ’planes down a night is the best
they do. They could do as well by sheer luck. Yet
we hear Jerry going over in streams, regular as a
peace-time bus service one a minute. The night they
did Coventry we were out in the field here, and they
simply poured overhead. You’d think you couldn’t
miss ’em, yet the results are almost nil. — From a letter
written by an English architect to his sisters in Boston ;
published in New York “Herald Tribune.”
* * * * *
This is an era of oratory. Every great leader is a
great talker. Everyone has talked himself into place
and his country into war. — New York “Journal and
American.”
*****
“I do not believe that the idea of democracy is
altogether synonymous with political freedom for the
individual as a member of society. There has never
been at any time in the history of human society a
truly ‘free man’ nor in the society of nations a truly
‘free people.’ From what is a ‘free man’ or a ‘free
people’ free? Certainly not from the duties imposed
by social justice in the case of national activity, and
international justice in relations between countries.
The chief characteristic of the men who promulgated
and made effective the reform laws in ancient Rome,
who penned Magna Charta and who inspired the
Declaration of Independence and the American Con-
stitution was not ‘freedom,’ but rather obligation to
the ideal of democracy. — U.S. Senator Mead.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Early on Saturday City Tattersall’s
appeared likely to have a bad day. Hap-
pily the weather cleared, and the club
had a satisfactory meeting, something
which pleased me, as I have never shared
the opinion that it should not be granted
the privilege of racing at Randwick. The
prize-money for the afternoon was £3037
10s. and a gold cup of £lOO. There was
an attendance of 22,000 and a tote turn-
over of £31,645 55., against about 17,000
and £lB,lOB 10s. respectively last year.
There was an excellent field for City
Tattersall’s Gold Cup, and form worked
out nearly the same as in the A.J.C.
Final Handicap a fortnight earlier. In
that Chatoona was first, Katanga third
and Proud Fox a close fourth, though
I thought the last-named should have
run second. Last Saturday Chatoona
again had 7.11, and Katanga and Proud
Fox were respectively down 31b. and
41b. In a great tussle over the last fur-
long Chatoona and Proud Fox dead-
heated, and Katanga was three-quarters
of a length away. Never further back
than fourth, Chatoona led commencing
the last furlong, and then, though Proud
Fox looked like beating him a hundred
yards from home —in fact, actually
headed him —he hung on so gamely that
a dead-heat resulted.
Nevertheless, it appeared as if Proud
Fox was a trifle unlucky not to have
won outright. He struck trouble early,
and, second-last in a field of 14 six
furlongs from home, had to make a long-
sustained run to get to the leaders in the
straight. Chatoona and Katanga were
both well ahead of him half a mile from
home. Gilltown did the pace-making to
the turn and then finished fifth, just be-
hind Binnia Hero, who did well in the
straight. Buzalong’s form confirmed my
previously expressed opinion that he will
be ready to give a good account of him-
self at the A.J.C. winter meeting. Penny-
wise was disappointing, Mabson and John
Dory ran as if they had temporarily had
enough racing, and Feminist’s showing
suggested it was little use further perse-
vering with her. Hope has reached a
mark from which he is unlikely to win,
and the distance was beyond Tel Asur.
Cable Boy and Highborn were never
possibilities.
When Bona Fide swerved away at
barrier-rise in the Denman Stakes and
collided with Winifred it practically re-
duced the competitors to two. Bona
Fide and Winifred lost any number of
lengths, and though Petruchio was the
early leader Evergreen had him beaten
at the top of the straight and went on to
win easily from Winifred. The latter,
however, made up so much leeway that
though she tired right at the end it was
probably fortunate for Evergreen’s
backers that she fared so badly at the
start. Winifred is even better than pre-
viously supposed, and can be relied on to
add further to her winning account. No
excuse was possible for Petruchio, who
is seemingly scarcely as good as earlier
in the year.
Owner-trainer G. F. Nailon has a
useful filly in Kama. Her track work
during the previous week assured her
favoritism for the Three-Year-Old Handi-
cap, and, second to Air Link at the half-
mile, she had him beaten at the home
turn. In the straight nothing was equal
to troubling her, though St. Andrew
struggled on gamely in second place and
may have earned enough additional
weight to make a win in the near future
difficult for him. John Halifax, though
third, was never a winner, and both
Air Link and Tunisia lost ground in the
last furlong. Celebrity gave most promise
of the unplaced division, her fourth,
after commencing indifferently, being a
fair effort. Early this season she dead-
heated St. E’lmo for a race at Ascot,
Nightbeam running third, and since then
she has recorded a couple of minor
placings, one being third to Happy Lass
and Celebration in a mile race at Rand-
wick. Beauregard was a long last, and
has lost the form he showed when he
ran second to Air Link and beat
Chatoona for second in the A.J.C. Bira-
ganbil Handicap.
When Thrax, at his previous start,
swerved across some other runners at
the start of the Fernhill Handicap he also
interfered with his own chance. Backers
did not lose sight of this, and made him
favorite for the Youthful Stakes. Their
judgment was good, as though Congratu-
lations led at the half-mile, Thrax was
never far away, and had her measure a
furlong from home. Harprey again
finished strongly, running Congratulations
to a neck for second. Beau Timide ran
on well to get fourth after being hope-
lessly placed at an early stage, and the
probabilities are he will yet stay. Fort
Morgan, who had a clear run to the turn,
then died right out, and is not living up
to the promise he gave when he won two
races in succession in February.
Kenil Gem, better suited by Randwick
than Canterbury Park, where he ran
third in John Halifax’s race, outstayed
.Alluring in the Trial Handicap after
joining her in the lead at the half-mile
post. Racing evidently agrees with Kenil
Gem, who has done his share during
the past month. In that respect he does
not equal Kestrel, who plugged along to
get third. It was his third run in four
days. Haran was favorite, but, for once
in a way, his trainer, J. W. Cook, was
at fault. Haran could get only fourth,
but, as he gave a deal of promise at two
years, and beat St. Andrew and Dublin
Lad in a three-year-old handicap at Rose-
bery early this season, he may not be long
in making amends for Saturday’s failure.
Southerly cut up badly, finishing last,
after being prominent for the first half
of the trip.
The Club Welter gave Sethia an easy
win. McMenamin had her in front after
going a furlong, and there was not after
any doubt as to the result, though both
Veiled Witch and Lord Valentine came
home in a fashion that made them worth
keeping in mind for a race of a mile or
further, Asnazu was always well placed,
and, though he looked a sure place-
getter at the leger, he was beaten for
third by Lord Valentine. As it was his
first race for over three months he is
likely to do better at his next appearance.
Glorious never got in it, nor did Merton,
and though Tobasco shared second place
with Asnazu at the top of the straight
he dropped out a long way from the
winning-post.
Inconsistent running is one of many
difficulties which beset punters. The
palm for consistency must be awarded to
Invidious and Phildoll. Invidious took
his record to three starts for as many
wins when he defeated Prince David and
Colonus in the Warroona Handicap, and
Phildoll notched her fifth in succession
when she battled on gamely to beat Con-
flagration and Strategy in the Magdala
Welter at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Invidious has been a splendid invest-
ment at the 170 guineas he c»st Andy
Morrow at the 1940 yearling sales. He
was a small youngster, and Morrow de-
cided to have him gelded and turned out
for a long spell at his Benerembah sta-
tion, between Narrandera and Hay
(N.S.W.). He developed considerably
there, and soon after he was placed in
work about three months ago it became
apparent that he was a galloper a bit
above the average. He won first-up at
Kyneton, followed with a win at the
Valley, and maintained his unbeaten
record on the same track on Saturday.
The race was expected to be a match
between Invidious and Colonus, but,
although the latter looked to be going
comfortably in the lead at the half-mile,
Invidious had him covered before the
turn, and the fast-finishing Prince David
eventually beat Colonus easily for second
money. Morrow intends to give Invidious
another race or two before spelling him,
and the chances are he will develop into
a first-class performer next season. Satur-
day’s race, incidentally, was a triumph
for the imported stallion Portofino, who
sired the three place-getters.
Only surprising phase of Phildoll’s
success was her starting price of 3 to 1
after fours had been bet. “She can’t keep
on winning” summed up the attitude of
many punters who looked for something
to beat her. Phildoll, however, jumped
to the front at the start, looked beaten
for a stride or two when headed by
Procyon and Snow White near the three
furlongs, but came through on the rails
to take the lead again at the turn into the
straight. Finishing gamely, she had only
half a neck to spare at the finish, but
won well enough to indicate that the
handicappers might not yet have her
measure. Mollie Con, who had won her
two previous races, was always too far
out of her ground to be a possibility.
Contrasting with the consistency of
Invidious and Phildoll, Ingoda Boy im-
proved considerably on his form at Men-
tone three days earlier to beat Miss
Rebecca and Manstar in the first divi-
sion of the Bulla Trial Handicap. Thrown
out of the barrier and favored with the
run of the race at Mentone, he stopped
to a walk and finished only eighth
or ninth to Rex Buzz in a field of 12.
That form said little for his chance even
over a furlong shorter distance in some-
what weaker company on Saturday, but
some backers anticipated the improve-
ment. They supported him from eights
down to fours, and had the satisfaction
of seeing Ingoda Boy get away well after
having been sent to the outside, and being
one of the leaders throughout. Stewards
subsequently informed Ingoda Boy’s
owner that if there were a repetition of
the gelding’s barrier fractiousness he
would be barred from racing in the
suburban radius.
Substantial bets on Ingoda Boy may
not have been landed had Miss Rebecca
experienced more luck at the start. Slowly
away, Miss Rebecca came from last at
the half-mile to run the winner to half
a neck, and her task was not made any
easier when her rider had to switch her
to the inside as Ingoda Boy shifted out
under pressure. Manstar’s close third
suggested an early win, but the favorite,
Sir Drake, collapsed after sharing the
lead with Ingoda Boy rounding the turn,
and finished second-last.
Royal Comet displayed the best form
of his career when he ran home a very
easy winner from Wind Robe and
Koorenbeen in the Glen Elgin Handicap.
His win was anticipated by followers of
Lou Robertson’s stable, as he started
favorite at 3 to 1 after fives had been bet
in places. Owing to field-shyness, Royal
Comet had struck a lot of interference in
recent races over shorter distances, but
he was able to settle down early in a
field of eight over 10 furlongs on Satur-
day, and, dashing to the front between
the three and two furlongs, was not after-
wards headed. Wind Robe made a be-
lated run to deprive Koorenbeen of
second money, but Pauline, second
favorite at 9 to 2, refused to stretch out
properly at any stage, and finished last.
More will be heard of Royal Comet,
who is a nice stamp of horse by Aste
from Wireaway, and a four-year-old t
Australian time. He was got m England
but was foaled at G. R. Nicholas s stud at
Woodend, and is raced on lease from
Nicholas by C. Robbie. His halLbrother,
Landlaw, who races in the same interests,
was conceded a good chance in the las
A.J.C. Metropolitan, but went amiss in
Sydney before the race.
The unexpected is always liable to
happen when a trainer starts two horses
in the same race. Woodhen, a stable-
mate of Royal Comet, was backed from
eights to 11 to 2 for the second Bulla
Trial division, but, whereas she finished
only ninth, Edmonton, also trained by
Robertson, and starting at 20 to 1 after
opening at tens, won stylishly from Star
Leaf and Passport. Losing several
lengths at the start, last after going a fur-
long and forced to go wide at the turn,
Edmonton won running away, and, being
only a three-year-old, further improve-
ment is probable. Star Leaf and Pass-
port had every chance, but possibilities
are associated with Coventry, who fin-
ished fourth. Still a maiden, he was
racing for the second time after a long
spell, and probably will improve.
Former Sydney jumper Ti Trol, now
a stable-mate of Contact under the care
of ex-jockey J. Antonio, recorded his
first Melbourne success when he easily
defeated Green Thorne and Jack Farr
in the Belinda Trial Hurdle. Hitting the
front about six furlongs from home, he
was not headed subsequently, but, while
he may have won in any circum-
stances, two factors contributed to his
success. Burbang, favorite, pulled up
bleeding during the race, and Jack Farr,
who was practically level with Ti Trol
and Green Thorne coming to the last
hurdle, bungled it so badly that he almost
fell. Ti Trol, however, probably will
continue to improve, and, even if not up
to National standard, should soon win
in better than Trial company.
Laveur, who is claimed by his owner-
trainer J. Mulcahy, jun., to be many
pounds better at Moonee Valley than at
Flemington, upheld that contention again
when he carried 11.7 to success in the
Moreland Steeplechase. Ridden a well-
judged race by L. Meenan, he moved up
to the leaders coming to the last fence
and won going away by three lengths
from Tifone, with Gold Glare, who had
every chance, third. Tifone was out-
stayed, but she may have gone closer to
justifying her favoritism had she not hit
hard and almost fallen early in the race.
She was having her first race over fences
since last June, and may be a better
proposition at her next appearance.
* * * *
Queensland is agreeing with High
Rank, who is now doing quite as well
up there as was once expected of him
in Sydney. He has given T. Ahern a
good return for the £5OO he cost, and the
surprising part is that he started at such
a liberal price as 16 to 1 for the Strad-
broke Handicap. He had only 7.5, but,
despite a recent win, hard-headed Bris-
bane punters evidently could not bring
themselves to believe he had pretensions
to be considered a good horse. Godfrey
M. was a close third, and was generally
considered unlucky. He would have
given the books almost as satisfactory
a result as High Rank, who adds to the
advertisements his sire, Chatham, has re-
ceived during the past few weeks. The
King’s Plate looked soft for Gold Salute,
and so it proved, as he scored at his ease
in the good time of 2.3}. It is not un-
usual for some Queensland horse to show
unexpectedly good form, but Gold Salute
has an undeniably great chance in the
Moreton Handicap. He is up to carry-
ing 9.4, and Saturday’s run proved a
mile and a quarter within his compass.
Although Gold Salute started at 4 to 1 on
for the King’s Plate his owner is re-
ported to have had a fair win, and he
can be relied on to “play it up” on the
chestnut for the Moreton Handicap.
* * * *
This season has seen four good four-
year-olds racing at Randwick—Beau Vite,
High Caste, Beaulivre and Gold Salute.
Each represents first-class form, with
Beau Vite possessing better staying cre-
dentials than the other three, notwith-
standing that Beaulivre won a Caulfield
Cup. In many years good older horses
have been few, but as, in addition to
those mentioned, Mildura has shown to
advantage, as has Maikai, and Ajax has
also raced, it must be admitted this
season has been satisfactory so far as the
older division is concerned, even though
Reading did not come up to expectations.
Mosaic did not act up to his four-year-
old form, but a bad leg was a genuine
excuse for him. So far as the three-year-
olds were concerned, Lucrative, in win-
ning a Sydney Cup with weight-for-age,
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.”
Second Trial Stakes: Lord Bal-
more, 1 ; Koomeluck, 2; Haran or
Picaroon, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Marchotti,
1 ; Fort Leon, 2 ; The Hussy, 3,
Flying Handicap: Poi Morse, 1 ;
Denita, 2 ; Bona Fide, 3.
Canterbury Park Cup: Mildura
(on firm track), 1 ; Proud Fox, 2 ;
Chatoona or Binnia Hero, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Oppor-
tunist, 1 ; St. Andrew, 2; Benburb,
3.
Ashbury Handicap: Bonny Loch,
1 ; Bestop, 2 ; Miss Heroic, 3.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE),
(Before acceptances .)
Wimbourne Trial Hurdle: Pre-
tend, 1 ; French Descent, 2 ; Prince
Court, 3.
Montrose Handicap: Invidious,
1 ; Liege, 2 ; Fort Garry, 3.
Charlemont Trial Handicap: Cel-
lini, 1 ; Finality, 2 ; Lady Clyde, 3.
Imperial Handicap: Con Naru,
1 ; Denis, 2 ; Linkboy, 3.
Granville Handicap: Chamber-
lain, 1 ; Cumulus, 2; Kooren-
been, 3.
Jeffcott Welter: Contact, 1 ;
Romanette, 2 ; Curia, 3.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
HEAR THIS
Aid
m
If you are considering the purchase of a
Hearing Aid, try the Western Electric
AUDIPHONE before making any decision.
Based on 57 years’ scientific experience
in the manufacture of the Bell Telephone
and Talking Picture equipment, it stands
supreme as a masterpiece of compactness,
efficiency and economy. On your person
it is hardly seen, yet it enlarges the hear-
ing circle to a remarkable extent, enabling
the user to take part in group conversa-
tion, to enjoy almost unbelievable hearing
ease and comfort. Bone and air conduc-
tion types. Call for demonstration.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, J/Jf Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GAKRABD PTV.. LTD.,
370-37// Bourke Street, Melbourn e.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. A- Q. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gaw I e r Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKEN,
6 3 3 II ay Street, Perth.
FINDDAVS PTV.. DTD.,
Apollo House, Brisbane St., Launceston.
Western Electric
'audiphone'
HEARING AID
YOUR TAILOR . . .
has all the Crusader Pattern
Books. . . . Ask to see them.
at every tailor s
'Y'HIS does not mean the mill itself, but, in
effect, it is the same thing. Your Tailor
has New Pattern Books showing practically
every cloth produced by the Crusader Mill.
this is important! No Crusader Cloth is ever sold out
you will never be disappointed by finding that the pattern you
choose is not procurable. Crusader Cloth is produced in a great
range of attractive patterns of varying weights. Crusader Cloth
makes the best suits—and costumes!
In addition to the Boo\s illustrated, the New Monarch Quality
Pattern Boo\ may now he examined at your Tailor s.
CTnisafter
CLOTH
|«CISTEREO
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK!
came out as the best stayer. Still, Tran-
quil Star’s defeat of Beau Vite in the
Chipping Norton Plate and Lucrative
in the Cumberland Plate —the latter
after his Sydney Cup win—caused her
to be proclaimed the “best of the lot.”
Then she spoilt things by cutting up
badly in the A.J.C. Plate. Next season
should see her much stronger, and, as a
four-year-old, she may again dispute
Lucrative’s claims to be rated the best
of his age. Pandect is good, though he
falls just short of being first-class. It is
not too much to say that, as a whole,
this season’s best horses compare favor-
ably with those of the past.
* * * *
During the past few months there has
been such a falling-off in the number of
runners for hurdle races at Randwick
that many people who have no particular
interest in that branch of sport are ques-
tioning the wisdom of the A.J.C. in
catering for it to any extent. For some
reason or other owners supported hurdling
to a greater extent early in the season
than recently. At the various meetings
held at Randwick this season there have
been twelve hurdle races for £3397 10s.
in prize-money. Runners have totalled
86—practically seven a race —and that is
a poor return for the money allotted. The
largest field was 12, when Valhalla won
on Aug. 31, and the only other times
double figures were reached were in Sep-
tember and December, the respective
totals being 11 and 10. The winners were
Ti Trol and Guardsman.
* * * *
There may not be a very large field
for the Canterbury Cup, but it should
be a most interesting race with Mildura,
Hope, Gilltown, Katanga, Proud Fox,
Fearless, Evergreen, Chatoona, Hieron,
Dashing Cavalier and Hedonic among
the probable competitors. Mildura has
run well up to a mile and a half at
Randwick, and if the track is dry he
should take no end of beating with 61b.
less than when he won the Doncaster.
He will meet Evergreen on the same
terms as in that race. Compared with
City Tattersall’s Cup, Proud Fox will
meet Chatoona 41b., Gilltown 51b. and
Katanga and Binnia Hero 91b. worse,
but, as on Saturday, he was not favored
by luck in running, I expect him to be
Mildura’s toughest opponent, even though
the track should be quite to the latter’s
liking.
* * * *
Kentucky Derby, run at Churchill
Downs, Louisville (U.S.A.), on Saturday,
gave Warren Wright’s Whirlaway a run-
away win in 2.1 f, a course record for a
mile and a quarter. There were 11
runners from a nomination of 112, and,
starting at 6f to 1, Whirlaway beat
Staretor (a gelding) by eight lengths,
with Market Wise third. Whirlaway, who
is by the English stallion Blenheim
(Blandford-Malva) won seven races and
565,575 as a two-year-old. Kentucky
Derby added money was $75,000, but,
with the addition of entrance fees of
$25 and starters’ sweepstakes of $5OO to
the prize, that amount would be con-
siderably increased. Second received
$BOOO, third $3OOO and fourth $lOOO,
while trainers of first, second and third
horses received $3OOO, $2OOO and $lOOO.
Nor were the breeders of the place-
getters forgotten they respectively re-
ceived $2OOO, $lOOO and $5OO.
* * * *
The winning performances of most
note at Canterbury were those of
Amiable and It’s Funny. The former,
meeting Flying Knight only 21b. better
than w.f.a., settled him so decisively as
to dispose of the idea that he was an
exceptional three-year-old sprinter. There
is no doubt Flying Knight is good, but,
if all that he was previously supposed, he
should have done a little better against
a mare that is well on her way to seven.
Amiable was four lengths behind Flying
Knight at the home turn, and her 1.1 If
was within a quarter-second of Beau-
livre’s record for the track. It’s Funny
won the Quality Handicap in style that
sent him up next to Yaralla and Prince
among Sydney’s two-year-old colts. He
has proved he can get a mile, and should
go further. By Constant Son, his dam is
Roscome, by Rossendale from Comic,
by Absurd. Costing 375gns. as a yearling,
It’s Funny is already a bargain. At the
recent Randwick yearling sales his half-
brother, by Midstream, was sold for
400gns. and is also to be trained by
J. W. Cook.
* * * *
A fair fortune for prize-money
from one race. That is what Bay View
gave Mrs. A, Pelleted and her husband
when he won the Santa Apita Handicap.
There were 16 runners, and $89,360
(about £A27,170) went to the winner,
$20,000 to second, $lO,OOO to third and
$5OOO to fourth. The track was so sloppy
that the time was 2.5|, which was slow
for a mile and a quarter at Santa Anita.
There was an attendance of 50,000, and
the tote turnover was £A 126,700. At
one period of his career Bay View was
sold for a little over £4OO, but the buyer
refused to complete the deal, because he
alleged the horse was either blind or
going blind. Now that intending buyer
is probably of opinion the blindness was
on his side.
* * * *
Buonarotti was good up to a mile, and
he has sired a smart youngster in Mar-
chotti, who in easily winning the second
division of the Maiden Two-year-old
Handicap for colts and geldings at Rose-
hill last week equalled the course record
of 57sec. He was at a short price,
but it is not often that the trainer
of any smart galloper at Randwick can
beat books and backers. Nowadays
both sections are well informed. Darjoa,
winner of the first division, was
a stylish colt by Royal Son from Auto-
crat, and it was unfortunate that imme-
diately after passing the winning post he
fractured a sesamoid bone. He was de-
stroyed the following day. He cost G.
Edwards 300gns. as a yearling, and his
brother made only 120gns. at the recent
sales. Miss Leonard (by Limarch) and
The Hussy (by Brazen), the respective
winners of the divisions of the Maiden
Two-year-old Handicap for fillies, de-
served success, as they had run well,
without being able to get beyond minor
places, on previous occasions. Without
being out of the ordinary, both should
win again.
* * * *
Self-interest comes first with most of
us, and sense of proportion is occasion-
ally lost. A friend got something of a
shock the other day when, on remarking
to a man interested in breeding: “The
war is looking serious for us,” the reply
was: “Yes, we were lucky that the year-
ling sales went off so well.” Nothing else
counted.
♦ * * *
Relative to walkovers at Randwick, M.
Ferry, of broadcasting fame, drew my
attention to one that occurred at the Syd-
ney A.T.C. meeting in July, 1877. The
only horse left in the Selling Race, H
mile, was S. H. Terry’s Priam, He
walked over and was then disqualified.
“The Australasian” Turf Register re-
ported the race as follows: “Priam was
the only starter, but his spirited owner
forgot to see that his jockey was weighed
before leaving the paddock. As the rider
returned to scale something like 171 b.
overweight, the horse was disqualified for


AGA
for the
MODERN HOSTESS
Smiling, unruffled, confident ... an AGA owner
gives table talk a sparkling lead, knowing that each
course is AGA-cooked . . . tender . . . delicious.
The AGA Cooker burns continuously. Hot plates and
ovens are instantly ready for fast or slow cooking
by STORED heat, the most efficient, scientific method
of cooking ever invented.
How much for fuel? Fuel cost of the AGA model
illustrated is guaranteed to be less than £3 in a
whole year (with coke at 30/- per ton). 40,000
AGA owners in the British Empire have proved it.
Every one of them is proud to show guests the insu-
lated, streamlined AGA—No. 1 unit in a MODERN
kitchen.
m
1.1
v Its
M m
i
■ , a
as
• -, i - :i_
For Cut-Price
Cookins.
m
i C«S) t
* L "xiiuuki-
■=* *1 H
A
A Cooks for 2d. per
day.
A Keeps kitchen cool
in Summer, warm
in Winter.
A Simple to use,
always ready.
A Clean as a china
plate.
A Food cooks better,
looks better, tastes
better.
A Suitable for city
and country homes.
(REOD. TRADE HARK)
JhOrieimlfletiSimtm
COOKER
MADE IN BAIT A I N
Let us show you an AG A, or write
today for AG A Catalogue R 5.
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
Estd. 1852. (Inc in N.Z.)
45 King St., Sydney. 432 Bourke St., Melbourne.
And at Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents; Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G, Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
Smokers are saying—
‘Tm not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
‘Hillmans.’ ”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia—Specially CUI
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST
Four Square
First Crop, Mild
All British, Mild
Riverhead Gold, Medium
Old Peter, Dark
Cavendish, Strong
Beech Nut, Medium
Africa, Mellow and Mild
Soldier’s Own, Mild
Normandie, Medium
Winning Post, Medium
Three Bells, Strong
Bird’s Eye, Medium
Datakia (in Pipe Only)
White Dodge, Medium
White Dodge, Dight
Barlock Flake, Dight and Dark ...
Cahills, Medium
Union Deader, Medium
Tender Deaf, Medium
Imperial
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
8/6
10/-
10/-
11/-
9/6
10/-
11/-
11/-
U/-
When Ordering, Please State
Whether for Cigarette or Pipe
Smoking
Subject to 6d. lb. postage to all
States outside Queensland. Quantities
of 51b. and over, Post Free to all States.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY PTY. LTD.,
Manufacturers and Blenders,
Box 6, P. 0., VADDEY, N. 1., BRISBANE
Telegrams: “Comgrow,” Brisbane.
’Phone No. 84587.
being overweight; and Terry was fined £2
for allowing his horse to start without
the rider being weighed out.” On three
occasions there were walkovers for jump-
ing races at Randwick, one being when
the late Phil Glenister rode his horse
Gaffer Grey two miles over hurdles,
Gaffer Grey was saddled up for the next
race, also over hurdles, and ran second
in a field of five.
* * * *
Maiden Two-year-old Handicap run-
ners at Rosehill last week included some
of last season’s high-priced yearlings,
The following three were by Beau Pere:
Justitia (900gns.), Belle Martian (700gns.)
and Grand Pere (550gns.). Beau Rasade
(950gns.), another by that sire, was
scratched on the course. Adjust (by The
Buzzard) and Etching (by Sylvandale)
each cost 500gns. As some of those men-
tioned were not far from the bottom of
the weights in their respective races they
will need to improve in order to do any-
thing towards paying expenses this
season.
* * * *
America’s oldest racehorse, Merrick,
died recently at the age of 38. He
started racing at two, continued until he
was 11, and contested 205 races, of which
he won 61, was second in 40 and third
in 24.
* * *. * .
The longest meeting in America is
that at Suffolk Downs (Massachusetts).
Commencing on May 12 it concludes on
July 19, a period of 60 days. The man-
agement probably regrets not being able
to race on Sundays. A dirt track can
stand such an extended meeting, but it
would be almost impossible on turf.
* * * *
When you see the same riders winning
most of the races meeting after meeting
it must, m a measure, be attributed to
the inferiority of their opponents. It is
easy to find fault, but Sydney is not
overblessed with first-class horsemen,
and, though apprentices come in for a
deal of harsh criticism, worse displays
than some occasionally made by licensed
jockeys would be difficult. If they get
away indifferently, or strike a little
trouble soon after barrier-rise, they con-
tinue in difficulties for the remainder of
the race. They are liable to try for
openings that do not exist, to get shut
in or to go round nearly everything ahead
of them. For that matter some promi-
nent jockeys are rarely seen at their best
after getting a squeeze early in a race,
* * * *
Maoriland is preparing for evacuees
in the shape of British bloodstock. Last
year the N.Z. Racing Conference, through
the English Jockey Club, intimated that
Maoriland breeders wished to take and
care for any horses that English owners
desired to send out of the war zone for
the duration. * A Wellington exchange
says that the conference has received
a reply thanking Maoriland breeders for
the offer, which was printed in the Eng-
lish Racing Calendar.
* * * *
“I notice that various people are getting
into print with their experiences and
reminiscences,” remarked a trainer the
other morning. “I wonder what they
would give me for mine,” he added,
“Would they be absolutely truthful?”
queried a bystander. “Fairly,” was the
reply; “and, anyhow, they vvould be
interesting and possibly informative. I
could write much that might interest men
in my own game—not that I could teach
some of them points in anything. Chap-
ters headed ‘Finding a punter and how
to hold him,’ ‘Excuses to owners for
beaten horses,’ ‘Great (?) sportsmen I
have met’ and ‘What pressmen don’t
know’ wouldn’t be bad. If I’m lucky I
might be able to make a deal, but I am
afraid rve i e f t j t a bit too late.”
* * * *
At the recently concluded Hialeah
Park (Miami) meeting the rider who
finished at the top of the list was un-
lucky in one way. The management had
two watches made in Switzerland. They
were the latest in every respect, costing
$9OO each. One was for the most suc-
cessful licensed jockey and the other for
t h e leading apprentice. C. McCreary,
w j t h 44 wins, did better than any other
rider for the whole meeting, but he did
no t get either prize. Halfway through
the meeting his status changed from
apprentice to jockey, with the result that
be did not come out on top under either
heading, D. Meade taking first place
among the jockeys, and the apprentice
prize going to W. Eads. The probabili-
ties are that the club gave McCreary
some other trophy to mark his success,
* * * *
Bombings are not causing the English
Jockey Club to abandon its big races,
Last week the Two Thousand Guineas
was run at Newbury instead of New-
market, and was won by the Duke of
Westminster’s Lambert Simnel (Fair
Trial-Simnel, by Blandford), a 10-to-l
chance. He beat the 100-to-30 favorite
Morogoro by two lengths, with Sun
Castle third. Lambert Simnel could
not have been a great performer last
season, as when A. Fawcett, the Jockey
Club handicapper, compiled his weights
for the Free Handicap Sweepstakes at
the end of the year he gave Lambert
Simnel 8.7, against the 9.7 allotted the
topweight, Poise (a gelding). Morogoro
was third on the list with 9.3. As Sun
Castle’s name did not appear in the Free
Handicap he was either one of the un-
named lot, had not raced or had done
insufficient to make him eligible to be
weighted. Morogoro is by Felicitation
and Sun Castle by Hyperion.
* *
Lord Balmore, who has recently shown
good form in Sydney, is related to many
winners in Maoriland. He is by Kincar-
dine from Blue Jay (Autumn-Blue Sea,
by Athenic), winner of several handicaps.
On the maternal side his pedigree takes
in Bebe, dam of Cupidon, an A.J.C.
Derby winner. Lord Balmore’s pedigree
gives him a good chance of winning
beyond nine furlongs, a distance at which
he finished well when winning the Trial
Handicap at Rosehill last week.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Title Fight:
Two hefty chaps of f.a.q. prelim,
quality entered the heavy division of an
all-weights tourney at Sydney Sports
Arena, between them cleaned up such
opposition as there was, met for the final
last Friday night, and, the Australian
heavyweight title having been vacated
by Ron Richards, decided that title’s
ownership also.
That, in brief, is the history of one of
the easiest ascents to championship status
on record. The winner was Billy Britt
(12.9|), the other party Tommy Uren
(12.10-2-). The scrap had the interest that
attaches to witnessing two big men slug-
ging each other, but no more than that.
Reasonably fast for a big fellow, Britt
boxed the young, heavy-hitting and game
but crude and slow novice to a standstill,
mainly with lefts to head and body. Uren
was having only his third professional
engagement i.e., his tourney scraps—
and the total of his other ring appearances
had been merely a couple of Garrison
Artillery bouts. Britt sat down a couple
of times, but that was only through get-
ting his feet tangled up. He won all the
way, and in the seventh round had Uren-
in such a state that the 19-year-old lad’s
corner called it off.
* * * *
Terry Reilly, who knocked out the
welter title-holder Hockey Bennell, and
who, on that account, was introduced in
the ring as Australian welter champ.,
could only manage a draw against me
lightweight Ted Osborne at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. At that the
crowd got very hot in the breath over the
decision, the bulk of those present hold-
ing that Osborne won easily. The position
regarding the welter title now is that Vic-
toria recognises Reilly as holder, Queens-
land plumps for Westbury and N.S.W.
for Bennell, who has held the title for a
year or two and has yet to be beaten in
a scrap over the championship distance
with the title at stake.
Footbrawl
Within five minutes of the start of the
game against Richmond, Carlton lost its
champion rover, Hale, who came out of
a mix-up with a broken leg and will be
out for the season. Even then the Blues
broke away with an early lead and held
it to three-quarter time, after which Rich-
mond worried them out of it and ran out
10 points ahead, 13.12 to 12.8. The
Tigers’ old skipper, Bentley, was coach-
ing the Blues.
Footscray has started the season at the
same pace as last year. It fairly bolted
from Fitzroy at Fitzroy’s ground, and
the board said 16.17 to 10.15,
Out at Glenferrie oval Hawthorn gave
Collingwood a fright by slapping on six
goals in the second quarter and bullock-
ing all-in with the Magpies all through
the third and well into the last. Then
Haw-Haw tired, and thankful ’Wood sup-
porters watched their team go on to a
17.16-13.17 win.
It was a lovely day at Essendon. Most
of the suburb put on its hat and strolled
down to the local oval, where a football
team from North Melbourne, accom-
panied by some camp-followers, began
running about. The Essendon men looked
on for a while, then resolutely seized the
ball and booted it about till it had 22.13
un. Then the suburb went home again
while the crushed visitors retired,
morosely writing 16.12 in their little
books.
Only about 10,000 turned out at South
Melbourne, but they saw the match of
the day between their own side and Mel-
bourne. Melbourne, by superior juck
play, broke away with a four-goals lead,
but Sowth recovered, and a ding-dong
game followed right up to the bell, Mel-
bourne just managing to hold the lead
and collect the verdict by 14.17 to 13.15.
St. Kilda went to Geelong and defeat
by 13.9 to 11.19, thus learning once again
the truism that an accurate boot is worth
an extra forward. The locals shot four
sixers before the Saints scored, and after
that the chase was hopeless.
* * * *
University, which started badly in the
Sydney Rugby Union competition last
year, is all there this season. Opposed
to Gordon, it got most of the ball from
the scrums, and Rutledge, who used to
play for Gordon, began movements which
brought three tries. Rutledge kicked four
goals, and at the end it was 21-6, putting
Uni. at the top of the table. In Rand-
wick v. St. George the forwards just
about cut even. Randwick won because
of its nippier set of backs —14-8. Parra-
matta v. West was a scrappy match
(“Parra” won, 11-8), but Manly and
North played good football. Manly led
8-3 at lemons, then it had the misfortune
to lose its hooker. That made so much
difference that North got ahead, 13-8,
before the final bell. East came from
behind also to touch oft Drummoyne.
Down 13-nil, the Easterners battled hard
for the ball in the second half, got it,
and ran out winners 15-13.
* * * *
Two stalwart soldier-members of Syd-
ney’s Western Suburbs Union club have
struck a bad streak in action. Russ Kelly
is missing and Alf Aboud has been
wounded. Forwards both, pals and gocd
fellows, Kelly was captain of Western
Suburbs for a season or two and Aboud
was to have been captain this year.
* H= *
Chris McKivat, the old-time N.S.W.
Union and League Rugby half-back, is
dead in Sydney at 59. Fast and resource-
ful, he was a great exponent of half-back
play—the greatest of all, some think. He
went to England twice —as a Union man
in 1908, and as captain of the 1911-12
League team.


The
stronger
the edge, the
longer its life
Seen under a lens, every Gillette blade has a steel shoulder
or buttress behind the cutting edge, rather like the blade
of a chisel. This construction, the outcome of three stages
in the sharpening process, gives such strength behind the
cutting edge that you obtain many more
smooth shaves than the ordinary blade will give.
The edge of many a blade is damaged by
careless unwrapping before it is ever used.
So carefully is the Gillette blade packed that
the cutting edges are not permitted to touch
even the inner wrapper , as you will see by
holding it up to the light; if you will take
equal care in handling it, you can get many
more shaves per blade.
Gillette
SHOULDERED
EDGE
\
I
USE
GILLETTE
AND SAVE STEEL
Gillette Sets 2/7} to 47/-. Blue Gillette Blades 5 for 1/7,
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Circus Act
Persons who continue sceptical about
such everyday phenomena as fish, frogs,
crays, manna and other provisions com-
ing down in showers should have been
bin any of a dozen Sydney streets between
midday and 2 o’clock last Thursday.
Coin of the realm, copper and silver,
fell in glittering and jangling showers —
enough of it to be gathered up in buckets,
with women, small boys and others from
the avenues of onlookers having to step
forth and assist the official harvesters,
otherwise the progress of Wirth’s Circus
through the city, which caused the down-
pour, would still be on.
Crowds, notified that the whole of
Wirths’ outfit was to figure in a procession
in aid of the war effort, packed the foot-
paths. “What’s the ‘strong’ of the crowd?”
some somnambulist wanted to know.
Somebody informed him, “Waitin’ to see
the elephants.” “An’ de monks!” added
a representative of the new nobility from
a near-by fishshop.
About 1 o’clock, looking up from near
Pitt-street, the head of the procession
hove into sight coming down Hunter-
street. It was led by a brace of John
Hops mounted on sidecar motor-bikes,
followed by a car with loudspeakers
sticking out all over it, and a voice there-
from calling on the crowds on the pave-
ments and those poking their heads out
of windows —two, three, seven storeys up
—to shell out for the good cause. Fol-
lowed, at a distance, the vanguard of the
circus cohorts—clowns on foot, as nimble
as preliminary pugs in picking up the
showered coin ; Phil Wirth, on a prancing
white horse, escorting the decorative
circus damsels mounted on white and
black neddies and catching some of the
shower in grey top-hats; then fawn
monkeys in yellow and blue jockey rigs,
crouching down on black ponies in dour
resignation as the downpour of coin fell
on and about them ; and so on back to
the caged tigers, jaguars, black panther
and the like on lorries, the elephants
and the rest of it.
On the particular spot observed —the
intersection of streets near by Granny
“Herald” office —the coin, glinting in the
sunlight, fell on the vanguard like
shrapnel. It looked as if people were
throwing down all they had on them. It
rained down thick. The procession was
held up there for quite a while because,
fast as the clowns, racing about, gathered
up their hatfuls, the stuff kept pelting
down, bounced and ran. Volunteers
darted out and helped, some of the ladies
extra fast workers. When they’d gathered
a bucketful of the stuff it’d be carted along
and dumped into the loudspeaker car,
the pouring of it out of the bucket a
gushing, metallised avalanche of music
that only people who work in mints could
hear unmoved.
« * * *
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
Amateur societies in Melbourne will
have to sit up and take notice if the Tin
Alley Players at the University keep on
as they are going. First, in the Union
Theatre they have one of the finest and
best-equipped little playhouses in Aus-
tralia. Secondly, they have enthusiasm,
individual and collective, and also intelli-
gence, or they couldn’t have done so well
with “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Shakspeare, to most undergraduates, is a
bore, thanks to professorial intervention
between the Bard and the student. As
Keith Macartney produced him, he was
certainly first-class entertainment, and
frequently a spectacular eyeful.
Acting was good, especially Macartney
as Puck, Erica Goldring as Hermia and
Lance Carlson as Bottom, the immortal
weaver. Nor were Arthur Davies, Bill
Scott, Elden de Steiger, Hugh McCul-
loch and Douglas James far behind
Carlson as the rest of the “Dream’s”
sextet of comic characters—the hardest
to make interesting in Shakspeare.
Music composed specially for the oc-
casion by Margaret Sutherland was excel-
lent and admirably stage-managed. The
costumes of Kathleen and Florence
Martin were apt and charming, as were
the chaste dances created by Daisy Pir-
nitzler and Hanny Kolm. Technicians
of the Union Theatre Guild placed the
fantastic plot in a frame of scenery which
was adequate without being obtrusive.
The T.A.Ps. were rewarded with over-
flowing houses.
* * * *
Hector Crawford and the Melbourne
Conservatorium Orchestra have scored
another success for the alfresco Sunday-
concert notion at the Botanic Gardens.
There was a nip in the air which cut
down the assembled population by 20,000
on the previous record, but that left
30,000, which was enough to glut the
audience-ambitions of the greediest con-
ductor. The sun shone on the lake and
threw long shadows on the lawns, and
sufficient of the Coleridge-Taylor Petite
Suite de Concert and the “Japanese” suite
of Holst reached the ear to make it
apparent that the orchestra was in first-
rate fettle. The first movement of tlie
“Peer Gynt” suite was cheerful, and “The
Merry Wives of Windsor” overture car-
ried nicely. One thing these concerts
have proved is that the human voice is
the best adapted instrument for out-of-
doors acoustics, and in “Lo! Here the
Gentle Lark” and “Caro Nome” Stella
Power triumphed over her conditions.
Flute obbligato was provided by Judy,
daughter of the great Amadio.
* * * *
The supply of overseas virtuosi having
been severely rationed lately owing to
war’s exigencies, local talent is once more
rearing its many heads in Melbourne.
One of the first to make her appearance
was Violet Somerset at the Assembly
Hall last week. Plenty of less accom-
plished singers have been given the free-
dom of the air and the Town Hall on
the strength of their foreign reputation,
and if the audience was small it made up
for its size in the quality of its apprecia-
tion. She ranged through a wide field
of old and modern composers with a
vocal organ of more than ordinary flexi-
bility used with more than common in-
telligence. The biggest hand came for
“Hymne de la Croix de Lorraine,” an old
Gallic air, with words by Father Pode-
vigne,_ addressed to all “Free French-
men.” There was a good deal of patriotic
sentiment in the applause for that one.
AT THE TALKIES
“So Ends Our Night”
At Sydney Mayfair; a screen adap-
tation of the novel Flotsam, by Erich
Remarque. The filmsmiths were evidently
out to make something of epic dimen-
sions, but they missed in that object by
including a good deal more than the
filmed story can stand, and finished up
with a rather sprawling production which
runs on for about two hours and which
is a curious mixture of authentic drama
and very ordinary melodrama. The sub-
stance of it deals with refugees from
Germany being hounded from country
to country all over Europe because of
their inability to get passports. Glenn
Ford as a Jewish youth, Margaret
Sullavan as a Jewish girl and Fredric
March as a political offender are the
main characters seeking desperately for
a solution to the extraordinary situation
of being unable to return to Germany
and unable to rest in any other country
without the unobtainable passports.
The film is very well mounted in
striking and picturesque settings, and
these, with excellent photography, con-
tribute a good deal to the more genuinely
dramatic moments. Ford, a young new-
comer, offers some sensitive acting, but
his part is not an easy one, and he
occasionally oversteps himself into exag-
gerated emotionalism. March, after a
long absence from the screen, appears
to have lost nothing of his ability and
dominating personality; there’s a good
deal of the melodrama in his role, but
he does his level best, acting it mostly
on a careful note of understatement.
Much the same applies to Miss Sullavan’s
part and her acting of it. Frances Dee
as March’s wife appears briefly but very
capably, and Eric von Stroheim is as
sinister and as polished as ever as the
Gestapo agent.
£ s|e * *
“Hudson’s Bay”
Current item at Sydney Century gets
away on the right leg with a couple of
tough French trappers trying to persuade
the Governor of an English colony in
America to finance an expedition to the
semi-mythical Hudson’s Bay. Their
methods of persuasion are rather brusque,
and they find themselves in short order
in clink, where they share a cell with a
noble-looking youth in a white silk shirt;
from here the rot sets in. One thing
they seem unable to put over in screen
histories is a casual contemporary refer-
ence to people now famous in history,
and when the youth starts talking about
“My friend Nell Gwynn, the king’s —
‘ahem,’ ” it sounds like comic opera.
Paul Muni and Laird Cregar as the
pair of trappers make the show. Cregar
is a newcomer and an unusual one, well
over six feet and scaling round 20 stone.
Muni is still behind the fungus which
seems to be regarded as the first essential
of a good character actor, but he is a
good character actor and a pleasure to
watch. There is enough of him and
Cregar in the film to tide over the dubi-
ous history and other weaker moments
to make it quite fair entertainment.
ARTBURSTS
Vic. Artists’ Society
Victoria’s premier art society got into
the doldrums some years ago, and it has
been floating around there ever since with
the water running short and the weevils
getting into the biscuit and the barnacles
growing on the bottom and the crew sit-
ting around hoping against hope that
something will happen some day—a
whale perhaps, or maybe a waterspout or
a submarine earthquake.
What looked like a willy-willy made
its appearance a few years ago and came
tearing along in a very menacing manner.
There was great excitement aboard when
the willy-willy was sighted: the sails were
trimmed, a reef put in the rudder and
the binnacle hoisted to the masthead. But
when the willy-willy said it was the
modern movement and didn’t mean any
harm it was allowed to come aboard,
and when it promised to be on its best
behavior and only speak when it was
spoken to it was given a cabin to itself
where it could whizz and whirl to its
heart’s content without disturbing the
dozings of the old gentlemen on the walls
opposite.
The only sign of life at the autumn
exhibition last week was the sound of
the barnacles growing on the V.A.S.’s
bottom.


LADIES" FITTED
DRESSING CASES
. . . from KITCHINGS’.
m
M i
In beautiful chrome tanned cowhide.
FITTED WITH mirror, comb, and hair
brush on lid and glass containers for
powder, toothpaste, scent, etc., on body
of case. Enamel and chrome fittings.
PRICES:
20 inches, £lO 22 inches, £ll.
Free Delivery to all Suburbs.
Pty.,
litd.,
C E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
Near Wynyard Station. 8W7133.
STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different
100 Australians, all different . . .
40 Pacific Islands, all different
8/-
4/-
4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
No matter how many, or how big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give yon
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SlLK—only one price,
6d. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD., Melbourne.
PAINFUL CORNS.
Personal and Missing Friends.
KERSHAW—If GLENVILLE KERSHAW,
son of Miriam Kershaw, late of Gundaroq,
or anyone knowing his address, will communi-
cate with JOHNSON & SENDALL, Solicitors,
of Goulburn, it will be to his distinct advan-
tage. Last heard of in 1913 in the Ravensworth
District, on line to Merriwa via Muswellbrook.
Also at Gilgandra about that time.
KIDMAN.—WouId anyone knowing the where-
abouts of MR. JOEL or JOE KIDMAN, last
heard of approximately 33 years ago, please
communicate with or forward his address to
MESSRS. A. N. HARDING & BREDEN,
Solicitors, “Wingello House,” Angel Place, Syd-
ney, New South Wales, who have information
that will result to Mr. Kidman’s monetary
benefit?
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Ki3ncy Tubes
►—Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back 'well and strong again—if the trouble 13
caused by tired kidneys.
AH the blood In your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of 3
pounds of waste matter. When the kidney
tubes become tired, bladder passages are
often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed Into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’B
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the
same quick relief they have been giving mil-
lions for many years. If backache is bother-
ing you due to tired kidneys, try
■BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMEN'S
LETTER
The Town Hall’s great hour of the
week was the opening of the war loan.
There was so much excitement about that
the whole mass of humans threatened to
burst into spontaneous combustion. After
London’s Lord Mayor, to whom goes
honorable mention for distinction of
speech, had opened the show by radio
telephone (science marches on in spite
of the pass to which the invention of the
aeroplane and the tank has brought the
nations), the millions started to tumble
into the hat. Finally, when Mayor Crick
had finished the list it totted up to
£10,500,000. Good old Anonymous had
weighed in with several amounts in the
dizzy realms of the thousands, and one
small boy, just 13, had handed in his
insurance policy worth £lOOO.
Packing must have been something of
a fine art in the days when Australian
pioneers braved the long sea voyage be-
tween England and the new land, sailing
with their household treasures below
decks. In the exhibition opened yester-
day by Lady Cowrie that depicts an
Englishman’s home from the seventeenth
to the present century, there are flawless
examples of Chippendale, old English
oak (one chair at least dates back to the
time of James II), rosewood tables and
pieces in Dutch design, probably in tulip
wood. Here is a miniature set of furni-
ture, gilt mounted, complete with tiny
footstools —the sort of thing in its larger
size that a belle of Bath might have
owned. And talking of Bath reminds
of the set of shell furniture, ornate and
unique, but quite usable. It is said to
have come from the Brighton Pavilion,
and is, of course, the pride of the Regency
room.
From Ginahgulla come a great many
of the treasures of the Victorian room.
In the middle is a pet of a conversation
seat. It is in dark red velvet. The long
looped-back curtains of lace and the
heavier ones of brown tapestry come
from the same treasury. In this room
are portraits of some of Lord Wakehurst’s
ancestors. Another unique memento of
that period is the landscape worked from
strands of hair from the head of some
grieved-over unknown. There’s an ormulu
clock from the Women’s College. There
are steel engravings and Baxter prints
and some old English and Dutch paint-
ings. But the Nelson pieces will, in
view of present-day happenings, be of
special import to the beholders. Here
is a chest said to have belonged to the
greatest admiral of them all. Here are
pictures of the beautiful Lady Hamilton.
A portrait of Nelson after he had lost
one arm comes from Admiral Feakes.
Near by, its hilt gleaming with gold and
pearl, is the sword wielded by an ancestor
of the Miss Manns, of Greenwich, all
through the attack on Cape St. Vincent,
and through the Mediterranean strife of
1800. Its wearer was one of “Commo-
dore” Nelson’s officers in H.M.S. Cap-
tain.
And no woman should come away
without looking at the wedding veil first
worn by a great-great-grandmother of the
lender, which has had two trips to Paris
to have rents repaired. The repairs are
as delicate a piece of work as the original
handwork. Organiser Barbara Knox,
Mrs. Penfold Hyland, Mrs. Alleyne
Zander, Sydney Cooper, Valentine
Adams and the many other lenders and
workers have done a fine job. A pack
of ivory playing cards used by Queen
Victoria is another treasure.
Alec Coppel and Kathleen Robinson
are launching a joint venture to be known
as Whitehall Productions. Alec, as all
theatregoers know by now, is an actor-
playwright. Kathleen has acted in and
produced plays jn London. They are to
launch a series of plays, and the first,
“Mr. Smart Guy,” is from Alec’s pen.
Like his “I Killed the Count,” murder
and mystery form the plot. There will
be sidelights of laughter, and the curtain
rings up on the new show on May 10.
David Martin, of the Minerva, is quietly
enthusiastic over the new idea. He was
very smiling at the noonday cocktail
party last week given by K. and A. This
was a press get-together. But the gold-
fish in their bowls on the upper stairway
of the Minerva still swim serenely. They
were not slaughtered to be served as
camouflage caviare to the scribes.
Mrs. Harold Bott (Marie Browne is
her singing name) is organising with Curt
Prerauer the concert to be set in an Eng-
lishman’s Home. The concert will follow
the period of this novel exhibition, and
works from writers of 1700 to 1941 will
be on the programme. Dorothy Helm-
rich, who specialises in old English songs,
will be the singer. The Sydney String
Quartet, ’cellist Carl Gotsch and flautist
Lucas Staehelin will play the instrumental
works. Mr. Staehelin will play some of
his numbers on a seventeenth-century
flute which he has lent to the exhibition
and which he will make articulate for
the listeners’ delight. The concert is on
Friday night, and commences sharp at a
quarter-past eight. Place, David Jones’s,
in George-street; cause, the Red Cross.
Photograph from Norton Trevaire.
Romance and the secretaryship to Lady
Wakehurst seem to go hand in hand.
First there was Hermione Llewellyn, who
went off to marry her Earl of Ranfurly ;
then came Morna Mackenzie, from
Scotland, who had just about acquired
the nuances of shade in our social
system when she decided on life
partnership with Phil Ashton. Present
holder of the title is about to enter
the matrimonial ring. Joan Tyler, who
has been for some time private secretary
to the Governor’s lady, last week an-
nounced her engagement to Wing-Com-
mander Richard Henry Shaw, R.A.F., of
Middlesex, England.
For one day in the year at any rate
youth rules the Town Hall. W'hen the
Junior Red Crossers have their exhibi-
tion and pageant the old civic fastness
can thank heaven its foundations are
solid. The youngsters have a glorious
time once the vice-regal party and the
notables flit upstairs for tea in the
Mayoress’s reception rooms. Last Friday
once again the work of these youngsters,
displayed in all its perfection, proved that
for most of the year the members must
be like the good little girl of the rhyme
who “sat under a tree, sewing as long as
her eyes could see.”
Lady Wakehurst opened the ex-
hibition, and little Eleanor Mac-
kinnon, granddaughter of the founder
of the J.R.C., Mrs. Eleanor Mac-
kinnon, handed over the vice-regal
posy. Eleanor this year wore her grand-
mother’s decorations. But, to the regret
of at least one onlooker, there was no
fancy-dress parade. The Mayoress was
smart in a French grey ensemble, and the
mantelpiece in her room was decked with
the brave yellows of autumn. The Riddle
lady, Enid Riddle, whose smooth and
glossy cape was of dyed fitch, the Red
Cross’s Miss Lorimer, Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax and Commandant Da Silva Waugh
were among those who drank tea with
the Governor’s lady.
In their determination to get their Spit-
fire the lads of Scots College evidently
believed themselves to be the Scots that
hae with Wallace bled—the public. At
the gates of the college last Saturday
striplings did the modern Raleigh act,
springing to hand arrivals out of taxis,
and then with bland smiles selling pro-
grammes of the Tartan Fair. Young
Scots in kilt and all collected a silver
coin as folk went in. A budding news-
paper proprietor leaped to sell a copy of
the school paper, while another quietly,
but with Robert Bruce-like determination,
proffered a badge. It was just one of
those occasions. The Tartan Fair to
check the Fiihrer was in full swing.
The lawns on which the gaily-flagged
and -decked front of the house turned a
smiling face were a small canvas town.
Brightly covered stalls and booths housed
treasures, sideshows and even a “fortune-
teller,” described on the placard on
the door as a “story-teller.” A small
donkey cart drawn by a meek neddy
knocked ’em in the Old Kent Road, and
in it beginning Scots were packed by
mothers who then stood waiting and wav-
ing as they made a tour of the fair.
The Old Curiosity Shop had some real
treasures, and the bookstall was packed
two and three deep all afternoon. A
book is as irresistible to your true Scot
as dope to an addict. The boys of the
school were among the ardent collectors.
One clever woman had thought to have
fruit salad on her stall. That and the
fairy floss went big. There was a pipe
band. There was a guard of honor of
cadets in khaki and boys in the Black
Watch tartan. Altogether a spirited and
joyous affair. Knight Donald Cameron
did not do the opening at three o’clock,
but came later. D. I. Mackay Sim said
the words.
Just as this Letter was making another
public appearance Joan Dawson was
making in the Conservatorium her first
appearance since her return from Eng-
land. Joan is a pianist who has spent
the past two years studying at the Royal
College of Music, London. Her pro-
gramme listed a first performance of
Medtner’s Sonate-Idylle, Op. 56, as well
as works by Bach, Beethoven, Chopin
and other great music-writers. The
British Children’s Comforts Fund will
benefit. Photograph by Pat Holmes.
Last Friday Jocelyn Poynter married
her Cedric O’Gorman Hughes at St.
Mary’s Cathedral. White marquisette and
satin formed her wedding-dress. Her veil
of tulle was kept in place by a half-
wreath of gardenias. Prof. J. C. Windeyer
gave the bride away, and Mrs. WimJeyer
helped sister Shirley receive at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club. Others helping to
entertain were Mrs. Leonard " e£ jP’
Jocelyn’s great-aunt, and Mrs.
Hehir, sister of the ’groom, whose father
was Dr. Michael O’Gorman Hughes.
Trunks full of money were collected
by the elephants of Wirth’s Circus, who,
together with the lions, the tigers, the
bears and the monkeys from the same
address, strolled through the city, gather-
ing in silver for the Lord Mayor’s fund,
last Thursday. Britannia rolled along
at the head of the procession in a chariot.
Her trident glittered. Behind her pranced
ladies on white horses. Some of these,
judging by their hats, had come direct
from Mexico. Monkeys on little Shet-
land ponies darted quick, shrewd, friendly
glances at the rows of onlookers who
lined the way of the procession, and
seemed to pass critical remarks to one
another about the human anatomy. Alice,
the celebrity elephant, ended the proces-
sion, and maybe because it was May
Day tried to show by her red and gold
trappings that a merger of Communism
and Capitalism was not impossible.
As the loudspeaker blared forth
an appeal for cash, coins showered
on to the road, and small boys
scrambled to retrieve them from the
tram lines and other roadway chinks, and
hand them to the collectors, some of
whom were Navy lads. One collector,
with a calico bag on a pole, was
appealing for contributions when the
orang-outang, showing decidedly human
propensities, reached out a hairy hand
and tried to filch the moneybag.
Tomorrow night the King George V
Memorial Hospital for mothers and
babies will be opened by Lord Wake-
hurst at a quarter to nine. A reception
will be held at eight, and evening dress,
decorations and all chains of office are
to be worn. The King George V is on
the opposite side of the road from R.P.A.,
of which it is but another blooming.
Every member of the Society of
Women Writers is gnawing the end of
her pen or fiercely staring her type-
writer in the face in the effort to concen-
trate on making money. None of the
members has made a great fortune for
herself. But this time they’re sleuthing
the shekel for the Lord Mayor’s Fund.
A bridge party has been decided on as
the focal point, but the idea is to turn
in a steady stream of silver till the date
of the party, which will be July 15.
David Jones’s in George-street is the spot
decided on. One of the preliminaries, it is
hoped, will be a showing of what may be
called “A Family’s Travelogue.” From
Miss Pat O’Connor came the suggestion of
a “bring-a-gift-and-buy-a-igift” stall on the
appointed afternoon. Vanishing teas and
guessing competitions will enliven the
treasure hunt. Organiser is Nora Kelly,
secretary Mrs. Connie Robertson, treas-
urer Marie Marshall.
Judith Bouwman, president of the
Grail movement in Australia, was killed
in a motor accident on the way to Wagga
to attend the enthronement of Dr.
Henschke. Her charm, her friendliness,
her intellect and spirituality are com-
memorated in a book just brought out
by members of the Grail. Title is The
Call of the King, and contents consist
of stories of Judith Bouwman told by
friends who had come with her from
Holland and by the new friends she had
made here. One fact shines out very
clearly: she was a great leader for good.
Mary Kelly and younger people of
the Polish Relief Fund committee raised
£2OO in less than a year to help the Polish
war effort against Germany. It was a
good effort, but the members have de-
cided to dissolve as a separate group. The
last cheque, sent last Friday, was for
£3O 3s.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 240 of 1941.
BETWEEN AROHA LILY MELLOR Peti-
tioner and
RICHARD ROWLEY MELLOR Respondent.
TO RICHARD ROWLEY MELLOR late of
Sydney in the State aforesaid.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AROHA
LILY MELLOR has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-eighth day of July 1941 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ist day of May, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
H. E. DALE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
10 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
TO CHARLES ERNEST ALLEN formerly of
Wangaratta in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife WINIFRED
IDA ALLEN has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the grounds of desertion.
Unless you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the 15th day of May
1941 the Court may proceed to hear this suit
in your absence. If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file an answer in the said
Office on or before the 28th day of May 1941.
LEWIS WILKS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 408 of 1941.
BETWEEN MAY ELIZABETH SLOANE
Petitioner and
WILLIAM SLOANE Respondent.
TO WILLIAM SLOANE late of Alexandria
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MAY ELIZA-
BETH SLOANE has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and has applied for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twenty-first day of July next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding
Copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-first day of April, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly Hall, 2
York Street, Sydney.
(JL S RB )
TO MARJORIE GRACE YANN formerly of
Taralee West Coast Tasmania Married
Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the Fourteenth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and forty has been issued out of
the Supreme Court of Western Australia citing
you to appear and answer the petition of CLIF-
FORD GEORGE YANN of Westonia in the
State of Western Australia Carpenter praying
for dissolution of marriage IN DEFAULT of
you so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed
to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence therein AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose afore-
said you are within Forty-five days after the
date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia at Perth
and there to enter an appearance in a book
provided for that purpose.
(1.5.) G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, of the firm of MESSRS.
CURRAN & CORSER, of Nos. 37-39 Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
To be advertised —
(a) “The Mercury,” published at Hobart,
Tasmania. One advertisement.
(b) “The Bulletin,” published at Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales. One
advertisement.
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 126 of 1941.
3ETWEEN MARJORIE JOYCE SIRMAN
Petitioner and
ELEMENT NORMAN SIRMAN Respondent.
PO CLEMENT NORMAN SIRMAN late of
Melbourne in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARJORIE
IOYCE SIRMAN has commenced a suit
igainst you in this Honorable Court_ and is
ipplying for a dissolution of marriage on
he grounds of desertion for three years and
ipwards without just cause or excuse AND
FAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
in appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
second day of August One thousand nine hun-
ired and forty-one and in the event of your
lot so doing within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of April,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FRED’K McGUREN, PARK & OWEN,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 47-49 Prmce
Street, Grafton; by their Agents, WILSON,
STEED & CLAPIN, Solicitors, 17 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. _____
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 618 of 1941.
IETWEEN CATHERINE MACDONALD (for-
merly Catherine Begg) Petitioner and
ALEXANDER MACDONALD Respondent
PO ALEXANDER MACDONALD (also
known as ALEXANDER WATSON) late
of William Lane Broken Hill in the State
of New South Wales Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
vIACDONALD has commenced a suit against
mu in this Court and is applying for a disso-
ution of marriage on the grounds that you
lave without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
,erted her and without any such cause or excuse
eft her continuously so deserted during three
mars and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
hat you are required to enter an appearance
o the said suit at the proper office of this
"ourt on or before the First day of August
lext and in the event of your not doing so
vithin the time limited or obtaining further
ime the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
,e heard and determined your absence notwith-
;tanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
nay be had on application to the undersigned
fee of charge. IQ4I
DATED this Second day of May, a. u 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. dUU I ,
Registrar.
A L ROSENTHAL, Solicitor for the Peti-
ioner, 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
M. Andre Brenac’s mission to Mel-
bourne was business, not pleasure, but a
man must eat. Hence a men’s luncheon
at the Oriental for De Gaulle’s delegate,
where other speakers included diehard-for-
the-cause Prof. A. R. Chisholm and Pierre
Mann, an old head on young shoulders.
He’s 18 and M. Brenac’s hon. sec. On
the same day as the luncheon M. Brenac
was given the opportunity of speaking
through a mike to a general public of
tea-drinkers in Myer’s Mural Hall. He was
introduced by chairman J. Legrand, and
other coffee-drinkers present included P.
Rival, F. Gilbert, Ashley Campbell and
R. Armande. Edith Harrhy’s composi-
tion “Arise, O France,” was sung by
Frances Dillon. On the door was Mrs.
D. Whybrow, Australian by marriage,
but French by birth and taste in hats,
and Free French in sentiment. She sold
for the cause at 2s. each France Libre
badges, which are small and neat and
carry the insignia of Joan of Arc.
Realised at last Mrs. J. R. Murphy’s
dream of an R.A.A.F. canteen at No. 1
Recruiting Centre. The canteen was in
working order a few days before its official
opening—for the carpenters were on the
point of departure, the recruits were
hungry as they waited for their various
tests to be concluded, equipment was
ready and so were the volunteers.
Those who arrived for the official cere-
mony found, instead of “This Way”
arrows, Air Force personnel at every
crossroad of the large barnlike building
who gave directions about right and
wrong turnings. One of the lads was
Foster Littlewood, now elevated to the
rank of corporal. Minister for Air Mc-
Ewen made the opening speech. It had
been dated with some time, with a proviso
that he’d be in Melbourne. Also a
speaker was Air-Marshal Williams, who
made several appreciative remarks
about the canteen but let fall a pro-
vocative statement regarding helpers
“chosen with some regard for looks,”
after which the victims didn’t quite know
where they stood. Doubtless the Air-
Marshal meant to be flattering, but the
canteen helpers are by no means confi-
dent about the picture they present in
battleship-grey—even a movie star with
a skin-you-love-to-touch, a perfection
coiffure and eyes to match could never
feel her personality at bubbling-point in
such a drab shade.
Another speaker was the commanding
officer of the centre, Squadron-Leader
Hal Williams (no relation to his prede-
cessor), a tall young man with an agree-
able speaking voice. Among others
present were a nest of air commodores.
As usual, Captain Fred Haig was the
tallest person present. Mrs. J. McEwen
is taking her shift at the canteen among
350 other voluntary helpers on the roster,
some of whom are business girls with
nine-to-five jobs ; they take on canteen
work at night and during week-ends. In
her short address Mrs. Murphy thanked
her assistants for their enthusiasm and
donations—they have paid for canteen
expenses up to date.
A perfect home for a party is Glen-
bervie, in Glenbervie-road, the portals
of which were opened on Saturday even-
ing by Dr. and Mrs. J. A. O’Brien at the
call of Tanks and ’Planes for the Free
French. Mrs. O’Brien has a warm spot
in her heart for the Free French, also
she lends a willing ear to the loyalty of
her friend, Mme. Pohl, who is prominent
in the movement. Speeches were not a
feature of the party, but over the buffet
supper Victorian president Mrs. Alec
Waugh, very slim in a figured gown,
paved the way with a few sentences to
a short address from Pierre Mann, who
thanked all concerned.
Attractions of the party were bridge
and kindred recreations, and the night
was not too chilly for frequent wander-
ing out of doors for liquid refreshments
procurable in a garden setting. Among
those present were a bearded and
Bohemian visitor from Indo-China, Nor-
bert Griffin; also Mrs. Maurice Gibbs
(husband absent through onslaught of
cold) and Peggy Fraser (neither of whom
is scared to speak French in expert com-
pany) and Maida O’Brien, in gown of
turquoise sheer. *
Once again the old stone mansion of
Grong Grong was opened in aid of a
good cause on Saturday evening. Mr.
and Mrs. Tom Smith have lent their
home on many occasions, and will pos-
sibly go on doing so as long as the need
arises. This time it was for the Navy,
and gold braid was prevalent. Proceeds
went to the R.A.N. Relief Fund, and dur-
ing supper there was general satisfaction
over the size of the cheque, the occasion
of a ceremony wherein the Acting First
Naval Member, Commodore John Durn-
ford, received from president of the Navy
Office Committee Captain J. Burnett
£lOOO. The money was raised for the
Relief Fund in various ways over a period
of about a year.
Mrs. Durnford wore white crepe and
Mrs. Burnett midnight blue with neck>
line ornamentations of felt flowers.
Among others who stepped forth to swing
music in the ballroom and who sought
relaxation between times among statuary
and pictures in the various reception-
rooms were Captain and Mrs. Spooner,
Captain and Mrs. Leo Quick, Com-
mander and Mrs. Alec Gould, Reg Col-
lins and, in good fettle, Bill Magennis.
On the door were ticket inspectors Ber-
nadette Smith and Elspeth McKenzie,
two members of a committee of ten girls,
mostly graduates, several of whom work
at the Navy Office. Others present were
Meida Manly, slim and blonde in ivory
satin ; Dorothea Dixon, with exuberant
orchids attached to a gown of sky-blue
organza; Jean Ince, Norma Simpson,
Katherine Gordon, Julia Williams, Sue
Broadhurst and Wilma Courthope (who
comes from Hobart).
Mails from Canada bring news of Air
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Jimmy Goble,
living at Daley-avenue, Ottawa. Mrs.
Goble has been working in a Red Cross
canteen, and she also does an amount of
unpacking and redistribution of com-
forts which arrive regularly for the
R.A.A.F. in Canada. She hasn’t actu-
ally enjoyed a winter when the tempera-
ture often dropped to 20 below, but felt
the cold less than she expected owing to
modifying her own steam-heating system
at home so that the contrast out of doors
was not so great. Among her winter
accessories are ear muffs and anklets —
one never sees an ankle in Canada for
months on end.
Inset from Spencer Shier, Meida
Manly, one of the ticket secretaries of
the Grong Grong dance in aid of the
R.A.N. Relief Fund. Meida, who is the
second daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Richard
Manly, has a job in the Navy Office, and
if all goes well with her one lone subject
will complete an Arts course at the end
of the year.
Peter Rabbit, Brer Rabbit, the Cotton-
tail Family and so on in many guises and
versions are procurable at 47 Queen-
street. The animals would appeal to any
kid, and their colors would meet with
the fussy approval of mothers who like
things to match —toys with the shade of
the nursery walls, the baby’s quilt, etc.
The opening of the shop by the Lady
Mayoress was a step forward in the pro-
gress of the Victorian Society for
Crippled Children. Among wares for
sale are also mice made from wool odd-
ments by a small crippled boy of ten or
thereabouts, weaving, basketware, knitted
goods and an assortment of useful and
decorative craft work. Purchasers may be
assured that the pleasure they get from
anv little gifts or oddments they purchase
at the shop is multiplied many times for
the invalid boys and girls whose handi-
work thus finds a market.
Welfare with a smile emanates from
Sandringham, where also original ideas
are born painlessly whenever required.
Latest effort from the hamlet by the bay
was a Baby Show run by the local branch
of the Children’s Hospital Auxiliaries, of
which Doris Osborn is president and
Maud Clarke hon. sec. Competitors and
their mothers assembled on the lawn ad-
joining the hall, and interest ran high in
such events as Baby in Pushcart, Baby
in Pram and Best Turnout (including
vehicle, infant and mother).
The “Baby who looks most like Win-
ston Churchill” was won by young stal-
wart lan Murray (dad, who went abroad
with the yachtsmen, is now serving in the
Navy). lan also won a prize for the Most
Serious Baby. A satin-and-silk-and-
honey-and-milk babe, Anna Robertson
(her father’s abroad with the A.1.F.),
secured acclamation for resembling
Princess Margaret Rose. Judges were
Sister Arthur, Miss I. Macfarlan, Mrs.
Garnet Leary and the Murdoch lady
(who came down early in the day with
Mrs. Ernest Poolman for the auxiliary
meeting). All • unsuspecting, the infant
showpieces raised £3O for other small
fry, sick and convalescing.
Margot Forge, who isn’t always in such
pensive mood as Dickinson-Monteath’s
camera induced upon her, includes in
her spot of war work housemaid’s duties
at Air Force House and a waitress’s job
at the United Services Cafe. She will
be a waitress also at the Dim Sim do
at the Town Hall on May 16, when
Chinese and near-Chinese foods may be
eaten from noon till 4.30 p.m. The Dim
Sims are helping the Work-to-Win group,
which is concerned particularly with the
welfare of army nurses. The Work-to-
Wins have now reached the stage where
they invite every nurse on her final leave
to call upon them and take delivery of
a knitted pullover, set of cup, saucer and
plate in unbreakable crockery, and a
canvas holdall containing knives, forks
and spoons of quality and appearance
that would not damage the most fastidi-
ous appetite.
Once again with the turn of the year
comes “The Vic.’s” show at the Albert-
street Galleries. As usual, the opening
happened in the evening (but with fewer
black ties and long frocks than in the
past), and concluded according to custom
with the aroma of coffee materialising
into the beverage itself. The Lord Mayor
opened the show with one of his typical
speeches, wherein he refuses to be serious
for one complete sentence. He said with-
out preamble that he wasn’t going to buy
anything, for there were no ships in the
show, and he parried a suggestion about
smaller craft with “eight dinghies don’t
make a ship.”
Among those who came to the opening
were the president, James Quinn, and
Dr. and Mrs. Clive Stephen (the doctor
receives lumps of stone for Christmas
presents with as much pleasure as other
people do cigarettes, for his relaxation is
sculpture). The Val Bloggs were there (Val
being another of Melbourne’s sculptors
with modernistic ideas); also Dr. and Mrs.
S. O. Cowen, Mrs. W. B. Mclnnes and
daughter Jean, who was all smiles and a
starry light in her eyes, for what young
artist wouldn’t look pleased when she
sells a picture in fair competition? The
purchaser of the water-lilies was Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson, who doesn’t believe
in waiting till a painter is dead or has at
least arrived. Among others who studied
the walls with interest were Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Richards and daughter Judy,
Mrs. Richards with satisfactory news of
the Red Cross shop, which in the 11
months of existence shows a profit of
£2900.


THE SERVICE MAN
Campaign Review.
“Ek Dum”: On April 21 the Greek
Government informed the British Gov-
ernment that further sacrifices of the
British Expeditionary Force would be “in
vain,” and advised its withdrawal.
There was no real attempt at an official
picture of what was taking place until
April 30. Then it transpired that the
expeditionary force consisted of 56,000
to 58,000 men, which Mr, Spender de-
clared to include the 6th Division A.1.F.,
with 3000 to 4000 corps troops. A Maori-
land division completed the Anzac Corps,
of which the first headquarters was at
Elassona, covering the southern entrance
to the Sarantaporon Pass, with General
Blarney in command.
The post of honor guarding the exits
of the Monastir Gap, 70 miles further
north below Fiorina and Banitza, was
entrusted to the A.I.F. spearhead brigade,
with the divisional commander, General
Mackay, present. The three Australian
brigadiers were A. S. Allen (16th), S. G.
Savage (17th) and Vasey (19th).
Mr. Churchill said that three-fourths
at least of the force was safely evacu-
ated on April 30 ; Admiral Cunningham
at midnight mentioned 45,000; Cairo
H.Q. said “at least 80 per cent.” An
earlier figure was given by General
Blarney —at least 43,000. General Frey-
berg at the end of the week made a “very
rough estimate” for his M.L. division —-
100 to 200 killed and 500 to 600
wounded.
Mr. Churchill said on April 30;
The R.A.F. was forced to leave its Greek
bases; hence few aircraft covered the em-
barkations. The conduct of the troops,
especially the rearguard, was “worthy of
the highest praise.”
Incessant day-after-day strafing from the
air, combined with attacks by three armored
columns and heavy mechanised forces,
failed to break the discipline of the march-
ing troops.
At times, enemy columns were brought to
a standstill for two days by columns a
fifth of their own strength.
In the actual fighting on the Olympus-
Grevena and Mt. Oeta-Thermopylae lines
about 3000 Empire troops were killed or
wounded. These losses were “only a small
part of the enemy casualties.”
Mr. Churchill admitted that heavy
equipment could not be removed.
Hitler declared in the Reichstag on
May 4 that he had used only one Alpine
division, two armored divisions and his
bodyguard of stormtroopers against
the British Imperial force, and claimed
to have taken over 9000 prisoners. G erman
losses in the Balkans, he asserted, were:
Luftwaffe, 10 officers and 42 other ranks
killed, 36 officers and 104 other ranks
wounded ; land forces, 57 officers and
1042 other ranks killed, 181 officers
and 3271 men wounded, 13 officers and
172 men missing.
The British troops were made up
of an armored brigade, artillery and
specialist supporting troops. Lieut.-
General Maitland Wilson, who controlled
the Libyan advance, was in command
under the Greek General Papagos, who
resigned before the evacuation.
It is no credit to those who advised
the expedition that it ended as well as it
did. Last winter was an abnormal one.
The spring might just as easily have
proved erratic. If there had been no
rain in the north the Germans would
have moved more quickly.
Snow has been known to close the
Metzovo Pass over the Pindus as late
as May. If the Sarantaporon Pass and
other routes to Larissa Plain had been
closed behind the Anzacs —it will be re-
membered that it snowed on the Mace-
donian hills the day the Germans made
contact with them —and the Greeks had
given way earlier, the story of Leonidas’s
army might have been repeated, and only
enough Empire troops have escaped the
bombing or the German prison camps
to tell the tale.
The R.A.F. cannot be blamed for its
“lack of support.” To bring up bombers
to strafe troops, and to carry parachute
troops, guns and light armored vehicles
in huge lumbering Junkers and Condors
is one thing. These types of machines
can be operated from great distances
behind the lines. To provide defence
against them calls for fighters. And a
large number of modern fighters cannot
be operated from just anywhere,
especially when used in protection of
troops against incessant heavy bombing.
They must have aerodromes which have
plenty of landing runs of 1500-yard
length. They must be reasonably adjacent
to the field of action. Under battle con-
ditions a Hurricane or Spitfire can stay
in the air not much more than an hour ;
a long-distance bomber ten times that
period.
At any time the number of aerodromes
in Greece answering the needs of fighters
is limited, especially when fuel is “special
type” and has to be supplied by sea.
Moreover, the main aerial bases near
Athens were too far away at the begin-
ning of the campaign—the furthest point
of penetration of the Empire forces was
well over 200 miles from Athens ; and
the country was remarkably bad for fly-
ing both there and in the Oeta line where
the final stand was made and where the
mountains rise to 8000 ft. Here the R.A.F.
was only 80 miles by air from Athens.
Its base was threatened by advances
towards Corinth which might drive
through to Athens in no time.
On April 29 the Italians occupied
Zante and Cephalonia, islands in the
lonian Sea sheltering the Gulf of
Patras. They are the nearest points in
Greece to Malta. The enemy had pre-
viously occupied Kaiser Wilhelm’s
favorite haunt, Corfu, sadly battered by
savage Italian bombing.
On April 1 the Greek Government
controlled a kingdom of 50,147 square
miles, with a population of 6,200,000. It
also held more than half Albania in
occupation. On May 1 it controlled, with
the help of Britain, the 3235 sq. miles
of Crete, its new headquarters, by grace
of the R.N., the F.A.A., the R.A.F.
and the R.M.M. These four latter in-
stitutions have proved again that, what-
ever happens to Britannia on unaccus-
tomed land, she remains mistress of the
seas.
Sometimes the Old Lady takes a
glancing blow on the point, but nobody
has ever yet knocked her off her paddles
in a matter of seven centuries.
Round Thermopylae.
“Ek Dum”; Little needs to be altered
in the stories of the retreat in B. 30/4/’4l
—the detail merely needs to be filled in.
The furthest-out Australian unit seems
to have been a N. S. Wales battalion,
flung into the hills of Verna on the
Koziani-Salonika road, only 46 miles
from the latter city and over 320 ( miles
by the shortest road from Athens.
When -they were drawn back before
the German rush, these units and others,
hard fighters all, were four days crossing
the Olympus Range by difficult passes and
then had to settle down to hold the
Tyrnovo Gap and Melouna passes.
Elassona, about eight miles away from
this series of river openings from the
mountains to the plain of Larissa, had
been the Anzac Corps headquarters and
had been blasted to pieces. And flank
approaches had to be held to keep the
roads to the plain open for retiring
troops. The fight was about the fiercest
of the campaign.
Germans began filtering in from the
west along the tracks on the headwaters
of the Vistritza, which cleaves through the
mountains west of the main highway over
the Sarantapolon and Melouna passes.
The decision to retire to the Thermopylae-
Oeta line found one N.S.W. brigade
still north of the Vistritza, which drops
down through the centre of Macedonia
like the loop of a child’s skipping-rope,
and Maorilanders were on the south of
the river near Servia, flung across the
ridges at the entrance to the northern
end of the Sarantapolon Pass. Against
the pass Germans were pressing with
heavy bomber formations, but fortunately
without solid artillery support. The
Maorilanders held it stoutly, but in-
filtrations increased in the west towards
Grevena and Kalabaka as the Greek
front buckled and retired under the
enemy’s blows.
The N. S. Wales men fell back on the
east of the line, until the Germans on the
west threatened the line of communi-
cation across'the range. The Hun flung
himself five times against the N. S.
Welshmen, at the cost of much badly-
scythed infantry. The A.I.F. suffered,
but did not break-
The Maorilanders meanwhile had
inched back over Sarantapolon and its
defiles and ledges, and were holding an
1800 ft. ridge where the Melouna Pass to
Larissa begins near the edge of Elassona
Plain and four miles from the abandoned
Corps headquarters.
Now on the plain the N. S. Wales
men kept the right wing. Maori-
landers were in the centre. Victorians
and Westralians were on the west
along the northern fringes of the Larissa-
Trikkala plains, fending off the German
flank movements over the host of con-
verging roads coming in from Trikkala,
Metzovo and Kalabaka.
The main retirement began at night
and went on in the darkness.
The N. S. Welshmen plunged across
the Peneios River and into Larissa, to
find the Germans there. But as they
fought their way in, so they fought their
way out. Part of the brigade flung away
to the e.-s.-e., hoping to reach Volo and
the sea 36 miles away. In the coastal
hills, the tracks are numerous, winding
and dead-ended enough to set a Limmen
bushman weeping with homesickness.
Some of the brigade fought their way
back across the plain ; some found the
coastal road and plugged south; some
remained by the Aigean.
The main body, behind a rearguard,
made its way through the Phurka Pass
and into the valley of the Spercheios.
Then it went along one of the two main
southward roads —either up the foothills
on the west and centre to the flanks of
Mt. Oeta, or down the littoral on
the east of the narrow peninsula be-
tween Corinth Gulf and the Aegean into
the narrow Thermopylae Pass.
Many Anzacs had had 10 days’ con-
tinuous fighting since the battle began
200-odd miles away. They had crossed
two great ranges—one higher and more
weatherbound, more precipiced than the
Snowy River Ranges, the other compar-
able to the Blue Mountains at their worst.
The new line was now established
across the neck of land with an exposed
flank towards the Gulf of Corinth.
The centre and western flanks were in
some of the roughest country in Greece,
covering the road which slips by Bralo
(Mpralo) along the railway to Athens.
Between this and Thermopylae is a tangle
of precipitous gorges making eastward to
merge into the valley of the Asopos
River, which joins the Spercheios, north
of Thermopylae Pass.
The troops in the centre, 2000 feet up
on the Spercheios-Cephissus divide,
could see the Germans racing over the
roads from the north, across Spercheios
River and plain.
The enemy came, spreading out in
armored droves. He landed field guns
and armored vehicles from huge, cor-
rugated Junker freight machines of the
type with which the goldfields of New
Guinea are familiar. His infantry poured
down from Lamia and from the central
road through Phurka Gap.
All round the Anzac positions the
mountains towered above the road which
heaves and tosses over the gorges on
Mt. Oeta’s flank. Oeta itself, on the
north-west, is as high as Kosciusko ; Kiona,
to the west a few miles away, is 8250
feet; Liakura, over 8000 feet, on the south,
marks Parnassus, with Delphi gorges and
the passages to the Gulf of Corinth on
its western edges. East there was the
Saramata, 5000 feet. The forces were
held inside the horseshoe of these heights,
with their ways of escape between them.
Through their lines, the bone-weary rem-
nants of the Athens-bound Greek armies
rattled southward in their trucks into
the plains of Phocis and Eleusis, while
the Anzacs held on. The retreating
stream of Greeks was familiar. Their
retreat had been going on through the
Anzac rearguards ever since Olympus had
been left behind. At Thermopylae a mixed
force, mainly Maorilanders, held the pass,
one battery gaining time by taking its
guns out on the flat and carrying on
without cover.
To the rear of the Australian and
Maoriland lines between Cithaeron and
Oeta is pleasant country. Olive and
vine grow along gently shelving plains
and valleys. It would be ideal for a
march on manoeuvre. But the Germans
made it a ceaseless hell with their un-
stemmed bombing. Bren guns clattered
all day and all night. The Greek and
Anzac and British columns wound back-
ward on creaking wheels, while the
’planes shrieked and thundered overhead.
To the north British artillery pounded
the faces of the two German columns
which were beating their way up the
cliffs and gorges, reaching out with
giant fingers which crooked round to
east and west to enclose respectively the
forces on the Aegean (Thermopylae) and
central peninsula (Bralo) road.
On April 22 the bad news came that
the Germans had broken through the
Greeks on the Yanina front, had made
their way along the Arta road and had
reached Itea, 50-odd miles away from
Bralo and within easy reach of Corinth.
There, close to Delphi, they were only
20 miles off Livadia, 41 miles southward
on the main line of the withdrawal.
By the time they had arrived to
join the western finger of the German
probe from the north, and the eastern
finger had pushed its Alpini into the
Asopos gorges and along the Saramata
faces to outflank the Australians in Ther-
mopylae, by the same route that the Per-
sians outflanked Leonidas, the bulk of
the Anzacs had been filtered in behind
their screen, but at serious cost to the
rearguards. The gutters and springs of
Thermopylae ran blood; so did the
Cephissus ridges.
The Australian anti-tank regiment
guarding the Purnaraki Pass across the
Spercheios-Cephissus watershed left 30 of
its 48 guns at various on Us
Odyssey from the Vistritza, Others,
however, brought back every gun.
By dawn on Anzac Day all main
Anzac troop units had crossed the range
which guards Athens and were on
Corinth road, while rearguards on the
bomb-pitted northern highway held off
Germans from Euboea and Yanina.
The first troops to reach the sea moved
to their final resting spots in Greece at
dawn in motor-trucks. They were the
remnants of two of the N. S. Wales bat-
talions which carried the sulphuretted
stink of Asopos down the pleasant-
scented Corinth road to Megara, which
sits on a dreamy shore overlooking
the Gulf of Angina. They lay in
slit trenches hidden among the olive
groves waiting for boats to take
them off while the columns of the Maori-
landers and other A.I.F. men, mingled
with Greeks, rushed past into Corinthia
and Argolis and Arcadia in the Morea,
speeding up to escape the overwhelming
rush of Germans, who were pouring over
the dam of the Aitolian ranges north-
ward of Corinth Gulf in wide cataracts.
Greece's Dunkirk.
“Ek Dum”: On April 23, the first
troops of the Anzac Corps in Greece
were ready for evacuation. They lay
hidden, sleeping exhausted behind
Megara, the Germans on their heels. The
ship which came to take them, however,
was bombed, and it was decided to move
on to Argos at the end of the Gulf of
Nauplia. That meant crossing the bridge
over the Corinth Canal which cuts
through the isthmus, about three miles
odd in length, joining the waters of the
Gulf of Corinth to the Gulf of Aigina.
The banks of this canal in places rise to
200 ft. above the water. It virtually turns
the Morea into an island. The boys
got off on April 24.
At dawn on Anzac Day, nearly all
Australians and Maorilanders had passed
the last range in Attica within sight of
the Gulf of Corinth, with a Maoriland
brigade to cover the rear.
From Anzac morning onwards, evacua-
tion of troops from the beaches continued
day and night. The days were fortunately
bright, the nights starry. As the con-
voys made their way across the sea, the
ships were rocked with bombs.
The Admiralty communique said that
the R.N. and the R.M.M. took off 13,500
men on the night of April 24-25, 16,000
the next night, 4200 on April 27-28, and
further contingents the following night
again. At midnight, April 30, Admiral
Cunningham gave the number of rescued
as 45,000 troops, together with a large
number of refugees.
Many Anzacs were taken to an island
as the end of the first stage of their
voyage. There the official A.I.F. corre-
spondent saw them stumbling with utter
weariness, their faces grimy with grease,
their beards five days grown. Some were
in bits of sailor’s uniform, some —appar-
ently from bombed ships—had no cover-
ing but their life jackets. They arrived
in everything which could be conceived
as floating, from a longboat to a tanker,
into which their transports decanted them
before hurrying back for further human
cargo.
Under the dirt and the grease and the
weariness they were still laughing. Even
though there were scarcely any blankets,
mouth organs and concertinas had not
been abandoned and Matilda was waltz-
ing and the barrel being rolled out.
About 1000 wounded had the worst
time. There were only five ambulances
on the island, and for three hours 700
men had to lie on the wharf while every-
thing on wheels was requisitioned to
carry them to beds. But they, too, were
cheerful. Five men toiled for hours feed-
ing them. '•
The first 5000 Anzacs arrived at Alex-
andria, cheerful but dirty, in cruisers and
destroyers. Their commander remarked
that these men, who had been fight-
ing continuously for days on land
and some of whom had travelled a
matter of nearly 30 miles a day
for 11 days, holding off a four-to-one
enemy and continually attacked from the
air, were “posted all over the ship,
and enjoyed themselves immensely firing
at the German ’planes with Bren guns.
A number of bombs dropped very near
the ship.” For dive-bombing was


Stout Walking Shoe
A tough, serviceable shoe made in strong
pig grain leather. Heavy double sole and
lock stitched tops, also calf lining in backs.
Made in black or brown, in full and half
sizes, wide fittings. Unsurpassed in quality
and value 37/6
SPECIALLY
PRICED!
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
37/6
PIG GRAINED
incessant. The A.I.F. howled, “Come
on, you blankards ; a little lower, please! ”
A naval officer told his story:
They threw themselves on the deck and
opened fire against dive-bombers with rifles
and machine-guns, or anything at all, while
we gave the Nazis heavy doses of fire.
A batch of 2000 Australians made then-
journey on a Dutch merchantman.
Twelve Stukas appeared. So did some
R.N. destroyers. Nine of the Stukas
left, the rest sank. The nine came back
and dropped a heavy bomb so near that
the ship caught fire and the engineroom
was smashed.
The Aussies lay about the listing decks
taking potshots at the raiders. A de-
stroyer nosed alongside as only a de-
stroyer can in such circumstances. Packed
to the peak, it sidled off, looking from
the distance as if bees had swarmed on
it. It had added 1000 tired soldiers to its
complement of 140 or so. The Dutch
ship had now a considerable list, so the
other half of her passengers climbed to
the port side and continued their fire till
another destroyer arrived. The 2000 men,
their arms and ammunition, together
with the Dutch crew, were rescued. The
destroyers were hull-down on the horizon
as the deserted ark sank \\ hours later.
Another convoy carrying 11,500 men,
many of whom were Dunkirk veterans,
had adventures which had a flavor of
Dunkirk itself, though the old hands de-
clared that at Dunkirk the bombing was
not so bad:
All day long enemy ’planes dropped
magnetic mines into the harbor, bombed
docks, fired a Greek munition ship,
strafed every inch of road, every acre
of adjoining fields, then flew to sea to
meet the incoming armada sent to rescue
the B.E.F.
By the flickering light of the burning
munition ship the Navy handled the embar-
kation with its usual efficiency. We poured
into ships surrounded by warcraft of all
sizes. Cruisers and destroyers protecting
the embarkation twice engaged in duels with
German and Italian dive-bombers in the
open sea The armada drew off just be-
fore dawn.
Three destroyers jammed against a
sinking transport, rescued her men.
Sometimes the men left shore in fishing
boats; sometimes they were flown out to
liners or warships by the Short Sunder-
land flying boats, one of which lifted 85
men in a single trip.
H.M.A.S. Perth arrived off a beach to
find Germans in occupation. The Ger-
mans had reason to wish that they
had not been. There is nothing more
devastating than a cruiser in full blast
against open and unprotected land troops.
On the road from Athens to the coast,
the Stukas dive-bombed 150 Anzac
nurses from a British hospital. Their
scarlet-trimmed grey cloaks advertised
their calling, but no garb is protection
against an enemy which shoots up
creches and old ladies’ homes as a matter
of routine. The nurses moved on to their
landing-place through sheltering corn and
olives. At one point, the attack was so
persistent that they were forced to shelter
until nightfall in a cemetery. They were
rescued by an Australian destroyer,
H.M.A.S, Voyager, all safe.
It took six nights and days to com-
plete the evacuation at all sorts of ports
and beaches from Kalkis on the Euboean
channel to the southern ports of the
Morea. Maorilanders had held the Corinth
Canal Bridge closed against the Germans
to give the ships time. The R.N., not
satisfied with standing guard over main
embarkation centres, scoured the coasts,
from which, piecemeal, they picked up
hundreds of men.
Despite the incessant bombing of ships
and the sinking of or damage to some
carrying heavy cargoes of tired men dur-
ing the 500-mile voyages to Alexandria
or elsewhere, the total casualties at sea
were only about 500. Two destroyers
and four transports—three empty —were
destroyed, according to the Admiralty.
H.M.S. Diamond, one of the destroyers,
rescued troops from a bombed transport
off Nauplia, picking up about 600 with
the help of boats under heavy air attack.
Then she and H.M.S. Wryneck, the other
destroyer, returned to Nauplia to search
for survivors from the transport. Wry-
neck picked up 100, while Diamond sank
the burning hull of the transport with
torpedoes. Afterwards dive-bombers
sank both the gallant little ships. An
attack on a convoy of E-boats failed.
The Germans on May 2 claimed to
have fully occupied the Morea; also,
that no British forces were left on
Grecian soil. Doubtless there are num-
bers who are not prisoners lurking
m the mountains and sheltered by the
Greeks round the beaches.
War in Iraq.
E 1 V- : Iraq’s usurper Govern-
ment under Seyyid Rashid el Gailani,
ormerly Premier, professed to desire *o
continue friendly treaty relations with
.Britain. But simultaneously with the
massing of Russian troops along the
borders of Iran, British imperial troops
were landed at Basra, and they went
north to protect the oilfields at Mosul
(500 miles by air n.-n.-w. near the Turk-
ish and Russian borders) and elsewhere,
and the pipeline to Haifa.
At the end of April a second landing
of troops at Basra was reported. This
was quite in accord with the Anglo-Iraqi
treaty, but the Government professed
that the original landing had been allowed
only as a transit convenience for troops
going to Palestine and demanded that the
first troops leave before the second
landed.
According to early reports Iraqi
mechanised troops had concentrated
round the Habbaniyeh aerodrome, 60
miles west of Bagdad—it is on the way
to Damascus and Haifa —and demanded
of the R.A.F. training commander there
that his operations should be discontinued
in view of Britain’s “breach of the Anglo-
Iraqi treaty.” Habbaniyeh was then
shelled. On Sunday afternoon. May 4,
the German Radio announced that all
stations along the Haifa pipeline in Iraq
had been seized, together with various
aerodromes and railway-junction oil
depots. The Germans also quoted com-
muniques from the Iraqis, who declared
that the fighting at Habbaniyeh had been
successful, and that the British in the
southern area were pressed by Iraqi
troops; those round the docks, airport
and power station at Basra, it was
alleged, had been “surrounded according
to plan.” At Habbaniyeh the Iraqis
claimed to have brought down a Blen-
heim, started many fires and put the
R.A.F. to flight.
London army headquarters denied a
statement that British troops had sur-
rendered, and a further statement from
Berlin that Iraqis had occupied all the
aerodromes of the country denied itself.
Britain holds only two ’dromes in Iraq.
Large British forces are being landed
—some reports say 50,000 men, but that
is doubtful. Fighting actually began on
Friday, and attacks were continued
throughout the week-end by a superior
Iraq force at Habbaniyeh, to which the
R.A.F. is flying reinforcements and sup-
plies, the Euphrates being in flood.
The Iraq attacks were beaten off with-
out difficulty from the unfortified canton-
ments where normally there is only a
British and local ground staff and a few
levies.
At Basra there was a parley at the out-
set. The Iraq commander agreed to with-
draw his troops, was given an extension
of time and was attacked when he made
no further move.
Britain’s steps are stern, as they need
to be, and strong forces are making for
Bagdad, while the Iraqis’ Regent and
his supporters are raising an army in
Trans-Jordania to fight with the British
against the rebel Government.
On Sunday, the R.A.F. destroyed
buildings, workshops, dumps and 22 air-
craft at Moreat Raschid, the chief Iraqi
aerodrome.
The rebels do not matter, nor would
the loss of oil be disastrous in
itself, since supplies are available else-
where and pipeline supplies were long
ago re-routed. A hold on the oilfields,
however, might mean the difference be-
tween defeat and victory to Hitler if he
could find means to get supplies to
Europe, as he could if Turkey gave in
or were conquered. There is now through
railway communication all the way to
Berlin.
The loss of Iraq would bring the war
to the back doors of India, Palestine,
the Red Sea and Egypt. And war
there menaces Australian, M.L. and
Indian air communication with Britain
and with the Mediterranean areas in
which we have troops.
This month in the Tigris and Euphrates
valleys is a period of blinding heat, com-
bined with heavy river rises.
Facing Up in Egypt.
“Ek Dum”: While British forces were
cleaning up the last remnants of the
Italians in Ethiopia, German and Italian
forces crossed the Egyptian border from
Libya on April 26 and occupied Solium
eight miles inside the fence. The advance
came to a standstill in a sandstorm in
which visibility was reduced to a matter
of yards. No attempt was made to
defend Solium, which is only a village
with a primitive breakwater. The Ger-
mans claim to have “inflicted appreciable
losses in the vicinity of Solium.”
On April 29 the main enemy coastal
force had penetrated to five miles east
of Solium, where it was halted by patrol
action, bombing, supply troubles and the
sandstorm. The advance was made in
three columns, one on the coastal road
beyond Solium and two inland on the
escarpment —these are beyond range of
naval fire. Behind, the troops straggle
over 1000 miles to Tripoli, with concen-
trations in Bardia and round Tobruk.
They must be having a trying time with
the temperature approaching its peak and
the khamsin blowing lustily.
One of the inland columns —it was
Italian tried to link hands with the
Solium force on April 29, but a British
regiment caught it on the flank and sent
it reeling with heavy casualties.
Visibility at that stage became worse
and apparently inhibited major operations
on both sides east of the Libyan border.
On May 3 Cairo H.Q. had only a “cat
and mouse” affair to report round
Solium, but there was plenty of activity
to the rear.
The R.A.F. on May 1 announced a
particularly severe raid on troop concen-
trations near Tobruk. The Admiralty
the same day reported successful bomb-
ing of troops and supplies moving along
the coast about 30 miles from Tobruk.
Toward the week-end weather im-
proved. The enemy prepared for a short
advance, and a British sortie gave a Ger-
man forward concentration of 300
vehicles a bad time by taking them in
the rear.
The main fighting, however, took place
round Tobruk, where on May 1 the
enemy began to make determined efforts
to break down the defences. The British
report said that troops in one sector
counter-attacked vigorously after an on-
slaught by 60 enemy tanks, and forced
the enemy back with a loss of 11 tanks
and many casualties. Fighting, they de-
clared on May 4, was proceeding in the
other sectors.
The German story was that the assault
had penetrated deeply till brought to a
standstill by the daring and tenacity of
the A.1.F., but that the British counter-
attacks had failed. The enemy claimed
to have taken hundreds of British
prisoners and silenced some of the fort-
ress guns with bombs.
So far since the withdrawal the balance
has favored Britain. The R.A.F. and the
R. have stood stoutly to their task.
Their combined naval and air raids on
Tripoli did vast damage. The R.A.F. in
April shot down 252 enemy ’planes in the
Mediterranean —a record for the Middle
East since war began ; they included 81
shot down by fighters, 11 by A.A. fire
and 31 destroyed on the ground in the
Libyan-Egyptian border fighting. Pre-
viously, during the advance 749 burnt or
shattered Italian machines had been dis-
covered in Libya.
On May 4 it was announced that the
position in Ethiopia made possible the
rapid transfer of S. African troops to the
Libyan front, where, General Smuts said,
some of the S.A.A.F. already had begun
to operate.
They will be needed. On Sunday the
fight at Tobruk was in its fourth day.
Another 50 German tanks were wrecked.
German ’planes used in Greece were fly-
ing to Africa in batches of 50 or 60. The
British forces at the week-end were con-
tinuing their outflanking raids.
Three A.I.F. casualty lists were issued
last week. The first reported three deaths
from wounds or illness, nine soldiers
missing and five wounded in action —all
from N.S.W. and Victoria. The second
listed five killed and 52 missing; the third,
covering N.S.W., Victoria, Queensland,
S. and Tasmania, had 148 names —seven
killed, 108 missing and believed prisoners
of war and the balance ill or wounded.
That list was the longest so far issued
in this war.
* * * *
South African airmen and soldiers are
arriving on the North African front, their
job in Abyssinia being nearly over. They
and their companions have fought a
grand campaign, but Hitler must have
contemplated with grim satisfaction the
spectacle of such fine forces being de-
voted to the romantic purpose of restor-
ing Haile Silassie to his throne. The
reconquest of Abyssinia can have no
possible effect on the final outcome of
the war. The Eritrean and Somaliland
campaigns are different: they have
already cleared the coast for British —
and American —shipping.
* * * *
Last week, after savage assaults on
Plymouth and Devonport which left
Drake’s old jumping-off place “the most
Blitzed town in Britain,” but unsubdued,
the Luftwaffe attacked Liverpool and the
Merseyside on four consecutive nights.
The raids were marked by the usual
dreadful features of mangled children,
buried girls and burning homes, but the
raiders paid dearly, losing five machines
on Friday night and 16 —over Britain —
on Saturday night.
The R.A.F. continued to hammer Kiel,
Hamburg, Emden, Rotterdam and par-
ticularly Brest, where the bombing has
been so intense that dock workers’ pay
has been raised in compensation. It also
battered parts of Mannheim and Cologne.
It is using a new bomb which is very
destructive. London was scarcely
touched during the week.
* * * *
Institution of American sea patrols to
warn shipping has been followed by a
Presidential order to the Maritime Com-
mission to pool 2,000,000 tons of ships
for “additional aid to the democracies.”
Fifty tankers were requisitioned for ser-
vice in a few days. Vichy reports the
arrival of 26 U.S. ships, loaded with
vehicles and munitions, at Suez.
* * * *
Unexpected reinforcements for the
Tobruk garrison were two Queensland
sappers, who arrived after a trek from
El Abiar, 200 miles to the west. They
had been left behind on demolition work.
Starting for Egypt they met a German
pilot, shot through the chest and an eye,
and piled him on a donkey, but had to
leave him at an Arab village. They found
some rations in a blown-up British truck,
finished them, did a 60-hour famish and
arrived six miles from Tobruk, 16
days out. They waited for night and
sneaked in through the enemy lines, hoist-
ing a white flag at dawn. Their leader
remarked that they had “had so many
close shaves it was hard to remember
them all,” but they expected to be back
at work in a day or two.
* * #
“Nobby II”: H.M. submarine Regent
(Lieut.-Commander P. J. Bartlett) bobbed
up in the Yugoslav port of Kotor on
April 26 in an attempt to take off Ronald
Campbell, the British Minister to Bel-
grade. The commander found Italians in
occupation, but, with his conning-tower
sticking up like Pinchgut out of Sydney
Harbor and his White Ensign floating in
the breeze, he lay in the port for nine
hours, while one of his officers searched
among the enemy legions ashore for the
missing Minister. A couple of Italian
dive-bombers did a little practice on the
boat, slightly wounding its commander,
his first lieutenant and a petty officer. So,
with nothing between her and the open
sea but two minefields guarding the
harbor, half the length of the Adriatic
and a cloud of Stukas, Regent returned
to her base —with an unhappy Italian
hostage on board. Campbell was flown
out under safe conduct in an Italian
’plane via Durazzo.
* * * *
Up to March 31 29,000 Britons had
been killed and 40,000 injured severely
enough to be sent to hospital in air raids
on the U.K.
♦ * * *
Slips are being prepared for laying the
keels of the first of 60 standardised mer-
chant vessels to be constructed on the
recommendation of the Australian Ship-
building Board. Senator Mcßride says
the vessels will “not be rough-up” jobs
—they will form a nucleus for a peace-
time mercantile marine.
* * * *
H.M. Canadian auxiliary cruiser Prince
Robert stopped the U.S. liner President
Garfield 400 miles east of Honolulu, sent
five armed sailors aboard and seized
four German commercial flying men.
This is the first time a U.S. ship has been
stopped in this way during the present
war.


EVERY YARD OF HARRIS TWEED WOVEN BY HAND
Sss
1
HARRIS TWEED
BECAUSE of its pure wool content, its sturdy strength and hard-wearing
qualities, Harris Tweed is particularly suited to present-day conditions.
Apart from considerations of utility and economy the wide range of colours
and bright designs now available makes Harris Tweed most attractive.
There need be no misgivings as to the genuineness of Harris Tweed. The
Harris Tweed Trade Mark has been registered by order of the Board of Trade.
All tweed which bears this mark is made to-day in
exactly the same way as before the War. It is a definite
assurance that the tweed has been made entirely in
the Outer Hebrides, the home of Harris Tweed,
from pure Scottish wool and has been at
the homes of the islanders.
In the case of garments the label of the Harris Tweed
Association is a guarantee that the garment has been
made from stamped Harris Tweed.
There is only one place in the world
where Harris Tweeds are made, the
Outer Hebrides, those lonely wind-swept
Islands on the West of Scotland. Here,
hand-weaving has been carried on for
centuries ... an art handed down from
generation to generation.
LOOK FOR THE MARK ON THE CLOTH
LOOK FOR THE LABEL ON THE GARMENT
m
Issued by The Harris Tweed Association Ltd., 5 Coleman Street, London, E.C.2
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
„ T T /Chairman) ■ W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
Directors— James too-JS., <gJ™ Wl >; a. Jolly Kg, C.M.O.
General Melbourne Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
With offices at London, Canberra, Melb , bJ, ew y gQuth w also representation
Offices in Queensland and Northern mve Austr alasia and the World, this
Suffers 6 the 31 for the transaction oi all general banking businejs^
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Young man, just 20, five years’ Bulletin
experience, seeks position as artist or journalist
on newspaper. Refs. — 1274.
Dentist, skilled operator mechanics, accus-
tomed sole charge busy practice, desires posi-
tion Brisbane. Consider future succession.
Refs.—l 277.
Retired civil servant desires clerical position;
holds higher-grade certificate economics and
social science.—lo 62.
To buy music for two pianos: Grieg’s Con-
certo in A Minor, also Saint-Saens’s Concerto
in G Minor, or similar music.—l27B.
Information Sought.
How can I qualify as an A-grade clerk
{municipal employment) ? —9566.
Obtain from the N.S.W. JLocal Government
Department past examination papers in connec-
tion with local clerks’ and shire clerks’ exami-
nations. The “first-year” examination is de-
voted to general education and bookkeeping,
and the full examination is a very searching
test of accountancy and clerical abilities. Posi-
tions are few and far between, but war con-
ditions may alter things. Sydney Technical
College might help you to get what training
is required.
$ H: $ «
What are the regulations governing the entry
into and settlement in the U.S.A. of an Aus-
tralian ( Australian-born ) ? I understand there
is an immigration waiting list; also that you
have to have a certain amount of money to
land. What constitutes a “student” who is
allowed to remain in the U.S.A. six months? —
9790.
The regulations under reference are too de-
tailed for discussion here, since they are based
upon a number of Acts of Congress. Com-
municate with the Consulate-General of the
U.S.A., Sydney. Consular officers of the
United States are empowered, under the Im-
migration Act of 1924, to issue the appropriate
visas to persons who are deemed to be admis-
sible to the U.S.A. upon examination of all per-
tinent facts.
* * * *
I have plans for a ’plane which has been
flown in America. If I build this ’plane, what
certificates are necessary before I can fly it, and
what will they cost? — 9751.
Unless built for the purpose of experiment,
precluding it from being flown further than
three miles from a licensed aerodrome, the
plans must conform to the provisions of the
Air Navigation Regulations. Requirements are
set out in full in Air Publication No. 1208,
Airworthiness Handbook for Civil Aircraft,
obtainable from leading booksellers. Full
working drawings and complete stress analysis,
together with full technical information on
which the stress analysis is based, must be sub-
mitted to the Department of Civil Aviation.
Cannot estimate cost
**' * *
Particulars of a polish suitable for trays made
a j three-ply with woven cane sides and handles?
jq7l.
Q ne Q £ £ be simplest and best polishes for
three-ply and cane furniture (provided the wood
is dry and clean) is pure raw linseed oil. Used
on new oak furniture from the first and polished
with fluffless . rag or pad such a Polish and
* one given in a few weeks that it will thence-
forward need only occasional reviving. To
m ake the wood darker and give it a rich waxy
2° z -„s"‘"8» she !i ac j" »■>? pi;;
methylated spirit, add 2oz. resin, stand jar or
bottle ' n 'J 1 ? 1 wate T ai ?d s h a ke occasionally,
Apply as before and mb well in.
*‘. T , ,
Recipe for crystallising pineapple and paw-
P a ™ ?— lO3O. .
To crystallise pineapple, peel one large pine,
weigh, and allow equal weight in sugar. Slice
fruit, place in a dish, sprinkle with half the
sugar and leave 24 hours. Remove fruit, and
to the juice add rest of sugar and *-pmt water
to each pound of sugar. Boil gently for 10
minutes, add fruit and boil for two minutes.
Turn all into a clean dish, leave for two days,
then boil the syrup again and pour it over the
fruit. Next day boil syrup again, and once
more, when boiling, add the fruit and boil
five minutes. Leave fruit in syrup for 24
hours, spread on trays and dry in sun or in
cool_ oven. Sprinkle with fine sugar and keep
turning till dry. Crystallising pawpaw seems to
be a secret process, but experimenting m dry
sugar seems worth while. Write 9° Queensland
Fruit Expert, Department of Agriculture, bns-
bane.
. , , . w , ,
Method of renovating a steel bathtub that has
become rusty ?- —9747.
Scour first with steel wool or coarse sand-
paper. After that scrub well with hot water
and washing soda, rinse well and when bone-
dry apply a coat of flat white paint. Leave
first coat to dry for at least two days, then go
over surface with fine glasspaper; give a second
coat and leave for a week. Dust bath out and
apply a third coat of bath enamel of the best
quality procurable.
v * * *
What type of soil is suitable for tobacco-
growing?—lo39.
A light, friable sandy loam is most suit-
able for a good-quality tobacco giving desired
aroma, texture and color. The plant is, how-
ever, easily affected by climate and by chemical
or mechanical conditions of the soil. Usually
bright-colored tobacco is produced on light-
colored soils and dark leaf on dark soils.
Presence of clay has a marked influence, and
a proportion of eight to ten parts sand to one
part clay is most likely to produce bright or
yellow tobacco. Large proportions of clay will
produce a dark curing tobacco. Subsoil should
underlie the soil at a depth of 12in. to 18in.,
and it should contain a larger proportion of
clay than the soil above. When subsoil is too
near the surface, the tobacco is inclined to cure
out dark. On the other hand, it should not
lie too deep, as the sandy nature of the soil may
allow moisture to get beyond reach of the
plants, and they would suffer in the event of
a dry spell. In new localities suitability of
local and climatic influences should be deter-
mined by experiment before large-scale growing
is attempted. The land should be well drained
and as free as possible from weeds.
* * • *
Method of getting rid of fleas in a lawn
without killing the grass? —9972.
Take ilb. hard soap, shredded, and one
gallon of water. Boil these together, and while
hot add two gallons of kerosene and stir.
This is the stock emulsion and one part of this
is mixed with nine parts of water. If this be
thoroughly atomised over the lawn it will kill
fleas without harming the lawn.
# * * *
Any general rules which may be followed to
make a success of glueing operations ? —1059.
The C.5.1.R., in a booklet on glueing prac-
tice, gives a set of rules; Weigh the glue and
measure the water. Soak glue well before heat-
ing. Use a clean sterile pan for mixing and
also use clean cold water. Warm up and stir
well till all is melted. Temperature should
not exceed 160 deg. F. Then turn down the
steam till the temperature falls below 140 deg. F.
Don’t fill the pots, but add more soaked glue
from time to time. Arrange in the afternoon
that the pots are empty or nearly empty at
the end of the day’s work. Clean out the pots
and wash with boiling water ready for the next
day’s melt. Throw away the old glue or use
it up where strength is of no importance. If
you need a higher temperature so as to spread
the glue over a large surface without it chilling
too quickly, heat in a separate bath just be-
fore use. Do not use too viscous a mixture.
Add more water so that you can keep the tem-
perature down. Finally, have a thermometer
in the heating bath and use it. Don’t treat
it as an ornament, it is the most essential part
of a mixing plant.
» * * *
Cause of footrot in cattle? —los3.
The disease is due to organisms gaining
entrance to the animal’s tissues in the vicinity
of the feet. The chief factor in allowing the
entrance of these organisms is moisture, gener-
ally mud. Also anything in the way of pieces
of stone, brick or wood which tends to injure
the softened hoof or skin will help. What-
ever the actual cause the condition produced
is the same—inflammation of the tissues in
the vicinity of the foot followed by such com-
plications as necrosis, gangrene and ankylosis.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: You say your fox terrier bitch refuses
to eat raw meat, and chews wood, but do not
say how she is fed. Probably improper feed-
ing and lor worm s are the causes of the trouble.
Try slightly grilling raw beef and have the
bitch properly treated for worms... .A.N.: (1)
The manufacturers state that the preparation
is used to produce an antiseptic and shrink-
ing action in cases of congestion of the mucous
membranes, particularly those of the nasal pas-
sages. It is said to promote ventilation and
drainage, so relieving the symptoms of acute
coryza, allergic rhinitis and nasal and sinus in-
fections. (2) Don’t like prescribing throat
sprays S.L.: The Registrar of the Univer-
sity of Sydney or the secretary of the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, should be able
to supply information concerning instruction
in dietetics. W.A. University authorities also
may be able to advise y0u.... A.D.R.: Further
information is necessary as to the cause and
nature of the hyperacidity before expressing an
opinion. An examination of renal function is
indicated; high acidity is not, of itself, a dis-
ease... .F.C.: The condition is most probably
due to certain changes in the middle ear and
in the auditory nerves, very likely accompanied
by a rise in blood pressure. Advisable to con-
sult an ear specialist... .J.M.: The question is
not merely one of changing the diet in a hap-
hazard way, but of undergoing medical exami-
nation to determine whether the case is merely
one of dyspepsia or something more serious.
H.S.: The condition is almost certainly
an inguinal hernia, for which a surgical opera-
tion is the best treatment W.A.N.: (1)
N.S.W.—No duty payable on estates under
£5OO nor on amounts between £5OO-£lOOO pass-
ing to widow and children under 21. Common-
wealth. —No duty payable on estates under £2OOO
passing to widow, children and grandchildren.
Duty is arrived at by a percentage scale rising
with the value of the estate. (2) 8 p.c. a year
on amount of tax F.T.: You are over age
for consideration for naval service, as the age
limit is 25 C.T.M.; Color Mixing and Paint
Work, by D. F. Cary, 4s. 3d., from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney A.E.G.: Vaccari’s
Japanese Conversation Grammar, obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .J.W.P.:
The standard book on the subject is lon L.
Idriess’s Prospecting for Gold, 5s D.M.:
Application for employment in the naumtions
industry may be made personally or in writing
to the Officer-in-Charge, Munitions Employ-
ment Office, 132 George-street North, Sydney.
.. A.E.C.: Books on the cultivation and im-
provement of carnations are unavailable. Write
to Anderson and Co., 399 George-street, Syd-
ney, and Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-
street, Sydney, for advice A.M.K.:
questions either to the headmaster ot the
Grafton Public School or to the inspector ot
schools at Grafton... .H.C.D.: (1) Apparently
you made no claim before 1928. The Austra-
lian Soldiers’ Repatriation Act provides that
claims for pensions must be made not more
than six months after discharge except wheie
the Commissioner is satisfied that failure to
make the claim within the prescribed period
was owing to some reason which in the opinion
of the Commissioner is adequate, but in such
cases arrears of pension shall not be granted
for any period exceeding six months. Don t
think it will be successful, but no harm can
be done by making a claim- (2) The same Act
provides that the Appeal Tribunal shall hear
appeals from the refusal of the Commission
to grant a pension, and if the appellant
makes out a prima facie case in support qt
his claim that the incapacity from which he is
suffering was caused or aggravated by war ser-
vice the onus of proof that such incapacity was
not in fact so caused or aggravated lies with
the Commission. (3) Rates have been changed
from time to time. Schedule may be obtained
from Repatriation Commission. (4) Write to
Commission, making claim... .A. 8.: Public
halls are liable for rating, and no exemptions
are provided by the N. S. Wales Local Gov-
ernment Act....P.H.: (1) and (2) N 0.....
B 45: Cannot express an opinion without full
details of each individual case.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
A.L.:
Blue skies of Australia,
The morn it shall be free;
The cause is not of alia,
Arise, ye sons of liberty.
L.P.T.: And who did “stab Lady Mul-
daney through the alimentary canal with a
blunt paper knife”?... .T.R.D.; Try it on a
flapper mag H.T.: “Reflections of the
Ghost of Captain Cook” rather muddy....
H.R.D.; “This, at least, has the merit of being
patriotic.” Agreed, but it needs more than that
to get into print... .S.P.D.: An old, old plot
in an old, old style... .G.G.K.: Poe could get
away with that sort of stuff. Your efforts are
merely vulgar... .H.T.S.: Found “Oxford
Bags” patchy, threadbare and colorless....
E.H.: Don’t like plots borrowed from comic
strips R. 0.; One p.c. Wodehouse, 99 p.c.
water J.F.: All your heroes seem to be
afflicted with aural delusions... .E.W.C.: Hor-
nung used that notion in one of his Raffles
stories... .J.P.: Stories about identical twins
have to be a lot more original than that....
D.W.: Not even a par... .C.1.C.; Flat and
rambling H.N.8.: “These are the men
whom who hath joined who no man can put
asunder.” Who is the who whom whom, who
and who refer t0?....J.F.: Laborious
Manuscripts of novels are not wanted by
The Bulletin other than as entries for the
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize. Closing date
is June 6.
G.C.8.: “A-pant”? Try elsewhere.
. ...M.L.8.; Still can’t see that Steve is very
funny... .M.W.: Call again... .C.M.: Weak.
J.S.; Just a flicker C.R.J.: You’re send-
ing them to the wrong address... .M.F.MacK.:
Trivial... .N.C.: Don’t want plays of any kind.
E.M.: Not up P.M.C.: Can’t stand
“foul Neapolitan oaths”... .J.R.; It makes
heavy going... .R.F.C.: Might make a par.....
S.W.: Dull 8.N.: Less of the “apologia”
and more of the story might have helped it in.
G.W.: It moves too feebly... .R.M.H.:
Good old bellerdrammer... .P.G.: They’re
undernourished... .R.McC.: Don’t want those
confidences... .J.H.: You can’t “vaticinate’
here R.S.W.: Give it a chance elsewhere.
... .N.C.: A feeble fable D.J.8.: You’ve
a long, hard road to travel... .S.A.K.: We
couldn’t stand the fellow with the garlic either.
T.I.P.: Might suit the “Kiddies’ Corner.’
A.F.C.: Slapstick humor adorning a theme
borrowed from H. G. Wells... .F. 8.: Dialogue
unconvincing, but call again.... C.A.McL.:
Dropped a salty tear on it and sent it home.
O.W.; It doesn’t make a story....
K.J.McK.: Takes an hour to pass a given
point G.C.8.: If you get like that on ice-
cream, Heaven knows what you’d do on a
Tom and Jerry Ringsider: What’s an
“errant proboscide,” anyhow? ... .E.M.: It has
a good moral, but nothing else 8.A.:
Too tender and precious for this hard world.
C.A.H.: Cheap melodrama on an overseas
pattern C.M.L.: Very firmly—No!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
The manufacturers claim that the preparation
R.D.: This must be Old Gag Reunion Week.
M.B.T.: The lady’s forearm looks like a
gnarled log Bill: Rougher than a wire-
haired terrier’s coat... .E.S.L.: A bunch of
waxwork figures apparently caught blowing up
balloons with writing on ’em C.J.E.: If the
small girl’s figure was in proportion to her face
she’d have a chassis bigger than Goring’s....
A.G.J.: Might be able to unload it as a design
for a frieze G.S.M.: Your wooden railway
porter suffers from dry-brush rot JL- :
One of the most venerable of all Hibernian
jol^ es M.M.: Those horse-faced women left
champing on the doorstep A.G.R.: Is it the
interior of a cathedral or an early woodcut or
Footscray? P.M.: Might raise a doubtful
smile at a Methodist synod F.L.: Away
with those tangled dwarfs! G.E.: The com-
missionaire—or is he a colonel? —is addressing
the ground approximately 40 yards from the
lopsided soldier in front of him.


BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
{Doctors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness
Price 10/6, Write TO-DAY.
MEN!
T.JONES 6 CO.
B 21
CLAN 0
TOM 1C
CIIJE.MISI, 319 George Street, Sydney.
Australia never stood
in greater need of all
that her neople can do and GIVE
Warfare is not the province of the armed services alone;
the manufacturer, the financier, the workers in the offices, factories,
and on the farms, are all in this fight. The task of maintaining our
heritage of liberty and freedom of preserving the Australian way of
fife falls upon each and every one of us. Under Hitler, work can
be enforced, money can be demanded and taken to the complete exclusion
of personal considerations. Under our conditions of living, the individual
is largely free to do and to give. Preserve this right, maintain our
democratic institutions, our freedom of speech and association, by
subscribing as much as you can to the War Loan.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Subscriptions received at any of the Bank's branches .
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Passed over in Brisbane at 79, A. J.
Cotton, in his day one of Australia’s
oiggest and most enterprising pastoralists.
A Channel Islander, he went to sea as
a youngster in sail and carried the salt-
water tang with him ever after. At 20
he came ashore to become a jackeroo
on Yaleroi station (N.S.W.), took up
droving later, and while still under 30
bought and sold a dozen more runs,
including Canobie in the Gulf country
(at a profit of £50,000 cash), and leased
Brunette Downs (N.T.). His record
of 53,000 cattle on the road at
one time still holds. A keen yachts-
man, Cotton won both the Laun-
ceston and Hobart Cups while living for
a period in Tasmania after his retire-
ment in 1910, and before that had
voyaged in small craft along the whole
length of the Barrier Reef. One of
Queensland’s pioneer motorists, he de-
signed a car for outback use, fitting it
in proper seamanlike fashion with a
couple of anchors and cables and a ser-
viceable winch for getting through creeks.
“Philp”: Cotton was a nephew of
Sir Richmond Cotton, Lud Mayor
of London in 1875-76. He had
the distinction of being the only
man to have a set of Commonwealth
regulations named after him —the
Cotton Ordinance, by virtue of which he
undertook to add £60,000 worth of im-
provements to Brunette Downs in order
to get an extension of the lease. Inciden-
tally, Brunette today, with its low red
homestead surrounded by hedge, its wire-
less equipment, its landing-ground foi
’planes and its 10,000 square miles of
cattle country, is one of the finest stations
on the Barkly Tableland.
* * * *
“Parap”: There’ll be lamenting in
Darwin industrial circles if Bob Antony
is forbidden to return by the southern
specialist he is consulting about his health.
Antony struck Darwin in 1919 to work
for Vestey’s. He left for Westralia in 1922
but came back in 1926 to try his hand at
cotton-growing. There being nothing in
it, he joined the railway staff, and has
been on it ever since. Bob remembers
the fight for political representation when
several people went to gaol in support of
the “no-vote, no-tax” motto, and has
written voluminous letters to Darwin’s
“Northern Standard.”
# sj: ♦ ♦
“W. Anthony Sykes, Esq.” : I’m pleased
to note that old friend Locke, Superin-
tendent of the Brisbane prison, is re-
tiring from active toil. If I remember
rightly he joined the prison service about
the time I admonished my first wife be-
hind the ear with an empty ; about 1907,
I think. I saw him often after that. Just
after I reprimanded Butch Baily with a
piece of hosepipe I was gratified to see
that “Lockie” had been appointed Chief
Warden; somewhere in 1927, I think.
Then, about the time I patted my second
missus in the phiz with a flatiron —in
1939, I think —I was delighted to find
that he had been advanced to Acting
Superintendent, and my joy knew no
bounds when he was appointed Superin-
tendent a couple of months later.
“Lockie” and I succeeded for the same
reason —we both applied ourselves dili-
gently to our duty and knew all there
was to know about our respective pro-
fessions.
* * * *
“Dip”: A Brisbane P.M. held an
emergency sitting of the police court at
6.35 a.m. to deal with a ship’s steward
who was charged with lifting a couple
of ashtrays from a taxi. The steward
pleaded guilty, was convicted without
punishment and hurried off to his ship ;
and the magistrate turned his thoughts to
bacon and eggs. It reminds me of a
legend of a small Westralian mining
town, passed down from the days when
the place had been too small to boast a
lockup. In those days offenders who
“went quietly” were taken to the copper’s
home and provided with a stretcher on
the verandah and whatever food was
necessary until the J.P. was avail-
able —generally a matter of a few hours.
Rebellious lawbreakers were, however,
handcuffed to an iron staple driven
solidly through a massive whitegum log
in a shed. One hectic night the John found
his hands full with four intoxicated and
recalcitrant miners, who were almost
ready to shed blood before they would
be separated from the pub. With the
assistance of Bung and his chucker-outs,
however, the lawbreakers were trans-
ported 50 yards or so to the log, hand-
cuffed to it and left to their rather noisy
and abusive thoughts, while the copper
proceeded with other duties. Next morn-
ing the shed was empty, but a search
revealed four repentant and good-natured
miscreants, complete with log, at the back
of the pub, where Bung was doling out
his cure for hangovers,
* * * *
“Lid”: I am repeatedly amazed at the
wavs in which prospective recruits are
nJrmmimr obstacles to enlistment A
overcoming obstacles to enlistment.
sexton at a N. Queensland cemetery was
required to learn Morse before being
accepted by the R.A.A.F. In a camp of
unemployed he found an ex-Indian Army
man who was an expert in the dot-dash
business, and he received an hour’s
instruction every day in return for a
meal. It became three meals a day even-
tually, but the sexton got what he wanted
and was accepted,
* * * *
“Creswell”: The new basic wage for
Darwin is £4 10s. 9d. p.w., plus 4s.
“adjustment,” ss. rent allowance, 3s. load-
j ng anc j jq s S p ec ial or tropical allowance,
un i on s are not satisfied. Their main
grow ls, however, are on subjects like
housing and rents and green vegetables,
anc f those matters cannot be adjusted by
i ncrea sing the basic wage. Regarding
ren ts, the Arbitration Court said:
These matters are outside the control of
the Court, which, so far as the shortage
of houses is concerned, can only draw
attention to the deplorable conditions under
which some of the families, including
children, are living, in the hope that the
proper authorities will take the necessary
steps to remedy the position,
Housing conditions in Darwin are deplor-
able, and the proper authoiities aic
dashed slow in remedying them.


IMPROVE YOUR WINTER PRODUCTION WITH
c Tic- CM.- CL
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
Tri-cal-os supplies calcium and phosphorus in the form which stock
most easily digests and assimilates. Regular feeding of Tri-cal-os
prevents deficiency diseases and bone troubles, increases the milk yield,
ensures early maturity and maintains good all-round condition. Con-
taining over 70% tricalcic phosphate, Tri-cal-os has a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid, and 40% lime.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from —>
Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box 4058, Melbourne;
G.P.O. Box 758 K, Brisbane; G.P.O. Box 712 F, Adelaide; G.P.O. Box 588, Perth.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
m
o
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
RECOMMENDED FOR LAMB-MARKING
A preparation compounded exclusively from
eucalyptus oils and their by-products.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
— , A m n nr N OTv
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St.. BRISBANE. Q’IAND.
w. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-31 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE. N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH. WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A Lesson for Sheepmen.
“Ghanam”: Those N. S. Wales graziers
who voted the other day for the removal
of the export embargo on merino rams
should find much of interest in a story
of the rubber industry.
The rubber tree is a South American
native. It grew wild there in widely-
separated trees, much like kurrajong does
here. An Englishman, Wickham, took
it to Malaya and established it there in
cultivations. The modern rubber tree
is a monument to British grafting and
agricultural skill and patience as the
Australian merino is to the same qualities
in Australians. The Malayan and East
Indian planters acquired what was
virtually a world monopoly. The wild-
tree industry of South America died
under the competition. Then Henry
Ford took a hand.
He acquired a few thousand plants of
the best varieties from Malaya. The
Brazilian Government co-operated with
him in making large tracts of land avail-
able. Too late the Malayan and East
Indian men saw what was happening
and prohibited export of rubber trees
and seedlings. Now there are 3,000,000
trees well advanced in Brazil. They are
grafted from the best Malayan varieties.
The first commercial rubber will be pro-
duced in 1943. The plantations should
be in full production by 1948.
The Ford plantation is, of course, a
small thing in the world of rubber ; but
if the experiment is successful, as looks
likely, Brazil will again become a rubber
country, and Uncle Sam will draw the
greatest part of his supplies from there.
“Yellows” in Sheep.
“Bungaree”; The disease, once con-
fined to districts bordering the Murray,
has recently been reported from N.S.W.
s.-w. districts and also from the central
west, while many deaths have occurred
in the Riverina. Victims show a dopiness
when handled or driven: the skin and
particularly the mucous membranes of
eyes and mouth are unmistakably yellow
—hence the name toxjemic jaundice.
Crossbred sheep and British breeds are
most affected; merinos least. Several
outbreaks recently occurred on properties
carrying a variety of breeds, including
merinos, comebacks, Corriedales, Corrie-
dale-Romney cross and Romneys. Prac-
tically all the losses were among the
Romneys, with a few in the Romney
crosses; Corriedales and finer-woolled
breeds were unaffected.
The cause of the disease is still un-
known, nor is there any known cure. It
is not always fatal, and sheep may re-
cover on being moved to a fresh
paddock.
One fact which has emerged is that
yarding or shedding of sheep for a num-
ber of hours will hasten mortality or
even cause losses that might have been
avoided. Sheep shedded overnight for
crutching or penned up in saleyards have
died in large numbers.
Post-mortems on the livers of these
sheep disclosed overlarge quantities of
copper. Efforts to connect “yellows”
with overdoses of copper sulphate and
with the treatment of footrot with blue-
stone or with the broadcasting of blue-
stone on swamps to kill fluke snails have
failed; nor has the reason been dis-
covered why strong-woolled crossbreds
should be most susceptible.
In the meantime the only recommen-
dation that can be given is to move
affected mobs into a fresh paddock and
to burn all carcasses.
Exports and Prices.
“Ghanam”: The Commonwealth ban
on the killing of export baconers and
fat lambs came into force on April 21
and resulted as was expected (B.
16/4/’4l). The week before the stoppage
—it is to continue till July 31 —Sydney’s
Flemington market was packed with
stock which naturally seemed to presage
“Git t’ blazes with that ferret!”
a weakening of the market. And a
weakening of the market usually means
a further rush by growers to get in while
the going is good.
Growers could keep the lamb market
fairly stable if they held back and sent
to sale cautiously, but if there is a rush
graziers will pay heavily, particularly if
there also happens to be an extra inflow
of beef.
Pork producers already have been hit,
not so much because there has been a
rush to sell as because of stocks already
held by factories.
Porker pork can still be exported, but
the British Government is at liberty to
hold up export at any moment, though
the Commonwealth Government has
asked for adequate notice.
Lucerne and Cows.
J. O’Donoghue has proved
that dairying can be made to pay on a
wheat farm. He is on red loam and
heavy clay loam near Yerong Creek
(N.S.W.) and stuck to wheat until about
seven years ago, when cows were taken
on as a sideline.
He has over 30 cows now, and average
annual production per cow is 3501 b. of
butterfat. Good bulls, testing and cull-
ing, and supplementary feeding all had
a hand in this result; so did lucerne, the
herd’s main green feed.
There are 120 acres of it, and another
100 are being prepared for a new stand
to replace old ones. O’Donoghue ploughs
in March or April and works up a con-
solidated seedbed for spring sowing, using
a disc drill and shoving the seed well
down. The stands are regularly reno-
vated and topdressed with 1001 b. of
super, an acre. Sheep are not allowed
at it, O’Donoghue believing that they
eat right into the crown and weaken the
plants. The sheep get it as hay —one or
two cuts every year at the rate of about
i-ton of baled to the acre. During the
drought there was hay for lambing ewes
and a 98 per cent, marking was obtained.
Poisoning Brigalow.
“Mustard”: The cleaning up of thou-
sands of acres of first-class country in
S. Queensland and parts of N.S.W. which
have been rendered useless by thick
growth of low brigalow has been made
possible by use of an arsenic pentoxide
spray. T. Eley, of Sherwood, The Gums
(Q.), killed off approximately 10,000 acres
of the brigalow in this way.
The mixture is ylb. arsenic pentoxide
to a gallon of water. Where water is
handy two men with a spray-jet-fitted
jetting plant can do from 25 to 30 acres
a day of fairly dense suckers averaging
about 4ft. high. Using a knapsack spray
it is possible for one man to do about
four acres per day. Immediately after
use the jetting plant should be washed
and a little kerosene or old oil pumped
through it.
From 75 p.c. to a complete kill can
be expected from the first spraying. Fol-
low with another spraying if necessary.
Although the best results have been
obtained in suckers averaging about 4ft.,
suckers eight feet and over have been
killed.
Sheep have eaten recently-poisoned
suckers without any ill effects, but it is
safest to keep them away.
#
Large-scale Land-clearing.
“J. Want”: Maoriland farmers are
well up-to-date with the best modern
methods. A southern King country
district council has just scored by roping
in the Public Works Department with
its heavy bulldozers, tractors and other
plant to clear land which could not
otherwise have been handled economically
in a generation of elephants.
Last July a start was made with two
96-h.p. bulldozers and tractors, which
were made available to farmers at £2
per hour. Four-foot stumps were pushed
out like fencing posts. Logs which no
farm plant could have handled in one
piece were rolled into gullies. Some land
was stumped at a cost of £1 7s. per acre,
and some of the harder patches were
cleaned up completely and the timber
and stumps laid out in neat windrows
for £5 per acre.
Normal cost in this type of country
would be £lO to £l5.
There seems to be big scope for the
heavy plant in farm work. In dry spots
particularly, a bulldozer could do a lot
for water conservation, clearing up water-
ways choked with debris.
In some of the tangled rivers of western
Queensland a heavy plant should have
no difficulty in gouging out a lot of
necessary waterholes where they are most
needed, and in clearing channels which
now are clogged with rubbish.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: In several N.S.W. districts
foot-abscess, a non-contagious type of
footrot, has broken out in many flocks,
but fortunately the percentage of sheep
affected is small. The trouble may be
due to the penetration of grass-seeds into
the more tender parts above the hoofs,
or of sheep being put on hard ground
after running in soft and boggy paddocks,
It might also be the natural outcome
of grazing on rich pastures following
heavy rain. Sheep affected are easily
noticed. They become acutely lame and
spend most of their time lying down,
The abscess should be lanced with a well-
sterilised instrument, the opening made
large enough to permit of good draining,
A weak antiseptic solution should be
applied and the sheep kept in hand until
the wounds have healed,
“Mullengah”: See that the piggery is
snug and cosy for winter. Have feeding
floors clean. Make sure that drainage
j s good, and fill in all mud holes and
wallows. Repair cracks in floors, lower
walls of the sheds, and make fences ship-
shape. Don’t have small pigs fighting
for food with larger ones, or condition
will suffer. Grade them, and feed in
batches according to size so that each
will get a fair go. Provide enough shelter
and bedding, as a cold pig never uses
its food to best advantage. Renew bed-
ding often. Give them plenty of food,
as that’s the secret of successful pig-
raising in winter.
“W.C.”: Green tree-ants suck sap
from citrus leaves. They affect the


TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO BING-BABKING!
Prevents snckering! Eradicates
BLACKBEBBIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (13ft.)
BEAKS HEAVILY FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO.. 75 George St., SYDNEY.
/
Be &m taAi. -
The failure of one valve alone in your Radio can
render it useless . . . but
A replacement is always available when an
Australian-made type is used.
Safeguard your Radio entertainment by insisting
that your Radio is fitted with AUSTRALIAN-MADE
RADIOTRON VALVES.
Australian-made RADIOTRONS satisfy the vital needs
of radio. Their efficiency is symbolised by their
adoption as standard to the Navy, Army and Air
Force Services.
f
Amalgamated Wireless (A'sia), Etd.,
47 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Australian General Electric
Proprietary, Ltd.,
93 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., X,td.
K
W
m
as
Here a "Caterpillar" Diesel D 4 Tractor, pulling a 5 furrow
mould board plough is lowering power costs by cover-
ing acres per hour, 10 hours per day, and using 1|
gallons of fuel per hour. What are you working for?
Just to meet increasing production costs or to lower
your costs and keep the profit yourself. Hundreds of
thousands of farmers throughout the world are proving
that whatever your farm power problem, a "Caterpillar"
Diesel can do the work faster, more thoroughly, and at
a lower cost.
Call on your nearest dealer or Write the Distributor for
your State at the address below.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISXr.IBUTOKS:
Victoria and Tasmania:
William Adams & Co., Ltd.,
521 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales;
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
Unwin’s Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.,
102 Melbourne St., Brisbane.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company,
231 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Ws*
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BED & BREAKFAST
5/f Hot and Cold Water Single Rooms from 7/6
/m Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals ala Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone: 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from
Double Rooms from
growth of the trees by sticking together
the leaves to make nests, and they stain
the fruit. To destroy the ants, hold a
burning kerosene-soaked rag on the end
of a stick under the nests, or pour boil-
ing water on the nests at night.
“Ghanam”: U.S. imports of apparel
wool for 1940 were estimated at 743,000
bales. To this were added large quantities
of carpet wool. This is not due to any
failure of Uncle Sam’s own supplies. His
tariff was one of the greatest things ever
for the American woolgrower. In
18 years the number of sheep pastured
increased by 37 per cent., and the cut has
reached 1,500,000 bales—about equal to
the normal total output of the Common-
wealth at the beginning of the last war.
But even that increase can’t take care
of war needs. British purchases of Aus-
tralian, M.L. and S’African wools now
total over 5,350,000 bales per annum
average, but only 1,350,000-odd bales is
crossbred ; and it is crossbred —46’s to
56’s —which goes into uniforms.
“Jumbuck”: I hope with “23-4” (B.
23/4/’4l) that mutton-canning does
begin, if only to clean out nondescript
types. There are plenty of mongrel
sheep, losing propositions for wool, which
would make good canners. During 1914-
18 a fair amount of mutton was tinned,
and Diggers enjoyed the change from
bully beef. With sheep fat almost every-
where there should be ample supplies.
On a price-per-pound basis canners could
hardly compete against butchers with
quick turnover assured. If they had a
guarantee of army contracts there’s little
to prevent operations beginning at once.
“Sailor Bill”; I’ve been farming on
the Central Queensland coast for 20 years,
and the stock I know, particularly horses,
do eat lantana (B. 16/4/’4l) —and are
poisoned by the young shoots. No doubt
lantana does return a lot of nitrogen to
the soil. It also drops a lot of humus.
But do the nitrogen and humus remain
in the soil to benefit agricultural crops?
Not always. Lantana is easy to eradi-
cate if the clumps are old ones. Then
there are plenty of dead stems and leaves
under them. They’ll burn like the devil
in a dry time, but the terrific heat de-
stroys all the humus the lantana has
returned to the soil over decades. Grass
doesn’t grow after a burn like that. There
are many bare patches in the scrub
hereabouts where lantana was burned out
about a decade ago and where absolutely
nothing has grown since. For the last
eight years we’ve tried to grow vegetables
in a mountainside paddock where, over
eight years ago, we burned a dense
lantana patch. The soil is too loose and
won’t hold the moisture. Manure doesn’t
make any difference. Yet when the field
was lantana-covered, the soil was heavy
and stable. Lantana bugs seem to be
doing good work in a patch along the
road near Cape Pallerenda (Q.), where
they were liberated last December, and
there are others on the Townsville com-
mon, but there’s doubt yet whether when
they’re finished with the lantana they
won’t start on pawpaw and other tropical
fruit trees.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXVII.
DUCK-SHOOTING.
Bill Stevens thinks it a great idea.
“We’ll make f’r the Mathoura lakes,”
he says, “and be on the spot”
“Gripes,” you put in, “that’s a long
way t’ go f’r a few ducks. Couldn’t we
just slip over t’ the river an’ ”
Bill laughs as does an adult putting
up with the foolish sayings of children.
This makes you feel small, and you
remember that Bill is regarded as one
of the district’s leading sportsmen. You
remember, too, that several of the mob in
town last Saturday were visibly impressed
when you announced airily “Me an’ old
Bill Stevens is goin’ after ducks nex’
week.” Still, it must be nearly 200 miles
to
“We can do it in seven hours,” says
Bill; “an’ if we pool our coupons that’li
fix the juice up. We’ll put up at a pub
on the Sat’day night an’ get out t’ the
lakes before crack o’ dawn.”
“You know the good spots on the
lakes, Bill?”
“Like the palm o’ me hand. Don’t
worry; we’ll get a bag an’ have a bonzer
time doin’ it.”
So, early on a Saturday morning, you
head the car for the town to pick up
Bill. He’s up and ready, guns, cartridges,
waders, refreshments for the road and
his favorite gun-dog, Choc., a black
cocker who rushes exuberantly into the
car, tramps all over you and lays a great
slab of friendly tongue across your left
cheek.
On then, shimmering across the plains
of Riverina you go, one eye on the road
and the other on the ardent Choc., until
the shadows grow long and the corru-
gated-iron towers and battlements of
storeyed Mathoura rise out of the south.
As your dusty palanquin pulls into the
front of a handy palace you realise that
the place is almost en fete. The honest
burghers eye you with a smile ; the dog
Choc, leaps from the car and engages
in a race with 75 other and mixed dogs,
and from the verandahs and balconies of
the palace sportydooking strangers bend
a gaze on you and roar “Blime! Here’s
ol’ Bill Stevens, too!” “Good on y’,
Stevo! ” “Who’s y’r mate, Bill! ” “C’mon,
Bill, we’re just sellin’ a horse!”
Bill opens the door and gets out, to be
surrounded by an eager mob. You don’t
feel like leaving the car and its valuables
in such a spot, so you sit tight. Bill is
swallowed up. A policeman smilingly
says “You can’t park here.” You seize
him and explain. He is doubtful. He
doesn’t believe there’s a vacant bed in
the place. Why, you ask, is there a show
on or something? He gives you a hard
look, peers at the guns and ammunition
in the car, looks hard at you again and
says “The duck season opens tomorrow.”
“Gripes,” you think, “it’s goin’ t’ be
tough on the poor ol’ ducks.”
Then Bill and several others appear,
climb into the car, give you voluble in-
structions and introductions, and some-
how you’ve parked the car in a side
street with a lot of other cars, locked it
and been swept into a maelstrom of men,
smoke, bottles, words, ever-changing
faces, smoke, bottles, words, and the night
goes on and you begin to think this
duck-shooting is a pretty good sort of
sport and it doesn’t seem to have done
the ducks much harm, so far.
And after you’ve met 269 or 962
blokes and admired 128 or 821 gun-
dogs and lost count of everything else
and are just comfortably dozing off, Bill
—or his uncle, or somebody—has pulled
a pair of waders on to you and shoved a
gun into your hands and furbished you
with cartridge belts and you’re being led
through a foot of icy slush generously
endowed with reeds and trees and things,
in what appears to be a night-raid at sea,
while a voice keeps saying “Not so much
flamin’ noise!”
After several falls in the dampness at
your feet you begin to collect your senses.
Dimly you can see armed figures plough-
ing ahead, and you drag after them. Your
feet get heavier and heavier and you
drop back. Then you come on a huddle
of logs piled in a lignum bush and you
sit down and fall asleep.
There is a knock at the door and you
struggle awake. Beside your left ear
there is a roar like the last trump and
you spring up and stand, weak and
shivering in the dawn, surrounded by
oily swamps and the roar of musketry.
Somehow you manage to load your gun
and then peer about you, alert for ducks.
Something drifts by on the current and
you open fire. A strange dog springs
from somewhere and retrieves your prize.
It is a felt hat. You go and sit on the
logs ir the lignum bush.
Twenty hours later you drive wearily
in your own gate, nonchalantly hand
the family a black duck, two teal and a
widgeon and make for your bunk, deter-
mined to sleep for three days. Somebody
got out of the car as you came through
the town, but whether it was Bill Stevens
or his dog you couldn’t say.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
First this week is a patriot’s cry from the heart—and the patriot is a woman
who writes from the N.S.W. South Coast.
All In!
Mr. Fadden and his friends threaten us
with Government control for war-effort
purposes, but I don’t think that this will
happen, because it is the one thing we
have hoped for since the beginning of
the war.
Then we were ready and eager to be
told what to do and how to do it, and
we wouldn’t have asked “Why?” We
had faith in our leaders. A year and
eight months have passed, and we are
still waiting. What has been done? Some
machines have been altered to turn out
swords instead of ploughshares. Some
men have enlisted and gone overseas and
fought bravely. Some women have
joined new organisations for which they
have to provide expensive uniforms.
Some women are knitting and making
clothes. But efforts are sporadic and
lanced through with jealousies and
bickerings.
In August last the Prime Minister gave
notice that he was going to make an im-
portant announcement. We felt that at
last we were going to be used. We rushed
the paper next morning, and a friend of
mine remarked “He’s going to take our
money but not our lives!” He hasn’t
even taken our money. Meanwhile a rot
has set in. We are fed with war news
which insults our intelligence, and we
are praised for our “splendid war effort.”
But we read day after day the pleas of
our alleged leaders for unity, we read
their warnings and we still wait for them
to do something.
We want to work, to make munitions
or to do the lowly domestic duties for
others who are making munitions. We
don’t even mind if our money is taken.
We want to be regimented as Germany
is regimented, to be chained now in order
that later we may go free. Isabel
Hassall (N.S.W.).
The Boundary
On one side of the fence a munificent
Government allows one to drink a glass
of beer on licensed premises up to 8 p.m. ;
on the other side of the fence it is a
quasi-criminal offence to do so after 6
p.m.
A license to drive a motor vehicle
on one side of the fence is inoperative
on the other side unless a permit is
obtained from the police of the other
side.
The matrimonial laws on one side
differ so much from those of the other
that a woman who has been living for
20 years on one side cannot get a divorce
in the courts there if her husband is
domiciled on the other side. If a criminal
commits an offence on one side and then
escapes over the fence he cannot be ex-
tradited except by order of the Court of
the side to which he has fled. A work-
man on one side receives a different
award wage and works under different
conditions from a man doing the same
class of work on the other side.
A businessman who is so unfortunate
as to carry on business near the fence
and trade with people on both sides of
it is governed by two sets of rules and
regulations, harassed by two sets of
officials and pays tribute to two sets of
Governments. Even the King’s writ,
issued by a Court on one side, does not
run in the land on the other side unless
covered by special endorsements and
complying with rigid formalities.
The fence is the boundary which
divides the peoples of any two Australian
States. Although one people from one
stock and under one flag who should by
all that is natural be under one set of
laws, superfluous State Governments are
building up artificial barriers between
them. — Smilax (Q.).
Government Hostels
Except for the actual fighting the most
important work in war-time is the manu-
facture of munitions. And just as the
health of the soldier is essential to his
effective operation, so is the health of the
munition worker a vital necessity and a
Government responsibility. But so far
the Government has shown no inclina-
tion to shoulder it.
The manufacture of munitions has
meant a sudden rush to the city, and those
suburbs which are homes of the in-
dustries are becoming huge, unhealthy
slums. The most unfortunate sufferers
are th® thousands of girls and women, a
large number of whom have come from
ffi e country, and whose housing and con-
ditions are disgraceful. In the Melbourne
suburb of Footscray, for example, as
much as 355. a week is being paid for a
canvas-covered section of a verandah, or
for right to room with two other
girls in quarters meant for one. But even
these are in a far better position than
girls who must travel from other suburbs
because they can’t get any board at all
handy to their jobs. Most of them work
shifts, and at hours for which no board-
ing-house keeper will cater. So the
staple diet is pies and sandwiches.
Such a state of affairs cannot be
tolerated. Those girls can work under
such conditions only for a strictly limited
period before their health must give way.
Why can’t the Government set up hostels
for them near their work? If it is a
matter of there being no houses of suit-
able size for sale, the invocation of the
“ 'Flu mixture? And I thought it Was beer you wanted."
National Security Regulations will let
them buy whatever properties they need.
For it is a matter of national security.—•
Pip (Vic.).
Petrol Rationing
Surely there could be devised a more
equitable arrangement that would press
less hardly on the man living in the
country. The city-dweller has the choice
of several means of transport, and for
the most part there is small need for
him to use his car at all. It is a different
story in the country, where distances to
be travelled are much greater and the
means of transport more limited.
I live some 200 miles from Perth. We
are blessed with a train service which
operates on two days a week, the journey
to the city taking 12 hours. The incon-
venience of train travel is such that the
motor-car is regarded as an absolute
necessity. Moreover, the corrugated
roads over which we have to bump force
us to drive at a good speed, and so petrol
consumption is forced up. And yet we
are expected to be satisfied with the same
quantity of petrol as the city man who
has the choice of suburban trains, trams,
trolley-buses, service cars, motor-buses
and ferries. — Enoch (W.A.).
I have spoken to many motorists and
have not yet heard one man who com-
plained that he could not get enough
petrol to satisfy his needs. Some even
said that they had more than enough.
But the chief offenders seem to be the
military and politicians. It was remark-
able the number of motorists who, when
rationing was introduced, suddenly dis-
covered that their car was necessary to
the successful carrying-on of their busi-
ness, yet few had their cars registered as
a commercial vehicle.
It is not so much the man who drives
his car for his family pleasure who wastes
petrol. He hasn’t the money to waste.
It is the businessman who drives to and
from work and runs paltry messages in
his car, and the grocer who delivers a
pound of butter two or three miles to
Mrs. Smith simply because she is a good
customer. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
Fares for Servicemen
A cobber in the R.A.A.F., stationed at
Melbourne, received four days’ leave for
Easter. His people are in Sydney and,
naturally enough, he decided to come
over to see them. But the Government
had apparently decided that servicemen
should receive no rail concessions, so, for
only a few days’ stay, full fare had to be
paid. Surely the Federal or State Gov-
ernment, whichever is responsible, could
see its way to granting passes that would
at least allow a reduction of the full fare.
True, some sort of concession was
offered. If the traveller was prepared to
leave Melbourne one night, spend a few
hours in Sydney and return to Melbourne
the next night, the fare was reduced. I
don’t think that could have appealed to
very many.
Once before when he came over for a
couple of days this chap was given a
ticket for about five shillings. Why not
this time? —G. W. W. (N.S.W.).
“Wolf!”
National leaders, both our own and
the Empire’s, are frantically beseeching
Aussies to wake up to the true seriousness
of things. Anyone coming from the
thick of it would find the general war
attitude here—one minute reading the
war news to every 30 minutes on the
track gallops—incomprehensible. The
explanation is simple; a Greek slave ex-
plained it many centuries ago in a fable
about a man who cried “Wolf!”
That is the trouble. “Wolf!” cries
from Our sensational press over the past
five or six years have gradually deadened
public reaction to sensational news.
Every second day there has been some
new cry of “Wolf!” and every other day
the wolf has turned out to be a mouse.
This time the wolf is an incarnate mon-
ster, but people have become accustomed
to mice.—P. M. (N.S.W.).
p a „»
Higher-duty Pay
. Higher-duty pay has become a
disease in the civil service ; its prevalence
is a discouragement to enlistment, which
has not been half as good as it should
be in departments. _
In the services all work is graded on
a monetary-value basis. An undue pro-
portion of the enlistments has been of
capable men in higher-grade positions
whose personal pride would not allow
them to shirk the call to their courage.
Other men, if not immediately regraded
into their jobs, do the work and have a
claim to higher-duty pay for doing so.
The younger men who follow the
manly example have been promised that
the Government will make up their mili-
tary pay to the rate they have been earn-
ing. The promise is fulfilled very parsi-
moniously. Every shilling received by the
soldier—even in one case in my know-
ledge a mess allowance, which was some-
thing special to cover an extra expense —
is taken into account to make the differ-
ence as low as possible. And the soldier,
of course, will remain on his low grade
until he returns from war service to claim
his increments. The man who stays gets
immediate higher-duty pay with a pros-
pect of confirmation on a higher rate.
Even before I believed in conscription,
which this war will probably make neces-
sary, my belief was firmly in equality of
sacrifice. There is certainly no equality
about the circumstances here outlined.
The non-starter, besides avoiding the risks
and discomforts of army service, is given
an actual financial advantage.
Either the advantages secured by non-
enlistment should be abolished during
the continuance of the war by the sus-
pension of higher-duty pay and incre-
ments or the soldiers should be granted
all the advantages that would have come
to them if they, too, had failed to enlist.
— D. Grader (N.S.W.).
The Anzac Holiday
What advantage is there in proclaim-
ing a holiday on Anzac Day? Men who
kept their cushy jobs in the last war are
only too pleased to enjoy a holiday. One
sees advertisements of requests for week-
end cottages for the Anzac Day week-
end. The roads from the city are thick
with cars using the petrol that could be
better employed.
Returned men at their evening reunions
remember their fallen comrades in
silence. They do not require a holiday
to celebrate Anzac Day.
And those of us for whom Anzac Day
holds a sad significance are not cheered
at the sight of heedless holidaymakers
going off for a day of pleasure, regardless
of the sacrifices of the men of 1914-18.
Regardless also of the lads facing death
once again that others might live in
peace. — Arev (Vic.).
No Beer?
The Victorian Council of Churches
recently passed a resolution condemning
the military authori-
ties for sending beer
to our troops in the
East. I remember
similar resolutions in
the 1914-18 war,
only then they were
against the Demon
Rum.
I don’t know what
t.ts. use as substitute
for a tonic when
things are tough and
the whole world
seems to be toppling
over them. I do
know that many
times during the last
war I didn’t give a
damn if I was shot
or blown up any
form of death
seemed preferable to
the misery of con-
tinuing life in the
trenches. But one
good nip of rum
made life still seem
bearable, and a man
was ready to mix it
once again with the best Fritz could send
over.
And, anyway, after the magnificent
stand made by our lads in Greece I’d
like to give ’em a brewery apiece.—S. H.
Baker (Q.).
“Her Worship”
History affords ample evidence that
women, as women, are not unfitted to
fill positions of responsibility (B.
23/4/’4l). Some of the ablest of the
world’s rulers have belonged to that sex.
The Byzantine Empress Pulcheria, Queen
Isabella of Spain, Queen Elizabeth of
England, Catherine the Great of Russia,
Maria Theresa of Austria are cases in
point.
Not a few women lawyers can show
the “logic without feeling” so necessary
to the dispensing of justice, as much as
the bulk of their male colleagues. These
should make good Judges.
It is by no means always the mother
who spares the rod in family governance.
Though my own was not of the punish-
ing sort, I have met many who would
stand no nonsense from their children,
and were held in far greater awe than
the nominal head of the house.
Women who allow their emotions to
master their reason or sense of justice
more often than not are inspired by vin-
dictiveness rather than by a too merciful
outlook. —A. D. (N.S.W.).
Justice
There is no doubt about the goddess’s
blindness. She is pictured with a band-
age over her eyes and scales in her hand.
She ought to be represented with the
scales over her eyes and her hands tied
with the bandage.
My daily paper tells me of a desperate
youth who dared to upset the balance
o Continued on page 38.)


M-
m
K 7
u
°rocUf4fs
QtdMeuL' ,
v 3 tout
liiii
.
\
Mb
-iliiSii
m£: :
%
TOONEVS
OATMEAL
STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD.
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.


of our civic life by selling a few news-
papers without a license. He was haled
to the courts of justice and fined. Dis-
cipline must be maintained. The law
must not be flouted. The same paper
showed a photograph of a company of
something like a thousand men gathered
together in one place to decide that they
should break the law as a body and their
private pledges individually by abstain-
ing from their duties as servants of the
public. The result of their action —or
inaction —was almost incredible incon-
venience and hardship to thousands of
innocent citizens. Justice did not move
a hand or flicker an eyelid except to wink
at the proceedings.
Still in the same paper I read that a
certain weekly magazine, sponsored by
a Government office has been wasting
precious paper and cash at the rate of
£lOOO per issue at a time when I am
urged to save my old newspapers in order
to save the Empire. In this case Justice
does not wink. She simply pulls a long
nose at the public outcry against such
sabotage.
It is not true that there is one law for
the poor and weak and another for the
strong and rich. The law is all right,
but there must surely be some misunder-
standing between the law as it is laid
down and justice as it is upheld in the
instances mentioned. — Scaly (S.A.).
The Way the Money Goes
The most paralysing thing about the
Act to Amend the Broadcasting Com-
mission Act was the suggestion to in-
crease the Commission’s number to seven.
More jobs for politicians and their
hangers-on, of course. These gentry seem
to be quite without compassion for the
misguided persons who put them in
exalted places. Never is there any
attempt at economy, never any reduction
in taxation. It is increase, increase all
the time.
Apparently our legislators think the
taxpayer’s pocket is like the purse of
Fortunatus, always full. Thousand-a-
year jobs are handed round with the non-
chalance of buns at a tea party. Yet the
same Government’s Taxation Department
grapples after the last penny that can
be extracted from poor devils struggling
to exist on much less than the basic wage.
Where will it all end? With a war on
which will strain our resources to the
last limit; with a fresh pension list for
the wrecked men from this war —
on top of the pensions for the
last! And now comes the child-en-
dowment frolic! The inevitable end will
be “organising the nation’s credit for the
nation’s needs” —taking political control
of the Commonwealth Bank and setting
the presses running at turning out bank-
notes, which most people believe to be
real money. —Duo Cred (W.A.).
Outlawing the Lawyer
One of England’s greatest Judges said
that the survival of British justice de-
pended more upon the maintenance of a
free and unfettered Bar than upon any-
thing else. In disregard of this wise prin-
ciple, the tendency of Australian law-
makers has been to banish the profes-
sional lawyer from the courts as far as
possible.
Queensland has three Acts which are
typical. The Industrial Conciliation and
Arbitration Act has practically banished
lawyers from the important and rapidly
increasing field of industrial litigation,
and the Workers’ Compensation Act pro-
hibits lawyers from appearing for either
applicant or the Commissioner on
appeals from magistrates. The Fair Rents
Act (another working-class Act) also
prohibits lawyers from appearing as such,
but allows them to appear as agents.
Although these Acts were passed for the
express purpose of benefiting the working
man, their real effect has been to deprive
him of the services of a profession skilled
in the la' 'n the two most frequent
causes for his approaching the Courts —
to claim for his wages and for compen-
sation for his injuries.
The layman often condemns the lawyer
as a formalist and lover of precedent,
forgetting that, once precedent and adher-
ence to forms go, the law becomes a
jungle in which justice is soon lost. —
SOLICITOR (Q.).
It Was Inevitable
Relations between the Sydney and
Melbourne Governments had become in-
creasingly strained as the result of what
both alleged to be an unfair distribution
of Commonwealth loan moneys. It was
not until the winter of 1943, however,
that inter-State tension reached fever
pitch. In that year the recurrent quarrel
over the placing of war contracts became
even more acrimonious, culminating in
the recall of the N. S. Wales Minister in
Melbourne, who had just been appointed
at a salary of £5OOO a year.
Followed an exchange of Notes be-
tween the two Governments, alleging in-
fringement of taxation rights, undue in-
fluence on Commonwealth departments
and unfair detention of visiting notabili-
ties by both sides. When the N. S. Wales
Government took the step of blockading
the Federal Capital Territory, Victoria
retaliated by interning all the Common-
wealth Ministers in Melbourne, and the
people of both States began to take a
hand.
Rioting broke out between opposing
factors in the border towns of Albury
and Mildura. AN. S. Wales flag flying
at Albury was torn down and trampled
on by a mob of Victorian railway em-
ployees. Members of the Victorian
minority at King’s Cross were attacked by
Sydney patriots and pelted with fruit
from a near-by shop until they were
restrained by inspectors of the Apple and
Pear Board.
Great popular feeling was aroused by
the arrest of a Victorian farmer who
drove his truck 20 yards over the pre-
scribed limit in N.S.W. to collect a bale
of hay. A desperate attempt to settle
this cause celebre by negotiation came to
an inglorious end when each Government
appointed a commission to deal with the
matter. Finally, when the Sydney Gov-
ernment signed the Forgan Non-Aggres-
sion Pact in Brisbane and the Victorians
retaliated by securing the friendly neu-
trality of South Australia and Tasmania,
war was seen to be inevitable.
Owing to the foresight of earlier rulers
in providing different gauges on the two
railways, neither State was able to at-
tempt an invasion of the other by rail,
and the Murray proved a sufficient deter-
rent to mechanised forces. The war in
the air never really began. Both cities
found themselves in such a state of un-
preparedness for air attack that the aero-
plane was mutually renounced as an in-
strument of war.
It was claimed in some quarters that
the end of the war dated from the appli-
“ This no time to think of souvenirs!”
cation of sanctions on the supply of news-
print by the Federal Ministers in Mel-
bourne (against N. S. Wales) and the
permanent staff at Canberra (against Vic-
toria), but, as neither of these items of
information could be transmitted to the
people concerned, this theory is unten-
able. What finally brought about the
Treaty of Wagga Wagga was a general
strike for the abolition of State Parlia-
ments. Both State Assemblies hastily
abandoned hostilities and set about per-
suading their electors of their own indis-
pensability.—Plum (N.S.W.).
Poisons
Melbourne “Argus” (14/4/’4l) re-
ported the death of a child, 14 months
old, from the effects of eating some
medicinal tablets which had been pre-
scribed for his aunt. The lady thought
they were harmless. A doctor said they
contained a poisonous substance.
The law requires that a purchaser of
poisons must sign a register which is
kept for the purpose. The dispenser must
use a specially-colored bottle or container
to which is affixed a POISON label. But
there does not appear to be any regu-
lation controlling the sale of medicines
which, while not coming under the
category of poisons, contain ingredients
harmful to children.
The sale of such medicines should be
safeguarded by suitable labels. —J. A. P.
(Vic.).
Inspectors
.Inspectors (B. 9/4/’4l) are appointed
for a definite purpose—to protect the in-
terests of the people for whom “A.N.5.,”
for instance, caters.
They inspect his yard merely to see
that it is a fit place to slaughter in ; that
the stock to be slaughtered are free from
disease which could spread to human
beings or to other slock ; and that his
shop is a fit and clean place in which to
distribute his wares.
As long as “A.N.S.” complies with the
regulations laid down in a normal, satis-
factory manner he need not worry about
inspectors. Some may apply a little red-
tape, but that is a fault of the individual,
not the system.
Occasionally one reads in the daily
papers of some person fined for a breach
of the Pure Foods Act. They are gener-
ally caught by some inspector. What
would the buyer be getting as milk and
meat if it were not for inspectors?
As for the weights and measures in-
spector, the idea of selecting your own
time is rather unworkable. The butcher
might select 10.30 a.m. on Monday, the
grocer 1.30 p.m. on Tuesday and someone
else 4 p.m. on Friday. Is he to wait
around and kill time between appoint-
ments or call back later?—P. K. G.
(S.A.).
Scientific Lunch
“Harry O’Berridale” (B. 22/4/’4l)
proves the axiom that schoolchildren are
not scientific in their choice of tucker
when they are not really hungry or when
they have too much pocket money. There
are millions of children in Europe who
would welcome the sandwiches chucked
over the fence in Australia.
I once refused porridge. Mum did not
try coaxing. She just said “All right, dear,
I’ll keep it for your dinner” and locked
the cupboard. At dinner-time I ate the
porridge, and next morning there was
no argument.
Later in life I was asked by a lady
who was going on a long holiday to feed
her pet dog. 1 was given detailed in-
structions for an elaborate menu, and
assured that the pampered darling would
not eat anything but the very best.' On
the first day the brute openly sneered at
the lump of liver I put on its plate. 1
did not try any coaxing, but just said
“All right, dear, I’ll keep it for to-
morrow.” On the morrow that lump of
liver disappeared in two gulps and two
wags of a dog’s tail.
“Harry O’B.” laughs at the bran-
eaters, but they have the last laugh as
they see the white-bread addicts buying
the despised “offal” in fancy cartons at
high prices, and eating it separately as
roughage.
That our national diet, juvenile and
adult, is all wrong is proved by the enor-
mous public demand for laxatives of all
kinds, and by the appalling amount of
invalidism due to malnutrition where
food is plentiful.— Number Nine (S.A.).
“Eat More” Campaigns
I am the victim of patriotic overeating.
To make up for the loss of overseas
markets I am eating more apples and
pears than ever before. Ever since I
could read and have received envelopes
with slogans stamped on them I have
been eating more bread or wheat in some
form. I have been drinking more milk.
I have always eaten more fruit for my
health’s sake.
Now I am to be asked to eat more
meat to make up for loss of overseas
markets. I have already been asked to
wear more wool. The only limits to my
participation in all these schemes are my
pocket and stomach. Already my
stomach is patriotically overstrained. Un-
fortunately, I cannot get out of it by
saying that the wheat, apples, pears, fruit,
milk and meat should be given to those
whose stomachs have been less severely
strained than my own —prices must be
stabilised. —J. E. B. (S.A.).
Closer Settlement
“E. 0.5.” (B. 23/4/’4l) deals with
closer settlement in an able manner, and
his conclusions can hardly be faulted, but
his remedy, however, adds up to feudal-
ism, stripped, of course, of its imposing
fealty and services, and adapted to the
period in which we live. This system,
with or without the offices attaching to
it in the time of the later Roman Empire,
cannot be implanted in a democratic
country. The breaking-up of big estates
and the settling of small holders on
farms of their own must go on in the
national interest. Share-farming has been
an aid in this direction, although its path
is strewn with much wreckage. But the
re-aggregation of big holdings, to be
worked as a colony of farms under a
sort of vassalage, is entirely opposed to
modern democratic ideals.
The failures in closer settlement are
due to causes which stand out promi-
nently. Chief amongst these are unsuit-
able location, land values too high, many
holdings too small, bad farming and high
interest. Before the depression “cut” the
general interest rate was 6 per cent, on
mortgages, liens, bills, etc. Too much
weight will beat a High Caste. In regard
to bad farming, which can result only in
disaster, it should be the duty of the
Government financing the settler, through
the Rural Bank or otherwise, to see that
efficiency is attained. Local wardens
could be appointed as supervisors.
The great advance in secondary indus-
tries must mean the aggregation of very
large populations in the principal cities.
To maintain equilibrium of the State it is
necessary to promote farming through
extensive land settlement in the form of
living area freeholdings. The barrier of
big estates must be removed. In a young
and developing nation like Australia
farming and secondary industries must
rise together to build a truly solid struc-
ture. — Fitzjay (N.S.W.).
Education in Art
So much has been said and written in
criticism of our education system that
another thrust should do no harm. Why
can’t schools include in their curricula
a course in art? I don’t mean the scratch-
ing in crayon of the likeness of an apple
or a banana or the puddling in water-
colors that seems to pass for an art edu-
cation.
What is ne' - is a course in the
appreciation oi art. If each school had
an art library consisting of carefully-
chosen prints of old and modern masters
the students could be taught why those
pictures are considered good and what
to expect in a good picture—the basic
principles of the juxtaposition of color
and tone, of chiaroscuro and composi-
tion. This need not interfere too much
with other necessary subjects—half an
hour a week would do.
Such an education is long overdue. One
has only to walk into the average home
and see the travesties on art that hang
round the walls to realise that. Admittedly,
original paintings are often beyond the
average pocket, but good prints can be
picked up reasonably enough. —Guy W.
Warren (N.S.W.).
Vocational Guidance
In Victoria a specially trained officer
of the Education Department is available
to give vocational guidance (B. 23/4/’4l)
when required, and many parents seek
his counsel before their children take up
specialised studies. There are many
benefits to be derived from such a depart-
ment.
One of the greatest advantages is that
parents and pupils are led to obtain
advice from an authoritative and respon-
sible source.
From a medical practitioner one can
confidently buy advice or treatment,
knowing that he cannot practise without
first undergoing proper training ; there is
no such certainty with the vocational
guidance “expert.” He may be a trained
psychologist, but that is not sufficient.
Even a thorough training in applied
psychology is inadequate equipment for
the vocational guidance expert, a fact
usually overlooked. For the right advice
as to choosing a vocation depends on
more than the abilities of the individual
concerned: it depends equally upon the
probable future demand for different
types of trained workers and the prob-
able future supply ; and such considera-
tions as the cost and availability of
specialised training must also be taken
into account. All such factors need very
careful study, for to be really useful the
vocational guidance officer must keep
fully informed of industrial development
in his area ; he must know what educa-
tional facilities there are and what they
cost; and he must feel the high responsi-
bility of his job.
Real vocational guidance requires, in
short, an earnest, specially-trained officer
with the resources of a well-equipped de-
partment behind him ; and these only the
Government can provide.—Wusslean
(Vic.).


Treat CAUSE
kot Sumblom
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsions.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
“steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found a
medicine that by acting on the Liver and Bowels corrects the
everyday little ills of life. For Biliousness, Constipation, Sick
Headaches, and such complaints arising from Imperfect Digestion
and Sluggish Liver they are unexcelled.
Dr. Morses
imm
im
Jit
PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU LOOK AND FEEL BRIGHTER
FOR
BILIOUSNESS
INDIGESTION
CONSTIPATION
SICK HEADACHES
RHEUMATISM
Mirpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Sunburn and Wind burn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face before
and after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Parish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/7 2- per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from the W. H., Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Parish Street, Wellington. N.Z.
Price 2/1 per box (six boxes 12/-), post
tree.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN”
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
TO
,^y
Special Concession Rates:
*o*
12 months .. 15/- #
6 months . 8/- A
3 months, 4/- c£r tty*


m
"'ll
■
('■' .
mSm
:
'
mm
<<
u
m
<L\
mm
111
i
M
m
m
’ <.*
v : : :
«
ii
1:
'■ :•■?.
<£\
*
I
'K:
rO
p
•;
o
si
tO*
•TL
7
■
%
•s
*A
a
-
m
%
sz
t^\° e
d
an
af e
o(
<J° o '?'. e n V° rt ' M/W" G vStVt« te !; e pt
r *r
' ft®*** l *
