

THE
I
■ ■■■
For Your
LIFE ASSURANCE
The Mutual Life & Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
Founded
e
Assets Exceed £32,000,000
Payments to policyholders exceed £41,000,000
M
COMMON
P#r a
'ill um
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3208.
Wednesday, August 6, 1941.
Recruiters on the Warpath
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


dfs
Learn
™»tKTa
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New' Pre *
Booklet explaining how to Write for trofit, ii
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
Child Poets and Wild Poets.
If it really is necessary to prove to
Australian education authorities, parents,
politicians or whoever is the target at
which Mr. Flexmore Hudson has aimed
The Child Discovers Poetry (Rigby, Ltd.,
Adelaide) that it’s a good idea for young-
sters to b e taught something about poetry
and encouraged to write it, it’s hardly
likely that the said Philistines would be
prepared to listen to arguments based on
a long philosophical disquisition on the
nature of beauty ; so that the profane are
unlikely to be converted.
And the devout—unless they’re of the
special variety that is seriously interested
in whether or not a tree is a tree —will
hasten to agree with Plato, Hegel, Joad
and beauty is objective, and with
Mr. Hudson and others that it isn’t; and
then turn to the end of Mr. Hudson’s essay
where he gets down to fact and quotation.
The quotations are extraordinarily
good. For instance:
Home from school the children come,
Glad that one day’s work is done.
The tired black train comes puffing in,
And truck hits truck and makes a din.
People hurry to get their mails
Before the glaring sunset fails.
As the sunset fades away,
Over the hill comes a golden dray.
Child verse, like child painting, is de-
ceptively attractive. Because it may have
a specious competence, freshness and,
when the child is dealing with a subject
he has closely observed, a precise and
vivid imagery, it’s easy enough to forget
that there is no real command of tech-
nique and no spiritual or intellectual
depth. Leaving technique and intellec-
tual quality aside, however —or admitting
that the adults, having intelligence and
their degrees of skill, are always more
profitable reading than the kids —Mr.
Hudson’s youngsters could teach the
authors of a swag of new books of Aus-
tralian verse quite a bit about the writ-
ing of poetry.
Take four lines by eight-year-old
Master Kevin Markham, describing a
frosty morning;
The ice was thick
In the iron trough;
The cows could not drink
Till we broke it off.
And where in L. H. Allen’s Patria (Mel-
bourne University Press) will you find
one image so exact, so genuinely—if un-
wittingly—poetic? What Mr. Allen
thinks about the future of Australia, war,
love, death and nature is of some con-
sequence, and what Master Kevin thinks
about cows —if he does—is a matter of
no importance at all, but a merciful
youthfulness has preserved the school-
boy from too insidious an acquaintance
with the dead poetic verbiage of the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, which
is Mr. Allen’s downfall.
Kevin, a stranger to “dalliance,” has no
reply ; and nobody else is going to re-
spond until Mr. Allen writes “sea” for
“sapphire barriers,” “happy” for “blithe”
and speaks his mind plainly about beach
girls. Occasionally, as in “Bluebells,”
Mr. Allen does say more or less what he
means, and the result is poetry:
In summer 1 have seen them drooped and still,
Smoking and shining in a golden blaze,
And they have held me silent in amaze,
They seemed from light such magic to distil.
Here’s a car by Mr. Hudson’s Maureen
B unfield:
A timid wagtail comes and goes;
Sparrows bathe where the tap-water flows;
Up the road, which is dusty and brown,
A lonely car comes into town.
And that’s a real car, and a poetic car.
But the “Ruins of a Luxurious Automo-
bile” in Harold C. Dickinson’s Reflec-
tions (printed by V. E. Martin, Brisbane),
addressed as “thou,” never were a car:
Proud Monarch of the road, more fleet than steed
That Valkyrie of Odin e’er did ride.
When Reta Lock (aged 13) says of the
far north;
The plains extend for many a mile.
You meet your neighbor only once in a while,
she gives a living picture, says something
new. Joyce L. Smith in Rhythm and
Rhyme (printed by N. B. Johnson, Gee-
long) offers some pretty enough poems
of the lighter sort, but there are only
deadness and staleness in stuff such as “I
am enamored of a songbird’s trill.”
It’s perhaps a bit too much to ask
E. M. Anderson to break out with the
superb naivete of Mr. Hudson’s Ethel
Spurling (11 years):
1 am Ethel Spurling, that’s who 1 am,
Just a simple person,
Not worth knowing.
Who likes watching the sun
Setting in the hilly west.
I like going to school in the morning;
I like going for the cows.
There are a million things
I like seeing and doing.
But how good it would be if Verse Book
(printed by Legal Copying Co., Sydney)
did burst out spontaneously: —
I am E. M. Anderson, that’s who 1 am!
Instead of which there’s a cluster of
slight, conventional lyrics, running: —
I chain him not, he comes to me unsought;
To leaping heart and dazzled eyes appears
A being wrapped in light, and I am caught
Into the flame .. .
In Paula Fitzgerald’s The Singing Tree
(Hawthorn Press) there is freshness of
phrasing and image. The love sonnets,
smoothly enough made, are the sort of
moving, sincere, essentially feminine
statements that could be made by any
reasonably competent poetess ; not truly
original, therefore, but free from dead
language and not to be put to shame
by a child’s verse for the quality of direct-
ness. Here, in a passage from one of
the lyrics, is all that a child could offer
in the way of immediacy, added to the
depth and a technical dexterity that are
the special virtues of the adult poet: —
Mr. Hudson’s talented midgets slink
deeper into the background when Paula
Hanger’s Pledge to the Fallen (Hand-
craft Press, Wellington, M.L.) comes to
the fore. Here (“Fish Pool”) is just the
subject for a child, but a child would
never have either the intellect or the
artistry to make a real poem of it; —
Beneath the brim’s superb chalcedony
Long curves of yellow flame move to and fro,
Finned fairy dragons issuing remote
Between the thin reed pylon’s sweet shadow.
Templed in beryl and moslemic jade
Of time-encrusted root and wavering light,
Their lovely, universal water holds
The heart of peace.
Besides the freshness and the prettiness
there is a promise of power (though
“loon” was surely unfortunate) in: —
I go, a festive mortal loon
With trembling rain to dew my mouth;
More lovely than a flowering moon
The great storm flashes in the south.
Paula Hanger, like most Maorilanders,
has a taste for storms, and recently had
one of them printed in The Bulletin.
The glimmer of original poetry in
Paula Fitzgerald’s book, and the gleam
in Miss Hanger’s, becomes a steady light
in Mary Finnin’s Royal (W. A. Hamer
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne), in which there
are three or four pieces reprinted from
The Bulletin. Miss Finnin, who has
turned out two other books of worth-
while poetry in the past three years, is
an assured and capable poet, original
both in vision and technique. When she
writes badly, as she often does, it is not
due to shallowness nor to the use of out-
worn imagery, but to the overexercise of
a praiseworthy habit of compression.
For instance: —
Mature ; but mature because the child’s
quick perception has been deepened by
growth and strengthened by art, not be-
cause the child has been sent away in
disgrace for admiring the beautiful in
the midst of an ugly world. Rex Inga-
mells, who has taken of recent years to
trying to reform the world by lecturing
it instead of keeping on writing his fine
landscapes and letting the world learn
the lesson of beauty from them if it wants
to, has sent the child packing out of At
a Boundary (F. W. Preece, Ltd., Adel-
aide). If—as with Pope —the writer is
a great satirist, or —as with Wordsworth
—a titanic genius shoulders through the
rubble of didactic versifying, it’s possible
to make poetry of one sort or another
out of reforming the world. But there’s
the touch of neither Pope nor Words-
worth in: —
Fitly trim or debonair
I trim myself to social ways,
concentrate on the smart phrase,
ignoring the red on the earthenware
and the petals above the crystal vase:
for these are the forms now madness takes;
O keep them as passive as poison snakes.
“I do not forsake,” Ingamells declares,
“Tall dead trees that splinter in the sun.”
But he does forsake them.
Nevertheless, there are glimpses of a
new Ingamells emerging in At a Boun-
dary, and it seems possible that his next
book will reveal a poet who, recapturing
the child’s eye for landscape, will mould
his politics into poetry, as he begins to
do in the few lines; —
Australia awaits a race whose active bone
will mutter the white light of her limestone
rocks,
whose blood will riot with the unreserved
rage of the red light of her sandstone ridges.
Some poems by John Ingamells, pub-
lished with those by Rex Ingamells,
would sit more appropriately among the
youthful experiments of Angry Penguins
(Adelaide University Arts Association),
edited by D. B. Kerr and Max Harris,
most of the contributors to which are out
to prove how far above .the simple mind
of the child they are in Knowledge-of-
Life, how up to date in obscurity and
cynicism even Australians can be, and
how very badly it is possible to write
what passes for poetry.
Max Harris, as usual, gives the im-
pression that, once he learns that to fail
to convey his meaning clearly is—simply
—to fail; that even T. S. Eliot, judging
by the simplicity of his plays, has recog-
nised the vulgarity of “private” erudi-
tion ; that the paintings of Salvador Dali
are decadent rather than revolutionary ;
and that titles such as “The Pelvic Rose”
are funny, he will write good poetry. As
Mr. C. R. Jury says in his introduction,
Mr. Harris is intensely in earnest about
something. Mr. Jury is prepared to
accept his flashes of poetry with the
“something” still undefined; but that
won’t do.
When “The Pelvic Rose” says no more
than D. H. Lawrence said in perfectly
straightforward prose or verse, why be
so mysterious about it,,and why so glum?
And is Mr. Harris quite sure that “the
processes of biology,” which “provide a
field of great beauty and spiritual signi-
ficance,” don’t really provide a lot of
pretentious circumlocutions for the plain
facts of life and poetry, or that the jargon
of the laboratory won’t come to look
just as artificial as the jargon of the con-
servatory used by Mr. Allen? Mr. Harris
could learn something about the natural
language of poetry from Mr. Hudson’s
Reta Lock:
When the dust-storms rolled across the plain
For nine or ten days at the most,
You could not even see a post,
Till a thunderstorm brought a few points of
rain.
Nothing in Angry Penguins, not even
the title nor the wildest efforts of the
contributors, is quite as fantastic as Mr.
Jury’s introduction. Here is a poem by
Paul Pfeiffer, “At the Window,” which
Mr. Jury declares “a piece of perfect
art”:
The last dismantled star flung into space,.
In swift gradations
Night ripens into day.
Thought patterns flailed like octopus
Dichotomize.
Hen-coop cocks crow up the dawn....
“The guttural goose hath ushered in the day!”
Mr. Jury comments;
This seems to me to be of its length the
best poem composed by an Australian that
I have seen, and one of the best composed
by anyone. The precision and contempo-
raneousness of the language, the preg-
nancy of the imagery, the combined inten-
sity and ambivalence of the feeling it cpn-
veys; the masterly design within the sim-
plest kind of pattern both in metre and
substance; these are noble things. The
series of great images is used in the classi-
cal manner, without bravura; the excite-
ment it raises is balanced, and the effect
is strenuous quiet.
Stone the crows, Mr. Jury! Stone the
blinking crows!
Let us return to the combined intensity
and ambivalence of Master Kevin’s feel-
ings. “Up Early, Helping Dad” is one
of the best poems ever composed by an
eight-year-old Australian. Note the pre-
cision and contemporaneousness of the
language, the interesting condition of the
imagery, the masterly design within the
simplest pattern both in metre and sub-
stance, the superb absence of bravura:
I helped my father truck the sheep.
The stars were out, and Mum asleep.
One could brood about that for hours
with wholly balanced excitement.
Is this the race by sapphire barriers isled,
Enchapleted with dalliance lightly culled,
Blithe ever, for no darkling fates impend?
Pity I met in my heart today,
A friend whom I must know:
The bell, the clock, the song, the spring—
All these go!
But she who guides with quiet hands
Shall my companion be,
To teach me of love’s gentleness—
Its strength and sanctity.
Blotted your fiats by a memoried rune.
Against a little that is clumsy, a little
that is dull, there is time and time again
the mature, individual poet flashing into
the beauty of true poetry: —
Dragons that fly the silver light that flames
’Twixt sun and summer streams.
Marco Polo Gets Malaria.
I am much obliged by “Feng-Shui’s”
reference (R.P. 9/7/’4l) to myself as “a
modem Marco Polo” in his review of my
book, All Aboard for Singapore. It’s a
treat to read a review of a travel book
by a critic who knows the terrain as well
as, if not better than, the author of the
books knows it.
There is one point, however, in “Feng-
Shui’s” review which my passion for
accuracy clamors to rebut. As a tropical
traveller I take a perverse pride in having
tried everything once ; but “Feng” most
mournfully insinuates that I have never
had malaria.
I don’t admit that a man needs to have
malaria before he could write a book
about the tropics. An author could write
satisfactorily about parrots without hav-
ing psittacosis, or about Western Queens-
land without having Barcoo rot. To this
extent, “Feng-Shui’s” charge against me
may be dismissed as irrelevant. In these
days of air travel, air-conditioning and
inoculation, life in the tropics isn’t half
as intolerable as it used to be in the
olden days when “Feng” dwelled and
suffered “long periods of acutest bore-
dom” there.
However, and as a matter of simple
fact, I have had malaria, and, what’s
more, I placed this fact on record at the
very beginning of the book “Feng-Shui”
has reviewed. I opened chapter one,
page one, by stating: “A month ago, as
I lay fever-racked, sweating and fretting
with malaria, I swore by all the quao-
dongs in Queensland that never again
would I leave Australia’s peaceful shores.”
It is amazing that “Feng” should devote
a considerable portion of his review to
blaming me for not suffering an experi-
ence which I have suffered ; even though
such an experience is beside the point
anyhow.
If I live long enough to finish writing
my book about Papua and New Guinea,
and if “Feng” lives long enough to review
it, I hope that he will sympathise with
me as a fellow-malarian when he reads
how a 1000-h.p. anopheles caught up
with me on the Fly River, punctured my
epidermis and prostrated me in the pangs
of malarial delirium at Port Moresby
hospital, where I suffered all the beautiful
and terrible hallucinations, visions and
silly symphonies imaginable and un-
imaginable.
I was travelling across the Gulf of
Papua in the Government launch Pana-
wina (skipper Teddy Meares) when the
anopheles poleaxed me, and the malaria
wogs started doing a fandango in my
bloodstream. Never am I likely to forget
the vibrations of the Panawina’s engines
and my pulse throbbing even more
vibrantly. I rested my head against a
sail and the sail flapped, but I thought it
was my eardrums flapping, and I flopped
on the deck in a blackout at noonday
Until a native boy dipped a bucket of
salt water and doused the fever-fire on
my forehead.
A week later I was in hospital at Port
Moresby with a temperature of 104.6
degrees. The doctor prodded my spleen,
pressed my pulse, fried a flounder on my
brow, gave an audition by stethoscope
to my heartbeat rhythm, sphygmoma-
nometered my blood pressure, turned back
my eyelid and gazed hypnotically into
the secrets of my retina, tested the aridity
of my tongue, invited the pathologist to
test my sputum, took a microscope smear
from a needle prick on my digit and then
nodded diagnostically as he happily
murmured, “Ah, yes, Benign Tertian!”
I have been specially warned thait
malaria is a cure for dementia praecox,
and, as all authors are mad, I look for-
ward to this beneficial’ sequel to my
ordeal.
' On the other hand, in Celebes Isle last
year, I saw a Malay who had run amuck
and chopped up his wives, in-laws and
progeny. The doctor who sewed 416
stitches in some of the survivors told
me that running amuck is a common after-
math of malarial depression. This should
be a warning to reviewers not to casti-
gate malarial authors.
I’ll have an alibi if I dong “Feng” with
a crooked kris for doubting my malarial
qualifications as a torrid writer on tropic
topics.
Well, after that, I don’t claim to be
playing polo—Marco or equine—just for
the fun of it. I am only a teller of vera-
cious tales of travel. The nearest I ever
got to Marco Polo was when I stood on
the Marco Polo Bridge over the “Always
Peaceful” River near Pekin, where the
not-so-peaceful “China Incident” started
on July 7 four years ago. I counted the
stone lions on the bridge, which are so
numerous that only a professional lion-
iser could tally them without getting
dizzy. I learned how to count in threes
when I was a rouseabout at Kerabery
shearing-shed on the ’Bidgee 30 years ago,
and it came in useful on the Marco Polo
Bridge.
Believe me, counting those Leos gave
me a bigger headache than amassing
malaria in Papua. The moral is that
travellers’ tales are enjoyed much more
by those who sit at home and read than
by the energetic mugs who fare forth
and endure discomforts to collect the
material for writing books.
FRANK CLUNE.
These Poets: Harry Hooton (printed
by Reg C. Pogonoski Pty., Ltd., New-
castle). Sheaf of Whitmanesque verses;
some vigorous, some turgid. Oratory
rather than poetry, but lively, anyhow.
The Vickers Gun Simplified has been
added to the Robertson and Mullens
military pocket books and illustrated
guides on various weapons and how to
wield ’em.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the salt of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
CERTIFICATES
A HOUSEWIFE SPENDS MOST OF
HER TIME IN THE KITCHEN
Mi****'
MODERN KITCHEN FURNITURE
/ V-
Cs
•4
Mi
■
m
mSm
u
: i
2#
a
-a
Tudor Kitchen Setting
SIX PIECES , £25
TERMS: Deposit £2/10/-; 18 Monthly
Payments of £1 /6/11.
This smart Tudor Kitchen Setting in full-polished oak is
available in dark or honey finish, and will add to the
appearance of your kitchen. Comprising Cabinet, Table
and four Chairs, all in solid oak, this Setting represents
excellent value. At Anthony Horderns'. Price .. £25
Lacquered Kitchen Set
SIX PIECES £lB'l7'6
TERMS: Deposit, £l/17/9; 12 Monthly
Payments of £l/9/9.
A modern, attractively lacquered Kitchen Setting of
six pieces, appointed for convenience. Size, 4ft. wide,
sft 2in. high, 16in. deep. Table and four smart chairs
complete this useful setting. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price £lB/17/6
~r
nmuwmm
m
r—
!.<
-,v.
sssss®
la
*sa«>
Modem Kitchen Setting
SIX PIECES £l3's'-
TERMS: Deposit, £l/6/6; 12 Monthly
Payments of £l/0/11.
A Kitchen Setting of unequalled value . . . designed
for utility for the modern home. Strongly constructed
in Light or Dark Walnut Shade. Setting comprises, an
attractive Cabinet, Table and four Chairs. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price £l3/5/-
• Kitchen Furniture—Fourth Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
’Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night) Box 2711 C, C.P.0., Sydney


OVERTIME
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
W HEN I first started in this office
I needed the job. 1 needed it
pretty bad, because Joan and I
had been married only a year,
and I’d been out of work about nine
months of it. Things weren’t starting well, and I had
to alter them. I was in a mood to take anything, and
a bit earlier Fd have reckoned that “anything” was
just about the word to describe being a clerk, shut up
in an office all day. But as it was then I did more
than take the job ; I battled for it with about a hun-
dred other applicants, and cheated the rest of them
and told lies to get it.
It was just as well old Jack Frazer was the book-
keeper or I mightn’t have lasted. On the first day
they shied me a handful of time-sheets and a big
book and didn’t even tell me what one had to do with
the other. I settled down to work out the connec-
tion, if any, but 1 felt pretty nervous, of course. When
I spotted old Jack watching me 1 reckoned I was done
for, because there seemed no doubt I ought to know
all about it with my eyes shut. When he started to
come over I felt weak in the legs like a kid caught
at something, and pretty sick and helpless.
“You don’t know as much about the job as you
told us, do you?” he said.
I didn’t say anything. I just turned on the high
stool and looked at him hopelessly, with the book in
one hand and some cards in the other.
“I didn’t think you did, somehow,” said old Jack
cheerfully. “Anyway, you’ll learn. Give ’em to me
and I’ll show you.”
You can guess how I felt about him after that.
Anyway, he showed me that and all the rest of
it, and I don’t think I was so very hard to teach.
1 had been an office boy and then a junior clerk once,
ages before, and there wasn’t much in the work as
long as you had a helping hand over the rough spots.
I got along all right, and it was amazing how soon
I forgot when I’d been out on the road for a big
firm in the city and full of scorn for all pen-pushers.
Out here on .the mines it’s all men in the offices, you
know —no flappers cluttering up the place-—and, any-
way, I was getting mature enough and worried enough
to be glad of any work that wasn’t honorary. I
slipped pretty easily into the groove with old Jack
Frazer’s help.
Joan and I started to have some fun again, and
1 started to feel safe and confident. We got a place
and began putting some furniture in it, and when I
used to think about the big ambitions I’d once had
I was content enough to postpone them indefinitely.
I had enough on my hands for the time being just
getting a home together, and then later getting things
ready for our two nippers, and after that keeping all
our heads above water. It wasn’t the job I’d have
picked for myself exactly, but it was well enough
paid and it was happy enough with Jack Frazer at
the head of the office.
As far as I can remember old Jack didn’t look
any younger then than he does now except that he
wasn’t so frail. His hair was just as white, and if
he’s got a new pair of spectacles since the day he
interviewed me for the job he must have done it on
the sly, and managed to find exactly the same pattern.
He had more flesh, and firmer flesh, though. He
used to spend most of his spare time fossicking in the
bush, and he used to make a great show of being an
outdoor sort of man.
“A sedentary life’s no good,” he’d say. “It’s the
week-ends on the pick and walking through the scrub
that keep me fit. You should come with me, Bob, or
you’ll get fat.”
I went sometimes, and pretty good afternoons we
had, though if any gold wanted to be found it would
have had to jump out of the ground and bite us. We
just used to get exercise out behind the leases, and
talk about one thing and another. He liked exercise
and he liked talk, did old Jack, but in spite of all his
growls he liked the office better than anything else.
He had a right to, I suppose, because he’d been the
man to open it, away back in the early days when
everyone except a few optimists reckoned all the gold-
mines in this part of the world were duds. He’d been
the first in it then, and ever since he’d managed to
keep it a pretty happy and efficient sort of place and
he was pretty fond of it.
HEN he started to crack up I got a shock, and
I got a chance to do a bit for him, too, and I
jumped at it. We’re pretty busy out here twice a
month, with extra hours to be worked, and because
there’s no overtime for the office crowd, and old Jack
got the biggest pay, he always used to come back in
the evenings himself. He was the sort that would
look at it that way, but when he began to get feebler
I was able to take some of the weight off his shoulders.
He was pleased and proud as well, and he used to
boom me up to everyone else.
“I don’t know what I’d do without young Bob,”
he’d say with a grin. “He runs the office nowadays,
and I just stand around and grunt impressively.” .
He said that sort of thing too often, and when
Joan got to hear about it she took it all wrong. She
put her idea about it to me one night when 1 was
getting ready to go back to the office, and she wanted
me to take her somewhere.
“You might as well live on the stupid old mine,”
she said. “At least you ought to get paid for it. Why
that crazy old hen doesn’t retire and let you have his
job I don't know.”
“What’s that you say?” I asked pretty sharply.
“Everyone says you do all the work now,” Joan
said sulkily. “He says so himself. It’s not fair.”
“You want to remember,” I said, “that I mightn’t
be doing any work now if it wasn’t for Jack Frazer.”
“Oh, that!” she came back at me. “Is it going
to take you all our lives to work that off?”
She didn’t understand, of course, and 1 suppose
she couldn’t be expected to. J’d told her the old man
had helped me at the beginning, but I hadn’t been
able to tell her quite how much. Nobody but me
knew just how incompetent and frightened I’d been
that day when he’d come to the rescue. 1 wished I
could make it plain to her, but it was too late then,
anyway. 1 went off to the job feeling a bit sour, and
she stayed home feeling a bit sour, too.
Actually, I didn’t mind the overtime. I suppose
I was getting infected with old Jack’s passion to have
everything just so in the office. On summer nights he’d
come in and want to help, but I’d shoo him out of
the place, and he must have felt the job was safe
with me, because he always went without much com-
plaint. He was beginning to look pretty tired, but he
was still as proud as ever of his office.
Then what had to happen happened. I’d have
seen it coming if I hadn’t been a fool. Old Jack
couldn’t leave it all to me and talk about it to every-
one without stirring up trouble for himself.
One day the g.m. sent for me and got down to
tintacks straight away. “We’re going to retire old
Jack Frazer,” he said. “The job’s yours and you
can start at the end of next month.”
Of course, I’m only human, and I’ll admit that
my first thought was about what I could do with an
extra three notes a week in my envelope. My heart
started to hammer, and I had visions of a cheap
motor-car and all sorts of things that sound silly and
selfish, but aren’t so much that way when they’re for
the general use of a family you’re fond off. But all
that soon drained out of me, and I realised that it
wouldn’t do.
“I’d rather not,” I said. “If you could leave Mr.
Frazer where he is I’m sure we qould carry things on
satisfactorily between us.”
“We're retiring him whether you
take the job or not,” said the g.m.,
looking surprised. “You should have
it. You’re doing the work now.”
I wanted to explain to the g.m. that
it would crack old Jack up and all that sentimental
side of it, but I’m not good at that sort of talk, and
the boss isn’t the kind I’d use it on if I was. 1 felt a
bit low about it, but the extra three quid was still
somewhere in the back of my mind, too.
“Have you told Mr. Frazer?” I asked.
"No,” said the g.m. “He’ll be notified on the
thirty-first of the month. You think it over till then
and don’t be a fool, young man.”
I F old Jack had known at that time it’s a hundred
1 to one I’d have talked the lot over with him, and it
might have all come to a happy ending. He’s not any-
body's fool, even if the office was a bit of an obses-
sion with him. But he didn’t know, so I had to talk
it over with everyone else, and the way they all
echoed the g.m.’s last words was enough to break
anyone down. There was the extra three quid danc-
ing about just within reach if I was willing to grab.
1 had a bad three days before the thirty-first.
“Don’t be a fool, Bob,” Joan said. “If you won’t
think of yourself think of us, for goodness sake!”
“Don’t be a fool,” my cobbers told me. “Old
Jack’ll get no bonus out of someone else having his
job instead of you.”
The don’t-be-a-fool chorus got pretty well fixed in
my mind, and eventually I wasn’t a fool. I told the
g.m. that I’d take it on, and then I felt relieved and
pleased and as traitorous as hell all at once. But it
wasn’t so bad until they notified old Jack.
When he was called up to the g.m.’s office the
roof of my mouth dried out and I couldn’t do any-
thing but think about him until he came back. When
he did he looked knocked out, but he came straight
over to me.
“I’m glad you got it, Bob,” he said. “You deserve
it.”
Just at the moment the three quid meant nothing,
and I wanted to tell him that it was wrong and rotten,
and that if they were chucking him out I’d go, too.
But of course you can’t do that sort of thing. I must
have gaped at him helplessly, pretty much the way I
did the first day I was in the office.
“I’ll be all right, son,” he said. “I’ll be able to
get out of doors like I’ve always wanted to. It’ll do
me good.”
One of the others came over looking concerned,
and when we explained as well as we could he tried
to congratulate me and sympathise with old Jack at
the same time. But he was pretty tactless.
“I’m glad you got it, Bob,” he said. “It wouldn’t
have been fair if they’d brought an outsider in.”
I saw the old man stiffen, and I realised that he
hadn’t worked things out yet. He hadn’t realised that
the management thought him so old and inefficient
that they’d have got rid of him in any circum-
stances. All of a sudden I decided that he had to be
saved from that, anyway.
“There was never a chance of an outsider com-
ing in,” I said. “They arranged it for me a week ago.”
Then, of course, the old man tumbled to the
other side of it—what it meant if 1 knew so much
about the plans the heads had made. He looked worse
than ever, and he stared at me as if he couldn’t
believe it.
“Anyway, you deserved it,” he said after a while.
“You’ve really been doing all the work for ages.”
After that he gathered up his hat and went home.
Ever since then we’ve seen each other every so-
often, and we always say good day and sometimes
even have a short yarn, but our intimacy and friend-
ship are all gone. Any talk between us is cold and sus--
picious and uncomfortable, because the old man thinks
that I cut the ground from under him and wormed
my way into his job. That’s what I wanted him to
think, at first, of course, but sometimes now I re-
member the old days and think about him for a while,
and feel bad because I get sure in my mind that he’d
rather have known the worst about the mine, and
been able to hang on to his faith in me. But it’s a
lot too late for explanations, anyway. I suppose
when people try to get heroic and self-sacrificing they
often muck things up one way or another.
It’s just a little thing in the past that doesn’t
satisfy me, but, of course, I’m pretty satisfied in most
ways, so I don’t think about it often. The manage-
ment has found a few extra items of work so that I
can earn my extra three quid a week, and Joan and I
have dug up various ways of spending it, so I’m pretty
busy. And there’s one thing in which I haven’t let old
Jack down. He’d be pleased with the way I run the
office if he knew about it. It’s O.K. for the share-
holders and it’s O.K. for the boys who work there,
too. I get the biggest screw, so I do all the overtime
myself, and if anyone is clumsy or stupid, or even
lazy, I always remember old Jack and handle ’em
gently.
COMRADE IN ARMS.
Brew your potion, bray your spell,
Pestle in mortar pound, then tell
How the power of your chemic art
Captured and kept my Romany heart!
What volcanic draught of fire
Loosed the lava of desire
Still unquenched, a hidden flood
Flowing, flowing down my blood,
Bursting all the jealous weirs
Built by time across the years ?
What alembic wrought the charms
Holding me in your white arms?
Wife and comrade, mate and friend.
Yours I am until the end;
We have conquered life, though death
Take joint glory from our breath.
Lithe of limb and fine of heart,
Thoroughbred in every part,
So you win, by double grace,
Flesh and mind to your embrace.
Cool, broad brow and pool-brown eyes
Guard your gentleness, and wise
Innocence whose morning zest
No day undews, no evening west
Darkens; warm your gloryings
In each loveliness that sings
Clear from bird and tree and flower;
Deep your passion in the hour
Sacramental, when our lips
Seal the intrusive world’s eclipse.
Ever on my wounds you laid
Balsam of understanding, made
Faith unflecked a potent balm
Saving me from each dark harm.
Greater even than all these
Glows your courage, that decrees
How together we can face.
Hand in hand, war’s doom, and brace
Shoulders to carry swags whose weight
Bulks with pain and doubts of fate.
Knowing yet the strong content
From answering the high event.
n.s.w.
T. INGLIS MOORE.


FINAL LEAVE
By D. C. TRAINOR.
r-iLF’S mother woke and looked at the alarm-
H clock on the table beside her bed from habit
I \ rather than because she wanted to know the
time. She always woke at 6.30. She had been
getting up at that time for as long as she could
remember. She lay back for a moment in a half-
drowsy state, then she remembered with a start and
got out of bed hurriedly. How could she have for-
gotten? He was coming home today on leave. His
final leave.
She hadn’t forgotten, of course ; she was half-
asleep, that was all. His train got in at ten and there
was a lot to be done. The house had to be tidied
up, and Alf’s room. She must have that looking nice
for him. She would have to get the fowl ready lor
dinner. They could have a hot dinner today and
have it cold for Sunday. Then she would have a
chance to talk to Alf. There was no sense in having
him home and cooking all day.
After she had a cup of tea she started on the
housework. It would do to put the lowl on alter All
came, then he could talk to her while she was doing
the cooking. She worked on till ten o’clock. He
should not be long now. It took about twenty minutes
to get from the station to Newtown. She went to
her room and looked at herself in the mirror above the
dressing-table, straightened her dress and brushed her
hair back, then went out on to the verandah to wait.
How long had she lived in the old place? She
counted back. Twenty years it was. They had often
thought of moving, but somehow they had got used
to the old place. Alf had been born there. She
remembered when she had first sent him off to school
and had waited on the verandah like this for him to
come home. She remembered, too, how she used to
wait for her husband to come home in the evenings.
She was so busy thinking in the past that she
did not notice Alf coming along the road.
“Hello, ma,” he called.
“Alf!” She almost ran to the gate to meet him
and threw her arms round him. She fussed over him,
taking his bag and hat. She took in every detail of
his uniform. She thought that he looked wonderful
in it. She shut the front door and plied him with
questions. Had he had a good trip down? Would
he like to have a wash? Would he like a cigarette?
She gave him one from a box she had bought for him.
She was still talking and he was good-humoredly
giving her all the news about himself when the front
door bell rang. Alf’s mother looked annoyed. From
week’s end to week’s end no one came to the house
and now when her boy came home for a few days,
perhaps his last visit— — She went to answer the
door.
It was Millie Sheldon. She lived a few doors
down the street, and Mrs. Willard had always sus-
pected that she was rather keen on Alf.
“Hello, Millie” —she forced herself to be cordial —
“come in.”
“I only came for a minute, Mrs. Willard. I saw
Alf coming and thought that I would come just for
a second.”
Alf seemed pleased to see her. They talked
animatedly together. When Millie said she must go
Alf walked to the door with her. When he came
back he said: “I’ve asked Millie to come to a show
tonight, ma. I’m meeting some of the boys in town.”
“That’ll be nice, Alf,” she said, but she felt resent-
ful against Millie.
“Come out into the kitchen and talk, Alf, while
1 get the dinner on.”
He seemed to hesitate. “Do you mind, ma, if I
don’t stay to lunch?” he said. “I told some of the
boys that I’d meet them in town for lunch.”
She said she didn’t mind.
He went out into the bathroom and washed and
came in combing his hair. He seemed restless. They
talked for a while and he said that it was time for
him to be getting along. He got his hat and came
over and kissed her. “I may be a bit late, ma,” he
said. “Don’t wait up for me.”
He went out and she watched him go down the
street with a swinging stride.
She went slowly back into the house and through
to the kitchen. She looked at the dinner. Her eyes
became a little misty and she dabbed at them im-
patiently with a handkerchief. She made herself a
cup of tea and drank it slowly. If she put the fowl
in the ice chest it would be all right,
SHE heard him come in somewhere in the small
hours of the morning.
He stayed in for dinner on Sunday and they talked
in a desultory sort of way. He went out to see a
friend straight afterwards.
On Monday morning she was up early doing the
washing he had brought home. Minutely she went
through everything, turning over every shirt and pair
of shorts to see whether they wanted mending. Her
tired eyes looked lovingly, and her worn hands turned
everything over trying to find something to do that
would be helpful to him. She thought of how often
and for how many years she had done this for him
before, but now everything she did seemed to have a
special significance. She had tried to put the thought
from her, but it kept recurring that she might be doing
all this for the last time. She wondered whether he
realised this also.
He got up late on Monday morning and an-
nounced that he was going into town. He would be
back in the afternoon. She asked if he had every-
thing he wanted, enough money. He said he had. She
had saved up a pound which she intended giving him
when he was leaving. She watched the clock go
round till it was time for him to be home, and almost
jumped when the front door bell rang. She opened
it and was met by the small grubby girl from the
corner shop. Mr. Willard had rung and asked them
to tell her that he was spending the night with a
cobber and would be home the next day. She went
back slowly into the house feeling very lonely.
He was a good boy —nothing could alter that
fact —but she wished that he had been able to spend
a little more time with her. He had not been away
from home much before he went into camp and
she had missed him terribly. But he was young
and it was natural that he should want to be
with young people. She supposed that he had very
little fun in camp, and he might as well make the best
of it while he had a few days’ leave. Still the thought
kept hammering at her brain that this might be the
last time she would see him. This was his final leave.
When he went away, it would be secretly on a boat
“Considerin' I've been drivin' you for twenty years, sir, you're Walkin' very Well."
at night. She commenced to cry a little and wiped
away the tears with the back of her hand.
ALF arrived home the next day for lunch.
‘Tve fixed up all your clothes, Alf,” she told
him. “Everything is mended and nice and clean for
you.”
“Thanks, ma.” He was silent for a while and
then said: “You don’t think I should have stayed at
home more, do you, ma, instead of going out with
the boys?”
“Of course not, Alf. Why shouldn’t you enjoy
yourself?”
He had a sleep during the afternoon. His train
was to leave at seven, so she got him an early tea.
Afterwards she helped him get his things together,
folding his clothes with care.
At a quarter past six he said he would have to
go. They had talked very little for the previous half-
hour or so. Neither knew what to say.
He picked up his hat and bag. “Well, good-bye,
ma,” he said. “Don’t worry about me. I’ll be all
right.”
She wanted to tell him she was grief-stricken, to
beg him not to go, to tell him what a wonderful thing
she thought he was doing, but all she said was “Good-
bye, Alf. Look_after yourself and write to me.”
He said and in the gathering dusk she
watched his tall figure striding away down the street.
TEMPTATION
By MARGARET TRIST.
THE little girl was walking respectably down the
street in the way her mother had told her. Walk-
ing not quickly or slowly but at a nice even
pace, treading evenly on the sole of her sandal and
not kicking her toes against the asphalt. She held her
school case nicely down by her side —she didn’t swing
it even the slightest bit.
The little girl was pleased with herself. All day
she had been very good. She had eaten all her lunch,
remembered to wash her hands and keep her finger-
nails clean, not soiled her frock, got most of her
lessons right, not talked in school and had kept a
liquorice strap in her desk all day and had only had
a nibble now and again. When school was out she
had remembered to fetch her hat from the porch
instead of running off and leaving it there while she
walked home in danger of being struck down dead
by the sun. Hats were very expensive and liable to
be stolen if left lying about, and if the hat was stolen
a new hat would have to be bought, and mother would
have to do without a new pair of stockings or some-
thing. The little girl hadn’t got over being remorse-
ful about the stockings mother had to do without last
time she got a hat. And her sandals? Her sandals
were safely buckled upon her feet, not lying forlornly
somewhere while she wandered home barefooted.
She walked sedately along, consciously good and
consciously happy. She revelled in the sunshine. Sun-
shine was the loveliest, beautifullest thing in all the
world. Excepting, of course, God ; but then, as God
had made the sunshine, it was quite all right to love
it—the sunshine and the little warm breeze and the
smooth blue bay cradled in a sun-filled hollow at the
end of the long sloping street.
The street was full of houses ; big houses with
gardens and lawns and trees in front. In one garden
a sprinkler was playing. The water rose in a fine
gold spray high into the air and fell like soft rain
back to the cool, damp grass. The little girl stood still
at the gate, lost in a dream. It was so lovely. The
water was fine and cool and gold. Her thin little body
was hot and dusty under her cotton frock.
She slipped through the gate and her clothes came
off as if by magic. One second she was dressed, the
next she was running baretoed and naked over the
grass towards the sprinkler. Oh, the lovely coolness
on her hot body ; the softness of the drenched grass
beneath her shoe-weary feet. She stuck her toes into
the grass. She lifted her face. The water sprayed
down on to it. Soon her hair was sopping. Her
laughter turned to gurgling because when she laughed
she opened her mouth and the water ran into it. She
raised her arms and danced. It was like dancing your-
self clean in sunshine and water.
Suddenly, the little girl stopped, stopped with her
arms upraised and her mouth wide open with laugh-
ing. In a second the shame of it was upon her. It
spread over her, heating her, despite the cool fragrance
of the water. Her heart felt heavy inside her. A
queer sick feeling arose in her chest. She glanced
furtively around. There was no one in sight. She
slunk from the water towards her clothes. She wanted
to hurry but dared not. Someone might hear her
footsteps and come and see her like this, stark naked!
She huddled herself together and stole towards the
path where her clothes lay scattered.
The path was such a long way away. After long
seconds she reached it and snatched up her clothes.
Then quickly she let them drop again because the
water was dripping from her hair and body. She sat
down on the path and began to cry. Tears of regret
for the good little girl she had been. It was hard to
wake from a dream of goodness, to find yourself a
bad little girl in a frightful, unexplainable predicament.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
tfhlt l / fyme efWie mellowncdd andJmujjuei
TEPPELT'S
LONDON STONE.
Memorials of ancient London, actual and
comparative, suffered in 1940-41 to an
exceptional degree from the aerial bombard-
ment to which the city was subjected by the
Luftwaffe. As 1941 progressed the question
was not infrequently asked “What memorial
will go in the next Blitz ?” Though the city,
regarded administratively, had suffered
grievously up to the middle of 1941, there
were still “treasured relics of a high
antiquity” which had escaped the Nazi
madness of destruction. Not the least
•important of these was the London Stone,
let into the south front of St. Swithin’s
Church, Cannon-street, opposite to the
station which comprises the city terminus
of an important section of the Southern
Railway. The church, one of Wren’s, con-
structed after the Great Fire of 1666, is
dedicated to a saint, hardly today remem-
bered, save as a sort of clerk of the weather
office, a connection arising from the legend
that the translation of his body to the
Cathedral at Winchester in the tenth cen-
tury was delayed for 40 days by the rain.
However that may be, this is known that
the saint became Bishop of Winchester in
852, was tutor to Egbert’s son Ethelwolf,
and also of Alfred the Great. His fame for
piety and zeal remains. This stone, a frag-
ment of which lies behind the grille in the
illustration, originally stood on the other or
south side of Cannon-street, upright near the
“Channel or Kennel.” It was indubitably
a Roman military of the same kind as stood
in the Forum at Rome. Upon this
antiquaries are agreed, but are by no means
unanimous that it was an altar of worship
among the ancient Britons. Stow says it was
“fixed in the ground very deep, fastened
with bars of iron and otherwise so strongly
set that if carts do run against it through
negligence, the wheels be broken and the
stone itself unshaken.” Crane in his
“Roman London” holds that this relic, not
much larger from what can be seen of it
than a human hand, of so ancient and
venerable a monument, going back 1700
years, is “precious and interesting.” Mr.
Thomas Maiden, of Sherbourn-lane, a
printer, when tl.e church was about to be
repaired in 1798, prevailed on the parish
officers to consent that the stone be placed
where it still remains, when it had been
doomed to destruction as a nuisance, stand-
ing after its first removal from the opposite
side in 1740 at the edge of the kerbstone.
Its foundations were uncovered during
operations after the Great Fire, and were
so extensive Wren considered they had
supported some more considerable monu-
ment “than even the central milliarium.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 62.—N0. 3208.
Wednesday, August 6, 1941.
SCORCHED EARTH.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P• H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. , 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Ternis to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
ana Inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas {British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165,;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad-
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign )
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months , lls .
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
tides and other places within the British Empire ,
td. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
nil other places, 4d.
RECRUITERS ON THE WARPATH.
With the national atmosphere very much the same
on the surface as that prevailing in 1914-18, it is not
surprising that a recruiting drive today should be
essentially on the lines adopted for such efforts in the
other war. The most striking of the posters displayed
in the latest drive showed a flapper holding out the
old Digger lid and saying, “Mister, here’s your hat!”
The female of the species figured in other such posters,
illustrating themes ranging from frank sex-appeal to
a supposedly outmoded sense of chivalry. Patently
the idea was to lure or to shame, and just as patently
that is in itself a shameful resort. It is, however, a
resort for which there is ample precedent: it was
taken in a large way in 1914-18, on which occasion
the ladies themselves joined in in person. Overlook-
ing the principle, or lack of principle, involved in the
biologically unqualified being drawn in to influence
the biologically qualified, sex- and chivalry-appeal
employed for recruiting purposes may perhaps be
allowed to have been justified by results and to have
been suited to the times in 1914-18. How does this
sort of thing suit the present times?
That question touches on much more than a
particular brand of appeal employed in the latest
drive. It touches more importantly on the wider
matter of voluntary enlistment generally.
That method of getting an army to go away
and fight on its behalf saw Australia haphazardly
through the earlier war. Chivalry was in better odor
then, so the feminine influence was possibly of con-
siderable importance. But war itself was in better
odor also ; the sense of honor and glory attaching to
fighting in a war had not been debunked and be-
draggled by the war-book writers and many others.
It appealed to adventurousness and suchlike instinctive
qualities, subsequently stigmatised as “primitive.”
Under debunking influences —easily the most articu-
late in the post-war period, and naturally the most
effectual on all people who had had a bellyful of
war, and who lacked such incentives as revenge
motives —the general outlook on war completely
changed, and remains changed. Few, except the most
militarist-minded, would deny that this is morally a
change for the good ; but the goodness or otherwise
of it is quite beside the point in considering Australia’s
war approach. In this consideration, the fact of the
change is very much to the point. It is a fundamental
change, and it has a most important bearing on
recruiting.
The approach to this war in Britain —copied, like
everything else, in Australia, on the “tune-in” prin-
ciple—was one of grimly accepting the unavoidable.
Unlike the mood prevailing there in 1914 and for
some time afterwards, there have been no heroics ;
nothing of that manifestation of patriotic enthusiasm
which was later to be dubbed hysterics. The war,
however, has been taken to Britain ; under the bomb-
ing, an altogether new, stronger and angry mood has
evolved. Australia has no counterpart of that, nor
can it have unless the war actually comes here, or
very close. Hence, except perhaps with those who
think deeply and imagine vividly, the mood now
impelling and inspiring the British is lacking.
Australia is thus in the position of facing up to
its war commitment in that mood of resigned accept-
ance with which the British at first faced up, but
with a most important difference. This time —quite
appropriate to the mood—Britain started off with
conscription. The dour mood—though not hitherto a
Digger characteristic—is no doubt as good as any for
fighting on. It probably could not be faulted when
linked up with conscription. It might even be the
ideal for an army assembled on that democratic prin-
ciple that is, fairly all round. How does it measure
up as a -ground on which to appeal for voluntary
recruits? Not very well, apparently; otherwise it
would be used by recruiters. Instead, they rely on the
old lines of appeal that served when the general war
outlook and the general war mood were utterly dif-
ferent. The former mood in Britain and the present
mood in Australia are the same ; but they did not
resort to belting drums and flaunting skirts in Britain.
That is not a disparagement of the recruiters or
a criticism of their methods. They are doing a job
evaded by a weak-kneed and weak-minded Govern-
ment, and take the best course open to them. Their
line of appeal may seem to belong to other times, and
in the face of the accepted prevailing war mood may
seem even frivolous, but it is probably more likely to
get results than any alternative appeal strictly in tune
with the changed times and changed mood. Implicit
in a strong response to an appeal strictly in accord
with the mood of these times would be a maturity of
thought and outlook too much to expect from youth.
A few may be capable of it, but the bulk of those
who voluntarily enlist probably do so from much the
same causes that have always inspired volunteers.
These are sound and instinctive causes, but they have
been put so blackly into eclipse that they cannot now
be expected to be as compelling as they once were.
Knowing their value, the recruiters are striving to
recover them —in view of all the circumstances, no
easy job. But what other way is open to the recruiters?
Australia’s war position, then, really amounts to
this. Both the general prevailing war mood and the
whole home-front effort are as right as they could be,
given conscription. Without that, they are like a body
without a head ; or rather, as backing to forces raised
by the method of recruiting volunteers, they are like
a body with a false head. Even in the last war, when
the mood was utterly different, the voluntary method
failed in the end. How can the most optimistic expect
it to succeed with the mood now prevailing—a mood
that practically rules out the emotions, and substitutes
calm, deeply reasoning, mature thinking? Yet, accord-
ing to Mr. Menizes —unanimously seconded in this, if
in nothing else, by Messrs. Curtin, Evatt and co. —
“we are committed” to the voluntary system. It
amounts to saying that “we are committed” to failure.
It indicates that the country’s leaders are self-declared
failures already. They pretend to be aware of the
realities of total war, but they lack either the wisdom
or the courage to lead the country in total effort.
Even with war in the Pacific now hanging on
the slenderest threads the recruiters have still to go
about belting drums and the Minister for the Army
has to join in with appeals. Appeals —when the threat
is right on the doorstep! And, apart from this imme-
diate threat, with this country destined to taking part
in any war for the protection of Singapore and there-
abouts —the front lines of its own defence —an entirely
new future now opens up. The Government’s position
is that it is in favor of defending Australia outside
Australia, if that is possible—meaning, if enough able-
bodied Australians are willing voluntarily to shoulder
the job. That is the whole Government policy, and
political expediency never looked more shameful. An
alternative Labor Government would be no better —it
would be worse. Official Australian Labor was still
opposing the reintroduction of national training, even
for home defence, months after the war started. Its
idea of defence is wait and let ’em come ; and then—
if the personal undertakings of such stalwarts as
Mr. Lang and Mr. Falstein proved infectious—it would
be in the front line to a man
There are clear alternatives. One is to retreat
at once and for ever inside the Australian coastline,
and let such front-line defences as Singapore and the
rest be taken over. Even official Australian Labor—
by an effort of swallowing that would do credit to
Communist gullets —seems to have stomached, for
the time being, compulsory national service inside
Australia. In plain words, everybody accepts con-
scription for home defence, so that alternative is
looked after.
The other alternative is to accept—as the Govern-
ment, in theory, sensibly accepts—that defending
Australia outside Australia is the plain course of
wisdom. This, in fact, is nationally-accepted Austra-
lian policy at the moment —the policy which leads
to Diggers being up around Singapore and Malaya,
and to Australian participation in the recent strong
economic action against Japan. It carries an impera-
tive, however —the very obvious one that, if this is
Australia’s chosen home-defence policy, then the
boundaries for compulsory national service must be
extended to include the home-defence front line,
Australians have been reluctant in the past to
have conscription for wars 10,000 and more miles
away. This is different. If there to the north is where
Australia’s home-defence front line now and hence-
forth lies, compulsory national service—conscription—-
must apply to that region also.
Changes in Nearest Asia.
There is a certain irony in the fact that Japan, by the
occupation of French Indo-China, should at long last
be thrusting a finger into the almost-closed South
China Sea (as an instalment of what Tokyo calls its
“South Seas policy”) at a time when most of the
imperial Powers are already represented there.
During the 300 years of voluntary isolation, when
it was treason for a Japanese seaman to leave terri-
torial waters and a crime punishable by death for a
foreigner even to get wrecked on the shores of Nippon,
the coasts of that sea, into which almost the whole of
Australia could be comfortably fitted, were being
divided by the very European Powers Japan was try-
ing to keep out of her own household. Java and
Sumatra were occupied by Portuguese and Dutch ;
Malaya by Dutch and English ; Borneo by Dutch, an
adventurer from Devon and a British chartered com-
pany ; the Philippines by Spain —and the United
States. Meanwhile, Thailand, Cambodia, Annam and
Burma were establishing empires and ousting one
another from them. Then France came along and
inherited the remains of several empires in Indo-
china, while Britain closed the neck of the bottle by
turning Hong Kong into a fortress. The Japanese got
their first fooling by driving a shadowy Chinese Gov-
ernment out of Formosa.
By closing her ports to foreign nations, Japan
adopted the solipsistic notion that a nation can be in
the world and not of it. Foreign guns exploding over
Shimonseki disabused her of that notion, and she
entered upon the process of Westernisation. She
accepted everything holus-bolus —Parliamentary insti-
tutions, mass production, manufacture of tin pots and
umbrellas for export, foreign investments, military
expansion, the current nationalistic belief that every-
thing other nations had was at her expense and —
necessary corollary—that everything she had was at the
expense of other nations. In course of time she
destroyed Japanese arts and crafts and a way of living
which was admired by every intelligent European who
came to see her, and made herself as much like the
interlopers she resented as it is possible to imagine.
Among the innovations were bathing-beauty contests
and newspapers which catered for tastes that would
have horrified Hokusai and Hiroshige.
Since Japan was contending in the same field with
nations which were doing their utmost to make
themselves bigger and bigger, the only thing she
could think of doing, having accepted this tradition,
was to make herself bigger and bigger. So she
created a population problem, with the result that she
had to go in for foreign conquest. Foreign conquest
brought her into immediate juxtaposition with Russia,
which was also doing her best to become bigger and
bigger ; so Japan had to become bigger than Russia.
In short, the Japanese reacted to the crisis produced
by the destruction of their isolation exactly like the
dinosaurus.
When the Ice Age spread over Europe and the
food supply dwindled, the dinosaurus, metaphorically
speaking, was in a crisis. If it was to survive it had
to grow smaller, but tradition told it that it should
grow bigger. Whenever a crisis had occurred in the
past the dinosaurus had manipulated it by growing
fatter and fatter. That was the way security had
always been attained to by its predecessors. But its
environment had changed, so all it succeeded in doing
was to eat itself off the earth. The creatures which
survived were- those whose tradition, no doubt, told
them that to be secure they must grow smaller and
smaller.
Now the Japanese are talking about new orders
and co-prosperity leagues in Asia, just like their
Western brothers. What they mean by that is that,
the dwindling food supply having made them feel
insecure, they can make themselves feel secure again
by getting bigger, like the dinosaurus. The dino-
saurus wasn’t given overmuch to thinking, but neither
can what the Japanese are going on with be called
thinking. They are just reacting against their condi-
tions and calling it a desire to establish a new order.
At the outbreak of the last war I was in a hos-
pital in Surrey. It was situated midway between aero-
dromes, the best of their day, but primitive by 1941
standards. Every day I used to see aeroplanes fly
over. Some of them were box-kite contraptions, but
they slowly began to get better, and by the end of the
war they were most impressive-looking objects, capable
of performing marvels.
Now we have troop-carriers capable, as we have
seen, of transporting 150 soldiers, with their destructive
weapons —even small tanks —from Italy to Libya and
from Egypt to Mesopotamia, as well as from Ger-
many to Norway and from Greece to Crete ; we
have bombers able to drop 20001 b. bombs 1000 miles
away from their hangars ; we have fighters which
can dive at 400 m.p.h. and by cunning devices con-
duct an aerial combat in the stratosphere.
The Japanese who talk of establishing new orders
never ask themselves how the process which has had
developments so startling is to be retarded or why it
will not be accelerated out of all proportion, not
alone by themselves, who have come late into the
picture, but by any of the nations they regard
as rivals. They never ask themselves what there is
in the contemporary way of thinking to prevent
developments even more startling. Nor, of course,
do they see any moral in the fate of the dinosaurus.
In his way of reacting to his crisis there was nothing
to prevent his expanding till he burst.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
And They Call Him "Frank"!
The concern now known as Australian Consolidated
Industries —the name used to be Australian Glass
has housed its Sydney office staff in a grand new build-
ing (“the most modern in Australia, unique, inspiring ),
and Lud Mayor Crick attended to declare it wide
open for business and to discourse more or less
eloquently on the co.’s pre-eminence in the arts of
making bottles and selling them to vast advantage.
Among the other guests were Federal Labor politicians,
headed by Mr. Curtin’s deputy, Mr. Frank Forde. From
the fact that Mr. Frank Forde had in the previous fort-
night delivered a furious attack on Broken Hill Pro-
prietary and demanded that the Government should
“take it over,” steelworks, munitions works, coal-
mines, other mines, shipyards and all, A.C.I. might
possibly have felt a certain nervousness as to what
Mr. Frank Forde would say. If so, its fears were
dispelled as the mists that blow away.
Mr. Frank Forde was in a most ingratiating
mood. Though he had alleged that B.H.P. was pay-
ing huge dividends “on approximately £6,000,000 of
watered stock,” and other roaring nonsense of the
kind, he did not once refer to A.C.l.’s capital or
profits, nor did he utter a word that could have inter-
fered with anyone’s enjoyment of an excellent lunch.
On the contrary he tickled all ears with flattering
references to “the great secondary industries” which
“Australia’s bold protectionist policy” had “built” up,
and predicted that after the war these industries would
“go on expanding.” The A.C.I. group among them,
of course.
Yet if Mr. Frank Forde did well to be angry with
8.H.P., it is gross inconsistency on his part to spare
A. Replying to his implied charge of profiteering,
B. said that since June, 1938, it had not raised
the price of its products by a penny a ton, and that
it was selling pig-iron, merchant bars, structural steel
and plates at not much more than half the current
prices in Britain. If any corresponding claims can be
made for A.C.I. products —beer bottles, for instance—
The Bulletin will be delighted to publish them. Soon
after the outbreak of war, A.C.I. announced an
increase of 8 p.c. in the price of window glass. It
was obliged to cancel the increase a fortnight later.
The debunking of Mr. Frank Forde’s indictment
of B.H.P. finance was done so thoroughly in B.
30/7/’4l that repetition is unnecessary, but it is strange
that the gentleman has not bothered to go into A.C.I.
finance. The essential facts are readily accessible and
they would give him something to be angry about
if this sort of anger is not restricted to B.H.P. And
so far from ransacking musty records he needs only to
go back to the year in which A.C.I. was promised a
monopoly .of motor-car manufacture, for which his
party voted in a body, undeterred by the curious
episode in which A.C.l.’s managing director leased a
racehorse to the negotiating Minister, now no longer
in politics.
In March, 1939, Australian Glass transferred its
various undertakings—the main one is still bottle-
making—to subsidiaries. Its capital and reserves had
previously been shown at £1,933,838 ; a few book
entries made, a capital profit of £4,331,718 was
declared. Ordinary shareholders in Australian Glass,
now rechristened A.C.1., were handed 11 free £1 ordi-
nary shares for every four ordinary shares they held.
By this means capital was inflated to £3,664,292, and
reserves still stood at £2,670,428.. “Goodwill” in the
subsidiaries was valued at upwards of £2,350,000.
The business, has been well able to take care of
the bigger figures. Prior to the stock-watering, annual
dividend on ordinary shares was 15 p.c. Last year
the company paid an 8 p.c. dividend, representing
30 p.c. on the pre-bonus capital. (Mr. Forde is out-
raged because B.H.P.’s dividend rate, previously 124
p.c., is now “equivalent to 12.3 p.c.”) Annual income
of shareholders who shared in the free distribution is
thus exactly double what it was in 1938. On new
cash issues they get 8 p.c. ; and they can still sell
the fully-paid £1 shares for 48s. This is equal to
£9 for the old £1 ordinary share ; it is more if the
rights on new cash issues are taken into account.
But not a word from Mr. Forde. Neither he nor
any member of. his party, though they leap with rage
when B.H.P. is mentioned (he had another go at the
concern which has placed Whyalla on the industrial
map a few days after the A.C.I. lunch\ suggests that
A.C.I. should be “taken over” because it has “battened
on the capitalisation of profits” (part of Mr. Forde’s
baseless attack on 8.H.P.) and to “allay industrial
unrest” by giving the worker cheaper beer-bottles. As
to that, Mr. Forde’s party never talks about nationali-
sation of the liquor traffic now. The only concern
it wants to “nationalise” is B.H.P. The country would
have to find millions in taxes to keep the thing going,
instead of receiving over a million in tax-money from
the company this year.
Hiding Behind the Lottery.
N.S.W. hospital finance under the microscope:
There is a chronic shortage of money for hospitals in
N. S. Wales, but there is never any shortage of reports on the
SUbJ The State has a Board of Health and a Hospitals Com-
mission which survey the field in print at least once a year ;
it had a Minister for Health who, with a personal staff, made
a world tour and, having filled a pigeonhole with a voluminous
result of his investigations, was rejected by his constituents;
and it had a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which
recently completed its prolonged deliberations. Yet in spite of
all this accumulated knowledge the McKell Government has
set up another committee, composed almost entirely of salaried
officers, which is to be sent to a smaller State to find out how
to set about solving the problem. . , , ,
Why the oldest and most populous State with the largest
and best medically-conducted institutions in the Com-
monwealth should have to look to smaller countries for
hospital inspiration is a mystery, especially as the same
countries send representatives to N. S. Wales to study hospital
practice.
The salient facts can be stated briefly. In all the public
and private hospitals of N. S. Wales, excluding those reserved
for mental patients, there are 24,975 beds to serve a popula-
tion of roughly 2,718,000. Some' beds (for example, at
Newington and Lidcombe) cost £1 to £1 10s. per week to main-
tain ; at the other extreme are private-hospital beds which may
run to £lO 10s. per week. As the less costly beds greatly
preponderate it is fair to reckon average cost at £156 p.a.:
say, £1 Bs. Bd, per head of the population—a very modest
figure when we compare per capita expenditure on education
(£2 95.) and beer (£5 18s. 6d.).
On this basis annual cost of maintaining all the hospitals
is £3,986,100. Private hospitals may be left out of the
argument, since they maintain themselves. According to the
report of the Hospitals Commission for the year to June 30,
1940, the public hospitals in that year ccsl £2,431,939 to
maintain. Their maintenance revenue from all sources was
£2,341,580, leaving a deficit of £90,359.
Details of revenue:
Government contributions —
Lottery commission ~ .. .. £810,067
Consolidated revenue • .. .. 225,686
£1,035,753
Citizens’ contributions .. .. 1,305,827
Toad £2,341,580
In effect, citizens provided £270,074 more than came from the
lottery and consolidated revenue.
Study of Hospitals Commission reports brings out the
startling fact that consolidated revenue provided £741,319 for
maintenance and buildings in 1929, a pre-lottery year, and
only £782,098 (maintenance £225,686, buildings £556,412) in
1940, notwithstanding that the number cf beds had been
quadrupled during these 11 years. So, next to the citizens’
contributions, the greatest individual factor in the Government
half of hospital finance is the lottery. The public used to be
regaled with the yarn that the hospitals would get the proceeds
of the totalisator and entertainments taxes, but these they
have never received.
Maintenance of people who are unable to pay for sick
relief is a fair charge on general revenue, as is recognised
in other countries. If the Government is not prepared to
accept this obligation, it should introduce a compulsory sick
insurance scheme capable of raising £1 Bs. Bd. per head per
annum. This form of insurance might be regarded as a lay-by
for the rainy season of sickness. Since the B scheme of the
voluntary Metropolitan Hospitals’ Contribution Fund is calcu-
lated to yield 48s. p.a. it would, if extended to the whole State,
more than cover the whole cost of the State’s hospitalisation,
public and private, without any restriction as to the length of
stay of the individual in hospital—incidentally, all members
of the fund on the basic wage are treated free in hospitals by
the medical profession.
There are other aspects of this hospital problem that
concern the doctor’s recompense for his work and the cost
of erecting hospitals. In respect of maintenance cost it is
crystal-clear that Government after Government has hid behind
the lottery and its various committees of inquiry and has shirked
its legitimate responsibilities to the sick poor. A vast amount
of money has been raised and squandered under the guise
of unemployed-relief. Who is more truly unemployed than
the worker when he is sick? Why didn’t the Government give
some of this unemployed-relief money to the hospitals which
were called upon to provide food, clothing, drugs, nursing
and medical care for these unfortunate citizens?
Father Christmas Dunstan.
“Father Christmas has nothing on this Government,”
exclaimed Mr. Cremean (Labor) as Premier Dunstan
of Victoria drew towards the finish of the Budget
speech in which he announced a surplus of £142,000
and a cut of 35 p.c. in the unemployed-relief tax.
Everybody in Melbourne is happy. Nobody
objects even to the influx of ruined farmers from the
Mallee. There are jobs for all, and there is a forest
of new offices for Federal co-ordinators of this and
that, and for directors of departments which direct
other departments directing other departments, all in
connection with the war effort. Fathers and mothers
no longer feel any anxiety about their sons, for if they
can’t get into the fighting services they can get into
the public service.
Even the decentralisation policy which the Dunstan
Government says it stands for and which it has
done nothing to foster is getting a lift by the erection
in a provincial centre of a vast munitions factory, out
of which Mr. Dunstan’s Government will make a lot
of money by selling its transportation, electrical and
other supply services. And even the chronically hard-up
Railway Department cherishes visions of a paper sur-
plus, having raked in a lot more revenue because
petrol has been rationed, and because munitions
workers have to travel long distances to get to their
places of employment, the Government haying
neglected to provide them with more convenient
accommodation. Jerry-built houses are going up in
the suburbs like mushrooms, and more expensive edi-
fices are arising owing to the multitude of persons
enjoying salaries they never would have got if there
hadn’t been a war on.
To claim all this as a vindication of the “prin-
ciple” of government by six State Parliaments and a
Federal one is to camouflage the situation, and to pay
Mr. Dunstan the compliment of calling him Victoria’s
Father Christmas is to give a pat to the wrong back,
incidentally a broad one. The Father Christmas in
question is not Mr, Dunstan but Mr. Menzies, whose
Government has poured out all the benefits which
have made Mr. Dunstah’s Budget look so pretty. But
Mr. Dunstan omitted to mention this fact. Instead
he indulged in a peroration to the effect that his Gov-
ernment in these dark days of anxiety and uncertainty
was quite conscious of the many difficult problems
that awaited solution, but was convinced that, no
matter how hard the road we had to travel, no matter
what sacrifices had to be made in the cause of
humanity and democracy, the people of the State
would manfully and loyally play their allotted part
until the dangers that confronted them were eliminated
from this fair land, blah, blah, blah.
What sacrifices has the State Parliament made?
Its superfluous departments are as superfluous as ever.
Nothing has been done to check the drift to the
bloated capital by the Yarra, which, according to Mr.
Dunstan’s tame Labor supporter, Mr. Cam, has
reached colossal proportions. The Ministry’s pro-
posed legislation for the session concerns such, things
as moneylenders’ operations, higher salaries in the
public service and provision of more scholarships for
country children so that they can come to the city
and be turned in' m-c white-collar workers. Mean-
time the members oi the Governmental party and its
Labor supporters a r e firmly wedded to the “principle”
of duplicated government.
Father Christmas Dunstan has merely been lucky.
The Last Straw.
From under the Vaucluse water-tower:
Between Royal Sydney golf course and the rusty Dunbar
anchor on South Head our suburb has many spots of historic
and aesthetic interest, not the least of them being the green
plot that covers the remains of Fairfaxes, founders of Aus-
tralia’s oldest daily newspaper.
To the conservatives of the district, the “Herald” has
been an institution since they romped as youngsters in the
heath. The heath vanished under towering flats as the years
passed and more Fairfaxes went to rest in the green plot,
concrete roads and modern “picture palaces” invaded our
suburb, but the “Herald” continued to cheer the matutinal
porridge with its fair reporting of contemporary things and
its grave commentaries and advice to the nation’s leaders.
Wars, droughts, elections, crimes, sermons, reforms —all the
panoply and poverty of life continued to arrive faithfully on
the lawn every morning except Sunday, and came to the
breakfast-table as a sheet-anchor in a restless world.
Then came September, 1940, and the first shock. Ihe
“Herald” supported a Person from another district against
our Mr. Harrison at the election. Shocked and astounded,
the suburb arose and outed the interloper. Nobody was sur-
prised at a faint rumble from the green plot.
The change in the “Herald” continued. The morning
porridge no longer flowed steadily to its destination; it went
down in gulps and driblets, with pauses between while the
waverers wrestled with their loyalty. People met in the calm
afternoons on the lawns of Wentworth House or along the
quiet harbor reaches of Neilsen Park, Parsley Bay and Camp
Cove —though not at week-ends, when cheap transport brought
the girl from the biscuit-factory and her boy-friend in their
thousands —and discussed and debated these things gravely.
On Royal Sydney gentlemen duffed their drives and hadn’t the
heart to swear; chauffeurs went about grim-faced and nurse-
maids wore thoughtful looks, what time the industrious refugee
burrowed into the suburb’s vitals and strange chromium-
and-glass excrescences were run up overnight on the ruins
of bought-up and pulled-down homesteads.
Then the “Herald” entered into an unseemly quarrel with
our Mr. Harrison over a domestic matter—newsprint rationing.
The porridge lay, cold and neglected, on the breakfast-table
while the suburb, knocked clean off its tucker, sought vainly
for something to hold on to in a disintegrating world. Old
ladies were not seen for days, gentlemen appeared walking
heavily and leaning on sticks, two chauffeurs joined the army
and a maid went off with a meter-reader and never returned.
Those who hurried up to the green plot were astonished to
find it apparently unshaken —they had expected at least one
crack in the surface.
Conscious that some inimical force was at work, the
suburb pulled itself together and carried on, shaken, it is true,
but with its courage burning. Then the “Herald” not
only narrowed its columns and omitted its daily law list —it
restored the thing when chided by a Judge—but got into holts
with the Prime Minister. With the Prime Minister, who is
also leader of the U.A P.! And when the Prime Minister
had done with it, the “Herald” had lost its bonnet and its
brolly and was all dishevelment and lachrymosity, its only
language a cry.
Every A.R.P. warden in the district has been ordered to
mount guard on the green plot to stand off uncouth sight-
seers come to view the great disturbance that everybody
believes inevitable.
"Dr. RoSland" Goes West.
From F. W. Rolland, “Headmaster, Geelong College”:
You refer in your issue of July 17 to a Dr. Rolland,
of Geelong College, who seems to be a very dangerous fellow
with designs upon the Throne. There is no Dr. Rolland at
Geelong College. I am positive of this. There does live there
a plain Mr. Rolland, and if necessary I can send a photograph
to prove his plainness. I have known this plain person
virtually all his life and can assure you that he does not hold
the opinions ascribed to this regicidal doctor. He has often
said in my hearing that he regards the monarchy as essential
to the Empire, and I know that he has the deepest admiration
for our beloved King and Queen.
As many of your readers, by their delightfully loyal abuse
of the doctor which has been forwarded to his plain name-
sake, seem to be confusing the two people, I think that
in justice to the latter and to the college this sensational ghost
should be laid at once. A mother once wrote to a headmaster,
“Kindly inter my boy at your school.” Dear Mr. Editor, will
you undertake to do this for the imaginary doctor by printing
this letter?
With due solemnity. The Bulletin consigns “Dr.
Rolland” and “the opinions ascribed” to him to the
grave where lies all that Betsy Prig left of Mrs. ’Arris ;
but it protests that other papers should have taken
part in the ceremony. Particularly the “Sun News-
Pic.” (Melbourne), which in its issue of July 10
printed this in bold black type:
“I favor absolute union with America, even if it
means the sacrifice of principles which we now hold
essential —even if it means the sacrifice of the British
monarchy,” declared the headmaster of Geelong College
(Dr. F. W. Rolland) to the graduates’ section of Mel-
bourne University Union last night.
The report had another mention of “Dr. Rolland”
and it was adorned with a photograph of “Dr.
Rolland,” who looks rather nice for a myth. Sydney
“Telegraph” published the same report, without the
photograph, but with two mentions of “Dr. Rolland” ;
and Scorfield made the thing the subject of a cartoon.
It is not rare for Bulletin cartoons to be cut
out and posted to characters figuring in them. If
“delightfully loyal abuse ’ was added in the case of
Mr. Rolland, The Bulletin can only chide the readers
responsible and express regret. It got a bit of abuse
on its own account in a letter scrawled on Geelong
College notepaper from “Yours unfaithfully, A
Student.” This was the final thrust: “What is the
name King anyway? Only a balloon kept up by the
hot air of the press, radio and politicians.”
So although Mr. Rolland “has often said in my
hearing that he regards the monarchy as essential to
the Empire,” he may not have said it often enough
in the hearing of smart young shavers.


Society
“K.”; Our suburb is a model of
loyalty. At the local flea hatchery the
patrons would never think of making a
wild dash for the doors until the canned
orchestra gets as far as where the words
“noble King” would come in if it were
sung. We were quite pleased when a
rash of V’s broke out on fences, windows
and footpaths. It, therefore, came as a
dreadful shock when there appeared,
placed immediately after every V around
the place, an equally big D. Old
Miss Stringbeans, who had been
brought up in a highly-respectable Wes-
leyan family, was heard saying to Mrs.
Whalebone, the bank manager’s wife,
that the minds of some people were
awful. Unfortunately, I fear that the
lady doesn’t seem to have grasped, as I
have, the full sinister meaning of it.
Unquestionably it is the work of some
dangerous Fifth Columnist. For what
could D stand for but Defeat?
“Bumpk”: The “V for Victory” cam-
paign has comic features in Melbourne.
Macßobertson, of the lollypop factory,
has suggested that “V for Victory” should
replace “Yours sincerely” at the end of
private letters, and the post office has
instructed hello girls to use the pious
exclamation as a greeting. The first
young woman who tried it on me would
have had a greater emotional success if
she hadn’t subsequently given me the
wrong number. A queue of waiters at
a sassiety cocktail party brought in the
booze and then formed a V before they
dispersed amongst the tables. Footballers
with V on their guernseys won a game
hands down, and a comedian at His
Majesty’s had the mystic sign stamped on
his chest. I presume the sponsors of the
notion expect to create a response to the
need for war effort a la the propagandists
who made “Heil, Hitler” the obligatory
inscription on all letters, lay and official,
in Germany. But they forget that the
Nazi slogan refers to a very real person,
whereas “Victory” is an abstraction.
“Cauboy”: It was reserved for A.B.C.
to give the most asinine “V for Victory”
performance. At a Melbourne Town
Hall concert Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony
was billed as the main item, and A.B.C.
had a huge V plastered on the face of
the organ with the first two bars of the
opus ostensibly printed on it in musical
notation. It received much applause for
this display of patriotic feeling until an
“Argus” correspondent cruelly pointed
out four mistakes, “all in two bars: (1)
The three notes on G are quavers, not
crotchets; (2) they are preceded by a
quaver rest; (3) the fourth note is E flat,
not F ; (4) it is a minim, not a semi-
breve.”
* * * *
“Blue P.”: We once had a “criminal
master-mind” in our town. There had
been a series of robberies from little
shops, small affairs of tobacco, sweets,
etc. ; then the desperado became
ambitious and raided the larger stores.
Our bi-weekly became gradually worked
up over the whole thing until the editor
burst forth with a challenge to the police
to do something about “this master-mind
of crime that is turning our peaceful city
into a second Chicago.” A few days
later a couple of large men in sac suits
and official boots dropped off the train,
whereupon the entire citizenry—as is the*
way of the bush:—developed a maddening
silence. Baffled, the large men retreated.
Then a local constable, working quietly
as is the way of the bush—pinched a
respectable middle-aged wife and mother
who broke down in court and confessed.
Released on bond, she has been above
suspicion ever since. Her lapse would
interest a psychologist, if such things
were ever seen in that district.
* * * *
“Pinter”: The genius that thought of
having a girl holding out a Digger hat
with the words “Mister, here’s your hat”
probably thinks it was a great idea. It
was also a great opportunity to get a
slap back at the ladies, who themselves
are open to a charge of neglecting their
fundamental duty to the nation, and
one wag was quick to take it. To the
words on the recruiting poster he added
“0.K., sister; where’s your pram?” A
sort of hint that reinforcements will be
needed eventually.
* * * *
“Zake”: The “come-on” (B. 30/7/’4l)
invariably has vanity reinforcing his gul-
libility, and so falls an easy victim to the
high-pressure salesman. A cove I worked
with was afflicted with the twin curses.
Going past a suburban tailor’s shop he
stopped to look at the window display.
A few honeyed words by the Semitic pro-
Don t forget, Dave—new brake-linin' for the car an' shoes for the 'orses."
prietor prowling in the doorway, and the
next thing the victim knew he had been
measured for a suit and was booked for
a try-on in a couple of days. A week
later he called for the suit during his
dinner hour, and so delighted was he
with the fit that he decided to change into
it there and then so that he could stun
the mob with his bargain. He left his
old suit at a near-by cleaner’s. On his
way back rain fell in sheets, and, gamp-
less and overcoatless, the poor chap did
the last unsheltered quarter of a mile in
the best sprint he could muster. We
often wondered what his missus said
when he lobbed home late that afternoon
in a streaky suit of “bee-yutiful unshrink-
able tweedy guaranteed fatht colorth,”
with seven inches of shirtsleeves visible,
his pants legs half-mast and a gaping
space between the bottom of his vest and
the top button of his strides.
* * * *
“Clooter”: A young man marching in
the Sydney procession of protest against
the internment of Ratliff and Thomas
carried a month-old baby boy. When a
photographer attempted to get a picture
the kid kicked up a real dinkum Aus-
tralian fuss. No wonder; he had been
christened Joseph Stalin. Twenty years
hence it will be interesting to see what
he thinks of the moniker.
* * * *
“Capricorn”; In his book New Zealand
Slang, S. B. Baker claims “hoot” (money)
as deriving from the Maori word “utu,”
meaning payment in blood. I learned
the term “hoot” in childhood from my
grandfather, an old resident of W.A.,
who had a craze for studying slang. He
classed it as convict slang, and reckoned
it derived from the Yiddish “oof-tish,”
meaning money picked up easily, and
said he first heard it pronounced “hooft.”
According to him, Yiddish words were
common in the thieves’ argot of England
of the later transportation days, the
reason being a great influx of Jewish
refugees from pogroms in Russia and
Poland at the time. He had a list of
these Yiddishisms as long as your arm ;
but all I can remember (my rendering of
the original Yiddish is phonetic) are:
Cobber, from khuvva, a pal; kliner, from
kleiner bomshelay, a girl (literally “a
little one”); shicker, from shikkar, drunk ;
clobber, from klubba, clothes; momser,
from mumzer, one born out of wedlock.
All these words have been commonly
used in W.A. slang throughout my life-
time. “Hoot” might have been imported
into M.L. by Maorilanders returning
from the W.A. goldfields—many were
there.
* * ♦ *
“Harry Hardupp”: The most irresist-
ible earbite I can remember came from
a well-soaked-looking individual in Hyde
Park, Sydney. He extended a hand in
which reposed two pennies, and merely
said: “Can you spare tuppence, mister?”
There was no need for further explana-
tion —the minimum price for a beer was
fourpence. The unexpected honesty
appealed and won, I suppose, in nine
cases out of ten. A psychologist.
* * * *
“4B’s”; We had a policeman up our
way named Death (B. 23 /7 / ’4l), a
good sport and an engaging sort of fellow
who mingled well with the locals. Then
our newspaper imported a bright young
man from the city to improve its contents,
and the first issue under his hand came
out with a story that began thus;
The man who stood in the lane at the
rear of the Commercial Hotel on Tuesday
night was strong and sturdy. By his cheer-
ful if somewhat incoherent singing he indi-
cated that all was well with his world.
He little knew, poor fellow, that a grim
fate awaited him, for inexorably down the
lane came the figure of Death
It finished up telling how the drunk got
“a dollar or the rising,” and the district
laughed heartily. But the man whose
name was so used never forgave either
the paper or the people who laughed, and
until he was transferred you had as
much chance of getting a drink there after
hours as of buying ice-cream in Hades.
* * * *
“T. McN.”; A thing that maddens me
every time it is wailed over the air is a
song called “The Last Time I Saw Paris,”
generally pronounced “Pairis” by the
performer. In a wistful sort of manner
the singer tells how the city was thronged
with lovers and pleasure-seekers, and
burbles about the cafes and taxicabs and
its heart being “light and gay,” and
prophesies it will be the same again
“some day.” In one of the music halls
a visiting “celebrity” put it over with
stage effects of a French soldier rising
from the grave and hauling the Tricolor
to the masthead as the song reached its
climax. Every time I hear the thing I
think of London, battered and burned,
standing among its ruins and its dead,
turning its grim, old, patient face to the
skies and daring the enemy to do his
worst, with a fixed resolve to stick it to
the end. Paris has suffered nothing but
the presence of foreign soldiers ; none of
its monuments or famous streets has been
destroyed, and if it ever hopes to regain
its freedom those hopes must be centred
in the bomb-torn city across the Channel.
No, I'm damned if these sentimentalists
can jerk a tear out of me for “Pairis.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne’s second ex-
perimental blackout was not as success-
ful as Geelong’s, largely because the
metropolis is the most complacent city
in Australia. Although instructions were
broadcast scores of shopmen left their
window lights brightly burning, and their
astonishment was great when they learnt
that upwards of 100 prosecutions for
breaches of the A.R.P. restrictions are
pending. One man got a rude shock
when he rang up Russell-street head-
quarters and asked if there had been a
blackout test on the previous evening and
whether shopwindow lights should have
been put out. Told there was and they
should have been, he asked if there was a
fine attached to non-compliance. He was
informed that such was the case. “How
much?” he queried. “Five hundred
pounds,” snapped the official. The in-
quirer rang off.
“X.S.”: A phenomenon observed in
England was repeated in Melbourne’s
recent blackout. Viewed from a high
vantage point in the city, the business
area was plunged in inky blackness. But
there were a few domestic external lights
showing, and the biggest clusters were
in South Yarra and Toorak. Industrial
suburbs were almost perfectly blacked-
out. In London it was Mayfair where
A.R.P. wardens hsd the greatest diffi-
culty in convincing residents that there
was a war on, and some old aristocratic
ladies even used force to maintain the
principle that an Englishman’s home is
his castle. Lots of the castles are now
heaps of rubble,
* * * *
“Blue P.”; When this “modern, stream-
lined writing” began to appear in publi-
cations like “Time” and “Cavalcade,”
the smart young men responsible found
ready imitators in Australia. The “new”
style went something like this:
Circles close to Fiihrer ignore threat to
German structure from blockade, follow
lead of medalled, overweight, bellicose
Goring, play up dominance of Luftwaffe.
But pinched faces of German children tell
different tale, give lie to boasts of national
confidence
Actually it is more than a century old.
Take Carlyle on the mood of starving
Paris before the march to Versailles,
October, 1789;
In squalid garret, on Monday morning
Maternity awakes, to hear children weep-
ing for bread. Maternity must forth to
the streets, to the herb-makers and bakers’
queues; meets there with hunger-stricken
Maternity, sympathetic, exasperative. O
we unhappy women! But, instead of
bakers’ queues, why not to Aristocrats’
palaces, the root of the matter? Allans!
Let us assemble To Versailles
So the “original” streamliners were
imitators, though their stuff is milk-and-
water compared with the fiery spirit of
the original.
BIG HILDA.
The chaps who waltz Matilda,
By track and creek and dam,
Should come and bounce Big Hilda,
My beautiful! my tram ....
Of bushland paths, by hollow
And hill, let poets sing;
Her swinging bogies follow
A track where road-songs ring.
For swift teams, famed in story,
Who cares? Let taxis whirl!
Let buses go to glory!
Big Hilda, she’s the girl!
At early morn you’ll hear her,
Through quiet night she roars
Down streets where shadows fear her
And hide in lanes and doors.
She’s big and rough, and often
She knocks the switches cold;
Her mad, wild heart to soften.
Her tiny hand I hold.
So, through the days, like lovers,
We go with hearts athrill —
Two dinkum motor-shovers,
A Jacko and his Jill.
Ah, yes! Romance is sighing
Around me and my tram;
Yet, when we’re homeward flying,
Does Hilda care a damn
If I should hotly urge her
Along the empty track?
She gallops like a verger
With bull-ants down his back.
However Fortune swings me,
Whatever fate may come,
I’ll love the songs she sings me—
Big Hilda, going home!
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Wodgil”: James Edmond used to cal!
Sydney “the Eternal Nark.” I didn’t
know the place in Edmond’s day, and
since I came to it I have found the people
very friendly ; but I have never ceased
to marvel at the amount of squealing
that goes on in quarters where squealing
can be expressed in print. Politicians,
trade-union bosses, newspapers and
“sports” have a common propensity for
squealing, and, though their grievances
are many and varied, they often do it at
the same time. Politicians squeal at
their party leaders ; newspapers at Mel-
bourne and everyone and everything
associated with it (especially Menzies);
racing men at handicappers, judges or
stewards ; footballers at the referee or
the other side or both ; and the defence-
less atmosphere never gets any rest.
“When I come to Sydney,” a legislator
from another State said to me, “I feel
as if I have entered a room where a
tone-deaf fellow at a wireless set is
continually turning the knob from one
side of the dial to the other.” Some day
perhaps someone will set up a royal com-
mission to inquire why Sydney squeals
so much when other cities are compara-
tively serene.
* * * *
“Avon”: Stories percolating back
from theatres of war about the gusto
with which Maori troops hop into the
fray don’t surprise Fernlanders. Though
the Maori has been under white-man
tutelage for close on a century and has
proved a very apt pupil, he still has a
racial conviction that war is the finest
of all outdoor sports. Paikea, M.P., who
has been travelling round to see how
Maori recruiting was getting along, found
there wasn’t much need for his exhorta-
tions. His summary of the state of
affairs at the tiny village of Pukepoto
was typical. Able-bodied men in the
community, 19. On service overseas, 15 ;
in camp, four.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Tell “Pawang” (B. 23/7/’4l)
that his Malayan experience with a tiger
that wasn’t there has nothing to do with
the case. “P.’s” reaction was merely the
normal functioning of the hindbrain,
very little different in man from that of
any other mammal, which attends auto-
matically to such matters as personal
safety, irrespective of anything else.
Man’s speciality is a forebrain of a size
and complexity unequalled by any other
animal. Equanimity and stability of mind
depend on the balance between the two,
whether in terms of individuals or com-
munities. Sanity and courage are two
outward manifestations of such balance.
Bomb-shattered civilian Britain jokes at
the most grisly psychological efforts of
Dr. Goebbels; grins
instead of panicking,
and shows a falling
mental - disease rate
since war began. A
vast crowd of com-
pletely safe U.S.A.
citizens went crazy
when it heard H. G.
Wells’s “War of the
Worlds” broadcast.
Many indeed suf-
fered lasting effects,
and the U.S. mental-
disease index has gone
up in the war years.
Conflicting complexes sound impressive,
but plain childish funk will do the off-the-
rock.ers job just as effectively if suffi-
ciently intense or long-lasting.
* ** * *
“1482”: A Department of Information
photograph shows a Transjordan Arab
displaying a copy of The Bulletin to a
Digger. The paper is open at the cartoon
page on which is Norman Lindsay’s “Hail,
Son of the Dinkum.” The Transjordan
Arab is Hanna Bisharat, who was liaison
officer in the 1914-18 war between the
Australian Mounted Division and Hus-
sein’s Arabs ; the Digger is Corporal W.
Ryan, of Armidale (N.S.W.), whose father
“I was on'y sayin' ‘v for Victory.'"
was in the 7th Light Horse. So the
cartoon, in a way, came to life.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: A Melbourne business-
man with a distinguished thirst was show-
ing round his office a recalcitrant sore
on his knuckle which refused to heal
although he had dosed it with ointment
and covered it with plaster. “1 hat’s all
quite contrary to modern medical prac-
tice,” said a colleague. “You should let
the air and the light in. Germs won't
live in a dry area.” “Ah,” said the man
with the morbid affection, “is that so?
Then they’ve got more blanky sense than
I have-—I live at Boroondara.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I can’t make “Colonel Bung-
starter” out. He starts (B. 16/7/’4l) to
barrack, apparently, for the old-time
melodies, but then at once quislings by
burlesquing them. One can make any-
thing look silly by printing love as “lurv,”
for instance. Nor is a song to be damned
because the composer fitted two notes to
one syllable. One could print the most
familiar example of all as “long too-hoo
ra-hane o-ho-ho-ver us.” “C. 8.” even
tries this on with “Sons of the Sea,”
which is as a fact remarkable among
ballads for fitting just one crisp note to
each syllable. Then he misquotes hor-
ribly the verse about the poppy fields of
Norfolk, simple but true poetry: “On the
edge of the down looking over the steep,
“ ’Urry up. Albert, we haven't got all day to Waste!"
God planted a garden—a garden of
sleep.” But I agree with his (apparent)
plea that the ballads of the late-Victorian
period are due for revival. They are
more virile than is generally supposed.
Take Tosti’s expressive setting of “How
can I live without you? How can I let
you go?” And Wilfrid Sanderson’s
“Friend o’ Mine,” which ends with
“Whatever fate our souls await, let me
be there, let me be there with you.” It
rather shocked the Victorians, but the
readiness to go to hell with and for a
friend quite outdistances the conven-
tional limit of dying for him. Compare
these with the whining “Baby”-“may
be” stuff we now get from Chicago. It
“Col. B.” will burlesque that, I am with
him.
* * * *
“Harold Hardup”: A ghost from the
past gave me a jovial greeting recently.
In the lounge-room of an old codger who
clings passionately to old things what
was known in the days of cheaper beer
as “sixpenn’orth of squareface stood
on the table. “Squareface” took its name
from the bottles that brought gin from
overseas and went into pub circulation
for beer-carrying. Bung in the good old
days filled them up for sixpence. My
friend has two of them which have
served him for 40 years —a third, which
assisted in flights of special revelry, was
broken a few years ago.
* * * *
“Pawang”: I see that R. Morgan,
described as “Director of the Australian
Public Opinions Polls,” has been telling
the Constitutional Club in Melbourne
that he has started in this country
a system similar to the Gallup Polls.
According to Mr. Morgan, Gallup
polls are conducted in a highly scien-
tific manner, a relatively small section
of people representing every economic
class and sectarian element in society
being interviewed. Thus a complete
cross-section of public feeling on any
given question is obtained, and general
trends are gauged with a high degree
of accuracy. Sounds poppycock to
me. People’s beliefs are notoriously
subject to their feelings in a crisis, and
what a man may sign today may run
counter to his emotion tomorrow. If
a poll had been taken of the German
people just before the 1914-18 war mil-
lions of men and women would have put
themselves down as Socialists, Democrats,
Communists, anti-imperialists and what-
not. A week later they were all cheering
for the Kaiser’s war.
* * * ♦
“Nowl”: Napier (M.L.), pop. 19,000,
is built mainly upon a hill. Hastings,
13 miles distant, is down on the plains.
At a sitting of the Military Appeal Board
in Napier a conscientious objector was
asked what he would do if an invading
force, say of Asiatics, were to attack
Napier. “I would go to Hastings,” was
the reply. “Why Hastings? What good
would that do you?”' asked the chair-
man. “Well, it would be a lot easier,”
responded the c. 0., “to pull a rickshaw
round Hastings than up and down these
blooming Napier hills.”
* * * *
“L. de Rideau”: Visitors in the gallery
at the opening of the N.S.W. Parliament
were not aware that Lord Wakefield had
accidentally turned over two pages of his
speech, including most of the outline of
the Government’s proposed legislation.
A similar faux pas some years ago in
Melbourne raised a titter and reduced
the unwitting culprit to confusion. He
was conducting the performance of an
opus at the Town Hall. Turning over a
page of the score he gave a mighty heave,
hurled his baton skyward and then flung it,
metaphorically speaking, direct in the
embattled faces of the drums and bass
viols. Instead of the tremendous percus-
sion that might have been expected, there
came a tiny twitter from the woodwind.
The perspiration from the conductor’s
forehead had stuck two pages together.
“Bo”: Office boys are not what they
were. A Government department 1
once worked for still, I am told, occa-
sionally throws up a lad who kicks over
the traces, but generally he is quickly
crushed beneath the deadweight of pro-
priety around him. It was not always
so. I recall a pannikin boss who was
wont to vent his spleen on the juniors.
One scorching day he came to the office,
signed on, hung his old-fashioned bowler
hat on his peg and set to work. At 1 p.m.
he clamped his hat on and sallied off for
his fodder. Arrived at his restaurant he
sat down and essayed to hoist his cady.
In vain. It was stuck hard on his dome
and he was forced to feed with it
on. Back at the office, the tile had
to be cut off. It was never divulged
which of the spirited juniors had, imme-
diately after 9 a.m., heavily gummed the
sweatband so that by lunchtime it would
have deceptively dried, only to have its
glutinous properties revived when the
luckless wearer started to perspire.
* * * *
“Colbun”: There has been a revival
of speculation concerning the origin of
the term “wowser.” Sydney was its birth-
place, John Norton its creator, and it
was derived from the war-cry of the Rev.
Judkins, of Melbourne, and his reformist
allies: “We Only Want Social Evils
Remedied.” America has adopted it —
only yesterday I heard a shart-wave
annahncer reveal that the word is old-
timer stuff braht by Dutch immigrants in
covered-wagon days, and kind o’ meanin’
the sart of Rev. they didn’t cotton to back
home.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The influence of the
movies on black and brown “sinners
of nameless sin” is under discussion
again. I was stationed in Java long
before the movies were invented, and
sex offences occurred, though not
often. One of my English colleagues
had a wife whose indignation when such
happened was beyond expression. But
she treated her own native servants as if
they were automata, and habitually
dressed and undressed in the presence of
her “boy.” On one occasion an Aus-
tralian of somewhat plain-speaking habits
remarked bluntly to her anent this cus-
tom: “Are you mad, woman? You
wouldn’t do that with an English butler.”
“No, of course I wouldn’t,” she rejoined.
“But butlers are white people. Black
men are different.”
sK % * *
“Hawkshaw”: That terrible old man
Albert Andrew Moss, now in gaol on a
life, sente nee —he was charged with mur-
dering three travellers and burning their
bodies—is fortunate in having a prison
alibi. A witness for the prosecution at
Moss’s trial was Walter Taylor, a drifter
who had camped with Moss and heard
him boast of murders and burnings.
“You’ll burn, too, if you say a word of
this,” was Moss’s threat. A few days
ago’ Taylor’s body was found lying in
the ashes of a campfire. But Moss didn t
put him there. Taylor got a skinful of
whisky, rolled into his own fire and was
burnt to death while still unconscious.
CEDAR DAYS.
Once I chanced upon a tavern,
Standing with wide-opened door,’
Where a northern road and river
Met to part and meet no more.
Cool it seemed as some deep cavern
Lined with moss and ferns adrip,
And, made weary by hot travel,
There I found fine fellowship.
Smoking, joking, tankards quaffing,
Naught their merriment to mar,
There they stood, tall cedar-getters,
Elbows on the polished bar.
Joined I in their jesting, laughing,
Campfire talk and woodland lore,
While without the road and river
Met to part and meet no more.
Time the taker, Time the giver.
Takes and gives, as suits his will,
Yet the vision of that tavern,
Bright and mirthful, warms me still.
Still the road and still the river
Meet and part upon their ways,
Though for ever and for ever
Vanished are the Cedar Days.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. . • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE . 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SVDNET OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
m
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
PETROL FROM COAL.
TAXATION AND SQUEALERS.
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2j- PER COPY or £1,12/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 siiles
of tiny tubes or filters which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons !ri your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting and burning, nagging backi
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
aches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pintd a day 1 and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully!
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at jour chemist
pr store.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies was in excellent form last week.
Only young McCall, whom only “S. M.
Herald” takes seriously, faced up to him
at the party meeting, and a very one-
eyed “Herald” report of that fiasco for
the “Herald” gave the P.M. an oppor-
tunity of getting heavily home on
Granny, who faded from the scene in
a flood of hysterical tears. Then the
Communist hunger-strikers decided to
eat after all, and the one-day sympa-
thetic strike was such a dud that plans
for further efforts were hurriedly aban-
doned, even though the P.M. scarified
the “two contemptible Communist agi-
tators” and their noisy friends in the
most outspoken speech he has ever de-
livered. All the same, some of the Labor
members have been emboldened by the
“revolt” of McCall and Marr to issue
vague threats to his Ministry. Curtin
is not among them.
Study of the antics of McCall and Marr
and the press that encourages them
makes it clear that Menzies committed
a grave error by not getting himself born
in Sydney.
Dunstan joyfully told the Victorian
Parliament that he had a surplus of
£142,000 and that there would be a cut
of 35 p.c. in the unemployed-relief tax.
Since unemployed in Victoria are as
scarce as hen’s teeth, the relief tax ought
to be abolished. If it isn’t, a Budget sur-
plus next year will represent loot, not
revenue.
The British P.M. promised his people
nothing but blood, sweat and tears, and
the Australian P.M. promises his people
little more ; but Victoria’s Premier went
before his Parliament bearing gifts.
Quarter-of-a-million more for civil ser-
vants, £579,000 more for railwaymen,
£3OOO more for the National Fitness
Council and so on, making estimated
expenditure £28,851,000 against an ex-
pected revenue of £28,862,000. No hint
of a cut in expenditure anywhere. Not
the slightest suggestion that Dunstan’s
Government, realising what the nation is
up against, intends to save every possible
penny or give up any tax-money to the
Commonwealth. On the contrary, Dun-
stan is going to the Loan Council for
his share of the £24,000,000 the States are
“demanding.”
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” hearing that
a Soviet freighter—the first to visit Aus-
tralia —was in port, sent a reporter and
a cameraman post haste to greet the new
ally. Though armed with all sorts of
passes, the “D.T.” men found that con-
trol of the ship had been handed over to
a capitalistic agent and just escaped being
thrown off, neck and crop. Stalin shall
hear of this!
Melbourne “Argus” on the Dunstan-
Cain Budget:
All this is sound legislation, and, what
is no less important and meritorious, it is
sound finance —a healthy continuation of
tradition which has given Victoria the en-
viable privilege of being the best-governed
State and has made Melbourne the un-
official capital of Australia.
Wait till the Sydney editors read that!
One of the many grotesque absurdities
of the farce called “government” in Aus-
tralia is that Tasmania has a two-Chamber
“Parliament.” The “Parliament” attends
to some of the affairs of 240,000
people, and has infinitely less to do than
the London County Council, which looks
after about 4,500,000 people. As hap-
pened in South Australia, public opinion
has revolted against the five-year “Parlia-
ment” and Cosgrove, the Premier, is in-
dignant. He protests that the worn-out
joke “has resulted in better continuity of
effective government,” meaning thereby
that it has secured longer sinecures for
Cosgrove and his pals.
Two people, a man and a woman, both
with reasonable excuses that could have
been checked, were fined £lO each with
costs for failing to put out lights during
one of “Blackout” Heffron’s stunts in
Sydney. The magistrate called the penal-
ties “nominal.” Which shows that it
doesn’t pay to ignore a little provincial
politician “drest in a little brief
authority.”
While Sydney’s Lud Mayor Crick was
“striding up and down the room like a
tiger” in the throes of composing a “V
for Victory” song, W. M. Hughes came
out with a flash of his old spirit:
The war overshadows everything. It’s a
life-and-death struggle, not a subject for
jokes or for slogans.
And “S. M. Herald” added that
Slogans, cries and saturnalia in the streets
have no value unless they help to spur each
of us on to his task.
“Saturnalia” meant a Crick plan to hold
dances in the city streets, presumably as
part of the war effort. Dances! Crick,
END OF THE SECTION.
“I am told that it is the business of a really well-disposed Prime Minister to be
extraordinarily pleasant and inoffensive and extraordinarily tactful. Well, I must give up
being pleasant and tactful and inoffensive.” — Menzies.
with his notions that confetti, incan-
tations and jitterbugging are contribu-
tions to victory, is giving people a crick
in the neck.
Denying a statement that Britons en-
gaged in defence industries were “work-
ing at only 75 p.c. of their possible effi-
ciency,” Churchill said “I have to think
of the effect in Australia, where party
politics have pursued the same robust
detachment that was expected by our
forerunners in this House in the seven-
teenth and eighteenth centuries.” Seem-
ingly annoyed with its idol for once,
Sydney “D.T.” put up the headline
“Churchill Tilts at Australian Politics.”
Churchill’s Attlee tilted at an Australian
journal which had attributed certain re-
marks about anti-Communism in Britain
to the new High Commissioner, saying
“Sir Ronald Cross has been completely
misreported or misrepresented.” That
tilt must have been felt severely, but the
“D.T.” didn’t mention it.
If the Russian soldiers and airmen can
hold out long enough Moscow Radio will
rid them of all their enemies. It has
already sacked Keitel, Brauschitsch and
Goring, sent Hitler off his onion, had his
ex-Ambassador at Moscow arrested and
killed off a lot of divisional and corps
commanders. As for regimental officers,
non-coms, and men, Losovsky annihilates
them at the rate of 40,000 a day.
Wishful thinkers of the press and the
broadcasting stations believe every word
of it. Churchill evidently doesn’t; with
a refreshing return to realism, he said in
the Commons, without underrating the
Russian effort or the American measure
of assistance, that “it would be madness
to suppose that Russia and the United
States are going to win the war for us.”
Though “V for Victory” is having a great
run in Australia, it has made a sudden
and complete disappearance from the
cables. Perhaps Europeans are not
taking kindly to the “revolution” pre-
scribed for them by the author of the
stunt.
Flashes of wit come from unexpected
places. Members of an A.L.P. branch
were discussing the Cross affair in
Auburn, where Lang abides, sulking in
his tent. The debate dissolved in laughter
when an unknown said: “Surely Aus-
tralia has enough crosses to bear!”
Maxie Falstein, M.H.R., who said in
the House that he was “frightened” to
enlist because he was “frightened” of
what Menzies would do if he, Maxie,
wasn’t here to watch him, Menzies, went
to Sydney University’s Labor Club and
told the studes all about everything.
Some of the studes interposed with hoots
and hisses, whereat Maxie got so waxie
that had there been a Randwick race-
book handy he might have thrown it at
them. Maxie is member for Randwick
and neighboring parts.
The hunger-strike of the two Conv
munists has fizzled out, though not before
a lot of people who should have known
better had made spectacles of themselves.
All the same, it was demonstrated to
Red and Pink union bosses that unionists
are getting fed up with them. The one-
day strike, loudly trumpeted as bringing
300,000 N.S.W. men out, had to be satis-
fied with 40,000, and only about a
twentieth of that number took part in
the processions,
Beale and Fowles, two new members
from the N.S.W. South Coast, startled
the House in Macquarie-street, Sydney,
with stories of poverty and child slavery
on dairy-farms in their region. Beale
told of people wearing chaff-bag shirts
and flour-bag underpants, and Fowles
said he had seen children milking cows
before they went to school and rolling
out cans late at night. Their revelations
added creases to the foreheads of Labor
Ministers, who talked expansively before
the election of giving the farmers more
for their cow-fluid and reducing the price
to the public, at the same time rocking it
into the distributing companies. The
trouble in the latter case is that shares in
Fresh Food and Ice, for one, can be
bought at half their face-value. The
McKell Government is going to have
many headaches before it is much older.
Canberra has it that the six Excres-
cences are expected to submit “prelimi-
nary estimates” for a loan programme
of £24,000,000. Sydney’s McCahills
are expected to lead a movement for
abolition of the Works Co-ordinator and
for reversion to spending loan money as
they please. Taxpayers, ruefully peer-
ing into pay envelopes made lighter by
war taxation on the same day, will look
for someone to lead a movement for
abolition of the McCahills and their kind.
Twenty-four millions for kerbs and
gutters in war-time!
Carried at a Winton meeting of the
Central and Northern Queensland
Graziers:
That, owing to the extreme seriousness
of the war situation, graziers begin a cam-
paign by every means and method to en-
lighten public opinion and to jolt from their
complacency and sectionalism the poli-
ticians of the State, and endeavor to make
Australia one people and one State, all
fighting for the common weal and the
Commonwealth.
Forgan Smith ought to read it at the
Loan Council meeting.
It is the open season for muckrakers
in the N.S.W. “Parliament,” and last week
new and old members delivered a series of
scurrilous attacks on individuals —one
was a doctor and another a public ser-
vant —who can’t reply with writs. It is a
solemn thought that muckraking is privi-
leged in thirteen Australian Chambers,
though, as a rule, its practice is confined
to N. S. Wales members with dirty
tongues and , the moral courage of
lice. In the beginning privilege was
designed to protect representatives of the
people against the malice of Courts. In
Australia it has degenerated into a
method of enabling surplus politicians to
defame private citizens whom they would
never tackle if they could be brought to
book.
There is not a particle of evidence that
Warning other countries has ever done
Britain a particle of good; but Mr.
Anthony Eden, whose favorite recreation
it seems to be, has been at it harder than
ever. In the space of a fortnight he has
Warned (1) Spain, (2) Japan and (3) Iran,
and in all probability he would have
added Finland to the number if the Finns
hadn’t got in first by formally breaking
off relations with Britain. This they did
very decently and with obvious reluct-
ance, and by taking the initiative they
blunted a weapon which might have been
used against Britain by isolationists in
the U.S.A,
Just as June 22, which saw the begin-
ning of the German invasion of Russia,
was the 129th anniversary of Napoleon’s
declaration of war on that country, so
August 1 was the 129th anniversary of
the Anglo-Russian “treaty of peace and
union” against France. Prussia and Aus-
tria were then allies of France, and
Britain had been on bad terms with
Russia since the Treaty of Tilsit (July 7,
1807). Indeed, their relations had not
been regularised since November 1, 1807,
when Russia declared war on Britain.
Fifteen months after the treaty of August
1, 1812, Austria and Prussia, as well as
Russia, were Britain’s allies against
France. To us, who in the course of
17 months have seen Britain preparing
to help the Finns to fight the Russians
and bombing the Finnish port of Pet-
samo as Russia’s ally, all this has a
strangely modern appearance.


Bare /
Greece was stripped of foodstuffs
by the Germans before the Italian
army of occupation arrived.
ITS MV TURM TO WEAR THEM
According to the secretary of the
Amalgamated Clothing and Allied
Trades Union, despite ‘‘sweating and
cheap female labor” clothing is dearer
now "than ever before in the world’s
history."
A.I.F. men won’t have to salute
V.A.D. officers who go overseas to
theatres of war.
" HAVE my seat, uaov .
The Tramway Department has demanded more
etiquette on the Brisbane trams.
v ' Have a bumper.? " %
"The cigarette shortage is worse now than it has ever
been. In another couple of days I don’t think there
will be a cigarette left in Sydney," said the president of
the Retail Tobacco-Traders Association
//
Wha Wamts to buy
AHYTV4IS4G* AMYWAY ?
It is a change in Edinburgh to see once
more polished, unbroken plate-glass
windows showing all manner of rich
materials. That the materials cannot be
bought without coupons doesn’t seem to
matter.
i i'
vV 111 double twe dose time-,"Tomka v •
The decision of the Minister for Education in
N.S.W. to abolish caning in schools has had
both support and opposition
BITS AND PIECES.


W. JNO. BAKER’S FOR QUALITY
4SD
NO SPECIAL
BAKER’S “-ITJNO SPECIAL” PRESENTATION
quality full hollow ground blade, gilded tang, and
handle. Sin. blade, 10/(1; Jin. blade, 17/0
RAZOR. Best
white Xylonite
each.
m
GENUINE HORSEHIDE DOUBLE-SIDED RAZOR STROP. Length
overall 23in., width 2in. Best finish and worked up ready for use.
HAND-TURNED ENGLISH SYCA-
MORE BREAD BOARD. With coloured
edge, 5/- each. Postage 1/- extra.
LAY-BYS TAKEN.
W. JNO. BAKER -
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A SEWING SCREEN
PBP
A PLEASANT
SURPRISE FOR
THE
HOUSEWIFE.
A well-made
Folding Wo r k
Case. Finished
In Dulnx with
gay fabric back-
ing. Fitted with
2 Scissors,
Thimbles,
Needles, Buttons,
Silks, Tape, Tape
Measure, etc.
Very light,
easily move d
from room vo
room. £3/17/0.
Carriage extra.
ds
PERSONAL ITEM S
Chief Judge of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court for the last three years,
George Beeby took off his wig and robe
for the last time on Thursday. He’s 73,
and continued ill health has compelled
retirement. Sydney-born, he tried many
jobs, including journalism, before he
qualified as a solicitor at the age of 31.
He had 10 years in the N. S. Wales Par-
liament and held three portfolios. In
1920 he was appointed a Judge of the
N. S. Wales Arbitration Court, and six
years later transferred to the Common-
RETIRED
wealth tribunal. He has published plays,
poetry and treatises on industrial matters,
and has contributed many *a short story
to The Bulletin. Wide interests and a
sense of humor have reinforced his
judicial ability.
Chief Judge Beeby’s successor is
Harold Bayard Piper, who has sat as a
Judge in the same jurisdiction since 1938.
Justice Piper has his roots in S.A. He
was born at Walkerville, got his law
degree at Adelaide Uni., and was admitted
to the S.A. Bar in 1915, at the age of 21.
Postponing a legal career for four years
to do his bit with the A.I.F. in Egypt
and France, he returned to Adelaide .in
1919 and practised there till 1937. He
has been lecturer and examiner in Law
at Adelaide Uni., chairman of two royal
commissions and had a spell on the
Canberra Supreme Court Bench as acting-
judge a couple of years ago. He’s 47
and plays tennis and golf.
Gordon Cecil Buckingham Champion
is the very appropriate name of N.S.W.’s
Public Defender. Born and educated at
Parramatta, Champion interrupted a just-
started civil service career to fight in the
first A.I.F. Graduated in law at Sydney
University in 1926 and was called to the
Bar in 1928. Since 1931 he has been
Deputy Clerk of the Peace. Used to play
Rugby; now prefers golf. He is 43.
It was hard to talk dairying economy
anywhere in Australia without some
reference to “M.P.,” more formally
known as Maxwell Pollock Dunlop,
M. Melbourne-born, he went to the
N. North Coast as a young man
and took up a block near Kyogle. When
the Primary Producers’ Union was
formed he became the branch secretary
and divided what spare time he had be-
tween P.P.U. work and cricket. By the
time he had come to Sydney as president
of the P.P.U. he was a recognised author-
ity on the dairying industry, and his tall,
spare figure was always wherever he
thought he would be doing the industry
most good. N.S.W. representative on the
Australian Dairy Council, member of the
Veterinary Surgeons’ Board and the
Butter Stabilisation Committee, Dunlop
chaired the Empire Producers’ Confer-
ence in 1938. The industry was his hobby
as well as his life. He is dead at 65.
Robert Kearns, dead at 87 in Mel-
bourne, helped to establish the Boys’
Naval Brigade in Victoria. It had a
membership of 10,000 and was a useful
adjunct to the R.A.N. until it was
absorbed into the scheme of compulsory
military training, Kearns, born in
Ireland, was himself an old Navy man,
and after Federation passed into the Aus-
tralian service as chief gunner. In later
years he was officer-in-charge of Swan
Island Naval Depot, and after his retire-
ment was as well known at Williamstown
as the Gellibrand Lighthouse. He had a
commission in the Victorian Naval Con-
tingent which helped to settle the Boxer
business in China.
Alice Eureka Warde, who celebrated
her eighty-ninth birthday in Melbourne
last week, was the first white child born at
Eureka, Ballarat. She is a great-grand-
daughter of that Lieut. John Shortland
who commanded one of the 10 vessels
of the First Fleet which dropped anchor
in Botany Bay,
Killed in action, Pilot-Officer John
Curchin, D.F.C., who thrilled residents
of Enfield, near London, by his “Victory
rolls” after many combats at the begin-
ning of the Blitzkrieg. He was born at
Hawthorn (Vic.) 23 years ago. His father
was supervisor of shipbuilding in Aus-
tralia in the 1914-18 war.
Lieut. Roy Macartney, who is to be
liaison officer between General Blarney
and Minister Spender to ensure ampler
dispatches from the Middle East, was
an “Argus” literary staff man who en-
listed at the outset and started telling
“Argus” readers about the ATE. while
training at Puckapunyal. Going overseas
he served in England, Libya, Greece and
Crete. From that island he escaped
with 137 others in a damaged barge which
drifted for ten days around the Medi-
terranean until it stranded at Sidi Bar-
rani. He is 23 and was educated at Mel-
bourne High School.
Priest and painter was Father Corr,
lately dead at Sevenhills College (S.A.).
He was an Irishman who came to Aus-
tralia after chaplain’s work with the Air
Force in France in 1917-18. He often
exhibited at the S.A. Society of Arts.
Very rapid, judged by ordinary stand-
ards, has been the advancement in the
M.L. railway service of Percy Roy Angus,
recently appointed chief mechanical
engineer. He commenced the study of
engineering at Canterbury College, con-
tinued it from 1910 to 1914 as a cadet
in the railway service, served overseas
with the N.Z.E.F. till 1919 (coming out
with a commission) and found a job as
assistant loco, engineer at Auckland wait-
ing for him on his return. Since then
his rise has been steady. He toured the
world in 1925 and 1930 to get experience
of foreign methods. He’s 48.
Memory of Dr. Samuel Ewing, who
died in Melbourne last week, will be kept
green by the collection of pictures by
Australian painters which he presented
to Melbourne University years ago, and
which is housed in a special gallery. Dr.
Ewing, a nose and throat specialist, was
for many years a member of the honorary
staffs of St. Vincent’s, the Royal Alfred
and the Eye and Ear Hospitals.
Arthur A. Topp, here depicted, has
the double job of assistant director and
A. A. TOPP.
manager of one of the most important
munitions factories in Victoria. Born in
South Yarra in 1886, arid educated at
Toorak Grammar, he took his metallur-
gical diploma at Melbourne Tech. He
started a chemical career at Mount Lyell’s
chemical works and continued it at
Chillagoe smelters. In 1909 he joined
the Vic. Mines Department laboratory
as analyst, and in 1911 became chemist
to the Maribyrnong Cordite Factory. As
assistant manager in 1916 he was sept
to England to study methods there. His
chief hobby is angling. His father, A.
M. Topp, was a journalist on the “Argus”
staff.
Lieut. Alan Brown, pne of the five
Australians who played a great role in
the Italian defeat in Abyssinia, is a Vic-
torian, born at South Yarra and educated
at Albury. He was in the Commonwealth
Bank at Mosman (N.S.W.), and held a
militia commission when he enlisted.
The small band of original Ms.H.R.
has been further reduced by the death
of J. B. Ronald in St. Kilda (Vic.).
Ronald, a Presbyterian meenister from
Scotland, went from the pulpit of a
South Melbourne church to the Southern
Melbourne Federal seat and held it for
six years, when it was abolished. Enemies
had been busy with his name ; he failed
to get the Labor nomination for Mel-
bourne Ports and stood as an Indepen-
dent, being beaten by Jim Mathews.
Parliament saw him no more, but the
Courts saw plenty of him, for he was
a true fighting parson. He brought
and lost an action against Robert Harper,
the old starch manufacturer, who was
M.H.R. for Mernda. In after years
Harper admitted that Ronald had had a
raw deal and settled £lOOO on Mrs.
Ronald, who predeceased her husband.
One of their sons was killed in the last
war. Another has served with distinc-
tion in the present A.I.F. and been
decorated with the D.S.O.
James George Drake, who passed
out last week at 91, was the only sur-
viving member of the first Common-
wealth Ministry. He was hale and hearty
and capable of inter-State travel till
almost the last, but after 35 years out
of Parliament he seemed like a ghost,
though a remarkably healthy one, to the
few remaining politicians who knew him.
Drake was a Londoner, educated at
King’s College. He reached Queensland
in 1874, graduated from the press to
“Hansard,” thence to the Bar and into
the State House for Enoggera. He
was Education Minister and P.M.G. in
Queensland when Federation came, was
elected to the first Senate and named
first Commonwealth P.M.G. He had short
terms as Barton’s Defence Minister, as
Deakin’s Attorney-General and as Vice-
President of the Council in the Reid-
McLean outfit. He retired after two
terms in 1906, and for 11 years was a
Queensland Crown Prosecutor and after
that in private practice. With his dark
hair and eyes and his “Jawbone” Neild
moustache, waxed to needle-points at the
ends, he was a striking figure.
A parish priest well known in half a
dozen Melbourne suburbs was Father W.
B. Power, who died last week. For the
last seven years he had the Essendon
parish. His hobby was the study of
ecclesiastical art, and especially architec-
ture, and the fine church at Essendon
owes much to his suggestions and super-
vision. He was 43 years in the priest-
hood.
W. B. Carr (universally known as
“Doc.”) has been lunched by president
Andrew Young and the members of
Adelaide Stock Exchange on his reaching
a half-century of membership, during just
half of which Carr himself was its presi-
dent. Youthful as he was when he joined,
during the Broken Hill boom, he had
already been sporting editor of the
“Register,” Since then he has been
chairman in turn of Adelaide Racing
Club and S.A. Jockey Club. He has
married four times..
Dead at 79, George Shirtcliffe, of
Wellington, M.L., a figure in business
and municipal life for half a century.
He was born in England, arrived
in M.L. at the age of two, was educated
at Christ’s College, Christchurch, and
started work as a cadet in the civil service.
A year of that was enough for him. He
got a job with Nat. Mortgage and Agency
and worked up to accountant by the
time he was 18. At 22 he was manager
of the Canterbury Farmers’ Co-op.
Association. Six years later he became
manager of and partner in A. S. Paterson
and Co. —he was the firm’s chairman of
directors when he died. Shirtcliffe gave
£20,000 to the University of M.L. and
was knighted in 1936.
John Charles Goodchild, the new prin-
cipal of Adelaide’s School of Arts and
Crafts, was born in the arty atmosphere
of Chelsea (London) 43 years ago, and
came to S.A. as a boy of 13. First job
JOHN GOODCHILD.
was with a poster firm. At 18 he en-
listed in the A.1.F., served in France, and
finally became an official war artist.
Studied art in Adelaide and in England
after the war, teaching in London Central
School of Arts for a year. His water-
colors have found their way into every
important Australian gallery, and he is a
past president of S.A. Society of Arts.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
r m
rm
m
""^^v
;
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams. Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE.” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“To let, detached cottage, handy, five mins,
shops, school, close to crematorium. Cheap
rent.” —Suburban paper.
Hearse handy in the backyard?
*l*
“Watch Thieves at Work. Police Baffled.”
—Heading daily paper.
What! Couldn’t they recognise ’em?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Watch the expression, for instance, of a
man who treads on the ‘step’ that isn’t there.”
• — “D.T.”
Watch, or listen to?
“They perforce had to put up at this dilapi-
dated hotel, and ordered hum and eggs.”
—“D.T.”
They got the hum when they opened
the eggs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Massage this cream thoroughly into your
face before retiring at night; next morning it
will have vanished.” — Woman’s paper.
With some faces we’ve seen, this would
be a happy release.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is the chief advantage of the ire-
purchase system?” —Correspondent in daily.
That the ire is delayed until the collec-
tions commence.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Flies in Stratosphere.”
—Heading in science magazine.
With summer ahead of us, we only
hope they could be made to stop there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Familiarity Breeds Contempt.
“Horse Drops Dead After Trial.”
—Sporting paper.
When horses die (and stay that way)
I feel no pangs of grief or sorrow . . .
So many of them, “dead” today,
Come back to life (and light) to-
morrow !
P. M.
“There are over a quarter of a million dif-
ferent kinds of insects in the world.”
— “World’s News.
To find them all at once, go for a
picnic and leave your glass of beer
down for a few seconds.
4* *!< 4* +
“B should have led from his strong diamond
suit. Of what use was a weak lead spaces
when he knew his partner had none?”
—Bridge article.
They were both wide open.
“He lived by his wits. Even when he was
forced to take a temporary job on road-con-
struction he did no work. ’ — “D.T.
Nobody ever caught him napping.
4* 4* 4* 4"
“Cinderella wore a glass slipper to the ball.
Her modern sister can wear a complete outfit
of glass.” — “World’s News.”
Women may still be a puzzle, but
they’re becoming easier to see through.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hiking is an excellent tonic.”
—Sunday paper.
But a passing car is a good pick-me-up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Accused expressed surprise at the police
contention that he could have scaled the wall
of the factory.” —Court evidence.
He couldn’t get over it.
“Sylvia was feeling too ill to be catty.”
— Woman’s paper.
She wasn’t up to scratch.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although they were engaged for over four
years, it only took two weeks for their marriage
to break up.” —Divorce item.
Married at leisure and repented in
haste.
4* 4* 4* 4
“In this part of the country the head of
the household is invariably called ‘The Boss.’ ”
— “D.T.”
She is that, usually, in all parts of the
country.
Sublimity.
“Oomph Girl Peach-Orchid Was a Riot.”
—“Daily Mirror.
I knew a Rose who was a peach,
A Violet who was true;
When I went walking out with each
It seemed the thing to do.
Tall Iris was a glamor girl,
Fair Lily was divine;
While Daphne had me in a whirl
From half-past six till nine.
But Myrtle is my dearest dear,
No glamor girl is she;
She proves her love —she gives me beer
And sausages for tea.
Q.
Order Department.
“What’s your idea of a new order?”
— “D.T.”
For the perfect new order most
of us would plump for “I’ll have
the same again, Nancy.” The
landlord’s new order to “Shut up
the row in the flat or you’ll have
to get out! ” isn’t so popular. And
the wife’s idea of the perfect new order?
You’ve already been stung for six, and
she announces that she’s taken out an-
other three. Yes, of course —the cash
order!
E.
The Butness of But.
“To a woman especially, a whole life of
meaning can be incorporated in that little word
‘but.’ ” — Woman’s paper.
It can. Too right!
“Aitchem!” says Maria blazingly, “1
have nothing to say to you —nothing!
But”
Follows the full story of our life —
Maria’s authorised version.
Chaps. 1 to 5 are all about the well-
to-do fellows she might have married but
for her unfortunate desire of me. Chaps.
6 to 157 concern my sins, pre- and post-
nuptial. Chaps. 158 to 270 cover
Maria’s repeated saintly but foolish for-
giveness for my sins. A touch of the
mystic comes into Chaps. 271-300. They
hint of a romance that may yet be hers.
No, they do not come in chronological
order. She may be retailing Chapter 13
and suddenly skip to halfway through
Chap. 117, in which I treated her brother
shockingly.
But whichever it is and whenever it is
delivered, it invariably comes after that
“But.”
H.M.
Bedtime Story.
“And she realises anew how important is
the covering for a bed in a bedroom.”
— Advertisement.
As distinct, of course, from a bed in
a fowlhouse, which is simpler. You cover
yourself with a sheet only, encourage
the chooks to perch on top of that, and
there you are, warm and snug beneath a
feather quilt. Keep a bag of corn under
your pillow, and when they’re all asleep
scatter some gently round your head and
“Any complaints?”
in your hair. When dawn arrives the
birds will peck madly at their early break-
fast ; this saves you the trouble of set-
ting an alarm clock. It also has the
advantage that, by simply encouraging
the most willing hen to lay her morning
egg into a thermos of hot water by your
head, you can have your breakfast in bed.
E.
With Bells On.
“If you have an invalid to look after and
there are no bells in the bedroom, buy an
ordinary bicycle bell and fix it to the bed.”
—Woman’s paper.
It adds to the invalid’s fun if you
acknowledge his bicycle bell tinkle with
a few minutes’ screeching on a klaxon
horn. The fun can be kept up by taking
in the teatray on a scooter, putting your
hand out as you go round the door, and
crashing into the foot of his bed to
pull up.
When the patient is on the mend, give
the lino a good high polish and put a
pair of skates on his boots for his first
time up. He can then get on to the
verandah quickly. Of course, he might
break his neck as he takes the passage
corner at 25 m.p.h. This will save you
any further trouble with him.
Doc.
In the Gun.
“She declared that her husband, a munitions
worker, frequently spent all his wages on beer.’
—Divorce report.
When came along the wished-for day.
Instead of shelling out his pay.
He caused explosions, it is clear.
By blowing up the lot on beer.
T.W.N.
Reins to the Imagination.
“ ‘1 had a nightmare ride,’ said the jockey.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Recalls a similar ride I had on Bees-
knee. The colt was slowly away, but I
urged him along and slipped into the
box seat making the turn. I thought
I was home on the pig’s back at this
stage, but more trouble lay ahead —
going for a run between the two leaders
halfway down the straight, Beesknee was
badly squeezed and dropped back.
Pulled to the outside, he stretched out
in earnest and I rode hard and drove him
along with lusty shouts. He gained at
every stride. Nearing the post he seemed
a certain winner, but Billy Brooks on
Cakewalk finished fast on the fence and
pipped me. So, telling myself that 1
ought to turn the game up, I fought my
way out of the grandstand, raced over
to the place tote and collected ss. 3d.
for my five bob!
PERCIVAL.
Getting It Both Ways.
“Japan Crisis Eases.”
—Sydney “Daily Mirror” poster.
“Japan Mobilises. War Omens.”
—Sydney “Sun” poster, same day.
Many unthinking people will question
this disparity. They are under the
erroneous impression that, just because
two newsapers come out at practically
the same minute, the news they contain
should be approximately the same. What,
after all, would be the advantage in a
city having two afternoon papers if they
didn’t give you a choice of news?
This new advance in journalism fills a
long-felt want. In the past this sort of
thing has been confined to local happen-
ings. Take the simple case of an acci-
dent.
The “Evening Trombone” reports it:
Elderly Woman Falls Under Tram.
Early this afternoon Mrs. Elizabeth
Marion Fowler, 67, of Wellington-street,
Rosehurst, had a narrow escape from
serious injury when she fell from a moving
tram in Quince-street, City. She owes her
life to the presence of mind of the driver,
who happened to see her fall and quickly
applied the emergency brakes, pulling his
tram up in a few feet. The woman’s head
was only four inches off one of the wheels
when she was extricated. She suffered only
minor abrasions to the arms and hands and
was allowed to go home after treatment.
The “Screech” also writes it up:
Struck By Tram.
While crossing Quince-street, City, today,
Miss Elizabeth Marie Faller, 59, of Willing-
don-road, Rosehurst, was struck by a tram.
According to an eyewitness, the woman
tried to get across in front of the tram and
the heel of her shoe seemed to catch in the
rail. As she fell the tram struck her,
hurling her across the road on to the mud-
guard of a parked car, which her head
struck with terrific force. The victim was
taken to hospital with a probable fracture
of the skull and concussion.
Next morning the “Daily Flute” has
a crack at it:
Caught Between Tram and Car.
Woman’s Lucky Escape.
Yesterday morning Mrs. Elizabeth Myrtle
Fawles, 63, of Wallingford-avenue, Rose-
hurst, while attempting to board a tram
about to move oft in Quince-street, City,
missed her footing and fell. Neither the
driver of the tram nor the driver of a car
which was travelling in the same direction
noticed that she was being carried along
between the footboard and the car’s run-
ning-board until a passenger gave the alarm.
Except for a slight injury to the left knee
and a small cut on the forehead the woman
was unhurt.
The carrying of this “alternative news”
idea into the more important sphere of
war and politics will cause
most readers to rejoice. One
of the most favored of
modern non - strenuous
sports is wishful thinking.
The latest trend in giving
the reader a choice of war
and war-tension news will
allow this to be indulged
quite freely. On the “Screech’s” poster may
be blazoned “Russians Lose Krpskxtzk.”
The fellow whose deep conviction is that
the Russkis are too strong to fall back
will naturally scorn to read the details
of this unpleasant shock to his belief. He
can, therefore, buy the “Trombone,” re-
assured by its poster that the Soviet
forces, far from yielding Krpskxtzk,” are
100 miles to the west of that town and
putting the Squareheads to rout.
The natural development of this con :
sideration to readers is obvious. Most
people get used to buying the same paper
because of the thrilling strip adventures
of Lulu, the Girl Detective, or Sideslip
Steve, the Boy Ace. What else, then, than
to bring out two separate editions, simul-
taneously, of the same paper, with sepa-
rate posters. Thus, one poster of the
“Screech” will blare forth “ Luftwaffe
Causes Great London Fires,” while the
other poster announces “Nazi ’Planes
Fail to Break Through.” Or, “Menzies
Government Facing Defeat,” while its
other poster says “Menzies Government
Safe.” The same comic strips will, of
course, be in each edition, so that those
who are strongminded enough to take the
nasty medicine can buy the “great fires”
or the “Menzies defeat” editions, while
the wishful thinkers hop in and get the
soothing syrup one.
Undoubtedly the dictum that “the cus-
tomer is always right” is spreading to
the dailies. A long-suffering public wel-
comes it.
BO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Benachie”: Having arrived at the
foot of Polwhomera Mountain, and clear
of the bush at last, Willie the Wanderer
dumped his swag, sat down and kicked
off his boots. He had walked several
miles that morning, and his feet were
sore. As he reclined against a gum
stump he idly watched a nondescript dog
energetically chasing a hare which zig-
zagged across a paddock and dived across
the road near where Willie lay. The
mong. followed but failed to see a heavy
car coming down the mountain road.
The thud was followed by the grinding
of brakes, and the driver was dragging
the defunct hound to the side of the road
just as Willie came up, brushing a per-
sistent fly away from his eye. The lady
sitting in the car looked sympathetic,
while the driver fumbled in his vest
pocket and pressed a note into Willie’s
hand. “Very sorry about your loss, but
we really couldn’t help it,” he said.
Willie clutched the money and drew a
sleeve again across an eye irritated by
the flies. Two minutes later the car was
■well along the Mallenderee Flat, while
Willie was pulling boots on to his now-
forgotten sore feet in preparation for a
lighthearted five-mile walk to the Fencers’
Arms.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Ardlethan” Andy an-
nounced that he was “headin’ west” after
the rabbits. “Trapping or poisoning?”
Bill Thornton asked him. “Neither,” re-
plied Andy. “It’s an idea of my own.
Y’ see, I discovered that rabbits are very
fond of hard-shelled bush nuts. Y’ just
scatter ’em about outside the burrers and
wait behind a handy bush. The cotton-
tails pick up the nuts and try to crack
’em with their teeth. O’ course, they
shut their eyes just like you do yourself
when crackin’ a hard nut. Well, that’s
just the time to hop out an’ belt ’em on
the head. With skins at ten bob a pound
1 reckon there’s a fortune in it. No
draggin’ traps around or muckin’ about
with strychnine for mine, Sonno.”
* * * *
“Bob the Buyer”: Them blokes an’
their fast dogs (B. 30/7/’41)! My ol’
Spieler was a born retriever. He’s asleep
one day when some goat shoots a big
.44 slug at him. The slug whizzes over
Spieler’s head, he wakes up, takes after
it, snaps it out of the air and brings it
back, waggin’ his rudder like mad. That’s
travellin’!
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: The foot-valve on the
windmill pump, 60ft. underground, had
stuck, and two of us had lowered the
boss in a bucket with the necessary tools.
We hauled up the bucket to give him
room to work, then waited, listening to
his tinkering below. Suddenly there was
a yell from the homestead, and we were
racing down to join in the fight against
a fire that had broken out in the laundry
and threatened the house. The place was
old and dry, and it kept us busy for a
good while before we got it under, losing
the laundry but saving the house. The
boss’s son, burnt and blackened like the
rest of us, suggested drinks, and then
found there was nothing else but hock.
“Well, it’s better than nothing,” he said,
and doled out a fair whack each. Now
half a tumblerful of hock in the morning
to men who’re hot and blown brings
strange results. In a daze Tommy and
I weaved our way back to the windmill
and there went out to it. It was only
when the cook came to get us for lunch
that we became conscious of our duty
and the strange silence from the well.
When we got the boss up he eyed us
with a cold, ferocious look. “Why didn’t
you sing out?” Tommy asked weakly.
The boss opened his mouth, but only a
weird rasping came from it. He’d yelled
himself out.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Philp” might be right
in describing as a fallacy the idea that
abos. are born horsemen (B. 30/7/’4l),
but it is a fact that every travelling buck-
jump show has a fair proportion of abo.
riders with it, some of them full-bloods
and all good riders. On the cattle stations
of the north both bucks and lubras play
their part in mustering and
ing. “P.” ought to go up and have a
look at ’em some day ; there are few
“bad or clumsy riders” among them.
X * * X
“Propalong”: Petrol rationing may
help to revive the old Australian art of
“If this petrol rationing keeps on, it looks as if We'll die in harness."
colt-breaking—and it is an art. Most
bushmen can break a brumby ; the wild
horse fights hard in the yard and con-
sequently learns quickly. But for quieter
stuff, from ponies to pet foals, a man
who wants to turn out reliable hack
material, easily caught, easily led, safe
and handy to ride, shoe or tie up, needs
the probing brain of a good teacher and
the intuition of a mother. The quiet
stuff won’t fight. In a sense they’re un-
breakable, You can turn the average
brumby into a good potential hack in
a week. The ponies have to be trained
for months before they’re reliable.
X * X *
“Pick”: The only member of the hawk
family I’ve struck that isn’t man- and
gun-shy is the white sea eagle. Perching
all day above sandflats, whereon mobs
of aquatic game-birds feed when the tide
recedes, it floats off at the sound of the
gun to fly at great speed and with uncanny
direction to the spot where the disabled
bird has fallen. One has often beaten
my retriever to the quarry.
* * V *
“Dummy D.”: I’m putting a query to
those Aboliars who so glibly give the
Latin names of our flora and fauna.
Around the Centre after a rain is found
a small crustacean known to the kids as
the “toebiter” ; to blokes like the writer
as the apis. In an illustrated book on
geology 1 noticed fossils of the Devonian
period that might have been full brothers
to our apis. These were called trilo-
bites. Now I want some real scientific
savant to inform me whether our apis
is really a trilobite, and, if it is, why more
fuss isn’t made over the matter, for surely
a crustacean that has survived in Aus-
tralia from the Devonian period must be
a world wonder. Further, I am in-
formed by a passing globetrotter that our
little apis is almost a miniature of a king
crab —the king crab, which isn’t a crab
at all, being recognised as the ocean’s
most primitive crustacean form, found,
they say, only on the coasts of Japan
and the Atlantic coast of U.S.A., where
it is sometimes washed up in thousands
by a storm. Now, if Apis, alias Toe-
biter, fulfils these claims; —well, I’m go-
ing to start a movement to have it in-
corporated somewhere, on the Flag or the
coinage, as a long-distance stayer, the
actual world-beater.
* * * *
“0.P.”: The epitaph to Russian Jack
(B. 30/7/’4l) reminds of the one to Red
Louis, a cove noted for his careless hand-
ling of the truth. When Red died it was
found that nobody knew anything of
him, and he got what Russian Jack got,
a line on a slab headstone: “Here lies
Red Louis.” For a couple of years it
remained thus ; then someone expressed
his astonishment by adding “What, is he
still at it?” '
* * * *
“Philp”: That teamster who got a pair
of strides on the cheap by defying any-
one to pull ’em off him wasn’t half as
subtle as Leery Larry. Out to prove
that he could get a pair of shoes for
nix from a city shoe store, Larry strolled
in and allowed the sleek assistant to press
him into trying on a pair of expensive
brogues. He got one of them on and
stretched his leg to admire the effect.
“Let’s see if the other fits,” he murmured.
The other was duly fitted and Larry
stretched both legs for another inspection.
“Lace ’em up,” he asked. They were
laced and Larry stood up to test them
for comfort. “Not bad, not bad at all,”
he conceded to the assistant and sud-
denly, as his gaze wandered towards the
door, “Holy smoke! Herb Smith! Hey,
Herb! Herb!” And three long strides
took him out the door and after the
mythical Herb Smith before the assistant
realised what had happened.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Old Denny had been
warned that the bull was a bit “touchy,”
but the mushrooms were plentiful in the
paddock, and as Barney wasn’t in sight
the warning was conveniently forgotten.
His billy about full, the old fellow had
just straightened up when he beheld the
bovine bearing down on him in full
career. Denny dropped his mushrooms
and fairly leapt into his stride, tearing
alongside the fence, rabbit fashion. With
the bull quickly gaining ground the pur-
sued suddenly changed course, ran into
the dam and stood in water up to his
neck. Fortunately the boss had seen the
incident, and after Barney had retreated
before the stockwhip he asked in some
amazement, “But why didn’t you go over
the fence?” “Why, the baste was beatin’
me in a flat race, so what chance would
I have over the hurdles?” the old chap
grinned.
* * * *
“Hanko”: If there’s a wagtail about
he’ll come and inspect your camp, and
if he thinks you believe his reiterated con-
tention that he’s a sweet, pretty creature
he’ll straightway adopt you. Thereupon
he’ll proceed to snap flies and hunt in-
truders from your threshold. And, in
case you might think he has deserted
you with night, he’ll rouse from time to
time to assure you that your sweet, pretty
creature is still handy, ready and willing
to do battle for you against flies or
bunyips. Truly, Willie is a sweet little
creature,
“B. Christopholous”: Who told “D.
Beech” (B. 9/7/’4l) that gummy shark
was “another despised fish”? For years
gummy has entered many markets mas-
querading under the name Sweet William.
And, frankly, a cutlet of it isn’t too bad,
though it probably tastes better when
served in a batter as snapper. But I
won’t have either stingaree or shovelnose,
though I have eaten stingo.—-there are
a good many kinds and their taste varies.
The smell of shovelnose is enough—a
subtle something faintly suggestive of the
flesh of the ancient billygoat we once
ran down and slaughtered whilst doing a
hunger perish on a nor’-west island. But
there’s a lot of plain shark consumed
these days when the convoys come in. All
the lads then want fish and chips, and
with so many Italian fishermen interned
—well, what can the fishshop-keeper do
but try to oblige his clients? Sliced thin,
dipped in vinegar and then fried in a
rich golden batter, even a slab of Blue
Nurse passes as snapper with the un-
critical. But you can’t do that with either
stingaree or shovelnose. Their flesh, be-
longing as it does to one of the most
primitive types in the evolutionary pro-
gression, has a peculiar cellular structure
that is a ready give-away to anyone at
all acquainted with fish.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: There is still some big
stuff left in what remains of Australia’s
ravaged forests. A bluegum felled at
The Overflow in the Beaudesert (S.Q.)
district cut into six logs which yielded
10,555 super, ft. of first-class timber.
Bigger logs have been handled at the
Beaudesert mill, but this was the greatest
quantity of millable hardwond obtained
from one tree in the manager’s 40 years
of experience.
* * * *
“K.P.”: The Minister for the Army’s
praise of the top-minnow or millions-
fish as the gallant defender of overseas
Anzacs against malarial
infection is a good many
years behind the times.
Hailing originally from
Barbados, the fishlets got
a lot of publicity as the
alleged cause of the
absence of malaria from
that island. More accu-
rate investigation showed
that if they had any share
in the matter at all it was
a minor one only. Twenty
years agcxthey were tested
out against other species
of small larvicidal fish and
found much inferior to the
Australian “blue-eye”
{Pseudomugil signifer ) in
such important practical
details as resistance to
temperature changes and
water impurities. A
suicidal tendency to
jump out of tanks is another defect,
and their habit of keeping on the surface
instead of going under when not after
larvae make them easy victims for birds
and other enemies. The real mainstays
of malaria-control are still provided by
oil-surface films to suffocate the larvae
and kill the eggs, interference with their
life-cycle at some readily-accessible stage
and scientifically-planned drainage. All
must be based on accurate identification
and habit-study of the particular species
of zygote-incubating female anophelines
responsible for malaria transmission in
any given area.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Yes, “Yagan” (B. 16/7/’4l),
there are “whites capable of following
a track almost as well as an abo.”—and
perhaps better. The tracking in the
Grindell affair in the Flinders Ranges
(S.A.) years ago was done by a half-
caste. He tracked a camel many miles over
the rockiest country this side of the lava
slides of Hades, when local blacks had
given it best. Most white stockmen outside
the fenced country are fair to excellent
trackers. North of the wire you ride
tracks well or you lose cattle. And
tracking is dependent on intelligence
more than eyesight. Send a newchum
out along plainly-visible hobbled-horse
tracks. If they’re split he’ll be hours
finding ’em. Why? Because he’ll follow
the tracks, instead of going outside ’em
in the general direction taken by the
prads, and thus finding the main mob
quickly and at the same time knowing
in which direction the strays have turned
off. .Good tracking depends mostly on
knowing the tricks of the game.
IT RAINED LAST NIGHT.
There was wind and rain in the bush last night
And the gullies are washed out clean.
There are clayey pools where the wheel tracks
run
And the grass has a tinge of green.
A wedge-tailed eagle is soaring high
With sweeping curves in his flight.
And the sand is traced with the tracks of feet
Of the creatures that love the night.
A mare and her foal are seeking food,
And the foal sinks deep in the mud
As it flounders over from bank to bank
Where the creek runs down in flood.
A tussock shelters a new-born lamb
That is white as the snow is white,>
And a lone crow croaks as it flaps away
From a ewe that died in the night.
A hare is fleeing on silent feet
In fear of an unseen foe,
And tarries not till the plain is reached
Where the blue- and the saltbush grow.
Small ants that swarm on their sandy mounds
Are working with all their might
To fill their store with the grain and meat
That the rain washed up in the night.
A ballet of graceful brolgas dance
Where the water runs from a hill,
Their wings drooped low as a woman’s skirts
As she trips through an old quadrille,
While the cock birds, gay in their crimson caps,
Look down from a stately height
At a wailing plover that mourns a ne.si
That the rain has swamped in the night.
A car is loitering on its way,
For its wheels have never a chain,
And it slips and slithers from side to side
On the wet red clay of the plain.
Grey water is lying in sunlit sheets,
With fences at left and right,
And trenches that wagon-wheels have cut
And the rain has filled in the night.
A swaggie is camped by a leaning tree
And has slept on a sodden bed,
With nothing to shelter him from the wind
Nor a roof to cover his head.
His blankets hang on a fence near by.
Where they steam in the morning light
As he fans a flame from a glowing spark
That the rain has missed in the night.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Geţ a move on, or we'll be late for Bluey's funeral."
“Zake”; Old Bill, having consigned
his No. 8 gut with its yellowtail-charged
snapper hook in the general direction of
the reef, sat down to await the magic
sound of a round cork bouncing about in
the bottom of the dinghy—music which
might presage the hauling in of a real
“old-man” redfish possessing an outsize
bump on its nose. Reflectively he got
out his penknife and proceeded with his
ritual of scraping out his pipe, after
which came the minute devoted to tapping
out the loosened embers on the gun’l.
Laying down the law on the relative values
of mullet-gut or squid as bait for the “big
fellers,” he tapped a bit harder for em-
phasis, and was left holding the stem. As
he saw his beloved bowl, beautifully ripe
with the smoking of years, disappear into
the blue he rose, looked at the now use-
less stem and with a mighty oath dashed
it into a dozen pieces against a boat rib.
A second later a choppy wave washed
the bowl back into the dinghy. As
Splinter said afterwards, Bill’s effort beat
that of Joe, the Gloucester timbergetter
when the new barber sliced the mole off
from under his chin.
* * * *
“The Duke”: Before sending his new
reporter on his first assignment, the editor
of the “Wattle Creek Courier” reminded
him: “Remember! Accuracy is what I
want. It counts every time with me.”
When the tyro handed in his report on
the big public meeting in the Mechanics’
Hall the editor got halfway through it
and swung round in his chair, “What
the hell d’you mean by ‘799 eyes were
fixed upon the speaker,’ eh? Another
of y’r stupid mistakes?” “It’s not a
mistake, sir,” insisted the tyro. “That
one-eyed bloke Joe Simpson was in the
audience,”
* * * *
“Peterkin”: “Capricorn” (B. 9/7/’4l)
certainly puts up a good case in his con-
tention that the mushroom is indigenous,
but I won’t have his dictum about the
fungus being found in plenty of places
in the far north where there are no sheep
and no horses. Is there any large area
of this continent where at some time or
the other there haven’t been either sheep
or horses? Our hardy fathers, who
peopled many places now deserted, were
keen on sheep. Port Essington, for in-
stance, was there long before Darwin,
and the mushrooms that now grow on
the Territory hills might well have derived
from spawn dropped by the jumbucks
that were once kept at Victoria Town.
Likewise, thousands of sheep were at
various times taken to the W.A. Kimber-
leys—even Lieut. George Grey took along
a few in 1838—though the Kimberleys'
nowadays are reckoned pure cattle
country, and its inhabitants dine on goat
as a substitute for mutton. As for the
horse, show me any part of the Aus-
tralian continent where it hasn’t trodden!
John Forrest used horses on all his great
explorations ; so did the Gregory brothers,
Sturt, McDouall Stuart and others, while
from Alice Springs, Oodnadatta and
Newcastle Waters scores of unsung over-
landers radiated in every direction with
the prad as chief means of transport.
Parties even left the Alice, traversed the
north of the MacDonnells, reached the
Rawlinsons, Laverton, Coolgardie. And
once the fungus got a start the wind and
occasional floodwaters would see to the
spreading. Through the Centre I often
found nests of mushrooms in the fine dust
or loess that accumulates around wind-
breaks such as ti-tree and similar scrub.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat’s boss sent him
into town with the spring-cart for the
week’s groceries. The horse was a bit
skittish, but Mat got on all right till they
were nearly home. Then a goanna
rushed across the track and the nag
bolted. The cocky rushed out of his
house as Mat and the cart tore past.
“Hey! ” he yelled, “what are y’ doin’ with
that cart?” Mat took another grip on
the side-rails and roared back, “Dunno.
Ask the flamin’ horse!”
4c * ♦ •
“Whipstick”: The Bulletin’s art critic
slipped in B. 30/7/’4l by telling some
would-be artist, “What, you live in the
Mallee and can’t draw sliprails! ” In the
dinkum Mallee it’s hard to find a whip-
handle, let alone a rail. Wire has been
the Mallee man’s standby ever since that
country was first settled. Sliprails are
a cow-country concoction, so the bloke
who lives in the Mallee can be pardoned
for not being able to draw ’em.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: When the boss cocky was
going to the city he instructed Choom
to rug the saddle horse every night.
Warmth, he pointed out, was worth half
the feed. When he returned a fortnight
later to find that his valued hack had
died, he demanded to know what had
happened, Choom explained that he put
the horse in the stable and kept it there,
rugged night and day, so that it would
have constant warmth and at the same
time save the other half of the feed.
♦ * * *
“Toothsmith”: Modern medical philo-
sophy accepts that sugar is the pre-
dominating cause of Rental decay, while,
vice versa, tobacco, either smoked or
chewed, tends towards molar preserva-
tion. But humanity had plenty of aching
teeth even when sugar was either absent
from or at least very limited
on the menu. Looking over
some dead Dutchmen’s skulls
—they dated from around the
last decades of the sixteenth
century, and came from the
Abrolhos Islands, off the
W.A. coast just south of the
Capricorn—l noted that quite
a number of the teeth still
attached to the jawbones
were carious, some markedly
so. Now the shellbacks on
those old Dutch hookers cer-
tainly weren’t pampered up
with overmuch sweets. They
had, in fact, plenty of hard
tack, biscuits like wood, beef
that could be dried and
carved into snuffboxes —
ideal food, according to
present-day medical testi-
mony, for keeping the teeth
in order. Likewise they
weren’t kept short of tobacco,
judging by the number of
well-used clay pipes that were
found around the camps near
which the skeletons were
buried. So I am still won-
dering what is the root cause
of dental decay.
“Edjudina”; Fire was Binghi’s acid test
on just about every occasion. Well out
from Mt. Margaret (W.A.) Long Ned
missed his revolver. It was a six-
chambered self-cocker, fully loaded. He
certainly was a bit casual with it; though
there was never an occasion to use it,
yet it was one of those articles that just
had to be taken along. Finally he
recalled hanging it at the previous camp
on a twig in the ti-tree beneath which
he had rested. It was a good 10 miles
back, and when he and Pint Pot arrived
there they found the place bare, A tribe
of blacks had paid a visit—had probably
been waiting until the white men de-
parted. They had gathered treasure,
empty meat- and jam-tins, all the odd-
ments the white man invariably leaves
behind. And they hadn’t missed Ned’s
gun. But their tracks were plain enough,
and, though it became a long, long trail,
Ned and P.P. eventually caught up with
them sometime after dark. There they
found all the tribal elders holding solemn
session over the mysterious gun. They
had exhausted all the wonders of the
empty tins, the fact that the jam-tin
could be deliciously licked out, that all
the tins made excellent containers, and
that the bright lids, even in the act of
licking them, gave a reflection of the
linker’s face. And they had done just
about everything to the revolver except
pull the trigger. Now they had it on
the fire, hoping by that means to get it
open. What might have happened had
Ned’s coming been delayed only a few
minutes is interesting to contemplate. As
it was, the butt was charred, and Ned
reckoned it was never the same gun
again.
* * * *
“Youanmi”: Suggest that “B. the D.’s”
wallaby which swam straight out to sea
(B. 23 / 7 / ’4l) was fleeing from an enemy.
In my unregenerate youth five of us
cornered a young brush and drove her
right on to a Westralian beach, where,
after hopping a few yards in each direc-
tion and finding all escape blocked, she
turned to the sea, hopped through the
breakers and swam steadily to a watery
grave. I believe staghunters in England
sometimes find their quarry doing the
same thing—witness Davidson’s “runnable
stag” that escaped from “three hundred
gentlemen able to ride” by swimming
“far out till he sank in the Severn Sea.”
* * * *
“Langshan”: Bees prefer a level foot-
ing when drinking, as should their wings
and downy bodies get wet they are un-
able to fly. Had “Waratah” (B. 2/7/’4l)
placed stones with a flat surface in the
plates or sticks touching the edges there
would have been no discrimination of
drinking vessels and no drowning fatali-
ties. We use shallow dishes and tin lids
of all descriptions for the purpose.
Should these be emptied the bees cluster
thickly on the tap till water is given once
more, making no attempt to sting when
the tap is turned. But to collide with a
bee on its homeward flight from the tank
may be a yarn with a different ending.
* * * *
“Percy Subbub”: For wit and nimble-
ness what other of the insect tribe can
excel the common black cockroach?
Moved into a rented house from which
the previous occupant frankly admitted
the pests had driven him out. Hung the
old working coat on the back verandah.
Next day it was literally full of ’roaches.
Thinking to get rid of a few I carried
it right to the back lane and shook vigor-
ously. A score or so of the pests fell
out. And as one ’roach they turned and
headed back for home. Many an even-
ing I spent under the kitchen table, in
the cupboards, along the mantelpieces
hunting ’roaches with a lighted candle
and a broad-bladed knife. Good sport,
for the black birds were prey worthy
of one’s steel. Fast on the getaway,
they knew every crack and crevice, and
when the blade went in after them they
showed real strategy in eluding destruc-
tion. Finally the landlord decided that
the old place should come down. Board
by board it was dismantled, the home-
less ’roaches, driven from refuge to
refuge, finally gathering in the last part
to stand, the kitchen chimney. Glancing
up, one saw hundreds. Then, when all
was clear, the last load of salvage carted
away, the chimney was brought down.
For a few seconds the ’roaches seemed
stunned. Then, realising that the old
home was really gone, they started off in
a body to a new home —right across the
road to a second-hand shop.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Lofty threw tea into the
billy, picked it up and began to swing it
mightily. Whoosh! We slithered clear,
but the old heeler, waiting on the outer
for scraps, copped a fair issue of scalding
tea. With an agonised yowl he went
headlong into the landscape. “The huh-
huh-handle came orf,” the long bloke
stuttered as he retrieved and refilled the
billy. We scraped some of the grit from
our trampled tucker and munched sulkily.
A few minutes later Lofty tossed the tea
into the battered and handleless billy and
stooped to pick it off the fire. “I won’t
swing her this time,” he tittered, but there
came from behind him such a fearsome
warning yelp that he fumbled the can
completely. Next instant we were en-
gulfed in a cloud of steam and ashes,
out of which we blundered to the accom-
paniment of far-off hysterical barkings.
“I wonder if the secretary Would let me take this home — it's my
first divot."
ROD QUINN.
Come, let us praise in joyous lays
The Muses and our gods
For giving us, in dreadful days,
That singing voice of Rod’s.
Distilling glees from tuneful trees
Astir with gleaming wings
Of feathered folk —what melodies
Each perfect poem brings!
What joys he gleans from sylvan scenes
By waters clear and cool!
And oh! the breeze-blown evergreens
Reflected in a pool!
When come suchwise to ears and eyes
These ecstasies, we say:
“How lovely this green Paradise,
From torment far away!”
Can we decide wtih woe to bide,
Or linger with despair,
When, in the frondage where they hide,
The dryads comb their hair?
“Away with it (a mad misfit!)
Away with grief and gloom,”
We say, “and let the fairies flit
With endless elbowroom!”
Avaunt dismay! These glories gay
Must make a scoffer meek .. .
Look!—sunbeams and the shadows play
Their game of hide-and-seek!
And so Rod’s choice is Nature’s voice.
Interpreted by him
Until a stoic might rejoice—
His raptures overbrim.
And now (great heart!), with artless art,
Unseen he lets us see;
A magic from all guile apart—
Sheer sweet simplicity!
Without alloy his singing joy
The test of Time has stood;
For Rod is still the grown-up boy
Who finds green places good!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


A Ma^s
First Thought
is for His Family
PQBui
srHayrai
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
important steps: —
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 63 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Considt your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
ni/ofyenotf ftd. -
OWa
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLiGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager; W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 8637 L
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 24 p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ „ 42,116 342,025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl .. 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
From doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 74 p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.c. = 67,386 10,629 393,419
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 .. 420,583
1938.. 97,101 124 p.c. =84,233 12,868 433,451
1939.. 98,340 124 „ ~ 84,233 14,107 447,558
1940.. 96,705 124 „ ~ 84,233 12,472 460,030
1941.. 98,636 124 „ „ 8.4,233 14,403 474,433
Efficient cement-makers have been good
div.-payers, and continue so. For the
eight years to the close of accounts in
1930 Kandos paid a steady 10 p.c., with
comfortable margins. For the next five
difficult slump years the average was
5.2 p.c., followed by two lots of 10 p.c.
and then p.c. for the past four years.
Meanwhile Kandos and Australian
Cement, the Vic. co. (paid capitals now
£673,862 and £760,433 respectively), got
into double harness (in 1930), becoming
equal shareholding partners in Austra-
lian Portland Cement (paid capital
£2,000,000). Also, Kandos returned 4s.
per share in 1934, without disturbing its
million-pound holding in the big operat-
ing concern, whose works are at Kandos
(N.S.W.) and Fyansford (Vic.). The
Kandos plant (capacity 200,000 tons p.a.)
shares the N. S. Wales market with four
other producers. At Fyansford a lot of
money was recently spent on improve-
ments, to the benefit of plant capacity
(now 300,000 tons p.a.) and costs. Here
the chief competitor is Goliath, now
experiencing shipping difficulties, whose
100,000-ton outfit is across Bass Strait.
Over the last 12 months the demand
for cement for defence and other public
works, including prodigal spending by
the States, more than offset any recession
on account of ordinary building activity.
So, despite ascending costs and taxation,
the big, well-established cement manufac-
turers continued to do well. Australian
Portland, which will shortly commence
sulphate-of-potash manufacture, doesn’t
broadcast its figures. Appearances are
that it is paying 9 p.c., and the history
of the two controlling cos. suggests that
substantial allowances are first made for
depreciation, etc.
The balance of Kandos’s income is
derived from commissions as agent for
the working co. and from the £198,472
(up £14,518 last term) the co. has in-
vested in Government securities and on
fixed deposit. The £98,636 (up £1931)
of profit was 14.6 p.c. on capital as
against 14.3, 14.5, 14.4, 12.3, 11.5, 11.3
and 4.8 p.c. back to 1934. So the 12%
p.c. div. was an easy matter.
As for the current term, the demand
for cement on account of defence re-
quirements again promises to be heavy.
This and the comfortable margin between
receipts and distributions promises well
for maintenance of the div. ; but in the
present disturbed state of affairs any-
thing might be upset unexpectedly.
Over the last 12 months the market for
Kandos and Australian Cement scrip
strengthened 3s. and 7s. 6d. respectively,
bringing the yield in each case more into
line, as here shown;
Face Net
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Kandos .. 16/- 31/r- 12-J p.c. 6.6 34/1
Aust. Cement 20/- 39/- 124 „ 6.4 28/3
* Per £1 of paid capital.
For each pound of its own Kandos owns
roughly £l4B and Australian Cement
£l3l of the operating co.’s capital.
Meggitt, Ltd.
t Dividends
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
1931.. 617 4000 l|p.c.= 6,138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 2i „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 97,245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 3400 84,, „ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 ~ „ 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 37,316
1940.. 40,821 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 ~ „ 32,737 30,181
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
Linseed meal and oil, turned out from
factories at Sydney, Melbourne and Port
Adelaide, are the commodities which this
co. markets. The seed, the chief raw
material, is imported mostly from India
and S. America. The meal is sold as
stock food, and there is a good demand
for it, because its use means more wool,
mutton and beef for the pastoralist and
an increased supply of milk and butter-
fats for the dairy farmer. The oil is
mostly absorbed in the paint and lino,
industries. Produced in the ratio of one-
to-two in relation to meal, a decade or
so ago it threatened to hamper further
expansion of the business, but develop-
ment of markets for it, which was no
easy task, altered the outlook, and the
co. is now in a much stronger position,
financially and otherwise, than ever.
The wide range of economic and other
influences to which the business is sub-
ject is therefore obvious. Conditions
were mixed last term. During the first
half, a dry spell in the pastoral and dairy-
ing areas increased the call for meal as
stock food, and there was a good demand
for oil, though activity in the building
trade tended to slacken a little. But costs
continued to climb, and so did taxation,
while shipping space became increasingly
difficult and expensive to obtain.
Still, the board kept a tight hold upon
outgoings. After allowing £12,910 (up
£738) for depreciation, making a bigger
but unspecified allowance for taxation
and sending £4OOO (down £1000) to the
staff fund, the net result (£39,788, down
£1033) was sufficient to hand the 10 p.c.
prefs. their full contract rates and show
10.9 p.c. on the £327,369 of ord. capital,
compared with 11.2, 12.8, 13 and 12.5
p.c. for the four preceding years. The
div. was kept at 10 p.c. The £3051 put
on the shelf reduced the amount of capi-
tal unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £3o,lBl—goodwill (£115,747) is
not treated as an asset herein.
The financial position improved:
1938. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 109,512 78,022 309,691 176,524
Premises rucl
plant .. 195,893 215,878 232,350 239,512
Stocks .. 155,726 134,546 256,496 198,754
Book debts .. 50,530 57,300 88,897 70,461
Cash, etc. .. 101,238 83,356 168,554 123,227
To reduce drafts for linseed (£80,549)
by £178,555, the amount coming to other
creditors (£95,975) was increased by
£45,388, stocks were lowered by £57,742,
book debts by £18,436 and cash, etc., by
£45,327. Still, there was a net gain of
£11,662 in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£215,918).
In the current term much will depend
upon what happens in connection with
developments in the Pacific, Malaya and
East Indies.
At 31s, (275. 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
pound ords. return 6.4 p.c. so long as the
10 p.c. div. continues. On the same div.
basis the 55.-paid contribs. at 7s. return
7.1 p.c. The prefs. seldom come on.to
the market. The net tangible cover for
the ords. is 18s. 2d. per pound of paid
capital.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re— Re—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1931.. 8,560 5 p.c. = 7,500 1,060 168,789
1932.. 17,051 6 „ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
1933.. 13,840 7 „ „ 10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 ‘8 „ ~ 12,000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,077 .. 88,574
1935.. 13.533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1930.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
June,
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 12 Jt, „ 18,750 89,750
1939.. 16,023 10 „ „ 15,000 23 89,773
1940.. 15,109 10 „ ~15,000 109 89,882
1941.. 14,289 10 „ „ 15,000 89,171
* Six months,
t Including 2} p.c. sesquicentenary bonus.
The figures reflect strictly-controlled
freights and the growing burden of costs
of all kinds, which, however, appear to
have pressed less heavily on these intra-
than on inter-State shippers. The two
modern new cargo vessels which have
taken up the running over- the past three
years or so must be very helpful in this
respect. Still, there is nothing in the
figures presented to suggest that New-
castle and Hunter is doing any better
than claimed.
If any of the co.’s vessels, which have
successfully weathered a wide range of
economic as well as meteorological con-
ditions, has yet come within the orbit of
Government requisitioning, nothing has
been said about it. War has affected
passenger earnings ; but these have been
of little consequence of recent years, any-
way. Volume of cargo offering, the main
thing, reached probably record propor-
tions, thanks to present heavy industrial
activity in the northern city, greater acti-
vity on the coalfields after a long period
in the doldrums and the growing import-
ance of Newcastle as a wool centre.
Still, after providing for a weightier tax
bill and charging £10,166 (down £1194)
for depreciation, there was £B2O less to
show to shareholders, or 9.5 p.c. on the
£150,000 of capital—it includes £50,000
of bonus scrip handed out in 1920 —as
against 10 p.c. for the three years before.
Div. was kept at the 10 p.c. of the last
4% years (a sixpenny sesquicentenary
bonus was added in 1938), reserves being
called on for £7ll to do so.
After its recent steamer purchases, the
management is accumulating liquids
again:
Dee., , Juno N
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941..
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 19,673 16,907 24,114 29,738
Ship property 99,577 122,869 207,695 197,751
Freeholds, etc. 1,650 3,963 2,032 2,032
Plant, stores, etc. 5.209 8,587 9.887 11,717
Book debts . . 20,591 16,414 25,311 31,505
Consols, cash,
etc...' .. 142,700 112,347 26,771 33,405
In ship property —reported, as usual, “in
good order and condition” —there was a
net reduction of £9944, the surplus of
more or less liquids (£41,683) improving
by a roughly equivalent amount.
While there will be no diminution in
space bookings and a freight lift has been
granted, costs and taxation continue un-
certain factors. Assuming the 10 p.c.
div, is continued, the pound shares at
395. 6d. yield 5.1 p.c. Net tangible back-
ing is 31s. lid.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
f Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re— Re-
June, Profit. 0 p.c. Ordinary, serves, serves.
£> & £ £ £
1931.. 16,012 26 10 p.c. =. 15,647 339 173,374
1932.. 7.008 26 8 ~ 12,518 167,838
1933.. 5,133 13 8 „, „ 6,259 166,699
1934.. 8,874 8 „ „ 6,259 2,615 109,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080 . . 143,234
1935.. 12,126 8 p.c. = 8,345 3,781 147,015
1936.. 15,843 8 „ „ 8,345 7,498 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993. . 152,520
1937.. 18,717 10 p.c. = 10,432 8,285 160,805
1938.. 22,460 10 „ „ 10,432 12,028 172,833
Reserves capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
1939.. 20,821 10 p.c. - 13,909 6,912 144,972
1940.. 12,585 8 „ ~.11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. 12,332 8 „ „ 11,127 1,205 147,635
This co., which has consistently per-
formed better than admitted, made a pile
out of the Chev. agency, relinquished in
1930. The selling franchise then acquired
for Morris products in Queensland and
the N.S.W. Northern Rivers has since
been sufficiently remunerative to warrant
gift issues of £60,853. The Studebaker
agency is also held, as well as that for
ElectrlCE refrigeration, Philco radio and
other lines, all mostly developed of recent
years and very helpful at the moment.
A third line of income is a large but in-
scrutable pile of investments, lumped with
sundry debtors in the sheet.
As in other capitals, petrol-rationing
has brought new Brisbane motor sales to
a standstill. But the management has
lost no time in adjusting outgo to smaller
revenue, turnover in wireless, refrigera-
tion and other products, steadily being
added to, has been “satisfactory,” and
profits are benefiting from past conser-
vative treatment of unearned interest in
respect of hire-purchase paper, part of
which was taken credit for last term. In
the result, while declared gross earnings
(£77,509) suffered a decline of £18,437,
net contracted only £253 to 8.9 p.c. on
capital, compared with 14.9 p.c. on a


PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Auvt.
* » * v *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Aim'.
* * * *
Troubles of a. technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
•—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HOMAN FRAILTY
No friend or acquaintance should he expected to become you*
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular .problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria)
3 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir
Robert 0. Wilson.
Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair
Waddell. K.8.E.. M.L.C.; James Kidd; A. E, Heath, C.M.G.;
Manager; J, G. H. Shipway.
The Symbol of
Security I
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
©lff (Emtirnfmal Hauluug (Cmttpatty
of §>yimpy Smnitt'b
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
OWEN E. FRIEND, ROBERT J. A. MASSIE, GEOFFREY F. HUGHES an
SIR DON ADD C. CAMERON, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. DARVALE.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1941.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting, to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
Street, Sydney, on Tuesday, 12th August, 1941.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders the Balance Sheet as on 30th June..1941,-
with a copy of the Auditors’ Report thereon. A copy of the Profit and Loss Accou
Is annexed
The profit for the year after payment of all
expenses of management, and provision for
taxes and for rebate on current bills and
accrued Interest on fixed deposits, and for
bad and doubtful debts and other con-
tingencles, amounts to
To which is added the amount brought forward n 0
from 30th June, 1940 128,265 IX U
making a total of £512,854 11 8
from which the Directors have made the
following appropriations
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended
31st December, 1940. at the rate of IV2
per cent per annum paid on 28th Janu-
ary. 1941 £177,712 19 4
Reduction of Bank Premises Account— 91971219 4
amount written off for depreciation .. 30,000 0 0 212,712 la
leaving a balance ot ... £300.141 12 4
and now recommend for sanction their —
Declaration of a dividend for the half-year
ended 30th June, 1941; at the rate of 7%
per cent per annum payable at the
Head Office of the Company £171.112 19 5
leaving the amount to be carried forward 122,428 12, 11 300.141 12 4
The Directors desire to express their regret at the death on 20tb October, 1940,
of Sir William Vicars, who served as a member of the Board for fifteen years and wno
resigned In November, 1939
In terms of Article 89, Messrs. Edward Ritchie Knox and Orwell Phillips now re-
tire, but are eligible for election at the Meeting and have given the requisite notices
of candidature
It rests also with the Meeting to appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
The Auditors, Messrs Francis William Hixson and Cecil Howe Doyle, now retire ;
Mr Doyle, being eligible, offers himself for re-appolntment Notice of Intention to
nominate Mr Harlngton Burrough Cowper. a former Auditor of the Company, to the
office of Auditor, has been given by a member to the Company, pursuant to Section
113 of the Companies Act, 1936
During the year the Branches of the Bank at Bureher, Corakl and Stockinblngal
In the State of New South Wales, Peeramon in the State of Queensland and Walpeup
In the State of Victoria were closed. R KNOX
Ph airman.
BALANCE SHEET, 30th JUNE, 1941.
(including the figures of the London Branch by cable)
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d. £ d-
Capital—
Authorised
12.000,000 0 0
In 480,000 shares of
£25 each
Issued--379,121 shares of
£25 ea. 9,478,025 0 0
Less:
E e serve
Capital
of £l2
10s per
share .. 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up . 4,739,0X2 10 0
Reserve
Fund
( w h oily
used In
the busi-
ness of the
Bank) . 4,300,000 0 0
Notes In Circulation ....
Bills In Circulation
Deposits and other Lia-
bilities- -including pro-
vision for contingencies
Profit and Loss Account ..
9.039.012 10
13.586 10
2.031.213 16
56,530,019 18
300,141 12
0
0
3
8
4
£67,913,974 7 3
BaT^Rffi8 a T^RffiS UPS 1
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Aus-
tralian Notes and
Cash at Bankers ...
Money at Short Call ~
Short dated Treasury
Bills of the Common-
wealth of Australia
Australian Government
Stocks and other
Securities at or be-
low market value (in-
cluding £4,000 lodged
as security with
Public Authorities)
Bills Receivable In
London and Remit-
tances In Transit ..
Notes and Bills of other
Banks
9,416,951 9 0
3,230,946 14 11
699,441 13 11
26,647.626 19 1
Bills Discounted and
other Debts due to
the Bank—after pro-
vision for ascertained
Bad and Doubtful
Debts 40,080,147 9 8
Bank Premises —at cost,
less amounts written
off „ 1,186,200 0 0
£67,913,974 7 3
B. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OP SYDNEY LIMITED.
We Have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared It with the books at
the Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills
and counted the Cash at the Head Office We have obtained all the information
and explanations we have required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and
as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company
Is required to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
P. W HIXSON. 1
Sydney. 23rd July. 1941. C. H. DOYLE. { Aua,tors '
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
£ s. d
To Interim Dividend for the
half-year ended 31st De-
cember. 1940, at the rate of
TVs per cent, per annum,
paid on 28th January, 1941 177,712 19 4
„ Reduction of Bank
Premises Account . ..■ 35,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt
with as follows: —
To Dividend
for the half-
year ended
30th June,
1941. at the
rate of 7J
per cent, per
annum ... 177.712 19
„ Amount car-
ried forward 122,428 12 11
300,141 12 4
£512,854 11 8
rn L Ri^D LUPS i D “ s -
By Amount brought for-
ward from 30th June,
1940 128,265 11 0
„ Profit for the year
ended 30th June, 1941,
after payment of all ex-
penses of management
(including Directors’
Fees. £3,750) and pro-
vision for taxes and for
rebate on current bills
and accrued interest on
fixed deposits, and for
bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies 384,589 0 8
£512,854 11 8
E. B. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
bonus-enlarged share-register in 1939.
“Ample provision has been made for bad
debts and contingencies,” though the tax
charge (£4460, down £1771) suggests on a
smaller scale last year.
Finances appear to possess plenty of
shock-absorbing capacity:
1935. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £104,320 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Creditors* . . 36,538 44,867 39,868 30,995
Freehold . . 66,516 69,610 69,969 69,949
Plant, etc. . . 634 1,392 1,754 1,795
Stocks.. . . 61,178 76,870 105,247 87,880
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 163,960 188,456 158,458 138,223
Shares in sub-
sidiaries • • 3,390 •-
Cash, etc. .'. 540 6,514 1,092 31,003
* Including unacerued interest.
With the working-down of stocks and
debtors’ balances, cash is beginning to
accumulate, which is unlikely to find em-
ployment in the business as things stand.
In similar circumstances in the ’thirties
the board gave shareholders the oppor-
tunity of finding a use for the surplus
funds, returning half the capital. Includ-
ing unearned interest as a liability, the
surplus of more or less liquids is £226,111
(up £llB2 to 325. 6d. per share).
Obviously the co. is stoutly equipped
to weather the bumpy ground ahead,
“when it will be extremely difficult to
maintain the rate of dividend,” the board
says. A 15 p.c. sales tax on “luxury”
goods won’t help. Still, there is a careful
management at the wheel, and reserves
and capital combined need turn in only
3.8 p.c. to pay 8 p.c. on capital alone.
At 255., compared with 30s. a year
ago and 365, 12 months before that, the
shares present a favorable buying oppor-
tunity for holding and an immediate yield
of 6.5 p.c. Even if that income is affected
there will be a big replacement demand
later on. The net tangible backing is
16s. 3d. above the market price.
Boulder Perseverance’s net earnings for
1940 were £80,871 stg., compared with
£78,957 in 1939 and £79,211 in 1938.
Dividends, interim and final each of
20 p.c., absorbed £62,762, Co.’s share of
dividends from Kalgoorlie Enterprise
Mines, its Australian-registered subsidiary
in which its holding is £179,353, has now
reached £28,696 p.a. English excess-
profits tax, however, isn’t likely to per-
mit much benefit therefrom accrue to
Perseverance’s profits.
* * * *
Increase from 382,700 to 422,800 tons
in reserve ore (grade 6.46dwt. as against
6.6dwt.) is indication that the Enterprise
mine (W.A.), Boulder Perseverance’s
near-by and 65 p.c.-owned subsidiary,
is opening up satisfactorily in the lower
levels. Enterprise mills at something like
60 p.c, of the rate of its parent, showing
profits before taxation in rather lower
proportion. In Australian currency net
for the year to December is disclosed
£2971 higher at £64,393 after provisions
smaller by £3503 for tax (£708) and £1832
for depreciation, etc. (£13,407), and div.
goes up from 12£ p.c. to 16 p.c. (£44,000).
Ore sent to the Kalgurli Ore Treatment
mill expanded from 59,336 to 68,940 tons,
but costs also lifted from 335. 2d. to
365. lid. per ton. Throughput and values
have been well maintained in the current
term. Capital is £275,000, most of that
not controlled by Boulder Perseverance
being in the hands of Nigel Van Reefs,
Ltd.
* * * *
In a letter to Menzies, the Kalgoorlie
mining section of the A.W.U. accuses
Great Boulder (W.A.) of not working its
mine in the interests of the nation, and
says that unless it does so the union
intends to ask the Federal Government
to take control and do the job. What
the union is mainly in arms about is that
(1) following the refusal of the British
Chancellor of the Exchequer to agree
to a change of the co.’s domicile from
London to Westralia and so allow it to
escape the 100 p.c. excess-profit tax, the
manager announced that curtailment of
production would have to take place
mainly to avoid this impost ; and that
(2) in pursuance of this policy, the co.
put 15 machine miners, of whom there is
a great dearth, to unproductive surface
work, such as beautifying the out-
look above ground, and that the men
were not returned to productive work
underground until the union made a fuss.
Curtailment of production, with an in-
evitable curtailment of hands, the union
believes is not justified.
Hal Colebatch, chairman of the Aus-
tralian shareholders’ committee, replies
that, according to “disinterested judg-
ment” which includes the Commonwealth
and State Governments and Federal
Labor leader Curtin, the co. has been un-
justly treated by the British Treasury.
Colebatch, however, says nothing about
the union’s two complaints.
* * * *
Commenting on Westralian goldmining
development in 1940, in his latest annual
report Dick Wilson, State Mining Engi-
neer, says that Phoenix (old Bayley’s
Reward), Consolidated Gold Areas,
Spargo’s Reward and Evanston —a new
privately-owned producer on the Yil-
garn field —were added to the list of
mines yielding over 5000 oz. a year, while
Edna May Amalgamated and Comet
materially increased their outputs. Mines
which appreciably increased their ton-
nage were Great Boulder, Big Bell, Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, Central Norseman,
Norseman, Youanmi, Paringa and
Tindals. On the other hand, an earth
movement put Laricefield out of produc-
tion. Mt. Magnet Mines treated a
greatly-reduced tonnage of very low
grade, and the future here is doubtful.
But new names have appeared on the list
of producers. In 1938 3,039,607 tons was
treated —a record to that date. In 1939
the figure was 4,095,256, and in 1940
4,291,708. Gold won in 1938 was worth
£A10,409,928, in 1939 £A11,594,221 and
in 1940 £A 12,698,392. The record price
of 213.155. an ounce gross permitted
the profitable mining of s.3Bdwt. ore—
the lowest on record. East Coolgardie,
which includes Kalgoorlie and Boulder,
did 23 miles of development and nearly
15 miles of diamond’drilling; next came
Dundas, which includes Norseman, with
4\ miles and four miles respectively,
East Murchison, which takes in Wiluna,
with six miles and 2\ miles, and Murchi-
son, where Big Bell, Triton and other
well-known producers are situated, with
four miles and 2} miles.
* * * *
In breaking the bad news of a tenth
call, payable in August, directors of Onr
Banda South Gold Mines, domiciled in
Sydney and operating at Marble Bar
(W.A.), say that extra funds are needed
to meet Government lease charges. An
endeavor is being made to sell these
leases, and then purchase and take a
chance on the prospects of something
else. The present venture is the co.’s
third, the second being in Queensland and
the first at Ora Banda (W.A.),
$ * * *
In the Callion mine, at Davyhurst
(W.A.), over which Western Mining Corp.
has taken a second option—this time at
a lower price—development at 196 ft. has
exposed 400 ft. of Bdwt. ore, with the lode
in the south face of the drive assaying
7.6dwt. over 48in. The ore doesn’t go
down as a continuous shoot, being a flat
make, but it is hoped to find other pay-
able bodies in a shear known to extend
unprospected beyond the present work-
ings.
* * * *
Latest addition to Zinc Corp.’s load
of tax worries is the new Commonwealth
non-resident div. impost, which ranges
from 6d. to 2s. in the pound, according to
the amount involved. The position
appears to be that, having imposed the
tax, the Federal Government has no
machinery by which it can directly col-
lect it. It can, however, compel Zinc
Corp., as a company carrying on business
in Australia, to pay the tax on behalf of
its assessed shareholders and shareholding
companies, while, having paid the tax, the
Corp. has no legal power to deduct it
from divs. paid to these overseas holders.
Moreover, there are certain abatements to
which shareholders other than companies
are entitled. The Corp. is now endeavor-
ing to trace through to the ultimate bene-
ficiaries divs. on large blocks of shares
held by London nominee and trustee
concerns in order to claim some rebate
where it may itself have to pay the maxi-
mum 2s. rate of tax, which is assessed on
the net amount of dividend converted
into Australian currency. Total alloca-
tion for the taxgatherer last term was
£198,950—£50,508 more than the profit
claimed.


ON JAPAN’S MOVE.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
[A striking feature of American press and other war
discussion for some time past has been that much
stronger opposition has always been expressed against
American involvement in the war in Europe than against
involvement in the Pacific, where it is generally
admitted, Uncle Sam has vital interests.]
(From New York “World-Telegram.”)
Despite all Japan’s efforts to bribe, bluff and
fight China into submission, China today is stronger
than ever and Japan is weaker. For this invasion has
created in China, for the first time in history, a truly
national army and national spirit. An awakened,
united China today means self-defence ; tomorrow it
may challenge Japan’s conquest elsewhere, liberating
neighboring peoples in Manchuria, Korea and Indo-
China.
The farther Japan moves into the vast Chinese
interior the deeper she mires. Already Japan has lost
more than a million in casualties. She has just about
bankrupted herself. As her people sink closer to the
starvation line they grow more war-weary.
To the Tokyo militarists this is infuriating. Just
as the European war opens to them undreamed oppor-
tunity for apparently easy conquest of Siberia in the
north and the rich Indies in the south, they are stuck
with the Chinese “incident.” Thus entrapped by a
situation of their own making, the Japanese imperial-
ists are now tempted to make one last desperate
gamble. If they won, they would be masters of all
eastern Asia and the far Pacific—so they think.
Hitler is pushing them on. He duped them into
a one-sided Axis partnership. But they feared to pre-
cipitate a fight with the United States, Britain and
Holland in the Singapore area because of hostile Russia
on their northern flank. Now that Hitler is engaging
the Russian army in Europe their opportunity—for
Oriental domination or disaster—is at hand.
There are signs that Japan is preparing for the
big plunge. But, if Japan could not defeat the un-
organised and virtually unarmed China of yesterday,
how can a weaker Japan today take on a second or
third war with stronger Powers? If Japan had to
retreat before Soviet guards in the border dispute,
how can she defeat the strong Red Far Eastern army
and air force which are not departing for Europe and
leaving Siberia undefended? If Japan did not dare
start a war in the South Pacific several months ago,
what chance of victory has she now that the United
States, Britain and the Netherlands have more than
doubled their defences there under a plan of joint
action?
Certainly the United States and Britain have tried
to avoid the Pacific war desired by Hitler, But it
would be madness for Japan to repeat her mistake in
the Chinese incident by thinking that these stronger
Powers would be unable to defend their Pacific
interests.
*****
(From New York “Herald Tribune.”)
As the climax to debate and negotiation in Tokyo,
those in favor of playing the German game in the
Pacific would appear to have won. The Germans are
so certain that they can break the Red Army’s resist-
ance in the west before reserves from eastern Siberia
can come to its assistance that they feel no need of
a diversion of Russian attention in the Far East. What
they do most urgently want is a diversion of American
attention from the Atlantic. A Japanese assault upon
the Primorsk and Amur provinces, which would take
time for organisation and might then be thrown for a
humiliating loss, is far less likely to accomplish this
than a Japanese naval raid into the South China Sea.
If the Germans bought anything from Tokyo with
their recognition of Wang Ching-wei’s puppet Govern-
ment of China the chances are that it was the promise
of a serious disturbance of the peace in the South
China Sea. What Germany wants is not deferred
and cautious action but bold action that will kill
American enthusiasm for a part in the Battle of the
Atlantic right now.
When Nanking and Hangchow fell in December,
1937, the Japanese commanders were sure that the
show was over and encouraged the folks at home to
stage a tremendous victory celebration. But then came
Taierchwang, where a Japanese defeat developed into
the first Japanese debacle of modern times, the breach-
ing of the Yellow River dykes that closed the road to
conquest in one direction and the reorganisation of
big-scale Chinese resistance on the middle Yangtze.
The Japanese braced themselves for a crushing effort
and really made a display of great driving force up
the Yangtze first and then in south China. Canton
fell an easy victim to this desperate will to conquer,
October 13, 1938, and then, with the Chinese Gov-
ernment in flight to Chungking, Japan’s commanders
proclaimed again that it was all over, and that if any
Chmese thought he still wanted to fight he would be
chased to his country’s farthest frontiers.
But that was the last occasion on which any
Japanese said that the Chinese were beaten or that
the war would be likely to end within any reasonable
time. Those campaigns at the end of 1938 were the
last, with the single exception of a raid into Kwangsi,
where the positions won have since been abandoned,
in which the Japanese armies have shown any striking
power at all. In December, 1938, the Chinese held
the central sections of the Peiping-Hankow, Canton-
Hankow and Hangchow-Nanking railways and the
Lung-hai line from Kaiphong westward to the rail-
head. Possession of these would fill out Japan’s net-
work of communications and would be enormously
important to the consolidation of her position in con-
quered territory. But after two and a half years the
Chinese still hold them.
These two and a half years have been terribly
hard on the morale of the Japanese people. The
Chinese have used them to build up remarkable con-
fidence in their power to resist for ever and a deter-
mination to make no terms with the invader, in the
face of which the Japanese are simply flabbergasted.
Hopelessly inferior in all heavy equipment and in
training, the Chinese are holding a million men in
China at the expense of an impoverished and apathetic
Japanese nation. It has been a magnificent answer to
the spirit of ruthless aggression, and it continues to
be an immense contribution to the job, to which this
nation [the U.S.A.] is not yet fully dedicated, of extin-
guishing that spirit. Humanity’s debt to Chinese forti-
tude is not as evident now as it will be a generation
hence.
* * * * *
(From New York “Times.”)
On net balance, what Japan has mainly to show
for its wanton attack on China is its own gradual
impoverishment and upward of 1,500,000 of its sons
killed or wounded. And the end is not in sight.
But the military leaders of Japan, instead of learn-
ing the enormous lesson that the China incident had to
teach, dream of booty and power to be seized in the
Netherlands Indies and, perhaps, even in Russia. With
this in view they may believe they have much to gain
from the temporary alliance with Germany. A time
when England and Russia are being kept fully busy
by Hitler, and when America is directing its main
efforts to ensure his defeat, may seem to the Japanese
leadership the ideal time for conquest of weak
neighbors. Further, the Japanese, for would-be con-
querors of the Netherlands Indies, are woefully weak
in the air, and their leaders may figure that if Hitler
should completely subdue Russia he could fly directly
to them over Russia the ’planes that are so indispen-
sable to their success.
But the example of Russia should be enough to
show them how illusory such a vision is. Hitler never
keeps even an accomplice a day longer than that
accomplice is useful to him. If Japan tries to divert
the United States from aid to Britain, she will help to
make Hitler more powerful, she will help to
make him her neighbor, and she will help to make
herself eventually subservient to him. She will hold
only as much of China or of anything else as it suits
—Richmond “Times-Dispatch,” U.S.A.
WATCHDOG OF THE PACIFIC.
Hitler to have her hold. An alliance with Hitler
would be the beginning of Japan’s undoing even by
the standards that her leaders have recently set for her.
Jfc j(s %
Japanese Press Views
(From a “Herald Tribune” Tokyo correspondent’s report .)
The Japanese press asserts that the Soviet-German
war is affecting Japan directly, and that Japan must
adopt a concrete policy with regard to it. The new
war has been described as the link through which
Japan is becoming involved in a world struggle which
sooner or later must also entangle the United States.
The press suggested that Japan should not fasten
her eyes on Vladivostok, but should proceed with
establishing the “greater east Asia” sphere southward,
concentrating on “expansion” in the areas of Indo-
China, Singapore and the Dutch East Indies,
“Migako” said that the Nazis displayed courage
and boldness in attacking Russia, and added, “Ger-
many’s decisive action puts to shame Japan, who,
despite the easier position she holds in establishing
a new sphere of self-sufficiency in east Asia, is going
about her task in a leisurely manner.” The paper
recalled former opportunities for creation of a
common prosperity sphere which Japan had failed to
grasp. It said the first opportunity occurred following
the collapse of the Netherlands, Belgium and France
in June, 1940 ; the second when Japan signed the tri-
partite pact with Germany and Italy last September ;
the third when Japan was mediating in the conflict
between Thailand and French Indo-China last Feb-
ruary, and the fourth when the conclusion of the
neutrality treaty with Russia in the middle of April
improved Japan’s diplomatic position. “Migako”
added that the outbreak of the Soviet-German war
“affords Japan a fifth opportunity,” and warned that
if Japan fails to seize it it will go to other countries.
Soho Tokutomi, writer and historian, said in an
article in “Nichi Nichi” that one of the chief reasons
for Great Britain’s weakness is her indecision at the
supreme moment. He said: “Temporisation, over-
procrastination and overprudence have always marked
Britain’s attitude... .the wait-and-see policy has taken
so firm a hold on the British mind that the British
people could not act when they ought to have acted,
so that Britain now finds herself on the road to col-
lapse.”
Tukutomi, who belongs to the group headed by
Admiral Nobumasa Suetsugu, which advocates a
strong decision to advance southward, warned Japan
not to repeat Britain’s blunders. He said tedious, in-
conclusive discussions in the past had led Japan’s
national policy astray. He continued: “It is hardly
necessary to say that the east Asia co-prosperity sphere
must include the Netherlands East Indies. It would
not be a sphere of prosperity without the Indies.”
Russian War Notes.
[Early United States reactions to Hitler’s war on
Russia were given at some length in “Uncabled
Additions,” 23/7/’41. Later comments and interpre-
tations are given in the items here condensed, the lirst
from a New York “World-Telegram” article by Ray-
mond Clapper.]
Everyone will find it worth while to follow the
German-Russian war closely ; it is one of the great
struggles of all time, -and the lessons learned from it
will be important.
Germany, being on the offensive, has the advan-
tage of the initiative. The German army is not trying
to “capture” any particular place. It is trying to
smash the Russian army. Once the Russian army is
destroyed all Russia is open. Even Siberia, except
possibly the Far Eastern provinces, would fall into the
German lap. It would be necessary only to control
the Trans-Siberian Railroad.
The axis of the German advance is roughly the
line running from Warsaw to Moscow. That is the
area to watch. Russia had the option of standing up
in immediate resistance or of pulling back to a line
in front of Moscow. Informed judges believe it would
have been better to pull back to Moscow. Instead
the Russians elected to stand their ground. Some
think that will prove a fatal blunder.
The Germans have 167 divisions in the whole cam-
paign, with about 6000 ’planes. The Russians have 165
divisions in the west, with about 4000 ’planes. Russian
’planes are, surprisingly enough, understood to be
about equal in fighting ability to the German ’planes.
The Russians are inferior in maintenance and reserves.
Information which, although coming from German
sources, is believed to be reasonably reliable in this
instance is that the Russians are using their ’planes
badly, with inferior tactics and poor ground work.
The Germans claim to have caught much of the Rus-
sian air force on the ground, as they did the Polish
air force.
Germany must complete the main operation
before October, when the heavy autumn rains will
mire the whole black-earth country in western Russia.
» * * , * *
How Strong Is Russia?
(Condensed from a New Yoik “Post” article .)
Russia’s friends make untrustworthy witnesses. The
findings of her enemies are perhaps more interesting.
Thus, in September, 1939, the German magazine
on armored warfare, “Panzertruppe,” said: “Russia has
tank formations after the fashion of our own speed
divisions, which are in a position to undertake large
operative tasks....it permanently assigns four tank
battalions to each infantry division. Only a country
with such vast resources in raw materials at its dis-
posal can afford such generous assignment of armored
vehicles to the smallest operative units.” The quota-
tion serves also to remind us of the peril to England
and the United States should Germany win and obtain
control over “such vast resources.”
A largely overlooked event was the Soviet-
Japanese “little war” at Changkufeng in 1938, of
which a “Herald Tribune” correspondent wrote; “The
Japanese suffered a defeat at Nomonhan and admitted
18,000 Japanese soldiers killed. This must be reckoned
an important factor in the diversion of Japan’s atten-
tion to the ‘southward expansion’ programme,”
Liddell Hart (whose prestige has admittedly been
somewhat dented by his championship of “defensive
warfare”) believes most estimates of Russian strength
are under- rather than overdrawn. Hanson Baldwin
estimated the P. issian strength almost two years ago
as 3500 to 7000 tanks, 145 to 210 submarines and
4500 to 7500 ’planes.
These are considerable forces. Most authorities
agree that quality is not of the highest. Yet there
are enough data to indicate that Germany’s advances
will be made only at hideous and terrible cost, giving
England a genuine opportunity.
*****
Adolf’s Red Herring
0 Condensed from an article by Edmund Stevens,
“Christian Science Monitor” special correspondent.)
The biggest red herring in the world —5250 miles
from head to tail—is being used by Hitler in his
favorite trick of throwing people off the trail.
It was a smaller red herring—fear of Com-
munism inside Germany—that first got Hitler his job
as Chancellor. Later the pose he struck as savior of
Europe from the Red menace gained him the good
wishes of many. By his war on Soviet Russia he
again assumes a role which accomplished so much for
him in the past. The calculated intention is to sow
confusion among his enemies and regain the support
of peoples who oppose Communism.
From the Arctic and the Black Sea to the Pillars
of Hercules, all the conquered, co-ordinated and
humiliated nations of Hitlerised Europe are to pool
their hunger and bitterness in a holy war on Soviet
Russia under the swastika standard.
It was an audacious stroke such as only a bold
and desperate gambler like Hitler would attempt. So
far it is too early to judge the results, although official
reaction in Britain and America must be a disappoint-
ment to the Nazis.
But it would be dangerous to underestimate the
possible effects of the red herring, at any rate on


iS
;; % ,
I '
iiP’
,
WORLD FAMOUS SHIPS
including the “Queen Elizabeth,” 85,000 tons (illustrated);
“Queen Mary,” 81,250 tons; “Mauretania,” 35,000 tons, use
Exide batteries for essential equipment. You, too, can depend
on Exide for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
ExkV
sdf
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
certain groups, confronted with the question. Won t
fighting Hitler mean strengthening Stalin?” It was
so much easier for people to take their stand when all
their favorite menaces could be tagged, labelled and
lumped together in one Nazi-Communist-Fascist
totalitarian bloc. A blow struck at one ism was a
blow at them all.
' Virtually every supporter of the Allied cause
experiences to some degree the dilemma exemplified
by the refugee Polish Government, which suddenly
found itself officially at war with both sides —a situa-
tion without parallel in history. [The Polish Govern-
ment has come to an agreement with Russia.]
Today Hitler is chiefly concerned with the grow-
ing volume of American aid to the Allies and the vir-
tual certainty of America’s participation in the war.
The realisation that the resources of a whole new con-
tinent are pledged to his destruction turns the fruits
of present victories to gall and wormwood in his mouth.
It was primarily the hope of staving off American
intervention, of retarding the U.S.A.’s war effort, and
arresting the rapid crystallisation of public opinion
and Government policy that induced Hitler to assume
his old threadbare cloak of the world’s champion
against Communism.
This intended effect may best be ascertained by
studying the reaction of those groups on whom Hitler
pins his chief hopes of keeping America neutral until
he is ready to take it on —the isolationists, with their
America First Committees, Keep America Out of
War Congresses, etc. It is interesting to note that the
America First organisation suddenly awoke to the
Red Menace the day after Hitler had suddenly
revived it.
The factor which such concerns seek to ignore is
that Hitler’s victory means not only the destruction
of Stalin, but of all the democracies as well, leaving
him alone in the field, whereas Hitler’s defeat, while
it might leave Stalin in power —by no means a fore-
gone conclusion, for the armed people of Russia might
have other ideas after an Allied victory—would cer-
tainly leave the democracies in a position where they
could defend themselves against all-comers —Fascist or
Communist.
*****
Uncle Sam’s Chance
(“Christian Science Monitor” editorial comment .)
Will “it might have been” echo again over a
British-American failure to seize the opportunity
offered by Hitler’s attack on Stalin? Time after time
the peace-loving peoples of the free countries fumbled
a chance to scotch the creeping anarchy of totalitarian-
ism. They were unready, morally and physically.
They doubted, debated and delayed, took a defensive
position, waited to be picked off one by one.
Each conquest has been used against the oppo-
nents who remained. Vichy announces that “volun-
teers” are going to fight with the Nazis against Russia.
Danish and Dutch people, who love freedom as well
as any Briton or American, are making bombs that
drop on London.
The Nazis have tackled the one great Power that
might—with simultaneous attack —help Britain and
America to break the power of this world terrorism.
And Americans are dreaming a lovely dream. In it
each despotism is conveniently destroying the other,
leaving the Western Hemisphere safe and undisturbed.
This is a time to aid America and the cause of free-
dom by throwing every weight into the scales on the
western front. This is the time to see what the situa-
tion will be should Germany consolidate a hold on
Russia’s oil and wheat and turn Moscow into another
Vichy. This is the time to shorten the war. This is
the time to avoid a sad,'possibly a desperate, “it might
have been.”
*****
Shadow of Napoleon
(From a New York ‘‘Herald Tribune” article.)
Napoleon, advancing in the famous summer of
1812, with his earlier version of the Nazi tactics of
speed and encirclement, consistently failed to close his
pincers, to bring off his combinations or secure the
decisive battle on which he counted. And so the pale
ghost of that earlier corporal looms, just a little larger
than before, just a shade more ominous, over the
Hitler field headquarters.
It is curious how that shadow has grown. We
were reminded of it —years ago, it now seems —in
Spain. With the first crash of bombs on Poland it was
evident that these, in a sense that was never true of
1914-18, were Napoleonic times. When Hitler’s barge
fleets appeared in the Channel ports we all saw
Napoleon’s flatboats at Boulogne; and when he
switched his ’planes and tanks from the invasion of
Britain to sudden, crashing victory in the Balkans, it
was Napoleon, swinging suddenly eastward to Aus-
terlitz, all over again. But it could not be ; everything
was different, politics, tactics, weapons, economics,
propaganda. The parallel was a patent illusion. Yet
with all the difference of time and tempo, that parallel
only grows, as if by a kind of remorseless inevitability.
What are Hitler’s desperate attempts to organise
the economy of all Europe except a modern version
of the Berlin decrees and the Continental system.
What was the Peace of Tilsit in 1807, with its mystery,
its secret division of expected spoils and its utterly
anomalous “ideological” base, except the P rot °JyP e f °*
the Stalinazi pact? And now we are in 1812, aner
the same prelude in the steady massing of troops on
both sides of the border, after the same sudden sur-
prise attack, made with the same inexplicability of
underlying motive. And just as the last years of the
Napoleonic empire saw it meeting the mam shock
upon the east, while an unconquered Britain hanging
upon its rear in Spain, wasted its strength, so the
same Britain hangs again upon Hitler’s rear making
with her bombers much the same sort of contribution
as she once made with Wellington’s grenadiers.
It is true that the differences in nearly every detail
are as immense as the similarities in the broad his-
torical outlines, and the end may be anything. But
before the seeming remorselessness with which these
broad outlines have reappeared, with which the basic
groupings have repeated themselves beneath all the
surface variety, and events, regardless of the men who
sought to shape them, have reconstituted themselves m
the same great patterns, one is led to wonder. Is history
a mere collocation of an infinite series of chance acci-
dents is it the conscious product of great men or is it,
in fact a vast, fundamental, impersonal process a
resultant of profound historic forces which, once set
in motion, come inevitably to predestined ends? Do
they often think of Napoleon at Hitlers field head-
quarters?
Hitler isms, Touching on Russia.
[“Bad faith” was one of the charges Chamberlain
made against Hitler. Even that mild-spoken P.M. would
nrobably use stronger words now. Here are some ot
Hitler’s references to Russia following on the Non-
Aggression” Pact.]
Reichstag, Sep. 1, 1939. ‘We have determined to
conclude a pact which excludes any use of force
—New York “World-Telegram."
“WHO’S GOT WHO?”
between us for the future. The pact makes possible
economic co-operation between us and ensures that the
forces of the two Powers shall be used together and
not against each other. Russia and Germany fought
against each other in the Great War. That will and
shall not happen a second time.”
Reichstag, Oct. 6, 1939— The pact is “the turning-
point in the whole of Germany’s foreign policy. The
pact will render possible not only peace but a happy
and permanent co-operatiop.”
New Year Proclamation, December 31, 1939. —“A
notable point of the past year is the Pact of Non-
Aggression and Consultation with Soviet Russia. The
efforts of plutocratic statesmen of the West to induce
Germany and Russia to bleed each other for the bene-
fit of these parties were thereby nipped in the bud and
the encirclement of Germany prevented.”
Speech in Munich, February 24, 1940. —“I sin-
cerely believe that the Russian and German regimes
have succeeded in" achieving something which is really
beneficial for both peoples. Both peoples are far too
good to bleed themselves only for the sake of the
stockbrokers and Jews in London.”
Reichstag speech, July 19, 1940. —Hitler declared
that Soviet-German relations were fixed once and for
all by a clear delineation of interests—“a clear defi-
nition of what Germany believed she must regard as
the sphere of interests vital to her future and what
Russia considered essential to her existence. The
reason for this is that Britain and France continually
credited Germany with the desire to conquer terri-
tory which lay outside the sphere of German influence.
It was said at one time that Germany wanted to pos-
sess the Ukraine, again that she intended to invade
Finland, yet again that she had threatened Rumania,
and finally fears were entertained for the safety of
Turkey.”
, “Germany,” he added, “has undertaken no steps
which would have led her to exceed the limit of her
sphere of interests, nor has Russia done anything of
the kind,”
Reichstag, Oct. 6, 1940.— The agreement showed
that all the assumption that German aims in the direc-
tion of the Urals, the Ukraine, Rumania and so on
were only “abortion of the morbid imagination of
the worried advocates of world freedom.”
Munich, Nov. 8, 1940— The pact was not a suc-
cess for German policy but a success for reason.
Britain’s Debt to Egypt’s King.
[With Anzacs in Egypt, apparently fighting in its
defence as well as to defend the Suez Canal, Australians
and New Zealanders have a special interest in that
country, and many must have been puzzled by what
would appear to be its curious position in relation to the
war Some adverse criticism has appeared, purporting
to explain why Egypt stands out, usually with the impli-
cations that its King is pro-Italian. In the article here
condensed from American Foreign Affairs, Pierre
Crabites both defends King Farouk and explains that
Egypt’s position in the war is that deliberately designed
by Britain under the Anglo-Egyptian treaty.]
By the Anglo-Egyptian agreement of August 26,
1936, the British Air Force in Egypt was given leave,
even in peace-time, to range freely not only over the
Canal Zone but through all the air over
Egypt; the British Navy in Mediterranean
waters was to have the use of the harbor of
Alexandria for a period of years , and the
British Army in Egypt was assured of being
able to command the technical means of de-
ploying, at a moment’s notice, from its narrow
peace-time quarters in the Canal Zone over the
remainder of the territory of Egypt.
Though Britain considered that the safety
of the Suez Canal was vital to her interests,
she in no way called upon Egypt to help her
fight to maintain its inviolability. What she
asked was to be given elbowroom in Egyptian
territory for the defence of Imperial communi-
cations. The role dictated to Egypt by Britain
as the price of Egyptian independence was de-
liberately that of a passive ally.
No discussion ever arose regarding the
loyalty with which Egypt carried out the Treaty
under Mohammed Mahmud Pasha, who was
Premier just before the war began. When
imminent death caused him to resign, his suc-
cessor, Aly Maher Pasha, co-operated with
Great Britain in a way no friend of the democ-
racies has ever criticised. When he m turn
retired from office in June, 1940, the Italian
propaganda machine intensified a campaign
of mendacity against King Farouk and his
new Prime Minister, Hassan Sabry Pasha Ihe
strategy employed was simple. Fifth Column-
ists started whispering that he was pro-ltahan.
They invented tales of intrigues and cabals to
give a background to their calumnies. And
they were able to get many innocent people,
both English and American, to repeat these
stories and to embellish them, with the aim ot
angering the young monarch and sowing
mutual suspicion between him and the British
authorities. . T ..
If the procedure succeeded in causing King
Farouk to break with Great Britain, Fascism and
Nazism would have gained a powerful ally who might
eventually have swung all North Africa, Syria, iiaq,
Saudi Arabia and Moslem India to their banners.
If on the other hand, it precipitated him into turning
his alliance with Britain from passive support to active
aid his subjects would resent being called on to tight
on’behalf of the nation which they considered was
committed to turning over their Islamic Holy 1 laces
to the Jews. This might readily have caused a revolu-
tion and endangered the safety of the Suez Canal.
Some friends of Britain failed-to understand how
wise the Egyptian sovereign was not to fall into toe
trap laid for him. It was simply pointed out to them
that the Axis Powers had invaded Egypt, and .hat
Egyptian troops were not in the battle line, and by
this it was implied that the King was pro-Italian.
This increased the difficulties of King Farouk in adher-
ing to the letter and spirit of the Anglo-Egyptian
Treaty. The fact that he nevertheless has done so is
evidence of his honesty.
Statistics demonstrate that Egypt is an overwhelm-
ingly Mohammedan country, but they do not give
an adequate insight into the intensity of the religious
fervor of Moslems. And it is because Palestine is


as much the Holy Land of the Mohammedan as it
d • ■ ,, e ew or Christian that he so deeply resents
Britain’s attempt to convert it into a National Home
ror the Jews. He is prepared to die rather than sur-
render to Zionism this sacred Islamic soil.
The fact that the British Government said in its
White Paper of May 17, 1939, that the framers of
the Balfour Declaration “could not have intended that
Palestine should be converted into a Jewish State
against the will of the Arab population of the country”
railed to allay this resentment. It seemed to synchro-
nise suspiciously with the imminence of war. Con-
firmation that it was merely a war measure appeared
to be given by statements like that made by Selieg
Brodetsky, head of the Jewish Agency’s political
department, that “Palestine is bound to become the
chief channel for the resettlement of Jews who will
have to leave Europe because of post-war conditions.”
And though the Balfour Declaration is repudiated in
London, this repudiation has never received Wash-
ington’s sanction. The Moslem world fears that
Amei ican Zionism will try to force Britain to reapply
the Balfour Declaration as soon as the war is won.
And it knows how influential America will be after
helping to bring about a common victory.
It is conditions of this character that are con-
fronting King Farouk. His people are anti-Fascist.
He is anti-Fascist. He knows, and his people know,
what the Italians did in Ethiopia. He knows, and
his people know, that the Blue Nile cannot be handed
over to Italian control. Their interests are anti-
Italian. But they are torn emotionally when they
hear an American Senator say that Palestine must
be converted into a Jewish National Home as “a vital
part of the just world order when the present conflict
is over.”
It requires not only a sense of loyalty, but also tact,
forbearance and mastery of the niceties of psychology,
for King Farouk to be able to adhere to the Anglo-
Egyptian Treaty when there is bound to be an. under-
current around him attempting to force him into the
arms of the Axis. We may assume that Moslem
extremists continually tell him that he should capitalise
the well-known antagonism of Fascism and Nazism
to Jewry in order to join forces with them to assure
the preservation for Islam of Islam’s Holy Places.
But he has not listened to such counsels. He has
lived up to his Treaty obligations with Britain in a
way which should win for him the esteem of English-
men and their American friends. If they knew the
facts they would cease asking, as one American writer
did recently, “whether the time for patience has not
about run out and whether the choice of sides in
this war can be postponed by the Egyptian Govern-
ment indefinitely.” They would see, on the contrary,
that; —•
(1) The British military experts who dictated the
dominant clauses of the Anglo-Egyptian Accord of
August 26, 1939, deliberately elected, contrary to
Egyptian amour propre, to make Egypt a passive ally
and not an active one,
(2) The attention of these British military experts
was centred upon safeguarding “the security of the
communications of the British Empire in Egypt”—
that is to say, the inviolability of the Suez Canal—
and that unimpaired freedom of action seemed to
them more important in this connection than permit-
ting Egypt to become Britain’s active ally.
(3) Great Britain has been given, in accordance
with the letter and spirit of the Pact, all the elbow-
room in Egypt desired by the British military experts
and complete control over the harbor of Alexandria.
(4) Moslem feeling in Egypt is so resentful of
British policy in Palestine, and so fearful of the present
attitude of the United States as regards a “just world
order when the present conflict is over,” that it might
be hazardous to attempt to enlarge the terms of the
Treaty, even if British experts should change their
minds as to what is the best role for Egypt.
(5) In view of Egypt’s position in the Mohamme-
dan world there is no telling how wide might be the
repercussions of any unrest starting in the Valley of
the Nile.
(6) King Farouk’s unchallenged position as a
devout Mohammedan, and as a man whom the Moslem
leaders throughout the world trust, makes his loyalty
to his Treaty obligations a matter of outstanding
importance not only for the defence of the Suez Canal
but in preventing uprisings in favor of the anti-Jewish
Axis Powers throughout the entire Near East, North
Africa, Moslem India and other lands
Hitler v. Ideas of Democracy.
(From a broadcast to America by Mr. George Backer,
president and editor of New York “Post,” at the end
of a two-months’ stay in London .)
“It is hard not to cry out against the senseless
destruction you see about you here —senseless because
the Germans know it will not bring them victory. The
Germans are taking this action to destroy not a people
but their way of living.
“I think it is true that Hitler wants to take nothing
from this island. He wishes only to destroy what it
stands for.
“He knows that although his bombers smashed
its meeting place he has not smashed Parliament, and
it is the Parliament he must destroy.
“He knows that even if he were able to demolish
ten times the number of buildings he has fired and
blasted, his victory would come only when he was able
to scare from the minds of men the hopes and beliefs
that have reared those buildings—beliefs that cannot
be destroyed by bombs.
“His economists tell him that Germany must
occupy Britain, but Hitler is shrewder than his econo-
mists. He knows that Britain’s greatest export has
been neither coal nor steel nor the products of her
mills, but the ideas of democracy. And the effect of
democracy is the greatest danger to him.
“The most profound change to be observed since
1 was last in London is tha£ when your eyes have
become accustomed to the broken buildings you begin
to see London indeed the whole island—not as a
place besieged but as a place of refuge.
Here are men from all the conquered lands of
Lurope living as they cannot live at home. States-
men and men in uniforms, whatever tongues they
speak, whatever views they hold, have one thing in
common the conviction that a man can live only
where his right to life is recognised as a right, and
not a privilege accorded by a conqueror. And so, in
what is to them an alien land, those men of Europe
who must be free find themselves at home.
It is from this that I have learned the lesson
of what Nazi victory means to men and women who
would be free. Americans as a people must know
that the world we shall live in is being determined by
the strength and resources of the British. The impor-
tant thing Americans must learn is what it would be
like if we were to be left alone in a world conquered
by brutality.
Our continent would be an island and would
bear the same relation to the rest of the world as
Britain now does to Europe. Our nights would be
spent in the shadow of attack and our days in defend-
ing our activities.
“And our people who stand now at the threshold
of the greatest social advances since the beginning of
history would have to put aside their aspirations and
use all of their power so that they might survive.
“When I left home a great debate was taking
place. There were those among us who said we had
the power to decide the future for ourselves—that
we could remain outside the orbits of European war.
All we had to do was to make democracy strong at
home, and the future would take care of itself.
“After two months in England I find that the
debate was without reality, for it was carried on by
people who do not know what total war is. It was
carried on by people who believed that this was a war
between European Powers. But this is not a war
between nations—this is a war between ideas, and
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
WE MIGHT LOAN STALIN SOME OF OUR
SURPLUS.
whether we like it or not the ideas by which we live
are in danger of going down.
“And let there be no mistake: when our way of
life is beaten, we are beaten. And if that happens, no
one will escape the consequences of that defeat,
“No worker, no single person in the democracies
today, can hope that his condition (his obscurity, if
you like) will protect him in the event of a Nazi vic-
tory. And those who would like living proof of this
have only to look at the conquered lands of Europe.
“This is not Britain’s war or our war, but the war
of every nation to whom the dignity of human beings
is the first consideration of life itself. We in America
can no longer say that we have a free choice in this
matter. The choice has been made for us. If Eng-
land goes down, we shall fight or have to bow to a
victorious Hitler.”
Hess and Hitlers Prestige.
[From a New York “Times” article by John Cudahy,
former U.S. Ambassador to Belgium, who not long ago
returned to the U.S.A. after a three-month visit to
Germany.]
I was in the Berlin Foreign Office when the Hess
sensation broke and the effect was such panic-stricken
consternation that a clumsy story was put out in the
“Volkischer Beobachter” that he was insane. It was
24 hours later before the Propaganda Ministry regained
its composure enough to print the explanation of an
unauthorised negotiated-peace mission.
The effect of the first story lingered among the
people, who had a feeling of bewilderment and resent-
ment against the Government. Why, they asked, if
Hess was insane, was he continued in a responsible
position, and what kind of Government was it that
kept crazy men in office who might some day rule?
Had not Hess been solemnly designated No. 3 by
Hitler to succeed the Fiihrer after Goring? What did
the whole thing mean? people asked gloomily. They
took a very black view. But, of course, no one thought
of doing anything about it. Nor is it easy to see what
action could have been taken if they had been minded
to protest.
Certainly the prestige of Hitler was not affected.
And if, as many people believe, the flight of Hess
illustrates clashing interests, distrust and jealousy
within National Socialist ranks, none of this touches
Hitler. Today, all observers agree, regardless of their
wishes in the matter, that Hitler is Germany and Ger-
many is Hitler.
Ever since the beginning of the National Socialist
regime some of us had been hoping for an insurrec-
tion in Germany and an overthrow of Hitler. Months
before the Blitzkrieg came to Belgium we followed
eagerly a line of speculative evidence that indicated a
breach between the Nazis and the army chiefs, who,
the story went, were convinced that Hitler was a wild’
frenzied fanatic. But Count Jacques Davignon, Bel-
gium Ambassador in Berlin, told me that such a hope,
like so many hopes looking to German defeat, was
based on delusion where the wish sired the thought.
“The German people will eat stones if need be,”
he said grimly. “They are united to a man back of
Hitler, no matter where he leads them, no matter
what happens to Germany.”
The war is not popular. But that does not mean
that the German people will not go through to the
grim end and follow their Ftihrer, no matter how
desperate the situation may become.
Dragnet Digest.
{General Hems of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
An accurate statement is that America’s formal
entry into the war will have a profound depressing
influence upon German public opinion. Our non-
fighting belligerency is recognised and accepted by the
German people generally, but that is far from active
shooting participation. The prestige of the United
States is very great. It is known that we have never
lost a war and never made a compromise peace, and
the Germans fear that if we move into this conflict
we will move in for the knockout blow.— John Cudahy
(former U.S. Ambassador to Belgium ) in New York
“Times”
* * * * *
Perhaps I shall not be able to avoid an alliance
with Russia. I shall keep that as a trump card....
But it will never stop me from as firmly retracing my
steps and attacking Russia when my aims in the West
have been achieved. But for the time being we may
retain the doctrine that Bolshevism is our deadly
enemy We alone can conquer the great con-
tinental space, and it will be done by us singly and
alone, not through a pact with Moscow. We shall
take this struggle upon us. It will open to us the
door to permanent mastery of the world. That does
not mean that I will refuse to walk part of the road
together with the Russians, if that will help us. But
it will be only in order to return the more swiftly
to our true aims.” — Hitler to Hermann Rauschning in
1934, as quoted in “Hitler Speaks.”
’* * * * *
Current crop prospects in the British Isles have
registered a marked improvement recently: the
Ministry of Agriculture has predicted a record har-
vest. The Government and regional agricultural
organisations are preparing field programmes for next
year, with an eye to requirements as far ahead as
1944. Since the beginning of the war 4,000,000 acres
have been put to the plough with the aid of Govern-
ment subsidies. In addition, a further 2,000,000 are
going under cultivation by autumn. The authorities
are preparing to facilitate the carrying out of this
additional work through the drafting of 40,000 new
workers for rural occupations before Christmas. Simul-
taneously, provision is being made for large imports
of agricultural machinery, especially tractors, from
the United States. — New York “Times” report from
London.
*****
Mr. Ralph Assheton, Parliamentary Secretary to
the Ministry of Labor and National Service, said it
was absolutely necessary to get 100,000 women for
the A.T.S. during the next six months and the demand
for the W.A.A.F. would be nearly as great. In the
past a large number of those who joined the A.T.S.
were employed as cooks, orderlies, mess waitresses,
clerks and typists. Now there was a larger field of
duties and what amounted to active service in the
front line with the heavy A.A. batteries. Women were
wanted as wireless operators on equipment of which
he could not give particulars in public, and also for
manning predictors and height-finders. This work
brought women into the front line for the first time
in our history since the days of Queen Boadicea. Just
under 200 members of the A.T.S. would be employed
in a heavy A.A. battery. They would wear battle-
dress and when replacing tradesmen (wireless
operators, for example) would draw trade rates of
pay.— London “Times.”
* * * * *
There was a time upon this earth when there was
peace. There was a time when newspapers were pub-
lished without censorship. There was a time when
human beings travelled from country to country with-
out passports. There was a time when a man’s earn-
ings were his own, to be spent on his family, or saved.
Yes, saved! There was a time when morals were not
subject to interpretation and when a man was either
truthful or a liar, either a gentleman or a cad. There
was a time when men in high office governed accord-
ing to the law. Yes, they were the good old days, and
pleasant they were. I do not yet number my days half
a century and I can recall those days, recall them
vividly. But those days are no more. And they will
not soon return, for this world has been more than
25 years at war. And war is eating the plenty of the
earth and bringing poverty to mankind. — George E.
Sokolsky ; New York “Sun.”
*****
One thing the Nazis have accomplished in Alsace:
they have made themselves universally detested. Those
who before this war could see some good in them —
at a distance —now loathe them as much as do the
others. When the day of reckoning comes it will be
terrible. — Letter from Strasbourg, published in New
York “Sim.”


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 947 of 1941.
BETWEEN LILY IRENE CAMERON Peti-
tioner and
DONALD JOHN CAMERON Respondent
TO DONALD JOHN CAMERON late of
Hammondville in the State of New South
Wales Painter.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILY IRENE
CAMERON has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day of
October One thousand nine hundred and
forty-one and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Fifteenth day of July, a.d. 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GREGG & MILNE, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 898 of 1941. >
BETWEEN STUART ADRIAN TAYLOR
Petitioner and
OLGA WILHELMENA TAYLOR Respondent.
TO OLGA WILHELMENA TAYLOR.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STUART
ADRIAN TAYLOR has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion during three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to this suit in the proper office of this Court
on or before the Twenty-eighth day of October
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 30th day of July One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ROBERT A. DONALD, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, City Mutual Building, 60 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1298 of 1941.
BETWEEN JAMES SYLVESTER STEEL
Petitioner and
THELMA ALICE STEEL Respondent.
TO THELMA ALICE STEEL late of Hercules
Street Brighton-le-sands.
TAKE NOTICE that the said JAMES SYL-
VESTER STEEL has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a Decree
for Restitution of Conjugal Rights on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse refused to render to him conjugal rights
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Fifteenth day of September One thousand nine
hundred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had upon application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 629 a.d 1941.
BETWEEN GLADYS MAY GOODHEAD
(formerly GLADYS MAY ANDERSON)
Petitioner land
WILLIAM BROUGHTON GOODHEAD Re-
spondent. „
TO WILLIAM BROUGHTON GOODHEAD
late of 29 Bligh Street East Brunswick in
the State of Victoria and care of Riddell
Post Office in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
MAY GOODHEAD has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of your
wilful desertion without just cause or excuse
during three years and upwards prior to the
institution of the suit AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-fourth day
of October One thousand nine hundred and
forty-one and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this First day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
T. W. NICHOLLS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 44 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1228 of 1941.
BETWEEN GRACE HANNAH DACEY Peti-
tioner and
JOHN JOSEPH DACEY Respondent.
TO JOHN JOSEPH DACEY late of Enmore.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GRACE
HANNAH DACEY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of adultery during or about the month
of March 1939 at Enmore and at places un-
known to the Petitioner with a woman whose
Christian name is believed to be Irene and
whose surname is unknown to the Petitioner
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-fourth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy of
the petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
St. James Buildings, 109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
mi
A POOR HIDING PLACE
jk MONEY
afford little protection. Bank cheques, on the
other hand, eliminate the risk of loss, enable you
to make payments easily and safely, near or far;
cheque affords the safety of a receipt for the
amount paid. The butt, with its detail of
expenditure, serves as a useful record of payment,
when making up future accounts and Income Tax
Returns. Ask for full particulars from the nearest
branch of the Bank.
and other similar household
utensils are poor hiding places for money. They
save
walking and waiting at cashiers’ desks. Each
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria)
OUT OF THE PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
Australia’s Ccssar
/~| BOUT the middle of the reign of
Queen Victoria Australia was
[ celebrated abroad mainly for two
things : — the production of gold
and the production of bushrangers, the
latter industry having much the greater
seniority of the two. The original bush-
ranger came to this country with its first
British pioneers, and bore a most dis-
tinguished name. He was a large and
truculent West Indian negro named John
Caesar who had been transported under
a sentence of seven years, and his con-
temporaries sometimes spoke of him as
“Julius”. Caesar. What his offence had
been is not known, but, in view of his
local performances, it was probably
something pretty serious.
Caesar was sent to work on Garden
Island, where none of his fellow-prisoners
would share a hut with him, thereby
giving the colored gentleman mortal
offence. So he collared a musket, a cook-
ing-pot, and some rations, and made his
escape from the island only to be
speedily recaptured and sent back in
double irons. But it was not long be-
fore he made another bid for freedom.
This time he secured a canoe and a
good stock of provisions, and at once
began a series of robberies that kept the
camp by Sydney Cove in a state of
constant excitement. By the end of Janu-
ary, 1796, he had become such a pest
and menace to the settlement that Gover-
nor Phillip offered the princely reward
of five gallons of rum for Caesar’s appre-
hension. With such blood-money offering
it is not to be wondered at that his
bushranging career did not last long.
David Collins, the Judge-Advocate, has
something to say about it. “Notwith-
standing the reward offered for appre-
hending Black Caesar, he remained at
large; and scarcely a morning arrived
without a complaint being made to the
magistrates of a loss of property sup-
posed to have been occasioned by him.
In fact, every theft that was committed
was ascribed to him or some of the
vagabonds who were in the woods, the
number of whom at this time amounted
to six or eight.”
Caesar’s finish is recorded by Collins
in February, 1796. “On the 15th,” he
says, “a criminal court had met for the
trial of two prisoners for a burglary,
when information was received that
Black Caesar had that morning been shot
by one Wimbow. This man and another,
allured by the reward, had been for
some days in quest of him. Finding his
haunt, they concealed themselves all night
at the edge of a bush, which they had
perceived him enter in the dusk of the
evening. In the morning he came out;
when, looking round him and seeing his
danger, he presented his musket; but
before he could pull the trigger Wimbow
fired and shot him, and he died in a few
hours. Thus ended a man who certainly
during his life Could never have been
estimated at more than one remove
above the brute, and who had given
more trouble than any other convict in
the settlement.”
George Barrington’s version almost
seems to have been “cribbed” from
Collins, but gives a little more detail.
“They took him,” he says, “to the hut
of Rose, a settler at Liberty Plains, and
he expired in a few hours.” The Bengal
rum had done its deadly work. But
nothing can dim Caesar’s fame as Aus-
tralia’s pioneer bushranger. The very
name of the profession, in fact, was
coined in his honor.
The Old Hand
THREE tidemarks in the story of
Australia always seem to this writer
more remarkable than any others
—the Macquarie period, when the
country’s front door was unlocked by
the crossing of the Blue Mountains and
free immigration began to be encour-
aged ; the coming of responsible gov-
ernment and the days of the gold dis-
coveries ; and the inauguration of the
Commonwealth. We are too close to it
to realise adequately the fourth, the one
we are in now.
It was in the first two of these that the
Old Hands were bred, and there are none
of them left now. Fifty years ago it
might have been possible to find in Parra-
matta or on the Hawkesbury, or in the
Old Men’s Home at Liverpool (N.S.W.),
people who could remember Lachlan
Macquarie personally, and a couple of
decades back not a few were still living
who were in the gold rushes of the
eighteen-fifties, 90 years ago. One or
two present centenarians were alive in
Australia when convict transportation to
its eastern coasts was abolished and the
beginnings of responsible government
were made. But now the Old Hand has
completely disappeared from the Aus-
tralian community.
The origin of the term was, of course,
a piece of early-day slang, and the first
10 whom it was applied were those who
had arrived with Phillip in the First Fleet.
Afterwards it came to refer to people
who had been convicts, but gradually lost
both meanings, and was applied generally
to those who might be otherwise distin-
guished as Oldest Inhabitants. They were
tough old parties, the Old Hands —hard,
healthy and hopeful. They had gradu-
ated from a rough school, and many of
them carried diplomas written by the
cat-o’-nine-tails on the parchment of their
backs. But the estimate of what Aus-
tralia owes them cannot be exaggerated.
Incredible though it may seem—and if
you call him a liar he is used to it —the
writer has himself met an Old Hand who
was exiled to this country for partici-
pation in the Irish rebellion of 1798. He
does not remember what the old chap
looked like, or how he spoke, for the
simple reason that when old “Cocky”
passed out in 1878 present deponent was
only three years old, and all he knows
about “Cocky” is what he was told in
later years. But there is no doubt as to
the authenticity of such information.
“Cocky” was a fierce little Irishman,
and he had actually come to N.S.W. as a
prisoner of the Crown at the age of 14.
He had been right through the mill, with
sentence after sentence earned for him
by an ungovernable temper, and had en-
dured during his penal career a total of
1500 lashes! This, of course, does not
imply an extraordinary number of flog-
gings when it is remembered that sen-
tences of 500 lashes were commonplace.
Three times he had been flogged in Scone
(N.S.W.) on the recommendation of the
beautiful Mrs. Potter Mac Queen, wife of
the owner of old Segenhoe station, on
the Upper Hunter, in Governor Bourke s
time, for obstinately refusing to touch his
hat when she passed by.
“Don’t you know what to do when
you meet a lady, ?” she asked him
in the garden. “Sure, I do whin I mate
wan,” was the reply. And not even three
flagellations of 100 lashes apiece could
make him reconsider his point of view.
Perhaps he was right, for the spoiled
beauty eventually bolted with a doctor,
and left Potter Mac Queen, Esquire, J.P.,
Squire of Segenhoe, badly in a lament-
able lurch. A vast bath, carved out of
an eight-foot block of Carrara marble
specially imported for her from Italy, in
which she is said to have bathed in fresh
milk daily, may still be seen at Segenhoe.
Curiously enough, nobody ever quite
knew what became of “Cocky” .
Even as a centenarian he used to roll up
his blanket and go forth on brief walk-
abouts, and on one of these he dis-
appeared. One theory was that he fell
down a crack in the Burning Mountain
at Wingen, close to where he lived his
last years, and this might easily have been
correct. He was 102 years old when he
retired from a world that had dealt
pretty hardly with him, but towards
which he wasn’t supposed to be over-
resentful.
Is a man an Old Hand himself when
he can claim to have been acquainted
with a participant in “the ’98”?


A MESSAGE TO YOU TO
inWest
IN THE NEXT
WAR LOAN
mow !
The "V” in "invest” becomes a Victory "V” when you
put your money in war loans, so don’t wait for the
opening date to be announced but subscribe to the next
war loan now. Interest starts from the date of subscrip-
tion. For full details and conditions, see application
form.
Apply to any Bank or Stockbroker
LEND YOUR MONEY
TO HASTEN WiCTORY
an
skv
V
t >
tfi
i
Become an ARTIST — QUICKLY!
Let Brodie Mack Teach You At Home!
AT last you are able to learn all branches of art under the supervision of this
famous Australian artist. Amazing short-cut method simplifies art. You
learn at home.
Make Money in Your Spare Time
BRODIE MACK has made it possible by means of this remarkable Course for you
to earn money in your spare hours. He shows you how to “cash in” on his
experience. He teaches you how to rapidly develop your latent ability so that you
are able to produce striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you reading
this announcement points to you having a desire to be an artist—then send for this
amazing book and let us prove that we can make you a skilled artist.
How To Be An Artist—ls FREE!
NEVER before has a book of this nature been offered free. That is why you
should send for your copy now. It shows you how to draw —develop your talent
—how to cartoon, the secret of illustrating, etc. Eill in
the coupon and send at once. NOW!
Tear This Out—Post Now! ,
. —i. i—i i—i—■ i— —,mm i—— ■—>“ I
9 The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 24 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W. |
Dear Sir, —Please send me, FRER and without obligation, my
I copy of your famous book, “How To Be An Artist.” I enclose *
I 2d. in stamps to defray postage. I
i !
II Name ■
i
! Address •• • 1
i i
| 6/8/’4l jj
IE
m
Business,Robbery,Ete.
Maoriland’s Budget
The Maoriland Budget was reported in
Australia as surprising in so far as no
increases in taxation rates were involved.
Actually, this is not so surprising when
the figures are studied. Though the pro-
jected outlay on war is being stepped up
from £22 a head to £4l a head, £lB a
head this year is coming from the United
Kingdom Government in the form of a
loan. In the 1940-41 term assistance
from the U.K. amounted to £ll 10s. a
head. The actual war burden on Maori-
land’s own production thus rises from
£lO 10s. a head to £23 a head. At that
it is below the real war burden likely
to be placed on Australian industries by
the forthcoming Budget. In 1940-41 the
actual outlay on defence by Australia was
£24 a head, including about £6 a head
spent (and borrowed) overseas. For 1941-
42 the estimated internal outlay will be
£27 a head or thereabouts, and the exter-
nal outgo about £9 a head.
Though lower than Australia’s pro-
posed diversion of production to war
industries, M.L.’s internal effort is sub-
stantial when the small nature of its steel
industry is considered. A sum of
£350,000 is being allocated this year to
start the local production of steel in a
serious way. Man-power has been a big
item in M.L.’s war effort to date. It is
paying substantially in overseas funds to
maintain its fighting forces —£15,000,000
is earmarked for army pay and allow-
ances in 1941-42.
In total, war expenditure ,is to be
£69,700,000, compared with an estimate
of £37,500,000 this time last year. Mr.
Nash explains that the actual amount
which “came to charge last year was in
fact less than half the amount estimated,
the explanation being the considerable
delay which has been experienced in the
receipt of claims from overseas.”
Whether the enlarged outlay this year is
intended to cover deferred charges from
last year it is difficult to say. In any case,
of the £69,700,000 to be spent this term,
£5,600,000 represents debt-repayment to
the U.K. Government, £50,000,000 is for
the Army, £9,900,000 for the Air Force
and £4,200,000 for the Navy. Surpluses
brought forward from 1940-41 will look
after £6,154,000 of this, £1,500,000 is to
be taken from this year’s ordinary
revenue, £9,346,000 will come in from
ordinary taxes, £10,000,000 from national
security tax, £31,000,000 from the U.K.
loan, £10,000,000 from an internal loan and
£3,000,000 from war-savings accounts.
Turning from the defence account to
everyday affairs, consolidated revenue will
this year have the benefit, for the first time,
°f excess-profits tax. This is the only
additional source of revenue, but income
taxation for ordinary purposes is ex-
P ec ted to bring in £2,550,000 more at
£16,100,000 altogether, excluding war
taxes > and total ordinary taxes are put
at £33,737,000, interest and other receipts
bringing the total of consolidated revenue
U P £39,296,000. Interest on debts,
exchange, transfer to the war fund and
highways account are expected to run off
with £16,622,000. Social services (as
distinct from social security) will cost
£12,765,000, and other annual votes
£9,425,000. Contingencies to the extent
°f £400,000 are provided for, leaving an
estimated surplus on consolidated revenue
°f £84,000.
. National development” expenditure,
in another account, is estimated to
£20,615,000 this year, of which
£12,950,000 will be raised by an
internal loan and £7,665,000 will come
ro f n . the revenues of the developmental
activities themselves. They include the
“public works,” railways, education, posts
a h d telegraph, lands, native industries,
commerce, mines, forests, iron and steel
and housing For growing flax £600,000
ls being allocated and £4,400,000 for
housing. It is interesting to note that, as
the Dominion s largest landlord, the Gov-
eminent expects rentals of over £600,000
fp flow in next term. The number of
-rental units under control of the State
Advances Corp. now runs to 10,425.
Whether a Government can be a land-
ord ? nd remain popular it will be in-
teresting to watch.
Again most criticism within Enzed
centres in the heavy proposed outlay
on “works.” This has been a bone of
contention for some time, many people
suggesting that the expenditure would be
better devoted to the war effort. Though
taxation rates were not lifted last year,
the rates are still particularly high, the
average levy now being £3B 12s. a head,
compared with £37 9s. 9d. last year.
The increase has been brought about by
buoyant revenue and the excess-profits
tax. Heavy taxes apparently have had
an effect in keeping living costs down,
About £728,000 a year is being spent on
subsidies to stabilise bread, sugar and
coal prices.
“Social security” is to cost £14,673,000
in 1941-42. Of this, it is estimated that
contributions from those concerned will
bring in £10,600,000, consolidated revenue
providing most of the rest. By agree-
ment with doctors, £600,000 is to be set
aside for medical benefits under the
scheme. Altogether, hospital benefits,
etc., are estimated to cost £3,000,000, and
pensions, endowments, etc., £11,201,000.
The most striking thing about the
Fraser-Nash Budget is the “orthodox”
basis of its construction. After all the
rope necessary to hang itself was ob-
tained, the Maoriland Labor Government
has been so enlightened as to the facts
of life that it is falling back on old prin-
ciples, blending them with some of the
social readjustments it has brought in
and which have the appearance of per-
manence. The Savage Government was
an upheaval that brought with it a num-
ber of reforms. It started off to do things
in a new way, a drastic way and in many
cases a fallacious way. Like Roosevelt
with his New Deal, it more or less burned
down a house to roast a pig. Whatever
reforms have been achieved, they have
been won only at considerable cost. But
there are some indications now that the
Government is prepared to acknowledge
that brains and organisation as well as
brawn have a place in the national
economy, and that they are entitled to their
reward. Possibly the Government’s own
hard experience as a banker and financier
has disillusioned it about costless credit
and the like. In any case, this year the
M.L. Government is having no compul-
sory loans, no increases in taxation on the
higher, medium or lower incomes, and
it is to pay 2\ p.c. and 3 p.c, on its inter-
nal borrowings. These so far are not
expected to run to more than £23,000,000.
Every now and then, in the inevitable
arguments that arise concerning the war
effort, someone will criticise the proposed
reduction of living standards that will be-
come necessary as our war production
expands, and someone else the restriction
of the right to strike in war industries,
the right to make any kind of utterances,
etc. If we have to suffer these things,
they say, what are we fighting for?
Where’s the new order and all that?
Where does our liberty come in? These
arguments, of course, are not taking place
in Tobruk, Syria or Palestine. They
occur in Australian teashops, trains, trams,
bars and in front of the fire at night. In
brief, those argumentative fighters who
don’t want to be touched by the burden
of war are doing no fighting at all, and
shudder with horror at the whole thought
of it. They have got some “money-for-
nothing” crazy credit idea in their heads,
and imagine that the only sacrifices neces-
sary are those on the part of the chaps
in the front line. Their attitude is so
idiotic that one wonders how it could
possibly exist. But it does. Even the
realities of the Great War are forgotten.
Defence of the Realm Acts existed in
1914-18, and the burden of war’s cost was
heavier and more inequitable on the
lower incomes than it is today. Soldier’s
pay has never been anything like as good
as the basic wage, but most people will
admit that soldiers follow a more danger-
ous occupation than, say, coalminers.
The great difference between this war and
the last is that much more is required
from the non-combatant, since materials
have assumed a greater importance in
relation to man-power, and the sooner we
get to like the idea the better. War, par-
ticularly the present kind of war, is a
costly thing, and in addition to the cost
we shall have to put up with a semi-
military discipline in our civil life. These
essentials of warfare were acknowledged
long before Nazism or Fascism was ever
heard of.
* * « ♦
Edwards, Dunlop shares sold at 455.
last week, the first turnover for some
time. The price was a slight firming on
previous dealings. The co. must have
had a remarkably good year in 1940-41 ;
the admitted profit was only £lOBO higher
at £43,100, but that in itself was an
event, as it occurred in a year when no
increase in the div. was contemplated.
The co. has the reputation of being one
of the most conservative profit-writers in
the Commonwealth, and it is almost a
certainty that in a period like 1940-41, a
most favorable one to the trade,
the co. made full provision for all the
contingencies that war-time pessimism
might suggest necessary. It may find the
going harder in the term now current, but
if adequate reserves have been made
for taxation, stocks and bad debts, as
is here believed, then stable dividends
should be assured for some time, even
if paper-rationing does affect turnover.
The current div. rate is 10 p.c., paid
quarterly, and at last week’s market the
yield is 4.4 p.c.
* * * *
John McGrath, Ltd., the N. S. Wales
motor and investment concern, showed
a net profit of £15,786 last term, down
£6761. The div. has been reduced from
10 p.c. p.a. to 7 p.c. p.a., and it still calls
for nearly all the disclosed earnings.
Sales of motor vehicles have now virtu-
ally ceased, and the co. will be relying
more than ever on returns from its sub-
sidiary, Commercial Steels and Drop
Forge Co., which is doing defence work
in the aircraft section as well as making
motor-car parts. Funds from the rest
of the business are being diverted to this
offshoot as its activities expand. Mc-
Grath scrip has weakened from a highest
price of 355. this year to 275. last week.
Howards, Ltd., of Brisbane, which, like
John McGrath, used to handle the Chev-
rolet agency before distributors’ margins
were cut to the bone, disclosed a net
profit of £12,331 last year, down £254
compared with the previous term. The
div. on ord. shares stays at 8 p.c. It will
be extremely difficult, the directors say,
to maintain this rate. The co. nowadays
handles Morris and Studebaker cars and
refrigerators and wireless sets. Turnover
in the electrical lines was satisfactory,
the co. says; and though it has been
caught with stocks of cars it thinks they
will be worth holding in the long run.
The co. has exceptionally strong finances,
and at 255. the scrip looks attractive from
a Queenslander’s point of view.


'Til AT
m
THE
A BOOK
WORTH READING
Burns Philo Trust Co. Ltd. will gladly forward, free of charge, an interesting
brochure setting out important aspects of executorship and the administration of
Estates. This publication is of particular interest to those whoso Wills have
not already been made, or who may perceive the wisdom of making revisions
to accord with changed conditions.
It is not a simple matter to carry out the terms of a Will. Trusteeship demands
knowledge and capacity which few laymen possess. Therein lies the hazard of
appointing a friend or relative as executor or trustee. The solution lies in
appointing Burns Philp Trust Company Limited. The Company will be influenced
only by its knowledge of business in ensuring the faithful interpretation of
your wishes.
DIRECTORS James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE : B 7901. Box 543 B - SP -°- Sydney.
IT PAYS YOU
TO FAY BY CHEQUE
s
*\V'v
iiiii
:s ;: "
•'•r|T IS SAFE
IT IS
IT IS MORE CONVENIENT!
|IT AFFIRMS YOUR CREDIT STANDING
IT MAKES BOOKKEEPING EASY
v IT IS A PROOF OF PAYMENTj
IT PROVIDES A
IT IS SIMPLE
v
Open a cheque account to-day with the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
577 C.
THE FIRST BAN K IN A USTRALIA
m
m
More and more people are smoking
CRAVENA
every day
quality always tells!
10 tor lOd. 50 Cor 4 7 2
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
Lease-Lend and Australia
Dr, Earle Page, who was once Com-
monwealth Treasurer during a post-war
importing era, said last week that as
a direct effect of the Lease-Lend Act the
Commonwealth would have to revise its
restriction policy on imports. “The Act
has virtually created a common pool of
British and American resources,” the
Minister for Commerce added. In his
opinion, “the new policy will enable us
to import much equipment and will
permit our industries to devote themselves
to direct munitions production. It will
provide us with raw materials of war —
especially petrol—and will accelerate our
war programme by bringing in finished
products.”
The worthy doctor may or may
not have been speaking for the Gov-
ernment when he made these remarks,
but they are of more interest than would
seem at first sight. Analysing them, if
they mean anything they seem to sug-
gest (1) that the Empire is pooling a
darned lot of things with the U.S.A. on
Britain’s say-so, and (2) that the U.S.A.
will pursue the more permanent “civil”
line of manufacture and supply, while
Australia will be asked to concentrate
harder than ever on the more evanescent
occupation of munition-making.
For some time past there has been
evidence that Australians can buy several
imported things more readily than
the local equivalent. Our woollen
industry, for instance, is at present
concentrated on the job of turning
out military materials for export as
well as for home consumption, and
little opportunity exists for our mills to
extend ordinary trading connections in or
outside Australia. To some extent a
force of circumstances, there is no neces-
sity for this sort of thing to be overdone.
It will be a shame, too, if just at a time
when Australia is beginning to establish
a machine-tool industry that activity is
nipped in the bud by injudicious
importing.
It should surely be possible to select
the type of help offered to us without
jeopardising our future prospects. It is
not that Australia wants to rob the Old
Country of any of its legitimate trading
connections in this part of the world.
Nor is it in any position, as an Empire
country, to refuse genuine assistance from
the U.S.A. in the fight against Germany.
But under the Lease-Lend law there a; e
sure to be motives other than the prime
one eventually creeping into the transac-
tions. Private and sectional interests are
inseparable from trade, even when it is
international. We should never forget
that excessive imports are a debilitating
influence to a debtor country like Aus-
tralia, which for some time has been liv-
ing in excess of its income in any case.
Lease-Lend is one of those numerous
things arising out of the war that still
haven’t been clearly explained in Aus-
tralia.
The U.S. Government is lending Britain
$425,000,000 to enable payment to be
made for war supplies delivered before
Lease-Lend came into effect. Britain has
pledged more than $700,000,000-worth of
collateral to cover the loan, which has a
15-year currency and carries 3 p.c.
* * * *
N. B. Rydge, whose Federal election
campaign (unsuccessful) was carried on
under the slogan of “This war is for
posterity; let posterity pay for it,” has
been struggling with debts handed down
from a previous era himself. As chair-
man of Greater Union Theatres since
Stuart F. Doyle gave up the job, Rydge
has had the task of putting the finances
of an overbuilt and overcapitalised in-
dustry on a less depressing basis, and he
seems to have done a good job. Some-
where in 1938 the bank overdraft of the
Greater Union group totalled £341,000,
and on January 3, 1939, it stood at
£343,364. On October 4, 1940, it was
down to £289,217, and last week Rydge
announced that it had been brought back
to £170,000. For the year to December
31, 1940, the operating cos. earned
a profit of £52,754, compared with
£1705 in the preceding term. For the
portion of 1941 now run, profits are said
to be better than for the corresponding
part of last year. The improvement is
due to adequate supplies of film being
now available, the chairman says, and
this position should continue for a “few
years.” The market for scrip in the cos.
controlling Greater Union has been fairly
'ively for some time. Profits of £55,000
a year by Greater Union would be equal
to about 5 p.c. on the total capital of
Wests, Greater J. D. Williams, Spencers
and Amalgamated Pictures. Their
interests in G.U.T., however, are not
quite in proportion to their capital. Wests
has the strongest position with 39 G.U.i.
shares for every 100 of its own, Spencers
has 36, Greater J. D. Williams 33, and
Amalgamated 32.
* * * •
The row between U.A.P. members
themselves and the distant relations now
existing between the Prime Minister and
Sydney’s leading morning daily _ have
figured rather largely in the “national ’
news. One or two Government members
of no obvious importance to anybody
have been allowed to talk their tongues
out in the dailies and in the wireless news.
The situation has prompted Churchill in
the Commons to mention that “Australian
party politics arc being pursued with the
same robust detachment experienced by
our forerunners in this House in the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.” It
has also caused those Australians who
willingly pay their war taxes to feel that
to some extent they are being let down
by Canberra, the “detachment” follow-
ing as it does the unedifying affair of
“I’ll enlist if ten of you blokes do.” Apart
from those who willingly pay their taxes,
there are those who seize on the slightest
excuse to condemn the whole idea of a
war burden at all, and the opportunities
presented now by the Government are
not being missed. It is clear that while
Government members are squabbling
among themselves they can’t give all their
time to the war effort. Some Sydney
steel interests complain that they have
idle men and idle plant capable of doing
essential war work, but the orders never
come. The Government could spend
much more time seeing to it that
selfishness displayed by “Big Biz.” and
lethargy and interference on the part of
some departments aren’t allowed to
hinder war production. The job in hand
is too big to be humbugged by trivial
party matters or by self-interest or
jealousy on the part of “Big Biz.”
* * # *
The difficulties —or some of them —•
which Maoriland banks have been labor-
ing under are revealed by this extract
from the Budget speech of Mr. Nash:
The opportunity is being taken this session
to introduce amending legislation to correct
certain anomalies that exist in regard to income
taxation, the principal of which relates to the
basis of assessment of trading banks. Since
1894 banks have been assumed for taxing pur-
poses to earn profits in proportion to their
total assets and liabilities, the rate varying from
7s. 6d. per cent, when the system was originally
introduced to 30s. per cent, since 1915. It is
obvious that the assessed income computed in
this way bears no relationship to the true
profits of a bank; in fact, during recent years
some banks have paid more in income taxation
than they have actually earned in profits. The
difficulty in the past, and, in fact, the justifica-
tion for imposing the existing system, has been
the problem, owing to the banks trading in
more than one country, of assessing accurately
the profit earned in each, but by collaboration
with the Governments concerned that difficulty
has been overcome, and accordingly there is no
longer any justification for continuing the exist-
ing obviously unfair system. The proposed
legislation will therefore authorise the taxing of
banks on the basis of actual income earned
in New Zealand, and make them also liable for
full national and social-security taxes.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR MAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT QAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
In one way the Australian Hurdle Race
was practically a repetition of the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdles. In the latter
Methuen led all the way, and Merridale,
who took up the running after clearing
the second jump in the Australian Hurdle
Race, did not after give any of his oppo-
nents a look-in. Perhaps he was lucky
because of the fact that North Cape
blundered and lost several lengths at the
six furlongs. Even then the latter got
within two and a half lengths of Merri-
dale, North Cape ran second last year.
When Harley, the 9-to-4 favorite, ran
up second at the home turn he raised the
hopes of his backers, but, tiring greatly
in the run home, he was narrowly beaten
for second by North Cape. Methuen
was running third when he fell at the
third-last jump, but was beaten at the
time. Unfortunately he broke his near
foreleg and had to be destroyed. Merri-
dale was well backed, shortening from
tens to eights. He is six years old and
adds to the many good winners sired by
Gay Lothario, whose progeny have so
greatly distinguished themselves over long
and short distances on the flat.
Gay Invader, another son of Gay
Lothario, won the Balaclava Stakes, beat-
ing Fountain a length, with Rivette a
moderate third. On form Gay Invader’s
chance looked so poor that he started
at 16 to 1. Jiggle, who has been men-
tioned for the Cups, met with a little
support at 10 to 1, but was not trouble-
some.
Contact beat Kanuri in the Moondah
Plate, but was disqualified for interfer-
ence, and his rider, D. Walker, was sus-
pended for a month for carelessness.
Kanuri, who is 11 years old, gets a
bucketful of milk as portion of his diet,
and it evidently agrees with him. His-
torian was one of the field, but was
unfancied,
Davanthus assisted in giving the books
a good day, winning the Wilgah Steeple-
chasers’ Flat Race at 25 to 1. The favorite,
St. Robert, was third, but a more attrac-
tive performance was that of National
Debt, who made up a lot of ground at
the finish to run fourth, and is sure to
give a good account of himself in the
Australian Steeplechase.
Gipsy Way and Carzana won the divi-
sions of the Crimea Trial, but it was
only by a half-head that Carzana beat
Flashlight. Portico’s win (at 20 to 1) in
the Mornington Welter sent backers of
favorites home with empty pockets. The
heavy going upset calculations.
♦ » ♦ *
Saturday’s meeting was profitable for
Moorefield shareholders, and, though
some of the fields were small, the racing
on the whole was excellent. D. Munro
made his reappearance, and his three
mounts gave two wins and a third. His
winners started at remunerative prices,
even Lis admirers evidently being doubtful
whether he could succeed on horses
whose recent form was indifferent.
However, the reception given him when
he scored on Fearless, who beat a hot
favorite in Many Ways, emphasised his
popularity.
Berrima had the Hurdle Race won a
long way from home. Commencing the
last three furlongs his nearest followers
were Good One and Duke Claro, but
the latter was palpably beaten at that
stage, as was Bringa, Good One ran out
wide after clearing the final hurdle, but
it made no difference to the result, as
Berrima had the race quite safe at the
time. Berrima raced recently in Mel-
bourne, but found the company stronger
than in Sydney. Bringa was solidly
backed, but his showing was so poor
that it may be some time before he is
again fancied.
A rank outsider in Kiacatoo (a gelding
by Liberal) gave owner R. Wootton his
first win for some time, and did it in a
fashion that pointed to success over a
longer distance than a mile. Sparklet
and Dionne led almost from barrier-rise
until the straight was reached. Both
tired, and Kiacatoo, with a strong finish-
mg run, outstayed Nemesis, Indian
Emperor, who, as usual, was slow in
working into a forward position, beat
Dionne for third, but, as the latter should
be improved by her run, it should not
be long before she has a winning turn in
a race of this class. Caprice also shaped
fairly, while Dark Warbler again failed
to prove himself as good as he looks.
In the Three-year-old Handicap
Milanja and Cacique raced together from
barrier-rise, but, though half a furlong
from the judge’s box the former’s chance
appeared a winning one, the other colt
lasted a little too long for him. Airdrie
assisted in making the race interesting.
He closed on the leaders entering the
straight, and at the finish was only a long
neck behind Cacique. Well-bred and
well-grown colt Gold Rush (Tiderace-
Gold Trail) did not greatly improve upon
his previous efforts, but there is still hope
for him.
In the Carlton Mile Fearless gave D.
Munro a win at his first ride since he was
relicensed. On recent form it was difficult
to support Fearless, but he joined Many
Ways and Sobersides before reaching the
bend, and, when he ran past them, Munro
determined not to take any risk and kept
him going right to the winning-post to
defeat Many Ways and Sobersides by
three lengths. A head separated the last-
mentioned two after a good fight for
second over the last furlong. Denita has
reached a mark that may keep him safe
at a mile, and Bland Princess’s 71b.
penalty for her Ascot win disposed of her.
Betting on the Moorefield Handicap
was surprisingly good. There were only
five runners, but 3 to 1 was always avail-
able about the most-fancied pair,
Hilarious and Kurrawid. Trade Mark
made a good attempt to win all the way,
but, though less than three furlongs from
home he appeared to be going comfort-
ably, he was no match for Hilarious
over the last bit. After being last for
seven furlongs, Kurrawid moved up
smartly at the turn, but he had finished
his run before the winning-post was
reached. Mortine ran last, which sug-
gested she might benefit by a let-up. She
has done a lot of racing in the last seven
months, and has more than paid her way.
It was asking a lot of Broadcaster to
win the first division of the Flying Welter
with 10.3 at his first start after an
absence from racing of 11 months. At
one stage he was at even money, but
eased to 6to 4. Although a trifle slow
off the mark, he led from Tarn and
Reception at the half-mile, but two fur-
longs from home it was apparent Recep-
tion could go up to him when McCarten
wished. Reception had Broadcaster
beaten as soon as the straight was
entered, and then went on to win com-
fortably from Novice. Tarn died away
before reaching the turn, and of the
remainder only Melorado ever looked a
place possibility. He made a dash in
the straight, but stopped before reach-
ing the winning-post. Broadcaster looked
well, but improvement in him is probable.
Cape Amber seemed like winning when
he settled Melrose turning for home in
the second division of the Flying Welter.
Then Merry Monarch and Royal Emblem
raised the hopes of their backers, but the
little-fancied Wimbledon, who was some
distance back at one stage, finished too
strongly for the lot. His time was three-
quarters of a second slower than that
recorded by Reception. Melrose and
Cheeky Boy were the early pacemakers,
but both were well beaten before com-
mencing the last furlong, and Bel Oiseau
is still below the form that enabled him
to win at Randwick earlier in the season.
♦ * * «
A Brisbane-trained winner of an
Epsom Handicap would be unusual, but
unless the Q.T.C. handicapper overrates
High Rank that horse may give the North
a winning turn. High Rank’s Doomben
Newmarket win left no doubt as to his
ability as a sprinter, and in the Exhibi-
tion Handicap, a mile and a quarter,
at the coming Q.T.C. meeting, he is rated
the equal of St. Constant. If he really
is that good he is bound to be trouble-
some in the Epsom. In that race St. Con-
stant has to give him 91b., and High Rank
will be meeting Rimveil only 21b. worse
than when he beat the latter in the Doom-
ben sprint. Therefore, figures give him
at the very least as good a chance as
Rimveil. High Rank was unplaced in
the Doomben Cup with 8.3, but it is some
excuse for him that he struck interfer-
ence. He is a winner at a mile at Rand-
wick, and though that was only in novice
company Queensland form points to him
as a much-improved horse.
* * ♦ •
One thing demonstrated by last sea-
son’s racing was that Double Remove
fillies are worth buying. All Love
(250gns.), Cradle Song (160gns.) and
Triad (375gn5.) have shown themselves
brilliant and capable of standing up to a
lot of racing. In winning the Champagne
Stakes at her last start All Love ran as
well as at her first in the Gimcrack
Stakes ; Triad won at Randwick, and her
Queensland form was excellent, while
Cradle Song’s win at Ascot was one of
her best efforts. Notwithstanding she had
started in 13 or 14 races in 10 months
she looked bigger and stronger at Ascot
last week than at any previous time.
* * * *
Ex-Australian jockey “Brownie” Cars-
lake died in England last week at the
age of 53. He rode winners in Sydney
as well as Melbourne, one of his Rand-
wick successes being on Famous in the
1905 Doncaster. Melbourne wins of
note included the Oaks and Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes. In 1906 he went to Eng-
land, and from there to the Con-
tinent. He did well in Austria-Hungary,
Roumania and Russia, and managed to
get back to England on the outbreak of
the Russian revolution. After riding with
success in England for several years, he
took up training, but, after giving that
calling a two years’ trial, resumed as a
jockey.
Some English critics credited him with
being actually the best rider in that
country of recent years, and only the
other day I heard the opinion expressed
that of all the jockeys who visited India
from England he stood out, especially as
a judge of pace. The nearest Carslake
ever went to winning an English Derby
was on Zionist and Scottish Union, both
of whom ran second, and Statesman
(third); but he won the Oaks on Light
Brocade; St. Leger on Keysoe, Salmon
Trout and Scottish Union; Two Thou-
sand on Tetratema ; and One Thousand
on Ferry and Silver Urn. Carslake shone
at Newmarket, and that was probably
the reason of his request, when seriously
ill, that his ashes should be scattered on
the Rowley Mile course. The Jockey
Club gave its consent.
♦ * * ♦
Things are certainly happening in the
Melbourne racing world. On July 12 a
G.N. Steeplechase favorite was doped on
the day of the race. On Saturday last a
much-fancied Australian Hurdle Race
candidate had a police escort. And
bookmakers have been banned from own-
ing racehorses.
* * * «
In Melbourne last season J. T. Jamie-
son had a much more profitable time than
any other Sydney trainer. In fact, he
headed the winning list in Victoria in
respect of prize-money, his horses winning
£12,445. In Sydney Jamieson had only
11 wins, but they included two good
handicaps—the Epsom (High Caste) and
Summer Cup (Malagigi). L. Robertson,
with £11,577, did better in prize-money in
Melbourne than any other southern
trainer, but F. W. Hoysted was first in
number of wins.
• ••«••
In number of wins B. Payten, with 46,
was an easy first among Sydney trainers
for the recent season, and as he com-
mences this season with a strong team
it is probable its close will again see him
prominent. For a young trainer, Payten
has done well, showing a natural aptitude
for the business, in addition to benefiting
from the experience of his late father.
Feminist did more for him last season
than anything else in his stable, and
though Derbies and the principal cups
have yet to be included in Payten’s wins
it is practically certain they will be added
in due course. Thanks to Beau Vite,
F. McGrath, with £15,175, came out on
top in stakes. Payten’s total was £12,783.
Last week the A.J.C. issued its licenses
for the current season. There are 42
trainers for Randwick, these including
J. Pike, who decided it was wiser to stick
to training than to figure again as a
jockey, with the possibility of failing to
reach his old high standard; and G. F.
Gorrie, who will principally train for
W. J. Smith, and will also handle the
two-year-olds the property of American
owner L. B. Mayer. There are 124
trainers licensed for courses other than
Randwick and 121 training permits, of
which 27 allow of the recipients prepar-
ing only their own horses. It would be
interesting to know how many trainers
there are in New South Wales. For the
whole of England 277 trainers were
licensed for flat-racing last year. This
number would be added to by those
licensed under National Hunt Rules for
jumpers only, but these is evidently much
less difficulty in Australia than in Eng-
land in getting a license to train horses.
D. Munro duly received his jockey’s
license —the reverse would have been a
surprise—and those licensed total 102. As
usual, rumor had it that one or two of
some note might be dropped, but that
proved incorrect. An interesting fact Is
that only J. E. Duncan (6.13) and A. C.
Podmore (6.9) can ride at less than
7st., and only 12 can do less than 7.7.
Of the 77 apprentices granted riding per-
mits 16 can do 6.7 or less, and 32 less
than 7.0. Six are 8.0 or over, one being
8.10, which necessarily means that his
opportunities are likely to be limited.
* * * *
Opinions differ, but it seems to me that
the V.R.C. committee made a false step
last week in deciding to bar bookmakers
from owning horses. This is to operate
from October 1. As in higher places,
there are black sheep among bookmaking
owners, but, as a rule, there is rarely
much fault to be found with the way they
race their horses. Commonsense, if
nothing else, makes them very careful.
If they offend against the rules, they are
in a different position from the average
owner. Disqualification means loss of
their livelihood, whereas other indi-
viduals, apart from being barred from
race meetings, can carry on in business
the same as usual. No matter what
rules may say to the contrary, book-
makers will own horses, and it is far
better they should be allowed to come
out in the open in that respect than
shelter themselves behind dummies.
* * * m
Apprentice J. Thompson led the
jockeys in Sydney with 105 wins and two
dead-heats, and proved the “best horse”
in the stable of F. Dalton, who has
greatly assisted in developing him and
furthering his interests. Thompson rode
in 709 races at Sydney and provincial
meetings, and was placed in 319. As he
rode at 7.4 at Ascot on Wednesday,
weight is unlikely to trouble him this
season, though, as he is tall, it may do
so later. His apprenticeship does not
expire until the end of April next year.
W. Cook was second with 101 wins and
two dead-heats, and E. McMenamin third
with 75 wins and two dead-heats.
McMenamin, who does not ride at provin-
cial meetings, was out of action for two
months owing to an accident in January.
* 4 * »
Kindergarten, winner of the last 10
races in which he ran, arrived in Sydney
a few days ago. In appearance he is
not really outstanding, but in Maori-
land the opinion prevails that he is the
best colt seen out there for many years.
Some of his wins were scored against
moderate horses of his own age, but two
specially good winning handicap efforts
were the Wellington Cup with 8.6 (mini-
mum 7.0) in 2.33| for a mile and a half,
and the Auckland R.C. Easter Handicap,
9.11 (minimum 7.0), in 1.37 for a mile.
When Beau Vite was beaten in last year’s
Wellington Cup he had 8.7. By com-
parison with his weight in the other spring
handicaps Kindergarten would appear
thrown into the Caulfield Cup, but
whether that is so may be proved by his
form in w.f.a. races before then. Last
year handicapper Clem Hill was believed
by a large number of racing men to have
made a present of the Caulfield Cup to
Gladynev, but that horse just failed. In
a race where there is a big field of good
horses a handicapper has a lot in his
favor, and consequently frequently con-
founds his critics.
* * * *
Two-year-old racing for last season
finished last week, and as a whole N. S.
Wales breeders who received 500gns. or
over for yearlings at the 1940 sales have
more reason than the buyers to congratu-
late themselves. Yaralla, the best of the
high-priced colts, is Queensland-bred. He
FOR V.A.T.C. MEETING.
(At Flemington.)
(Before acceptances.)
Arkaringa Hurdle Race:
Naverino, 1 ; Winterset, 2; Ben
Syce, 3.
Chatsworth Plate: Murmuring,
1 ; Skipton, 2 ; Portfolio, 3.
Australian Steeplechase: National
Debt, 1 ; Brightello, 2 ; Sachem, 3.
Malakoff Stakes: Prince Ariel,
1 ; Fountain, 2; Rivette, 3.
Knowsley Steeplechase: Solecism,
1 ; Davanthus, 2 ; Nevizes, 3.
St, Aubin Welter; Cumulus, 1 ;
Togo, 2 ; Portico, 3.


No. 146.
KEMP STYLE
SADDLE.
■
-K
(COMPLETE)
£7/5/6
★
This is an
i n e x p e n sive
Saddle of the
Kemp style
with pads set
high up for
security t o
rider. It has
kip seat and
pads, lengthy flars
and short panel with leather
down sides.
N.S. W. Freight on Saddles Paid
for Cash with Order.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM KJ:
395 CEOBCE ST. SYDHEY
I
m
31
JM*
d
• • ihey
had everything
while he lived
. . . . but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO.ITD A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B, V. PBKHINS, General Manager.
realised 1200gns., and the best filly, All
Love, made only 250gns. The top-priced
colts, Beau Son (3500gn5.) and Beau Port
(2200gn5.), are winners, but still have a
long way to go to prove good purchases
at their respective prices ; and though the
MOOgns. War Ace (Hall Mark-Euglena)
recently ran second in a race at Moonee
Valley, but he carried the minimum
weight, 7.0. Not a great effort, but still
something better than that of other
youngsters which realised from 700gns.
upwards. Many of the unsuccessful high-
priced youngsters were bought on the
advice of experienced men —trainers and
others —which merely tends to confirm
the idea that luck is a big factor in the
purchase of yearlings that turn out well.
From October until the beginning of next
April form of two-year-olds and three-
year-olds may put a different complexion
on affairs ; if not, there is likely to be
a slump in the prices of the progeny of
some sires at the autumn sales.
jp * * *
Big bettors did not enjoy themselves at
Ascot, Sydney. Every favorite was
beaten, and winners included three rank
outsiders. Bland Princess and La Vallee,
genuinely backed and well beaten at the
same track the previous Saturday, showed
what an interval of less than a week will
occasionally do for some horses, but
object lessons of that kind are likely to
be lost on those “after game” players
who have an idea that stewards should
hold a reversal-ofTorm inquiry every
time a horse runs better or worse. If
stewards paid attention to the op.nions
of some losing backers there would
quickly be a great reduction in the ranks
of owners, trainers and jockeys.
» * * *
The Six-Hour Day Trustees have
decided not to apply for a change of
their holiday date from the first Mon-
day to the third Monday in October.
There was possibility of that procedure,
but, presumably in recognition of the
good work the AJ.C. is doing in the way
of contribution to war funds, the Six-
Hour Day demonstration and sports will
be held on the customary day, and that
disposes of interference with the A.J-C.
spring meeting. If the holiday had been
changed it would probably have meant a
reduction to three days’ racing and a
marked falling-off in the number of visi-
tors from the country and other States.
Touching on race clubs’ efforts for
war funds, Canterbury Park is devoting
the profits from its meeting on November
29 to that cause, one-third going to the
Lord Mayor’s Fund proper, and a third
each to the Canterbury and Ashfield
branches. Perhaps some other of the
Sydney clubs will not like being left con-
spicuously behind in war effort, and may,
during the current season, spare a day
each. Last season Rosehill gave up one
of its days for a meeting at Randwick.
* * * *
Weights for the Campbelltown Handi-
cap and Warwick Farm Spring Handicap
are interesting. High Caste is not over-
weighted in the sprint with 9.9, but the
distance may be short for him, and ,while
it is too early yet to make a definite
selection Session should have an excel-
lent chance with 8.3 if her Epsom pros-
pects with 8.8 are as bright as backers
believe. Flying Knight, if he returns to
his best form, will be a danger with 8.0.
He had that when Amiable—after her
Cropper Plate win—with 8.3 beat him in
the Frederick Clissold Handicap at Can-
terbury. When he ran second to Trimmer
in the La Perouse Handicap at Randwick
he carried 9st., Ensign being third with
the same weight. Caesar and Evergreen
are others that must be taken into
account.
Yours Truly is coming on again, and
7.9 should put him a long way in the
Warwick Farm Spring Handicap. At
Randwick at his second-last start he was
third with 9.0 to Breeze (8.2) and Mabson
(7.10) in a mile and a quarter race. Mala-
gigi, who has a pound more than he suc-
cessfully carried in the Summer Cup, is
another likely to strike form. Gundagai
has 61b. less than when he beat a good
field in Tattersall’s Spring Handicap last
September. Red Sails and the improving
Scarlet Ranger cannot be overlooked, but,
as the handicap is a flattering one, the
next three Saturday meetings should
enable backers to form a better idea than
at present as to the possible winner.
* * * *
When entries closed in June for the
AJ.C.’s “young” races the falling-off, as
compared with last year, was so marked
in most cases as to suggest that owners
are becoming less ambitious or else we
are breeding fewer horses. In N.S.W.
auctioneers’ catalogues uphold the latter
idea. In the Derby there is a drop of
75, but that is no direct indication that
runners will be fewer than in many previ-
ous years. The record for the race is
17, when Trivalve won in 1927.
E. I. Watt, with eight, is the principal
contributor to the 1942 Derby, the sires
represented in his lot being Bulandshar,
Hellespont, Midstream, Tiderace, Law
Maker, Plantain, Waikare and Double
Remove. Mrs. E. J. Watt also has an
entrant in a Law Maker colt. F. W.
Hughes has seven entrants, and shares
with E. A. Coghlan an interest in an-
other. Some of our other big breeders
have entrants but fewer than might be
expected. Forty women are represented
either as straight-out owners or in part-
nerships. The A.J.C. Derby has yet to
go to a woman owner.
For A.J.C. races entries made this year
and last are as follows;
1941. 1940.
Breeders’ Plate .. .. 13b 130
Gimcrack Stakes .. .. 99 107
December Stakes .. .. 231 263
Sires’ Produce Stakes .. 286 360
Easter Plate .. .. 177 197
Champagne Stakes .. .. 365 438
A.J.C. Derby (1942) .. ..351 426
Adrian Knox Stakes (1943).. 162 i >8
A.J.C. St. Leger (1943) .. 329 D
Hobartville Stakes .. .. 233 2 0
Kirkham Stakes .. .. 191 2j4
* * * *
Serenata, who arrived in Sydney last
week, made the great time of 3.20 J
when she won the last New Zealand Cup
with 7.0. Since then she has won one
race, the Summer Handicap, 11 furlongs,
with 7.12, at Wellington last January.
She was third with 7.0 to Kindergarten
(8.6) and Belle Cane (7.10) in the Welling-
ton Cup at the same meeting. Monte
Christo, who also came with Kindergarten
and Serenata, is a five-year-old horse by
Bronze Eagle, and is useful up to a mile.
* * * *
A recent visitor —a director of Eng-
land’s principal bloodstock agency—is of
opinion that, for its advancement, Aus-
tralian breeders should treat breeding
from a national standpoint, and use each
other’s stallions to a much greater extent
than is now customary. Well, as most
of our breeders are sellers, and therefore
in the business for personal gain, they are
unlikely to adopt that idea. Compara-
tively few race to any extent —a pity
they don’t —and, though many of their
mares might be better suited by stallions
other than their own, it would be almost
too much to expect them to go out of
their way to boost those at other studs.
It was disappointing to read that our
English visitor thought American blood-
stock much superior to that of Australia,
but it is possible his opinion—as a repre-
sentative of a firm of bloodstock ex-
porters —was slightly biased by the fact
that American buyers are prepared to
go to very much higher prices for stallions
than those of Australia, A high-class
English stallion might be a good purchase
for America up to £50,000, but he would
not be a sound commercial proposition
for Australia at that figure. It would
not be warranted by either stud fees or
yearling prices.
S <K « *
Foxbridge has made greater progress
than any other stallion in Maoriland dur-
ing the past three years. The first season
he was represented there he had three
wins and 19 minor places for £930. Last
season he went up to £9619, and this
season he appears a certainty for first
place in the winning list. “The Watcher,”
in his notes in the “Dominion,” credited
Foxbridge with 79 firsts, 140 minor
placings and £23,449 in stakes up to the
first week of last month. Vaals was
nearest him, with 63 firsts, 131 minor
placings and £18,255 ; while Beau Pere
was third with 52 firsts, 65 other placings
and £17,800. Foxbridge is by Foxlaw
from Bridgemount, by Bridge of Earn
from Mountain Mint, by Spearmint.
* * * *
In past seasons AJ.C. Derby possi-
bilities came to light at the opening of
their three-year-old careers, even though
two-year-old form said nothing for them.
Phar Lap and Peter Pan had little to
recommend them when they commenced
at three years —Phar Lap had won a
maiden two-year-old race, and Peter Pan
was unplaced at his only start at that
age. Perhaps some moderate t.vo-year-
old performer may come forward as a
Derby prospect during the next lew
weeks, though it is difficult to knovv to
what quarter to look. Recently hal-
liard and Milanja received mention as
colts that might distinguish themselves
in the Derby.
Doubt is thrown on Yaralla as a
stayer. By The Buzzard, and with stayers
in his pedigree on the maternal side (his
dam, Even Keel, is a half-sister to Old
Rowley), he should get a mile and a half,
but his defeat at Randwick on Monday
was not encouraging. Prince, on his autumn
form, is entitled to be conceded a Derby
chance, but, though The Champion and
Beau Son have each won at Randwick in
good style, more will have to be seen of
them before a definite idea can be formed
as to whether they will prove up to Derby
standard. Beau Son won well on Mon-
day, but was getting two stone from
Yaralla.
* * * *
When Whirlaway won the Belmont
Stakes in June and completed America’s
“triple crown” —the Kentucky Derby,
Preakness and Belmont Stakes —he had
only three opponents. Each carried 9st.,
and Whirlaway had no difficulty in beat-
ing the second horse by two and a half
lengths in 2.31 for the mile and a half.
His share of the stake was $39,770
(about £A12,100), while $5OOO went to
second, $2500 to third and $lOOO to
fourth. Whirlaway increased his total
earnings at two and three years to
$236,111 (approximately £A71,817). Of
that amount a little over £A48,000 was
earned this season, and after the Belmont
Stakes he had three-year-old engagements
that made an additional $lOO,OOO for
him a possibility.
In Australia it is unusual for trainers
to get all that is possible out of a horse
in a middle-distance gallop. It is not
so in America, where the watch, as a
guide to a horse’s chance, is held in
even greater respect than in Australia.
Three days before winning the Belmont,
Whirlaway was given a mile and a
quarter gallop in preparation for that
race. The track was wet, but he did the
distance in 2.2 f, the first half-mile being
run in 46fsec. and the mile in 1.36 f.
It was thought by some trainers that
such a severe gallop might cost him the
Belmont, but he was not affected.
* * * *
It was owing to having a leg broken by
a kick from a horse while at the post at
Salisbury about a fortnight before the
Derby that Gordon Richards did not
ride in that race, in which he would have
chosen the winner, Owen Tudor, as his
mount. On the day Richards met with
his mishap two horses he was to have
ridden won their races, so he was out
of luck in every way.
M.Q. and Rafferty
According to Melbourne Stadium
reckoning, Australia has a new welter
champion, Ron McLaughlin having
dished Terry Reilly per technical k.o. in
the tenth round of what was billed as a
title scrap. Reilly—again according to
Melb. Stadium —collected the title when
he beat Hockey Bennell. However, the
title wasn’t up for decision on that occa-
sion, and in N. S. Wales Hockey has all
along been generally recognised as cham-
pion. In Queensland there’s some recog-
nition for Alan Westbury, but Alan
vanished from the game some time ago
and doesn’t appear to be available. It
should now be easy enough to match
McLaughlin and Bennell and decide the
issue finally. That would be one of the
very few scraps in sight worth arrang-
ing, the game generally being in a
wretched state of doldrums, despite the
fact that anything like a good scrap draws
a good crowd.
The McLaughlin-Reilly affray was a
savage engagement. Both suffered facial
damage early, and both were cautioned
from time to time for using methods not
considered polite. Reilly looked a good
thing in the seventh, when he dropped
McLaughlin with a left hook, and gave
him a further considerable pasting before
the round ended. Ron, however, is one
of the toughest, in his element in a ding-
dong scrap. He had recovered and was
severely damaging Terry when, in a very
willing passage in the tenth, their heads
clashed and Terry came off second-best
by such a margin of eye-damage that the
ref, called it a night*
Footbrawl
The six V.F. League teams with
chances met the six without chances on
Saturday, and there was no change in
positions, although Richmond got a fright
from the worrying North Melbourne
team. Richmond and Melbourne are in
front, with Essendon, Carlton and Col-
lingwood just behind them, and Foot-
scray on the heels of those clubs.
South Melbourne was at home to
Footscray, 25,000 onlookers and a gale.
’Scray kept the ball low but Sowth punted
it high, the gale playing all sorts of pranks
with it. Footscray, 10.21 ; Sowth, 7.13.
At North Melbourne, Richmond found
the wind and the home side a stiff
problem. It got an early lead, but North
had caught and passed the Tigers at
half-time, and, though they led again,
North hung on. In the end it was beaten
by a lucky goal from a duffed kick-off,
10.7 to 9.10. Then Richmond learned
that North had fielded a weak side and
the most thoughtful herd of Tigers ever
seen in League jungles padded silently
home.
Essendon entertained St. Kilda with
small talk fdr a couple of quarters ; then
it suddenly said “Watch this,” and
booted 16.17 to 6.13. At M.C.G. much
the same sort of treatment was handed
out to Geelong, 9.18, by Melbourne,
19.14.
The Carlton-Hawthorn affair was
staged in the rose suburb and rapidly de-
generated into a dreary matter of how
much the Blues would win by. Even
the local small boy was glad when it
ended —Carlton, 16.25; Hawthorn, 11.15.
When Collingwood and Fitzroy met at
Victoria Park it was their 108th football
rendezvous, a League record. ’Wood had
won 65 games, ’Roy 41 and two were
drawn. Collingwood made it 66 by
11.9 to 8.9, thanks largely to the backs.
* * * *
Randwick, now in its best form, has
ousted Parramatta from the Sydney Rugby
Union “four.” Parramatta opened the
scoring and led 5-nil, but the Greens had
made it 10-8 at half-time, and 19-8 at
the final bell—five tries (the winger
Stone’s two were beauties) to one. All
the same, “Parra” played good, gaihe
football, and its pack held its own till
one of the forwards had to be carried
off the field.
East and University, together at the
top of the table, are certain of their
places in the semi-finals. Manly is next,
with Randwick and Parramatta follow-
ing. One of those three is going to be
unlucky. The others are out of the hunt.
East (19-3 v. West), Uni. (22-6 v. St.
George) and Manly (26-19 v. Gordon)
all got through without much trouble,
though the Gordon forwards jolted the
Villagers’ attack at times. Drummoyne
and North worried their little affair out
to a 15-8 win for Drummoyne.
* * * *
“Because of the situation in the Far
East” the Chinese Soccer players are on
their way home. They played five
“Tests” against various “Australian”
combinations, won two and lost three.
The last, in Brisbane on Saturday, went
against them 8-4.
“Footit”: L. Chadwick, a newcomer to
the walking sport, finished ahead of
everybody in the five-mile V.A.W.C.
handicap at Albert Park, Melbourne, but
was disqualified for faulty knee-action.
The race went to Dick Dunning, a 17-
year-old colt whose father, a Digger of
1914-18, was just behind him in fifth
place.


Another reason whu the
RED CROSS
needs your help!
m
I
m
i
Stores Service overseas has already cost £300,000
Wherever Australian Troops have
gone there you will find Red
Cross Stores established by the
Australian Red Cross Society.
Main depots are in the Middle East
from Palestine to Libya, Malaya
and other strategic points. The Red
Cross is servicing overseas hos-
pitals and convalescent depots
wherever the R.A.N., A.1.F., or
R.A.A.F. are operating. Red Cross
representatives are attached to
hospitals to keep in close touch
with medical officers in order to
provide all necessary assistance.
Already £300,000 worth of Red
Cross stores have been forwarded
overseas 20,000 cases of goods.
There are also Red Cross Stores
Services in India, England, Canada
and Rhodesia so that every mem*
her of the Australian fighting
forces, training or operating in
these countries, will be constantly
looked after in case of illness.
This service must go on!
Give HELP ... give
. . . IT'S URGENT
Authorised by the Central Council of the Australian Red Cross Society. IZ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J, Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Wants.
OurSerVicDepartement
Editor, sub-editor, leader-writer or senior
journalist available, country daily. Twenty
years’ exp. city and country. Refs. Late
First A.I.F.—2118.
Youth, 19, rejected R.A.N., accountancy
student, knowledge shorthand and typing, wants
position on newspaper or clerical work in New
Guinea or the Islands.—2112.
Commonwealth Literary Fellow, completing
Dictionary of Modern Australian Speech, wants
correspondents throughout Australia to keep
him abreast of current material —authentic
Aussie slang, colloquialisms and idiomatic ex-
pressions of any and all varieties. Hints on
collecting this material, together with sheets for
noting expressions, will be provided buckshee.
—2133.
Brickworks manager, exp. in firebricks, face-
bricks, dry press and plastic process, pipe- or
tile-making, erection of new plant and recon-
struction of old, wants employment anywhere.
—2040.
Sydney businessman, 54, will give spare time
—afternoon —to any useful war work.—1968.
Schoolboy wants to learn quick, easy method
of shorthand.—2008.
Man, 40, A.I.F. reject, strong, with £300,
open to any proposition, or would provide
truck with producer-gas unit. Consider any-
thing, anywhere.— 2081.
To get in touch with brickmaker, small yard,
preferably clay, open kilns, view to marketing
improved brick.—2136.
To get in touch with anyone knowing of
copper deposits.—2051.
To buy or borrow a copy of Spinifex and
Sand.—2123.
To buy, second-hand, History of Surnames of
the British Isles, by C. L’Estrange Erven, and
Bardsley’s Dictionary of English and Welsh
Surnames. Quote prices.—2007.
To buy last edition (1937) of The Australian
Authors’ and Artists’ Handbook. —1916.
To buy The Story of the Slump, by A. N.
Field—1997.
To find out methods of trapping the black
water-rat. —2002.
To buy, new or second-hand, engineering
works by Georg Garbotz. —2088.
To buy or borrow Psychiana, The Master
Mind, or other psychology courses. —2073.
To buy second-hand course of Pelmanism. —
2072.
To buy instruction book for 1930 Studebaker.
—2109.
To buy a 1937 B.H.P. Shapes and Sections
Handbook. —2102.
Words, preferably in German, of “Adieu,”
from “The White Horse Inn.”—2101.
Words of marching song “Madelon.” —2125.
Words of verse “The from the Bush.” —
2135.
Information Sought.
Where can information about employment
in munition works be obtained? —1743.
From the Secretary, Ministry of Munitions,
at 83 William-street, Melbourne, the Telephone
Exchange Building, Davey-street, Hobart, and
the Savings Bank Buildings, 75 Gonger-street,
Adelaide. In N. S. Wales, apply to the Officer-
in-Charge, Munitions Employment Office, 132
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
George-street North; in W.A., to the Secretary,
Board of Area Management, Ministry of Muni-
tions, Perth; and in Queensland, to the Officer-
in-Charge, Department of Labor and Social
Services, Creek-street, Brisbane.
* *
(1) What is the annual cost of Parliamentary
government in Australia ? (2) Do members of
Parliament pay taxes ? —1950.
(1) Latest figures are for 1937-38, and they
relate only to costs of Governors, Executive
Councils, Ministries, Parliaments, royal commis-
sions and only one set of departments—Elec-
toral: Commonwealth £564,096, N. S. Wales
£260,873, Victoria £133,879, Queensland £130,417,
S.A. £109,937, W.A. £106,808, Tas. £48,909,
total £1,354,919. (2) Yes.
* * * »
What was the badge issued to men who
enlisted in 1918 but were not sent overseas or
not called up for service because of the Armis-
tice ? Is the badge still being issued? —1511.
The Demobilised Recruits’ Badge was issued
to all A.I.F. recruits who on November 11,
1918, were in training in Australia or had
actually enlisted but had not been called into
camp, and who, on account of the Armistice,
were demobilised. It was also issued to those
members of the R.A.G.A. who enlisted therein
for training for reinforcements for the Siege
Artillery Brigade, A.1.F., and who actually
volunteered fof service in the A.I.F. The issue
ceased in 1920, and no further supplies have
been made available.
* * * »
(1) What is a Communist, a Bolshevik, a
Fascist, a Nazi, a Democrat ? (2) What methods
of election are used in Russia, .Germany and
Italy ? —2009.
(DA Communist is one who believes in the
establishment of socialism, the equality and
brotherhood of man, the bringing about of a
condition in which States and Governments are
unnecessary, since all men acknowledge each
other’s equality of rights. He aims to bring this
condition about by revolutionary force and the in-
stitution of a preliminary period with a “dic-
tatorship of the proletariat.” A Bolshevik is a
Russian Communist or supporter of Communist
rule. A Fascist is one who believes in a form
of government based on economic methods and
implemented by a dictatorship. Fascism does
not differ much in practice from the “dictator-
ship of the proletariat” stage of Communism,
save that it permits private ownership under the
strict supervision and censorship of the Fascist
Council, which is the supreme arbiter in all
matters, constitutional, legal and otherwise. A
Nazi is a member of the National Socialist
German Workers’ Movement. In detail, Nazi
ideas differ little from those of Fascism.
Democracy is the rule of the people for the
people by the people, with freedom of speech
and liberty of the subject and religious worship.
(2) In Russia, the sovereign power is the Com-
munist party, whose leading committees choose
the real rulers and which, though it represents
a small minority of the whole population, holds
the full power of veto. There, however, is a
so-called Parliament of two Chambers. The
Council of the Union is elected by citizens —
one member to every 300,000—but as there are
no parties outside those supervised by the Com-
munist party, there is rarely more than one
candidate at any poll and voting is a matter
of form. Members of the Council of
Nationalities are elected jointly by the two out-
going Houses of Parliament and by the Soviet
Governments of various autonomous repub-
lics within the U.S.S.R. The Reichstag in
Germany is theoretically elected on secret ballot
by universal suffrage, but in practice only one
party is allowed to exist. In Italy, a “cor-
porative” Government is in existence and there
is no free election of representatives.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for making grub-destroyer from
old tobacco leaves? (2) If put on cabbages,
would such a spray be poisonous ? —1671.
(I) A simple infusion of tobacco is prepared
by infusing tobacco (one part) in cold water
(40 parts, by weight) for several hours and
straining. Another spray may be made by
taking («) (1) copper sulphate 2£lb., water
Hi gal. and dissolve; (2) calcium oxide (lime)
lib. 10oz., water 10i gal., and dissolve. Pour
(1) and (2) slowly while mixing. Then dis-
solve ( b ) soda ash (anhydrous sodium car-
bonate) ioz., water 1| pints, tobacco extract
nine pints. Mix (o) and ( b ). The tobacco ex-
tract is made by macerating 441 b. of tobacco
leaves and stems in 22 gal. cold water for 24-48
hours and straining. (2) These extracts are
poisonous, but if sprayed on the cabbages not
later than three weeks before picking no harm
should come to the consumer.
* * * «
What is the difference between the waratah
C sometimes called the tulip) and the tulip-tree ?
—2OIO.
The tulip-tree ( Liriodendron tulipiferum)
grows to 40ft., and is deciduous. The foliage
is bright green, and the flowers are yellowy-red
of cuplike formation. The waratah ( Telopea
speciosissima) is an evergreen N. S. Wales
shrub with dull-green foliage and grows to
10ft., with compact red flowers. The tulip-
tree will grow in any kind of soil; but the
waratah needs sandy, well-drained areas.
Is it permissible for a batsman to strike a
ball twice in cricket and be “not out”? —2115.
Only when it is done for the purpose of
guarding his wicket, which he may do with his
bat or any part of his person, except his hands.
It is for the umpire to decide whether the ball
was hit “wilfully” for some purpose other than
that of guarding the wicket. If the ball is hit
a second time before it touches the ground and
is caught the batsman is “out”; but if the ball
hits the ground before it is struck the second
time and caught the batsman is “not out.”
Brief Answers.
M.R.H.: Australian Cream Tartar Cos. Pty.,
Ltd., which for many years has produced
almost 100 p.c. of the tartaric acid used in
Australia, has never made the special size
crystals required for seltzogenes—the volume
of that grade used does not warrant the instal-
lation of the special additional plant necessary
to produce it. The crystals were imported,
but the chief sources of raw material
were France and Italy, and consequently tar-
taric acid manufacturers are now having diffi-
culty in carrying on. The company named
makes a smaller size crystal, generally available
at chemists and grocers, but it is not likely to
be suitable for seltzogene u5e....P.K.: State
sanatoria are situated at Waterfall, 30 miles
from Sydney, and the Randwick Auxiliary
Hospital, within the City of Sydney. No accom-
modation at these institutions can be arranged
for patients from other States, as there is a
waiting list of N.S.W. patients L.R.S.; Get
in touch with the Brickmakers’ Association, 12
Castlereagh-street, or with the Building Publish-
ing Cos. Pty., Ltd., 20 Loftus-street —both
Sydney. Useful information is contained in
Bricks and Tiles, by Dobson and Searle, and
The Clayworker’s Handbook, by Searle —avail-
able from any large booksellers X.Y.Z.: A
hot bran mash for a horse is mixed by using
sufficient hot water to make the mash firm
without being soggy. Bran mashes are used
for many working animals as a regular part
of the ration, its particular value being its slight
laxative action. It is sometimes used as the
sole feed for sick animals where a soft, easily
digested and slightly laxative diet is needed....
W.S.: A telegraphist capable of 25 words a
minute could be employed by the P.M.G. as
either a telegraphist at Sydney or as a postal
clerk, but in a temporary capacity only. Per-
manent appointments to these positions are
made from lads who enter the service at 15
or 16 years of age. Get in touch with the
District Inspector, Bathurst, who may be able
to place you as a postal clerk in the district.
Commencing salary would be approximately £5
a week, and, if service is continuous, annual
increments are granted until a maximum of
about £6 is reached. Other concerns which
would probably employ telegraphists are the
cable companies and A.W.A. Demands for
operators from the three fighting services are
heavy at the present time K.G.S.: Impos-
sible to give an opinion on available data. The
new manager might merely be trying to bring
things up to date and what you regard as a
sharp note may simply be the customary notice.
Why not drop in on him? A.S.: “Tahurangi”
is probably colloquial; a feasible translation
is Man of the Sky or Sky God W.L.: You
live in Mitchell Shire, to which the provisions
of Ordinance No. 10 (postal voting) apply.
Clause 14 (a) provides that every elector wish-
ing to vote shall observe the directions stated
in the form of ballot paper prescribed. The
instructions on the back of the ballot paper
direct that, after other directions are complied
with, the paper shall be placed in the post to
reach the returning officer by a stipulated' time
and date. As postal voting is the only method
used in Mitchell Shire for local government
elections, it would not be in order for the
vote to be forwarded to the returning officer
other than through the post J.D.M.:
N.S.W. dealers in coins and tokens are J.
Tyrrell, 281 George-street; D. Raymond, 128
Bathurst-street; Lyster Ormsby and Cos., 78
Hunter-street —all Sydney. A collector who
is not a dealer is E. Wills, 7 Lugar Brae Avenue,
Waverley, Sydney J.D.U.: Apply Officer-
in-Charge, Munitions Employment Bureau,
George-street North, Sydney R.N.McN.:
Tobacco seed is obtainable from the manager,
Experiment Farm, Bathurst. C.S.I.R. bulletins
are obtainable from the C.5.1.R., Canberra,
A.C.T. A grower’s license is necessary, and
this can be secured from the Department of
Customs, Customs House, Circular Quay,
Sydney... .H.W.G.: It is suggested you should
carry out a small experiment first, in order to
see if the soil and climate are suitable. Apply
to the manager, Experiment Farm, Bathurst,
for samples of seed for this purpose. It will
be necessary to secure a grower’s license, obtain-
able from the Department of Customs, Customs
House, Circular Quay, Sydney... .D.V.S.: The
subject is dealt with in Electrical Photometry
and Illumination (Bohle), Light Photometry
and Illuminating Engineering (Burroughs),
Modern Electrical Illumination (Silvester and
Ritchie) and Illuminating Engineering (Cuddy
and Dates). The Illuminating Engineering
Society of Australia (1 Jamieson-street, Sydney)
may be able to assist y0u.... Mrs. M.T.: If
£BO sterling was payable to you, you were
entitled to an extra 25 p.c. when the money
was paid to you in Australian currency....
W.J.C.0.: Apply Supreem coat dressing, obtain-
able from Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-
street, Sydney, 3s. for Boz H.E.H.: Basalt
is a basic rock of igneous origin occurring
usually in the form of lava flows and dykes.
It is composed essentially of plagioclase feldspar,
augite and olivine set in a fine-grained or glassy
ground-mass. The prevailing color is greenish-
or bluish-black R.H.: Refer the question to
the M.L. Department of Agriculture.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
J.S.:
There’s only one place to fight Hitler the Hun—•
That’s over the sea at the end of a gun.
So don’t stay at home to “protect” the Domain. ..
R.W.C.:
Oh! a fate awaits them more terrible by far
Than that which befell the lofty Ozar
And other monsters who ruled by the force
Of a warped brain and' a Trojan Horse!
~. .H.G.N.: We don't reprint... .D.G.: It got
a second reading... .E. J. McMahon (Commis-
sioner of Taxation, whose latest literary effort
has somehow got mixed up with the week’s
verse): Off with you! ... .H.M.; “What does
man love e’en more than life?” Beer. “Hate
more than death or mortal strife?” Bad beer.
... . R.H.:
From high heady ecstasy
Of onward strife.
From short-breathed perplexity
Of urgent life
Pause. Chew a meditative cud
While repetition, cools your blood.
We’ll give it a go; the office boy’s gone for
some grass R.E.S.: Send it to Henry
V. : Couldn’t you put some ink with the
water?... .A.S.: It is only on rare occasions
that New Guinea natives can be observed
“jumping from crag to crag with their effort-
less, savage grace”... .P.J.1.: Slight to vanish-
ing-point. .. .J.F.S.: “Please don’t make a noise
or you’ll scare the birds.” Good advice, but
somewhat prosaic in the middle of a pome....
G. 8.: How do the dews of night “compress”?
... .N.M.: “Pass on to a beautiful future where
life will be all sublime”... .WJ.C.: Sarcasm’s
no use without wit 8.A.J.: “Tales from
the North” might win as pars 8.C.M.:
Poor Corinda... .C. 8.: “Get on or get out.”
Agreed E.D.8.: Your farmers talk too much.
... .B.A.C.: —
Why are we born to this life at all;
Why must we die; who made it so;
Why must we drink these dregs of gall;
Can any tell? Do any know?
You might try the Department of Information.
... .Spencer V.: What's it all about? ... .C.W.:
Try a woman’s paper D.C.T.; Cultivate
brevity of expression and come again....
W. : Too slight... .M.M.McC.: Might be a
short Abo. par. in it G.E.-T.; Hospital
humor has to be a lot brighter than that....
The Rover: In the words of your hero, “Never,
never, so long as I lick the honey of life from
Proserpine’s palm” J.C.S.: You start out
well but don’t get anywhere... .Ferg.: Can’t
find a stall for your pathetic horse Gay
Low: Both too slight; too trite 1.P.H.: No
market here for snippety topical articles about
foreign lands... .H.S.W.: Your advice to the
nations of the world received, noted and re-
turned... .5.R.0.: Melodramatic doings of
impossible people in an anonymous country.
I.C.: Ancient fishermen were caught in a
storm and survived. So what? J.F.K.:
Rather mechanical humor, but call again
S.P.: All impossible L.J.H.: “And the
Horse Laughed” didn’t even raise a grin
W.P.: Alter the locale to Kalamazoo, Mich.,
and you may be able to sell it in the U.S.A.
W.A.M.: Not this time, but you came
near... .J.McD.: N 0... .Ngaio Pa; Can’t make
out what it’s all about R.C.: Quite incred-
ible H.C.: “The Prowler Moving South” is
now moving your way K.F.E.: None of our
brew in “The Brown Teapot” J.G.: Glad
Harry wasn’t “that kind of boy” J.S.W.;
Try “The Shoes” on someone else H.S.:
Not bad, but not good enough S.W.; “Jim’s
Bowler” isn’t exactly a new model R.K.:
You’re not the first with that one.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.S.: The two foaming pots make the only
pleasing sight in your sketch 8.H.L.: A
mass of blotches, smudges and badly-concealed
erasures beneath which can dimly be seen some-
thing faintly resembling a human being. N 0....
W.N.: Even if the remark the eight-footer in
the foreground made to the one-and-a-half-
legged dwarf in the background were witty
we’d have knocked it cold J.O’S.: Scratchy
drawing and feeble pun make a calamitous
alliance A.D.G.: We admired the printing
on the signpost... .F.C.T.: The bones of the
parson-and-boy-fishing-on-Sunday joke lie with
those of the brontosaurus F.D.: Unripe
R.C.L.: At best it is an ancient wheeze, vilely
illustrated T.L.: Cultivate a lighter touch.
W.C.B.: If you hadn’t painted “Churchill”
across his stomach we could have taken him
as Buddha or the Wild Man from Borneo.


STAMPS
100 New Zealands, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, ail different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Retail and
Air lasts —Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Mailse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
Newsagency Wanted.
ADVERTISER interested in the purchase for
cash of a good sound Newsagency, Book-
seller’s, Stationer’s business, Southern Queens-
land or Northern Rivers, N.S.W., preferred.
Persons interested forward all relevant par-
ticulars to 305, Advt. Dept., Box 252188,
G.P.0., Sydney.
PREMIERES
AUSTRALASIAN
J cct 8.10
Regular Performances start Saturday,
August 16th, Twice Daily, at 2.10
and 8.10 p.m.
ANY SEAT CAN BE RESERVED.
Walt Disney’s
FANTASIA
In Technicolor ... Mimic Conducted by
Stokowski
RrcordcJ by RGA Commentary by
DEEMS TAYLOR
OL eatre
ctsSu
SYDNEY
‘"Savoy Dkealrc
MELBOURNE
‘‘Fantasia," with Special Sound
and Equipment, will be exclusive
to the above two theatres for
AT LEAST ONE YEAR.
Box Plans now open at both
theatres.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Eight Bells”
Beg pardon:—
Yo heave ho! and trouble and strife!
The Hun has a gun and the Wop has a knife
And the first mate kisses the captain’s wife!
It is the good ship Combermere,
She sails at Sydney Minerva;
The skipper has taken his missus along
And curses the girl with fervor;
So she kisses the mate behind the door,
And the captain knocks him flat on the floor;
And she kisses the mate behind the ears,
And greatly excites the mutineers;
And the Hun has a gun and the Wop has a
knife
And the first mate kisses the captain’s wife!
We were rolling home to Falmouth in the
summer of ’fourteen
(And the skipper’s wife was wearing slacks,
which surely she shouldn’t have been):
We were rolling home to Falmouth with a
hybrid sort of crew,
Some German swabs and a Dago squab and a
drunken skipper, too.
And war came closer, inch by inch,
And trouble brewed abaft the winch
(If that’s the nautical term)
And the German vermin mutineered
And the skipper roared through his long, dank
beard
And—wouldn’t it make you squirm?—
The Hun got his gun and the Wop got his
knife
And the first mate kissed the captain’s wife
In a sailorly way, the worm!
The wedding-guest he beat his breast,
He could not choose but hear:
A darned good play of a woman’s way
With a bright-eyed marinere.
The skipper—Nixon;
Miss Steinbeck, the vixen;
And note the support they got
From Kilburn and Victor ■
And Crosby, the best of the lot.
So yo heave ho! and trouble and strife!
Dick Parry kisses the captain’s wife
And the Hun has a gun and the Wop has a
knife-
It’s rough but it’s got some life!
JH * * *
The only thing that stood in the way
of the National Theatre’s presentation of
Gluck’s “Orpheus” in Melbourne last
week was its physical resources. Light-
ing was by Ronald St. Clair and David
Rademacher, scenery by artist John
Rowell, production by Jean Alexander,
choral singing by an admirable regiment
of local singers, principal roles by such
good vocalists as Etta Bernard, Ailsa
Green and Angela la Gruta; and the
orchestra was put through its paces by
the venerable Gustave Slapoffski, who,
though just touched 80, is as musically
alert as when he conducted G. and S.
for J.C.W. and scores of other operas in
his heyday of popular appreciation half
a century ago. The only sense that didn’t
get a reasonable amount of satisfaction
out of the performance was the visual,
but there was enough enthusiasm about
to blow up the tiny stage on which the
melodious tale of Eurydice and Orpheus
was narrated.
¥ * * *
The A.B.C. broadcast on Saturday
night of Elgar’s “Dream of Gerontius”
(Bernard Heinze conducting) was a fair
job of work orchestrally and chorally,
and Heddle Nash and Harold Williams
could not have been bettered as soloists,
but something was sadly lacking, so
much so that it was difficult to believe
that it was the work which made such a
tremendous impression on Australasian
audiences when sung by the Sheffield
Choir under Sir Henry Coward’s baton
30 years or so ago. Neither angels nor
demons nor lost souls seemed to share
very deeply the sentiments they were ex-
pressing and the proceedings began to
get wearisome long before the finish.
* * * *
Friedman’s weekly Chopin recital in
Sydney had as its main feature a recital
of all the 25 preludes.
* * * *
J.C.W. has knocked most of the
squeaks and rust out of “Sally” and is
giving the lady a run at Sydney Royal.
With plenty of oil in the form of topical
gags, streams of humorous patter and
clowning from Don Nicol and Charles
Norman, and the brightest finery J.C.W.’s
wardrobes can produce, the lady runs
pretty well. There are a few asthmatical
wheezes in the first act—“The Silver
Lining” could have been sung with a little
less hopelessness, for instance—but other-
wise the show patters along tunefully and
well in the best vein of musicomedy. Dot
Rankin and John Fraser fill the main
roles, with Sydney Wheeler, Joy Parsons
and Marie Ryan (a pity she had small
opportunity to air her voice) giving noble
support.
* * * *
Mosman Musical Society tried out
“No, No, Nanette,” for its latest
onslaught against the films which usually
hold tight on Cremorne Orpheum—and
made a rattling good hand of it. Humor
was the highlight. Lois de Groen, Frank
Brooks, Marcel Wattel and Zanita Cannis
are an eminently capable band of fun-
sters, and the “Payday Pauline” feature
was a riot. Besides, the ballet turned in
some nicely-balanced dancing, and Wilma
Gregory (Nanette) and John Faassen were
tunefully tender in the romantic passages.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory is fortunate in hav-
ing lots of legal talent for “The
Unguarded Hour,” its latest three-night
show, which was more like the real thing
than stage Courts often are. The K.C.
(Llan Mathews) who is pressing home
circumstantial evidence against a man
possibly innocent suddenly finds another
batch of coincidences pointing to him-
self as a murderer in the view of his
friend (William Claridge) at the head of
Scotland Yard. Urged by his wife (Joy
Watson), he then turns round and proves
the error in both cases. Quiet thrills,
with a happy ending ; good support by
many others, of whom Thomas Lane
had the most chances.
ARTBURSTS
Australian Water Color Institute’s show
at the Education Department Galleries,
Sydney, while it makes no history,
contains plenty of pleasant, capably-
executed pictures. Among members,
Norman Lindsay, M. J. McNally, G. K.
Townshend, Dora Jarret, Margaret Coen,
John Eldershaw, Kenneth MacQueen
and R. H. Stewart are worthily repre-
sented. Mary Edwards shows a nice por-
trait. Roland Wakelin’s “St. James” is
a splendid impression of Sydney’s prim
old church. Douglas Barrie shows
immense improvement in “Winter Sun at
Quaker’s Hill.” Frances D. Ellis shows
a good head, “Nera,” and Thora John-
ston’s Asiatic studies have snap. Feature
of the show is a series of Chinese brush
drawings ascribed to the late Ming
period, exhibiting much more freedom
than the highly-conventionalised style
that came later both in China and Japan.
* * * *
There’s a highly-delectable show of
Balinese art at the Nolanda Galleries,
Sydney —gorgeous decorative designs in
color, effective groupings in monochrome,
carvings and modellings, and fabrics. The
last-named are in some cases, though
very simple, startlingly effective in design.
* * * ♦
At Anthony Horderns’ art gallery hang
the works of Ralph Balson. Mr. Balson
specialises in what the arty call “the
abstract,” He makes designs in flat color
(including metallic tints), using circles,
triangles, squares, etc., as form, and pro-
duces Jims some very pretty designs for
patchwork quilts.
« * * •
Nudes, formally painted but in pic-
turesque poses, by Chas. H. Crampton,
are attracting the attention of diners and
art-show frequenters at the Le Meilleur
Studio-Cafe, Collins-street, Melbourne.
One on the stairs is the most freely
painted. The others are conventional, as
are also the pastels, water-colors and
drypoints. A portrait of C. J. Dennis in
pencil doesn’t do the late “Sentimental
Bloke” justice.
AT THE TALKIES.
Considered as fiction rather than his-
tory—which, probably, was how it was
meant to be Considered—“Lady Hamil-
ton,” at Sydney Regent, boils down to
conventional filmed period-romance, ex-
cellently acted and presented and just
sufficiently pinned to historical fact to
justify the title. Vivien Leigh, as the
pretty nobody who marries the British
Ambassador to Naples and there meets
and falls for Nelson, turns in her cus-
tomary sterling stretch of acting ; per-
haps it’s a very good portrayal of Vivien
Leigh rather than one of Emma Hamil-
ton, but that fault—if it is one—is com-
mon to most screen actresses, and Miss
Leigh’s is still a jolly good portrayal and
none-the-less entertaining. Laurence
Olivier as Nelson also does a lidy bit
of work. Whatever the historical accu-
racy of his part, he still makes the char-
acter arresting and convincing—one that
would be remarkable even without a
historical peg to support it. The rest of
the cast, headed by Gladys Cooper (Lady
Nelson), Alan Mowbray (Lord Hamil-
ton), Henry Wilcoxon and Miles Mander,
all offer satisfactory, if not distinctive,
acting; the film is lavishly decorated in
costumes and settings, and, yes, Auntie,
it observes all the best traditions of the
Hays office.
* * * *
The moral of “Million Dollar Baby,”
at Sydney Plaza, is that love in a garret
is better than a million dollars and no
love. That pleasant theory is proved by
a young flapper who comes into a mil-
lion of the best in the form of conscience
money because someone else’s ancestor
swindled her ancestor out of roughly that
amount. For a few weeks she has a
whale of a time in sassiety night clubs
and ragshops, is educated to be a lady
and proposed to by one of sassiety’s blue-
bloods, Then she realises that her true
lurv belongs to honest young jazz-band
pianist, who is too proud or something
to take her wealth, so she immediately
distributes the oof to any- and everybody
until she is sufficiently poor for the j.b.p.
to marry her. In all of which the eccen-
tric old millionairess who had bequeathed
the million on her sees hope for the
younger generation. Hooray!
* * * *
In “Bad Man,” at Sydney Capitol,
Wallace Beery is extra bad in the leery
Beery manner, and, therefore, as good as
ever. He’s a bandit plying his trade
somewhere along the Mexican border and
lights down at a ranch where the youthful
owner and his uncle are about to walk
out because they can’t pay the mortgage,
even though there’s oil somewhere on
the property and the villain is hanging
around with his bewchus wife ready to
pick up a fortune when the owner walks
off. Mr. Beery, being a law unto him-
self, and finding the owner is the same
chap who saved his life some years
earlier, immediaiely holds court and dis-
penses justice by paying off the mortgage
with the proceeds of some cattle he’s
just rustled and bumping off the nasty
piece of goods, so leaving young fellow
and bewchus widow to live happily ever
after. Lionel Barrymore is the garrulous
old uncle, and when last seen was streak-
ing spectacularly across the horizon with
his wheel chair harnessed to bandit
Beery’s horse.


THE SERVICE MAN
The Enemy in the Ukraine.
“Ek Dum”: About all that could be
said with certainty about the Battle of
Russia up to the week-end was that it
was continuing. Most of the stuff printed
and broadcast in the Commonwealth is
obvious rubbish which contradicts itself
every few hours.
The enemy is represented as being torn
between the depths of despair and the
heights of admiration for the Red Army.
Berlin Radio does sound a note of exas-
peration, but it does not seem to arise
from anything happening in Russia so
much as from the operations of the
R.A.F. and the R.N.
The “Red Star” announced last week
that Russian peasants were killing enemy
soldiers with pitchforks, axes and shovels
and asked them to keep on wiping out
Huns like wild beasts. Marshal Budenny,
the Russian C.-in-C. on the southern
Ukraine front, in a radio address to Rus-
sian civilians behind the German lines,
adjured them to “join guerrilla units and
form new lines, exterminate the Fascists
like mad dogs, blow up supply dumps,
disrupt communications, leave not an
ounce of grain for the enemy. The hour
of victory is at hand.” On August 1,
Lieut-General Chodin declared that
“millions of Soviet soldiers, thousands of
tanks and aeroplanes,” had taken up
positions at the front:
The Fatherland’s resistance is passing
from the defensive to the offensive. The
Germans lost the war within the first few
days.
Said Losovsky, the Foreign Office
spokesman:
Our counter-attacks have forced some of
the Nazi divisions back 100 miles. Several
German units are encircled. The Ger-
mans have been halted everywhere.
A communique issued the previous day
had declared that fighting continued at
Novorsev, a few miles inside Russia from
the Latvian border ; at and round Neval,
90 miles inside the U.S.S.R. and about
120 n.-w. of Smolensk ; around Smolensk,
which was said to be still held firmly
despite 42 German attacks, and at Jito-
mar, about 65 miles from the frontier of
Poland and tIU Ukryin? border and less
than 120 miles from Kiev.
The Russians pronounced the fighting at
Smolensk and Jitomar “especially severe.”
They stated that Soviet ’planes had
bombed the oilfields of Ploesti (Rumania),
and dealt heavy blows to German com-
munications and to tanks, infantry a'd
grounded ’planes. Round Smolensk, it
was said, the Russians had routed a regi-
ment of Stormtroopers, known as the
Gross-Deutschland Regiment, killing and
wounding more than 2000 officers and
men, taking several hundred prisoners
and capturing vast quantities of guns,
mechanised transport and ammunition.
And one particular Russian regiment had
in the course of a month’s fighting de-
stroyed a German infantry regiment,
seven infantry battalions and a
machine-gun company and captured two
Rumanian infantry battalion head-
quarters.
Moscow added details from various
sources, A political refugee vouched for
the fact that “more than a million tons
of oil in storage tanks” had been
destroyed by the Red Air Force at
Ploesti, with the result that the oilfields
would have to run at half output for six
months. Huge oil depots had been
wrecked at Constanza. Sabotage added
to the damage in various places.
The Germans, for their part, admitted
heavy fighting and strong but “bar-
barous” Russian resistance. Once or
twice they referred to Russian counter-
attacks. But their story in the main was
that the campaign was “proceeding
according to plan,” though somewhat
slowed down by bad weather and the
confusion caused by the Russian
scorched-earth policy. This, they allowed,
they had not bargained for, “since this
destructive savagery could not have been
expected of human beings, but only of
wild animals.”
It was emphasised in the enemy reports
that German strategy aimed at the
annihilation of the Russian armies, not
the premature capture of territory which
would add to responsibilities. One com-
mentator remarked that Germany was
never too proud to learn and that Wavell
was not the only general who had the
right to choose the ground most advan-
tageous to him. In the German accounts
the fighting in the various sectors con-
jured up pictures of huge formations of
Germans wrapped round huge formations
of encircled Russians. But up to July 31,
studying the narratives issued from both
capitals, it was hard to believe that
Moscow was not getting the upper hand
at last.
A Hungarian communique which
asserted that Marshal Budenny had blun-
dered his withdrawal across the Dnieper
was scarcely noticed. The Hungarians
claimed to be engaged in fierce fighting
at Berdichev, in the Ukraine, which
meant that a second German spearhead
must be south of Jitomar and level with-
it in the advance. Budapest reported
that a third battle was going on at Oman,
145 miles south of Kiev and about 140
miles north of Odessa. Almost immedi-
ately afterwards the Rumanians claimed
to have reached Akkerman, at the mouth
of the Dniester, which flows into the
sea only about 24 miles from Odessa
itself.
This news, if true, was obviously dis-
concerting. It meant that the enemy had
overrun the whole of the central portion
of the close network of railways south-
west of Kiev ; that Kiev’s main-line rail-
way communication with Odessa had been
cut, and that Budenny’s rearguard divi-
sions of the 18th army were up against a
tough proposition. Odessa itself was
threatened from just outside its suburbs,
though the Dniester would admittedly
be a difficult barrier to cross at its mouth.
The front line had been brought as close
to the edges of the great Dnieperstroy
industrial centre as Moscow was to
Smolensk. Kiev, in effect, was on the
way to being surrounded.
Moscow said nothing of this, either in
confirmation or denial. By Saturday
(Aug. 2) the Red Army claimed that
counter-attacks were “driving the enemy
back on all fronts,” and were “destroy-
ing one German regiment after another.”
Moscow named the same areas of fight-
ing as on Wednesday. Near Smolensk,
it declared, the 137th German Division,
sent in as reinforcements, had been sur-
rounded before it could deploy, and after
the Red artillery had pounded it, killing
hundreds, the infantry went in with the
bayonet, with the result that the Germans
“threw away their arms and ammunition
and fled in panic.” Another Russian
claim was that Marshal Timoshenko had
destroyed a Panzer division n.-e. of Smol-
ensk and between that town and Mos-
cow. Marshal Voroshilov in the north
was credited with having launched
counter-attacks on the Finns near Lake
Ladoga and on the Germans in northern
Estonia.
But there was an ominous tone about
a Russian assurance that Marshal
Budenny had “accomplished his object of
holding the Germans off while the
Ukraine crops were harvested.” On
Friday night the Germans echoed the
Hungarian claims about an advance deep
into the Ukraine “150 miles south of
Kiev.” And while Sunday papers in
Britain and Australia were jubilating
about “great Russian counter-attacks”
Berlin’s D.N.B. newsagency asserted that
n.-e. of Smolensk Russian tank units had
been trapped, had tried to break out and
had lost tens of thousands killed and
wounded, 35,000 prisoners and 245 guns.
And the German High Command sud-
dently reported:
Our troops have annihilated enemy
units 150 miles south of Kiev [in the dis-
trict of Uman previously mentioned]. Our
advanced forces have made a deep pene-
tration into the Ukraine.
On August 3 the Russians declared that
they had opened a heavy tank attack in
the Smolensk area in an attempt to smash
Germany’s preparations for a third great
offensive, and that the drives to Moscow
and Leningrad were being held. But the
fact that the position in the Ukraine had
deteriorated was confirmed by an August
3 communique issued from the Kremlin;
There has been severe fighting in the
Byelaya-Tserkov area, where our forces
repulsed many enemy attacks. The enemy
is exerting great pressure and is not being
influenced by the great casualties inflicted.
Fighting round Korostyshev was men-
tioned, too. Nothing was said of the two
moves reported by the Germans and
Rumanians further south at Uman and
along the Black Sea coast; but the
admission was serious enough. At
Korostyshev the German forces would be
60 miles from Kiev, due east of it, and
threatening the border railway further
north about 30 miles away.
Byelaya-Tserkov is 80 miles further
east than Berdichev, where the Hun-
garians claimed to be four days before,
and about 50 miles almost due south
of Kiev. To reach there the German
forces must have cut both the main lines
from Kiev to Odessa and western
Ukraine just below their junction—left
Kiev, in fact, isolated from the whole
western network and able to communi-
cate by rail with the Black Sea only by
a devious eastern route.
Nevertheless, Losovsky was still confi-
dent. He averred that the Red Army
had “smashed Germany’s crack shock
divisions,” and that after six weeks’ fight-
ing “the Germans have had 1,500,000
casualties.”
On August 2, the Germans started on a
curious new propaganda tack. They
emphasised that “Moscow is the heart of
Russia” and that its capture would ham-
string the Russian defence system, depriv-
ing it of supplies and freezing its trans-
port, which depends on a railway and
road system radiating spiderweb fashion
from the capital. They went into statis-
tics about coal, armament and aeroplane
factories. They boasted that the fall of
Kiev and Odessa was imminent and that
Moscow would fall by the middle of
August at latest. They reported that
Moscow had been subjected to devas-
tating bombing denied by Moscow,
which said that the destruction was
negligible—and that the eastern Ukrain-
ian railways and the upper reaches of the
Volga had been plastered with deadly
effect.
In the Leningrad sector, the enemy
alleged, the defenders had withdrawn in-
side the outer perimeter of the main
defences ; nevertheless “Leningrad could
wait for a little.” The German estimate
of Luftwaffe casualties on Friday and
Saturday was 18 against 121 Russian
machines in the air and 100 or so on the
ground. The Russians said that on
Friday Germany lost 41 and their own
force 19.
On Monday morning, Sydney time, the
Russians had resumed their early prac-
tice of blotting out German broadcasts
with harmonics.
As the invasion has developed, crucial
objectives of the Germans are Odessa
and Moscow. Capture of these would
have grave consequences for the Rus-
sians. They may have huge supplies
behind the lines, but in modern war
even “huge supplies” are quickly ex-
haustible, and the complete disrup-
tion of transport which must result
from the capture of the two great indus-
trial and wheat districts would be just as
serious as lack of supplies.
Britons and the peoples of the
Dominions must take a realistic view of
the situation. Russia is not beaten yet;
but it would be idle to deny that in 35
days the Germans have taken almost as
much Russian territory as 'they took in
three years in the last war, after the
disaster of Tannenburg —where at the
week-end Hitler laid a wreath on Hinden-
burg’s grave on the anniversary of the
old man’s death. Our men have shown
in North Africa that German Panzer
attacks, supported by air-power and
infantry, can be held. It is too early to
say that the Russians have profited by
the example, but it can be said that they
have taken considerable toll of German
man-power and machine strength, and
that if they have to go back to the
Urals German man-power and machine
strength will be heavily occupied in keep-
ing the country down. Defeat in Europe
would, of course, mean an exodus of
millions of fugitives to Asiatic Russia
and, in all probability, a war on two
fronts.
The Turmoil in Asia.
“Fong Tsz”: Major-General Sumita,
head of the Japanese military mission to
Indo-China, said late in the week that
when the “joint-defence pact” with the
Vichy Government had been signed at
Saigon Japan’s new order in Asia was
“complete.”
The general had gone on to Bangkok.
There, immediately after signing the
Indo-China agreement, he signed an
agreement providing for credits of
£ A 1,000,000 or thereabouts to Japan for
rice purchase, while Thailand banks
linked themselves to the Yokohama
Specie Bank to help counter the general
freezing of Japanese assets. Thailand
consented to recognise Manchukuo as a
de facto State.
After days of belligerence, press and
radio in Tokyo gave out almost hourly
official assurances that Japan had no
designs on any part of the world, and
that the action in Indo-China was purely
“protective.” Japanese officialdom
seemed anxious to impress this upon the
British Empire and the U.S.A. But
Washington and London could not over-
look reports that the military convoy
sent southward was the largest which had
ever left Japan. Moreover, Japanese
ships at sea are, for the most part, being
kept there.
The Kasima Maru, with the new
Japanese Consul-General on board, did
not call at Townsville as expected. The
Canberra Maru, arriving in Sydney from
S. Australia, stood off the Heads for 24
hours. On July 31 she sailed for Japan
with wool, wheat and flour. She carried
Minister John Latham’s private secretary
as passenger. The China Maru, due in
Sydney on July 31 to take away 3000
bales of wool and 1100 sheep, put 200
miles out to sea and, under orders from
Tokyo, headed direct for Japan. On
August 1, under fresh Tokyo orders, the
vessel steamed back from the latitude of
Brisbane and landed two Australian
members of the crew by launch from
outside Sydney Heads. The captain of
the Yamagiku Maru, which reached
Auckland five days late, said that he had
been delayed by bad weather.
The U.S. Treasury Department an-
nounced the seizure in March of 19
Japanese fishing vessels in Hawaiian
waters on charges of false registry. They
were reported to carry first-class wireless
and photographic plant and at least one
Japanese naval officer. The six ships
flew the U.S, flag.
All down the Manchurian and China
coast there have been unease and trouble.
Vladivostok looked across the Sea of
Japan reflecting that the Japan-Soviet
treaty had not been ratified.
In Tientsin there was unrest. In
Shanghai a “12-hour reign of terror”
was reported in the Hongkew sector,
which is on the Japanese side of Suchow
Creek, a place of apartment-houses and
mixed population. According to the
report, Europeans, Jewish refugees and
Chinese were manhandled by Japanese
after a naval officer had been shot by
a Chinese gunman. Thousands were
searched and made to stand out in the
rain through the night. Still, incidents
like this are normal to Shanghai in its
present condition.
Very different was the bombing of the
U.S. gunboat Tutuila across the Yangtze
from Chungking. Luckily it did not have
the same serious results as the bombing
of the U.S. Panay between Wuhu and
Nanking on December 13, 1937, when
19 men were killed and 15 wounded.
The Tutuila was anchored in the
“safety zone” of Chungking, which is
bombed as often as any other. A bomb
fell eight yards from her stern, doing
some damage and sinking a motor-boat.
Another fell near the U.S. embassy, and
still another damaged the home of a
member of the embassy staff.
It was an incident which might have
led to any kind of trouble, though in
ordinary times it would have been
regarded as a normal happening of the
Sino-Japanese war. The British Ambas-
sador to Chungking works in the ruins
of his embassy, which was blown sky-
high some time ago without causing more
than an extra ripple in international rela-
tions. It, too, was in a “safety zone”
and all its surroundings had been painted
a bright orange to identify it.
Admiral Toyoda, the Japanese Foreign
Minister, did not wait for any protest
before he sent for the American Ambas-
sador, Mr. E. S. Grew, to assure him that
Japanese naval and military authorities
had been told that they must not damage
U.S. property anywhere. Mr. Sumner
Welles sent for Admiral Nomura, the
Ambassador at Washington and presented
him with what was described as “a
demand for explanation rather than a
protest.”
Within 24 hours Mr. Sumner Welles
was able to state that investigation and
indemnities had been promised and that
the incident was now closed. President
Roosevelt, however, straightway banned
exports of aviation spirit to Japan —
though Japan was not specifically men-
tioned in the decree —and the Japanese
are getting none from the N.E.I.
Ostensibly the Japanese want no
trouble ; but the fact remains that there
are 60 warships and 60,000 of their picked
troops in that part of Asia which is
directly across the Gulf of Siam from
the Malay Peninsula and Thailand. All
the Indo-China aerodromes and ports are
now occupied by Japanese. British de-
fences of Malaya and Burma are being
strengthened.
At 8.30 p.m. Australian time on Sun-
day, the Japanese broadcasting stations
announced that “crack Japanese troops”
had advanced through Saigon on Satur-
day “to a certain point where they
camped at 2.30 p.m.” Courtesy calls had
been paid by the Japanese Vice-Admiral
commanding “at a certain place” on the
Governor-General of French Indo-China
and on the commander of the Indo-China
forces. The Thai Cabinet had met on
Thursday to consider its relations with
Japan.
Other centres around the Chinese coast
agreed on one point—that there was great
Japanese naval and military activity


Personal and Missing Friend.
MclNTYßE.—lnformation is wished by V. F.
MASON, F.C.A., Chartered Accountant, Eliza-
beth House, c/o Elizabeth and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne, Australia, as to AUBREY
CAMPBELL McINTYRE, whose last address
was care of Taupiri Coal Mines, Ltd., Huntly,
New Zealand, and who is a grandson of the
late Peter Mclntyre, Shirt Manufacturer,
Glasgow.
Tom Reginald Phillipson.
IF TOM REGINALD PHILLIPSON, whose
last known address was Henderson, Auckland,
New Zealand, and who left for Australia about
eight years ago, will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear something to his
advantage.—The Trust Manager Trustee,
Executor and Agency Branch, THE NEW
ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED, Queen Street, Auckland, New
Zealand.
everywhere, particularly in the direction
of Manchukuo. But there was less
talk of “war” than there had been.
Tokyo Radio announced that on Saturday
Chungking was subjected to the greatest
air raid in its history.
It was reported in London on Sunday
night that special detachments of the
A.I.F. and British troops had arrived at
Rangoon to be trained in the special
exigencies of Burmese campaigning.
The American Associated Press asserted
that “thousands of crack Australians and
Indians have been placed along the 160-
mile Malaya-Thailand border, equipped
with tanks, heavy artillery and weapons
for jungle fighting.” Thailand troops
were said also to be moving into the
border zone.
Britain's War Front.
“Aileron”: Though Mr. Churchill’s
speech on July 29 far from satisfied his
critics, he said one thing which badly
needed saying:
It would be madness to suppose that
Russia and the United States are going to
win the war for us.
It should be a good antidote for the
gentlemen of the press who believe that
victory can come only from Russia or
some quarter other than Britain, and
that the Empire, which has stood out for
23 months alone of all those attacked,
will be headed for defeat until the war
strategy of “Sunday-newspaper experts”
is adopted. This tribe of geniuses
demands a British offensive on the Con-
tinent somewhere, anywhere—France,
Italy, Sicily and Norway —immediately,
if not sooner. Seamen and ships? Con-
jure them out of thin air!
According to Mr. Churchill, Britain
since last year has “doubled her long-
range bombing power” —not considering
bombers from Uncle Sam —will double
it again in the next three months, and
with U.S. aid will redouble it in the
next six months. All this must be sub-
ject to losses continuing at the present
level. The Battle of the Atlantic, the
Prime Minister said, is “moving slowly
and impressively in Britain’s favor.”
British war material production in the
seventh quarter of this war equalled that
in the fourteenth quarter of the last war.
But the “invasion season” is approach-
ing and “all armed forces have been
warned to be at concert pitch by Sep-
tember 1” —which sounds as if Mr.
Churchill does not believe that Mr. Stalin
will have Mr. Hitler on the mat and by
the short hairs for some time to come.
Mr. Menzies, on the other hand, con-
siders that, “as the result of the damage
inflicted by Russia, the danger of a major
attack on Britain this year has probably
disappeared.”
Partly because of the weather the air
war along the Channel was quieter dur-
ing part of last week than it had been
for months. The R.A.F. was concentrat-
ing on Scandinavia, where Berlin Radio
claimed that 28 British and Soviet ’planes
had been shot down during a joint Anglo-
Russian raid on Kirkeness, in far north-
ern Norway.
A vigorous raid on Petsamo —the mines
and plant there mostly represent British
capital and enterprise—followed at once
on Finland’s breach of diplomatic rela-
tions with Britain,
A few German ’planes bumbled half-
heartedly across the Channel. On July
30 R.A.F. attacks were in full blast again.
In spite of storms, heavy squadrons
plastered Cologne, Aachen and other
cities, losing three machines, and an in-
quisitive formation of Blenheims picked
up a German convoy off Heligoland,
sank a 1200-ton ship, left another, slightly
larger, keeling over and sinking, and set
explosions going in some other small
vessels.
The German communique reporting
this incident was a miracle of under-
statement. It claimed that the convoy
escorts brought down only five British
machines. The Air Ministry admitted
the loss of seven!
Possibly the High Command was feel-
ing guilty about the attractive yarn
which it had issued three or four days
before —that German U-boats had
attacked a British convoy and disposed
of 19 merchant vessels of 116,000 tons,
plus a destroyer and a corvette.
On Sunday morning two- and four-
engined R.A.F. squadrons flew to the
centre of Berlin, which suffered a heavy
raid from low levels, mainly on the centre
of the city. The R.A.F. machines arrived
at 1.30 a.m., as the moon was setting, and
dropped flares. At once, 300 searchlights
sprang up ; but the visitors made a “com-
plete tour” before leaving. Hamburg and
Kiel also were attacked.
At the week-end the Germans were
reported to have declared a state of
civil emergency in Norway and to have
imposed martial law in some districts.
Berlin’s explanation of this was confused.
One broadcast said that the measures had
been taken to “prevent the spread of
Bolshevism, which will not be tolerated,”
and that they were a “final warning to
saboteurs, who hereafter may expect no
mercy.”
It was announced in London on Sunday
that one of the largest convoys to cross
the Atlantic had arrived in Britain with
the Third, Canadian Division, hundreds
of U.S. technicians, and hundreds of
airmen trained under the Empire Air
scheme. And another convoy arrived
without sighting either U-boats or Luft-
waffe.
This was the signal for a burst of
“sinkings” by Berlin. The Luftwaffe
“sank” more than 20,000 tons and
damaged 5000 tons of merchant shipping
off Orford Ness.
German U-boats, it was reported, at-
tacked convoys protected by auxiliary
cruisers, destroyers and corvettes and
submarines west of the Bay of Biscay.
Dogging the ships for three days and
three nights, despite frequent and fierce
attacks from the British escorts, they had
sunk 24 merchantmen of 120,500 tons
gross, one destroyer and one corvette.
And statistics “conclusively prove that
England is on the verge of starvation.”
Mussolini's Ex-Empire.
“Ente Marid”: The Ethiopian cam-
paign was topped off last week by the
issue of a joint War Office and Foreign
Office statement which declares that “the
whole of the territories formerly known
as Italian East Africa are in the
hands of the King.” The Board of Trade
has authorised a resumption of trade with
the area, which covers 1,725,000 square
miles and is occupied by about 12,000,000
inhabitants —9,000,000 of them in Abys-
sinia, in which Haile Silassie’s position
seems to be tentative pending a final
settlement.
The Axis must be feeling that it would
like to be able to make a similar declara-
tion about some parts of Africa which
they promised, four months ago, to swal-
low up “in a fortnight.”
Nothing can be more galling to Axis
pride than to know that a small handful
of Australian and British troops, whom
the German Radio was wont to describe
as the “doomed rodents of Tobruk,” have
not only held out against the masters of
Tripoli for over 120 days, but also main-
tain sufficient heart to turn what should
be a dreary siege into a series of highly
annoying offensives.
Each attempt which has been made to
take the place has ended in a German
or Italian howl of anguish. And the
bombing raids—nearing 1000 —which the
town has suffered, though they have
sometimes proved annoying, have caused
few casualties. Ships in the port have
been sunk from the air, and shelling has
damaged the town. But almost every
day the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. prove con-
clusively to the Axis occupants of Ben-
ghazi and of the aerodromes of Cyrenaica
that they certainly have not been sunk.
The Germans seem to have become
tired of the Tobruk scenery. All the
prisoners taken lately have been Italians.
If the Nazi has left Cyrenaica to the
care of his ally, he certainly did it with
a graceful gesture, since General Blarney
has been able to send home a document
in which “a high German officer” praised
the Australian facility for inventing sur-
prise and deception and the A.I.F. men’s
quality as snipers—they have the nasty
habit of shooting sights off gun-directors
and plugging nickel into every slit of
loophole and blotting out exposed units
with skilfully-used high-angle weapons.
In fact,
the Australian is unquestionably superior
to the German soldier.
Some German apparently was suffering a
conscious or unconscious spasm of truth-
fulness when he wrote that.
The R.A.F. activity has stretched well
across the Mediterranean to Sicily and
Sardinia with satisfactory results.
On July 28 and 29 seven Italian flying-
boats were wrecked and others damaged
in a raid on Syracuse (Sicily). A mixed bag
of 11 machines was destroyed at Catania,
the old German base, and seven more
went west at Marsala —34 destroyed in
all in two days.
The Sardinian raid—the first by the
R.A.F. during the war, though the F.A.A.
has paid the island a single visit —was
made on Thursday in daylight. The
main objective was the aerodrome and
seaplane base near the naval port ot
Cagliari. The biplane hangar was set
on fire and five Italian machines were
smashed to pieces on the ground, apart
from a number severely damaged. A
four-engined transport and another ’plane
were given attention, and the transport
was seen falling towards the sea.
Benghazi was heavily raided on July
29 and 30. Towards the week-end three
Italian merchant ships were sunk and an
escorted floating dock was battered only
a mile from the Italian coast. This was
followed by the sinking of an Italian
7000-ton cruiser—Attendolo class.
The Italians claimed to have raided
Tobruk, apparently with their usual lack
of success, and to have brought down
an R.A.F. raider over Benghazi. The
German High Command reported the
“seventh raid in three weeks” on the Suez
Canal. Italian wireless announced a suc-
cessful attack “in darkness and mist”
which had done “great damage” to the
Grand Harbor at Valetta.
On land the weather has not encour-
aged much action on either side. On the
Solium front, a few patrols made tenta-
tive stabs at each other. The Italians on
Wednesday tried to capture an obser-
vation post on the outer perimeter but
were driven off by artillery fire.
For Returned Men.
“Ek D.”: None too soon, the Army
Minister, Mr, Spender, announced details
of the plan for providing for returned
members of the A.I.F. While awaiting
employment single men are to receive
£2 2s. per week, including pension, and
married men £3 p.w., plus 7s. 6d. for each
child up to £4 2s. 6d.
Why there should be any limitation on
the child grants it is difficult to imagine.
Only three youngsters are entitled to sub-
sidy, and any Digger who has been fool-
ish to leave more at home when he
went away to fight is penalised by com-
parison with those with smaller families.
The allowances will be paid up to
three months, and the Repat. will make
men who need tools a free gift of up to
£10 —in special cases up to £40 —to pro-
vide them.
The children of dead or completely
incapacitated soldiers will be helped
through all stages of education with
allowances which range from 245. to
£2 10s. a fortnight.
And returned men will have the bene-
fit of a trade and professional training
scheme which will take them over after
a preliminary course under the army
training plan.
There will, of course, be a pension
system.
“Wodgil”: Smolensk is a name that
crops up in the history of every invasion
of Russia from the west. Charles XII
of Sweden took it in September, 1708,
and Napoleon in August, 1812. In each
case the capture of the city was the fore-
runner of disaster to the invader. In
Charles’s Russian campaigns the flower
of the Swedish nation perished or was
captured, and that is why Sweden, once
the terror of Northern and Central
Europe, became the second-rate war-
hating country it is today. When Charles
fell in a ridiculous siege such of his
veterans as had escaped captivity were,
as Voltaire records, “either dead in battle
or had died of want” ; as for the cap-
tives, “more than a hundred thousand
were slaves in the vast Russian Empire,
and as many more had been sold to the
Turks and the Tartars.” Descendants
of those slaves are the best fighting
material the U.S.S.R. possesses, and they
are to be found far from the ancestral
home. Chaliapin, the singer, a blue-eyed
six-footer of magnificent proportions,
was a pure Swedish type, probably
derived from one of mad Charles’s match-
less soldiers.
* * * *
After a tour of advanced operational
bases with Air Marshal Burnett, Air
Defence Minister McEwen said that a
strong screen of defence and reconnais-
sance bases for landplanes and seaplanes
had been established round the Com-
monwealth. Aircraft operating from these
bases would render “extremely hazard-
ous” any future operations by enemy
raiders seeking to interfere with Aus-
tralian shipping. The bases made “a com-
prehensive system, the piercing of which
would present an enemy with a formid-
able task.” Apropos, the German raider
in Pacific waters seems already to be a
thing of the past. If there are any, they
are doing no damage.
* * * *
Major General Northcott, Deputy
Chief of the General Staff, will, on
September 1, take command of the A.I.F.
Armored Division which he has helped
to build up. He will be replaced by
Brigadier S. F, Rowell, one of the first
graduates from Duntroon, who has been
with the 6th Division in the Middle East
from the beginning. He is the son of an
A.L.H. regimental commander of the last
war. A G.0.C., Home Defence, is to be
appointed.
* * * *
The Indian Army came off lightly in
the fighting in Africa, having regard to
some of the terrific jobs in which it
shared —such as the assaults on the Italian
positions on top of the sheer escarpments
of Keren. Between December 8, the
beginning of Wavell’s. push into Libya,
and July 8, 47 officers and 712 men were
killed, 4367 wounded and 1261 missing.
These unobtrusive Mercantile Marine
heroes continue to crop up. In the latest
batch was Second-Officer E. W. Dingle,
of H.M. auxiliary-cruiser Port Brisbane,
known to every Australian port, which
engaged an armed German raider in the
Atlantic, thus allowing a valuable convoy
to escape. And Lloyd’s have given their
medal for bravery at sea to Stanley
Anderson, who did not live to complete
his first voyage. A U-boat attacked his
ship. He was wounded early in the
action, but refused to leave his gun, and
“fought on with great courage and cool-
ness” until he perished with two of his
mates. Like Cornwall, of the Chester,
he was aged 16.
*
Colonel Knox, Uncle Sam’s Minister
for the Navy, has scotched another
furphy which had a wide circulation by
telling the Naval Affairs Committee that
the U.S.N. has not co-operated with
the R.N. beyond the terms of -the
Lease-Lend Act. He admits that a
U.S. destroyer, while rescuing 60 sur-
vivors from a torpedoed ship, dropped
depth charges because its commander
thought that he heard a U-boat in the
offing. But there has been no actual
combat with U-boats.
>H % * *
“Ek D.”: Our Mr. Spender has seen
fit to point out that since the war began
only 14 per cent, of the A.I.F, have be-
come casualties, whereas in 1914-15,
“with almost identical numbers engaged,
the A.I.F. had lost 35 per cent., of whom
more than 30 per cent, were killed and
wounded.” Mr. Spender says 49 per
cent, of the A.I.F. men missing in this
war have been located 2300 are
prisoners and 550 have rejoined their
units or have been discovered in hospi-
tals. That was worth saying ; but there
is no comparison whatever between the
first year of this war and the first year of
the last. Splendidly as our lads have
fought, they have not been continuously
engaged in one big campaign, as their
sires were in Gallipoli. And does the
Minister really think the fact that thou-
sands of young Australians were placed
in positions in Greece and Crete in which
there was nothing for it but surrender
is something to rejoice about?
* * *
The most important invention of the
first 18 months of the war is now officially
credited to a Melbourne mining engineer,
F. G. Barnes. He it was who devised the
great plan for “degaussing” ships by
placing electric cables round them,
neutralising the ship’s magnetic field and
reducing the magnetic mine menace to a
minimum. It was one invention which
did not have to be pressed on the
Admiralty, which grabbed it with both
hands. And it was reserved for the
“Commonwealth Gazette” to give credit
where credit was due; thanks to the
Australian’s application for Australian
patents, that . sober publication was able
to scoop all'the “reliable” and “unim-
peachable” authorities and all the famous
and infamous correspondents.
* * * *
From a man whose services have been
requisitioned for the duration;
The job of training wireless personnel for
the A.I.F. involves a period of theoretical and
practical groundwork, with considerable use in
the field of the instruments upon which life or
death may depend. Students wtih a flair for the
technical side are often shown by the manu-
facturer the complete process of production.
I conducted a batch of A.I.F. wireless
officers and n.c.os. in the making over the
factory of one of Australia’s largest radio
concerns, now engaged in turning out equip-
ment needed in ever-increasing quantity. Hun-
dreds of girls were busy on repetition jobs
calling for nimble fingers and careful manipula-
tion. Test-room engineers were giving the final
check to completed apparatus. Intricate
machines were performing complicated miracles
on all sides. But we came to a large section
where nobody was at work. Fitters’ benches
were empty; lathes were motionless.
“A stop-work meeting,” the factory official
explained. “Most of the men didn’t want it and
don’t want strikes; for one thing, they are earn-
ing good money. But it was the union
executives’ decree —and that’s all there was to
it.” So important work on communication
equipment for the three fighting services was
held up by the irresponsible tyranny of the few
over the many. If union bosses’ ears could
burn a lot of those organs would have run hot.


Women's letters
From Sydney
Consul-General for Switzerland Hed-
ingef and his wife stood from five o’clock
till after half-past six within the doorway
of the Australia ballroom welcoming the
coming and speeding the parting guests
of Switzerland’s reception last Friday.
This was in celebration of the federation
of the various cantons from which that
sturdy race springs. It was an enormous
success, from the outsize in Swiss flags,
white cross on red ground, to the read-
ing in resonant tones by Dennis Glennie
of the mountainous country’s equivalent
of America’s Declaration of Independ-
ence and Britain’s Magna Charta. This
followed an impressive choral and in-
strumental rendering of “God Save,” and
was rounded off by the singing of the
Swiss national anthem.
The party was a day out for all the
Consuls. From Government House came
Peter Lubbock and Lieut.-Colonel R. A.
Wynne, General Anderson and Mrs.
Anderson were among the spaghetti-
jugglers. There were also little hot
sausages served with sauerkraut. There
were drinks suitable to the anti-alcoholic
as well as to the convivial palate. General
Anderson had just had an Australian
journey with the Governor-General. It
took in Darwin and Alice Springs, with
many places in between. “Cold nights
and hot days,” said the General; “what
better, climatic conditions could you
have?” Dr. Morel, delegate of the Inter-
national Red Cross, here for some
months, is a short, dark man with an
interesting-looking head. He and Mrs.
Morel were much-greeted. The Kelso
Kings, than whom Sydney grows no
nicer, paid their respects before going
on to the Fraser lady’s party. Parlia-
ment, the Army, the Navy and Big Busi-
ness were all in the throng.
Take it by and large, “The Dream
of Gerontius” is like a sudden trip
in the stratosphere to the ordinary
man in the street. It is' like a
star above a mystic mountain where
the only rustling that can be heard
is that of the wings of angels. To be
mundane, the Town Hall was packed
tight for this A.B.C. concert, in which
the Hurlstone Choir and the Commis-
sion’s chorus with the orchestra made
background for the Gerontius of Heddle
Nash. Evelyn Hall, all in white, sang
the angel music, and Harold Williams
was the Angel of the Agony. And any-
thing more agonising than to sit on the
stage in full view of the audience like
those three had to do in the intervals
between their turns can hardly be imag-
ined. The dreadful thougnt kept popping
up, “Suppose they get a fit of yawning.”
However, all was well.
The Theatre Royal radiated happiness
on Saturday night, for the play was
“Sally,” proving that Cinderella was more
than a fairy story after all. If a girl is
good and sweet and does the work that
lies nearest to her hand, and has good
looks, talent and fascination thrown in,
she'll always carry off the prince. Nearly
everybody talked Josie Melville, for Josie
was Sydney’s first Sally, thereby winning
a place in Australian theatre annals. Josie
(now married and living in Adelaide) sent
a telegram of good wishes to the present
little dish-washing heroine, Dot Rankin.
Gladys Moncrieff was star of the audi-
ence. Came the Ernest Salengers, the
Harold Munros, the H. Bradys, the
Carlton Kellys, the Roland Fosters
watching his pupil Marie Ryan, Marie’s
mother, all the way from Gundagai, and
hundreds of others.
On a day like a Hilder painting the
Water Color Institute opened its spring
show. Minister for Education Clive Evatt
did the deed, and spurred on the artists
to greater endeavor, also poets and com-
posers. This Saturday opening was fol-
lowed by a tea party, president John
Maund being the host. Dame Constance
D’Arcy was there with sister and decided
to buy Norman Lindsay’s “Eighties” girl.
H. W. Grace, whose “Cameron’s Hills”
and “Galston Gorge” were among things
admired, reminisced about his old friend
B. E. Minns, who founded the Institute.
Dora Jarret, Margaret Coen, Isabel Mac-
kenzie, Lesbia Thorpe and Ruth Pascoe
were women exhibitors seen serving tea
and cakes and having the honey of admi-
ration handed them in exchange for their
offerings of sugar. Julian Ashton spoke
words of wisdom about teaching being a
born art and not an acquired profession.
■ln Sierra Nevada Rah Fizelle has cap-
tured a dream.
The people of Basle are simple folk.
That is why Mrs. L. Staehelin, who rep-
resented this canton, wore a national cos-
tume that comprised a frock of coarse
handwoven brown linen with short puff
sleeves, a Puritan collar of white linen
and a fine white apron edged with Swiss
embroidery to the Swiss Club Ball. An
integral part of this costume is a posy
made of edelweiss and field flowers.
Every fiftieth year the people of Switzer-
land the world over make merry for two
days in honor of their confederation. The
ball, therefore, was dizzy with Alpine
hill and valley atmosphere. The walls of
Farmer’s ballroom were hung with panels
representing all phases of the national
life, military, sporting, industrial and
agricultural.
Big scene of the night was the enact-
ment of the signing of the Constitution.
Dennis Glennie again stirred his listeners
with the simple and noble words. Shona
Dunlop (of Maoriland) dressed as Miss
Zurich, whose skirt was bright green,
whose bodice was striped, did one
of the many folk dances. The red
and white of Switzerland were shown in
little greeting cards on each table ; in the
great flag that was the background of
the official table, where the flowers car-
ried out the color scheme, and in the
icing of some of the delectable cakes
that were offered as guessing-competition
prizes. There was only one thing lacking
as far as one guest was concerned, and
sleuth it as she would no trace of an
apple could be found. Among the guests
were J. J. Roth, who was himself Consul
at the celebrations half a century ago ;
Sir Hugh and Lady Poynter, her black
taffetas deeply belted in gold ; Dr. and
Mrs, G. Morel, the Falquiers and A.
Wunderlich. The Australian Red Cross
scooped the pool.
Here’s war-time romance. Pilot-
Officer Max Dunn, of Mudgee, abroad
serving his country, wrote some little
time ago to his affianced Barbara Paton,
of Clifton Gardens, asking her to an-
nounce their engagement on her ap-
proaching birthday. Barbara received the
letter in the morning ; on that same after-
noon came a cable saying Max was miss-
ing ; a fortnight later news came that he
was a prisoner of war. Letters have
since arrived from Max himself ; so Bar-
bara’s diamond ring has a very brilliant
flash.
The presence of Mrs. Frank Garrick
will no more grace Town Hall concerts.
This music-lover died early last week at
her Mosman home. Sorrowing are her
husband, brother Jack Griffiths, popular
and well-known concert manager, artist
daughter Betty and three sons, of whom
Alan is overseas with the A.1.F.,
Frank is a member of the R.A.A.F. and
Jack is in the military camp at Liverpool.
Leila Hall was secretary for the suc-
cessful dance held at the Killara Hall
last Saturday to add to the Ku-ring-gai
Aircraft Training Fund. The Andre
Brenacs were the guests of honor, and
went home with a hundred daffodils from
Leila’s garden. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Tomorrow Clive Evatt, M.L.A., will
declare the Forces’ Reading Room at
106-108 Hunter-street (two of the old
two-storey houses) duly open. All who
are old enough to remember Jack Cannot
will recall his singing a song that ran:
“Don’t eat jam, don’t eat ham, but eat
more fruit.” Well, this reading-room
gives to the Forces mentally what the
other canteens give them physically, so
now they can eat their jam and eat their
ham at whatever hut they are partial to,
and then read more books at the Hunter-
street address. This will be open from
10 a.m. to 10 p.m. There are bathrooms.
The walls are cream, and the furnishings
green. There will be hundreds and hun-
dreds of books. There is to be a writing-
room.
Remember the Seals this Friday. Red
Cross V.As. will have schools of them
outside the post office.
There’s just enough French in the in-
vitations to the fashion parade at Prince’s
next Thursday to make the recipient feel
cultured, but not enough to make her
feel ignorant. That’s a bull’s-eye to the
card designer. The Moxham lady, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, Mrs. Dekyvere and Mrs.
Brenac are presenting this comedy in
muslin, whose characters will be dressed
by Bourtourault, while Rawdon will score
with the hat tricks.
From Melbourne
The Tivoli did its stuff for the F.F.F.
at an afternoon matinee, with, as is usual
for the Tiv., a full house, plus etceteras,
floral and masticatory, sold in the foyer.
The show ran, as ever, like clockwork,
and only a couple of minutes were re-
served for speech of thanks and draws
from hats of lucky programme numbers.
Among those who helped were Lynette
Dickenson, Mrs. Vic Cornego, Eleanor
Cohen, of Sydney, Elinor Willis, Judy
Halley, in hat Alpine in both color and
inclination, Mrs. Tom Patterson and con-
frere of different spelling Mrs. Tom Pater-
son, the last-named having practically her
first day out for five months since an
unlucky adventure with a loose end of
carpet. So reckless was she at the thought
of a gala do after so much seclusion that
she almost risked removing the bandage
from erstwhile broken ankle and leg.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell brought a party,
including the two Bettys, her own and
Betty Jess. Among others present were
Mrs. Hugh Mitchell and Mrs. E. J. Ken-
non, Lorraine Gumming and Dod Fal-
kiner, back from V.A.D.-ing and Sydney,
and all set to join the W.A.A.Fs.
Inset from Athol Shmith, Sheila Martin,
recently engaged to Captain Theo Seales.
Sheila, who is the elder daughter of
Dr. W. W. Martin, of Wagga, hopes to
be married in her home town in a couple
of months’ time, to be a bride in con-
ventional govvn anl veil and to have
sister Helen as attendant. Betrothal ring
is set with three diamonds. A flat in
South Yarra is part of the future’s rosy
dream.
Owing to the Gloucester Ball custom
of big parties, co-op. spirit therein and
much telephoning, the first taxiless
Friday made little difference to the dance
at the Palais ; though an announcement
through the mike about all-night trams
must have been a relief to those who
were hoping against hope that they
wouldn’t have to walk home. Vice-
Admiral Royle and his lady came early,
stayed late, were a great success gener-
ally, and appeared appreciative of the
unsophisticated youth of 22 debs., all
in white and carrying pink tulle fans.
Incidentals for the Girls’ Ward of Prince
Henry’s were wheel, dip and Dutch
auction by Bill Oliver of a cocker puppy.
Tickets secs, of this seventh annual girls’
school effort were Kathleen Wilson,
Audrey Campbell, Betty Ince and Phyllis
Croysdill.
Rigidly setting an example to the girls-
in-uniform who hanker for long frocks
and high heels when they go dancing,
Sybil Burnett came in her grey W.A.A.F.
uniform to the R.A.A.F. Ball. Though
game enough to use her bike on any
occasion—it was a taxiless Friday—she
didn’t have to, but came per car with
papa, the Air Chief Marshal.
A tow-headed girl from the Midlands
who’s making munitions enlisted the
aid of the employees’ bus to sell her
hut for the Y.W. appeal (the huts are
worth ss. and each “brick” is a penny
pin-prick). The bus was crowded, but,
like all hardy workers’ buses, it could
hold just a few more. The lass from
Lancashire commandeered the step and
begged pin-pricks from her pals. The
driver also contributed, and the house
from foundations to chimney was built
in two minutes. Its contribution was
handed to the Business Girls’ Efforts dele-
gates, Mrs. P. K. Davey and Mrs. K. S.
Cuttle, when they made a periodical visit
to munitions girls last week.
No one expects anything more excit-
ing than statistics at annual meetings
(unless, of course, there’s trouble in the
wind, when anything might happen), but
there was some color about the annual
meeting of the W.U.P.F., held at the
Commerce School, in the person of Mrs.
John Hayward—possessor of a pleasant
smile and a straightforward line of talk,
although she had never before spoken in
public. Her address, without notes, dealt
with some of her war-time nursing ex-
periences. Very early in the war she
was sent to France with 50-odd British
nurses and worked in various emergency
hospitals and in an ambulance train,
abandoned when the line was blown up
on both sides.
Mrs. Hayward also discovered what an
evacuated town looked like and how it
felt to walk along country roads carry-
ing a kitbag while buses overcrowded
with exhausted soldiers passed by with-
out stopping. Like the other nurses she
learnt to sleep anywhere and eat any-
thing, and mentions as her best meal one
of sausages, tea, champagne and a luxury
present thrown in—a bottle of lavender
shaving lotion! Later there came recall
to England, appointments to various mili-
tary posts, including Aldershot, and sub-
sequently marriage with an Australian.
Mrs. Hayward came to this country three
months ago with her husband, who
travelled so far to join the A.l.F.—he’s
now in camp.
Following the meeting tracks were
made for the Union cafeteria and, after
an interim, on to the Tallis Wing for in-
spection of yet another batch of goods
ready to dispatch to bombed British
children. The garments, all of high
quality, knitting and stitchery, were just
some of the hundreds received at the
depot in a few days. The kids will love
their woolly oshkoshes (Government
House Red Cross branch has requested
a pattern of these) and further inventions
in little coats with hoods. In addition,
there were toys, all light and compact, and
a Round-Australia dice game designed
by artist Jessie Mackintosh, selling for
the fund for 2s. 6d. Up to date 21,000 gar-
ments have passed through the University
depot, making 56 bales, of which only
two have been lost at sea.
Several prospective members stood up
and shot grievances off their chests at the
first general meeting of the newly-formed
Society of Women Musicians. A breath
of trouble brewed from the fact that
office-bearers had been elected at a small
initial meeting at the home of the founder,
Dr. Ruby Davy. The air cleared and
members of the original committee who
had offered to stand down were unani-
mously re-elected.
The society’s aim is to improve the
status of women musicians and to pro-
vide opportunity and remuneration for
their talents, for all too prevalent is the
common belief that artists subsist on air
and communion with their muses. For
the moment any proceeds accruing will
be given to the Red Cross and A.C.F.,
but the S.W.M. means to pay at least
nominal expense fees to any performers
at its functions, which will be held in
private homes for 2s. admission. Mrs.
A. E. V. Richardson and Madame Lorton
Campbell are vice-presidents and Miss
B. Phillips and Jessica Pennell hon. secs.
Passed through Melbourne (where they
stayed with Mr. and Mrs. T. Scheps, of
Brighton), a family from Malaya, Mr.
and Mrs. E. J. James and daughters
Cynthia and Valerie, who will spend most
of their long leave in Hobart, where
they have taken a house. The visitors say
that members of the A.I.F. in Malaya are
as much in request by the English as by
their fellow-countrymen. There are
several dances every week, where women
and girls act as hostesses for parties of
varying sizes, and tennis, golf and swim-
ming are always on tap. Women who
for years have accepted bridge and mah-
jongg as part of their natural existence
still get a game now and then, but give
a fair slice of their time to knitting and
other jobs, the Anzac canteen and the
canteen at the Military Hospital being
among their activities.
The only women in uniform in Singa-
pore are the nurses and the “Wrens.”
A women’s committee raised money for
a large bus plying between town and the
Seamen’s Mission ; now, with the advent
of many extra buses, transport isn’t a
serious monetary problem for the troops.
Cynthia has a stenographer’s job to return
to in a few months’ time, otherwise
Malaya would refuse her admission —
there being a rule of no permanent entry
or re-entry for children over 10 and
for women except wives of resident hus-
bands.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager.
T. O. REYNOLDS,
Xmst. (ien. Manager,
sdf
m W£AK MfN AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling-
of old age are due to failure of certain
B 3* n GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise yon, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
020
GJL-ftND
TONIC
WBLfU
GERMANY CLAIMS TO HAVE
BLOCKADED BRITAIN, YET,
THANKS TO THE BRITISH
NAVY, ARMY AND AIR FORCE,
BRITAIN CONTINUES TO DE-
LIVER THE GOODS.
Message from label, shown at right.
BRITISH-MADE
WE CAN STILL SUPPLY
“AGA” the World’s Finest Cooker
I552sx|l|
litHW
:: ?
—so, despite war-time conditions,
Australians may still enjoy the
advantages of independent heat-
storage cooking, with the AGA,
the original heat-storage Cooker,
made in Britain.
We are ready to show you how
and why the AGA is the world’s
finest Cooker; to give you actual
examples of the AGA’s almost in-
credible economy in fuel, and to
advise you about the correct AGA
Model for your home or your in-
stitution.
The AGA Domestic Model C
(shown) cannot burn more than
two tons of coke in a whole year,
costing 30/- a ton in the city.
Freight increases price in
country, but annual consumption
is so low that amazing economy
is possible anywhere in Australia.
Call for a demonstration, or write
for AGA Catalogue 88.
6 AGA ADVANTAGES.
1. Amazingly economical.
2. Keeps kitchen warm in Winter,
cool in Summer.
3. Simple to use, always ready.
4. Clean as a china plate.
5. Food cooks better, looks
belter, tastes belter.
6. Suitable for city and country
homes.
dsf
LEVIN & CO., LTD.
{lnc. in N.Z.') Established 1852.
45 King Street, Sydney.
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and at
Wellington, N.Z.
South Australian Agents;
Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents:
A. G. Webster & Sons, Hobart
NORTH OF TWENTY-ELGHT
Power Alcohol
Gentlemen, the case before you is this:
It was here stated (9/7/’4l) that the Power
Alcohol Inquiry Committee’s recommendation —
that the wholesale price of power alcohol got
from wheat be 2s. a gallon wholesale in the
capital cities, representing 3s. 6d. to 3s. 10|d. a
bushel for wheat f.o.r. ports—seemed remark-
ably optimistic. It was held that the wheat price
quoted would represent a little more than 3s. net
to the grower and that, after a study of avail-
able authorities, about the best yield of pure
spirit that could be expected from a ton of wheat
was 60 gallons, which would mean £6 at the
P.A.I. Committee’s recommended price against
an admitted price of £6 10s. for the wheat.
On these grounds it was held that citizens ex-
pected to finance distilleries in four States were
entitled to more specific information before
being asked to applaud.
In rebuttal, Colin W. Waddell, tech-
nical adviser to the Queensland Cane-
growers’ Council, deposed (B. 30/7/’41):
The figure, i.e., 60 gallons, would represent
abnormally poor operating conditions at the dis-
tillery. The P.A.I. Committee visualised reason-
ably modern equipment and skill and plants
large enough to ensure good average efficiency.
This would definitely yield nearer 86 than 60
gallons per ton under Australian conditions.
Mr. Waddell then quoted Motor Fuels
from Farm Products (U.S.A.) and Power
Alcohol to show that the yield under
modern conditions would be at least 79
gallons of pure spirit per ton of wheat.
A second witness, “5.C.R.,” said:
The yield is 2igal. of p.a. a bushel, malt
process, and 24ga1., Amylo process.
At 37 bushels to the ton this would
mean roughly 83 to 92 gallons a ton.
Grove Johnson, F.C.S. (London), of
Perth (W.A.), “consulting chemist and
bacteriologist, specialist in the fermenta-
tion industries,” author of numerous
articles and several books on brewing
and distillation, with experience in
London, West Indies, Demerara, Brussels,
Copenhagen and elsewhere, takes the
stand:
To assume that a bushel of wheat (561 b.) will
yield 2gal. of spirit of a strength necessary for
motive power is erroneous. “Proof spirit” is a
mixture of spirit and water, containing 57 p.c.
alcohol. Strength needed for motive power is
96 p.c. alcohol. A lot of people wrongly think
that “proof spirit” will drive a car.
A bushel of barley malt might yield 2fgal.
of proof spirit; that is to say, 2.5 by 57 equals
142.5 units. Divide the units by the 96 p.c.
and you have 1.48ga1. of power alcohol from a
bushel, or roughly 60gal. per ton. The 2igal. of
proof spirit per bushel of malt is the maximum.
Experience gives 2gal. to 2Jgal.
F. B. Wright, in Distillation of Alcohol, states
the starch content of grain thus: Wheat, 66
p.c.; barley, 65.4 p.c. Simmonds, another
worker, has 65 p.c. for wheat. In other words,
there is little difference between wheat and
barley. Wright gives the maximum of 96 p.c.
alcohol from a bushel of wheat as 1.78ga1.
Simmonds states that in British practice about
. 65£gal. of absolute alcohol, equivalent to 68gal.
of'96 p.c. strength, is obtained from a ton
of malt and grain. This works out at 1.7ga1.
to the 561 b. bushel. The grain was probably
a mixture of 20 p.c. malt and 80 p.c. raw maize.
Simmonds’s and Wright’s figures thus approxi-
mate and are in accordance with my own figures
under the best conditions, which rarely obtain.
It seems to me that the P.A.I. Committee has
completely overlooked the initial cost. I make
it: Grain, 3s. 6d.; process and distillation,
4s. 6d.; total, Bs. For this we get 1/1 gal. of
motor spirit costing ss. 4d. a gallon to pro-
duce. Apparently the P.A.I. Committee will then
sell it for 2s. a gallon wholesale.
The money to be spent on the wheat dis-
tilleries might be better spent on plant for
making briquettes from charcoal, already proved
economical in many countries. In any event,
the wheat-distillation idea appears to need
further and closer investigation.
Mr. Johnson submits a letter from the
Department of Supply and Development,
dated 23/10/’39:
Relative to the development of the power-
alcohol industry, I desire to inform you that
in view of the comparatively high cost ot
power alcohol the Government does not at
present contemplate encouraging a consider-
able expansion of the industry.. . .There is no
need to seek raw materials other than those re-
garded as the most economical under Austra-
lian conditions, viz., molasses and sugar juices
or syrups.
The decision to build wheat distilleries
was announced on 26/6/’4l. The “com-
paratively high cost” could scarcely have
been lowered since 23 /10 / ’39, though the
need for p.a. may have increased.
Any further witnesses?
“XT’”: The N.T. now has another
road —286 miles from the Tennant to the
Queensland border. I read that it took
only 53 days to build and cost less than
£20,000. This sort of thing is sheer waste
of money. The first heavy rainy season
will obliterate the dusty scratch, and
transport will have the same experience
with it as with the new north-south high-
way, in which some vehicles have already
sunk to the cardan shaft. The only kind
of road which is worth while in that
part of the country is one on the model
of the Indian Grand Trunk —elevated
several feet above the surrounding plain,
“TAXI !"
sheltered from rain and wind by broad
spreading trees and with gutters like
young rivers on each side. The present
Spender-Foil policy of road-building is
sheer waste of money, and the money
isn’t Foil’s or Spender’s.
* * * *
“Poi-poi”: The Maryborough Barnes
(B. 30/7/’4l) was still deciding whether
to contest Warrego as a “Randolph
Bedford Laborite” when this was written.
Old hands have been puzzled why he
should choose such a title against the
Bundaberg Barnes’s “Andrew Fisher
Laborite,” seeing that both policies are
the same. The explanation is that the
Bundaberg man is against party politics
and believes that two members with the
same political tag constitute a party.
Maryborough’s hope expects that “fierce
oratory and showmanship” will win War-
rego, if he stands, though whether he
can exceed the late member’s capacity
for that sort of thing remains to be seen.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“X.T.”: Mr. Spender has decided to
found another newspaper at Darwin for
the benefit of soldiers. It won’t (says he)
compete with the old “Standard,” which
incorporates its ancient and deadly rival
the “N.T. Times”; and its circulation
will be exclusively military. How that
end is to be attained, Mr. Spender does
not say.
* * * *
“Norther”: Australia is short of some
drugs because of the war, and the C.S.I.R.
has sent a couple of officers to poke
around among North Queensland natives
and plants to see if there is anything to
be got from either. Along the Tully and
the Herbert there is a plant called
mokorja. This, Dr. A. E. V. Richardson
believes, is identical with derris root,
and what the Rockhampton district
abos. call moolkellam is really Erythroxy-
lon australe, which contains coca-tannic
acid. One of the dubosia family in the
north yields hyoscine and hyoscyamine;
the natives chew the leaves with what Dr.
Richardson calls “beneficial stimulating
effects.” And C.S.I.R, botanist Barnard
is looking for plants to replace supplies
of ematine, ephedrine, cafferine and
quinine. Australia uses 200,0000 z. of
quinine a year.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: The A.l.M.’s Soldiers’ Club
at Darwin is a great institution. As soon
as war broke out the A.I.M. provided
some accommodation also for soldiers at
Alice Springs. Now it has opened a
Soldiers and Civilians’ Hostel at the
Centre city with 12 bedrooms, sitting-
and bathrooms, library, piano and elec-
tric light throughout.
* * * *
“Balander”; Queensland’s Government
timber industry has had a record year
with an output of 228,000,000 super, feet,
an increase of 16,000,000 on the previous
year. From gross receipts of £951,000
for timber, mostly used for war purposes,
the Crown nets £465,871. Forests now
reserved cover more than 7,000,000 acres,
and new plantations of 3400 acres bring
the plantation area to 29,372 acres. Ten
new national parks have been proclaimed,
making 193, covering 671,578 acres, and
1208 men were employed in forestry at
30/6/’4l.
* * * *
Geoffrey Standon Nevitt Sadler, who
passed out at Port Moresby at 25, was a
Maorilander. Born at Whangarei, he
took his B.Sc. at Auckland. His first
occupational experience was in M.L.’s
Geological Survey. He transferred to
Papua in 1937 and was engaged in
geological exploration in the bush for
various commercial concerns when his
promising life was cut short.


HITS
LYS
K
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■'V ■ i f,■
■lf. h
TvV» r ’ #i '*V v' ! - v
>v f - «&,’
i#
*J
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE
NETTING.
Overclassed Clips.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
“Murrawong”: Remarks on classing
by the Controlling Appraiser for N.S.W.
should be interesting to woolgrowers. To
get the last farthing out of a line growers
must class so evenly in quality, length
and condition that the appraiser can type
and yield it without hesitation.
The sex mark was questioned. Admit-
ting that hoggets should be plainly
branded, appraisers consider that bales
need not be marked “E” or “W,” as it
tends to make too many lines. Yet there
is usually some difference between ewe
and wether wools except where ewes are
dry and running with the wethers. The
strain of rearing a lamb has a marked
effect on the mother’s wool, and wethers
of the same drop and on the same feed
will nearly always cut a heavier, longer-
stapled and better-nourished fleece. If
two or more lines are close enough to
match one another the classer should
mention it in his report to the broker, but
even without that information the broker
will lot lines together at his own dis-
cretion.
A few tender fleeces will make a differ-
ence of pence per pound on every bale
in the lot if the appraiser should happen
on them. A doggy, hairy fleece will kill
any line, because the appraiser hasn't
time to open every bale, and will show
his suspicions of what the other bales
may contain by lowering his price or by
marking the lot for reclassing.
Any man with elementary wool know-
ledge should be able to test wool for
soundness and to keep tender and sound
wools separate. He may not be able to
name the quality of a fleece, but he
should be able to keep different lengths
of staple apart, and should be able to
keep a line moderately even in condition.
Mixed lengths apply to skirtings as
well. The average piecepicker trims the
sweat locks off skirtings—the clean wool
goes into the BKN bin and the heavy-
conditioned is branded PCS. Instead of
picking for condition, length of staple
must be regarded as of the highest im-
portance. Scouring will equalise the yield
of both, but if the shorter wool is not
skirted off the broken in the first place
the line will remain uneven until it is
re-sorted.
Crossbred clips present a greater diffi-
culty than merino, and the smaller the
clip the greater the difficulty. If no good
classer is available, the grower with
crossbred wool will save money by for-
warding the clip to a reliable reclassing
firm.
Sheep Export.
“Ovis”: In his statement of the case
for the export of stud rams “Geneticist”
(B. 23 / 7 / ’41) forgets that sheep are not
in the same category as the other export
samples he cites. Jersey cows are not
a necessity to the butter trade ; many
countries carry on in competition against
us without them. If every ostrich had
been exported from S’Africa, the Union
would still have survived. If all the stud
hippopotami were shipped from the
Upper Nile there would still be a Nile to
irrigate the crops.
In the Commonwealth, however, the
“dusty bloke” “Geneticist” mentions
depends for his wool price on his virtual
merino monopoly. And the country just
about depends on the dusty bloke and
his thick-woolled sheep for its existence.
Take away merino wool, and a large part
of our interior country would be reduced
to a desert peopled by crows and bailiffs,
and most of the rich stud breeders who
at present advocate the selling of our
heritage would be glad to drag the billa-
bongs for mussels and jewfish and beg
a bit of nardoo from Binghi.
Export at the present time is more
dangerous than ever before. For the
next few years, because of the shortage
of shipping, no one in Europe is going to
ship anything across the ocean a mile
further than he can help. If he can get
wool from Morocco or Russia or S. or
N. America, he will not worry if it is
not exactly the kind of wool he is used
to, especially since wool processes are
rapidly improving textures of wool cloth-
ing in relation to wool types and counts.
Every merino ram we sell abroad will
"That Looks jake for the blackout , Ma!"
help to bring some other country for-
ward in the market.
If the S’Africans had held on to
Colonel Gordon’s precious merino sheep
in 1797 instead of selling them to Captain
Waterhouse to bring to Australia,
S’Africa might have enjoyed a merino
monopoly during the period when the
Commonwealth wool industry was built
up ; and, in the face of competition from
a country nearer Britain, our wool in-
dustry might not have survived.
Keep ’Em Moving.
“Rom N.”: Sheep can be got along
over remarkable distances, no matter
what the weather or their condition, if the
drover goes the right way about it. The
all-too-frequent bustler, “hoy-hoy-hoy-
irtg” behind them and with a couple of
yelping tykes adding to the clamor,
knocks both himself and the sheep out
and gains nothing for all his pushing.
Sheep travel best in the early morning
and late evening. Be up before dawn and
start them along the road. Let them
draw away while you light the fire and
boil the billy. When you’ve had break-
fast, leave the offsider to pack the gear
and ride after them. By that time even
.the stragglers will have done two miles.
Go to the lead and check the bolters till
the offsider heaves in sight with the tail.
By 10 a.m. you’ll have six or seven miles
behind you and you can let them ease off.
As soon as the jumbucks start looking
for shade, send the offsider ahead to
block the lead and make a midday camp.
Hang up your horse, call off the dogs
and go and lie down somewhere just
behind the tail to stop any that might
want to wander back. For lunch you can
drift quietly up to the camp, have it and
go back and lie down again. About mid-
afternoon the mob will start moving
again.
Drop the offsider and his van behind
them and yourself go to the lead. By
sundown you’ll be another five miles or
so along and the offsider can push ahead
and make camp. Thirteen to 15 miles
a day on a long trip is fair plugging. Any-
body who wants sheep to travel faster
should load them in motor trucks.
Don’t let anybody harry the stragglers
into the night camp. Leave them within
a mile of it and they’ll come in them-
selves during the night. If you don t
know the route before you start, get all
the knowledge about it that you can on
the way, even to riding 10 or 12 miles
ahead every day. Then you’ll know
where the camping reserves are and how
you’ll be off for water and feed. With
that under your hat you can time your
arrivals and departures almost to the
hour, and by quietly dodging along, using
the early and late daylight, the sheep will
reach the destination in good order.
Wheat an Irrigation.
“J. Want”; Maoriland Agricultural
Department is experimenting in Canter-
bury province to determine the economic
aspects of irrigation wheat-farming. The
objectives are the “maintenance of wheat
production” and the growing of an inter-
mediate crop between pasture break-up
and the establishment of new swards.
The plots used were border-dyked at
a cost of from £1 to £2 per acre. All
areas had been growing grass before they
were sown to wheat, save one which car-
ried rape, and all soils were clay or silt
loams. The plots were put down in con-
trasted borders, irrigated and non-
irrigated.
The grass plots under irrigation gave
from 44.6 to 47.7 bushels per acre, with
from lewt. to Hcwt. super., the three
wheats used being Solid Straw Tuscan,
Jumbuck and Hunters 11. The best result
was on a stony silt loam with Solid Straw
Tuscan. It turned off 47.7 bushels from
the irrigated border against 29 bushels
from the non-irrigated land.
The rape plots showed contrasting
returns of 29 bushels, irrigated, and 25.1
bushels, non-irrigated.
The average increase of 8.6 bushels
would pay well for dyking, besides pro-
ducing a payable intermediate crop and
improving the fields for fresh pasture
production on debilitated lands.
Wheat Prospects.
“B. Cubbin”: The Australian Wheat
Board announces that it still has
42,241,000 bushels to sell, and 25,000,000
bushels sold but as yet not shipped. Of
the 42,000,000 bushels for sale, the home
flour trade is expected to take 14,500,000,
export flour trade 8,000,000 and the pro-
duce trade 3,750,000, leaving 16,000,000
for export and carryover.
Since its inception A.W.B. has, it re-
ports, sold 234,034,000 bushels and paid
to growers £45,884,000. Its overdraft,
guaranteed by the taxpayer, is £7,700,000,
and it has bought over a quarter million
bales of cornsacks on which it owes
£765,000.
The grower, looking over crops that
for the most part are doing well and
promise a normal average if the season
keeps on being good, won’t find much to
cheer him in the A.W.B. figures. The
U.K. market is very near closed, and
there are at least 1,000,000,000 bushels
waiting in North America for it to open ;
whatever prospects the Orient offered
won’t be improved by recent develop-
ments ; stoppage of lamb exports pre-
vents the farmer using the crop for fat-
tening ; interest and working exes, have
still to be met and the asset is a doubtful
one.
Some see a bright spot in the Common-
wealth’s decision to produce 22,000,000
gallons of power alcohol a year,
10,000,000 gallons of it from wheat, but
that represents only about 4,600,000
bushels of wheat a year. It is hoped to
pay the grower a little more than 3s. a
bushel net. There is, of course, the
chance that successful production of p.a.
from wheat will lead to more distilleries,
but nearly two months have gone by since
the distillery plan was announced, and,
apart from a good deal of talk with the
States, little seems to have been done.
There is a Commonwealth Budget in
the offing. It is sure to contain some-
thing about wheat. Until then about all


FULLY GUARANTEED AS TO LONGEVITY, EFFICIENCY AND MECHANISM
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
IS A COMPLETE SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM IN ITSELF, AND
IS NOT JUST A MODIFIED CLOSET PAN.
IT DISPLACES PANS AND SAVES SANITARY RATES.
Matter is dissolved and sterilised in the machine, and automatically runs off into
an underground sump and soaks away into the soil.
THERE IS NO EMPTYING OR OTHER UNPLEASANT JOB.
Approved by the Board of Health —over 1600 in use.
NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives same comfort and safety as a septic tank.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
AVrite or telephone for illustrated pamphlet.
36 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 81053.
Price £lB/8/-, f.o.b SYDNEY, including Sales Tax and Crating.
Plus 20/- war surcharge.
Obtainable direct , or from ah leading stores , pastoral firms, etc. Agents all Stales.
r
ilUlliUll!
HYGEIA SANITARY Co.Pty. Ltd.
BRITSTAND
GRAD&R-DITCfjiER S
for ovenr ol DlUhin? nttJ Cruiing
: ••
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10.000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet
Procurable irom . . .
E.S.C.A. Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
British Standard Machy. Co. Ltd., Melbourne,
Victoria
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. S.A.
William Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, W.A.
VOR ®» *
6fS S®* 1
Instan* H
jat
. • „ p t\rf'' n< 3
J ep V oo
stove *n .
and
con
f\am e
por
bo>f
Stove
\tssTsiAsr*s‘
\eat- M ?”
„o.«- __ Atm *£
ot
Of
lUHIUUIU
[f5®0
ttHttWttjl
dsf
See y
oH r
loco*
St ore-
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
i
m.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
ds
V
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS .
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
the grower can do is hope for the best,
meantime keeping the farm in good
order. Dropping the bundle won’t help.
Land is good property in the worst of
times and needs only half a chance to
come into its own again.
Treating Strangles.
“Clyde”: Suspect strangles if the
horse has a discharge from the nostrils,
loses appetite and there is a sign of
swelling under the jaw. Isolate him for
three weeks, disinfect all rugging and
harness and bury the droppings.
Feed on greenstuff and keep the patient
in a well-ventilated but draught-free stall,
with ample water. Give an ounce of
Epsom salts and a drachm of nitrate of
potash to every eight gallons. Clip away
the hair under the lower jaw and up to
the ears on each side at least three inches
wide, then paint the clipped part with
tincture of iodine once a day for two
days.
To a gallon of boiling water add a
teaspoonful of eucalyptus ; put it in the
manger and get the horse to move his
head over it so that he can inhale some
of the steam with fresh air. Neglect may
cause internal absorption of pus from the
abscess and death from septic pneumonia.
If the abscess doesn’t break and drain
of its own accord, lance with a clean
sharp knife and foment with hot water
containing a teaspoonful of salt or
washing-soda to the pint.
“R. Ney”: A Q.S.I.R. test on the effect
of tail-length on fly-strike percentage
suggests that a 4in. dock keeps the sheep
fairly free, probably because the longer
bit of tail keeps the wool apart and makes
for a cleaner breech and there is more
for the sheep to wiggle to scare off the
fly. The test worked out: Undocked,
12 p.c. strike ; 4in. dock, 8i p.c. ; second
joint dock, 28 p.c.; complete dock,
35i p.c.
“H.T.C.”: Cobalt is important in the
make-up of blood. Its deficiency in
pastures causes the disease in sheep
called bush sickness in Maoriland, coastal
disease in South Australia and enzootic
marasmus in Westralia. Sheep become
weak and emaciated, anaemic, and show
signs of decreased fertility and wool-
growth, rickets and poor bone formation.
Although deficiency is not extreme in
N.S.W., certain areas suffer, notably in
the Queanbeyan district, and it is thought
to be a contributing factor to nutritional
anaemia in New England. The only cure
is either to drench with cobalt or to give
mineralised licks containing soluble cobalt
salt and limonite, a natural iron com-
pound in which cobalt is present as an
impurity.
“Canbelego”; R. J. Doolin, Myall
Downs, North Star (N.S.W.), has grown
canning beans —Californian White Navy
variety—with machinery used for wheat-
growing. There is a good market for the
beans, which mature fast and occupy the
ground for a comparatively short period.
Like all legumes, the beans enrich the
soil with nitrogen. Doolin sowed his
crop with a wheat combine at the rate
of 151 b. per acre, in rows 24in. to 30in.
apart. Inter-row cultivation controlled
weed growth and conserved soil moisture.
Yield was estimated at 25 bushels per
acre. The crop was cut with a trailer
mower attached to the tractor and driven
by the power drive from the header. The
beans were raked into rows and gathered
with an automatic pick-up on the header,
the drum of which was a plain concave.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How soon after lambing will a merino
ewe be ready for service again ? (2) Is it wise
to put rams with lambing ewes? (3) Why is
it that few people in this country are taught to
carve a leg of mutton properly? —l9ll.
(1) Not until the following spring. Some
claim to have worked out a system whereby they
can get three lambings in two years, but the
claim is confined to crossbred ewes and is
doubtful. (2) No, it is extremely foolish. (3)
Probably because nobody has thought of in-
cluding a carving course in the schools.
Outback Occupations.
NO. LXXX.
LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM (1).
The wife wants to know what you’re
thinking about.
“It’s that young Jack,” you say. “Y’
know I useter think he was a fairly smart
boy an’ would make a good farmer, but
now —well, I dunno, but I don’t think his
heart’s in the game.”
The missus gives you a funny sort of
look and says if she was you she wouldn’t
worry. Jack’s young, and young fellows
get these queer turns.
“Queer turns! I tell y’ he’s gettin’
past a joke. Y’ have t’ speak t’ him
two or three times before he’ll answer
an’ then he gives y’ a blank look an’
says ‘Eh?’ He’s bin three days standin’
a dozen posts up in that new fence an’
every time I look up he’s leanin’ on the
shovel or the bar moonin’ like a sick
heifer.”
The missus laughs a bit and says there
isn’t much you can do about it.
“By cripes,” you say, “somethin' will
have t’ be done about it. If he don’t
like farmin’ why don’t he say so? No-
body ever said I was a hard man. If
he wants t’ make a break I won’t stop
him, but I’ll bet he’ll soon come back.
Workin’ f’r bosses ain’t like workin’ f’r
your own.”
The missus giggles and says if she was
you she wouldn’t worry and don’t you
remember when you were the same way.
“Who, me? When?”
“When you were courting me.”
“ ’Struth! ” you gasp, half in wonder,
half in relief, as the truth dawns on you.
Now you know why he is always going
over to Thompson’s, why he demanded
a new suit last Christmas, though he’d
had one only three years before, why he
shaves every • day, why—oh, a lot of
things. “Well, strike me handsome,” you
murmur and make up the paddock.
You and Jack work away in silence.
You quell every prompting that arises
to have him on until he drops the crow-
bar on his foot. He jumps away, then
hops a couple of times and you wait for
the burst of profanity. It comes: “Bl-
bother the thing,” he mutters.
“Hey,” you ask, “what’s the matter?
Think Ettie can hear y’ from here?”
“Ettie?” he blurts out, his face red.
He gives you a wild look, then grabs
the shovel and starts working like mad.
“Huh, no bites,” you think, grinning
to yourself.
At midday you say, “Well, time we
got a bit o’ packin’,” and head for the
house. Jack doesn’t look at you, but
says, “I —I don’t think I’ll have any, dad.”
“You crook, son?”
“Aw, no. I just don’t want any. Don’t
bother, dad.”
“ ’Struth,” you think, beginning to feel
worried. You’ve always believed that
when a colt goes off its tucker there’s
something wrong.
“He’s off his tucker,” you tell the
missus. She looks up the paddock with
a soft expression and then says, “Look,
Jack, it’s best just to leave him alone.
He’ll be all right.”
On the way back after lunch you see
Jack running towards you, chasing a
bit of paper. You gather in the paper
and look at it.
It is at night, when I am alone
And the world is worn and there is no
singing,
That small songs that are all our own
Rise like feenixes where my memory is
ringing.
Then Jack grabs the paper. You look
at him, thinking that you never knew he
had that in him. “By cripes,” you say,
“that’s not bad. You oughter get good
money for it, Jack. Them poets get well
paid. They”
“Money for it!” he snaps, and turns
away as though you’d struck him.
“Ain’t them things spelt with a P?”
you ask. But he picks up the bar and
drives it into the posthole.
A couple of nights later there is a dis-
turbance. Jack can’t find his hat. In
a fever he searches the house, upset-
ting everybody and everything. The hat
is found at last; he places it carefully
on his oiled hair and makes for the door,
to stop dead as young Tom, his brother,
says, “Ain’t y’ goin’ t’ take a note f’r
bein’ late?”
Jack looks at Tom, battle in his eyes,
then slams the door and goes. You
admonish Tom. Tom laughs and says,
“Well, teachers generally want a note
when y’re late.”
“Teachers!” You meet your wife’s
eyes and obey their signal. Later, after
Tom has gone to bed, you say, “But I
thought it was Ettie Thompson?”
“So did I, dear, until yesterday, There’s
been a new teacher at the Five Mile since
last month and she’s 30 if she’s a day.”
“Strike me pink, I wondered why he
was writin’ poetry t’ Ettie Thompson.
That explains it. But we can’t have him
chasin’ old maids. That’s no good.”
She sighs and says, “There’s nothing
to be done. If you try to stop it you’ll
only make it worse. It’s a phase and
he’ll have to get over it.”
“That’s all very well. But it’s makin’
him hard t’ get on with. He’s off his
tucker, writin’ poetry, moonin’ about the
place. He ain’t the Jack we used t’
know. I’m not”
Then the door opens to admit Jack.
He is hatless, has a black eye and a reck-
less look. Without a word he goes to his
room.
“Cripes,” you think, “competition!”
And with a queer thrill you make for bed.


THE OTHER FELLOWS MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2|d. per line.
First place for a Queenslander’s reminder of what we owe to the men. of the
Merchant Navy and how we regard the debt.
Silent Heroes
The response by Australians to the
many appeals for funds to make life a
little more comfortable for the men of
the fighting services has been generous.
Many sporting bodies waive entrance fees
to men in uniform, tramways grant con-
cessions to them, and, generally speaking,
the public is not slow to show its appro-
val of the spirit of these men.
There is a body of men, however, who
have suffered heavily in this war, and
who are not entitled to any of these
privileges. The men of the merchant
service, manning the ships which make
the hazardous journey to England with
urgently-needed foodstuffs, are called
upon to maintain a war effort that makes
our use of the term almost presumptuous.
These men are in comparatively quiet
waters out here, but they know what lies
ahead of them in the Atlantic. Harried
by dive-bombers and sea raiders on the
trip out, their sojourn on the Australian
coast is but a breathing spell before run-
ning the gauntlet again, and the know-
ledge of what lies ahead of them can
never be far from their thoughts.
None of the privileges extended to the
men of the Navy, Army and Air Force
is theirs ; yet who is more deserving of
some recognition?— Sea Hawk (Q.).
Hats Off!
From a-Digger who has “seen a bit
of fighting”:
Your [The Bulletin’s] treatment of the
Greek affair is popular and very sensible, and
you can’t praise the navy too much; we swear
by it. But, then, when someone has saved
your life two or three times within a few days
judgment is likely to be biased. As for the mer-
chant navy, here is my experience: We got
aboard a troopship late in the night, dog-tired
and hungry; the ship, as you may suppose, was
crowded, but there were cocoa and sandwiches
for all who wanted them. The crew worked
like beavers all next day, feeding us, though
we were being raided, sometimes twice within
the hour, and when we finally got it they did
their job well.
I wpuldn’t go to sea for any money. On
land it’s just your bad lutk if you’re the
immediate target, but at sea you’re “it,” and
all that can be hoped for is a close miss or
that it hits some other part of the ship (and a
“screamer” coming down close stands the hair
as straight up as is possible). Yet those men
were at it all the time.
When we hear of the navy losing a ship it
is as bad as losing a mate. There are always
some thousands of men who remember that
particular ship, seeing her race through the
water throwing everything she had at raiders,
or -remember the “Glad-to-see-you-make-your-
selves-comfortable” attitude as we got aboard
from some Greek beach or jumped to their
decks from a sinking ship.
One thing I can say about Fritz’s bombing;
the scream of the ’plane and then of the bomb
descending make no one feel happy, but they
are rotten shots. We- learned to stay on the
road for the single bombers, though the dive-
bombers, because of their machine-guns, en-
tailed more discretion —and they had lovely
targets and plenty of time. — F. Jay (Abroad).
Not Union—Unity!
Why this passion for union? When
France was disintegrating Mr. Churchill
offered union with England as a last
hope of salvation. Now it’s union with
America, and we may even hear of union
with Russia before we’re done. There
are also Federal union and church union.
In the Church of England there’s a sec-
tion working hopefully for union with
the Nonconformists, and another section
working actively for union with Rome.
But why union? If we can worship
each in our own way, and regard each
other with Christian tolerance and friend-
liness, that should be enough.
If countries can come together also
in Christian tolerance and friendliness,
surely there is no need for hard-and-fast
pacts and commitments.
Czechoslovakia had a pact with France
and Russia. Neither moved a hand to
save her, and the union forced upon
Slovaks by the 1919 Peace Treaty was so
ill-regarded that they have been on Ger-
many’s side since the outbreak of the
war. France had a pact with England,
which did not prevent her from with-
drawing from hostilities. America had
no commitments, yet she is being drawn
more and more to help us.
There is one union worth preserving
and cherishing, and that is the British
Empire. It is the Empire alone that has
so far saved civilisation, and if it is to
be finally saved the credit must be given
to us. If we can do so much for a totter-
ing world, what can we not do for our-
selves in a stable world?
Let us work and stand together in the
Empire first and work outward from that
to the greater brotherhood. A strong and
self-reliant British Empire—Common-
wealth if you prefer it—is the greatest
safeguard for world peace, but union
with this or that country, with the Empire
as world policeman, is the same old story
in the same old way. We have earned
the right to stand aside from European
entanglements, and work out our own
great destiny, with the King who is still
in London the symbol of our unity.—
F. H. W. (S.A.).
The Munition Worker
I for one am heartily fed up with
talk of “the army in overalls” and the
worker who is going “to win the war in
his factory” and the all-too-common plac-
ing of the munition worker upon the
same status- as the fighting soldier. No
sane man denies the importance of the
munition worker and his work, but no
man with eyes in his head will deny
that in all but isolated cases the
worker’s entry into the munition-making
industry is actuated by motives of gain
rather than of patriotism.
How many of the thousands of factory
hands earning from £6 to £l2 a week
munition-making would be prepared to
continue working for ss. a day and their
tucker, and what would their unions say
if a Comforts Fund had to be raised to
supply them with cigarettes and occa-
sional delicacies?
The Australian worker deserves his
high wage—contracting firms of world-
wide experience agree that he is the best
in the world —but his mates who are
using the weapons he forges are still
entitled to first place in the nation’s
regard.—W. K. D. (Q.).
Nero Fiddles
Europe, a continent flowing with blood,
where millions are dying from starvation
and disease ; a continent of indescribable
misery and devastation.
Australia, flowing with milk and
honey—a continent of well-nourished,
pleasure-ridden people ; a continent that
has never known rivers of blood nor the
gaunt spectre of starving millions.
Is it the Divine Will that Australia
should be for all time spared the trage-
dies of other nations and be permitted
to indulge in degrading political and
economic strife whilst millions of our
fellow-beings perish by famine and the
sword? Anyone would think we thought so.
If we Australians have, in general,
more self-reliance and spirit than most
other nations, how come we to abide
such as now regard
th e m s e Ives our
leaders in national
and industrial
effort?
Our Prime Min-
ister seriously mis-
judged our temper
when he stated re-
cently that the
people would resent
an early election.
An election would
be welcomed as an
opportunity to cast
aside those who
have been and are
continually creat-
ing political and
industrial unrest,
thereby delaying
and disorganising
the controlling
hand and slowing
down by strikes
and other more
subtle means the
output of our
factories.
Australians de-
mand a Govern-
ment of men pledged to pursue unflinch-
ingly an ever-expanding war effort —•
which shall cover conscription of man
and material —a Government of men
pledged to deal with any who might dare
to thwart our effort. —Yarrawin (N.S.W.).
Conscription
Statements in the local press to the
effect that with new recruiting methods
no eligible man will have the nerve to
refuse are insults to any intelligent per-
son. People who are most against con-
scription are often the very ones to say
“You should be ashamed of yourself for
not enlisting!” Which is better—straight-
forward conscription or this underhand
business of “We’ll shame them into it”?
I don’t agree entirely with conscrip-
tion. A man should, I suppose, be able
to please himself whether or not he
throws his body into the bullet-box, but
I consider conscription a more honor-
able approach to our young men than
are recruiting “drives,” which are more
like veiled sneers and challenges than
mere emotional stimulants. —E. (N.S.W.).
Form at a Glance
Local interest in the big race is mainly
centred on two entries —Nazi-Germ and
Dem-Auss.
Nazi-Germ is a pedigreed horse, with
a long list of recent wins to his credit.
Has been for many years under the same
trainer, and is as hard as nails. Bred for
the course, he is both docile and willing.
Good starter, stayer and carries heavy
weights easily. Ridden by trainer, who
knows how to get every inch of pace out
of him. The rider has often been ac-
cused of doping other mounts, beating
the barrier, jostling, flogging and using
a battery, but he usually gets there first
in any field, and has not yet been dis-
qualified.
Dem-Auss is a newcomer. Has many
good points, but shows too much con-
dition, Was not bred for racing, but
broken in to buggy and hard road work.
Only recently schooled for the track by
amateur trainer. Has. a reputation as an
outlaw. Jumps around at the barrier,
gets on his hind legs if given the whip,
is hard in the mouth and slows down
when it suits him. He is ridden by any
man who can scramble into the saddle
and stay there long enough. If he is in
the mood has some chance of winning,
as he has shown stamina, pace and spirit
in some minor events.
Big wagers have been placed on
both horses, and it will be interesting to
see if expert preparation can be beaten
by go-as-you-please methods.
There are rumors that attempts are
being made by the other stable to dope
Dem-Auss, but as no arrests have been
made the stories can perhaps be dis-
counted. But there seems to be some
truth in the report of the conditions under
which the race is run. It is said that
whichever horse loses will be put in har-
ness and made to pull the float of the
winner to all future fixtures. —Two to
Two (S.A.).
Soldiers’ Pay
The soldier gets merely a retaining fee.
His real reward is, or was, solidus (that
was a Roman coin and you ' see
it still in the s. of £ s. d.), which
he gets, or used to get, after the victory
has been won. This is the real reason
why even the modern soldier is paid at
such an absurd rate. The theory is that
what we call pay is merely a retaining
fee. But he gets his solidus (or “share-
out”) when the war is over. That is the
theory.
Nowadays, of course, even after vic-
tory, there is not much share-out. The
British C.-in-C., after the last war, got
£lOO,OOO and an earldom by grant of
Parliament. Other highly-placed officers
received substantial amounts, but there
was a sharp decrease as you went down
the scale in rank. My personal share-out as
a subaltern was £lO and two war medals.
Perhaps that was all I was really worth.
After all, no pay is proportionate to
the amount of risk a soldier runs, so we
could never pay them adequately. But
we could, I think, make sure that the
risks they ran, the perils they faced and
(even) the sacrifices they made had been
in a large measure made good if we who
remain at home make up our minds to
put into immediate action all this theory
about a new and a better world.—lnnis-
killing (N.S.W.).
Napoleon and Hitler
“Charn” (B. 26/6/’4l) appears to be
under the impression that Napoleon had
no better education than Hitler. On the
contrary, he was a pupil at the military
college of Brienne —the French Sand-
hurst of the time—passing from there
into the artillery. He entered the army
as a commissioned officer, as products of
military colleges do today.
And Napoleon was not of humble
birth. His family was upper middle-class.
—Sam (N.S.W.).
Maori Soldiers
Next to the horror and thoroughness
of the German attack on Crete, pakehas
describe the ferocity of the Maori
bayonet charges as the most striking
feature of the fighting. To those who
know Maori traditions that is not sur-
prising. At one place the Maoris were
resting. Tired feet, bootless, stretched
amongst the grass. An alarm. The
advancing foe was routed by steady
ranks of barefooted, brown-skinned war-
riors chanting their war cries and
bayoneting one and all who came against
them. The boots they secured when a
bloody victory was . won.
Again and again their white comrades
have recounted how the Maoris turned
on the advancing Huns and put them to
flight with the bayonet. On one occa-
sion they drove the enemy back five
miles in hand-to-hand fighting. As a
whole the Maoris offered to remain in
Crete and fight a rearguard action. It
was the same in the 1914-18 war. The
Maori revelled in hand-to-hand fighting.
At Sari Bair it was the Maori bayonet
attacks, executed in silence broken only
by their haka as each trench was taken,
that cleared out the Turks. Subsequently
in France the Maoris exhibited in the
work of their Pioneer Battalion the in-
herent ability of their race as military
engineers.
Maoris in the last war —as in this—
were all volunteers. Nearly half of the
2227 who served became casualties. Alone
of all the native races in the world they
stood the bitter trench warfare in France
in 1916-18. —Tinopai (M.L.).
‘‘Seen from Scotchman’s Hill”
I, too, have stood upon Scotchman’s
Hill (B. 9/7/’4l) to watch the splendid
specimens of manhood perform on the
football oval below, but because I know
the facts my feelings have been very
different from “W.C.C.’s.” A large pro-
portion of this year’s League players are
juniors, lads who left school last Decem-
ber, and quite a number of them are
“Take charge of the squadron, Prendergast —I'm having my pants
pressed !”


rr
ft
WELL
mm
*
iii
W
ill
sii
m
wmm
ilili
m
iiilillBli
•"'f V ' ;••
,
MilHR
MM
■■n
r
.
■ -
ml
m
II**
■
ill
BIH
m
' < X s V '
ip
I
R
*>V:- m
K
«*
? .
f*
#1
TO EE
HERE 5
TDOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA —Goldsbrough, Mcrt & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


naval reservists or Air Force reservists.
A very large number of the senior players
get leave from their various camps and
naval depots to play each Saturday.—
Sandgroper (W.A.).
Does “W.C.C.” think we flaunt our
“splendid physiques before . admiring
crowds” in much the same way and for
the same purpose as chorus girls? Does
he really imagine that the majority of
footballers give two damns if five or five
thousand are looking on? We play for
the love of the game. A single glance in
the East Fremantle clubroom after the
match would give the lie to “W.C.C.”
Half a dozen of the team will be in khaki,
and these in the main are members of
the A.I.F. or the permanent garrison.
One or two members of both the R.A.N.
and R.A.A.F. will be present, while Air
Force reserve badges will be in evidence.
How many of those who are in civilian
clothes have volunteered dnd been re-
jected is hard to say, but it is common
knowledge that many footballers are re-
jected through injured knees and ankles.
That a Westralian, whose State has led
Australia in recruiting for two wars,
can write in such a vein is mildly regret-
table. If he wants final proof of what
footballers of this State have done and
will do, let him seek the honor board in
the above-mentioned clubrooms and
ponder over the long columns of names,
particularly those with the little gold stars
beside them. — 19th Man (W.A.).
Steam Cars
Conversion of motor engines to steam
power may be one answer to the petrol
shortage. Two young Australian engi-
neers in England are doing it with great
success on small cars, according to
reports from the Old Country, confirmed
by the N.R.M.A. (N.S.W.). No system
of converting large cars —over 10 to 14
h.p.—has yet been evolved to my know-
ledge, but there is nothing to stop the
Federal Government from having ex-
periments begun.
In England the system is to install a
steam generator, using coke as fuel, and
making minor alterations to the ordinary
petrol engine. New cylinder heads have
to be fitted, but otherwise the job presents
few difficulties and the engine is not
affected if a return to petrol is desired.
Coke is not an expensive fuel —it costs
less than 2s. a bag. On the basis of the
English experiments, a car will run for
100 miles on one bag of coke, which
makes it a much cheaper proposition than
petrol. There is plenty of coke in Aus-
tralia. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
The Pioneer Spirit
Westralia could show the eastern States
a few points in the gas-producer game.
In W.A. cars fitted with all kinds of pro-
ducers are a familiar sight; trucks are
pulling seven- and eight-ton loads in
our district over long leads and averag-
ing 40 to 50 miles to the gallon of petrol
—which is still used to start engine and
warm up, etc. The dry cleaner, as far
as its development goes, has been per-
fected, and the old oil-cleaner has been
superseded.
The reason for all this seems to me to
lie in the different outlook of the two
sections of the country. Eastern Australia
is more highly “civilised” —for want of a
better word —more coddled up on all
sorts of modern conveniences ; it has lost
touch with the old rough-and-tumble
days, and with it a good deal of the old,
vigorous ability to improvise on fresh
problems.
The West is still developing—what
passes for quite reasonable luxury over
here would appear laughably barbaric to
a sophisticated easterner. It would seem
incredible that citizens of a fair-sized
hamlet, for instance, could take a jaunt
outside the town limits and knock over
their dinner in the form of a succulent
“brush,” and like it. The problem pre-
sented by the gas producers is right up
our alley, and we are able to tackle it
unfettered by a button-pushing complex.
—R.H.G. (W.A.).
Our Best Unificationists
The steady progress by our six super-
fluous State Governments towards the
eminently laudable result of cutting their
own throats by making unification un-
avoidable should please every thinking
Australian. During the three latest years
for which figures are available State
losses on loan enterprises have risen
from £16,863,000 to £21,238,000, and
financial assistance, direct and indirect,
from Commonwealth sources from
£18,369,000 to £20,266,000. Direct Com-
monwealth aid to States has fallen by
£829,000, but still absorbs practically the
whole Federal income tax. Federal road
aid grants have risen by nearly 1 \ million
pounds, although State expenditure on
roads has increased substantially in spite
of earnest efforts to drive traffic off them
in the interests of their union-ridden rail-
ways.
On top of all this has come the im-
mense and unavoidable burden of the
national war effort, entirely a Federal
responsibility. The response of the State
parasites has been to increase their
already exorbitant provincial taxation
and to make even larger demands for
Federal gifts. The principal excuse ad-
vanced, necessity to meet unemployment,
is a ridiculous and obvious untruth. But
a weak Federal Government continues
to bow to State political pull and to
hand out immense sums which should go
towards helping Australia’s war-effort in-
stead of being wasted on provincial vote-
catching by superfluous politicians.
N. S. Wales and Victoria are the big-
gest and hungriest amongst the six,
Queensland the noisiest and most shame-
less. There, unemployment has reached
the record low figure of 3.9 p.c. It was
6 p.c. when war was declared in Sep-
tember, 1939. The official prosperity
index is nearly 110 compared with the
pre-depression 1928 figure of 100.5. Yet
in the first war year the State develop-
ment tax impost was £2,255,000 and it
went up another £20,000 last year. Less
than half of it was spent on subsidies and
ration relief, its only original alleged
purpose.
The vital and unavoidable fact in the
whole shameless business is that a nation
of less than 7,000,000 people, less than a
third of them actual producers, cannot
possibly continue to meet these vast un-
productive demands and pay for a war
of survival at the same time. Treasurer
“ Where's mate ?”
“ Don't like putten away, Cap'n, but ’ ee’s over'n powder magazine avin
a smoke."
Fadden has warned us that unavoidable
Federal war taxation will bring some
desperately hard times to everyone in the
near future. With true political tact he
avoided any reference to the six sets of
State bloodsuckers to whose depredations
the desperation and the hardness will be
directly due.
But the harder and more desperate
these conditions become the better and
nearer will be the prospects of an over-
whelming public demand for relief. There
is only one way of obtaining that relief.
To interfere with the national war effort
would be suicide. The only and obvious
way out lies in the abolition of present
State Governments and all that they stand
for, together with present State boun-
daries, in favor of a score or two of
provincial councils responsible to the
national Government for local details of
administration and executive. Until that
is done we shall never emerge from paro-
chialism to nationhood. — Puyyaka (Q,).
Birth Control
Gripes! I seem to have brought out
most of the old objections once again.
“Feminine Anti-Feminist” (B. 16/7/’4l)
does not realise that I did not advocate
keeping mothers at work against their
will. Those who want to stay at home
and nurse and rear their own babies
would not be constrained to do other-
wise. All I suggested was that women
should not be forced to give up their job
on marriage.
“F.C.” points out that the poor have a
higher birthrate than the rich. This is
not because they want more children ; it
is because they are less prudent, and
prefer to take the risk of an unwanted
pregnancy rather than go to the trouble
of taking precautions.
“Christianus” mentions Scripture, but
if he reads the 39th chapter of Genesis
carefully he will find that Onan was slain
not for practising birth-prevention, but for
not “raising ud a son to his brother.” i.e..
fulfilling the levirate law of engendering
a son by his brother’s widow to carry on
the deceased brother’s family line. Any-
way, why quote a legendary happening
from a small Oriental tribe in antiquity
as a guide for ethical conduct in the very
different civilisation in which we live
today?
“P.S.” considers that “self-control” is
the only lawful means of limitation of
population. What does he mean by self-
control? Does he realise that if a mar-
ried couple limited themselves to one act
of intercourse a year,, they might still
produce one baby a year? And “self-
control” can result in all sorts of sexu'al
anomalies, abnormalities, perversions and
neuroses. It is unfortunate that “P.S.”
quotes Ireland. Though distribution of
contraceptive instruction is punishable by
law m that country, there is a very large
amount of bootlegging in contraceptive
literature and apparatus.
“A.P.” states that nervous disorders
have increased alarmingly in recent years
and apparently attributes it to the prac-
tice of birth control. On what grounds?
I have been consulted by many thou-
sands of women, and believe that far
more nervous trouble is caused by the
fear of an unwanted pregnancy than by
any other single factor.
“D.D.” writes blithely of the “limited
knowledge” at present available, and stig-
matises it as dangerous and ineffective.
Let him consult any of the really good
books on birth control by English or
American gynaecologists who have de-
voted special study to this subject. He
will then think otherwise. He also asks
how parents can tell that, of a possible
family of six or seven, the one or two
elected to human existence may not tie
the very poorest specimens of what the
■ unborn ones might have been. Then why
stop at six or seven? If they really put
their minds to it, a couple might manage
to produce anything between 20 and 30.
If they stop at six or seven, how can
they be sure that the other 13 to 23
would not have been finer specimens?—
Colin Street (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
There is no need for either jubilation
or condemnation regarding the Federal
child-endowment scheme. Even those
who imagine themselves as beneficiaries
will pay in full for it. This war, likely
to be the most costly of all wars, will
have to be paid for. Federal Treasurers
have learned that the most easily im-
posed and the most easily collected of
imposts is the sales tax. Once it is on
the public doesn’t seem to notice it, and,
more excellent still, just about every busi-
nessman is forced to work as an unpaid
tax-gatherer. So in the near future we
may look out for big increases in sales
tax. And then, should the married man
start to squeal, won’t the Treasurer be
able to point out that he is compensated
for the additional burden in direct ratio
to the mouths he has to feed by child-
endowment payments? Clever, isn’t it? —
W. C. C. (W.A.).
Fox Breeding
I’ve been thinking savagely of a broad-
cast of the Graziers’ Association meet-
ing I heard a week or two ago —before
I had to go bush and slay Government
wombats that were tearing up my fences
—when it was moved that silver foxes
should not be permitted to enter Aus-
tralia.
There had been some talk of starting
silver-fox farms in Victoria. Surely the
Graziers’ Association does not think the
possible escape of a silver fox could harm
us. As my very forthright neighbor re-
marked ; “The studs cost £2OO apiece ;
wouldn’t they be blanky fools to let them
loose among the Government scrubbers.”
What possible harm could either well-
bred foxes or rabbits do if one or two
got loose among the hundreds of thou-
sands of foxes or the millions of rabbits
infesting the country?
If a sufficient number of the well-bred
foxes or rabbits were to “lose” them-
selves among the mongrels and improve
the breed —and, incidentally, the fur —
there would be a much better chance of
eradicating the pests—note the scarcity
of rabbits now in almost every district,
due to the high prices paid for furred
skins.
If the Government could be induced
to give a fixed minimum price (say, 4s.
a pound) for skins, there need be no
unemployment in the winter months, and
an army of unnecessary inspectors and
their retinues could be released for active
service. But that is another matter. —
Tik (Vic.).
Eat More
More money to buy goods that
“W.P.T.” (B. 16/7/’4l) considers too
dear won’t help much. Many of our
present-day economic ills lie with the
average trade-unionist, who doesn’t know
the elementary fact that high prices mean
larger margins of retail profit. When he
applies to the Court for an increase and
gets it he is only chasing a will-o’-the-
wisp—his money doesn’t buy him any
more goods, because his increase, and
more, is taken from him in dearer goods.
If the unions would apply to the Courts
for reductions in the cost of essentials,
including rent, medical charges, prescrip-
tions, etc., and let wages tend downwards
instead of upwards, they’d be doing a
better job. Some day, when we get back
to a saner world, the value of everything
in this country, profits, wages, savings,
borrowings and property and land,
will have to be halved if we are to get
anywhere as an exporting country, —
W. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Why Exempt Them?
When is the Government going to do
something about the exemption of
civil servants from military service? Is
there any trace of justice or equity in a
system which employs civil staff and ser-
vice personnel at H.Q.? Dozens of chaps
have given up good jobs in civilian life
to do their duty, and find themselves
employed—at about 30 p.c. less salary
than the civil staff —on the same duties
as these civil servants, who have all the
advantages of a civil job—time and a
half for overtime, tea money, public
holidays. If the Government must have
its civil staff at service H.Q. why not do
away with men in. uniform there—they
joined up for overseas anyway —or, alter-
natively, make some pretence at equality
in their rates of pay?
There are hundreds of young men in
Melbourne alone in such positions. I
wonder how the Government can even
keep a straight face when it calls for
more recruits for overseas when there
are able-bodied men at service H.Q., who
enlisted for duty overseas, employed on
clerical work which could be done
just as well by women or by the Gov-
ernment’s so indispensable civil servants.
— One of Them (Vic.).
Unnecessary
On Wednesday, July 23, 1941, I stood
in Macquarie-street, Sydney, and watched
a lot of unnecessary people driving away
from the opening of an unnecessary Par-
liament in a number of unnecessary
motor-cars, which were burning a lot of
very necessary petrol. Further along,
women who should have been at home
doing necessary things to necessary babies
were marching behind an unnecessary
band. The women were dressed in un-
necessary uniforms and were going to a
recruiting rally which should be unneces-
sary in any country fighting for its life. —
Auntie Blah (N.S.W.).
Labor for Shearing
“Graz’s” suggestion (B. 23 /7 / ’4l) that
agencies should be set up in central
towns in sheep districts to help procure
labor for shearing seems to me some-
thing like chartering an ocean liner to go
from Sydney to Manly. The establish-
ment of agencies would be an expensive
and unnecessary business. Sheepowners
have contacts with stock and station
agents in the towns, to whom they make
known their labor requirements. Shearers
and others seeking shed work make it a
rule to call on these agents. Then it is
only a matter of a ring on the ’phone
and the parties are in touch straight
away. Nothing could be simpler or more
convenient. —Fitzjay (N.S.W.),


Mainly Mail-Order
rw
15 Jewel
CYPRUS
WATCH
. V thoroughly
reliable watch for
active service. With
military strap.
Guaranteed.
Price, 60/-
Post Free.
DIAMOND
fr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
fds
112 MARKCT SI
i SYDNEY.
OPP DAVIDJOMES
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your •
home. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
Why Are Your Tools Stolen?
Because you do not. engrave
your name on them. It is
very easy to do so. Let
us send you a block of
ETOHO and you can write
your ordinary signature or
your initials on any metal ;
the hardest steel, brass-,
copper, etc. It can be done in five minutes.
Failure is impossible. The tool will have to be
practically destroyed before the engraving can
be erased. If you mark them “Stolen from”
with your name, the boldest thief will not steal
them. Hotels and cafes can ensure their cutlery
and platedware against theft by branding them.
The complete ETCHO outfit, with full directions,
costs only 1/6 post free, and is enough to engrave
quite a hundred articles.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
fds
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Tree Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET. SYDNEY.
y
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES
Banjo-Mandolins with case, £3/10/-
Hawalian Steel Guitars . . . £3/19/6
Complete home tuition course given with above.
FREIGHT PAID BY US.
His Master’s Voice demon-
strating portable £4/15/-
Can be sent C.O.D.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
fds
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
British-made Kerosene Lamps
providing a steady 300 c.p._ light
without flickering and without
smoke or smell.
J Model EXIOO (illustrated)
can be used as a Storm
jjantern, Table Lamp or Hanging
Lamp. Reflector slips oft When
not required. Burns for 10
hours on 1} pint.
Price, 70/- complete.
Write for catalogue of Radiators
and all types of lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopson & Co. Pty., Ltd,,
376-382 Kent Street, Sydney.
MA6336.
f
ACCUMULATOR
HANDLAMPS
Ideal for farm use, the Block
plateless lead—acid accumulator
is a revelation in efficiency!
• No plates to buckle
• No sulphating
• Won’t run down.
Extra powerful bull’s-eye gives
70 hours’ continuous light.
Strong bakelite moulded case,
chrome plated fittings. Light-
______ weight, lasts for a lifetime,
almost unbreakable. Capacity 2v. 80 a.h.
S’uitable for use by Fishermen, Campers, the
Man-on-the-Land, etc. ,
Complete outfit, including Block Flateless
Accumulator, Unchax-ged, 10/6. Freight extra.
Weight when packed, 01b.
382 Kent
St., Sydney.
QMErara
Speed & Accuracy
in all mental
movements
follow the Pelman
training.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, posted free on request. Write to
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Fane,
Melbourne. ‘Telephone: MU3355.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BELT supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
iat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAD OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
JkJy
a
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A, fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tobacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.;
Available in Ready Rubbed Fine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, |lb. 9/3 delivered; lib. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
s£jula m
Dir 1 CIV ELECTRIC FENCE
Dill 01A CHARGER.
Standard Mode], £6/12/6. Battery Extra.
Be Luxe Model, £B/14/6. Battery Extra.
The new Be Luxe Model gives greater
efficiency in low rainfall areas.
Send for FREE illustrated leaflet.
SINGEE WIRE FENCE CO.,
207 George Street, SYBNBY.
CONFECTIONERY
ONE GUINEA (21/-) will bring you
21 Selected Recipes.
Bach one of the following list can be manu-
factured at under Gd. per pound.
Caramels
Butter Scotch
Cocoanut Roughs
Marzipans
licorice Allsorts
Cocoanut Ice
Nougat
Ju Jubcs
Honey Chews
Cocoanut Jacks
Toffee (Assorted)
Fondants
Barley < Sugar
Honeycomb
Milk Chews
Etc.
Retail, all the above lines are 2/- per pound
and upwards, thus showing 800% profit.
Every recipe guaranteed.
COMMONWEALTH CONFECTIONERY,
-17 High St., Northcote, Nl6, Victoria-
TYPEWRITERS
of every descriptibn
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
AJI States—See ’Phone Book.
dsf
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Xiearn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 JIIMJTIis.
Let Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple hut complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 208 every Sunday 9.45 a.m.
dsf
WNCHHTIR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
m.
i«fc
2- 7Soft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KlttG STREET, SYDNEY.
dsf
LAMBS SAVED
Humane—Safe—and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection—No
losses. Don’t julge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROCX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILEJJ, £3/5/-. From all
agents or the distributors: HAIN &
SEABIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
iAROUX ( Bloodless )
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment, 100 p.c. efficient—
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
«
u
xf,
EEABN VENTKIEOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
riVLL Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
STOPvour Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® LoeaHori,
of YQUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Koussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely -
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Kecommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE R.OUSSEIi APPLIANCE CO..
DEPT. 27, 84 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
NATURTON
for the DEAF and Hard
of Hearing.
“Naturton” is a new British invention which
has a particular appeal to those afflicted with
deafness owing to its comfort and unobtrusive—
ness. No batteries, wires or headbands are used.
“Naturton” is unique in that it is the only
hearing aid of its type with double sound
chambers and vibrators. pall or write for
particulars and 30 days’ trial offer.
R. A. NOEDL. 1.i.b.5.t.,
3th Floor, The Block,
428 George Street, SYDNEY,
Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAL.
DEHOKNEB
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy,, cheap, humane
method. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
6/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
/i
*
THE “ABERDEEN” (Regd.)
“Adjusta” Patent Com-
bined Leg and Surcingle
HORSE RUG
Can he put on and
fastened up in \ a
minute. Impossible
for rug to come off.
The animal has per-
fect freedom, as the
fitting is self-adjust-
ing. Heavy check
lined, li-inch plated
breast-strap and lea-
ther on wither. All
sizes and qualities
from 25/- to 51/-.
From all leading stores and saddlers.
SMITH COPELAND & CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
/'A
Write
for
Price
List.
CLIMBING
AT.O
TO
I STREET
Amazing New imporlett
C.LIMBING, TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001b.' per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet 2/6 packet posted.
PUKE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!)
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES. DELICIOUS JAM. 8/6 Packet, ppsted.
□
dsf
15-DAY TIMBER' KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, In 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free.
N'.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
CHAMPION
J. P. TALTY
POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected lap
flaps and skirts.
44in. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4'Jin. to sip. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
ds
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,” r W
*252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy cf The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single tssu .
1 enclose 24 /- (plus exchange), the regular annual
subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers
living outside Australia
Zealand should send 30/-.)
and New
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
*For local office
address, see Page 8.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
6/8/*4l (See Page 28)
*
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out arid send with your “Wants" to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page 8.


ULTIMATE Leads Again!
FULL BANDSPREAD
SHORT-WAVE TUNING
Overseas Tuning and Reception Revolutionised! Short-wave
Stations spread up to sixteen times further apart than on
ordinary Receivers! Each Short-wave Band located on a separate
scale! Overseas Stations tuned in as easily as Local Stations .
Foreign Stations logged and re-located instantly and unerringly!
Another outstanding testimony to “ULTIMATE” excellence!
798 verified 1 Radio stations were received on a standard “Ultimate” Receiver
—a world’s record! Mr. R. N. Shaw uses an “Ultimate” Receiver to compile
the “Wireless Weekly” Short-wave notes! “Ultimate” Receivers hold nine
Champion of Champion Awards in New Zealand! An “Ultimate” Receiver
was used by the Commander R. E. Byrd Expedition to the South Pole! The
official Australian Adviser to the British Broadcasting Commission uses
“Ultimate” Receivers exclusively! Mr. L. J. Keast (Randwick, N.S.W.)
compiled the log of more than 400 Short-wave Stations, published in “Wireless
Weekly,” with a standard “Ultimate” 8. “Ultimate” leads everywhere!
ULTIMATE “MAJESTIC” 9-VALVE A.C. GRAND CONSOLE
Featuring Full Bandspread, Dial and Wave Band Indicator, Spinner Tuning Anti-drift
Devices, Automatic Volume Control, Electric Tuning Eye, etc., etc., in addition to
all the modern improvements that have made "ULTIMATE” famous. Special Push-
Pull Audio Output gives (a) Cancellation of Even Order Harmonics resulting in
much higher than average tone quality; (b) High Power Output giving nearly three
times the power of the average set; (c) Heavy Bass Notes are handled in a most
natural manner even at high volume. All five wave bands include a high gain of
radio frequency amplification, resulting in extreme sensitivity. Tone is superb,
performance is magnificent. The “ULTIMATE” MAJESTIC 9is as near perfection
as human knowledge and skill can make it—it is made for those who want the best!
Illustrated literature and full details supplied on request.
—v
For Victory.
ULTIMATE 7-VALVE MULTI-WAVE A.C. MANTEL MODEL
Featuring the new ULTIMATE Full Bandspread, Spinner Tuning, Automatic Volume
Control, Anti-drift Devices, Special Sin. Rola Reproducer in addition to all the
modern ULTIMATE improvements in Radio construction and reception. Special
Low Volume Bass Compensation device gives this outstanding set volume, tone and
performance equal to most average Console Models. Sensitivity of response has
to be heard to be fully appreciated. Super-plus performance is assured by
ULTIMATE reputation. Tone is magnificent with full, rich, even, deep, mellow
tone. Compact and ultra-dependable even under the moat adverse conditions.
Specially suited for tropical climates and outback conditions. Impregnated against
humidity. The only set of its kind obtainable on the Australian market. "Classic”
Cabinet of beautifully matched and piano-finished contrasting veneers make the
ULTIMATE 7 MANTEL MODEL a truly artistic Radio Set. Investigate the
ULTIMATE before you make a decision — there is not a better Set made! Full details
on request.
V
Far Victory.
Note: This is for Special Applications
ULTIMATE 7- or 9-VALVE MULTI-WAVE A.C. Transportable Mantel
This model must not be confused with the usual small portable battery-operated sets with
their comparatively limited sensitivity.
This set incorporates the identical full-sized chassis embodied in the “Majestic” Console
illustrated at top right, with all its special features and refinements, such as Bandspread Tuning
on Short-wave Bands, and others, in an easily transportable form. This is achieved by means
of a simply-attached lid fitted with handle.
Power is immense, tone is superb, sensitivity is extreme, performance is almost unbelievable.
Take it anywhere 240 A.C. current is available—dependability and satisfaction are assured
under even the most difficult conditions. The ideal set for particularised work, for the hard
of hearing, for reception-rooms, halls, meetings, dances, etc. There’s nothing like it on the
market for convenience, appearance, durability, dependability and performance. Removal of
front sliding lid instantly transforms this unique set into a most artistic-looking Mantel Radio
worthy of first place in any home. Particularly suitable for the Pacific Islands wherever
240 A.C. power is available. Specially protected against humidity and insects. Fully
guaranteed in every way by “ULTIMATE” reputation.
V
For Victory.
Newly-released illustrated literature giving full detail* of “ULTIMATE”
FULL BANDSPREAD Receivers now available post free. Write for it today.
-
3
m
-f *<i /
. • ••
m
■ m
iiliil
b P IPII ■ 1
1.-:) li
mt
mm
W&wZm.
mm
■M:
mm
mm
JSSSSS
L' :r
-S1
*' ...„:
Ssi
..
fdsf
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & CO.. LTD.. 267 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Distributed in Victoria by J. H. MAGRATH PTY., LTD., 208 Little Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
FILL IN AND POST NOW.
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me without obligation illustrated literature
giving particulars of “ULTIMATE ” Full Bandspread
Receivers.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
