

A Delicious Wholemeal Biscurb
; •
’ •' A*
■-/
ir you. fit and k you.
*
These delicious Biscuits are a perfect
slimming food. Made from the whole
grain of carefully selected sun-ripened
wheat. They are tempting, whole-
some and extremely easy to digest.
A prominent Sydney Physician
plains their effective slimming quality
by pointing out that the slight in-
crease of carbohydrate content due
to sweetening is an increase of fuel
analogous to that made by adding
kindling wood to a coal fire, it merely
accelerates the burning. Instead of
being stored up as fat, the reduction
• of fat is stimulated, thus adding
further effectiveness to the slimming
action of the whole wheat content.
Slimming is made pleasant by these
delicious and popular biscuits, which
in addition increase the energy and
improve the general health.
Arnoft Pty,
Homebush.
oLrno4±!s
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL
BISCUITS
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT’S THEY ARE BETTER THAN EVER
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,”
Vol. 62.—N0. 3182.
Wednesday, February 5, 1941.
A Dictator in Distress
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


i ml
zlU*i
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
SB. 141
The Red Page
NOVELS IN SAWDUST.
Recent mails have brought three out
standing novels to Australia, all sound
solid works for leisurely reading. One
the most interesting to anyone who
knows the quality of The Fountain anc
Sparkenbroke, is Charles Morgan’s The
Voyage (Macmillan); the others are
Thomas Mann’s Lotte in Weimar (Seeker
and Warburg; Angus and Robertson)
and Lin Yutang’s feebly-titled Momen
in Peking (Heinemann).
Likely to be the most widely read of
the three, because of its topicality and be
cause of the popularity of Lin Yutang’s
philosophisings, Moment in Peking is
vast hotchpotch of politics, philosophy
social criticism, anti-Japanese propa-
ganda, curiosa of Chinese life, history
and mythology, with the story of an
upper middle-class family uncertainly
steering through it: a Galsworthy saga
struggling for existence in the bog of
Tolstoyan epic.
As a novel it is just about everything
but a novel. Unable to take the Chinese
scene for granted, which is the first requi-
site for successful fiction, Lin Yutang
falls into the trap that has caught so
many Australian novelists, and keeps
digressing to explain a thousand and one
details of Chinese life of no importance
to the story. ' How to eat lotus seeds,
what Confucius really said, the historical
importance of inscribed bones, what goes
into the soup. Some of it is justifiable
as “atmosphere,” much is necessary to
the design of the book, which is to show
the change in Chinese life from the Boxer
Rebellion to the present day, but a great
deal of it is simply thrown in because
the writer is more concerned with intro-
ducing China to the West than with writ-
ing a novel.
The anti-Japanese material — every
Japanese is a villain who spends most of
his time slapping the faces of the Chinese
—is extremely naive, notably in a scene
where a little boy points the finger of
scorn at his aunt and says “You are
Chinese. Why do you work for the Japa-
nese?” It is all true enough, no doubt,
but it is not fictionally convincing: in a
novel the villain’s Villainy has to be
proved out of his character, not auto-
matically assumed because of his race.
The conclusion of the novel is an un-
conscious confession by Lin Yutang of
his abdication from fiction in favor of
propaganda. The surviving members
of the Yao family, marching with a horde
of refugees towards the heart of China
to fight the invader, merge into the mass
and are lost. “For a while he could dis-
cern the figures of Mulan and Sunya and
their daughter, and the children with
them. Then gradually they became in-
distinguishable from the others and were
lost in that dusty column of humanity
moving toward the Sacred Mountain —
and the great interior continent beyond.”
That, though a plausible solution of a
novel, is in reality a piece of political
sentimentality. The Russians —Tolstoy
and Sholokhov —who are masters of these
epics of the masses, convince as fiction-
ists because they maintain the opposite:
their individuals remain sharply defined
among the mob.
Although the travel book curiosa and
the politics detract from the novel as
fiction, they don’t, of course, make it any
less interesting as a piece of general read-
ing about China. Within its essentially
narrow limits—for it is almost exclusively
devoted to the middle class, ignoring the
teeming millions whose cause it defends
—this must be one of the most illuminat-
ing books ever written on Chinese life.
The Yaos live. Old Yao, the calm
Taoist who sees the follies of his'youth
repeating themselves in his scapegrace
son Tijen ; Mulan and Mochow, his two
daughters, one gay and unpredictable, the
other gentle and practical; fat, harmless
Sunya whom Mulan marries; the intelli-
gent Lifu who becomes Mochow’s hus-
band ; these are all real people. They
are wholly Chinese, and the way they
think and act is strange to
the European mind; but
they are not dolls, nor
grotesques, nor mere
vehicles for Lin Yutang’s
propaganda. They are credible as human
beings.
Buried deep among the sawdust of poli-
tics and documentary writings, and en-
twined with one or two other sub-plots
of tragedy or comedy, such as Mannia’s
sacrificial marriage and Tijen’s unhappy
love for a maidservant, there is the theme
of a fine novel in Moment in Peking;
not so much the progress of the family
through a changing world, but the love
story of Mulan and Lifu.
If there had been then a system of mar-
riage by the boy’s and girl’s own choice,
Mulan might have married Lifu and
Mochow might have married Sunya. Mulan
would have announced that she was in
love, that is, in a condition inexplicable,
mysterious, and out of her control, which
should supersede and override every other
consideration, and, as happens nowadays,
would have broken the engagement with
the Tseng family. But the old system was
still intact, and Mulan did not so much as
confess to herself the guilty feeling of love
for Lifu, and she never doubted she would
like Sunya. Her love for Lifu remained
an innermost secret of her heart.
In several scenes of the most poignant
tenderness, Lin Yutang brings Mulan and
Lifu together, developing the story of
their love. Then, preoccupied with his
propaganda, he forgets all about them:
which is praiseworthy in a patriot but
unforgivable in a novelist.
* * * »
Thomas Mann’s novel, unexpectedly,
is another that is stuffed with sawdust.
Lotte in Weimar should never have been
more than a short story. As such, it
would have been a gem, for its central
situation, neat, rounded and complete, is
rich in irony and pathos.
It is substantially a true story, an inci-
dent in the life of Goethe. When he was
a young man Goethe stayed with an
engaged couple and made love to the
girl. After a few harmless kisses he went
away and made her the heroine of his
novel Werther. The girl, Charlotte, mar-
ried her rightful man, bore him eleven
children, lived in respectable widowhood
and then, after 44 years, made a pilgrim-
age to Weimar to renew acquaintance
with the now famous Goethe. To her-
self and her plain, angry daughter she
pretended that all she intended was* to
visit relatives in Weimar.
When she arrives there and is treated
as a celebrity by the populace and the
local intellectuals alike, it becomes obvi-
ous that Goethe’s portrayal of her in the
novel has been the central event of her
life, completely turning her head. She
is intensely vain, and has come to
Weimar to receive her share of glory.
Then, in her excitement at the flattery
and homage she receives, she lets slip
the motive deeper than vanity that has
prompted the visit. For 44 years,
she confesses, she has been “tormented”
by the puzzle of why, if Goethe loved
her as he told her he did, and as he
demonstrated by making her the heroine
of Werther, he could possiblf be satis-
fied to have had of her only those few
chance kisses.
She believes, in the most secret depths
of her vanity, that she is the great love
of Goethe’s life, -
Goethe, of course, never felt more than
a passing attraction to her. She served
him for a model for a heroine, and that
was the end of the matter. Charlotte
meets him at dinner, when he is studi-
ously polite and noncommittal; she
writes bitterly to her son (Mann uses the
original letter, which has been pre-
served) :
I have, indeed, said nothing as yet, even
to you, about my meeting with the great
man. Actually I have little to say: only
this much, that I made a new acquaintance
with an old man who, if I had not known
he was Goethe, and even knowing it, made
on me no pleasant impression. You know
how little I promised myself from this
renewed, or rather this new acquaintance,
and so it did not touch me. And in his
stiff way he did all he could to show me
courtesy.
Mann tells this perfect short story with
exquisite touches of satire. Charlotte’s
vanity is made to look completely ridi-
culous by her dressing up in a youthful,
beribboned dress, a replica of one she
wore 44 years before. When she has en-
tered Goethe’s house, and the company
is awaiting the great man’s presence, one
of his satellites gives her solemn instruc-
tions on how to behave in the presence :
“It is distinctly the sensible thing to
be entirely natural —for instance, not to
think one must enter on high intellectual
themes, as, for example, his own words.
Much better talk about simple and con-
crete matters....! need not say that I
have in mind no familiarity leaving out
of consideration the distance between
him and us.”
“Thank you very much,” says the in-
dignant Charlotte. “But we must not
forget that in this case we are dealing
with the renewal of a friendship of four-
and-forty years’ standing.” When Goethe
appears at last he is careful to welcome
the daughter equally with the mother.
“We need not say,” he says, “how much
we treasure it that once within these walls
you have not passed us by.” Charlotte
sees at once the unkind implication that
she could have passed by without unduly
upsetting the Master. Then at the table
she makes breadbafis of the crumbs in
her nervousness, and Goethe devastat-
ingly reproves her simply by tidying up
the crumbs into a neat little pile.
To expand this story into novel length
Mann makes genius his theme and,
through the mouths of half a dozen char-
acters, discusses all aspects of the prob-
lem of genius in society, of Goethe’s
relationships with his household. It is an
elaborate and effective essay, and there
is some nice stuff in it, both in meta-
physical argument and in such practical
illustrations as the case of Goethe’s sullen,
dissipated, defeated son August. But it
is done much more thoroughly than is
necessary to set the atmosphere for Char-
lotte’s little adventure. Only as it is
particularly related to Goethe, moreover,
is the on genius in any way fresh:
it amounts to the familiar statement of
the ruthlessness of the artist—the state-
ment, as it happens, Charles Morgan
made so brilliantly in Sparkenbroke.
Lotte in Weimar, hard to read, must
have been extraordinarily easy to write.
It consists almost entirely of long mono-
logues in. which each character tells of
his relations with Goethe. The method,
surprising from the beginning, becomes
astonishing at page 63, when Dr. Riemer
starts to talk without a break for six
pages; at page 161, after the Demoiselle
Schopenhauer has poured out her soul
for 51 pages, you want to go out and
play with a pneumatic drill for some light <
relief. A good book, but it would be
much better at half its length.
* * * *
Alone among these three novelists
Charles Morgan has a clear conception
of his theme, and tells his story without
padding. The Voyage,, though written
out of a calm and profound philosophy
of acceptance, is, quite simply, a love story.
The man, deep and patient, almost as
completely integrated as a child and there-
fore unnervingly irrational to the complex
adults surrounding him, is Barbet, the
vigneron; the woman, a singer of genius,
is the priest’s daughter Therese Despreux,
who climbs from the village beergarden
to success on the stage in Paris.
Sure of his love for Therese, almost
sure of himself and of their future,
Barbet has to wait while Therese, who
is certain of nothing except that she must
succeed in Paris, goes laughingly from
man to man and laboriously from failure
to success. Besides cultivating his garden,
Barbet is the keeper of a prison: mean-
ing, presumably, that he is not completely
integrated, he is still somehow tied to the
ordinary business of the world. When
Therese has achieved liberation of* the
personality through experience and suc-
cess, and when Barbet has finally freed
himself of the world by releasing his
prisoners, the two can at last meet and
love as free beings. Because Therese still
wants the stage and Barbet still must live
in the country, they cannot yet live to-
gether, but they can meet and their
futures, they recognise, are irrevocably
linked.
To the extent that it is an analysis of
the philosophy of liberation through
acceptance—waiting patiently, in effect,
until one’s hour strikes to “go on a
voyage”—there is an air of unreality
about The Voyage. To compensate for
that, Morgan introduces a village comedy
—the attempts of Barbet’s relatives to
oust him from his farm, which they covet
—and he paints all the characters, includ-
ing the principals, with realism and
humor.
They are all people worth meeting:
Barbet’s old mother, who firmly believes
he is a saint; the old woman her friend,
with whom she plays cards and quarrels ;
Barbet’s pompous hypocrite of a brother ;
the village spy and busybody ; some oddi-
ties in the Paris cafes; Therese’s urbane
lover, Courcelet. Therese, the restless,
is a convincing personality; Barbet,
though one accepts him within the frame
of the novel, is an abstraction ; so that
in its final effect the story haunts but
fails to satisfy. It is not as compelling
a novel as Sparkenbroke, but it is finely
put together, and Morgan’s style remains
as distinguished as ever.
Novels by Australians.
No Australian novelist is going to ride
to prosperity on the pioneer’s back any
more, so that Leslie Haylen’s Brown Boy
Singing (Angus and Robertson), the old,
old story about blacks, bush, shearers
and gold, starts at a considerable dis-
advantage.
Probably realising that, Haylen has
tried to give life to the outworn material
by earnestly debunking the pioneer. His
morals are not at all what Aunt Jemima
used to claim, and the “brown boy” who
sings, and who is an image of the young
Australian nation, marries a prostitute to
show how crude our beginnings were.
The debunking doesn’t come off. For
one thing, nobody except Aunt Jemima
ever imagined that the pioneers’ only sin
was swearing. For another, the appli-
cation of a devout Freudianism to the
pioneer scene is a lapse of taste, an
anachronism. So is the use of modern
jargon: did they really talk about “body
odor” so long before the days of hoard-
ings and daily newspapers?
Nevertheless, Haylen has vigor as a
writer of narrative, and Brown Boy
Singing is lively and readable as an ad-
venture story.
i,
Hymns for Use in Time of War: Arch-
deacon C. E. Storrs (copies obtainable
only from the editor, 16 Richardson-
avenue, Claremont, W.A.; profits to the
Red Cross). Referred to the Religious
Editor, who, while confessing a sneaking
regard for “Roll Out the Barrel,” finds
it an admirable collection with more
literary merit than usual. Milton, Bun-
yan, Kipling, Newbolt and Bridges among
the authors.
From the Maoriland Department of
Internal Affairs come a couple of mas-
sive tomes, A Dictionary of New Zealand
Biography, edited by G. H. Scholefield.
“Significance in our national history,
from whatever standpoint, is the sole
consideration” for inclusion, and on
that ground the editor has filled over
1000 pages with biographies of Maori-
land’s notables.
The Truth About Thunderbolt: Annie
Rixon (George M. Dash, Sydney). Call-
ing half a dozen old-timers to witness,
including one William Monckton, who as
a boy spent three years with the bush-
ranger, it claims that, contrary to general
belief, Thunderbolt was not Fred Ward,
but his friend Fred Britten. Further, that
the grave at Uralla (N.S.W.) which carries
the inscription “Erected by New Eng-
land residents to mark where lies Thun-
derbolt (Fred Ward)” is that neither of
Ward nor Thunderbolt, but of Britten’s
stepbrother Arthur Blake. Further still,
that at the time Britten emulated Robin
Hood in the north and west of New
South Wales, there were half a dozen
or so other Thunderbolts who weren’t
Thunderbolt.
There were three books reviewed on
the Red Page last year that one could
guarantee would please anyone with a
liking for good books: Ten Years Under
the Earth (Dent), by Norman Casterel,
Coco the Clown (Dent) and Wind, Sand
and Stars (Heinemann), by Antoine de
Saint-Exupery. All were finely written,
all told a strange, enthralling story. The
Readers’ Union, for which Robertson
and Mullens are the Australian agents,
earns two feathers for its cap byincluding
first Casteret’s subterranean borrowings
among its reprints and now Saint-
Exupery’s extraordinarily attractive ac-
count of his adventures as a pilot. Saint-
Exupery (his novel Night Flight is avail-
able in the Penguin series) is a writer to
know. He is about the only apologist
for the machine age whose convictions
are given weight by the fire and spirit
with which he presents them.
Another Little Drink: Peter Cheyney
(Collins). Spies, plus murder, plus
brightish dialogue, plus blonde barmaid.
People mostly painful; plot neat.
If Haylen’s evidence of the goings-on
at a pioneer wedding is to be believed,
Dulcie Deamer had no need to go
wandering off to the early Christian scene
in Asia Minor to make her Holiday
(Frank Johnson) sufficiently orgiastic. But
that’s where the novel is l located; a
highly-colored romance in which Chris-
tians are thrown to the lions, Romans
stage bacchanalian parties, and a pair of
young lovers have a hard life and a
wonderful life all over space and time.
After they have been devoured by the
lions, they spend a while on another
plane, and then are born again in modern
times for further love and disaster. A
typical portrait:
Her smile was infectious. She had the
vitality of a strong-bodied, kitten-broad-
ened, sleek she-cat. A tigress quality, but
as though the animal purred loudly above
blood and milk mixed, its translucent green
eyes gleaming for the amorous note of the
male, or the dancing flicker of a leaf, or
the exquisite quiver of the prey whose
vitals had been laid bare. The overripe
fullness of her body was firmly bound,
under the heavy garment of purple silk,
with bands of thin, supple white leather.
It should have its readers: those who
don’t object to ancient Romans talking in
modern slang, and who have a partiality
for strong-bodied, kitten-broadened, sleek
she-cats with translucent green eyes.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —plain facts open dealing
“THE SENIOR STORE”
T \
a
:i „
s*
©
©
D
v n
The Trade Mark
that stands
for real
foot comfort
»
i
iiill
lik,
%
' C. : ,
LACK BOX CALF BOOT— Comfortable
Ring boots of soft Black Box Calf or
Hace Kid. Made with toe caps; and
lem is a complete range of full and
alf sizes. A boot we recommend for
omfort! At Anthony Horderns', Replace-
tent price, 35/-. SALE PRICE 31/6
HIGH-GRADE
CALF SHOES
Easy comfort and a smart ap-
pearance are nicely combined
in this style. And there is a
choice of Tan Calf, Black Box
Calf and Glace Kid. There are
medium or extra wide fittings,
also a neat extended shape.
Full and half sizes. At
Anthony Horderns', Replace-
ment Price, 35/-. SALE, 31/6
Half Yearly Genuine
SALS
of Dr. DEED’S
HEALTH SHOES
CIRCULAR VAMP OXFORD SHOES— A firm
favourite with the utmost comfort in their
footwear, this Box Calf Circular Vamp Ox-
ford is neat and serviceable. Full and half
sizes. At Anthony Horderns', Replacement
, Price, 35/-. SALE PRICE 31/6
GLACE KID DERBY BOOT— What a treat for
sensitive feet! Soft Glace Kid Derby Boots that
are made to fit comfortably and well. No toe
cap, and built on an extra wide fitting last.
Welted soles. Full and half sizes. At Anthony
Horderns', Replacement Pr\ce, 35/-. SALE, 31/6
/ 6
Study this offer and realise the PLAIN FACT that it's definitely
to a man's advantage to buy shoes NOW, because of the certainty
of increased prices in the future.
Seven special features of Dr. Reed's Nu-Matic Cushioned Footwear
include:—
• Finest materials made into comfortable shoes to fit the foot.
• Designed to give new foot health.
• Prevents flat feet and builds strong arches.
• Protects the feet from perspiration.
• Relieves pressure that produces callouses and corns.
• Gives that cushioned feeling.
• They are exclusive to Anthony Horderns'.
• Men’s Footwear—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
ffiuce /
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address;
Box 2712 C, G.RO.


STEW
“Amazing what the old prof, will do in the interests of science!”
By A. C. HEADLEY.
MAXIE was pleased and excited. Half the time
he wasn’t even listening, and his eyes were
L focused on the trainer’s wet-looking lips. He
stood there waiting for Gardner to stop so
that he could get back to the solid purpose of think-
ing, of pursuing the thought that had leapt swiftly to
his mind when Gardner had told him about the fight,
It was almost an agony waiting for him to stop, with
his mind sickled clearly into two distinct halves. The
half that watched those wet lips and made him say
“yes,” and that other half that could see the ring.
He tried to merge the two and listen to Gardner.
“You get the money, see, an’ all y’ gotter do is
make it look good till you lie down in the sixth. See,
after that fight the champ, don’t have to defend ’is
title again for a long time. Mind, he ain’t frightened
of no challengers. It’s on’y ’e ain’t in the best of nick,
’E ain’t ready. It’s a cinch, Maxie; a few easy quid
for practically nothing.” His eyes narrowed suddenly,
“Maxie you ain’t been listenin’ ”
“Sure I’m listenin’. T get a fight, a title fight,
an’ 1 gotter lie down. It’s like givin’ someone a birth-
day present and the bill at the same time.”
L, , -jlj , .• f
Gardner wtped a hand across the sweat shine of
his face You can take it or leave it bu thereis not
gotter be any tunny business. You do the job and
you get the money.
Maxie grinned. I can always use money. But
all the time that other thought kept getting mixed up
in his mind, the thinking about a championship fight
and of beating the champion. He wanted to be quiet,
and to think it out for a long time. He had been fight-
ing for years and thinking about a title bout and its
ultimate and satisfying end. His deep eyes watched
Gardner.
“It’ll be a build-up, too,” said Gardner. “We’ll
have the papers writin’ you up so much that if you
read ’em you’ll begin to think you’re better than the
champ, anyway.”
“But why do I ’ave to lay down?” Maxie wanted
to know. “If he’s as good as you say he is he’ll lay
me down.”
Gardner shook his head wearily. “That’s what
I’m tellin’ y’. ’E ain’t in nick. ’E ’asn’t been trainin’,
’E’s gotter have a title match or they’ll start talkin’
about takin’ the title away from ’im. D’yer get it?”
A T home, looking across the cool room to his wife,
** he was still thinking of it. What could Gardner
do? It must have been showing on him, for suddenly
she a-sked: “What’s the matter. Max?”
He tried to appear calm and unconcerned. “I’ve
got a fight. Else. A fight for the title.”
He didn’t say anything about Gardner’s condi-
tions. That was something he had to work out for
himself.
“Yeah,” he said. “In two weeks’ time.”
She knew what that meant to him and she was
glad. “It’s your chance, Max. I’m glad.”
He was glad, too, sitting there and thinking about
it. It would be grand to have the title before he
finished. He kept thinking about people cheering and
the still form of the ex-champion at his feet. It was
much better to think that way than to think of Card-
ner if he didn’t lie down. Not that the trainer could
do much. After all, when he was champion he
wouldn’t have to worry about the Gardners. He kept
thinking about the champ, going into the ring, half-
trained and confident, ready to coast along until it was
time. He thought of a flabby, half-trained champion,
who would begin to feel sick when punches started
thudding into his body.
“I’m gonner beat him, Else,” he said, “Fm going
to be the champ.”
He meant it, as he had meant it in all those eight
years of his fighting. He meant it as defiantly and
hopefully as he had battled his way through the four-
round preliminaries in those early days. It was
abruptly a reason behind all those punches that had
crashed into his hard body. There was a reason
behind the taste of blood in his mouth and the broad
deadness of his face. Damn Gardner with his talk of
taking a punch halfway through the fight and lying
with closed eyes while the referee doled out the count.
, „
I—IE was glad that Gardner noticed no mg s range
* 1 ab ° ut ] he new mte ! ls l t S' o£ t !T lng - 11 " as " *
like other days, just training, so that he was ready for
each fl h[ that came This was a new endeavor to
make f imsdf hard with flrm flesh xhere was _ too>
something new and glamorous about the who le thing.
Photographers taking snaps of him and the pieces in
p a p er that made him feel more confident than ever,
They got back to the time when he had fought one of
the ex . ch amps. and had given him a lacing. There had
been nothing in it then, a dreary eight-rounder with a
punch-weary fighter, but they were making it sound
]ike some grand achievement, and he was beginning to
believe it himself
Behind him was the thought that he was going to
w j n this fight against the champion, but back of his
m ind was st iu a vague conflict. He thought of Gard-
ner and 0 f j y j ng st in while that count went on over
him, and he tried to tell himself that this was different.
There wasn’t any Gardner mixed up with it, and it
was a g row th out of those days when he was having
leather forced into his face to make a few shillings.
He wanted the title, wanted to be champion even if it
were for just one fight,
Gardner spoke to him once about the training,
“You’re makin’ it look good, Maxie. You’re makin’
it look so good that you nearly mean it.” His finger
running across his chin made a sound like sandpaper
and his shrewd eyes narrowed. “I said ‘nearly,’ Maxie.
You wouldn’t get many fights after this one if you did,
and you’ve got a wife to keep. You gotter think of
your wife, Maxie.”
Maxie did think about his wife. He thought so
much about her that he was almost inclined to come
back to Gardner’s original idea. He knew that it was
right. If it happened and he beat the champ., there
weren’t going to be many more fights. There would
only be one—a return fight with the champ., a champ,
who was hard with the firm flesh of training. And
after that no more fights. It offered him something to
think about. He was thankful that there was money
in the bank. If it weren’t for that he would be forced
to do what Gardner wanted him to do. As it was
there was enough money for him to feel confident.
After it was over he could get a job or buy his way
into a small business.
But now the thing to think about was beating the
champion. In the gym. he felt better than he had ever
felt. His punches were crisper and surer. He was
remembering things from the early days, things he
had forgotten for the sake of standing close up to a
man and flailing him with his fists. There were the
shifts and evasions that meant the difference between
a glove smashing into your face or harmlessly prop-
ping itself on the air. In the papers he read that he
looked impressive in training.
The fight was getting closer now and setting up a
jangle in his nerves. His mind kept thinking of it
and kept him awake at night. He had been told that
nerves were a good thing for a fighter, that they
sharpened him and set him on edge. But he was start-
ing to hate that edginess. Everyone, even Elsie, was
beginning to get on his nerves. Then the afternoon
before the fight his nerves suddenly quietened and he
felt cool and confident. He stood off while the cham-
pion climbed on to the scales to weigh in. There was
a white softness about the titleholder that increased
his confidence. Later he talked with Elsie.
“I think I can beat him, Else,” he said. “I’ve got
it all planned the way I’m gonner fight.”
She looked at him queerly. “You’re going to be
disappointed, Maxie, if you don’t.”
He was thinking of the white softness of the cham-
pion. “Don’t you worry,” he said. “There ain’t gonner
be no disappointment. I’ve got everything right to
a T.”
But sitting in the dressing-room he was wondering
if everything was right. There were a lot of things
that could happen in a fight. It was worrying him,
too, thinking about what Gardner expected him to do.
He thought of Elsie and wondered how long the couple
of hundred pounds of their savings would last when
there were no more fights. But even above all these
the thought that predominated was the years of his
fighting and the chance to be a champion. A hand
commenced to smear vaseline across his face, and he
came to the realisation that it was almost time. It
came to him suddenly, too, that there was a decision
to be made, the half-realised conflict in his mind had
to be settled. Gardner and being the champion. Long
ago he had been convinced that it had already been
settled, but now he knew that the thing would not
come right until he was in the ring and fighting. He
looked down at the firm leanness of his legs, and was
conscious of a weariness. He wasn’t on edge any
more, he was sober and thinking, and one of the
seconds was taping his hands for a fight with the
champion.
THE stadium was dull and cloudy with cigarette-
smoke, and even the brightness of the ring was
misted over. When he came down the aisle with the
seconds clattering a bucket in front of him and heard
the sound of the crowd movement, he felt afraid. It was
as though he was part of those people who were wait-
ing for him to get into the ring and to do something.
Then there were the brief busy seconds of shuffling
his feet in the resin and getting used to the feel of the
crowd. The referee came to look at the tapes on his
hands, and then they were cramming his hands into
the gloves. He knew in that moment that he wasn’t
going to take any notice of Gardner. He knew that
he was going to fight to beat the champion. Across
from him the champ, looked cool and confident. The
stadium around him had settled into a dusk, dotted
with cigarette stars, pinpoints of red light. He shuffled
his feet on the white clean surface of the ring and
stared at the new leather of the gloves. When the
referee called he moved obediently to the centre of
the ring, smacking his gloves together as he walked.
Then he was back in his corner waiting for the bell.
With the bell he came out with the whole plan
of campaign fixed in his mind. He had to coast these
early rounds, moving and making the champ, move
with him so that the little bulge of soft flesh just above
the champ.’s trunks could begin to take its effect.
They moved warily, and the champ, touched him with
a left, and the right that followed smacked hard into
his ribs. It happened so quickly and they returned to
their wary circling that only the dead feel along his
ribs told him that he had been hit. It was an easy
round, with an occasional flicked left finding its mark
and a few moments that they were close and gloves
After the March.
Unpeopled streets, swept clear
As by a flood;
Here lies confetti-gay,
But mixed with mud.
Bright streamers strew the ground
In tangled heaps,
Like weed cast on the sand
When the sea weeps.
And in an office door
Stand, here and there,
Small, tearful groups of girls—
Just stand and stare
Into a future suddenly made bare.
QUEENSLAND.
MARJORIE LARCOMBE.
The Falling World.
My world has crashed about me; all my ways
Are blocked with fallen hopes and broken days,
And, stunned and bruised, I sink beneath their
rain.
Yet I shall rise, and steer my way again
By stars clear-shining through the clouds just
riven. , , ,
My world has crashed about me, not my
heaven.
VICTORIA.
WINNIFRED WATSFORD.


moved quickly to smack on flesh. There were punches
that the champ, rolled with, and it was just like stab-
bing a glove in the air. When the round was over
they came back to their corners and neither needed
the assistance of seconds. Maxie sat still, breathing
and listening to the hum of the crowd.
Then they were in the centre of the ring again,
circling still but with a difference, a set, more compact
meaning in their punches. The champ, moved a left,
stopped it halfway and his body twisted square with
the right. But Maxie was ready, moving in so that
the punch swept around his back, and his right twice
smacked hard into the champ.’s body. There was no
time for any more as the champ, moved back, touched
the ropes and ricocheted beneath Maxie’s left hook
to the safety of mid-ring. Maxie knew from the bright
tightness of him that those punches to the body had
hurt. He crowded after him, but the champ, was
moving warily now, and except for a few push punches
there was no further incident in the round.
At the bell Gardner came over to his corner.
“That’s the stuff, Maxie,” he said. “You’re makin’ it
look good. We don’t want people thinkin’ it’s a stew.”
Maxie nodded, but inside he was wondering what
Gardner was going to say when he discovered that it
wasn’t a stew. So far there had been nothing except
those two quick punches to the champ.’s body. He
glanced across the ring. Leaning back against the
ropes the champ, looked fresh and easy. Watching
the flesh on his diaphragm Maxie saw that the rise
and fall of it was slow and even. The lack of training
wasn’t yet beginning to show its effect.
They fought swiftly and with sureness through
the next round. There were more moments when
they were close to each, and steaming the power into
their punches. He could feel the side where the
champ.’s right hand made contact getting dead. It was
a good right hand and he had to watch it, but there
were times when he watched and the hooked left took
him on the side of the head. It filled him with a soft
and controlled anger so that he could feel the muscles
tight in his arms as they smacked home on the champ.’s
body. This was fight and the way he liked it. His
mouth was salt with the taste of blood from a cut
lip, but there was satisfaction in the way his punches
smacked into the champ.’s body. It was the way to
fight him, bearing into that edging of flesh around his
solar plexus. After the round when he looked across
the ring he could see that the seconds were beginning
to work on the champ. He felt strong himself, strong
and firm. They were talking to the champ, in his
corner, telling him what to do. Watching them made
him feel confident.
But in the next round when he found out what the
talk meant he didn’t feel so confident. When he
punched the champ, was rolling with them. He was
standing off, placing his punches and moving slickly
and cleverly. When Maxie moved in the champ, was
away and a left was stabbing into his face. What
Maxie wanted to do was to get close, to smash and
batter his fists into the other’s body. But that slick
left was holding him off.
THE sixth round was the one where Gardner wanted
him to lie down, and now he was waiting for it to
start. He was thinking about those things all over
again, Gardner’s talk and Elsie. But the thing that
struck him most was that the champ, was getting tired.
Even riding those punches and keeping out of reach
of Maxie’s gloves, he was getting tired. There would
come a time when he wouldn’t be moving fast enough
to get away from Maxie. Maxie could sense the tight-
ness of him, the set smartness that was an admission
of tiredness. For himself he was conscious of no
fatigue. He had been hit and hit hard, but he was
still fighting hard whenever he could get close to the
shifting figure of the champion. He had the feeling
then that he was going to be champion. It was packed
into the hard solidity of him. He took the bottle,
gargled and spat a red stream into the box of saw-
dust. This round was going to be a surprise to a lot
of people—to the champ., to Gardner and all those
others who were in the know. He could almost see
Gardner sitting in the seat and getting tighter and
tighter with anger.
The bell rang and he came out purposefully. His
left prodded, and he followed it with a right that
smashed into the champion’s body. His head tilted
sharply on a chopped uppercut, but he was close, and
he had the feel of the champion’s body against his.
He snapped to the body half a dozen times before
they moved apart. But there was no waiting now, no
being propped off by the champ.’s left. The padded
feel of that left now smothered itself in his face. He
moved forward and it jabbed again, jerking his head
backwards. But it needed more than that to stop his
progress. The champ, was close again, crowded into a
corner, and Maxie’s fists were flailing at his body.
Nothing mattered to Maxie then except smacking his
gloved hands into that white body. There were punches
that were taken on arms and gloves, but there were
others that were sinking into that satisfying softness.
A mist of perspiration was in his eyes, but he was
punching, punching, punching.
Then suddenly he wasn’t punching any longer.
His fists weren’t pounding themselves into white flesh.
Around him, but a long way off, was the noise of the
crowd. The feel of the canvas beneath his body was
restful and cool. He could see things very clearly,
the champ, standing back in the corner looking confi-
dent, and above him he could see the referee swinging
his arm. It didn’t make sense. He tried to move, to
rise, but in his arms was a great tiredness. He lay
there trying to force his muscles to work. It was hard,
but now his body was moving slowly, too slowly for
that arm that was swinging out the count. His
shoulders lifted, but the effort had taken all his
strength. He dropped back to the canvas.
He wasn’t very clear about anything after that
until he was back in the dressing-room. A rubber was
trying to slap some of the ache out of his muscles,
and he could feel his mouth dry and stiff. He was
trying to work his jaws when Gardner came in. He
had a grin all over his face.
“You made it look good, Maxie,” he said. “You
made it look real good. No one could ’a’ said it looked
like a stew.”
Maxie sat there quietly looking at him. He wanted
to tell Gardner that it hadn’t been a “stew.” Instead
he nodded. Yeah, he said, I made it look real
good.”
“I’ll be able to get you a return, said Gardner,
“under the same conditions. It s good money and
it’s easy.”
But suddenly Maxie was thinking of the eight
years of his fighting, the days of battling through the
four-rounders with always the thought of someday
being the champion. They were fights for money,
but beneath it was that other wisp of thinking that
went on long after .the money was spent. Now some-
thing was dead and finished. He squeezed his mouth
on the cut and felt the smart of it. “It don’t matter
about a return,” he said. “I’ve finished. I ve got a
bit of dough saved up and I’m going into a business.
DRIFTERS
By KESTER BERWICK.
GRAYHAM reined in his horse so that he could
write in his notebook the words “Sargasso Sea.”
It was not that his surroundings had any outer
resemblance to the Sargasso Sea ; but he had
been thinking as he rode along how like the Sargasso
Sea the Never-Never was in the way it attracted to
itself everything that drifted. The aborigines them-
selves drifted all the time. They were the natural
inhabitants of this Sargasso Sea. Actually they had
become so entangled by all else that had drifted to
them from the outer world that they were now re-
garded as a dying race, one day to be extinct and there-
fore to drift no more. And then most of the others
here were drifters, too, never staying long in the same
place.
Whet he had left the old Afghan and his caravan,
he had been directed to Deep Bore Wells, from there
to the boundary-rider’s hut at the foot of Sugar Loaf
Mountain, from there to the Government Tanks,
which he would find just the other side of where the
gibber ended, and where the whole landscape dropped
unexpectedly several hundred feet and went rolling
away as before, from there to Bamboo Springs, and
then, if he went straight on in a northerly direction,
he would come to a dog-proof fence. Couldn't miss it,
because it was the southern boundary of Quondong
station, and quite ninety miles long. On striking the
fence, he was to follow it to the right until he came
to a gate. Through the gate was a track, and if he
followed that track into the property, it would not be
long before he reached Quondong homestead itself.
Directions had to be followed carefully. At these
places, and in summer almost certainly at only these
places, would there be water for him and his horse,
Calamity sometimes lurked in a wrong turning. Thus
one roamed for weeks and weeks, going from station
to station and from water-source to water-source,
“Any left-off clothing for the Lord Mayor's Fund ?"
always making minute inquiries about the next part of
the way, making the same inquiries again and again
if it so happened that one met anyone.
At the boundary-rider’s hut at the foot of Sugar
Loaf Mountain he had found an Englishwoman with
four children, all in steps, and the youngest crawling.
As she had talked, they peeped shyly round the door,
murmuring and nudging each other, until finally their
mother drove them outside.
Yes ; usually she was quite alone, she said. Her
husband was sometimes away for days at a time. She
hadn’t much time to think about being lonely, what
with the house and the children. Yes ; hers was a
Devonshire accent. She came from Totnes. Grayham
noticed that she had acquired the habit of
tilting back her head and closing down her eyes in
the manner of those used to looking over long, glaring
distances.
At the Government Tanks he met a blackfellow
and his gin, fairly old both of them, and measuring
their satisfaction by the amount of flour, sugar and
tobacco they might happen to possess. Those were
their luxuries. Nature provided them with the essen-
tials —each other and the space to live and die in.
Grayham could not get much out of them, beyond the
fact that they thought the white fellow in general was
mad.
“Yes ; drifters,” he reflected, and found his
thoughts drifting back to where they had started from.
j n about three days he should be at Quondong
station. He had not been there before, but from
experience knew what it would be like. Outside the
kitchen door there would be a fig-tree, the shade of
it s leaves strangely black. When he stumbled over
the doorstep, because at first he could not see it prop-
erly j n that interior, cool darkness, a hand would
reach to his and say “You’ve come far? Sit down
there anywhere. You’d like some tea, I guess.” Maybe
because he could not yet distinguish a chair or a form,
he would sit down on the cement floor with his back
against the wall.
Tea would be pushe d into his hand, a thick cup
wd h a slab of very yellow cake dotted with currents
resting in the saucer . The tea would be too hot. It
always was . butj in one > s gree diness for it, it could
be drunk somehoWs and its scalding progress all the
way down j n to one ’s inside was an agony of content-
ment Then another CU p 5 and ano ther and another,
„ How , s missus? „ jt would be time to inquirej
one made one - s tQ a chair .
„
Who. 0U mean mana B er s Wl^e •
Yes. , ,
Not too good. This with a shake of he hea ,
lying down at the moment.
Anything serious?
Aw I don t know. It doesn t seem to agree with
her t°° out here. City-bred, you know. She gets
a lot °f headaches.”
Then the cook would go to the door, open it and,
wiping his hands on his apron, stand looking up at the
sky. “Perhaps we might leave the door open a bit,”
he would mutter. “Cooler, don’t you think? The
sun’s getting well down now. Make yourself com-
fortable there. I want to wet down outside here a bit.”
Taking a basin of water, he would go out and
sprinkle the ground about the doorway and under
the fig-tree. The scattered drops would be immedi-
ately absorbed and partially given back as a hot,
earthy fragrance that drifted into the kitchen. “Some
of the others will be here directly,” the cook would
call. “They’ll be glad to see you. We don’t see many
new faces. Where are you making for?”
So it was Grayham rehearsed it all in his mind.
Wandering from station to station one was a kind of
troubadour, expected to be able to spin a yarn, have a
fund of gossip and be in one’s turn a good listener.
Mails were few and far between in some of these
places, and newspapers usually pretty old. Radios
were found here and there ; but they did not bring
the news of all the other drifters, about what was hap-
pening over at Sugar Loaf Mountain, for instance, or
whether the Government prospectors were still work-
ing north of the salt lake, and where the notorious
“Mrs.” Singh, the Afghan’s one-eyed white woman,
had last been seen and with whom.


ROYAL
purple: para
ffhtl TMmafWie mellotmeJ£andJxMq/iiet
Seppelt's
The Royal Albert Hall.
Few buildings in London are better known to Australians and New Zealanders than the Royal Albert Hall, Kensington, devoted largely
to the interests of science, art and music, the venue of various meetings in connection with religious, sporting, social and political movements,
the progress of education and, in more recent years, to assemblies wherein are voiced views on matters of great Empire concern. In
its association with music, the Royal Albert Hall may be said to enjoy its chief claim to world fame. As its name implies, it is a memorial
to the late Prince Consort, “Albert the Good,” and was opened in great state by his widow, Queen Victoria, of revered memory, in
March, 1871. The Albert Hall may be described as a National institution. It is an imposing structure, conveying a sense of heaviness,
or “ponderosity,” rather than aesthetic beauty. Still it admirably serves the purposes it now serves. Its seating capacity, 8000, is
probably the largest in the Empire, and the organ, by the great Willis, has 9000 pipes and 168 draw stops, while there is accommodation
for an orchestra of 1100. Here is unquestionably a London landmark, and it possesses a certain attractiveness today, chiefly sentimental
perhaps, which explains why the natives hold it in the bonds of affection,


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3182.
Wednesday, February 5, 1941.
“FAUST” UP TO DATE.
“Remember our pact! Up here 1 was to be YOUR servant. Down below you are to be MINE.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad :
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
A DICTATOR IN DISTRESS.
Mr. Churchill’s address to the Italian people was
one of the finest things he has done, and the prophecy
on which he ventured, after recalling the ancient
friendship in felicitous sentences, is having a fulfil-
ment denied to previous attempts, particularly the
one in which “the formidable figure of Stalin” was
represented as barring “for ever” Hitler’s road to the
East. /
“Our armies,” the Prime Minister said, “are tear-
ing—and will tear —your African empire to shreds
and tatters.” Cyrenaica has already suffered this
fate ; Southern Libya has been invaded by the Free
French, and British Imperial forces are on the march
in Abyssinia, Italian Somaliland and Eritrea. Unless
the badly-mauled Italian navy and air force, with the
assistance of the predominant partner, can effect a
complete change in the Mediterranean situation, the
armies in Italy’s African possessions will be rolled up
one by one; and, although German aircraft have
made spectacular attacks on Malta and on British
convoys, the Royal Navy remains in control of “our
sea.” The Germans have paid dearly for such incon-
siderable successes as they have achieved there.
Meanwhile Mussolini has another lost campaign
on his hands nearer home. What was to have been
a military promenade through Greefce has become an
inglorious defence of Albania ; and, with British war-
ships in the Adriatic, the munitioning and supplying
of armies spread over a wild country and dispirited
by repeated defeats and changes of leadership is itself
a problem. Here again only Hitler can extricate the
Italian dictator from his plight; and, although Hitler’s
moves are unpredictable, so far he has been oddly
reluctant to help. For the three months of the Greek
war he has maintained his representatives in Greece,
and last week, when General Metaxas lay dying, a
specialist was sent from Vienna to Athens as a for-
lorn hope. It is still feared in Europe that the
Germans may thrust towards Salonika, but that would
mean war with Turkey, if not with Bulgaria, as well
as with Greece ; and, apart from the obvious diffi-
culties and hazards of such an enterprise, it would
necessitate awkward explanations to the German
people, who have been assured that Hitler would hate
to extend the area of the war.
Only when things are going well for dictators
can they afford to be careless of public opinion.
Docile as the Germans are, they are capable of turn-
ing nasty if their Fiihrer tries them too high, and
during the Munich period Hitler showed that he was
shrewd enough to realise it. In the judgment of the
British Ambassador at Berlin, Hitler wanted to go to
war then, knowing that Britain was unprepared, France
a house divided and Russia a mere bag of wind ; but
his people showed in various ways that they didn’t
want to go to war then, and he had to alter his plans.
Two things in particular had a restraining influence on
him: the popular enthusiasm for Mr. Chamberlain,
which, spontaneous and tumultuous, took him com-
pletely by surprise, and an unapplauded progress of
mechanised cavalry through the streets of Berlin,
always previously an occasion for frantic cheering.
Much less can Mussolini afford to ignore what his
Italians are thinking and saying now that the luck
which has attended him for so many years has changed
so dramatically for the worse.
Eighteen years of dictatorship have not changed
the nature of the Italian. He remains an explosive
fellow, easily exalted and just as easily depressed,
and even his controlled newspapers have to reckon
with this fact. In the evil times that have come upon
him they find it necessary to address him in language
which a German editor could employ only at the risk
of being sent to a concentration camp.
There may be no truth in the stories of anti-war
riots in Milan and other towns, but there can be no
mistaking the significance of articles which have
appeared in the controlled press and measures which
have been taken by the Government. As Mr.
Churchill said, “we were told we were effete, worn
out, an old chatterbox people, mouthing outworn
shibboleths of nineteenth-century Liberalism.” Taranto,
Sidi Barrani, Bardia, Tobruk and Derna have altered
all that. “We” now figure in Italian journalism as a
people renowned for “tenacity” and employing all the
resources of a mighty empire in a war for which we
were fully prepared and the Italians were not. Vastly
inferior in equipment and greatly outnumbered,
especially by the Australians, the Italian armies were
beaten in Western Egypt and Libya, and the severity
of the blows cannot be concealed. But the war must
go on and the Italians must redouble their exertions
in the workshop and the field, for if they lose they
will be condemned to the harsh fate of becoming
“waiters, hotelkeepers and porters” in the service of the
English and their American friends. That is how Italian
journalism has reacted to the defeats in Africa, the
Mediterranean and Greece. The “Popolo d’ltalia” is
even reported to have said that “Italy’s entry into the
conflict was imposed upon her.” There may be truth
in this, but it is not the whole truth. If Mussolini
was held to the terms of his alliance with Hitler he
was also actuated by sordid greed and grotesque mis-
calculation. The “Popolo d’ltalia” is supposed to be
his own paper, and its article must have been read
with grim cynicism at Berchtesgaden.
Of the measures taken by the Government, the
most striking was the transfer of three Ministers to
the Albanian battle zone. One is Count Ciano, the
Foreign Minister, who married Mussolini’s daughter ;
the others are Signor Bottai, the Minister of Educa-
tion, and Signor Gorla, the Minister of Works. An
obvious sop to public opinion, it was accompanied
by restrictions on restaurants where the well-to-do
feed. Meanwhile, a “Times” correspondent in Libya
reported the substance of conversations with Italian
seamen taken at Tobruk. “We never wanted to fight
you,” they told him. “We knew this would happen ;
we ought to be fighting the Germans, as in 1916.”
Many captured soldiers have said much the same thing,
but the dissatisfaction of the seamen may have a
special significance, even if it does not throw light
on the poor performance of the Italian Navy. It was
in the German Navy that disaffection first became
serious for the enemy in 1918.
It might be a good thing if Mr. Churchill followed
up his speech of December 23 with a statement of
war aims, even if they were restricted to Italy. Offered
generous terms, the Italians might prefer peace with
Britain to domination by Germany, cruel as that domi-
nation would be if the alliance were ended. There are
many signs that their hearts are not in the war, and
it would be a thousand times better to manceuvre
them out than to knock them out. So long as they
can muster any force in the Mediterranean they have
a considerable nuisance value. And there need be no
lefusal to treat with any particular Government or
person, for the nation will assuredly deal in its own
time and way with the men who have led it to disaster:
a defeated and humiliated dictator is a dictator
doomed. The object of any negotiation that may be
attempted should be peace with friendship. There
could be no friendship, though there might be a
hollow peace, if the Fascism that is fated to fall
were succeeded by Communism.
In the Name of Labor.
In the last quarter of a century Labor has had two
years of office in the Commonwealth Parliament. They
were two troubled years at that, leading figures in Mr.
Beasley and Mr. Lyons taking part in breakaway
movements. Mr, Beasley subsequently joined in the
wrecking of the Government and formed the small
separate Labor party which, after an uneasy interval
of “unity,” he again controls ; Mr. Lyons crossed
to the other side, led the U.A.P. successfully in three
elections and kept it in office till, at his death, the
guiding reins passed to Mr. Menzies.
The record is all the more extraordinary in view
of the success of Labor in separate States. In largely
agricultural Queensland Labor has now had such a
long unbroken run, and before that had had such a
large share of office, that Queensland has become
recognised as an established Labor State. Tasmania
stands practically on the same plane as the Northern
State as a Labor stronghold ; Westralia is in much the
same position ; even Victoria has for nearly six years
had a Government kept in power by Labor support.
N. S. Wales, the one State of them all which on paper
should be permanently Labor, has meanwhile been
almost anything but that. It had its bursts of Mr.
Lang, its final, disastrous experience of him closing in
1932, with the State tottering on the edge of bank-
ruptcy and worse. After that the slump in Labor’s
stocks in the State was such that even the now-
exploded Mr. Stevens was able to lead the U.A.P.-C.P.
combination to victory in election after election, while
establishing a record for himself in the Premier’s job.
On paper, N. S. Wales should be the outstanding
Labor State. Its own Parliament should be as strongly
inhabited with Labor in office as Queensland has
been ; much more importantly, its vote at the Com-
monwealth elections should ensure almost continuous
Labor occupancy of office at Canberra. At the
last election —when the Labor cash bid for soldiers’
and other votes was open and unashamed ; when Mr.
Menzies flatly declined to enter into that bidding ;
when Dr. Evatt had as much Sydney U.A.P. press
support as any U.A.P. candidate, and when the same
press campaigning for “outstanding candidates” oppos-
ing other U.A.P. candidates, including sitting members,
still further helped Labor —N. S. Wales returned 12
“official” Labor candidates and four in Mr. Beasley’s
group, branded in advance by the “official” side as
“scabs.” At that, one or two of the successes looked
freakish, and the total result, even with so much in
Labor’s favor, looked like anything but the solid return
of a solidly Labor State.
One of the greatest handicaps under which Labor
has to work everywhere, and nowhere more than in
N. S. Wales, springs from the things that are done in
Labor’s name. There could be few things more cer-
tain in political prediction than that, if all the odds
and ends that use the name of Labor could be tem-
porarily silenced, and Labor in N. S. Wales led in a
Commonwealth election by, say, Dr. Evatt, the result
would be a Labor Government at Canberra. As it is,
Labor in the State with two-fifths of the population—
the vital State in the deciding of control at Canberra—
is divided under at least three —sometimes four, and
even five —separate banners, with their markings rang-
ing from those of the Australian flag, which is a good
enough device for honest Australian Labor, to the
hammer-and-sickle of those whose first loyalty is not
to Australia at all, but to the Soviet Union. And the
influence of this is not confined to N. S. Wales ; it
affects Labor support at Commonwealth elections
every bit as much in other States as well.
Of the assortment, three groups have a definite
direct bearing on the chances of Labor taking office
again as the Commonwealth Government. The
“official” and the Beasley (“Non-Communist”) groups
should be able to resolve their differences, and, on
paper, would then have a first-rate chance of provid-
ing Australia with a Labor Government as stable as
that of Queensland. That is, if it were not for the
other group. The other group is such that while it
exists to advocate the alleged Labor policies it sub-
scribes to, and to continue working against Australia
on the lines prescribed by its leading oracles, the
chance of sensible Australians again trusting their
destiny to a Labor Government at Canberra must con-
tinue remote.
The third group, wearing the impressive label of
the N.S.W. Labor party, held its annual conference
at the fishing resort of Woy Woy, and very fishy the
whole of its programme looked. “Straight-out co-
operation with Russia” was naturally a main plank of
its programme. That explains pretty well all the rest
heard at the conference, including the solemn sugges-
tion of one unconscious wit for a Pacific conference,
to be arranged by Australia, with invitations to
“Russia, Chile, China and Mexico,” the aim “a com-
prehensive military and trade pact.”
A conference of half-wits, meeting in the moon-
beams on Goat Island, could not very well improve
on that. The notion of those four famous fighting
nations lined up beside Diggers has at least the merit
of being funny. The open applause of the strikes
that are hampering Australia’s war effort was some-
thing more sinister. “One speaker said that the party’s
policy must be to encourage unofficial strikes.” “The
principal paper of the conference on the political per-
spective was read by Mr. E. Ross, an executive
member,” and Mr. Ross said:
Today a mighty strike wave is developing, with a
powerful common basis. The workers are resisting
capitalism’s war-time economic policy. In the September
quarter of 1939 there were 110,687 days lost through
strikes in New South Wales; in the June quarter of last
year the figure had increased to 608,598 working days.
In Victoria there were 272 working days lost through
strikes in the March quarter of 1939, and in the June
quarter of last year 3634. Queensland workers lost 1124
working days through strikes in the September quarter
of 1939, and in the June quarter last year lost 80,600.
In point of fact, that is true enough. It represents
the very aspect of the Australian scene which makes
this country’s war effort —for all that has been achieved
in spite of it—seem feeble, half-hearted and hopelessly
inadequate to the demands that will presently be made.
That it is recounted with relish and applauded at a
conference meeting under the banner of Labor is a
striking demonstration of the handicaps under which
genuine Labor has continuously to work.
It is the Australian tragedy of that party, which
has done, and could do, Australia great service, and
the counterparts of which are doing great service to
their countries in Maoriland and Britain, that it has
no exclusive right to its own name. It has to see that
name tagged on to anti-Australian policies the advo-
cacy of which makes political Labor smell to the skies.
That smell has kept it out of office for quarter of a
century, except for two years. While it hangs about
—which will be as long as organisations of elements
like those constituting the Woy Woy conference con-
tinue to flourish their alleged policies in the name of
La bor—the chance of genuine Labor again controlling
Australia’s destiny, whether under a Curtin, an Evatt
or a Beasley, must remain one that even a tin-hare
punter wouldn’t bet on. The U.A.P. crowd in N. S.
Wales has lived wholly on the smell of Lang for
nearly a decade ; the smell of the so-called N.S.W.
Labor party should do a lot to keep the same crowd
alive and happy in the wider field.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Petain's France.
With all the information at its disposal, the British
and American press failed to reveal even portion of
the truth about France until it was too late, and since
the Nazi night fell on the unhappy country that press
has been more untrustworthy than ever. Nothing
could be wilder or more conflicting than its general
accounts of what has happened at Vichy these last two
months. Almost the only point on which the corre-
spondents and commentators agreed not to differ was
that Laval is a scoundrel, and was dismissed because
he was trying to betray Britain and what was left of
his country. Yet events have proved themselves wrong
in so many other particulars that no great surprise need
be felt if “the black Auvergnat” (a Pooh-Bah pro-
fessor’s term for him; other oracles refer to his
“negroid” appearance) is vindicated in the end.
In the fatal month of June, Reynaud, Daladier’s
successor, was a hero to the British and American
press. Elie Bois, a former editor of the “Petit
Parisien,” has written a book in which he describes
Daladier as “honest and upright,” and Reynaud as a
restless intriguer completely under the influence of his
mistress, an “arch defeatist,” who was killed in a car
accident when she was bolting with her paramour
towards the Spanish frontier. Bois gives an appalling
account of French unpreparedness in the air, of
Gamelin’s complacency and loss of nerve, and of the
state of the French land defences, with the Maginot
Line left half finished. In this he is supported by
Andre Maurois, who writes in another book that when
British war correspondents saw their men trying to
make something of waterlogged trenches they said
“If that is our line, God help us!” They were not
permitted to say so in print.
Maurois refers in his book to Mr. Churchill’s offer
of an “indissoluble union” to the Reynaud Govern-
ment before it scattered. As published in June, it was
to the effect that “the two Governments declare that
France and Britain are no longer two nations but one ;
the French and British Union and the Constitution of
the Union will provide for joint organs of defence and
foreign, financial and economic policies ; every citizen
of France will enjoy immediately citizenship of
Britain ; every British subject in France will become
a citizen of France ; the two Parliaments will be for-
mally associated.” This astonishing proposal was
apparently made without consultation with any
Dominion Government and certainly without refer-
ence to any Dominion Parliament. Maurois asserts
that there was an unpublished clause —the two Empires
were to be united under a Frenchman. This is almost
incredible, but if Maurois is a liar he should be de-
nounced as such. Hitherto he has been a writer whom
England has delighted to honor.
The one fact that emerges clearly from the fog of
unoccupied France is that Petain is no mean leader of
a stricken nation. In a situation more terrible than
that of 1815 he has sturdily refused to be Hitler’s
creature. He said in November that he had “accepted
the principle of collaboration with the victor for the
salvation of France,” but he had the courage to add
that the “collaboration must be sincere and aggression
must be excluded.” And a fortnight ago he caused it
to be announced, obviously in reply to repeated repre-
sentations accompanied by threats, that he would not
place the French navy at the service of the conqueror
for use against Britain, and would “insist” on full
observance of the armistice terms. The marshal’s
position has“been strengthened by the British victories,
and by the difficulties attending the keeping down of
a great people like the French ; but with winter over
Europe, and two million Frenchmen still held as
prisoners of war, it is still tragic. All the more credit
to the old patriot that, thus far at least, he has refused
to buy any alleviation of it by selling his honor.
R.A.A.F. Crashes.
Delegates to the annual conference of the A.W.U.
have demanded an inquiry by a High Court Judge
into R.A.A.F. ’plane crashes. The position calls for some
such action, especially as the Minister, Mr. McEwen
—speaking before two officers lost their lives in a
crash at Darra (Q.) —saw fit to make the challenging
statement that “of the last nine accidents eight were
due entirely to misjudgment on the part of the crew”
and that “no decision was possible in the other case.”
It is, of course, a difficult matter to provide
against “misjudgment” by a crew, especially by a
novice crew, because the only way of telling whether
a man is an efficient flier is to let him fly. Then
emergency tells the story.
The public has no way of forming a just judg-
ment about these accidents. They must be seen against
the background of an immense expansion of the
R.A.A.F. —on which £37,000,000 will be spent during
the present year. Where expansion has to be made at
breakneck speed and men trained hurriedly there are
bound to be accidents. At the same time there is un-
easiness as to whether some at least might not be
avoided by a small slowing-up of training and stricter
supervision over machines and materiel. That can
only be decided by expert inquiry, which should be
aimed at putting matters right and preventing acci-
dents in the future rather than raking up the past.
Last year 50 Australians lost their lives in mili-
tary ’plane accidents, among them the chief of the
Australian General Staff, the Minister for the Air and
the Minister for the Army. From January 16 to
January 31, 1941, there were seven crashes involving
15 deaths.
Donald Cameron, president of the R.A.A.F. re-
cruiting committee, declares that the R.A.A.F. is
administered by some of the most capable air officers
in the world. Their records prove it. The quality
of the men themselves, as demonstrated in the war
zone and particularly in Libya during the past few
weeks, speaks for itself.
In a few months of 1940 over 5000 pilots, air-
gunners and observers were absorbed into the
R.A.A.F., plus ground staffs of 22,000. Several
batches of trainees have gone overseas, and in the
Canadian finishing-off courses the first of these made
record passes in almost record time.
So there is nothing wrong with the general com-
petence of the personnel.
A Century of Fairfaxes.
With the deference proper to a junior, aged 62, The
Bulletin extends its congratulations to the Sydney
“Morning Herald,” which is about to celebrate the
hundredth year of Fairfax-family control. The Office
Historian enlarges on the pleasing theme:
John Fairfax was the first of the clan. Apprenticed to
a printer in his native Warwick at 12, he married at 23,
and at 31 bought a partnership in the Leamington “Chronicle.”
Two years later he was broke; a libel action had wrecked
the paper. Next year (1838) he arrived in Sydney with a
wife and two children and a five-pound note.
Newspapers then were as thick in Sydney as bottles in
Innamincka. John got a job on the “Commercial Courier.”
A few months afterwards he became librarian to the Free
Subscription Library; and as that institution did not encourage
nocturnal reading he spent his nights setting type for the
Sydney “Herald.”
On February 6, 1841, he had gathered enough capital
to join with one Kemp, a reporter, in buying the “Herald,”
founded in 1831. The price was £lO,OOO, on long terms. In
August, 1841, the partners rechristcned it the “Morning
Herald.”
In the first rainbow years after the discovery of gold
John Fairfax, now sole proprietor, might have been seen
wandering among the tombstones of erstwhile competitors,
pausing now and then to watch the untutored efforts of his
Warwickshire contemporary, Henry Parkes, to make the old
“Empire” pay. He thrived during the “Hungry Forties”;
made enough, indeed, to visit England, spend a couple of years
there and pay all his creditors.
In 1857 he built the largest commercial building in Sydney
to house his paper. Next year he laid flowers on the grave
of Parkes’s “Empire.” In respect of other rival publications,
the ceremony has been repeated many times since.
Under Fairfax rule the “Herald” has, as it were, had
four ages. During the first, Kemp and Fairfax established
its tradition. The second was the age of John Fairfax and John
West, as editor. The third was the era of “Our Sir James,”
who took control in 1873, after his father’s death. The fourth
was the post-war era.
Each generation has reflected its period. In the first
two stages the ideal of the proprietary was a Methodist
minister using the Chair as a pulpit from which to preach
the solid virtues. The paper reflected mid-Victorian public
opinion.
Under “Our Sir James” the editorship remained Non-
conformist in tradition, but, in keeping with the prosperity
which had arrived in full measure, it acquired a top-hat.
In fact, several top-hats. One editor —Dr. Garran —sat in
the Legislative Council. Reporters were expected to appear
in black coats and toppers, a rule which was relaxed only
when Tom Courtney joined the staff; then it was noticed that
even the most expensive topper on Tom’s huge cranium
assumed the appearance of an upturned billycan on an outsized
pumpkin.
The age of “Our Sir James” lasted till his death in
1919. He had been one of the strongest characters of his
time and had helped to found the National Art Gallery, the
Prince Alfred Hospital and many other Sydney institutions.
During his 45 years of management he had kept the Old Lady
dignified and had seen her tucked into the mosquito-net at a
respectable hour. She never went to a night club, her
theatrical tastes were conservative, and if a mannequin had
appeared on the premises she would have had to take to
the fire escape. The first lady reporter who asked for a job
was waved away with the remark that “Herald” architecture
had made no. provision for females.
An interregnum in which J. O. Fairfax and Geoffrey
Fairfax, two kindly men who had no enemies, carried on
the tradition was cut short by their untimely deaths at short
intervals. Then control was placed in the hands of young
Warwick Fairfax, fresh from Balliol, at 29.
Warwick Fairfax has held the reins for 10 years, during
which Granny has become a modern. She recognises the
existence of female legs, and goes to cocktail parties. More
pictures of flappers than of parsons appear in her pages, and
her staff is run entirely without whiskers. Old gentlemen
mutter sometimes that the editorials smack of Geneva (which
doesn’t mean gin), and when the “Herald” indulges in raillery
—for example, at the expense of Mr. Spender, whom she
christened the Baron of Bardia —it has the air of an old
girl with a cocktail under her corset.
But she is a more human old lady than she was, and she
has never sacrificed principles. All her days faithful reporting
has been her passion. She is, in fact, a living evidence that
at heart the average man prefers solidity about his morning
paper and that homely virtues pay best.
Education on an Empty Stomach.
Some time ago Victorian medical men reported
statistically that there was an alarming amount of
malnutrition amongst children attending Government
schools and that this followed the lines of economic
cleavage. In suburbs like Collingwood and Footscray,
children were pounds lighter and inches shorter than
children from Toorak and East Malvern. With this
went an incapacity to absorb the knowledge purveyed
by the Education Department.
The retort of Minister Harris to a deputation
which put these facts before him was that there was
no malnutrition in Victoria.
The medical men then suggested that an experi-
ment be made by giving the Oslo meal to a number
of selected children over a period of some months
and measuring the results with a similar number
who got only the food provided in their own homes.
The Oslo meal, supplied free at lunchtime to children
attending school in Norway, consists of wholemeal
wheat in some form or other, milk, cheese and fruit,
the cost being fourpence to fivepence a head. The
Minister of Education said feeding children was no
business of his department and passed the buck to
the Minister for Sustenance, who passed it to the
Water and Sewerage Board or something. The
Opportunity Clubs then offered to perform the experi-
ment under proper control conditions.
They claim that its success was amazing. Children
of both sexes, aged eight to fourteen, put on up to
times as much weight as those not receiving the
lunch, gaining 41b. to 81b. and height-increases withal
in three months. Moreover, their average posi-
tion in their classes improved from twenty-fifth to
fifth, showing that malnutrition does have some effect
on aptitude at lessons.
Courteously requested to come and see the experi-
ment in operation in his own department, Mr. Harris
replied that he was too busy with the war effort. A
second request brought the suggestion that the
Minister of Sustenance was the proper man to view it.
If the Minister of Public Instruction and Public
Health thinks that diet is of no importance in educa-
tion, he is running counter to scientific opinion on
the subject. If he thinks that it is important and that
the experiment has been unsuccessful, he ought to
see for himself just why it was unsuccessful. But if
he finds that it has been successful and that there
really are children struggling to focus themselves
on learning in his department, but so obsessed
with their hungry stomachs that they can’t think of
anything but the food they can’t get, and that the
experiment has proved that they can be easily cured of
their obsession and made into teachable individuals,
then he will have to eat his statement that there is
no malnutrition in State schools.
It is estimated that 10,000 to 50,000 children
would benefit by the meal and that the cost would
be a trifle compared with the cost of maintaining
superfluous State Ministers.
So Much for Thursday.
“McThruppence” buys a paper:
It’s the only afternoon daily in this city, population
H million. The missus doesn’t bother about other days, but
it has to be bought on Thursday. If they happen to pick
on Thursday to sound the Last Trump they’ll have to wait
until she’s seen the paper, so that she may go to Judgment
knowing what the Friday Specials would have been if the
Trump hadn’t sounded. •
It costs 2d. You get 40 pages for your money, eight
columns to the page, 320 columns in all. But 256| of them
are advertisements, leaving you 63| columns of reading matter.
Reading matter? Well, you have to include crossword puzzles,
comic strips, movie flimflam, social snippets and the bridge
column or you wouldn’t have anything. The missus gets
down on the lounge-room floor with it. The kids squabble
over it. Sheets of printed paper lie everywhere. The cat
strolls in, eyes the scene and strolls out again. You find
a spare corner and wait, having determined to read that
paper, come what may.
The kids having gone to bed and the missus to her
kitchen, you patiently assemble the jigsaw and start. On
page one Tobruk has fallen; “I have watched today’s battle
since the first shot was fired before dawn”; the forecast is
cloudy and you are to save the paper for the salvage commis-
sioner. On two, the U.S.A. and Russia Get Closer, and there
will be 33,000 U.S. warplanes in 16 months. On three, there is
a Post for Stevens, Menzies won’t let Billy Hughes start a
Security Guard, somebody had 28 operations in 30 years,
and there is a Snag in the Balkans for Hitler. All this you
had read that morning. On four, the paper says what must
be done after Tobruk and reprints three cols, of American
syndicated stuff and you can save 28s. 6d. on a suit. Five
has a star bargain, everybody except you is to get a war-
service badge. New York will supply 1,300,000 tons of
shipping. On six, seven and eight are bargains. On nine,,
country blokes are rushing the R.A.A.F. recruiting trains,
“Pitch” will beat the invader, swing music and the rhumba
will play their part in the national effort. Lashin’s of
bargains on 10, 11 and 12.
Time to get this far: smin. 54sec.
On 13 you almost missed a letter from an airman in
England to his sister in Croydon (N.S.W.): “Only a chunk
of shrapnel through the greenhouse. I have a feeling it
would be love’s labor lost to repair greenhouses in this part
of the world Most of the nights have been spent keeping the
dugout pumped reasonably dry. Anderson shelters are full of
water to the ground level. The next place but one had a
direct hit.” The Yanks take up boomerang throwing. Mr.
Baddeley wants State control of coalmines.
More bargains on 14 and 15, a defensive move in contract
bridge, a Mr. G. Okell says “Rationing of petrol and
newsprint is ridiculous in Australia when we can have
more than our requirements from the Soviet. Why not trade
with a real neutral?” Still more bargains from 16 to 20.
On 21, a female school inspector visits every town in the
State, and the new peche shade is gorgeous.
Halfway in 12min. 38sec. That airman’s letter must have
held you up.
Good galloping to 33, only bargains, flapper-fodder and
movie “stars” to pass through. On 33 Tarzan is stopped
by a blood-chilling cry. So on to 39, clearing more bargains.
Dalgety’s profit is higher, peas are cheap, big prizes for dog
races. Page 40: All Love is a track star, surf beauties are to
parade.
Full distance in 14min. 59sec. dead. You’d have done
better if it hadn’t been for that airman’s letter and the
time lost turning over pages. Well, if that’s the news you’ve
read it. You lie back. The missus hurries in, seizes the
paper, tears a page out and hurries out again. Is she on a
bargain or wrapping up the debris of a meal? You’re too
tired to find out. So much for Thursday.
Peahens and Prancers.
This country is tired of the continuous debate in
the newspapers between Ministers and agitators. Let
some tinpot union secretary shriek denunciation of
something to an industrial roundsman and the paper
promptly publishes it. Then the paper telephones
the particular Minister or tips off the political rounds-
man and next issue contains the Minister’s “reply.”
Back comes the union secretary. Again the Minister
“replies.” Others join in. Something that should
have been settled promptly and without fuss becomes
a “major issue.” There are threats and counter-
threats, perhaps a stop-work meeting. Presently it
dies down, only to flare up again when some other
babbler lets himself go.
Heaven knows how much trouble is caused by
the vanity of some of these garrulous people. Like
the “socialites” they often sneer at, they’ll say any-
thing to achieve print. They get a reputation among
their fellows for being able to “speak up.” Ministers
who “reply” to them are just as culpable. But most
culpable of all is the peahen press, which has only to
hear some ass braying in an obscure paddock to rush
off, record the bray and thrust it upon the public.
In its hunger for sensation it persuades the ass
that he is a Clydesdale, whereupon the braying
becomes louder and the prancing of the pleased ass
raises such a dust that credulous people have to take
two looks to make sure they aren’t being deceived.
No clown will perform if the audience ignores
him.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Dick Tafone”: Queensland State
scholarship examination papers yielded
some devastatingly satiric aphorisms dis-
guised as the artless expression of child
minds. For example:
In A-class stations the announcers speak
in a high-class way, while in B-class
stations they speak freely and act the fool.
The Dead Sea is where the people of
Arabia go to have their annual bath, if
ever.
There are always two parties in power.
One makes the laws and the other passes
them.
You can give a chap a nastier one by
writing about him than you can by fight-
ing him.
A man with plenty of money has more
power than a poor man because he can
get money by writing a cheque, whereas
poor people have to use their swords to
get anything.
There ought to be a journalistic cadet-
ship waiting for the writer of No. 4 when
he leaves school.
* * * *
“C.R.”: Dr. C. P. O’Toole, the new
flying doctor at Wyndham, recently had
to deal with a bone-pointing case which
would interest anthropologists and psy-
chologists. The patient, an abo, girl,
complained of a pain in the abdomen
and diagnosed her symptoms by explain-
ing that somebody in her tribe had
pointed the death bone at her. The pedal
wireless summoned the flying doctor ; he
transferred her to the native hospital at
Wyndham and, after assuring her he was
going to cut the bone out, gave her a
general anaesthetic. He made a long
abdominal incision, sewed it up, and
when the patient woke up the evil in-
fluence had been exorcised, apparently,
for the stomachache had completely
vanished.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The desire of the Law to be
sportingly fair has been shown strongly
in S.A. A charge of false pretence
showed the defendant, quite truthfully, as
“at present serving a sentence in the
Yatala Labor Prison.” But in court the
Police Prosecutor said he felt “extremely
embarrassed” over this, and the S.M.
said that such prejudicial information
should never have been brought before
the Court. The charge was dropped,
* * * *
“Caramba”; Rain, the heaviest yet
recorded, which recently deluged S.A.
from north to south, causing widespread
damage and cutting road, rail and air
communications, was followed by the
usual spate of theories regarding weather
signs and forecasts. Some S. Australians
say the comet now visible in the south-
eastern sky gave evidence of the ap-
proach of floods. I’ll hand the forecasting
bun to my nearsighted 78-year-old aunt,
who, declaring her corns were hurting,
inquired a night or so before the storm
broke which way the Milky Way was
pointing. On being told due north, she
replied “That, nephew, presages heavy
rain,” and forthwith put her pot plants
out.
* * * *
“Bookworm”; Sydney’s new Public
Library, built on to the Mitchell just be-
side the Domain gates in Macquarie-
street, is nearing completion, so far as
its outer shell is concerned, and is already
one of the handsomest buildings in the
N.S.W. capital. The entrance through a
tall pillared portico leads into a lofty
vestibule, the pavement of which is to
be a tiled presentation of one of Aus-
tralia’s earliest maps. The reading-room,
though perhaps not quite so high, rivals
for size the Centennial Hall in Sydney’s
civic building, is extraordinarily well
lighted through the roof, and will be
efficiently served with lifts and conveyors
for the transport of volumes from the
cliffs of books that will tower from floor
to ceiling. The establishment is long
overdue, the cramped old building on the
other side of Macquarie-street having
been obsolete for more than half a
century.
* ♦ ♦ *
“K.P.”: Recent work in the U.S.A.
affords definite grounds for belief that
a method of immunisation against infan-
tile paralysis will be evolved before very
long. The first objective is to isolate a
strain of the invisible but living polio-
myelitis virus which is not virulent to
human beings. By successive passage
through a highly susceptible species of
American rats, monkeys and white mice,
one has already been evolved which is
non-virulent for monkeys. Should this
be found to protect the higher ape species
against large doses of known infective
strains of the virus, the next step will be
to test it out on volunteer human sub-
jects. A jealously-guarded privilege of
the principal investigator in such re-
searches is to be the first volunteer. Simi-
lar lines of experiment have already pro-
duced a non-virulent strain of yellow-
“Well, We had to make room for our tent somewhere, mate."
fever virus which has at last conquered
that former scourge of tropical America.
More than 800,000 people have been
inoculated with it in Brazil.
* * * *
“Ologist”; This is from an article en-
titled “Love, Laughter and Humor,” by
Surgeon Rear-Admiral C. M. Beadnell,
in the London “Literary Guide” for
December, 1940—it appears under the
sub-heading “Courting and Chivalry”:
“Primitive man carried away his strug-
gling bride by force and cured any sub-
sequent frigidity on her part with a club.
In New South Wales and among Bedouins
it is still not uncommon for lovers to
beat their sweethearts.” So when N.S.W.
Diggers in the Libyan desert see the im-
passioned Bedouin at work they’ll have
the thrill of recognising an old custom
of their own country.
* * * «
“Riccoboni”: Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
caters for bus travellers by installing
wireless on the vehicles. You can ride
to work listening to the 8.8. C. news and
come home to swing music. If you’ve
backed Dogsjoy in the third, simply find
an excuse for a bus trip and hear the
race in comfort.
* * * *
“Sar’n-major Dalgetty” harks back to
his jocund youth:
I am delighted to read that the A.I.F.
strode into the Battle of Bardia singing in the
good old style of their fathers. Those who
went through that blithe and leafy spring which
some of us enjoyed in the quiet forest round
Villers-Bret. in the pleasant land of France in
’lB will remember the happy carolling of
those carefree days. Every unit had its own
song. The front line in Montmartre rang to
Staff Corps choruses of “Another Little Drink” ;
the air of every cookhouse was limpid with
the strains of “I Know Where the Flies Go”;
the R.A.M.C. beefed out the verses of “The
Butcher of Grindlebar”; raiding parties cleared
the parapet carolling “Meet Me by Moonlight,”
and lance-jacks’ quartets tiptoed along the
trenches awakening the rosy young soldiery
with the muted melody of “Beloved, It Is
Morn.” The crisis came when the Primitive
Methodist Choir of the Provost Corps, in a
dell in Monument Wood, walked fair into a
barrage which it had failed to hear because the
liedertafel of the 115th Regiment of Lausjagers
was giving a choral rendering of an editorial
article from the “Berchtesgadenische Swiebel-
gutzer.” After that. Monash and Hindenburg
forbade all further singing, and 1 think that is
how the war ended. For what gallant warrior—
ask any peahen reporter who has read the text-
books of Charles Lever—could go into battle
with the light of courage in his eye if there were
not a song on his lips? Tom Blarney, any-
how, has done right in reviving the custom.
No exponent of bel canto who heard “Roll
Out the Barrel” coming out of a Puckapunyal
throat for the first time would be content only
to shove up both hands in surrender. He
would shove up both feet to make sure.
♦ * * *
“F.Q.”: Attorney-General Hughes said
the other day that he did not know what
doctrine Jehovah’s Witnesses preached.
He could have found out without much
trouble. I had it explained to me long
ago by one of the sect in Melbourne.
Unknown to the bulk of humanity the
Almighty redescended on earth about ten
years ago and inaugurated an age of
peace and goodwill which is to last to
all eternity. Judge Rutherford, of Los
Angeles, is the Voice of the Almighty.
Inasmuch as the Divine reign has started,
all temporal institutions automatically
become of the devil. Hence Churchill,
Roosevelt and Menzies are forces for
evil, doomed to destruction. So are
Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin. They will
all go down in a welter of blood and
God’s kingdom will be established. The
pimply-faced youth with the anaemic girl
who expounded this faith to me pointed
out that a very small subscription fee to
the Judge’s denomination would save me
from sharing in the catastrophe.
* * * *
“F.S.”; Reported that artist Louis Mc-
Cubbin is at Canberra retouching official
pictures of the 1914-18 war. Most of
them aren’t worth it. Their painters had
made their names by catering for Aus-
tralian suburban drawing-rooms, and to
reproduce the horrors of modern warfare
was beyond them. Cartoonist Will
Dyson was an exception—he did suc-
ceed in giving something which the sol-
diers themselves might recognise as the
real thing. This war is being waged at
an even more frightful tempo than the
previous one, but the first artist selected
to depict it is a water-color painter of
pretty landscapes. It requires rather a
corps of mechanical draughtsmen.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: After the A.I.F. has
got past Derna the mails will begin to
fill up with Roman and Greek relics, for
the Diggers are about to have the best
chance which has yet come to any enter-
prising army of doing a bit of classical
souveniring. The whole countryside
round Cyrene and Appolonia is fairly
littered with the relics of ancient civil-
isation and architecture, and many of
the world’s greatest treasures in marble
have been dug from thereabouts. There
should also be a fevered hunt for the three
beautiful ladies (clothed according to the
highest ideals of the sex press) who are
supposed by mythology to guard some-
where in the district the golden apples
presented to Juno when she mar-
ried Apollo. They would be souvenirs
worth while. But there won’t be any
bottles of water from Lethe, the river
which contains the drink which make
men forget. Graziani and his staff prob-
ably have drunk the creek dry already.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: One of Victoria’s air
mysteries was solved when two bushmen
mustering sheep at Mount Torbreck,
about 30 miles from Alexandria, found
the wreck of the R.A.A.F. Avro Anson
bomber which disappeared while flying
from Point Cook to Camden (N.S.W.) in
May last year. The wrecked ’plane was
lying in fragments in savage country
5000 feet above the sea, with the bodies
of the four members of the crew,
Daniels, Stowdor, Hyland and Sass, lying
alongside the wreckage. A vast area was
searched for the ’plane at the time of its
disappearance, and, like the Southern
Cloud, it was reported to have been seen
at innumerable points between Kosciusko
and the Southern Ocean. Bushmen
stumbled on it just 200 yards from where
Flight-Sergeant Hyland, brother of one
of the victims, had camped last Christmas
while searching in vain.
* * « *
“Phildee”: I have to report that I have
just seen a blonde plying the passing
snapshot trade in George-street, Sydney.
Although I have more street-photo-
graphers’ cards than I have fruitless
lottery tickets, I had not, until today,
seen a woman perched on the kerb and
photographically recording the phizes of
passers-by. Still, there’s a woman in-
surance salesman (saleswoman, if you
must) who knows me; and, I’m told,
the sacred precincts of Eton have recently
been invaded by a woman “master”
whom the students fastidiously address
as “Sir.” So I suppose there’s nothing
very remarkable in a street-photo-
graphiste—or whatever she is—shoving
her brethren off the kerb.
* * * *
“Craiser”; Delight that he had found
Australia’s way of life to be the same in
basic principles as that of the people of
U.S.A. was expressed by W. W. Way-
mack, editor of the “Des Moines Regis-
ter and Tribune,” in Melbourne. Some-
how it recalled to me the experiences of
a Melbourne painter when copying old
masters in the Louvre. He told me that
Italians and Frenchmen were always re-
spectful to the artist, and walked behind
him when he was painting. Germans
were arrogant, and loudly discussed his
work with one another. Englishmen
walked in front of him without being
aware of his presence. Americans in the
friendliest manner possible would ask him
how much the paint he used cost, and
how much he would get for the finished
product, and whether it wasn’t possible
to commercialise the jahb by inventing a
mechanical copier. A Japanese this
painter met was the best. He was very
reverential, and came daily to the artist’s
studio with offerings of tins of salmon L
THINGS NEEDFUL.
“We do not require large armies from overseas, but
we do require weapons, ships and aeroplanes.”
— Churchill.
What are the helps they need today?
Not serried armies in stern array
From Empire’s uttermost ends to come
At the bugle’s blast and the beat of drum
For times have changed, and ’tisn’t as when
Their first requirement of all was men.
A call more pressing by far obtains
For ships and weapons and aeroplanes.
They fight as surely in days like these
In our arsenals and our factories.
Till now unhindered by war’s alarms.
The men who arm as the men-at-arms.
Their utmost efforts are wanted more
Than ever we knew or were told before,
Now the word goes out to the wide domains
For ships and weapons and aeroplanes.
Though Mussolini must rue, too late.
That with Adolf ever he linked his fate,
Though Italy’s cracking, one can’t gainsay
The fact that Britain is still at bay,
A citadel in the northern sea,
An ageless fortress of liberty,
Inviolate —but her need remains
For ships and weapons and aeroplanes.
Not all may fight where the death-bolts fly
On land or water, by sea or sky,
But all may aid who leave naught undone
In the other sphere whereby wars are won;
All who their efforts will firmly bend
And their craftsmanship to that single end,
Now Britain’s leader the urge ordains
For ships and weapons and aeroplanes.
n.s.w.
IFORD.


“By gee, those Italians can run, Jim!”
“Uramao”: On the voyage from Eng-
land were three small Scottish refugees
who had been given £5 as pocket-money
by their parents. They were instructed by
their thrifty mum to hand the change, if
any, to their ML. foster-parents for safe-
keeping. On arrival at their new guar-
dians’ place the kids handed over £4 IBs.
6d.; each had banged saxpence on the
trip. But they came from Gleskie. Had
they hailed from Aberrrdeen they’d have
saved the whole fiver.
* * * *
“O.”: Before me is the election mani-
festo of the Balmain (N.S.W.) barber,
John O’Carroll, father of nine good Aus-
tralians, who stood for the Senate last
September as the “only non-Nazi can-
didate.” People treated him as a joke
and he lost his deposit. This was his
platform:
Increased pay and wet canteen for
troops —Defence of Australia —Six months’
compulsory training for all boys leaving
school —Defence pact with America —Free-
dom, but not license, of press and speech;
and freedom of religious worship—Pro-
motion of family life by encouragement to
mothers, grants, endowments and other
family subsidies.
Since then wet canteens have come, the
school-leaving age has been raised in
N.S.W., almost everybody wants a de-
fence pact with America, and Canberra
has given notice of intention to intro-
duce family endowment. Consider-
ing this and his nine children, Aus-
tralia might be the better for a few
more “jokes” like barber John.
“Spokeshave”: The search for Cun-
ningham’s comet in Melbourne had an
amusing aftermath. After scores of ama-
teur star-gazers had claimed to have de-
tected the visitant in various parts of the
heavens and in various degrees of
splendor, Dr. Baldwin, Melbourne’s
phlegmatic Government astronomer, who
had had his eye glued to the telescope
nightly for a fortnight, officially an-
nounced its appearance-as a faint smudge
in the twilight, the other enthusiasts hav-
ing only come across Venus or some
other planet for the first time. But in the
meantime another amateur astronomer
announced the discovery of another
comet. As he had the necessary scientific
qualifications Dr. Baldwin took his report
seriously and accepted it as a fact that
there is a second comet in the Australian
sky. It will go down in history as Skjel-
lerup’s comet —that is if it isn’t really
Cunningham’s tail-wagger, a bit off its
expected course.
* * * *
“Vertigo”: Though the sample from
Work in Progress quoted by “F.S.” (Red
Page, 29/1 / ’4l) is pretty f.a.q. Joyciana,
I can weigh in with an even more impres-
sive exhibit. It appeared on the first page
of Work in Progress when that work was
running Serially in “transition,” the sur-
realist magazine which some young
Americans used to publish in Paris in the
days when it was considered arty to spell
words without capitals. It’s supposed
to be an onomatopoetic representation
of a thunderclap. “Badalgharaghtakam-
minarronnkonnbronntonneronntuonnthu-
nntrovarrhounawnskawntoohoordenenth-
urnuck!” Nobody but Joyce would think
of using all the vowels and all but eight
of the consonants on such a job.
* * * *
“St. Elmo”: Before “Bumpkin’s” par.
about the Kakariki was printed (B.
29 /1 / ’4l), a Melbourne daily came
out with an optimistic statement
from A. E. Geddes, who holds the
£15,500 contract to raise her, of how
the mud was being dredged away and
everything ready for the final lift. Geddes
mentioned that three months ago every-
thing had been ready when a storm tore
the lifting pontoons away and sank the
barge carrying his salvage equipment.
“We have had our misfortune, but the
main thing is that we are going to get
her up. Just when I cannot say.” Hardly
were his words in type when the biggest
storm Melbourne had ever known struck
the city and the port. When all was
calm again, the salvage punt above the
Kakariki was gone with its crew of two,
a man and a boy, and all is to do again.
♦ * * *
“Strict Veg.”; “K.P.’s” views (B.
22/1 / ’4l) anent the prowess of the female
of the species have been confirmed
in no uncertain fashion by Nurse
Andrews, of the Prince Henry Hospital
in Melbourne. Coming into a seventh-
floor ward she saw a vacant bed and the
late occupant, a hefty woman, standing
on the ledge of a window threatening to
destroy herself. Nurse threw her arms
around the woman. In the struggle the
patient’s feet were dislodged from the sill,
but the game girl continued to hold her
in mid-air, while calmly exhorting the
would-be suicide to come off it. Sol-
diers on guard at Victoria Barracks below
saw the strange proceeding and rushed in
and alarmed the doctors, who rescued the
nurse after a round of 20 minutes. Miss
Andrews was a bit hot and bothered, but
her morale was unimpaired.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Touching the Department
of Information’s spreading of its dreary
propaganda bureau to America (B.
22/1/’4l), what do these officials, largely
university-trained, know about the world
which they want to talk to? If the De-
partment of Information wants to do any
good for Australia in Roosevelt’s coun-
try it will have to think up as good a
plan as Sir Thomas Lipton’s. When
Lipton started building challengers for
the America Cup other businessmen
thought he was wasting his money. Year
after year he repeated his attempt, and
smiled when he failed again, until he
earned the title of “the World’s Best
Loser.” The heroic venture cost him
upwards of £25,000 p.a., and he used to
say it was the cheapest advertisement for
his tea he had ever bought. The columns
of illustrated matter he was given
throughout the world would have cost
him millions if he had had to buy it for
his product. For one thing, the venture
made Lipton so much a pal of Edward
VII that Kaiser Wilhelm, asked a ques-
tion as to his brother-monarch’s where-
abouts, replied sourly: “Probably yacht-
ing with his grocer.”
* * * *
“O’M.”; Dodges to diddle the wine-
bibber and the beer-drinker date back to
the days of the Arabian Nights, and prob-
ably further. This generation is merci-
fully delivered from the beer-bottle that
had a large cone rising through the
bottom and occupying the space of a
good quarter of a pint. Such bottles
“Left! Right! Left! —pick up yr dressing!”
were the very devil to get clean for refill-
ing in the beer factory—hence they were
discarded in favor of the flat-bottomed
bottle. The trick of the cone dates
back to the days when wine was
sold in a goat- or sheepskin ; the wine
merchant draped the skin over a small
flowerpot, so that it took on an appear-
ance of absolute fullness. The cone is still
lurking in champagne and brandy bottles.
» * * *
“J.H.M.A.” remembers:
Not a vestige of the old clipper Sobraon now
remains afloat in the waters of Port Jackson’s
Berry’s Bay, where she lay at moorings,
dishevelled and discolored, for over a dozen
years. The shipbreakers have cleaned her up
completely, and nothing is left of what used
to be the favorite London-Australia passenger
sailing-ship save a tradition of unusual comfort
and safety at sea. She had an extraordinarily
good record as a “safe” ship, only one person,
a girl, having been lost overboard during her
whole career. The ship was doing 13 knots
when this happened, and, although the boats
were afloat four minutes after the child fell in
the water, nothing could be seen of her. The
Sobraon’s fresh-food supply must have made
her upper deck look like a farmyard. Three
milking cows were carried, and, for the butcher,
three bullocks, 90 sheep, 50 pigs and upwards
of 300 fowls, turkeys and geese. There was an
ice chamber, also a condenser. Sixteen stewards
and two stewardesses looked after the passengers.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Japanese, I read, are
going in for anti - Semitism. There
have been Chinese Jews in China
for centuries, but as far as I
know there are none of the Chosen
Race except visitors in Japan. But,
quaintly enough, hatred of the Jew there
follows the lines made familiar by
Hitler. The Japanese object to his usuri-
ous habits. But Japan has had no experi-
ence of the Jew as a usurer except what
it has read in Western histories. And
for one Jewish banker in Japan there are
a hundred Japanese bankers, just as in
Germany before the Hitlerian pogrom
for one Jewish usurer there were a hun-
dred Gentiles.
« * * *
“Pitt St.”: Some people lately have
been heard denying that Australia isn't
becoming Americanised, yet a bright
young thing, joining in a flapper-press
controversy about singers, claims that “if
Bing Crosby had a foreign name and
sang in a foreign language, the whole
music world would be crazy about him.”
To an old-fashioned josser like me, the
gentleman is a foreigner, and so is his lan-
guage, though I can understand parts of
it; but evidently the younger generation
is more progressive. One of these days
the Lud Mayor will call on an audience
to sing the National Anthem and they 11
rise and croon “The Star-Spangled
Banner” to swing-time.
* * * ♦
“Strict Veg.”: The “bulls” of Whelan
the Wrecker will shortly be running over
the wreck of the Orungal, beached at
Barwon Heads (Vic.), as they run over
city buildings in Melbourne, to the awe
and admiration of citizens. Whelan
knows Collins-street better than he does
the Southern Ocean, but experienced local
fishermen will guide him. He had occa-
sion to hire a Diesel compressor to the
salvagers of the wreck, who hoped to
refloat her, and when he visited the burnt-
out hull kept his eyes about him. He
decided there was enough material left in
it to justify a bid of £1225, and Whelan
is seldom out in his calculations. A few
years ago one of his stalwart sons made a
trip to London and wrote home: “Dear
Dad, —Have just been looking at St.
Paul’s Cathedral. What a job that would
make!” Whelan’s “bulls” could change
the face of a city quicker than all Hitler’s
bombers.
“J. Yellowplush, Jun.”: The thing that
gives me a laugh every time this “old
school tie” controversy crops up is the
way flapper sheets leap to it. The reason,
of course, is that this is supposed to be a
country of class hatred, and anything
which puts the blighted aristocrat in a bad
light is of absorbing interest to the prole-
tariat. Actually, the proletariat
doesn’t care a tin tack, and the
fellows who write the squeals
are the biggest snobs of the lot.
No duke, etc., ever comes to
the Commonwealth without,
having them all over him like
fleas. If any pen-pusher wants
to make a comparison between
the old school tie and some
opposing factions, let him have
a look at the results of the elec-
tions for the Oxford Union
Debating Society, whose presi-
dency is one of the prizes of
University life. The president
who fills the shoes of Glad-
stone and F. E. Smith is an
Indian. All the officers elected
save one, a “Liberal,” are
labelled “socialists.” All come from one
small, obscure modern “hall,” save one
who comes from Magdalen. The other 16
great colleges and several foundations are
unrepresented—the voting strength is re-
duced to nothing. Presumably all the
“old school tie” men are away fighting.
FAIR CRITICISM.
“Acting Prime Minister Fadden emphasised that
he had never objected, and never would object, to fail-
criticism.”
An admirable sentiment, it’s true;
And, whosoever ’twas that first averred it,
Since days when Tyre and Nineveh were new
There must, I think, be singularly few
Who haven’t heard it.
Moses, when Israelites would growl and squeak,
Voiced the exact equivalent of that in
The tongue that Hebrews still essay to speak;
And Pericles repeated it in Greek,
Caesar in Latin.
Since then it’s been for many and many a day
A favorite remark for kings and sages
(Or those who knew their onions, anyway),
Whether they dwelt in Europe or Cathay,
Right down the ages.
No reputable rulers anywhere
Among our democratic legislators
Object to* criticism just and fair.
It never makes them scowl and snarl and
swear.
As might dictators.
Yet who can say if criticism’s “oke”
Or “onkus”? There’s a point I’ve often
tried to
Solve. Now it’s borne on me, since Fadden
spoke.
The answer rests entirely with the bloke
Whom it’s applied to.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


59813
8/I JOJ O Z TOI JOJ OI
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
:L --- Min«i
THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
There have been more Loan Council
palavers at Canberra, though the war,
by placing Canberra in a position to take
full control of loans and taxes, should
have made them superfluous. Present
were Fadden, as acting P.M., and the
Gimme Lads from six States. In the re-
sult, “the net loan programme for 1940-41
was increased by about £5,000,000,”
which means that the Gimme Lads were
promised more than they expected though
not so much as they wanted. Uniform
income taxation was “discussed,” and
is to be “discussed” again some day.
As gallant and generous in his way as
the man who beat him for the Presi-
dency, Wendell Willkie has been tour-
ing England. He visited all the cities
which have been strafed by the bar-
barians, and put in a day or two in
London while bombs were coming down.
“Wonderful” was his word for the people
who are sticking it, and wonderful they
are. What a facer for the Germans that
an eminent American of German descent
should cross the seas infested with their
subs, and dare their bombers to show
his sympathy with the English!
In N.S.W. last week there were dis-
tinct signs that what passes for courage
in Communist circles was oozing out of
N.S.W. work-stoppers. The heads of
the Amalgamated Engineers gave them
a nasty knock by refusing to join in the
overtime strike. One-day strikes against
the “capitalistic Budget” were hastily
abandoned. Blatherskites whose favorite
remarks in other weeks were that the
Government must do this and mustn’t
do that suddenly became almost polite.
If they had been faced up to years ago
they would be eating out of the Govern-
ment’s hands.
Imagine the position in Britain if
income-tax differed in every English,
Welsh and Scottish county because the
county councils persisted in levying local
income-taxes regardless of every con-
sideration other than their own alleged
necessities and absurd dignity. It couldn’t
happen there, because Britain has one
Parliament with supreme and unchal-
lengeable powers, but the counterpart is
happening here, because Australia has a
national Government which, in the vital
matter of war finance, doesn’t govern,
and because Australia is infested with Six
Encumbrances run by political narks.
Very tardily the British Government
has suppressed the Communist “Daily
Worker,” and it may presently be
forced to grab the person of Profes-
sor Haldane as chairman of the board ;
anyway, Haldane has threatened it with
a factory and workshop agitation de-
signed to force removal of the ban. Hal-
dane is the professor who made a much-
advertised visit to Madrid during the
civil war and incessantly clamored for
British intervention when London was
defenceless against air raids. Now that
his own country is at war he and his
associates demand a peace leaving Ger-
many victorious. Some of the most
dangerous asses in the world are “clever”
men.
In the Commons on Jan. 28 two Labor
members of the British Cabinet, great
Russian-alliance men before September,
1939, let themselves go on the worthless-
ness of their former idol. One, Dalton
(Economic Warfare), said there was
“ample evidence” that the Soviet was get-
ting large supplies of cotton, wheat, oil
fuel and oil-drilling machinery from the
U.S.A. and exporting equivalent quan-
tities to Germany. The other, Morrison
(Home Secretary), justified the suppres-
sion of the “Daily Worker” on the
ground that the paper had become “a
public scandal,” and that “cynical poli-
ticians” behind it were going out of
their way to undermine morale, even to
visiting victims of air raids and telling
them they were being butchered “to
make profits for profiteers.” But surely
that sort of thing warrants something
more than the mere banning of a rag.
Are there no trees or lampposts in Eng-
land? Are there no halters?
News from the North, collected in the
course of a fortnight by an A.A.P.
Special;
Australia is justified in taking the gravest
view of the Pacific situation.
Mr. Kawai hopes to leave for Australia at
the end of February. Asked whether, in view
of the situation in the Pacific, he expected to
reach Australia, he merely laughed.
Mr. Matsuoka was asked whether it
appeared to him that the danger of war in
“Mussolini and I are neither Jews nor business dealers. If we have joined hands it
is the handclasp of men of honor.” — Hitler, his latest.
“Must-a you grip-a so hard?”
the Pacific was greater than ever before. “No,”
he replied, “provided none of us loses his
head.”
Japan does not want to enter the European
war, and will do her best to avoid it unless
some precipitate action creates a situation
from which it will be impossible for her to
retreat.
Humble coolies such as came to the Aus-
tralian goldfields in the ’fifties are dying for us.
One cause of the world’s insanity is that
so many Specials have been let loose
on it.
A Voice from the Past was heard the
other day to the effect that Australia is
suffering from “tragic leadership.” The
Voice belonged to Parkhill, who, fan-
tastic as it seems nowadays, was the
present leader’s rival five years ago, when
second place in the U.A.P. was put to
a party vote. Tipped as a certainty by
the Sydney dailies, Parky naturally lost.
Had he won, we should now be rejoicing
in magic leadership.
Telling the story of how he had to
swim and wade through floodwaters to
reach the Canberra conference of the
Australian Agricultural Council, Wise,
the Westraiian Minister of Agriculture,
said that when his train was blocked by
the flood near Port Augusta he sought
a car to get him to Whyalla, and the car
proprietor laughed at him. So would
anyone else who knew anything about
the Australian Agricultural Council.
Pickford, the new Chief Warden of
the Sydney A.R.P. services, to 220 war-
dens: “It will be my main object to see
that when you have qualified for certain
work you are given the work to do.”
Is the man going to arrange for an air
raid?
Australians are tired of reading that
W. H. Donald, Chiang Kai-shek’s very
well-advertised press agent, refuses to re-
visit this country —he has gone to Tahiti
to write a book —because he objects to
“Australian politics.” Donald left Aus-
tralia 38 years ago and has never been
back. He preferred to denationalise him-
self by taking service under a foreign
Government. He is wild with Australia
because it refused to oblige him by hurl-
ing itself into an Oriental war.
“Results,” gloated the Sydney Premier,
“have justified the Government’s action.”
He was announcing that an Australian
film, “That Certain Something,” was to
be marketed by R.K.O. Pictures. Its pro-
duction was made possible by a Mair
Government guarantee of £12,500. If it
fails, taxpayers will lose the amount of
the guarantee ; if it succeeds, they will not
share in the profits. “Heads we win ;
tails you lose,” in short.
Holding up Canada as an example,
Michael Bruxner, leader of the N.S.W.
Country party, condemned motions
favoring abolition of State Parliaments
brought to a C.P. conference in Sydney.
Mr. Bruxner is Minister of Transport,
and as such administers a department
which has powers of almost life and
death over travellers and goods coming
into his State from other parts. In
Canada he could hold no such power,
for that country has a national Minis-
ter of Transport, and there is no pro-
vincial control of shipping, railways,
canals or roads “extending beyond the
province or connecting with other pro-
vinces.” Moreover, the Government at
Ottawa controls all works which it may
consider to be for the general good, a
power that the Australian Government
has yet to attain.
Fadden told a C.P. conference in
Sydney that there were people with
fantastic ideas as to how Governments
could get money. Not far from where
he spoke there is a Government with fan-
tastic ideas as to how much money
people can pay, especially in triplicated
taxes.
Wheatgrowers are to get £1,000,000 of
Commonwealth money for drought
relief—£32o,ooo in N.S.W., £250,000 in
Victoria, £200,000 each in S.A. and W.A.,
£20,000 in Queensland and £lO,OOO in
Tasmania. There was the usual squabble
among State Ministers about “alloca-
tions,” which, it seems, are to be on an
acreage basis below a certain yield, in-
creasing as the yield falls. As there are
about 50,000 wheatgrowers, none of them
is likely to buy a new header with his
allocation.
Cain is finding it more and more diffi-
cult to persuade Victorian Laborites that
he should keep on playing second fiddle
to Dunstan, who controls only a frac-
tion of Labor’s electoral vote. There
is talk of Dunstan turning in his cushy
job in May, when he will have com-
pleted six years as Premier —in some
respects the luckiest Victoria has had,
though not the least industrious. If so,
Cain may take his courage, if any, in
both hands, and move for redistribution
of seats, though to a critical country
Labor conference he pleaded that it
would be useless.
Striking proof that regional councils
can be safely left to handle their own
affairs came out at the annual meeting—
the fifteenth —of the Clarence River
County Council, which runs the Nym-
boida hydro-electric scheme in northern
N.S.W. In its first year the concern
had 1100 consumers and a revenue of
£11,700; now it serves Lismore and
Casino, has 9100 consumers in other dis-
tricts, and a revenue of £140,000 ; and
capital has grown from £160,000 to
£950,000. The council is anxious to push
on with hydro-electric works at Rocky
Creek. No wonder the improvident Syd-
ney Government wants to get its hands
on some of these country successes.
Earle Page and his Agricultural Coun-
cil have produced “a national fodder
conservation plan.” It is to be adminis-
tered by yet another board to “control
production, ensure economic methods of
handling, finance farmers and arrange for
storage and distribution.” Unless the
Minister has more up his sleeve than
reports of the conference disclose, the
scheme seems unlikely to do any good.
“Storage and distribution of fodder”
is an old idea of Page’s, and there are
points in growing hay and grain in
favored districts and toting it out to the
dry areas in times of need. But conser-
vation of fodder in flush seasons is pri-
marily a job for the stockowner himself.
The putting-down and filling of a trench
silo is little trouble, the fodder will keep
for years, and most of the growth that
follows a flush growing period is suit-
able for silage. Yet trench silos in the
back country are as scarce as hen’s teeth.
A Libyan tragedy:
The battle in Libya has moved into a part
of the colony to which Mussolini sent 20,000
settlers from Italy in 1938, as first instalment
of a plan to settle 100,000 in five years. Many
of them were deposited on the coastal heights
from Derna to Benghazi, and along the gulf
of that name, being placed on small farms
planted with vines, olives, almonds, oranges,
bananas, cotton, grain and vegetables, accord-
ing to suitability. A great road system had
been made ready for them, villages and home-
steads had been built, and in the homesteads
when they arrived they found fuel and the
materials for a meal. Troy, the Westraiian
Agent-General, visited the settlements in the
early part of 1940. Although he didn’t think
much of the land, he had to admit that the
settlement plans transcended anything he had
known in his own State, where he was Minister
of Agriculture for years and a farmer for at
least quarter of a century. Then Musso. went
mad, Balbo, the real creator of the Libyan
settlements, died obscurely in a war which he
probably didn’t want, and no doubt many of
the settlers are now captive or broken soldiers.


WAR IS WAR.


Suggestions for Weeding Gifts
Round Utility or Vegetable Dish.
Each 29/6
.
*
Sandwich Tray, 12in. x 6in.
Each 18/6
Compote or Fruit Dish. 34/6 each.
Freight or postage extra on Silverware.
W. JNO. BAKER
s
3 Hunter St., Sydney, N.S.W.
*3 S
Six Silverplated Fruit Knives
and Forks in oak case.
Each 49/6
PERSONAL ITEMS
Major-General L. J. Morshead, whose
promotion from brigadier and appoint-
ment to command of the 9th Division
has been announced,, was born in Vic-
toria and was a master at Melbourne
Grammar School when the tocsin clanged
in 1914. He joined the A.I.F. at once,
and by 1916 was in command of the 33rd
Battalion. The C.M.G. and D.S.O. and
the ribbon of the Legion of Honor re-
warded his exploits. He was the Orient
Co.’s Sydney manager when he again
became an A.I.F. officer in 1939. He
was then commanding the sth Infantry
Brigade of Militia, a post which he re-
linquished to take command of the 18th
Brigade A.I.F. He has been abroad
with the A.I.F. for several months.
George Murray, Chief Justice of S.A.
and Chancellor of Adelaide Uni., has
now held those positions for just 25 years,
having stepped up into both on the death
of Samuel Way. He belongs to the great
pastoral Murray clan of the State, went
from Adelaide Uni. to Cambridge and
the Inner Temple, was K.C. at 42 and a
Judge in 1912. S.A. has had only four
Chief Justices in all its history, and Way’s
40 years’ tenure is supposed to be a
world’s record.
Bill Benstead, dead in London at
87, did great work in Australia’s outback
in his time. As a young man he was
manager of the Adelaide-owned Un-
doolya station in Centralia. Afterwards
he went mining in Westralia, and he
always claimed that the Government
opened at his suggestion the 1200-mile
Canning stock route south from Kim-
berley. Two daughters did well as stage
and concert singers.
MAX MELDRUM, Archibald Prize
winner, 1939 and 1940.
Frank Richard Edward Mauldon,
newly-appointed Professor of Economics
at Perth Uni., has taught the dismal
science in N. S. Wales, Victoria and the
Speck. Born at Woollahra (Sydney) 49
years ago, Mauldon can tag M.Ec., B.A.
and D.Litt. to his name. In 1928 he
won Melbourne Uni.’s Harbison-Higin-
botham Prize ; two years later a Rocke-
feller Fellowship took him to Harvard,
where he made a special study of the
economics of coalmining. Prior to his
present appointment Mauldon was econo-
mist and research officer with the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Census and Statis-
tics. During the 1914-18 war he was
a Y.M.C.A. officer with the A.I.F. and
was wounded in France.
Murray Geddes, appointed director of
the new astronomical observatory in
Wellington (M.L.), made possible by the
Carter bequest, once discovered a comet.
He visited Canton Island with the M.L.
Eclipse Expedition in 1937; is an
F.R.A.S. and is known in astronomical
circles all the world over through his
researches into auroral phenomena.
In the first week of August, 1884, Mur-
doch’s Australian Eleven played Kent
at Canterbury and were defeated by 96
runs. Among the victorious team was a
23-year-old Cambridge graduate, by
name Cecil Wilson. The other day he
passed on in Perth at 81. Ten years after
that match Wilson succeeded Maoriland-
born John Selwyn as Bishop of Mela-
nesia, and cared for his widely-scattered
flock until 1911, when he went to S. Aus-
tralia as Archdeacon of Adelaide. In
1917 Wilson was consecrated Bishop of
Bunbury (W.A.), resigning his see in
1937. His missionary labors in the South
Seas are recounted in his In the Wake of
the Southern Cross, published in 1932.
P. C. Kensit, of Aubyn Vale, Crook-
well (N.S.W.), is best-known nowadays
as president of the Australian Devon
Breeders’ Society, but as Sergeant Kensit
in the last war he became almost a legen-
dary figure in the A.I.F. for his initiative
and daring in the no-man’s-land of the
Somme. He led parties night after night
to capture prisoners and smash German
machine-gun posts. Never in any of the
sorties was he or one of his men injured.
The A.I.F. has turned him down for this
war, considering him too old, but he is
working on a device for preventing explo-
sions of bombs on industrial undertak-
ings. He has many useful inventions to
his credit.
Walter S. Abraham, who has passed
over at 59 in Melbourne, inhabited that
sequestered nook the Geological Museum,
above Spring-street, for many years as
curator. He owed his knowledge of the
bowels of the earth and its contents less
to his training than he did to the first-
hand experience he got when he lived in
survey camps in Victoria’s remote places.
He was a great friend to geological stu-
dents, whom he imbued with his own
enthusiasm. A wound acquired in the
1914-18 war hastened his end.
Phil Woolley, a youth of 18, has
broken the record of Zelman Cowen as
a scholastic infant prodigy by qualify-
ing for a B.A. degree at Melbourne Uni.
after winning a scholarship from a State
school. He still has plenty of time to
exceed his predecessor’s achievement by
getting a lectureship and a law degree
or something before reaching his major-
ity. His goal is the Education Depart-
ment.
A Melbourne “Argus” correspondent
wired from outside Tobruk that he had
just seen Provost Captain Godfrey
Hawker bringing in General Argentine,
one of the last Italian generals to be cap-
tured. Captain Hawker comes from Ivan-
hoe (Vic.), was one time a member of
A A
the Heidelberg Council, and is a mem-
ber of the Savage Club, of Melbourne,
which Alf Vincent and Phil May used
to frequent. He served with a British
artillery brigade in the 1914-18 war, and
after being invalided to England was sent
to the Nor’-west Frontier of India. He
afterwards returned to Australia, and was
one of the first to enlist in the A.I.F, in
the present war. Two of his sons are
also in it.
Warwick Fairfax, whose shy features
are here modelled by Frith, is prob-
ably the youngest man who has ever
WARWICK FAIRFAX.
(Modelled by Frith.)
been head of a million-pound con-
cern in Australia. The managing direc-
torship of the Fairfax Proprietary, which
owns “S. M. Herald,” devolved on him
at 29, after the sudden deaths of his
father, J. O. Fairfax, in 1928 and his
Uncle Geoffrey in 1930. He had joined
the staff in 1925 after his return from
Oxford, where he had taken second-class
honors in the school of philosophy, and
had become a director in 1927. His
scholarly stoop belies his vigor, and the
little time he has to spare from business
has been divided over the last few years
among squash rackets, tennis, golf,
swimming and motoring. He takes his
responsibilities quietly and looks much
younger than his 39 years.
Ex-Senator R. D. Elliott, who flew to
England a few months ago in response
to a cable from Lord Beaverbrook,
got a mention in the news the other
day when a taxi he was riding in was
knocked across a London street by a
bomb from a Nazi raider. The tall ex-
Senator is now one of the Aircraft
Minister’s right-hand men. Beaverbrook
once sent him an electioneering van
equipped with loud-speakers and movie
apparatus, the first of its kind in these
parts. Elliott possesses largest col-
lection of Orpen’s paintings' -i Australia,
owns a chain of Victor^ a n country
papers and married a daugh te ; of Theo-
dore Fink, of the Melbourne “Herald”
proprietary. ')
Commercial photography i s nowadays
a huge business in Melbourne. The late
Algernon Darge, who pioneefed its small
beginnings, was a remarkable man in
more ways than one. He diTve the first
motor-car in Melbourne to oe used for
commercial purposes and emblazoned it
with a skull and crossbones. He was
a keen student of chemistry and
mechanics and a collector of antiques,
and he took all the cats in the Fitzroy
Gardens under his protection, feeding
them every day for years. Finally he
prophesied the date of his own death,
and dictated his obituary to a friend, with
instructions that he was to be cremated.
Dead in Melbourne, at 67, Sidney
Linden Officer, secretary of the Austra-
lian Wool Board and of the Victorian
Graziers’ Assoc. He was born at Brigh-
ton and educated at Toorak College. He
acquired large interests in the Western
District in partnership with
his brother, Ullswater,
Maryvale and Oakbank,
near Heywood, being some
of their stations. He sec-
retaried for the first Em-
pire wool conference in
1931, from which stemmed
the international wool sec-
retariat, and again in 1937.
His father, Charles Officer,
was a member of the Leg.
Assembly, and his grand-
father was the first M.O.
of Hobart city.
G. T. Reid, who owns
Narrangullen Aberdeen-
Angus stud, Yass (N.S.W.),
was a militia officer, but
enlisted in the A.I.F. as a
private. He left Australia
as a sergeant and received
a commission in Palestine.
Reid succeeded to owner-
ship of the stud little more
than a year ago on the
death of his father,
Andrew Reid, a Scot who
chose the cattle of his
native land for Narran-
gullen. It was mainly due
to Andrew that the Fair-
bridge Farm School was
established at Molong.
G.T. has been doing a
great job with the Narran-
gullen “doddies.”
James Sparkes, of Lynd-
ley, Dalby (Q.), is one of
Australia’s leading breeders
of Polled Herefords. Soon after he estab-
lished Lyndley stud he made a trip to the
U.S.A. to select more stock. A souvenir
of that visit is a startling check shirt that
still sometimes dazzles the Lyndley staff.
Sparkes is a good judge of stock, a fact
of which many show societies have taken
advantage. At Brisbane Exhibition Lynd-
ley Polled Herefords always rank amongst
the winners.
The proudest man about when the
bridge connecting Phillip Island (Vic.)
with the mainland was opened was
Richard A. Grayden. For over 30 years
he had talked of and worked for the day
when a bridge would cross the channel
at San Remo. As a memento Grayden
has the preliminary plan of the structure,
presented to him by the designer and
engineer, M. G. Dempster.
An Australian who has made good in
London in the middle of the Blitzkrieg
is young pianist Noel Mewton Wood,
whose performance of a Beethoven con-
certo, with Malcolm Sargent conduct-
ing, got high praise from the HuUs
dailies, one of which remarked that his
performance was “very impressive.”
Wood gave symptoms of being an infant
prodigy at recitals in Melbourne some
years ago, and then went to London for
further training.
A family of Nairns in Wellington
(M.L.) claims a good fighting record. In
the S. African war J. A. Nairn served with
the Lord Lovat Scouts; his brother,
J.W., was with a M.L. contingent. J.A.’s
only son, L. D. Nairn, was at Gallipoli
and is now a member of the Fleet Air
Arm. Another member of the family,
S. H. Nairn, was killed in France, and
L. G. Nairn, who served four years in
the 1914-18 dust-up, is again in khaki
with the M.L. Expeditionary Force.


DURABILITY
u
hi
%
&
tn
b vn w iTP
JyP A tt A Ifl A II A*
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
This famous canvas is made in Scotland by British Labour. It
is truly British and will never let you down. THOROUGHLY
WATERPROOF, ALWAYS FLEXIBLE and DEFINITELY
STRONG, it gives years of satisfactory service. Obtainable
from reputable makers. If difficulty in getting supplies is
experienced, write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Plain cook wanted; plain personally pre-
ferred.” — Advt.
An ugly situation for someone.
4* 4* 4* 4-
“If a woman is given such news about her
husband she is justified in taxing him with his
infidelity.” —Dorothy Dix.
Good Lord! More taxes!
“When pickling, always use the of
vinegar, and never mix two kinds.” — “Truth.”
But if you never mix two kinds you
shouldn’t get pickled.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“At one time there was a Builders’ Cricket
Club which had some fine performances to its
credit.” — “D.T.”
Its batsmen could go on to a cricket
ground at any time and make a grand
stand.
4° 4* 4* 4*
“My wife hurled a clock from the top of
the stairs.” —Plaintiff in divorce.
Rather unnecessary. It would have
run down itself in time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Then there was the society nudist who
insisted on undressing for dinner.
•J* *5"
“World-famous fan-dancer bankrupt.”
—News item.
Couldn’t even cover her liabilities.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Why can’t people leave flower decorations
off the dining table?” —Womens paper.
Well, they’re sometimes good pointers.
At our boarding-house a bowl of snap-
dragons is a gentle hint of what to expect
if a second helping is asked for. On
the newly-weds’ breakfast-table red roses
show what she thinks of him ; a few
years later cactus represents her opinion.
Bankrupts are invariably entertained by
their creditors at tables loaded with
forget-me-nots. Charladies like anything
but broom.
E. M.
If a liftdriver wants to earn his bread
and butter he daren’t object to being
jammed.
•I* 4* v •h
“ ‘You are what you eat,’ says M.D.”
— “World’s News.”
“Alas,” groaned the poor artist, “I am
nothing.”
+ 4*
“Garlic belongs to the same family as the
lily.” —Nature note.
Nevertheless, if a girl eausv it before
going to a dance she will becomV a wall-
flower.
“There are two major events in a man’s life
—getting married and war.” —Radio speaker.
But marriage makes two one.
4* 4* 4*
“Defendant described himself as a ‘live-wire
salesman.’ ” — “Sun.”
Small wonder then that he was charged.
Face Values.
“After all, the strange resemblance which
some persons bear to animal pets may be purely
coincidental, and there is no proof that the man
who reminds us so much of a butcher or a
gravedigger is not, for example, a bank clerk
or a circus performer.”
— “S. M. Herald” leader.
The mug that you’d associate
With weighing out the sausage-meat
May dote on figures intricate
And clerkly duties trim and neat.
The facial contours that suggest
A ribald, merrymaking knave
May screen the chap who works with
zest
When tucking you into your grave.
And “ Granny’s” own menage may hide
Some gay old madcap from its
readers —
A paradox who writes with pride
Those long, forbidding, sober leaders!
D. McM.
The Bare Idea!
When slowly baking ’neath the sun,
Or dancing like a maniac,
The girl with lots of front’s the one
Who likes to show a lot of back.
E.
Woolgathering.
“Fish wool has arrived.” —“ World’s News.”
Many times your wife has knitted!
Many sweaters you have worn! Very
seldom have they fitted; very often have
you sworn. With the old wool you’ve
been prickled till your skin was rough
and red. You’ve been irritated, tickled,
till you wished that you were dead. But
your woes are just commencing! Now
that fish-wool’s all the go, there’s no
method of dispensing with the misery
you’ll know. In your sweater you will
languish; you’ll be stabbed, until you
groan, as you clasp your chest in anguish,
“Blast the fish! I’ve struck a bone!”
ELM.
Final Broadcast.
“Dees ees Rome-a calling from da new
place-a in Austria, Viva da Duce!
Once-a da more we da proclamation
make-a of da glorious victoree of da
Duce’s noble forces. Da fight-a da noble
Italian soldiers made-a in Rome in spite-a
da facts dat da attack-a ees made by
free million Breeteesh-a troops-a, eenclud-
ing two-a da million barbareec Austra-
leeans, veel-a leef in da history. Da land-
ing of four-a da million more savage-a
enemee troops at Venice made-a da
holding of Rome eempossible. So we gif
heem oop-a.
To be defeat by such-a numbers ees
not disgrace-a. But eet ees not defeat!
A great-a victoree was gain-a by da
mighty Duce’s armee dat successful-
lee retreat-a across-a da Brenner gorge.
Let-a not da brutal Breeteesh boast-a of
the fall-a da Rome. Eet ees but-a da
incident. Da mightee Italee, has eet
not-a steel got-a eets armee in Austria?
“Da enemee losses have-a been tre-
mendous. TTee, four-a million kill-a,
ten-a da million wounded. Fourteen
Breeteesh battleships have-a been sunk,
t’ree-a of dem four time. Twenty-a six-a
other vesseels of war have-a been sunk-a,
too, most of dem again-a.
“So-a you see! Let-a dose base-a
elements in Italee who say-a da noble
Duce ees beaten trembeel. Ven-a da
Duce’s victorious armee come-a da back,
“Know anything ’bout physics , Jan?"
“I should oughter , Cap’n , I’ve swallered gallons of un."
ven-a da Breeteesh fleet-a have-a been
beaten from Mare Nostrum, there veel
be-a castor-oil in mooch plentee for
such-a traitors.
“Vee veel tell-a you of more-a of dis
great-a Breeteesh disaster when our
broadcast-a da writers have made-a oop
about dem. Viva la Duce!”
H. M.
Snapshot.
“Photography is playing its part in keeping
people together.” —“Sunday Sun.”
With this belief I can’t agree.
I met a damsel sweet
And, holding hands like lovers, we
Were snapped upon the street.
The photograph was true to life;
A gem of picture art.
Then someone sent it to my wife —■
And now we’re all apart!
P. M.
A Board Sort of Existence.
Some fellows get pitchforked into
cushy Government jobs by influence. I
thank heaven that such a thing could
never truthfully be said of me. I can
modestly claim that I owe my own spec-
tacular climb to the top to sheer ability.
It was my good fortune, perhaps, that
I decided to become an expert on bread.
Admittedly, I had never been a baker,
though I had once taken surfing a yeast-
mixer’s niece. But such was my uncanny
knowledge of the trade that at eight years
of age I could distinguish at a glance a
cottage-loaf from a Viennese. I picked
up a wide knowledge, too, when, during
school holidays, I used to accompany
our breadcarter on his rounds, and years
of chewing the stuff had made me so
expert that I could tell almost immedi-
ately if it were burnt or lacking in salt.
Now, my favorite uncle was a heavy
subscriber to the funds of the party in
office when I was a young man of 48.
I happened to call over to the eccentric
old boy’s place one night as he was com-
posing a ditty for a broadcasting com-
petition. The lyric ran something like
this:
We’ve the Egg Board, the Wheat Board,
The Milk Board, the Meat Board,
And boards for all the minerals except, I
fancy, lead.
We’ve various kinds of Fruit Boards,
Silk Undies, Cheese and Suit Boards
(At least we shortly will have) and an umpty
umpty um.
Pencil poised in air, uncle gave vent
to a hearty “damn! ” and then with a far-
away look in his eye he began reciting
dreamily “ed, bed, ced, ded, ged, head”
as he tried in vain for a suitable rhyme. It
was then that I had a spot of inspiration
and broke in brilliantly with;
(At least we shortly will have), and we must
have one for bread.
My uncle looked up amazed. “By
Jove, he’s got it!” he burst out. “The
boy’s a genius. And, anyway, why
shouldn’t we have a Bread Board?”
Need I say more? Suffice it to add
that the Bread Board came into being
and I was its first chairman.
At first all I could get from a measly-
minded Government was a secretary,
assistant-secretary, sub-assistant-secretary
and a few dozen clerks and typists, all
of us jammed in a corner of the Billa-
bong Dredging Department.
But so energetically did I work that
within a year the staff had had to be in-
creased to such an extent that I simply
had to press for a separate building. I
was determined to do justice to the dig-
nity of the board and go one better than
the Nutmeg Board, which had just
moved in to a new Gothic structure fin-
ished in chrome and black plate-glass,
with all-rubber floors. Our new offices
were built in rose-pink marble, with
stainless steel pillars and ormolu-
encrusted tables, and complete with self-
polishing hand-beaten silver spittoons
and old masters. Obviously no chair-
man could sit as head of such a place
under £2500 per. I got it.
But such a responsible position inevit-
ably took its toll. I remember sitting up
till five one morning wrestling with the
problem of whether a twist loaf left un-
twisted would effect any substantial sav-
ings. Fortunately the problem was re-
solved next day, when the assistant-
secretary informed me, when I called for
the files, that bakers had abandoned
the twist loaf 12 years before.
Tours of inspection claimed a great
deal of my time. Every Tuesday after-
noon I forced myself to go to the pic-
tures in the hope of seeing some instruc-
tive “short.” I was fortunate enough to
see one day a crime film on the bread
racket in New York. I decided to tour
abroad to study foreign baking methods.
I concentrated, of course, on New
York. The bakeries’ activities did not
start until the early hours of the
morning, and in consideration of my
fellow hotel guests (I had made my
headquarters the Waldorf - Astoria),
whom I didn’t want to disturb get-
ting up at unearthly hours, I was
compelled to put in the hours to
3 a.m. in night clubs and dives. Yet
some niggling politician, unappreciative
of my self-sacrifice, criticised my ex-
penses, which I did well, I think, to keep
to £7214 ss. 2d. Someone, with mis-
placed sarcasm, asked what the odd two-
pence was for. Did he think I would
fail to get a paper to see if the press
interviews I gave on my return had been
correctly reported?
My notes had been made on cigarette
packets which, as they were emptied, I
had tossed into various trunks. Sorting
these out in chronological order took me
several months, and as one trunk had been
lost I had to fill it in from memory.
However, driving myself at top speed in
that spirit of self-sacrifice which has ever
been my characteristic, I completed the
report in 3\ years.
I submitted it to the Government when
the House was in recess, and by the time
Parliament had reassembled the follow-
ing year I had been transferred to
organise the newly-created Sardine Board.
I was getting tired of the hand-beaten
silver spittoons, anyway, and I eagerly
awaited the time when the new board
could be housed in the building of Moor-
ish architecture, with its delicate arches
finished in a warm primrose marble,
which I had in mind.
Bo.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mick the Miler”: “I wus trackin’
with the barmaid at the pub at Warrigal
once,” said old Tom, “and on the night
before the Bachelors’ Ball she gets me
to ride into the railway sidin’ an’ c’lect
an evenin’ dress she’s had sent up from
the city. I had a good horse, and after
pickin’ up the parcel I starts back on the
“Can you see it now, precious ?”
twenty-mile ride. There’s a big storm
brewin’ up behind me, and I wasted no
time, for 1 didn’t want the gown spoiled.
When I’m four miles from the pub the
storm’s close behind me, so I let the
horse have his head. But before Dandy
got properly into his stride I could feel
the rain on the back of me neck. I can
see that so long as he don’t tire we’ll be
able to keep pace with it, for I’m holdin’
the parcel in front of me an’ it’s quite
dry. Half a mile off the pub Dandy
starts to tire, so I gives him the hooks.
A hundred yards from home, though
dead game, he’s losin’ ground. But by
standin’ up in the stirrups and leanin’
well out I just manages to keep ahead of
the rain till I could throw the parcel
straight under the swing doors. Yair,
I just done it!”
* * * *
“P. McG.”: We were discussing the
various towns in the district, the bush-
man’s generally accepted yardstick of
“Fair place, six pubs,” or “Good town,
18 pubs,” etc., being applied. Then some-
one asked the butcher what size of a
town he’d migrated from. He replied
seriously, “Oh, fair lump of a place;
three bodies and thirty sheep.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: It is a firefly year again in
this S.Q. bushland, and when one is
driving on dark nights a bush or small
tree here and there by the roadside will
glow faintly in glimmering green after
the headlights pass. When the verandah
is darkened tiny fairy lamps float slowly
past or waver in beneath the eaves, to
flicker deviously across the ceiling. They
are tiny beetles, a fifth of an inch long,
gifted with the strange power of emitting
light at will from the three lowest abdo-
minal plates. Captured with a fine_ net
and placed under a thin, clear tumbler,
a dozen will provide enough light for
the reading of a printed page. Such
flickering illumination is not to be recom-
mended as a substitute for lamps, but it
is a strange and beautiful thing to watch.
Here they appear every third year in
much greater numbers than in the two
intervening ones. As to why, I have not
been able, even after a search of all avail-
able literature, to form any idea except
that of a three-year cycle from egg to
adult.
♦ * jH ♦
“Bulong K. Kanowna”: They don’t
use camels solely as pack beasts in W.A.
I once saw half a dozen oonts lugging a
drill north of Southern Cross. They were
getting along very slowly and had to be
led by their owner, “Donkey” Smith, one
of the last of the old goldfields teamsters.
The camels put in 150 acres of wheat,
but they took almost twice as long as
a team of horses would. I know of
camels being used in other parts of the
eastern W.A. wheatbelt for drilling and
ploughing, at neither of which were they
a success.
* * * *
“P.K.G.”: Sitting on the verandah of
the house, I noticed a two-year-old bull
nosing around the distant implement
shed, seemingly interested in one of the
many gadgets resting there. As he did
not seem to be doing any harm, we let
him alone. About half an hour later,
however, the bovine attention being still
riveted on this particular implement, we
decided to investigate and disturbed him
in the middle of a very long lunch. The
end of a ball of twine had been left
hanging out of the twine cylinder and
Ferdinand had immediately tackled it as
fodder; but had struck more than
he had bargained for, as the twine was
too tough for him to chew. So once
started he had no other course but to
keep right on chewing till he came to the
end. Fortunately for him we came on
the scene, whereupon he began to reverse,
running himself out like a lifesaver An
a reel. Yard after yard ran out, uM,
almost frantic, he saw the end flash out
and promptly hoofed it for the open
spaces. We measured it—llo yards was
the length he had swallowed.
* * * *
“Thorn”: “I didn’t mind so much your
dog taking the leg of mutton I had hang-
ing up outside the hut,” Ned told the
trapper, “because after all I didn’t pay
for the sheep that I killed. But I reckon
it was a bit over the odds when next day
he brought back half a dozen of his
mates to look for the rest of the sheep.
A pack of dogs nosin’ round a man’s hut
like that might lead the ‘traps’ to believe
that a man was a common sheep-stealer.”
* * * *
“Julia Creek”: No miracle in the dif-
ference in feed on each side of a wire
fence, as noted by “Murlonga” (B.
1/1 /’4l). Sheep feed into the wind.
Naturally the prevailing wind draws the
stock to one end of the paddock. There
they camp and feed, not looking for
fresh pastures until the grass is eaten out
or the wind draws them away. For the
same reason the feed on the opposite
side of the fence would be virgin, as
stock running in that paddock would be
drawn to the corresponding fence by the
wind. The sight is a common one, and
applies to the whole of Queensland, not
only the south.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: A few hints to our old
friend of “Outback Occupations” re the
annihilating of meat-ants (B. 22/1/’4l).
Gather an armful of dry bushes, putting
a couple of the longest on one side. Pull
the socks —woollen ones preferably—over
the trouser legs ; untie laces so that the
boots will “slop.” Then bog into the bed
with a mattock or, better still, forked hoe.
Keep moving, and the ants are squashed
by the hundreds—between boot-uppers
and ankles. The odd ones that bridge
the gap have to climb above the belt
before going into action. By this time
the bed is a seething mass ; throw the
bushes on and light ’em. Light the long
branches from the blaze and mop up
outposts. Repeat the process in a few
days’ time and there will be no more
“gate-crashers” for dinner.
* * * *
“Lucifer”: Anyone seeking a substi-
tute for the wooden match-stick, now be-
coming scarce, should take cognisance of
the dry fronds of the W.A. blackboy. It
grows wild over tens of thousands of
acres, all ready split and needing only to
be docked to length. It is highly com-
bustible, but has, however, one slight
defect —doesn’t burn to a charcoal as
does the aspen stick now used, but burns
to an ash with a momentarily glowing
point. Actually the dry grass frond gives
a better light, but carries a slight in-
crease in the fire risk.
* * * *
“Plymouth R.”: Those galahs of
“Bogaduck’s,” with their crops full of
wheat-pest seeds (B. 8/1/’4l) —well, isn’t
that just the way in which such vegetable
pests become disseminated? Few avian
digestions can break down all the seeds
that the bird picks up. Nature is thereby
cunning and invariably equips her pests
with a shell quite impervious to the
juices of the gizzard. And especially does
she make such the case with wheat-
eaters. Running a poultry farm, it was
our practice alternately to let yards lie
idle and with a little watering burst into
grass. Amazing the variety of plants
that came up; every known vegetable
pest, and some unknown. Easily able to
break down wheat, which is really a most
overdeveloped seed, almost artificial, the
fowl gizzard halted at the multitude of
pest seeds accidentally included in the
wheat ration. These passed through quite
unchanged ; had the fowls been capable
of flight they would have spread such
vegetable pests over areas of many miles.
So with galahs and all other seed-eaters.
A\.id Nature/arse provides that the un-
digested seem shall be dropped along with
adequate* .fertiliser, to promote a quick
and vigorous gXrowth.
* * *
“Hanko”: Determined to settle once
and for all the question of the eagle as a
weight-lifter, I smeared a handy crag
with a gallon of bird-lime ; ran down a
hare ; when a wedgetail became bogged
in the trap I tied the hare to its talons,
and carried bird and beast to a 50ft.
high windmill platform. After I got my
breath back (running down a hare is no
idle pastime) I pushed the pair of ’em
into space. The eagle flapped mightily.
For a moment I thought the hare
wouldn’t hit the ground so hard. It did,
but immediately bounded into stride.
Never shall I forget the look of despair in
that eagle’s left eye as it went bouncing
and scraping after the galloping hare. I
jumped from the windmill and slunk off
through the whispering quandongs. A
fear was upon me that sledding hard pas-
tures was no occupation for a lord of
the air.
“Nor’-west”: “Mugga” (B. 25/12/’4O)
can’t pin me down to any statement that
“the eye is the croc.’s only vulnerable
part for a bullet.” I was speaking of the
saurians floating with the tide up and
down a turgid, not to say muddy, stream.
Nostrils, top of skull, eyes alone show-
ing, with just ripples to indicate the
whereabouts of the horny serrated plates
of the armored back. Now, where else
would a marksman shoot other than at
the eye? I’ve seen Martini-Henry bullets,
heavy enough to fell an elephant, merely
bounce off the back plates. Down
through the water in the hope of striking
the belly? A waste of lead. Of course,
when one catches the croc, out of water
a bullet just behind the forearm will
easily settle its hash.
“Char”: The croc, isn’t nearly as
tough as legend alleges. Once helped
to take a 16-footer out of a trap
at Wyndham. A rope girdle was
fastened around just behind the fore-
arms, with a long lead on each side, half
a dozen husky blokes on each rope.
Urged to leave the trap, the walls being
broken down for the purpose, the cap-
tive became a tornado of fury in savage
efforts to get at one or the other group
of his tormentors. Naturally he got some
pretty sharp tugs, which finally informed
him that the only possible course was
straight ahead. Placed in an enclosure,
apparently in good health, Sir Croc, died
within a week. Internal injuries was the
coroner’s verdict: “You blokes were a
bit too severe yanking him back every
time he made a plunge.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Like most dogs that are
close to the doddering stage, old Bob de-
veloped a passion for digging madly
whenever he discovered a small hole in
the ground—until the day he dug into a
ditch-side and a small black and red
beetle hobbled out and hurried away.
Bob planked a heavy but gentle paw on
the runaway and applied his nose to it.
Whereupon the beetle —a bombardier —
let go its puff of powder. Bob jumped
back, stretched his nose and mouth and
let out a prodigious sneeze. Then he
tried to scrape his nose off, first by using
a paw, then by rubbing the afflicted
organ sideways along the ground. I
laughed. Bob gave me an indignant look
and set off along the road, still rubbing
his nose and shaking his head and snort-
ing. You couldn’t get that dog to look
at a hole or a beetle after that.
* * * *
“Naturala”: One of Nature’s oddest
mysteries is her development of insect
life. ' First the tiny egg, seldom bigger
than a poppy-seed. From this the pin-
head grub, which grows and grows, feed-
ing according to its spaces on leaf-
growth, wood or even flesh. Arrived at
maturity, the grub weaves itself some
sort of a covering, usually a silk cocoon,
and hibernates. This is the chrysalis
stage. From the chrysalis emerges the
final stage of adult, sexed insects. These
mate, the female deposits her eggs—and
so the cycle begins again. All the world
over insect life follows this slow pre-
ordained course. But why the necessity
of the cycle? Why the long retirement
into the cocoon, with that strange
mummylike intermediate form the chry-
salis? And how strangely the seemingly
brainless grub makes its preparations for
that retirement. Even some species of
ants, notably the W.A. giant red ant,
weave themselves silken cocoons. But the
supreme weavers are the moths, and king
among them is the case moth. One finds
them everywhere in Australia; odd-
looking bags, suspended from trees,
fences, wooden walls, queerly camou-
flaged with glued-on sticks.
jfc *
“Odd Pint”: I see by the papers where
some council blokes up at Coolangatta
(Q.) refused to go into a paddock of long
grass because they could hear snakes
rustling in it. The local water board then
authorised the foreman to buy a scythe
and cut the grass, and one bloke said he
couldn’t see what the men was frightened
of, seeing they were wearing rubber knee-
boots. All I can say is that the Coolan-
gatta snakes want their brains brushed,
first for being silly enough to go into long
grass, and second for rustling in it loud
enough for anybody to hear. But it just
shows you what some blokes can get
away with.
THE CUSTOMER.
“The customer is always right”—
A deftly-phrased and piquant tip
That’s long been recognised as quite
The safest guide to salesmanship,
“A jewel five words long” —no more—
From our commercial repertoire.
He —or perhaps more often she—
Must be assured the lightest whim
Of purchasers will studied be
(Whether it comes from her or him)
By all of those whose first affairs
Are the disposal of their wares.
Soft soap, soft sawder —these are wiles
In clinching sales that play their part,
While acquiescent nods and smiles
May melt the hardest buyer’s heart.
And, failing these, if circs, permit,
What harm to shade the price a bit?
But every rule must have, I guess,
Exceptions, with their jolts and rubs,
And one may readily confess
It cuts but little ice in pubs,
That aphorism worn and trite,
“The customer is always right.”
When would-be patrons make it clear
As day, and solemnly declare
That tenpence for a pint of beer
Is all they will concede as fair,
Brewers and Bungs, a stubborn throng,
As resolutely term them wrong.
“The customer is always right”
One hears, in ordinary shops;
But no such slogan they recite
Whose trade is done in malt and hops.
It’s part of Boniface’s biz
To show the vendor always is.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sorry I cant help you with money; but I can draw you a picture .”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Sam was glad to
find the little knoll that night, for the
river was rising and a camp on the flat
low ground was risky. We asked him to
share the hut, but Sam explained that he
preferred the open and couldn’t stand
sleeping near other blokes. “I’m a ter-
rible snorer,” he said with his disarming
grin. So he took to the crest of the
knoll with its solitary pine-tree. About
daylight we heard cries from the direc-
tion of the knoll. The water had come
up and Sam was marooned there, but
there didn’t seem to be any need for his
being perched high up in the tree as his
tent was still on dry ground. We launched
the flattie and went for him. “Didja get
scared?” Curly called as we drew in.
“Scared be blinkered,” roared Sam. “I
’ad too many bed-mates.” In the tent
and on the small bit of dry ground about
it were huddled rabbits, a fox, two wal-
labies, two of our own Orpingtons, a
porcupine, sundry lizards, a cow, three
wethers and —coiled in the tree below
Sam —a somewhat lethargic brown snake.
Such is the effect of danger that none of
them paid us much attention as we dis-
patched the snake and collected Sam.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Percy Lindsay’s war-time
economist (B. 15/1/’4l) may favor cab-
bage for his tobacco, but my old cobber
Gellibrand George doesn’t even go to
the garden for his ersatz smokes. The
leaves of wild musk, which grows plenti-
fully in the Otway forests (Vic.), makes
a passable smoke alone, and is even more
useful for diluting the genuine article.
And if he wants a change from a pipe
or from “rolling his own,” George has
simply to strip off the outer husk from
a dried bottle-brush or banksia flower.
The remaining brown-velvet cigarette
burns smoothly and provides a pleasant
and cool smoke.
* * * *
“Atrax”: A world-famous collection of
the moths, butterflies and beetles of Aus-
tralia and New Guinea, the result of more
than 45 years’ work by the late F. P.
Dodd, of Kuranda (N.Q.), is now in
Brisbane awaiting decision as to its future
disposal. A bank official in his younger
days, Dodd turned his hobby of insect-
collecting into a livelihood after a health
breakdown. Thousands of his specimens
are in the British Museum of Natural
History, and thousands more in the prin-
cipal museums and private collections in
Australia and overseas. In 1904 he went
to Kuranda, and six years later got to-
gether a show collection which attracted
great attention from visitors, scientific and
otherwise. One of its most striking ex-
hibits is a female of a species of Atlas
moth from N.Q. whose wings measure
lOjin. in both length and breadth. A
son, A. P. Dodd, of Sherwood, near
Brisbane, is also a distinguished Austra-
lian entomologist. The F. P. Dodd col-
lection should not be allowed to pass out
of Australia, war or no war.
* * * *
“Arev”: Bill Jupp saw the snake dis-
appearing under the stack of wood in
the yard. “Serves me right,” said Bill.
“If I’d chopped that wood it wouldn t
be lying about as harbor for snakes.” He
got the axe and started on the heap.
“You stand and watch that the snake
don’t get away, Mum,” he said. Care-
fully he extracted log after log. “Might
as well chip ’em while I’m movin’ ’em,”
he said. Later, from the far side of what
was left of the woodheap emerged a
bloated lizard. Bill stared as it scuttled
for safety. “Well, I’ll be blowed,” he
said. Then he chopped the last few logs.
Some minutes later Mrs. Jupp stood
admiring a neat stack of wood cut ready
for the stove, result of having put a few
eggs in the heap for the lizard to find.
It had needed something to stir Bill into
cutting that wood.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “You cockies can’t expect
to have your gates shut until you cut out
these ten-min’t gates,” remarked the
traveller who was being remonstrated
with for not shutting one. “What do
you mean by ten-min’t gates?” the cocky
asked. “This is one of ’em,” the traveller
told him. “It probably took you ten
min’ts to make it, and it takes anyone
ten min’ts to open it and another ten to
shut the flamin’ thing!”
“Wippegong”: In our Gippsland
valley crows were seen only in bad
seasons, and even then so rarely that
their presence caused comment. Moving
into the sheep country of Noo South
we found them thick and aggressive
enough to be second only to the rabbits
and the Government as the chief object
of the community’s curses ; but it wasn’t
until I strayed across Centralian gibbers
that I saw Kelly in huge flocks and
given to aerial stunts. There, beside
those gum-fringed watercourses that
start and stop, then ramble off again to
double back and finally give up the
idea of reaching Lake
Eyre at all, you’ll see the
black scavengers gathered
in garrulous hundreds, and
their mass-flying is worth
watching. They begin with
a few circling wide just
above the trees; then, as
the leaders climb, others
join in from below, and
soon there’s a wheeling
black spiral a hundred
yards across and heading
straight for heaven. Up
they go till the topmost are
vague specks drifting
around with the fixed, steady swing
of resting swifts; below them re-
volves the glinting column, with even
the tail-enders higher than crows of the
settled areas usually go. Then, just when
that pillar of feathers drifting across the
desert begins to appear weirdly symbolic,
it breaks, scatters, and the crows dive
back into the gums.
* * * *
“Gab”: Feeling bored with my
bachelor existence, I rode over to the
Doolans one night to cheer myself up.
Mum was in bed, while Dad sat on the
verandah meditatively smoking a quiet
pipe. Suddenly came his stentorian
tones: “Jack, here’s that bull of Crealey’s
again. Come an’ turn the crimsoner out.”
Jack was demonstrating a new wrestling
grip, with me as his subject, and at the
old man’s roar suddenly increased the
pressure. Mary let out a scream, the
horde of kids ran everywhere, and Mum
came running laboriously down stairs.
Dogs of doubtful pedigree appeared from
nowhere, Mary’s screams culminated in
hysterics. I found my way from the
room, tripped up frequently by the kids,
who had been reinforced by several more
appearing as mysteriously as the dogs.
Grabbing my horse, I whipped him down
to the gate and jumped over, hotly pur-
sued by the mongrels, who imagined I
was the cause of the disturbance. Then
I headed along the track for my shanty,
feeling that, after all, there was some-
thing in this quiet life.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Mat was drifting
through the Wimmera, and one blazing
day came upon a little school with the kids
out at afternoon play. A snowy-headed
youngster came up and said “Hey,
mister, y’ can camp in the shelter-shed if
y’ like. Miss Chalker alwiz lets the swag-
gies camp there.” Mat looked the shelter-
shed over. It was built of boughs and
invitingly cool, there was a tank of water
beside the school and he was tired. Grate-
fully he dropped the curse in the shed
and stretched out for a spell. About
half an hour later the kids came out and
began to scatter for home on the collec-
tion of nags, bikes and sulkies. The
teacher followed almost at once. Mat
rose with some idea of thanking her,
but she gave him a quick look and hur-
ried off. Just on sundown a large and
sweaty agriculturist appeared and said,
somewhat apologetically, “Y’ can’t camp
there, ol’ man, it’s agin the regulations.
There’s a shed y’ can have fr the night
down at my place. I give that kid o’
mine.a beltin’ fr tellin’ y’t’ camp here.”
Mat looked puzzled. “Yair,” said the
agrarian, “that teacher woman’s dead
scared o’ bagmen f’r some reason or
other ; the kid knew she’d let ’em out
early if you was about. That’s why he
kidded y’ f camp here.”
* * * *
“Knoo”: Somebody informed a recent
Aboliar that ambergris nowadays is
valueless because it can be produced syn-
thetically. He probably meant that scents
cap be turned out so cheap that there is
no need to enhance their odors. Or per-
haps ambergris substitutes can be pro-
duced. But to produce true ambergris
synthetically would be just about as easy
as synthetically producing flesh or any
other organic substance.
* * * *
“Nigel Dugan”: A favorite line of the
comic artist is the picturing of the abori-
ginal with big hands and feet. Actually
the reverse holds good; probably there
is no living race which, in comparison
with bodily size, has such small and deli-
cately formed hands. Let the average
white man go through a collection of
abo. weapons and he will find that the
hand pieces of practically none will fit
his large Caucasian fist. His fingers will
overlap on the handle of the woomera,
while little but his fingers will pass
through the handgrip of the shield. Feet
are the same, long and slender, though
the thick callus which grows on the adult
sole is apt to lend an aspect of heaviness
and bulk.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Most seaworthy
craft I ever seen,” said Bert the Barman,
“is old Morgan’s launch. She ain’t much
to look at, bein’ built somethin’ like a
dredge, but she’ll weather anythin’. We
takes a bloke with us one Sund’y, an’
’e’s shapin’ fine until a bit of a swell
starts to roll up the bay. ’E looks a bit
startled, but ’e’s game an’ goes on fishin’
for a while. She’s driftin’ a bit, ’cause
all ’ands is busy with their lines, an’ it
ain’t long before a wave sneaks up an’
catches ’er broadside. She looks like
rollin’ keel-over-cabin for a minute, but
Morgan grabs the wheel an’ turns ’er
into it an’ she settles down to some steady
pitchin’. I’m watchin’ the new bloke, an’
’e’s goin’ pale, so I’m wonderin’ wot ’e’ll
be like when this storm I see workin’ up
’its us. It ain’t long cornin’. Talk about
rough! The wind’s blowin’ four ways at
onct, an’ the old launch is buckin’ like a
brumby. It finishes the noo bloke. ’E
makes a run for the side. I grabs ’im
quick or ’e’d ’ave gone overboard with
the next toss, an’ I’m ’angin’ on to ’im
when I ’ears a ’orrible creak. She’s right
on top of a tremenjus wave an’ it sounds
like she’s breakin’ ’er back. Then ’er
bow dips an’ she slides down into the
trough with a jerk. The bloke I’m ’oldin’
starts ’owlin’ to me to let ’im go. Reckons
’e’d rather drown. I gets a ’arf-nelson on
the silly coot an’ I’m tryin’ to soothe ’im
when ’e lets out a ’orrible yell an’ faints
dead away. When I sees wot ’e must ’ave
seen I damn’ near faints meself. That
old tub ’ad raced up the crest of the
next wave an’ looped the flamin’ loop!”
“Bring the ash-stand out, Joe!”
SUNLIGHT.
The sun-girls swift are speeding
Along low, leaden skies,
A golden goddess leading,
With morning in her eyes;
Their voices sweet are singing
Wild songs which have no words,
In woodland music bringing
The calls of waking birds.
Though clouds below may hide them,
The sun-girls still are there,
With sunlit clouds to guide them
And sun-gold in their hair.
With veils and vestments flying,
Apollo’s virgins, they
Attend the Night that’s dying
And drive the dark away.
For ever westward running,
Their jewelled sandals blaze;
No storm or shadow shunning,
With light the stars they daze.
Pale stars which shone so bravely
Through Night’s dark hours, in shame
Turn low their lanterns gravely
And darken every flame.
When lazy eyes are sleeping
Still lulled by Night’s long reign,
The sun-girls’ eyes are peeping
Through door and window-pane.
Bright glances gleam on rafter
And wall and window-blind;
Their singing and their laughter
Come down the morning wind.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


A Man’s
First Thought
is far His Family
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
important steps; —
*
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 62 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Consvdl your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
lag
05
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
- - Ltd. —-
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST.. SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.6.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Milder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371 -
THE WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* to Funds.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 ) aoo qqi
Trans. Invest. Res., £429,451 ) ° ’
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,215 ) , 0 61 746
Trans. Invest. Res., £153,145 ) A ’ ’
Added to Investment Reserve, £14,615.
1934.. 4,902,114 2,857,242 437,039 1,607,833
Added to Investment Reserve, £15,161.
1935.. 5,018,296 2,924,349 474,689 1,019,258
Added to Investment Reserve, £8446.
1936.. 5,237,786 2,995,222 520,563 1,722,001
Added to Investment Reserve, £6981.
1937. . 5,605,733 3,126,050 568,675 1,911,008
To staff fund. £15,000 . . )
1938.. 5,740,376 3,589,587 567,186 ) 1,568,003
Written off properties, £lOO,OOO.
1939.. 5,931,144 3,448,244 550,359 1,932,541
1940.. 6,076,026 3,626,703 529,996 1,919,327
* Excluding income tax and rates.
The National, which missed the Indus-
trial bus, is the second biggest of Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual life offices, and
it has widespread connections. It gathers
part of its income in Australia and the
rest in Maoriland, S. Africa, Great
Britain, Ireland, the Straits Settlements
and India, where it ceased writing new
contracts a couple of years ago, to the
benefit of the remainder of the business.
Thus far, chief and most obvious effect
of war conditions upon the business has
been a contraction of £1,561,571 in the
amount of new business put on the books
last term (£8,596,926). Still, on the aver-
age the co. wrote larger and longer-term
contracts at less cost, and there was a
growth of £2,235,551 in the amount of
business in force. So, although expan-
sion of the undertaking was less marked,
from the policy-holders’ point of view
the co.’s already strong position was
further improved.
Consider these figures:
1938. 1939. 1940.
Policies . . 31,263 28.382 23,750
Amount .. £11,518,813 £10,158,497 £8,596,926
Av. per policy 368 357 362
First premiums 381,501 332,922 277,108
Renewals . . 3,568,106 3,718,145 3,830,408
Single premiums 21,451 30,622 49,467
Annuities . . 63,350 86,853 106,403
Interest, etc. . . 1,767,680 1,830,367 1,874,470
There was a stronger demand for fully-
paid policies and for annuities, and the
average amount per policy increased by
£5, while the average premium per cent,
was £3 12s. sd. as against £3 11s. 7d.
The growth in the year’s net premium
income (£4,201,556) was £100,779, and
interest and rents turned in £1,874,470
(up £44,103) net —that was after deduct-
ing taxes (£185,163, up £19,495). The
growth in total income (£6,076,026) was
thus £144,882. After paying all legiti-
mate claims and exes., £1,919,328
(£13,212 less than for the previous term)
was added to the assurance fund, raising
it to £47,495,193. This fund had the
support and assistance of an investment
fluctuation reserve of £1,755,778, returns
from which are available to swell
bonuses to policy-holders.
Although the actuary makes an annual
overhaul of the business and bonuses
are declared each year, the board still
sticks to the old-fashioned idea of send-
ing out the figures triennially. Those for
the three years to the close of last ac-
counts are due any day now. Although
the reduction in interest rates generally
has brought about a contraction in the
rate of bonuses to policy-holders, these
bonuses are still satisfactory compared
with the rates paid by other leading life
offices. All of them have made greater
reserves against possible war losses lately,
which has meapt reduced bonus rates for
the time being. Of course, if war losses
aren’t as heavy as provided for, the future
position is really greatly strengthened.
Continued growth of taxation is likely
to affect bonus rates, but the experience
will be a general one.
The net interest return, from which
all the older offices score heavily, was
only Is. 7d. p.c. lighter at £4 2s. 2d. p.c.
The gross return on mean funds was
£4 10s. 4d. p.c., which is not bad con-
sidering over half the co.’s funds are
represented by Government securities,
now turning in around 3f p.c. The office
figures that if its funds turn in only
3 p.c. it will be able to meet its con-
tracts on maturity with a bit to spare.
The difference between the rate assumed
and that actually earned is one of the
sources of bonuses to policy-holders.
Another heartening feature is that,
after allowing 5 p.c. and 3 p.c. for the
cost of single premiums and considera-
tion for annuities respectively, exes, made
off with only 12.7 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums as against 13.4 p.c. and 14.3
p.c. for the two preceding years. The
expense rate allowed by the actuary at
the 1937 valuation was 15.2 p.c.
Apart from policies issued in Britain,
the war has had no direct effect on last
year’s claims. Up till the close of ac-
counts, the co.’s war death claims in
Britain totalled nearly 100, mostly aris-
ing from deaths at sea. Losses in the
Libyan campaign have not been heavy.
What the ultimate death-strain on ac-
count of war casualties will amount to
remains to be seen. Speaking generally,
the effect of these casualties is to con-
centrate deaths at the earlier ages. At
these ages the reserves accumulated
against normal death claims are compara-
tively small. All life offices are faced
with this situation, and most of them,
including the National, have made sub-
stantial provision for such contingen-
cies.
Here is the co.’s investment portfolio
in tabloid form:
f 1939 v — 1 1940—^
p.c. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,694,337 3.5 £1,702,446 3.4
Public securities . . 24.333,302 50.7 25,999,453 51.7
Mortgages .. 10,641,640 22.2 10.751J27 21.4
Foreclosures . . 316,369 0.7 294,821 0.6
Loans on policies. . 5.449,406 11.2 5,843,609 10.6
Other assets . . 5,600,307 11.7 6,166,630 12.3
The money that became available dur-
ing the year went almost wholly into
Government securities (up £1,666,151),
which amounted to only 39.2 p.c. of the
assets 10 years ago. Mortgages in-
creased by £109,487, and loans on poli-
cies were reduced by £105,797, which is
a healthy sign.
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
r - 1 Dividends To Re- Re-
Oet., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1931.. 20,217 9 p.c. 15 p.c. 10,460 9,757 13,394
1932.. 32,773 9 ~ 20 „ 14,338 ) * 7fi7 91 , fil
Estab. a/c written off, £10,667 ) '>‘o< zi,u>i
Goodwill written up, £65,812.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 .. .. 85,571
1933.. 42,383 9 p.c. 20 p.c.* 19,740 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised. £43,560.. .. 64,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. 22i p.c. 26,552 21,673 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 . . 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 . . . . 319,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015.. .. 172,223
1935.. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 38,803 21,301 193,524
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 . . .. 95,5.14
1936.. 72,787 9'p.c. 17* p.c. 59,630 13,157 108,671
1937.. 111,461 9 „ 15 „ 64,245 47,216 155,887
Staff fund, £5OOO 150,887
Reserves capitalised, £56,601 .. .. 94,286
1938.. 125,212 9 p.c. 16 p.c. 104,117 21,095 115,381
Staff fund, £2500 112,881
1939.. 110,806 9 p.c. 10 p.c. 104,117 12,749 125,630
Staff fund, £l5OO 124,130
Taxation underprovided, £26,500 . . 97,630
1940.. 99,070 9 p.c. 14 p.c. 91,330 7,740 105,370
* Includes 10 p.c. on bonus shares issued Oct., 1933.
f Subject to goodwill ( £304,229 at October 1, 1940),
and excluding depreciation reserve (now £120,160).
This offshoot of Woolworths, Sydney,
set up in the Dominion 11 years ago with
a capital of £50,000-odd ; the figure is
now £672,608 (50,000 £l9 p.c. prefs. and
2,490,432 ords. of ss. each), of which
£345,186, or 11s. Id. per pound of ord.
capital, is bonus scrip, distributed during
the last seven years—the last gift was at
the end of 1937. So ord. divs. are worth
more than double the declared rate on
cash-paid capital. The past, however,
cannot be accepted as reliable guide to
the future.
From the retailer’s point of view, the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
was a sellers’ market. Despite heavy
taxation, there was still plenty of money
about, because of growing expenditure
on defence, the continued large outlay on
public works and a bigger export income,
following a bounteous season and good
prices obtained under British con-
tracts. Moreover, the Government con-
tinued to use central bank credit to help
finance public expenditure. Under these
conditions, and with employment virtu-
ally at the full since before the outbreak
of war, not only was spending power
high, but definite signs of inflation began
to appear in the shape of sharply-rising
costs. With a view to preventing a run-
away movement in both prices and costs
the Government set up an Economic
Stabilisation Conference, representative of
commercial interests, farmers, manufac-
turers and employees, in September last.
Despite its varied complexion, the con-
ference unanimously accepted as inevit-
able some decline in real wages during
the war, and condemned inflation as “the
most cruel and the least scientific method
of making a levy on the people.” It ad-
vocated more stringent and wider control
of prices, continuance of import selec-
tion and exchange control, stricter regu-
lation of rents and more uniform trans-
port charges, which are now regulated
on a regional basis.
Among other things, it all looks like
curtailment of spending power in the not-
too-distant future, as well as a still
further increase in the already stagger-
ing load of direct and indirect taxation.
It also means that traders generally will
find it difficult both to maintain turn-
over and restrain outgoings. Still, in
these circumstances, well-handled chain
stores like Woolworths can be expected
to do as well as, if not better than, most
other retailers. From the investor’s point
of view, one danger lies in the possibility
of further Government interference by
way of limiting dividends to a maximum
rate.
After paying all working exes, and
providing for depreciation, the board
wrote the year’s profit £1704 better at
£287,070. That was after charging
£26,500 additional taxation in respect of
1939 direct to reserves. Last year’s pro-
vision for taxation was £lBB,OOO (up
£19,500), leaving the amount available
for distribution among shareholders
£17,796 lighter at £99,070, or sufficient
to pay the pref. div. and show 15.2 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 18, 19.3, 26.7
and 21 p.c. for the four preceding terms.
A couple of points were chipped off the
div., reducing it to 14 p.c.
The provision for taxation was equal
to 65.5 p.c. of the year’s trading profit;
that is to say, the business earned £65
10s. for the Government for every £34
10s. earned for shareholders.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—-
1934. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £148,010 £61.5,982 £672,008 £672,608
Mortgage . . 39,531 113,500 137,900 98,300
Sundry creditors 33,697 102,240 125,402 140,227
Tax provision 43,817 129,541 258,842 203,560
Freehold .. 53,108 246,574 361,838 407,418
Leasehold . . 8,950 14,044 15,489
Plant . . 75,084 143,960 181,583 188,797
Shares other cos. 15,000 7 7
Stocks . . 139,898 384,913 437,411 390.409
Debtors, etc.. . 24,488 59,486 20,616 10,413
Cash, etc. . . 6,482 95,138 187,153 90,523
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the mortgage and trade
debts combined by £252,818, a shrinkage
of £129,060 over the twelvemonth, due
mainly to the outlay on freehold (up
£45,580), reduction of £39,600 in the
mortgage and extra taxation. The reduc-
tion of £47,002 in stocks suggests that
the co. expects no difficulty in deliveries.
The Dominion market has revised its
estimate of the future possibilities of the
business by pricing the ords. at 14s. 3d.
as against 19s. 3d. two years back. At
the lower figure the return is 4.9 p.c. on
a 14 p.c. div. basis. A similar yield is
obtained from the prefs. at 375. 9d. The
net tangible backing is £9 9s. 6d. prefs.
and 3s. sd. ords.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 12,569 20 p.c. = 10,500 2303 12,904
1930.. 5,257 10 ~ „ 5,250 3055 9,856
Loss.
1931.. 1,618 Nil 1958 6,280
Profit.
1932.. 261 Nil 261 6,541
1933.. 1,087 Nil 1087 7,628
1934.. 3,706 6 p.c. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 „ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,Z50 I 9 ,. r n io o
Staff bonus, £1720 .. .. )
!937. . 8,859 12 p.c = 6,300 - 1 1000 i 2,130
Staff bonus, £1559 . . • . )
1938.. 11,376 12 p.c. = 6,300 \ 3076 16 206
Staff bonus, £2OOO .. .. )
] 939. . 5,928 11 p.c. = 5,775 153 15,359
1940.. 5,746 9 „ „ 4,725 1,021 16,380
This is one of Sydney’s leading real-
estate businesses, and its earnings reflect
the vicissitudes of the metropolitan prop-
erty market. The booming 1920’5, when
wool, wheat, metals, dairy and other pro-
duce fetched high prices, and when the
keynote of the Government’s financial
policy was the issue of IOUs overseas,
speculation in city and suburban proper-
ties —some of them changed hands two
or three times a year —inflated values ;
and R. and W. and others in the busi-
ness made fat profits and paid large divs.
The arrival of slump and Langism in
the early 1930’s saw destruction of con-
fidence in the future of property as an
investment, and real-estate firms had a
struggle to make ends meet. Confidence


Public Notice.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY
Annual General Meeting of Proprietors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual
General Meeting of the Proprietors of the Com-
pany will be held at the Conference Room,
7th Floor, Grand United Order of Oddfellows
Building, 149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, on
Thursday, 27th February, 1941, at 12 noon.
BUSINESS.
1. To receive the Report of the Directors for
the past year and authorise the payment
of a dividend for the half year ended 31st
December, 1940.
2. To elect two Directors in the place of Arthur
Wigram Allen, Esq., and Col. the Hon.
Thomas Alfred John Playfair, M.L.C., who
retire and who have given the requisite notice
that they are candidates for re-election, for
which they are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place of
Messrs. Robert William Nelson, F.C.A.
(Aust.), and William Thomas Morris, F.C.A.
(Aust.), who retire and who have given the
requisite notice that they are candidates
for re-election, for which they are eligible.
4. To transact such other business as may
be properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are required
to give notice of their candidature, in writing,
to the undersigned, not later than Wednesday,
12th February, 1941.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from the 13th to the 27th February,
1941, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
W. A. TAYLOR, Secretary.
Company’s Head Office:
Haymarket, Sydney.
January 30, 1941.
i
3 3
m
jMfc.
—■■Ji-'v- trCi\
YES."."Iw
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO UP.
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents,— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
v * # *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; P. VV. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. P. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
'Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Robert J. A. Massie. Owen E. Friend. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS-.
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay's Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout;
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
returned, as the following comparison of
Sydney property sales shows:
City. Suburbs.
1924 .. .. £2,100,000 £3,500,000
192 G .. .. 7,000,000 3,750,000
1928 .. .. 2,750,000 4,816,024
1930 .. .. 698,575 1,339,977
1931 .. .. 364,420 484,528
1933 .. .. 786,385 793,852
1934 . . . . 850,964 1,563,503
1935 . . . . 1,238,058 2,338,785
1936 . . . . 1,174,431 2,993,843
1937 .. .. 887,634 4,367,877
1938 .. .. 1,185,165 5,083,589
1939 . . . . 575,082 4,9'25,396
1940 . . . . 325,952 6,175,988
War and its concomitants appear to have
created opposite psychological reactions
in connection with property purchases in
the city and in the suburbs. There was
no tightness in the money market. But,
uncertain of what the future held for
trade and commerce, businessmen hesi-
tated to buy city properties, recorded
sales of which fell away by £249,130,
dropping to a lower level than in 1931,
the trough of the slump period. On the
other hand there was a strong demand in
all suburbs for bungalows and cottages
and land on which to build them, and
suburban sales increased by £1,250,592,
reaching the peak figure of £6,175,988.
R. and W.’s turnover (£661,364) fell
away £228,996. Gross earnings (£25,946)
were down £1250 ; but there was a sav-
ing of £lO6B in exes. (£20,200), leaving
the net result only £lB2 lighter at 10.9
p.c. on capital compared with 11.2,
21.6, 16.8, 17.9, 8.9, 7 and a shade over
2 p.c. back to 1933. A couple of points
were chipped off the div., reducing it to
9 p.c.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Capital .. .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities.. .. 25,956 15,279 10,720 17,119
Advances . . . . 34,227 30,362 27,361 26,256
Shares in other cos. 2,9'60
Cash, etc 55.304 51,679 49,221 54,519
Odds and ends . . 3,770 3,885 2,869 2,680
Sundry debtors . . 4,266 5,262 4,338 3,680
When the books closed, the outside debt
was more than three times covered by
cash, etc., alone.
As for the current year, the president
of the Real Estate Institute considers
the outlook promising. Still, taxation
and the Commonwealth restriction on
buildings costing over £5OOO are likely
to keep city sales low and to retard the
purchase of suburban property.
The market prices the f,-p. 15s. shares
at 225. 6d., at which figure the return
is 6 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The
backing is 19s. 9d, in net tangibles.
Grain Elevators Board Loan
Following the quick subscription of
the City of Melbourne’s £215,000 loan
at p.c. for 10 years, the Grain
Elevators Board of Victoria has come on
the market with an offering of £150,000
at the same coupon rate, but with a cur-
rency of 15 years; it also has been under-
written by J. B. Were and Son. The
loan is secured on the revenue and fixed
and floating assets of the board, and is
unconditionally guaranteed by the Gov-
ernment of Victoria as to principal and
interest. It is an authorised investment
for trustees in Victoria, Queensland and
Tasmania. Its main appeal will be to
non-taxable bodies such as friendly
societies, superannuation funds, church
funds, trade-unions, etc., and to the small
man whose taxation rate is not high. The
interest rate appears to be reasonable m
relation to the general market, as the
average bond yield is now below 3 p.c.
Subscription lists close not later than
February 17.
Copper production in Queensland from
small producers is considerable because
of the Cloncurry output, which all goes
to Chillagoe. Queensland Mines Min-
ister announced last week the lifting of
silica penalties and embargoes to help
boost local production, for at long last
Australia has had to import copper as a
war-time need. An increased price for
these small producers is also possible.
Small stocks of copper are likely to spring
up over the State’s abandoned copper
shows, and it has many. Mackay (C.Q.)
has come back from nil to half a dozen
small copper producers in the past
month. For example, J. A. McFadzen
it’s ap old Nebo family—has opened up
workings on Mt. Flora, which was once
a Coppermine flourishing on its carbonate
ores. His last lot of nine tons of ore pro-
duced £l2O worth of copper (apart from
gold)—it’s a mere trickle, but with the
Minister endeavoring to steer a thousand
of these small producers into the one
stream it could become a torrent. And
that without the really big potential low-
graders, such as Mt. Chalmers, with
2 p.c. ore, but watching the precious
months of war famine for copper pass-
ing by with scarcely a tap of work done ;
or Glassford Creek, that strange and
mountainous compound of iron ore, gold
and copper, on which fond hopes are still
based. Glassford Creek was inspected by
a representative of Tokyo in 1918. He
said, “Could I only transfer it to Japan
... but with your difficulties” And
he shrugged.
* * * *
Lake View and Star’s year to June 30,
1940, was impressive. Total receipts in
sterling from gold won were £1,375,900,
an advance of £114,600 on the previous
12 months, and were the largest in the
co.’s history. Net profit at £592,200 is
up £65,700, but the advantage is lost
through the charge for excess-profits tax,
which is estimated at over £95,000. In
all, the co. has had to provide £220,000
for British and Australian taxation.
Dividend is maintained at 50 p.c. (25.) a
share, and an interim of \l\ p.c. (6d.) a
share was paid in Dec. on account of the
current year. In future dividends will be
paid half-yearly instead of every four
months as at present; the next payment
will be made in May or June. Ore re-
serves at June 30, 1940, were estimated
at 3,845,500 tons (an increase of 189,700
tons) having an average grade of 5.39dwt.
a ton, against 5.56dwt. Larger profit
earned last year was due to the increased
tonnage put through the mill and the
higher price received for gold. A record
692,100 tons was milled.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie’s Victoria Park—its lawns,
shady walks and rendezvous for petting
parties—has again been pegged as a gold-
mining area. On the last occasion pros-
pecting at depth was talked of, but
nothing happened. On this occasion
drilling is contemplated.
* * ♦ ♦
Great Boulder Proprietary milled
113,690 tons during the last quarter of
1940 and extracted gold worth £A239,650.
Gold excise took £18,715 and working
costs £169,249, leaving a working surplus
of £51,689. Expenditure on special
development absorbed £21,349. Over
8000 ft. of development and 6000 ft. of
diamond-drilling were done. Some im-
portant exposures of ore at depth were
made in the main, Edwards, Lane and
Hamilton shaft workings.
* * * *
Nullagine conglomerate gold deposits
(W.A.) are again being dangled before
the eyes of overseas investors as an in-
vestment, This time a London financial
journal commends them as a speculation.
Again and again they have been damned
by qualified experts. One of the latest
to report on them, K. J. Finucane, said
that sampling results were so low that
profitable exploitation didn’t deserve con-
sideration. He added that past production
was not indicative of average grade, and
it seemed probable that the bulk of the
gold was won by selective mining of a
few rich patches.
<» * * *
From London: With recent happen-
ings evidently in mind, writers in the
financial press are demanding the drastic
reform of goldmining prospectuses both
in Britain and Australia. A number of
ways and means for the better protec-
tion of investors are suggested, but none
are new. Here are some: (1) Prospectuses
should embrace reports by qualified inde-
pendent mining engineers of unquestioned
probity; (2) stockbrokers should cold-
shoulder all promotions that are not
backed by reports of members of recog-
nised technical institutions connected
with the mining and metallurgical indus-
tries ; (3) prospectuses containing reports
by interested persons should be banned
by Stock Exchanges ; (4) promotions in
which vendors are given a big wad of
paid shares to be ruled out. In most cases
the ground which is floated has only
cost the vendors the price of pegging out
and surveying.
* * * *
“Oof Bird”; A notable rise in the
price of imported stores, the provision
of substantial expenditure on allowances
for men with the Forces, and further
benefits granted to employees have put
up Rand goldmining costs. Despite
these additions, however, one of the big-
gest operating cos. says that the increase
in working costs per ton milled has been
moderate. They averaged 20s. 6d. for
the third quarter of 1940, against 19s. 3d.
for the corresponding period of 1939, and
as much as Bd. a ton of the increase was
accounted for by higher realisation
charges. The cost per ounce of fine gold
produced for the same two periods was
98s. 9d. and 91s. 4d, respectively.
* * * *
Westralia’s only producing coalfield,
Collie, supplied 537,426 tons to cus-
tomers, of whom the State Government
is by far the biggest, in 1940. Four of the
five mines in operation are controlled by
Amalgamated Collieries of W.A. About
700 men are employed in the industry.
* * * *
“Jewburg”: South Africa has gold-
mining taxation anomalies like Australia.
In February, 1940, taxing the product
instead of the profit from mining was
abandoned. It was replaced by a special
tax of 9 p.c. on working profit, and pro-
ducers were allowed to credit to revenue
the proceeds from the sale of gold at
its full official price of 168 s. per fine
ounce, but had to bear as a debit to
working costs gold realisation charges.
When the producers’ price was limited
to 150 s. realisation charges were borne
by the Treasury. Subsequent to the Gov-
ernment’s decision to allow the indus-
try to receive the full price of gold, the
bank agreed to buy producers’ gold at
168 s. an ounce and bear the whole of
the realisation charges, which, up to the
middle of Feb., 1940, were 355. 9d. per
cent, later 375. per cent., and yet more
recently 38s. 3d. per cent. This meant
an increase in total profits from mining
of approximately £2,000,000 per year,
of which about one-third would have
accrued to producers under present taxa-
tion. The Government, however, decided
that this fortuitous profit should all be
on its account, and that producers
shouldn’t benefit. That decision was
tantamount to additional taxation on the
industry. Obviously the higher the
realisation charges the more the Gov-
ernment benefits and the more the in-
dustry is penalised. Further, the tax
falls most heavily on the lower-grade
mines,
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.8.G.: (1) Don’t know of any market for
these bonds. (2) Depends on what it can be
sold for; if £35 could be got in return for it
selling might be advisable. (3) Don’t think so.
(4) This co. is not the same as the one with
similar name recently taken over by N.Z.
Forest Products. Have no records of a con-
version into shares in this case. At all times
we have had difficulty in obtaining informa-
tion from the office.


Ufa fat
. ,atio" «<*<*
, ~h o exchanges els mote
T HE m ooTlon of C.O.H P "Ve gets
| for o 9® 11 tro l . • • Ren , o \9» yes
o 9°" on k A ii tS that o«W gen*®''
than
free
EXTRA L u f a Vo„e c«"» 0, "* a
• C ° R the e* l,a ""I' ° q tor these
meo" s * . you '° n ? foC t that
ollon
vfiß
« hich "?®£ e , get-owoy f,f,e tact
» nd q “i times- >» is °,f?U/s per 9
c"o' co T ios r«‘« f coR plus
than pet'
, r A »neflsttfc
p r ° ye . Units . • •
~B fi. isb ,« other
60*
TAKE YOUR RATION
TICKETS TO THE RED,
WHITE & BLUE C.O.R
PUMP and obtain the
benefits of Australia’s only
petrol-benzol blend . . .
British petrol plus Austra-
lian benzol.
y
J
■:
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo-iranian Oil Co. Ltd.) C195.16P8
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over Jj
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
; u
lIX
m
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E.
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.L., M.b.C.
Robert 0. Wilson.
(Chairman) ; Colin A. Sinclair,
; James Kidd; A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
Manager: J. G. II. Shipway.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Emperor Mine
“The Emperor ore-body is an unusual
one,” say the directors. “The ore occurs
in large, irregularly-shaped bodies associ-
ated with a system of strong shears and
fissures. In places the payable veins are
confined to narrow, well-defined chan-
nels and flat dipping veins; in others
they are disseminated through large areas
of crushed and shattered country. The
opening of every new level in the mine
has disclosed new features in the ore-
bodies, either as to their shape and ex-
tent at the new horizons, their apparent
displacement in one direction or another
as compared with their position in the
upper levels, or as to their mineral com-
position.”
Thus it hasn’t been all plain sailing,
and mining, treatment and financial
arrangements have had to be readjusted
more than once. The board explains;
As a result of these characteristics, the
mine technical staff is confronted with
many problems in prospecting the ore-
bodies, in estimating tonnage and grade,
and in planning the development of the
mine for future ore extraction.
Although over the last four years the
estimates of ore reserves may have
“approximated closely” the stuff dug out
of the areas in question, it is now a
matter of record that at the beginning
the opinions of those who sponsored the
float were wide of the mark both as to
average gold content of the ore and
probable profit per ton. Nevertheless,
ignoring the shareholders’ side of the
Emperor float for the moment, it is no
more than justice to say that, taking the
mine as it has opened up, the staff has
done a good job, and the Emperor has
proved an asset to Fiji—even if a dis-
appointment and market loss to many
Australian shareholders.
The mine contained a mixture of ore
types and milling problems at the begin-
ning. There were oxides, semi-oxides
and sulphides, each requiring varied
treatment. As to mining;
In the past, opencut operations have fur-
nished the main bulk of ore supplied to
the mill. It is anticipated that the opencut
will continue to supply, but in quantities
diminishing each year, for a further four
years, and thereafter the mill will depend
entirely upon ore won from underground.
To prepare for underground ore extrac-
tion on a large scale, a main shaft is being
sunk, probably to 750 ft. This has five
compartments, and will be used for hoist-
ing ore and for general services.
Positive ore reserves at September,
1940, were 101,400 tons oxides averaging
6.Bdwt., 81,600 tons of 7.sdwt. semi-
oxides, and 637,000 tons of 7.Bdwt. sul-
phides. The oxides were little more
than half those of the preceding year
(values the same), and there was a drop
of about 19,000 tons in the semi-oxides,
with a reduction of o.6dwt. in the grade.
Sulphide ore rose 143,600 tons, but the
grade dropped by I.2dwt. Total gold
content of the proved ore was 313,5060 z.,
down 14,8840 z., the average assay being
7.64dwt., against B.34dwt. in 1939 and
slightly over B.4dwt. in 1938. In addi-
tion to proved ores, there was 60,000
tons of sulphides probable, averaging
7.Bdwt., on September 4, against 52,000
tons of Bdwt. stuff a year earlier.
The proving of additional gold value
has not kept pace with extraction in
either of the past two years, in spite of
periodic reports of good developments.
This is a fact that cramps the outlook
from the investor’s viewpoint. The mine
manager, explaining the drop in the
grade of sulphide ore (the chief factor in
the reduction of average values), says the
fall was due to greater allowance
being made for low-grade sections in the
ore-body itself, and also for marginal
ores, previously left out, now being in-
cluded. Development during the past
year does not appear to have disclosed a
great deal of new ore of consequence.
Work on the new main shaft was not
started until August, 1940.
Milling 165,214 tons (down 13,727
tons) last year, the operating co., Em-
peror Gold Mining Co., turned out
53,3750 z. fine gold (up 9820 z.). Re-
coveries averaged 6.46dwt., against head
values of 6.9dwt. In the previous term
recoveries were 5.96dwt. from the lower-
grade but more easily milled oxides.
In April, 1940, the new flotation and
concentrate-treatment plants began work
on the sulphides. Fine-grinding, pri-
mary cyanidation and an elaborate sys-
tem of treating the concentrates and resi-
dues was the new method decided on
for the sulphides. In the flotation sec-
tion at the beginning of operations re-
sults weren’t up to expectations owing to
the mixed nature of the ores, but by
sorting out oxides, semi-oxides and sul-
phides better results are now being
obtained. The sulphide ore, however,
requires particularly fine grinding, and
an additional ball mill has been in-
stalled. During the year to June 12,
1940, £44,453 was spent on plant.
In Fiji money, financial results were
as follows last term:
Income —
Bullion sales.. .. ..£500,209
Rentals 1,826
£502,035
Outgo—
Mining .. .. ..£41,663
Milling 80,858
Administration .. .. 27,328
Depreciation .. .. ..31,007
Development.. .. .. 52,852
Royalty and realisation .. 38,162
Amortisation.. .. .. 4,230
Income tax .. .. .. 19,036
295,136
Net profit .. .. .. .. £206,899
Fiji currency is £lOO to £ll2 Australian.
Costs, including royalty, realisation, de-
preciation, income taxes and 6s. sd. a
ton development, but excluding amor-
tisation —a new item—ran out at 355. 3d.
a ton of ore treated, against 28s. Id. a
ton in the previous year, when 3s. 4d. a
ton was set aside for development. The
net profit of £206,899 represented 255.
(Fiji) per ton of ore milled, against
slightly over 20s. in the preceding term.
The higher price of gold was entirely
responsible, increased costs having offset
the better ore values.
The mining co. paid Emperor Mines,
Ltd. —the public co. —£213,750 Aust. in
divs. during the year. Allowing for
sundries in the way of income and exes.,
the public co. showed a net profit of
£213,007. Shareholders were paid
£190,000 in divs. (2s. a share), with a
further £45,000 (6d.) after the accounts
closed, making total distributions since
operations commenced £427,500 Aust. up
to the end of 1940.
A div. usually paid in November was
passed by because of plant and stores
costs and shaft-sinking expenditure on
the part of the operating co. A sixpenny
distribution is payable on Feb. 28.
Emperor G.M. Co. is owned by Em-
peror Mines, Ltd., which paid £600,000
(half cash, half shares) to Theodore,
Wren, Cody and Packer for the 100,000
shares issued by the mining co. An-
other £350,000 was subscribed by the
public and vendors in cash, mak-
ing paid capital of the public co.
£950,000. In the five and a half years
since flotation £427,500 has been handed
back to shareholders in divs. Up to
September, 1940, 511,313 tons of ore
(averaging 7.35dwt.) had been treated for
169,3950 z. gold. There is less than twice
that much gold now in sight, in ore
believed to average 7.64dwt.
At 13s. 9d. a share the market prices
the mine and what goes with it at
£1,300,000. It will take nearly three
times the divs. already declared to re-
turn that figure.
Last year the mining co. issued 100,000
more ords. to the holding co. in repay-
ment of £lOO,OOO of advances. Though
both cos., taken together, aren’t short of
cash, neither is actually flush. The oper-
ating co. still owed the parent £115,592
at balance day. Development appar-
ently is becoming more expensive, and
a substantial amount of profit is going
back into the mine.
Australian sharemarkets are having
another period of elevated stability.
Leaders like Yarra Falls, A.C.1., British
Tobacco, Tooth, Carlton, Burns Philp,
shipping cos., Electrolytic Zinc and
North Broken Hill, though very firm,
have shown little movement for a couple
of weeks. There are many more stocks
in a similar state. 8.H.P., with the spot-
light attracted by a new issue, has been
up and down within a range of a shilling
or two. Bond’s Industries ords., in con-
trast, have had a spectacular rise of
nearly 4s. within a fortnight, and ss. 6d.
in January, though turnover hasn’t been
heavy. Some aspects of this co.’s affairs
were dealt with in B. 29 /1 / ”41. Brad-
ford Cotton (B. 22/1 / ’4l) has also firmed,
though not to the same extent; the fully-
paids at 425. 6d. have risen 2s. in a month.
Davies, Coop ords. have been selling at
315., up Is. 9d. since ’Change opened in
January. H. B. Dickie has firmed slightly,
changing hands at 31s. The cotton-textile
group has been one of the most active
sections of industry since war broke out.
Among the woollen cos., Felt and Tex-
tiles has been holding its place in the
market at 395. 3d. Yarra Falls is steady
at 445. 6d. Australian Knitting Mills
7s. 6d. scrip is selling at 135., and Valley
Worsted £1 shares are up to 325. 6d. All
these stocks are now paying 10 p.c. ; the
yield from Felt and Textiles is 5.1 p.c.,
Yarra Falls 4.5 p.c., A.K.M. 5.8 p.c. and
Valley Worsted 6.2 p.c. Wangarattta
Woollen scrip at 20s. yields 8 p.c., and
the Warrnambool co. returns 9.2 p.c. at
14s. 6d. Maryborough Knitting 9s. ords.
are well held, last sale being 3s. or 4s.
above par. Amalgamated Textiles ords.
are still below par at Bs. 6d. Because
of internal troubles this co. wasn’t off
to a flying start when war broke out.
General Industries 12s. 6d. ords. are
being bought to yield £8 13s. 6d, per
cent. Priced at 18s., they aren’t un-
attractive to those people prepared to
take a small risk in order to get a bigger-
than-usual return. The interim paid in
September was at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.,
the same as the interim for the preced-
ing term, when a bonus of 2\ p.c. made
12} p.c. for the term, a rate paid regu-
larly now for four years. A final div.
for the latest period is payable in March.
The co. represents an amalgamation of
Metters and K.F.8., makers of stoves,
baths, earthenware, etc. There may be
some restriction in the co.’s ordinary busi-
ness activities, but its plant should be
useful in parts for defence production.
* * * 3"
Imperial Chemical Industries of Aus-
tralia and N.Z. and its subsidiaries
showed a profit of £402,336 for the year
to Sept. 30, compared with £388,483 for
the preceding term. During the period
capital outlay of about £650,000 was in-
curred by the co. and its pups in connec-
tion with the alkali factory at Port Adel-
aide, the synthetic ammonia factory at
Deer Park (Vic.), extension of the ex-
plosive factory and the manufacture of
tetryi and commercial detonators. For
the current year outlay of £385,000 is
anticipated, including a sum earmarked
for an electrolytic caustic chlorine plant
in Sydney. Manufacture of phosphorous
and phthalic anhydride is to be under-
taken by associated cos. Because of the
heavy capital outlay incurred and in pros-
pect, the 6 p.c. ord. div. (£242,118) is to
be paid in ord. scrip. Apparently special
permission has been obtained from the
Treasury. It may save the co. going on
the market for more pref. money.
* * * *
Mt. Isa sold £1,448,672-worth of metals
during the year to June 30, an increase
of £289,878. Before providing for de-
preciation, but charging debenture in-
terest, net profit was £82,617, against
£18,798. Ore reserves at the end of the
term were 9,193,850 tons, but details of
output are not available.


GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters,
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
11l
:*9
i*L
'l#. V
Established JBOB in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch; Waymouth Street, Adelaida.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St.. Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
How will you look
at Sixty?
J/l/ ILL you be comfortably off, pr poor? The answer lies in the plans you
r r lay NOW: in what you DO now.
Through the A.M.P. you can arrange now to have the money necessary
for comfort when you reach 60. You can do this and, under the same plan, ensure
protection for your wife and children in the event of your death at any time.
After all, A.M.P. assurance is just MONEY delivered when you and your
family will need it most. See that you make arrangements for the time of
delivery that will suit you best.
Have a talk with the next A.M.P. representative who calls on you; or, if
you prefer, send to this office for a copy of a book called "Peace of Mind.” It
may give you a new outlook on life: it should help you to grow rich in both
money and • contentment.
Write your name and address here, tear out the advertisement, and post it
to the A.M.P. office. The book will then be sent to you free of charge. Do this
to-day.
NAME
ADDRESS
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., A. E. WEBB, ,
General Manager and Actuary. Manager for New South Wales
Head Office; 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
A meeting of shareholders in Pro-
ducers’ Oilwell Supplies, it is reported,
will be held in Sydney on February
10 “to decide on the future of
the co. following disclosures made
last month in the Equity Court.”
Nicholas, J., had granted an injunction
restraining Senator Arthur and Malcolm
Beattie from* excluding John C. Mackay
from the co.’s offices. He dismissed an
application for a similar injunction in
respect to Richard Patton, the co.’s secre-
tary. The Judge said that, in his opinion,
Mackay was validly appointed a director.
He doubted, however, whether Arthur
and Beattie were entitled to act on the
board. He hoped shareholders would be
called together. The objects of the meet-
ing include “receiving” the “astounding
report” of the new managing director
tßcattie), and to decide on the future
course of the co.’s career —if any.
* * * *
The Commonwealth trade-union unem-
ployment figure for the December quar-
ter fell to 6.2 p.c. That compares with
7.4 p.c. for the September quarter and
9.3 p.c. for the corresponding period of
1939. In arriving at the latest quarterly
figure it is interesting to dissect the per-
centages for the various States. It will be
found that Victoria’s unemployed have
been more than cut in halves since war
broke out, while other States have varied
performances to show. Here are com-
parisons :
Sept., Dec., Mar., June, Sept., Dec.,
’39. ’39. ’4O. ’4O. ’4O. ’4O.
Pc Pc Pc Pc Pc Pc
N. S. Wales U. 6 1U 9.7 15.9* 9.8 8.5
Victoria ..11.2 9.0 6.5 6.6 5.8 4.3
Queensland 5.8 5.8 5.8 6.8 4.9 4.5
S. Australia 9.4 9.1 8.5 8.3 6.6 4.7
Westralia .. 8.2 6.6 6.9 5.6 6.0 4.0
Tasmania .. 8.3 7.1 4.8 5.0 4.6 6.5
Average .. 10.2 9.3 7.9 10.5 7.4 6.2
* Coal strike.
Whereas N. S. Wales unemployed have
moved down from 11.6 p.c. since before
the outbreak of war to 8.5 p.c. now, Vic-
torian jobless have fallen from 11.2 p.c.
to 4.3 p.c. In Queensland there has been
a decline from 5.8 p.c. to 4.5 p.c. in the
period, which is also in striking contrast
to Victoria’s benefit. South Aus., with
a drop from 9.4 p.c. to 4.7 p.c., follows
Victoria’s trend most closely, and West-
ralia’s decline from 8.2 p.c. to 4 p.c. is
also favorable —the West now has less
trade-union unemployment than any
other State.
There have been complaints from
N. S. Wa es and Queensland (especially
from Sydney) that Victoria (especially
Melbourne) has been getting too big a
share of the defence work. The statistics
relating to unemployment seem to bear
out the contention. There are other
figures on the subject. A couple of
months before the Budget was announced
the following details were published with
regard to Australia’s defence expenditure
in 1940-41:
State. 1939-40. 1940-41.
N.S.W £14,353,435 £53,373,757
Victoria .. .. 19,214,610 52,730,058
Queensland .. .. 2,963,816 12,803,292
S.A 1,838,872 13,461,676
W.A 1,731,318 6,887,035
Tasmania .. .. 884,440 2,905,621
N.T 919,885 1,720,695
A.C.T. .. .. 332,592 818,223
Port Moresby .. 84,277 389,911
Unallotted .. .. 387,631
Total—Australia .. £42,323,245 £145,477,899
Abroad .. 12,004,142 33,924,759
Totals .. .. £54,327,387 £179,402,658
Less amount to be
recovered from
U.K. Govt, for
aircraft .. .. 2,310,000
Totals .. .. £54,327,387 £177,092,658
Whether those figures indicate the
amounts to be spent on the defence estab-
lishments in the various States or whether
they represent the sums to be spent in
the respective States on undefined defence
measures isn’t quite clear. But, assum-
ing the latter to be the case, it will be
seen that, on a population basis, Vic-
toria is doing particularly well, especially
when it is remembered that all the steel
produced in Australia at present comes
from N. S. Wales, and pretty much the
same can be said of coal, too.
Between Nov., 1939, and Nov., 1940,
total employment in Australia is esti-
mated to have increased by approximately
2.5 p.c., exclusive of enlistments in the
Army, Navy and Air Force. Average
unemployment has fallen by 3.1 p.c.
of the total of registered trade-unionists
in that time. In factories, the number of
people employed was 9 p.c. higher than
the monthly average for the year 1938-39,
and 37.3 p.c. higher than in the pre-
depression year 1928-29. Factory re-
employment has favored N. S. Wales
slightly more than Victoria over the past
year or so. Between Nov., 1939, and
Nov., 1940, the increase was 6.9 p.c. in
N. against 5.3 p.c. in Victoria, 2.4
p.c. Queensland, 17.1 p.c. South Aus.
and 4.3 p.c. Tasmania. Westralia dropped
O. p.c. The big increase in South Aus.
is mainly due to the establishment of a
number of new war-time industries in the
Gulf and elsewhere.
» * * *
In the latest issue of the National Bank
of Australasia’s monthly summary an
opinion is given on the probable effect of
the new war taxes:
As a large proportion of the increased
expenditure of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will be distributed in wages to
people employed more or less directly in
the war effort, one outcome of the new
taxation measures will be the transfer of a
substantial volume of purchasing power
from the upper and middle ranges of in-
come to that of the industrial working
group. It will be interesting to observe
the extent to which the last-mentioned
group will be induced to purchase semi-
permanent goods in the higher price range
by offers of long credit terms. No notice-
able alteration is expected in public de-
mand for ordinary consumption goods and
household requirements.
This seems to be pretty close to the mark.
The lower incomes are getting off very
lightly so far as new taxes are concerned,
and the unemployed are being rapidly
absorbed. A big spread is taking place
among the lower incomes, and these new
earners and the old ones who are better
off because of overtime, etc., are free
spenders. We are not in any way less
rich in food and clothing as a result of
the \yar, and there will be no restriction
on spending in this regard. So long as
the enlarged body of lower-income-
earners spend most of their money on
Australian-produced food, clothing, etc.,
a healthy state of affairs should exist.
There should be no inflation in the prices
of such things, except so far as increases
are influenced by costs of production. The
“semi-permanent” goods that the
National Bank speaks of are not neces-
sarily such a simple matter of economics.
Radios, some kinds of furniture, electrical
fittings, etc., and things bought overseas
may be short because of the Govern-
ment’s requirements of skilled men, cer-
tain materials and foreign exchange.
* * * *
In B. 25/12/’4O there appeared on
this page an article dealing with mis-
interpretations of the Banking Commis-
sion’s report, especially referring to sec-
tion 504. In the course of the article it
was stated:
The most-wanted things are currently-
produced goods and current services. These
are what the nation requires for a current
effort, and therefore, in their private lives,
people have to give up using some of
them. Only a small proportion of our
defence requirements is represented by land,
existing buildings, existing plant and exist-
ing ships, aeroplanes, guns, munitions, etc.
What we want most are things to be pro-
duced now and in the future. Therefore
the nation has to draw on present and
future production more than on past efforts.
Professor Gustav Cassel, in the latest
quarterly review of the Scandinavia
Bank, points out that moneys necessary
to current expenditure must be provided
by the present. Plant, buildings, etc.,
cannot be consumed in munitions pro-
duction, though they do require main-
tenance and renewal. If renewal of capi-
tal is partly neglected, productive forces
will be released for other purposes. Thus
posterity may inherit a country whose
capital resources have been reduced. But
with this exception it is not possible for
the present generation to escape its war
obligations by handing the cost on to
posterity, Cassel says. Thus borrowing
is no way to avoid the burden ; an in-
visible tax to the extent of the loan ex-
penditure occurs just the same, and,
worse still, the loan indebtedness re-
mains. The professor concludes:
The banks cannot by magic create money
which in reality does not exist, nor cause
capital which has already been earmarked
to be used at the same time in the service
of defence. If such things are expected
from the commercial banks, a country
may easily glide into an inflationary bank
policy, which expects the central bank to
create means of payment to cover extra-
ordinary State expenditure.
The people generally should realise that
they themselves, by additional work and by
reductions in consumption, must bear the
main burden, and that they must abandon
their usual notions of unlimited assets of
other kinds which might free them from
the necessity of real saving.
This should help to dispose of some
popular fallacies, especially the one
about Australia’s Commonwealth Bank
being able to issue “costless credit” ad
lib. and without hurting anybody, and
the other about money taken from the
people by the Government and spent on
defence coming back into circulation
and not being a tax at all. Governments
take goods and services away with the
tax money they raise, and before they
give it out they demand those goods and
services in exchange. This is “costless
credit” in a nutshell.
* * * *
Some people are concerned about the
rising cost of living, reflected in the in-
creased basic wage. Part of the increase
in living costs is due to heavier indirect
taxation —the big increase in sales tax
is one example. It was thought by some
authorities that all war taxes would be
levied without inflation—in other words,
that there would be no passing-on. That
would have been the ideal method. But
the Budget of December was a compro-
mise, and the only non-inflationary
method of raising finance that was
adopted was direct taxation. Both bor-
rowing and indirect taxation, especially
when the burden of indirect taxation is
added to arbitration-court wages, are in-
flationary in some circumstances. The
price-fixing authorities will have to keep
a keen eye on the effect of sales tax in
particular. Everyone will try to avoid it,
and it will work its way out of costs into
wages and out of wages into costs any
number of times if it isn’t sheeted home
as someone’s particular responsibility.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor rhe original.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
EUROPE BEHIND THE VEIL.
[“The following summaries present as nearly as pos-
sible a truthful picture of what is going on behind the
veil which Hitlerism has cast over its occupied terri-
tories.” They are condensed from a general survey
by Frederick T. Birchall in New York “Times.”]
France
There is no longer any question that in France,
both in the German-occupied territory and the section
nominally controlled by the Petain Government, anti-
German sentiment is increasing. A conservative com-
putation is that two-thirds of the French people hope
to see Germany defeated. It is their only hope of ulti-
mate restoration to a status in any way resembling the
old independence.
To expect any active help from the French people
for the British cause, because the great majority of
them favor it, is another matter. There are more than
1,500,000 French prisoners of war still in German
camps. They are hostages for French obedience and
good behavior. Hitler does not hesitate to let it be
known that if any German hair is ruffled in France it
will be taken out on the French prisoners.
The French, if not actually starving or even
hungry, are hungry for the luxuries they once enjoyed,
and the prospect is that they may be hungry for some
necessities before the winter is over. There is a short-
age of meat, butter, cheese, eggs and sugar, and a lack
of coffee and chocolate. Long queues at the food
shops are the rule rather than the exception. Every-
thing is rationed, but money, for the few who have it,
still buys extra portions from sly traders for those who
will pay the price and keep the secret.
Lorraine has been incorporated in German terri-
tory and some 100,000 of its French inhabitants ban-
ished into France, leaving their possessions behind
under the vague promise that some day somebody—
presumably the French Government —will compensate
them for the loss.
Unemployment is general, although the work of
reconstruction lags. It calls for money at every step,
and the Vichy Government has no money. The whole
population waits eagerly to know what General de
Gaulle will do or can do in French Africa and which
way General Weygand will go, yet fearful of German
revenge on France.
*****
Belgium
Every effort of the victors to cajole or scare their
Belgian victims has thus far been in vain, for there are
facts the Germans cannot hide. Britain’s ’planes, con-
tinuing the struggle against Germany, cross the skies
nightly on their way to bombard German cities. The
Belgian Government from London still controls the
Belgian colonies and continues steadily, as far as its
resources permit, to take part in efforts which Bel-
gians hope will ultimately lead to their country’s libera-
tion. The Belgian King, immured in his summer
palace at Laeken under guards brought from Berlin,
steadfastly refuses to become a German puppet, in-
sisting that the Belgian Government is in London and
that he is powerless.
All the known traitors and suspects arrested before
the invasion are now German proteges, but neither
they nor the Rexists, who were the original Belgian
Nazis and have been hoping for German support,
are trusted. They serve as spies and informers, but
no work of importance is entrusted to them. The
Germans favor all movements of opinion that might
reduce the moral resistance of the Belgian people, but
even the Flemish intellectuals, from whom much was
hoped, have disappointed them. The spirit of resist-
ance is as much alive among Flemings as among the
Walloons, traditionally French in sympathy.
The Belgians are strictly rationed and have lost
their luxuries. They have been looted, but in a
moderate degree. They are not yet hungry. But if the
tide does turn it is doubtful that they will be able to
conceal their satisfaction and their lot may then
become harder than it is now. Already some 50,000
Belgian workers have been deported to labor in Ger-
many.
* * * * *
The Netherlands
The Netherlander, as everybody knows, are a
stolid, determined and stubborn people. They are
making as much trouble as possible without incurring
severe reprisals. A recent dispatch told of 2000 civilian
Hollanders in German prisons and said that this figure
was a conservative estimate.
There is no doubt that the “unrest” of which
Himmler complains and to deal with which he sum-
moned a council of officers is in large part Netherland.
The weapon is passive resistance and these people
know how to use it.
German rule is harsh wherever there is a question
of authority. The Burgomaster of The Hague and
the military governor of Amsterdam have been dis-
missed because anti-German demonstrations occurred
in their jurisdiction. Several professors with anti-
Fascist reputations have been sent to concentration
camps. Professor de Vries of Rotterdam has gone to
prison for 18 months for “fostering hatred of Ger-
mans among his students.”
The Germans, at heart, have a wholesome respect
for the Netherlanders, They would reconcile them to
Nazism and German domination if they could, but
that is impossible. There is a further strong reason
for the victors to behave in that country as decently
as they dare. It is a great producer of the foodstuffs
that Germany needs most. From the Netherland
farms they gather in—at cut prices, it is true—butter,
eggs poultry, meat and fodder for their own cattle.
They want the Netherland farmers to continue pro-
ducing, and, in this instance, they know that undue
harshness will defeat itself.
*****
Denmark
Denmark is in a situation hardly comparable with
any other of the German-occupied countries. King
Christian and his Government perform their duties as
before, with certain limitations imposed by the in-
vaders, and exercise an influence by no means negli-
gible in internal affairs.
There are two reasons. A minor one is perhaps
that the Germans would like to keep Denmark as far
as possible as a show piece to demonstrate to other
little countries that life may be quite tolerable within
the German Lebensraum. But the second and more
important one is the Danish agricultural system. The
Danish farmers have long been skilled workers in a
finely-adjusted agricultural industry. The Germans
need the Danish produce, and they know that without
the co-operation of the farmers there will be no eggs,
butter, cheese, fat cattle or poultry. They are even
paying for what they get in Danish currency ; the
farmers would have none of the German “credit
coupons.”
Denmark has been and is being looted almost up
to the danger point, but as far as possible the plunder-
ing is being concealed under elaborate trade agree-
ments. The Danish Government has confessed itself
unable to prevent the German exploitation, which is
financed under duress by the National Bank through a
so-called German clearing account.
Thousands of Danes, thrown out of work by the
cessation of overseas trade, have been driven to take
employment in Germany, and other thousands are
waiting to go to sustain their families. But their
wages, sent home, are paid by Germany through this
—New York “ Herald Tribune.”
EUROPE’S FOOD SUPPLY.
same clearing account, so that literally Denmark is
providing Hitler with free labor inside Germany.
Danish livestock far beyond normal requirements is
being slaughtered for lack of fodder, and the meat sent
to Germany at German prices, cleared through the
same agency.
So Germany may be killing off the Danish goose
that lays the golden eggs she needs, in spite of herself,
*****
Norway
It is generally agreed that Norway is giving her
captors most trouble and is most strongly pervaded
by a spirit of defiant independence that will not down.
Major Quisling has to go about under escort of
a large and well-armed bodyguard. A bomb exploded
within a few feet of him in Fredrikstad, Southern Nor-
way, and on the same day only his bodyguard enabled
him to escape from a riot started against him in the
neighboring town of Sarpsborg. The skating cham-
pion Michael Staksrud, who became a member of the
Quisling party, mysteriously disappeared. His body was
found in a lake near Oslo.
German reprisals have been immediate and severe
whenever anything of this kind has occurred. When
a German soldier was shot in a street brawl in Oslo,
the Gestapo immediately gathered in 15 bystanders,
took them to the nearest barracks and shot every other
man.
There is sabotage designed to hamper the Ger-
man occupying army. The Norwegian labor unions
have united to oppose the transfer of unemployed
Norsemen to Germany.
There is no doubt that the Germans, who began
by invading Norway treacherously, have since handled
the conquered country clumsily. Their demand that
the Storting (Norwegian Parliament) remove the King
was a psychological blunder. He, in exile, is now the
hero of his people.
Norway has been systematically looted by the
Germans of eggs, butter and other agricultural pro-
duce. Eggs, butter and tobacco are now virtually un-
obtainable in the open market, but are sold to Nor-
wegians secretly when they can be obtained.
The winter outlook is dark. And hate for Ger-
many grows along with the severity of reprisals.
* * * * *
Poland
It is more difficult to get news out of Poland, both
from the Russian-occupied and the German-occupied
sections, than from any other of the countries invaded
in this war. Such news as does come out is
of outstanding horrors that reveal Polish life as a
continuous nightmare. Germans have always disliked
and affected to despise Poles. Their dislike is now
being vented in brutality almost beyond belief, aug-
mented perhaps by the feeling that the war which is
making German life so disagreeable originated in
Poland and was due to Polish “obstinacy” in fighting
against German invasion. There seems to be no
doubt that 3,000,000 Poles have perished in the Ger-
man invasion and under German occupation. The con-
dition to which the Jews in Poland have been reduced
is pitiable beyond expression.
In June there were 300 executions in Warsaw
alone ; in August the number was even greater ; in
September among 100 executed were 20 women. These
figures comprise only those killed after quasi-legal pro-
ceedings. They do not take into account the deaths
from torture by the Gestapo, the victims of the prisons
and concentration camps, who number hundreds if not
thousands more. Thousands have died of cold and
starvation. The horrors of the Polish concentration
camps have greatly exceeded any told of Dachau and
Oranienburg.
Thousands of prosperous Poles in the cities have
been rounded up in the night and deported in freight
cars to sheds in the open country, where they have
been dumped to get along as best they can. Their city
homes with all that was left in them have been turned
over to Germans.
Thousands more have been sent to work on forti-
fications along the Soviet frontier and to agricultural
work in Germany. Most shocking of the round-ups
have been those of young girls seized in the streets of
Warsaw and carried off in motor trucks to “agricul-
tural work” in Germany. The alleged agricultural
work is known to be only a blind for houses on the
edge of German military camps. This is no propa-
ganda invention.
Rations for the Polish population are sufficient
barely to stave off starvation. What they will be when
the winter scarcity makes itself felt no one dare
predict.
* * * * *
Bohemia
The Bohemian Protectorate, which once was
Czechoslovakia and suffered the first terrors of Ger-
man invasion and occupation, suffered from greater
German ruthlessness after the fall of France. The
reason is somewhat obscure, but Gestapo and Schutzs-
taffel men began to discover nests of rebellion in the
most unlikely places and anew reign of terror started.
Former Social Democrats and Left Wing politi-
cians who had accepted the new regime and had been
left unscathed began to disappear. Men who had
welcomed the Germans in 1939 and been reviled for
it by their compatriots were now in their turn thrown
into prison. Czech local officials who had been left
in office followed them. The Mayor of Prague, praised
by the Germans for his complacency, was one.
All tendencies are toward full incorporation of
the former Czech territory in the Reich. Every relic
of former autonomy has been scrapped, but even
more significant are the new barriers against Czech
trading. No Czech university is now open. The books
and apparatus of those formerly existing are being
moved to Germany. The building of Czech elementary
and secondary schools has been forbidden on the
ground that all building materials are required for
military purposes. But German schools are still being
built.
In economic life there is the same discrimination.
Czech factories are being closed and Czech industries
are being deprived of materials and work in favor
of German industries. Industrial workers are being
deported to Germany. Under the latest labor law
all Czech men between the ages of 16 and 70 have to
work where their masters tell them. It is estimated
that more than 80,000 have already been carried across
the frontier.
The Czech reaction is to produce faulty work-
manship, for pride in the natural product has ceased
with the ending of exportation except to Germany.
Cultivation of the land has become poor. This year s
harvest has been far less than normal.
*****
Rumania
All news from Rumania is of increased disordeis
and greater disturbances since the Germans arrived
and took possession of the country s key posts. It
is now recognised that Rumania is in no better but
probably in worse plight than most of the countries
invaded and conquered by Germany.
To all intents she is already a German possession,
so far as any external or important internal action
is concerned. , . .
The boy King, Michael, is a figurehead and virtu-
ally a prisoner in his palace. The new rulers are
obscure adventurers, creatures of the German Nazis,
used by them for their own purposes. The outstan -
ing feature of life in Rumania, according to all repor s,
is the increasing German control over the economic
life of the country, which must eventually result m
full occupation and possession.
Thus from one end to* the othe*r of countries in
German occupation comes the same story of discon-
tent, disorders and the troubles that Himmler classifies
under the general heading of “unrest. It is small


wonder that he felt the need of a conference to deter-
mine how to put the “new order” in a German world
upon a basis of calm and quiet.
Mussolini’s Choice.
(Condensed from a New York "Times" teller by
Prince Rudziwill.)
Twice during the course of the present war I have
visited Italy. These two visits gave me first-hand
knowledge regarding the spirit of the Italian people.
Not only is Italy lacking in military strength, but
her people fail to show any of the enthusiasm that is
essential to the successful conduct of a war.
With the exception of some high officials of the
Fascist party, the whole nation, the royal family and,
above all, the Catholic Church were, last April, defi-
nitely against the war. The great majority of the
people hated the Germans as much as, if not more
than, they hated the English. 1 know positively that
since that time these sentiments have increased in in-
tensity. As the Italian war is but a series of setbacks,
the heavy threat of interior revolution hangs con-
stantly over Italy.
In all of Hitler’s designs Italy takes an important
place. The Italian Navy in the Mediterranean keeps
a great part of the British Navy busy.
An anti-Fascist revolution would present for the
Nazi regime a danger of the utmost seriousness.
One must not forget that Mussolini’s Italy is still
an ally and not a vassal —which indeed is very incon-
venient for Hitler. This has become apparent in many
seemingly incoherent military and political decisions.
Anyone who has had the opportunity of observ-
ing Hitler and Mussolini intimately is well aware of
the animosity existing between them, which is con-
stantly growing more intense. Mussok.ii, especially,
whose vanity is well known, is envious of Hitler’s
amazing successes and will never forgive him the
loss of prestige of the Italian “fasc _ ’ in many
countries because of the German “swa tika.”
The Greek war, the date of which at least was
not agreed upon between Rome and Berlin, created
an extremely difficult situation for the Axis Powers.
The symptoms are already visible in the firm stand
adopted by the Balkan States and in a certain loss
of prestige in other countries.
In my opinion, two factors are responsible for
the Italian defeat in Greece: the military unpre-
paredness of Italy and the lack of cohesion between
Rome and Berlin regarding the beginning as well
as the conduct of this war. Both causes derive from
the fear Mussolini has, not without reason, of the
ever-growing preponderance of his German partner.
Mussolini, who considers himself not only the heir
of Caesar but also the spiritual father of all Fascist
movements, will never yield with docility to orders
from Berlin.
Hitler is perfectly aware of this, and ever since
the conclusion of the “steel pact” he has always
been rather careful not to hurt Mussolini’s feelings.
But Hitler’s concessions in this respect are also
limited by his realism, which is his chief character-
istic. One can suppose with reason that the Greek
war is the extreme extent to which Hitler’s
generosity toward Mussolini will go.
It seems that we are approaching a denouement
in Italo-German relations, and Mussolini will in the
near future find himself confronted by the choice
either of a complete surrender to a German military
and diplomatic protectorate or of being replaced.
Knowing the German methods, there is reason to
believe that Hitler, instead of waiting for a revolution
in Italy, will rather perform this revolution himself.
The German Gestapo has been established for a long
time in Italy and most of the Italian centres of influ-
ence depend in reality on Berlin.
Anew Duce would no doubt have more under-
standing for the need of a common military command
and would be less sensitive to many other questions of
prestige. There are already symptoms tending to
prove that Hitler to some extent would like to cloud
the nimbus of II Duce. There is not even a rupture of
diplomatic relations between Germany and Greece ;
the recent decoration of Grandi, one of the Italian
personalities Mussolini distrusts the most; recent
efforts toward the improvement of relations with Mos-
cow, the ideological, in appearance at least, and poli-
tical enemy of Italy—all this proves that Berlin is
highly dissatisfied.
Mussolini, who is an old gambler, understands
without doubt these manoeuvres, and, standing before
the choice of complete submission to Germany or of
a revolution, he might eventually consider a third solu-
tion—that of peace, which would certainly be wel-
come to the whole nation. I have the feeling that
maybe the moment is near when American diplomacy
could develop a very cautious activity for a daring, no
doubt, but, in my opinion, not necessarily hopeless,
attempt in this direction.
Spring Invasion?
[ln leader comment on the letter by Hans Schmidt
here condensed. New York “Times” vouches for it as
coming “from a source known to tap centres of infor-
mation within Germany which has proved reliable in the
past.”]
All reports coming out of Germany agree that
deep gloom has taken possession of the population.
The feeling of hopelessness, bordering in many in-
stances on despair, seems to exceed the dark pessi-
mism that I observed all over Germany last winter.
With many people the longing for an alternative to
Hitler is taking on a character almost religious.
Nevertheless—let there be no doubt—the small
and hard group of Nazis who govern the German
people is still confident of total victory. As long as
this confidence remains unshaken, an overthrow of
the Hitler regime by the more responsible elements
is very unlikely.
According to most reliable reports, the Nazi
strategy this winter is to weaken British resistance
through the blockade, through peace talks and spor-
adic mass bombings.
Towards the end of the winter —possibly as early
as February—the Nazi air force will be reorganised
and strengthened to such an extent that an out-and-
out aerial offensive against the British Isles can be
undertaken. If this succeeded, an invasion, in the eyes
of the Nazi strategists, would amount only to a
mopping-up operation that would immediately follow
the air Blitzkrieg.
According to all indications, Hitler is convinced
that he can win the war only by subjugating the
British Isles. This theory explains why Hitler can
afford, during the short interval before spring, to see
some of his south-eastern plans fall through ; it
explains why he is in no hurry to help his southern
partner in Greece ; it explains why he refrains from
pressing Russia, France or Spain too hard. With the
British Isles knocked out, next summer Gibraltar, the
Mediterranean, Turkey and the Suez Canal would fall
to him.
The great decision of this war must come in the
battle of the air over Britain, and it must fall very
soon, probably early this spring, because Hitler knows
that time is still an important factor. There are good
reasons to believe that the “grand offensive” against
Britain was not scheduled to take place before the
spring of 1941, since Hitler did not anticipate that
France would collapse so quickly, and since, on the
other hand, a negotiated peace with Britain continued
to figure prominently in his schemes.
Historians will some day agree, perhaps, that the
speed with which fighter and interceptor ’planes could
be produced on the American assembly line and deli-
vered to England during the three months preceding
March 1, 1941, will have decided the war from a mili-
tary viewpoint. Every strike, every Sunday or holi-
—“Columbus Dispatch,” U.S.A.
“See the knot I’ve tied in his tail, Adolf!”
day, every single hour that passes without every single
American ’plane factory working at full speed, is a
crime committed against Western civilisation.
And yet, each time the cry for more ’planes and
guns and ships for the foes of Hitler is raised it should
be repeated that Hitler never can be defeated by
’planes and bombs and guns alone. A spiritual counter-
offensive must be prepared, alternatives greater and
better than the glittering Hitler-ideology must be
presented to the German people ; the idea of a saner
world after this war must not be permitted to die
among the emotions and hatreds war creates.
Hitler must be crushed, because his destruction
is prerequisite to the establishment of any system in
which the ideals of Western civilisation, Christian
decency, equality of opportunity and a state of law
and order prevail.
But peace will never reign in Europe without the
voluntary co-operation of the German people. Ameri-
can workers will have sweated in vain, British air
wardens will have died bravely—but in vain—if an-
other system of vindictiveness is to be imposed upon
a people that has erred tragically, but that is—in spite
of the frightful Nazi spasm—one of the great and
creative peoples of the Occident,
Election in Soviet Poland.
(Newv York "Times" comment.)
Would the gentle reader care to guess what party
won the first local elections held in those parts of
Poland and Finland which have been grabbed by
Russia? The answer is correct. The people’s choice,
as Moscow “Pravda” stated, fell on “Stalinist town
and district candidates.”
Not all the voters saw the light. Some “remnants
of the inimical classes tried to interfere with the de-
velopment of the campaign.” To quote further from
the inimitable Soviet organ: —
By provocative rumors and despicable slander of the
candidates they tried to break down the preparation for
the elections, but the electors themselves, led by the
local Communists, immediately unmasked their plans.
Now let us translate these uncensored remarks
into English. Western Karelia and Eastern Poland
were not Communist until the Soviet troops marched
in. The carelessly used word “remnants” explains
why they are mostly Communist now. The “remnants”
will not long remain. Though Moscow hides its fouler
deeds, we do know that the lot of the human rem-
nants is starvation, prison, exile or death. We also
know that “slander,” in “Pravda’s” language, means
courage to call treason, falsehood and vile cruelty by
their real names.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The United States is dedicated to the policy of all
aid to Britain short of war. But so far it has not
relieved the British of the necessity of paying cash on
the barrel head for every item of material aid which
they have got from this country. It has been a policy
of all aid on a strictly cash basis. It is important to
realise that the problem of payment is not simply a
British problem ; it is an American problem. The
maintenance of the stream of supplies is vital to the
United States—only less vital to us than it is to Great
Britain—and it is folly to suppose that we could bring
it to an end merely because the British were no longer
able to pay us a cash profit for the privilege of fighting
a battle we have now deeply realised to be our own. —
New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
The aerial Battle of Britain is being fought at
heights varying from 16,000 to 30,000 feet. At the
end of the day there may be only seven, eight, nine or
ten Germans down. There may be an almost equal
loss of British ’planes. But a German formation has
been broken up and kept away. And during that day
Britain has functioned normally, the wheels of her
factories have whirred and spun making her war sup-
plies and the export supplies whereby Britain must
finance the war ; her people have gone confidently
about their business ; life has functioned as usual.
And all this because somewhere four miles up in the
sky a few youths, regardless of death, have been hurl-
ing themselves at German squadrons outnumbering
them five, ten, fifteen or twenty to one. — Robert P.
Post, London, in New York “Times Magazine.”
*****
“Another thing that the Polish campaign should
have taught us was not to accept as truth the news-
paper headlines. I have heard it said that the day-by-
day newspaper accounts of the campaign in Poland
most certainly gave the impression that the Poles won
so many battles and beat the Germans so badly that
the Poles finally had no country to fight for.”— Maj.-
Gen. Henry A. Arnold, Deputy Chief of Staff, U.S.
Army ; quoted by New York “World-Telegram.”
*****
William L. Batt, member of the U.S. National
Defence Advisory Commission, speaking: “I want to
go on record right here with the assertion that capi-
talistic imperialism and individual control of great
financial and economic power is as dead in England
today as the feudal system. The social and financial
aristocracy that has directed the affairs of the British
Empire for so long has seen its day. The British work-
ing men—the wage-earners of the lower and middle
classes—are the ones who have borne the brunt of this
war’s terror, and in whose hands now rests the fate of
the Empire. It is they, not the old leaders, who cry
out ‘This war will be fought to a finish! ’ Britain may
go down, but no compromise settlement will be engi-
neered behind their backs. Their spirit is the soul of
England today—our guarantee that if we send help it
will be put to the use for which it was intended. And
they are in the saddle. When the fighting is over, they
will remain in the saddle.” —New York “Post” report.
*****
A series of surveys by the British Institute of
Public Opinion has revealed a sharp stiffening of
British public opinion against the idea of a negotiated
peace with Hitler. “Whereas last March one-fourth
of all British voters polled were in favor of opening
negotiations for peace,” Dr. Gallup says, “today the
proportion who actually favor this has shrunk to 7 p.c.
The overwhelming majority say that if someone in
their presence suggested a negotiated peace with Ger-
many now, they would either contradict him or report
him to the authorities, apparently on the ground that
such a suggestion amounts to treason. One of the
most interesting aspects of the democratic process in
a nation at war is the mere fact that a public survey
can be taken in which voters are freely permitted to
say whether they want the war to end.”— New York
“Times.”
*****
Maj.-Gen. James E. Chaney, one of America’s
chief air strategists, who went to London last October
to take up a post of air observer, and who inspected
every branch of the British air defence network during
German bombardments and watched Britain’s bomber
squadrons at work, stated on his return to New York:
“My observations abroad have led me to the belief
that England can’t lose this war unless she becomes
overconfident or careless. On the Continent German
military success was based on just three things: over-
whelming air superiority, superior mechanised forces
and the effective use of spies, saboteurs and traitors.
When the Nazis reached the English Channel after
the collapse of France they tried to get superiority in
the air—and failed. They can’t get their mechanised
panzer divisions in a position to use them against the
British, and after the British evacuation from Flanders
potential spies, traitors and others in the British Isles
who might give aid to Germany have been most effec-
tively dealt with.” — New York “Times.”
*****
New York “Post” thought so highly of the fol-
lowing extract from one of its leading articles that it
repeated the comment as a leader every day for a
week;
No one in the United States, not even a Nazi
agent, dares to say that we shall have to fight England
if she wins the war.
No one, not even the strongest isolationist, dares to
deny that if England loses the war the United States
will at best be under the continuous burden of having
to safeguard itself through a great defence programme!
Therefore, the United States has a national" interest
in England’s success, because it means the difference
between a securely peaceful future and an uncertain
future.
No one can question the fact that enough American
’planes and shipping, supplied to England in time,
can turn the tide.
Therefore, we have in our own hands the means of
shaping our future.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
“There’s no owner or trainer as hot
as this,” v/as a comment I heard at
Canterbury. The heat was terrific, and
there was a large and thirsty attendance.
Canterbury has always been popular, and
Saturday demonstrated that it is going to
get its full share of profit from the
present boom in racing. 1 suppose one
should not be pessimistic, but it seems
almost too much to expect the present
rush for racing to last. Naturally
owners and trainers hope it will, as in
such circumstances clubs cannot well
avoid increasing their prize-money.
Short-priced horses won the first four
races, but, as proceedings concluded with
wins by Climax, 6 to I in a field of five,
Silver Arbor at 50 to 1 and Miss Heroic
12 to 1, most bookmakers went home in
a happy frame of mind despite the try-
ing afternoon.
Gameness pulled Winifred through in
the Flying Handicap. Her chance did
not appear particularly bright at the
turn, where Tarn, Penthides, Tobasco
and Sir Regal were ahead of her, but
half a furlong from home she was one of
the leaders, and scored by a head from
Sir Regal, who was never further back
than third, and led at the leger. Might
Not, who looks like returning to her old
form, was a close third. She is still a bit
above herself. Tarn, having her first run
since September, did sufficiently well to
make her worth following. She is sure to
strike form earlier than either Brazandt
or Tolerant, though the last-named is in
fair trim. Tobasco, who is now trained
by C. Ryan, did not act up to his track
work, and weight stopped Penthides,
though up to the turn he was going well
in second place.
Climax went to the front at the start
of the Canterbury Handicap, and was
not headed. Kurrawid and Tuckerbox,
who were racing together, closed on her
near the three furlongs, but she shot
right away again at the turn. Tucker-
box, who is commencing to look as if
he had temporarily done enough racing,
narrowly beat Kurrawid for second, and
as Val Eaton was almost level with them
he should pick up a middle-distance han-
dicap at a suburban or mid-week meet-
ing. It is almost unnecessary to add that
Climax is trained by B. Payten, who is
having a good innings.
• ••••*
Trade Mark had raced so unluckily,
striking more than his share of bad luck
at the start of races and in running, that
owner-trainer J. Pollard deserved his
win with him in the first division of the
Trial Stakes. John Mac displayed a deal
of pace, leading into the straight from
Dusky Morn and Cable, with Trade
Mark, Can March and Old Sport head-
ing the remainder. Trade Mark took
charge inside the last furlong, and then
stalled off Old Sport, with John Mac a
good third.
It cannot be claimed that outside posi-
tions at the barrier at the Canterbury six
furlongs post tell greatly against horses’
chances, as Trade Mark was hurdled off,
Old Sport started from 16 and John
Mac 17, The favorite, Tyrannus, was
never a winning possibility, and may
need a short let-up, while Can March
twice ran into trouble in the straight, but
for which she might have gained a place.
Brunswick Joy did not do nearly as well
as in her previous race, but Rapture and
Evergreen shaped fairly. Rapture is a
three-year-old filly by Constant Son from
Parfait Amour, a sister to Amounis.
Trade Mark is by Hall Mark from im-
ported Emu, by Adular.
Mortine, who continues to improve,
was favorite for the second division of
the Trial Stakes, and, third to Aren’t We
All and Bombala into the straight,
eventually won easily from Electra, who
does not now display the early pace that
was customary with her, but stays better.
On the other hand, Aren’t We All, who
once promised to run a middle distance,
now shows to greater advantage as a
sprinter. Manlock again failed to act up
to his private reputation, dying away at
the finish, but it is some excuse for him
that he cannoned into Panturn at
barrier-rise, both horses losing ground.
There was nothing very promising in the
form of either Home Rule or Charlotte
Greenwood. Southerly, who was well
up at the end, is by Windbag from
Lightress, and, owned by C. M. Sawyer,
is a country winner. Morse, sire of
Mortine, is by Marconigram.
Henchman looks a good colt, and in
winning the Two-year-old Handicap
proved himself. He jumped away smartly,
and then, losing his position, was behind
Mary Lou, Stainless and Belle Doree
entering the straight. However, Belle
Doree and Mary Lou tired, and when
Henchman put in his claim he made
short work of Stainless, who, it must be
added, was slow to leave the mark, and
had to be hard ridden in the first fur-
long and a half to gain a position.
The Beau Pere colt Beau Timide, who
was nearest the place-getters and ran on
well, was some distance ahead of the
others, Bruegalong’s rise in weight dis-
posing of him. Henchman, who is by
Harinero from Engaged (Magpie-La
Fiancee), was a 350gns, yearling and is
trained by his part-owner. Dr. E. G.
Carroll. The 1300gns. colt Goldbrook
did not show any improvement. Hench-
man’s l.li was a new five-furlongs record
for the track.
Silver Arbor completely upset calcu-
lations by beating Brazen Lad in the last
few strides in the Highweight Handicap,
and gave the books their best win for a
long time at a suburban meeting. Lord
Seremond made the pace, but the race
looked as good as over when Brazen
Lad took charge over half a furlong
from home. At various times Silver
Arbor has run some fair races, but her
fourth in a field of seven in a race re-
cently won by Electra entitled her to
so little consideration that her straight-
out tote dividend for ss. was £33 Bs. 9d.
Toy Time and Sally Rich ran best of the
unplaced division, the well-backed War
Trophy being a complete failure. He may
be better suited by a longer distance.
In the Ashbury Handicap Article was
in much better galloping humor than in
a shorter race at Victoria Park earlier
in the week, but though he made a game
effort to win all the way he was worn
down by Miss Heroic, who from the
commencement of the back stretch was
never further away than third, slightly
ahead of Koorenbeen, The latter has
finished strongly in most of his recent
races, but this time he tired, despite the
assistance of Munro.
• • • • i i
Glittering Flame was a possibility from
the commencement of the last furlong
and was a close third. Well-backed
Buzzal ran fourth, and as the race is
likely to do a lot for him he should win
shortly. As implied by her name Miss
Heroic is by Heroic, whose son Hall
Mark sired Trade Mark.
* * * *
A late decision to start Red Morn made
a difference of thousands of pounds to
punters collectively when that gelding,
starting at 20 to 1, defeated the even-money
favorite Operatic in the Moorabbin Han-
dicap at Mentone on Saturday. Red
Morn was so sore on the morning of
the race that he could hardly canter,
and his owner-trainer, Jack Besanko, in-
tended scratching him. Taking into con-
sideration the fact that Red Morn had
previously run some of his best races
when sore, he eventually decided to run
him, and had the satisfaction of collect-
ing £2OO in prize-money.
Red Morn is a remarkable gelding
inasmuch as at various stages of his
career he has broken down in each leg.
He was owned originally by Norman
Robinson, but broke down apparently
hopelessly, and the latter presented him
to Besanko. Besanko was always hope-
ful that, given time, he would be able
to patch Red Morn up, and his per-
severance has been rewarded quite a few
times. Red Morn’s soreness on Satur-
day morning, however, was so pro-
nounced that Besanko let him run prac-
tically unbacked, but he took the wise
precaution of instructing jockey S. Ralph
to keep him on the move from the time
he reached the barrier until he was
called into line by the starter. This pro-
cedure apparently had the desired effect
of warming him up, for, although Red
Morn’s chance looked anything but bright
when he was behind four horses enter-
ing the straight, he dashed between
Operatic and Beaufiler towards the finish
and won by a neck. Beaufiler finished
third after having every chance.
.*»«#•
Most interesting runner for the
Moorabbin Handicap was Historian. He
was racing for the first time since his
failure in the Melbourne Cup, but appar-
ently his stable was fairly confident that
he would sprint well fresh, and he was
always well in the market. The Trump,
also owned by Darcy Eccles, won sprint
races under similar circumstances, but
Historian is hardly in the same class as
was that horse. Second-last at the half-
mile and into the straight, he showed no
dash at any stage and finished last. It
was a poor display, but the race may do
a lot for Historian, whose autumn en-
gagements include the Newmarket, the
Doncaster and the Sydney Cup.
Request, who is not engaged in any
of the important autumn handicaps, won
the J. L. Reilly Stakes after a thrilling
duel with Bev Rose. Latter looked the
winner inside the last furlong, but she
had made a long, sustained run, and
Request fought her off to win by half a
head, with Con Devon third. Request’s
performance was meritorious, as Royal
Jubilee disputed the lead with him from
the six furlongs to the turn. His win,
incidentally, will make out a good case
for Bianca the first time the latter appears
in open company. At Moonee Valley
a week earlier Bianca, in receipt of 101 b.
from Request, had beaten him eight
lengths over a mile and a half in re-
stricted company.
Roy Roach, owner-trainer of Bianca,
successfully mixes the training of gal-
lopers and trotters. His activities in the
light-harness sport are considerably less
now than they were a few years ago, but
he owns, trains and drives the crack
young pacer Admirer, who has strung
up a long list of wins during his brief
career. Roach bred Request, who is a
five-year-old gelding by Deitical from
Lartonia. Deitical (Pantheon-Aries) was
bought by him as a three-year-old, but
proved difficult to train, and was sent to
Roach’s property at Junee (N.S.W.). He
was mated with several mares running on
the farm, and later sold to a breeder at
Tongala, who, after using him at the
stud, had him trained again, and won
one or two small races.
Grandson and Pantler, Australian Cup
entrants, were among the beaten divi-
sion in the J. L. Reilly Stakes. Grandson
was backed from 4 to 1 to favoritism at
twos, but weakened into sixth position
after being behind only Request and
Royal Jubilee entering the straight.
Pantler, having his first race since the
spring, was above himself in condition.
and, starting at 33 to 1, beat only Sin-
dicada home. Pantler has been unlucky
in big races with thirds in the Metro-
politan (twice) and Melbourne Cup, and
a change of fortune for him this autumn
would not be out of its turn.
Trainer Yin Ryan had been out of
luck for some time before his success
with Averne at Moonee Valley last
Saturday week, but he is making up for
lost time. Several days later he won with
Lavaca at Geelong, and on Saturday
landed the second Bass Juvenile division
with Kuaka. Latter led practically all
the way, and won easily from Laureate
and Hybrid. Laureate, a 600 guineas
yearling who races in the same interests
as Lucrative, was backed like a good
thing, but it took him some time to
become balanced after missing the start
slightly, and he had to concede the
winner too much start from the turn.
He finished gamely enough, however,
and should improve. Kuaka, a colt by
Parenthesis from Numenia, is raced on
lease by J. W. Rice from “S. A.
Rawdon.”
Backers wanted to lay long odds on
High Song less than a furlong from home
in the first Bass Juvenile division, but
bookmakers declined to accommodate
them. It looked a matter of “by how
far,” but High Song collapsed as she
had done at Moonee Valley a week
earlier, and Portfolio, desperately ridden
by F. Tocknell, beat her in the last stride.
Portfolio would have been unlucky to
lose, as he lost ground at the start, and
was a good way back in sixth position
entering the straight. This was his first
win, but he had been placed previously
at Flemington, in addition to finishing
fourth in the Maribyrnong Plate. More
should be heard of this Chatham-Nuit
colt. Gay Grandee shaped fairly in
third place, and will not be a 50-to-l
chance at his next start.
A plunge on Velocity misfired in the
Chelsea Handicap. Velocity, on form,
was the class colt of the field, and doubts
whether his connections considered him
forward enough to win were dispelled
when weight of money forced his price
from 10 to 1 down to favoritism at 7
to 2. Velocity, however, could not get
out of his own way in the race. Last at
the half-mile, he beat only four of the
19 runners home.
Old Vienna, winner of the Chelsea
Handicap, is owned in partnership by
former Lord Mayors Luxton and Coles.
As he was backed from tens to
sevens, his connections obviously did
not share a fairly general view
that seven furlongs would trouble
Old Vienna, who followed the pace-
maker, Indian Prince, to the turn,
ran to the front at the top of the straight,
and lasted just long enough to beat Alibi
half a head. Latter, who was a long
way out of his ground at the turn, may
have been unlucky. He hung in and had
to be checked about half a furlong from
home. Goldsmith’s third was a fair per-
formance, and there is still hope for him,
while Indian Prince, who weakened to
finish fourth, can be placed to advan-
tage. Rex Buzz, a smart Queensland per-
former, made his Melbourne debut in
this race, but started at long odds and
was never dangerous.
Always a brilliant track galloper, Bank-
shaw has now consented to reproduce
his private trials in public. Apparently
a trip to Camperdown to win the Cup in
that country town on Anniversary Day
had a beneficial effect, as there was no-
thing half-hearted about his win in the
Frankston Welter on Saturday. The only
surprising part of his success was his
starting price of 10 to 1 after he had
opened at fives. Making a fast forward
move near the half-mile, he ran past the
pacemaker. Pine Peak, at the top of the
straight, and won easily from that geld-
ing and the 5-to-4 favorite, Lord Wind-
burra. Bankshaw was sold to K. Stuart
for 600 guineas at the sale of W. R.
Kemball’s horses in November, and even
if not up to Doncaster class —he is en-
gaged in that race —further success should
soon come his way in less exalted com-
pany. Saki, second favorite on the
strength of three successive wins at coun-
try meetings, might have finished closer
than fifth but for striking trouble.
Backers who took short prices about
Coylton for the Summer Hurdle resigned
themselves to their fate when they saw
the gelding on his way to the starting
point. Coylton was favoring one of his
forelegs, and many of his backers con-
sidered that the stewards should have
ordered his recall for a veterinary exami-
nation. Coylton’s trainer, Basil Conaghan,
laughed at such an idea. He informed
The Bulletin representative that Coyl-
ton always gives an impression of lame-
ness when trotting, but that actually
nothing is amiss with him. Qoylto^
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances .)
By “PILOT.”
Maiden Handicap: Air Link, 1 ;
Canvasser, 2 ; Innisfail or Caprice,
3.
Ingleburn Nursery Handicap:
Prince, 1 ; Dick Whittington, 2;
Awake, 3.
Glenfield Handicap: Miss Pen-
theus, 1 ; Fly, 2 ; Waireka, 3.
Farm Novice Handicap: Red
Pete, 1 ; Dyne, 2 ; Alluring, 3.
Warwick February Handicap;
Veiled Threat, 1 ; Mabson, 2;
Breeze, 3.
Minto Handicap: Rylstone, 1 ;
Buzzal, 2 ; Calruin, 3.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(At Moonee Valley.)
By “SENTRY.”
Electric Handicap: Dapper, 1 ;
Whisper Low, 2 ; Owl’s Rest, 3.
February Trial: Chamberlain,
1 ; Foreigner, 2 ; Red Syce, 3.
Wyndham Handicap: Bathing
Beauty, 1; West Wind, 2; Bev
Rose, 3.
C. F. Orr Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Beaulivre, 2 ; Mildura, 3.
Newport Welter: Bankshaw, 1 ;
Winterset, 2 ; Damalis, 3.
Marine Handicap: Chatsbury, 1 ;
Unishak, 2 ; Dhoti, 3.


moved freely enough in the early stages
of the race, and ran to the front near
the seven furlongs, but he pecked at
the hurdle at the five, and was beaten
when Bozzago ran past him at the half-
mile. He finished sixth. Bozzago, who
started at 15 to 1 after twenties had been
bet, went on to win easily from Frisco
and Metabus. As a yearling Bozzago cost
600 guineas, but was resold as a three-
year-old for 50 guineas. He won several
races for “L. Street” and Bill Burke
when trained by the latter, but now races
in the sole ownership of “Street,” and is
trained by Harry Gabell.
* * * *
A hurried glance over the Newmarket
suggests that heavyweights in High Caste,
Beaulivre and Gold Salute are likely to
have a lot to say in its decision. High
Caste is better treated than he was in
the Challenge, and though 10.2 is a tidy
load he can handle it. In addition to
good private form he has shaped par-
ticularly well in a couple of recent sprints
in public. Greenline won with 10.2, and
High Caste certainly looks quite as good
a weight-carrier.
Beaulivre and Gold Salute also worked
well prior to leaving Sydney, and are
preferable to Mildura, who won last year
with 8.0. Mildura may now be better
suited by a longer distance than six
furlongs. Dhoti was a high-class two-
year-old in England, and though he has
done little of account since that age he
may enter into calculations. We may
know more about his chance after the
Oakleigh. Pure Gold, with 8.11, is better
treated than in the spring, when he was
weighted at 9.3 for the Cantala Stakes.
Last autumn he won the Leonard Stakes
with 8.7, and must be included among
the dangerous division.
• ••••»
Ensign might be a possibility, but there
seems doubt as to whether he will go
south. Lower down Chatsbury, Unishak,
Aspire, Orcadian, Orteli and Cushla
Macree are among those nicely treated,
but, while it is too early to indulge in
a selection, High Caste, Beaulivre and
Pure Gold impress me as being worth
consideration for the first leg of a double.
Spearfelt, 9.13 in 1927, was the last
heavyweight to win the Australian Cup,
and of those near the top this year
Apostrophe (8.8) may be as good as any.
He ran nowhere in the Melbourne Cup
with 7.11, but, despite that failure, he
stays, and as he has recently shown first-
class form in Adelaide under a lot of
weight is probably better now than in the
spring. Mac Rob won the Veteran Stakes
with 7.12, and is not badly in with an
additional 61b. Nor is Tidal Wave. He
had 51b. under the scale when third in
the Melbourne Cup, and, in poorer com-
pany, now has 21b. over w.f.a. Pandect
is similarly treated.
Keelie has been running so well that
he cannot be overlooked with 8.6, and
in 7.10 Marauder has 61b. more than
when he won three years ago. He is
again showing a little form, and is one
of the few engaged that has definitely
shown he can stay. Saul is useful, but it
is difficult to say much that is favor-
able concerning most of the entrants as
stayers, and at this stage Apostrophe,
Keelie, Mac Rob and Marauder may be
most worth the attention of double-
backers.
I. Scobie’s principal patron, E. E. D.
Clarke, did not long survive him. The
latter died last Wednesday. The Clarke-
Scobie combination was wonderfully suc-
cessful, winning more than £150,000 in
stakes. Scobie purchased Clarke’s first
horse, Emir, as a yearling for lOOOgns.,
and, among other races, Emir won the
Champion Stakes. After Clarke decided
to go in for breeding J. E. Brewer
bought The Welkin for him in England
for 800gns., and that horse was a marked
stud success, one of his great sons being
Gloaming, who brought only 230gns. as a
yearling.
Cyklon was another Melton Stud stal-
lion, siring Trivalve, a Victoria Derby
and Melbourne Cup winner. Trivalve
also won the A.J.C. Derby. Clarke had
three other Victoria Derby winners—
Wolawa, Furious (trained by F. Mars-
den) and Hua; and his many other
good winners included Thrice, Trey, Eye
Glass, Rosina, Angelia, Versine, Hyades,
Isa, Two and Deneb.
* * * ■ *
Glorious, who was unplaced in last
year’s Armidale Cup with 8.0, will
be a runner for that race again today
with the same weight. As the seven fur-
longs should suit her nicely, she should
stand an excellent chance of realising her
owner’s ambition of winning that particu-
lar race. R. Parsons is riding her.
♦ * * *
Sydney bookmakers have recently suf-
fered through the wins of short-priced
horses, and the chance of betting round
on four horses in any race has rarely
been afforded them. They had that
experience in the Highweight Handicap
at Moorefield, two horses sharing favorit-
ism at 5 to 2, while another was at 3 to 1
and a fourth at 7 to 2. The other run-
ners were practically unbacked, and Silver
Arbor, one of the number, won at 50
to 1. With similar betting and another
winner or two at over 20 to 1 the books
will not be long in recouping their losses
of the last few months.
* * * *
The stipendiary stewards are exercis-
ing marked vigilance in connection with
foul and careless riding, and they should
also impress upon jockeys that they
should ride their mounts out without un-
necessarily punishing them, even if it
means getting only third place. Some
of our older jockeys are a little too ready
to ease up near the finish if they cannot
get first or second. A third-place divi-
dend is useful to tote bettors, and it is
galling when they see the chance of get-
ting it deliberately thrown away.
* * * *
Australian mile record-holder Amiable
had her first start in her present owner-
ship at Victoria Park on Wednesday.
The stewards thought it necessary to in-
quire into her running, but quickly de-
cided all was in order. Amiable, who
is a fine-looking mare, did not appear
quite wound up, but when she is she
should have no difficulty in winning if
she returns to anything like her old form
and again meets a field like that of last
Wednesday on similar terms. With the
minimum 7st. she had 9.3 —equivalent
to 8.10 at the ordinary scale —and, at her
best, it is hard to say how far she would
have beaten the lot of second-, third-
and fourth-raters that opposed her. Of
course, as she is rising seven, the odds
are against her ever repeating her record-
breaking effort when she beat High Caste,
Ajax and Manrico in the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes, but it is probable she will still
prove good enough to win a handicap or
two at Sydney suburban meetings.
* * * y
Racing has been held at Maitland over
such a long period that an entire cessa-
tion of the sport at that town would be
regrettable. My records do not go
further back than 1856, but in that year
the three days’ Maitland meeting in-
cluded a St. Leger of £5O, with a sweep-
stakes of £5, two £lOO open handicaps
and a Maiden Plate of £l2O. They were
strong on races of the maiden class in
those days. The St. Leger was won by
Spiletta, and Dora and Cooramin were
the winners of the two big handicaps.
Dora’s race was run in two-mile heats.
She won the second and third in 3.49
and 3.54 respectively. Cooramin’s race
was at three miles, and his time was 6.10.
East Maitland also had race meetings in
1856.
• * * *
Features of the A.J.C. Anniversary
meeting were two easy wins by Feminist
(a better weight-carrier than at any previ-
ous time in her career), excellent form of
the three-year-olds Flying Knight and
Session, success of Astrid, D. Munro s
seven wins from ten mounts, and trainer
B. Payten’s four wins. Though not yet
quite in the class of the others mentioned,
three-year-olds Enderby and The Miller
won their respective races in a fashion
that said a lot for their future prospects.
Munro’s record was a remarkable one,
but a fixed stake of £1 on each of his
mounts would not have given a very
substantial return. Four of his winners
were at odds on, Astrid and Session
being almost unbackable by small
punters. Tuckerbox, at 5 to 1, was his
best winner.
* * * «
Two tote records were made at the
Wellington (MX.) Cup meeting, the turn-
over on the final day being £111,872 (win
£45,745 10s., place £66,127) against the
previous best for the club of £109,906
10s. and £18,537 on the Thorndon Handi-
cap. However, as compared with the
corresponding meeting last year there
was a drop from £300,225 10s. to
£280,997 10s.
* * * *
The New York “Times,” in discussing
last year’s sport in America, says that the
totalisator turnover for 16 States exceeded
$400,000,000. Well, as that would exceed
£A 123,000,000, the war cannot be troub-
ling American backers. In addition to
the tote —the only legalised form of
course betting—there is a tremendous
volume of “off-the-course” business.
* * * *
The owner with strongest numerical
representation in the four two-year-old
races at Victoria Park last week was
F. W. Hughes. He had six runners,
four fillies—Marcoperi, Epic Poem, Good
Night and Demilune —and two colts —
Dutch Band and Marcovelia. Marco-
peri (Marconigram-Pericoe) ran third
and Marcovelia (Marconigram-Velia)
second in their respective races. Epic
Poem is a half-sister by Piccadilly to
Feminist and cost 550gns. as a yearling.
Four of the nine races at Victoria Park
last week were contested by maiden two-
year-olds, and some nice youngsters com-
peted. Congratulations (Gay Lothario-
Happy Returns) will do further good
service for P. Miller, who, although he
now owns her dam, was not respon-
sible for the mating that produced her.
Over the last couple of seasons the
breeder named has been more fortunate
with other breeders’ sires than his own.
However, a Kia-Ora stallion was respon-
sible for Medieval (Medieval Knight-
Spelthur), who won the second division
of the fillies’ race at Victoria Park. Run-
ners for the first division included All
Cerise (Bulandshar-Cereica), who is a
really fine filly, and, though she did not
run up to expectations, should eventu-
ally turn out well.
* * * *
Nuggety Dick Whittington (Kuvera-
Peal o’ Bells) won the first division of the
colts and geldings’ division of the Vic-
toria Park Maiden Two-year-old Handi-
cap, though not so easily as those backers
who laid odds on him expected. His
time was slower than that recorded in
any of the other three divisions, being a
second and a half worse than that put
up by Congratulations, which would
almost suggest that something went
wrong with the official watch. Dick
Whittington was a 90gns. yearling. Fort
Morgan, winner of the second division,
was a 300gns. yearling, and is by Melfort
from Gold Mast, by Shepherd King from
Foremast. G. Price’s stable was repre-
sented by newcomers in Engrave (J. R.
Smith-Muscovada) and Turmoil (Excite-
ment-Ardis), both good-looking colts, but
neither was prominent. Though he did
not get a place, a promising showing was
made by Lagoon, a Pentheus gelding
trained by J. W. Cook.
♦ * * *
With attendances increasing at Sydney
meetings, and those just outside the
metropolitan area, it is strange to read
of clubs near Melbourne taking steps
to remedy a recent falling-off in that re-
spect. However, Pakenham and Morn-
ington have closed all telegraphic com-
munication from their courses, and race-
books are not to be sold away from
them. Evidently those clubs believe*
starting-price betting is cutting into them,
and mean to combat it. They may suc-
ceed, but they are going to find it hard
to prevent information reaching Mel-
bourne.
« * * *
Beaulivre has gone to Melbourne, and,
all going well with him, he should at
least pay expenses. Beaulivre’s owner, in
company with some friends, was at
Randwick on Thursday to watch him
gallop, and he had the satisfaction of
seeing him pull up soundly after run-
ning a fast half-mile. As Cook was on
Beaulivre, presumably he will ride him
in his Melbourne engagements. Always
a nice horse, Beaulivre has even a more
taking appearance than when racing in
the spring.
♦ * * *
Prices realised and turned down at
last week’s sale at Randwick pointed to
fair horses being very valuable at
present. Yuletide, at 625gn5., should not
prove a bad purchase. He is only three
years old, is still low in the weights, and
has shown improvement at each of his
recent starts. Don Byrne is a winner,
but, though 850gns. seemed a good offer
for him, it was short of his owner’s
valuation. In an average field for to-
day’s Flying Handicap at Victoria Park
he was weighted only 71b. above the
minimum. At 525gns. Pierce probably
brought full value. In his last few races
he did not act up to the promise he gave
earlier, but, of course, after a holiday,
he may improve. Constant seemed fairly
sold at 425gns. Haran, at 450gns., may
prove profitable. Something in his favor
is that he was knocked down to J. W.
Cook, who has always trained him. As
a two-year-old Haran was unlucky,
scoring three seconds and a third in
seven starts. This season he won a six-
furlongs race at Rosebery in September,
but has since done little racing.
* * * *
G. M. Currie, who was the principal
contributor to the recent yearling sales
in Wellington, did not get many high
prices for his lot. A colt by Spiral from
Genesta was sold for BOOgns., being
bought for India, and another by the
same sire realised 250gns. The highest
paid for anything by Ringmaster was
190gns. for a colt out of Drawl, and the
Posterity youngsters were headed by a
filly out of Lavish, J. T. Jamieson giving
160gns. for her. T. H. Lowry averaged
320gns. for his three colts and a filly by
Tiderace, sire of Tidal Wave.
* :£ * *
Maorilanders rarely make the mistake
of selling their horses too cheaply, and,
though it was recently reported that
7000gns. would be considered by the
owner of Kindergarten if anyone wished
to buy him, it is now announced he is
not for sale. Prior to the Wellington Cup
a Melbournite was prepared to make
a bid for Kindergarten. According to
present intentions Kindergarten will be
in Australia for spring racing. The
manner of his Wellington Cup victory
proved him a really good colt, whose
forte seems sure to be staying, but wins
are likely to be difficult in either Sydney
or Melbourne in the spring.
Kindergarten is bound to get a full
share of weight in the big handicaps, and
in the w.f.a. races High Caste, Beau Vite
and Beaulivre will be tough opponents.
The most formidable horses of his own
age that Kindergarten is likely to meet
over a distance are Tidal Wave, Lucra-
tive and Pandect, but it is questionable
whether they compare with some of the
older horses mentioned. Up to a mile
and a half it is improbable any of
that trio will be equal to disposing of
High Caste or Beaulivre, and beyond that
distance Beau Vite will stand in their way.
In the last Melbourne Cup Beau Vite
carried 71b. and Beaulivre 61b. over
w.f.a., Lucrative and Pandect exactly
w.f.a., and Tidal Wave 51b. less than the
scale. Tidal Wave was third. Beau Vite
fourth, Lucrative fifth, Beaulivre
seventh and Pandect ninth or tenth. On
that form it does not seem that Beau
Vite will have a great deal to fear from
our four-year-olds in the longer w.f.a.
races, and Kindergarten will have to be
really good to beat him. At two miles
five-year-old horses have to concede four-
year-olds 61b. in w.f.a. races in October,
and 51b. at a mile and a half.
* * * *
Even with the best of jockeys luck or
otherwise in running makes a deal of dif-
ference. Some jockeys will persevere in
trying for a position if an early check
sends them to the rear in a fairly large
field, but there are others who, though
first-class horsemen when they get an
uninterrupted run, do not shine when
they strike any trouble. If they are forced
back they are content to wait in the hope
that an opening will present itself. Mean-
while they lose ground, and when they
finally decide they have no chance of
getting through they are likely to go wide
at the turn in running round horses ahead
of them. In such circumstances they
occasionally win, but as a rule they
have handicapped their mounts to the
extent of putting success beyond them.
Naturally someone will ejaculate “Grand-
stand riders are the best horsemen,” but
it is undeniable that some jockeys are
unhappy if they get an early squeeze,
and are always loath to attempt to fight
their way through a big field, especially
in a comparatively short race.
* H: * *
At the Newmarket sales in December,
King George was one of the few
sellers who had reason to be satis-
fied. His three-year-old filly Great Truth
(Bahram-Frankly) made IBOOgns. An-
other of his three-year-old fillies, Mou-
zelle (Coronado-Damoze!) was sold for
400gns., and a three-year-old gelding.
Voyager (Colombo-Polish Air), for
250gns.
Jp * % *
It is easy to give an opinion that
costs you nothing, but might be expen-
sive to someone else who adopted it.
Nevertheless it might really be worth
while for some Australian to breed a few
horses to American time with a view
to racing them in that country. The
late Hon. J. White bred several horses
to English time, but, though the invasion
of that country was not a success,
America should be worth a trial. The
most successful two-year-olds in America
last year were as under, and as happened
on many occasions in the past the colt
with most prize-money to his credit was
by an imported sire. This time it was
Our Boots (three wins), who is by Teddy
from Plucky Liege, by Spearmint. Win-
nings in dollars (now worth about 6s. 2d.
each in Australian money) of the leading
two-year-olds were as under;
Our Boots ..$68,750 Yankee Dandy $17,940
Whirlaway .. 65,575 King Cole .. 16,925
Bushwhacker.. 38,760 New World .. 16,015
Valdina Myth 37,850 Omission .. 14,745
Bold Irishman 36,755 Little Beans.. 14,005
Swain .. .. 35,870 Nasca .. .. 13,575
Level Best .. 35,755 Strange
Porter’s Cap .. 32,200 Device .. 13,005
Attention .. 27,440 Stimady .. 12,795
Misty Isle .. 27,435 Harvard'Square 12,295
Blue Delight.. 23,250 Monday Lunch 11,225
Blue Pan .. 21,425 Blensign .. 10,650
The above list shows that, while Our
Boots won approximately £A21,195,
seven others ranged from about £A20,220
to £A 10,000.
* * * *
A glib tongue is almost as great an
asset for a horse-trainer as it is for a
politician. The other day a businessman
was chatting with a friend when a trainer
joined in, and on the latter’s departure
the businessman remarked; “Well, I
don’t know anything about horse-racing,
but if that fellow trains as well as he
talks he must be highly successful.” It
does not follow that a talking trainer,


M
*/
Agents; JOUBERT 6- JOUBERT
PTY
LTD
«n»*safc/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
though he may impress newcomers to rac-
ing, possesses a depth of knowledge that
makes the preparation of winners, or the
selection of them, easy for him. How-
ever, there are many people who have
an idea that the trainer who does not talk
refrains because of lack of knowledge,
and they welcome the one who talks even
more freely of other people’s horses than
of those he is training. A successful tip,
even if one of his own horses is not
the medium, may bring reward to a
trainer, and some are not slow in turn-
ing that fact to advantage. The opinions
of some men who do a “mixed business”
—training and turf-advising—as to which
gives the better return would make in-
teresting reading, but those who could
write authoritatively are unlikely to rush
into print.
» * * *
Subsequent to the closing of last year’s
flat-racing season jumping meetings were
held in England, but it seems probable
that, like this year’s flat-racing fixtures,
they will also be called off. It had been
proposed to run this year’s Grand
National Steeplechase at Cheltenham,
but the Minister for Home Security an-
nounced last week in the House of
Commons that the stewards of the
National Hunt Committee had been
asked to drop the race, principally be-
cause the use of petrol and the amount
of labor and transport necessary in con-
nection with the meeting were undesir-
able at this stage. In 1916, 1917, 1918
and last year the Grand National was
run at Gatwick. Dog-racing was still
continuing towards the end of last year.
Wonder if it has also been completely
banned? If so, what has become of the
dogs, as their owners would be unable
to go on feeding them if they gave no
return.
♦ # * *
A Brisbane correspondent writes as
follows:
The opinion of Roley Trihey (B. 29/1 / ’4l)
that “as Companion had feet only about
the size of a penny they might sink too
far into the mud and anchor him” is quite
the opposite to that of a shrewd judge
and erstwhile successful jockey and trainer,
“Old” Bill Tucker. 1 remember many years
ago at Ascot (Q.), when the track was very
heavy, asking Tucker if he could assist me
in selecting the winner of the Brisbane Cup,
and he said, “When looking for a winner
on a soft track always pick a horse with
small feet, as the mud does not anchor him
so much as it does a big-footed horse.”
The horse he selected on that day was
Seremite, who duly won at long odds.
Does not Companion’s success suggest that
Tucker was right? At any rate, I have
often found Tucker’s advice very useful on
heavy tracks.
* * * *
Adherence to the old English custom
of nominating for Derbies from 16 to
17 months before they are run always
strikes me as unnecessary. A large entry
is the result, but the fields are generally
poor. For instance, there were 10 run-
ners for the last A.J.C. Derby from an
entry of 459. A few years ago, when
forfeits and sweepstakes helped to swell
the value of the race, the early entry and
forfeits meant something substantial for
the owner of the winner. Now it is
different, as no matter how great the
entry the winner does not get more than
a fixed sum. Two results from the present
system are a lot of work for the office’s
clerical staff and worry for owners and
trainers in keeping track of their nomi-
nations. I believe most breeders are
opposed to any departure from present
procedure, but I cannot see that it would
tell against them financially, and that is
their principal interest.
The Kentucky and Santa Anita
Derbies are much more valuable than
any now' run in Australia, and neither
closes more than three months before
running. The Santa Anita Derby, carry-
ing 50,000 dollars added money, and to
be run next Wednesday, closed on Dec.
2, and remained open until the first of
this month on the payment of an eligi-
bility fee of $l5OO. There were 140 nomi-
nations, and these included practically
everything that had shown two-year-old
form of any account, and did not clutter
up the entry list with a lot of horses that
had not raced, and were never likely to.
Incidentally, geldings are eligible for the
Santa Anita Derby, and it cannot yet be
claimed that the debarment of the un-
sexed division from the A.J.C. and Vic-
toria Derbies has done much for the
improvement of our thoroughbreds.
Leading N.S.W. and Victorian breeders
still turn to England when they want
stallions likely to give them a good return
at the yearling sales.
* * * *
Most owners baulk at gelding a horse
that has shown first-class form at twoi
years, but E. Hunter Bowman has reason
to be pleased that he adopted that pro-
cedure with Flying Knight. Lightly built,
Flying Knight might never have furnished
into a desirable type of stallion, and as
a gelding his racing value has increased.
He suffers very little by comparison with
Ensign in pace, though the latter looks
better up to weight.
* * * *
Even those who should know most
where various phases of racing and bet-
ting are concerned are often wide of the
mark. When the tote was first used in
New York last year the chairman of the
State Racing Commission said the season’s
turnover would not exceed $50,000,000.
He was a long way out, $103,000,000
going through the machine in the State
of New York.
* * * ♦
A. Higgins is the only trainer in India
who now has a large number of Austra-
lian and Maoriland horses in his team.
His lot includes Respirator, Levant, Meli-
anthus, Moorsotis, Fils de Vaals, Mar-
tara, Autoland, Meadow, Sunnymorn,
Civic Guard, Final Glance, Impetus,
Mangoola, Abundantia, Bachelor Belle,
Tavern, Cestus Divitae (late Othello),
Dightena Valley, Royal Air Force, Ben
Braggie, Panaster, Let Slip, Synagogue,
Goolagong, Radio Man and Grand
March. They were entrants for races
at the recent Calcutta meeting, but he
has others. English-bred Baqlava, how-
ever, did much more for Higgins at Cal-
cutta than the remainder of his team put
together.
* * * *
A writer in the American paper “The
Blood Horse” expresses regret that he
once had a fascinating compilation and
lost it, entitled “The Excuse Book,” a col-
lection of all the excuses trainers had
fashioned for losing races. “The begin-
ning trainer,” he writes, “can offer only
the old and time-tested formulae: The
ground broke from under him ; he was
bumped at the start; the boy didn’t ride
to orders; the horse didn’t like the track.
But the seasoned artist can develop more
imaginative excuses, such as a horse
jumping the shadow of the furlong pole,
or having a dog run across the track in
front of him on the far turn. And there
was that small marvel on the county fair
circuit with a carnival in the infield [the
flat in Australia]: ‘He smelled the
elephants.’ ” He adds that the latest
to hand is relative to the failure
of a horse named Sweepida at Bay
Meadows. In his final gallop for
the race Sweepida was supposed to
go six furlongs in 1.12. Some ducks
walked off the flat on to the track
after he started his gallop. In conse-
quence Sweepida had to be eased, and
took 1.14. After he was beaten in his
race the excuse was that he was not
sufficiently tightened up by his final spin
owing to the ducks getting in the way.
American trainers may be good in the
matter of making excuses, but some Aus-
tralian trainers have nothing to learn
from them.
* ♦ * •
At Santa Anita it is the practice to
have every stall sterilised before each
season. At its meeting which started
this month the club went further in its
precautions to guard against contagious
diseases. As each horse arrived at the
track it was examined by the veterinary
surgeon. As all horses are stabled on
the course throughout a meeting such
procedure should be absolutely necessary.
* * * *
Comparatively low stud fees will be the
rule in England this season. The ser-
vices of the Aga Khan’s Turkhan and
Stardust, two of the best three-year-olds
of last year, are available at £75 and
£4B respectively. With conditions normal
the former would at least have com-
manded 150gns. and the latter lOOgns.
The Aga Khan showed good judgment
in selling Bahrain and Mahmoud when
opportunity offered last year.
* V * *
At one time racing in England became
so “hot” that at a meeting of the Jockey
Club it was decided “that cases have
occurred in which persons have fraudu-
lently entered to run for stakes which
by the published conditions were limited
to horses of a specified age horses above
the age so specified; gaining for the
horses so entered an unfair advantage
over their competitors, and thus races
have been won by horses which were in
reality not qualified to start. It appears
to the club that such proceedings not
only tend to defraud the owners of those
horses which would otherwise have been
winners, but are calculated to inflict an
injury upon the turf by bringing racing
into disrepute and by deterring honor-
able men from entering into competition
in which they run the risk of being
encountered by such dishonest rivals.
That the club, as the patron of racing,
has in this matter a direct interest separate
from that of the individuals who may
happen to be sufferers by such frauds;
and that it behoves the club to take care
that in all such cases the law by which
such frauds are punishable should be
duly enforced.”
* * * *
As I mentioned in a recent issue,
fields as large as those common at Syd-
ney and Melbourne meetings are un-
known in America. Santa Anita might be
expected to differ from most other tracks,
but I saw it stated that fields from a
mile to nine furlongs at the meeting now
in progress would probably continue to
be limited to 12, owing to the risks of
a jam at the first turn. Those for six
and seven furlongs might be as large
as 14.
* * * *
In Australia nowadays we hear little
on the subject of “jockey rings,” but
one recently came to light in California.
With the exception of Santa Anita, it had
seemingly operated at all the leading
tracks in California for three years. The
California Racing Board made investi-
gations, suspended the jockeys involved,
and passed its information along to the
district attorney of Los Angeles. Subse-
quently the Los Angeles County grand
jury returned an indictment against seven
individuals, most of whom were alleged
to be linked with the jockey ring. “The
picture revealed so far by the investiga-
tion,” says “The Blood Horse,” “is of
a bookmaker, or a bookmaker syndi-
cate, which controlled enough jockeys to
be able to fix a good many races, parti-
cularly those with small fields. The
operator was consequently in a position
to make his own book into 100 per cent,
profit, holding no money on the winner,
and at the same time could bet heavily
with other books.”
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Noble Art in Sydney hasn’t yet
emerged from the Christmas doldrums.
Matches have mostly been poor, and
results of no real interest to anybody.
At Leichhardt another soft snap was
arranged for Sabatino. After seven
rounds, throughout which Sab. walked
in without exerting himself, Jimmy Pur-
cell indicated that he’d had enough of it.
There was the usual story —not enough
training. It wouldn’t have made any
difference, anyhow ; but the story ought
to be told before, not after, scraps, if
the game isn’t to peter out altogether.
Miles better scrapping was witnessed
at Newcastle in the week-end meeting of
the lightweight champion, Tod Morgan,
and Alan Westbury, claimed locally to
own the welter title. Tod was in a pretty
desperate state when the final bell
sounded after 12 rounds of fierce fighting
pretty well all the way, but he had made
the fight, had scored frequently with
splendid punching, chiefly to the body in
close, and narrowly had it on points.
Weights were given as: Morgan, 9.13 ;
Westbury, 10.7. It says very little for
present boxing standards, or else it says
a great deal in praise of Tod, that a
lightweight of his age—3B at least —can
give a front-rank welter not less than 81b,
and a beating.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: When Bob Fitzsimmons
was at the peak of his notoriety he made
a horseshoe for the Galveston flood-
relief fund. Auctioned, it brought 700
dollars. The bidder died, and his
son, not being a sport, offered the
shoe, which had Bob’s name engraved
on it, to several sporting clubs in
America. There was no response. So
the owner offered it free to various sport-
ing authorities in M.L. He says his
letters were never answered. Nothing is
quite so dead as a dead pug.
* *■ * *
“Jamwood”: This time 25 years ago
you could hear the cry that Les Darcy
should go to the war ; and as the months
went by it swelled into an angry roar.
Darcy had just turned 20 and was the
sole breadwinner for a large family,
which, until he began to share in big
purses, had been miserably poor. But
stern and unbending patriots kept at him
till he stole away on the wild adventure
that was to end a few months later in
a foreign hospital. What a difference there
is nowadays!
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM PERRIER.
[Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States.)
The Duke and Duchess of Windsor
were present during the play for the
10,000-dollar Miami open championship.
After watching the leading golfers in
action the Duke suggested an exhibition
match at Nassau (Bahamas) in aid of
British war-relief funds, and invited
Walter Hagen, Bobby Jones, Gene Sara-
zen and Tommy Armour, all previous
holders of both the British and American
championships, to make up a team. He
himself will play along with the veterans.
The game has already had tremendous
publicity throughout the U.S.A. and,
although it won’t be played until March,
heavy advance bookings have been made
by wealthy Americans.
During his stay the Duke played almost
daily on the Miami Biltmore Hotel
course, and from my room in the adjoin-
ing hotel I saw him start off one after-
noon with Snead and Sarazen. He re-
turned an 88 from the back tees on the
6600-yard championship course —rated
the hardest in Florida —and altogether
gave an excellent account of himself, de-
spite three-putting several greens. Snead
returned a 66.
Bing Crosby is also going to Nassau.
Crosby qualified in September to play in
the amateur championship in California.
The 10,000-dollar open at Miami, won
by Byron Nelson, attracted a field as
strong as that in the national event.
There were 39 professionals in the prize-
money at the end of the 72-hole classic.
Beginning with the winning cheque of
2500 dollars, it stretched down to Gene
Sarazen and Shute, who got 25 dollars
each. As a successful amateur I collected
a trophy.
My score of 287 included a 67 in the
second round, but my third round of 76
spoiled my chances. My greenwork was
poor. At the end of the four rounds
I tied with Christiansen, the Florida
champion, and won the play-off next day,
70 to 73. The amateur trophies were
some of the best I have seen, but —the
clubs and bag I won are identical with
those I am using at present!
• ••••*
The Miami Springs course, scene of
the event, was in very bad condition.
Open events are not played on the best
courses, and are not conducted as they
should be.
* * * *
Bradman is in the S.M. Military Hos-
pital at Keswick (S.A.). The trouble is
with the nerves and muscles of the
stomach. There will be no more cricket
for Don this season, at any rate.
Ins and Outs
Playing plucky and resourceful cricket,
the young Victorian team that had de-
feated Queensland on the first innings
gained a meritorious victory over N. S.
Wales at Sydney. Thanks chiefly to
Barnes (132), O’Reilly (4-43) apd Pepper
(62 and 6-85), the home team got a great
first-innings lead (440 to 236); but the
visitors in their second innings scored
freely off every bowler except the N. S.
Wales skipper (5 for 56), the batting of
Tamblyn (48), Harvey (70), Fothergill
(86), Dempster (n.o. 87) and Johnson (40)
being really excellent. The total was
403, and the task of getting 200 should
have been easy on such a wicket; but
only Barnes (55) and Pepper (30) were
ever comfortable against the bowling of
Sievers (4 for 44), Johnson (3 for 52) and
Ring (3 for 55). N, S. Wales was licked
by 24 runs.
In club and inter-State cricket John-
son is having a prosperous season, and
if he goes on improving he will be a cer-
tainty for the next Australian Eleven.
A cunning and tireless spin-bowler and
a trustworthy bat who is not afraid to
have a hit, he is a very useful man to
have in a team. He plays for South
Melbourne.
Walter Lindrum is putting in a fort-
night at Anthony Horderns’, Sydney,
playing all-comers for patriotic funds.
Terms are that the loser must make a
donation, which will be divided between
the Lord Mayor’s Fund and the Red
Cross. The champion is in wonderful
form, so there will be many losers,
though they usually get 95 in a “hundred
up” game.


WELL HE RE 5 TO EE
fr
"•s
O' mm***
* %
■i
mm
mm
I
m <
flit
m
I
........ -
■
IP*
zmmvm is
■hi
v ':
iillili
S.
m
wiili
::
mmm.
mm
StOVf
=
-
m
mm
m
> * »
V * *H
* %
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
TOOHEYS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Agents: VICTORIA—Go Ids bio ugh, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q LAND—Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Daigety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS! ,
Don't get up night after night Because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest Is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising** in the morning—totally unfit
fc- the day's work. It you get np at night
due to frequent, scanty Passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
you have suffered from these
symptomof kidney and bladder trouble the
warnings 1 anTtaL* steps to correct
Z cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience
in 4 Mot
aw «-«,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
In spite of February heat committees
are beginning to raise their standards
again, and to call on all good men to
come to the aid of the party. Last week s
mail scattered around the city a coo-ee
from the Alexander Gordon lady to help
her with the presentation of Priestley’s
“Roundabout” by the Phoenix theatre
group for the benefit of headquarters
branch of the Red Cross. The Con. on
February 17 will house this play. At
least three of the executive committee
have old ties with the stage: the Gordon
lady, Comtesse de Vilme Hautmont and
Mrs. James Dickson. Others of the
actively interested are Mrs. Fielding
Jones, Susan Spencer and Miss Mary
Fairfax. The play will be produced by
Frederick Hughes. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst have promised to be present.
The stage at the Independent Theatre
last Saturday was almost as crowded as
the body of the house when the North-
side group of actors put on Capek s
“Insect Play.” This satire on human
nature never fails to draw, and it was
a crowded audience that laughed at
points scored against man. The costumes,
designed by Thelma Afford, are distinctly
original and symbolic. Doris Fitton was
the producer.
The Red Cross tea-rooms in George-
street were packed with blue-clad girls
on an afternoon last week, when two of
the raider survivors, Miss Edge and Miss
Sandbach, were entertained by Comman-
dant da Silva Waugh, Miss Rose Piper,
Mrs. Allen and other Red Cross chief-
tainesses. The idea was to bring V.As.
who had been in charge of the evacuee
children in touch with the two English-
women who had helped to care for them
on the voyage out. They are anxious to
take the latest news of the youngsters
back with them when they go. They
spoke entirely without bitterness of their
enforced stay with the German marau-
ders. One of them said that the food
was poor but that the Germans seemed
not to have much better themselves. Bris-
bane stands out as the place on the trip
down from Emira where they had both
time and opportunity to take two baths.
A likeable bit of the odyssey was the
way the Red Cross mothered the vic-
tims all the way down. At one station
there was even a table set with bright
crinkly papers, crackers and all sorts of
Christmas goodies for the kiddies of the
party —their first touch of Christmas.
They say the memory of their enforced
stay with the enemy is already fading.
Both guests declare the memory of Aus-
tralian kindness will burn bright for ever.
You would never have guessed that
the Pacific Islanders’ party in honor of
the Trafford Smiths had been whisked
up in a hurry. It was a five-to-
seven, and it filled the Carlton draw-
ing-room with a gaiety that showed
that all the members and the visi-
tors believed Noho Toki’s repeated
“Haeremai” in his Maori greeting. The
Trafford Smiths have been trekking about
Fiji and the Solomons, and have packed
a storybook of Island experiences into
the two years since he left his desk in
Downing-street. He was sent, as is the
custom in the Colonial Office, to gather
first-hand impressions, and he and his
small wife look as though they have gar-
nered sheaves of them. He was formerly
private secretary to Malcolm MacDonald
when the latter was Secretary of State
for the* Dominions. He is a graduate of
Cambridge. She wears her hats well, and
was looking forward to getting some rid-
ing when the pair moved on to Canberra.
Mrs. Alfred Page, the society’s chief-
tainess, and its president, Alfred Stephen,
were at the party. An attractive young
guest who danced in the picturesque
Samoan costume was Jean Croudace,
of Apia. Present also was her
mother, Mrs. Robert Douglas Croudace.
The dancing was as spontaneous as
laughter. One woman guest played the
piano, and two others sat on each side
of her singing and beating out the rhythm
of the soft cadence with their hands. Of
special interest was the dancer’s head-
dress. It had been made for her
by a Princess of Samoa. Another guest
of note was Ana Laurenson. Writer Mrs.
Alan Innes was at the party, and with
her were Mrs. Garton, senior, of Rabaul,
Mrs. Garton, junior, from Hong Kong,
and Mrs. Lang. Tonga’s Crown Prince
was an important. Mrs. M. Irvine
brought a group of friends.
The French-Australian League of Help,
by courtesy of the Plaza Theatre, is
organising for the Free French forces a
gala evening which is to be held on Feb-
ruary 7. The film to be shown is “The
Great Dictator.” Tickets are available
at the French-Australian League’s rooms,
Malcolm House, Malcolm-lane, city.
’Phone BW 6329.
Congratulations all round go to the
Greg McGirrs. Daughter Beatrice’s wed-
ding to Dr. Tom Bateman went with
satin-smooth finish from beginning to end.
St. Mary’s, at Rydge-street, was tied up
with favors and fragrant with frangi-
panni, delphinium and gladioli. It was
packed with friends of the bride and
the ’groom, with onlookers, of grown-up
and schoolgirl age. There was a splen-
did array of ushers, who seemed to take
turn about in showing guests up the long
aisle. It seemed a pity that vapors and
such Victorian indispositions have gone
out of fashion, for there were no fewer
than five doctor friends of the ’groom
available for first aid. Dr. John Con-
nolly, of Toowoomba, was best man.
Raymond and Gregory McGirr, brothers
of the bride, showed the guests to places
with complete impartiality.
Beatrice stepped into the aisle on the
tick, and paced with dignity and the
aid of father’s arm through a surge of
organ music and a sea of staring faces.
The wedding frock’s satin (it had been
bought by father in Paris) looked as
though it had hoar frost sifted over it,
and the sheen showed a leaf design.
It was high at the neckline, had long,
loose sleeves and a silver wash of train.
The four ’maids, sisters Gwen and Pat,
Lorraine See and Lois Bateman, wore
white organza frocks over pale pink.
The frocks fell from gathered waist-
lines to slight trains. With their pink
niched hats they might have been ladies
on a valentine. The bride’s mother and
the bridegroom’s wore blue, in different
but harmonising shades.
At the reception at Redleaf nobody
wore a prettier hat than Dame Con-
stance D’Arcy. It was a tiny affair,
mostly purple hyacinths. The ensemble
that went with it was Quaker-grey.
There must have been hundreds of
guests, crowds of the Twenties among
them. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s wide black
hat wore graceful plumes. With her on
the terrace were her husband, Miss Kate
Egan and Mrs. Conrick. Near by were
E. H. Salenger and daughter Mrs. Max-
well Munro. Holding levee was Mrs.
Hermes, the bride’s grandmother of 82,
who had made the white satin cushions
for the two principals to kneel on. Dr.
Tom Bateman’s father and mother, the
E. P. Batemans, of Katoomba, and one
grandfather and two grandmothers were
among the toast-drinkers. Ernest Farrar,
M.L.C., who had been best man at the
marriage of Beatrice’s father and mother,
proposed the health of bride and ’groom.
Mary Ward, now playing lead at the
Minerva in “Reunion in Vienna,” comes
out of the West. She was born in
Broome and grew up in Perth, where she
was a pupil of the Loreto Convent. After
schooldays she did a lot of acting with
the Perth Repertory, and was one of that
city’s most popular radio personalities.
Then London called, so she worked her
passage to England on a cargo boat. In
England she did what all sensible young
actors do: she put in a lot of time with
the repertory societies. That inborn Aus-
tralian indolence one hears about was
not exemplified in Mary, who learned and
acted 100 parts in two years. Then came
a chance in the West End theatres, and
she played with Henry Kendall, Elizabeth
Allen and Nova Pilbeam. An important
film contract was reluctantly put aside
at the earnest request of Mary’s family,
who wanted her back in a bomb-free
country. One curious talent Mary has.
She can classify pearls. Would this, the
Girl in the Flat Opposite wants to know,
endear her to ladies in the first-night
audiences? John Lee photograph.
Lieutenant Hilda Barnes and her merry
W.A.N.S. (there are 40 of them) are
almost through their nine days of camp-
ing at Newport. This group of Univer-
sity girls has been working hard at sig-
nalling, first aid, squad drill and all forms
of campcraft. Its headquarters are the
Workers’ Educational Association House.
A feature of this camp was a route march
to Palm Beach —a four hours’ foot-slog-
ging, plus the burden of food supplies.
Hilda founded this company of Syd-
ney Uni. W.A.N.S., and seems to be
the right girl in the right place. She is
a hockey player of note. She swims,
motors and skis. Hilda’s mother is also
an ardent member of the W.A.N.S.
A letter from pianist Valma Sullivan’s
mother tells that Val is still safe and well
in London, where she has enlisted in a
women’s canteen squad for feeding fire-
fighters. She is on duty every night from
eight to eight the following morning.
Val’s big ambition is to drive an ambu-
lance, and she is learning to drive with
that end in view. Val reports that she
and her friends (Mrs. Aicken and Judy)
live their normal daytime lives and sleep
like tops.
Tasmania will be interested to hear of
the marriage of Jean Snowden and
Warrant-Officer Robert P. Gardiner,
A.1.C., of Melbourne. The wedding was
celebrated at St. Anne’s, Bondi, without
the usual gala owing to the illness of the
mothers of the bride and ’groom. Jean
is a daughter of Lieut.-Col. knight Eccles
Snowden, who was Agent-General for
Tasmania in London for several years.
She is taken in her uniform of the Aus-
tralian Women’s Flying Club. She is
Commander of the Cooks’ Squadron, and
that is quite an important rank. Photo-
graph by Julia Leslie.
The Noel Coward matinee for the
British bomb victims mopped up £2030
16s. 3d. Actual takings of the matinee
were £ 1665-odd, and to this was added
nearly £370 in donations. Expenses were
kept to a slender £B6.
There are no more active war workers
than those who serve the 2nd/15 Field
Regiment Comforts Fund. On the second
Wednesday of every month they hold
their meetings at the Legacy Club at
10.45 a.m. If you have a donation,
president Mrs. J. C. O’Neill will welcome
it at the fund’s depot at Room 7, 3rd
Floor, Ocean House, Martin-place. Here
also can be left any clothing or other
gifts for the fund’s jumble sale at the
Fullarton Memorial Hall (opposite
Crown-street Women’s Hospital) on
March 7. Don’t forget the card party
at the Pickwick Club on Feb. 18 at 2
p.m., and the Regimental Ball at Mark
Foy’s on March 1. Mrs. le Maistre
Walker is the 2nd/15th’s secretary.
The Tom Sevils (until a few weeks ago
she was Susette Adams) left for their
station home at Burren Junction last
Monday. With them they took some
glowing pieces of old cedar,, which wood
Mrs. Sevil favors for furniture. Susette
is the pretty elder daughter of poet Arthur
Adams, who came from Maoriland when
he was young, and was for many years
a Bulletin staff man. Susette will now
be able to indulge in her favorite
recreation, riding. The new home is
about a hundred miles from the Queens-
land border. .
It is exactly 109 years since the doors
of The King’s School, Parramatta, opened
to young Australia. It has, like the other
G.P.S., pursued a steady course through
wars that have rocked the world, bring-
ing learning and a high tradition to the
youth of this land. The founders must
feel pretty proud of the work they started,
and maybe giants of old times will pass
with ghostly tread among the groups
gathered together on Old Boys’ Day, on
Saturday, February 15. Invitations from
the council and the headmaster are
already out to old boys all over the
country. Padre Hilliard will be the
preacher at the afternoon service in the
school chapel.
The younger workers of the Mayor’s
Patriotic Fund must have taken to heart
the old saw about the watched pennies
and the pounds that take care of them-
selves when they launched their penny
art union. For some months there has
been quietly proceeding a queen com-
petition. Each queen had her followers
who organised entertainments to help her
snatch the crown. In addition there were
penny votes, and for each penny the
spender got a chance in the “Queen of
the Fighting Forces” Art Union. The
first prize was a Morris car, the second
a diamond pendant. Last week £7OOO
was handed to the fund as the result.
Peggy Kermode, who was the Motion
Picture Business’s candidate, won hands
down with 1,353,692 votes —money value
£5640.
How far is Redleaf at Double Bay
from the Mathew Talbot hostel in Kent-
street? Not too far for Beatrice Mc-
Girr’s wedding to Tom Bateman to link
them. While friends and relations were
toasting the Tom Batemans at the first, a
group of unemployed at the second were
celebrating in a special supper of which
Greg McGirr, Bea’s father, was the
absent host. The Mathew Talbot hostel
is a special charge of Archbishop Gilroy,
and the party was a compliment to him
and an expression of that friendship to
all the world that is one of the McGirr
characteristics.
The W.A. Drama Festivals (Inc.) has
sent out its yearly notice inviting Aus-
tralian authors to send in manuscripts of
full-length plays for production in 1941.
At least one of the plays submitted will
be given public presentation, and a fee
of £25 will be paid to the author.
Possibly two plays will be in the running
for £25 each. All others presented will
be paid for at the current rates of five
guineas per night. MS. must reach the
secretary of W.A.D.F. before April 15.
Address, City Mutual Buildings, St.
George’s-terrace, Perth. As the plays will
be read solely with a view to production,
it is suggested that writers give particular
attention to such matters as number and
change of sets, number of cast, expense
and so on.
When this Letter last heard of Dot
Brunton (now Mrs. Ben Dawson) she
and her husband were making their home
at Old Windsor, Berks. They had been
bombed out of their London flat. Ben
is one of the heads of the Gossard corset
firm which is still carrying on in its
ambition to put a girdle around the
earth, although all the windows in its
Regent-street headquarters were blown
out. By way of contrast, here’s an ex-
tract from a letter from New York:
“Every night of the week the picture
shows are open. You can drop into a
picture theatre at 3 any morning on
Broadway.”
Wedding rings are still in quick
demand in the jewellers’ shops.
Last week pulsated to the “Wedding
March” and rustled with the passing of
wedding frock and tulle. Teanne Mary
Hussey Cooper was one of those who
changed her name. She became Mrs.
Charles W. McCrea in St. Mark’s, Dar-
ling Point. Her frock of thick ivory
brocade was patterned in a gold flower
design. A coronet of tuberoses held
her tulle veil, and a spray of tuberose
fell from the ivory-backed prayer-book
she carried. ’Groom Charles is a son
of the Rev. C, McCreas, of Los Angeles,
California, and a cousin of film actor
Joel McCrea. Jeanne’s father is Com-
mander Hussey Cooper. Her sister, Mrs.
Gordon Walker, wore a frock fashioned
from a glittering golden sari, and in addi-
tion to being matron of honor added a
prima donna touch by the singing of
“Vissi d’arte.” Reception was at Redleaf.


Educational.
LEARN ART OF CONVERSATION
and Master Key to Poise, Personality, Power,
Charm, Harmony, Love, Health, Wealth,
Prosperity, Faith, etc. Write for Free Booklet,
enclose 6d. stamps. RE-NU, LTD., opp. Rich-
mond Station, Melbourne.
Form a Group!
Join a Group!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Melbourne
Chanter
Parties just for their own sakes are
rare as guinea-pigs’ tails, though occa-
sionally somebody has a birthday (there
are still a lot of people around young
enough to have them). But for the birth-
days and the weddings that keep padres
on the run and jewellers’ shops from
going broke social life would be in a state
of coma.
Among last week’s brides was Margery
Kinnear, conventional in her choice of
attire (tailored gown of moire and veil
of tulle) but claiming indulgence for her
flair for color, the outfit being all of
palest blue. The ’groom was Thomas
Cowen, and the marriage took place in
Melbourne Grammar School chapel, with
felicitations at Grosvenor.
A very quiet wedding at St. Peter’s,
Toorak, with Suzanne Riddiford and
Squadron-Leader Geoff Dawson in the
leading roles, was followed by a cocktail
party at Menzies, a merry gathering with
a minimum of speeches. Suzanne, who
is the elder daughter of Mrs. G. Riddi-
ford, of Toorak, wore a cleverly-cut but
simple frock of white crepe, with flared
skirt of street-wear length and some navy-
blue stitchery upon the pockets. Acces-
sories were a white turban and a posy of
gardenias. The ’groom, who looked well
in uniform, in spite of its being “drabs,”
is the eldest son of the late Dr. Dean
Dawson and of Mrs. Dawson, of Adel-
aide.
Two engagements in one week, the
possibility of a call-up into the Air
Force any day, and the chance of getting
into the A.I.F. nursing service are part
of the present fortunes of the young
members of the Lalor family, children of
the late Dr. Peter Lalor and of Mrs.
Lalor, of East St. Kilda, who are also
the great-grandchildren of “Old Peter,”
the picturesque figure who, musket in
hand, fought for the miners’ right at
the Eureka Stockade.
Great-grandson Peter, who will soon
be in an R.A.A.F. uniform, is an old
boy of Xavier. The girls went to
Loreto, Ballarat. Nanno, the eldest of
the three girls, has high hopes of doing
her spot of war work as a nurse. She
trained at St. Vincent’s and is now
theatre sister at St. Benedict’s Private
Hospital in Malvern. Moya and Judy
both have clerical jobs. Moya recently
became engaged to Francis Gillespie,
twin son of Mrs. M. Gillespie, of
Beaconsfield-parade. Judy’s fiance is
John White, who is with the A.I.F.
abroad. He’s the third son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. White, of Golden Vein, Wil-
lowmavin, and until the war came along
had no thought of being anything but a
pastoralist.
Tulla Keating and Sam Brown were
married very quietly one early morning
at St. Patrick’s, and afterwards received
good wishes from very intimate friends
at the Oriental. Tulla, who is the only
daughter of the late ex-Senator and
Mrs. J. H. Keating, was given away by
her uncle, A. T. Monks, and her aunt,
Miss L. Monks, of Hobart, came over
for the wedding. Brother John Keating
read the telegrams which arrived from
every State and from overseas, and in-
cluded a cable from Sam’s parents in
Scotland.
As an old family friend, Dr. Loftus
Hills proposed the toast of the
bride and ’groom, who for their honey-
moon are making leisurely tracks for
Sydney. On their return they will live in
a flat in Hawthorn. Tulla has relin-
quished her journalistic job; at the
moment she feels she never wants to
write another line, but she remains a
journalist in spirit and is the only woman
on the Federal executive of the A.J.A.
Sam has been invited by the Sydney dis-
trict to become its representative on the
same Federal executive, so the couple
will have yet another interest in common.
Dogs, good, bad and medium, did their
bit for the War Service Comforts Fund
on a windy day at Sandringham when a
dog show occupied the village oval. The
candidates varied as much in breed as
they did in size—the Great Danes and
St. Bernards could have made a meal of
the guinea-pig editions and still felt
hungry. There were prizes for soulful
eyes, chips of the old blocks who re-
sembled their owners, doubtful oddments
whose mothers had been giddy in
their youth, etc. Mrs. J. Wickham opened
the show. Another speechmaker was
Mrs. R. Woodhouse, president of the
Sandringham Comforts Fund. She was
backed up by the recently-retired presi-
dent, Mrs. Austin Gatehouse, who, in
spite of relinquishing an official duty or
two, is just as busy as ever she was. Her
garden keeps her up to the mark, and its
produce brings in a lot of money for
charity and welfare movements.
At the Dog Show Mrs. Woodhouse’s
protege was Blind Billy, who raised a
pound in pennies. Billy seems a happy
enough animal, but he hates music, and
howled mournfully through “God Save
the King.” The lan Macfarlan, M.L.A.,
couple, who own a Cairns terrier, were
there. The Edgar Johnstons’ canine pal
was led into the ring by young daughter
Wendy, content with his entry for lesser
events, in which he did quite well for a
little mong who missed becoming a saus-
age by a whisker. He was once owned
by a butcher. One of his rivals in the
doubtful class was a shaggy little bitzer
brought along by a small boy “just to
have a look.” Someone provided a collar
and the entrance fee, and the mixture
won a decoration to cheer his owner’s
young heart.
Herewith from Broothorn is a portrait
of Mrs. Rex Potter, whose big interest at
the present time is propaganda for the
Stage Door. With her friend and con-
frere Alyce Wyatt, Mrs. Potter has been
some weeks on the trail of furnishings
and decoration for three large floors at
276 Flinders-street. There’s also another
entrance in Elizabeth-street, a prop de-
signed to look like a stage door. It’s a
short cut through a fruit stall and an
alleyway, and its modest demeanor gives
no hint of the lavish clubrooms within,
where a housewarming with cocktails
took place on Sunday night (Feb. 2).
The power behind the new Stage Door
project is Mrs. Sophia Markovna Graves,
a Russian-born American, who with her
husband has lived in Australia for the
last few years. He has business interests
here, and she, being an energetic woman
with a wide knowledge of the stage and
of repertory activities, is prepared to back
a new venture in a big way. Her capital
other than monetary is her faith in Aus-
tralian talent and her belief that there is
a market here for original acts. At the
club dancers, singers and actors will re-
ceive training. The instructors include
Thadee Slavinsky, who was here with
De Basil’s ballet co. and who was chore-
ographer to the Diaghaleff co. in 1920 ;
also tap-dance exponent Jack Lester, who
produced the Marcus show. Membership
fee to the Stage Door is a modest ss. per
year, and members may be either active
or inactive. It is planned to hold Sunday-
night gatherings with supper and a spot
of entertaining and monthly luncheons
when a spotlight will be focused on
a guest of honor in the person of some
theatrical celebrity.
The Sandringham Comforts Fund
every Friday opposite the post office runs
a shop where everything is sold from
fresh produce picked that morning to
antiques and pawnshoppy-looking junk.
At the back of the shop is a knitting bee,
part of the financial cycle. The money
taken in front provides materials for the
workers operating offstage.
Among the honorary appointments of
Divisional Commandants of the Red
Cross Emergency Service throughout
Australia is that of Kathleen Kyffin
Thomas to the S.A. Division. A keen
member of the Red Cross executive since
1915 she was hon. sec. of the same
division during the 1914-18 war, and
was awarded an 0.8. E. for her services.
She is a daughter of knight Robert
Kyffin Thomas.
Numerous friends of Val and Yvonne
Cohen are glad that these bright young
artists have at last nerved themselves up
to having a show, to be opened on the
afternoon of the 18th at Riddell’s Gal-
leries. It will be a Dunk Island exhibi-
tion, and all proceeds will be given to
patriotic funds. Just before Christmas
the girls and their mother returned from
their longest sojourn at the Barrier Reef,
eight months. When they weren’t on
Dunk Island they camped on their own
island a few miles away, where their bun-
galow is nearly finished (they are going
to buy a Home Carpenter and tackle the
shelves themselves next year) and where
their garden is just fruiting in profusion.
They left when the bananas and the pea-
nuts were almost ready to eat. Fifty
yards from the house there are a beach
and a reef alive with oysters, big, fat, juicy
ones, almost begging to be eaten and
appreciated.
Possessing sunshiny natures, Val and
Yvonne make no complaints of the “sar-
dines” they catch now they’re home again
when they go out in boats most week-
ends from Westernport or Mornington —
but it must be a comedown to jump
straight from five feet of kingfish to five
inches of flathead. They caught plenty
of big fellows in Queensland waters. They
travelled home by ’plane, bringing their
pictures with them and sending on most
of their clothes by ship—with the result
that they were very short of slacks and
shorts and cotton frocks for six weeks.
They expect to exhibit about 30 pictures
at their little show, which will be almost
the last to be held at Riddell’s Galleries
—the space is being reclaimed by the
modern decor shop below.
Inset by Athol Shmith is Joan McCay,
who recently announced her engagement
to Hughie Syme. Joan, who is the third
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Delamore
McCay, of Kooyong, is as well known
in Sydney as she is in Melbourne —her
family lived in Sydney until two years
ago. Hughie, otherwise Lieut. H. R.
Syme, with the R.A.N.V.R. abroad, is
the elder son of the late Herbert Syme
and Mrs. Syme, of Caroline-street. He’s
always loved anything pertaining to the
sea, from big ships to small boats. He
also liked fishing and owned a fine assort-
ment of trout rods. After some naval
training here he went abroad during 1940
for much more serious experience.
Staying at Brookwood, whither she
always gravitates when in Melbourne, is
Mrs. Doris Booth, now of Brisbane and
erstwhile of New Guinea. She has been
in touch with the A.I.F. Women’s Asso-
ciation, the Charities Board, etc., talking
welfare and exchanging views and experi-
ences. When war broke out she, being
a nurse and a person of more than aver-
age ingenuity, looked around for some
useful work. Her choice was Mother-
craft, an organisation in Brisbane which
is maintained by public subscription with-
out Government subsidy. The society
gives help and advice to any women who
ask for them. A big percentage of those
assisted are soldiers’ wives with children
but very little money. Mrs. Booth’s work
is all honorary, and includes visiting and
inspecting homes, interviewing, taking
children to hospital, etc. She has no
car, and does her travelling without any
fuss by tram and train. She’s slim and
spry and not the least bit weather-worn.
She was the first woman to get to the
Morobe goldfields in New Guinea, and
for several years did her fair share of
sleeping in flooded shelters, living on rice
and native foods, and nursing both white
men and Kanakas through devastating
epidemics.
Terence Crisp’s production of
“Poisoned Pen” filled the Little Theatre
for one week’s season. It was a well-
acted and well-sustained effort. The play
had its faults, but most of them weren’t
apparent till the end. A middle-aged
woman has repressions (things that are
too handy for modern writers ; they serve
as an explanation for any creaky hinges
in the plot). The old girl takes to writing
anonymous letters and finally goes off her
rocker, but the cause of the mental de-
rangement is unconvincing.
Jean Campbell played the villainess
with her usual skill. Fortunately she has
a sense of humor, otherwise she’d be
getting nightmares as a result of all the
sinister parts that have been handed to
her during her career. Terence Crisp
was the parson, and whether by intent
or otherwise got a note of pathos into
the role. Betty Howden played the
ingenue, and Murielle Hearne’s acting
was most commendable as the house-
keeper, A surprise was solicitor Harry
Uxbridge Best, who has up till now kept
his histrionic yearnings a secret (except
perhaps from his intimate pals and con-
fidants). Plus a bald head (false), a
monocle which usually stayed in posi-
tion and a big cigar, he became a well-
fed retired colonel and J.P. with a wife
(Alma Silvester) in tone.
Ray Edwards was a police inspector,
but he didn’t look like one. John Wilbur
Ham as a handwriting expert was rather
too young and kittenish, but nobody
minded, because he obviously enjoyed
himself quite a lot. Aymee Adams and
Cynthia Sutton were village matrons and
gossips, the former having trouble with
her husband. Dorothy O’Shea died early
as a woebegone young seamstress. The
small part of the sexton was well done by
Alfred Davidson. A pleasant surprise
was Aenid Johnson, who usually gets
mournful roles. This time she was the
incredibly vulgar wife of the policeman,
and got a laugh every time she opened
her mouth.
Vanished from His Majesty’s “The
Sleeping Beauty,” whose successor, “The
Vagabond King,” followed on the fairy
panto., with an opening night on Satur-
day. It was a good house, and there was
a light of anticipation in quite a few blase
eyes—it’s been so long since the town has
done itself up in bibs and tuckers for a
first night. But if first impressions mean
anything the “Vagabond” won’t get the
month’s break that “The Sleeping
Beauty” claimed and justified for herself.
Mrs. D. H. Ross and her two sons in
uniform made a personable family trio.
Forsyth (who is still known as “Stonk,”
a nickname from days at Scotch and at
the Shop) is a lieutenant in the A.1.F.,
and Gordon is an Air Force observer.
Another family threesome consisted of
Brigadier Teddy Milford (recently re-
turned from the Middle East) with his
wife and son John. The Robert Best
couple were there minus Roberta, still in
Sydney visiting her sister, Mrs. Atholl
Fleming. A group which did some chat-
ting in the intervals (there were three of
these) included Dr. and Mrs. Leslie
Kirsner and the George Purbricks, Mrs.
Purbrick in sapphire-blue gown and bur-
gundy velvet lapels to her coat. An on-
looker from far afield was Alec Mason,
who for the last year has been droving
cattle somewhere in the vicinity of Wave
Hill (N.T.). Alec wants to join the Navy
in any capacity so he can see a bit of
action, and quite soon this city might be
meeting him in bell-bottomed pants with
a cheeky cap on the back of his head.


SOMETHING TO BE
=PROUD OF =
The
“NARVON”
POLEY SADDLE
★
q
N.S.W.
Freight
on Saddles
paid for
cash with
order.
ALTHER u STEVEMSOM lt
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
£l6/18/-
(complete).
★
The tree is de-
signed to allow a
full free bar. The
seat is hogskin,
with a Sin. dip.
The flaps and
skirts are of kip
leather and are
24in. long, and
the back staple
is leather.
Send for our Saddlery
Catalogue ! It’s Free !
THE SERVICE MAN
On to Benghazi.
“Ek Dum”: Derna fell on January 30,
ten days after the troops went into posi-
tions for the attack on Tobruk and
eight days after the fall of that
town. This time, though defence was
less easy than at Tobruk and Bardia —
almost purely military posts, whereas
Derna is the capital of a province which
is widely spread out—the Italians fought
every inch of the way, using everything
from dive bombers to naval guns. The
attackers had to face machine-gun fire in
the open, ambushes in the gullies and
fire from heavy artillery.
Australians bore much of the brunt of
the fighting. In the attack on the airport,
which called for a long crawl under
machine-gun and dive-bomber fire oyer
open ground, they were brigaded with
Geordies in an operation which took
several hours in the blazing sun. They
finished the attack with a fixed-bayonet
charge on the hangars at sundown, but
had to face another machine-gunning and
tank onslaught the next morning until
British anti-tank men turned up. Even
then the Italians dropped 150 shells on
the aerodrome in hours. There were
no doubts among our men at the end
of their 24 hours of combat as to whether
or not the Italians could fight when they
wanted to.
Unlike other battles, the victory yielded
few prisoners ; 10,000 Italians, includng
Bersaglieri regiments, escaped, to form
new lines of defence.
The task of General Wavell assumes a
new complexion. Benghazi, the second
city of Libya and the capital of
Cyrenaica, is now his main objective, but
he must consider several intermediate
objectives. Sixty miles to the south of
Derna there is a short cut across the
root of the Pentapolis peninsula, fed from
the Barca railhead, which is 66 miles
from Benghazi. No exposed flank can
be left down there, where the route is so
much shorter than that round the motor
road by the coast. Attack along the
southern route alone would mean that
the extending line of communications
could be harassed from the numerous
settlements along the sea. This would be
easier because, from Derna onward
through the Jebel Akhdar, the coastal
country assumes an aspect very different
from the pitiless waste over which the
armies so far have progressed.
It is fertile, full of timbered hills and
valleys, where the olive and the orange
grow; and there are fields of barley
which, in a happier day, used to provide
Kilmarnock with a lot of its grain for
brewing.
There are vast marble skeletons of
ancient cities, and, generally speaking,
better facilities for retreat and ambush
and defence.
The advance must necessarily be
slowed up because, even acting against
much depleted forces, the attackers must
presume that there will be resistance
through the whole depth from the Mekili
country to the fine coastal motor road.
Roughly, however, the assault will be
another two-pronged attack, forcing the
coastal route in the north and the Mekili-
Benghazi road in the south.
At the week-end the air forces on both
sides were doing most of the work.
Italian communiques claimed that Ger-
man ’planes had raided Solium and
Bardia, sinking there a 10,000-ton ship,
and pushed as far eastward as Suez. The
R.A.F. fired an 8000-ton merchantman,
damaged two others, smashed a number
of seaplanes, a railway junction and jetty
at Tripoli, and destroyed two heavy
bombers at the Barca railhead.
Jubilee in Eritrea.
“Ek Bum”; Eritrea’s first contact with
Europe was made 400 years ago this year,
when Christavao da Gama, son of Vasco,
gave his life in rescuing the country from
the Moslems under Mahomet the Left-
handed.
The Italians first made their appear-
ance on the coast near Perim, at the
entrance to the Indian Ocean, in 1870,
when the Rubattino steamship company
bought Assab for a coaling station from
the Sultan of Raheita, Assab is oppo-
site the Arabian town of Mocha, where
the coffee comes from.
In 1879 the Italians took formal pos-
session of this part of the country ; in
1885 they landed troops to occupy Mas-
sawa, two-thirds of the way up the Eri-
trean coast; on January 1, 1890, they
“Lubra belong Tom Blarney bin Walkabout along Egypt all same!"
formed the whole territory into the
colony of Eritrea—their oldest foothold
in Africa. They named it Eritrea after
the Mare Erythrceum —the Roman name
for the Indian Ocean.
Eritrea has a Red Sea coastline of 670
miles. The country is roughly the shape
of a stingaree which has been arguing
with Joe Louis and developed a badly-
swollen tail and a bent fo’c’sle. The tail
runs down the coast from the point where
16 lat. crosses 40 E. long. Just above
the tail-joint is Massawa, behind which
the green hills of the body of Eritrea, of
which the total area is a bit more than
half that of Victoria, are to be seen. The
railway runs 75 miles and 8000 feet up
these hills to Asmara, the capital, and
thence 140 miles into the interior, across
the plateau to Agordat, Cheren and
Biscia. Biscia is going on for 100 miles
frorp Kassala in the scrub country across
the border of the Sudan, and about 220
miles from Massawa. Where the Case
River flows out of Eritrea to kiss the
Suakim branch railway, which runs across
the Atbara to Meroe island, which is
encompassed by that river and the Blue
Nile, the Italians crossed the Sudanese
border opposite Khartoum and took
Kassala some months ago.
The struggle in progress started from
behind Kassala, now recaptured by the
British, and the ultimate prizes are
Asmara, Addis Ababa and Massawa and
the rest of East Africa.
Asmara is a large town of about 85,000
people, of whom 50,000-odd are unfortu-
nate Italians, largely Calabrian peasants,
who have been dumped down there since
the conquest of Abyssinia.
The district has been noted as being
like a bit of Italy proper. The vine and
the olive grow there and the Italians live
an Italian life,
Climatically, however, Massawa is like
a camp on the shores of Lake Wad-
madingalinda, Central Australia, with the
heater turned on. It is a low, evil-100 -
! ng 7 mp ,' 7 n f h°7r n£en
turned into a naval base—often con-
tained several Japanese tramps loading
salt, since Massawa before the war sup-
plied that commodity to the Nipponese
dried-fish trade. The salt mounds are
about as high as a Centralian dune and
as white as snow.
The blow struck from Kassala was
nicely timed at the moment of the on-
slaught on Tobruk. The forces under
General Wavell’s command or co-operat-
ing with him are now striking all round
the compass, and the Ethiopian Empire
of Italy is being pierced from three sides
and from its own heart by forces which
represent five continents—more like a
British Empire exhibition than an army.
Kenya alone announced that it had drawn
on seven British colonies ; on the other
fronts round Abyssinia and Eritrea there
are British, Indian and Imperial troops,
and on the white-ant front in Abyssinia
the local Hamite rebels are reinforced
by Australians and British.
After the fall of Berbera in August,
Addis Ababa R.adio announced that the
capture of British Somaliland was only
a prelude to greater things. The drive
was to go on perhaps to Mosul. Italian
and German propagandists insinuated it
into the mind of a Famous American
Correspondent that Italy could “muster
250,000 men in Ethiopia, Eritrea and
Italian Somaliland, about 128,000 of
whom have already been trained.” At-
tacks on British arms were to be devel-
oped on three fronts—in Kenya, where
Italian troops had pushed across the
border from Abyssinia and Italian
Somaliland, where the jumping-off place
was to be in territory which Britain pre-
sented to the Italian nation 16 years ago ;
from a point opposite the Biscia railhead,
near Tessenei, in Eritrea, where the
Italian forces had moved across the
Sudan border to Kassala, and in the
Gallabat region further south.
All that Mr. Churchill had to say in
response to the threats was that the R.N.
had “complete command of the
Mediterranean,” and that Britain had
“large armies in the Middle East and
many means of reinforcing them.”
Time has proved that the Italians were
•
nght about where the sinking would
be done, bu they were sadly wrong as
to who would do it. The British have
taken the initiative m northern Kenya,
near Metemma (Gallabat) on the Abys-
sinian border, and at Kassala, all the
attacks being behind R.A.F. and S.A.A.F.
squadrons, which plaster aerodromes and
bases in the Italian colonies— various
points in Italian Somaliland, Massawa,
Asmara, Assab and other towns.
Scottish troops and Indians pene-
trated Eritrea in two motorised pincer-
prongs, which after a week closed
near Biscia, opened again and then
closed once more on Agordat—Agordat
guards the railway crossing on the Barca
River and the three new motor roads
which run from the coast and from Abys-
sinia.
On the morning of February 1 Agordat
fell. Hundreds of prisoners, 11 tanks,
guns, mechanical transport and ammu-
nition in quantity were taken and 15
tanks were destroyed. British and Indian
i anc i forces and the R.A.F. shared in the
v j~-ory. By dusk the enemy was being
c b> sed towards Cheren, which is 53 miles
away t he last town which has to be taken
before Asmara is attacked. From Cheren
A , ,
to Asmara is 65 miles by rail. Agordat
not m *Jch fuither away across country,
The road to Barentu, 50 miles south ol
Agordat, has beep cut, thereby prevent-
'nS the junction between Italian border
forces in Abyssinia and those at Asmara.
And British patrols along the Indian
Ocean coast are approaching Kismayu
and t * lc ; Juba river, which he 100 miles
inside the territory ceded to Italy in J9_..
The southern part of the advance has
cut off a corner of the colony south of
the Gasc River, and its only aerodrome
at Tessenei is being bombed out of exist-
ence.
After advancing 100 miles into the
country in nine days, the invaders re-
ported having been resisted only three
times—on the Gasc River, near the
border on the way to Barentu, south of
Biscia, at Gogni and at Admureit, 48
miles south of Agordat.
At Gogni, a North-west Frontier
(i nc jian) force turfed out a crowd of
from a rocky ledge. Admureit
was Stemer affair but just the thing
f Bannu-a rocky gorge,
, y . , . t
hea , vllj : m ' ned a " d £ull o£ f ra ‘ ers - ,he
ambush which Ah Khan understands so
thoroughly, and a 900 ft. hill packed on
top on the more distant slopes with
bayonet fodder.
Sappers cleared the gorge of mines in
six hours. The Indians went through.
scaled the hill and passed down on the
other side in a whirlwind of bayonets,
This cracked the main Italian resist-
ance in the western part of Eritrea and
allowed the pincers to close 22 miles
from Agordat. At that stage, on Jan. 24,
the visitors had taken 1200 prisoners,
In the Gallabat sector, 150 miles away,
another British force has crossed the
Ethiopian frontier on the way to Metefn-
ma and places further east. There is a
direct relationship between the north and
south attacks. The two movements are
working in unison to envelop and make
use of the whole of Italy’s brand-mew
road system in Abyssinia and Eritrea,
Asmara has been joined to Addis
Ababa—4so miles away as the crow flies
—bv a bitumen road. When the northern
Asmara. this will be open
Brjtjsh transport , Perhaps the
attackers may str ike southward uf
Asmara and reac h this road, at the saifie
time cutt i ng the Asmara-Gondar (capital
of Am bara Province) road nearer the
s u( j an border.
It is at the Gondar en d of this high-
that the Gallabat force is driving,
its objective being roughly 100 miles
across COUljtry f rom the border. From
there it can link with the northern force
means of a short traverse, and every
f ew miles new opportunities open up.
Dessye and Magdala, where King
Theodore attacked a British brigade unqer
Robert Napier on Good Friday 1868,
and committed suicide three days later.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
OTHERS:
33/6 to 70/-
MONET
BELTS.
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
13/6 & 35/-
MIRRORS.
Stainless
Steel,
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising: —Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, File, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KUCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
/Tk T - A«v \
(Near Wynyard Station.)
42'-
PRICE:
Free
Delivers
to all
Suburbs.
when the British had killed 500 and
wounded 5000 for a loss of two killed
and 20 wounded, has a branch road to
Dessye. There two highways open up-
one to Assab, the other to the great air
centre of Diredawa on the railway to
Jibuti.
When the pipers reach Addis Ababa
they will find a choice selection of invit-
ing avenues opening up to them —the
road to Jiga Jiga and Hargeisa in British
Somaliland, the railway which runs into
French territory, the roads southward to
Jimmi and Soddu—an aerodrome 160
miles from the nearest point on the Kenya
border.
Italian Somaliland along the Indian
Ocean will present comparatively easy
problems. It has a population of a mil-
lion, of whom about 10,000 are Italians,
including soldiery. ■ Most are recent
arrivals.
The best that can be said for the
Italians is that they are no worse off in
East Africa than they are in Libya.
Their communique after their resist-
ance had been smashed in western
Eritrea, their aerodromes and naval base
pounded and their Empire broken open
in several places merely remarked that
“our troops repulsed enemy action south
of Gallabat and caused the enemy to
withdraw in Kenya ; also Asmara was
bombed without effect and our 'planes
bombed British troops and lorries.”
From Above the Clouds.
“Aileron”: During January London
had only 41 air-raid warnings and most
of the raids were short; in many cases
no bombs were dropped. On 18 out of
31 nights no alerts were heard. And
there was one period of nine days free
of them altogether.
The Germans seem to have realised
that until they can master the technique
of day raiding they cannot beat Britain.
Success calls for a technique of height
and speed combined with heavy protec-
tive fire-power, or the advantage of
abnormal cloud. But height has its diffi-
culties, because neither side has a
monopoly of it. The ceilings of British
fighters were consistently raised as it was
found that German ’planes could fly out
of reach of them.
At present the German technique seems
to aim experimentally at the application
of the “crocodile” system of sending
over, in daylight, a string of machines
at short intervals on the plan used in
night-raiding at Coventry and other towns.
On January 29, the eve of Hitler’s
anniversary speech, a few ’planes were
heard snooping round England in day-
light, dropping casual bombs. A half-
hearted attack was made on London
early in the evening. Next day a stream
of bombers passed over London and
other parts of England, principally the
north-east and west, dropping both in-
cendiaries and h.es. Scattered damage
was done.
On January 31 there was low cloud
over England. Above it ’planes which
had not the slightest idea of hitting
specific targets unloaded their cargoes of
death. Part of the attack was directed at
the Dover balloon barrage, where, appar-
ently, there was some visibility. The
Germans claimed • to have destroyed
bombers on Mildenhall aerodrome and
elsewhere; odd enemy craft were
destroyed.
The R.A.F. has not been idle. It raided
Wilhelmshaven, the Channel invasion
ports, the Norwegian coast and points in
west Germany during the week, and was
active on all the Mediterranean and
African fronts, where the enemy ’planes
were less busy than in previous weeks,
save over Derna and its lines of com-
munication with Egypt.
There is some evidence that co-
operation of dive bombers with the
Italians about Derna on the lines used
in France is coming from a few German
squadrons which have been sent from
Sicily. But Goring will find it a difficult
Job to establish bases in Libya. The
R.A.F. already has all the east Libyan
ones and has reduced most of the others
to rubbish heaps.
There have been heavy raids on
Malta. They may possibly be fore-
runners of an attempt to capture that
island, but it would be a hazardous
operation.
Fighting the U-boats.
Merchant shipping losses for the week
to Jan. 20 amounted to 58,212 tons —five
British vessels totalling 34,722 tons and six
Allied ships. Though small by compari-
son with sinkings in bad October and
November weeks, they exceeded the total
for the first January fortnight—lB ships,
aggregating 44,913 tons. Number of lives
lost and nature and value of cargo sunk
are, naturally, carefully-kept Admiralty
secrets. The figures can scarcely be palat-
able to Hitler, but he declares in words
rather suggestive of Mr. Snodgrass and
Mr. Micawber that “the U-boat war will
start this spring,” and that “when the
hour comes we will launch a decisive last
stroke.” This in a speech in which there
were much blackguarding of Britain and
a dark reference to “the day when the
great British Empire sinks to the grave,”
but no mention of the word “invasion”
with which politicians and pressmen
juggle.
Clearly increased numbers of corvettes
(of which several are being built in the
Commonwealth for the Admiralty), the
battering of U-boat bases and the multi-
plication of protective devices and im-
proved convoy methods are having their
effect. And minefields are apparently
breaking away under stress of heavy
weather, since Dublin reports that all
villages on the “south-east coast of Eire
have been evacuated because of the
danger from drifting mines.” The over-
all improvement in the situation is
marked by the revision of marine insur-
ance rates. A few increases have been
made, but the changes are mostly reduc-
tions —the rate for cargoes from Haifa to
Australia, for instance, has come down
from 15 per cent, to 10 per cent.
To Jan. 29 A.I.F. casualties at Bardia
and in isolated engagements related to it
totalled 122 killed, seven missing and 421
wounded. Tobruk losses have not been
fully made up, but Army Minister
Spender says they are not likely to exceed
300.
* * * *
The death of Metaxas, one of the
ablest of the dictators, is a blow to the
Greek cause, though it should make no
difference on the military side. Papagos
remains. He has proved himself a com-
mander of great talent and enjoys the
confidence of the British as well as the
Greeks. It has come out that Wavell
visited Athens recently, and Rome
announcers insinuated that the seizure
that caused Metaxas’s death was a con-
sequence of Wavell’s refusal to send an
army to Greece. They would say some-
thing like that.
• «••••
Though hampered by a new snowfall
which has reached down almost to the
coast, the Greeks are slowly but surely
occupying new positions, in spite of
heavy counter-attacks in the region north
of Tepelena. The R.A.F. has done fresh
damage at various points, including
Valona, which will be in imminent
jeopardy the moment Tepelena falls.
* * * *
Major-General Doug Wynter has been
compelled by ill-health to return to Aus-
tralia, after having commanded the 9th
Division A.I.F. since October and ad-
ministrative headquarters in England
before that. The Commonwealth is lucky
in having a large supply of young
generals with great fighting records.
One, Brigadier L. J, Morshead, is to
command Wynter’s Division, and the
new brigadier of the 18th is to be Lieut.-
Colonel G. F. Wootten, D. 5.0., a West
Wyalong (N.S.W.) solicitor, formerly on
the permanent C.M.F. staff corps and a
G.S.O. II at British Army H.Q. in the
last war.
* * * *
According to Goebbels, “our Fiihrer,”
passing from “triumph to triumph,” is
about to enjoy a busy spring. Nazi
quarters must be praying that it will be
a better spring than it has been a winter.
Last week Europe was plagued with rain,
snow, sleet and wind. In Denmark the
temperature was down as low as 57
below freezing; at that stage in the
thermometer, oils can be chopped up
with an axe and engines are like blocks
of ice. In Norway and far northern
Scotland Aberdeen is 277 miles from
Stavanger—it is night or twilight most of
the time ; the Channel is intermittently
a wall of fog, and English woods and
fields are in a state to be turned into a
bog by traffic. So the time scarcely seems
ripe for invasion, though Colonel Knox,
the U.S. Naval Secretary, has “informa-
tion from the interior of Germany” that
“an attempt to invade the British Isles
may begin at any moment.”
* * *
“Ek D.”: Two leading commanders
have broken the German tradition of
minimising British attack and strength.
Admiral Raeder admitted that in British
raids on German dockyards there had
been “many casualties,” that “night
bombing” had “caused loss and damage,”
and that “the danger from air attack”
was “growing.” The second warning
came from General Milch, the Air
Minister, who told his Germans that they
must not expect miracles from air de-
fence. He declared that A.A. defence
had practically forced the R.A.F. to stop
day raiding, but admitted that the techni-
cal difficulties of defence against night
raids had not yet been overcome, though
experts were continually seeking a solu-
tion. He added that “the English are a
Germanic race, fighters like ourselves ; it
would be a miracle if they suddenly
caved in.” These admissions have a dif-
ferent tone from the ravings of the
Fiihrer and his political satellites.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Barbarously as this war has
been waged by the Germans, they seem
anxious to prove that they are not utterly
inhuman. Witness their agreement with
Britain —arranged, of course, through a
neutral —for the exchange of incapaci-
tated prisoners of war ; and apparently, as
in the last war, they are respecting the
Red Cross to the extent of delivering par-
cels. Anyway, Pilot-Officer Edwards, of
Maoriland, who was captured when his
machine crashed early in the war, has
written to his parents at Patea that ‘there
is nothing 1 need, as the Red Cross
Society has looked after us very well.”
He is allowed to write seven letters a
month, receive footballs, see camp talkies
and is not subjected to strict confinement
—“We spend many hours outside sun-
bathing and playing Soccer. In fine,
we are being well treated, and even more
so since the French left for their own
camp.”
* * * *
Parties to the queer Thailand-Indo-
China frontier war signed an armistice
aboard a Japanese warship last week.
Japanese arranged the thing, and
American correspondents augur the
worst from this fact, though it doesn’t
seem particularly menacing on the face
of it.
* * * •
“Ek Dum”: Italy got Libya in 1912
from the Turks, and the Jarabub Oasis,
where the Australians “charged sword in
hand” (Churchill), was added by Egypt
—per favor of John Bull—in February,
1926. I attended some of the belated cele-
brations of that “victory for diplomacy.”
After it, Musso. sent two of his warships
to parade the Red Sea and the Eastern
Mediterranean while Italian papers, which
were on every bookstall in Egypt, shouted
about the “new and most glorious
Roman Empire.” The two warships
turned up in Port Said one afternoon
hung with a set of flags which looked
like the Swiss Guards’ underclothing.
Presently an unobtrusive British gunboat
arrived and a lot of British tars came
ashore, to find the boulevarde converted
into part of the Roman Empire and all
the seats occupied by Italian sailors while
the gallee-gallee boys looked on in awe
at their splendor. In a few minutes the
air was thick with evicted Giuseppes,
some of whom were seized by the seat
of the pants and decanted vigorously into
Mare Nostrum. An arbitrator turned up
—a large eunuch in a tarboosh and a
cummerbund. The last I saw of him he
was head first in a large water jar which
previously had stood before a leading
pubbery with a palm in it. Two Jack
tars were rolling him down the high-
way.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: I have a bold plan which, if
adopted, should finally give the coup de
grace to Italy. Now, it is my theory
that Musso., ever the wily strategist,
packed the forts at Sidi Barrani, Bardia,
Tobruk, etc., with as many troops as
could be crammed inside them as soon
as he heard Wavell had started his offen-
sive, deliberately withholding assistance
so they would all be taken prisoners.
Diabolically, he chose for these garri-
sons Italy’s heartiest eaters, with a view
to breaking Britain, agriculturally and
financially. Probably Musso. is pouring
more men into Africa, so that we will be
kidded into finally relieving his sorely-
pressed commissariat of the feeding of
500,000 men. Why not, instead of expen-
sively transporting them to India and
other places and lavishing on them our
well-known hospitality, dump them back
on Italy? Mare Nostrum would offer no
difficulty, for at sight of such a shipping
collection the Italian Navy would light
out at top speed for parts unknown, and
when Musso. woke one morning to find
he had not only to find macaroni for an
unexpectedly huge mob but would have
to appoint another 300,000 secret police
to stop them spilling the beans about the
campaign, he might have another twist.
And don’t say we’ve no precedent for
such an action —didn’t Fritz in 1918 send
back prisoners taken from a Gallant
Ally with a polite intimation that they
weren’t worth feeding?
* * * *
Army life is healthy—in Maoriland,
anyway. In 16 months of the war, during
which “many thousands of men have
passed through the mobilisation and terri-
torial camps,” there have been only 13
deaths from all causes, and only one
occurred in a military camp. In that case
a returned soldier employed as a mess
steward at Trentham passed away in his
sleep.
* * * *
Collection of the stark truth about the
invasion of the Low Countries and France
is a slow process, but hair-raising facts
have been ascertained. The key bridge
at Maestricht which opened the way into
Holland and Belgium was taken by two
Germans from one sentry. At Sedan the
bridges were left intact; the Sedan gate
was guarded only by new Parisian
divisions which, after suffering a couple
of hours of air bombardment in which
there were few casualties, took to their
heels. The French had hundreds of long
75’s which could have dealt with the
heaviest tanks, but their will to use them
seemed paralysed. They were offered the
Metropolitan Bombing force by the
British Cabinet; all they called for —after
fatal hesitation —was 70 Fairey Battles, of
which 37 were lost in a gallant attempt
to stop the rot in the Sedan bulge. Some-
times the German tanks were 60 miles
ahead of their infantry, having met no
resistance. So much for the alliance with
semi-Communist France.
* * * *
The Empire Air Training scheme has
called for work which should be an
inspiration to the Commonwealth. Till
October, 55 aerodromes, with 170 miles
of hard-surface runway, 100 ft. wide, and
all normal flying accessories, had been
built in Canada. Altogether the equiva-
lent of £5,000,000 Australian was spent
on aerodrome development. This month
heavy bomb production will begin in
Quebec —it is intended to turn out
20,000 tons of 500-pounders per annum,
* * * *
“T.”: It is quaint to read some of the
things written in England about Italian
military prowess when it was hoped to
keep Mussolini out of Hitler’s arms. For
example, an article in the 1937 “Daily
Mail ” Year-Book on “The Abyssinian
Eye Opener.” H. W. Wilson was the
writer, and he testified that “great insight
was shown by Signor Mussolini, who de-
cided that the conquest of Abyssinia
could be carried out in a few months,”
and that results achieved were “pro-
digious”:—
Aircraft and light tanks were skilfully
employed by the Italian command... .The
achievements of the Italian engineers and
their 60,000 laborers were marvellous
The Turkish General Wehib Pasha ascribed
the Abyssinian collapse largely to the
excellence of the Italian intelligence and
spy system... .Graziani moved rapidly for-
ward This marked the end of the war.
Now Mussolini’s “insight” has become
a joke, and Graziani has “come a
Cadorna.” And before long the con-
querors of Abyssinia will be looking for
a way out.


THE INQUISITIVE
G VEST
I
1:
INSULATION FROM HEAI
'' V- -;' c7/#n h
INSULATION FROM COLD
%
INSULATION FROM NOISE
• When a dingy, old-fashioned living-room goes
completely modern almost overnight NO WONDER
PEOPLE WANT TO KNOW WHYI The answer, of
course, is simply Cane-ite Insulating Board the
modern structural and decorative medium that lets
you transform your home easily, quickly, and
inexpensively! You can transform a dingy room or
lounge—modernise your bedrooms and guest-room—
rescue a disused attic or lumber room—and. carry
out the smartest modern treatment! And, remember,
when you renovate with Cane-ite you insulate
against heat, cold, and noise!
Cane-ite is made in Australia. It is strong, durable
and white-ant proofed. On request we will gladly
send literature and full information.
c al§ j“t* T E
INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR
Sydney • Melbourne
REFINING COMPANY LTD. (BUILDING
Adelaide . Brisbane
MATERIAL!
Perth
DIVISION)
CAI-A1
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872. SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at _ rate *‘
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Curt,
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek _
NORTH OF TWENTY-EIGHT
Marble Bar Breaks Its Record
At Mallina, North Westralia, in 1888, a
youth named Withnall picked up a stone
to throw at a bird. He didn’t throw
it; there was a speck of gold in the stone.
The news travelled ; prospectors arrived
and discovered the Mallina and Pedawah
reefs. Then rich alluvial was struck on
Pilbara creek in July and nuggets were
unearthed ; one went 127 ounces.
The Pilbara goldfield was proclaimed
on October 1, 1888. Where a bar of
mottled quartz (at first thought to be
marble) crossed the Shaw River a settle-
ment was established. It became the
centre of the field and was called Marble
Bar.
The Bar is about 120 miles s.-e. of
Port Hedland. It is made up of a
main street, a few tracks and a collec-
tion of iron, board and asbestos-cement
buildings which have nearly 900 occupants.
Away to the south is Nullagine ; further
south is the Murchison, with its ’fields —
Peak Hill, Meekathara, Wiluna, Cue (the
Big Bell) and Mt. Magnet. To the s.-e.
of Marble Bar is the desert stretching into
Centralia.
From the desert comes the heat. It
pours down on Marble Bar, on the hard,
reddish-brown ground, on the low grey
scrub and occasional gum, on the iron-
stone formations, on the iron roofs of
the buildings, turning them into ovens.
For 250 days of an average year Marble
Bar sweats in a temperature of 90 deg.
or over ; twice —in January, 1905 and
1922 —the thermometer registered 120.5
deg. From November 9, 1921, to Febru-
ary 22, 1922 (106 days), the mercury
reached 100 deg. and climbed higher.
Residents of Marble Bar thought—and
hoped —that that would be a record for
all time, but 1941 has seen it broken.
On October 15, 1940, the thermometer
recorded 100 deg. That figure was
attained or exceeded on 106 subsequent
days. During the first five days in
December the 110-deg. mark was
reached ; in the second and third week
of January there were only two days
when it was less than 110 deg.; on Janu-
ary 2 it was 115 deg.
The severity of this heat-wave has been
enough to chase some residents away to
the south. Some of them swear they
won’t come back. But as long as there’s
gold at Marble Bar or thereabouts there’ll
be Australians in the neighborhood.
“Trew”: Queensland has been fairly
free of serious railway accidents in recent
years, though hurricanes, deluges and
floods often give maintenance men head-
aches. The Thallon mail crash occurred
two days before the twenty-eighth anni-
versary of the Murphy’s Creek accident
of 1913, when a train of empty carriages
ran into a breakdown gang clearing up
after an accident a few hours before,
killed six and injured others. In June,
1925, nine passengers were killed and 55
injured when a van on the Rockhamp-
ton mail was derailed and pulled two
coaches into a ravine. A year later came
the Aberdeen (N.S.W.) crash, when the
Brisbane mail went through a viaduct,
killing five and injuring over 30, includ-
ing members of a J. C. Williamson com-
pany on tour. ....
“Balander”: From Toowoomba to the
spot where the Thallon mail train crashed
into a landslide at 11 p.m. on Jan. 26, it
is only five miles. According to the rail-
“We orter put some bags over the poison cart, Ma. Ain't doin' it no good, exposed t' the Weather."
way “heads” it took an hour for the
news to travel the five miles, another two
hours to assemble the breakdown crew
and another 30 minutes for the break-
down train to complete the journey. It
didn’t occur to anybody to send medical
assistance ahead by rail trolley or motoi-
car, though cars were used to assemble
the breakdown crew. Even if they had
walked a first-aid party could have got
there a good hour before the relief train.
It was five hours after the crash before
the injured reached Toowoomba. The
mother of three young children was the
last to be released ; she died 20 hours
later. Though the rescue party worked like
Trojans, the delay in getting them away
from Toowoomba calls for inquiry, and
nobody is satisfied with the official expla-
nation that the train crew were hard to
collect because it was Sunday night.
“Poi-poi”: One of the injured pas-
sengers in the Queensland rail smash
stopped a crack on the head from a most
unexpected source. With debris falling
around them in the darkness after the
crash, he and his wife were trying to
shield their small son when something
struck him heavily. The object was a
heavy Bible.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Many an old resident
of Queensland’s central-west will heave
a sigh for the passing of Alex. McMillan,
driver of Cobb’s coaches in the far out-
back for more than 20 years. When the
century was young he worked the Boulia-
Muckunda Crossing section of the long
Winton-Boulia round, while Steve Wall,
and after him Billy Markwell, operated the
other half into the Winton railhead. Both
have gone ahead of him across the
Great Divide. A peculiarity which set
Alex, apart from all other Cobb drivers
was that he never swore at his horses,
although on occasion he would perform
brilliantly on any human objective which
seemed to need it.
“T.”: That Rabaul article (B. 22/1/41)
reminds me of what J. V. Fairbaim said
after his visit to the Territories in 1938.
He said: “There should be one capital
for New Guinea and Papua ; there should
be one administrative service for these
territories ; there should be trained for
this service men who could interchange
with all the Territories Papua, New
Guinea, Nauru and the N.T.—and there
should be one pension system for them.
There spoke a wise man. It is a thou-
sand pities that he was not spared to
witness what must come about,
* * * *
“6T6”: The Bulletin item likening
Albania in size to Alexandria station
( NT )—a bit over 10,000 sq. miles—
made m£ think of the late Dick Holt,
the famous manager of Alexandria. His
middle name was Energy ; he was a won-
derful horseman, a bushman such as we
read about but rarely see, and a living
miracle as a human compass. Yet alter
about 40 years on the station Dick con-
fessed to me that there were parts of
the place he still didn’t know. That raises
the question: How much country can
a man know intimately? I say about
1000 sq. miles is the ordinary man’s limit.
And it needs to be open downs country
to allow that area to stay in his mind.
A man might know 50,000 or more sq.
miles, as I do myself. But I could never
memorise more than about 1000 at a
time —know it so as to work it to its
limit. Country alters slowly but surely,
and my experience is that few men s
minds can keep pace with the gradual
changes of more than 1000 sq. miles at
a time.
« * * •
“K.P.’s” warning:
The death of a 13-year-old girl at Towns-
ville shortly after having been stung by a Portu-
guese man-o’-war in the city baths adds another
to the long list of injuries and fatalities reported
to have been inflicted amongst bathers by those
dangerous blue voyagers of the Pacific. By no
means all of such reports have been substan-
tiated by the one conclusive piece of evidence
against Physalia —blue, threadlike tentacles adher-
ing to the skin. They bear rows of poison
cysts, in each of which is coiled a tiny barbed
dart. When the tentacles come in contact with
prey or a fancied enemy the coil springs
straight, carrying poison with it and attaching
the tentacle to the victim’s skin for emission
of the cyst contents. The blue threads may
extend for ten or more feet from the blue,
bladder-like body of a big specimen, and every
inch of them carries the barbed armament. The
best first-aid measure is to scrub off all traces
of the adhering threads with sand and salt
water. The poison is a heart depressant, and
the injured person should be kept quiet and
lying down. In the absence of suitable medical
treatment, hot water relieves the pain—often
severe. If no trace of blue —or white threads
is found, punctures from shells or fish spines
should be looked for, the pulse and breath-
ing watched, and medical aid sought as soon
as possible if there is any sign of Mur
of either, or fainting. Some jellyfish can
sting severely, their method being similar to
that of Physalia and the treatment the same.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Stree/
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A,
gypvpv OFFICE 279 George Street
110 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: n Leadennall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE BOOM IN THE U.S.A.—
An Authoritative Review.
Australian Financial Developments Recorded.
February Issue On Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 2\- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty„ Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
\*\-'
> W* ll
T^flox
aRIS ♦?.
10
SI
W
vftl*
p.o°
\o
*1
f o' 1 " 1
iiC«
S« rV
Lte*
ing
S* v
,te* 1
C»
?/?iA
S LEA o '^^
Next Town Hall - Little Collins Street
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“The Vagabond King”
Francis Villon, musicomedy version,
strutted the boards once more at
Melbourne His Majesty’s, and a full
house breathlessly followed the ascen-
sion of the poet to the Grand
Marshalship of France and the gal-
lows from which he was duly rescued
by an offer of marriage from the Lady
Katherine de Vaucelles (Elsa Stenning).
The only thing lacking to make a com-
plete musicomedy addict’s holiday was
the discovery that he had been changed
in his cradle and was of the blood royal
and not the son of a shoemaker.
John Howard’s voice carried him
through more than his acting, but if his
acting had been ten times better it would
have been broken on the strange conven-
tions of Rudolph Friml’s opus. A more
stirring evening would have eventuated
if the authors had presented Villon’s
character more as it was instead of
making the poet the romantic noodle
he is in the play.
The musical peak of the evening was
the Vagabonds’ Song, rendered with
enormous vigor by J.C.W.’s chorus in
tattered raiment and led by Mr. Howard.
It brought the house down every time.
Better still, in present commentator’s
opinion, was the scene in the tavern when
the lights were lowered and the dramatic
highlights, rich shadows and masses of
tangled bodies recalled one of Rem-
brandt’s early religious pictures. The
Firm’s robes mistress had the biggest
night out of her existence in the sub-
sequent court scenes.
Elsa Stenning pleased the audience with
her singing, and the veteran Lorna Forbes
was a rabid tavernkeeper. Don Nicol
made excellent comedy of the poet’s
henchman, and Leslie Victor, as Louis
XI, gave a fifteenth-century version of
fifth-column activities by chasing the
girls about while the Burgundians, in the
person of Frank Birmingham, thundered
at the gates of Paris. The death of the
deserted light-of-love of the poet,
Huguette Du Hamel, has always cast a
superfluous gloom over the proceedings,
but Cath Esler did it very prettily.
* * * V
Insects and Men
Taking the insect creation and the
manner in which their way of life com-
pares with that of mankind two Czech
playwrights, the brothers Capek, pro-
duced a dozen or more years ago a bit-
terly satirical play, “The Life of the In-
sects.” It was wide-embracing, valid
criticism, striking harshly at all sections
of society, at idle rich (the butterflies)
and hard-working capitalist, at hide-
bound bourgeois and honest workingman,
and at those parasitical believers in a uni-
versal distribution of wealth without toil.
It’s validity remains so long as human
nature is unaltered—and that certainly
hasn’t changed in a decade.
But the authors went further than that.
They reserved some of their richest satire
for the regimentation of industry, the
speeding up of production, the sudden
appearance of dictatorships and the
growth of the desire (not national, but
inherent to the dictator as an individual)
for world conquest—“for the well-being
of the Whole.” And in a decade, Czecho-
slovakia, which housed the authors, has
been swallowed up ; a dictator, prepar-
ing and planning and mobilising for war,
has had war “forced” upon him and gone
into it “justly and rightly and for the
well-being of the Whole.” The play-
wrights’ contention, valid as theoretical
comment at the time it was written, can’t
now be divorced from its relationship to
contemporary history. It becomes not a
basis for argument but a statement of
propaganda. That portion of the play,
though it may in another ten years re-
appear as vigorous and artistic satire,
cannot at present be regarded as any-
thing more than invective. It can no
longer give cause for thought, but only
bring derisive laughter at the expense of
dictatorships.
Any present-day performance of the
play must suffer for that reason, and the
Independents’ revival of it at their
Applied psychology in “Reunion in Vienna ” at Sydney Minerva. Doctor Lloyd Lamble disapproving
of Rudolf Maximilian Styles’s princely way with spouse Mary Ward. Papa Frank Bradley hovering;
cigar with Marie Le Varre.
North Sydney theatre is no exception.
On the opening night there were other
faults—the inaudibility of some of the
characters speaking through masks, the
necessity for prompting, and the diffi-
culty of drilling a huge cast. Costumes
and scenery—of more than ordinary
importance if the thing is to be a success
—were excellent, and the biting humor
of the purely social criticism rushed the
early part of the play along. Mary
Hosking, Robert Roberts (bourgeois
beetles), Raymond Irons, Redmond
Phillips, Gwen Plumb, Thomas Parra-
more (the ant engineer who proclaims
himself dictator) and Frederich Munro
(the Tramp who endeavors to interpret
it all) caught the spirit of the piece.
ARTBURSTS.
A Memorial Statue
The “Pioneer Woman,” carved out of
a solid block of stone for the Women’s
Centenary Movement in Adelaide by Ola
Cohn, is standing in the sculptor’s garden
at East Melbourne waiting transporta-
tion. It is a seven-foot-six figure on
which Miss Cohn has been working since
March, 1938. There will be diverse
opinions about the conception. A stylised
face without any vivacity of expression
is looking down at a sundial over a
featureless body encased in a long gown
out of which a pair of hands which don’t
look as if they could grasp even a knitting
needle are peeping. A pair of flat feet
as featureless as the face complete the
ensemble.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Seven Sinners”
Clarice at Sydney State:
“I’ve just seen ‘Seven Sinners’ and
it’s simply marvellous because it’s all
about Marlene Dietrich and terribly ex-
citing because she’s not allowed to land
on any of the Islands where she earns
her living because she sings in cafes and
wears terribly exciting clothes and all
the men fight over her but she’s not a bad
woman really because she’s awfully
beautiful and her husband drank and
drove her out to earn her living. Any-
way she manages to land on one island
where there are a lot of sailors from the
Navy who all fall in love with her but
she only loves one of them who is tall
and handsome and called John and who
loves her because she’s beautiful and
not because she sings in a cafe and
wears terribly daring clothes but his
Admiral tells him he mustn’t fall in love
with a cafe singer but he says he will
and the Admiral tells Marlene she’s ruin-
ing the young man’s career so she tells
him he must go away and never see her
again but he comes to the cafe where
she sings and a terrible fight starts and
a man is killed and Marlene has to leave
the island which is terribly sad because
John gives her up for his career but on
the boat she goes away on there’s a
doctor who knows her and although he
drinks himself he is not so bad really
because he really loves her too and even
if she doesn’t really love him she likes
him and knows that he will take care
of her.”
* * * *
“The Mummy’s Hand”
This blood-curdler at Sydney Capitol
sets out to do some lurid adventuring
’midst ancient Egyptian temples and
tombs, subterranean passages and walk-
ing mummies, but it never quite man-
ages to leave Hollywood.
It’s a wild sort of yarn about an
ancient Gyppo fellow who was em-
balmed, buried and kept alive for some
three thousand years with doses of the
sacred Tanna leaves —as fine specimens
of pure Aussie gumleaf as you could
find. The high priests of the temple keep
the corpse revving, and occasionally,
when archaeologists and the like are
about to defile the tomb of the princess,
they give him an overdose which sets
him in motion on vengeance bound.
Dick Foran is the ’andsome young
archaeologist who eventually rides rough-
shod over the forces of evil, evades a
few vintage curses, tracks the mummy
to his sarcophagus, and rescues the goil
from the clutches of the high priest, bent
on making her a mummy.
* * * *
The Nth Estate
“Cauboy” at the talkies:
Inspected “Foreign Correspondent” at Melb.
Regent the other evening. It may be good
melodrama, but why the solemn dedication to
those unsung heroes, the gentlemen of the press,
who sacrifice their health and their lives and
run frightful risks in the cause of public en-
lightenment? I was at San Remo, in Italy,
after the last war when Lloyd George, Nitti,
Millerand and the other contemporary shakers
of thrones and moulders of history were meet-
:
mg at the Villa
Devachan. In the
casino I had met a
world - famous
American correspon-
dent representing a
great New York
daily, and he seemed
such an important
person that I natu-
rally supposed he
would be righf in
the inner councils of
the great ones. But
he wasn’t.
Next morning I
went to the front
gate of the Villa
Devachan, and there
was the American
newshound with his
fellow - correspon-
dents from London,
Madrid, Berlin and
Tokyo. He had a
little notebook in
his hand and was
jotting things down
just like a reporter
from the “Herald”
at a mayoral ban-
quet in Melbourne.
Mr. Nitti flashed by
in a car and disap-
peared through the
gateway, Millerand
dashed by in an-
other, and the big
thrill of the morn-
ing was little Mr.
George arriving on
foot looking like the
lion from the panto,
and smiling and
bowing, with his
daughter Megan
walking beside him,
just as if San Remo wasn’t full of anarchists
and assassins. I stepped out and took a snap of
him with an Australian Kodak, and he smiled
politely, to the astonishment of the American
correspondent, who expected me to be shot by
a gendarme.
Then the gates closed, and we were shooed
off, and went back to the casino and drank
aperitifs and tried to spell out the Italian papers.
The American correspondent remarked that M.
Millerand looked white and worried and opined
that he was concerned about the attitude of
Turkey, while I remarked that anybody would
look white and worried if he had had to eat
the post-war spaghetti I had had served to me at
breakfast. But he was eyeing a tali woman
in a dark veil at another table and didn’t
hear my observation. When the tall woman
went off with a handsome young Italian cavalry
officer in a cloak as blue as the Tuscan sky
the American correspondent remarked that she
was probably a Bolshevik spy from Moscow.
Later in the day the secretaries of the great
ones, including Miss Megan, gave the press
their daily “handouts,” and the correspondents
all rushed round to the cable office to send off
their dispatches pregnant with prophetic wisdom.
That was in a time of relative peace in
Europe; in these days of military censorships,
Gestapos, Ogpus and suchlike genial flora, any
American correspondent who went about rescu-
ing European statesmen from secret agents
in order to influence the destinies of nations
wouldn’t even be in a concentration camp—
he’d be in a lunatic asylum.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them ;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK docs not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain 01
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GKIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly. Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHAVING PERFECTION
Distinctive features of the British ECDIPSE RAZOR
are that it will take any make of waf.er-blade, xvhßst
the self-centring blade ensures JP° j ks
ECLIPSE RAZOR has a magnetic Randle that picks
up the blade for you, and is a^us^ 1 ® h t t °- F rfIPSE
Susy's: 'E^g^Jssss-
made in England.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulleth
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Educated young woman seeks position as
governess with refined country family. Refs.—
9327.
Qualified accountant-secretary wants work;
taxation or graziers-pastoralists’ accounts. —
9293.
Dentist, skilled operator, mechanic, accus-
tomed sole charge large practice, desires posi-
tion Brisbane. Refs. — 9116.
Male accountancy student, nearly 18, seeks
clerical position in merchant’s office or as radio
announcer. Q’land Commercial Junior pass.
—B7BB.
To buy The Moon in Scorpio, by William
J. Woltman.—9249.
To buy numbers of French magazine
“LTllustration” before 1914. —9210.
To buy (or borrow) They Lived with Me,
by Helen Zenna Smith. —9323.
To buy light canoe suitable one or two per-
sons. Quote price.—9413.
Used Christmas cards wanted for children
in hospital. Postage refunded if necessary.—
9213.
Information about potters’ wheels for amateur
use, how to make or where obtainable; also
books on pottery-making.—9o99.
Whereabouts of Walter Gordon Graham
Smith, supposed to have left for Fiji in
November, 1938. —9211.
Information Sought.
(1) What people are regarded as “members of
the Australian forces” for repatriation pur-
poses ? (2) Would an abo. receive the same
repatriation benefits as other members of the
A.I.F. 3—8942.
(1) “Member of the forces” is defined under
Section 45AT of the Australian Soldiers’ Repat-
riation Act, which reads: “For the purposes
of this Division ‘active service outside Australia’
means, (a) as to members of the naval forces,
active service on a ship of war engaged in sea-
going operations beyond the territorial waters
of Australia; and, (b) as to members of all
forces, any active service after the vessel on
which the member proceeded outside Aus-
tralia had departed from the port at which the
member embarked. ‘Australia’ includes the
territories of the Commonwealth; ‘member of
the forces’ means any person who, during the
war, was a member of the naval, military or
air forces of the Commonwealth, or a member
of the Australian Army Nursing Service, and
(a) was employed on active service outside
Australia; or (b), although not so employed,
was enlisted in or appointed to any of those
forces solely for service for the duration of the
war, or enlisted in or appointed to the per-
manent military or air forces during the war,
or called up for continuous service for the
duration of and directly in connection with the
war, but does not include any person to whom
paragraph ( b) of this definition applies who
was a member of the permanent military or air
forces of the Commonwealth and was, by
reason only of such membership, deemed to
be an employee within the meaning of the
Superannuation Act 1922-1937; ‘the war’ means
the war which commenced on September 3,
1939.” (2) Yes.
« * =i= ♦
What are the duties and qualifications of a
flight clerk on the Qantas Empire Airways
flying boats 3 Are the possibilities of appoint-
ment very limited 3 —9068.
The duties of a flight clerk on Q.E.A. flying
boats are analogous to those of a purser and
supercargo combined on a steamer. He is re-
sponsible for all traffic —passengers, mails and
freight—from the time the flying-boat departs
on its journey until the completion thereof.
Passing of intermediate is a necessary minimum
educational requirement, and previous shipping
experience is desirable. Good personal appear-
ance and sound health are essential. Maximum
age 28 years. Opportunity for appointment is
very limited.
* * * ♦
Any figures available concerning the N.S.W.
wheat crop for 1940-41 3 Does this year’s
crop compare favorably with those of recent
years 3 —9407.
Progress tabulations of crop returns of
wheatgrowers indicate that the actual N.S.W.
crop for 1940-41 is approx. 244 million bushels.
This is the smallest harvest since 1919-20.
Average yield per acre cropped for grain was
approx. 5.6 bushels, ending a sequence of 10
years with an annual average yield exceeding
12 bushels per acre. Since 1897 a yield of less
than 5.6 bushels per acre has been recorded in
only three seasons: 1.2 bushels in 1902-03,
3 bushels in 1919-20 and 4.7 in
1914-15. The total yield for 1940-41 was rela-
tively better in the central district than else-
where, average yield per acre in each district
being: Northern, 4 bushels; Central, 6.8
bushels; Southern, 5.5 bushels.
* * * *
What are the units of sea linear measure 3
—9412.
They are; Fathom, equal to 6ft.; cable,
equal to 100 fathoms; knot, 6080 ft.; geo-
graphical mile, 6078 ft.; and one degree of
latitude, containing 60 geographical miles.
(1) How are varicose veins caused? (2)
What form does treatment take ? (3) Can it be
done at home by patient? (4) Has general
health anything to do with it? (5) Can small
blue veins (not varicose) be removed from a
person’s legs, and their cause? —9106.
(1) The condition is due to defective func-
tion of valves in the veins of the leg, so per-
mitting stagnation of blood therein, with a
consequent tortuosity and thickening of the
vessels. (2) Treatment is of two kinds —the re-
moval of the enlarged veins by surgical opera-
tion and the injection of certain solutions into
the veins which cause shrinkage and ultimate
obliteration. (3) No. (4) During pregnancy,
varicose veins are apt to enlarge, and such
obstructions to the normal venous flow as tight
corsets, garters and abdominal tumors always
aggravate the condition. (5) Not satisfactorily;
these vessels are merely the signs of a rather
over-plentiful supply of veins close to the skin
surface.
* * * *
Used medicinally, do any of the following
elements (or a mixture of them) act as
diuretics: sodium, magnesium, calcium, sulphur,
iron ? —8916.
Many of the salts of sodium and magnesium
have this effect; those of calcium, sulphur
and iron are not markedly active.
* * * *
(1) What is colitis? (2) What are the treat-
ment and diet for this complaint 3—9022.
(1) Colitis is the name applied to the con-
dition of inflammation of the colon, that
lengthy portion of the bowel which extends
from the caecum to the rectum. (2) There
are so many forms of the disease that it is
quite impossible to indicate treatment without
further details, but in the commonest form
(mucomembranous colitis) a diet of lightly-
cooked eggs, minced meat or fish, mashed
potato, toast, rusks, macaroni, vermicelli,
puree of apple or prunes and milk in small
amount is recommended. All coarse and in-
digestible articles of food are forbidden, and
no raw fruit or green vegetables are allowed,
except perhaps spinach. Pain may be relieved
by hot fomentations and by the injection of
warm olive oil (4oz. to 60z.) into the bowel at
night.
# * * *
What steps should be taken to deal with
small indoor ants ? —9406.
Indoor ants may be effectively dealt with by
any of the following methods: (1) The use of
mechanical devices to place under the legs of
cupboards, ice chests, tables, etc. Uka Ants
are typical and are reasonably effective if kept
free of clotted dust or cobwebs. (2) Half-inch
calico bands, soaked in a saturated solution of
corrosive sublimate in methylated spirits and tied
round the legs of tables, etc., will stop ants for
some months. Corrosive sublimate is poisonous
and must be used only when the bands will not
later be handled. (3) Sodium fluoride can be
blown through crevices frequented as runways
by the ants. (4) Plugs of cotton wool soaked
in the following poison syrup: lib. sugar, one
pint water, 4 level teaspoonful of sodium arsen-
ite and one tablespoonful of honey. These plugs
should be placed in perforated tins near run-
ways ; they prove fatal to some but not all
species. Where the construction of a building
permits, more permanent results can be
obtained by attacking the nest on the ground.
Inject into the ground at depths of 6-12
inches one-eighth ounce doses of carbon bi-
sulphide, cyanogas dust or paradichloroben-
zene crystals. This should be done near the
nests, or, if unable to locate the nests, near
stumps, walls, etc., where the nests are most
likely to be. Carbon bisulphide is the most
effective, but it is foul smelling and inflam-
mable and must be used with great care.
Cyanogas is quite effective if properly used.
Paradichlorobenzene is quite safe to handle, but
less toxic to the ants. In all cases the holes
into which the fumigant is placed must be
plugged with soil in order to retain the gases
in the vicinity of the nests.
* * * *
How would the crew of a tug proceed to
claim for salvage ? Do they claim indepen-
dently of the tug-owners? —9224.
By action in the Vice-Admiralty Court.
Usually the claim is made by the owners, master
and crew jointly. See the Master in Admiralty,
State Supreme Court, or a solicitor experienced
in shipping work.
* * * *
The N. S. Wales Companies Acts provide
that no company may use the word “Pro-
prietary” in its name if it has more than 50
members; further, that transfer-rights must be
restricted. How did Broken Hill Proprietary
get its name? If it was formed before the
relevant Acts were passed, how does it retain
the word ? —9236.
B.H.P. was incorporated many years ago
in Victoria and has registered offices in Mel-
bourne and London. In N. S. Wales it is
therefore a “foreign” company to which the
provisions of the Companies Act of N. S. Wales
referred to do not apply. The Victorian Com-
panies Act has no provision similar to that in
the N. S. Wales Act requiring an alteration in
name by a company previously using the word
“Proprietary.”
* * * *
(1) There are first and second mortgages on
my home. I am about to clear the first mort-
gage. Mortgagee informs me that it cannot
release the deeds to me without authority.
Is this correct? (2) Whose authority must be
obtained ? —9339.
(1) Yes. (2) The second mortgagee’s.
*. * * *
(1) How to make a near imitation of the
drink known as Pimm’s No. 1 ? (2) How to
make Swedish punch? —9375.
(1) Know of none. (2) One wineglass of
schnapps, 4-wineglass of rum, one tablespoon
sugar, two tablespoons cracked ice. Fill glass
with creamy fresh milk, shake well, pour into
cut-glass goblet, grate nutmeg on top and serve
at once.
* * * *
Any method of destroying a tree by boring
a hole in the trunk and pouring in some mix-
ture, arsenical or otherwise? The tree is a
poplar awkwardly placed for me to tackle alone.
—9067.
Boring method may or may not succeed.
Best method is to “frill” the bark all round
with an axe, getting well into the sapwood
and then pour into the “frill” a solution made
with lib. of arsenite of soda to 2gal. of water.
Arsenite of soda can be bought ready made
up. It dissolves quicker if the water is hot.
Don’t look for immediate results as it takes
time for a tree to die.
Information Supplied.
A request on this page (B. 15 /1 / ’4l) for the
origin of the quotation “If we go forward we
die; if we go backward we die; let us go for-
ward” has produced several replies. “C.W.”
quotes 2 Kings, chap. vii. Four lepers were
seated at the gates of Samaria, besieged by the
Syrians. “If we say. We will enter into the city,
then the famine is in the city and we shall die
there: and if we sit still here we die also.
Now therefore come, and let us fall unto the
host of the Syrians: if they save us alive, we
shall live; and if they kill us we shall but
die.” “C.S.” suggests that the phrase originated
with Leonidas of the Spartans and was part
of the creed of this race. Another “C.W.”
states that the expression was the battlecry of
the German hordes advancing on Paris in 1870,
adducing as authorities The German History of
the War and an article by Conan Doyle in the
“Strand Magazine” round 1912. “J.H.M.A.,”
“C. 8.5.” and “R.V.” claim that the slogan was
the Zulu warcry. “W.A.N.” says that he read
it in a Rider Haggard novel as the war chant
used by the Zulu impi before joining battle,
and that it should conclude “Let us go for-
ward and die.” “E.J.H.” also gives the Zulus
the honor, and says Chaka ordered 50,000
warriors to march north into enemy territory
and not return, to correct a surplus of males
in the Zulu population. They invaded Mata-
beleland, and sang this song during the march
and before fighting.
Brief Answers.
J.D.8.; Write to the Department of Forests,
Brisbane H.8.R.: Abyssinia has an area of
350.000 sq. miles and an estimated population
of 7,600,000 J.S.C.: J. B. Priestley is a
Yorkshireman, 46 years old. He was on active
service during the 1914-18 war... .D.V.R.; Por-
tugal sent 65,000 officers and men into France
during the last war; 1860 were killed and
12.000 wounded or missing. At the Peace Con-
ference Portugal was allotted the' territory south
of the Kovuma, formerly German East Africa.
N.J.F.: The Pacific Ocean has an area of
63.986.000 sq. miles and a mean depth of 2\
miles, as compared with the Atlantic, 30,000,000
sq. miles and two miles, and the Indian,
28.350.000 sq. miles and two miles F.8.D.:
“Gretna Green marriages,” “marriages before the
Sheriff” and all other marriages by declaration
were abolished in Scotland as from July 1,
1940, when the Marriage (Scotland) Act, 1939,
came into force V.D.S.: Italy declared war
on Britain and France on June 10, 1940
H.R.N.: Universal compulsory training of a
citizen army in Australia was in force from
1911 to 1929, when the constitution of the
forces on a voluntary basis was adopted....
G.8.R.: Maoriland proper is made up of the
North Island, South Island, Stewart Island and
Chatham Islands, with a total area of 103,415
sq. miles G.F.V.: Yes, Tennyson’s voice
was recorded. On July 8, 1939, at Aldworth, on
Blackdown, near Haslemere, members of the
Poetry Society heard his voice reproduced in
the room in which he worked for many years.
Edison had sent two men from America to
record the voices of famous Englishmen, and
Tennyson made two records in 1889. They
were made on wax, but have since been trans-
ferred to discs. The first record was “The
Charge of the Heavy Brigade at Balaclava,”
complete except for the first line; the second
included the last three stanzas of “The Charge
of the Light Brigade,” together with two
stanzas from “Maud” and the last verse of
“Lancelot and Elaine.”.—H.R.: World pro-
duction of sugar from cane is about 17,300,000
tons; from beet about 9,600,000 tons... .A.T.:
Unless you can establish that the house was
paid for by you and is really your property,
you would have no claim. You have no
claim in the other matter... .A.E.T.: Consider
you would be entitled to an allotment. Write
to Headquarters, Eastern Command, Victoria
Barracks, Sydney, giving full particulars....
J.M.: You have to pay. The receipt is not
conclusive... .R.8.H.: (1) and (2) Difficult to
offer any advice except to catch the offenders
and prosecute them. The placing of spring-
guns or mantraps is a crime and renders the
offender liable to four years’ imprisonment
as well as civilly liable for damages. In the
event of one causing death you could be
charged with manslaughter. (3) Yes, you could
be charged with assault. You can use only
such violence as is necessary to prevent the
captive from escaping... .M.J.McL.: (1) and
(2) A destitute person of 75 years of age and
of good character, if otherwise eligible (see
Sec. 17 Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act), may
receive an old-age pension. Where his rela-
tions, including wife and children, are able
to contribute to his support, a Deputy-Commis-
sioner of Pensions may require them to do so.
(3) In certain circumstances, yes G.R.S.:
Cannot advise without seeing documents and
knowing more of the facts. On what you say
it would appear that you may have been dis-
charged any As amount in .
olved is so large, you had better see a solici-
tor... .H.D.D.: Every person having an in-
surable interest in the property could take out
a policy to cover the loss of his or her re-
S pective interest. If you insured your inter-
est on iy ) the proceeds of the policy in the
even t Q f loss would be payable to you. If
your mother took out a separate policy, her
insurable interest would be the estimated value
of her life estate, and in the event of loss that
would be the amount payable to her. Would
suggest that you, your mother and brother
da ke ou t one policy to cover your respective
rights and interests in the property. You
assume that the insurance company would pay
over the proceeds in cash, but it must not
be forgotten that it could rebuild the house.
... .P.S.W.; Address c/o Commonwealth Works
Director, Adelaide... .H.L.C.: The object seen
rising in the early morning is the planet Venus,
The two objects seen overhead at night are
Jupiter, the brighter one, and Saturn the other,
The best atlas of the sky is Norton’s Star Atlas,
the cost of which is about a guinea, and which
should be obtainable in Sydney C.R.M.;
The honey locust tree, Gleditschia triacanthos,
will stand quite a lot of frost and will bear
beans freely in districts where frosts are at
times fairly severe... .H.G.8.: Knitting and
Splicing Ropes and Cordage (Cassells Work
Series), 2s. 3d., contains a section on ham-
mock-making. E. 8.: Lists have been posted,
....H.M.A.: Know of no books on methods
of radio control - The aerodynamic formulae
required could probably be found m books on
that subject m Christchurch Public Library,
reference section.. . .E.T.: Would have to in-
spect before expressing opinion as to value....
L.J.B : No special value... .S.A.S.M.; No books
on the subject are procurable in Sydney
GM.\ On Our Selection, 2s. 6d., any large
bookseller. Other titles out of print. Publishers
were N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
1.M.:
So cough up, boys, be generous,
Good sons of old John Bull.
And when we sock old Adolf
We’ll pull him by the wool.
W.F.E.:
When success first set Hitler’s mind soaring,
On the leaders he’d choose he was poring ;
Then he conjured up Nick
To help him to pick—
Thus rose Goebbels and Himmler and Goring.
G.8.T.:
Australia, keep advancing,
For Mussolini’s dancing
To think how much he’s chancing
Despite his bombers prancing.
M.McL.: Patchy.... L.C.L.H.: Nearly....
E.C.L.: A grin in it N.McN.: Must thou
say “canst”? R.G.M.: Just strolling along.
....D. S. Pyrmont: Try elsewhere... .Gunner
J.: It got a second reading... .P.E.H.: No
real sting, except. in the fourth stanza
A.8.M.5.: All tags F.J.8.: Not this time.
F.H.P.: “Doth” to dust... .8.G.: Both
weaklings N.M.: Conventional M.H.:
Try again K.MacL.: Not improved
C.T.W.: Shortened, polished, it might get by
P. 8.: “Hitler’s Dream” a nightmare M.G.:
Try “When You Are Gone” on a woman’s
paper W.H.F.: Labored... .E.S.W.: “Break,
Break, Break” has been parodied too often
J.M.0.: Pleasant; that’s all.. . .V.D.S.:
Memory played the trick; “T. the R.” was at
Exeter Coll., Oxon., not Oriel... .G.D.N.: Can’t
see “Light in the Darkness” D.J.R.; Not
as it stands; a touch of humor might help it.
D.C.T.; Not for us “The Adventures of
Winnie the W.A.N.” C.L.R.: And you’re
coming to the wrong address C.D.L.:
“Bombshell” missed the mark H.R.A.:
Bring the matter up at the next meeting of the
sewing circle C.W.A.: Read no further than
the page which revealed that the old skinflint
who held the mortgage had a handsome, phil-
anthropic young son... .D.S.D.: “Bardia Falls’
into the w.p.b. K.R.V.: Aged colonels who
sip whisky in a club armchair and relate their
adventures in Africa are invariably boring
M.A.S.: “The History of Mary Molloy” will
not be written in these pages C.F.S.: The
middle section is all right; introduction and
finish need improving.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
RE,; Your parson looks like a vaudeville
artist with the wrong collar 0n... .8.G.: Splin-
tery drawing, and the gag is barnacle-covered.
RA L • You need more decision m your
penmanship.... M.C.H.: The airman nose-
dived into the basket... .P.G.: Lmework is still
too shivery... .8.H.: The waitress s backchat
is no more snappy than your pictorial record-
ing of her... .M.M.; Bucktoothed navvy s antis
look like a frangipanm in winter... .A.W.C.:
The flapperette is about as appealing as a halt-
plucked Australorp... .Jim C : Were you ever
apprenticed to a tuckpomter? .. • ■: The
dancer was excellent north of the eyebrows,
but below them! ....8.L.: Try again m
1948 . .D.M.C.; Your dogs are as improper
as they are uninteresting G.R.8.: Intrigued
as to the reason for a paddock filled with people
who are all on stilts... .8.5.: A parish maga-
zine seems the right place for it.


LYSAGHTTS
m
4. - 1L
PROOr
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
- : ;,, ,.: ,
■ - ■■'*■■**.
M?
■m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
Careless Drenching.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DONT WORRY. I'M SENDING IT OT
GRAZCOS."
“Ovis”: Queensland Agricultural De-
partment reports a good many complaints
about illness in sheep following drenching
with nicotine sulphate and bluestone. The
trouble doesn’t lie with the drench, but
with the administrator or with the condi-
tion of the sheep when drenched.
Nic. sulphate should be handled with
the greatest care. Quantities must never
be guessed, but measured exactly with a
liquid measure. Prescribed doses must
be followed exactly. Full doses should
be given—strictly according to the age
table—only to sheep in good condition.
When condition is low, reduce the dose
by a quarter.
Drenching must be done slowly and
methodically. If it is hurried, some of
the drench may go to the lungs instead
of to the stomach, and a very little nic.
sulph. in the lungs will kill a sheep.
Mouth injuries must also remain always
in mindy Broken skin or membrane is
dangerous with a poisonous drench.
In many cases, nic. sulph. is used when
there is nothing present worse than
stomach worms, which could be dealt
with equally well with bluestone alone.
One of the soundest wrinkles is to
drench before stomach worms in particu-
lar get a heavy hold. Heavy attacks make
for heavy body absorption of poison.
Bluestone-nicotine.
“J.R.D.”: The dose rate of bluestone-
nicotine drench I outlined in B. 1 /1 / ’41
was for average grown sheep as recom-
mended by the firm whose nicotine I
use. There is nothing new about it;
Clunies Ross and Gordon recommended
this 4 p.c. solution in their standard work
on worm parasites, published in 1936
(adult sheep—-loz. dose of 11b. bluestone
plus 16oz. nicotine sulphate to 2|gal.
water). Further, C.S.I.R. experiments on
the most suitable volumes in which this
drench should be administered have led
to the recommendation that the ideal
dose should be approximately one fluid
ounce.
At that concentration, the dose for
young lambs would be ioz. This was
found to be too small in volume and
likely to be lost before it arrived where
it would do most good. Accordingly it
was recommended that for young sheep
(12 months and under) the same quanti-
ties of bluestone and nicotine be mixed
with twice as much water (5gal.), thus
making the volume for lambs eight to
12 months again one fl. oz. In practice,
I have found this to work excellently, and
have used it for years on all classes of
sheep in such varied districts as s.-w.
N.S.W. and New England. The only
losses I have had resulted from rough
use of the drenching gun by an em-
ployee, and I have never lost sheep
through overdosing.
“Lion” sidesteps the main issue by
mentioning weak sheep. The need for
special consideration for these is obvi-
ous, and the directions printed on the
labels of most brands of drench state
how the dose must be reduced in their
case. I still prefer loz. to “Lion’s” dose
of 2oz. I used to give 2oz. with a drench-
ing funnel; now I use a loz. automatic
gun fitted with a special nozzle which
breaks the force of the drench so that
it flows out gently and does not squirt
down the gullet or windpipe.
“Lion” also errs in thinking I am a
wether man. With ewes and lambs in
the race, the ewes are drenched with the
4 p.c. solution first. A 2 p.c. solution is
mixed for the lambs and is administered
by a second man following. The job
can be done quickly, but any talk of
records at drenching, inoculating or
lamb-marking is foolish,
Bluestone and nicotine give best results
with young sheep. As they grow older,
sheep seem to develop an immunity
against black scour worms. Alternate
doses of double strength carbon tet. and
b.n.s. are successful, while in a wet
summer, such as we seem to be in for
now, carb. tet. for grown sheep will
work out cheaper and b.n.s. will be re-
served for the weaners.
Meat Export Restrictions.
“Mookau”: The British Government
is finding difficulty in providing insulated
ships, and the Australian Meat Board
has laid down principles for establishing
restrictions on meat export. One is that
higher-priced meats should be allowed
"What's your bid, gents, for this cow in calf?”
“Bull or heifer?”
freedom of export, another that prefer-
ence should be given to meats for which
there is no other possible outlet.
Meat placed in store before February
1 will not be affected. After that, it is
suggested that no meat be accepted for
export from the following classes, many
of which are suitable for canning for
military and other purposes:
All boneless bull beef, boneless veal,
second- and third-quality boneless cow beef,
boneless beef briskets, shins and shanks,
beef and veal offal, excluding beef livers
and kidneys; mutton and lamb offal, ex-
cluding mutton and lamb livers and mutton
kidneys; pork, other than pork for bacon,
and all pork offal; lamb of first, second
and third quality under 231 b., first- and
second-quality lamb over 421 b., third-
quality lamb over 281 b., piece lamb,
second-quality wether mutton.
Of pig meat only porker pork and
porker offals will go on the prohibited
list—the original 24,000 tons of baconer
pork provided for still stands. Bacon
will go as Wiltshire sides to save weight
and space. Producers who have types
which can be brought to baconer weights
-between 1101 b. and 180 lb.- at a suit-
able period are on the pig s back.
Second-quality wether mutton has been
barred, but much is cannable. (A few
new recipes would help the local trade;
the French used to put up some good
canned mutton with mushrooms and
other delicacies.) In the end restrictions
on lamb weights will prove a blessing in
disguise. The M.O.L. page has been
preaching the value of the medium
weight, which is in accordance with Eng-
lish trade likings, for many years. And
though it must be a shock to some
growers to see restrictions placed on first-
grades of any weight the fact remains—
as the board points out—that the market-
mg of three 321 b. lambs will be more
economical for the trade than two 48-
pounders.
Lambs of over 421 b. could be got
through under the new rules, but only
at teg or hogget rates 3?d sterling. So d
at the restricted lamb weights they would
ring the higher lamb prices.
* • a ii
s m 4 “ e Mallee.
TyallaJack”: To most Victorians the
Mallee means wheat, yet the average oat
acreage for the past 10 years has been
almost one-third the wheat acreage—
-400,000 to 1,500,000.
Oaten hay or grain is the cheapest and
most suitable fodder for Mallee farmers,
and m normal to good seasons oats pro-
vide a lot of winter and early-sprmg
green feed for sheep. .
The Walpeup Research Station has
been testmg oats for dght years; Mulga
and Gidgee as early maturers, Guyra and
Dawn as mid-maturers and Lachlan and
Algerian as late. Lachlan has now been
dropped from the test. In years when
late rams don t show up, the earlier vane-
ties have always beaten Algerian. In the
past seven years best results have come
from Dawn, Guyra, Mulga and Gidgee
m at order. At least one of them should
be sown on a big proportion of farm oat
areas in the north and central Mallee.
Other varieties now under trial are
Early Kherson, Fulghum, Algeribee and
three Palestine-Dawn crosses, R 4-1-1,
R 46-2-1, WlBO3. Results of the eight-
year tests are given—in 1932 and 1933
grain tests were ruined by gales and the
results discarded—for hay and grain:
Hay, Grain,
Cwt. Per Acre. Bushels Per’Acre.
' "~T :
variety. SfteJS’lS'
Dawn .. 25.8 21.0 19.3 21.3
Guyra .. 25.6 21.6 20.4 22.4
S ld £ ee ‘ ’ 25 - i •ini
Lachlan 24.6 19j 19.2 212
Algerian .. 23.8 18.9 19.6 20.1
„Igeribee.. 21.2 21.2
p i'lL " ~ inn H VA
R46-2-I .. ?9.6 24^8
Ideal .. 18.2 21.4
None of these crops was grazed by sheep
at any stage ; all were sown between
mid-April and mid-May regardless of
soil conditions.
Winter Spuds in N. S. Wales,
“Murphy”: Second - crop potatoes
should be a good bet this season, though,
s i nce they should be in this month, there
isn’t mucb t j me left for preparation.
Winter spuds call for good seed. It
mus t come from disease-free stock,
Dipped seed is best, but it should have
been treated for l\ to two hours
a COU p] e 0 f months before planting; it’s
no good dipping after the tubers show
signs of sprouting.
The ground should have a fine tilth,
but harrowing after planting will help.
Where the surface has been fined down
the harrow should go over the ground
when plants are through the surface.
When the rows are well defined with
small plants, the cultivator should clean
out the weed seedlings. A further culti-
vation or so helps, though in autumn the
same growth of rubbish as in summer
has not to be dealt with. At first signs
of flowering plants should be hilled- a
mouldboard on the cultivator makes a
good tool. Remember too much hill
means dried-out soil, and paves the way
to root damage
Manure, where there is no chance of
ploughing-in established fertiliser crops,
must be artificial—in cooler N.S.W 2cwt
amm. sulph., plus super., is good;
2icwt. super, by itself will help every-
where, but in heavy rainfall areas along
the coast double that is often profitable,
' F
Barley in S.A.
“Gumeraka”: Maltworthy, a new
variety of barley bred at Roseworthy
Agricultural College and released last


Tr
V
N.
c
Nearly five million Radiotron Valves
manufactured at the Company s
works, Sydney, are now giving
lasting satisfaction to Australian
National Services and its listeners.
Protect your Radio enjoyment by
insisting upon Australian - made
Radiotrons.
V,
a
*
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD., 47 York Street, Sydney.
JSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD., 93 Clarence Street, Sydney,
THE ESSENTIAL LINK
For efficient co-ordination of the
three services Navy, Army and
Air Force—instant communication
is essential and radio alone can
provide this contact. Australian-
made Radiotron Valves are stand-
ard equipment for both transmitters
and receivers in all services.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
THE
• NO
Gives modern
tation at small
HYGEIA DISSOLVED Ai OR
An automatic self-contained sanitary system
which can be installed by any handyman.
No water supply required.
SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Efficiency, mechanism and long Health.
r
life fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
, ... „
year, has confirmed earlier opinions
regarding its yielding ability.
For the third successive year Malt-
worthy has outyielded Prior by a big
margin on the farm of A. W. Kelly,
Urania (S.A.). Another grower, H. H.
Ash, of Maitland (S.A.), reaped two bags
more from his Maltworthy crop than
from his Prior. On Eyre Peninsula
Messrs. T. and G. Smith, of Yeelanna,
harvested an average of 22 bushels from
Maltworthy, while Prior in the same pad-
dock gave only 18 bushels. When the
rains were good in 1939 these growers
averaged 53 bushels from Maltworthy
and four bushels less from Prior.
During the current season at Rose-
worthy, the new variety beat Prior by
more than a bag an acre, and in 1939
the margin in favor of Maltworthy was
four bags. Gales caused serious shatter-
ing in the Prior, but Maltworthy was
only slightly affected.
It has now been tested for five years
at Roseworthy, and in all cases has out-
yielded Prior. In the field it looks like
Prior, but is stronger in the head and
straw. It was selected from the cross
Prior x Beavan’s Special. The grain is
longer than that of Prior ; it fills well,
and there is no reason to suspect that
it is inferior to Prior in malting quality.
A floor test of 400 samples is now being
carried out.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: Keep the isolation pen
at least 150 ft. from other piggery build-
ings. Build it where no drainage can
spread to the main sties or other build-
ings. If healthy pigs are allowed to
wander, arrange the isolation pen so they
can’t get near it.
“Mullengah”: Oats come away quicker
than natural pasture, providing the early
green feed so valuable for pregnant ewes
and early lambs. Early grazing from
oats saves pasture until grass has body,
as well as providing a change of feeding
area and diet. Oats can be grazed until
well into spring, thus being available tor
topping off lambs when grass seed is
generally a nuisance in pastures. And
oats make good hay, silage or grain.
“Canbelego”: Harrow pastures as
soon as possible after rain to break up
animal droppings. Once animal manure,
the cheapest form of fertiliser, dries it
is difficult to break.
“J.R.D.”: Always nip the dewclaws
off a puppy. If the job is done early,
there is no pain, and it may save the ani-
mal a lot of later trouble. The claws
tend to grow in a short thick curve that
turns back into the skin and may have
to be cut at intervals, and they are always
getting torn in fights. Dewclaws are not
attached to the limb and may be snipped
off level with the skin with a sharp pair
of scissors. Paint with iodine and watch
till thoroughly healed.
“Horsetailer”: When stripping bark to
wall a shed or roof a stable don’t waste
time wetting and weighting it on the
ground to flatten it. Prop the round,
green strip up and light a small fire of
leaves at the bottom. In minutes the
heat will dry it flat as iron for all time.
“Big R.”: Tobacco dust, sulphur and
fine ashes mixed together and rubbed
well into the feathers down to the skin
will shift lice from fowls. For the head
and other parts where feathers are short,
mix the tobacco dust and sulphur with
lard to make an ointment. Rub it well
in.
“Slapper”: To make a whitewash that
will look like paint, slake half a bucket
of lime with boiling water, keeping the
bucket covered. Strain off and add four
quarts of common salt (dissolved previ-
ously), l|lb. of ground rice boiled to a
thin paste and stirred in boiling hot, 4oz.
of powdered Spanish whiting and of
well dissolved glue. Put the bucket in a
larger one containing water and hang
over a slow fire. Add 2\ gallons of hot
water and stir well, then let stand for a
few days, covered. Apply it hot to wood,
brick or stone and it will remain bright
for years.
“Kyamba”: Young bamboo or giant
reed (A rundo donax ) is as good as green
cereals for feeding farm livestock. Up
to 6ft. high, moisture content of bamboo,
green barley and green oats is 75 p.c. ;
ash, 1.7, 1.6, 1.9 respectively; protein,
2.4, 1.7, 2.1 ; fat, 0.3, 0.4, 0.6; carbohy-
drates, 11.6, 13.4, 11.2; fibre, 9.0,
7.9, 9.2. So as not to weaken annual
growth when cutting, allow some shoots
on each clump to mature, and once every
three or four years let all shoots make
full growth.
“Wilga”: In n.-w. N.S.W. over 30
years ago we left lambs’ tails 3in. or 4in.
long to reduce the risk of flystrike (B.
15/1/’4l). The long dock presses the
wool against the thighs so that it s less
likely to be stained and fouled by drop-
pings, and the wagging stump to some
extent deters flies. The practice was dis-
continued partly because difficulty was
experienced in getting the shearers to shear
these wagging stumps while going over
the crutch and because buyers objected
to long docks, some arguing that they
detracted from the appearance of the
wethers when fat. Others claimed that
long docks would have a contraceptive
effect on breeding ewes. We did not con-
tinue the experiment long enough to test
this last objection.
“Jayem”: G. B. S. Falkiner, of Haddon
Rig, Warren (N.S.W.), has issued a
graph showing that, while 90 merino
fleeces were required to fill an average
Australian bale in 1861, in 1939 it took
only 45 fleeces. In that year 24 ewe
fleeces at Haddon Rig filled a bale of
3501 b. In 1939 20,000 Haddon Rig stud
ewes, one to 10 years old, cut an average
of 141 b. 13oz. of wool while rearing
lambs.
“Double Dee”: A south Westralian
farmer has smoked out hundreds of
rabbits with a blacksmith’s blower.
Mounted on pram wheels, the blower,
fitted with a length of rubber piping, is
pulled from burrow to burrow. Damp
grass is lit at the mouths of the burrows,
outlets are blocked and the blower is
directed on the smoking material. The
smoke quickly suffocates the bunnies.
“Tutye”; A new wheat, Ghurka Selec-
tion, is to be made available to Victorian
Mallee growers this season. Slightly taller
and a little earlier in maturity than its
parent, Ghurka, it has similar disease
resistance and field characteristics, im-
proved flour quality and a larger and
more attractive grain. In tests over three
years at widely-distant points, it showed
an average increase over Ghurka as fol-
lows : Walpeup, 3.9 bushels an acre,
Swan Hill, 1.2 ; Werrimull, 0.4. Its yield
seems inclined to vary in some districts.
Outback Occupations.
No. LV.
ATTACL AT DAWN.
“Them crows are makin’ it pretty hot,”
young Jack reports.
“Yair?” you ask.
“Yair” says he. “There was three
sheep with one eye gone an’ one with
both eyes gone when I went round ’em
this mornin’. If they down the crows
has a picnic with them.”
“I’ll crow the blankards,” you snort.
Next morning before dawn you drag
both boys out of bed, inject hot tea and
brownie into them and yourself and lead
the foray against the black destroyers.
You carry your faithful old single-barrel
12-bore, Jack has his new .410 double-
barrel and young Tom a repeating .22.
Well before daylight you have your
forces strategically deployed and under
cover round the ewe paddock.
At 4.15 a.m. exactly the first caw is
heard. You know the devils are gather-
ing but you can’t see ’em. Slowly the
light grows, and suddenly there is a
double blast from the .410. You stare
hard but can see only the dim forms of
the old ewes rushing about after the
shots. Then you hear a swishing sound
overhead and see a dim shape swinging
over. “Borung!” goes the old gun as
you throw it up and pull. “Crack-ack-
ack,” goes Tom’s repeater, and some-
thing goes “whee-00-00-clang” past your
left ear.
“Hey! ” you roar, trying to make your-
self flat on the ground, “point that flam-
in’ thing somewhere else.”
A double snort from the .410 answers.
“Damn’ popgun!” you mutter; “wouldn’t
kill a sproggy at twenty yards.” You
pat the old single-barrel affectionately.
You once dropped five black duck in one
shot with that gun. They were flying
fast, too, and fully 60 yards away.
“Gripes,” you think, “that must be eight
or ten years ago.” Tom’s .22 stutters
again, and you duck instinctively.
It is light now. The ewes are bunched
down in a corner, several of them look-
ing suspiciously in your direction. One
or two crows circle round, some others
are holding a meeting in the top of the
big dry tree. There is no cover within
100 yards of that tree. You know that
they know it. You can’t see Tom, but
Jack is making back to the house, his
.410 on his shoulder. Jack knows crows,
and knows that no human carrying any-
thing that looks like a gun will get within
range of them now. Tom, however, has
great faith in his .22. The crows don’t
know much about it until it cracks sud-
denly and two feathers leave the meeting
in the tree and float to the ground
while the meeting leaves the tree. The
meeting then circles slowly round and
comes to rest on a bent log. It is 90
yards from you, and you have a feeling
the black skunks are chuckling con-
temptuously, knowing full well they re
beyond your range.
Suddenly you get a theory. With your
pocket-knife you open a cartridge, re-
move half the shot and half the wad,
then open another cartridge and use
powder from it to increase the charge in
the first one. When you’re finished you
have a cartridge with its shot content
reduced by half and its powder charge in-
creased by at least a third. It looks a
bit rough, but you’ve rammed the wad
firmly and reseated the shot in a fairly
workmanlike manner. Slipping it into
the breach, you lie down and point it
towards the log.
The meeting promptly disperses and
returns to the big tree. Tom’s small
armament opens up again. The meeting
rises above the tree, calling Tom for
everything, and returns after an interval
to the log.
You wait patiently while the crows
hop and gossip on the log, hoping for
the moment when they will be bunched.
Your idea is that the extra powder will
send the lighter shotload another 30
yards. “If it works,” you think, “a man
could rig up a sort of swivel-gun with
some piping and spray the cows with
pellets.”
You can see the swivel-gun in your
mind’s eye, and are debating where to
mount it when there is a sudden group-
ing on the log. You aim carefully and
pull A roar like the Last Trump bursts
on your ears, the Broken Hill express
charges into your right shoulder at 60
miles an hour, and you fall into a great
cloud of smoke and fumes. Heli.
says your brain, “one of them Au Force
machines must have lost a bomb. Kea
and green stars dart at you and away
again, some goat is ringing a million be. s
and you’ve stopped a punch on the nose.
You push the B.H. express off and
stagger upright.
The log is empty. The ewes are mik-
ing round in the corner. Young Tom is
hurrying across the paddock towar s yo
Far in the blue small black specks swing
round and round. You’ve never seen
crows that high before.
“Wow,” shouts Tom breathlessly , was
that an earthquake or what?”
“Don’t be silly, boy, you say shakily.
Your nose is bleeding, and you know
your shoulder is pulp. The old . sl ”® ch
barrel is now a double-barrel, only eac
of the barrels points at right Mgks from
the stock. There is no sign of the breecn
and hammer. , t 0
“Gee, Dad,” says Tom, it 11 do
shoot round corners now. . .
You start to limp home, goringjjjjjj
You also ignore a derisive sound
vou where the crows are gathering
discuss the phenomena of
right,” you mutter, Iye got other ™
in me book for you blankers. Yo
wife’s concern and care of the
wounds would be some compensation i
she didn't keep on murmuring Oh, dear,
JackFordcubbin, I declare
trouble than the two boys put togetti


THE OTHE R FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. pet line; all others at
2«d. per line.
Another farmer’s wife goes on top this week for a wholehearted attack on the
casual hand.
Working with Men
“1.M.” (B. 1/1 / ’4l) made some dis-
paraging remarks about working with
women. Allow me to say something
about working with men. It’s much worse
than nose powdering and taking 20 in-
stead of 10 minutes over the morning
and afternoon tea, in which the boss
shares.
Cooking for men on the farm I sud-
denly had to drop everything and run to
help beat a sweeping bushfire. In the
middle of it and at a critical moment one
of the hands dropped his bush and de-
manded so much extra per hour for fire-
fighting. He got it and a kick in the
pants afterwards to help him off the place.
Another was given a week’s sucker-
bashing. When we went unexpectedly
on the fourth day to inspect the job we
found him asleep under a tree and not
one sucker bashed. I’d been cooking my
best for him all that time for nothing.
Supposed to feed the calves, a third
was discovered throwing the milk out to
save himself the walk, A fourth used to
take short cuts across the crop, spoiling
eventually hundredweights, to save him-
self opening a gate.
All these gentry came to the table
stinking of sweat and unwashed. They
cribbed my matches whenever possible,
to say nothing of soap, which they were
supposed to provide themselves. On
leaving, their old boots and sandshoes
were left for me to burn or bury as well
as any other rubbish. —R. G. (W.A.).
Going Out With Girls
So most of the women that work (B.
15/1/’4l) do it because no one’s asked
them to marry, do they? And many of
them don’t marry because the men they
might have married are too selfish to save
a bit of cash, is that it? Thanks, P.
Radwon; some of my cobbers will be
interested in that information. Especially
the ones that have asked girls in jobs to
marry them, and have been laughed at
for expecting girls to chuck up jobs to
marry fellows that haven’t got expensive
cars and big incomes.
If P. Radwon had taken out girls
who are in jobs and ones that aren’t he’d
know why plenty of girls who are in jobs
never marry. Take out a girl who’s not
in a job—most likely she’ll be content
just to stroll in the immemorial fashion
of young couples ; if you take her to the
cheap seats in the talkies she’ll look on
it as a treat. If you give her a sixpenny
slab of chocolate she’ll be as grateful as
if it were gold. If you draw her atten-
tion to the fact that your coat cuffs are
a bit frayed she’ll pretend she hasn’t
noticed it. If you have to work back and
can’t meet her she’ll stay home and read.
If she knows you’re trying to save up
she’ll suggest you cut out those cheap
seats at the talkies.
But the girl in a job—she’ll expect you
to spend money on her like water;
nothing but the most expensive will suit
her; if you’re not dressed as extrava-
gantly as her boss she’ll ask you if you
think she intends to go on going out with
a chap that looks a fright; if you have
to work back she’ll tell you that after
working hard all day she needs some re-
laxation, and go out with someone else;
if you start trying to save she’ll call you
mean. In the end, because you won’t
keep up with the spending pace of the
slickest friends she’s picked up through
her job, she gives you the dump.
Then you marry a girl who’s not in a
job. Your old flame, dusting her nose
from that compact (costing a week of
your wages) that she once made you get
her, says to the girl working alongside
her “I can’t understand what he sees in
her. She’s just a dull little frump.” When
you hear about it you laugh and laugh.
You tell your wife, and she laughs, too.
Then you sit down to write to The Bul-
letin about it.— Bokko (S.A.).
Women Outback
If I’m the fellow “Anti-Anti-Pukka”
(B. 25 /12/’4O) has been waiting to get his
teeth into for years, he’s the sort of fellow
I’ve been looking for to cheer for twice
as long. Because I instanced jvomen
who slog hard on servantless mixed
farms I wasn’t praising the social organi-
sation that gives its approval to such a
state of things, nor the men who thrive
on their women being working bullocks
in faded frocks.
I, too, believe that the life of the women
outback should be improved, but if
“Anti-Anti-Pukka” had a few weeds in
his lettuce-patch, would he bring a colony
of rabbits into his garden to clear up the
weeds? Yet that is what he wishes to
do to Australia. Import cheap colored
labor. Import it first into Darwin, and
then watch the bridge-playing, double-
chinned, fat-pocketed dames of Potts
Point, Toorak and North Adelaide yell-
ing that they, too, need cheap labor—
and yelling until the weak-chinned, vote-
catching politicians import coolies for
them, too.
Then listen to the men yell that they
must have their work down by coolies,
too. And watch the politicians import
“So you Wont talk, eh ?”
fresh batches. Then watch the nation
change into a collection of Somerset
Maugham characters —too bored by lack
of work to do anything better than drink,
gossip and flirt. After that, while pleasure-
crazed Australians continue to restrict
their birthrate, watch the coolies breed
like rabbits. — Anti-Pukka (S.A.).
Child Endowment
The broad principle of family endow-
ment merits the support of all, but why
make a cash payment at all? There is
not the slightest guarantee that the child
will receive one penny of the grant. Only
too often would it enrich the local s.p.
bookie or publican. A far better scheme
would be to see that the child really did
benefit by directly and indirectly easing
the burden of rearing and educating it.
This might be accomplished by, among
other ways, free medical and hospital
attention during confinement, plus the
baby bonus for incidentals; free clinical
treatment before and after confinement
for mother and child; free medical and
dental attention for all children up to
the age of 15 ; free education —not nomi-
nally "so, as at present, but exclusive of all
trimmings, such as sporting, library and
entrance fees; distribution of a daily
milk and fruit ration to all school chil-
dren ; free railway travel to all children
during the school Christmas holidays,
provided they remain away at least a
fortnight and reap the benefit of the
change.— Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Every politician knows that the voters
who are eligible for a handout love a
cheerful giver. Hence the enthusiasm
with which all parties are trying to outbid
each other in the distribution of largesse.
Hear, hear! to the motion for helping
the widow and her children. Hear! (once)
to the suggestion for helping the man
whose quiver holds more than the three
kids provided for in his basic wage. Cat-
calls for the idea of enriching the bloke
who earns £7 a week, and a ripe tomato
for the plan for chucking money at the
prolific parent “irrespective of salary.”
The poor widows and children we
have always with us. They should be a
first charge on the care of the com-
munity. But to gild the refined gold of
large salaries, “irrespective” of their size,
is neither charity nor political economy,
but blatant bidding for popularity, like
the granting of “wife and child endow-
ment” to single young men for pocket
money.
Parliamentary stocks were never lower
than they are at present. The rulers of
Rome used to keep up their market price
by bribes of bread and circuses. Child
endowment for all and sundry “irrespec-
tive of salary” looks very much like
doing as the Romans did. — Any Advance
(S.A.). _
“Killed in Action”
It seems callous in the extreme to
notify relatives of men killed in action by
telegram delivered in the ordinary
manner. The next of kin is usually a
woman, wife or,mother, and frequently
alone, or with young children only, in the
house.
In the last war the clergy undertook
the sad task of carrying such messages
to the bereaved. Surely they might be
called upon to do so again. In the larger
cities and towns it might mean a little
more work for the postal authorities, but
even they are human, and the extra
trouble would be more welcome than
their present task.
As the wife of an A.I.F. man abroad
I am learning to dread the appearance
of a telegraph messenger at my door. For
various reasons I receive a fair number
of telegrams, and the lad who brings them
to me is one of the youngest Post Office
messengers I have ever seen. Recently I
asked him if he also delivered casualty
messages. He said he did, and dreaded
having to do it. On more than one occa-
sion he has had to deal with fainting or
collapse.— Loulalo (Vic.).
Eire Land
The dear ould country is the greatest
crossword puzzle of the hour. To solve
it one must understand the typical Eire
man, at home or abroad. He is the most
charming of good fellows: a born
gambler, with no thought for tomorrow.
The world’s best entertainer, he would
rather raise a laugh than a fortune.
Living for the present, he will cheerfully
pluck the fleece from the goose that lays
the golden egg until he milks it dry.
As an industrial agitator he is supreme,
caring nothing if he ruins the boss on
the one hand and his own mob on the
other, so long as he gets plenty of ap-
plause and wins op points. The fight is
more than the victory, just as the punting
is more than the dividend.
He is a brilliant individualist, but weak
on team work; a fine soloist —but who
ever heard of a first-class Irish brass
band?
He thinks of Eire -as of a Samson,
shorn of his strength, enslaved and
“wronged” by the English Philistines. To
see this Samson pulling down the pillars
of Britain, even if he were under the
roof, would give him (momentary) joy.
Eire is an individualist nation of
grumbling optimists. It can be neither
bribed nor bullied into fighting ; but let
Hitler tread on the tail of its traditional
coat and the shillelagh will fly from its
scabbard (so to speak) in an all-in scrum
worth watching.
The Fiihrer has the country all taped
as if he had read the foregoing and treats
it accordingly. John Bull, not being a
psychologist but a plain blunt man, is
still wondering what is the right word
to use to fill all the squares.— Erin Go
Bragh (S. A.).
The Basic Wage
Now that child endowment has been
brought forward, the time seems oppor-
tune for adjusting the scale on which the
basic wage was fixed. The present sys-
tem of payment according to the needs
of a family of five has resulted in the
unattached man being encouraged to live
in and become accustomed to a style in-
compatible with that he is able to afford
when responsibilities are assumed. The
reluctant economies which then become
necessary cause unrest, strikes and other
evils of which we are all aware.
If the basic wage were fixed on the
needs of a single man and the Act were
to include wives and all unpensioned de-
pendants wholly supported by the wage-
earner, the rewards of industry could be
stepped up for each dependant, giving
more to the really
deserving than they
get now. The scheme
could be financed
by a compulsory
system of wage
stamps, to be at-
tached by the em-
ployer to all wages
sheets, equalling the
amount he saved by
the fixation of the
basic wage.
I can remember
about 50 years back
when the commu-
nity was unharassed
by boards* and com-
missions, Arbitra-
tion Courts and un-
employment taxes.
There was plenty of
work for all and
plenty of money
about. A man earned
what he was worth
and there was no
room for the work-
shy. A house now
fetching 30s. weekly
could be had for 65.,
a good three-course
meal for 6d., hair-
cut 3d., boots 7s. 6d.
to 10s., half a sheep
at 2id. a pound all
round, beer 3d. a
pint, theatre prices
Is., 3s. and ss.
Wages were in proportion, but people
generally were better off than they are
today. The old-fashioned family sing-
song round the piano, at which superior
people now scoff, provided much better
and healthier amusement than modern
youth finds in its feverish rush for excite-
ment, And in those days people paid
their way or went without, whereas now
wholesaler, retailer and consumer alike
are living on a gigantic system of credit
which must surely crash at the first severe
check. —A. M. E. H. (Vic.).
Why Overtime?
The average man has little sympathy
with unionists who have placed a ban
on overtime ; but what he does want to
know is why there should be any neces-
sity for overtime. There are still thou-
sands of workers unemployed and thou-
sands more engaged in work of no
national importance. Even if most of
them are unskilled, it does not take long
to teach them to tend a machine or fire
a furnace. —W. K. D. (Q.).
“Classless Society”
A visit to the Kimberley diamond
mines, South Africa, would be a valu-
able, if disillusioning, experience for
addicts of a classless-society theory. The
native employees of these mines spend
the whole of their period of service—
they are engaged for four months and
can sign on again—in the mine com-
pounds. This is done to prevent illicit
selling of diamonds. There is a store in


REWARD
76
For bright and
original gags
for illustrations.
every compound, in which everything
the workers need can be bought at cost
price.
Some of the boys add substantially to
their incomes by performing services for
their fellows in their spare time. One
will secure a sewing machine and mend
clothes, another does laundering, a third
will buy food and sell it at a profit to
comrades too lazy to walk across the
compound to the store to get it them-
selves. Many will pay to have their food
cooked for them.
Certain “boys” leave their compound
with banking accounts, invest their
money in cattle, and settle down as men
of substance in their villages. Others
devote their earnings to buying clothes,
gramophones, bicycles, etc. Still others
gamble their money away, ending their
term no better off than they began it.
A Kimberley native compound is an
epitome of the social situation in every
civilised country —the greedy, the indo-
lent, the vain, the spendthrifts and their
industrious, thrifty brethren, delighted to
profit by the shortcomings of the rest, are
universal.
A classless society is impossible with-
out economic equality, but economic
equality is against human nature, and
can only be preserved by strict enforce-
ment. It is also incompatible with any
measure of civilisation, the only societies
in which it has ever existed being of the
most primitive type. — Tom (N.S.W.),
Education
If great men who rose to fame with-
out higher education (B. 22 /1 / ’4l) prove
that it is the enemy of originality, how
about a few more famous persons to
whom the baneful influence of a first-
class education didn’t prove a handicap
—Churchill, Cecil Rhodes, Ruskin,
Tennyson, Thackeray? Admitted that
education is not everything. Neither are
art, literature, good manners, cleanliness
and a host of other things, but, like the
kangaroo’s tail, they are all aids to ad-
vancement.
Admitted, also, that the importance of
education is often exaggerated. Fond
parents believe that if they give their chil-
dren a first-class education their future
success is assured. But education is not
success in itself ; it is only a means to it.
Any intellectual training whatsoever has
to be allied to guts and plenty of savvy
before it spells success. Education never
made a .wise man, but it can help to
make him wiser. If a man is born a fool
he will still be so whether educated or
not. But the man who is born with an
average or a genuinely clever brain has
everything to gain and nothing to lose
by acquiring an educated background.
And next time a critic of education
goes to the doctor, chemist or dentist
for relief, or to an architect to design
a home, or to a lawyer for advice let him
dip his lid to higher education. — Danbo
(Vic.).
Syndicated Stories
Let me tell “H.M.” (B. 8/l/’4l) that a
reasonable, competitive price is charged
for imported stories, and that, as far as
Australian editors are concerned, the
fault lies, not with the syndicates, but
with Australian writers themselves.
A Sydney editor recently told me that
she is compelled to buy from the syndi-
cates because of the low standard of
stories submitted by Australians. Only
one thing can make Australian literature
great, and that is a consistent infiltration
of the literature of other countries, better
versed in the art of writing it. Another
point that “H.M.” overlooks is that Aus-
tralia’s biggest syndicate does more busi-
ness with English than with American
agencies.— Willyn (N.S.W.).
“Encouraging” Australian Literature
Behold the plight of Australian writers
who succeed in selling their wares in the
best market —which, with all appreciation
of The Bulletin’s splendid efforts and
the enterprise of Australian publishers,
is England. An ordinary contract brings
a lump sum on advance account of royal-
ties on sales in Britain and elsewhere,
including Australia. From it the English
inland revenue now deducts 7s. 6d. in
the £, payable directly to them by the
publishers on author’s behalf. Literary
agents usually get another deducted 10
p.c. commission. A refund from inland
revenue may be claimed in the following
year on account of Dominion sales. If it
is allowed, taxation agents charge p.c.
for collecting it. With exchange, the
writer actually gets about two-thirds of
his advance.
When it reaches him in Australia the
Commonwealth taxation authorities get
busy. They charge him on it at Austra-
lian currency value. If he should get a
next-year refund they stick him for it also
at Australian value. Should he be receiv-
ing royalties from previous books pub-
lished in England they collect for them,
also for returns from reprints. Before
long he is faced up with so many de-
mands and counter-demands, “please ex-
plains” and the rest that he realises what a
stupid ass he has been to write books
when without working his brain at all he
could have led a peaceful, well-paid, shel-
tered life as a taxation clerk. — Colbun
(Q-).
“Faith-healing”
Much as I respect the beliefs and feel-
ings of other people, I can’t see why
“faith-healing” should be tolerated in an
enlightened comrhunity. I have known
more than one death occur when a
“faith-healer” was called to the bedside
to administer psychological “remedies,”
instead of a surgeon who might have
saved the life with an operation.
Often, admittedly, the patient’s con-
dition is improved by moral help and
comfort. Nothing, however, can replace
the physical treatment necessary in a
serious illness. — Arfalk (Vic.).
Jehovah’s Witnesses
the founder of the sect was converted
suddenly from being just an ordinary
citizen to being a religious zealot. He had
tremendous energy, organising ability
and unlimited ambition. He wrote a sort
of theological Mein Kampf, and backed
it up with ceaseless and world-wide
propaganda. •
His followers are, almost without ex-
ception, very decent people, hard work-
ing, temperate and honest. In times of
peace their insistent witnessing might be
boring, but never dangerous.
The reason for their rapid multiplica-
tion is simple. Their Message serves up
in one dish all the things that are popu-
lar with thoughtless though decent people
everywhere. The “times and times and
half-a-time” method of prophetic riddle-
reading, combined with charts and
measurements of the pyramids, make the
finest crossword puzzle ever published.
The “signs and wonders in the heavens”
are just a religious form of astrology.
The story of Armageddon suits the taste
of those who like to sup on horrors. It
is the super-thriller of all literature. A
new heaven and a new earth, with front
seats for the faithful, is offered at the
bargain price of belief, prayer and re-
pentance.
• Further, instead of spending money on
Gothic architecture and pipe organs, the
Witnesses put it into advertising with as
much enthusiasm as if they were selling
drapery or patent medicines. There are
no silent Witnesses.
The chief difference between them and
the “adept” astrologers is that the
Jehovah crowd believe in their own non-
sense, and carry their fatalism to its logi-
cal conclusion of pacifism as an organ-
ised body, whereas the star-gazer writes
with his tongue in his cheek for the
sole purpose of making money out of the
tripe.— Alf A. Brick (S.A.).
The Fourth Service
On the front page of The Bulletin
(4/12/’4O) there was an advertisement
soliciting public support for the Free-
dom Loan then on the market. It was
stated in the ad. that “Money is the
Fourth Fighting Service.”
All other fighting services are under
the control of the Crown. Why, then,
isn’t the fourth fighting service placed
under the Crown instead of depending
on the whims of the money market and
the private monopoly of credit? —
Michael J. Henry (N.S.W.).
Night Clubs
To my way of thinking the enforce-
ment of the six-o’clock-closing law in
Sydney is of considerably less importance
than the cleaning up of some of those
nocturnal jazz-joints that rejoice in the
name of “night clubs.”
I don’t mean the so-called “society”
pterowpds, haunts of gushing gossip-
writers and sycophantic camera-clickers,
but less “refined” places, haunts of har-
lots, bludgers, dope-addicts, perverts and
miscellaneous neurotics.
Apart from their moral effect on the
adolescent who happens to be introduced
into their foetid atmosphere, these de-
serve suppression because of the out-
rageous profit they make on their trade
in liquor. One place asks 3s. 6d. for a
bottle of beer, and gets it often. Whisky
costs 255. a bottle, and other spirits are
similarly stratospheric in price.
Saner drinking hours have a good deal
to do with the eradication of these tawdry
liquor holes. It is a significant fact that
in cities like Brisbane and Hobart, where
the closing of pubs is much later than in
Sydney, attempts to establish these “night
clubs” have always fallen miserably flat.
—G. H. (N.S.W.).
Railways
They do not pay because of dead-
heads, overweights, too heavy trucks, too
slow speed and tardy clearances of goods.
Perhaps the main reason is the cartage to
and fro of from 50 to 150 tons of un-
necessary deadweight on every train. This
amounts to some millions of tons every
year, and those millions of tons represent,
in lost freights, slower trains and higher
rates, the deficit on the lines.
In the U.S.A. a rake of trucks weigh-
ing 100 tons carries 400 tons of pay load
—the average figure in Australia for 100
tons of trucks is 200 tons to 225 tons of
pay load. In one case in the U.S.A. a
passenger train was built weighing
tons, and its speed, mobility and com-
fort put the competing motor buses off
the adjacent roads. Our railwaymen will
probably awake in 1995 or thereabouts.—
Timekeeper (W.A.).
The Wheatgrower
Since the wheatgrower found that his
woes made news, he has neglected no
opportunity of presenting his troubles to
the world and of stressing to politicians
that something should be done for him.
Wheat has become a subject of national
importance, although, as an industry, it is
not nearly so important as, for instance,
wool.
For years now wheatgrowers have been
facing ruin—according to their statements,
which always get a good press. They
have said frequently that they are pro-
ducing grain for less than they receive in
payment, although no one is likely to
continue an unprofitable business. Basing
the figures on the returns from wheat
alone, the grower may not be well off,
but there are few wheatgrowers who have
not developed sidelines that return good
profits.
They run sheep, fatten cattle, do a bit of
dairying, sell hay and raise pigs, turkeys
and fowls —often to such an extent that
grain production is of secondary import-
ance. Some regard 3s. a bushel as a
good price, and others declare that they
can make wheatgrowing pay at 2s. a
bushel.
Last season many N. S. Wales wheat-
growers made up to £lO an acre by cut-
ting portion of their crops for hay.
Others realised up to 265. per head for
fat lambs, in addition to cheques for wool
cut from the ewes. More have proved
that wheat is worth as much as 4s. 6d.
a bushel if it is fed to pigs. Dairying is
another sideline which pays well on
numerous wheat farms.
Wheat has been “stabilised” by the
Commonwealth Government which
means the taxpayer. It is as well that the
taxpayer should know that figures of
returns based on wheat alone do not
represent the actual position of the wheat-
grower. In many instances his plight is
not nearly so bad as we have been led
to believe. — Sam Square (N.S.W.).
State Boundaries
I live at Goondiwindi, on the Queens-
land side of the Mclntyre River, which
is the border of N. S. Wales and Queens-
land. ’Roos have been a nuisance lately,
so a big Too shoot was held. It was
advertised and attended by all and
sundry; and 400 ’roos were shot. Over
the river (about 10 feet wide in places
and dry at times in others), in N. S.
Wales ’roos are protected; fine, £5 a
skin. The river runs through one grazier’s
property, and he has to round his Toos
up and drive them over the river to the
north (Q.) side before he can shoot them.
Then there is fishing in the river. At
present it is closed season in N. S. Wales,
but not in Queensland, so when we go
fishing we have to sit on our own side of
the river. Later on we will have a closed
season ourselves, but then we will be able
to wade across the river and sit on the
N. S. Wales side and fish quite legally.—
Brig (Q.).
Crowds
“Elm” (B. 15/1 /’4l) forgets that all
crowds vary little in their reactions to
stimuli. Crowds, by their very nature,
are irrational. Charged with high-tension
emotion, they will discharge it or blow
their fuses on apparently pointless antics
or through seemingly forced spirits. The
King’s Cross “revellers,” when they open
their safety valves, are no different from
an excitable cricket crowd or a football
mob. Social gatherings, the heckling
audiences of Hyde Park or the Yarra
Bank, the race-meeting mobs, in short,
all human herds, behave much the same.
As an individual, looking objectively at
the “revellers,” “Elm” might register
boredom or rage while they react to the
contagion of mass emotion. But the
crowd’s dissipation of energy is a psycho-
logical necessity. Only the individual can
get satisfaction in directing energy on
personal problems. Too much introspec-
tion, however, can be disastrous. Much
of the healthy, boisterous friendship of
the Australians, their gregariousness, is
due to their genius for extraversion. This
trait is responsible for the well-known
comradeship of our soldiers —they are
happy in a mob, a noisy, restless mob for
preference. Few Australians would make
successful lighthouse-keepers.
Crowds can be potentially dangerous.
When their emotions are captured by a
demagogue and directed along destructive
channels, sadistic outlets are a natural
reaction. This is a point our wowsers
should remember. So long as we can
have revellers, excitable sporting crowds,
the mild elations pf pub groups, even the
stadium mobs bawling away their re-
pressions, crowds will be relatively harm-
less. What if they are noisy, silly or
drain off their energies in seemingly un-
creative activity?
Wherever the crowd is organised or its
energy directed along some self-appointed
leader’s mental canal, there is danger.
The very lack of organisation in a democ-
racy is its virtue, because the masses can
freely dissipate their loves and hates with-
out clashing dangerously with the ver-
botens of too strict organisation. — Chas.
Halbert (S.A.).
Maoriland Election
The M.L. general election is due in the
spring and preliminary political rumblings
are beginning. Neither party has as yet
declared the issues to be fought, though
the Government will probably rest on its
achievements, which, in spite of the many
mistakes usual with parties in power, have
been considerable.
For a time it seemed as though the
Opposition would concentrate on the
enormous existing taxation, but it was
realised that the more disagreeable
features were instituted by the National-
ists themselves when they were in power
prior to 1935. When the then Minister
of Finance, Mr. Coates, brought down his
last Budget, people listening-in were
aghast at the drastic innovations-—a poll
tax of £1 a year on all males of 21 or
over ; an unemployment tax of Is. in the
£ on all wages, salaries and incomes ; a
sales tax of Is. in the £ ; and an added
benzine tax of 4d. in the £ for the con-
solidated funds —we already had a 6d. a
gallon tax for reading purposes.
These burdens inflicted during a slump
period when money was hard to come by
produced a reaction that helped defeat
the Nationalists at the poll of 1935. But
the Labor Government has not abol-
ished any of these taxes, although it has
substituted the name social security tax
for unemployment tax, accompanying it,
though, with definite benefits that the
Nationalist tax did not have. The poll
tax still remains; a national security
tax of Is. in the £ has been added for
war purposes ; another 5 p.c. has been
added to the sales tax, also for war pur-
poses ; and there is an additional tax on
benzine, again for war purposes. So
neither Labor nor Nationalist will bring
up the tax issue, since both are culpable.
—R. H. (M.L.). _
“Young Phaethon Returns”
In “Young Phaethon Returns” (B.
15 /1 / ’4l) “Ente Marid” goes back to the
ancients but fails to get there. Like many
other present-day writers he makes no
mention of the decisive battle of Proposis
(Piriu or Perire) circa 1220 b.c. The
Libyans, aided by Mediterranean allies
attempted to invade Egypt along the coa
road with an army of about 20,000 The
Pharaoh Merenptah collected all ava
able troops and defeated them with a loss
of 9000 killed and as many prisoners nea
Sidi Barrani. The muster of so many
troops weakened the Egyptian garrisons
in the isthmus of Suez and §? ve .
his chance to effect the Israelite exodus
I know of no successful attack of EgyP
alone the coast road, though one may
have 8 preceded the 22nd Dynasty, 945
B tTwWch was Libyan. There: were many
successful campaigns m the oth r
tion. —W. R. Day (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
fd
Electric Washing:
Machines
Small, compact,
340 volts 50 cycles
• Clothes capacity
21b. (dry).
• F idly portable.
9 Double - coated
green porcelain
enamel finish.
9 Water capa-
city, 8 gals.
9 Guaranteed one
year.
9 Limited number
to clear at £5.
AMPLION
(A/asia) Pty., Ltd.
382 Kent-st., Sydney
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing: to . try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
FREE XRIAT, in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery ami
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (40% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
7i
i
OILSKINS
for long:, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates:
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops -
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
1218 REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TOBACCO
Don’t pay Tobacco Price Increases!
Save the Middleman’s Profit.
WHITELAW’S FAMOUS IMPORT BLEND
Tins fine quality tobacco, usually 1/4 an
ounce, is now available to country cus-
tomers at lid. an ounce, despite the new
duties, in lib. and lib. packs. Selected leaf,
expertly blended, deep, satisfying and cool,
fresh to the last smoke. Your money back
if not satisfied. Send crossed cheque or
money order.
Fine cut or ready-rubbed pipe
Jib., 1/9 delivered. 11b., 14/6 delivered.
JAMES WHITELAW AND COMPANY
14 Spring St., Sydney. Box 3194 T, G.P.O.
“GOLF SHOTS”
by JIM FERRIER
Australian Open and Amateur Champion,
IS NOW ON SALE.
Over 100 photographs of the
champion in action reproduced
from a slow-motion film.
Every shot fully explained.
Price only 3/- per copy from
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.
Box 252 188, G.P.0., Sydney, most
Newsagents or your Club Pro.
TYPEWRITERS
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
Judgment Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
mg P elmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.). Melbourne. Telephone; MU2SS6.
s Get rid of
Horns BEFORE
they start!
One application of
CHANDLER’S CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing-. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes—the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, cheap and humane method. Price.
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd,, R/R
MELBOURNE and all branches. Free.
'J&S ¥'
DEAFNESS
DEFEA TED
Allen anil Banbury’s famous Bonochord
midget valve amplified hearing aid can
overcome the most advanced cases of
senile, nerve and catarrhal deafness.
Fitted with crystal microphone, this
model can be Concealed in a gentleman’s
vest pocket or within ladies’ wearing
apparel.
Call for free Audiometric test of your
hearing and trial of this 1941 model
British hearing aid.
GEORGE J. TOSI,
Suitu 6-10, 2nd Floor, Prudential Bldg.
IS) MARTIN PLACE, S ABNEY.
LAMBS SAVED
ďs
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES. OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord-
other hand closes instru
lOO p.c. efficient
Humane—Safe—and as quick as the knife
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. _No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don't judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAEOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators, 74 Pitt-st., Sydn
*
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
Buy
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
A REAL
COMFORT
TO SMOKERS.
5/6
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
“Barling:” silver mounted for 15/-
The value, 38/6.
In cigarette papers I can otter you “Zig
Zag,” “Repeater/* “Tally Ho,” “Bafra,”
“Papier Ambre” and “Rise
I C\/V tobacconist.
«L. LC Y I est. MH' years.
713 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Goods sent C. 0.1). if desired.
TILLEY LAMPS
fds
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool -proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1J pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
oe used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICE, 67/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
380 Kent Street. Sydney.
To Aid the Ked Cross
The Garden
Lover’s Log
by Olive Mellor
An attractively printed diary for
garden lovers, full of practical ad-
vice and hints for every month in
the year.
A splendid little gift.
Price 3/6, posted 3/8.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria,
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
m
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4iin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. j[4in. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OP RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
Cunningham St., Sydney.
J. P. TALTY e
CLIMBING
TOM'ATO
ass
ET
Amazing New Imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR!.
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
PURE WHITE HEALTH
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
erb flavor! Disease free! Drought proof!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM. 2/6 Packet, posted'.
fds
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO RINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin, Post Free
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., Sydney
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street. Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter.,‘ Adelaide.
y<
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to;
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 13K),
65 York Street, Sydney.
DEAF I
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R, A. NOEDI, L.1.8.5.T.,
The Block, 428 George St., Sydney,
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
.{Ut®
fluff
|H Discard the old type
SS Ict steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do_ the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The Mend is the Strongest Spot In the Pot
POTMEND
Cement of a thousand uses.
Sticks where it is put. Couldn’t
be ! simpler. Just mix powder
and fluid into a putty and fill
lisp
piM
the hole. It hardens like iron. It is lire-
proof, waterproof, will not chip, burn, boil
or bake out. Mends leaky pots, pans,
kettles, tanks, radiators, boiler joints, stoves,
tubs, buckets, etc. Many articles discarded
may be made useful again by using Pot-
mend. Used cold —no heat necessary. Price,
One Shilling, posted. Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFG. & AGENCY CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from .well-knpwn manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. • Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to choose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
REDUCE
YOUR
WAIST
The GO VERNA BELT will reduce
your waistline and give a slim
athletic figure. Supports delicate
organs. By gentle, changing pres-
sure, waistline bulge is eliminated
with every move you make.
7 DAYS' TRIAL OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will he
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of bulge
and strain gone . . . OR NO
COST ! Write for full illustrated
details of 7 DAYS’ TRIAL
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- ( plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscnption rate, in full payment.
NAME
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
ADDRESS
C Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
5,Hr41 (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department. "The Bulletin “
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


2000 TRIAL TREATMENTS TO Bt uiaimeuitu vr
AMAZING HAIR DISCOVERY!
Phenomenal Results Of This Unique Hair
•f
4 ■
Treatment!
2162 SUCCESSFUL CASES TREATED
FOR HAIR TROUBLES
STILL they come, letters, letters and letters,
hundreds and hundreds of wonderful reports
rolling in daily from all parts of Australia
from men and women in all stages of this
wonderful treatment, some who were com-
pletely bald, others with hair receding at the
temples, thin on the crown, bald’ patches,
and yet others suffered from “snowstorm
dandruff,” scurf, greasiness, falling hair, and
many of the other varied scalp disorders, but
all more than delighted with the benefits
derived, and thev all tried this treatment with-
out RISKING ONE PENNY —on an absolute
trial basis! Now it’s your turn; here is your
opportunity to use this treatment in your own
home.
WAS BALD FOR 16 YEARS. HAIR NOW GROWING—
“Hair has started to grow over the bald parts, which have been
bald' for 16 years.”—G. L. Horton, of O,
2000 TRIAL TREATMENTS
30 DAYS’ coupon
J. Kelso Murchison, Laboratory 88, 24
Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME .A ‘
ADDRESS . . .
THE FIRST SIGNS OF HAIR DISORDER
SEE IF THESE CONDITIONS APPLY TO YOU!
THE hair shows the first signs of disorders in different ways.
It may even be there and hot apparent to the subject,
though usually the hair warns you that all is not well with :t.
The cause of all hair trouble is neglect, although other factors
bring about hair troubles, such as nervousness, severe fright,
etc. Nobody desires hair trouble, but Nature is just rather
than merciful, and, whether it is through carelessness or
ignorance of the laws of Nature, if the hair does not receive
its proper attention then, just as night follows day, trouble
with the hair will follow and take, its _ toll. Does your hau
fall out considerably ? Do you, for instance, get a lot of
combings? Is your hair split and broken . D«m it h rt fa
null gently? Have you much dandruff on > our scalp. Is tin
scalp itchy or painful in patches? Is your hair very dry or
too ollv? Is your hair changing color? Are the roots falling
when you comb? What state is your ha r at the crown? The
answers to these simple questions will tell you if you have the
flrst signs of hair disorders; and, if so, take the warning that
is given you by Nature.
Send the Coupon TODAY 1
J. Kelso Murchison, Dept. 88, 24
Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Here’s Proof From All Parts
of Australia!
L. PHILLIPS, of D., says:
“HAIR HAS GROWN TWICE
AS THICK! After the first
night's treatment the dandruff
began to disappear; at the end
of three days was completely
gone. New hair was growing at
the temples and on crown of the
head at the end of 30 days, and
in a very short period ail my
hair and scalp troubles were
over for good. My hair has also
grown twice as thick. Anybody suffering from any
of the hair disorders I have had and desiring to get
rid of them for all time and obtain a B°°“
hair, just write to J. Kelso, Murchison. L. PHILLIP,
of D.
Mr. li. Phillips.
- •
■ i''
Mrs. A. Burgess.
MRS. ANNITA BURGESS, of Beaumaris, says*. “Course
a Blessing! 4am writing to thank
you for the ' wonderful results re-
ceived from your hair treatment. I
was in despair my hair had been
falling out and had got very
thin, and no life in it at all, and
was full of dandruff. I decided
to try your course. Well, 1 can
Breally8 really say it has been a blessing to
me, as my hair now looks really
better than I have ever known
; to be. You will agree that the^
photograph speaks for itself."—-MRS. A. BURGESS, of B.
BALD PATCHES GROWING
HAIR. “Before I started to use
your hair treatment my hair was
falling out that much that \
thought I would be bald in a
short time. Thanks to your won-
derful treatment the bald patches
on my scalp are growing hair
very rapidly, and I would recom-
mend your hair treatment as the
best in the world; it has cured
my dandruff, and my hair is
100 per cent, better." —W. A.
PEARSON. P,
Mr. A. Pearson.
MAN ADDS 3£ INCHES
TO HIS HEIGHT!
FTP 1717 f To all “Bulletin 1
Jr* laCiL • Readers.
Stupendous Success of Marvellous
New System.
3i INCHES GAIN
IN DOUBLE-QUICK TIME
“Since starting your course I have gained
3i inches in height, and I am very pleased
with your system. I feel much fitter now
than I did before starting your course.”
L. Bustard, W., N.Z.
New System Adds Inches Quickly
You can now add
several inches to your
height! With this re-
markable method it is
now possible to in-
crease yonr height, at
the same time improve
your health and
appearance. Without
the use of drugs or
unnatural method s,
this system will add
inches to you. You
CAN be taller.
How Is Your
Appearance?
All the social and busi-
ness advantages of a
commanding figure can
be yours. You can
stand above your fel-
500 TREATISES to
be Distributed
FREE !
to “Bulletin”
Readers.
Use Coupon Below.
lows and command the
attention and respect
which only tall people
receive. Nothing aids
you more to social and
business success than
a tall, commanding
appearance, nothing
will add more to your
personality—and yet all
this is within your
grasp! You can NOW
get this extra height.
“Startling Secrets of Height.”
By special arrangement we are distributing
FREE to all readers of “The Bulletin”
some amazing literature. It will show
you the short cut to a tall, command-
ing personality. Through reading this
wonderful treatise hundreds have already
increased their height, hundreds are doing
so at this moment. For a short while you
can get one of these treatises absolutely
FREE—if you send at once. Get the coupon
in the post NOW!
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
Dept. 94, Wayne House, Clarence
Street, Sydney.
SEND NO MONEY
fsYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
I Dept. 94, Wayne House,.
Clarence 8t v Sydney, N.B.W.
I Hear Sir,—Please send me your re-
marliable Free Treatise, “How To Iri-
| crease My Height,” under plain vvrap-
Iper.
NAME
jj ADDRESS
I - 5/2/’4l.
I (Enclose stam#>.)
Secret Art of Voice Throwing
Exposed for the First Time!
2
%
m
m
m
/f:
m
Y
OU’LL get fun galore throwing your
* voice. Hundreds have learnt this
easy way secretly at home. Give enter-
tainments, amuse your friends. 1 ™n t
care who you are or where you live, 1
GUARANTEE I can teach you ventrilo-
quism if you send the coupon 10-ua
THIS GREAT OFFER
DEFINITELY EXPIRES
MARCH 31st.
RUSH COUPON!
VALENTINE FOX, Dept. 86
Wayne House, Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
NEVER before have the secrets of ven-
triloquism been olfered to the public.
Now for the first time YOU can learn
to throw your voice. -You can get endless
fun from ventriloquism, you can amaze
the “wise ones.” Send for this startling
FREE literature, and within 24 hours you
will know many of the secrets of ven-
triloquism.
Now You Can Learn
Ventriloquism!
Throw Your Voice —Amuse Your Friends!
Make Money!
FOR the first time the rage of America
reaches Australia! Now you can learn
at home this most amusing and entertain-
ing art. Startle and amuse your friends—
throw your voice—give entertainments —
make money in your spare time. Send
for FREE literature telling you EVERY-
THING about Ventriloquism. Send the
coupon TO-DAY!
What This FREE Literature
Will Tell You!
• HOW to throw your voice.
9 How to make a doll speak.
« How to entertain with ventriloquism.
• How to make money in your spare
time.
C How to get roars of laughter.
O How to he popular and admired.
• The inner secrets of ventriloquism.
I NAME
BE A VENTRILOQUIST.']
i JLiJf *
| .===r.w-'s/'VL
Get Greater
Popularity —
Win Friends!
POST
COUPON
NOW!
SEND NO MONEY/
■ VALENTINE FOX, Dept. 86,
I Box 3573 KB, G.P.0.,
■ Dear Sir, Sydney, N.S.W.
■ <m j „ i... r.'TjTi’.Tii
I
I
8
i
ADDRESS
(Enclose stamp.)
