

Ccr&trtfiti
DULDX”
STANDS
HARD WEAR
Basically, “Dulux” is different from enamels and varnishes. “Dulux”
is chemically different —made by a secret process used solely for “Dulux”
—that’s why the colour lasts longer! That’s why it is tougher.
“Dulux” will give longer lasting colour and beauty in your home . . .
make it more charming. Use “Dulux” on cupboards, tables, chairs . . .
modernise your kitchen in a completely new and brighter colour, scheme
. . . but use “Dulux” . . . it’s truly a miracle finish.
B.A.L.M. “DULUX” SUPER-MATT
An entirely new development in interior finishes for walls and ceilings.
“Dulux” SUPER-MAT F,x the synthetic velvet finish, creates new
standards of beauty and durability.
Available in 22 lovely new shades and black and white. “Dulux”
SUPER-MATT offers wide scope in the choice of colour-schemes
of your own preference—giving your home an individuality unobtainable
by other methods of decoration.
m
FREE BOOKLETS
Send to British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty., Ltd., P.O. Box 21,
Concord, N.S.W., for Free and Post Free copies of the “Dulux” Folder
and the Manual on its Application.
lap
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
SUPERSEDES ENAMELS
AND VARNISHES
A Product of British Australian Lead Manufacturers Pty.,
Ltd,, Makers of “Duco” Lacquers.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE
mm
m
Wm
PI
V.-?
fOj/ 10 ***
Illustrated are the Hammer
Test and Flexibility Test
two methods of proving the
extra durability and unique
flexibility of “Dulux.” These
and other tests have shown
that “Dulux” is almost twice
as durable as enamels.
“DULUX” FOR CARS
“Dulux” is the toughest, most durable
finish for cars and trucks. It maintains
its original colour and gloss in spite of
severe wear. Petrol, oil, etc., won’t mar
its beauty. It needs NO polishing—
Consult your refinisher about “Dulux.”
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.— N0. 3190.
Wednesday, April 2, 1941.
Yugoslavia No Slave State
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney '‘Bulletin.”
My Name
Mg Address
S.B. 211
The Red Page
THEORIES OF LIFE AND ART.
Once upon a time when the evangelist
demanded “How is it with your soul?”
one used to reply amiably “Brother, I
suspect that I am possessed by a devil.”
Today, when one has read H. G. Baynes’s
Mythology of the Soul (Bailliere, Tindall
and Cox, Ltd., London), the answer rolls
out in the sonorous jargon of psycho-
analysis, “Doctor, I am suffering from
a sudden activation of the archaic con-
tents of the unconscious.” Baynes has
written Mythology of the Soul to show
how very nearly correct was the tradi-
tional diagnosis.
Oddly, considering the long “conflict”
between science and religion, there
is little in this latest proclamation
of psycho-analysis incompatible with a
sincere belief in religion. On the con-
trary, Baynes finds himself compelled to
stress the “great danger of godlessness.”
Psycho-analysis has swung the full circle.
Frazer’s view of the great traditions as
solar and vegetation myths is held in-
adequate ; a path is found through and
beyond the Freudians’ maze of sex and
the CEdipus complex. Baynes follows
Jung to find a new mystery in man, a
new dignity in the myths, a new validity
in religion.
Quaintly again, as is the way of psycho-
analysis, the sources from which Baynes’s
metaphysical speculations stream out are
the weird, often unpleasant drawings of
two of his patients, borderline schizo-
phrenics. From his analysis of these
baffling products of the unconscious
emerges first a picture of the schizo-
phrenic psyche; then of the normal
psyche, of which the abnormal is merely
an exaggeration, differing in degree, not
in kind; and so of the normal self
in relation to society (and particu-
larly to a society dominated by the evil
of Hitlerism), in relation to art and in
relation to religion. One of the chief
reasons for calling attention to the book
here is that it offers a way of approach-
ing surrealist art; a basis both for under-
standing the paintings that are being
quarrelled about and for summing up
their value as works of art or freaks of
pathology.
In two paragraphs of his introduction
Baynes gives the core' of his (and Jung’s)
philosophy with admirable clarity;
Before the human mind had ever set
itself to the labor of thought, the myth
already flowed like a natural fountain out
of the unconscious. Within this stream
of living images the naive mind is enfolded,
as a trout is contained by the river. Like
a fish to its native stream, the morale of a
people also abides in their relation to their
myth: when this is destroyed by intel-
lectual sophistication or by other causes the
virtue of a people departs.
With the individual it is the same: every
man needs to be contained psychologically
in a living stream. Call this stream, if
you will, tradition; essentially it is the con-
tinuity of general psychic life in which the
individual psyche is contained, and by which
it is nourished. Often the stream of tra-
dition seems to lose itself in still pools, as,
for example, when the family or the clan
or the church stagnates in qncient custom,
forgetting to cherish the new forms which
a living myth begets.
Most of the people who come to an analyst
with serious purpose come because they
have lost touch with, or been prised away
from, their original background.
In other words, beneath the surface of
individual consciousness, racial memories
—shapes of terror, intuitions and emblems
of delight—lie like fossils in geological
strata. Beyond the CEdipus complex of
Freud, the psyche yearns to the racial
mother, the maternal archetype ; to the
terrifying ancestresses of the race to
whose presence Mephisto led Faust; to
benignant Mother Nature and'Mother
Earth. Co-exiStent with this dark femi-
nine principle, the pull of the moon,
there is in eternal balanced opposition
the masculine principle of the sun, the
germinating light that breaks the circle
of sameness.
It is not enough, says Baynes, to explain
that the mythological pattern of the old
god and the young hero Horus and Ra,
Wotan and Siegfried— represents the set-
ting and the rising sun. Rather, he sub-
mits, the image of the setting and rising
sun was used by the primitive mind as
an analogy for the dawn or increase of
consciousness, the inspiration of the
archetypal hero. It is not enough, he
says, to explain the descent of Persephone
into hell as a symbol of the death of
vegetation in the winter and its resurrec-
tion in the spring. “Rather it is the
analogous reference, always at the back
of men’s minds, which connects the de-
parture of the spirit of vegetation from
the earth with the danger of dissociation
in the psychic realm, when the soul
absconds into the unconscious and con-
sciousness is bereft of life and vigor.”
One’s first inevitable objection to
theorising of this sort is its abstraction.
Against that, Baynes sets his patients’
drawings, which are concrete proofs that
the borderline schizophrenic does in fact
depict the troubles of his soul in mytho-
logical imagery—sun, moon, hero,
dragon, snake, flood: in imagery which
can plausibly be interpreted in terms of
familiar mythology. The archetypal
symbols, used consciously by poets and
artists down the centuries, are, on the
evidence of the drawings, held in suspen-
sion in the unconscious of the ordinary
man. To those who object that the theory
is too complex, that the soul could not
be imagined to contain this maze of
ancestral memories, this morass of pri-
mordial images, he answers that he is not
asking anyone to conceive anything more
elaborate than a butterfly’s wing-—that
intricate, incredible design which is
accepted as natural without question.
The forces at work in the unconscious
Baynes simplifies to those of the “anima,”
“Surrealist” painting by a borderline schizophrenic, symbolising his return
to normality. Thunderstorm is the psychic disturbance through which he
has passed; the black horse, mythological emblem of thunder, is about
to be caught in the giant hand representing control.
—From “Mythology of the Soul.”
the feminine healing principle, and the
“renegade,” the fatal tendency to sur-
render to the primordial darkness,
peopled with images of terror. Only
when the beneficent influence of the
anima has reconciled the warring
elements in the soul can the purpose
of life (the purpose, Baynes says, of
alchemy, science, psycho-analysis, art and
religion) be fulfilled: “the detaching of
the sacred flame of consciousness from
entanglement with matter and flesh.”
Schizophrenia occurs when some per-
sonal crisis stirs up the “archaic contents
of the unconscious.” The borderline case,
who may or may not finally surrender to
the renegade within him, has lost touch
with his fellow-men ; lost touch, that is
to say, with the myth in which they live.
Apathy, “the deadliest peril of the soul,”
overcomes him ; he is devoured by the
torpid dragon, the Cyclops; he becomes
one with the Circean swine. Fear of his
emotional inadequacy, says Baynes, can
drive him to frenzy ; or, while he is still
in the apathetic stage, he is fascinated by
the unconscious, locked in a “self-
destroying masochism.” Above all, he
begins to doubt the validity of his own
nature.
Because of this statement of the schizo-
phrenic’s mentality, The Mythology of
the Soul is one of the most satisfying bits
of medical literature one could come
across. Everyone likes to see his symp-
toms described in a medical textbook
and to say, whether it’s double pneu-
imonia or housemaid’s knee, “That’s
exactly what I’ve got.” There’s no
trouble about that here, for Baynes does
believe we’ve all “gotit”: schizophrenia,
he believes, is the characteristic disease
of the modern soul. If he were trying to
foist a bodily ailment on everybody-
appendicitis, say—his argument would be
immediately suspect: but if “schizo-
phrenic tendencies” is merely a short
way of describing man’s eternal tendency
to relapse into apathy and atavism, the
analysis is worth following.
Examples of the contemporary ten-
dency to “doubt the validity of one’s own
nature” immediately spring to mind.
Didn’t Gertrude Stein’s heroine declare
that she knew she was she only when her
little dog recognised her; and didn’t
T. S. Eliot declare with some passion “We
are the hollow men”? •
Modern man, Baynes holds, has
patently lost contact with his myth. Reli-
gion has lost much of its ancient author-
ity ; he feels that science is impotent
before the forces of the unconscious.
The results of this severance are the
same for the nation ,as for the indivi-
dual : apathy, or surrender to the rene-
gade. England, until the present war
restored the national myth, had taken the
way of apathy. Germany, Baynes de-
clares, surrendered to the renegade Hitler,
personification of the atavistic enemy
in the soul of the individual. Baynes is
very comforting on the subject of Hitler.
He calls him a wolf—the dog whose
nervous equilibrium couldn’t stand the
strain of being bred to a higher type and
relapsed to its ancestral archetype. He
his “dasnaonic "appetite” as
exactly comparable to that of the devour-
ing monsters of the soul and of anti-
quity. He suggests that he is a medium
without real existence. Finally he says
that his swastika goes the wrong way
round, which means that he and his
regime have unconsciously admitted that
they’re headed for a very sticky end. One
wishes that Baynes wouldn’t stretch his
theories to quite such lengths as that —
the theory that nothing is accidental is
the most dangerous dogma of psycho-
analysis—but there is something very
satisfying (as well as something sensible)
in this scientific denunciation.
Considering the general state of Ger-
many, he believes that the fanaticism of
the Nazis is explicable as the overcom-
pensation necessitated by a hidden doubt,
and also that men surrender their wills
to the renegade as to a tidal wave. A
nice piece of scientific thinking applied
to politics:
A misunderstanding, fraught with terrible
political possibilities, obscures our apprecia-
tion of the complementary biological pat-
terns which underlie the totalitarian and
democratic forms of government. The
former is based upon the pattern of the
leader and the herd, which gregarious
animals tend to adopt during migration,
or when insecurity threatens. The break-
up of the herd into families or relatively
small groups when the breeding-ground is
reached is equivalent to the natural com-
munism of the food-gathering, indigenous
tribes which forms the ground-plan of
democracy. It is the crime of politics
that these essentially relative patterns should
be represented as absolute principles.
Baynes is less satisfying on art and
letters than Jie is on legend and poli-
tics. Obviously a man of wide culture
(who could, and perhaps will in a later
book, make a detailed analysis of the
mysteries of the arts) he confines himself
here to a sprinkling of interesting facts
and stimulating suggestions. To give
point to his assertion that certain historic
places, charged with centuries of devo-
tion, have the power to awaken and
release racial memories, the archaic con-
tents of the unconscious, he recalls the
extraordinary vision at Stonehenge in
J. C. Powys’s Glastonbury Romance. In
a further illustration the well-known
story of the two Englishwomen who
visited the Trianon of Versailles and
found themselves in the period of Marie
Antoinette—he invites attack from the
followers of J. W. Dunne, for Dunne be-
lieves that the two ladies walked literally
into past time, whereas Baynes holds that
what they saw were “images arising spon-
taneously from the unconscious.”
When he is discussing the activities of
the anima, the case of “Fiona Macleod”
gives him excellent material. Fiona,
whose delicate, rather precious poetry
and sensitive Gaelic romances were one
of the thrills of the ’nineties, was more
than the pen-name adopted by the jour-
nalist William Sharp ; she was a person-
ality that mingled with and ultimately
almost obliterated his own. To Baynes
this is a clear case of possession by the
anima.
Other items of literary interest are
Baynes’s analysis of Drdcula, in which he
declares that the vampire represents the
daemonic element of the unconscious and
that Bram Stoker’s story, written as a
joke, is filled with the unconscious
wisdom of the ages ; his analysis of
Hamlet —the familiar explanation of
Hamlet’s vacillation as arising out of the
CEdipus complex ; a comparison of Moby
Dick and the Book of Job, Baynes agree-
ing with Nathaniel Hawthorne that Mel-
ville had written “an epic of megalo-
mania,” in which, aware, like Job, of the
dynamic, reverse aspect of divinity, he
had attempted to kill that divinity in the
shape of the white whale ; a study of
Rima of Green Mansions as a beautiful
symbolisation of the anima ; an explora-
tion (on the lines of Peter Hopegood’s
essay in Thirteen from Oahu, recently
reviewed here) —of the Mother Goose
nursery rhyme to its distant source where
the good lady is the Primal Darkness,
mother of the world ; an analysis of
Nijinsky’s madness, suggesting that the
dancer surrendered to the “atavistic
attraction of the primordial image,” to
the archaic fantasy of the animal-god he
created in his notorious “L’Apres-midi
d’un Faune.”
Nowhere does Baynes attempt, as
Freud did, a general theory of litera-
ture, but from these scattered references
an important principle of criticism can
easily be established. Because Freud’s
theories seemed to stop dead in sex —
were widely, though not quite correctly,
so interpreted—he has been the enemy
of art and of criticism. Nothing could
have been more damaging than the notion
that the artist was merely giving expres-
sion to his personal—and basically sexual
—frustrations ; not so much because the
theory induced a false sense of shame —
(hough it did that, often enough —but
because it belittled the whole endeavor
and purpose of art. From Baynes's post-
Jung philosophisings emerges the infi-
nitely more acceptable theory that the
artist —admittedly using or being used by
the Freudian mechanism—is fundamen-
tally concerned not with his own frustra-
tions, but with the myths that are the
lifeblood of the race. His purpose is to
give new life to the archetypal images,
new validity to the eternal truths.
As in the case of literature, Baynes’s
opinions on painting are stated fragmen-
tafily and need elucidating and elaborat-
ing in another book. Yet here, too, the
scattered hints are illuminating and it
is possible to read into them an im-
portant canon of art criticism: namely
that works which pass over into the
netherworld of pathology are not art.
By the mere reproduction of the drawings
of his borderline schizophrenics, by
demonstrating just when and how a con-
temporary mind can slip back into the
primordial chaos, Baynes makes it pos-
sible to decide wjiether any given work
is the statement of the creative artist or
the frenzy of the neurotic.
Reproducing two paintings by the sur-
realist Paul Klee, he shows how close
these are to the products of the border-
line schizophrenic. Analysing them as
the depiction of a personal myth, the
tortured soul’s release in self-analysis, he
declares categorically, “The casual, in-
discriminate use of primary figures
[mythojogical symbols] is schizophrenic
atavism.” The popularity of atavistic
art in this age, he submits, is a pheno-
menon directly allied to the decay of the
Western mythology on the one hand and
the upsurge of Nazi barbarism on the
other: —
Wc establish here the capacity of the
psyche to hark back to an archaic, elemen-
tary function of apprehension and expres-
sion when a dangerous dissociation has
isolated consciousness from the inherited
wisdom of the unconscious.
The freaks of surrealism, therefore,
are symptomatic of the decadence of
the age. But the products of genuine
schizophrenics, in all their crude
obscenity, are infinitely more valuable
as symbols of decay and as warnings
of cataclysm ; and it is surely the job
of the creative artist, in words or
paint or stone, to side with the anima
against the renegade, with civilisation
against atavism, with “the sacred flame of
consciousness” against the betrayer in his
own soul or in the collective unconscious
of the nation.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE."
r
iii
m
Be sure to visit ANTHONY
HORDERNS' interesting Pavilion
at the Royal Easter Show.
A Keenly Priced Selection of Winter Mercery
All-Wool Cardigan
'JANTZEN/at 45'6
The Cardigan for smart men!
"Jantzen" all wool Cardigan in the
latest window pane designs on
Fawn, Ascot Blue, Mid Grey and
Dark Blue Grey. Size, 38 to 44 inch
chest. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 45/6
5f
a
"Hanro" Sleeveless
SLIP-ON, 22'6
New and smart.. . the "Hanro" all
wool Sleeveless Slipon in new
stitch design in Burgundy, Kesida,
Bottle, London Tan and Navy.
Size, 36 to 40 inch chests. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, 22/6
m
w
M
,<y£
mm
I
\ ' \
I ■ |i
m
Mens Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
★ Buy Now For Easter
\ 4
'Jf. >
mm
'HORROCKSES'
Warm Pyjamas, now 18 6
"Horrockses,'' the ideal Pyjama fabric for
warm and cosy pyjamas. Nicely made with
square collar, and available in new striped
designs. Sizes, 8.M., M., and O.S. At An-
thony Horderns'. Price 18/6
Men's Undershirts, 7 6
"Jumbuk" Regd. Underwear is your guaran-
tee of comfort and long wear. Cream all
wool ''Jumbuk'' Athletic Undershirts in sizes
35 to 44 inch chest. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 7/6
"Horrockses" Poplin
GOLF SHIRTS, 15'6
British Poplin Golf Shirt with two matching fused collars.
Smart striped designs on Blue, Fawn, Grey, and Green
grounds. Size, 14 to 19 inch neck. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price 15/6
' r;
m
■r>:-
Men's Cashmere Hose, 4 6
Fashionable fancy Cashmere Half Hose in
Blue Grey, Light Grey, Dark Grey, Brown
and Navy. Size, 10 to 12 inch. At Anthony
Horderns', Price, pair 4/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, C.P.O.


HUT ABD RUN
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
THE young man at the
wheel had plenty of
power under his right
foot. It was a big, swift
car, the sort you don’t feel
or enjoy properly until you get the speedo-needle well
on its way around the dial. The driver and the rest
had had a bit to drink, but not much. They were on
the way to get more, and the thought of the good night
ahead and the thrill of speed made them reckless and
happy as the'engine droned and the big tyres and
long springs ironed out the ripples in the road.
“Tread on it, Dick,” Tom Crawford yelled from
the back seat. “It’s straight as a die for a couple of
miles here.”
Dick put the accelerator pedal on the floorboards,
feeling fine, and the big motor began to pour out its
power in earnest. The girl beside him started to
fidget, sitting away from him suddenly, and peering
with wrinkled eyelids into the stream of light ahead.
Tom chuckled from the back, and the thin bush and
occasional houses of the half-settled outer district
drifted into view and leapt away behind them. The
car sat firmly oft the road, and Dick felt confident.
The couple of miles of straight wore away quickly,
but he didn’t slow much for the easy curve that fol-
lowed.
The long ribbon of light ahead overflowed the
road, picking up a house, slender young trees among
the low bushes, and a glint of the river a hundred
yards away. Then it started to follow the front wheels
around, moving back on to the tarmac. The big sedan
leaned out a trifle, putting all its weight on the one
pair of wheels. But it didn’t want to lurch or slide.
In Dick’s hands, the steering was firm and purpose-
ful, and he got a thrill that wasn’t to be had from any
speed on the straight. The girl wasn’t saying any-
thing, but she was as nervous as a cat, and it made
him laugh to himself. Only a fool with hands like
horses’ hooves could get into trouble with this model
on a decent road.
Then the swinging light picked up a figure on
the tarmac, and the girl hit the windscreen hard with
her face. Dick’s mind leapt, with his foot, to the brake
pedal. The tyres moaned across the road and the
lights swerved drunkenly to the other side of it as the
car’s nose pointed into the bush. The inside wheels
were high in the air now, the sedan on the balance
and ready to roll a quarter of a mile; but at the
right moment, automatically, Dick released the wheels
and fed the motor, bringing her on to an even keel
and then off it the opposite way in a snaking progress
that threw the rest of them all over the place.
He could drive all right, and he did all that there
was to be done, but the bump came just the same.
The lights picked up the man frozen with horror in
the roadway, and then lost him and then couldn’t find
him again, because the front of the car was safely
past him. Dick thought it was all right when there
was a soft thud against the rear door or thereabouts.
He was down to forty then, but still sliding, and the
frail, limp figure hurtled past the window into the
“Well, Admiral, down the hatch!”
softer overflow of the headlight beams, and went
rolling and slithering off the road. His heart ham-
mered as he pulled the car straight again, and dug
despairingly at the brake-pedal to pull up.
“Keep going, you fool!” Tom yelled from some-
where on the floor at the back. “Tramp on it!”
Dick was shaking with fright, but he kept his foot
on the brake. The car was almost at a standstill
before Tom got up from the floor. When he did he
smacked Dick on the side of the face, a real stinger
with a good swing behind it. Dick’s girl wasn’t in
the way of the blow. She was down among the
pedals, out to it.
“Come conscious, you fool!” Tom barked in his
hard, determined voice. “Get going!”
Suddenly pictures of what would follow this
show seeped into Dick's mind through his numbness
and fright. It wasn’t just the accident, there were
the women. He was engaged, but not to the girl on
the floor. It was worse for Tom, because he was
married, and Maisie was married, too, but not to him.
It was the firm’s new sedan, and even if there was
no liquor in it just now there were glasses and bottles.
Dick’s fright surged up, overcoming his numbness
and horror, and he reached for the gear-lever. His
foot found the throttle-pedal and the engine mut-
tered for a moment and then began its high-speed
drone. The lights picked out a hill ahead and then
poked up into the vacant sky as the car rushed up
the grade at seventy.
\ \ /HEN they got to Dick’s place he was done for.
He was trembling with fear and fatigue. He
was past feeling or thinking, useless and ready to
drop in his tracks. The girls were in a bad way.
Enid was conscious again with a big bump on her
head but no cuts or marks that wouldn’t be gone in
a day or two. The pair of them were shivering and
moaning, white and hunched and frightened, with all
the bounce knocked out of them. But Tom was the
same as ever, cold and hard and determined. Through
his weariness, Dick felt a vague, impotent hatred for
Tom. They drove straight into the garage and Tom
shut the doors and hung a bag over the little window.
Dick switched off the car lights, and for a moment
they were all in the darkness.
“Listen,” Tom said quietly. “We’re here, an’
this’s where we stay for three hours, see? You girls
stop in the car and see if you can pull yourselves
together. We’ll take you home about one o’clock
and nobody knows you haven’t had just the sort of
evening you started out for. Stop in the car and
shut up and Dick and I’ll look what wants cleaning
up.”
He switched on the garage light, and Dick
climbed out of the car. The light shone on cobwebs
and tools and oil and the gleaming body of the big
sedan. There were no dents in it or scratches worth
talking about, but there were cloth and blood on the
big, fierce, pointed handle of the nearside rear door.
Scraps of tweed and cotton and rich, red blood that
had dripped on to the running board and congealed
there.
“Hell!” said Tom in his toneless voice. “That
must have torn a hole in him,” but Dick was sick
on the garage floor, shaking and retching and hating
his mate.
“Christ!” Tom said. “You’re worse than the
women. Take a tumble! We got to clean this up
quick and quiet, and then it’s a hundred to one we’re
set like’a jelly.”
Dick sat down on a box with his head in his
hands, and after a while Tom realised that there
wasn’t anything that could be done with him. He
did all the work himself, finding the garden tap and
sneaking out quietly for water and washing off the
blood and rinsing the rags several times and clean-
ing everything up systematically and thoroughly. The
women grew quieter, huddled in the car, whispering
to each other, and Dick sat in misery. The night
wore away, and by the time it was far enough gone
Tom had everything fixed.
“Listen, Dick,” he said. “You can get into your
room without disturbing anyone. Sneak off to it if
you want to and try to go to sleep. I’ll fix the rest
of it an’ I’ll see you after.”
In his room Dick’s mind still refused to work
properly. It just ached and prodded him with pic-
tures of what might happen
and what had happened. If
Sadie knew! If someone on
the side of the road had
seen and remembered their
number! Most of all, the man’s body, jerked into the
light by the whack of the car and then rolling and
slithering into the bush. He lay with the light on,
afraid of the dark. He heard the car slip quietly out
into the road with Tom taking the girls home, and
thought with horror of Tom sponging methodically and
calmly at the blood on the door handle and the run-
ning-board. He lay in agony, but by the time Tom
arrived back with the car and came up to his room
he was asleep under the blazing globe.
| N the morning Dick woke warm and tired but com-
-1 fortable in bed. Then he suddenly remembered
and clutched the mattress, not wanting to face the
day. He didn’t want to leave the room, to move at all.
But the day brought relief, Tom was in bright and
early with the paper. The police wanted informa-
tion from anyone who had witnessed an accident on
Beach-road during the early hours of the previous
evening, which showed they didn’t have any yet. And
best of all the man wasn’t dead! He was knocked
about, “on the danger list,” but not yet dead! Dick
felt something hard and aching soften in him a little
at the news.
“There you are!” said Tom. “Fine bloody fools
we’d have been to stop. No one knows and no one
will, and the old bloke’ll get better, too. I knew it
was all right. You better crawl out and try a shower
and forget about it. Only if anyone does start ask-
ing questions, don’t forget what we did. We went
out to the beach, to Tony’s place, just you and me,
see? An’ we spent the evening there together. I can
fix three or four witnesses to that, including Tony,
so don’t you worry.”
Dick was overwhelmed by a new horror. “Hell! ”
he said. “Don’t go collecting witnesses. Don’t go let-
ting half the world know we’re in the blue.”
“Don’t worry,” Tom said. “I’ll collect ’em when
we need ’em, not before. If the cops find out nothing,
as they probably will, nobody ever knows, except us
and the girls.”
Dick felt better about it. The old man couldn’t
die now and make him a killer, he felt. It
was bad enough as it was. On the way to the bath-
room he saw for a moment that he was kidding him-
self, and had a prickly, panicky fear that his victim
would die after all. But he reached the shower and
work in due course, and “pulled himself together”
pretty well, all things considered.
That night he saw Sadie and stayed late at her
place. He’d probably have given himself away to her
if she had been capable of imagining that he could
be mixed up in such a business as the one in the
papers, for he acted pretty queerly. He had nothing
to say, just wanting to cling to her and feel safe
from the nightmare for as long as possible.
"PHE old man didn’t die, and if anyone had seen
1 the accident he must have missed the number.
Nothing happened except a couple of editorials on
hit-and-run drivers and a paragraph announcing
that the old man had recovered. But it was a long
time before*Dick felt anything like normal.
He felt bad about the old man and worse about
himself. He wanted to make inquiries about the old
man, his circumstances and one thing and another,
and then perhaps send him money anonymously. He
didn’t mention any of that to Tom. He didn’t see
much of Tom these days, but he knew what Tom
would say if he did speak of it. It was too dangerous.
They traced people through inquiries and money.
He worried about it a lot, but he never did anything.
When the next hit-and-run case was in the head-
lines he nearly gave himself away. He was with
some of the chaps from the office when they were
talking about it in the pub, and their opinions on
the matter were unanimous.
“They ought to hang those hounds,” said Charlie
Stevenson viciously.
“Any other sort of murder takes guts,” someone
announced.
“I can understand a man doing anything but not
stop,” said Bill Mackay. “We all step on it some-
times, and we all get a bit shicker now and again.
But leavin’ a bloke to bleed to death in the dark is
a bit too much for me.”
They went on in that strain for quite a while,
and Dick listened, clutching his schooner. There was
something drumming in his head, and he was aching
the way he had that night and starting to shake. They
were right, of course, but they hadn’t been through it.
“You don’t know,” he said suddenly. “You
don’t know how it comes about. There’s always other
things besides the accident, and there’s always some-
one in the car to make you give her the gas. You
know what you hope you’d do, you chaps, but you
don’t know what you’d do.”
They had all stopped talking, and were looking
at him. He realised it suddenly with terror.
“What’s that you say, Dick?” asked Charlie, out
of a ghastly silence.
Dick pulled himself together with a jerk. “It wasn’t
here,” he said sweating. “It was in Tassie years ago.
A girl I was keen on, poor kid. They gave her hell


one way and another, the cops and everybody. She
didn’t mean it, y’ know.”
In a moment they were all talking again, chang-
ing the subject, respecting his feelings, and wishing
they hadn’t been so clumsy. They were good fellows.
He felt limp with relief and pretty low. That was a
couple of months after it had happened, but it set
him worrying again. He didn’t worry about the
old man, who was all right by then, and he didn’t
even worry about if Sadie knew or any of the other
things that had upset him most at the time. He
worried about himself, feeling pretty low and miserable.
D UT, of course, time fixes most things, and he
thought about it less as it faded into the past. He
had work to do, with triumphs and disappointments,
and he had ideas and good cobbers and Sadie to
occupy his time. Sadie was good ; she had nothing to
do with the nightmare, and certainly wouldn’t believe
it if anyone told her about it. Life went on, changing
and moving in a swift current. Dick matured a bit
and married Sadie, and found it up to expectations,
and progressed in his firm, and traded the big sedan
in on a later model, and in due course that on some-
thing streamlined, with knee-action and the latest gear-
shift. He was transferred to other towns and cities
a couple of times, and when at last lie found himself
five years married, with a baby in the house and a
good job in a big inland town, it wasn’t important. It
was something he remembered with shame and un-
easiness now and again when he found himself acting
a trifle self-righteously, something that had been
shocking at the time, and had helped to make him the
man he was but not important now.
Life was reasonably easy, business was good
and people had money to spend. On late-shopping
nights, the lines of parked sedans in the main street
were a sight for sore eyes, seven out of ten of them
the latest shiny model of a decent make. They
hummed in and out of town over the ever-improving
roads, and there was a reasonable traffic of them past
Dick’s house, soaring around a fast curve that was
part of the track to an out-of-town pub where most
of the district’s after-hours trading was done. But
he thought nothing of that, until one night when he
was going home on foot, and the long light-beams
of a speeding car picked him up almost at his own
front gate.
It was moving, he thought, as he stepped to
safety, and stopped to listen to the drone of the engine.
He was still in the glare for a moment owing to the
bend in the road, and then the brilliance shifted,
working around on to the tarmac. The car’s speed
was up above the eighties, and one of the headlights
lay a shade lower than the other on the side that was
taking all the weight of the big body. They go too
bloody fast, thought Dick, who was older and steadier
than he had been. Then he saw the old chap tottering
over the road picked out by the headlights.
Dick yelled, but yelling doesn’t hold up eighty
miles an hour or infuse agility into an ancient,
puzzled man whose eyeballs are being seared by the
glare of speeding headlights. The driver of the car did
everything (Dick knew ; he was a driver himself, and
he’d been through it). The fat tyres shrieked, peeling
rubber off themselves and tar from the road as the
car snaked from fences on one side to bush on the
other. But the thump came just the same. The
thump Dick would have known, if he’d been thinking.
He hasn’t thinking. He was just acting automati-
cally, leaping away from his gate and running to the
crumpled figure that had bounced so lightly off the
car, then off the road and into the gutter. The car
was stopping, with its nose sunk over the front
springs, two hundred yards along the road. Then
its big engine suddenly burst into life again, and the
gears clashed in a panicky, terrified change. The
number stamped itself into Dick’s mind as he ran,
unforgettably, indelibly. “The hounds!” he yelled,
bending over the crumpled body. “The hounds! ”
The road lay quiet and dark, but Solomon, the
police-sergeant on the corner, had heard the shriek-
ing tyres, and came out of his house with a rush.
With one look and no words he dived in again, and
his ’phone bell rang. Then he reappeared and ran over
to where Dick had the old man stretched on the grass.
“Hit and run, the mongrels,” he said. “Christ!
He don’t look too good, does he? Don’t push him
about, ambulance’ll be here in two shakes. Did you
get their number?”
The number was in Dick’s mind, outside it, every-
where, photographed and dancing in front of him.
But Tom’s face was there, too, and Dick could
almost feel the sting of his open-handed swing across
his face. The past rushed back, with threats and
fear and shame, and the number would not go away.
“No,” he said. “It was a big blue sedan, doing
about eighty, but I couldn’t get the number.”
He and the policeman waited -in the dark while
the old man bled on to the grass, and when the
ambulance arrived there was plenty of bustle and
excitement. The old man wasn’t dead, but he wasn’t
too good. The doctor said there was about a chance
in a thousand.
“Give him the best, doctor,” Dick said eagerly.
“The best of everything, and if there’s no one that
can handle the bill send it to me.”
But he knew that that did no good. It was only
making a feeble try to cheat, and he shivered with
horror and shock as he made for his own front gate
again. Tom’s face went with him, callous and deter-
mined, and his own was there, too, younger and
weaker than the one he wore at present.
“Wish they'd play Land of Hope and Glory.' ”
“ They're playing it now.”
“ Well , ‘ Advance, Australia Fair,' then!”
HOMELESS
By LES ROBINSON.
THE other day in a second-hand shop I saw a
book entitled How to Enjoy House-hunting.
There may, I am willing to admit, be peculiar
people who derive pleasure from discomfort,
but I do not happen to be one of them. I merely
endure it myself, and have endured more when forced
to leave one domicile and wander homeless in search
of another than in all the other ways, multifarious
and pestiferous, discomfort has of thrusting discord
into the harmony and even tenor of a more or less
tranquil existence like mine.
First of all there’s the sorting out and packing.
If you’ve lived for a long while anywhere essential
possessions become mingled to an exasperating extent
with the inessential you’ve accumulated and which
always, for some not altogether inexplicable reason
perhaps, preponderate. You sort them out, you per-
spire, you fume, you pack. While you are wading
knee-deep among them, though it’s more likely you’ll
be submerged to the eyebrows or ears, gas men, water
and sewerage experts, electricians, renovators, demol-
ishers, gardeners, jungle-quellers or subduers, the rent-
collector and probably the next tenant as well, with a
pantechnicon full of his household belongings, arrive.
The back gate has meanwhile been left wide open
by somebody or other. Your dog,* cat, herd of goats,
guinea pigs, pigeons, fowls, bees or any other live-
stock you may happen to possess, noticing how in-
volved and harassed you are, regard the opportunity
as far too favorable to be neglected, and, in that
stealthy way they always have of executing such
manoeuvres, silently disappear.
Rain, though there may not have been a drop
for months, must now, of course, when most incon-
venient, set in, which reminds you that a sack con-
taining a number of your perishables, perhaps even
several of the possessions you prize most, is part of
a heap formed, for the convenience of removalists, in
the front garden or the backyard.
This is deemed a suitable time by the greatest
busybody and bore the neighborhood contains to pay
you a visit in order to acquaint himself fully with all
that is going on.
The rain is steadily becoming worse. Passers-by
(those with mackintoshes, goloshes and umbrellas)
pause for a moment to tell you how badly it is needed
and what a lot of good it will do. The wind, you are
perturbed to notice, is now rising. Perhaps you forgot
to touch wood when remarking jocularly to some-
body that there hadn’t been a real old-fashioned hur-
ricane since goodness knows when.
Aches and twinges of various kinds, the result,
you may reasonably conclude, of the bustling, the
bother, the annoyance and the fatigue to which you
have been subjected, are beginning to let you know
that your weak spots aren’t getting any stronger.
It would ease the situation somewhat, you tell your-
self, perhaps, if you desisted from further effort for
a while and had a smoke, but, in the prevailing con-
fusion, your pipe, tobacco and matches are, of course,
nowhere to be found.
Your watch, unsuspected, needless to say, by
you, has all day long been slowing down, a little
habit it has if forgotten and left undisturbed in a
waistcoat pocket for any length of time. So when,
therefore, you decide to pay a hurried visit to the
refreshment-room round the corner in order to buy
yourself a much-needed glass, mug and/or platter of
something sustaining and you find that it closed about
an hour previously you positively seethe with fury.
It is by no means unlikely, if you are unable to
buy or to borrow a tent and haven’t the least idea
where next you are going to reside, that you will
spend the night—and succeeding nights too, perhaps —
surrounded by and still floundering about among your
inescapable belongings, in a cavern, if you can find
one, on a ledge of rock somewhere, or under some-
thing, such as a bridge, a culvert or a tree, if you
can’t.
My own domiciliary requirements are simple
alas! far too much so. Attempts to lead the simple
life nowadays seem to be fated to meet with ascer-
tain amount of hostility, from property-owners
especially, and the attempters to be regarded as retro-
gressive and uncivilised persons. Areas innumerable
have, by municipal ordinance, been proclaimed brick,
fibre, weatherboard or cement, but so far I have been
unable to discover a slab, a log, a “wattle-and-dab,’
an adobe or a galvanised-iron one ; nor, despite un-
remitting efforts in many suburbs, have I succeeded
in finding a single unfrowned upon (for residential
purposes) “cave area” either. When I ask where
any such may possibly be found municipal officials
and estate agents shake their heads pessimistically,
smile pityingly, stare strangely at me, or greet the
query with slightly hysterical outbursts of jocosity.
GOING UPSTAIRS.
“Give me the candle, then,” I said, and took it,
and led the way, our shadows following
So close they breathed upon the flame and shook it
until each stair was doubled, and our tread
fell doubly soft, for caution and for dread.
She whispered, “Do not let us do this thing!”
“Yours was the deed,” I said, “and now let’s see
how well you struck. I know your right hand's skill.
Your left hand’s charm is not unknown to me,
and on the second landing we will note
your choice between the heart, the eye, the throat” . ..
“You err,” she said. “I was not borA to kill.”
The candle trembled like a nervous hand,
and trailed its greasy smoke across my eyes.
At the first turn she stood, and made me stand
with only a touch; she seemed to wait and listen
and in her eye I saw the thick flame glisten,
giving her face a look of blind surprise.
“The dagger’s glance,” I said, “is much more cool
and better to the point than your gaze is.”
She turned, and lost the light, and said “You fool,”
struck at the shadov/s of the second stair
and would go on. Within her ruddy hair
The dull flame blazed. I quenched it with a kiss.
That was the moment when the shot ripped out
from near above . . . Why need they stand so long?
Why does not either laugh, or weep, or shout
while I lie here upon the landing floor
in blood and death, and now can hope no more
to celebrate her triumph with a song
The candle withers to a point in space,
and darkness comes downstairs with lazy tread:
first I have lost her figure, then her face,
and now her name is blotted from the night
by one long, bloody snore without respite-
like some gross drunkard’s in a narrow bed.
n.s.w.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
.f'Juclt Hme of’laie mell
Seppelts
THE LORD MAYOR’S STUDY AT THE MANSION HOUSE.
While there are numerous Lord Mayors within the Empire, the Lord Mayor of London stands pre-eminent. Indeed, to go further, it may
be advanced that no civic head in countries where municipal government prevails approaches in his official position anywhere near to that
plane occupied by the administrative head of the City of London. How many are familiar with the dignities and prerogatives of his
office? Even few Londoners would be able to answer this question. They know that the office is surrounded by much “medieval
splendour,” and “provides a free show every November 9.” They are, for the most part, probably unaware that the Lord Mayor is the King’s
immediate locum tenens, or deputy, in the City. In ancient times his office was distinguished by the title of “portgrave” or “Earl of the
City.” The Lord Mayor was constituted by Henry I (1100-1135) judiciary or keeper of the pleas of the Crown; he is the principal
in all commissions of “felonyde” and chief judge for the “gaol delivery” at the Sessions of Newgate. He is coroner within the City and
its liberties, and chief butler to the King at his Coronation. Strictly speaking, he has even the right of refusing to allow the Monarch
himself to enter the City. Hence the stoppage of a Coronation procession at the site of Old Temple Bar, where formal permission is
asked for the King to cross the City boundary. The estate of this magistrate is princely. His attendants- include sword-bearer, common
cryer and other officials, esquires by their office, besides a number of other servitors, who all have their domestics. On State occasions
the Lord Mayor is superbly habited, either in a knotted gown like that of the Lord Chancellor; a crimson velvet gown whenever he
precedes the King ; and on lesser ceremonials he is garbed in a scarlet cloth gown and hood, or one of mazarine blue silk, the three latter
robes richly furred. He has besides a rich collar of S.S. with a jewel appendant, or a double chain of gold to distinguish his office. His
person was formerly held inviolable, for during a riot in the time of Edward 111 (1327-1377) two persons assaulted and struck the Lord
Mayor, for which they were instantly seized and beheaded in Cheapside, the King applauding the measure. During the same reign a
citizen boasted if he should ever catch the Lord Mayor outside the City he would never let him go alive. For this foolish piece of boasting
he was arrested, and granted his freedom only on payment of a hundred tuns of wine, roughly 23,000 gallons!


The Bulletin
Vol. 62—No. 3190.
Wednesday, April 2, 1941.
BALKANS MYSTERY.
“Dere’s somesings funny going on round here. Didn’t I haf my foot on dot bear?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAu OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
M elbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Vvestralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad;
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3j. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
months lls
YUGOSLAVIA NO SLAVE STATE.
Yugoslavia, the sole survivor of the Little Entente,
has given Hitler the shock of his dictatorial life.
At Vienna on March 25 the stage was set for
Yugoslavia to become an Axis “Power.” The Premier,
Tsvetkovitch, and the Foreign Minister, Cincar-
Markovitch, were on hand to sign the protocol
required of their Government. Declaring that their
foreign policy aimed at peace, security and the
strengthening of Yugoslavia’s economic position by
“co-operation throughout the Continent,” they signed
the instrument of shame.
Present when these shivering creatures abased
themselves were Hitler, Ribbentrop, Keitel, Ciano,
Ministers from Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria and
Rumania and the Japanese Ambassador at
Vienna. In a Note handed to Tsvetkovitch, Ribben-
trop asserted that “the Governments of the Axis
Powers will not make any demands on Yugo-
slavia to allow the passage or transit of troops through
Yugoslav territory,” and that the German Govern-
ment would “respect at all times Yugoslavia’s terri-
torial sovereignty.” And while the new recruits to the
“new order” were doubtless wondering what these
assurances were worth, Ribbentrop made a speech
in which he crowed over “interfering and intriguing
England,” sneered at the U.S.A. and, in a remark
intended for the wandering Mr. Matsuoka, then on
his way to Berlin, said that “in East Asia also the
policy of people ruling their own countries without
interference from outside will be realised.” Ger-
many’s attitude, he added, was that it wished to
localise the war and desired to wage it only with its
own forces and those of Italy.
Therefore, Germany does not want to acquire other
countries to bring them into the war; it merely desires
that the war shall not extend.
That bit was for the Turks, who all along have kept
their legs under their own control.
No words came from the Italian representative,
nor was his Government associated in the “determi-
nation to respect at all times Yugoslavia’s territorial
sovereignty.” This significant omission is, of course,
justified by the military plight of Italy, but it may
be taken as a measure of Hitler’s contempt for Musso-
lini. And Mussolini’s son-in-law must have swallowed
hard at the expression of Germany’s alleged “wish”
to “localise the war.” Mussolini’s way of localising
the war was to extend it to Greece. For that foul
crime, which has had its meed of punishment, though
not yet a full issue of retributive justice, he must
have had the sanction of the predominant partner;
but the predominant partner, embarrassed by Italy’s
preposterous claims against the French it never fought,
may have hoped and expected that the invasion would
not prosper. However, he could not have foreseen
the staggering succession of defeats which the Italians
have suffered wherever they have fought or made a
show of fighting, and he must be cursing the preten-
tious blunderer whose exposure of Italy’s weakness
has compelled him to strengthen its tottering services
and fast-waning morale and prepare for what has
always been a nightmare to Germany, a war on two
fronts.
Yugoslavia, like Poland, was largely an American
creation. As Mr. Lloyd George mentioned in his
Truth About the Peace Treaties, there is a powerful
Slav vote in the U.S.A., and when the treaties were
being put together the claims of Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and Yugoslavia were urged by millions of
American Slavs on President Wilson and his advisers.
A memory of this American part in the setting up
of the southern Slav State must have been in Wash-
ington’s mind when it applied diplomatic pressure to
the fainthearts of Belgrade. Taking a firmer stand than
it had taken in any Continental matter since the U.S.A.
turned away from Europe, it joined with the British
Foreign Office in urging the Yugoslav Government
to keep out of the German orbit. The combined
representations had no effect on the pro-Axis faction,
at the head of which was Prince Paul, King Peter’s
uncle, who, as head of the Regency Council, had exer-
cised the royal function since the assassination of King
Alexander at Marseilles in October, 1934. But, as
the sequel showed, it must have powerfully influenced
patriot Ministers (some of whom had resigned in
disgust), the navy, the church, the army, organisations of
old soldiers, most of the Serbs and Montenegrins,
many of the Croats and Slovenes and the young King.
Demonstrations against the signing of the protocol
were immediate and nation-wide. For 36 hours the
world heard little of what was going on ; then came
the astounding news that the pro-Axis faction—
Regency Council, guilty Ministers and all —had been
dismissed, and that the King was in control, with
General Dusan Simovitch as Premier. Two of the
patriot Ministers were recalled to the Cabinet, in which
were included also four Croats who had not resigned,
Serbs, Montenegrins and a Slovene leader. It seems
fairly representative of all the southern Slav groups.
The new regime was enthusiastically accepted by
army, navy and people. It was promised “all possible
aid and succor” by Mr. Churchill and assistance under
the Lease-or-Lend Act by Mr. Sumner Welles. Ger-
many, then engaged in vamping up a welcome to Mr.
Matsuoka, was too staggered for the moment to give
its fury full expression ; but presently it was heard
asking the patriot Government to explain “the inter-
national implications” of what it called “the military
coup d’etat." Rome Radio raved that Yugoslavia
would be held to “its obligations under the pact,” and
threatened an invasion of German troops from
Rumania, Hungary and Bulgaria “to enforce adher-
ence.” Mussolini had a special reason for feeling that
the Fascist world was tumbling about his ears, for that
very day he had learned from British sources that
Keren, his last stronghold in Eritrea, and Harar, the
second town in Abyssinia, had fallen to British
Imperial troops.
By defying the merciless master of so many
fallen nations, Yugoslavia has added a glowing chapter
to the story of human courage, and has raised the
hopes of democrats in all lands, in Greece above all.
Had the southern Slavs accepted the arrangement
into which they were betrayed by the guilty Govern-
ment the Greeks would have been placed in a perilous
position. They knew how much value they could
set on the pledge that the Axis Powers would not
make any demands on Yugoslavia “to allow the pass-
age or transit of troops through Yugoslavian terri-
tory.” It was only one more scrap of paper. In
any case, it did not cover the passage of ’planes,
tanks, cannon, machine guns, munitions and supplies
through Yugoslavia into Greece to points perhaps
seized in advance by German invaders using the Bul-
garian route, with parachute troops in the van. Even
when it seemed that Yugoslavia had been nobbled
the Greeks bore up stoutly against the threats of anni-
hilation with which they must have been plied. If
they face Hitler’s hordes with the courage and endur-
ance which baffled Mussolini’s plans for their subju-
gation, they will deserve, and will receive, every
assistance that the British and Americans can bring
to them ; and we can guess from reports of convoy
movements in the eastern Mediterranean and the
TEgean that the British measure of help will be propor-
tioned to their need and that of Yugoslavia, which
has Adriatic ports and air bases of which Britain
could make excellent use. And though it is not yet
certain that the Greeks will have Turkish soldiers
fighting alongside them, the Turks may be trusted to
put up a stout defence of their own part of Europe,
and, if they judge that the necessity has arisen, to let
British warships and aircraft-carriers pass into the
Black Sea.
And hopes of Russia have revived in quarters
where hopes of Russia, though they have suffered
check after check, have never been entirely abandoned.
They are based this time on a Russian assurance to
the Turkish Government that “should Turkey resist
aggression, and find itself forced into war for the
defence of its territories,” the Soviet will not, as
asserted in “the foreign press,” stab Turkey in the
back ; on the contrary, “Turkey could then, in accord-
ance with the existing Turko-Russian non-aggression
pact, count on the complete understanding and
neutrality of Russia.” Similar assurances were given
to the Governments of the little Baltic States, and
we know what happened to them. But the Turk
is used to dealing with the Russ; moreover, the
situation has changed, greatly to the Soviet’s dis-
advantage. When the Baltic States were gobbled up
Hitler was not in a position, as he is now, to strike
at the Ukraine and the Russian oilfields. He had not
then entered into possession of Varna or Constanza or
(in impudent emulation of the Romanoffs) set himself
up as protector (save the mark!) of the Slav world.
It will be a just punishment for treachery and
cowardice if Stalin’s infamous diplomacy results in
his having to fight his partner in the massacre of
Poland. Of course, he won’t fight if he can get out
of fighting by sacrificing some more “principles” and
some other country—Nationalist China, perhaps. The
Matsuoka visit may afford him that opportunity.
Meanwhile his agents in America are doing as much
as they dare in the way of strikes to hold up the Aid-
to-Britain policy and the Republic’s own prepara-
tions for war.
Europe's Tragic Millions.
jq ow that winter is over and spring has returned to
Europe, the war is intensifying again, as it did last
year. The cruel certainty is that there will be renewed
and perhaps redoubled violence of land, sea and air
fighting, with increased bombing of military objectives
an[ j 0 f civilian populations—men, women and children
indiscriminately.
Yet, though that would seem to be the certain
prospect, there are millions in Europe who will be
welcoming the change of season. These are not alone
the lunatic leaders who let the terror loose, or their
hordes of manufactured fanatics, but countless
numbers of their victims also. To people of the
countries raided and robbed of their food supplies to
feed Germany, the change of season—from wet, frozen
and fallow barrenness to warmth and the growth of
crops and fruits—will come as a welcome easing of
their half-starving or drastically-rationed lot. Spain
can be included in the countries where there will be
general relief, despite what the war may yet hold for
any of them. The others are France, Holland, Belgium,
Denmark, Norway, Poland, Czechoslovakia—all the
countries on which the blight of the Nazi plunderers
has directly fallen.
It has been estimated that already the tragedy of
flight from home or country, or both, has struck
more than 5,000,000 men, women and children, now
living in makeshift homes, in internment camps or in
exile. It has been said of these that there has been
no such comparable army of misery since the migra-
tions of peoples in the Dark Ages. The listing would
include 400,000 driven from Germany before the war ;
500,000 driven by civil war from Spain ; 200,000 Poles
fleeing into the Balkans from the joint German-
Russian attack on their country; 120,000 Finns
fleeing from the districts ceded after their country’s
invasion by the Soviet; finally, refugees numbered
literally in millions fleeing to the south of France to
escape the German invasion through Holland and
Belgium.
All of these add to the countless total of Europe’s
tragic millions of living souls—to speak nothing of
the countless dead. Perhaps of the living the most
pitiful of all are the Poles —Soviet as well as Nazi
victims —and the hunted refugees of many countries
and races herded into places like Gurs and other
camps in the south of France. The American Friends
Service Committee’s investigators abroad have reported
to it that, of the heterogeneous population approach-
ing 14,000 at Gurs, some are now in |heir second or
third year of imprisonment, having been interned
successively in other camps before reaching there. The
reports attribute to the older of them “an intense
desire to die” ; there is “an unbreathable atmosphere
of human hopelessness.” “They will not fight any
more” —for their life, that is ; “apathetic, they lie on
their straw mattresses, often refusing food and waiting
for the end.”
It is on such reports that the American attempts
to get food to Europe are based. The British case
against that —a very powerful one —is that all such
misery is a direct result of Nazi plunder of the occupied
countries ; that if the Germans returned all the, food
they have carted to Germany there would be ample
to go round. The blockade is held to be one of the
strongest of Britain’s weapons against Germany ; any
easing of it without a corresponding return by Ger-
many of plundered food must obviously be to Ger-
many’s advantage. Strong arguments have been
advanced against this rigid stand, among them that it
might well be more to Britain’s advantage than
Germany’s to allow food through to unoccupied
France, Belgium and other countries, rather than see
their people starved into a desperation that might pos-
sibly be turned against Britain. It is an involved and
complex problem, and there has already been some
easing in Britain’s generally very well founded stand.
It has been reported in America that more than 150
relief ships have crossed the Atlantic.
From America also comes the report that hundreds
of thousands of the most pathetic of all cases in
Europe’s tragic millions are beyond the reach of such
charity. According to this report, in the first year
of the Soviet occupation of the belt of Poland east of
Warsaw half a million Poles had been transported to
Siberia ; dumped there to get along as best they can
or perish if they are not strong enough to survive.
In these mass deportations no one was spared. As
well as the able-bodied, old men, women and children
were alike herded into goods trucks, “crowded
together without the least provision for their sanitary
needs,” and thus carried day after day across to the
bleak country which is Russia’s traditional graveyard
and torture-house for prisoners. The mortality among
the children thus deported is declared to have reached
as high as 75 per cent. The deportees have been
dumped down, without shelter, food or help, in the
worst climatic conditions in the world. If Friends of
the Soviet—churchmen among them —can find some-
thing in favor of their fetish in this, as against the
Nazi methods of floggings and executions, they are
welcome to the pretty margin of difference.
Even these pitiful listings do not, of course, nearly
complete the tale of Europe’s tragic millions. In
unoccupied France, while the bitterest winter for many
years held sway there, it was estimated that altogether
some 2,000,000 children seemed doomed to mal-
nutrition and disease. The estimated number of people
in need of food or without food in Europe—excluding
Russia, on the grim ground that “it has been without
adequate food for years”—was towards the end of the
winter estimated to be as high as 18,000,000. Typhus
had been reported in Warsaw ; famine and pestilence
threatened.
That was Europe at the end of its second winter
of this war. One proposal made in Britain, and appar-
ently taken up, was that the British Government
should now buy immense quantities of foodstuffs and
“hold them against a day when it may be able to say
to the people of Europe, Tf peace is made, we can
guarantee you food.’ ” Or if countries starving under
German control were to revolt, the first reward would
be food. “A store of wheat might be a more powerful
weapon than a store of gold.”
At this point the tale of Europe’s tragic millions
takes a turn, in most of the afflicted countries, for the
better ; in the others, where the bombs will be falling,
for the worse. In this total war the ratio of civilian
to military deaths stands at one to three ; from 1914
to 1918 the ratio was one to 75. This rating is
given in a statistical bulletin issued by the New York
Metropolitan Life Assurance Co., with figures for
some groupings of Europe’s civilian dead: Warsaw
alone, 50,000 ; Belgium and Northern France, 40,000 ;
Rotterdam, 30,000. Britain’s dead (28,859 civilians
have been killed and 41,666 “seriously injured”) are to
be added, not omitting Germany’s, some idea of which
may perhaps be gathered from the fact that in the
latest official figures to hand the number of German
towns bombed by the R.A.F. is given as 270. The tale
of this last would appear to be only now beginning.
So, too, for that matter, may be the tale of Europe’s
tragic millions.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Humanitarianism in a Hurry.
Since July, 1927, family allowances, paid by the State
Government, have been tacked on to the N.S.W.
living wage as determined from time to time by the
Industrial Commission, the living wage being based
on the requirements of a man, wife and one child
under 14 years of age. The maximum rate is ss. per
week per endowable child, a condition being that
endowment must not raise a family income from
various sources —sick pay, war pensions, overtime up
to £26, mothers’ earnings from casual employment,
funeral benefits, fire insurance receipts and the like
are excluded—above the living wage plus £l3 for
each dependant after the first.
When the thing was introduced there were blithe
expectations that it Would improve the birthrate,
reduce infant mortality by giving babies a better chance
of survival, and allay industrial unrest. None of these
expectations has been realised. On the contrary, the
birthrate per 1000 of mean population fell from 22.69
in 1927 to 17.40 in 1939 ; infant mortality is generally
higher in N. S. Wales than in the States which
have no family endowment, and it is an exceptional
year when there are not more working days lost in
N. S. Wales through strikes and casual stoppages
than in the rest of Australia.
Since November, 1920, Commonwealth public
servants have had a child-endowment scheme of their
own. Of this the N.S.W. Government Statistician
says:—
Payments are at the rate of ss. per week for each
dependent child under the age of 14 years, provided that
it does not bring the remuneration of the officer above
£5OO p.a. In effect, the cost is borne by the employees
in the service, because in assessing the basic wage upon
which he determines their salaries and wages the Public
Service Arbitrator deducts from the rate which other-
wise would be awarded a sum to cover the cost of
endowment.
Now, unless there is a constitutional hurdle in the
way, the Commonwealth is to have a child-endowment
scheme. It has been introduced by Mr. Holt, the
Minister for Labor and Social Services, a young man
in a hurry. In introducing it he said that the N.S.W.
Government had undertaken to withdraw its scheme
(it has not undertaken to withdraw the tax that feeds
it) and that the Commonwealth public servants would
be left to determine the future of their own plan.
Then he announced that his Government proposed to
pay “ss. a week for all children under the age of
16 in excess of one child in each family.” To pay
for the first child, he explained, would cost about
£11,000,000 a year. Endowment of second and suc-
ceeding children would cost £13,000,000, and that was
as far as the Government could go.
There is to be no income limit, but on the other
hand the present statutory deduction from taxable
income of £5O per child is to be abolished. In the
case of many middle-class taxpayers that will mean
that payments will be received from the Child Endow-
ment Department (of course there will be a huge
department) and handed back to the taxgatherers.
In some instances the “beneficiaries” may have occa-
sion to groan, like Mark Twain’s tobacco-chewing
Southerner, “Gimme the chaw and you take the
plug.” Nothing is said of taxing bachelors and other
childless people in good circumstances, but abolition
of the income-tax deduction for each child after the
first is expected to “yield” £2,000,000. A similar
amount is to come out of “general revenue.” The
other £9,000,000 or more is to be found by a payroll
tax of 2i p.c. on amounts in excess of £lO4O a year.
This clumsy expedient was tried in N.S.W. for
upwards of six years, and had to be abandoned be-
cause of its pronounced effect on unemployment.
“As from” January 1, 1934, the State Government has
raised the money required —£2,105,600 in one year,
though there has since been a decline by means of
its unemployed-relief tax, now called by some fancy
name. The effect on unemployment is likely to be the
same throughout the Commonwealth, more particu-
larly in Queensland. In that State wagepayers have,
in the course of three or four months, been called
upon to find the highest Commonwealth taxation on
record the steepest State taxation in Australia, an
increase of ss. a week (to £4 95.) in the basic wage
for males (“based on the requirements of a man, his
wife and three children”), and now this payroll tax
of 2\ p.c., as well as contributions to unemployed
insurance. There seems likely to be a migration of
wage-earners to Queensland, though there may be an
exodus of wagepayers.
Child endowment may, without undue embarrass-
ment, be tacked on to the Commonwealth basic wage,
an increase in which was recently refused by the Full
Arbitration Court, but, added to State basic wages, it
will cause glorious confusion. .
Probably most Australians approve in principle
of child endowment, but a much better plan than Mr.
Holt’s could be produced if more thought were given
to the subject and more time for debating it. Accepted
in its present form, it will have results which will
stagger Mr. Holt.
Who's Running the War?
There could be nothing quite so ridiculous as the
spectacle of London newspaper editors telling Wavell
and the Cunninghams what they should do (one Gordon
is the most persistent offender), but the spectacle of
London newspaper editors issuing orders to the R.A.F.
runs it close. It is one thing for the bombed and
suffering people of Britain to cry out for retaliation
on German civilians —it is only natural that they
should —but it is another thing for the press to demand
that retaliation should be substituted for the R.A.F. s
own carefully calculated policy.
That policy is to bomb ports where submarines
and surface warships lurk; to blast aerodromes, air-
craft factories, arsenals, munition plants, oil-extraction
works, fuel-storage depots, railway junctions and so
forth. It has been carried out systematically, always
with great daring and often with palpable effect, and
it should obviously be continued regardless of journal-
istic impertinences.
At the present stage of the conflict, the destruction
of three or four submarines and a hundred or so
grounded ’planes is more important to Britain and
the Empire than the killing of thousands of civilians
in a punitive raid. There is plenty of time for punitive
raids ; the great immediate object should be to break
down the enemy’s offensive power. That the R.A.F.
is striving to do, and it would be a crime against the
Empire if it were diverted from its great immediate
object to placate presumptuous and ill-informed
editors.
Value of Parliaments.
Serious allegations arising out of army contracts,
strange performances of boards, increases in the cost of
essential foodstuffs like milk and a multitude of other
mysterious and maddening happenings have caused
the Australian in recent weeks to cast hostile eyes on
his Governments, State and Federal.
To all this must be added the succession of strikes
and stop-work meetings, the anomalies of liquor and
transport laws, the farcical attempts at petrol-rationing
and the weak-kneed dealings with subversive elements.
There’s a lot more, including the appointments
of various gentlemen to highly-paid war-time posi-
tions, half of the total more than enough to make
the Australian froth at the mouth.
All the same, it should not be overlooked that
were it not for the Parliamentary institution —granted
that one Parliament is enough —things that the public
has a right to know would remain hidden from it
for the most part. Even were they to become
common knowledge there would be little to do about
them without the Parliamentary system.
It might also be a good time to remind people
bursting with the ideal of a “non-party” Government
at Canberra that it takes pretty cunning work to hide
abuses and attempted abuses from an alert Opposition.
In parts where Parliamentary government is un-
known, any sort of ramp can be indulged in by the
ruling clique. There is always the chance that, even
with a Parliament, a “united” Government might be
able to keep back from the public things likely to
make that public indignant.
If the recent bread, boot, fruit and other unpleas-
antries have done nothing else, they should have
proved that Parliament gives the Australian a
means of keeping tag on such things and gives him
power, through the ballot-box, to deal with any
Government that permits abuses. Rather than weaken-
ing the Parliamentary system, such things conclusively
prove its value.
Profits All Along the Line.
Though the war must have seriously cut down Aus-
tralian postings for abroad, the P.M.G.’s Department
came to light with a surplus of £3,758,565 for the
1939-40 year. Total revenue was £18,354,881, up
£633,727, largely because telephone revenue increased
by £525,612 to £8,809,592.
Telephone profits almost equalled postal profits:
£1,638,881 as against £1,998,145. Telegraphs showed
a profit of £108,283. From wireless the P.M.G. got a
mere £13,256—A.8.C.’s own profit was down £59,239.
The P.M.G. notes a decrease of approximately
1,000,000 in scheduled airmail miles flown within the
Commonwealth, though the number of articles carried
increased, as did the airmail traffic to and from New
Guinea. On the Empire, Tasman and K.N.I.L.M.
routes there was a drop of 31.2 p.c. and 66.2 p.c.
in inward and outward airmail respectively.
The P.M.G. joyfully notes that every 10 Aus-
tralians have a telephone among them, that the coun-
try is seventh in the world in telephone density and
that the wire used for telephone lines in Australia
would lap the world 142 times.
Remarkable as it is to find a Government instru-
mentality showing big profits, and pleasant as it is to
record that during the period covered that department
maintained its high reputation for delivering mails
on time, the Government should pay some attention
to the telephone finances. A revenue increase of over
half a million in this department and a profit of well
over a million and a half argue both a substantial in-
crease in the use of telephones and a case for reduc-
tion in rental charges.
Many a private telephone hirer finds that his
quarterly rental has far exceeded his calls, and busi-
ness firms discover ’phone rental to be a big item in
their annual expenditure. It frequently looms up
more in the form of a luxury than a necessity.
In country districts, though rentals are lower,
an astonishing number of farms is without a telephone.
The general reason given is that installation and rent
are too dear, though often a life may depend on a
te * CP The country can find a use for that £3,758,565
profit All the same, telephone hirers, who provided
nearly half of it, should have their growls heard and
country folk should be given a chance to get the
’phone at reasonable rates.
Tale of Two Cities.
A couple of symptoms of the Australian malady of
metropolitan indigestion showed up recently in Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
In Melbourne a deputation of about 50 persons
from the lonely tracts beyond the metropolitan boun-
daries asked Deputy-Premier Lind for a new deal
for the country. They complained that the drift to the
city had become an avalanche, and urged him to do
something positive to stop it. Mr. Frost wanted to
know why it was necessary to centre Government
departments in the city. Why couldn’t Lands be in
Maryborough, Mines in Bendigo and Works in St.
Arnaud?.
Another speaker slated the “octopus grip” of the
State-owned railways. Others attacked the State Elec-
tricity Commission, the educational system, the lack
of modern amenities in the country. Though it appar-
ently wasn’t mentioned, somebody could have had a
go at the State road-transport strangulation policy.
The deputation suffered the fate of all deputa-
tions to politicians, futility. Still, the fact that 50
men could be found willing to travel to the city from
places like Maryborough, Bright, Wonthaggi, Colac
and other corners of the State on such a quest is
clearly a symptom.
Meantime, in Sydney, a bunch of.country repre-
sentatives was consulting with the N.S.W. Minister
for Works concerning a scheme to create a State
Electricity Commission. Nobody expressed any desire
for such a commission, which would have the effect
of centralising control of the many power-and-lighting
plants in the country. However, the countrymen sup-
ported the creation of a State Electricity Committee,
composed of a majority of local-government men,
and agreed to a levy on the principal electricity-
generating interests of not more than £25,000 a year
to provide a fund for rural development. The Sydney
Premier says his Government will “consider sympa-
thetically these recommendations.”
Mr. W. H. Myers, of the Government railways,
it seems, drew up the plan for the proposed State
Electricity Commission. Apparently it received the
blessing of the Minister of Works and Local Govern-
ment. ■ • , .
Mr. Myers produced statistics showing that
£10,490,000 would be required during the next 13
years for new generating plant in N. S. Wales:
Sydney County Council, £6,375,000; Railway Dept.,
£1 945,000; Balmain power station, £1,200,000; plants
under Dept, of Works, £900,000.
This leaves the munificent sum of £70,000 to be
divided up among the controllers of the Nymboida
scheme, the Broken Hill, Albury, Hay, Forbes, Parkes,
Tamworth, Dubbo, Bourke, Condobohn and a multi-
tude of other country plants. The Myers plan, it was
claimed, would reduce the total by £2,490,000. Mr.
Myers can’t quite understand why the country coves
rejected it. No city-minded advocate of such com-
missions can understand country coves.
That’s what makes Mr. Myers the second
symptom. _
How the Money Goes.
The N.S.W. Auditor-General is a champion debunker
of State Government finance, concerning which so
many tall stories are told by interested parties. That
is doubtless the reason why his annual reports are
never made the subject of a full-dress debate in the
alleged Parliament in Macquarie-street, Sydney,
through there should be one at least every year.
Taxpayers who have to dig into their pockets to
meet the chronic losses in the Government Railway
Department are periodically assured that said depart-
ment returns surpluses. In a report on “the accounts
of business and trading undertakings” laid on the
table of the House recently the Auditor-General
reckons its loss for 1939-40 at £1,243,833 (though
income increased by £808,410 to £20,754,851, the
highest yet recorded”) and the accumulated losses tor
16 years to June 30 at £34,379,522. He mentions that
“no specific provision for depreciation is made, but
maintenance is met from revenue.
During the year “additional capital” of £1,546,461
was provided by the Government, and £7412 of it
was spent on “Government Tourist Bureau assets.
As the bureau has not yet been transferred to the
Railway Commissioner by statute, this is an incorrect
charge to that appropriation.
When the Government Tourist Bureau was under
other control, the public was permitted to know how
it fared financially, and it learned in particular that
the pub at Kosciusko was a sink for its money. Now
it learns little more than that expenditure from con-
solidated revenue on the whole outfit exceeds collec-
tions ” the excess having been £20,425 in 1939-40 and
£23 500 in 1938-39. “In the conduct of activities
such as hotels and guest houses it seems desirable
that the accounting should be placed on a commer-
cial basis,” the A.-G. comments; but in these matters
Sydney Governments don’t bother.
The Department of Road Transport and Tram-
ways, which runs trams and buses in Sydney and
Newcastle, reported a 1939-40 surplus of £l£ £o4. Hus
made the accumulated deficit at June 30, 194 U,
£259,757. The A.-G. notes that £150,000 of tramway
loan’capital was “written off by the authority of the
Treasurer,” and is of opinion that this can’t be done
without either the authority of Parliament or deter-
mination by the Capital Debt Committee.
On the Sydney Harbor Bridge, which cost
£9,871,600 to June 30, £35,893 was lost last year. The
net deficiency on the Murrumbidgee irrigation areas
amounted to £168,400, bringing the accumulated de-
ficiency to £5,812,900. A deficiency of £3031 in respect
of the State coalmine at Lithgow “extinguished the
general reserve, leaving £921 to be carried forward
as an accumulated deficit.” The accumulated defi-
ciency on Closer Settlement funds was increased by
£120,600 to £1,110,300. The Government Agency
Department, which attends to “debts due for advances
and other assistance granted for land development,
relief to farmers, unemployment relief and housing,
wrote off £145,300 of bad debts in 1939-40. The
Metropolitan Water Board just managed to balance
its accounts for the year, but taxpayers are carrying
the burden of £8,197,600 of capital “remitted” in 1935
And that’s how the money goes, though the halt
has not been tolcl.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Why don’cher look where you’re goin’?”
“I-I-I a-a-a-m!”
“Mac Hoots”: The local rag has done
it again. The Maoriland country town
it enlightens is running a queen carnival
for patriotic purposes, and the paper
bears an advertisement of a stock sale
in aid of it. Fifty store and forward
cows, 12 fat cows, 40 mixed pigs, one sow
and litter they’re selling for the nation.
“Markings are,” continues the advertise-
ment:
, . .
Air Eorce Queen (across rump), Army
Queen (shoulder), Navy Queen (middle of
back), Combined (no mark).
* * * *
“C.Q.”: For the last night of the
American seamen’s sojourn in Brisbane
the cherubs who drew up their official
programme arranged that dullest of
all “entertainments” a concert. Eight
hundred seats were reserved for the visi-
tors and their lady friends in the City
Hall. About 40 were occupied. It
recalls that when the 1925 squadron was
in Melbourne sundry well-meaning
people staged a reception and a
spread at the Exhibition Building
and sent a general invitation to the
“gobs,” as they were then called. Two
thousand guests were confidently ex-
pected. One solitary tar turned up.
“Where are your mates?” he was asked,
“They’re all round the town with the
girls,” he muttered with a look of
abstraction. The committee was con-
sidering whether it wouldn’t be a wise
thing to relieve the situation by giving
him a couple of bob to feed himself
elsewhere, when he added: “I came up
to get my girl to take her to the pitchers,
Has anybody seen her?”
* * * *
“Pawang”: Just as the 1914-18 war
forced the Germans to devise synthetic
foods, the present war is forcing the
authorities in Britain to become inven-
tive with regard to diet. The medical
officer of Ipswich has been experiment-
ing and finds that children given sand-
wiches filled with dates, grated chocolate
and raisins, or kipper, tomatoes and
sardines, have shown marked brightness
in their studies. All he has done is to
balance vitamins with proteins, and
the necessity was forced on him by
rationing. In pre-war days, so the
modern theory goes, people were starving
themselves in a world of plenty, since
vitamin-deprivation is a species of star-
vation and can occur when the quantity
of food fulfils normal standards. One
of the things that will come out of this
war will probably be the nationalising
of nourishment for children. It has
already started in Victoria in the usual
way a new movement starts —by the
voluntary effort of the people who are
introducing the Oslo meal into State
schools in the face of the Minister for
Education’s opposition.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Last century had a great idea
of “reclaiming inebriates,” and J. H.
Angas and others put up a fine building
at Belair in the Adelaide hills for that
special purpose about 60 years ago.
Local tradition has it that drunks of the
period found it an ideal place in which
to sober up. But apparently the supply
failed, for the inebriates’ home became
a missionary training college, and has
latterly for some years been in disuse,
The Church of England has now bought
it as a conference house and “retreat.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: An inmate of Pentridge has
, . „ • „ f ■ • . j -..u
the experience of being charged with
being an idle and disorderly person with-
out lawful means of support while he
was , in case of fact, in the Coburg
institution, with very strong support,
inasmuch as he was a compulsory guest
of the Government. Two constables gave
evidence that they had seen him five or
six times in the vicinity of certain
notorious flats. The accused, who gave
his address as Pentridge, indignantly
swore that he had been doing a month’s
stretch at the time the policemen saw
him. When the constables persisted in
asserting that their eyes had not deceived
them ’Sonah curtly remarked that the
evidence was against them,
* * * *
“Bon”: Warbling of ballads in German
is to be forbidden at next Sydney Eistedd-
fod. Remarked Roland Foster, of the
Con., one of the Eisteddfod councillors;
“Only very small sections of audiences
understand foreign languages enough to
appreciate their use in singing.” Yes,
very small—l should say in most cases
one-tenth of one per cent. In any case,
many singers enunciate so badly that
identification of the language they em-
ploy is difficult. I remember sitting
through a Sydney performance of “La
Boheme” and not realising till the time
came for the mob to shout outside the
park gates that the whole tamasha was
supposed to be sung in English. The
singers were Italian —the mob were Aus-
tralians.
* *
“Real Estate” remembers an early
Sydney land sale:
Just 118 years ago, Governor Brisbane made
a grant of an area of 2 roods and 4 perches
of suburban Sydney to William Henry Moore,
afterwards Crown Solicitor of N.S.W. It was
on the north-eastern corner of King and George
streets, and there the grantee made his home
in a good house surrounded by a fine garden.
However, in the next decade the Crown Solicitor
came to the conclusion that he couldn’t afford
to grow roses on such a site, so had the corner
surveyed into 12 allotments which Sam Lyons,
auctioneer, sold on May 20, 1834. The corner
lot, 25ft. 6in. in George-street, with a depth of
86ft. along King-street, went at £55 10s. a foot,
while some of the other George-street frontages
brought from £43 to £34 a foot. These hitherto
unheard-of prices in Sydney earned the area
the name of “The Golden Corner,” an appella-
tion since abundantly justified. Just a century
after Moore got the grant it was valued for
taxation at more than £200,000.
* * * *
“T. McNark”: Further evidence of
the truth of Kipling’s axiom con-
cerning “the colonel’s lady and Judy
O’Grady” comes from one Joe Sabath,
an American Divorce Court Judge,
who celebrated his seventy-first birth-
day by hearing his 52,679 th divorce
case —a record only possible in the
land of the free and frequently freed.
Pointing out that, in addition to his
normal occupation, he had also studied
divorce courts in London, Vienna, Paris,
Munich, Prague and Rome, his Honor
said that the cardinal causes of divorce
were in-laws, canned food, working wives
and small flats. A moment’s thought
will convince the average married man
of the guilt of the first three. As for the
last, when I fatuously suggested to my
spouse that we could be happy in a
6-x-4 flat she arose and said: “That’s
what you think. If I didn’t have the
front room or the garden to go to when
you become impossible 1 don’t know
what would happen! ”
* * *
“Bumpkin”; The State Emergency
Council in Melbourne thinks that the
greatest menace to civil defence in the
event of an air raid will be from incen-
diary bombs, and it is giving special
attention to fighting fires thus started.
A greater menace will be a tendency to
officialise the business with too many
rules and regulations. A characteristic
of Australians is their capacity to act on
their own initiative, but the tendency of
bureaucracy is to dislike individual action
and to try to stamp it out. What is
needed is preliminary training, as in the
bushfire prevention service. Yet even
there the regulations went to pot in every
crisis, and many a house and family were
saved by the initiative of some casual
individual. In act air-raid rehearsal at
one of Melbourne’s seaside suburbs a
householder, when he opened his instruc-
tions, found that he had been ordered to
“proceed” to a shelter three miles in-
land, while a friend who lived next door
to the shelter had been carefully in-
structed “proceed” to the sea beach.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: It was fairly late when,
looking for company and comfort, he
spotted a lighted doorway and made for
' it. It happened to be a Mothers’ Guild
meeting or something, and he was barred
at the door by an aggressive female.
“You can’t come in here,” she asserted.
He leaned against the door, patiently
waited till she had finished and again
essayed to enter. Again he was stopped,
this time by reinforcements. “You keep
out of here,” ordered the first woman ;
“this is no place for a man, least of all
one in your condition.” He drew back,
teetered, considered the array of woman-
hood with gravity and said: “Look ’ere!
Are you one womansh ’r sheveral?” One
of them, an understanding sort, took his
arm. “Look,” she said quietly, “why
don’t you go home?” He stepped back
carefully, eyed her closely, then turned
away, muttering “Blime, 1 thought I wash
’ome be the welcome I got.”
Hi * * *
“Boli”: “C.Q.’s” remarks (B. 2/10/’4O)
about Henry Lawson’s taciturnity brings
to mind a memory. A priest, then a
college professor, now the pastor of one
of Sydney’s poorer suburbs, one day met
Lawson in George-street. In a few
moments happened along another priest
of like literary tastes. Forgetting for
the time being the object of their anxious
benevolence, the two discussed how best
they could help the hard-up poet. Law-
son said not a word, and seemed to have
lost interest. But the Muse was working,
and at last in the gentle voice of the deaf
came this extempore jingle;
Three men met at the corner of the street,
As three men often do.
The one was a priest,
The other a priest,
And the third had no money, too.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Succumbing to a
clamor that has been going on for genera-
tions, Bell, of the Melbourne Tramways
Board, recently put on a special tram
designed to meet the occasion for babies
in prams attended by adults. Though
the event was widely advertised in the
dailies, only 12 mothers elected to use
the mobile creches on the first day of
issue, and when, according to the regu-
lations, one was refused the company of
her husband, she indignantly descended.
The obvious reason is that women hate
being segregated into classes. The mother
who can get a conductor and a couple
of gallant gentlemen to help hoist her
vehicle into the tram can then drive it
over the feet of a crammed concourse
and sit down and listen to the praises of
her infant with keen enjoyment. The
same tendency can be seen during peak
hours, when the suburbs disgorge them-
selves into the city and the city into the
suburbs. Everybody instinctively rushes
to the most congested avenues of traffic.
$ $ $ *
“Captain Pintle”: I’m glad to have got
back in time to save my old friend Cap-
tain Vangs from apoplexy. He has been
laid up, and a kindly neighbor has gone
to a lot of trouble to get him reading
matter wherewith to alleviate the tedium
of invalidism, particularly works relat-
ing to his former profession of the sea.
“My God, Pintle!” he exploded. “I’m
damn’ near disgracing myself every time
she fetches a new one and wants to know
how I enjoyed the last. First she brought
was by a fellow skiting about fifty years
at sea and how the rudder got washed
overboard on his first voyage in sail. Sail!
He didn’t know a triatic stay from a
shank-painter. The only things he cared
about were his blasted meals and a herd
of passengers to hear him performing.
Another blanky Ananias talked about
seeing the foret’ps’l blown out of its bolt-
holes—rabbits are a damn’ sight more in
his line than ships. There’s her latest —a
blatherskite making a nuisance of himself
in a Finn square-rigger. Four and a half
months, and they never even hove him
over the side —I’ve always said that Finns
aren’t human and that proves it! For
the Lord’s sake get me something about
the middle of the Sahara, where they’ve
never even heard of the sea, to take the
taste away. Books like those are enough
to curdle the memory of the damn’ thing
in a man’s inside!”
* * * »
“X.S.”: Stretton, L, as chairman of
the Workers’ Compensation Board in
Melbourne, decided the other day against
the claim of a widow for compensation
in respect of a husband who had been
murdered in his office by a man whose
position as foreman in a furniture factory
he had taken. His Honor’s grounds
were that the risk the murdered husband
ran was one which attached to him per-
sonally and not one which arose out of
his employment. In a similar case in
England the Judge argued that, since
murder is intentional, it cannot be called
an accident, because the essence of an
accident is lack of intention. Whatever
the grounds, it seems clear the Law
doesn’t intend to bring murder within
the scope of compensation-for-accidents
rulings.
RAINBOW GOLD.
For many a century, and all around
The then-known world, the alchemists of old
Sought for some mystic agent which, when
found,
Would turn all metals that it touched to gold,
Ever pursuing with untiring zest
Their fruitless quest.
From Egypt into Babylon they went;
At Rome and Paris later on they throve;
Over their glowing crucibles they bent
And muttered incantations as they strove
For something which, they couldn’t be aware,
Was never there.
And still a hidden formula we seek,
Not for the magic stone which such divine
Powers for its discoverer would bespeak,
But what would furnish hands like yours
and mine
With that which clearly would be worth as
much,
The Midas touch!
What cheerful grin would wreathe the punter’s
chiv
On racing days could he but only know
Some modern oracle had tips to give,
Secure in which he might invest his dough
Into the moneyed ring to plunge his hooks
And beat the books.
Ah! Wild imaginings! Delusive hopes,
Vain as the dreams of bearded alchemists!
No seer, however well he know.s the ropes,
No super-pundit at his craft exists
Such a remunerative role to fill,
Or ever will.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“A bottle of metho ., mister. Off the ice, please.?
“Harold Hardupp”; Whatever objec-
tion there may be to women mixing in
military affairs, a woman I struck at my
last hectic party might be useful as an
army commander. It was a very good
party—far too good to merge into the
night while there were still lashings of
beer and a knowledge of where more
could be obtained. A couple of neighbors
who came in to protest and a brace of
Johns who were asked to induce us to
depart were swallowed in the sea of
good-fellowship, and the party looked
as if it would never break up. And
then the heroine made her appearance.
“Gentlemen,” she announced firmly, “I
have had your hats and coats taken
downstairs and placed outside on the
pavement. If you don’t go down and
collect them at once you might lose
them.” The bomb burst the party com-
pletely.’
* * * *
“C.Q.”: In its literary supplement the
other day Melbourne “Age” printed
photographs of Rupert Brooke and Win-
ston Churchill in their youth which would
arrest the attention of anybody even
slightly familiar with the careers of the
politician and the poet. Brooke is wearing
a Gladstonian collar and neat butterfly tie,
and underneath a well-trimmed head of
hair gazes on the world with a look
of stern determination. Churchill, on the
other hand, wears a soft collar and a
large, loose tie, has long tousled hair and
the inward look of a rebellious seraph.
It was a puzzle to discover what had
wrought the miracle of turning the
reactionary angel into a symbol for the
fighting British bulldog and the smart,
outward-looking young man dressed
according to the good form of his time
into the sensitive, self-conscious poet
until you hit on the solution. Someone
had transposed pictures and titles.
* * * *
“Shanghai Kid”: Looking back on
my evil past of broken windows, slaugh-
tered sparrows, pinged hounds and shat-
tered telephone cups I realise that ex-
communication of the catapult had to
come. A N.S.W. beak has declared them
to be firearms. He was convicting a
small shopkeeper of an offence for sell-
ing penny catapults made of twisted wire
and rubber. What he would have said
of the gings of my youth I can hardly
imagine. They consisted of a hefty fork
of a tree, a double band of inch-thick
rubber, strong cord and a leather pouch,
and were capable of throwing a large
stone 200 yards with accuracy and force.
A favorite pastime was to fire a chunk
of blue-metal on to a hard surface at an
angle, causing it to burst and fly in all
directions like shrapnel, to the ill-content
of persons and animals in the vicinity.
As a weapon of revenge the catapult was
unbeatable ; you could hide in your own
backyard and drop stones on an enemy’s
roof a furlong away and leave him per-
manently baffled as to the location of the
artillery.
* * * *
“K.P.”: “Pawang” (B. 12/3/’4l) has
got his definitions wrong. “Genius-type”
children don’t develop into geniuses to
any greater extent than criminal-type
children become world’s greatest safe-
blowers or politicians. Rhodes scholars
are not selected from amongst precocious
scholars but from well-balanced lads
with records of consistently competent
performance at school and university on
both the academic and athletic sides, and
a possible capacity for leadership. The
genius doesn’t necessarily violate
“society’s conception,” as “P.” believes —
Plato, Shakspeare, Milton,
Michelangelo, Stephenson,
Pasteur, Marconi, the Curies
and Rutherford, for example,
were all extremely respect-
able persons. Of “P.’s”
sample geniuses, Socrates was
bumped off by his infuriated
fellow-citizens as an insuffer-
ab 1 e bore, Rembrandt’s
poverty was the result of his
own idiotic extravagance,
Shelley was a poseur who re-
garded being sent down from
Oxford as a good advertising
stunt, and Rodin’s customers
had a perfect right to please
themselves as to his unsatis-
factory portrait busts of them.
Praxiteles doesn’t seem to
have any trouble with his sit-
ters, and his reputation has
endured.
“Bumpkin”: Whatever they may be
doing in the Mediterranean, the war on
the sartorial front seems to be going
badly for the Navy in Melbourne. A
correspondent writes to the “Argus”:
Something will have to be done by naval
authorities about uniforms the R.A.N. are
forced to wear when on leave. I have
known several young men who have left
good positions to serve as sailors for the
duration, only to find they are receiving
the cold shoulder from many of their
friends when they come on leave merely
because they are wearing “sailor’s” bags.
This is regrettable: such treatment is never
experienced by privates or airmen.
He suggests as a shore dress the fawn-
colored puttees and belt in which the
tars “look so fine on the parade-ground.”
*** ■ *
“Yozzer”: Noting, during his perambu-
lations as a travelling salesman, that a
fair proportion of the American people
frequently get themselves into a state
where they felt the urge to break some-
thing, a bright genius invented a small
plaster doll just big enough to fit the
human hand and dubbed it the “Wacka-
roo.” Directions for use:
When you are mad or feel like busting
things, be sure to grab him quick and
smash him —SMACK! —to bits against the
wall and then relax.
Made in all colors and selling at 50 cents
each, the dolls went like hot cakes. I’m
thinking of sending over for a gross for
the wife’s use, but probably if she aimed
the Wackaroo at the wall she’d hit me.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The war tank has been
the inspiration for a Juggernautic thing
which may do more to save Victorian
forests from the bushfire menace than
any other. It is a gigantic bulldozer
which Forests Minister Lind saw in action
at Gembrook the other day. It flicks
gumtrees 2yft. thick aside as if they were
rushes, hurls one-ton rocks out of its
path, and can clear, level and grade a
track 10ft. wide through dense bush at
a speed of two miles a day. The mon-
sters cost £3900 apiece and the Govern-
ment is thinking about buying half a
dozen.
»i» *i*
“G. L. Amor”: London reports a
couple of doctors, one a woman and the
other a “famous male obstetrician,” as
stating that if war demands cut out the
corset factories old England can expect
a decline in the birthrate and an erup-
tion of unhappiness and instability in her
homes. This will arise because uncorseted
women will feel “unhappy about their
figure and line, and will be affected in
their mental attitude and physical health.”
The “famous m. 0.” holds that if a woman
feels unattractive she looks unattrac-
tive. Support for these corset crusaders
comes from the North of England,
where women welfare workers and doc-
tors claim that girls who go into factories
to release men for the army must wear
corsets to be 100 per cent, efficient. Some-
body suggested that a good substitute for
a corset was to wrap the torso in roller-
towelling. It all goes to show that
it takes more than armaments and men
to win a war in these days.
* * * m
“Craiser”; Melbourne dailies reported
a strange pair of recruits as having
turned up at the Town Hall to enlist in
the latest drive to get reinforcements for
the A.I.F, They were a couple of deaf
mutes. But the strangest case of re-
jection was the man who arrived one
morning at the depot during the last
drive. “Flat feet! No good for the
army,” said the medical officer. The
recruit grinned. “Well,” he said, “I’ve
just walked down 2000 miles from North
Queensland to join up. Now I sup-
pose I’ll have to walk back.”
* * * *
“London”: A financier throws a quite
new light on income and expenditure as
they appear in England today. A bottle
of whisky costs at least 165.; multiplied
by 52—say £4l. To produce this, with
Consols at 2\ p.c. and income tax at
Bs. 6d. in the £, takes a capital of £3OOO
to provide one bottle of whisky a week.
* * * *
“Prungle-road”: As a battler of many
years’ standing I have always found the
clergy the easiest game for a hard-luck
tale. Most of them are gentle-minded
fellows with no practical knowledge of
the sinfulness surrounding them nor the
stunts men will come at to gain some-
thing, be it a feed, a beer or big money.
Thus I wasn’t surprised to find Dr.
Pilcher, Anglican Bishop-Coadjutor of
Sydney, bursting into print with an appeal
for better treatment for alien refugees.
Undoubtedly the reverend gentleman is
genuinely moved by the hard-luck tales
these foreigners have been pitching, but
before he gets tearful about it I should
like to assure him that I’ve never seen a
refugee humping the curse, cadging for
a handout or lined up for track rations.
* * *
“S.”: Although millions of books were
lost in the fire-Blitz on Paternoster-row,
the bombing isn’t likely to have much
effect on book production in England, for
most of the publishing houses have their
presses at all sorts of improbable towns
in the country. The paper shortage, mean-
ing fewer books, higher-priced books and
ugly books, is far more serious. One
example of what the war has done is a
book of Herbert Palmer’s poems pub-
lished by Dent at half-a-crown. Dent’s
half-crown poems used to be lovely little
books on good paper with board covers ;
this one, looking more like a pamphlet
than a book, is on paper almost as crude
as newsprint with only a stiff-paper cover.
Kylie Tennant’s Prior Prize-winning The
Battlers, just arrived in Australia from
Gollancz, is also on poor paper, yet
the English price is 9s. 6d. What’s worry-
ing Australian publishers more than any-
thing is the shipping problem: the short-
age of space and the uncertainty and
delay in delivery. ✓
“Sure, baby, We're Amurricans — ain't We, Prendergast?”
ALLERGIC.
It’s a word that on our notice has been recently
projected,
And the derivation beats me, but one might
define it thus:
It denotes that certain people are unpleasantly
affected
By what millions of others view as quite
innocuous.
James the First, to take an instance (though the
term was not invented),
Was allergic to tobacco —a profound aversion
that’s
Not extinct. And even famous soldiers have
been represented,
“Bobs” for one, as feeling nervy at the near
approach of cats.
Frowns of temperance reformers deepen and
their lips grow tauter
As they muse on crowded taverns where the
foaming hopjuice flows;
And the Devil’s prompt reaction at the sight
of holy water
Might be rightly tabulated as allergic, I sup-
pose.
One man’s meat may be another’s poison.
That’s accepted, brothers,
And embedded in a maxim copy-books would
once rehearse;
But it’s tough when what’s a blessing to in-
numerable others
Means for you a black and bitter and un-
mitigated curse.
For myself, I doubt if ever “allergism” found
expression
In my cosmos—save in childhood with regard
to castor oil
And in later years to garlic. Stay, I’m moved
to one confession!
I have always been allergic to intense, pro-
tracted toil.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ẁ
POLITICAL POINTS
The expected happened in Queensland
and South Australia. Forgan Smith and
co. are assured of a fourth term at
Brisbane with a majority as strong—or
almost as strong—as ever, and in the
last Parliament they had 43 of the 62
seats. And Tom Play ford remains
Premier at Adelaide, possibly with a
party majority. His L.C.P. and Labor
gained at the expense of Independents.
Labor talked of unseating Attorney-
General Jeffries in Torrens, but he got
in easily.
Careful not to express, “nor to appear
to express, any opinion as to the subject
of the prosecution or cognate
matters,” Justice Maxwell com- \
pletely exonerated Vernon Treatt, \
N.S.W. Minister of Justice, of any \\
“improper conduct” in reducing the \
Abbco fine, and Treatt immediately
returned to the Justice Department.
His Honor had to remember, in
his finding, that he was to sit against
on “cognate matters,” this time for
the Commonwealth. His terms of
reference in the State case were strictly
limited to the conduct of the Minister
in reducing the fine—they will be much
wider for the Commonwealth.
Visions of a Commonwealth Labor
Government kept in office by Wilson, the
Wimmera willy-willy, have faded. Writ-
ing to a League of Christian Youth,
which wants continuous sessions, Wilson
said: “We have actually no real Oppo-
sition in the House today, and I can
assure you that democracy is suffering in
consequence.” Considering that the willy-
willy owes his political existence to Labor
preferences, this was rather injudicious
as well as rather nasty.
A very pertinent sotto-voce comment
on Holt’s child-endowment plan came
from one of the Ministerial benches.
Holt was explaining that the Govern-
ment couldn’t really afford to pay on
the first child in a family. “What will
happen,” asked the Voice, “if a woman
has twins first pop?” The interruption
was ignored.
Since yesterday N.S.W. taxpayers have
received the “benefit” of a very small cut
in unemployed-relief and social-services
taxes. No taxpayer is expected to get
drunk on the proceeds.
Though the Country party failed to re-
gain Dalby, it polled pretty well in
Queensland. The U.A.P. fared even
worse than usual. H. M. Russell, its
leader, got a dreadful doing in Hamilton,
where, in 1938, he scored by 6573 to
3001. This time he had no Labor
opponent, but the Labor vote and strong
support from sporting interests put Bruce
Pie ahead of him by nearly 2700. Pie
calls himself an “Independent Democrat.”
A son of Andrew Fisher, one of the
Hands-off-Russia boys, lost his deposit at
the Commonwealth election. An incom-
parably better showing has been made
at Bundaberg (Q.) by J. F. Barnes, self-
described as an “Andrew Fisher Labor-
ite,” who looks like beating Labor-
member McLean. Barnes is (or was) a
Bundaberg publican who has been cam-
paigning furiously for licensing reform
as he views it —extension of the bar-
closing hour to 11.30 p.m. on week-
days and four hours’ trading on Sundays.
When minister of Scots Church, Sydney,
the unforgotten John Dunmore Lang was
M.L.A. for West Sydney (1859-69). In
1910 the Rev. T. S. Crawford, Presby-
terian minister at Marrickville, became
the local M.L.A., leaving the Assembly
in 1917 to become Crown Prosecutor.
Now the Rev. D. P. Macdonald, of Mos-
man, is to resign his charge and stand
for the Mosman Assembly seat as a
U.A.P. candidate. A gifted and uncom-
monly popular man, he will be a most
formidable opponent for Bertie Lloyd,
an excellent soldier but not much of a
politician, though he can make a pretty
good speech.
With eight months of the financial
year gone and most of the income-tax
revenue to come in, the Victorian Gov-
ernment had a deficit of £3,461,000
£271,000 more than at the correspond-
ing period of last year. On the other
hand, the N.S.W. deficit was £2,587,000,
compared with £5,658,000 on the last day
of February, 1940. The figures are a
curious commentary on the piercing
“Ya, Herr Matsuoka, der fishing in der Axis voters iss schplendid. Und you
schould haf seen der vun dott got avay!”
squeals of Sydney politicians and editors
that Victoria is getting an undue share
of war contracts. Its revenue for the
eight months was only £14,299,000 ; pore
old Ma’s was £40,421,000.
U.A.P. fears that the party would have
to find another candidate for Concord
have been dispelled by the withdrawal
of a bankruptcy petition lodged by a
lady who swore that S. A. Lloyd, M.L.A.,
owed her £195. Lukin, L, told last week
that the money had been paid, allowed
the petition to be withdrawn. In an
affidavit Lloyd said that his annual in-
come was £1175, £875 being his Parlia-
mentary salary, and that he owed £287
to unsecured creditors (one is “Taxation
Commissioner, £42”), to whom he had
arranged to pay so much a month. An
increase of £287 in the Parliamentary
salary is not suggested.
This being the season for weighty
observations it was to be expected that
Sahib Stevens, the Wizard that Was,
would get one off his chest on arrival
at Delhi:
For example, while India is supplying the
group with cotton requirements, Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa will join
resources to supply the woollen needs.
This is the kind of spirit and material re-
sult we expect the council to achieve.
Any small boy who learns his geography
would have expected that sort of thing
to be elementary, but Wizards can’t be
expected to waste their time considering
the childish point of view. The Empire
may now rest assured that if curry is
wanted India will provide it Maori and
A^.vir' 9nd U c Ol a i' a .? n 11 ls
and Australia and S. Africa will mam-
tain the supply of wattle-bark.
„;. . , ,
Auf. ar t ° n ’ w ho brought up the
Abbco matter, asked for the papers
about the reduction of fines imposed on
Fresh Food and Ice, and Premier
Mair promised to table them Facing
an election, Mair must be silently cursing
the pest who invented the Ministry of
.
When the late Ogilvie returned from
one of his trips abroad, a Tasmanian
Cabinet meeting was held in a Sydney
pub. Now there has been one on a Tas.
train. Opposition-leader Baker com-
mented sourly that an election can’t be
far off
’ .
It seems impossible for a State Gov-
eminent to bring about a reform without
introducing complicated bills and setting
up unnecessary control bodies. In N.S.W.
the matter of defaulting and fraudulent
commission agents could have been
settled by making all commision agents
pay a license fee to the Treasury, part
of the fee to provide a compensation
fund for victims, and by making the
penalties for malpractice severe enough to
be deterrent. But no, the State’s alleged
Government has to bring down a bill
cluttered up with a long list of amend-
ments and set up a sort of council of
control. Thus does a State Government
relieve itself of yet another function.
rpi , „ 1a , , .
The second Roosevelt was dragged into
the mild Assembly dogfight in S.A.;
Labor put his photo., cheek-by-jowl with
that of Richards, in election advertise-
menk assertinp that thoir mnrpntirm nf
ments, asserting that tneir conception ot
the true aims of democracy” was iden-
tical. Sinfully paltry ; and Premier
Playford pointed out indignantly that the
President had said to his Americans “you
u „., , „ , J
will have to work longer, whereas
Richards was campaigning for a 40-hour
week as “an immediate objective.” But
didn’t the Federal party that Tom sup-
ports litter the country with portraits
of the two PMs and the nrintod
oL™ J (Li .Sir ■ • P rlnted
assurance that Menzies is with you,
Churchill ?
It came out at the Abbco inquiry that
applications for remissions of fines and
sentences pour into the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Justice at the rate of 20 a day.
And 90 p.c. of them, the Under-Secretary
said, come from members of Parliament,
some of whom rubber-stamp the appli-
cations with the words “For considera-
tion and favorable reply.” Which shows
how undesirable it is to have superflu-
ous politicians and departments about the
place, and how dangerous it may be-
come. Victoria has no Ministry of
Justice, and—since there are distinct signs
that the people are getting tired of minor-
ity Government, the consequence of
grossly undemocratic representation—it
may be the first part of Australia to get
rid of the other superfluities.
One of the candidates in S.A. made
Old Diggers in his district feel really old.
He said the call had come to him because
he was a returned soldier’s son. He
added, with disarming frankness, that he
couldn’t be a soldier himself, the physical
standard being too high for him and
“many others of my age” ; but, “with
the co-operation of the wealthy people,”
he could assist to win the peace. Per-
haps because “the wealthy people” re-
fused to co-operate he didn’t get in.
Putting the case for the transfer of
Great Boulder’s domicile from England
to Australia at a shareholders’ meeting
in Adelaide, Hal Colebatch, sometime
Agent-General and Senator, and now
once more a Westralian M.L.C., men-
tioned that the Australian Governments
concerned were in favor of it, and that
the only stumbling-block was the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. R. W. G.
Mackay, the lawyer, said that the transfer
could be legally completed regardless of
the Chancellor’s objections, but the liqui-
dators and directors preferred to nego-
tiate, and Menzies had taken up their
case.
The Great Boulder position is that the
British Treasury takes all profits in excess
of £67,000. That figure was reached in
1937, a relatively poor year for the mine,
which, after years of expensive equip-
ment and development, during which
dividends were passed, is capable of earn-
ing upwards of £460,000 gross. At a
time when the Empire needs all the gold
it can win, it seems idiotic as well as
unjust to compel the company to choose
between reducing output and working its
wasting asset for a profit which a manu-
facturer of military-uniform buttons
would scorn.
Severely as Queensland taxes higher-
group incomes and company profits, it
doesn’t demand a cut from unemployed-
relief-tax money or from income derived
by taxpayers from other States. The
Sydney Government has done both. Its
latest unemployed-relief tax measure,
however, according to its Treasurer,
“grants a rebate of this particular tax
upon income from property derived from
another State that is not a reciprocating
State”—meaning Queensland. But it will
still levy relief tax on income from Vic-
toria, which “reciprocates” to the extent
of levying income tax on such income
and waiving relief tax. This sort of taxa-
tion is utterly wrong, but it has been
going on for years and years and years.
As “Clooter” sees it:
I don’t know whether this means anything,
but it might start an argument. On my £8
a week and with two kids I’m to get £l3 a
year from Commonwealth endowment and the
boss is to pay £lO Bs. a year tax. If I was get-
ting a tenner a week my endowment would
equal the boss’s tax on my screw—£l3. But
I’m to lose £5O a year income-tax exemption.
Where would I stand if I had four kids and got
£39 a year endowment and lost exemption on
£l5O of income? No matter how I look at this
latest gesture of social legislation it remains a
shot at both the employer and the middle-class
salary-earner. The boss remarked that the only
bright spot he could see was the fact that he
had seven kids, all dependants, giving him 30s.
a week spending money.


“NEVER INTRODUCE YOUR DONAH TO A PAL.”


“MONARCH” CABINET. Polished Oak Case,
fitted with Baker’s Stainless Steel Knives and
Silverplate. Contents: C each Table and
Dessert Knives; 6 each Soup. Dessert, Large
Tea and Small
Tea Spoons ; 2
each Table and
Sauce Spoons;
each Table and
Dessert Forks; 1
Sugar Tong; 1
Pa i r Stainless
Steel Carvers and
1 Steel. In A 1
Quality Knives
and Silverplate,
£lB/5/-
In B Quality,
£l5/15/-
QUALITY CUTLERY
BREAD BOARD AND KNIFE.
Coloured Knife Handle and Coloured
Design on 4 Corners. Knife slips into
slot at top of Board. Complete, 12/6.
Postage, 1/- extra N.S.W.
>, 2/- extra Interstate.
fm.
m
CV
BAKER’S THREE-BLADE STOCK
KNIFE, 11/6.
WIMfl D AIfCD pty„ 3 HUNTER ST.
. JilU* DAlvLtv ltd.. SYDNEY
SEVEN-PAIR SCISSOR CASE.
Case made of Finest Fancy Leather. Size
about 9vi x inches when folded. Fitted
with 7 best-quality Sheffleld-made Scissors
and Pearl Knife —1 Sin. Cutting-out; 1
bin., 1 4-Jin., 1 4in. Household; 1 Nail;
1 Embroidery; 1 Buttonhole and 1 Pen
Knife. Complete, 75/-.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The strain of worrying work in trying
times proved too much at last for Harry
John Sheehan, vho three years ago suc-
ceeded Ernest Riddle as governor of the
Commonwealth Bank. Sheehan died in
Sydney last week, aged 57. Born at St.
Kilda (Vic.), he joined the Common-
wealth Treasury staff as a junior clerk in
1903, became Assistant Secretary in 1926
and Secretary in 1932. He was secretary
to the Loan Council at the time of the
Premiers Plan,” which he helped to
frame ; secretary of the National Debt
Commission and Australia’s delegate to
the League of Nations in 1933. He was
knighted in 1937. His recreation was
golf, and he was for a while president of
Royal Canberra.
Though Harry Sheehan has gone the
way of all flesh, his signature, easily the
most familiar amongst those of all emi-
nent Australians, will continue to figure
in commercial transactions for very many
years. It is on all Australian banknotes
issued during his tenure of office—in
value many millions.
Robert Garran, sometime Parliamen-
tary draftsman, Solicitor-General and
confidential adviser to many Ministers,
returned last week from an American
lecturing tour, keenly interested in the
situation in Yugoslavia. His son Isham
is or was—a member of H.M. Legation
staff at Belgrade. The young man
entered the Foreign Office in 1934. being
then 24. A Melbourne C.E.G.S. boy and
a B.A. of Melbourne University, he mar-
ried a daughter of Richard Stawell, son
of a former Victorian Chief Justice, and
himself one of the most eminent Aus-
tralian physicians of his time.
“El V.”; One man who will be enjoy-
ing himself in Belgrade is Britain’s Min-
ister, Ronald Campbell, as philosophical
a product as ever was cast up by Eton
and Magdalen. He has served at
Washington, at Cairo and (as Minister
Plenipotentiary) at Paris (in 1938-39),
but six years’ apparent seclusion in
the Foreign Office, ending in 1927, was
mainly given over to the study of the
Balkans. Campbell has a brother who
must be almost unique in British jour-
nalism. He is a baronet by inheritance,
of the Waterloo-year vintage; he has
been on the “Times” staff for 20 years ;
he combined Eton with St. Andrew’s
University; he played cricket in the
Eton XI, was a great rowing man,
reached the semi-finals in a British
amateur golf championship, and is one
of the world’s greatest golf-course
architects.
Celebrated his eighty-first birthday the
other day in Essendon (Vic.), Councillor
Arthur Fenton, who, when he was a boy
of 15, brought a consignment of his
father’s crockery in a sailing-ship from
Staffordshire to Australia with the idea
of starting a business. The day after his
arrival he was doing business over a Mel-
bourne counter. Since then he has been
three times Mayor of Essendon, the
suburb which has become Melbourne’s
airport, and for 30 years has been
one of Melbourne’s leading city and
suburban caterers. He got a ’phone call
of congratulation on his birthday from
a fellow-passenger on the ship that
brought him to Australia.
Rex Battarbee is back from the Back
of Beyond once more, and is holding a
show of his water-colors at the Athenteum,
Melbourne. Ten years ago he and his
friend Gardiner set out in a caravan for
the Mac Donnell Ranges and brought back
the first pictures to give an idea of the
weird topography and color of those
desert places. A rush of Melbourne artists
followed, and now the “Dead Heart” is
as familiar to city people as the gums of
Warrandyte or the cliffs of Portsea.
Gardiner took to farming in Gippsland.
Albert Namatjira, the full-blooded abo.,
Battarbee’s first pupil, is still painting
somewhere in the desert, and has a
number of piccaninny pupils. Battarbee
went to the 1914-18 war and got a wound
whicn rendered his left arm useless.
Melbourne artist Wilfred McCulloch
enlisted in the A.I.F. the other day, and
he had just been sworn-in when his
brother Allan, cartoonist and author,
walked in with the intention of enlisting.
This was a quandary for both, as one
had to stay behind with their widowed
mother. Wilfred is to go. Last year,
while in the militia, he held an ex-
hibition at the Velasquez Galleries of
paintings done in camp. It was opened
by his commanding officer. Allan Mc-
Culloch had had his latest book published
on the day he went to enlist.
This year’s £lOO Crouch prize offered
by the Ballarat Art Gallery went to
James Quinn for a self-portrait. Quinn
has painted other notabilities besides him-
self in fact, the quiet little man has
painted more notabilities than any other
Australian painter with the exception of
Longstaff, from English crowned heads to
Australian generals. His works hang in
the National Galleries of Tokyo, Liver-
pool, Berne, Sydney, Adelaide and Mel-
bourne, and he has exhibited at the R.A.
and the Paris Salon. Born at Armadale
(Vic.) in 1871, he learnt his craft at the
Vic. Nat. Gallery school, won the travel-
ling scholarship and finished up at the
Beaux Arts in Paris. He was official
artist for the Australian Military Forces
and Canadian Records in the 1914-18
war. At 70 he still paints and teaches
assiduously in Melbourne.
Justice L. J. Herron, latest addition to
the N. S. Wales Supreme Court Bench,
was born at Mosman (Sydney) in
1900, graduated at Sydney Uni. and was
admitted to the Bar in 1925. He took
JUSTICE HERRON.
silk two years ago. An enthusiastic
Rugbyite, he was chairman of the man-
agement committee of the N.S.W Rugby
Union and is now vice-president. His
Honor P lays golf on Australian and
Elanora links.
G.O.M. of the municipal council at
Young (N.S.W.) is J. H. Rintoul, who
has served 44 years on it and is the only
survivor of the 1897 council. Now 72
and still full of go, he has watched Young
develop from the hiatus that followed the
petering-out of Lambing Flat and the
bursting of the land boom into a lively
centre of wheat, sheep and orchard
country.
The countenance here depicted belongs
to James Vincent Fitzgerald, Melbourne
manager of Austral Bronze, one of the
J. V. FITZGERALD.
vital group of large non-ferrous metal
industries in Australia. War means that
80 p.c. of its products are used in
making munitions. James Fitzgerald was
educated at Xavier College and was 10
years with Noyes Bros. He has a fox
terrier, Frisco, which has the entry to
important board meetings in the city and
calls at leading pubs for his counter-
lunch daily.
James Matthew Sawyer, grandson of
Matt Sawyer, who passed out some
months ago, is the fifth Sawyer to occupy
Eulomo, Bethungra (N.S.W.), which has
now been in the family for a century.
The original Matt was a British naval
officer who came to Australia after the
Napoleonic wars. It was a son of this
Matt who partnered Steve White in cart-
ing food to the Kiandra goldfields and
used a camp at Yarrangobilly caves on
the way, carving his name and the date,
1873, on a rock there. Eulomo once
covered 60,000 acres.
Tom Ross, of the polo family that sent
a team to tour the U.S.A. some years
ago, tried to get out of being president of
Murrumburrah-Harden Show Society
(N.S.W.) for the twelfth time, but the
society wouldn’t hear of it. Ross runs
a grazing property, Collingwood, in
the district, and, in between his stock-
management and a lively interest in local
affairs, can still yarn about polo.
Had an eightieth birthday in Adelaide,
William Mitchell, Vice-Chancellor of the
University for the last 25 years. He
came from Edinburgh in 1894 as Pro-
fessor of Philosophy, and has been in
Australia ever since, except when recalled
as a specialist to give Gifford lectures or
some such weighty outpourings. His
books on the structure of the mind and
similar subjects are weighty, too, and are
regarded with awe even by his colleagues ;
but the man himself is a genial soul, with
a Scottish burr that he has never wished
to lose. A knighthood came his way at
the University jubilee in 1926. Mark
Mitchell, his only son, is now a professor
there, too.
Hobart lost a good citizen when L. H.
Saunders died at 63. He had been on
the City Council for 11 years, part of
them as Deputy Mayor. An athlete in
youth, he turned to bowls in recent years
and made a good fist at it, representing
the City B.C. in local and inter-State
matches.
Flight-Lieutenant Neville Tyas, killed
in action while serving with the R.A.F.
in North Africa, was born of Victorian
parents in Rhodesia, and came to Mel-
bourne to be educated. Then he returned
to the Cecil Rhodes School, Salisbury,
Rhodesia. Fie got some training with
the South African Flying Force before
he was transferred to the R.A.F. in
Egypt. He had flown for 16 months in
Egypt, the Sudan and Eritrea.
Dead in Johannesburg, Lewis Rose
MacLeod, for 14 years editor of the
Rand “Daily Mail.” Born at Oamaru
(M.L.), young MacLeod was educated in
N. S. Wales. In his twenties poetry and
prose from his pen appeared in many
Australian journals. In 1905 he became
first editor of Jo’burg “Sunday Times” and
found time to write the libretto of “The
Girl from Springfontein,” the first S’Afri-
can musical comedy. From 1916 till his
return to South Africa in 1924 MacLeod
was literary editor of London “Daily
Mail.” He fell out at the sixty-sixth
milestone.
Dead in England, as a result of a
flying accident, John Austin Strong, a
promising young M.L. scientist. Gradu-
ating M.Sc. at Victoria College, Wel-
lington (M.L.), Strong, in 1933, at the
age of 24, became Travis radiological
physicist from the M.L. branch of the
Empire Cancer Society. Later he trans-
ferred to the scientific staff of the R.A.F.,
in which he was acting flying-officer at
the time of his death. His father was for
many years Director of Education in
Maoriland.
Herbert John Storey, supervisor of the
training of munition workers in S.A., got
his diploma in electrical engineering at
Sydney Tech., and served his apprentice-
ship at Great Cobar copper mines. He
served through the 1914-18 war, winning
a commission with the 4th Pioneers com-
pany, Afterwards he was power engineer
for B.H.P. at Whyalla. When the present
war broke out he was appointed educa-
tion officer of No. 1 Training School,
H. J. STOREY.
R.A.A.F., Melbourne, and then took over
his present job, which is growing like a
snowball. Storey is 47.
Captain william John s V .C,
one o£ three Australian VCs. now in
England has been appointed to command
a battalion. Born at Eaglehawk (Vic.)
in lgB9> he scrved in th | 1914 . 18 ' w /
with the 7th Battalion. He got his deco-
ration for conspicuous bravery on the
night of August 8, 1915, at Lone Pine,
When Hitler marched into Poland,
Captain Symons, who was living in Eng-
land, joined the British forces.


/
\
ANY CARDS
FOR YOU,
DIG?
NO THANKS
Td rather hare a
Ned Capstan
d\
%
S t/L
if
S
v\
I
*<*j
ID2BE *3 *4l
<JiA
mie
a
CAPSTAN
ẃ
-rA...
10 for 7 D * • 20 for I'2 ALSO FLAT AND ROUND FIFTIES'
Capstan Special Mild . . Red Packs * Capstan Medium . . Blue Packs ★ Capstan Full Strength . . Brown Packs


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ananias”: How I envy the memories
of some of these old-timers! A Sydney
octogenarian has been informing a
“S.M.H.” sob-sister of her early life in
the Castlereagh district —it was not indi-
cated whether it was by the western river
in N.S.W. or on the Hawkesbury. “I
remember three bushrangers well,” she
says. “We used to see them, Gilbert,
Morgan and Gardiner, riding round the
countryside. A neighbor shot one of
them from an upper window in his house.
Other bushrangers dashed in and cap-
tured him, tied him up to a sapling, and
demanded £5OO ransom, which his wife
had to collect before they’d release him.”
Gilbert, Morgan and Gardiner never
practised their profession in either of the
Castlereagh districts, and the only £5OO
ransom ever collected by Australian
bushrangers was when Mrs. Keightley, of
Dumis Plains, was driven into Bathurst
and got it from her father to take her
husband, Mr. Commissioner Keightley,
out of pawn to Ben Hall and co. It is
remarkable that the dear old lady didn’t
recall Dick Turpin’s ride to Bourke.
» * * *
“Horsey”: What must be close to a
record equine stampede for our island
occurred at Bunbury (W.A.) when 250
horses from the Light Horse camp took
fright when being watered, broke away
and galloped madly down the main road
to the town. Their advance unchecked,
they continued on through the main
street and along the beach drive, cover-
ing a distance of six miles through
densely populated areas. And not one
person was injured. Even more remark-
able, nobody with more muscle than sense
essayed to turn or halt the advance. Nine
of the poor brutes were killed or had
to be destroyed later.
* * * *
“Awani”: Calling in at a farm near
Terry-Hie-Hie (nor’-west N.S.W.), I met
my first chained-up cat. A huge tabby
Tom, he was secured to the top of a
shed full of hay. The cocky swore by
his watch-cat as a discourager of the
thousands of birds who would have liked
a go at the grain. Struck another agri-
culturist who chained his several fummies
up to kennels at night—it ensured him,
he claimed, an unbroken night’s rest.
* * *
“8.A.K.”: If W.A. clings to the pole-
and-cord type of scaffolding (B. 26/2/’4l),
I’d like to visit that State. “Pudlick”
might return the compliment by dropping
in on us in N.S.W. He’d probably be
interested in a few of our “jerry-built,
one-storey buildings” that were erected
with the aid of bolted scaffolding. If he
has a good head for heights and is
adequately insured, he might take a stroll
around the parapets of a couple.
Admittedly the old method made a rigid
scaffold —if erected by an expert. On
the other hand, I have rigged scaffold to
the height of 50ft. per medium of bolt
and sawn timber, and I’m not a scaffold-
ing specialist. Experts climb perilously
near the three-figure mark! But I’ve yet
to hear of bolted scaffold fulfilling
“Pudlick’s” morbid prophecy. As for the
theory that poles are stronger than sawn
timber, I’m afraid it won’t do. A pole
averaging, say, 4|in. in diameter must
necessarily be cut from a comparatively
young tree ; consequently, fully an inch
of the outside circumference is merely
sapwood. Sawn scaffold timber, on the
contrary, far from being intended for
ultimate use as joists, etc., is selected for
its freedom from shakes, knots and
short-grain, and is sawn from trees that
were husky saplings when Captain Cook
wore the eighteenth century equivalent
of rompers. Incidentally, a patent pipe
and socket scaffold now promises to
usher in another phase of scaffolding
technique in N.S.W.
* * v *
“Old-timer”: I note with some amuse-
ment that some botanist or other has
been telling the daily press that if Aus-
tralians would learn to call their trees
by their botanical names it would stop
a lot of the confusion now extant be-
cause what is a blue-gum in one place
may be a yellow-gum in another. Admit-
tedly, trees change their names in almost
every district and State, and Gippsland
George and Dorrigo Dan might have
frequent arguments whether messmate is
yellow stringybark or mahogany ; but the
spectacle of George tapping Dan on the
chest and saying “I can cut four cords
of E. regnans while you’re knocking up
“You ought t' know Wot Were plantin', missus. Onions for the Ole Country."
three of E. paniculata” would be too
much, even for a botanist. And what
about our bush balladists? Life is tough
enough for them without having to find
rhymes for delegcmtensis or Eucalyptus
melanophloia. Anyhow, these changes in
Australian nomenclature don’t stop at
timber. A gilgai in one part of N.S.W.
is a cowan in another, a sulky in one
State is a gig in another, and a paddy-
melon might be an animal or a vegetable,
according to locality. It’s one of the
penalties of a handful of people scattered
at odd intervals throughout a vast con-
tinent, and nothing the botanists can do
will lift it.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A good effort of en-
durance and bush resourcefulness was
that of J. F. Brown, who left the Mam-
moth mine in the Camooweal (N.Q.) dis-
trict for Carton Hills station in February.
He took 21b. of damper and some tea
and sugar for the day-and-a-half trek,
and by the third day realised that he was
thoroughly bushed and his tucker nearly
gone. He made traps and got some
pigeons which he had to eat raw because
he had no matches to start a fire. Ten
days out, with the last of his tea and
sugar gone, he found an old camp from
which he got materials to start a fire with
flint, steel and tinder. Four days later
he struck a waterhole with some fish in
it, made a jig out of his billycan lid and
caught enough for a couple of meals.
After that he lived on grass, roots and
wild fruits until he reached Dobbyn, 200
miles from his starting-point and 21 days
out, but still game and going.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A patch of tall box and
grey gum saplings on the hillside is the
chosen home of a colony of weebills,
Australia’s smallest birds. Soberly-garbed
sprites, except for their yellow waistcoats,
they resemble moths rather than birds as
they flit and climb busily amongst the
topmost branches in search of insects.
From bill to tail-tip each is no longer
than an average man’s middle finger—
Australia has beetles bigger. Their clear,
sweet, whistling calls, three notes ending
on a semitone, float down like fairy music
to the watcher 50ft. below. The young
ones from last season’s neatly-woven,
cosy grass nurseries, hung high in the
crest of a tree, still follow their parents
round calling to be fed, but parental ears
are becoming deaf to their importuni-
ties. Soon they will all be starting out
on the yearly round of calls which
teaches the younger set to become
acquainted and to fend for themselves
in a hard world. As winter comes the
parents will return without them to enjoy
a period of quiet and leisure before the
lengthening days of spring revive the
annual life-business of courtship and
family cares.
* * * *
“Arev”: The parson was paying a visit
to the Simmonds homestead. “We
haven’t seen the children at Sunday
school lately,” he explained. “I thought
I’d better call to see if they were ill.”
The children stood looking sheepish, so
their mother spoke up. “I’m sure I
don’t know why they haven’t been. Betty
was willing, but Billy wouldn’t go. Tell
Mr. Whybrow why you haven’t been,
Billy.” Billy twisted his foot uneasily,
his whole attention concentrated upon his
big toe. “Why haven’t you wanted to
attend?” the parson asked. Billy’s flush
suffused every freckle. “Aw,” he stam-
mered. “There ain’t no caterpillars on
the vine at the back of the Sunday school
now.”
* * *
“Picanpen”: On a Westralian wheat
farm we were “picking up” after the burn,
working along the boundary which hap-
pened to be No. 2 R.P. fence. Close
to the fence Choom straightened up to
find himself face to face with a large
animal whose like he had never seen
before in his life. With an unearthly
yell that might have been heard in Hay-
street, he turned and headed towards me
at top speed. Snakebite was the first
thing that flashed into my mind until he
stopped gasping and started talking.
Then we investigated. The “wild” animal
was there right enough, but attached to
the camel and hidden from our view by
the leafy screen of mallee and broom-
bush was the covered wagon of the
Rabbit Department’s Fence Patrol.
*•* * *
“Anthropo”: Passing along the Daly
River (N.T.), we came on a rock-
slide widespread along the river bank.
Near the centre of this lay a circle of
stones, enclosing three larger stones,
piled one on the other as though for a
game of “duck-stone.” Being mis-
chievous, one of our mob Took a bowl
at the ducks and sent them, scattering.
Passing that way about a week later we
found the “ducks” replaced and the circle
reconstructed. Without doubt those
stones had some mystic significance in
abo. eyes. In a lonely valley of the
Leopold Ranges, nor’-west W.A., stands
the sacred Chanake stone. Just a com-
monplace wedge of rock, upended and
partly buried in the earth, 3ft. tall or so,
but venerated by the blacks for leagues
around. Further down the same
coast, among the sand-plain blacks, this
laying-out of mystic stone circles is also
practised ; sometimes chains of circles,
though with long intervals between, are
to be found. Asked for an explanation,
the abo. merely grins—though inwardly
he, no doubt, thinks the whitepfeller
“plurry cheeky pfeller.”
* * • * *
“Nor’-west”: Contemplating the paper-
bark tree, and its more lofty sister the
cadjeput, one wonders that a fibre so
useful to the black, and also to the casual
white rover, should be of such little
value to civilised man, who apparently
can find no use for it other than the
lining of hanging wire flower baskets.
Almost a natural cloth, the paper bark
gives the Kimberley black a roof in the
wet season, sheets three and four feet
wide being bent over into a semicircle,
much as with curved corrugated iron.
Into the tunnel thus formed the family
huddles, warm and comparatively dry
though the skies pour. In the mosquito
season, as the swamps dry off, the same
tunnel, the ends tightly closed with flat
sheets of bark, affords a refuge from a
torment that must be endured to be
properly comprehended. Paper bark also
makes the best of ground sheets and a
not-to-be-despised blanket. Bent round,
given a bottom, the whole sewed together
with hair or fibre string and caulked with
spinifex gum, and Mrs. Binghi has a
bucket with which to carry water, gather
lily roots, fish or shellfish. Thin sheets
form wrappings for paper-bag cookery
as tasty as ever was evolved by any
Parisian chef. Finally, when Binghi
dies, sheets of paper bark give him a
coffin ; bound round with plaits of bark
he may rest high in a tree or lowly in
some cave.
* * * *
“Bunyip”: Know a prospector, an
inveterate fight-fan when in the city—
which is every few years—who gets his
enjoyment of witnessing stoush even when
hundreds of miles from the nearest
stadium. Finding that ants would not
cross through oil, he paints a ring of
old sump-oil on a board and within it
puts two ants of similar size but different
kinds. Bulldog ants, he avers, are good,
but he hands the palm for sheer belliger-
ency to meat ants after being treated to
meat dipped in rum. Another thing, as
he says, the fights can’t be “rigged.”
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: A stiff blow has driven
masses of kelp weed on to the beach, and
from them vivid magenta streaks spread
here and there into the sand. Each
streak comes from a small snail-like
creature adhering to the weed, and the
dye, smeared from the animal on a piece
of unbleached calico, is a permanent one,
unaffected by washing or sunlight. For
30 centuries and more, other shellfish
were the basis of a prosperous trade in the
eastern Mediterranean in fabrics dyed
with the Tyrian purple. Great mounds of
the pounded shells still exist about the sites
where Tyre and Sidon once stood, mute
testimony to the complaints which Pliny
made 25 centuries ago anent the horrible
odors from the dye-works, which could
be smelt even out at sea.
“HOORAY.”
I’ve got no heart for my work today,
Yet ease brings me less content;
I’m thinking of things that I meant to say
To the kid ere the troop-train went.
But never a word passed either lip
As we stood in the morning grey;
All I could do was return his grip
And mutter a last “Hooray.”
I could see him again as a barelegged kid,
And I, ’twixt a boy and man,
“Dinking” him round on my brand-new “grid”
While Mike barked delight in the van;
Yet all I could do was to grip like steel,
Then hastily turn away.
Oh, why is man cursed that he can’t reveal
His thoughts when he chokes “Hooray”?
I can see him now, standing erect and trim,
A man where a boy had stood —
The skinny-legged kid I taught to swim,
Who left me behind once he could—
My grinning young brother, now filling a role
That I’d give a lot to play.
But all I could wring from my pent-up soul
Was merely a last “Hooray.”
It’s well for a woman to shed her tears
And lighten her load of grief;
But man as well has his loves and his fears,
And where can a man find relief
Who searches in vain for the meaning word
And leaves it to women to pray?
His but to hope that the heart is heard
When his lips can but frame “Hooray.”
n.s.w.
B. A. KER.


“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Billy Bouka gives
a hand in the pineapple season, his usual
job being to gauge doubtfuls for Fruit
Board minimum size. The dimensions
were altered this year, and Billy gazed
with deep disfavor upon the new gauge.
“What for that HT pfeller?” he demanded.
“Where my proper one?” It was ex-
plained that somewhat smaller fruit were
now accepted, but that didn’t satisfy him.
“All time before old-pfeller gauge all
right. Why no good now?” Further
explanation that, although the ways of
boards are inscrutable, they are not to
be questioned and the old gauge couldn’t
be used. Billy pondered awhile, sighed,
and remarked resignedly: “ ’Spose it
more funny business b’long that blurry
Guv’mint —that pfeller too much cranky
all time.”
* * * *
“8.K.K.”: Long Tom hit that gold-
fields town dead-broke and bone-dry. He
dragged his carcass into the pub. A
monkey was sitting on the counter busy
with fleas. Tom’s eyes gleamed. He
edged up to the counter. Bung’s face
plainly said “Another stiff.” Tom waited
for Bung to move down the far end of
the bar. Then he whipped out a knife,
swore lustily and prepared to cut the
monk’s throat. Bung raced up at the
double and roared “What the hell do y
think y’re doin’?” Tom stayed the knile
and yelled “This ruddy little cow has
swallowed my last two bob, and I’m goin’
ter get it even if I have ter slash his
gizzard open.” Tom got his beer.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Give Mat a go: “I
finish up a job, collect me money, buy
some new clobber and hit the track.
At me next camp I has a good wash in
the crick and change inter the new stuff.
Up comes a chunky sort o’ bloke and
shares me camp. After tea he starts
sparrin’ round, offerin’ t’ show me a few
hits. Persistent cow, he keeps it up till
I’m sick o’ dodgin’ round ; but I don’t
want a brawl and don’t pass him one.
Anyhow, we gets t’ bunk, an’ I’m blowed if,
about a hour later, he don’t pull me out,
saying he’s just thought of a counter he
wants t’ show me. I keep calm but do
a think ; an’ after he gets back t’ bunk
I gets me old clobber out an’ dolls up a
tall stump a bit back from the fire. Then,
I rolls me swag, takes it away about half
a mile, sneaks back, gets behind the
stump an’ yells out ‘Hey, come an’ have
another spar.’ Up he gets an’ makes for
the dolled-up stump. I creep back a bit
an’ watch. He dances round that stump,
he stops sorta puzzled an’ says ‘Whatcha
hoppin’ in an’ hoppin’ out f’r a bit, then
standin’ still f’r?’ The stump don’t say
nothin’. Then he gets narked an’ says
‘Answer me, y’ silly cow, or I’ll crack y’
proper.’ No answer, so he hauls off
and jobs it. Then I broke fr me swag
an’ could still hear the language a mile
away. Them sparrin’ blokes always do
get me annoyed.”
* * * *
“Gigi Mas”: Coming out of my
bedroom on the Bund in Penang one
morning before breakfast I was astounded
to see an island between me and the
mainland where no island had been be-
fore. To complete the ensemble there
was a village on it, children splashing
along the foreshore, a fisherman sitting
at one extremity and a boat putting off
from the other. The only thing lacking
was the customary mango tree and coco-
nut grove. Getting out a canoe, I
“It Was either him or the one next to him.”
paddled over to inspect this phenomenon
and found it was a raft of enormous logs
that had been felled in the upper reaches
of the Kedah river system and floated
to the sea. The 20 or so inhabitants had
been aboard for several months, living
on rice and fish, and how they could
confidently hope to make Penang Harbor
with the wavering currents of the strait
and the frequent Sumatrans was a mys-
tery. But the traffic has been going on
since the early days of the East India
Company. The “island” had back-
pedalled half a mile by the next morning,
but a week later it had berthed at Vic-
toria and the crew were stepping ashore
in bright new sarongs and bajus and
streaking for the cinema.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Me an’ ‘Bailer’ Bob
’ad a shark wot we’d caught alive,” said
Bert the Barman, “an’ Bob reckons we
can make money ex’ibitin’ the thing. We
’ires the City Baths for a week an’ ’eaves
the shark in. For the first day or so we
coins money, but after that business goes
flat. Then Bob gets a brainwave. We
gets out some dodgers an’, sure enough,
along rolls the mob. There’s the shark
slidin’ about in the pool with a sour look
in ’is eye, an’ out comes ‘Bailer’ in
trunks. The mob roars when ’e gets on
the springboard an’ plunges for the first
of the Roman rings wot runs nearly the
length of the pool. Yair ; it was a good
act. There’s ‘Bailer’ swingin’ graceful
from ring to ring with the shark glidin’
along underneath screwin’ up at ’is tor-
mentor’s legs. Down to the last ring
goes ‘Bailer,’ waves to the crowd, then
starts back. But at the second-last ring
’e gives an extra flourish, swings out too
far an’ gets tangled with the next one.
The shark comes to a stop right under
him. There’s only one thing to do.
‘Keep swingin’!’ I yells, an’ dashes out
to open up the valves. But that pool’s
awful slow emptyin’. It’s easy to see
who’s goin’ to get tired first. ‘Bailer’s’
swingin’ away like a ’ero, but ’e’s losin’
’is grip an’ ’is toes is just clearin’ the
water, which is gettin’ shallower. When
Bob drops at last, there’s a foot of water
under ’im, but one jump gets ’im clear
as the shark rushes. Yair ; the mob got
their money’s worth. Bob was offered a
thousand a week to repeat ’is act for the
movies, but the fright ’e got made ’im
so nervy ’e couldn’t ’old the pen to sign
’is name on the contrack!”
* * * *
“Naturala”: I know of no observer
worthy of the name who would lay down
the law on things naturalistic (B. 5/3/’4l).
His job is to seek the reason for Nature’s
vagaries with the key given by Darwin
—the survival of the fittest. Thus the
reason why some hen birds wear only
sombre plumage while their mates in-
dulge in the gayest of colors is usually
to be found in the situation and structure
of the brood nest. Such birds invariably
build an open nest, and the sober dress
of the sitting hen is better fitted to de-
ceive any predatory bird. Also her
brightly-plumaged mate may be of use
in beguiling intruders away from the nest.
Where both of the pair adopt gay
plumage then the nest almost certainly
will be in some place safe from over-
head observation or securely roofed.
Tree-frequenting birds such as parrots
probably obtain camouflage from their
brilliant colors, which blend with the
dappled sunlight and the greens of the
foliage, just as do the otherwise con-
spicuous coat of the leopard or the
stripings of the tiger moving through the
sunwashed thickets of bamboo. The big
cockatoos can afford to indulge in white,
slate and even black. But, other things
being equal, Nature seems to prefer color
and beauty, whether it be in the treetop
or the depths of the ocean.
“Aratta”: Dad, leaning across the bar,
was holding forth to Grogan. “I’m a
plain-spoken man what speaks his mind,”
he affirmed, “an’ I alwus admire a feller
who does so,” and for a good ten minutes
he sought to impress
on Grogan the forth-
rightness of his
nature and speech.
“That’s the sort of
feller I am,” he
finished ; “one who
believes in callin’ a
spade a spade.”
Then at the door of
the bar appeared a
big red-faced chap.
His eyes lighted on
Dad. “Oh! There
you are!” he cried,
making no move to
come inside. “Y’
mis’rable her r i n’-
gutted, whisky-swill-
in’ old bandicoot.
Yer a .” And
for two minutes,
without pause, he
poured forth invec-
tive. With a final con-
demnation of Dad,
his family and all his
works to everlasting
torment, the orator
vanished. “By
cripes!” cried Grogan admiringly, “that’s
about the best thing of its sort I’ve ever
heard. Who was he?” Dad grinned weakly.
“A hand I sacked yesterd’y,” he said.
He ordered a whisky and looked sheep-
ishly at Grogan. “Oh, well,” he said,
sort of apologetically, “I couldn’t take
exception to what he said, y’ know, after
what I’ve jist been sayin’ about callin’
a spade a spade.” “I dunno ’bout
spades,” said Grogan, “but judgin’ be
that bloke’s effort 1 think he’s more used
t’ steam-shovels.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: For all-round usefulness
it takes a good tree to beat the Kimberley
boab. Everyone knows of its food value,
but it also makes a fine canoe. Stranded
on Lacrosse Island, at the mouth of
Cambridge Gulf—their 20ft. skiff having
been carried out by an extra-high tide,
accompanied by a wild “cockeyed bob”
—Bill Douglas and mate stood faced with
the prospect of a long sojourn, their only
hope that some passing vessel might spot
the once-white shirt which they, without
much optimism, had hoisted on the
beach. But they had an axe and a couple
of good knives. A sizable boab was
soon found, one with a good “paunch”
which, split down the centre, would give
the beginnings of a dugout. The tree
down and halved, half the battle was
over, for it was already hollow and
needed only to be pared to a reasonable
thickness. Bow and stern came next.
The discarded half supplied planks suf-
ficient to fill these gaps. But the real
sticker was how to fasten these boards
into place. From the inner bark of the
wild fig a kind of sisal was stripped and
with a little dexterity rolled into cord.
With the knives and the ramrod from
an old gun, holes were bored both in
the hull and in the planks, the ramrod
being used as a burning-iron. Stem and
stern planks tied into place, abo. style,
there remained only the matter of caulk-
ing. Teased fine, the fig-tree sisal made
a kind of oakum which, plastered over
with plenty of Gulf mud, made a fairly
watertight job. So they set sail on the
crocodile-infested waters, reaching the
Forrest River Mission in good time;
though they reckoned that, once
launched, their handsome dugout would
have carried them right around Australia.
“Forget the club tonight, John — We must do all We cun for the brave girls defending us."
“MOOSE.”
f’m camped be Little Gulthul soak
At sundown on a summer day;
Up comes a lean an’ lanky bloke
An’ prats ’is frame in straight away.
“Man’s croo-elty t’ man,” says he,
“Denies the claim that ’e’s deevine.
An’ though I’ll share y’r ’umble tea m
My Moose were better served with wine.
“If this ’ere Moose should be y’r mate.
He’ll ’ave t’ take what’s on,” I says.
The lanky bloke puts down ’is plate
An’ puts on me a burnin’ gaze.
“Oh, simple orickle,” says ’e,
“Fr’m iggerance t’ speak wise,
Though poets searched fr’m sea t’ sea
They ne’er espied ’er in that guise.”
“Yet mate she is to ev’ryone
Who needs must sing o’ love or hate,
Fr’m Ar’tic ice t’ Awstral sun
She makes their dreams artickerlate.
She’s with them in their joy an’ pain,
When triumph comes or spirits lag,
She stood with Villain on the Seine"
Says me, “Y’ better get y’r swag.’’
“Me swag?” ’e says, an’ broods a bit,
Watchin’ the star o’ evenin’ climb.
“Me swag,” ’e says, “why, she’s got it.
A roll o’ dreams, a knot o’ rhyme,
We bear it on our track o’ life.
It is me comfort an’ me staff”
“Look ’ere,” I says, “is Moose y’r wife?”
An’ —strike me fat —’e starts t’ laugh.
“Ay, wife,” ’e yells, “an’ mother, too,
An’ sister, mistress, all in one.
Caprishus as a maid to woo,
Warmer than Sappho when she’s won.
Oh, Moose! Oh, Moose” I grabs me
knot
An’ ’its the track f’r Benanee.
I’ve camped with many a queer lot,
But Moose an’ ’im’s too deep f’r me.
N.S.W.
Old-TIMER.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman).
Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman).
Robert J. A. Massie. Owen E. Friend. Geoffrey F. Hughes.
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS-.
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.,
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOU HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 55
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OT LDIITED
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
M.L.A. (Vice Chairman) ; Hon.
Robert 0. Wilson.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman) ;
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C. ; James Kidd ;
Manager: J
Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
, G. H. Shipway.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref., Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. 2$ p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 18,801 15,000 Nil 3,801 304,075
1931.. 15,172 15,000 Nil 172 304,247
1932.. 17,415 15,000 Nil 2,415 306,662
1$ p.c.
1933.. 47,168 15,000 30,000 2,168 308,830
24 p.c.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3f p.c.
1936. . 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. > 141,821 15,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
1939.. 149,505 15.000 100,000 34,505 447,427
1940.. 136,886 15,000 100,000 21,886 469,313
The investor in Howard Smith, Ltd.,
buys a widespread equity in shipping,
sugar, iron and steel, coal, cement and blue
metal, among other ventures —probably
the most assorted array of interests, both
in nature and earning power, of any
holding co. in the Commonwealth.
Though returns from these constitute the
main line of revenue, nice pickings are
raked in as agent and manager as well.
Actually, 1940 wasn’t so favorable as
the figures in the first table, which relate
to the holding co. alone, suggest. Con-
solidated accounts of H.S. and subsi-
diaries indicate a decline of £63,661 to
£135,050 in net profit-earning, of which
H.S.’s proportion was £121,773;
, H.S. Divs. N To Re-
Dec., Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1939.. 181,160 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 66,160 1,928,546
Unexplained addition, £10,781 . . 1,239,327
1940.. 121,773 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 6,773 1,246,100
* Deducting outsiders’ proportion.
That was after visibly writing off £120,124
(down £2307) for depreciation and setting
aside £55,748 (up £3726) for taxation.
After meeting its pref. charge, H.S.’s
equity in the result represented 5.3 p.c.
on its £2,000,000 of ord. capital—B.3 p.c.
in 1939 —and for the. fourth year 5 p.c.
again went out. Consol and other in-
vestments contributed £86,075—6 p.c. on
book values —to the result.
So far as they are known, the prin-
cipal share-interests are:
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships. £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar . . 207,915 155,704
Caledonian Collieries.. L pref. 325,034 pref.
( 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 65,791
B.H.P. . . . . 11,396.936 478,970*
Southern Port. Com.. . f pr ? f ' pr , ef -
I 639,880 ord. 248,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal. . 248,000 50,000
* See letterpress.
The substantial holding in B.H.P. shown
assumes that H.S. has exercised its rights
to all cash and bonus issues since swap-
ping its 700,000 or so A. I. and S. ords.
for 194,444 B.H.P. shares in 1935, and
still retains the scrip. Not being short
of a shilling or two, it will no doubt
subscribe for its full quota of the Prop.’s
22-for-100 latest issue, and there are un-
doubted prospects ahead of that progres-
sive undertaking.
Apparently only the first four of the
cos. named are treated as subsidiaries
in the combined figures. Two of
the most interesting (Australian Steam-
ships, for long the backbone of things,
and Australian Sugar) are inscrutable,
no separate accounts being published.
Good returns come regularly from both,
though the coal strike, Government
commissionings and higher costs ren-
dered shipping less profitable last term,
while there may be difficulties ahead in
the disposal of our surplus sugar.
Of the other investments, most remu-
nerative are steel and cement:
, Profits v —1940 Div.%—,
1939. 1940. Pref. Ord.
B.H.P £1,413,513 £979,183 7.5
S.P. Cement . . 54,097 52,882 6.2 6.2
Caledonian . . 20,027 7,128 3.0 Nil
Invincible . . 4,717 4,737 4.5
Granted freedom from industrial unrest,
which spoilt last year’s figures, the co.’s
Maitland and Lithgow coalmines, repre-
senting an investment of £1,260,364,
promise to bring more into the home
in future, too. The only really dead spot
appears to be the inoperative blue-metal
venture.
Here are compared Howard Smith’s
own and the consolidated accounts:
H.S., , —H.S. and Subs.— v
1940. 1939. 1940.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital . . 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Deposits . . . . 11,198 42,355 26,610
Othet liabilities . . 790,011 187,366 195,159
Outside capital . . 450,451 449,047
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 192,032 468,320 471,358
Shares other cos.. . 2,984.756 1,026,319 1,026,586
Plant . . . ■ 19.260 *2,062.926 *1,999,309
Stocks, etc. . . 44,688 140,672 165,648
Debtors . . . . 176,153 168,746 214,185
Public securities
and cash, etc... 207,953 469,496 485,982
* Includes steamers, collieries, etc.
Examination shows that the written-down
value of net assets in subsidiary cos. is
£559,360 greater than the valuation of
subsidiary shares in H.S.’s accounts,
which suggests that the £1,026,586 valua-
tion placed on other shareholdings may
also be conservative. Treating outsiders’
equity with liabilities, the more or less
liquid surplus (£1,221,585, if sharehold-
ings are included) was £97,524 stronger
than at the previous balance.
At 21s. H.S. ords., backed by consoli-
dated book values of 325. 6d., yield 4.8
p.c. For stowing away the price doesn't
appear excessive. Even if coal doesn’t
come good, there is a growing income
from B.H.P. which wasn’t available in
other days.
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1931.. 48,496 64(p.c.= 48,144 352 45,022
Dec., 1932.. 44,782 6 „ „ 44,440 342 45,364
Dec., 1933.. 44,928 6 ~ „ 44,440 488 45,852
Dec., 1934.. 44,483 6 ~ „ 44,440 43 45,895
Dec., 1935.. 44,604 6 ~ ~ 44,440 164 46.0.59
Dee., 1936.. 34,632 6 ~ „ 44,441 36.250
Premiums on shares, £8397 .. .. 44,647
Dec., 1937.. 36,558 6 p.c. = 46,211 34,994
Manly Gas absorbed on share-for-
share basis; added res., £17,789 .. 52,783
Doc., 1938.. 59,662 6 p.c. = 63,041 49,404
Absorption exes., £10,514 .. .. 38,890
Premiums on shares, £6048 .. .. 44,938
Dec., 1939.. 69,852 6 p.c. = 64,514 5,338 50,276
Dec., 1940.. 52,830 5 „ „ 55,000 48,106
Shareholders in N.S.W. gas cos. have
been handed a raw deal by the State
Government. The Gas and Electricity
Act of 1932 placed the industry under
control of a commission of three, one
member representing the Government,
another the cos. and the third employees.
The idea was to fix the cost of gas to
the consumer at a figure that would allow
the cos. to pay a 6 p.c. div., after meet-
ing all exes., including interest on bor-
rowed funds, and setting aside up to
3 p.c. of the net book value of buildings
and plant for depreciation and not more
than i p.c. of share and loan capital
combined for special purposes, etc.
Recently, however, price increases
recommended by the commission to cover
uncontrollable lifts in expenses have been
thrown out by Cabinet. One result for
this North Shore co.’s shareholders has
been a cut from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c. in their
income—and even that modest rate is in
jeopardy as things stand ; a second has
been a fall from 245. 3d. to 19s. 3d. in the
market value of their holdings over the
past 12 months. Apparently the political
aim is to keep down the cost of living,
but the equity of the situation is open to
question when most other traders, many
also supplying essential services, have
been permitted to raise their selling
charges to cover increased war-time out-
go, and that with the approval of the
Federal Prices Commissioner, who has
now been asked to interfere here.
The jump in profits in 1939 and 1940
reflects economies and higher sales fol-
lowing absorption of the old Manly co.
on a share-for-share basis —the deal added
£260,000 to capital account. Last term,
however, saw a reduction in the quantity
of gas piped through the co.’s mains
from 1165.8 to 1142.6 million c.f.—water
restrictions affected the demand from
heating systems, and there is no great in-
dustrial demand on the Shore, as on the
other side of the harbor. Still, this revenue
loss was more than balanced by the
greater value attaching to residual pro-
ducts.
Here is precisely how the co. earned
and spent its income:
r - 1939 , 1940 ——,
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
Revenue:— s. d. b. d.
Gas sales ~ ..£367,263 6 3J £360,139 6 3J
Residuals, etc. . . 81,243 1 4$ 98,472 1 9
Exes.:—
Manufacture . . 144,407 2 6 156,031 2 9
Distribution . . 91.463 1 7 90,416 1 7$
Depreciation . . 47,873 9 50,571 11
Other charges . . 94,910 1 8 110,133 1 11$
Basic-wage lifts—7s. a week in all since
the outbreak of war —and the higher
price of coal are clearly reflected in manu-
facturing outgo. Controllable exes, were
kept well in hand, £10,845 of the spring
in the miscellaneous item being due to
tax demands —the semi-State electrical
undertaking, incidentally, skips this im-
post. Actually, the co. got a return of
Bs. o|d. (up 4yd.) for every 1000 c.f. of
gas piped, but all-in costs ran to 7s. 2yd.,
as against 6s. 6d. in 1939. Thus the final
showing, including £1370 written off in-
tangibles, ran out £17,022 lighter at
£52,830, or 4.8 p.c. on the £1,100,000 of
share capital.
Early in the year No. 3 vertical retort
at Oyster Cove was placed in commis-
sion, and now the old Westvertical instal-
lation is to be replaced with a modern
unit, all of which should do costs no
harm. Production of benzol in the
national interests is also being investi-
gated, the co.’s potential capacity being
put at 300,000ga1. p.a.
When the books closed, share capital
and reserves were supplemented by
£700,000 of 4i p.c. debentures, £91,905
of temporary loans and £152,680 due to
other creditors. Book value of the under-
taking amounted to £1,954,648, while
more or less liquids totalled £180,216.
Carrier Air Conditioning, Ltd.
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec Loss. Dividend. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1937.. 24,487 Nil • 40,202
Written off, £20,019 . . .. 13,083
1938.. 5,040 Nil 8,037
Added share premiums, £195 .. 8,232
Profit.
1939.. 8,094 5 p.C. = 0,301 2,393 10,025
1940.. 0,393 5 „ „ 0,300 93 10,718
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £10,994 at Dec. 31, ’4O.
On the strength of a prospectus which
overestimated the co.’s earning power, the
public snapped 70,000 new £1 shares,
offered at a premium of 11s. each, in
1937. Divs. of not less than 15 p.c. p.a.
were spoken of, and sales of the shares
at 335. 3d. were recorded. Now they
can be had at 9s. or thereabouts, the
book value of the net tangible backing
being 19s. The return at 9s. is 11.1 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Since the market
allows for future profits in the price paid
for scrip, obviously it hasn’t a very high
opinion of the prospective earning power
of the co.’s assets.
Here is the financial structure so far
as the published accounts show it:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital . . 125,405 120,007 120,007 126,007
Sundry creditors .. 23,942 24,028 23,399' 11.886
Outstanding charges 3,253 6,219 3,375 1,700
Suspense account.. • —■ 26
Freehold, plant, etc. 20,065 37,192 34,814 33,301
Stocks .. .. 54,038 40,753 43.123 37,290
Debtors . . . . 88.738 59,654 65,822 60,118
Cash . . . . 12,674 652 4,330 2,929
“Deferred” assets. . 1,621 1,887 1,237 1,994
Suspense account. . 125 3,152 5,381
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the position. The debt, which is
moderate, was reduced by £13,188 last
year. When the books closed, stock,
debtors’ balances and cash together
exceeded outside liabilities by £92,757, an
improvement of £6256 over the twelve-
month.
The slip in net earnings last year was
£2301. The £6393 of profit claimed
was only a wink over 5 p.c. on capital,
which had the support and assistance of
£10,718 of nominal reserves —nominal
because they were subject to £16,994 of
goodwill, etc., at the end of December
last. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., making
an aggregate of 10 p.c. for the last four
years.
Exactly what the future holds for the
business it is difficult to say. Govern-
ment control of capital outlay and rising
costs, including taxation, make the im-
mediate outlook less promising than it
was a year ago. However, the co.’s chief
American affiliate has suggested possible
extension of manufacturing activities
locally, and g.m. A. R. Morris will
shortly go to the U.S.A. to make a thor-
ough investigation of the proposals.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends N
Pref. Writ-
Dee., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
1929'. . 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14.839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit. ,
1933.. 15,672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12,873 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit,
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
0 p.c.
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
4 p.c.
1939.. 21,338 10.000 Nil 10,099 51,572
10 p.c.
1940.. 56,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30,966
Easily the best showing since the Im-
perial meat contracts expired and the
bottom dropped out of the Australian


Ik Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. •. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
41bo FREMANTLE. W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 Georsre Street
111 Branches and Agencies in Soutli Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
TO YOUR CAR AND
YOUR RADIO TOO will,
m
mm
iffssi batteries
MMiWMammm
PRICE LIS
I,
ES£swssssl.-2s
i
=a .
m
:; : :
*
Hi
S 5J5
f*r
M»S
AuSTIALIA
IMP ANY 5 ~
EATIESY
-ZSTsS-r
Prices to be proud of!
LET’S get down to tin-tacks, Mr. Battery Buyer! When
you need a new battery for your car, radio or for
any other replacement purpose you generally need it
quickly. No time to shop around. No chance to com-
pare this with that. But take a word of warning, you
can easily pay too much.
Vesta distributors, garagemen and radio dealers recom-
mend Vesta because Vesta Batteries sell easily—satis-
factorily. Vesta prices everywhere are fixed list prices
approved by the Commonwealth Prices Commissioner
(in N.Z. by Prices Tribunal). Every Vesta price repre-
sents a battery bargain —not an inflated figure upon
which to commence bargaining. And there is a differ-
ence, you’ll thoroughly agree. But price is not all—
VESTA FEATURES & GRADES . Vesta Batteries
have important and exclusive features and there is a
grade of battery to suit every purse and purpose.
VESTA SERVICE . Company Branches in main cities
of Australia and New Zealand and Distributors in every
town. You can obtain Vesta Batteries with service
everywhere.
VESTA QUALITY & RELIABILITY. Govern-
ment Departments, the Australian and JVeic
Zealand Army, Navy, Alt* Force and leading
industries, Rritish forces throughout India and
the Far East use Vesta Ratteries. Vesta Rat -
teries are renowned and used from Rrishane
to Renghazi. Vesta has built quality batteries
since 1897 .
VESTA BATTERY CO. PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Newcastle, Albury, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin. Distributed by W. & G.
Genders Pty. Ltd., in Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.
Look for this gold and
silver sign if identifier
the Vesta distributor —.
where you can be sure of
the utmost in battery
value!
beef export trade after the Great War
of 1914-18. For Queensland cattle-
raisers (they provide over 90 p.c. of Aus-
tralia’s beef exports) the story since has
been mainly of lost markets, falling prices,
drought and rising costs —the influence
of Vestey’s in Britain and of the Meat
Trust in America guaranteed the inside
running to the Argentine product.
The co. has £325,000 of capital to feed
in 250,000 £1 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
600,000 2s. 6d. ords. The prefs. have had
a thin time, and the ords. a thinner and
more disastrous one. In 1932 17s. 6d.
(= £525,000) was lopped off each ord.
share in order to wipe out accumulated
losses. Six years later the prefs. agreed
to forgo arrears of divs. (£192,500 =
15s. sd. per share) and to reduce the
rate from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. Since then
Nature has been kind, and with the out-
break of war in September, 1939, came
British contracts for surplus export beef
at good prices. Further, dry conditions
in N. S. Wales and Victoria last year
created a heavy call on Queensland sup-
pliers to meet local demands. These
were so strong that at one period
difficulty was experienced in meeting the
beef requirements of the A.I.F. in the
Middle East.
Under these conditions and with the
help of the British wool-purchase scheme,
the co.’s gross earnings (£155,482) shot
up £43,587. Including a larger but un-
specified allowance for taxation, exes.
(£99,281) took only £8724 of the in-
crease. After allowing £10,595 (up £496)
for depreciation, the net result was
£34,367 better at £45,606, which was
enough to pay a year’s pref. div. (£15,000)
and show 40.8 p.c. on ord. capital. The
prefs. got 10 p.c., clearing their slate to
the end of April, 1941. The ords. were
passed by, money being wanted to reduce
the co.’s debt to its bankers and others.
The £20,606 of the year’s profit that re-
mained reduced the amount of ord.
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £30,966.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Capital . . £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities .. 231,130 157,425 142,501 101,237
Freeholds . . 68,774 28,083 28,083 28,083
Leaseholds .. 154,857 139,050 131,262 137,968
Plant, etc. . . 60,569 62,823 60,743 61,030
Livestock . . 198,648 202,649 189,804 173,505
Wool. . .. 10,338 10,542 6,552 11,100
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,904 1,364 9,485 8,686
The year’s surplus earnings, together
with a reduction of £16,299 in the book
value of livestock, enabled £41,264 to
be lopped off the debt, £6706 to be added
to leaseholds, and £4548 to the stock of
wool. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£92,054) was
£28,714.
The current year opened with good
falls on all the co.’s properties. This
and maintenance of the British contracts
augur well for a satisfactory showing at
next balance. But the outside debt and
p. and 1. debit stand in the way of the
ords. getting much, if anything, in the
way of dividend at the moment. How-
ever, the position looks more promising
than it has been for a long time.
On a 6 p.c. div. basis the prefs. at 10s.
9d. return 11.1 p.c. The book value of
the cover is 235. 6d. in net tangibles. The
more speculative ords. are priced at 6d,
or thereabouts.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 15,459 sJp.c.= 15,515 69,677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ „ 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 2J „ ~ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 2i „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67,464
1935.. 16,141 5 ~,,14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 o „ „ 14,195 2,205 71,615
Royalty rights disclosed, £4143 .. 67,472
1937.. 16,550 54 p.c. =15,614 936 68,408
Goodwill, £19,026 49,382
Royalty rights disappear, £3033 .. 52*415
1938.. 17,049 6 p.c. = 17.034 15 52,430
Royalty rights disappear, £lllO . . 53,540
1939.. 12,837 44 p.c. =12,776 61 53,601
Goodwill disappears, £42 . . . . 53,643
1940. . 6,410 Nil 6,410 60,053
Apart from continual Milk Board ex-
aminations, the N.S.W. milk industry as
a whole and the two metropolitan distri-
buting companies in particular have been
the subject of six investigations by
Royal Commissions and Price Inquiries.
In May last Judge de Baun, investi-
gating the cost of milk-distributing
—his report is now before a Cabinet
sub-committee —found that consumers
were “paying quite a high price for milk.”
However, the cos. weren’t to blame:
Under the present system of distribution
in the metropolitan area no reduction in
price is possible; the increased rates paid
to producers, as well as higher wages and
rising costs... .prevent it.
Almost all distributors, with the excep-
tion of the Dairy Farmers’ Co., which is in
a specially favored position, are operating
on margins only sufficient for the main-
tenance of their business. In most cases
profits are 5ma11....
Although the Judge found this “con-
tinual increase in prices of all manner of
articles and commodities in daily use by
the distributors of milk,”
I am satisfied, too, that present maxi-
mum prices should not be increased, and
milk distribution can be carried on success-
fully at present prices.
The recent experience of the Fresh
Food Co. has been that it cannot, and
until the margin between the price at
which the co. buys its milk from pro-
ducers and the maximum price at which
it is permitted to sell to the consumer is
widened by the Government Milk Board,
which controls these things, shareholders,
who have never skimmed any but very
moderate returns from the business,
appear in for a thin time.
Part of the trouble appears to lie in
the costs of bottling. Says Justice de
Baun:—
It will be impossible for bottled milk to
be sold at a reasonable cost to the public
while the price of bottles remains so high.
If all the costs of bottled milk were
passed on to the consumers of bottled
milk it would mean that, for every gallon
of milk consumed by them, they would be
paying threepence towards the cost of
bottles. The distributing cos. are not re-
sponsible for this.
A remedy for high marketing costs
equitable to all —supplier, consumer, in-
vestor and wage-earner would be to
displace present twice-daily by once-a-
day deliveries, such as is already legis-
lated for in respect of public holidays
and week-ends throughout the year.
Fresh Food chairman Playfair suggests.
A merger with the Dairy Farmers’ Co.
has also been discussed, but “negotia-
tions .... cannot well proceed unless a
more stable future for the industry is
assured by some amendment of the
present Milk Act.” Meantime, share-
holders remain even more poorly re-
munerated than investors in gas scrip.
Despite drought, which interfered par-
ticularly with the cold-store section, and
petrol-rationing, business expanded
further last year, increased turnover in
milk, cream, butter, ice, bread, ice-cream,
fish, poultry, etc., contributing an extra
£15,851 to gross earnings (£418,882). But
outgoings (£412,472, including £11,006
for depreciation) were £22,278, or 5.7
p.c., weightier. The net result at £6410
was thus cut in half, and equal to only
(Continued on next page.)


Mining Notice.
WE would like to get in touch with a com-
pany that’s interested in goldmining.
We have a mine of five (5) workers which
has taken out approximately £7OOO worth of
gold by hand in the last three years. The
depth of this mine is only 75ft. vertical from
the surface. Any company interested, would
like them to send capable mining man to in-
spect mine, with the object of purchasing or
otherwise taking a working option for develop-
ment purposes. All returns and plans are
open for inspection to bona fide companies
only.
For further particulars apply to H. BOWREY
AND PARTY, Ravenswood, or WARDEN
Charters Towers, North Queensland.
LET
r ATLAS )
CAREY THE
i BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY,
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E, V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* ♦ » ♦
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims. .
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.u.u..
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manage .
’Phone (three lines): 87361, Branches in All States. 139 Pitt Stree , y
(This advertisement is for public information only, and is not a Prospectus within the meam S
of the Companies Act. The whole of the shares in the undermentioned issue have been auotteu;
consequently no shares are available for subscription by the public.)
TAUBMANS LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of the State of New South Wales on Ist February, 1912.)
REGISTERED OFFICE: MARY-STREET, ST. PETERS,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £850,000
ISSUED CAPITAL (prior to the undermentioned issue)
£398,867 in Ordinary Shares of £1 each fully paid.
ISSUE AT PAR OF 100,000 5 PER CENT.
CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1 each.
The whole of the Above Issue of 100,000 Shares Was Underwritten by
and Taken Firm by Messrs. J. B. Were and Son, Members of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne.
DIRECTORS:
HENRY GEORGE TAUBMAN, Mary-street, St. Peters, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Chairman and Managing Director.
WALTER SCOTT TAUBMAN, Mary-street, St. Peters, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Company Director.
WILLIAM McLEAN, Mary-street, St. Peters, Sydney, N.S.W., Assistant
Managing Director.
FRANK STANDISH HARTRICK, Mary-street, St. Peters, Sydney, Company
Director.
ERIC GEORGE FREDERICK HORNE, 44 Martin-place, Sydney, Chartered
Accountant (Australia).
GORDON HARRY MARTIN, 6 Arlington-street, St. James, London, S.W. 1,
Company Director,
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY.
Taubmans Limited, with its subsidiary companies, is one of the largest manufacturers in
Australia and New Zealand of paints, varnishes, enamels and lacquers, as well as decorative and
protective coatings of almost every description. It also markets extensively other decorating
materials, including British-made wallpapers. The company is affiliated with Finchin. Johnson
and Co., Limited, paint manufacturers, of England, and that company holds a substantial block
of the ordinary shares.
TAUBMANS LIMITED controls the following Australian subsidiaries: —
MELBOURNE: Taubmans Pty., Ltd., Wilkinson, Heywood and Clark Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE: Taubmans (Queensland) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: L. G. Abbott and Co., Ltd.
With Pinehin, Johnson and Co., Limited, it also has an 80 per cent, interest in Pinchin,
Johnson and Co. (New Zealand), Ltd. Other interests include ownership of Borthwicks Pty.
Co., Wm. Docker, Red Hand Compositions Co., and Wilkinson, Heywood and Clark, Sydney.
All manufacturing activities for the Australian companies are carried out at the parent
company’s efficient and up-to-date factory at St. Peters, Sydney.
Established in 1901, the business has shown remarkable growth, particularly during the last
quarter of a century.
Its products under the Taubmans, Dockers and Borthwick labels are well known throughout
the length and breadth of Australia. The household lines —DYNAMEL, SOLPAH, SILVAFROS
and REVELITE—enjoy universal public approval—and BUTEX and other high-grade paints are
held in high repute by the trade.
OBJECT OF THE ISSUE.
The new capital has been raised to reduce outside indebtedness and provide additional
working capital in consequence of the expansion of the business of the company and its subsidiaries.
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Special Resolution authorising the Issue provides that the following rights and privileges
shall be attached to the Preference Shares: —
(a) The right to a Cumulative Preferential Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on
the amount paid up thereon, payable half-yearly;
(b) The right in a winding-up to the payment of any arrears of dividend, whether earned or
declared or not, up to the date of commencement of the winding up, and also to be repaid
the amount of capital paid up on such Preference Shares held by them respectively, in
priority to any payments to the holders of all other shares in the Company;
but shall not be entitled to any further participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
Without the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths of the issued
Preference Shares the Company shall not guarantee to the shareholders of any other company the
dividends or capital in respect of any shares in such other company.
Without the consent of the holders of three-fourths of the preference shares no further shares
can be issued to rank in priority to, or pari passu with, the present issue, nor can the rights of
preference shareholders be modified, altered or abrogated, or any repayment of preference capital
be made (otherwise than on a liquidation), without a like consent.
The first dividend (calculated from the date of allotment to the date of payment) will be
paid on July 1, 1941, and thereafter will be paid half-yearly on January 1 and July 1 in each
year, free of exchange in all State capitals.
SECURITY FOR PREFERENCE CAPITAL AND DIVIDENDS.
On the basis of the Report of the Investigating Accountants, Messrs. Flack and Flack.
Chartered Accountants (Australia), net tangible assets of the company and its subsidiaries as at
September 30, 1940, are equivalent to £7/8/10 per £1 of preference capital, after allowing for
the expenses of the issue.
The report of Messrs. Flack and Flack shows that profits in the last three years, as adjusted
by them, would be sufficient to cover the annual preference dividend requirement of £5OOO an
average of 17 times.
LISTING ON THE STOCK EXCHANGES.
Application is being made to have the shares listed for official quotation on the Stock
Exchanges in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
SHARE REGISTERS.
The Company’s Share Register is located in Sydney, and a branch register for both Preference
and Ordinary Shares is being established in Melbourne.
THE PROSPECTUS.
Copies of the prospectus, for general information only, may be obtained on appli-
cation to the office of the Company, Mary-street, St. Peters, or from the underwriting
brokers, Messrs. J. B. Were and Son. Melbourne and Sydney.
H. G. TAUBMAN, Chairman and Managing Director.
March 21, 1941.
2.2 p.c. on capital, as against 4.5, 6, 5.8,
5.7, 5.6, 5.5 and 2.4 p.c. back to 1933.
And that apparently excludes a loss,
attributed to the drought, incurred by the
subsidiary, Byrne’s Exhibition Dairy,
which transports milk from its Picton
farm to the city.
With tightening of finances called for,
no divs. were paid:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital.. £283,907 £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 46,392 69,208 163,814 181,248
Property . . 229,212 236,010 243,885 243,885
Plant . . 151,900 166,425 173,423 171,336
Rolling Stock 35,847 38,204 38,589 39,277
Stocks .. 24,654 23,369 28,744 33,761
Cash, etc. .. 10,957 397 509 543
Book debts . . 60,292 62,485 73,278 86,021
Shares subsid. 13,149 13,150 13,156
Advances subsid. 33,995 37,228
Including debentures as a liability but
not shareholdings as a liquid, outside
liabilities exceeded more or less liquids
by £123,695, an improvement of £3593,
when the books closed.
After sales at 11s. 6d., buyers have
temporarily left the market. The book
value of the net tangible cover is 245. 2d.
Taubmans, Ltd.
None of this Sydney paint and varnish
manufacturer’s new £lOO,OOO 5 p.c. pref.
offer was available to the public, the lot
being taken firm by the underwriters,
J. B. Were and Son, Melbourne. First
dealings have taken place around 21s. 9d.,
to yield 4.6 p.c., which suggests that
shareholders might have appreciated the
opportunity to subscribe at least part of
the issue. The new shares can see stout
protection for both income and capital.
Deducting outsiders’ share, and allowing
for interest savings which the new money
would effect, the co. and its subsidiaries in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Wel-
lington (M.L.) showed net earnings of
£86,221 in the year to September, after
setting aside £55,048 (nearly double the
preceding year’s provision) for taxation.
The £5OOO pref. charge is thus 17 times
covered, while consolidated book values
indicate a net tangible backing per share
of £7 9s. Bd. Pinchin, Johnson and Co.,
Ltd., the English paint people, have a
majority interest (acquired 1929) in the
£398,867 of ord. capital,
Westralian Chamber of Mines calcu-
lates that 4,291,608 (up 196,351) tons of
gold ore was treated in the West during
1940 for a yield of 1,154,843 (down
33,443) fine oz. Principal contributors
in order of tonnage handled:
Treated, Yield,
Tons. Oz.
Lake View and Star .. 591,671 165,894
Wiluna . . . . . . 583,516 86,732
Golden Horse Shoe . . 509,590* 20,437
Big Bell 406,142 53,890
Great Boulder . . . . 417,298 97,141
North Kalgurli . . . . 153,176 48,739
Norseman G.M. . . . . 152,289 25,906
G.M. of Kalgoorlie . . 140,483 44,278
Sons of Gwalia . . . . 138,162 44,512
Boulder Perseverance . . 111,990 36,103
Triton 104,525 30,982
"Central Norseman . . 98,799 34,626
Paringa 92,000 21,206
Youanmi . . . . 85,017 22,569
South Kalgurli . . . . 84,380 22,894
* Old residues.
Dividends paid totalled £1,059,936.
Men employees numbered 14,368, of
which Lake View and Star had 1238 on
its payroll, Great Boulder 963, Wiluna
626 and Big Bell 419.
In his annual address at Kalgoorlie,
86-year-old Dick Hamilton, president
of the Chamber since its foundation
41 years ago, mentioned that the lift of
£712,595 in the value of the 1940 yield
had mostly been taken by the Federal
gold tax. In 1939 the industry paid the
Commonwealth £226,194, In 1940 it
handed over £927,908. Grade of ore
treated was down 0.42dwt., partly owing
to the higher price of gold enabling the
treatment of lower-grade rock. Dividends
dropped by £277,175, principally be-
cause of the rising cost of materials and
labor. Prospects for 1941 are good, but
divisible profits are not likely to be
better, owing to rising expenditure.
Hamilton also drew attention to the
effects of British e.-p.t. on some West-
ralian producers, notably Great Boulder.
* * * *
Accounts of Mt. Charlotte (Kalgoorlie)
Gold Mines, once of Rhodesia, show an
administrative loss of £2636 for the year
to November, depleting cash resources
to £1425, Now that litigation with
Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated over
the ownership of its Kalgoorlie blocks
has been settled in the co.’s favor —it has
held up development for three years—
the co. is proceeding to equip the pro-
perty with a 50,000-tons-p,a. treatment
plant with £A30,000 borrowed from the
Westralian Government, “Another co.”
has offered to advance a similar amount,
granted the right of par conver-
sion into shares, with the option of sub-
scribing at par for up to £150,000 of
scrip to provide additional working
capital. The new plant will be operated
conjointly with the Paringa mill, some
2\ miles away, which, pending its
erection, is to crush Mt. Charlotte ore
on terms “advantageous” to that co.
Diamond-drilling, etc., to a depth of
1000 ft. has indicated 1,122,200 tons of
5.36dwt. ore in the northern section alone,
of which half a million tons, averaging
5.9dwt., is reckoned to lie in a 61ft.-wide
lode channel between 150 ft. and 750 ft.
It looks like another Westralian resur-
rection coming good. Paid capital is
£100,921 in 2s. shares.
» * * •
From London:
Company chairmen, mining, financial and
commercial, continue to smite the 100 p.c.
excess-profit tax. One said the other day that
with concerns of youthful vintage 100 p.c.
e.-p.t., coupled with income tax at Bs. 6d. in
the £, meant nothing less than the complete
eclipse of their cash resources, and consequently
a desperate feeling of working almost for
nothing. Another in the course of a mournful
protest said that the profit, the best in the his-
tory of the co., was marred by the “grossly
excessive and unfair incidence of e.-p.t.” A third
referred to “inadequate provision for stimulating
the introduction of new plant and labor-saving
appliances,” and as an instance gave the fol-
lowing example: A co. which was already earn-
ing profits up to its e.-p.t. standard conceived
a project for installing new plant which would
cost, say, £30,000, and would save the labor
of some 60 men, equalling £lO,OOO a year.
Under e.-p.t. as it now stood, not only was
there no inducement to use cash resources to
pay for this installation, but actually the re-
verse was the case. Firstly, the co. would not
retain any of the saving made. Secondly,
the depreciation allowed was inadequate, with
the result that the difference between the actual
amount written off and that allowed was added
back for both e.-p.t. and income-tax purposes.
Thirdly, no board would be likely to deplete
cash resources for such an object when by
so doing the savings effected had to be paid
over in the form of e.-p.t., and they might be
faced with redundant plant at the cessation of
hostilities.
* * * *
Future of London-controlled Mt.
Magnet G.M. (W.A.) was reported some
time ago to be very uncertain because
of the average value of the big low-
grade lode in the mine going from bad
to worse. Now it is announced that the
State Government is lending a helping
hand to enable the co. to do further de-
velopment.
* * * »
Cuthbert’s Croydon luck didn’t hold
on the Etheridge (N.Q.), where he took
up the Hawkins Hill mine after his return
from Misima. After a number of medi-
ocre returns from a mineralised reef that
proved capricious in size, the shutters
have been put up. Cliff Rutledge gave
it a pretty good trial before trekking to
New Guinea, so the latest result hasn't
occasioned much surprise. But Cuthbert
is not quitting the Etheridge yet, and the
men from Hawkins Hill are being packed
into a second shift on the Golden Bar.
After a few months’ preparation, during
which water has been troublesome, the
reef has been exposed in old workings
with a width of up to 30in. Some pros-
pects are said to go over the ounce.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.S.D.: First prefs. if anything, though not
keen on the investment. The greater part of
the old building is leased. See B. 8/1/41.


DURABILITY
I///
%
M
y//
S
BIRKMYHE
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
This famous canvas is made in Scotland by British Labour. It
is truly British and will never let you down. THOROUGHLY
WATERPROOF, ALWAYS FLEXIBLE and DEFINITELY
STRONG, it gives years of satisfactory service. Obtainable
from reputable makers. If difficulty in getting supplies is
experienced, write Wholesale Distributors:
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVA: LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘We might get it,’ Miriam suggested timidly,
‘on the hide-purchase system.’ ‘What on earth
are you talking about?’ Adrian demanded.”
—Short story.
Something, say, in the leather line?
*E »E »E *E
“The forty-odd women in our street have been
married to the same man for many years, and
none, I’m sure, is tired of it. What do the
cynics think of that?” — Correspondent in daily.
Doubtless that the man’s a hero.
•E -I* *E
“Sir James was ensconced in his favorite chair
at the club, roring over the morning paper.”
—Short story.
The leader, we’ll bet, not the comic
strips.
4* *E *l* *E
“Apart from her other war work, Marion
regularly corresponds with 20 lovely soldiers.”
— Woman’s paper.
00-hoo! Kiss me, sergeant!
E E 4 1 •i*
“He had the curious name of Mopp. Some-
how it seemed to suit him.” — “Sun.”
Possibly his wife wiped the floor with
him.
E ■s* + •5'
“We are told to eat fish, but the hawkers
who visit the suburbs charge unreasonably
high prices.”— Woman’s paper.
Though cost of fish is very high, and
angry housewives hit the sky in back-
streets wide or narrow, there’s one poor
fish that no one here would ever dream of
calling “dear” —the shark who wheels
the barrow!
•E *E *E 4*
It’s when a girl says she feels all
broken up that she’s likely to give you a
piece of her mind.
•E *E *E *E
“How old are you for your age?”
— “World’s News.”
At the awkward stage. Too old to get
child welfare allowance, too healthy for
the invalid pension and too young for
the old-age pension.
“Special bus to carry prams.”— “Argus.”
It should prove a howling success.
•E *E *E *E
“Liquor trades golf.”— Sporting gossip.
They sank everything except the ball.
•E *E 4* 4*
“ ‘Canberra boys tough,’ says Y.M.C.A.
man.”
Especially the way they go into recess
on the slightest pretext.
“Jugs of beer in horse’s daily diet.”
—Sporting gossip.
Bookies thrive on mugs of punters.
“An American scientist claims to have evolved
a six-inch cylinder to hold sufficient gas to
stupefy 100 people.”
We’ve seen cigars like that.
•E *E *E 4*
“It is not the duty of a husband to speak
to his wife with disrespect.”— Woman’s paper.
On the contrary, it’s often a pleasure.
•t*
“In the final analysis the farmer’s best friend
is that unappreciated little crawler, the common
earthworm.” — Agricultural paper.
It is statements such as this that make
the Country party sour.
“One Queensland cattleman claims that the
outlook for chilled beer is better than is gener-
ally believed.” — “D.T.”
Still and all, we’ll back Tom and Jerry
against it after next month!
+ + + ❖
“Wanted to buy, all kinds left-off clothing,
ladies’ gents.”— Suburban paper.
But the ladies may consider it more
profitable not to part with their gents.
The Circus Is in Town.
One time a circus was taboo
To pillars of society.
But now you take your highbrow friend,
With all observed propriety,
And suddenly develop there
A fellow-feeling for the bear,
Throw posies at the elephants
And clap the whole variety.
The clown becomes a brother-man,
His repartee is new again.
Although you know instinctively
What sparkling jests are due again.
The white horse does his best to please
And takes applause with well-bred ease.
The spotted dog enjoys himself,
Because he is on view again.
The donkey speaks his mother tongue
In all its pristine purity.
The monkeys see no arts of theirs
Shall languish in obscurity ;
And every youthful spirit thrills,
From Bellevue Heights to Surry Hills,
With dreams of running such a show
When he attains maturity.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Chiropodist to His Love.
I was, when first we chanced to meet,
Quite down at heel (the saying goes );
You quickly had me on my feet,
And now you keep me on my toes.
No longer on my uppers, I
Call you my sole and only mate;
To meet you now hot-foot I fly.
And cool my heels because you’re late.
P. M. L.
Lipstick.
“Even the sedate House of Commons became
upset over the use of lipstick by women in
war service organisations.”— Woman’s paper.
If they decide to ration this important
cosmetic the creation of a Lipstick Board
is a probability. You can’t beat boards
for lip service.
Anyway, if girls are called to the colors
they have every right to select what
fashionable colors are in vogue at the
time. It is impossible for women in
the army to flirt even with danger if they
look frumps. All shades of opinion
agree that lipstick has been responsible
for many bold advances and quick sur-
renders in the army. Most girls favor
kissproof lipstick, but they can’t guar-
antee that it is foolproof against the
overproof flavor likely to be picked up
in the army.
D. Mc.
Putting on Dog.
“Cloth made from dogs’ hair may soon be
available to tailors and dressmakers.”
— “World’s News.”
“A chill wind on Saturday provided
feminine racegoers with ample excuse to
show off their new winter coat styles at
“Come in!"
Randwick. Miss Lotta Waite favored a
full-length coat of 24 St. Bernard pelts,
while her companion, Mrs. B. Burr,
wore a three-quarter garment of kelpie
wool.
“Also noticed amongst the crowd
was Mrs. Snooper, who looked snappy
in a fox-terrier bolero.
“Senior Detective Flatfoot’s wife was
the cynosure of all eyes as she moved
about the ring in her gorgeous Alsatian
coat.
“During the running of the last race
considerable excitement was caused when
a section of the crowd near the winning
post assaulted a woman with cries of
‘Fifth-columnist.’ It transpired that the
victim was a resident of King’s Cross
who had imprudently worn a dachshund
mackintosh.”
MELTON.
Tips for Tipplers.
A man without a bottle-opener is not
properly dressed.
Many a man ends up an untidy mess
through taking his whisky neat.
When a man drinks with the flies, the
spots are on him.
When husbands indulge in wine,
they’ve got to put up with women making
a song about it.
The man who drinks to drown his
sorrows often ends up out of his depth.
PATON.
“The Drums of Doom."
(A scientific serial in the popular mode.)
Synopsis; In 2017 a.d. Professor Spoop,
world-famous but eccentric astronomer, an-
nounces that the sun has moved off its axis and
will start to revolve around the earth, slowly at
first, but gathering momentum each day as
stratospheric attraction draws it inevitably to
our own planet. Except for the Sino-Jap,
Europo-Sth. American and Africo-Nth. Ameri-
can wars the world is at peace, and in the
hectic gaiety approaching Pancake Day the pro-
fessor’s warning goes unheeded by all but
Gregory Masterson, brilliant young scientist, and
his beautiful fiancee, Violet Puce, ace reporter
of the “Evening Bugle.” Gregory, in a des-
perate race against time, is working on a secret
ato-rocket in which he and Violet hope to reach
another planet. As the sun draws nearer all
vegetation dies, the seas dry up and the panic-
stricken population frantically digs underground.
NOW READ ON.
Gregory Masterson, spanner in one
hand and an open volume of Hints for the
Home Mechanic in the other, stood in
his subterranean laboratory deep in
thought. Several sheets of a thin opaque
material were scattered about, and in one
corner was a huge barrel of nitro-
glycerine, sludge and tartaric acid, the
motive power for his ato-rocket. Sud-
denly the brilliant young scientist bent
down and made a lightning calculation,
“Let me see — 1\ into 8 ; that goes how
many times? Where the hell’s that Ready
Reckoner? Two and a half into eight,
That goes what? Four times and a bit
over. I won’t bother about the bit”
Suddenly the door was flung open and
the beautiful Violet, her bosom heaving
with emotion, staggered in. With
piteously white face and staring, horror-
stricken eyes, she clutched at the air for
support. Instantly the handsome coun-
tenance of Gregory Masterson lost the
faraway look of the scientist and regis-
tered concern for his beloved.
“Darling,” he cried, his quick brain
grasping almost instantly that all was not
as it should be, “is anything amiss?”
“Outside!” Violet gasped. “Ou-
a-a-ah! ”
As she sagged at the knees Gregory
made to catch her, but too late. As she
fell she struck her head on the starting-
handle of the ato-motor. Instantly there
was a spluttering sound and a few back-
fires, followed by a steady grinding as
the cogs turned over in the smokebox.
A great shout of joy broke from the
lips of the young scientist. The engine
which for a week had defied his efforts
to start was now running sweetly. Exul-
tantly he scooped up a ladleful of the (
nitro-glycerine-sludge-tartaric acid mix-
ture and poured it into the tank.
He turned, puzzled, as he heard a
groan come from behind him. Then he
remembered he had been conversing with
someone. Who had it been? Oh, yes,
Violet.
“Outside,” gasped the beautiful girl
feebly. “Out”
Gregory was at her feet in an instant.
“Yes, yes; what is outside, darling?” he
asked tenderly.
“A terrible scaly monster, the color of
fire. It must be one of the great sala-
mander lizards which the professor
warned us would invade the earth when
the sun, on which it normally lives, got
close enough. And it is close now,
Gregory. Already its great glowing mass
blots out all but a fraction of the sky.
Help me up, dear. I must get this scoop
through to my paper—that’s if the
machines haven’t all melted.”
“No, darling, it would be death for
you to venture out. Stay here while 1
blast the monster with my death-ray
pistol.”
“You forget, Gregory, that you took
it to pieces to use the grooves in the
barrel for rolling the split atoms into
your engine.”
The young scientist fell back, despair
in every line of his finely-chiselled face.
“We are undone,” he groaned.
“Can’t we get the ato-rocket out the
back door?” she asked gently.
“It is too narrow,” he replied. “We
are trapped like rats.”
“Gregory, you do think of such
original phrases. I wish I could —it
would make my work so much easier.”
At that moment the door of the emer-
gency exit burst open and a curious
figure tottered in. It was that of a man
somewhere between 40 and 85, tall and
stooped, his short bandy legs encased in
half-leggings. Around part of his torso
was part of a pair of trunks, while an
ox-blood saraband protected his massive
hairless chest. On his bald, egg-shaped
dome was a wide-brimmed bowler hat
which he wore turned down all round.
A pair of pale ginger eyes peered out
from beneath shaggy blue eyebrows. He
carried a watering can, an umbrella
handle and a copy of Mrs. Heaton s
Cookery Book.
“Professor Spoop! ” gasped Gregory
Masterson.
“No less!” said the professor dramati-
cally, his mobile face working with great
emotion. “If we would escape this
doomed globe we haven’t a moment to
lose. Already the sun is disintegrating.
It is now only 1500 miles away and
rushing at the earth at 7000 miles a
minute. Even the granite blocks are
melting.”
“You will come with us, then, profes-
sor, to Saturn or Mars?” asked Gregory.
“No, we go to Venus. It sounds more
promising.”
Suddenly Violet, who had been
glancing at the almost completed ato-
rocket, gave a shriek. “The wings!
The wings!” she said. “Look!” and
pointed to the sheets of thin opaque
material scattered about.
“Yes, yes, darling,” the brilliant young
scientist said. “What of them?”
“See, they are celluloid!”
Gregory clasped his head in his hands,
and in his eyes there crept the look of
one who faces black hopelessness.
“My God!” he said. “I must have
ordered that instead of asbestos!”
Next week : “Out into the nebuke.”
BO.


FOR
ROOFING
RLLTYPES OF
BUILDINGS
i
K
a
41
.. purchase
DURABESTOS..
sturdy asbestos-cement Corrugated
Sheets widely employed throughout
Australia for roofing sea-side and country
homes, industrial buildings, also farm and station
buildings, garages, etc. Corrugated Durabestos
will not corrode rain, hail or salt sea air cannot
affect its imperishable qualities. It does not
require painting. It will not pollute rain-water I
Builders' suppliers throughout
the Commonwealth sell
Corrugated Durabestos sheets.
Manufactured by Wunderlich
Limited (Estd. 52 years), Red-
fern, Sydney, Branches in all
States.
CUP THIS COUPON FOR FREE BOOKLET
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■l
WUNDERLICH LTD., G.P.O. BOX 474aa, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Please post booklet on "Corrugated Durabestos".
I propose to roof a
NAME.
ADDRESS
(Please write in block letters!)
B.
DURfIBESTOS
-oenieH£
ROOFING
SHEETS
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Central Bank’s Report
With the rising level of Government
expenditure and the expansive influences
of war production, severe taxation repre-
sents the most important contribution
that can be made to the maintenance of
financial stability, says the Common-
wealth Bank in its latest half-yearly re-
port. It adds that there is an urgent need
here and now for every individual to
regulate his or her needs to the volume
and type of goods which Australia is
capable of producing without detriment
to the maximum war effort.
All very sensible and sound, too. War
spending is a national tax. It may be
disguised—with peril—as borrowing, but
it remains a tax in fact. And since cer-
tain kinds of our own production and
particular types of imported goods will
be wanted urgently for defence purposes,
it is essential that the people apply their
reduced spending power towards buying
those things of which we have plenty.
For instance, there will be no shortage
of fresh or dried fruit in this country this
year, though imported dates, figs and
nuts may be both scarce and dear. The
course indicated is obvious.
The central bank board points out
that internally our task is to provide
war materials with a minimum disturb-
ance to civil production, prices and
employment, and externally to save
dollars and sterling to pay for our over-
seas war commitments. It records that
the rising level of activity continues. Be-
tween the beginning of the war and Nov.,
1940, civil employment increased by
more than 120,000, while at the same time
there were enlistments of over 180,000
men in the armed forces. Shortages of
labor in the metal and engineering trades
continue to grow, notwithstanding the
training of new men.
In spite of the diversion of portion of
our production to war purposes, there
has been no serious pinch in domestic
goods available. War resources have, in
the main, been obtained partly by an in-
crease in total production and partly by
reduction of non-war capital expenditure
in Government, municipal and civil
undertakings. We are carrying on with-
out providing fully for expansion, re-
newals and possibly depreciation. We
ca n catch up on those when war ceases
to such a drain on our resources,
The national income was estimated at
about £790 million in 1938-39 and £B6O
million in 1939-40 ; in 1940-41 a further
hut smaller rise is expected. Control of
new investment by the Commonwealth
has become increasingly effective. In view
°f the growing outlay on defence, the
hank expects some further diversion of
resources from civil use, partly from in-
vestment control and partly from the
heavier taxes now in operation,
Increases of production in many fields
are already being hampered by short-
ages of men and of raw materials, it is
stated, so we cannot expect a further
sharp rise in the general level of output,
Since, to meet the needs of the defence
programme, we must increase production
of goods for war purposes, there is no
alternative but to produce less for civil
needs. The problem is one of real re-
sources, of men and materials, and no
financial expedient can avoid it. Cre-
ation of credit will not increase the avail-
able supplies of men or materials. The
attempt to expand or even to maintain
normal production for civilian purposes,
at a time when production for war pur-
P oses j s being sharply increased, must
resu lt in further shortages of labor and
goods, particularly of those kinds
which are needed to produce war equip-
nient.
Prices have not inflated in spite of
some increased costs. Price control has
been remarkably successful. The cost-
of-living index rose about 8 p.c. between
the September quarter of 1939 and the
December quarter of 1940. The bank
attributes this rise mainly to the increased
cost of imported goods, the drought and
the lift in sales tax and other indirect
taxes.
Checks to. inflationary tendencies in
addition to price control have been sub-
scriptions to war-savings certificates, in-
creased deposits put into savings banks,
and the greater reliance on taxation to
finance war expenditure. Bank advances
to industry have also been reduced. When
borrowers reduce their overdrafts it in-
creases the ability of the banks to lend
to Governments without inflation; it
also strengthens the capacity of the bor-
rower to meet post-war readjustments.
Generally, the passing of public spend-
ing power to banks and the Government
cuts out much of the competition that
might otherwise exist in markets for
things wanted for defence, and thus, to
some extent, prevents inflated prices
creeping into war’s cost.
In order to conserve dollars, rationing
of petrol and newsprint, among other
items, has been introduced. Luxuries
and goods that could be got from sterling
countries were restricted first of all. The
bank board now forecasts greater econo-
mies in all classes of imported goods.
In 1939-40, in spite of a favorable trade
balance too small to meet our overseas
interest commitments, our London funds
increased by reason of transfers of capi-
tal to this country. For 1940-41 the
bank forecasts a favorable trade balance
of about £3l million Australian. Capital
movements may increase the favorable
balance of payments, and there is already
evidence that such is the case. But the
need for import restrictions hasn’t ceased,
and it is suggested that certain imports
should be prohibited or restricted after
consultation with Britain.
On the day the central bank issued this
half-yearly report it suffered the loss of
its governor, knight Harry Sheehan, who
died at the early age of 57. His able
work in connection with Australia’s
financial readjustments during the depres-
sion will not be readily forgotten.
The announcement of a proposed
£BO,OOO pref. share issue by Tableland Tin
(Mt. Garnet, N.Q.) was a surprise of a
kind that knocked the market for the
ord. shares, though quotes for some time
have been of a nominal nature. It is sug-
gested by the board that the prefs. be
8 p.c. cumulative, participating with the
ords. and deferreds beyond 8 p.c., with
priority as to capital. A return-of-capital
fund is to be created. In view of the
fact that the property—a good one —has
not been fully equipped or brought to the
div.-paying stage after four years the
holders of the ord. shares may consider
that, before they grant their consent to
a pref. issue coming in ahead of them,
original holders of the shilling deferreds
should forgo some of their rights. At
the flotation in 1937 the vendor of the
property, Alluvial Prospectors, and its
shareholders took 120,000 (shilling de-
ferreds and 120,000 £1 ords. for cash.
It also received £20,000 in cash. The
deferreds rank share-for-share with the
ords. for div., but after them for return
of capital. Very few mining cos. provide
for a return of capital. Most of this
scrip was passed out to shareholders in
Alluvial Prospectors, and, though no more
than a shilling was paid for the deferreds,
in view of their equal div. rights
their market value has been only slightly
below that of the ords., for which 20s.
was paid.
The proposed 8 p.c. cum. par, pref,
issue looks attractive. The money is
wanted to complete construction of No.
2 dredge. The co., operating its small
No. 1 dredge, last year earned £12,802
net after providing £1602 for depreciation
and £lOOO for directors’ fees. That
represented more than twice the minimum
annual requirements of the proposed
issue. When No. 2 dredge is finished —
perhaps in June, 1942 —the co. should
begin turning its tin-bearing wash into
money far more rapidly than at present.
The property is a good one, but estimates
of capital outlay have in the past been
astray, partly because of war-time prices
for dredge parts proving more costly than
expected. Existing shareholders, it is
anticipated, will subscribe for 50,000 of
the new pref. shares, and the board is
negotiating to place the rest with under-
writers at a fee of 5 p.c. The circular
to shareholders doesn’t say to what extent
the Queensland Government’s bank
guarantee figures in the scheme of financ-
ing the erection of No. 2 dredge, or just
how much money is thought to be re-
quired to complete the dredge.
* * * *
The Army has been indulging in cost-
plus contracts, by which the contractor is
remunerated by a percentage on the
expenditure. The greater the expenditure
the greater the percentage or profit. In
private business these contracts are often
a short-cut to ruin for the people getting
the job done. The “pink palace” that was
built for the now-defunct N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Savings Bank in Sydney was a
cost -plus job that ran into something like
£1,700,000. Its completion shortly pre-
ceded the bank’s downfall; the building
itself didn’t cause this, but it was one
of the things that froze the bank’s
assets and undermined public confidence.
Cost -plus jobs in the Army spell danger
in extra-red ink. There are few more
unbusinesslike institutions than an army,
and it should be protected against itself
in its financial transactions. Cost -plus
jobs should be barred altogether.
* * *
Where are we going to get the money
to rebuild the war-damaged parts of the
Empire after the devastation has finished?
is a query thousands of people are ask-
ing. It isn’t really a matter of money
at all. There will be a great demand
for new houses in Britain and a big
return to employment from the fighting
services; the Empire will have a huge
amount of raw materials to sell. Where
there is a crying demand for something
on the one hand and an army of un-
employed, plus stocks of raw materials,
on the other, there is a situation which
practically finances itself. All that we
will have to watch out for is that finan-
cial irregularities and anomalies of the
war that has passed aren’t allowed to
intrude too much into the working of
post-war activities. In other words, if
inflation has occurred we must quickly
acknowledge it and readjust Empire cur-
rencies ; if there are still jobs to be done
on Government account we should pay
for them out of taxes rather than out
of borrowings. Ip short, if we have
made war losses, we must recognise them
and cut them quickly, then turn to the
realities of the new peace-time task, which
for a time is likely to be just as confusing
as the adjustment of our affairs to war
conditions.
The difference between credit expan-
sion in times when a genuine demand for
necessities of life exists and expansion in
times when such a demand doesn’t exist
is this: The banks or other establish-
ments “expanding” the credit are so sure
of the demand being sustained in the first
instance that they feel their loans will
be repaid without a hitch in the expan-
sion of industrial activity that should
accompany the overtaking of arrears of
manufacture for civilian requirements.
When, in peace-time, overproduction
takes place and there is a surplus of
goods, banks won’t extend credit for the
further manufacture of goods for which
there is a falling demand. That is the
difference between confidence in extend-
ing credit and lack of confidence. When
sane wants that can be satisfied exist,
credit can always be found.
* * * ♦
Caledonian Collieries, in which Howard
Smith has a controlling interest, earned
£7128 last year, compared with £20,027
in the preceding year. The only div.
paid was 3 p.c. off pref. arrears. The 1940
coal strike affected earnings.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
im
BI
-X" ffT(\
d
YES.Tk.y
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD. A
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St,, Brisbane
VVingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PERKINS, General Manager,
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office;
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agent: A. L. Frost, Esq., Launceston.
m
i
m
STOP Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &e., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost —and with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day I
£9 / 9 / -
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
end Battery. NO EXTRAS.
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on tho
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
feffiSS&O-s?
I
m
mm
fej;,
The New and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder .
Victorian Distributors:
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’Phone: M 2381.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone; M 6505.
The overthrowing of the Yugoslavian
Government that had yielded to German
persuasion was not followed by any
excitement on Australian ’Changes. But
a firm market existed just the same. It
had been strengthening even after the
pact with the Nazis had been announced
a few days earlier and things looked
rather more difficult in the Balkans.
London ’Change responded to the Yugo-
slavian revolt; so did Wall-street.
•The day before the change for the
better occurred in Belgrade there was a
strong market in Australia for some
leading industrial stocks. Broken Hill
Prop, rights moved up to 19s. 6d., Tooth
scrip was strong at 535. 6d., Bond’s Indus-
tries shares soared to 30s. —a sign of
speculation rather than strength—A.C.l.
ords. continued to change hands at 405.,
Bradford Cotton sold at 41s. 6d. and
Felt and Textiles at 38s. 6d., Olympic
Tyres at 395. 3d. and Electrolytic Zinc
at 525. 9d. General Industries ords. were
stronger at 17s. 3d. following publication
of the 1940 accounts, and Meggitt, Yarra
Falls and H. B. Dickie were sought, with-
out sellers appearing. Metal stocks were
stale, and chain-store scrip was a trifle
weaker. Paper shares were down slightly.
The Sydney index of industrial-share
prices on March 27 was 130.48, compared
with 127.40 less than a fortnight earlier.
On the 28th it improved to 130.71.
The fact that interim divs. for 1940-41
and final accounts for cos. balancing on
Dec. 31 have lately come forward with-
out revealing any drastic change in invest-
ment-co. financial fortunes either as a
result of war conditions or war taxes has
encouraged moderate optimism on
’Change, especially so far as protected
manufacturing cos. are concerned. Ship-
ping cos. are under a bit of a cloud
because of the Government’s inevitable
interference with the running of vessels
in war-time, and all concerns depending
on an export trade—food-preservers, base-
metal mines, sugar-millers, copra mer-
chants, etc. —are up against it. Wool
concerns are better situated. The clip is
paid for whether it is shipped or not.
Sugar, metals, wheat, dried fruits and
meat, among other classes of export pro-
duce, have not been acquired holus-
bolus by Britain for the duration of the
war.
* * * *
There is evidence that the administra-
tive side of Australia’s defence machine
has grown so widely spread and unwieldy
that antiquated methods and customs of
some sections of officialdom are unable
to cope with the situation. The result
is that some eminent and efficient civil
servants are being worried to distraction
with the problem of making their strag-
gling and sometimes obscure organisa-
tions do their job with reasonable effi-
ciency. Reports are coming to hand
quite frequently of efficient men from
private business, such as accountants,
who have offered part-time services to
the Government, finding that outmoded
systems in operation prevent them from
putting their undoubted ability to more
than junior-clerk use.
I* * * *
Britain’s War Damages Bill, which
was awaiting royal assent last week, is
a compulsory affair aimed to cover most
of the losses which have occurred and
may occur as a result of air raids. The
bill’s chief provisions provide for the
insurance of all houses and business
premises everywhere against air-raid and
other damage at a figure based on the
rateable value ; free cover up to a stipu-
lated amount for personal effects dam-
aged by enemy action ; favorable rates
beyond these limits up to £lO,OOO ; com-
pulsory insurance of businesses and
farms, and compensation for damage
suffered since the war began. The
Board of Trade won’t issue the
policies direct. These may be obtained
through the people’s own brokers or
insurance companies. Thus air-raid
losses will become a charge on the people
as a whole rather than on the individual.
The bill is said to cover, in addition to
buildings, “everything from a Sunday
suit to a coster’s barrow.”
* * * »
Shell (Development) Pty., a subsidiary
of the big oil concern, has been doing the
initial work on a widespread search for
oil in Queensland since May, 1940. It has
a concession over 136,000 sq. miles in
south-western Queensland, which doesn’t
include the Roma-Miles district. A con-
dition of the prospecting rights granted
is that the co, has to surrender 20 p.c. of
the area after two years, then 10 p.c.
more each year. The first 20 p.c. will
have to be relinquished in April, 1942.
Activities, which are in charge of Dr. C.
W. Creek, have to date been concentrated
on a 6000-sq.-mile area between Tambo
and Aramac. Aerial surveying began in
the middle of August, 1940, and geolo-
gical and geophysical exploration is going
forward on the ground.
The country at present being explored
is rough and inaccessible, and was only
partly surveyed previously. No boring
has been done so far, but aerial mapping
has been pushed ahead, and the geo-
physicists are on the job with their mag-
netic, gravimetric and seismic devices,
which reveal the type of structure beneath
the earth’s surface. No boring will be done
until the geological staff are satisfied that
they have found a subterranean structure
of a type and age likely to hold oil. It
has been shown in other countries that
it is not only cheaper and more infor-
mative in the long run to examine
geology in great detail than it is to drill
dry holes, but it is also more likely to
attract success.
* * w *
Metal Manufactures, Ltd., in which
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Co.
and Mt. Lyell are the chief shareholders,
was thinking about listing itself on
’Change, but last week appeared to
change its mind. Metal Manufactures
has 575,000 £1 ords. in Austral Bronze
Co., and owns scrip in Australian
Aluminium Co. and Cable Makers,
Ltd. Mainly in connection with the
Cable co., which is preparing to
make rubber insulated cables at Liver-
pool (N.S.W.), M.M., Ltd., not so
long ago issued 400,000 £1 shares in
order to take up 142,500 shares in
Cable Makers and help Austral Bronze
with the erection of new works in Mel-
bourne and to expand its own works at
Port Kembla.
* * * *
The 1939 Queensland sugar crop was
891,218 tons, that for 1940 about 762,000
tons. Last season’s sales may bring in
an average of £l7 11s. for No. 1 pool
and £ll 3s. for export sugar. The price
for Queensland may work out at £l7 Is.
a ton, with No. 1 pool up 11s. sd. on the
preceding season and the average up
255. 9d. Only 47,000 tons remained to
be shipped in March. In 1941 a better
growing season is likely. What prices
will be it is hard to say, but they are
almost bound to be lower, in view of the
probable larger export surplus and diffi-
culty in shipping. Shipments —and
average prices—will depend on the actual
quantities the British Government decides
to buy. The contract for the 1939 season
was entered into on the basis of £7 10s.
stg. a ton c.i.f. U.K. ports, plus the exist-
ing British preferential tariff of £3 15s. on
Dominion sugar. Any excess freights
above 355. 6d. a ton, or insurance above
pre-war normal rates, were paid by
Britain.
* * * *
A Victorian Savings Bank loan in its
Credit Fonder department matures on
May 1. The total is £1,500,000, and the
interest rate is 5$ p.c., less 22 \ p.c.
Holders of the maturing loan are to be
given the opportunity of converting into
a new loan of 10 years’ currency carrying
£3 7s. 6d. per cent. This is the lowest
rate offered on this class of security for
many years —it is £1 17s. 6d. per cent,
below the original old rate —but it com-
pares favorably enough with the present
Consols rate of £3 per cent.
♦ * * *
In States where fair rents boards
operate, rentals are to be pegged at the
rates prevailing on December 31. A Com-
monwealth regulation to this effect was
gazetted last week. In States where no
rental boards exist, rents will be pegged
at the rates in operation on such future
date as boards are established. Both land-
lord and tenant wili have the way open
to them to appeal against pegged rates.
The regulations cover dwellings, shops
and factories, but not licensed premises,
holiday cottages, grazing areas, farms,
orchards, etc.
* * * *
There is again talk of developing
S.A.’s best lignite at Leigh Creek, 160
miles north of Port Augusta on the Alice
Springs line. S.A. has been in touch with
the Commonwealth about it. The idea
is to offset present difficulties in getting
anything like an adequate reserve of coal
to S.A. from N.S.W. —difficulties which
might conceivably some day develop into
an acute shortage. But it is doubtful
whether the Leigh Creek scheme will
be practicable. Government, scientists
and speculators have from time to time
flirted unsuccessfully with the other big
South Aus. deposit of brown coal at
Moorlands, out from Murray Bridge.
Premier Playford has complained bitterly
about what he called bad organisation
by N.S.W. colliery-owners in that they
had no provision for storage of coal. He
said this meant that, when ships were
temporarily unobtainable, work at the
mines had to stop. On the other hand,
when there were stoppages of work
through industrial disputes but there were
ships available, no coal could be loaded
into them because of lack of storage
bins from which supplies could be drawn.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
HITLER V. MUSSOLINI
(Condensed from a February London “Contemporary
Review” article by Ernst Albert.)
No one will deny that the present misery of the
world, and in particular of the German and Italian
peoples, is the work of two men. But the destructive
careers of Hitler and Mussolini contrast strikingly not
only because of the different surroundings from which
each dictator emerged, and the different materials
they had to build with, but also because of their
fundamentally opposite characters.
The real interests of Germany and Italy seemed
to exclude rather than facilitate a collaboration;
Mussolini despised Hitler from the beginning, and yet,
to the detriment of hundreds of millions, the two
dictators finally joined hands. This was not an inevit-
able course. Totalitarian countries are by no means
natural allies; in the long run their unlimited
ambitions must even lead to a clash. Alarmed by
Germany’s growing strength, Mussolini was quite
willing to be bought by the Western Powers until
1937. Despite the defeat in the last war, Germany
was still potentially a Great Power. Her vast indus-
trial resources, her man-power and the skill of her
population secured her a leading role in Europe. If
the Nazis claim that Hitler “restored Germany to
greatness,” the obvious answer is that he only used
the country’s enormous resources for destructive pur-
poses. Italy, on the other hand, was never pre-
destined to play the role of a Great Power. It was
Mussolini’s political and diplomatic skill which won
her a place in international affairs —a place
for which her resources were inadequate.
Until Hitler began to shake the equilib-
rium of the Continent, Mussolini’s foreign
policy had been realistic. As soon as Hitler
began to occupy the front part of the stage,
Mussolini grew restless. He alternately tried
to check the German dictator and to use him
as an instrument against the Western Powers
—until finally he failed and himself became
Hitler’s tool. The match was too unequal —not
because Hitler was the greater and more
dynamic personality, but only because of Ger-
many’s superior power.
At their first encounter in Venice in 1934,
Mussolini was the powerful statesman with a
brilliant record behind him ; Hitler the raving
revolutionary, eager to assert himself. It is
reported that after their first conversation
Mussolini exclaimed to some of his closest
collaborators: “What a madman!” Conser-
vative circles in Germany had hoped that
Mussolini would advise Hitler to follow a more
moderate course both at home and with re-
gard to Austria. Less than six weeks later
Hitler’s hands were stained with the blood both
of his own best friend, Rohm, and of Dr. Doll-
fuss. Mussolini acted quickly, and by his
mobilisation on the Brenner proved that, at
least for the time being, he was still the
stronger of the two dictators. But the question
was: How long could Mussolini repeat such
demonstrations of strength? Hitler promptly set about
to correct the mistake he had made in arousing Mus-
solini’s anger. He did everything he could to win
Mussolini over —flattery, minor concessions, moral
and economic support during the Abyssinian War,
For years Hitler had to be content with the role
of a brilliant second in relation to Mussolini, and he
put up with this even at a time when Germany’s might
already overshadowed that of Italy. When Mussolini
paid Hitler his first official visit in September, 1937,
Hitler appeared in the presence of his guest as a
subordinate. But in the course of the next few months
Mussolini’s international position became so difficult
that he found himself unable to oppose Hitler any
longer. His hopes that the Western Powers would
make appreciable concessions to him in order to win
his support against Germany were frustrated. In
March, 1938, he was no longer strong enough to repeat
a gesture like that of July, 1934. Hitler had won the
first round of his duel with Mussolini.
The Munich Agreement, making Germany still
more powerful, increased Mussolini’s dependence on
Hitler, and the Italo-German military alliance reversed
the roles completely. To add to his “victories” Musso-
lini ordered the invasion of Albania ; but slowly and
steadily he had to yield more and more to Hitler, even
in such matters as racial policy and relations with the
Roman Catholic Church. The time had come when
the Fascists had to adapt their ideology to that of
the Nazis. Mussolini was now no longer the cool
realist, the master of his actions, that he had been
before the duel with Hitler began.
Even if Italy’s sham neutrality early in the war
was in accordance with Hitler’s wishes, it nevertheless
gave Mussolini once more a chance to regain his free-
dom of action. Possibly he believed that Germany
would win ; he was sure of being able to join Germany
when she would be on the path towards victory. It
is more likely that he was by no means convinced of
Germany’s ultimate success, and hoped that this time
it would be his turn to outwit Hitler.
The suddenness of the collapse of France, which
probably came as a surprise to Hitler himself, once
more deprived Mussolini of his freedom of action.
Jealous of Hitler’s laurels, and anxious not to lose his
chance, he had to step in quickly, if he was to get
a share in the booty. In the official German pro-
nouncements on Italy’s decision to enter the war, par-
ticular emphasis was laid on Mussolini’s “own free
resolution” to do so. This was perhaps prompted
by considerations for Mussolini’s prestige, but at the
same time certainly also by the desire of the Nazis
to make it clear that Germany thought foreign aid
superfluous. The Germans were somewhat reluctant
to share the glory after having done all the fighting.
From now on Mussolini, in his ardent desire not
to be completely eclipsed by the German dictator,
makes mistake after mistake. He formerly knew the
limits of his power, but now he has to try, with
Italian resources, to keep pace with the destructive
torrent of German dynamism—and breaks down under
the pressure.
The Germans would not hesitate to subjugate and
exploit the Italian people like any other nation. They
would occupy Italy as they occupied Rumania, all
the more so because at heart they despise the Italians.
But the problem of Mussolini will be more difficult
to solve. By invading Greece of his own accord he
defied Hitler, who in turn withheld his support, of
which Italy was soon badly in need, for a dangerously
long time, in order to show Mussolini that it would
not do to ignore the wishes of the more powerful
Axis partner. In his latest speeches, contrary to his
earlier practice, Hitler had very little to say about his
friend Benito, and the tension between them is
apparent. Nevertheless, Hitler cannot afford to leave
Mussolini in the lurch, since his fall would have far-
reaching consequences for Germany, both strategically
and politically. Now that he is giving Mussolini aerial
and technical support, he may hope to gain complete
control over Italy. But he must be careful not to
drive Mussolini to extremes. Faced with the danger
—London “Daily Mirror
WAR AIM.
of losing everything, Mussolini would likely make
desperate efforts to prevent Hitler from reaping the
fruits of his fall.
Personal hatred might then prove stronger than
all other considerations. If he cannot get a separate
peace, rather than become a humble Gauleiter under
Hitler, Mussolini would not shrink from any desperate
steps, even if he were to plunge his country into com-
plete chaos. He could not hold the Germans, but
even the slightest resistance would break the Axis.
By driving out his “friend” Mussolini, Hitler would
show the German people that a totalitarian dictator
can also fail. Moreover, the occupation of a hostile
Italy would add considerably to the strain on German
resources, which is already tremendous. Thus the
duel between the two dictators is perhaps approaching
the most critical and interesting phase.
The Enigma of Marshal Retain.
(Condensed from a London “Contemporary Review”
article by George Glasgow .)
To us there is something still obscure and slightly
odd in Marshal Petain’s purpose and achievement.
The enormously interesting thing is that he has sur-
prised and intrigued many other people as well. It
seems now to be proved, on the cumulative evidence,
that Hitler is among those who are bewildered by the
obstinate unexpectedness of this aged, pious soldier.
Petain will live in history. His effect upon the catas-
trophic times in which we live is not yet worked out,
nor can it be foreseen. But even at this time there
is evidence enough to suggest that he stands for some-
thing entirely unlike anything that is being done by
any other political leader in the world.
Why is it that Hitler’s armed power has broken,
so far, and spent itself ineffectively, as an angry wave,
upon the rock of Petain’s simple piety? The facts —
for the outstanding facts can be seen and appreciated,
though the underlying details be buried in
the mass of lies that constitute the sum total of the
world’s diplomacy in war-time —are such as to force
the most rash of worldly pundits to pause in their
prophecies.
Petain took over the reins of government from
Reynaud and at once laid down the arms of France:
of France, who was reputed to be one of the world’s
leading military Powers, bolstered by a tradition of
military glory and national pride not surpassed by
those of any other nation. He surrendered uncon-
ditionally to Hitler, after France and her five million
of armed, equipped, and trained fighting men had
withstood the German onslaught for only 11 days.
He threw himself and his proud country upon the
mercy of a foe that knew no mercy, and spoke ot
honor where no honor was to be found. In that
famous broadcast (June 16, 1940) to the French nation
he spoke these never-to-be-forgotten words:
“I give myself to France to help her in her hour
of misfortune. In these painful hours I am thinking of
our unfortunate refugees, and all their extreme distress.
I express to them my compassion and my solicitude. It
is with a heavy heart I say we must cease the fight.
I have applied to our opponent to ask him if he is ready
to sign with us, as between soldiers after the fight and
in honor, a means to put an end to hostilities.”
The effect of that appeal upon such men as
Hitler, Ribbentrop, Goebbels and Goring was such
as justified their bitterest enemy’s forecast. They
laughed in their sleeve, in unholy glee. With a grim
thoroughness of spite and arrogance they proceeded
to subject a helpless France to the twin yoke of
material exploitation for Germany’s gain and of
strategic exploitation against France’s former ally.
France was cut in two, the “business” half containing
the coastal bases being “occupied” by Germany, the
rest being left “unoccupied” and under the expectedly
theoretic care of Petain and his Cabinet.
Gradually the miracle was made manifest. At
the end of seven months Petain exercised an authority
in a disarmed France such as eluded the armed force
of Hitler’s crushing power. The old pious man, far
from being crushed, was not only defying
Hitler, but could not be dislodged by Hitler
from his position at the head of the
Vichy Administration. There is no doubt that
Hitler had expected Petain to be a pliant tool.
He discovered him instead to be a sincere
French patriot who had surrendered because
he believed France to be beaten, and because
he wished to save his countrymen from what
he regarded as the unnecessary prolongation
of their suffering. When Hitler proceeded
unsuspectingly to suggest a definitive peace treaty
containing as one of its virtual conditions that
France became an active belligerent partner in
the Axis, Petain quite roundly and simply
rejected it.
Probably that rejection was one of the
greatest surprises of Hitler’s life. How could
a man who had no army behind him dare
oppose his will to a victorious Nazi war-lord?
But by that time it had become clear that
Petain had obtained a firm moral hold over the
French people, and that if Hitler either shot
him or deposed him from office it might be
necessary for the German army to be used again
in France, to put down an open revolution.
Even though such a revolution, launched by
a disarmed people, could not hope to survive
more than a few days against Germany’s tanks
and bombs, yet Hitler’s growing embarrass-
ments were serious enough to suggest the
advisability of not adding to them.
Faced with the established fact that Petain had
no intention of stultifying his own purpose of saving
France from war by plunging France into war again,
this time against Great Britain, Hitler was constrained
to adopt new tactics. He imagined now that he could
bamboozle Petain into doing what he could not be
forced into doing. Hence it was that during the
autumn of 1940 Hitler rang the changes on internal
intrigues and external fantasies in an attempt to
deceive an old man.
The main internal intrigue consisted in inducing,
by devious methods, the Vichy Government to give a
post to Laval, who was appointed Foreign Minister,
Two days later Petain announced in his simple way,
in a broadcast to the French people, that “I enter
today the path of collaboration.”
No doubt Hitler thereupon congratulated him-
self on his sagacity. Laval’s commission from Hitler
was to be a Trojan horse within the walls of Vichy,
to the end that France be jockeyed into open belliger-
ency against Great Britain. Laval instituted the in-
sulting post of “French Ambassador in Paris,” hoping,
no doubt, thereby to persuade Petain, if only to save
France from such humiliation, to transfer his Govern-
ment from Vichy to Paris. The price was the old
one: that France declare war on Britain. Petain, of
course, again refused.
Now it happened that German tactlessness a
well-known feature of German diplomacy in good
and bad times alike —chose that very moment to stage
one of its customary coups. It had not apparently
been suspected by Hitler that the notion of a French
Ambassador in Paris would infuriate even the most
insensitive of Frenchmen. On top of that insult he
evicted some 100,000 French people from Lorraine
to make room for German evacuees from the bombed
Ruhr: and did not even think of mentioning the fact
to Laval. “Tactlessness” is perhaps too mild a word.
When he was suddenly presented with an endless
stream of evicted Lorrainers seeking refuge in un-
occupied France, Petain in his simple style (Novem-
ber 14, 1940) “protested” to the German Government
and subsequently dismissed Laval.
Has anything more remarkable been known in
the history of the world? France, a conquered nation,
disarmed, half occupied by German troops, is led by
a soldier nearly 85 years old (he was born on May 24,
1856) who refuses the conqueror’s peace terms. Is
France then a conquered nation or not? Petain, a
deeply religious man, at the head of a disarmed
country, snaps his finger at Hitler and his armaments:
and is strong enough through his moral hold over the
people of France to do so with impunity. The future
history of Petain, if it be God’s will that he shall


continue this fascinating enterprise, will be one of the
most cheerful things in a world where good cheer is
not yet greatly in evidence.
Mediterranean Prospects.
o Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Arthur Crock.)
The tale of the guns and bombs in the Mediter-
ranean spring of 1941 will be tragic for many humans
and some nations. The expectation in United States
military circles is for a decisive war phase both grim
and bloody. These experts, scouting all rumors of a
possible peace between Great Britain and Italy in the
meantime, believe Germany is making intensive pre-
parations for an assault on the British imperial lifeline
in the middle ocean.
Dr. Arthur J. Marder, whose Anatomy of British
Seapower has been put in the Admiralty archives as
case-book for the period 1885-1905, a feat no British
writer has accomplished, has written a monograph, The
Struggle for Power in the Mediterranean, a summary
of which is here given:
The principal problem of the Axis is to overcome
the raw materials and foodstuffs deficiency in occupied
Europe. The Mediterranean is one of the most im-
portant links in the British blockade which has pro-
duced that deficiency. Triumph over the British in
this area would release the oil of Iraq, cotton of Egypt
and other raw materials of Africa for Axis use.
Italy was chosen to make the effort to take Medi-
terranean control from the British. Mussolini fixed
on a three-point policy: an advance into Egypt from
Libya, a seizure of the Suez Canal, occupation of the
British bases in the Levant. The Italian Navy was
to convoy supplies for the army in North Africa, a
navy which carefully specialised in speed instead of
weight with the idea of whittling down the British
fleet by the same tactics the Germans used at the
beginning of the first World War. Masses of
Italian ’planes, operating from Italy, the Dode-
canese and Libya, were to add the final pres-
sure. The range was so close that Italy built
no aircraft-carriers for the navy, holding them
unnecessary.
Fine strategy, observes Dr. Marder, but it
didn’t work. The fast under-armored Italian
ships were ineffective. British ’planes rising
from aircraft-carriers covered the fleet in Mare
Nostrum. The Italians, noting, however, that
British warships got into trouble when they
came within 300 miles of the Italian mainland,
tried enticing them. But on July 9, when the
British pursued one of Mussolini’s squadrons
almost to the Calabrian coasts, the Italian air-
men were unable to score direct hits. Later the
British steamed up to bombard Genoa and
returned safely to their base.
When this three-point strategy failed to
work, Mussolini sent his armies toward Greece.
Had the foray been successful the Italian Air
Force would have been based much closer to its
objectives and within threat distance of Turkey.
But the Greeks, with British aid, sent the
Italians in the opposite direction. And it was
Britain, not Italy, that got the essential Greek
air and naval bases. This doubled the scope
of the Royal Navy and the R.A.F.
Before the debacle in Greece, any strong
British thrust against Italy’s convoys to North
Africa had to be launched 900 miles, or two
days’ steam, away. Now, based on Suda Bay,
the Mediterranean Fleet is within 300 miles
of these communications, and Libya is falling
rapidly into British hands. Possession of the
Greek bases also made possible the November
11 attack on Taranto.
If the British can keep their gains, they
hold all the trumps in the Mediterranean and
a knockout blow against Italy in 1941 is a distinct
possibility. This will release ships to tighten the
German blockade and permit British merchant ships
to use the faster Suez route again. “But all is not
well in the Mediterranean,” writes Dr. Marder. “The
German pressure in Bulgaria may well be a prelude
to wide action in the Balkans. Such action by land
might eventually nullify the results of recent British
victories.”
United States military experts who are watching
this arena think that Turkey would fight in the latter
event. Meanwhile German ’planes and submarines
would be engaging the British in the Mediterranean
in total relentless war. Few, if any, of these experts
believe that Russia will move, whatever the German
thrust toward the Caspian and Turkey.
Under Stalin’s Dictatorship.
[This article is condensed from portion of a long
examination of “The Enigma of Soviet Production” in
American “Foreign Affairs” by Freda Utley, who recently
spent six years working in Soviet Russia for such bodies
as the Commissariat of Foreign Trade and the Com-
missariat of Light Industry.]
A comparison of wages and prices under the
Soviet Government with those prevailing under the
Czar shows that in 1937 the Russian workers were
very much worse off than they had been in 1914. The
cost of staple foods was about fifteen times higher in
1937 than in 1914, whereas the increase in wages
was only fivefold. In 1914 a worker of average
qualifications could purchase 90 kilograms of beef
with his monthly wage as against only 24 in 1937.
Expressed in terms of black bread, the staple diet of
the Russian people, the worker’s wage in Czarist
times was worth 24 kilos a day as against only nine
kilos in 1937. With regard to clothing and other
manufactured goods the decline in his standard of
living was even more striking.
Soviet apologists never produce such figures as
these ; when confronted with them, they argue that
the Soviets’ social services more than compensate for
the decline in real wages. This claim is quite absurd.
The social services afforded the Russian workers are
not only very meagre and not to be compared to
those available to the workers of Western Europe ;
since 1939 they have been severely curtailed.
Today only those workers who have held a
job in the same factory for six consecutive
years are entitled to “full” social services, which
in any case are poor compensation for the
steep decline in real wages, the housing shortage
and the lack of food, clothing and fuel.
There is no unemployment pay in the U.S.S.R.
A worker who loses his job for being a few minutes
late must, with his family, go hungry until he secures
other work —if he can with the black mark against
him. The family of a man who has been arrested —
even if he is later released as not guilty— must starve
unless a relative or friend helps them. Since millions
have been arrested in recent years without trial or
without the formulation of any definite charge, one
can readily understand why newly homeless children
are always appearing in the streets of Russian cities.
All these miseries being endured by the Russian
people must inevitably constitute an important factor
in any appraisal of Russia’s national strength. The
material conditions have worsened since 1937.
Even if there had been no general European war,
the rapid deterioration of the machinery imported
under the First Five-Year Plan and the liquidation
or imprisonment of a large proportion of the tech-
nicians and skilled workers would in any case have
reduced the Soviet Union to a condition in which new
imports of machinery and the assistance of foreign
technicians could alone have halted the fall in pro-
duction apparent since 1938. This renders Soviet
Russia dependent on Germany so long as she cannot
obtain credit for new machinery in any other country.
It is doubtful whether the Soviet Government
could materially improve the conditions of the Rus-
sian workers and peasants except by such radical
—New York “World-Telegram.”
AFRICAN LION HUNT.
economic and political changes as would deprive
Stalin and his bureaucracy of their power and ma-
terial privileges. The rot in the social system has
already gone too far. The struggle for place and
power and material advantage among the bureaucrats,
coupled with the apathy, scepticism and despair of
the mass of the people, would render any change in
policy largely abortive. Above all, the liquidation of
the trained personnel over the past 10 years is a loss
which cannot be replaced. Only the purge of 1936-
38 received world-wide attention; yet the earlier
quiet and continuous purging of non-party specialists
was even more fatal to Russian economy than the
later wholesale purge of the party itself.
The great tragedy of the educated and com-
petent people in Russia during the years I worked
there was that in their effort to do conscientious and
honest work they endangered their existence. Specialists
who pointed out that a plan could not be carried out
without wrecking or fatally depreciating the means
of production were accused of sabotage or of being
counter-revolutionaries. Statisticians who made care-
ful estimates based on intelligent surveys of ma-
terials available or of productive capacity were flung
into concentration camps because they had not drawn
up grandiose plans which couid not be fulfilled. The
Gosplan specialists who formulated the original Five-
Year Plan were shot for sabotage ; yet in 1932 it was
found that actual achievements under the plan just
about reached the figures they had estimated—only
those achievements had been won at a cost infinitely
higher than would have been the case if the whole
national economy had not been dislocated by the
attempt to carry out plans bearing no relation to
actual potentialities. The only way in which the
non-party specialist could preserve his life was to
kowtow to the all-powerful party bosses and place the
blame for failures on others. The most decent men
were corrupted by this new social system based upon
calumny, instead of competition.
Stalin’s remedy for all shortcomings is ever greater
repression. Yet the more experts he arrests the worse
become the conditions of life for the masses. The
1930-32 purge dealt a fatal blow to Soviet economy ;
the great purge of 1936-38 shattered the morale of
the Bolshevik party. So long as party members had
felt safe, provided they toed the “party line,” they
formed a solid framework for upholding Stalin’s
Government. But since 1936 no one has felt safe.
Had it not been for the present war, Soviet
economy might have stagnated indefinitely under the
tyranny of Stalin and his henchmen. But the war
poses new problems which Stalin cannot solve merely
by terror. This method of government can be success-
ful only where there is no threat from abroad. A
dictator who lacks popular support dare not risk a
war in which weapons would be placed in the hands
of subjects who might be more anxious to use them
against him than against the foreign enemy.
The apathetic and sullen Russian masses might
perhaps be seduced by the promise of national glory,
or at least by the prospect of more 100t —such as the
food supplies obtained in Bessarabia last year. Pre-
sumably the Red Army would fight to defend the
frontiers of the Soviet Union. As for its power of
attack, Hitler need have no fear of an assault from
a Russia in which, as he knows from the German
specialists who have been working in the U.S.S.R.
since the signing of the Russo-Soviet Pact, industry
and transport are in a state approaching chaos. Russia
is much too weak economically and politically to
challenge Germany.
In the final balance Stalin’s fear of his own
people must be weighed against his fear of Germany.
So long as Hitler is content with the Kremlin as a
vassal, and is not compelled by his need of food and.
raw materials to acquire direct control over the
Soviet Union, Stalin will probably keep out of the
war and carry out Hitler’s orders. Yet the uncer-
tainties of the situation are manifold. The Soviet
rulers have often shown themselves to be quite
ignorant of the state of affairs in the outside world —
a world which they never visit and which they view
through the distorting spectacles of Marxist theory.
It is this ignorance and miscalculation which may
unwittingly lead Stalin to involve himself in the war
—as he nearly did when he attacked Finland—in spite
of all his efforts to end up as the non-combatant
victor over both sides after they have become
exhausted.
The Battle of the Atlantic.
V Condensed from an article by H. C. Ferraby in London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
The naval position to the westward of the Eng-
lish Channel has developed into a severe struggle
which has come to be described popularly as “the
battle of the Atlantic.” In an area lying to the east-
ward of a line between Vigo and the lonely islet of
Rockall we are seeing a repetition of the anti-sub-
marine warfare of 1917-18, but a repetition with
important material differences. And from these arise
difficulties that make the protection of seaborne
supplies even more complex than formerly. A year
ago we had the position under control: since then
the enemy has not only reinforced his material
strength but has also, by his land campaign, achieved
certain strategical advantages that were entirely lacking
in the case of the Imperial German Navy of 1917.
The enemy vessels engaged in commerce destruc-
tion are now based much nearer to the focal points of
traffic than were their forerunners in 1917, and the
possibility of escape of surface raiders has been
increased, since they can now start from the Bay of
Biscay and avoid the former risk of detection on the
long passage round the north of the Shetlands and
Iceland. Moreover, and with the enemy enabled to
use airfields in Western France, a marked increase
in the menace of air attack against deep-sea convoys
has occurred.
The elements of the problem cannot be properly
disentangled and grasped without careful study of a
big map covering the eastern half of the Atlantic
from Cape Verde Islands up to the north of Scotland.
For although the bulk of the air and submarine attacks
appear to take place midway between these two points,
the whole area is a potential battlefield and the enemy
is not so obliging as to work too closely to a routine.
The German plan for “blockade” of Britain is not
confined to the destruction of merchant shipping.
It has, as a secondary and complementary objective,
the dislocation of our port and transport systems. It
is a well-known fact that the ports in the southern
half of England are the most fully-equipped group
in the country and that the railway systems are par-
ticularly designed to serve that group. The enemy’s
aim is to nullify those ports and to throw on the lesser
resources of the more distant docks the whole burden
of handling such proportion of imports and exports
as escape attack at sea.
It was clearly a weakness of Britain’s protective
measures that a determined enemy might succeed in
reducing, if not in completely cancelling, the usefulness
of the big southern port systems. That possibility
the Germans have seen, and it is in large measure
for the protection and continued use of ports like
Southampton and London that the Battle of the
Atlantic is being waged.
It is not alone the local aerial bombardments
that menace the usefulness of those ports: pressure
of attack far away in the Atlantic is intended by the
enemy to enforce on convoys diversion from the south
by making the western approaches to the English
Channel too dangerous to be passed. Within the
western approaches —the sea route between Queens-
town and Brest —much of the drama of the 1914-18
U-boat war was played out; scores of ships were
sunk there, though mainly before the convoy system
was in force. Today the area is more infested by
enemy forces than was possible at that time, and the
dangers are greater.
The recent rise in British ship losses provides a
partial success for the enemy and one that is visible
to all the world. What cannot be shown is the total
of entries on the other side of the ledger—the total
loss to the enemy of submarines and aircraft. Only


(he faintest hints reach us of this side of the battle.
But even the incomplete figures go some way to
show that our hunting flotillas and our escort vessels
are having their successes, too. The battle is not
one-sided.
The Communist Crawl.
(Condensed from New York “Herald Tribune.")
The close resemblance between the expulsion of
Clarence A. Hathaway from the U.S. Communist party
and the purges staged by Stalin in the “paradise of
the worker” was sufficiently obvious when it hap-
pened. To complete the parallel we have from Hath-
away a confession of guilt and an absolution of his
party of exactly the type made familiar in the Moscow
trials. “My expulsion was justifiable. It was made
necessary by my failure to live up to the exacting
personal standards properly demanded by the party of
its leadership. All stories suggesting political dis-
agreements between myself and the party leadership,
now or in the past, are wholly false.”
Behold the traditional Communist crawl! U.S.
Communists not only follow the “party line” dictated
from Moscow ; they ape in its most slavish manifes-
tations the ritual prescribed by the Kremlin. What
is the explanation? We think it is fairly plain—
namely, that once a person becomes enmeshed in
Soviet intrigue, whether in this country or elsewhere,
he becomes a prisoner to the conspiracy. He either
continues to obey the orders of the high command,
though he grow dizzy in the process, and to grovel
before it, or means are employed to make him exceed-
ingly sorry.
In Russia he must grovel even as the firing squad
takes aim lest his friends and relatives suffer after
his death. Here the threat of persecution probably
varies from one of turning him over to the authorities
for actionable offences committed in the name of
the sacred cause, to hounding him and his family
from employment and social contact. Hathaway,
editor for 10 years of the “Daily Worker” and a
founder and one of the three most prominent leaders
of the Communist party, fled and hid himself
on the occasion of his expulsion. He now emerges
with his confession. Would he have dared to do so
without it?
We can think of nothing more revealing than the
Hathaway episode as a commentary on the nature
of the cancerous organisation which is simply an
instrument of Stalin’s terror.
What an Empire!
(These breezy ironic comments are from the “Outpost,”
the magazine of Americans in London.)
(1) That wicked British Empire insisted on settling
the Alabama claims by arbitration.
(2) It followed the same vain policy in 1895 about
Venezuela.
(3) It gave the defeated Boers so crafty a peace
that the poor, deluded fools fought to stay inside the
Empire only a decade later.
(4) Its leaders rashly warned the Versailles Peace
Conference of the danger of harsh terms to Germany.
(5) It cruelly gave Southern Ireland “Dominion
status,” shown by this war to mean complete indepen-
dence.
(6) It stupidly presented India with economic
independence so that India now excludes British goods
by a stiff hostile tariff and by bounties upon Indian
production.
(7) It had possession of Egypt and Iraq and
bungled things so badly that both are now free.
(8) In the Ottawa agreement, which shut Germany
out of some of its markets, it had the presumption
to copy the U.S. protective tariff wall,
(9) It offers India self-government as soon as
Hindu and Moslem will come to a working agreement.
(10) It treated the Arabs so brutally that the
minute the war broke out the Arabs took advantage
of a preoccupied Britain to make a truce with the
Palestinian Jews.
(11) It still has a naive faith in religion, democ-
racy and the right of minorities.
(12) It is deluded enough to think right-at-a-
distance worth defending.
(13) It has not the wit to shoot, or at least im-
prison, its conscientious objectors. In many cases
they are carrying on at their old jobs.
(14) It missed its chance to close down Parlia-
ment. The windbag institution is still functioning.
(15) It is so simple that it tells the truth about
its losses in air battles, as our own United States
observers in Britain testify.
(16) It refuses to use naval bases in Eire which
had been in its hands for centuries and which would
be an enormous help against U-boats and raiders.
It allows a vital part of its tiny islands to contract
out of any struggle for survival, because Eire wishes
it. It swears to its own hurt and changes not.
What a country! No wonder Dr. Goebbels gibes
at it!
Mass-produced Air Crews.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Frederick Graham.)
An air force is never any better than the men
who fly and maintain its ’planes. And while British
and United States aircraft factories are working day
and night to produce the sinews of the R.A.F., the
great heart, mind and nervous system of that combat
organisation are being fashioned and conditioned in
Canada.
The process that furnishes the man-power for the
R.A.F. —the British Commonwealth Air Training Plan
—is unquestionably one Of the most ambitious and
completely co-ordinated programmes of its kind the
world has ever seen.
In February, Canadian Air Minister C. G. Power
announced that the original estimated cost of
$600,000,000 would have to be boosted to
$1,000,000,000. The plan is already turning out smart-
looking, confident air crews, some of whom (the
exact number is a military secret) are now in Britain
with active combat squadrons. In 50 schools scattered
from the relatively mild winter climate of Vancouver
on the Pacific Coast across the wind-swept snow-
blanketed Canadian Rockies, the bush country and
open prairie of the central section of the Dominion to
Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, in the Maritime
Provinces of the east, 11,000 young men between the
ages of 18 and 32 years, and from Britain, Australia,
New Zealand, the Straits Settlement, Newfoundland,
Mexico, Peru, the British colony in Argentina and from
the United States, are preparing for the day they will
take a part in what they call “the show.” By Sep-
tember 33 more schools will be opened and about
20,000 more young men will be enrolled by the end
of the year.
In many respects the British Commonwealth Air
Training Plan is like the straight production line
methods of the American automotive industry. And
once its full plant facilities, its instructors and officers
and its raw material supply are in complete order, it
will turn out air crews on the Detroit pattern. ’
The aim of the plan is to provide the best possible
training for the largest possible number of pilots, air
observers and that extremely valiant, perpetually busy
crew member designated wireless operator air gunner
The plan means to assure an inexhaustible supply of
trained airmen to carry on, for years if necessary, the
war against the dictator nations.
By next September the plan will be in full swing
and a steady stream of airmen will be pouring into
Britain shortly thereafter. There will be 83 training
schools of various types; 115 establishments includ-
ing auxiliaries such as recruiting centres, command
headquarters, repair shops and equipment depots
about 1860 buildings and nearly 100 air fields. The
—New York ‘‘Daily Mirror.”
WANTED: ANOTHER EMANCIPATOR.
paved runways of the built and projected airports
will amount to about 800 miles of standard-width
highways. No fewer than 40,000 men—instructors,
administrators and maintenance crews —will staff the
schools.
Dragnet Digest.
(General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The first German Emperor, in January, 1871, at
Versailles:
“May God permit us and our successors to the
Imperial crown to give at all times increase to the
German Empire, not by conquests of war, but by the
goods and gifts of peace in the path of national pros-
perity, freedom and well-doing to rule not in the
spirit of the Emperors who during the Middle Ages
wasted the strength of Germany in vain attempts to
extend their dominion over other nations, but with the
sincere desire to constitute an Empire of peace and
prosperity in which the people of Germany may find
and enjoy what for centuries they have fought and
struggled for.”
—Quoted in London “Times” letter.
* * * *.
The answer in the House of Commons to Sir
Henry Morris-Jones’s question to the Prime Minister
as to the cause of Lord Lothian’s death was as un-
satisfactory as it could well be —and as it was bound
to be. According to the British Embassy in Washing-
ton, said Mr. Churchill, the Ambassador died of toxic
poisoning. That redundant phrase means, medically,
nothing at all. The adjective and the noun have pre-
cisely the same significance. You might as well speak
of poisonous poisoning. There, it seems in all the
circumstances, the matter must be left. The evidence
available is so exiguous that it warrants no conclusion
whatever - regarding the cause of death. “Janus,”
London “Spectator.”
* * * * *
The war and the peace terms imposed by the
Soviet Government have left Finland with many
troubles. About 10 per cent, of the land area was
ceded, with 20 p.c. of the harnessed water power,
including the second-largest power plant in the
country ; 13 p.c. of the forests, including many square
miles of the finest timber; 20 p.c. of the wood pulp
and 10 p.c. of the paper and other industrial pro-
duction ; hundreds of miles of railways and roads,
the great Saimaa canal system, and the second export
harbor. The 23,000 young men killed and 6000 per-
manently disabled represent a serious loss in man-
power in a nation of fewer than 4,000,000, and have
thrown 60,000 dependants upon the community.
Nearly 500,000 people migrated from the ceded terri-
tory, taking with them only what could be saved in
a hurried flight. Losses of property through ceding
and destruction exceed 15 milliards of Finmarks. —
London “Times” Helsinki correspondent.
* * * * *
With Canada’s young airmen going into the
armed forces, indications are that present-day civilian
pilots, even those who flew in the first Great War
and might like to retire now, will stay at the controls
a few years more. Of the band of pioneers who piloted
Canadian aircraft along the rim of the Arctic circle
and in “bush” lines, starting about 15 years ago,
many have been promoted to administrative posts in
the companies they serve. Others are still flying on
regular runs, but with added responsibilities, such
as those of district superintendents. They had been
booked to turn over more and more of the actual
flying operations to younger men. Now they find
their prospective successors called away to the Air
Force with none left to replace them. So, says a
department source, the veterans must carry on,—
Montreal “Daily Star.”
* * * * ♦
Mr. Simmonds [in the House of Commons] asked
the Secretary of State for Air if he would state the
total number of airmen of all British air forces who
were known to have been shot at by enemy aircraft
after they had taken to their parachutes and the
number of British airmen so killed ; whether such
attacks were contrary to international convention;
and whether his Majesty’s Government had requested
that any communications be made to any enemy
Government on this matter.
Sir A. Sinclair. —My hon. friend will appreciate
that it is not always possible to establish with certainty
that such attacks have occurred. There is, however,
firm evidence to show that at least 12 of these con-
temptible attacks have taken place, in four of which
the airmen may have been killed. The answer to the
second and third parts of the question is in the
negative.
Replying further to Mr. Simmonds, Sir A. Sinclair
said he was not hopeful about representations through
a neutral Government to the German or Italian
Government. — London “Times.”
* * * * *
Col. John H. Jouett, president of the Aeronautical
Chamber of Commerce of America, asserts that
American aircraft production will increase enough in
two years to ensure air supremacy for the United
States and provide amply for the defence of Great
Britain. As a spokesman for the industry, Col. Jouett
said that American warplane production would reach
30.000 a year by the middle of 1942. He struck back
at critics of American-built ’planes, saying they were
the equal of and in some instances superior to the
best produced elsewhere in the world. “Studies which
we have made show that the present monthly pro-
duction should rise to 2500 ’planes by the middle of
1942,” he declared. “On this basis the industry would
be producing at an annual rate of from 21,000 to
24.000 ’planes by the end of 1941, and a rate of
30.000 annually six months later. At this rate, if
England were to receive the entire output of the
American aircraft industry, she would, with her own
considerable production, far outstrip that of the Axis
Powers within the next six or eight months.” — New
York “Times.”
* * M * «
Harry Bridges [the Australian-born American
Labor leader, deportation proceedings against whom
have continued on and off for years] denies that he
is a Communist. Whether the Government can
“prove” that he is one depends largely on whether
it really wishes to do so. No one close to the Labor
movement, or halfway familiar with recent Com-
munist history, has the faintest doubt that Mr. Bridges
follows the party line, whether he carries a party
membership card or not. Assuredly he is the darling
of the Communist press and leaders. His fight is their
fight. His public pronouncements have followed every
twist in the Muscovite policy with absolute fidelity,
and he has been in the forefront of all the Communist
campaigns, mass meetings and organisation drives on
the West Coast. Among the comrades his name is
pronounced with almost religious reverence. His
authority and his power to disrupt shipping and other
industrial activities on the West Coast are immense.
—American “Mercury” article.
*****
If Britain can hold to and extend her sea power,
and can come to something like equality with Germany
in the air, then Germany’s control on the land may
lose a great deal of its ultimate military importance.
We shall have left Blitzkrieg behind us, and we shall
be back in a military setting not very different from
that of the World War, or even of the Napoleonic
era. For if Britain can control the water, and match
Germany in the air, time will work against the land
forces, as it always has in military and naval history.
Control of the sea must mean more than mere
blockade of German-held territory. It must include
effective resistance to the German submarine counter-
blockade. It must, to be decisive, establish safety on
the sea lanes between England and the United States
and between England and all the Dominions. Only
thus can the growing industrial power of the non-
European “arsenal of democracy” begin to press its
weight against the Nazis, and only thus can time
begin to work against the Nazis. Blitzkrieg seems to
stop at the water’s edge if the opposing side controls
the water. This important discovery was made by
Napoleon and may yet be made by Hitler. It is
hardly necessary to add that American additions to
British sea and air power which tend to reduce Hitler’s
freedom of movement make up an insurance policy
for the peace of the United States ; one worth what-
ever it costs. — New York “Post.”


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
WARWICK FARM AUTUMN
MEETING
(Held af RandwickJ APRIL sth, 1941
The Liverpool Handicap of £6OO, Six Furlongs.
The Warwick Farm Autumn Cup of £750, One Mile and a Half.
AUTUMN MEETING, 1941
APRIL 12th, 14th, 16th and 19th
The Doncaster Handicap of £3OOO, One Mile.
The Sydney Cup of £7OOO and a Gold Cup valued at £2OO, Two Miles.
6 Bligh Street, Geo. T. Rowe,
Sydney, Secretary.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Rosehill management had reason to
be satisfied with Saturday’s meeting.
Good horses are always an attraction,
and with the runners including most of
the best w.f.a. horses, and several can-
didates for the Doncaster and Sydney
Cup, there was a large attendance and
a tote turnover of a little more than
£lB,OOO for seven races. Prize-money
for the day was £1650, and the club
received a satisfactory return in every
way. Two favorites won, but as the
other five included two at 14 to 1 the
day was a winning one for the books.
♦ *••••
In the Rawson Stakes Beau Vite again
proved High Caste’s master, and little
excuse was possible for the latter. Fourth
to Gold Salute, Mosaic and Feminist at
the half-mile, High Caste went up to
Gold Salute turning for home. He had
the latter’s measure shortly after com-
mencing the last furlong, but could not
withstand Beau Vite’s challenge. The
latter’s finishing run on the outside sug-
gested he was quite as good as when
last in Sydney, even though McMenamin
is said not to share that idea, and he
now looks like adding the Autumn Plate,
Cumberland Stakes and A.J.C. Plate to
his score. He is sure to improve.
Gold Salute, in third place, made a
first-class showing, and, while Mosaic was
fourth, he did not impress much more
than Dashing Cavalier, who, after being
a long way back most of the way,
finished a close fifth. Feminist and
Reading brought up the rear. The latter
made a short-lived forward move near
the three furlongs, and then dropped out
again. The pace was slow ac the com-
mencement, the first three furlongs taking
41, but as the full distance was run in
1.52 L that meant 1.1 H for the final six
furlongs.
The Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap was generally regarded as a “good
thing” for Evergreen, but the certainty
of a short price caused him to be started
for the Railway Handicap in preference.
It proved sound judgment, notwithstand-
ing it was a much harder race. Fair
odds were obtained, and Evergreen won
after a great tussle with Amiable, who
had her head in front inside the last
half-furlong, but was outstayed by the
younger horse. Petruchio did the pace-
making. but though he came into the
straight with a lead that made him look
a winner he weakened in the last furlong.
Evergreen carried only his Doncaster
weight, but he was last soon after the
start, and then won in time within a
quarter-second of Mohican’s record for
the track.
Ensign was a complete failure. Second
at the half-mile he stopped to nothing
in the run home, finishing last. Flying
Knight did a little better without ever
being a winning possibility. Breeze lost
several lengths at barrier-rise, but then
travelled so smartly that she was fifth
at the half-mile. The effort settled her,
as she beat only Ensign. However, as
she has been working brilliantly, and
looks particularly well, she is worth fol-
lowing. So is her stable-mate Fearless,
who, after being nearly last into the
straight, surprised by running fourth at
a distance that was short for him.
B. Payten looked to Royal Sceptre
to get a useful lead in the early part of
the Autumn Handicap, and then, with
his light weight, take a Jot of run-
ning down. That summing-up was
correct, as Royal Sceptre went to the
front soon after barrier-rise, and was not
headed. Along the back his nearest fol-
lowers were Festoon, Binnia Hero and
Scientist, and, with his rider able to ease
him slightly a couple of times, he shot
away again when Scientist closed on him
at the half-mile. In the straight Scientist
and Cooranga challenged him, but right
on the post he was doing as well as
either.
At his previous run at Ascot Royal
Sceptre’s chance was settled as a result
of Pimm’s keeping him hard at it for
the first six furlongs. Tidal Wave ran
fairly and, without ever appearing a
possible winner, was fourth. He is look-
ing well and may do better in something
at Randwick. Binnia Hero was dis-
appointing, as, though the way he was
backed pointed to his trainer believing
he was back to something near his best,
he got very tired in the straight.
Proud Fox’s previous run in Sydney
so greatly impressed many racegoers that
he opened and closed favorite for the
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap.
They were very wide of the mark, as
Proud Fox could not go the pace set at
the commencement, and, also meeting
with interference, finished a long way
back. He will be better suited by a longer
distance than seven furlongs. Lady
Neith, Metallic, Haridelle and War
Trophy were the leaders turning for
home, and Haridelle, taking charge inside
the last furlong, won from War Trophy
and Metallic, Happy Lass and Sober-
sides were nearest the place-getters, and
the former may be Payten’s next winner
of a minor race at a mile or further.
Emerge was a strong tip, but his arrival
from Newcastle as late as the morning
of the race must have told against him,
as he gave his owners, A. E. Cooper and
Mrs. M. S. Duncombe, a poor run. Many
Ways and Sobersides, though fairly for-
ward at the end, were never dangerous.
Henchman made a game effort to win
the first division of the Nursery Handi-
cap, but was beaten on the post by Dick
Whittington, who was sixth or seventh
at the half-mile. Shining Night, who was
Henchman’s nearest follower most of the
way, hung out entering the straight, as
did Two’s Company, whose third, in the
circumstances, was a good performance.
It will not be long before she fares better.
Shining Night was fourth. Of the re-
mainder Condignity and St. Pancras were
most prominent at the finish, though
Haripur (Harinero-Rio Rita) and Cape
Hero (Harinero-Cape Race) showed pace.
Sky High did not get near the front at
any part.
Always at odds on for the second divi-
sion of the Nursery Handicap, Whisper
Low joined Soho in the lead at the half-
mile and, drawing away from him soon
after turning into the straight, won com-
fortably in a quarter-second faster time
than Dick Whittington recorded in his
division. Of the remainder only Soho
(Brueghel-Trevally) and Tidor (Tide-
race-My Own) ran respectably. Soho
cost 400gns. as a yearling, and Tidor
850gns. Whisper Low, who is by Beau
Pere from the French mare Aissa (by
Herbalist, a son of Phalaris), was bred
by her owner, “Mr. Constable.”
John Dory, who is improving with each
run, finished too strongly for his oppo-
nents in the Parramatta Mile. Well
placed from barrier-rise, he ran past
Bramol and Knight Folly halfway down
the straight, and then stalled off St.
Andrew, whose effort, however, was good
enough to make him a probable winner
in the near future. Tel Asur is another
who should shortly be heard from. He
was backed, but scarcely gave the impres-
sion of being thoroughly wound up, and,
after being one of the leading division
to the turn, finished fifth. As Knight
Folly died right out in the last furlong
a win for him at Randwick will be diffi-
cult. Nightbeam was solidly backed, but
did not repeat the form he showed at
Flemington. He was fourth or fifth at
the half-mile, but failed to run on.
John Dory has not incurred a penalty
for next Saturday’s Warwick Farm
Autumn Cup, but if he should win that
race he can be rehandicapped for the
Sydney Cup, the conditions of which pro-
vide for the rehandicapping of horses
which have won two or more handicaps
of the total value of £7OO or over
subsequent to being weighted for that
race.
* * * *
High Title, who fell from his high
pedestal when he stopped to nothing
at the end of the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, rehabilitated himself by a striking
win in the Hollymount Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Carrying
9.8, and conceding his rivals from a stone
to 321 b., he went down on his nose when
sandwiched by horses on each side of
him at the start, lost at least six lengths,
then, with a remarkable burst of speed,
hit the front soon after the half-mile
and was not subsequently headed. It
was one of the most impressive perform-
ances seen by a juvenile for some time,
and did not lose any of its glamor because
of the fact that High Title tired toward
the finish of the six furlongs and won
by only half a length from Colonus.
Latter, who had won at the Valley five
days earlier, is a smart galloper, and was
in receipt of 301 b.
With four wins and a second from his
six starts. High Title has been a fine
bargain at his yearling cost of 250
guineas. Staying might never be his
forte, but his brilliance is undeniable,
and next autumn he might be an Oakleigh
Plate or Newmarket prospect. Colonus
ran well, and will win more races for
trainer Cecil Godby, while Rosmarine,
who just cut Leo James out of third
money, can be placed to advantage. The
Trapper, only runner backed seriously
to beat High Title, ran considerably
below expectations. He was never near
the leaders.
.Successes of Beau Vite and Sun Belle
in the principal races at Rosehill and
Moonee Valley respectively will make
good reading for the American buyer of
Beau Pere. Sun Belle recently won a mile
race, at Flemington, but, having failed
previously at a middle-distance, compara-
tively few people were prepared to see
her win the £lOOO Moonee Ponds Handi-
cap. Betting indicated that the stable
was not particularly keen on her chance,
as she started at 15 to 1, but, revealing
generally unsuspected stamina, she ran
away at the end of the mile and a half
and defeated Throttle and Hathersage in
time, 2.3 H, which clipped a quarter of
a second off the course record established
by Tookarby 14 years ago. Moving up
gradually from eighth at the six furlongs,
she joined Throttle in the lead rounding
the turn, and from then on it was a case
of a good “big ’un” versus a good “little
’un.” Throttle is only a pony in stature.
Sun Belle adds to the many winners
trained by Frank Godby for inter-State
owners. She is owned in South Australia
by studmaster C. Haigh, and the chances
are that she will now be nominated for
the Adelaide Cup and other races to be
run at that meeting in May. She was
ridden a well-judged race on Saturday
by Jack Purtell, who will make his bow
to Sydney race crowds this autumn.
Purtell is engaged for Remarc in the
Doncaster, and possibly will have the
Sydney Cup mount on Velocity. Hather-
sage, though he finished third, was five
lengths behind the winner, and was a
disappointing favorite. Sir Rona was
worried in the lead by Dark Felt to
the five furlongs, and was beaten before
the turn, but Saki was never really
dangerous, and possibly has had enough
racing for the time being.
Prince Ronald registered his third win
in 11 days by making one act of the
Knoll Handicap. He hit the front at
the start, and led throughout to win
decisively from The Decoration and Con-
tact. Only surprising phase of his suc-
cess was his starting price of 8 to 1
after twelves had been bet. Certainly he
met a stronger lot than those he had
beaten in restricted company at Mentone
and Ascot the previous week, but the
manner of those wins indicated that he
was a greatly improved horse. He has
been ridden in his winning hat-trick by
trainer Tom Bradfield’s apprentice D.
Walker, who is certain to receive more
opportunities in future. At a time when
good riders in Melbourne are scarce,
apprentices deserve every encouragement,
and in this respect it is satisfactory
to note that another lad, H. McDonald,
apprenticed to R. Sinclair, is making the
most of his opportunities. McDonald
has won recent races on Riviera (twice),
Swettenham and Gold Strand.
Interference to several runners pos-
sibly assisted Prince Ronald, who, being
in front, missed all trouble. Many riders
were interviewed by the stewards after
the race. Walker, rider of the winner,
being one of four to be reprimanded.
He crossed Royal Comet too sharply soon
after the start. Others to be “lectured”
were T. Unkovich, J. Purtell and W.
Beresford. Royal Comet was particularly
unfortunate, as he was kicked by The
Decoration when lining up for the start,
and struck further trouble rounding the
first turn. In the circumstances, his
failure can be overlooked. It is doubt-
ful, however, whether the heavily-backed
favorite, Moonray, would have won even
had he jumped away cleanly and missed
trouble near the half-mile. Those inci-
dents may have unbalanced him, but he
lost ground throughout the final three
furlongs and beat only one horse home,
Leading Melbourne rider H. Badger,
now in Sydney to pilot Pandect and Wil-
son in their Randwick engagements, had
a happy send-off in the shape of a
winning Moonee Valley double on High
Title and Bronze Mark. His record for
the season is now wins in the metro-
politan area, and not only does he seem
certain to win the jockeys’ premiership
for the third successive year but he has a
good chance of beating W. Duncan’s all-
time Melbourne metropolitan record of
69 wins. His alertness at the barrier was
a big factor in Bronze Mark’s success in
the first division of the Woodlands Trial.
Bronze Mark was deposed of favoritism
by Spearwings and Home Secretary to-
wards the close of betting, but, jumping
away in front, and never farther back
than second, he won clearly from Ingoda
Boy and Shandon Belle. It was Bronze
Mark’s second successive win at the
Valley, and he might develop into a
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT.’
Trial Handicap: Air Link or
Timken, 1 ; Koomeluck, 2 ; Cryon,
3.
Fairfield Handicap (fillies): Two’s
Company, 1 ; Whisper Low, 2;
Astrid, 3.
Fairfield Handicap (colts and
geldings): Yaralla, 1 ; Dick Whit-
tington, 2 ; America, 3.
Chipping Norton Plate: Beau
Vite, 1; High Caste, 2 ; Lucrative,
3.
Liverpool Handicap: Petruchio,
1 ; Amiable, 2 ; Overbold or Del-
mestor, 3.
Warwick Farm Autumn Cup:
Veiled Threat, 1 ; Katanga, 2 ; Wil-
son or John Dory, 3.
Cabramatta Handicap: Rylstone,
1 ; Rodborough, 2 ; Scarlet Toi, 3.
FOR MENTONE.
(Before acceptances.)
Newburn Trial Stakes: Miss
Veronica, 1 ; Manawatu, 2 ; Dark
Ages, 3.
Avon Handicap: Liege, 1 ; Dap-
per, 2 ; Far Cry, 3.
Powerscourt Handicap: Bill-
poster, 1 ; Koorenbeen, 2; Sir
Romeo, 3.
Boisdale Welter: Contact, 1 ; Pine
Peak, 2 ; Somerset, 3.
Stratford Handicap: Prairie
Prince, 1 ; Procyon, 2 ; New War-
rior, 3.
Tinamba Handicap: Pure Gold,
1 ; Limerick Lace, 2 ; Atorna, 3.


co GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
co
5
6
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
Sole Afltou: JOUBERT &■ JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
THE QUEENSLAND TURF CLUB
BRISBANE CUP MEETING
3rd, sth and 10th MAY, 1941.
ADDED MONEY £11,125
STRADBROKE HANDICAP—£ISOO—Six Furlongs.
BRISBANE CUP—£25OO (ami Cui> valued £100)—Two Miles.
MORETON HANDICAP—£I2SO—One Mile and a Quarter.
KING’S PLATE (W.F.A.)— £soo—One Mile and a Quarter.
NOMINATIONS for Stradbroke, Cup, and Moreton, Bth April, 1941.
GENERAL ENTRY for minor events, 22nd April, 1941.
Entry forms available and nominations may be made at A.J.C. and V.R.C. offices.
R. U. SLOMAN, SECRETARY, Q.T.C.
fOD W£AN M£N AND WOMfN
Loss of vitality ami premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
831 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
3X9 George St., Sydney
821
GUND
TONIC
TABLfTS
good advertisement for his sire. Hall
Mark. Spearwings was never dangerous,
and Home Secretary dropped out after
moving up third near the half-mile,
Riviera, one of the best three-year-old
fillies in Melbourne last season, has re-
turned to her best form with two wins
at Moonee Valley within a week. Beau-
filer was backed ahead of her for the
Sherwood Highweight on Saturday, but,
whereas Beaufiler never really flattered
her supporters, Riviera “grabbed”
Limerick Lace in the last stride after the
latter had looked all over a winner. She
would have been unlucky to lose, as
her rider was forced to take her round
two horses at the top of the straight,
and she swung wider than was necessary.
Riviera adds to the many recent winners
sired by Portofino, and when she retires
to the stud, possibly next season, she
will be mated with the imported horse
Dhoti. Mollie Con ran on well to finish
a close third, just ahead of El Reo, while
Neutron did well enough to suggest that
he might repay following.
Displaying rare speed for a novice per-
former, Waihine set up a lead of six or
seven lengths halfway through the second
division of the Woodlands Trial, and,
never in danger of defeat, ran home an
easy winner from Parilla and Lockment.
She simply ran her opponents off their
legs, and more will be heard of this
Liberal-Midlin filly, whose success com-
pensated for owner W. P. Mein’s third
with Nevizes in the Rothwell Steeple-
chase earlier in the day. Waihine lacks
size, but she was untried when placed in
work only about four months ago, and
should improve. A cash commission
brought her price from 25 to 1 down to
fifteens, and she won in three-quarters of
a second faster time than that recorded
by Bronze Mark in the first division.
Cyden’s Son, backed from twelves down to
sixes, was never dangerous, and Man-
star and Dollar Bill also disappointed.
Once injured so badly in a race at
Mentone that it seemed unlikely he would
ever race again, Laveur recorded his
sixth win since his remarkable recovery
when he outstayed Glenlonan and
Nevizes in course record time in the
Rothwell Steeplechase. According to his
owner-trainer, J. Mulcahy, junior,
Laveur’s off hind tendon was cut through
in the Mentone race. Horses suffering
similar injury have been destroyed, but,
after veterinary treatment, Laveur was
sent away for a spell of about six months,
and the long rest completed the cure.
Laveur does not fit the old axiom “never
look a gift horse in the mouth.” He
was originally presented by H. N.
Leonard to J. Mulcahy, senior, and the
latter subsequently passed him on to his
son. Laveur, who is better at Moonee
Valley than at Flemington, has been
something like a gift, and further wins
should come his way.
* * * *
Fancied Doncaster Handicap can-
didates that did not run at Rosehill on
Saturday included Remarc, Rimveil, Mil-
dura, Overbold and Scarlet Toi. As Rim-
veil is trained at Warwick Farm I am
in the dark as to his progress, but Mil-
dura and Overbold are doing well at
Randwick. I have heard the comment
that Overbold is “not class enough” for
a Doncaster. Perhaps, but I have heard
the same said of other horses that subse-
quently won big races. However, Over-
bold has won at six and seven furlongs
at Randwick, and his second with 8.11 to
Glorious (7.1) at Rosehill was far from a
bad run, especially as he gives the im-
pression of being a horse that would be
better suited by a lighter scale than at
which he was beaten at Rosehill.
Mildura has put on weight since he re-
turned from Melbourne, and as he won
the last Doncaster with 8.8., carried 9.4
when he ran High Caste (9.5) to a neck
in the last Epsom, and then, with 9.4,
got within a half-head of Beau Vite
(9.0) in the Craven Plate —High Caste
(9.0) being behind him—he is favorably
treated with 9.3. His latest form in Mel-
bourne was below expectations, but now
there seems a possibility of a return to
his spring form. If that should come
about he will be a tough nut for High
Caste or anything else to crack. M. Me-
Carten is to be on him at Randwick next
Saturday, but a jockey has not yet been
engaged for the Doncaster. Remarc and
Scai let Toi are bold movers, and, while
the former disappointed when recently
backed in Melbourne, the latter ran well
in each of his races at Flemington, and,
on appearance, should not be troubled
by 8.2. Delmestor’s Ascot win pointed
to her being well again, and she has 31b.
less than when third in the 1939 Epsom,
in which she was beaten by Geebung
(7.10) and Tuhitarata (7.8). The last-
mentioned horse would appear to be back
to that form, and he has 7.7.
Several horses with less than 7.7 in the
Doncaster have recently either won or
filled minor places, but it has rarely been a
good race for lightweights. In the last
20 years there has been one winner with
less than 7,9, that being Jacko, who had
6.10 when he scored in 1932. The next
lowest to him during the period men-
tioned were Speciality and Hamurah, 7.9
each, and Don'Moon 7.12. In the other
16 years winners’ weights ranged from
10.4 (Chatham) to 8.1 (Fujisan).
* * 4 *
Except that Ensign had gone out of
favor there were not many changes in
positions in Doncaster betting after
Saturday’s racing at Rosehill. The order
of those at the head of the quotations
was as under:
Doncaster Handicap.
High Caste.
Evergreen, Rimveil.
Mildura, Remarc.
Amiable, Overbold, Reading,
Tuhitarata.
Ensign, Scarlet Toi, John Dory.
Sydney Cup.
Katanga, Pandect, Veiled Threat.
Feminist.
Lucrative, Mosaic, Scientist.
John Dory.
Dashing Cavalier, Velocity.
* * * *
In the spring J. T. Jamieson reckoned
he had a two-year-old filly quite out of
the ordinary in Whisper Low, and she
started a 5-to-4 favorite for the Gim-
crack Stakes. All Love did not give her
a look-in, beating her six lengths, but as
Whisper Low has won at her last two
starts —the Gibson Carmichael Stakes in
Melbourne and a division of the Nursery
at Rosehill on Saturday—it looks as if
she will act up to early expectations.
She will undoubtedly assist to make a
good race of the Easter Stakes, as she
will run unpenalised, and the seven fur-
longs will not trouble her. Astrid, an-
other brilliant galloper, did not incur a
penalty for her wins, and, in receipt of
101 b. from All Love, she and Whisper
Low should try that brilliant filly right
out.
* * * m
High Caste’s defeat by Beau Vite did
not dispose of his Doncaster chance by
a very long way, but while he still holds
his position at the head of the quotations
for the mile race Saturday’s performance
was not one over which it was possible
to enthuse greatly. Some of his backers
were of opinion he was disadvantaged
by the slow pace in the early part, but
it permitted him to get thoroughly
balanced before he was asked for an
effort, and when he caught Gold Salute
he took a little too long to beat him to
uphold the idea that he has a mortgage
on the Doncaster with 9.12. He was
giving Gold Salute 31b., and the latter’s
owner took him out of the Doncaster
partly because of his belief that he was
harshly treated when in receipt of only
71b. from Tancred’s horse.
High Caste is such a burly customer
that Saturday’s race may do a lot for
him, but just at present it looks as if
those books who have been laying Don-
caster and Cup doubles starting with him
at 20 and 25 to 1 would be justified in
being more liberal, especially as the Syd-
ney Cup does not look like being an easy
race for anything.
Evergreen, who is to be ridden by J.
Thompson, will be meeting High Caste
251 b. better than weight-for-age, and
there was sufficient merit in his Rosehill
win to give him a chance against the
older horse on those terms, and, through
Evergreen, Amiable must be taken into
consideration. She will be meeting Ever-
green 71b. better, and there was not
that much between them at the finish on
Saturday. Amiable, however, looked
so fit that it is doubtful whether she
will improve, but Evergreen may. As
he has done well in open company up to
a mile and a quarter the Doncaster dis-
tance should be well within his compass.
Ensign ran so badly in the Rosehill
Railway Handicap with 9.5 that, even
with a drop of 91b., it is now difficult
to stand him for the Doncaster. He will
be that much better off as compared
with Evergreen, but only 21b. with
Amiable. It is unwise to condemn any
horse because of one bad run, but, though
Ensign has won at seven furlongs against
older horses, I have always been dubious
as to how he would fare at a mile against
a first-class handicap field. Admitting
his form was incorrect on Saturday he
does not now appeal for the Doncaster.
Petruchio has 81b. less than he carried
at Rosehill, but with an extra furlong to
cover he does not read as well as Amiable
on only a pound better terms.
Reading’s display in the Rawson Stakes
was so indifferent that it would be diffi-
cult to compute how much he will need
to improve to win the Doncaster, in
which, up to last week, I thought he had
fair prospects. On Saturday he was not
the Reading of old by a very long way.
Other Doncaster entrants that ran on
Saturday included John Dory, Tel Asur,
Proud Fox, Breeze, Bramol, War Trophy,
Emerge, Happy Lass, Feminist, Night-
beam and St. Andrew. Of these John
Dory easily did best, but his owner implies
that the Sydney Cup is to be his mission.
Therefore, omitting John Dory, the
horses that did best at Rosehill in a
Doncaster connection were Evergreen,
Amiable and High Caste.
* * * *
Royal Sceptre, winner of the Rosehill
Autumn Handicap, is not in the Sydney
Cup, and nothing he beat in the first-
mentioned race is suggestive of danger
at two miles. Scientist’s effort was
scarcely that of a stayer, though breeding
is not against him on that score ; and
Cooranga’s third with 8.8 did not point
to success in the longer race with 81b.
less.' Hope is improving, but is unlikely
to strike form enabling him to win with
8.5. Binnia Hero’s showing with 8.1
lent itself to the belief that, with 7.11,
he could be wiped off so far as the Cup
is concerned. He may improve, but
unless he runs a lot better in the War-
wick Farm Cup he will join the outside
division for the more important race.
The way the Rawson Stakes was run
did not suit Mosaic, but he was sound
on pulling up. Still, it might be as well
for those who fancy him for the Cup to
wait until after the Chipping Norton
Stakes before backing him. In that he
will need to show that he is likely to
be at his best in order to be a good Cup
prospect with 9.10. In the Cup he will
find some of the three-year-olds trouble-
some. He will be meeting Velocity, who
dead-heated Tidal Wave for third in the
Australian Cup, 171 b. worse than weight-
for-age, and he will have difficulty in
beating the former on those terms. Other
three-year-olds Mosaic will oppose on
much worse than w.f.a. terms are Lucra-
tive, Pandect and Veiled Threat, and at
this time of the year horses of that age
generally show good form.
Dashing Cavalier, who is in excellent
trim, after his Melbourne trip, did no-
thing in the Rawson Stakes on which he
could be either commended or con-
demned. His form was much the same
as that of Mosaic, who is giving him 61b.
in the Cup, Feminist did nothing in
the race mentioned to put her in the
limelight for the Randwick two-miler, but
Payten has never had her looking better
than at present.
* * * *
If Katanga is entitled to his place as
one of the Sydney Cup favorites, he
should give a good account of himself in
the Warwick Farm Cup, in which he is
really better treated with 8.5 than in the
Sydney Cup with 8.2. He can get a mile
and a half, but, despite his Brisbane St.
Leger win, has to be taken on trust as a
two-miler. He has worked well since
he ran at Rosehill, though not over a
distance that would give much idea as
to his staying ability. Long gallops for
long races are very much out of date.
Katanga is also in the Chipping Norton
Plate, but, as he would have little chance
of success in that with Beau Vite, High
Caste and Mosaic among his opponents,
it seems safe to say the handicap will
be his mission. Bearing on his Sydney
Cup chance, it is worth noting he is in
the A.J.C. Plate, which points to Payten
having faith in him as a stayer,
* * * *
The Beau Pere-Banita colt Beau Son,
for whom A. E. Cooper gave 3500gns. as
a yearling, has been repurchased by his
breeder, W. J. Smith, who will race him
in partnership with his wife. Beau Son
has not yet started, and it is the same
with others of Beau Pere’s yearlings of
last season. Consequently it would be
absolutely unfair to condemn Beau Pere’s
Australian-bred youngsters, even though
the ten that jointly realised 12,025gn5.
a year ago have not done a great deal
towards covering that amount. Although
Beau Vite won at two years it was not
until he was three that he really shone.
Whisper Low won for Beau Pere on
Saturday, but she was not sold at auction.
* * * *
Lucrative and Pandect ran well at
Randwick last autumn and spring, and
it is probable they will again do so next
month. Lucrative was disappointing in
Melbourne recently, but he has done well
on long, strong work since his arrival
in Sydney, and he has also shown a
lot of pace when it has been asked of
him. He gallops in such smooth fashion,
taking nothing out of himself, that he
is probably an easy horse to train as
well as ride. Tranquil Star was too
good for him when they met in Mel-
bourne recently, but in Sydney she will
find Lucrative a much tougher propo-
sition.
Pandect has not raced for some time,
but looks really well, and, while his owner
and trainer will look to him to repeat
his A.J.C. Derby victory over Lucrative,
it must not be overlooked that the luck
of the race was on his side, and each
time they met in Melbourne the fol-
lowing month Lucrative finished ahead
of him. Both missed a place in the Mel-
bourne Cup, but Lucrative beat Pan-
dect. Unless Tidal Wave is able to
improve considerably on his Melbourne
form it is probable the three places in
the St. Leger will go to Melbourne-
trained horses.
* * * *
In referring to Delmestor in last
week’s issue I mentioned her Carrington
Stakes win with 8.13, but overlooked
her second success with 9.7 when her
1.1 Oj was only a quarter-second outside
Pavilion’s record for the race. This
season’s yearling sales catalogue includes
a half-sister, by Brueghel, to Delmestor.
El Nene, a half-sister, by El Cacique,
to Delmestor, did particularly well in
Tasmania, and was also a winner in
Victoria.
* * * *
Following his usual practice the owner
of Kia-Ora Stud has allotted his first lot
of boxes at the Newmarket Stud to the
yearlings he believes to be the best. No.
1 box is filled by a big and good-
looking colt by Midstream from Loqua-
cious (dam of Feminist). Next comes
the chestnut colt by Midstream from
Society (dam of Talking), and then the
brown Midstream-Social colt. His dam
is a sister to Talking, and, though the
colt’s owner should be the better judge,
I would have given him No. 1 box.
Anyhow, the breeder of both has made
me a small bet that his opinion will
prove correct. Another colt that is a
good advertisement for Midstream is
the one out of Ranier (sister to Rampion),
dam of Pannade, who has done well in
Melbourne.
Most of the Double Remove fillies are
really good, two calling for special men-
tion being from Box On (Magpie-
Moscas) and Virgin Wing (Magpie-
Cymbala) respectively. The brother to
Cradle Song is well-grown and strong,
as is the colt by Double Remove from
Air Lady (dam of Contact). The Havre
colt is a neat youngster, and the one by
Double Remove from Miss Laughter
lacks nothing in sturdiness. Other


THE
“BOULIA”
BIG DIP STOCK SADDLE
11
y.s.w.
Freight
Saddles
Paid f<yr
Cash with
Order.
OS
£l5/5/-
(COMPLETE)
Has plenty of
dip in the seat
and the pads are
high. It has the
popular short
panel with
leather facings at
back. Built on a best
“Fouright” Tree, the
materials are first-class
throughout.
Come and inspect our
range of Genuine True-
to-Label Wieneke Saddles.
■i >. * wm - mm
• ■ • »®6K •;• •.•*. if' .•
ASS*??:
SSasSS
'
\m.
Be ready with your
KODAK
ready to record that
wonderful story
that exists in the life of every family
. . . ready to make some souvenir
snapshots of the “boys” on leave . ..
ready to send some “photographs
from home” overseas to the men and
women of Australia’s fighting forces.
w
Seeing is believing!
Let us show you how
exciting it is to make
your own movies in
glorious natural colours
the Cine-Kodak way.
KODAK (A/asla) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART,
LAUNCESTON, TOOWOOMBA, TOWNSVILLE, ROCKHAMPTON,
CAIRNS, NEWCASTLE, BALLARAT.
• Visit your nearest KODAK DEALER for supplies of Made-in-Australia
Kodak Film, also Kodak Same-Day Service Developing and Printing.
attractive colts in the Kia-Ora draft are
the brown by Constant Son-Marginal
and the bay by Pantheon-Ribstone. The
best of the Christopher Robins are the
black colts from Queen of Comedy and
Futurity and the bay from Gazza.
As a whole the yearlings by Talking
are a good lot for a first season, and it
is probable the chestnut colt out of Capris
(an Epsom winner) will be productive of
keen competition. However, on the score
of appearance my preference is for the
brown colt out of French Model
(Woorak-Southern Cross), who has
thrown four winners. The filly out of
Advance Australia (March Along-Aus-
tralian Flower), dam of Lanarus and
Progress, should also sell well.
* * * *
A Sydney Cup win for a horse that
had run nowhere in a Doncaster Handi-
cap at the same meeting is unusual, but
it has happened. In 1914 Lily veil was
an early selection for the Sydney Cup,
but his owners decided that they would
first see what he could do in the Don-
caster. They backed him so solidly
that he closed at 10 to 1. The distance
was short for him, and, with R. W. Lewis
his rider, he was not one of the first ten
at the finish. That fact did not cause his
owners to lose faith in him for the Syd-
ney Cup, and he shared favoritism with
Sinapis at 5 to 1. Two miles suited
Lilyveil much better than a mile, and
he won well from Multifoil and Belove.
He was ridden by W. H. McLachlan.
P. A. Connolly, part-owner of Lilyveil,
has Remarc in this year’s Doncaster and
Sydney Cup, but if that horse should run
nowhere in the mile it is improbable
he will flatter himself that there is much
likelihood of a Lilyveil performance in
the Cup. It is surprising, however, what
can happen in racing.
-« * * *
T. G. Jones and R. Cobden, joint
owners of Tranquil Star, have each
donated £25 to the Racing Patriotic
Appeal Fund in Melbourne. Tranquil
Star is now at Randwick, and, according
to some of those racing men who were
at the V.R.C. meeting, is looking even
better now than when she raced at Flem-
ington.
* * * *
High Caste heads the Doncaster Handi-
cap list, both in weight and price, and
it will interest readers to know how
topweights have fared in the last 20
years. Their record for that period is as
follows:
1922 Solfanello, 9.1 25 to 1 Unpl.
1923 Julia Grey, 9.6 33 to 1 Unpl.
1924 Claro, 9.11 2 to 1 Unpl.
1925 The Hawk, 10.5 16 to 1 Unpl.
1926 Fujisan, 9.7 10 to 1 Unpl.
1927 Top Gallant, 9.13 14 to 1 Unpl.
1928 — Amounis, 9.10 40 to 1 Unpl.
1929 Sion, 8.11 3 to 1 Send.
1929 — Crown Area, 8.11 33 to 1 Unpl.
1930 — Greenline, 10.2 8 to 1 Unpl.
1931 Mollison, 9.7 12 to 1 Send.
1932 — Waterline, 9.6 33 to 1 Unpl.
1933 Winooka, 9.13 3 to 1 First
1934 Chatham, 10.4 6 to 1 First
1935 Winooka, 9.13 12 to 1 Unpl.
1936 Hall Mark, 9.11 12 to 1 Unpl.
1937 — Young Idea, 9.7 10 to 1 Unpl.
•Pamelus, 9.7 2 to 1 Unpl.
1938 King’s Head, 8.13 14 to 1 Send.
1939 — King’s Head, 9.4 10 to 1 Unpl.
1940 El Golea, 9.4 20 to 1 Third
* * * *
There will not be a Grand National
Steeplechase in England this year, and
the nearest flat race meeting to London
will be at Newbury, which is 60 miles
from the metropolis. Many in England
are entirely opposed to racing of any
kind during the war, but, so far as pos-
sible, the Government and Jockey Club
favor its continuance. A day’s racing will
help to keep people’s minds off bombing
raids for a few hours.
In the way of totalisators Ascot will
shortly be the best-equipped course in
Sydney. It already has the ordinary
first, second and third machine as well as
the doubles tote. At its meeting on April
23 win and place machines will be oper-
ated, which will cut out the present place
system. There is not to be an odds indi-
cator, but that will not be a great dis-
advantage. The indicator has been given
a fair trial on most courses, and there
are still many racegoers who favor the
old system, which gave the number on
each horse,
* * * ♦
Mosaic will not need to put up a
weight-carrying record to win the Sydney
Cup with 9.10, but a great performance
will be necessary. The Barb scored with
10.8, but the best since then is Carbine’s
9.9. Other winners with 9.0 or" over were
Darebin 9.8, Eurythmic 9.8, Wakeful 9.7,
David 9.7, Kennaquhair 9.5, Highborn
9.3, Cadonia 9.1, Mosaic 9.1, Carbine
(first time) 9.0 and Lilypond 9.0. Veil-
mond ran third with 9.11, and the going
was heavy that day.
* * * *
Yearlings to be offered at the coming
sales at Randwick include three that are
related to recent winners at Rosehill.
One is a half-brother, by Madagascar,
to Air Link; another a half-sister, by
Midstream, to Rapture ; and a third is a
half-sister, by Brueghel, to John Dory.
Another catalogued is a brother to
Cradle Song. There is a big sprinkling
of relatives to comparatively recent win-
ners in W. Inglis and Son’s catalogue.
* * *
The racing track at Randwick has not
greatly improved in the last 26 years,
but times for races have. The best for
the Sydney Cup up to 1914 was Lily veil’s
3.26 T Since then that time has been
beaten 14 times, the present record being
Mosaic’s 3.21 y. Those figures should be
fairly convincing, but still many people
will tell you how greatly our stayers have
deteriorated in the last 30 or 40 years.
The best up to 1901 was 3.31. Wakeful
was first to break 1.40 in a Doncaster,
doing 1.39 f with 7.10 in 1901. Sar-
cherie (8.10) now holds the record with
1.35 y, followed by Winooka 1.35|, and
he carried 9.13.
* * * *
When a day’s racing was called off
at Santa Anita last month owing to a
stable-hands’ strike, admission money
was refunded. And that was where the
deadheads scored. In refunding ad-
mission, parking and race card fees, the
club paid out between $2500 and $3OOO
more than it received from the 20,000
who were at the meeting. Some race-
goers are so paltry that they would try
to “cash in” on a free luncheon ticket
if they were given one.
* * * *
As there is no definite news as to
what happened to French bloodstock
after the Germans overran France, an
announcement by the Germans through
the “Independent” French Agency is in-
teresting. On behalf of the Germans it
was stated that they had “bought” the
whole of the Aga Khan’s stock in France,
as well as hundreds of the best stallions
and mares owned by Frenchmen.
“Bought” is rich.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Hockey Bennell lost another non-title
scrap at the week-end, being down
three times in the eighth round of his
West Melbourne engagement with Terry
Reilly. At the time Hockey had a sub-
stantial lead on points. The first time
Hockey went down ref. Jack Carroll told
him to get up and did not bother about
the count. Next time Carroll repeated
the order, and on rising Hockey took a
body punch which sent him down for
keeps. Hockey said afterwards that a
hit in the temple had sent him down the
first time, and that it left him dazed.
When Melbourne has seen some more
of Hockey it might get used to his com-
paratively poor showings when the title
isn’t at stake. Yarrasiders would be wise
not to risk good coin against him when
the title’s up.
* * * *
Richie Sands, who shares pelt-kinship
with Ron Richards, is steadily forcing
himself into serious notice. So far he’s
done the bulk of his scrapping round
about Newcastle, his latest and best effort
being registered at the Coalopolis Stadium
last Saturday night, when he outed the
extremely tough Ron McLaughlin with
a right cross to the head. Sands
is a nicely-built fellow of about the
same even proportions as Sabatino. He
has now won a whole string of scraps,
pretty well all by k.o.
* ». * *
Stoush of one sort and another con-
tinues in a welter at various addresses in
Sydney. Last week there was scrapping
at Rushcutter Bay on Monday night;
Sports Arena (£lOOO tourney to find State
champions or better in all divisions) on
Tuesday night; Carlton, Wednesday
night; Leichhardt, Thursday night;
Arena again on Friday night. Quite fair
class can be seen in seven six-rounders
a night at the Arena, last week’s victors
including Tommy Chapman, the busy
little Newcastle scrapper, who beat Maxie
Miller ; Bert Beulah, who beat that deter-
mined scrapper Tommy Hunter (also
from Coalopolis); Young Day, who beat
Freddy Manuel; and Archie Rash, who
had a win over Tommy Mitchell.
A damaged eye prevented Alan West-
bury from joining in a return engagement
with Noumean Georges Champion at
Leichhardt (Georges won the first en-
counter). It was given out then that Joe
Delaney, who had done the damage to
Alan in a training .bout, would meet
Georges. Eventually it was Johnny
Shields —these days of the R.A.A.F. —
who met the Noumean southpaw.
Georges had no trouble taking a points
win by the conclusive margin of 12
rounds out of 12. Westbury, of course,
would have made more of a fight of it;
but Georges is definitely a snag. He has
the best of ring manners, is a keen and
clean scrapper, and, with Richards out of
the way, should collect enough scalps to
decorate every nut-tree on his native
heath.
No better scrap was witnessed during
the week than the eight-round prelim.,
Ron Warner v. Hughie Morgan, which
more than compensated for the one-
sidedness of the main engagement.
Warner—both a nice style of lad and
nice style of boxer, who has the good
sense to keep himself always in won-
derful nick —has been mentioned here
on several occasions, but he has not
hitherto figured in the role of a solid
puncher. Hughie Morgan is a tearaway
fighter, and his fierce all-in style suited
Ron. Cleverly avoiding trouble, Ron
caught him coming in with beautifully
timed and surprisingly weighty punches.
Hughie fought gamely, as is his way,
but Ron’s clean punching beat him, Ron
winning on a k.o. in the sixth.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
66E Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, tbe 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of Intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tub's. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store.
A WOMEN'S
LETTER
Friday’s big parade was the march of
R.A.A.F. trainees and reservists. A thou-
sand strong they strode, their arms at the
full swing. In the distance they had a
propeller-like suggestion. The khaki suits
and blue forage caps took on the gallant
and game quality of the men within them.
At the “Eyes right!” there was a smart
stamp of right feet. It was a sound whose
ominous warning will travel to Berlin.
They were a trim and bright-faced lot of
lads; and they marched with the admir-
ing gaze of thousands on them —a harder
task to some of them than tackling a
Dornier. There was confetti. There were
streamers. At the Town Hall Lord
Wakehurst took the salute. Later, with
high commands of the sea, land and air,
he was guest of Mayor Crick and his
wife at one of those stand-at-ease, cool
drink and snack after the parade get-
togethers.
Workers for the Tartan Fair are
jubilant about two happenings. In one
day they sold 300 of their Spitfire car
stickers. These represent one shilling
each, and there will soon be 5000 buzz-
ing about Sydney streets. The design
is gallant with crossed flags, a Spitfire
in one corner, a battleship in another,
and the words “There’ll always be an
England!” Also W. H. Mackay, of
Tinegroo, Scone, has offered to give 100
guineas provided five others will come
forward with like sums. The organisers
are hoping this will prove an incentive to
everybody with a bit of tartan in his
name. Air Chief Marshal Burnett will
open the fair on Saturday, May 3, at
three o’clock.
Mrs. J. Bernays, who with John Malt-
man is organising the Tartan Fair for
Scots College Spitfire Fund, is a com-
poser. Already she has written several
songs. With Dorothy Linton, another
Queenslander, she has just completed
“Moon Set.” This will be heard over the
air soon and the conductor of the orches-
tra at St. James Theatre has praised
it highly. Another composition in which
these two have collaborated is “Modern
Honeymoon,” a blues number. Vern
Barnett composed the music to still
another song by Jane Bernays. It is
titled “The Open Door.”
For 11 years the Society for Crippled
Children has gone about its kindly work
of helping the disabled children of this
State. Not only are the youngsters cared
for in clinics, in the Margaret Reid home
and at Beverley Park home, but the
society takes care that education is
attended to, and then arranges for
vocational training in subjects such as
motor mechanics, carpentry, chemistry,
electrical engineering, dressmaking, com-
mercial art, and shorthand. During
the year just ended there were 139
children in attendance at technical col-
leges and trade schools, ten at business
college, and ten training at the society’s
boot-repairing school. The aim of the
society is to help all its children to be-
come self-supporting. The annual meet-
ing was held at the Wentworth last
Monday. The work of the 24 women’s
auxiliaries during the last twelve months
calls for laurels and silver trumpets.
The chairman, Lt.-Col. William Wood,
and members of the board of manage-
ment of the War Veterans’ Home are
sharpening up their teeth and Scout knives
in preparation for a barbecue, which is
being organised by the North Sydney
Patriotic and War Fund Younger Group.
This will be held at St. Ives Showground
(French’s Forest) on Saturday, April 5,
from 8 p.m. till midnight. Proceeds will
be equally divided between the War
Veterans’ Home and the North Sydney
Patriotic and War Fund. The committee
is making arrangements for a programme
of amusements, which include open-air
dancing, treasure-hunt, singing, popular
songs, campfire supper, etc. Tickets are
4s. each.
News comes from America that Aus-
tralian singer Marjorie Lawrence has
married Dr. Thomas Michael King, of
Miami, Florida. Knot was tied in the
Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, New York.
Marjorie, pretty, clever and a hard
worker, achieved international fame as
an opera star at probably a younger age
than any other singer from Australia.
For some time before the outbreak of
war she was a favorite at the Paris
Opera and at the Metropolitan Opera
House, New York.
A loan exhibition of the paintings and
drawings of artist Sydney Long will be
opened on April 9 in the National Gallery
by B. J. Waterhouse. Some of the painter’s
early work will be included, and also a
small copy of the picture which he was
commissioned to paint by the directors
of the People’s Gallery, New York, and
which was displayed at the World’s Fair
in 1939. The directors sent him at the
time a special letter and a large bronze
medal inscribed “To commemorate ’>a
notable artistic achievement” (the subject
was the Harbor Bridge). Besides having
paintings in the galleries of every State
of the Commonwealth, Syd is also repre-
sented in the Galleries of Edinburgh,
Capetown, Montreal and Johannesburg
and in the Victoria and Albert Museum
in London. He was one of the founders
of the Black and White Club of London
and also of the Graphic Art Society, of
which he was secretary for some years.
He was only 18 when his first picture was
purchased by the Sydney Art Gallery.
The painting, “Pan,” will have place of
distinction at the end of the long gallery
facing the entrance.
Tomorrow afternoon the foyer of the
Royal threatens to be a maelstrom of
excitement. Actress Katie Towers’s
Diamond Jubilee matinee is going to be
the success of the season. It is 65 years
since Katie first appeared, a stage baby.
In between she has played many parts,
and made such cohorts of friends that
the problem was not how to make up
the programme, but to keep it from run-
ning for the duration. Actors and
actresses from all over Australia offered
their star turns for the performance
which is to help their old friend. The
Anderson Stuart lady is president of the
committee.
Tonight at seven the P.E.N. Club sur-
rounds its president, Robert Garran, with
welcoming words and a dinner at the
Carlton. The knight, who has just re-
turned from the U.S.A. and Canada,
bringing his sister, Mrs. Lucy Harper, of
Montreal, with him on a visit to Aus-
tralia, will tell members of his experiences
and impressions.
There will be a bit of a collision be-
tween the Katie Towers matinee and the
Society of Women Writers’ theatrical
lunch. Some of the cutlet-consumers are
on the programme, and those who aren’t
acting will want to be in the theatre to
applaud. Marie Ney, Hal Thompson,
Jane Conolly, Alec Coppel, Mary Ward,
Claude Flemming and other constellations
are to be 1 the bright stars around which
the literary moths will gather on Thurs-
day, April 3, at the Carlton.
Japan’s Consul-General Akiyama is
holding a reception at his home, Craig-
y-Mor, Point Piper, on Wednesday, April
9, in honor of Tatsuo Kawai, his Im-
perial Japanese Majesty’s Envoy Extra-
ordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.
Time, late afternoon between five and
six-thirty.
St. Vincent’s Hospital and the Crown-
street Women’s Hospital were on a good
wicket with the autumn fashion gala held
in the Minerva. Every bit of the takings
went to the two institutions. The firms
which were showing their new autumn
styles generously carried all expenses, so
that every woman who entered the theatre
represented a clear 2s. 6d. to the cause.
Noticed among enthusiastic committee-
workers were Mrs. Harold Bott, of the
Crown-street institution, and Mrs. Bertie
Kelly, who is an important committee
member of both St. Vincent’s and
Crown-street. In addition to the gate-
money there was a rake-off on sweets
and posies.
The Pacific Islands Society is lucky to
secure Price Conigrave as its guest of
honor and speaker tomorrow night. The
rendezvous is the Carlton Hotel, and
Price’s talk will be on the early links
between Australia and New Guinea. Mr.
Conigrave is a Fellow of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society and editor of
that society’s journal. He has also had
published two successful books on
Northern Australia: North Australia
(Cape) and Walkabout, published by
Dent in 1938. The address will be illus-
trated by lantern slides.
Viva Potts’s charming lyric soprano
was raised last week at the concert in
the Conservatorium in aid of the Mayor's
Patriotic and the Netherlands Relief
funds. Viva is a student of the Consei-
vatorium, and one of Sydney de Vries's
most talented pupils. Her father is C. V.
Potts, of 8.H.P., a member of the
council of the Royal Empire Society and
a past president of the N.S.W. Chamber
of Manufactures. Viva has recently be-
come engaged to Leslie Tabrett, formerly
of Fiji and Samoa. She is organising a
concert fen - tonight at Vaucluse to benefit
the Limbless Soldiers. Photograph from
Falk.
Once again Wirth’s Circus is in town,
and the heart of every small boy from
eight to eighty is skipping a beat with
excitement. The circus is as fixed an
event on the Easter calendar as the Show
and almost as much looked-forward-to.
Sympathy is felt with Doris Wirth, who
is convalescing after a stay in hospital.
The women’s auxiliary of the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron is doing every-
thing but practise the hornpipe in
preparation for its night for the Navy.
This is timed for next Saturday at eight
o’clock. Entry to the clubhouse at Kirri-
billi costs 25., and after that nothing is
free. Dances must be paid for, and all
the rest of the guests’ money will be taken
care of by the fishpond, the chocolate
wheels, hoop-la and the stalls. The Naval
War Auxiliary benefits.
Dorothy D’Orn’s recital brought clus-
ters of Sydney singers to the Conserva-
torium midway through last week.
Dorothy, a slim creature with a nicely-
shaped head and wide-apart eyes, has
a lyric soprano that was all moonshine
and dew in the old and delicate “Rose
Softly Blooming,” and displayed power
and animation in operatic numbers.
Dorothy has done much singing abroad,
and evidence that her stay in Hollywood
had been amiable in the extreme was
given by the frock she wore. This had
been presented to her by the Fox film
people in that movie centre. It was a
sherbet of white net in which great pale
blue and pale pink flowers drifted.
Dorothy’s sister, Mrs. Winter-Irving,
had flown from Melbourne with her
applause. Eager, blue-clad V.As. sold
programmes, for the recital would aid the
Red Cross funds. Manager Mrs. Rex
Bennett rustled about the foyer in
long black taffeta skirt and shell-pink
peasant blouse. Mrs. Florence Taylor
and sister Miss Annis Parsons were among
those early ones who arrived before the
barriers went down. Singer Alice Prowse,
not long back from her own American
triumphs, brought pleated Alice-blue
chiffons to the night. Mrs. Roland
Foster’s beflowered vellum taffetas had a
silver sparkle. Mrs. Fawsitt and Ruth
Pearce Jones were two other singers.
Pianist Trix Tange was there, the bodice
of her black chiffons as glittering as a
gold-reserve deposit. Mrs. Frank Albert,
Mrs. H. Cary and Neville Smith were
others noted.
Schoolgirls, schoolboys, social well-
knowns, and scintillating experts Margaret
Hoban and Gwen and Ron Chambers
spread about the Glaciarium rink in
gliding fantasy or crashed in broken sym-
phony last Thursday afternoon. The
“Glassy” had flung its doors wide, and
it is again open season for scraped shins
and bruised calves. Nearly 2000 crowded
the George-street playground.
Among the skaters was padre J. Kirk
(in his uniform as chaplain of the
A.1.F.), who was with his wife and her
sister, Rene Jenkins. The two sisters
wore horizon-blue suits, the skirts
appliqued with white stars. It was quite
the vogue to wear a flower in the hair.
Sylvia Keighley’s fair looks were in-
tensified by a cream outfit —knitted
sweater, pleated skirt. As usual, Mrs.
Herbert Douglass and Mrs. Rainbow
were headliners among the expert skaters.
Brenda Bradshaw, Dorothy Williams and
Mrs. Alan Crago helped make the bright
pattern of the afternoon.
A son of a former valued Bulletin
writer, Cripps Clark, is one of the re-
turned-from-overseas A.I.F. men who
arrived in Sydney recently. He is A. P.
Cripps Clark, of Moss Vale, and he has
returned suffering from a splintered spine.
Even after a week’s dissection women
agree that Marie Ney’s performance in
“Ladies in Retirement,” the Royal’s cur-
rent show, stands out in high relief. The
thought of the tortured, brilliant,
dementia-tainted mind she portrays as
the sinister heroine sends a cold shiver
down the spine. This play, suitable for
war-time inasmuch as the cast needs only
one man, is not so suitable because of its
gloomy nature. Besides Ellen Creed there
are two helpless, mentally-affected sisters
whom she protects like a tigress guard-
ing her young. Ethel Gabriel, whose act-
ing (very often broad comedy) is known
to" thousands of the Independent group’s
enthusiasts, shows her versatile talent as
the frightened, twittering Louise. Ruby
May, as the retired actress, manages to
suggest the background of the gay ’nine-
ties before she is popped into the old
bakehouse oven.
The Forrest Fultons, who arrived in
Sydney last week, are an outstanding
example of the tradition of “carrying
on.” The ship in which they left England
was torpedoed in mid-Atlantic. To add
to the misery a freezing gale was blow-
ing. At the end of 40 hours the survivors
were picked up by a Swedish ship. Dur-
ing that 40 hours five men in their life-
boat had died from exposure. Now
Mr. and Mrs. Fulton are in Australia,
and in spite of their harrowing experi-
ences Mr. Fulton is going about his busi-
ness affairs. When they are completed
Mr. and Mrs. Fulton will return to
London.
Lesley Turner is secretary for the
Grecian Revel which is to be held at
Rose’s restaurant on the evening of Sun-
day, April 20. The party will start at
six o’clock and end round about ten.
Profits go to the Greek War Fund and
the Greek School. Dr. E. Vrisakis,
Consul-General for Greece, is the patron.
News of the engagement of Lieutenant
William Marks, R.A.N., to his Patricia
Clegg, of Melbourne, was being
passed around during the American
Navy festivities. To celebrate the
event, the Walter Markses, of Wool-
lahra, held a late-afternoon party
last week for their own and their son’s
friends. The wedding is dated for April
19 at the Melbourne Grammar School
chapel. Bill’s sister Joan will go south
to be one of the bridesmaids. Wedding
reception will be at the home of Patricia’s
grandmother, Mrs. F. P. Brett, of South
Yarra. Bride-to-be is a daughter of the
Lt.-Colonel Cleggs, of South Yarra.


How to Become SUCCESSFUL.
AS A TICKET, SHOW-CARD ARTIST.
Train with H, & R, and learn modern methods.
The H. & R. course will train you quickly
... at home. Write for particulars.
Department of Distribution
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
38A Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
38A Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle and
Launceston. 38AA/TS7
Missing Friends.
MOFFATT. —Would anyone knowing the
whereabouts of DENIS DE LACY MOFFATT,
last heard of at Wollongong, New South Wales,
please communicate with or forward his address
to THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 400 Queen Street,
Brisbane?
ADDRESS wanted of ALFRED LINDSAY
KENNEDY, son of Simon Kennedy, de-
ceased, last heard of at Junee, N.S.W. —■
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE & AGENCY CO. OF
S.A., LTD., 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Legal Notices.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE JOHN PATRICK ROWAN, otherwise
ROWEN, late of Rockhampton, in the
State of Queensland, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons, par-
ticularly MATTHEW ROWAN or ROWEN,
or persons claiming through or by him and
claiming to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
John Patrick Rowan or Rowen, late of Rock-
hampton, in the State of Queensland, deceased,
who died on or about the Twenty-second day
of August, 1940 a.d., at Rockhampton, in the
said State, are hereby required to forward proof
of their relationship to the LOCAL DEPUTY
PUBLIC CURATOR, ROCKHAMPTON, on or
before the Thirty-first day of October, 1941.
After the expiration of the last-mentioned date the
PUBLIC CURATOR will proceed to distribute
the assets of the said deceased amongst the
parties entitled thereto having regard only to
the claims of which he shall then have had
notice.
DATED this Twentieth day of March, 1941.
M. J. McMAHON,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton.
Re Estate" of MARGARET CRONEAN, -
Deceased.
TAKE NOTICE that the Public Trustee of
New South Wales is the Administrator of the
Estate of Margaret Cronean, who died intes-
tate at Darlinghurst, Sydney, on the seventh
day of September, 1931. The said Margaret
Cronean was born in 1865 at Albion Park in
the said State and had a brother, John Cronean,
who was last heard of about 1900. The said
John Cronean, if alive on the seventh day of
September, 1931, would be entitled to a one-
ninth share in the Estate of the Intestate, or, if
he predeceased the Intestate, leaving children
who survived the Intestate, such children would
be entitled to the said share. Therefore let
the said John Cronean or his representatives
or his children, if any, Take Notice that unless
a claim by them or any of them to be of the
next-of-kin of the Intestate is received by the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney, on or before the Fifth day of August,
1941, the Public Trustee will distribute the said
one-ninth share among the next-of-kin of whose
claims he then has notice.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1525 of 1940.
BETWEEN KATHLEEN DOROTHY COOK
Petitioner and
GEORGE FALCONER COOK Respondent.
TO GEORGE FALCONER COOK c/o Mrs.
W. H. Fuller Fitzroy Street Tumut.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KATHLEEN
DOROTHY COOK has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Twentieth day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
"DATED this 24th day of March, 1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. E. SLEEMAN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Never in their brightest dreams did
the Queen Carnival committee organisers
hope for such a grand climax to their
efforts as that achieved on Saturday.
They aimed to raise £50,000 —they had
£92,000 in hand, and more to come
in. They had prayed for good
weather, scared when they dared to
think about it, at the risk of tak-
ing the Melbourne Cricket Ground
instead of the Town Hall. But the day
was sent straight from heaven, warm
and windless, with everyone in summer
garb in preference to the winter tweeds
of the last month. The crowd of 54,000
was for size in the same class as those
for Test cricket or League football, and
there were queues at the gates three hours
before they were opened.
The big audience appreciated the im-
pressive pageantry of the ceremony. It
cheered with a will each queen with her
color group and marching unit. The
queens and their retinues had to walk
around the arena, for the M.C.C. officials
wouldn’t allow on the grass the floats
that had been seen in the street pro-
cession of the preceding day. The people
cheered themselves hoarse when their
own Gladys sang “Land of Hope and
Glory” and they cheered when the golden
goose and small girl goslings produced
golden eggs (lucky prizes for numbers
on lucky entrance tickets). When the
pageant achieved a rising-sun pattern
around the dais in the middle of the
ground there were blasts upon a trumpet
and complete silence fell upon the enor-
mous crowd, broken only by the voices
of very small infants, whereupon a
stentorian voice announced the winner,
Jessie White, of Industry and Munitions.
Voting had closed at midday, and
although most officials knew the results
the general public didn’t, and it looked
like touch and go between the top
three candidates. But Miss White’s lead
was decisive, some £BOOO-odd over the
pace-setter of the carnival, Liquor’s
Mrs. K. J. Corridon.
The Lord Mayor’s offsiders tried to
work him up to wearing his robes when
he crowned the queen, but without suc-
cess. He said he couldn’t face the ordeal
of fancy dress, and did the job in one
of his street suits. During the all-
important moment of the crowning a
khaki-clad member of the Women’s
Legion gracefully swooned on the grass
of the arena. There was a considerable
stir among sister militants, ambulance
men came to the rescue, and no sooner
had the excitement died down than three
more women in khaki succumbed one
after another. The poor girls will prob-
ably never live down the fact that it
was they, uniformed war-winners, who
couldn’t stay the distance when other
units survived. Some consolation may
be drawn from the fact that the Women’s
Legion and Transport Drivers were on
parade in the sun for some time before
the pageant commenced.
Regarding the marching of women in
uniform, some marched well and some
didn’t, some stuck out their stomachs
and their chins, some wore shorts who
never should. Some were in slacks, but
their figures weren’t those of movie stars.
It seems there’s no happy medium. A
woman marching in battle-dress either
looks very smart and snappy as a well-
rehearsed ballet girl or she’s an in-
spiration for the pen of a mischievous
caricaturist.
Parties were prevalent on Saturday
evening. The queens and their sponsors
off the chain were able to relax, to eat
a hearty dinner and listen to plenty of
congratulations. An amicable spirit pre-
vailed among the queens; figuratively
speaking they all kissed one another on
both cheeks, and each had a very sincere
handclasp for Jessie White.
On Saturday evening there was, by
common consent, a drift by Queen Car-
nival moguls to Mrs. Isobel Green’s
house at the Exhibition. Crowned-queen
Jessie White was to have come, but
sponsor Alured Kelly persuaded her to
go home and make up a bit of beauty
sleep. Mrs. K. J. Corridon arrived with
retinue after a dinner at the Australia.
Others who availed themselves of liquid
refreshments plus wings of chicken under
the vine leaves included the Lord
Mayoral couple, Fred Armytage, Afton
Morcom, Claude Maher and P. G. Gare,
a young artist who first thought of the
idea of such a carnival.
A party that might have been plucked
from halcyon days gone by happened
last week when the Vicomte Jacques de
Selle du Real and M. Yves Nahama made
a lavish gesture in honor of Essential
Services Queen Mary Lundqvist. At the
door of the Australia’s Venetian Court
presided a flunkey in silken hose and
baby-blue knee-breeches. Within were
frosted lighthouses, pineapples resting
upon glaciers of ice with food and drink
of equal calibre. The Vicomte (Jacques
to all friends and most acquaintances) did
the honors with Mary alongside. A
thousand misfortunes had descended
upon M. Nahama, for only a few days
previously a revolting appendix called for
immediate attention, so all he heard of
the party was through calls at the hos-
pital and thank-you letters, translated
with the aid of a dictionary. M. Nahama
is a Turk who speaks a number of lan-
guages much better than he does English.
Mrs, Lundqvist wore black, a saucy
hat and a spray of red roses. Also in
black was her sister, Mrs. G. D. Nicojl,
accompanied by her husband. A couple in
fine fettle were the Arthur Lavers, for
Port Patrol, owned by Mrs. Laver and
Mrs. R. Nott, had won that afternoon at
long odds down at Mentone. Mr. and
Mrs. D. H. Dureau were there, and the
Hugh Crawfords and Alan Brockhoffs
made up a foursome unanimous in their
praise of turkey from a buffet. Prof, and
Mrs. Maurice Belz might secretly have
been celebrating a wedding anniversary,
Maurice in boiled shirt and white carna-
tion, Marjorie in white chiffon dinner
gown.
Inset from Spencer Shier, Patricia
Clegg, who recently became engaged
while visiting Sydney to Lieut. William
Beresford Moffitt Marks, R.A.N., only
son of Mr. and Mrs. Walter M. Marks, of
Woollahra. Pat is the elder daughter of
the late Lieut.-Colonel H. N. M. Clegg,
formerly Bth Hussars, and of Mrs.
Humphrey Clegg, of South Yarra.
A mannequin parade with an original
twist to its tail was held last week in
the Tallis wing of the University Con-
servatorium. The show happened in
short sessions so that the mannequins,
all juveniles, wouldn’t get too tired. They
were all too young to have mastered
mincing gait or siren glide ; in fact, they
didn’t do much walking. Standing upon
tables was the only thing required. All
complied happily but the very young
son and heir of the Registrar and Mrs.
J. Foster, who didn’t take at all kindly
to the color of his robin redbreast coat.
The clothes worn by the children will
soon be going overseas the garments
being typical of things required for the
Save the Children Fund in Britain.
The children’s parade was only one
feature of the afternoon, organised so
that representatives from the various sub-
sidiary branches who work with the
women of the University Patriotic Fund
could see a typical batch of garments
received during one week from various
sources. Among those interested are
the C.5.1.R., groups from four schools,
the Y.W.C.A. groups from Ascot Vale
Baby Health and the Melbourne Hos-
pital, several other bands of workers
in town and country, and last b;;t not
least University women, past, present and
attached by marriage or other interests.
A high standard of work is required
by the W.U.P.F., and everything sent
away is new. On deck during the after-
noon, which commenced with buffet tea
and raisin cakes (very welcome in view
of the rainswept world out of doors),
were president Mrs. K. H. Bailey, Mrs.
J. D. G. Medley, Mrs. P. L. Martyn,
Mrs. O. F. Tiegs (her other major good
work is the Victoria League Bush
Library), Mrs. L. H. Martin, Mrs.
Norman Ormiston (otherwise composer
Margaret Sutherland) and Misses K. and
E. Peterson, a competent pair of sisters
who work the “wool press’' in which the
garments are compressed so that they’ll
occupy as little valuable shipping space
as possible. Only two of the 40 bales
dispatched are known to have been lost
en route.
On a stormy-weather afternoon Strella
Wilson was faced with the problem of
dressing for two functions poles apart —
a gala matinee at the Comedy (at which
she had to face the spotlights upon the
stage) and a golf gymkhana. She com-
promised with all black and the warmest
coat in her wardrobe.
Star turns at the Tyros’ matinee were
Jay Whidden and his sweet swing band.
The versatile Jay, now on his way back
to the U.S.A., will be missed by the boys
and girls who like their rhythm served
up with plenty of oomph. Gladys Mon-
crieff sang at the matinee, a friendly
gesture for the queen carnival candida-
ture of friend Strella. Tyros who helped
with the organising included Mrs. St. J.
Curwen, her blonde head hatless and
safe from the wind in a net, Gwen Lloyd,
checking financial commitments in blue
coat over fuchsia dress, Ruth Wilson, in
navy coat over figured frock, Maxine
Portus (mother Mrs. Percy Portus
brought along some friends, including
Mrs. Westgarth Davey, of Sydney), and
young Julienne Cox, who, wearing tailored
coat, moved around with speed. Mrs. L.
M. Cooney, in black and a personality
hat, sold programmes along with Mar-
jorie James and Olive Williams. Among
Tyros’ friends who helped were a youth-
ful pair, Margery Austin, among her
silver foxes, and Mrs. Harry Linton,
whose sailor hat played a forceful note
in lipstick-red.
Within a few months the three Lalor
girls have all announced their engage-
ments. Eldest, Nanno, has followed the
example of her younger sister, and while
pursuing her profession of nursing (she
is theatre sister at St. Benedict’s) has
become engaged by letter, cable and ring
sent by airmail to Keith Alan Philp,
A.I.F. abroad ; Keith is the second son
of the Harold Philps, of East Malvern.
Felicitations are being offered to youth-
ful Pamela Stillman (Spencer Shier photo-
graph) and to Peter Fethers. Pamela,
whose forte is clothes —she is learning
the art of design and of salesmanship—
is the elder daughter of Lieut.-Colonel
and Mrs. L. R. Stillman, of Domain-road,
South Yarra. Fiance Peter is the only
son of Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs. W. K.
Fethers, of Hopetoun-road, Toorak.
Sybille Riley, youngest daughter of
the W. A. Rileys, now of Elsternwick,
and sometime of Colac, recently became
engaged to A. T. Martin Bolton, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. T. G. Bolton, of
Avernal. Miss Riley is a saleswoman of
same calibre, her specialty being a Mel-
bourne firm’s line of garments which
make for beautiful figures. Her fiance is
Victorian manager of Foster Clark’s. He
plays the fiddle as a hobby and was some-
thing of a cricketer,
Rex Battarbee is having another show
of pictures in the glowing colors of the
Centre up at the Athenaeum. He’ll cross
his heart about the color, and other
visitors to that part of the world bear
him out—pal Bob Croll, for instance,
says that the first time he saw the sunset
hit Mt. Giles he thought it was a bush-
fire. Rex Battarbee has now done six
trips to the heart of the continent, where
they call the rock pools the pubs and
the soaks the sly-grog shops. Often when
he finds water he paints it. Blue lakes
lie at the bottom of his gorges, the shal-
lows of salt swamps give a whiff of cool-
ness to his pictures of hot, arid landscape.
He doesn’t claim to be much of a horse-
man but he’s pretty good on a camel,
and recommends a camel hack for a
nerve tonic he says the motion is
soothing. (Bad sailors will disagree on
this point.)
Artist Battarbee and a Brother from
the Hermannsburg Mission did a 400-
miles camel trip away to the west of
the Alice on which they had several ad-
ventures, including an encounter with a
mob of wild blacks —friendly fellows who
in their own lingo invited the white men
to live with them. Rex Battarbee’s
protege Albert, the Arunta artist, is well
and happy with his wife and eight chil-
dren. He’s spent all the money made at
his very successful exhibitions, for as
well as the eight offspring there are in-
numerable relations and whole tribes
who know by instinct when there’s tucker
about.
Some soil-erosion photographs are
being exhibited in the Kodak gallery.
Collaborated for the show were the Soil
Conservation Board, the State Rivers and
Water Supply Commission, the “Young
Farmers’ Journal” and the Kodak firm.
The subject is of national importance,
sponsoring was excellent and publicity
satisfactory, therefore it seemed regret-
table that the display was not more force-
ful. Most of the photographs were of
snapshot size only, and many were placed
a couple of feet above the head of a
man of average height. Given good eye-
sight anyone knowledgeable of the sub-
ject could no doubt appreciate the varied
aspects of erosion as shown by the variety
of pictures ; but there was no fine art
of propaganda to strike home at the ordi-
nary man who’s lived all his life in town.
H. G. Strom, who took many of the
photographs displayed, is the present
chairman of the Soil Conservation Board,
which came into existence last December.


A PRODUCT OF TRADITIONAL CRAFTSMANSHIP
War has come and shattered peace, but
the women in the Outer Hebrides still ply the
spinning wheel and the loom to produce the
famous handspun, handwoven Harris Tweed,
the most practical and distinctive of all
fabrics for present-day wear.
WM
HARRIS TWEED
HARRIS TWEED was first made by the people of the Outer Hebrides
to protect themselves against the gales and mists which sweep across
these far-off isles. To protect the craftsmanship of the islanders, the
Harris Tweed Trade Mark has been registered by order of the Board of
Trade. The Trade Mark with the word HANDSPUN above it, stamped
on the cloth itself, is an absolute guarantee that the tweed has been
made entirely by hand from pure Scottish wool.
The yarn must be spun by hand on the spinning
wheel and woven by hand at the homes of the
islanders. Every process must be carried out in
the Outer Hebrides—the home of Harris Tweed.
The word HANDSPUN above the Trade Mark
is a definite assurance that the cloth so stamped
is a handspun Harris Tweed made in exactly the
same way as has been done for generations.
LOOK FOR THE MARK ON THE CLOTH
LOOK FOR THE LABEL ON THE GARMENT
mm
m
*■*
mm
MABRtSTWEtD
Issued by The Harris Tweed Association Limited, 5 Coleman Street, London, E.C,2
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
In Town Again
At the moment there is a large lion
with six lionesses —which seems a lot,
even for a lion —in the wilds a few fur-
longs beyond Sydney’s Hyde Park. There
are also three bears, several - elephants,
a panther, a leopard, sundry monkeys,
horses, ponies and other odds and ends
of the animal kingdom prowling there-
abouts. It is not, however, a matter of
any concern for the fainthearted nor of
any interest whatsoever to big-game
hunters; it simply denotes the return of
Wirths to their usual location just behind
the large drapery emporium at the corner
of Oxford and Riley streets.
The lion, despite his lionesses, is appar-
ently a good-natured chap, and his ladies,
despite harem conditions, also appear
friendly enough. That is, of course,
friendly and good-natured towards Cap-
tain Flyger, who ventures among them
with all the sang-froid with which the
missus ventures into the fowlhouse for
the breakfast egg. The Captain and Leo
are evidently old cobbers on the strength
of the familiar manner in which he pats
the old boy on the back, scratches about
in his mane, or leans nonchalantly on his
shoulder. The ladies behave as all good
wives should, perched on their pedestals
in the background and jumping to it
when spoken to —one of them gracefully
covering fifteen feet in one leap from
stool to stool.
The elephants, apart from threatening
the country with serious shortage of pea-
nuts by swallowing several hogsheads of
the fruit at a sitting, may also be described
as comparatively harmless. In fact, it is
recorded that wee, sleekit, cow’rin’, tim’-
rous Princess Alice, of three tons 17cwt.
burthen and some 154 years, is hysteri-
cally afeared of mice. It is, however,
also recorded that she once devoured her
keeper’s coat in the pocket of which was
a blade razor, while on another occa-
sion she and a fellow pachydermatous
conspirator sneaked out one night and
Catherine Duncan, Ethel Gabriel and Marie Ney as the sinister spinsters of
“Ladies in Retirement” at Sydney Royal. About to be retired permanently is Ruby
May; John MacDougall an interested spectator.
wrecked a plaster factory and, criminal-
like, crept back to their trucks and locked
themselves in again, so removing all
traces of their crime except for their
liberal coating of plaster.
Looking at them in the ring, however,
you would never suspect them of such
behavior; they content themselves with
such mild delights as waltzes, Irish jigs
and, in a moment of reckless, unelephant-
like abandon, a hula-hula—or whatever
dance it is that calls for the graceful
undulation of the southern portions of
the anatomy.
In literally lighter moments the neddies
show their paces—lovely creatures which
restore the affection for their kind that
we lost at Rosehill last week. And,
speaking of such matters, there is in the
show a young bareback rider who looks
as though he might have been able to
do something with the rusty clothesprops
we backed. And, still speaking of such
matters, there are the ponies with their
tricks and their steeplechase—ridden by
monkeys who also look as though they
might have done better than the petrified
dummies who rode the rusty clothesprops,
etc.
Although there is no Goldilocks to
accompany the three bears, there is Miss
Hama, who trips about on the tightrope
as daintily as you could wish and with
all the assurance of a spider on its web.
Also in the sphere of dazzling gymnastics
are the Myrons, whose feats on lofty
perches suggest that they come from a
long line of champion flagpole-sitters or
Tibetan mountain goat hunters; the Cor-
vettes, whose aerial flights on the trapeze
are a lesson to local sparrows ; and the
Uyenos, with their dexterous barrel-
juggling, balancing and somersaulting,
etc., and Kiachi, who ascends 12 steps
balancing on his head, a feat excelled
only by a certain Bulletin artist who
unwisely showed a caricature he had just
completed to the victim and immediately
descended 25 steps on one ear.
Altogether as nice a serving of circus
as could be asked for, with clowns, in-
cluding the excellent French musical trio,
up to their usual amusing antics, with
trained dogs doing everything a dog
doesn’t usually do and doing it well, with
music, with noise, with peanuts, with saw-
dust, and with all and sundry enjoying
themselves immensely.
* * * *
“Thunder Rock”
Though this play of Robert Ardrey’s
makes great show of resolving the prob-
lems confronting the individual as to his
course of action in regard to present-day
turmoils, in effect it does nothing more
than formulate those problems. If it
makes any helpful statement it is “Have
faith ; somebody will come along to lead
us out; for yourself do your own job,
you might help.” It is a “talking” play,
a play of sermonising and argument. But
within its limits its people are “interest-
ing” people, capable of interesting inter-
pretation. Doris Fitton’s Independents
at their North Sydney Theatre seize every
opportunity to make them characters. As
they present it the play is a triumph of
casting. With scarcely an exception they
all portray real people, Steve Hodgkin-
son’s scenery is of the same high quality.
* * * *
Mosman Musical Society chose hap-
pily for its 117th production Noel
Coward’s “Bitter Sweet.” The cast is a
big one, giving everybody a chance, the
music is tuneful, the songs catchy, the
“story” a good one. Wilma Gregory
and Reg Willoughby fitted easily into the
parts of the Marchioness of Shayne and
Carl Linden, and the others gave them
sturdy support. Cremorne Orpheum
housed the offering.
AT THE TALKIES.
“Dr. Cyclops”
Striking color photography and novel
effects make this Sydney Lyceum offering
well worth inspection, even if only for
the spectacle. The story has a mad scien-
tist with a radium mine in the depths of
S. America and a method of reducing
living creatures to a fraction of their
normal size. Thither comes a party of
scientists, who meddle in his affairs, and
duly find themselves reduced to mantel-
piece dimensions.
Special effects are realistic, and there
is something fascinating about the sight
of human beings and horses no more than
a foot high. Their diminutive
size contrasted with the menacing
bulk of the scientist gives them a
graceful delicacy, and the sight,
in technicolor, of a tiny cream
and tan piebald pony prancing
round on top of a table beggars
description. So do shots of a
couple of brilliantly colored birds
trying to cling to their perches in
a jungle tree lashed by the wind
and rain of a tropical storm.
Albert Dekker is the scientist.
He is rapidly proving himself one
of the most versatile actors on the
screen. Recently he has been
seen as a hulking ruffian, a cul-
tured but drunken doctor on an
island steamer, a Cockney ex-pug,
and now an eminent and slightly
crazy biologist.
* * *
“Invitation to a Murder”
A professor of philosophy is
told by his doctor that he has six
months to live and immediately
seeks the best manner of spend-
ing his last six months. An
acquaintance suggests that the
murder of some fester on society
would be the best service he could
render mankind, and the profes-
sor is taken with the idea. A
young married couple he knows is
breaking up because the husband has be-
come entangled with a woman art-dealer
who is forcing him to paint spurious old
masters. The professor investigates the
woman’s record and finds nothing but
greed, crookedness and infamy; then,
after pleading with her to release the
young man, murders her. He goes to
the electric chair for the crime, leaving
behind him a sop to moralists in the form
of a letter denouncing himself for the
crime and stating that he had had no
right to decide whether any person should
live or die.
Thomas Mitchell is the professor and
makes the part interesting; James
Stephenson is as polished as usual as the
doctor ; Jeffrey Lynn and Geraldine Fitz-
Gerald are the young couple. A fair
entertainer at Sydney Civic.
* * * •
“The Bank Dick”
This stretch of inspired nonsense at
Sydney Capitol has W. C. Fields at his
best. Basically it is a modern version of
the old Keystone style of comedy, but
altogether it is an almost bewildering
conglomeration of absurdity, fantasy,
satire, irrelevancy and sheer nonsense. It
gives the impression that the filmsmiths
—or Fields himself—made it all up as
they went along. Bright entertainment.
Supported by “Behind the News,” a light
action film with Lloyd Nolan as the Star
Newschund.
% * * ♦
“The Housemaster,” at Sydney Em-
bassy, has Otto Kruger making an f.a.q.
job of the main role, but never quite
managing to rise above the weight of a
poorly directed story—pretty much the
same as Hay wrote it, but dragged across
the screen in an almost incredibly clumsy
manner. The only pleasure left in the
film by the halfway mark is the contem-
plation of the end of it.
ARTBURSTS.
Rex Battarbee is showing another col-
lection of his water-colors of Central Aus-
tralia at Melbourne Athenaeum. There
are the same fantastically spectral gums,
one hoary giant in particular looking as
if it had got mixed up incongruously
with a snowstorm; the same barren,
red, purple and mauve ranges ; the same
vagrant pools of water with wrinkled
rocks mirrored in them, and the same
empty skies looking down on illimitable
deserts. There is a vivid splash of wild-
flowers in the Finke Valley and a couple
of heads of abos., one being of local
interest, inasmuch as its owner, who is
painting a boomerang, is Namatjira, the
native pupil of the artist, and the only
Binghi to hold an art show in Melbourne.


ROYAL EMPIRE SHOW
8 DAYS
5 NIGHTS
APRIL 7-15
THE ROYAL
EMPIRE SHOW
FU IAM
EXHIBIT.
Flo AH’S
MOBILE OMITS.
Mutual Recogm'tvoK .
COME EA.ROY AMO AWOID THE RUSK /
vV THE
SKELETQM
mam ‘i
AtfMV COOKERS


THE SERVICE MAN
Italian Navy Defeated Again.
“Nobby II”: Wavell and the Cun-
ninghams are giving Italy no peace.
On March 28 the Admiralty announced
the torpedoing of two Italian supply
ships in the Mediterranean by H.M.
submarine Parthian. The ships were not
seen to sink —naturally the Parthian had
to leave —but the engines of both were
heard to stop. Italian anti-sub. boats
were dropping depth charges when the
Parthian fired her second round of three
torpedoes.
Rome piped up with the news that
“naval assault units” had entered Suda
Bay, Crete, and sunk a British warship.
This was accompanied by an admission
that British ’planes had bombed several
bases in the
On Sunday night the Admiralty issued
a preliminary communique to the effect
that on Friday the Royal Navy, under
Sir Andrew Cunningham, had attempted
to close with Italian battleships, cruisers
and destroyers. The enemy scattered,
but some units were brought to action.
One new 35,000-ton Littorio battleship—
the other was disabled in Taranto —was
damaged and two enemy cruisers severely
damaged. Rafts were sighted carrying
survivors.
The Italians first claimed to have
attacked British naval units on Friday
and hit two aircraft-carriers and two
cruisers—“one cruiser considered lost;
some small merchantmen hit, one on
fire.” Next day another Italian official
report claimed only the hitting of a light
cruiser. The Germans also reported
having scored three hits on an aircraft-
carrier.
The Admiralty issued a second state-
ment on Sunday giving actual sinkings
as three Bin.-gun cruisers and two de-
stroyers. The cruisers were of the Zara
class, which was built in 1930-31 as an
answer to H.M.A.S. Australia and Can-
berra and the rest of the British London
class, completed a year or so before the
Italians were laid down. Two of the
lost ships were named after the isolated
ports of Fiume and Zara, which are in
enclaves in Yugoslav territory ; the third
was the Pola, named after a port also
dangerously close to Yugoslavia. The
complements of the three totalled 2400
men, plus aircraft personnel.
The destroyers were the Vincenzo
Gioberti, one of the 1936 class of 1500-
ton, 39-knot vessels, and the Maestralc,
slightly smaller. Sir Andrew Cunning-
ham’s Sunday report added that there
had been no casualties in or damage to
British ships, albeit two aircraft were
missing.
Greek warships and the R.A.F. co-
operated with the Mediterranean Fleet.
Since the beginning of the war Sir
Andrew Cunningham’s squadrons and
the R.A.F. have destroyed three Italian
battleships and damaged others, sunk
four heavy cruisers and severely damaged
another, and sunk ten destroyers and 20
submarines.
Funeral March of an
"Empire."
“Ek Dum”: Keren (Eritrea), more
stoutly defended than any other part
of Italian Africa, gave in last week.
British, Indian and Free French forces
were involved on terra firma, with the
R.A.F. and S.A.A.F. above, and an occa-
sional R.A.A.F. machine joining in the
struggle.
The climax was reached on March 27
after 12 Italian counter-attacks within two
days on British advanced positions, which
had been pushed almost into the town
itself. General Wavell, flying over from
Cairo, saw the Indian troops, with whom
he and his father and grandfather before
him had been intimately associated, beat
these onslaughts off. He waited to be
assured that the end was near. He flew
away as unobtrusively as he had come
and left his commanders to take the glory
of the victory.
In the last attacks among the eagle
haunts of the escarpment, Italians were
hurled bodily down the ravines. Indians
went up the cliffs, side by side with High-
landers, into positions from which
machine-gun and hand-grenade could
clear out defensive nests.
At 7 a.m. the defence of Keren, in
which 60,000 Italian troops at least had
been involved, was over. British armored
units entered the town without resistance.
Italian troops and vehicles fled hurriedly
down two winding roads leading 60 miles
to Asmara, the capital, from which Brit-
ish troops were 40 miles on Sunday.
On the other side of the Abyssinian
border the scrub is full of dodging
Italians and their native levies. Harar
fell into British hands last week, which
wrote finis to the Italian control of the
passes of the Ahmar Mountains, of the
Addis Ababa-Djibuti railway. This line
has been no use to Italy for some time,
ending as it does in Djibuti, French terri-
tory, off which British fleets rove at will.
Diredawa, the greatest Abyssinian air
centre, was doomed the moment Jiga Jiga
saw the British flag hoisted. It is 35
miles from Harar. Its capture followed
within two days of the occupation of
the latter town.
On the west there has been heavy
fighting round Debra Markos, only 125
miles from Addis Ababa. Italian and
British Somaliland is conquered territory.
For all practical purposes Eritrea and
Ethiopia also are General Wavell’s. The
Italian retreats are not disorderly, but
they are decisive and savagely harassed
by the R.A.F.
Hot Work in Libya.
“Ek Dum”: The solid immobility—
only external —which appears to have
fallen on Cyrenaica has been disturbed
by a little scouring round the edges,
from which, in some cases, the sparks
flew freely, as at Jarabub.
The full story of that fight shows that
it was a brilliant small action fought in
bad March weather by Queenslanders,
supported by a S.A. infantry company
which had not previously been in action
and S.A. and Tasmanian Vickers-gun
and mortar units ; together with a second
force of mechanised cavalry, British
cavalry and artillery and R.E. detach-
ments.
On March 18 a bluff on the south was
captured to provide a vantage-point for
cover fire. Next day the infantry was
brought up on the south to within 600
yards of the main defences, coming under
fire from five heavily-fortified bluffs. The
oasis was protected by 10ft. hedges of wire
which the Italians laid down early in the
war from Solium, on the coast, for hun-
dreds of miles inland. These features
were the reasons why infantry was pre-
ferred to cavalry for the southern attack.
Thursday, March 20, broke with a
howling gale blowing and sand tearing
through the camp like a smoke-screen
gone mad. The British artillerymen said
that it was the worst weather they had
experienced for months.
In clear moonlight before daybreak
on Friday Royal Engineers, followed by
the infantry, went forward to deal with
the wire behind a thunderous barrage.
In the first 25 minutes many gaps were
made. Through these the footsloggers
poured in the face of withering rifle
and machine-gun fire which came out of
the numerous tiers of the high square
bluffs —like “storming a block of flats,”
somebody said.
It was growing daylight as the southern
advance guard of Queenslanders flung
themselves through the wire barrier and
into confused hand-to-hand fighting
which whirled and staggered from post
to post for an hour over gravelled slopes
and stony gullies. They tackled the
slopes and winding goat-tracks of the
bluffs as best they could, pushing each
other up over the flattened remains of
the lower fortifications. Those in front
cleared the way with bomb and bayonet
until three bluffs were held and a sandy
track pointed a way to the inner forts
through a further hail of bullets. All
main redoubts were held by the A.I.F.
by a few minutes after 7 a.m.
Meanwhile, some distance to the north,
were 150 Australian mechanised cavalry
—two squadrons. They had been holding
the fort locked for three weeks.
These squadrons were given their
chance at 6.30 a.m. They divided forces
-—one went to the aerodrome down a
wadi, the other made for the bluffs. The
Italian posts resisted bitterly, but one by
one went out like lamps. The squadron
attacking the aerodrome found itself
being plastered by two enemy guns, but
an officer and a sergeant, creeping under
fire along the bases of the cliffs, put them
out of action. The squadron careered
over the aerodrome and occupied the
hangars.
The mopping-up on the south took a
long time. It was afternoon before the
Australian flag floated over the high out-
line of the bluffs. “The men went to
it like true Britons —the old A.I.F. was
never better,” said the brigadier in com-
mand.
The prisoners numbered over 800, in-
cluding the wounded commander, Colonel
Costiani. The A.I.F. was far outnum-
bered, though Rome, with its usual
liking for fantasy, reported that the fort
had been taken, after three months of
heroic resistance, by “overwhelmingly
superior numbers.”
Last week Marshal Graziani resigned —
this time successfully—and directly after-
wards, on March 25, the Germans
claimed that the “German African Corps”
had retaken El Agheila, which lies at the
western bottom corner of the Gulf of
Sidra below Benghazi. It is the furthest
point towards Tripoli which was reached
by any large force of Wavell’s men.
There was an Italian aerodrome there
and some other small facilities.
A Berlin communique read:
A German column en route to relieve an
advanced German and Italian detachment
east of the Sirte desert fringe was attacked by
British motorised columns on Sunday. It
is now learnt that the British were beaten
lack and scattered.
Cairo headquarters of the A.O.T.N. re-
ported :
A small enemy detachment on Monday
occupied El Agheila, from which our
standing patrol had previously withdrawn.
El Agheila is of no importance, and is
not in a good defensive or offensive posi-
tion. Its capture did not prevent the
R.A.F. from sailing over it along the
coastline for a couple of hundred miles
and plastering shipping at Sirte, as well
as Tummet aerodrome, which is south
of El Agheila on the fringe of the Libyan
Desert, where the Germans claimed to
have operated.
Anyway, the withdrawal from El
Agheila will give the German High
Command only a very uneasy satisfac-
tion. All Wavell’s withdrawals so far
have resembled the pulling back of a
fist before letting go a knockout punch.
Campaigning in the Balkans.
“Ek Dum”: It is difficult for Aus-
tralians who know only their own
country to vision the smallness of the
Balkans and the imminence with which
the dangers from the north throw their
shadows over Greece. Greece is only
\\ times the size of Tasmania. Yugo-
slavia, which looks a vast territory on
the map, is only a bit bigger than Vic-
toria.
Yugoslavia and Bulgaria run from
horizon to horizon across the top of
Greece. Sofia is only as far from the
Aegean coast as Bathurst from Manly
(N.S.W.). The crossing of the Rhodope
is much like crossing the Blue Moun-
tains by the Bell track, via Kurrajong,
with the road as it was up to a few years
ago.
German troops are lined along the
top of the Rhodope inside the border.
Further west for the whole length of
the Bulgarian frontier they dominate the
ranges, from the peaks of which the
sea can be seen.
Provided the Germans have to strike
from Bulgaria, the main line of attack
would almost certainly come by the
Struma valley. The Struma is a turgid
river which tears a way through
the Rhodope from its sources in the
ranges along the Bulgar-Yugoslavian
border west of Sofia. In spring a hun-
dred torrents feed its racing stream.
The road and rail run down its valleys
and passes from Sofia, and all along its
course roads feed in from the Yugo-
slavian side, the border being only a
few miles away at every point. Also,
roads feed in at points from the Plovdev
side on the Maritza, on the east, thus
placing Hitler in a position to move the
army which crossed the Danube at
Rustchuk into the Struma line of ad-
vance, if he did not fancy attacking
eastern Greece and striking for Dedea-
gatch—that would at once force Turkey
to fight—or for Xanthe, to which a main
road runs.
On the Yugoslavian side a main rail-
way from Salonika runs to Belgrade and
thence on to Germany, and also links
with Sofia via Nish —161 miles. This
is the most convenient route for sup-
plies from Germany to the Greek
frontier. There is also a road system
which runs up the Vardar from Salonika
into Strumitza, in Yugoslavia, past Lake
Doiran, which British soldiers knew so
well in the last war. The railways
link up with the Salonika-Dedeagatch
line, which in turn ties Greece to Asiatic
Turkey. Dedeagatch is 276 miles from
Salonika by rail.
Attack down the Struma, if Yugoslavia
were German-controlled, would mean
(1) use of the easiest approach to a
defending army, at some disadvantage
in being at the lower —and also more
unhealthy and malarial —levels; (2) a
line of advance parallel and close to
the main railway and road system of
Yugoslavia; (3) a direct threat to the
junction of most important Greek rail-
ways, whether travelling east or west.
By following this route the invaders
might cut Greece in halves near
Salonika without going near the
Turkish border. At the same time,
if this line of attack were used they
could, almost as soon as they crossed the
border, strike directly west towards
Fiorina and be on the rear of the gallant
Greek armies which are driving Mus-
solini’s relay teams into the sea. The
distance to Valona is about equal to
that between Sydney and Goulburn —
say 150 miles or so.
If Hitler had Yugoslavia in the bag,
he need not bother to lay down rear
communications. He could provide
those in advance in Yugoslavia and
would have only a southern flank to
worry about.
All the same, the defence of the
approaches from the Struma valley,
especially in spring, when every tributary
is pouring snow water into the rivers
which rush to the coast, is not so difficult
as it might seem.
The Struma runs out into the Gulf of
Rendina, on the east of the peninsula at
the base of which Salonika is situated.
Twenty miles from its mouth across a
lake is Seres, on the Dedeagatch railway;
its port is Kavala. A progress of 18|
miles brings the road to Demi Hissar,
which the B.E.F. knew well in the last
war. About a mile further on the foot-
hills of the ranges are reached, and with
them the lower end of the Rupel Pass.
Up to September, 1918, in the last war
the Bulgarian main lines ran from the
Struma, across the mouth of Rupel Pass,
and a mile south of Demi Hissar, along
the foothills just north of and round
Seres and to the sea.
The pass is easily commanded for de-
fence from hills to the east, which is the
wrong side from the Greek viewpoint.
At 28} miles from Seres the Bulgarian
frontier is reached and the Bidtritza
River has to be crossed.
All the country behind this is already
under German control. The German
route to Sofia is nearly 110 miles long.
At 39 miles out of the Bulgarian capital
it meets its first feeder road, which leaves
Yugoslavia near Devebay at the border
only a few miles away. A branch
railway from Kumanovo, on the main
line through Yugoslavia, loops in this
part of the West Struma region. About
20 miles out steep climbing begins, but
though peaks rise up on both sides, the
heights reached anywhere on the Struma
route are not as high as those of the
Blue Mountains. The highest point is
31 miles from Sofia —top of the Dupitzic
Pass, 2350 ft. From here the country is
wretched and the road mostly winding
and confined.
River and tributaries are crossed two
or three times in the next few miles.
After about a dozen of these crossings
and some steep pinches, miles on
the way, comes Juma’i-Bala, only 1342 ft.
above sea-level, and 80 miles from Seres.
Here another road arrives from Yugo-
slavia —this time from Ishtib, 70 miles
away, which is on a branch of the main
Belgrade railway.
The way to the border gets more dif-
ficult. The next eight miles is mainly in
river gorge ; behind that is level country
overlooked by hills. About 14 miles from
Juma the maw of another gorge appears.
It winds round tortuously with the river.
On one side are steep cliffs, 30ft. to
60ft. high; on the other, steep slopes
covered with a scrub of stunted Valona
oak. In all, this gorge is 6| miles long
and very steep.
Twelve miles from the Greek border
there is another bunch of river crossings.
Then, seven miles further on, the railway
from Strumitza in Yugoslavia comes in.
Another 10 miles pass before the in-
vaders reach the beginnings of the “jump
down” to the maritime estuary plain and
the narrow saddleback of hills which
divide the Struma from the Vardar River
further west.
As the crow flies Salonika is only 44
miles from the point where the Yugo-
slav-Bulgar-Greek borders join; about
50 from where the Struma enters Greece.
The frontier of Yugoslavia on the
Strumitza road, up the Vardar valley, is
about 45 miles by road from Salonika ;
much less by air. Fiorina, the key to the
northern Greek defences in the west, is
less than 100 miles from the Struma line
at the Bulgar border ; and the Monastir
railway, which links with the main Greek
lines to Germany via Yugoslavia, runs
right past it.
There is some disease-stricken country
on the way from the east, and some
heavy mountain passes have to be fought


for on the way to Valona, from which-
ever way the enemy comes. In them the
Greeks are in their element, as the
Italians have learnt. Mechanised trans-
port has lessened the disease risk.
It has also limited the scope of war
weapons to those which the terrain will
permit to be carried. And mountain
terrain has so far not shown itself favor-
able to air war. The ideal conditions
for the German type of Blitz attack are
open plain country, full of helpless towns
and people, where fast vehicles can rush
in all directions panicking and rolling
flat the population and burning villages
while the Luftwaffe blast the defenders.
The Greek northern terrain is not a
good locale for heavy blows delivered
by concentrated mechanised forces. And
the Keitel method has yet to be tried
in rough country against an enemy well
prepared and acquainted with most of
the German tricks.
In effect, the Germans in Bulgaria are
in the position of a man who has stuck
his head into a deep bag, of which Yugo-
slavia constitutes one side, Turkey the
other, and Greece and the now British-
owned Mediterranean a very tough, thick
bottom full of bull-ants.
If Hitler attempts to tear up the west-
ern side of the bag he will promptly find
Yugoslavia drawing on the bull-ant sup-
plies of the bottom. Yugoslavia would
immediately open the ports and aero-
dromes of the Dalmatian coast and
the resources of the interior to Britain
and Greece.
Italy’s isolated foothold halfway up
the Yugoslavian coast at Zara, one of
the major Italian naval and air stations,
would go ; so would the islands guard-
ing the Gulf of Quarnaro and Fiume.
Trieste, which enters double as many
vessels as any other port in Italy, would
face the 160 miles of hostile Yugoslav
border from less than 20 miles away.
One leg of the important dual rail-
way system which runs from Trieste to
Salzburg (and Berchtesgaden) actually
goes (via Gorizia) through Yugoslav
territory ; the other leg, where it meets
the Gorizia circuit at Villach, the
junction for Vienna, is under gunfire
from the Yugoslav border in mountain-
ous country for miles, where Italy, Aus-
tria and Yugoslavia join.
Hereabouts is part of the bit of skin
which binds the Horrible Axis Twins
together. If Italy were somehow dragged
in they would feel the knife. Italy’s
inner Adriatic coast would be harried
from new British naval and air bases at
Cattaro and Spalato. Its northern naval
bases and industrial cities would be
brought within range of R.A.F. bombing
matinees. The only air bases along the
Adriatic coast from which Italy could
operate in Albania would be “just across
the creek” from Yugoslavia.
With the entry of Yugoslavia into the
war the Albanian campaign would be-
come an Albanian fiesta.
R.A.F. v. Luftwaffe.
For eight successive nights after the
heavy Blitz of the previous week, there
were no night raids over London and
only desultory attacks elsewhere, though
the Germans claimed to have struck
several damaging blows at military objec-
tives.
Though the weather has been bad, the
R.A.F. has kept up an incessant worrying
of Channel ports occupied by Germany,
particularly Lorient. On March 27 the
Ruhr and the Rhineland were battered,
as well as Dunkirk, Calais and Brest.
These raids were followed by the kind
of German communiques which usually
signifies that the enemy has had a bad
evening. It claimed the sinking of three
ships of 15,000 tons, and attacks on
harbors, factories and railways in several
south of England towns. It admitted that
the R.A.F. had killed a few persons in
west Germany and placed the day’s losses
at six British ’planes and one German
machine.
There followed another savage strafe
of a western British city, Bristol accord-
ing to the Germans. The raiders came
in waves. Some were driven off, but
there were damage and casualties. Lon-
don, after dark, had its first alert for
eight nights, but it lasted only 17 minutes.
The R.A.F. that afternoon had made a
bold daylight sweep of northern France,
despite bad weather.
The Air Ministry for the first time
gave some indication of recent casualties
in Germany. The development in bomb-
ing aircraft revealed is staggering—
-50001b.-bomb loads seem to be the rule.
A “series of raids” killed 1000 persons
and injured 700 in Bremen, and closed
one-third of the Focke-Wulfe works,
where the Condors and their military
heavy-type congeners are built. One raid
on Hanover killed 250, destroyed 250
houses and damaged 500 others. Berlin
has suffered heavily, and Hamburg and
Cologne have seen whole blocks wiped
out in single raids.
Another Ship Mined.
She was the trawler Millimumul (287
tons), and she was sunk by an enemy
mine off the N.S.W. coast. Five mem-
bers of the crew were rescued and seven
are missing.
The ship fouled the mine’s mooring
and brought it to the surface. A minute
later the trawler was under the waves,
her lifeboat tossed keel-up into the sea.
Captain Rixon, who was lost, and the
second mate, William Lowe, were caught
among the deck gear while trying to free
the trawler’s raft. Lowe was saved.
He and his mates endured a terrible ex-
perience until one of their flares was seen
by the collier Mortlake Bank. They had
not eaten since the sinking, and some
were unclothed or scarcely clothed.
The Millimumul was a historic vessel.
In the 1914-18 war she was H.M.S.
Gunner, a “Q” ship, and was believed to
have sunk five U-boats. She was owned
by Red Funnel Fisheries.
The senseless murder of these peaceful
Australians brings home to the Com-
monwealth the travail of the British
people and the cloud which has hung
over every home in every fishing village
on the North Sea every day since Septem-
ber, 1939.
Uncle Sam Gets Busy.
“Aileron”: British “Aeroplane” at the
end of February gave a good many par-
“What a bonzer shot! They just got the stew Wagon."
ticulars of U.S. ’planes which are now
in production for the R.A.F. They in-
clude the Caribou (late Bell Aircobra),
which does 400 m.p.h. at 15,000 ft. ; the
Curtiss Tomahawk, which has a ceiling
of 30,000 ft., a speed of 350 m.p.h. and
two ,50-cal. and four .303 guns; the
N.A.’s 73 Mustang, a fighting member
of the Wirraway family, which carries
six guns and has a top speed round 400
m.p.h. Also Lockheed’s answer to the
Messerschmitt 110, the two-engined
Lightning—4o4 m.p.h. at 16,000 ft., one
Him gun, four .50-cal. m.-gs., and a
cruising range of 500 miles at 350 m.p.h.
The bombers in supply (or prospective
supply) a month ago included four-
engined Consolidated Liberators, with
bomb capacity of two tons, a 3000-mile
range and the remarkable speed of 335
m.p.h. ; the same co.’s PB2YI, top speed
of 220 m.p.h., range 5200 miles, bomb
load 42001 b.; the two-engined Catalina,
range 4500 miles, speed 285 m.p.h. ;
and the Douglas twin-engined Boston,
top speed 370 m.p.h. and 32,000 ft.
In respect of fighting power and pro-
tection none of them equals the fastest
and deadliest British air weapons, but all
are welcome. Even comparatively slow
and lightly-gunned machines can be use-
ful. According to all theory Gladiators
should be outmoded, but Gladiators have
done some of the finest work of the
war. There is a simple reason for this:
the machine is only a weapon ; the de-
cisive factor is the capacity and train-
ing and stamina of personnel.
In January the U.S.A. air industry
turned out 1020 fighter and training
machines and 26 large passenger sky-
boats, a 100-p.c. increase since June,
1940. Some American organisers predict
an output of 4500 machines per month
by June next; but these, of course, would
not be all, or nearly all, available for
Britain.
The kind of progress which is being
made can be estimated from the history
of the Pratt and Whitney engine plant at
East Hartford, Connecticut, for which
ground was broken in Sept. 5. The fac-
tory was completed in December. On
February 3 the set quota of 40 engines
per day was produced. On February 5
the daily quota was increased.
Other plants are moving to full output
all over U.S.A. By May Chrysler’s
(Detroit) will be turning out medium
tanks. By the end of the year 14 per day
will be rolling off the line.
“Nobby II”: Shipping losses for the
week ended March 16 were 23 vessels
of 71,000 tons —17 British of 60,670 tons
and six Allied ships. Bad, but not so
bad as the 99,000 tons and the 141,000
tons of the two preceding weeks. Dur-
ing the five weeks to March 16 enemy
losses were 300,000 tons. And to the
Italians in particular every ton lost is
a heavier blow than the loss of ten tons
to the British, who now have U.S.A.
and the Dominions to begin drawing on
as well as their own resources.
* * * *
An ugly incident is reported from
North Africa. At 9 a.m. on Sunday off
the Algerian coast British warships tried
to examine four French merchantmen
suspected of carrying war material for
Germany—one was believed to be loaded
with rubber from Bangkok. The French
declared that the ships, bound from Casa-
blanca to Oran (Algeria), carried rice,
sugar and barley for the Moroccan
population. The ships passed Gibraltar
within the limit of Spanish Moroccan
waters, but were overtaken and ordered
to halt. French shore batteries fired on
the R.N., which replied and scored several
hits. In the interests of humanity the
R.N. did not fire on the French ships,
which made Nemours, 80 miles west of
Oran. French bombers followed the
British squadron, which, Vichy says, con-
sisted of a cruiser and five destroyers,
and twice attacked it on its way
to Gibraltar. Vichy declares that the
French ships entered port “under pro-
tection of their escort and naval shore
batteries and of aircraft which replied
to the fire of the aggressors and drove
them off, the convoy being unharmed.”
♦ * ♦ *
Back in Australia, 105 A.I.F. men
invalided from England and 30 naval
ratings from the Mediterranean. The
Diggers related that British and A.I.F.
camps had been under “pretty incessant
bombing” ; a veteran remarked that “any
tick of the clock some swine might come
out of the clouds and all you could do
was to wait for results.” Some of the men
told tales of an alleged invasion attempt
last September, of bodies washed ashore
and parachute troops who came down —
and didn’t go up again—in Scotland ;
but these were all second-hand. All the
sailors had been in action.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: “It was the Navy that got
us away from Dunkirk,” said some of
the Tommies who brought the internees
to this country from Britain ; and appar-
ently the author of Return via Dunkirk
would agree with them. In his account
of the agony of his unit’s three weeks'
retreat from Flanders, “Gunbuster” set
down an astonishing thing—only once
were the German dive bombers chal-
lenged by British ’planes, and that was
near the end of the dreadful journey.
That, of course, doesn’t mean that
British ’planes were idle. There is no
doubt that, by keeping the dive bombers
in check they materially contributed to
the success of the evacuation, even
though the retiring troops could not see
them. But the book leaves a terrible
impression that the R.A.F. and the
French Air Force, such as it was, were
vastly outnumbered all through the cam-
paign in the Low Countries and France ;
and they must have been outnumbered
also in the September air-battles over
Britain. In that case sheer valor and
efficiency of men and machines prevailed.
* * * *
Men are required urgently for the
A.I.F. and home service for the duration
of the war. They are being sent into
camp from the enlisted reserve at a
greater rate than new recruits are coming
forward, and the Government will soon
have to think about revising the reserved
list of trades. Enlistments are going on
under three headings—for the A.1.F., for
the Tropical Force in northern Australia
and for Coastal Defence.
* * * *
One notable feature of the attempted
betrayal of Yugoslavia to the Axis was
that it brought Montenegro back into
the news. For five centuries the Black
Mountain had an honorable place in
history, and in the nineteenth century
no representative English poet con-
sidered that he had done his duty to
his craft until he had written a poem
about the sturdy mountaineers —Chester-
ton carried the fashion into this century.
In 1914 Montenegro became a Gallant
Little Ally, but in 1915 the reigning
family sold out to the Austrians —one
of the princes withdrew his troops from
one of its most easily defensible strong-
holds and at the peace Montenegro
found no friends to
advance its claim to
independence or auton-
omy. But evidently the
oI d freedom - loving
Montenegrin spirit is
by no means extinct.
Cetinge, its former
capital, was the scene
of the boldest popular
demonstrations against
the Axis Pact, and the
report says “similar de-
monstrations occurred
throughout Monte-
negro.”
* *
“E ve t Effendim” :
There is striking evi-
dence of the long Turk-
ish control of the
country round Salonika
—now officially Thessa-
loniki —and the estuary
of the Struma in the
almost universal Turk-
ish place-names. Johnny
Turk has the habit of
simple nomenclature so
popular in the Austra-
lian bush, and the
method has advantages
for the map reader.
Here are a few corn-
mon words which will be found
sprinkled all over the country from
Albania to Bagdad: Tepe, hill;
dagh, mountain; su, creek; irmak,
river; koprii , bridge; koy (or keue),
village ; yol, road ; demi’ yol, railway ;
hissar, castle or fort; shehir, town ; ak,
white ; kara, black.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Marshal Graziani has been
succeeded in the Libyan command of the
Italian forces by General Italo Garibaldi.
A grandson of the friend of England
who landed at Marsala in May, 1860,
under the protection of British naval
guns to start the march on Naples, the
inspiration of Musso. when he began his
march —by train —on Rome, the new
general will probably feel hotly self-
conscious when he orders the first shots
to be fired against the Army of the Nile.
Especially when he remembers that
Catania, now the nest from which Ger-
man Stukas go forth to murder British
civilian subjects in Malta, was one of
the three revolutionary centres from
which emerged the gallant Thousand
who, throughout Italy, shared his grand-
father’s reputation as national heroes.
»£ * » * »
“Ente Marid”: A hopeful projector
suggested to the R.A.F. that it should
take cats in night fighters as Hun de-
tectors ; but laughter should be re-
strained. In the last stage of the last
war serious experiments were made with
seals as U-boat detectors. Anyway, the cat
idea is a mild one beside the suggestion
of another genius to the Admiralty that
U-boats should be compelled to come
to the surface by filling the North Sea
with Epsom salts. And it is a logical
plan beside the well-authenticated sub-
marine-catching expedient devised by
the Imperial Russian Navy during the
Russo-Japanese war. When the Russian
Admiral at Port Arthur heard that the
Japs had acquired newfangled under-
water boats from Uncle Sam he ordered
that should any of these curious con-
traptions be sighted a boat’s crew should
endeavor to sneak up so that a sailor
might put his cap over the periscope
and blind the tin fish!


W
I
Look at that kitchen
of yours . . then visualise it
with gleaming tiled walls,
modern cupboards and a really
attractive floor. You can make
this dream come true at sur-
prisingly low cost . . with
Masonite. For the “tiled”
walls you’ll use Masonite
Temprtile . . a steel-strong,
non - warping board already
pressed into “tiles” ready for
finishing in any desired colour once
it has been installed over the exist-
ing walls. Temprtile has the appear-
ance, durability and washability of
porcelain tiles. Like the other
Masonite boards, it can be worked
with ordinary tools. For flush doors
and cupboards, you will require
grainless, splinterless Masonite
Presdwood: for the floor and the
working surfaces, Masonite Tem-
pered Presdwood. You’ll marvel
at the speed with which the trans-
formation can be effected with
Masonite; you’ll be enchanted
with the result: But, most of all,
the economy of modernising with
Masonite will cheer you. Ask the
Colonial Sugar Refining Company
(Building Materials Division) for
the interesting details.
N.B.
For major alterations and most
certainly if you are building a new
home employ an architect. Not
only will an architect give you a
more beautiful and more “livable ”
home, hut he will save far more
than his moderate fee. An archi-
tect will give you impartial guid-
ance in the selection of materials.
He will slop you making those mis-
takes which are inevitable without
his experience.
MODERNISE
WITH
Masonite boards are made in Australia from
Australian timbers hitherto thought commer-
cially useless. They possess the advantages
of wood without its disadvantages. Masonite
is used for both modernisation and new con-
struction: for floors, counter tops, for “tiling"/
for partitioning —in fact, for “1,000 uses",
MAI4-4I
um
PRESDWOOD . . . TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
QUARTR BOARD DE-LUXE . . . TEMPRTILE
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division) . . Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane . Adelaide . . Perth
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
In Mandated Territory
“Norther”: A Melbourne “Age” man
isn’t impressed with the state of affairs
in New Guinea. He does not put it
down solely to the war, holding that the
falling copra prices before 1939 were
playing up with New Guinea’s internal
economy.
Measures of relief for copra-planters
included an export duty on a sliding
basis, paid by buyers, removal of import
duty on copra sacks and abolition of the
native education tax on planters. When
war came copra was stabilised in London
at £stgl2 10s. a ton, but planters got
merely £A4 10s. a ton and still had to
pay sack costs, freight and insurance.
There was also restricted buying by mer-
chants, some even holding off from copra
altogether.
Gold, according to the “Age” man, is
subject to such high working costs that
most of the small men have had to turn
it up and leave the field to the big com-
panies. A good many miners have left
with their families.
New Guinea has been losing European
population in the last few years, a process
hastened by enlistments, calling up of
reservists and fear of Pacific hostilities.
As a result small businesses have closed
and even the übiquitous Chinese is find-
ing it hard to make ends meet. Planters
are signing off natives and not renewing
contracts, the Administration is losing
revenue and cutting down expenses. Lack
of shipping is having its effect.
Some planters, looking for other forms
of income, turned to the jungle and the
getting of walnut. They were building
up a fair export trade in this timber with
England and U.S.A. until the shipping
shortage hit them.
Yet N.G. is subscribing large sums to
patriotic funds. Money came freely for
the Red Cross, for comforts, for London
relief, for the Emira castaways. In the
goldfields at present a Spitfire fund is in
full swing, and Rabaul is dabbling witn
an idea for creating a fund to supply
certain munitions.
It seems that the Australian public is
unlikely to get any official statement on
N.G. affairs. Under the Mandate the
Administration’s annual reports have to
be submitted to the Council of the
League of Nations before being made
public. Locating said Council at present
is harder than locating Woolcott Forbes.
All the same the Government has found
a group of League gents who are willing
to spend £34,000 of good Australian
money.
“Balander”: Having, in their own ex-
pressive phraseology, “seen the elephant
an’ heard the owl,” the American seamen
departed from Queensland on Friday
morning, leaving behind them a splendid
impression and some yearning hearts.
Their conduct was exemplary and the
North enfolded them generously from the
time their ranks, in tropic kit, marched
through a storm of confetti and stream-
ers to Brisbane City Hall until their de-
parture. Police barriers couldn’t stop
the crowd that greeted them, and when
“ That’s another two bob y owe me !”
bunches of them appeared in Ipswich,
Redcliffe, Caboolture, Coolangatta and
other places the populace downed tools
and joined in the general rejoicing. In
between teaching the local lass to jitter-
bug and striving to contain the foodstuffs
thrust upon them they proved themselves
great buyers of souvenirs and photo-
graphs. They made a good drawcard
for Toowoomba show, and at odd spots
on country roads any gathering of people
was sure to be rushed in hope that a
Mac was among them. State honors
were done by Minister for Home Affairs
Hanlon and the guests found it hard to
keep up with the junketing. No matter
what others see in it, the visit, in con-
junction with President Roosevelt’s
speech about aid for the democracies, was
seen by Queenslanders as a significant
gesture by a powerful friend. It was
only after the last of the ships had van-
ished down the river that Brisbane sud-
denly remembered it had a State elec-
tion to face. Even that failed to erase
the pleased feeling.
* * * *
“Mager”: Possibly, as Mr. Bumble
remarked, “the Jaw is a ass,” but Dar-
winians, after a recent experience, are
more inclined to regard it as a fair cow.
Towards evening it looked as though a
Supreme Court jury would have to be
locked up for the night. The foreman
pleaded to be released from duty—he was
Darwin’s milkman, and the cows would
have to be milked. No go! Though an
effort was made to finish the case, Dar-
win’s milkman spent the
night behind locked
doors, and Darwin
drank water —or beer,
* *
“Philp”: A compre-
hensive set of Common-
wealth statistics shows
that the aboriginal
population of Aus-
tralia, after declining
from 58,771 in 1921 to
51,379 in 1938, has re-
mained pretty steady
since then. The half-
caste population, on the
other hand, has in-
creased from 12,630 in
’2l to 25,311 in ’4O.
Westralia has the
largest full-blood population with 21,821,
12,422 being nomads ; the N.T. comes
next with 13,901 (4679 nomads); then
Queensland with 8766 (1288 nomads). Of
the remaining States only S.A. has more
than a thousand full-bloods left —2704,
of whom 1167 are nomadic. N. S. Wales
has 690 full-bloods, Victoria 77 and Tas-
mania one. N. S. Wales, however, has
the largest half-caste population with
10,171 persons, Queensland next with
6164, then Westralia with 4781 and
South Australia with 2250. There are 673
half-castes in Victoria, 902 in the N.T.,
282 in Tasmania and 88 in the Capital
Territory. Total full-blood and half-
caste population—excluding 3727 Torres
Strait Islanders —was 73,271, and about
one-fifth are in regular employment.
* * * *
Fred O’Rourke has passed at
72 after a legal career of 47 years in
Queensland. He got his education at
Brisbane and Melbourne Grammar
Schools, was admitted to the Bar in ’94,
and practised in Rockhampton before
settling in Brisbane, where he was Acting-
District Court Judge in 1914 and later
Crown Prosecutor. A lot of his spare
time was given to religious work. He
never married.
* * * *
“23-4”: A young girl of Einasleigh
went down with acute appendicitis. Im-
mediate operation was necessary, but no
facilities were available nearer than Chil-
lagoe, 120 miles north-east by rail. Air
transport was out of the question, and
the roads had been made impassable by
torrential rains and flooded rivers and
creeks. Night came, and still the rain
poured down as a gang of railwaymen
ofiered to take the patient to Chillagoe
on an open section car. The distracted
parents agreed. A stretcher was bolted
to the car and the girl placed on it, then
protected from rain by a makeshift
shelter. The car had no headlights as its
crew pushed off into the sodden night.
They made as good a pace as they could,
not knowing where there might be a
washaway or a creek over the rails.
Water was lapping the rails as they
crossed the Etheridge, and other crossings
were made over floodwaters. With a
lookout straining his eyes into the wet
darkness ahead the outfit pushed on.
Eight hours after leaving Einasleigh it
rolled into the Chillagoe yards and its
freight was rushed to hospital. Some-
body said something about overtime, but
the section-car crew rejected it. And
there are people who say that the Aus-
tialian story-writer has very little material
to work on!


ẁ
Enjoy
fast!
Hear easily, natu-
rally, again with
the Western Elec-
tric Audiphone.
Inconspicuous,
highly efficient,
more economical.
Western Electric
AUDIPHONE
HEARING AID
• No matter what your personal hearing
problem may be, let one of the firms listed
below demonstrate the Western Electric
Audiphone and show you how it can
help you overcome your hearing diffi-
culties. The outgrowth of over 57 years’
experience in making the Bell telephone
and Western Electric sound recording and
reproducing equipment, it enlarges the
hearing circle, enables the user to take
part in group conversation. Both Bone
and Air Conduction types available.
THE AUDIPHONE CO.,
M.L.C. Building, hh Martin Place, Sydney.
CODES & GARRARD PTY.. DTD.,
370-37.} Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TREVOR HENDERSON,
T. & G. Buildings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
DEN G. STONE,
67 Gain I e r Place, Adelaide.
SAINKEN & SAINKBN,
653 Hay Street, Perth.
FINDDAYS PTY., DTD.,
Annlln House. Brisbane. St.. Launceston.
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits
Contra
£145,857,965 14
per
1,007,626 I
8
4
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. 146,865,592 2 0
Note Issue Department .. 77,402,622 16 9
£224,268,214 18 9
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances
Australian Notes
Money at Short Call in
London
Investments—
British, Colonial and
Government Securities
Commonwealth Govern-
ment Securities (in-
cluding Treasury Bills)
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in
Transit
Bills Discounted. Loans and
Advances to Customers
and Other Assets
Bank Premises
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of
Credit per Contra
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments ..
Note Issue Department
£224.268,214 18 9
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR HALF-YEAR ENDED
31st DECEMBER, 1940.
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund .. .. 105,286 16 9
„ National Debt Sinking
Fund 105,286 16 9
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund .. .. 11,368 3 9
„ Development Fund .. 11,368 3 9
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury 788,494 11 3
£1,021,804 12 3
£ a. d.
By Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1940
„ Banking Business .. .. 210,573 13 6
„ Rural Credits Department . • 22,736 7 6
„ Note Issue Department 788,494 11 3
£1,021,804 12 3
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£ s. d.
3,096,160 12 9
£3,096,160 12 9
£ s. d.
By Balance 2,990,873 16 0
~ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits
of Banking Business 105,286 16 9
£3,096,160 12 9
We certify that the above Balance-Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
Offices of the Bank, Is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. P. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGB.
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, sth March, 1941.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
£77,402,622 16 9
£77,402,622 16 9
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGB,
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, sth March, 1941.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralia
BALANCE-SHEET AT 31st DECEMBER, 1940.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund 2,993,152 4 6
Depositors’ £ s. d.
Balances 146,092,209 4 9
With Inter-
est Ac-
crued 1,302,429 11 9
147,394,638 16 6
Contingency Account and
Other Liabilities .. .. 7,879,313 14 10
£158,267,104 15 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call ..
Australian Notes
Government Securities
Securities of Municipalities
and Other Public Autho-
rities
Other Assets
Bank Premises
£ s. d.
17,501,115 13 9
290,736 0 0
103,023,031 19 2
33,346,119 7 5
3,349,758 8 9
756,343 6 9
£158,267,104 15 10
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR HALF-YEAR ENDED
31st DECEMBER, 1940.
£ s. d.
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 93,208 4 6
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 93,208 4 6
£186,416 9 0
By Profit for half-year ended
31st December, 1940, after
provision for payments
amounting to £126,512/11/6
due to State Authorities
under Savings Bank Amalga-
mation Agreements
£ s. d.
186,416 9 0
£186,416 9 0
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,993,152 4 6
£2,993,152 4 6
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-half
of the Net Profits
£ s. d.
2,899,944 0 0
93,208 4 6
£2,993,152 4 6
We certify that the above Balance-Sheet, com- \
piled from Statements furnished by the several
Offices of the Bank, is true and correct. i
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary. I
G. E. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant. J
For and on behalf of the Board.
H. T. ARMITAGE,
Deputy Governor.
Sydney, sth March, 1941.
Certificates as to the correctness of luese accounts have been given by the Auditor-General
for the Commonwealth (Mr. K. Abercrombie).
A MIXED GRILL.
Like Australia, Canada faced a
surplus-apple problem, so it decided to
turn the apples into juice. Three years
ago there was practically no demand for
the juice in Canada. This year con-
sumption is estimated at 3,000,000 gal-
lons. There is a moral in this for the
Australian Apple and Pear Board.
* * * »
Heytesbury (Vic.) shire council sug-
gests that Italian prisoners of war from
North Africa should be turned loose in
Victoria’s Western District to clear Crown
lands for returned-soldier settlers. The
Heytesbury men should look up the
history of soldier-settlement in their State
before rushing to Melbourne with
schemes like that.
* * * *
“Puyyaka”: I met Mark Twain on
October 26, 1895, at a Smoke Night
given by Melbourne journalists. Mark
was a handsome man, just under 60, with
a soft melodious voice, a faint Southern
drawl in it, and a rather hesitant
delivery. I saw him smile twice, first
in appreciation of roses which W. J.
Lambie gave him for Mrs. Clemens,
and again when a man named Halley
was introduced to him. “We are re-
lated, I think,” he said. Halley looked
puzzled but pleased. “Through the
family comet,” went on Clemens.
Halley looked more puzzled. “I was
born a fortnight after its last visit, and
no matter what your Melbourne doctors
do to me I’ve made up my mind to
wait for the next one.” He had been ill
in Melbourne. Halley’s Comet returned
on April 19, 1910, and three days later
Mark Twain died.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The success of the Oslo
meal is admitted ; but it proves nothing
much about the major mysteries of
diet. A semi-starved child will generally
improve when given additional nourish-
ment. A much more puzzling problem
is the existence of malnutrition amongst
children in households where there is no
question of food shortage. I am thinking
of two mothers, one of whom doesn’t
know a calory from a vitamin, and an-
other, more up to date, who has made a
deep study of the subject and feeds her
child according to scientific principles of
the most modern description. The baby
of the first mother is growing up rolling
in fat, and the child of the other looks
as if he is qualifying to be another Thin
Man.
* * * *
Before he launched his unsuccessful
campaign against the Aid to Britain Bill,
now U.S. law, Wheeler, the isolationist
Senator, came out with an eight-point
programme for a “negotiated peace.” The
occupied western States are to be restored
and France is to regain Alsace-Lorraine.
The gentleman doesn’t seem to be aware
of the fact that there were two German
Empires in 1914 ; anyway, he plumps for
“the restoration of Germany’s 1914 boun-
daries, with an autonomous Poland and
Czechoslovakia,” also for “the restoration
of the German colonies” and “the inter-
nationalisation of the Suez Canal.” While
making these gifts to the Axis countries,
he is against “indemnities or reparations,”
but he is for “arms limitation” and “the
protection of racial and religious minori-
ties in all countries,” though he doesn’t
say by whom. Neither does he mention
penalties for any breach of his pro-
gramme. Mr. Wheeler is a Montana
Democrat. The population of Montana
is about 550,000, mostly foreign-born
whites and Red Indians.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: If there is fighting on the
Malay Peninsula probably the largest sec-
tion of the population won’t know any-
thing about it. They are the Negritos,
who live a secluded life in the huge tiger-
haunted, jungle-covered spine of the pen-
insula, and only a few of whom have
random contact with Malay pedlars on
the upper reaches of the rivers. They
are the most pacific branch of the human
race yet discovered. If Kingsford Smith
was lost among them, as has been
asserted, he would probably have been
received as a god, their deity, like that
of the Incas, being white-faced. An
Englishman from Penang lived amongst
them for 20 years and seemed to like
their companionship much more than
that of the club of that British settlement.
It was generally considered that living
amongst people who didn’t know a gin-
sling from a whisky stengah had made
him go queer in the upper storey.
* * * *
Albert Robert Acheson, dead in
the U.S.A. at 58, was born at Riverton
(M.L.). He took his B.E. degree at
Canterbury College, passing on to service
with the M.L. railways. At 24 he joined
Westinghouse Electric in Pittsburgh and
two years later became head of the
Mechanical Engineering Department at
Syracuse Uni., a position he held till his
death. He acted in an advisory capacity
to many engineering projects in Canada
and the U.S.A. In his younger days he
was a keen Rugby player.
* * * *
Latest recruit to Minister Casey’s
diplomatic staff in Washington is John
Mill McMillan, a Melburnian of 27 with
a successful academic career behind him.
Educated at Mentone Grammar, Mel-
bourne Grammar and the University, he
won a whole drayload of scholastic
honors, including the Wyselaskie Scholar-
ship in Modern Languages and the H. B.
Higgins prize for French and German
poetry. He was dux of his final year
at Melbourne Grammar and has M.A.
and LL.B. degrees to his credit. Mc-
Millan has been on the staff of the
Department of External Affairs at Can-
berra for the last three years.
“Hamfat”: Recording the death of Guy
Hastings some papers confused him with
Cuyler Hastings, who came from U.S.A.
to do “Sherlock Holmes.” Young Cuyler
was so eager to secure a star touring
engagement that he signed on for three
months on a comparatively small salary ;
he made up for that when Williamson’s
wanted to extend the contract. Guy
Hastings found a niche with the
Bailey and Grant combination after
it had been put on its feet by
“On Our Selection” and had secured the
King’s, Melbourne, as headquarters. Aus-
tralian plays remained a Bailey-Grant
policy, and Hastings played hefty outback
heroes so often that he began to imagine
that Boolooroo was his home town.
* * * *
“Nobby II”: Looking through the
biography of Admiral Andrew Cunning-
ham in Who’s Who, I sensed something
familiarly associated with naval tradition
in his address: “The Palace House,
Bishop’s Waltham, Hants.” There was.
The little admiral —he is about the size
of Nelson and has a voice like a police
car’s loudspeaker—lives on the soil
which old Collingwood, Nelson’s closest
friend, left his beloved Sarah to plant
during the periods when he was absent.
Collingwood was one of those who did
not act up to Nelson’s aphorism that
“every man is a bachelor east of Gib-
raltar,” and his thoughts were always
turning to the time when he would
retire to a home among his own trees.
He and Nelson are buried side by
side in St. Paul’s. Cunningham was a
man whom the old admiral would be
glad to see in possession of his grounds.
* * * *
“Ek Dum” says good-bye to a col-
league :
Archie Whyte, circulation manager of the
“Sun-News Pictorial,” was a pressman of the
old and thorough school. Son of an actor,
and a man without enemies, he treated Prime
Ministers with the same air of good-fellowship
as he showed to janitors. Tom from the Par-
liamentary gallery to become first general sec-
retary of the Victorian National Federation in
the midst of the 1914-18 war, he told the com-
mittee of well-starched Melbourne magnates
which examined his qualifications that he would
“fall through the blanky floor” if he were asked
to make a public speech. The committee
appointed him out of hand and he at once be-
came a power in inner circles. When all other
means failed, Archie could usually get an inter-
view for one of the teeming deputations which
waited on Priministerial doorsteps in 1917-18,
and his methods were original and familiar.
“Now look, Bill” (or Joe, or whoever hap-
pened to be in the P.M.’s chair), he would say
while gaping deputationists from the Y.M.C.A.
sat round his room, “these boys are down
from the tropics. They’re drinking the town
dry. Now don’t be a blooming old nark, Billy.”
Nobody could resist Archie. For a time after
he left the Nat. Federation he was publicity
officer to the Melbourne Tramways Board. In
later years he had been ill, in almost constant
pain, but his ebullient spirit was a greater
thing than his afflictions.


Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager-— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representative
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general bankinsr business.
THE ARMY CALLS!
Eligible Recruits for the A.I.F. are Needed
IMMEDIATELY
JOIN THE A.I.F SEE THE WORLD
AND KEEP WAR OUT OF AUSTRALIA
Soldiers of the A.I.F. are serving in England
Egypt — Palestine — Libya—Malaya and—? ?? ?? ?
JOIN THEM—THEY NEED YOU!
SINGLE MEN AND MARRIED MEN WITHOUT CHILDREN
ARE REQUIRED AGED BETWEEN 20 AND 40
Apply to your nearest Area Officer and Town Hall, Melbourne,
Recruiting Officer for information.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns —
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
i nconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN'
S'ILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUEKDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
ID E
ES
“Chico” Invisible Earphones 21/- pr.
• Worn inside your ears. No cords or
batteries. Amazingly effective. Guaran-
teed lifetime. Write for free booklet.
HEARS EARPHONE CO.—No. 3 State
Shopping Block, Market Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletii
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Dental nurse, Australian and Continental
exp., seeks position Brisbane. Refs. —9729.
Practical miner, underground, surface, quali-
fied to take charge, desires position.—9725.
Book- and storekeeper wants position on
station in S.A. At present employed on large
property. All office and store work; drive and
maintain cars. —9717.
To buy back numbers American “Life.” —
9984.
To buy Harper’s Book of Facts. —9709.
To hear from amateur dramatic societies seek-
ing to produce Australian plays.—9891.
Plans for building small light canoe. —9882.
Instructions for building a small reflecting tele-
scope.—9985.
Information Sought.
When American warships left Auckland,
M.L., lately the Mayor presented the captain
of the Brooklyn with a banner inscribed “Ake,
ake, kia kaha.” (1) Was this the reply of the
besieged to the British surrounding the Orakau
Pa ? (2) What were the precise terms and cir-
cumstances of that famous reply and what was
the date? —9983.
(1) No. According to the most widely-
accepted version the Maori reply was “Ka wha-
whai tonu matau ake, ake, ake!” (“We shall
continue to fight for ever and ever and ever!”)
James Cowan, whose knowledge of Maori
annals and traditions is unrivalled, says the
words were “Ehoa, ka whawhai tonu ahau ki a
koe, ake, ake!” (“Friend, I shall fight against
you for ever and ever.”) (2) Orakau Pa, on the
Waipa River, garrisoned by about 300 Maori
warriors, with women and children, was sur-
rounded by a British force of about 1000 on
March 31, 1864. At 10 a.m. on April 2, 1864,
the Maoris having by then run out of food and
water —they had had no water since the siege
started—the besiegers sent a white flag and called
on the besieged to surrender. The reply was
in the terms quoted. At 3.30 p.m. the Maoris,
men, women and children, marched out of the
pa, showing no signs of surrender. A withering
fire killed at least half the warriors.
* * * *
In Woman’s Letter ( B. 26/3/’41) there is a
reference to “old English songs such as ‘My
Mother Bids Me Bind My Hair.’ ” Isn’t that
song by Haydn ? —9982.
Yes, but it ranks as an English song. Haydn
wrote it during a visit to London. It was
first published in London, dedicated to an
English lady, Mrs. John Hunter, and is one
of several such courtesies paid by Haydn to
English “ladies of quality.”
* * * *
What is the religion of the Abyssinians?
Are they mainly Christians or Mohammedans ?
—9715.
Mohammedanism is still the prevailing re-
ligion, although many Ethiopians adhere to
the Coptic branch of Christianity. Moslems
predominate in Harar; Christians in Addis
Ababa. The Coptic Patriarch of Alexandria
has been the supreme head of the church
since the diffusion of Christianity in the fourth
century, appointing the Abuna or head bishop
of Ethiopia, but in December, 1937, the Italian
Viceroy decreed the Coptic Church in Abys-
sinia self-controlling and appointed the Abuna,
three metropolitans and three bishops for the
whole of Italian East Africa.
What types of mineral waters are found in
Maoriland and in what localities is each type
found ? —9986.
In The Hot Springs of New Zealand Dr. A. S.
Hernert gives the following grouping of the
better-known waters corresponding roughly to
their mineral-water classification: Sulphur
waters, Rotorua, Hanmer, Taupo, Wairakei,
Waiotapu; alkaline waters, Te Aroha; saline
waters, Helensville, Waiwera, Tarawera; iodine
waters, Morere, Te Puia; calcium carbonated
waters, Kamo; simple thermal waters, Oko-
roire and the Waikato springs.
* * * *
What are the functions of the Commonwealth
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ?
9995.
Principally to initiate and carry out scientific
researches in connection with primary and
secondary industries. The main branches of
the work of the council are in relation to plant,
soil and entomological problems, animal nutri-
tion and diseases, forest products, food preser-
vation and transport, and fisheries. In addi-
tion the council is being enabled to extend its
activities to the field of the secondary indus-
tries. In this work attention will first be given
to the establishment of an information section,
a national standards laboratory, an aeronautical
laboratory and laboratories for general
secondary industry research. State committees
have been formed to advise the council as to
matters that may affect their respective States.
* * * *
Details of production of platinum in Aus-
tralia ? —9999.
Deposits are being worked in the Fifield
division, near Parkes, and in the Ballina division,
N.S.W. The production in 1937 from these
divisions amounted to 19oz. and 270 z. re-
spectively, making a total of 460 z., valued at
£455. The total production to the end of 1937
amounted to 20,1860 z., valued at £128,492. In
Victoria the metal has been found in Gipps-
land in association with copper, and 1270 z. was
produced in 1913, but there has been no pro-
duction in recent years. In Q’land platinum,
associated with osmiridium, has been found in
the beach sands between Southport and Currum-
bin, in creeks on the Russell goldfield, near
Innisfail, and in alluvial deposits on the Gympie
goldfield, but no production has been recorded.
* » * ♦
Text of Lincoln’s Gettysburg address ? —9996.
“Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers
brought forward on this continent anew nation,
conceived in liberty and dedicated to the pro-
position that all men are created equal. Now
we are engaged in a great civil war, testing
whether that nation, or any nation so con-
ceived and so dedicated, can long endure.
We are met on a great battlefield of that war.
We have come to dedicate a portion of that
field as a final resting-place for those who here
gave their lives that this nation might live.
It is altogether fitting and proper that we
should do this. But, in a larger sense, we can-
not dedicate —we cannot consecrate —we cannot
hallow —this ground. The brave men, living
and dead, who struggled here have consecrated
it far above our poor power to add or detract.
The world will little note, nor long remember,
what we say here, but it can never forget what
they did here. It is for us, the living, rather
to be dedicated here to the unfinished work
which they who fought here have thus far so
nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here
dedicated to the great task remaining before
us —that from these honored dead we take in-
creased devotion to that cause for which they
gave the last full measure of devotion —that
we here highly resolve that these dead shall
not have died in vain—that this nation, under
God, shall have anew birth of freedom—
and that government of the people, by the
people, for the people, shall not perish from the
earth.”
* * * *
Is there any record of a pretender to the
English Crown towards the end of the fifteenth
century ?■ —9993.
Yes, one Perkin Warbeck, 1479-99. The
son of a Tournai Jew, he claimed to be Richard,
Duke of York, supposed to have been murdered
in the Tower, and therefore entitled to the
throne in preference to its then occupant,
Henry Vll. The Duchess of Burgundy and
Charles VIII of France and James IV of Scot-
land gave him their countenance, and War-
beck was enabled in 1497 to appear in England
at the head of a force of 7000 men. He was
easily defeated, tried for treason and hanged
at Tyburn.
* * * *
(1) In what parts of N.S. W. are fowl ticks
most common ? (2) What effect do they have
on birds ? —9997.
(1) Most abundant in areas where warm, dry
conditions prevail, and these are to be found
in the vicinity of the inland towns, notably
in the Riverina, central- and north-western
areas of the State. Coastal districts are not
entirely free, but the presence of ticks can
usually be traced to the introduction of poultry
from inland areas. (2) Severe tick in-
festation will so upset and irritate a fowl as to
cause rapid emaciation, loss of blood and
general condition and even sudden death of
individual birds. Milder cases of infestation
will produce a general deterioration of the
flock and a greatly lowered egg production.
Lowered vitality and constitution from loss
of blood and irritation will render birds more
liable to a multitude of other affections to
which fowls are susceptible. Ticks have been
known to so interfere with sitting brood hens
as to cause them to leave their nests and not
return to them. In addition the tick is the
transmitter of the germ responsible for fowl-
tick fever.
* * * *
Method of cleaning a soiled Panama hat
otherwise in good condition ? —9708.
Scrub with soap and rinse well with a sponge
and clean cold water. Scrub again with a fresh
lather and this time wipe lightly with a cloth,
using no water at all. Dry so that the hat
keeps its shape.
* * * *
Recipe for making and dressing an oilskin
coat? —9702.
To each pint of raw linseed oil (Meggitt’s
is best) add one tablespoon copal varnish and
.stir well. Cut the coat of good quality un-
bleached calico and make garment in usual way,
allowing for shrinkage (or shrink material first).
Now paint the coat with the oil mixture, using
a brush and working it well into seams. Hang
up to dry and repeat in two days’ time; a
third application is \yorth while; it ensures years
of wear.
« * « «
Recipes for sauce and soup using the San
Mazarno type of tomato? —9722.
Tomato sauce: Take 201 b. ripe tomatoes,
2oz. allspice, loz. cloves, 4oz. white pepper, lib.
apples, two quarts vinegar, 2oz. garlic,
spoonful cayenne, 41b. salt, |lb. sugar. Wash
and cut up tomatoes; peel, core and chop
apples and chop garlic; put all into preserving-
pan and boil three hours. Rub through sieve
and bottle hot. Tomato soup: lib. tomatoes,
loz. butter, loz. cornflour, one onion, 2oz. ham
(lean), bunch of parsley, one bayleaf, one pint
water, salt, pepper, four whole peppers. Melt
butter in stewpan, chop onion, dice ham; add
all with spice and herbs and fry gently 4-hour.
Add tomatoes (sliced), water and cornflour
(made into paste with water). Simmer 4-hour,
stirring well, then season and rub through
fine sieve.
* * * *
(1) Causes and effects of ‘‘sleeping sickness”
in tomatoes? (2) How is the disease spread?
—9990.
“Sleeping sickness,” or fusarium wilt, is
caused by a fungus which enters the plants
through the roots. It attacks numerous other
vegetable and flowering plants. In tomatoes,
plants are liable to attack at all stages of growth.
Young plants, when attacked, fail to keep pace
with the healthy ones in their growth; leaves
assume a sickly color and the lower ones fall.
Other plants show the effects of the disease
when the first cluster of fruit is about to ripen,
and it is seldom that any plants attain a greater
development, the last symptom being a com-
plete wilting, and death quickly follows. On
splitting open a diseased root or lower part
of the stem, brownish-colored areas will be
observed, particularly in the large-celled fibrous
section. (2) The causal organism, fusarium,
is able to live over in the soil from year to
year, and diseased stems, roots or leaves which
are left in the field serve to stock the soil
thoroughly with the reproductive parts of the
fungus. The disease may be spread by wash-
ing from higher land, by tools used on dis-
eased soil, by the hoofs of animals or the feet
of workmen, by manure and to a certain extent
by the wind. Sometimes the disease is dis-
seminated through the seed. The presence of
eelworms will frequently intensify the injury
caused by fusarium.
» * * *
Method of preparing and canning passionfruit
pulp?— 99B7.
The fruit should be ripe, full flavored and
sweet. Remove the pulp from the rind and
then in every 101 b. extracted pulp dissolve 41b.
best crystallised cane sugar. Fill into lacquered
cans not holding more than 13oz. to within
4in. of top and solder down the lid. Exhaust
for five minutes in a water bath at 190 deg. F.,
solder up vent holes and cook with cans fully
submerged in water at 190 deg. F. for 20
minutes.
Brief Answers.
E.M.H.; A puncheon of brandy or rum is
from 90 to 100 gallons, a hogshead of brandy
57 gallons and of rum from 54 to 60 gallons
W.S.S.: The British Empire has a total area
of over 13,355,000 square miles and a popula-
tion of about 475,000,000, over one-fifth of the
inhabitants of the g10be.... A.E.R.: During the
critical period in 1931 the King voluntarily
reduced his allowance by £50,000 p.a., and the
Duke of York by £5000... .R.P.V.: His case
is very strong and you have no option but to
do 50....H.1.L.; Beyond 10 shillings, £l, £5,
£lO, £2O and £SO the Bank of England issues
notes also for £IOO, £SOO and £IOOO. They are
legal tender in England and Wales for every
purpose, but no one can be compelled by law
to give change J.K.F.: “Ha-ha pigeon” is
a name given, generally by foreigners, to the
kookaburra D.H.E.: Ludendorff died De-
cember 20, 1937, in Munich, aged 72....
W.R.0.; Should be able to find most of your
material in Whitaker’s Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage and Companionage.... H.l.H.: A
Triple Alliance was formed by Great Britain,
Russia and Austria in 1795.... W.L.L.: Esti-
mated population of Persia is 15,000,000
D.P.J.: There was an old Dutch copper coin
called a doit. It was worth about a farthing.
The old Scottish coin of the same name was
worth from one-eighth to one-twelfth of a
penny... .J.F.: The mastiff is said to be an
original British breed... .A.E.T.: Nagyagite
has been found in Transylvania and the U.S.A.
A rare mineral, usually found in crystals, it is
a sulpho-telluride of lead and gold with occa-
sional traces of copper and antimony
D.G.T.: Burma yields some of the finest rubies.
The best examples are worth more than
diamonds of the same size and quality. Sap-
phires come next to diamonds in hardness
D.D.T.: Uncertain who invented spectacles.
Some say they were invented in 1285 by a
Florentine monk, Alexander de Spina; Roger
Bacon and numerous others are also held re-
sponsible... .D. 1.5.: Generally good surf and
deep-sea fishing there, and inland a little there
is quite good river fishing... .J.H.T.: There
is a famous essay by Charles Lamb on “Old
China,” but it is hardly a treatise on this sub-
ject. .. .L T.P.: One suggested substitute for
gelatine in photographic emulsion making is
agar-agar, a vegetable gelatinous substance
obtained from species of white seaweeds
5.V.8.: You could probably build one, but
the saving in cost would not warrant the
trouble. In any case it would probably cost
more to do it yourself K.M.P.: Judging
from the sample you forwarded you put the
caustic in twice. If not, then the recipe allows
for far too much of it... .T.N.M.: It is spelt
antiphony, and means singing or chanting in
alternation... .8.H.C.: Beer was known in
Egypt long before the Christian era, and was
probably introduced to Great Britain by the
Romans... .C.C.T.: A bill authorising a tunnel
between Dover and Calais was rejected in 1883.
A similar scheme was proposed and rejected in
1930.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
he taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
D.N.: Try elsewhere M.G.W.: Swaggie
and faithful hound returning to bush... J.P.:
The feeling’s there, but we don’t like gibbering
gnomes... .A.C.: When did you hear watchers
murmuring “Stern and lusty warriors these;
fervent, well-persisting in their deeds”?....
M.J.F.: Suspected that a bee would buzz in
sooner or later N.T.: Odd the way wolds
keep creeping into Australian landscapes when
a rhyme for “gold” is needed... .H.J.: Might
make a song... .T.S.: Flimsy... .M.A.T.:
Can’t resist “What a Barrel of Whisky Con-
tains” :
A barrel of headaches, of heart-aches, of woes,
A barrel of curses, a barrel of blows;
A barrel of sorrow for a loving wife,
A barrel of care, a barrel of strife;
A barrel of crime, a barrel of groans,
A barrel of orphans’ most pitiful moans;
A barrel of serpents that hiss as they pass,
That glow from the liquor in the head of the glass;
A barrel of falsehoods, a barrel of cries
That fall from the maniac’s lips as he dies.
. ...R.J.: One among hundreds... .J. 8.8.:
Last time we sang a “gladsome roundelay” was
when Charles II came to the throne... .R.L.8.;
How old are you? .... A.S.M.: “Aussie —
possy” may be an accurate rhyme, but it’s not
a beautiful 0ne....A.W.: “Adventures of an
Australian Mquntie” in 212 doggerel lines?
Not Buckley’s... .J.W.: “Silently I bowed my
head, I knelt as best I could.” What’s the
trouble? Rheumatism? .. . .0.5. K.; Tut
J.H.C.: That “cupboard bare” immediately
recalls Mother Hubbard... .M.C.T.: The
ghost almost walked in....A.8.: Sink ’em
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.: A beginning, far from auspicious
K.M.: While it’s easy to make a figure black,
it isn’t so easy to make it look like an abo.
.... J.K.H.: Art too modern, jokes too ancient.
A.T.: Your threat to continue sending
them in has been gloomily noted H.P.P.:
Decorative, but lacking in humor E.D.E.:
And what do the blobs floating about in the
fog represent? ... .G.D.: The oldest posthole
joke in captivity D.M.: That collection of
freaks would make any circus manager’s mouth
water... .R.C.D.: A few more years and you
should have crawled as far as the bottom rung
of the art ladder J.O’C.: That same coon
was wondering how those telegraph wires
would keep out those ’roos 40 years ago
Bert C.: Your ship would turn turtle in the
slightest zephyr M. 8.; Carefully drawn,
but without any signs of life G.A.: The
mainmast of your tug appears to be a 150 ft.
messmate sans root and top hamper
P.R.H.: Prune away half the lines and resub-
mit.


Mil
LYS
JS
PROOF
ẃ
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"IYSAGHT'S” WIRE. WIRE NETTING,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Footrot Points.
“Peapod”: Moisture with luxuriant
growth of pastures (B. 19/2/’41) is not
entirely responsible for footrot. Com-
mon starters are cracks formed between
the wall of the hoof and the sole. This
permits dirt, contaminated with bacteria,
to accumulate. Greatest cause of the
cracks is an uneven treading surface, due
to long toes. Regular clipping of all
sheep with such growth assists in creating
resistance to footrot.
Whilst it is true that the footrot germ
may be carried by sheep for years, in-
festation is made in pastures. The
organism can remain in mud or droppings
for three weeks. Then the unaffected
sheep with cracks pick up infection.
A regular spelling of paddocks, accom-
panied whenever possible with a harrow-
ing, helps.,, Especially in hilly country,
where areas enclosed are larger, sheep
have special preferences for certain
slopes. A watch will show that infected
sheep rarely move off these slopes, and
their droppings are great sources of in-
fection.
“Murrawong’s” treatment (B. 19/2/’41)
is good, but the essential point is that
spelling paddocks, etc., tends to lessen
the number of affected sheep.
It is wise, where numbers make it
possible, to trim off overgrown horn and
to examine all sheep regularly.
Then, any sheep showing signs of foot-
rot should, after being put in a foot-bath
—10 p.c.- bluestone solution —be spelled
in a special paddock.
Foot-bath treatment should be con-
tinued regularly until the sheep recover.
The apparently clean sheep should also
go through the foot-bath and then back
to spelled pastures.
Blowflies Active.
“Sheepo”: After the generous rains,
blowflies have become very active
throughout the north-western areas of
N.S.W. and elsewhere. The pests will
be abnormal during the next few months,
and if heavy losses are to be avoided
immediate action is necessary among the
ewes.
Where practicable it will pay to advance
shearing. Even if sheep have to be shorn
with only eight or nine months’ wool
growth, the numbers that might be saved
will warrant the procedure ; in any case,
the lost wool is added to the next year’s
clip.
In some districts, approach of lamb-
ing may preclude either shearing or
crutching, but if lambing percentages are
to be kept normal the ewes should be
yarded for treatment. By yarding, ewes
don’t get knocked about as much as
when rounded up in the paddock and
held by dogs. It’s safer to yard, even if
it costs more time.
Ewes heavy in lamb must be handled
carefully, and it is risky to have them
crutched in the shed unless placed back
in the catching pens instead of down the
chutes.
Where ewes have already commenced
to lamb, it’s advisable to yard in small
mobs. Keep each mob in hand until
sure that mothering has taken place. No
matter what preparation is favored it’s
essential to have the wool removed well
around the parts struck. If possible, bad
cases should be kept in hand for daily
attention. It is here that the hospital
paddock proves such a worth-while
proposition.
Early action, regular inspection and
treatment of flocks are essential if losses
from fly are to be kept at a minimum.
Cattle and Sheep Licks.
“M.W.”: Re licks (B. 26/2/’4i and
B. 19/3/’4l), it seems to me that, except
for well-defined areas where minor
minerals such as copper, cobalt, man-
ganese. and zinc are required, the main
call is for salt, lime and phosphate. Iron
is occasionally advisable. No real iodine
deficiency has been recorded in sheep or
cattle (beef) areas, though on odd farms
in hilly country with a high rainfall, e.g.,
"A hedge along the bound'ry fence'll stop us bein' overlooked, Ma."
Canungra (Q.), iodine lack in pigs has
been noted.
Both sheep and cattle can store lime
and phosphate in bones. Over 90 p.c.
of the bone structure’s mineral matter is
composed of calcium phosphate. Salt
cannot be stored.
In good seasons, pasture or hand-
feeding meets the needs of stock, but
heavy-milking cows should get something
extra to counteract the great loss of lime,
etc., through milk.
In the sheep areas bore water often
supplies all the salt necessary, even when
pasture is poor. Many bore waters
exceed 200 grains of salt per gallon.
Merinos rarely drink more than five
gallons weekly. This on a water in the
neighborhood of 200 grains per gallon
provides all salt needs. Always get local
water analysed before using a lick.
Properties with surface water come
into a different category. Salt should be
included in the lick. How much can
be determined only by experiment, for
obviously it is not only the percentage
of salt in a lick but the quantity eaten
that decides whether the animal is getting
all it needs.
It is better to begin with a low salt
content —preferably not past 30 p.c. —
and keep consumption records. Lift the
intake by making the lick more appetising
or lower by adding bonemeal, clean
wood ashes or powdered limestone.
There is no evidence that Australian
sheep are unable to obtain sufficient phos-
phate from even poor pastures to meet
normal body requirements. By virtue of
their extremely selective method of feed-
ing, ewes are able to store enough to meet
the drain of reproduction from areas
known to be phosphate-poor for cattle.
Sheep better utilise the phosphate from
poor pastures than that from rich
pastures. Only in prolonged drought
coupled with lambing is the strain likely
to prove too much for bodily reserves.
Cattle have a greater body weight
made up of bone —the main seat of phos-
phate —and require more than sheep.
Further, cattle require more food per
1001 b. for maintenance than do sheep.
They are less able in dry times to
garner the phosphate-rich portions of the
plant—fallen seeds and low shoots.
Lucerne v. Skeleton Weed.
“The Rock”: Like a lot of others in
Riverina, we didn’t wake up to skeleton
weed till it had a hold. After a bit of
hard thinking and a lot of work we’re still
on the place, largely because we signed a
mutual-defence pact with lucerne and
sheep against the enemy.
Our annual rain is about 19in. After
the skeleton got a hold we decided that
pasture improvement gave us the best
chance, so the boss went for sub. clover
and Wimmera rye, mostly sown with
wheat as a cover. They did passably
well, but something more was needed,
Lucerne was tried.
We found it hard to establish where
the s.w. was thick, and still harder when
we used wheat as a cover with it. So
we started sowing on bare fallow and
without a cover, using a well-prepared
seedbed—a few rolls-up with a heavy
harrow following.
We sow at about 41b. an acre with
901 b. of super., using a disc drill with a
drag-chain behind and putting the seed
jin! to lin. deep. No rolling after sow-
ing. Once the lucerne is established it
gets frequent cultivations, and is top-
dressed with super, every autumn.
We get great summer feed from
lucerne managed this way, and are able
to run a big team of Romney Marsh-
merino crosses, the summer feed coming
in mighty handy to fatten off the wethers.
In a normal season we can get at least
one cut from the lucerne and are building
up a store of bales.
Wheat-Oats-Rye Rotation.
“Al Gerian”: Wheatmen looking for
a good rotation crop to replace wheat
and help them maintain an increased
stock rate can’t go past oats. Although
the oat acreage recently has increased, a
lot more is wanted, and change of system
on wheat farms can scarcely be envisaged
without oats.
Several good rules apply to oat-grow-
ing. Using recommended varieties is one.
Others are: Sow as early as possible;
graze before the stems start to lengthen ;
graze quickly and regularly and in rota-
tion. Use the harrows after grazing to
break up tight surfaces.
On a West Wyalong (N.S.W.) farm,
out of the 800 acres, 200 are bare-fal-
lowed and sown with wheat, half the
wheat having Wimmera rye sown with it.
In the following year the 100 acres of
stubble and rye gives good grazing, and
the 100 acres of stubble is sown with oats
for grazing.
When this is grazed out, it is summer
fallowed and sown again with oats for
grain or hay. Then the 200 acres is fal-
lowed again for the following wheat crop,
Thus four years have passed, and in
the next four the sections of the pad-
dock are changed over for the same rota-
tion. In eight years the 200 acres grows
two crops of wheat, one of oats for grain
or hay, one of oats for grazing, a rye-
grass pasture, a wheat stubble and rye
pasture and two winter fallows.
The area of oats over the period is
exceptionally large, but a good many
wheatmen in the N.S.W. better-class
south-west country are finding the system
profitable.
Hawkesbury Egg-laymg
Competition.
iin u „, . „ „
: Hawkesbury College
(N.S.W.) egg-laying competition began
with 540 birds (390 White Leghorns, 102
Australorps, 24 Langshans and 24 Rhode
Island Reds), but 48 died or were sick
during the year,
Fewer disqualifications were made for


VciveS (LmU klbM
ONCE A YEAR
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
RADXOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), LTD,,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
The comfort of a septic tank without any water supply
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Provides one of the amenities of City life.
# NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Efficiency, mechanism and long life fully guaranteed.
Approved by Board of Health.
Over 1550 satisfied* users.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tax and crating.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
BRITSTAND
G RAD&R-DI'TCM E RS
For everv class of Ditching fimrfmo
Does everything for which you previously
needed a Grader AND a Ditcher, and DOES
IT BETTER. Makes drains over 4' deep, and
banks over 4' high. Good for maintaining,
also station roads, shifting drift, etc. Over
10,000 Grader Ditchers in use in America.
Hundreds already sold in Australia. Your
money refunded if you agree to part with
it after 2-days' trial. Write to-day for free
illustrated leaflet.
BRITISH STANDARD
MACHINERY Co. Ltd.
56-5 8 GARDENERS RD.
(West of Botany Rd.), ALEXANDRIA
Phones Mascot 37 0- 5
underweight eggs compared with the
previous year:
1939-
Heavy breeds .. .. 38 birds, 14 groups
Light breeds .. .. 24 birds, 10 groups
Total .. .. 62 birds, 24 groups
1940-
Heavy breeds .. .. 20 birds, 7 groups
Light breeds .. .. 38 birds, 16 groups
Total .. .. 58 birds, 23 groups
The financial aspect panned out thus:
Eggs, Ozs., Value,
Per Hen. Per Doz. Per Bird.
Langshans .. .. 205.4 26.2 20s. l£d.
Leghorns .. .. 203.9 26.3 19s. 7d.
Australorps .. 198.8 26.0 19s. 7d.
Rhode Island Reds 149.9 25.9 14s. sd.
It cost 7s. 3d. per head to feed the birds ;
and food devoured was 601 b. pollard,
341 b. bran, 61b. meatmeal, 220 z. salt
(morning); 671 b. wheat, 331 b. cracked
maize (evening). Green feed was given
at midday. In the menu also were
23cwt. shellgrit and 501 b. Epsom salt.
Altogether, 108,312 eggs were laid. The
champion pens were R. Thorough good’s
White Leghorns (1510 eggs, market value
£7 75.) and A. Sinclair’s Australorps
(1434 eggs, value £7 Is. 2d.). The best
layer was in the latter pen—2B4 eggs.
It must not be overlooked that the
venture was controlled under ideal con-
ditions, much better than the average
poultryman could afford, and there was a
staff on hand to give more time than
would be spared by the small man always
looking for a little extra butter for his
bread.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kuller”; Got worms, has he? Starve
him for a night, then give him a capsule
consisting of Igr. of calomel, lOgr. of
areca-nut and eight drops of extract of
male fern, followed at once by a large
tablespoonful of castor oil. Don’t laugh
at him—dogs suspect such laughter—but
leave him be while you clean and dis-
infect the kennel and shift it to new
ground, digging up the old and turning
it in.
“Goulburn”: It is not a good idea to
sow oats in a new stand of lucerne. The
oats crowd the lucerne out, develop bare
patches and entry of weeds is facilitated.
However, when an old stand of lucerne
is thinning out, Wimmera rye or some
other grasses can be scratched in at the
rate of 31b. to 41b. per acre. Topdressed
with super., the mixture will provide
good grazing for a few years.
“Canbelego”: Oaten chaff alone
doesn’t provide enough energy for a
working horse; it lacks requisite nour-
ishment and has too much indigestible
fibre. Give a daily ration of 81b. of
oats (grain), of bran, 121 b. of chaff
and 2oz. of salt divided into three feeds.
“Mullengah”; As Phalaris tuberosa is
a slow-grower, don’t sow a cover crop
with it or it may be choked out. Phalaris
will not stand competition from quick-
growers like Wimmera and perennial ryes
and oats. Sow it in a mixture with
clovers or lucerne. If ryes are to be
sown with phalaris their rate of seeding
should be greatly reduced.
“Mullengah”: Best stage for silage-
making is before the seed stalk
of grasses appears and just before
flowering of legumes. Cut and cart
the greenstuff immediately to avoid mois-
ture content dropping below 65 p.c.
Good silage can be made only in an air-
tight container or pit. If air gains access
moulds form and the silage is spoilt. Best
silage is made in pits, as, with proper
control, a pit can be made airtight. As
soon as greenstuff is packed heat de-
velops, but the tighter the packing the
more moderate the heat.
“Drew Malt”: Nothing is more un-
sightly, unsubstantial and annoying than
a dummy post. If the original is damaged
beyond hope, split it away from the wire,
dig its stump out and prepare a hole in
exactly the same spot. Before putting
in the new post, bore it for the wires,
then with a saw cut a downward slot
into the holes. Slip the wire into the
holes through the slots, stand the post
in the hole, ram tight, plug the slots with
thin wedges of wood to stop wire lifting
out again.
“No. 4”: When using the crowbar in
tough going, break the centre of the hole
first. It’s easier then to break the sides
into it. Trying to break hard clay from
the sides against a solid centre blisters
the hands and the vocabulary.
“K.Mc.”; During the 1939-40 season
wool shipments totalled 2,625,000 bales.
Lately Britain has been drawing on
accumulated stocks of wool and using
shipping space for other purposes. Only
small consignments of this season’s clip
have gone to Britain. The largest de-
livery has been made to Uncle Sam, who
has taken 461,000 bales. A further
155.000 bales have been shipped to the
U.S. under the storage scheme, and
645.000 more bales are to be shipped.
Deliveries to America, Britain, Japan and
local mills are likely to aggregate well
over 2,000,000 bales before the new
appraisements begin in August. This
would leave an accumulation of approxi-
mately 1,000,000 bales in store. The
Central Wool Committee and brokers
have storage space for 1,133,000 bales.
“Ghanam”; The appraisement system
has worked smoothly this season, and in
Sydney the list is almost complete. The
drought made less difference to deliveries
than expected—the 1,095,000 bales which
arrived since July 1 were 60,000 short
of last year’s lot. The areas of the mid-
north of the State now have plenty of
inducement in freight-saving to send a
large proportion of their 400,000 to
500.000 bales to Newcastle, whence there
is more chance of the money drifting
back than there is from Sydney.
“Jayem”: Fifty years ago Walter
Ingrey decided to breed stud merinos
on Yarraglen, a 3000-acre property at
Grenfell (N.S.W.). Since then most of
the pastures are well improved, and
carrying capacity has been greatly in-
creased. Yarraglen clip holds the record
wool price for Grenfell district
per pound, made some years ago. Ewes
bred in the stud have won two State
competitions, and Yarraglen’s fist of
show successes is imposing. Yarraglen
seems likely to go on to greater things.
“Ben C.”: Bordan, a wheat which did
well in field tests in good rainfall districts
of N.S.W. last year, seems to be worth
sowing. A mid-maturer, it compares with
Ford, and prime high-percentage-gluten
samples may bring premiums. Milling
quality of Bordan is only slightly in-
ferior to that of Ford, and its flour yield
is slightly below Ford’s. Gluten content
varies according to environment, but
where Bordan and Ford are grown to-
gether Ford’s content is slightly higher
and its gluten has more elasticity. Bor-
dan gluten is more stable and balances
up well with Ford. In good districts,
Bordan is not only a good yielder, but
produces a possible premium grain, likely
to be sought locally.
“F.R.A.S.”: M.L. has some of the
richest sulphur deposits in the world.
Those at White Island have been worked
from time to time. Yet to M.L. sulphur
—for its part in fertilisers —is supremely
important. Australia, too, needs some
120.000 tons annually. Why not co-
operation between the two Dominions
in developing M.L. supplies?
“Bill Ding”: Just seen a large number
of pickets lose their feet because of a
running fire in withered grass and weeds,
and it strikes me that pickets and paling
material might be raised six or so inches
from the ground. This would involve
an additional rail in some cases but not
in all, and the present two could be
spaced wider. Earth contact is respon-
sible, too, for much rot and destruction
by white-ants. Rain causes a draining
and something has to go, usually the pro-
tective acids of the wood.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXIII.
Getting Borders Home.
One morning you mount old Barney,
whistle up Mac and set off for the siding
to collect five Border Leicester rams con-
signed to you by train.
The truck is backed into the race when
you get there, and a couple of locals
drift over and watch you run the rams
down into the yard. They’re big, long-
legged animals, young and full of go.
You spend a few minutes looking them
over, feeling some pride of ownership
before the eyes watching from the yard-
rail.
“Where they from?” asks Bill Morton.
“Whitton Downs,” says you.
“Huh! I’ve seen better,” says Mc-
Grogan.
He always was a nark.
“Whatcha goin’ t’ use ’em for?” siks
Morton.
“Raisin’ fat lambs,” you say, opening
the gate and turning them towards the
road home. It’s five miles from the siding
to your place.
By the time you’re on the horse those
rams are half a mile ahead. “Gripes,”
you say to yourself, “they’re goin’ like
racehorses.” You notice that the wind
is in their faces.
Just as you begin to close on them and
are debating whether to send Mac ahead
to check ’em, old Ben Travers comes
along in his utility truck. Ben is the dis-
trict’s best sheepman and has often given
you a good tip. He pulls up and barks
“Hey, Jack, whose blanky kangaroos is
them down the road?”
“Mine,” you say proudly, stopping the
horse.
Of course, old Ben must know all
about them. He barks away and you
bark back for some time ; then you look
up the road. There isn’t a sheep in sight.
“Gripes, Ben,” you say, “I’ll hafta be
gettin’ along. Them rams is goin’ like
scalded cats.”
“So long,” barks Ben, crashing his
gears and vanishing in a cloud of dust.
“Better strengthen y’r fences,” barks the
dust.
You kick old Barney into a canter. A
mile goes by. At the school you pull up.
Four roads meet. You can’t see any
Border Leicesters on any of them. You
look for tracks.
“Where’s them flamin’ sheep?” you ask
Mac.
Mac wags his tail, runs through the
fence and sniffs at a hollow log.
“Come outa that, y’ silly mong.! ” you
roar. Mac looks abashed and creeps
round behind the horse. A motor-cyclist
comes along the west road. Has he seen
any sheep? He has, he assures you pro-
fanely. One of them cannoned into him
and nearly broke his neck. To Hades
with sheep, he adds, and shoots off into
the east. Anxiously you kick Barney
into the west, Mac running at his heels.
Two miles later you encounter a man
in a sulky. No, he hasn’t seen any
Borders, but a flamin’ motor-bike ran
inter his wethers back there and settled
one. He’s after that motor-bike if he
has t’ chase the cow t’ Queensland. Re-
lieved on one point but still anxious you
turn Barney and head east to the cross-
roads.
Just as you get there Mac darts off
and runs behind the schoolhouse. You
howl at him to come back. He stays
behind the school. You hear him yap-
ping. Being Saturday, there is no school.
“Blast the dog!” you mutter, and ride
south half a mile till you find a new
formation. There are no sheep tracks, so
you go back to the crossroads. There is
no sign of Mac. “Probably gone home,”
you think. “Fine sort o’ dog t’ have.
Man ought t’ shoot the cow. Confound
them flamin’ rams!”
Away up the north road a white mov-
ing speck catches your eyes. Three miles
later you pull up the blowing Barney and
curse the white calf straying on the road.
“People,” you say bitterly, “orter be
pinched for lettin’ white calves stray.”
Wearily you jog back to the crossroads.
A bagman has pulled in and is boiling
his billy with water from the school tank.
“See any sheep on the track?” you ask.
“G’day,” he replies. “Could y’ spare
a smoke? Y’ look a bit knocked up.
Could y’ do a drink o’ tea?”
Realising that all this rushing about is
getting you nowhere, you slip off Barney,
hand the bagman the makings and squat
down. A cup of tea wouldn’t be bad.
“Where are y’ headin’?” you ask.
“Aw, anywhere. How many sheep did
y’ lose, mister?”
“Five. The cows went like racehorses.”
“Just a minute. She’s boilin’. Only
take a tick t’ cool. Do y’ mind drinkin’
out o’ the billy-lid?”
“That’s all right,” you say.
“That’s a bonzer dawg y’ got,” he says.
“I’ll wring his flamin’ neck,” you
threaten bitterly.
The bagman pours some tea into the
lid and puts it on the grass to cool.
You’re thinking the only thing to do is
get the car and scour the district when
something hits your brain and you start
up saying “Fley, how do you know any-
thin’ about me dog?”
The bagman looks at you with some
astonishment.
“Isn’t that him in behind the school?”
You make for the corner of the build-
ing. Behind it is a brush shelter-shed
built by the children. Inside the shed
are five Border Leicester rams and on
his belly, watching them closely, is Mac.
You compose yourself, go back and
imbibe the nectar in the bagman’s billy-
lid.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at tbe rate of per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
The problem of the dead-end lad is treated in a constructive spirit by a South
Australian, and his contribution is placed first.
Dead-end Lads
Might I offer a constructive suggestion
to supplement “Pawang’s” observations
on the reformatory system (B. 12/3/’41)?
In the district where I was born and
raised in n.-e. England was a Home for
Boys which was the shore establishment
of a training ship moored in the river
a mile or so away. Its stern but under-
standing head had under his wing a large
and mixed assortment of young derelicts,
family misfits and “unmanageables,”
ranging in years all the way through
school age. Some were just the poor
little unfortunates common to any large
industrial area; others were definitely
problems to their families and the com-
munity.
The boys were trained for sea life, and
were dressed like junior Jack tars. It
was a Spartan and disciplined life, but
it made hardy and healthy men of them.
They learned trades, and I believe that
most of them passed naturally into the
navy. Tradition was in their daily atmo-
sphere, for the old training ship was a
picturesque “wooden walls” of Nelson’s
fleet. Thus were rescued from the dead-
end many hundreds of lads of the type
who are now policing the seven seas.
The lads suffered from no opprobrium
whatever. Their disciplined bearing and
navpj garb won for their company the
respect and affection of all. Their
splendid band concerts were in great
popular demand over a wide area.
Surely something of this kind, carry-
ing an affinity with a great tradition,
would come nearer to solving the problem
of the “dead-end kids” during their
vitally susceptible and formative years
than the reformatory method, which
cannot escape that fatal suggestion of
the prison to which only too many of
the poor little devils will graduate.—
Tynesider (S.A.).
War-savings Certificates
While the daily papers report a grati-
fying response to the Government’s
appeal to buy war-savings certificates they
don’t disclose how many certificates dis-
tributed by the multitude of savings
groups are immediately cashed over the
bank counter.
The queue of customers in our local
trading bank today was delayed for more
than ten minutes while the teller can-
celled £1 war-savings certificates and re-
funded amounts of 16s. It transpired that
the timber and joinery mill near by, which
employs some 50 men, had that day given
out certificates bought by employees by
small weekly payments, and app rently
they had burnt a hole in most of the
men’s pockets until they were cashed.
To ensure the success of the scheme
the Government should stipulate that the
certificates must be held for a minimum
period of six months before they acquire
any cash-surrender value. Melton
(Vic.).
Wfil They Revolt?
Ever since the war started, and for
years before it commenced, we ordinary
people were fed with statements on these
lines: “A dictator must go from success
to success. At the first hint of failure
his people will revolt under him and
there will be no more dictator.”
Those who mouthed that platitude
haven’t said too much since Musso.’s men
have flapped their shirt-tails in the breeze.
In fact, he has had nothing but a chain
of reverses and failures. We read of
revolt in Italy—of half-hearted mutter-
ings and things of that sort. But of real
full-hearted revolt there is no evidence
whatever.
The same thing applies to other dic-
tator Powers. Stalin has taken knock
after knock —from Finland, for a start,
and nose-tweakings in plenty from Hitler.
Stalin, or his name, still conducts purges.
Japan, practically a dictator nation, has
taken them right and left, above and
below the belt. There isn’t any evidence
that the common people are revolting.
Even Hitler has been set back frequently
—both his actions and his promises have
met a flat failure. It would be an opti-
mist who would say the population m
his country is rising in protest.
Let’s revise the mouthings of wise men
and get back to simple facts. The people
live on what they are fed. If the right
pap is given them they’ll swallow any-
thing. Those dictator nations see to it
that the people get only the sort of
fodder that will keep them loyal.— Toe
(Q.).
New Orders, Is It?
People who go about talking about a
“new world order” after the war might
be less talkative if they considered the
fate of previous exponents of new orders
who have tried to hustle mankind out
of the normal tempo of its march to its
destiny—whatever that may be.
History largely consists of the stories
of new-order manufacturers and the
thuds they came. Most of them used
force.
Cromwell had a go at a new order
for England. He got away with it for
a time, largely because he struck at the
right time and was able to crystallise a
people’s desire for reform. But he was
hardly cold in his tomb before the Eng-
lish rejected his works and set up
another king. Napoleon tried a new
order for France and Europe. Everybody
knows what happened to both him and
his new order. Emperor Wilhelm II was
another maker of new orders ; so were
Trotsky of Russia and Ramsay Mac-
Donald of England,
It seems that man will gang his
ain gait, and the new-order-mongers,
though attaining spectacular success for
a time, can’t break that gait. If this
means anything it means that Australia
would be well advised to stick to the
methods it has evolved through its short
history and let exponents of sudden and
new orders talk themselves blind. — The
Corker (N.S.W.).
Luxury and Ballyhoo
Entirely wrong as was the white-feather
persecution of the 1914-18 war, it seems
to me to be going to the other extreme
when a radio journal devotes two whole
pages to enthusing on the lavishness of
the apartments and the luxurious life of
a bachelor “radio personality.”
If the young man in question, wearing
his “wide-legged black satin pyjamas
(which he designs himself) and suede
moccasins,” cares to entertain guests in
his “luxurious, breathtaking” flat with its
“exotic wood cabinets surfaced with the
palest pink mirrors,” shell-pink walls,
wall-to-wall carpets, patent telephone
attachment plugs in every room (including
the bathroom), lettered beer mugs
arranged to spell the celebrity’s name,
and all the rest of the blurb, it is his own
business. But while thousands of other
young men, discarding all thoughts of
luxury, face privations and perhaps death,
a little less emphasis on the opulence
might be in better taste.
Moreover, with newsprint a commodity
to be conserved, two pages seems a lot
of space to squander on a personality-
boy’s attempt to emulate the glitter of
Hollywood.—B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
A Nation United
Maoriland’s soldiers are in the Middle
East and elsewhere, with steady streams
of reinforcements. To the Air Force
has gone the pick of her youth, whose
exploits so typified by “Cobber” Kain
need no further mention. On the seas
another small island has cause for heart-
felt thanks to its sailors.
But behind those fighters is a nation
united at home. By systematic ballots
it is ensured that every fit single man
will ultimately have had at least three
months’ continuous military training,
enabling him to take up arms at once
should the need arise. Then there is the
Home Guard, soon to be 100,000 strong. In
every city, town or scattered back-country
village, units —often only a platoon
strong—regularly attend drill and instruc-
tion. Drill enables them to handle arms
and have discipline. The instruction is
thorough, and ranges from map-reading
to road-blocking. Officers are largely fur-
nished from the ranks of returned men.
It is not only with arms that M.L.
prepares. A united War Council sees
that the best possible use of man-power
is made. Farming has reached a peak
believed impossible a few months ago.
Industry, too, plays its part. Factories
have been given over to the production
of every type of weapon. Not only will
M.L.’s standing army be supplied, but
every unit of the Home Guard will be
adequately maintained.
As an instance of the co-ordination
that exists it is only necessary to take
the engineering trade. The sudden rush
revealed a shortage of skilled labor. The
War Council didn’t appoint a commis-
sion ; it arranged for the training of
adults. While training they get £4 13 s. 4d,
a week. There was no outcry from unions.
It was simply a case of supplying the
need in the shortest time and getting on
with the job.
Finance has played its part, too.
Almost from the outbreak of war volun-
tary loans poured into the; Treasury.
Money has willingly been given to the
patriotic funds, controlled by one body,
with sub-councils in different districts.
Administrative costs are less than .12 p.c.,
and that is paid from the War Expenses
Account. Every penny-piece goes to the
purpose for which the public subscribe it.
Any man discharged from the army
has only to call at the Placement Office
located in each main camp. Work and
pensions are arranged at once. Looking
ahead, the return of all men to civil life
is being planned for. Large areas for
farming are being bought at reasonable
prices, developed and subdivided. They’re
not located in the backblocks, either. _
Maoriland women are behind their
menfolk, albeit they are not decked out
in glamorised uniforms. A Woman’s
Auxiliary Air Force will relieve men
from routine clerical and other such
work. Air-raid precautions are not being
discussed but acted on. All lights visible
from the sea are blacked out, as are bril-
liant signs and lights in the main cities.
Wardens are on the job without fuss or
advertisement.
This by no means ends the results
achieved by the efforts of a small but
united nation. The lessons from Europe
have not been lost. But if Australia
doesn’t wake up to the danger of divided
councils it might be better if Maoriland
annexed it for the duration. —F. B,
(MX.).
Free Militia Passes
Now that the system of alternate three
months in and out of camp for the
militia has been introduced, it is high
time the N.S.W. Government awoke to
the question of free monthly rail war-
rants for trainees, many of whom,
especially from country centres, are en-
camped hundreds of miles from their
home towns.
A case in point: There are at present
at Greta north-western men from In-
verell and Moree. To spend their
monthly leave at home means £2 15s.
and £2 respectively, which ruins a fort-
night’s pay and leaves practically no-
thing to spend during leave and until the
next pay comes along. The case of the
married man receiving but 28s. fort-
nightly after making his allotment is both
pathetic and ridiculous. Yet all person-
nel of this battalion have been informed
that Easter leave will be compulsory.
They have not even the option of eating
on the Government.
The State authorities should ease the
financial burden immediately by placing
N. S. Wales trainees on the same foot-
ing as the A.I.F. in camp in Australia
and issuing them with free monthly
passes.—R. G. (N.S.W-)-
The Billetees
There were loud screams in the flapper
press the other day about the dangers
awaiting young married (and I suppose
unmarried) service men in the homes into
which some of them are received for
hospitality during leave. I live in a home
(a private one) into which some service
men arrive almost every week-end as
guests. I can’t say that I have noticed
anything out of the way in their
general behavior and demeanor —save
that occasionally some make arrange-
ments with the office in Sydney to accept
hospitality and then fail to turn up.
This is rather disconcerting to the
host. The flapper press might
devote some of its space towards
impressing on some of these men
that, if they do not wish to avail them-
selves of hospitality already accepted, it
would be courteous at least to signify
that they have changed their minds. —-
Thank You (N.S.W.).
Whose Fault?
Was France’s downfall attributable to
treachery? I sincerely hope it was, be-
cause treachery is a pretty scarce com-
modity in Australia. But if it was due
to boneheaded incompetency, then I’m
going to lose a lot of my quiet con-
fidence.
A military training camp established
on a river in s.-w. W.A. was supplied
with bridging equipment which included
some of the latest consuta-wood pon-
toons —the largest type of pontoon used
by the Australian Army. The super-
structure includes “saddles,” formed of
two lengths of U steel separated by 11
“Stop daydreamin', Abdul, and git on with the job!”


spaced cast steel blocks and clamped
with bolts, which seat along the centres
of the boats. Each of the steel blocks
has two holes designed to take steel
dowels in the ends of the “x'oadbearers”
—long steel girders which stretch from
one pontoon to the next and form a base
for the “decking.”
The first, and only, attempt to con-
struct a bridge with this equipment ended
in a fiasco when it was revealed that the
holes in the steel blocks were not big
enough to take the dowels. Specifications
provide that they should be l.lin. wide.
Few were over lin.
At best it means that thousands of
pounds’ worth of equipment is lying
idle ; that men’s training is neglected until
the fault is rectified. Yet the equipment
had passed through many hands. It had
been tested and passed many times. —
Salmon Gums (W.A.).
V.D. in N. S. Wales
A disturbing fact was thus revealed in
a statement from the National Health
and Medical Research Council, published
in the “Medical Journal” of March 1:
A feature of venereal disease incidence
in New South Wales within recent years
has been the apparent increase of cases of
primary syphilis, an increase which dates
from 1938, the year of the sesquicentenary
celebrations. Before that year the State
had shared with other States in an almost
complete disappearance of primary syphilis.
Over the past four years to October 31,
1940, the percentage of primary cases to all
cases of syphilis under treatment had been
as follows:
1937 8.8 p.c.
1938 17.5 p.c.
1939 34.2 p.c.
1940 .. .. .. 29.5 p.c.
The figures were supplied by Dr.
Cooper Booth, Director of the Division
of Social Hygiene of the N. S. Wales
Department of Public Health. He in-
formed the council that a loophole in
the legislation in N. S. Wales which is
covered in other States is the lack of
authority to order persons suspected of
infection to submit to examination and
treatment, with detention if necessary.
The council thus indicates the result as
assessed by him:
The police are doing good work in
rounding up women in the streets, but the
amateur still remained the major source
of infection, especially of gonorrhoea. He
quoted figures of sources of infection
obtained from a very large number of
patients attending clinics in Sydney. The
percentages for married and single men were
recorded as follows:
Gonorrhoea.
Married —
[Amateur, 54.8 p.c.
22.7 p.c. infected from Prostitute, 9.5 p.c.
(Wives, 35.7 p.c.
Single—
-77.3 p.c. infected from {ASS. 11l
Syphilis.
Married —
[Amateur, 38.7 p.c.
22.4 p.c. infected from Prostitute, 26.7 p.c.
(Wives, 34.6 p.c.
Single—
-77 6 nr infected from / Amateur, 67.8 p.c.
//.6 p.c. imected Horn Pro stitute, 32 .2 p.c.
The admirable results in protection of
troops by specific methods of educa-
tion, prophylaxis and medical attention
are in remarkable contrast to the experi-
ence of 1914-18. The continued efficiency
of those methods has been demonstrated
by the practically negligible incidence
amongst invalided Australian troops
brought home from the world’s greatest
hotbed of venereal infection. The coun-
cil’s response to the N. S. Wales situation
was to initiate action for bringing these
methods and their results under the offi-
cial notice of all State health authorities
with a view to their adoption in civil
administration. — Puyyaka, M.D. (Q.).
The Enemy Within
Dr. Scholes, medical superintendent of
the Fairfield (Vic.) Infectious Diseases
Hospital, remarked the other day that
his institution might have to cut its
patients down by one-half and close some
of its wards because of the rush of its
specially-selected and highly-experienced
staff into the army. In pre-war years
admissions were an average of 4000 to
5000 annually; in the last eight months
the figure has risen to 5400, and senior
M.Os. have the terrific task of visiting
250 beds daily. Dr. Scholes has gone
so far as to ask the Southern Command
to release medical men who are not im-
mediately wanted.
There is no reason to suppose that
conditions in Melbourne will get better.
The sudden growth of the munitions busi-
ness is drawing people from the country
as if the congested wen had become a
magnet. There is no sign that the vari-
ous authorities will suffer a sea change,
give up their wrangling and tackle the
question of workers’ accommodation in
places like Footscray with the speed of
archangels. Slums have always existed
in Melbourne, and fresh slums are in the
making. That they have always been
breeders of infectious diseases that could
easily develop into epidemics has been
obscured by the fact that the F.I.D. carts
that speed about the city are unosten-
sibly doing the necessary work of isola-
tion. But Dr. Scholes says that as things
are at present, if wards have to be closed
only the dangerously ill or the destitute
will be able to get hospital accommoda-
tion.
The infantile paralysis epidemic pro-
duced a crisis, even in peace-time. If a
similar crisis occurred it might have just
as bad effects on the war effort by
immobilising civilians as the major
defeat of an army in battle. Diphtheria,
for one thing, has shown a sudden in-
crease. — Pawang (Vic.).
The One-Big-City Spirit
Geelong (Vic.) has a Chamber of Com-
merce and Manufactures which has
pointed out to Canberra that Corio Bay
is ahead of Fishermen’s Bend, Williams-
town and the Maribyrnong for ship-
building.
Sites suggested are Corio Quay or
Rippleside, where some small shipbuild-
ing was done once and where the Harbor
Trust’s workshops are already situated.
Other positions have been suggested for
oil wharves.
Whether or not the move will succeed,
a hint of it had no sooner reached Mel-
bourne than the Big-City press began to
bristle.
Unless Melbourne moves rapidly Gee-
long might become the centre of Vic-
torian shipbuilding, one paper said. “The
overtures will accelerate moves for the
establishment of new yards in Mel-
bourne.”
In matters like these city dailies are
“Well have to get rid of Number Two—she spoils the line.”
about as national-minded as their office
cats. —O. T. (Vic.).
Family Appeal
Despite the evidence of “Thou and 1”
(B. 26 /2 / ’4l) comparatively small
sale of books based on family interest,
I believe that the family deserves a place
of honor amongst themes for literature.
Further, I believe that a competent writer
convinced of the supreme importance of
the family—the necessity for its continu-
ance, its function as a builder of char-
acter and its tradition of loyalty—could
make a success of work based on such
ideas.
In contradiction of the notion that
family appeal scarcely exists nowadays,
may I point out that there has been no
more popular type of radio serial in the
U.S.A. or Australia during recent years
than simple portrayals of family life?
Similarly, film-producers have found that
there is a constant and strong demand
for the family-life film. If the family-life
book is not very popular today, the
evidence of radio serials and the talkies
is that there is a profitable field to be
tapped by some writer who can hit on
a suitable method of presenting similar
themes in fiction.
Finally, and contrary to the allegation
that “Dickens himself could not sell his
‘family’ novels today,” all the works of
Dickens are still being reprinted and sold
by several publishing houses. What is
needed is not some mysterious change in
the reading public, but the advent of
another Dickens. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
Dairying in Queensland
“An army of inspectors,” “bull tax,”
“sterilisers” and alleged conditions aris-
ing therefrom (B. 12/3/’4l) receive too
much unfair and inaccurate comment.
“An army of inspectors” is a catch-
phrase used, on every street corner
wherever kerbstone politicians forgather.
Actually, the Queensland Department of
Agriculture has too few inspectors, and
dairymen in some parts of the State do
not see their inspector often enough.
Those officers are not only inspectors but
instructors as well.
The “bull-tax” regulations were intro-
duced to eliminate the scrub bull, a fund
being established to assist farmers to
buy approved and tested bulls. The
existence of scrub bulls is a blot on the
industry, and this regulation was long
overdue. When a dairy-farmer buys an
approved bull he is allowed a freight
rebate on the animal of up to £lO. This
is being done every day. One farmer
was allowed the maximum rebate on a
bull which within 12 months had to be
destroyed. He asked if a rebate would
be granted if he bought another, and
received from the department the neces-
sary forms by the next mail.
Steam sterilisers were used by dairy-
men for years before any compul-
sion was introduced. They are one
unit no dairyman can afford to be with-
out, whether he uses milking-machines
or not. Before they were put on the
market they were thoroughly tested by
departmental officers, and they have
proved efficient, economical, durable and
labor-saving. They can be operated by
anyone intelligent enough to light a fire.
As there is no danger of explosion, they
do not come under the Inspection of
Machinery Act, and no certificate is
required to operate them.—A. W. S. (Q.).
Melbourne Buses
If chairman Bell, of the Melbourne
Tramways Board, had wanted to prove
that buses were a worse proposition than
electric trams he couldn’t have gone
about it better than when he introduced
his huge double-deckers on the route of
those beloved Melbourne antiques the
cable trams in Bourke-street.
Mr. Bell’s buses are speedy between
stops, don’t clutter up the roadway and
are much safer than the trams, in-
asmuch as they take up and discharge
their human cargoes on the sidewalks.
They are also a boon to private traffic,
which now flows twice as easily as it used
to flow. All these advantages, however,
have been nullified by the fact that to
get in and out of the buses at inter-
sections involves an extended fight be-
tween getters-on and getters-off which
commences on the footpath and extends
up the spiral staircase which leads to the
upper storey. Patrons exhausted by the
initial struggle usually give it up on the
platform and stay there, and the rest of
the crowd have either to get over them
or under them.
It would be ridiculous to suggest that
engineering science lacks the ingenuity
to devise a bus which is as accessible
as a tramcar. It is a wonder Mr. Bell
didn’t think of the most important factor.
—Chevroford (Vic.).
Bertram Sahib.
I recommend politics as the one safe
and sure money-spinning career for am-
bitious young men. The old story about
the chap who started life in a log cabin
and ended in the White House has been
completely outmoded by the entry of our
Bertram Stevens into the ranks of the
sahibs —with travelling allowance, house
allowance and entertaining allowance
complete, approximately £7OOO a year.
At present we are in the dark as to
where the new sahib will work in on the
scale of precedence at Delhi, but if the
matter goes by salary-power our Bert
should follow closely after the Viceroy
himself. I hope the matter of an appro-
priate uniform will receive due considera-
tion in time so that Steve Sahib will not
be outdone sartorially by the other
sahibs. — Ret Sahib (N.S.W.).
Nearly Twice as Dear
A firm in Westralia urgently needed a
type of firebox for a portable engine
which was not available or likely to be
manufactured in Australia for a long
time. The firm ordered it from England.
Its cost there was £93 ; by the time the
firm had got it to its works it had cost
£169. That firebox involved the employ-
ment of a number of men directly and
a greater number indirectly, so it would
not be too much to expect some fairer
method of adjusting these imposts.— Bill
Ding (W.A.).
A Diminishing Market
Waiting for a heelcap to be fixed on
my shoe, I was yarning to the boot
repairer. He brought forward a for-
cible argument for bigger families. Dur-
ing the infantile paralysis epidemic and,
to a lesser extent, when mumps or measles
were doing the rounds and kiddies were
kept indoors, his business slackened off
to an alarming degree. And I suppose
other businesses suffer in the same way—
clothiers, confectioners, hairdressers, etc.,
with only doctors benefiting.
Until a child is 15 or thereabouts lie
is a consumer only. When I think
of how many shoes, trousers, shirts, etc.,
a child can wear out in 15 years I see
what a tremendous drop in employment
must occur when the child population
goes down. And Governments fool
around with water boards, better roads
and electric power for people who ain’t
there! —B. V. S. (MX.).
Her Worship.
“Tummas McNark’s” sweeping criti-
cism of the N. S. Wales proposal to
elevate women to magisterial appoint-
ments in children’s courts appeared to
me somewhat splenetic. Based on the
allegation that woman’s emotionalism
makes her unfit for the job, his argument
lacked soundness and was tinged with
typical masculine prejudice.
Why are men more suited for this work
—a job that represents more than the
mere “administration of justice”? Are
they better psychologists? I think not.
Surely a woman can identify herself with
the child psyche more truly than a man.
She has a finer, more sensitive intuition
than most men, who are apt to take a
too rational view of the child offender.
Be a magistrate ever so human and ex-
pert, he has one great disability his
maleness. For most children he repre-
sents Authority or the retributive father.
Among juvenile delinquents it is this very
father complex or rebellion against
authority that motivates their “crimes.”
A woman, because she is a valuable
symbol to the child mind, can, if she
has the experience, handle child offenders
much better than any male magistrate.
The growth of women’s papers making
an emotional appeal has nothing to do
with women’s fitness for court work. The
eroticism of the flapper press and the
modern novel is a reflex of the frustration
and psychological hunger of women
forced to live in a world of masculine
values. Nor is it enough to charge
women with emotionalism. “T.McN.”
should rather ask: “How do they get
that way?” Man, with his egocentric
outlook, his eternal cerebration and his
fear of the emotions, has left the neuroses
as woman’s only outlet. Hence her efforts
at self-expression have often taken queer
forms.
In this world of Stopesian ethics and
deep psychological changes in the re-
lations of the sexes, it is merely futile
to shout at women; “Get back to the
home and have brats! ” Energy that was
once absorbed in maternity and its obli-
gations must now find sublimative
channels. Thus on another level many
women are now able to live out their
lives in constructive work. In the realm
of social welfare and psychology many
women have disclosed fine talent and
aptitudes. If “T.McN.” wants concrete
evidence of women’s ability to handle
court work, let him look up the scores
of excellent books and case histories
written by women who realise their fit-
ness to apply the modern approach to
personality and delinquency.
There are many male magistrates too
obsessed merely with administering
justice, too interested in making the
punishment fit the crime, but lamentably
ignorant of the motivations at work in
the child or adult mind. Too often
homilies, admonitions and violent re-
actions to defendants and their mis-
demeanors are the daily technique of
the Bench. Emotionalism is not the
monopoly of women. What of the
gregarious male at the stadium, in the
pub, or at sports gatherings? There
emotion can be seen in its most primitive
and infantile forms. Strong emotion in
women can often sublimate itself in a
fine intuitive intelligence that does not
need the crutch of book-learning or a
logic without feeling.—C. Halbert (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
AT£HTITS
WATERTITE
I'HE WATCH T'Olt
HA HD WEAR
Huntproof—Waterproof
Shockproof
Eree cleaning an d
repairs for 10 years.
Guaranteed by Eactory
Agents.
The Watch that wan
dropped from ’Plane
■iOOOft. without damac/e.
PRICES:
Round £7/15,/-
Rectangular, £B/5/-
Antl no Repair Bills.
DIAMOND
Sr WATCH
SPECIALISTS
112 MARKETS!
I SYDNEY.
OPP. DAVID JONES
TYPEWRITERS
'
of every description
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
ŵ
FROM £5 UPWARDS.
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States —See ’Phone Book.
m
m*
iSt-
*JB
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
v single wire fence
Jfmade absolutely
stcckproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fending costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
307 North George St., Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
STOP™
Worries/
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort, and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL AI’I’I.tAPfCK CO..
I>EI»T. 37, 81 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
LLm
TRY "CENTURY" RADIO
—and save 40 p.c.
(up to £2O).
It costs you nothing to try the
“Century” Radio. You can have
I'MIUK TKIAI/ in your own home.
Century Radio Sets embody the
latest scientific improvements . . .
wonderful reception assured from
all over the world on Battery and
All-electric sets. Write at once for
Catalogue. If no “Century” Agent
in your district you can buy at
wholesale prices (10% discount).
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing- Co., 11-13 liixon Street, Sydney.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jriii. knee pads. Sin.
pads. -In in. to Sin.’ dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Preight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
Aim *d t
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as;
Self-Confidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
Judgment Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 page®, describ-
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2CSS.
DEAFNESS
DEFEATED!
Allen and If anbury's famous Bonochord
midget valve amplified hearing aid can
overcome the most advanced cases of
senile, nerve and catarrhal deafness.
Fitted with crystal microphone, this
model can be concealed in a gentleman’s
vest pocket or within ladies’ wearing
apparel.
Call for free Audiometric test of your
hearing and trial of this 1941 model
British . hearing aid.
GEORGE J. TOSI,
Suite 6-10, 2nd Floor, Prudential Bldg.,
39 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY,
Hawaiian Guitar
Learn to play this beautiful
instrument at home.
GENUINE GOOD VALUE.
Home Course and Accessories
Included in Price.
Sold on 7 days’ money-back trial.
£2/10/- only.
CAN BE SENT C.O.D.
THE TALBCERIES,
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
FAT, FLABBY
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOYERNA BELT supports
'correctly the delicate organs,
a nd, by its gentle, changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
yon make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOYERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
//\
.1
TILLEY LAI
ẁ
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYKEX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EXIOO All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
PRICK, 67/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table , Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
PaifiS
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
1 Write To-day for
FREE BOOKLET:
’“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to:
JOHN H. UNGER (Dept. 120),
65 York Street, Sydney.
FLEX'I-T PACK
Flex I-Track for “0” gauge Mechanical and
Electrical Trains. Will fit any make of track
—Switches—crossovers. Make any curve,
gradient -a niiw layout every time.:
‘ " ’.No
• No track sec-
tions to connect
—just roll it
out—roll it up.
• Strongly built—
woirt bend or
buckle.
• 1 Oft, (one 6ft.
and one 4ft. sec-
tion) for 12/6,
Postage Paid.
AMPLION (A/siaJ
Vty., Ltd.,
382 Kent St., Sydney
NATURAL
WOOD TIES
FLEXIBLE IN '
ANY DIRECTION
\
FITS OTHER TRACK<
EQUIPMENT
SAVE £2
ON BATTERIES
Buy direct from well-known manu-
facturer at wholesale prices. Save
nearly half usual cost. Marshall
Batteries are renowned for long life.
Every battery is guaranteed in writ-
ing. Send for 16-page catalogue
telling you how to clioose, instal and
care for batteries for cars, trucks,
cycles, home or theatre lighting.
Marshall Battery Manufacturing Co.,
38-42 Harbour Street, Sydney.
TOBACCO SPECIALS
AT ECONOMY PRICES
NUMBER TEN BLEND. A smooth smoke
at the right price. In fine i.
cut. flake or pipe mixture. IVI/17 ID.
NUMBER TWELVE BLEND. A good, cool
smoko in hue out, flake or 11—
pipe mixture. Excellent value.
NUMBER FOURTEEN BLEND. A high
class tobacco at a reasonable price. . . ~
In fine cut, flake or pipe mixture. 14/0 lb.
Send for our full price list—trade supplied.
Cut your costs-by buying tobacco in bulk.
Add Gd. lb. freight—Send P.N. to
BRYANT’S TOBACCO SERVICE
Box 3241 P., G.P.0., Martin Place, Sydney.
Prompt Despatch Guaranteed.
ẃ
TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO KINO-BARKING!
Prevents dickering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
RESULTS ASSURED!
Mr. E. F. Dorrough, ‘•Honeysuckle,” Milmerran,
Queensland, writes“ Please send another six
tins of your Timber Killer. Although we had
heavy rain the day after applying the Timber
Killer, all the young trees up to six inches in
diameter are dead, and those 18 inches and over
are looking very sick, with limbs already dead.
It is only ten days since I did them, and I only
put three nicks in each, and I used the Timber
Killer on the hardest timber to kill.”
5/6 TIN POSTED.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO! (15ft.).
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields SOOlbs. Sow NOW. 3/6 Packet.
N.S.W. SPIED CO.. 75 George St., Sydney.
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Not'd I, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
(bat lie is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using*.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R, A. NOEDL 1.i.b.5.t.,
The Block, *3B George .Street, Sydney.
’Phone: MAS 774.
Get rid of
'toms' BEFORE
'tyf they start!
One application of
CHANDLER’S CHEMICAL
OEHOKNKK
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. .lust apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, cheap and humane method. Price.
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd., 0/0
MELBOURNE and all branches.’,. ost jr
%
STOP-A-LEAK STICK
Permanently repairs Roofs o
Iron, Slate, Tile, Shingle o
Composition, 'leaks arounc
chimneys, skylights, windows
mends flushings, gutters anc
..cu res; tills tracks jn troughs
baths, tanks, tubs, sinks, meta
and earthenware pipes; caulks
boats, etc. The Stop-a-Leak
Stick .is a tough rubbery material
like black putty that sticks firmly wherever it it
placed. It is unaffected . by heat, cold or moisture
never crumbles or dries out. Better than cement
or solder for most mends. -Vo skill needed in
applying. Price 2/6 per stick, carriage paid.
Obtainable only from
UNION CO., 25)9 Elizabeth-st., Melb., C.i.
ẅ
RINGS OF * ★ ★
REMEMBRANCE
Angus & Coote have a great
Gifts are offered. Write
38/6
9ct. Solid
Gold Signet
Ring- with any A.I.F.
Colour Patch in British
Enamel. In Sterling
Silver, 18/6. State
whether for Lady or
Gentleman.
t Catalogue in which Free
for your copy today.
ANGUS & COOT£
500 GEOKGK ST.,I
SYDNEY
t
t
w
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
(luickly my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that tits into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
bin):- animals', etc. Everything for ONE
including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice.
nnrr Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
rI\LL Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
;■
s
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of our
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for I'ree Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1893),
mil REGENT STREET, SYDNEY.
WNCHtSUR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
inarmm
'•Wlff
PORTABLE UNIT'S
By
Briggs & Stratton.
A small, Compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
Running cost 1/- per
week.
Details gladly posted.
i pn NOIIdMV
ANYWHERE
ANVT I /W E
• For Home Lighting.
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
382 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I-enclose 24/- .(plus -exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(•Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
2/ (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss *
Cut this out and send with your "Wants" to the Service Department, ‘ Ihe bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne■


SHAPING AUSTRALIANS
INDUSTRIAL PROGRESS
B.H.P. Steel in its many forms fills Aus-
tralia’s need for the metal that gets things
done. The great tonnages of quality iron
and steel produced at The Broken Hill Pro-
prietary’s Newcastle Steel Works give Aus-
tralia an assured supply of the essential
materials for the development and defence
of the Commonwealth.
«
The high quality of B.H.P. Steel and the
fact that it is available at prices which com-
pare more than favourably with those
charged for overseas steel form convincing
evidence of the industry’s efficiency.
The value of the B.H.P. enterprise in peace
time is only exceeded by its vital importance
in the extraordinary circumstances caused
by war.
m
i
s*
‘"■'i
m
i
: ■ ■
mm
mumm
T. . x: xii
Slaw
mm
.
?!
I
® ass
-war
Above is shown section of the Newcastle Steel Works
blast f.urnace plant, which produces more than 15,000
tons of iron per week.
- i.
As an avenue of employment the Australian iron
and steel industry must be ranked of major import-
ance, as it gives direct employment to more than
32,000 persons, whose wages total yearly more than
.£9,000,000.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited not
only produces iron and steel, but owns and operates
its own steamships, coalmines ancj ship-building
yards, and most of the raw materials, used in steel-
making are obtained from properties under the con-
trol of the company.
B.H.P. PRODUCTS
include
Pig Iron, Steel Ingots, Blooms,
Billets, Ferro Alloys, Rails,
Flats, Angles, Rounds,
Squares, Beams, Channels,
Plates, Reinforcing Bar, Te£
and Bridge Rails, Spring and
Alloy Steel, Cold-Rolled
Bright Strip and Box Strap-
ping, Octagons and Hexagons,
Wire Rods, Toluol, Solvent
Naphtha, Ammonium Sul-
phate, Foundry Coke, Coals,
Steam and Roasting Coal,
Household, and Bunker Coal.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY GO. LTD.
Iron and Steel Masters—Mine and Ship Owners Colliery Proprietors- Ship Builders
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Iron Ore Workings: Iron Knob, South Australia.
Iron and Steel Works: Newcastle, New South Wales.
Shipbuilding Yards: Whyalla, South Australia.
