

CORRECT EASY ADJUSTMENT
INCORPORATED WITH POCKET
FOR SPORTS AND EVERYDAY WEAR
*
a
■^OrsitJ?'
+ Self-supporting —NO ELASTIC
jf. Perfect waist fittin
■¥■ No puckering—guaranteed
3f Comfort and ease... for every need
TO GOLFERS
Reduce your golf handicap by reducing
your waist handicap —
Wear BREKS
NO ELASTIC to pucker or perish
Procurable at all progressive stores. Any difficulty in
this direction should he referred to
BOX 1617 B.B., G-P'O., SYDNEY, N.S.W., or
BOX 262, G.P.O., MELBOURNE. VICTORIA,
THE BULLETIN
# *Tlie Bulletin, } Vol. 62. No. 3224.
Wednesday, November 26, 1941.
By Force of Facts
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


lUU
(J*
iliiki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
NEW PRICHARD NOVEL.
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s new
novel, Moon of Desire (Cape ; Angus and
Robertson), should win the Westralian
author a host of new readers —al
those who like a rattling good adventure
story, brisk with action, well told and
packed with such romantic furnishing
as a love story that goes wrong but come
right again, a pearl of such fascinating
beauty and great value that a whole
swarm of murders are committed because
of it, a setting that shifts from Broome
and pearling to Singapore and Orienta
scheming and intrigue, with characters
that include a spendthrift English outcast,
a big and ruthless successful pearler, a
perfect heroine, and various Japanese and
Chinese schemers and plotters.
There are good flashes of the author’s
fine touch in descriptive writing, both in
the pearling and in the Malayan scenes.
The story is straightforward, bristling
with revolvers and knives, and warm
with tropic coloring. Those who like the
excitements of this sort of novel will find
it far better, on this particular ground,
than nine out of ten of its kind.
Those who look to this author for con-
tributions to Australian literature will
possibly read it with some astonishment.
Every now and then, when the doings
are at their wildest and everything, from
a literary standpoint, seems to. be getting
out of hand, the author will come in
with a splendid splash of writing in her
best style. Then there will be another
stretch in which the dialogue reads stiffly
and coincidence seems to be used just
about as brazenly as possible. Because of
these apparent lapses, it will seem unreal.
Then, when the novel is finished, there’s
an epilogue, in which the author comes
directly on to the page and indicates that
all this which, as fiction, has put such
a strain on credulity is, in fact, basically
true ; that the story is one based on actu-
ality, however much the author has used
her license in fictionising it.
Though the author has chosen to
make this statement at the end of the
story, so that the reader comes on it
only when the story is read, no apology
is made here for giving it away, because
it seems that it would all read better for
having that stated in advance. Take Moon
of Desire as a straight action and adven-
ture story, and it is very good, since true
reality is quite unimportant in this kind
of fiction. Take it as a piece of creative
writing and it must be severely faulted,
since in this case true reality is of the
highest importance. Take it as a fiction-
ised transcript of actuality, and, so far
as it can be accepted as such, it could
pass muster.
This latter finding depends, of course,
on the extent to which an author’s
statement thus incorporated in a work
of fiction can be taken literally, the
device, in one form and another, hav-
ing been employed so often to give an
air of verisimilitude to an otherwise far-
fetched tale.
It depends also on whether or not
incidents purporting to have actually
occurred are physically possible; and,
as an example of several that cause grave
doubt, the achievement of the fallen
Englishman, Fryer, in rowing the lugger
boat across the open bay with the pearl
bandaged in his hand as described would
seem to deserve to be immortalised in the
literature of boat-pulling along with the
performance of Ouida’s Stakhanovian
stroke. Allowing that that might, per-
haps, have been possible—depending on
just where and how badly he cut his
thumb opening the oyster, and just where
he had the pearl in the handkerchief
bandage—it calls for a very strong gulp
indeed to swallow his subsequent instant
recognition of the pearl in the passing
view he has of it in Singapore.
Such incidents cast a shadow on it as
a transcript of actuality; they damage it
seriously as a piece of literature ; regard-
ing it as an exciting adventure story, they
may possibly be considered virtues.
Maorihnder in England.
Yet another autobiographical book
written in war-time England by yet an-
other expatriate of these parts —Maori-
land-born Hector MacQuarrie’s desper-
ately titled Front to Back (Cape).
Touched with a cheerful sense of humor,
it makes most agreeable reading, with
novelty in the author’s attempt to inter-
pret the true reactions of the ordinary
run of English people to the war and
aspects of it.
As to the war, he feels that, while
there may be many busy fire-eating and
damning the Germans to hell, the great
majority try to retain a sense of values.
“We have one object, victory ; possibly
this may be gained more quickly under
the impulsion of hate ; but would not
the object of our hard journey be missed
if in gaining victory over the Nazis we
defeated that left in us which can make
for a sane and wholesome world.”
Reaction to newspapers and propa-
ganda :
While we in Britain appreciate good
stories in our papers, I think it is true to
say that when most of us discuss the war
stories of any successes we may enjoy we
almost invariably add “If you can believe
what the papers say.”
Some of us, I think wrongly, regard all
information, even that contained in official
communiques, with great reserve. My own
impression is that our Government are well
aware of the awful dangers lurking in any
attempt to deceive the British people and
that such attempts are not made.
MacQuarrie has a story of a little decep-
tion put over by newspapers for the sake
of delicacy. When the troops were
evacuated from Dunkirk, some of them
who had to swim out shed every stitch,
and a photograph of one shipload showed
a number of nudes standing like well-
posed statues among the clothed. One
London paper published the picture as
received; a steady morning paper kindly
provided the most evident nude with a
towel to hold effectively in one hand ;
the “Times” dressed him in a well-
tailored pair of shorts.
MacQuarrie on the Navy:
... .if our navy decided to sail away
from our shores, leaving us to our fate,
we would more fully realise the magnificent
work done by our sailors. A trifling vic-
tory by the army wins instant applause,
and setbacks are explained away with deep
sympathy. Even military defeats are for-
given, many of us forgetting that these are
not catastrophic because the navy stands
invincible and silent in the background,
making it possible to re-form, to start again,
offering tenacity its chance.
On Chamberlain:
As far as I hhve been able to judge,
Mr. Chamberlain has always enjoyed the
respect and liking of the mass of the British
people as opposed to some of the intelli-
gentsia, a good number of the well-to-
do, middle-class professional people, and
even a number of Tories.
Also, this curious finding, set down
shortly after Munich:
Hitler might have lied to Churchill, to
Lloyd George, even to Asquith and been
forgiven, or understood; but when he lied
to Chamberlain he made for himself a re-
lentless enemy
Though a native of N.Z., MacQuarrie
has become so much an Englishman that
he thinks and writes as one. He not
only makes good entertainment of his
war-time experiences in and near London,
but does the job in excellent prose, which
is more than can be said of similar books
by expatriates lately reviewed here.
Travel Authors .
Australian travel writers are an increas-
ing tribe, and to judge by the bulk of their
work it seems likely that for one of them
who has read Doughty there are ten who
have studied the opuses of Morton. The
accepted view—not peculiar to these
parts seems to be that travel writing
needs to be crammed with light gossip
and chit-chat, and that the author of
such books must at all cost put his own
personality, whatever it may be, “across'’
to the reader.
The method relies on direct action.
There’s nothing subtle about it. The
dubious practice of buttonholing the
reader is commonly indulged in. So is
the practice of digression—particularly
historical digression, in which, sometimes,
there isn’t even the effort of transmuting
the data in the crucible of the author’s
creative processes. Instead, whole slabs
are lifted out, tagged, and used as they
stand.
What, above all, is conspicuously lack-
ing is a dignified seriousness of mind—
that is, of course, making comparison
with the highest standards. One result
of this is a tendency to patronise the
reader; to talk down to him, rather than
credit him with an intelligence which, to
say no more, must at least be equal to
that of one who puts his sweat and tears
into the writing of a book which, in the
end, may bring him no more than a feel-
ing of relief at having, at any rate, evaded
gaol for debt over it.
Stepping down from the company of
the great, the position isn’t so bad. Com-
pared with travel writing as it’s mostly
being done today, the Australian branch
of the tribe come out reasonably well.
Among them, they are mapping down the
Australian scene and some of them the
near-Australian scene, and contributing
towards the completion of a recognisable
synthesis of these scenes and the national
life contained in them. If nothing else,
their works are going to be valuable
source books for creative writers.
Also, as passing entertainers they have
their merit, and if their method is the
method of journalism rather than that of
literature, at least the same can be said
of the great bulk of contemporary travel
writing. If it is in too much of a hurry
to bother about the niceties and qualities
of literature, if its prose in consequence
is thin and artificial, these characteristics
are not unknown to life itself just now.
Perhaps, life itself being like this, it is
a bit too much to ask for the serious and
the solid from any kind of authors at
present, and expectation of these qualities
the very nature of first-class travel
writing—had possibly better be deferred
to some future date, when there is a
renaissance of stability all round.
That individual Australian travel
writers compare reasonably well with
brothers of this branch elsewhere could
be demonstrated by sundry examples. As
one, take George Sava’s The Valley of
Forgotten People (recently reviewed on
the Red Page) as in general fairly rep-
resentative of the great bulk of overseas
travel books that reach these parts, and,
on the other hand, Wilfred G. Burchett’s
Pacific Treasure Island (F. W. Cheshire
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne) as fairly represen-
tative of the local product.
On the face of it, Sava would seem to
have considerable advantages. Burchett is
a practised writer in journalism, but Sava
is a well-established writer of books.
Sava’s setting is in the wild, scarcely-
known mountain country of the Cau-
casus—not only singularly topical at
the moment, but both remote and, in
a sense, familiar enough to grip the in-
terest. Burchett’s Pacific treasure island
is New Caledonia —at a surface glance,
too near at hand and, apparently, just
too familiar to excite very strong in-
terest. Sava’s publishers are able to point
to their man’s established literary per-
formance ; Burchett’s publishers describe
their man’s book as “breezy”—a word
that has somewhat damaging associations
these times —and they speak of their man
himself as “the rising star of Australian
journalism,” which, heaven knows, is
hardly a literary commendation.
With all that' and more his way—in-
cluding what can pass muster as a
literary style—Sava fails to make either
the country he’s travelling in or the
people even faintly visible. The country
is thin air and the people invisible gramo-
phones loaded with recordings of the
voice of Sava. He does not make the
Caucasus country more familiar; he
makes it more remote than ever.
Burchett takes the apparently over-
familiar and shows that it’s nothing of the
kind ; that, being near at hand, it’s taken
for granted as familiar and ordinary,
whereas—to most who think so —he can
show it to be unknown and remarkable.
At the same time, he makes it and its
people just about as real as actual experi-
ence. Most readers of his book will
probably want to know still more about
this place that is only a few hundred
miles from Australia. The book—as is
the case with so much Australian travel
writing—is heavily padded out with his-
torical information gathered from sundry
acknowledged sources ; but this is fairly
ingeniously woven in to build up the
background. The total result is a good
account of the place as it is and as it
formerly was, and of its people as they
now are and formerly were.
Burchett is least successful with his
history. Not that this is inaccurate ; but
the art of Clio calls for a detached mind,
rare enough at any time, and rarer than
ever today, when to scratch almost any
author is to find some sort of ideologue
just under the skin. Burchett is no ex-
ception. He is at his best when describing
what he personally sees. He has a sound,
colorful descriptive touch, and, while he
has also a capital sense of humor, he
isn’t ever merely flippant or facetious.
On his visit to New Caledonia —the
latest of several —he went on a lumbering
200-tonner called the Flying Fox, and
flying fox was a dish in one of his meals
after arrival —it’s considered good in
New Caledonia, perhaps a variation on
the French fancy for frogs. He goes on
to set down clearly what he sees of the
main island and near-by smaller islands,
noting the remaining signs of attempts by
the early settlers —largely convicts —to
make of the place a lesser France, as
early settlers in Australia tried to make
this a lesser England. He coils up on a
park seat, along with old convicts, in
acceptance of the fact that in New
Caledonia “L’heure de la sieste” is a
serious institution; “from 11 a.m. until
the businesses open again at 1.30 p.m. a
few stray dogs and cats have the streets
to themselves.”
He sees once-tilled land going back to
scrub or being overrun with lantana
through neglect. “One has the impression
of a colony being run on the cheap, not
because of a poverty of means, but be-
cause of an absurd belief on the part of
the whites that to actually participate in
the work on the land is to be degraded
to coolie level.” As one aspect of the
natural scene, he looks on an ancient
banyan, propped up on its thousands of
roots and arches:
In the shadows bleached bones lay
scattered about, and as our eyes grew
accustomed to the darkness we could see
the empty sockets and sardonic grin of
human skulls. Smooth, and grey, they lay
about in various stages of preservation,
some still with teeth intact, and sur-
rounded by arm and leg bones. In places
the roots and branches had grown around
the human bones and skulls—the latter
deeply embedded in the flesh of the tree.
As another aspect of the scene, he de-
scribes the mining of chrome from beach
•sand, which, as fast as it is dug out anc
treated, is replaced by sand just as rich
in chrome washed up by the sea. He
visits an iron field, where “For hours we
trudged over solid iron, with hardly a
score of stunted trees to the acre” and
“of grass or reeds there was not a sign.”
A river had cut out a channel through
the field. “Along its banks were huge
round boulders of iron, the river bottom
was solid iron, and as far as one could
see in either direction up and down the
river was iron.” At Ouaco he sees “one of
the most up-to-date meat-packing works
in the world.” “New Caledonian tinned
beef fed Australian troops in Palestine
during the last war, and huge quantities
of Ouaco bully beef have been exported
to Northern Africa during the present
war.”
His prospecting in source-books brings
to light such early historical information
as that the French convicts were brought
hither chained in iron cages ; later, that
in the 1914-18 war “ships were regularly
engaged carrying cargoes of New
Caledonian nickel to Krupps, with the
knowledge of the French authorities” ;
later history still, a vivid account of the
local revolt and switch-over from Vichy
to De Gaulle after France collapsed last
year; the details of this revolt —like the
rest of Burchett’s lively record—will come
as news to most readers in Australia.
Burchett follows the fashion in Aus-
tralian travel writing of making no seri-
ous attempt to produce literature. One
or two writers —one, at least, dealing with
the Centre —have not altogether lost sight
of that passport to posterity ; but mainly
the first aim all round so far has been
to be agreeably entertaining. Burchett
is that without overdoing it. He is in-
formative and amusing. If he has no
serious thought for literature, he is not
altogether without serious thought. He
builds up to a political conclusion—that,
whereas if action were taken in time New
Caledonia could be made a strong bastion
of Australian defence, if there is no such
action it might be easily captured and
converted into a near and real menace.
More About Andy. Another vol. of
Jolliffe’s Andy cartoon humor, published
by the artist, printed by Land Newspaper,
Ltd., 57-59 Regent-street, Sydney, and
funnier than ever. The drawing shows
improvement, the jokes are right up to
the quality of the first vol., and the
general production is excellent. A well-
made publication, with thought given to
the arrangement of its contents, the verse
and story additions specially illustrated,
and the drawings admirably printed. The
first vol. ran into a string of editions;
this one should do even better.
lon Idriess adds to Angus and Robert-
son’s Australian boys’ adventure series
the story of Nemarluk, King of the
Wilds, based on the life of a North Aus-
tralian abo., “one of the last of the
Stone Age men,” hunted by police and
trackers. Sympathy with his hero does
not prevent Idriess from writing an un-
usually realistic story. Other books for
youngsters from the same publishers:
Annette of River Bend, by Irene Cheyne ;
Jennifer Stands By, by Gladys Lister ;
Fortunes of Poppy Treloar, by Pixie
O’Harris. From The Bodley Head,
Crusoe Island, by M. E. Atkinson
(another extra-well-written youngsters’
novel by the author of Mystery Manor),
and Sue Barton, Visiting Nurse, by Helen
Dore Boylston.
Later Poems: T. S. Eliot (Faber).
Companion to Eliot’s Poems 1909-1925
in the Faber library: i.e., the second half
of his Collected Poems. His three plays,
East Coker and, of course, the new poem,
The Dry Salvages, are not included.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and nothing but the truth
“THE SENIOR STORE”
HANDKERCHIEFS The Ideal Gif t
Specially Packed in Attractive Gift Boxes
m
I
o*9*2
m
eV'
.w ®
T^j'
as*
<=vs* fr-r
c\ v
<-<£3 CiCk'
. *s» o*,
Box of Six Handkerchiefs, White
Irish Linen, embroidered in White or
Pastel, various designs. At Anthony
Horderns'. Price, box 7/11
Swiss Embroidered Handkerchiefs,
Opal Cloth in dainty Pastel, all
White, or White with coloured em-
broidery. Price, box of 6 4/11
sCy-'
i/h
#f*g
«V» —/.
3LG
# *
«
St-.
Irish Linen Handkerchiefs with
coloured embroidered corners. At
Anthony Horderns', Price, box of
six 10/6
Handkerchiefs in dainty pastel
shades, hand embroidered corners,
also all White. Anthony Horderns'
Price, box of six 7/6
Despite the war, Anthony Horderns' have,
as usual, the biggest selection at the
lowest prices in Australia!
vs
** %
*
°2r
r"?
&
«o
W»
S«
oyr
*O9,
c ott
L *J$JO
Pure Linen Handkerchiefs,
embroidered in pastel col-
ours. At Anthony Horderns'.
Price, box of six 8/11
Serviceable Irish Linen Hand-
kerchiefs, narrow hems, em-
broidered corners, alb White
or Pastel emb'y- Box of 6, 7/6
•Ski
&
m
m
4s*
d*'
7
K
/ v -
-SS&.
&
b
S,o J
f/ rs . /I i>m «
f-7 % \ f yW& °. //
„ 99 o \ /f !SgSS S>tWx/ '•’"j&fft
\ LXJm u x°fm “*4lr?
■***.••• r_ C/ %/; « 1 1 »:< ", fl.
■asSS-g? * ffffrlwi *********
s
Sfe
*o*
1
#7'
J
J-
<&ri. r'ler- TJ ■
&*
.6?
J
*£?
<• 1
; l?Jb
ViJ
c
w
£
55C2
gj&ii
Irish Linen Handkerchiefs
finished with embroidered
corners. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Price, box of 6, 8/11
Pure Linen Handkerchiefs,
embroidered corners, nar-
row hem and spokestitch-
ing. Price, box of six, 9/11
Swiss Lace-trimmed Hand-
kerchiefs, embroidered cor-
ners, fine Opal Cloth.
Price, box of six .... 10/6
Pure Linen Handkerchiefs
with Irish hand-worked
corners. At Anthony Hor-
derns'. Box of six, 12/11
Irish Linen Handkerchiefs,
heavy embroidered cor-
ners with spokestitching
in two designs. Six, 13/6
-
3V, 5?
tk :
sO-
R
V{jG>S,
%
°J&
S
s®.
< -n^
*9*.
I
7
rp°
DO
"or
--W
¥j
#r
A
»
w
s. ®
m
@
<#*■*
A
-•X’
!Sss
A
oft
Linen Handkerchiefs with
pretty embroidered cor-
ners, iin. or hem.
Price, box of six ... 14/11
Pure Linen Handkerchiefs,
embroidered corners, fin-
ished spokestitching, nar-
row hem. Box of six, 21/-
Best Quality Irish Linen
Handkerchiefs, finest hand-
loom embroidery. Various
designs. Box of six, 25/-
Embroidered Handker-
chiefs, in pure linen. A
gift for ladies of discrim-
ination. Box of six, 11/6
Entirely made by hand!
Six Irish Linen Handker-
chiefs, scalloped borders.
Price, per box 21/-
• Handkerchiefs —Ground Floor 3 Pitt Street.
lORDFRN
'PHONE M 2401
(Day and Night)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Post to
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/f ffcfd lime cfKile mellcuneMand Imiq/uet
Seppelt's
NEW WATERLOO BRIDGE.
A most remarkable, yet fortunate, circumstance associated with the Nazi aerial bombardment of London is the complete immunity the
bridges spanning the Thames have enjoyed. Writing in July concerning this circumstance, one is inclined to “touch wood” for very obvious
reasons. Waterloo Bridge is the newest and finest crossing the river. It has replaced a bridge Canova, the sculptor, declared was “the
finest work of its kind in the world,” while the French Baron Dupin called it “a colossal monument worthy of Sesostoris and the Caesars.”
Constructed from designs by John Rennie, the son Of an East Lothian farmer, who was also responsible for that work so familiar to
most Australian and New Zealand travellers, the Breakwater "at Plymouth, it cost £1,000,000, and was opened to the public on June 18,
1817, the second anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo. In recent years, the safety of the structure, due to the continually increasing
traffic, was questioned, so in 1934, the London County Council deciding to rebuild it, the bridge was accordingly closed. The design,
prepared by Messrs. Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, in collaboration with Sir Giles Scott, R.A., is striking though simple. The initial arch
springing from the northern shore is illustrated. It stretches a considerable way into the river, providing a remarkable view up the
Embankment. An interesting fact noted in connection with the design is the manner the curve of the Thames will be revealed between
Westminster and Blackfriars Bridges with its continually moving craft. The piers are of concrete faced with granite, and the five spans of
reinforced concrete faced with Portland stone. The span of each arch is 230 feet against 120 feet in the old bridge. The cost, when
all charges have been met, is likely to be well over £1,000,000.


WILD BULL FROM EGYPT ON THE RAMPAGE.
"Blarney, leaderof the A.I.F., has been caustic about the carnival spirit,’ the devotion of able-bodied men to gate-money sport, money
spent on A.R.P. and similar vanities in the midst of war.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
.. 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0. ),
T Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and Inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
BY FORCE OF FACTS.
How President Roosevelt has brought the United
States more and more to his way of thinking on the
war makes an instructive course in the art of states-
manship.
Up to the early part of last year Mr. Roosevelt
thought that not only could the war be kept well
away from America, but that it might still be pos-
sible, through mediation, to limit its spread in Europe.
With that idea he offered to transmit to the British
and French Governments any proposal that Musso-
lini cared to submit, conditionally on Italy staying
out of the war. Mussolini turned the offer down, and
on June 10 President Roosevelt said at the University
of Virginia; “The hand that held the dagger has
stuck it into the back of its neighbor.” In the face
of this hard fact, it was “a delusion” that the
United States could safely permit itself to “become a
lone island in a world dominated by the philosophy
of force.” A “military and naval victory for the
gods of force and hate would endanger the institu-
tions of democracy in the Western World.” There-
fore,
We will extend to the opponents of force the material
resources of this nation, and harness and speed up the
use of those resources in order that we ourselves may
have the equipment and training equal to the task in
any emergency All signs and signals call for Full
Speed Ahead.
A few days later hard facts administered another
and worse shock. The French Army was being beaten,
and a reply had to be sent to Premier Reynaud’s
direct appeal for help. All President Roosevelt had
to offer was “assurances of my utmost sympathy” and
the promise of material supplies. Effects of the shock
were still evident when, on July 10, Mr. Roosevelt
asked Congress for a huge advance in defence funds.
However, he still held out positive hope that America
could yet escape involvement:
That the United States is opposed to war is
known not only to every American but to every Govern-
ment in the world. We will not use our arms in wars
of aggression; we will not send our men to take part
in European wars. But we will repel any aggression
against the United States or the Western Hemisphere.
The hard fact of the menace to Britain’s control
of the seas was the next thrust of force felt by Mr.
Roosevelt. It led him to make the deal transferring 50
U.S. destroyers to Britain in exchange for the lease of
naval and air bases off America’s Atlantic coast. Mr.
Roosevelt, however, could still protest that this was
“not inconsistent in any sense with our status of peace.”
The signing of the pact of September 27 by Ger-
many, Italy and Japan was the next fact to strike
home. In Mr. Roosevelt’s troubled view it was part
of “the greatest attack ever launched against the free-
dom of the individual, which is nearer to the Americas
than ever before.” Now, to survive, Americans “must
be trained and armed.” The Battle of Britain was
being fought; but so also was the Presidential elec-
tion campaign. Early in the campaign Mr. Roosevelt
gave his “answer” to the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo Pact.
He told the pact-makers that the United States was
“building a total defence.... sufficient to repel total
attack from any part of the world.” But, answering
opponents, he flatly denied the existence of any “secret
understanding.... .to involve this nation in war.”
It was still Mr. Roosevelt’s hope that a fighting
part might yet be avoided. “It is for peace that I
shall labor all the days of my life,” he declared in
Philadelphia. He took his hopes with him to Boston;
I have said this before, but I shall say it again and
again. Your boys are not going to be sent into any
foreign wars. They are going into training to form a
force so strong that by its very existence it will keep
the threat of war far away from our shores.
With third term assured Mr. Roosevelt still
expressed the general hope of Americans that the
war could be treated as Europe’s affair. He saw the
“old world of Europe” as “an ugly world, poisoned
by hatred, greed and fear.”
We can see what has been the inevitable consequence
of that poison—war. We know that we are determined
to defend our country—and, with our neighbors, to
defend this hemisphere.
By December it had become evident that Britain
could not go on paying cash for American supplies.
Still hoping, Mr. Roosevelt mooted his lease-lend idea ;
but a fact of even more telling force got home before
the month was out —the attempt to burn London to
the ground. Mr. Roosevelt attacked those Americans
who “believe that wars in Europe and Asia do not
concern us,” but he still hoped: “There is far less
chance of the United States getting into it if we do
all we can now to support the nations defending
themselves against attacks by the Axis.”
By January 10, this year, when details of the
lease-lend plan were given out; the general war situa-
tion had so deteriorated that Mr. Roosevelt was now
driven to declare that “at no previous time has
American security been so seriously threatened.” He
now found it necessary to report that “the future
safety of our country and our democracy is over-
whelmingly involved in events far beyond our borders.”
Even so, he hoped: the United States was “committed
to the full support of all those” fighting aggression,
but still on the understanding that it was thereby
“keeping the war away” from itself. Like many an-
other, Mr. Roosevelt appeared to accept the notion
that the war could be won without men: “They do
not need man-power.” A few days later he had to say:
“The ability of the democracies to employ their full
resources of man-power, skill and plant has been
challenged.”
In the grip of winter, the war quietened down in
February, and nothing was heard that month from
Mr. Roosevelt. By March 17 —the Lease-Lend Bill
having become law on March 11 —more ominous facts
pressing across from the war scene drove Mr. Roose-
velt to confess that, though he had previously been
worried, “The record shows that I was not worried
enough.” He saw now that the Axis Powers were
counting on what they took to be the fundamental
weakness of U.S. democracy ; that “because of its pro-
found respect for the rights of man,” it “would never
arm itself to fight.” Under the application of the con-
scription law in the proclaimed “state of unlimited
emergency” some million and a half American citi-
zens were undergoing military training ; the time had
come, Mr. Roosevelt said, “for courage and more
courage, action and more action.”
The increasing force of hard facts had by April
25 driven Mr. Roosevelt to declare: “The truth
about Americans is that they are in favor of the demo-
cratic process and are willing to fight for it.” In May
he was saying: “We have fought for our faith in
freedom and democracy before. We are ever ready to
fight again.” He now saw the war as “approaching
the brink of the Western Hemisphere ; it is coming
very close home.” It would be the height of folly to
wait till it arrived;
We know enough by now to realise that it would
be suicide to wait until they are in our front yard....
It does not make sense, for instance, to say “1 believe
in the defence of all the Western Hemisphere” and
in the next breath to say “I will not fight for that defence
until the enemy has landed on our shores.”
Hard facts continued coming home in a grim
procession—the Nazis spreading down over the
Balkans; Greece; Crete; in June, the attack on
Russia, By July it was evident that the war was not
going to be won by proxy. Admitting this at last,
Mr. Roosevelt said: “It must be our deep conviction
that we pledge our work, our will, and, ifi necessary,
our lives.” Driven further, both by the continued sink-
ing of supplies and the tremendous German successes
in Russia —hard facts which no amount of wishful
reporting could smother up for long—Mr. Roosevelt
was next giving out the orders for the shooting war in
the Atlantic ; that is, actual American participation
outside America in the war that it was at first hoped
could be held off by the breadth of the Atlantic.
Thus the hard facts of events over which they
could have no control have brought Mr. Roosevelt
and, through his astute leadership, the American
people into acceptance of an actual fighting, if still
limited, part in the war. There is—as there has been
all along—very strong evidence that, if war can’t be
avoided in the Pacific, the Americans will come in
here in a fighting part with much greater national
unity behind it than would support participation in
Europe. If the continued force of further hard facts
thus brings them in, they will, of course, come in fight-
ing on the only realistic democratic basis that has any
true value in total war. They will come in with con-
scription, not childishly restricted to within the map
boundaries of their home country, but applying
wherever they may find it necessary to do the fighting
in their home country’s defence.
The war problem most urgent to Australia differs
in kind though not in nature from that which has
faced America. Within the limits imposed by un-
realistic adherence to the undemocratic “voluntary
system,” Australia has been actively in the war from
the beginning. It was put there in the first place by
the force of hard facts, and these, not the then politi-
cally expedient past words of politicians, will take a
further hand in the future. The position today is
that, because they place shibboleths before country,
the political leaders are striving desperately to avoid
facing up to the facts as long as possible—as Mr.
Roosevelt did, though he had the statesmanship to
meet? and accept them as they came along. On the
other hand, the warnings that continue to flow from
Australia’s same political leaders could not be more
direful. Last week, Mr. Curtin:
The dangers [in the Pacific] are very great. Nobody
in Australia knows the hour at which we may be called
upon to defend ourselves.
On the same day the same speaker was to be
heard contending, with his head in the clouds, that a
last-minute success of a despaired-of loan appeal was
“a spectacular vindication of the Government’s belief
that a voluntary appeal would succeed.” On the say-
so of every authority who has spoken on it, the
“voluntary appeal” for fighting recruits has proved a
washout. Yet, with the danger as urgent and near as
Mr. Curtin declares it to be, the “voluntary system”
must not only be continued but wishful thinking
regarding it must be bolstered with ridiculous argu-
ment.
Mr. Curtin leads the party which, not so long
back, was opposed to sending even volunteers to fight
in Australia’s defence outside Australia. The hard
force of facts changed that. The same body, now in
power, is now pledged to keep the volunteers abroad
supplied with reinforcements. If the danger Mr. Curtin
sees as pressing gravely closer should next turn to
war its own hard facts will cause a further overnight
change, either in the Government’s policy on the
“voluntary system” or in the Government. It is
unbelievable —and in the votes of the Old Diggers and
other spreading support for conscription there is any-
thing but reason for believing—that Mr. Roosevelt’s
contemptuous reference to those who say “I will not
fight for that defence [of a country ; any country]
until the enemy has landed on our shores” is a cap
that the majority of Australians are prepared to pull
on and wear, with the fool’s bells that would need
to go with it.
"Not a European Front."
Australians are capable of deep feeling, though they
seldom show it, and they were thrilled to the marrow
when they learned that the British imperial army was
on the march again in the Western Desert, with the
relief of Tobruk as an early objective, and that the
Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force were co-operat-
ing in a grand effort to drive the Axis allies out of
Libya. Those in whose veins good Scottish blood
courses felt a special pride of race, for the noble
combination of fighting services has a Auchinlech for
general director and two Cunninghams and a Coning-
ham for leaders of actual operations.
Only in one quarter could whines and snarls
be heard. They had to be subdued, for this quarter,
though notorious for cheek, is not remarkable for
courage ; but they resolved themselves into a com-
plaint that, while the relief of Tobruk and the expul-
sion of the enemy from North Africa and the mastery
of the Mediterranean might be all very well, they didn’t
and couldn’t amount to the opening of “a second
European front.” That had been demanded by Stalin as
a necessity of “the immediate future.” And what Stalin
demands seems to be law to an astonishingly large
number of newspapermen and radio uncles, as well
as to the pestilent gangs which, in the hour of Eng-
land’s greatest agony, were railing at “the imperialist
war” and —in this country —were clamoring for the
withdrawal of the A.I.F. from the scanty forces
assembled for the defence of Egypt, the Alexandria
naval base and the Suez Canal zone, then in peril.
This is a new and disgraceful war feature. In
all Britain’s wars since the beginning of the seven-
teenth century there were Englishmen who came out
in opposition to the policy of the Government and
the country. Swift wrote against the wars of Marl-
borough ; Chatham and Burke thundered against the
attempt to put down the American colonies; Fox
denounced the wars against the French Republic and
Napoleon ; Bright’s greatest speeches were delivered
as an opponent of the Crimean War ; Lloyd George
was pursued by a Birmingham mob for objecting to
the Boer War and for echoing Campbell Bannerman’s
protests against “methods of barbarism,” and Ramsay
MacDonald was a Great War pacifist, paying for his
convictions with the loss of his seat in Parliament (a
punishment inflicted on Bright and Cobden in the
Crimea days) and with expulsion from his golf club.
Except in rabid Jingo circles, these men were
held to be honest, if mistaken, patriots. Of none of
them was it alleged that he had the foreign cause at
heart, much less that he was in the foreigner’s pay.
But since September 3, 1939, we have had in all self-
governing parts of the King’s dominions a section
which glories in being under the influence of foreign
rulers, and it has changed its policy as the foreign
rulers dictated. Against the war for 21 months, and
so venomous in its hostility and so subversive in
various ways that its organisations and publications
had to be banned—most of them still are —it changed
violently on June 22. Since its masters fell on evil
days, it has impudently demanded that the imperial
strategy forced on Britain by the defeat of France
and by the desperate events which succeeded it should
be altered to suit its bosses, regardless of the fearful,
and most probably useless, sacrifice of British imperial
lives, ships and machines which alteration would
involve. And in this the foreign-dominated section
has had the support of newspapermen and radio uncles
who, though not themselves under foreign domination,
are swayed by vanity and vicarious valor.
There were no radio uncles in other wars. Neither
were there Diplomatic Correspondents nor Diplomatic
Editors, though there were political reporters who
gave themselves no absurd airs and strove for accu-
racy above all other things. There were also, of
course, editors and foreign correspondents but few
were “famous,” a term now applied to hundreds of
writing boys whose conceit is out of all proportion
to their parts, although in one way and another the
flamboyant brotherhood has done a power of mis-
chief these last few years.
In the last war no editor, however eminent,
would have dared to set himself up as a master-armorer
and an authority on military training, co-ordination
of commands and grand strategy, possessed of the
encyclopaedic knowledge which grand strategy requires.
We have seen these monstrous pretensions fermenting
in one small head even in Australia, though the owner
of the head has never been seen on a parade ground,
much less the fore-part of a tank or the quarter-deck
of a warship in action.
And in the last war period no American corre-
spondent was credited with knowing everyone and
everything in every country which he visited in the
course of his travels. Since 1935 or thereabout a
plague of American correspondents, credulous, cock-
sure, biased and often very abusive, has spread over
Europe and Asia. Their opinions, manners and jargon
have been reproduced the world round, and copied
in this country among others, and the effect on the
Pacific situation, in particular, has been altogether bad.
Well might the Japanese Saburo Kurusu, visit-
ing Washington to confer with Mr. Hull and the
President, and contrasting the courteous reception and
patient hearing vouchsafed to him by those fine gentle-
men with the “gloomy” tone of “war-minded” Ameri-
can journals, exclaim “We have had naval holidays;
why don’t we have a press holiday?” He would need
to begin with his own country’s bad examples, but
nothing would be more useful if he could bring it off.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Merry Christmas.
Australia is all set for a merry Christmas. There
are tons of money about, tons of work, tons of over-
time. Unemployment in trade-unions is down to
slightly over 3 p.c. ; it has never been better than
that in our history. Wages are high ; only the middle-
and upper-income groups are being directly slogged
by taxation; there is an easy Government at Can-
berra and another in each of the State capitals. The
shops are getting their Christmas wares ready; holi-
day resorts are booked out; horses and dogs race
round the clock and the jingle of loose silver is loud
in the land.
“Reasonable anticipation,” says the Minister for
Munitions, “indicates that the war probably will last
at least another three years and may even last nearer
another five years.” And after the three or five years
—what? Nobody seems to be worrying much about
that. Yet unless large-scale special provision is made
for them, servicemen and munitions makers, together
with thousands of related toilers, will have nothing to
do and the country people who rushed to the cities to
get on the good thing will be suddenly on a bad thing.
All the piffle that has been talked about a “new
order,” to arrive spontaneous-like, remains piffle. It
is taken for granted that after the war Australian
industry will march from strength to strength, whereas
some industries now prosperous will assuredly face
strong foreign competition, backed by sentiment.
Others, threatened by stupid politicians with “nationali-
sation,” may develop the deadly “what’s-the-use”
feeling.
There must be somebody at Canberra with the
gumption to realise that there is a post-war future ;
somebody there who shivers when he thinks about it.
It’s high time he got up on his hind legs and called
attention to his fears.
Blarney and "Blackout/ 1
“Sickened” by a lot of things in Australia, General
Blarney had a word for A.R.P., remarking that the
“extraordinarily large sums” being spent on it were
out of all proportion to the risks involved. Naturally,
this touched “Blackout” Heffron, of Sydney, on the
raw. As a city newspaper put it, “Blackout” “took
the general to task,” insinuating that he and other
generals (British) knew nothing about blackouts.
Far from being dashed —he is a hard man to
dash —Blarney retorted that the money spent on A.R.P.
would be more “effective” if spent on a couple of
night-fighter squadrons, and described “Blackout’s”
references to the ignorance of generals as “utterly
wrong.”
“Blackout” himself was just back from a trip to
Lismore, centre of a big district on the N.S.W. North
Coast, which is a hotbed of antagonism to State Par-
liaments and Big-City domination. They had a
Heffron blackout in Lismore, and because lights hadn’t
been dimmed by four shopkeepers, a householder and
a motorist—they all gave explanations at least as
reasonable as that proffered to “Blackout” by the Wol-
longong Trades and Labor Council, whose offence was
identical, and which wasn’t prosecuted—“ Blackout”
ordered another blackout. Meanwhile the six offenders
were blue-papered, and they were ordered to pay
£56 Bs. in fines and costs.
Protests were loud and hot. Lismore aldermen
dubbed the Minister “petulant” and “high-handed,”
and they and the local wardens telegraphed to Sydney
a protest and a request for withdrawal. Indignant citi-
zens wrote to the “Northern Star,” which acidly re-
marked in an editorial:
Mr. R. J. Heffron became one of Australia’s seven
Ministers for N.E.S. after an intensive training as
secretary of the Marine Stewards’ Union.
It added that all State Ministers were products of an
“inefficient system” and recommended getting rid of
them. “Australia,” it stated coldly, “cannot afford a
war and 13 Houses of Parliament.”
All this, to “Blackout,” was “incomprehensible”
and the town was compelled to endure its “punish-
ment” blackout. General Blarney and most of Aus-
tralia will agree that the whole thing is “incompre-
hensible,” though in a far, far different sense from
that understood by the former union secretary, now
one of the people’s many masters.
Sex, Crime and War.
Sydney “Sun” confessed itself startled the other day.
It came out with a double-column headline, “Sex
Crimes Show Alarming Rise,” and in the article that
followed it mentioned that the alarming rise “in
Sydney and suburbs” was “keeping women police and
[a] special vice squad working day and night patrol-
ling parks, streets and arcades.” It proceeded thus:
No reason can be found for this sudden increase in
sex crimes. “A year ago we had cases here and there,
and generally the offender was mentally deranged,” said
a senior police officer. ‘‘Today the number has
increased to such an extent that, when returns are pre-
sented for the year, the average will be about one case
a day.”
On the same page there were characteristic examples
of flapper-press journalism, of which the “Sun” is a
leading exponent. Right alongside the “Sex Crimes”
article, in fact, right underneath the end of the
headline, there was a two-column photograph of a
“Typical Beach Girl, Now a Venus,” posed in a cos-
tome which covered a very small portion of thigh.
In the next column there was a heap of mush about
the “Sun’s” “Streamlined Venus Contest” (“One more
finalist will be chosen, and her picture will appear
tomorrow”), in which the “Typical Beach Girl, Now
a Venus,” was asked by a soldier for “an autographed
photo, of you, taken naturally.” Another part of the
page was given over to “The Great Quest for Princess
of the Pacific” (“votes will be sold for a penny each,
and the girl who gains most votes will be princess”),
who, at successive stages of the “quest,” together with
the other candidates for imitation coronets, will pre-
sumably be expected to reveal Almost Everything to
the breezes and lenses, except her immortal soul.
On the same page the “Sun’s” public was recom-
mended to buy the current “Pix.” “Pix,” which is
carted weekly out of the “Sun” stable, has hardly
ever been known to appear without a cover-picture
of a semi-nude woman. The November 22 cover had
the “No. 1 Glamor Girl of 1941” cocking up a naked
leg. On two other pages she was shown in other “allur-
ing” attitudes, though once, perhaps by inadvertence,
she appeared fully clothed. Another page was given
over to Gary Cooper Learning the Conga and “ten-
tatively examining a strip-tease girl’s leg.” There were
several more pages of other girls in other “alluring”
attitudes; in one there was a Chinese girl whose soli-
tary undergarment seemed to be a piece of tape.
And “no reason can be found for this sudden
increase in sex crimes”! Possibly one of the police-
women or a member of the “special vice squad” would
offer a reason at a venture. Certainly she or he would
have to consider the fact that the “epidemic”—as the
“Sun” calls it —is coincident with the brazen exploita-
tion of semi-nudity in Sydney papers which have made
the female with next-to-nothing on their stock subject
for illustration and imbecile panegyric, and with an
eruption of smut in alleged magazines of the aphro-
disiac order. It has also been coincident with a marked
tendency to parade the “points” of girls of 16, an
age which should be safe from the impertinences of
even papers which are flapper-mad.
The women police and the special vice squad
should certainly be asked to report on this degenerate
craze for the exploitation of sex in relation to their
particular work. And an old soldier, wise in the ways
of young fellows, might be invited to give his views
on the effect on enlistment and related matters,
particularly in Sydney. It is conceivable that a
course of sexy papers and smutty magazines would
leave many a never-eager youngster convinced that
he would be a mug to fight in a nasty foreign war in
which there is no “glamor” whatever when he is at
liberty to stay in Australia and have a good time on
the beaches and at the races and the pictures and the
jazz joints and the night clubs with Gorgeous Girls.
Just Pawns.
In a joint statement repeating their refusal to have
any truck with the Communist party, the British
Trade-Union Congress and Labor party said some sig-
nificant things.
While expressing “their warm appreciation of the
great efforts of the Soviet Union in the common
struggle against Hitlerism,” and welcoming “the full-
ness of the co-operation which has developed,” they
recalled that the British Commonwealth of Nations
had “for almost two years borne the brunt of the
titanic struggle” and that, “with a single striking excep-
tion,” all sections had “freely given of their utmost
effort in furtherance of the common cause.”
“The single striking exception has been the Com-
munist party.” Its offence was so rank that “no asso-
ciation with the Communist party” was “possible.”
On September 3, 1939, the Communist party declared
its determination to resist Hitlerism. Suddenly, and with-
out consultation with its rank and file, it reversed its
policy. It then declared that the struggle against Nazism
was an “imperialist war” which must be stopped. Since
then the Communist party has taken every opportunity
to obstruct and weaken the national effort. It has
misrepresented and distorted the purposes of the Labor
movement.
On Sunday, June 22, 1941, once again without consul-
tation with its rank and file, the Communist party
changed its policy, announcing that the struggle was no
longer an imperialist war. It thus again demonstrated
its irresponsible and unstable character. Unlike the
Labor movement, its policy is not, and has never been,
determined by democratic methods nor by references to
the needs and purposes of the British people.
The organisations which speak for the Maoriland
Labor party and trade-union movement have taken
the same stand. So has the Australian Labor party.
From its own experience of Australian Communists,
our A.L.P. could endorse every word of the British
statement and make this indignant passage its own:
The sufferings of the British people under the strain
of almost constant Nazi raids left the Communist party
unmoved and unaffected. No vestige of sympathy with
the British people, nor for the cause for which Britain
fights, has appeared in Communist declarations.
There is something about Communism, as English-
speaking peoples know it, which seems to wither the
heart. Australians who hate the Soviet system and
have not changed their opinion of the Government
that made the agreement with Hitler and launched
the invasions of Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania,
Bessarabia and Bukovina have been moved to pity
by the plight of the Russian people. They have
indeed ceased to regard the Russian people in terms
of politics ; they feel for them as they felt for the
previous victims of Nazi invasions. The feeling is
such that any Australian Government plan for the
alleviation of the hideous suffering by substantial gifts
of necessaries would have ready support.
But Australians who pity the Russian people have
been repelled by the impertinences of Communists and
others who have made “Aid for Russia” just another
political stunt, a sequel to “Arms for Spain.” With
“Aid for Russia” as the theme, there has been an
insolent revival of Communist propaganda, together
with a thrice insolent and utterly heartless demand
for the sacrifice of British lives in a useless offensive on
the non-existent “Western Front” —an agitation which
Mr. Churchill has most effectually scotched in Britain,
though it goes on in Australia. Of a meeting
held in Brighton (Vic.) an “Age” correspondent
wrote that “some speakers indulged almost wholly
in propaganda of the type that has been preached
and written for years by banned organisations and
papers. The question of food for Russia received but
a couple of minutes’ attention at the end of an address,
and the meeting closed with an impassioned demand
for an attack in the West by Britain.” This experience
is fairly typical.
It was characteristic of Hitler to add insult to
the crimes he has committed against his Russian
victims of both sexes and all ages by shouting to the
world that “they live in miserable hovels, slatternly,
lousy and filthy—millions of intimidated, suppressed
and neglpcted human beings in a state of semi-starva-
tion who can scarcely call a stewpot their own.”
Nothing less could be expected from that cruel heart.
But it is a shock to find the Russian people regarded
by professed champions, not as fellow-creatures in the
agony of a vast human tragedy, but merely as pawns
in the game of world revolution.
Plenty of Rolls.
With the stupidity for which it will be remembered
until it is forgotten, the U.A.P.-C.P. Government 12
months ago postponed the N.S.W. local-government
elections “on account of the war.” Eagerly availing
itself of the opportunity thus presented, Labor ex-
tended the occupier franchise to persons whose names
were on the State electoral rolls compiled on April
18, 1941, as residents in particular wards, and who
can prove continuous residence from that date, “proof”
to be furnished in “a special declaration.” This pro-
vision applies to the local-government elections to be
held on December 6, and the new electors will vote
in the City of Sydney, as well as in suburban and
country municipalities and shires.
In Sydney especially, there will be glorious con-
fusion. In the city boundaries there are seven Par-
liamentary electorates, each with its “ordinary” roll
and “supplementary” roll; and, as hitherto, the rate-
payers will have their own roll, “I do not see how
the returning officer can check under that system,”
protested Mr. Samuel Walder (U.A.P.) when the bill
was going through the Upper House. To this Mr.
Alam (Lab.) replied that “impersonation and dual
voting” would be “prevented to a great extent by the
municipal officer checking the names of persons in
his area with the rolls supplied by the electoral office.’
“That,” he proceeded, “will make the municipal roll
as perfect as human ingenuity can make it.” “Whiter
than snow,” interposed Mr. Concannon (Lab.). Mr.
Concannon, it should be explained, was leader of the
House in Lang’s last Premiership, but has been left
out of the present Ministry. Mr. Walder has been an
alderman for 13 years or so, but is resigning. Mr.
Alam is a candidate for alderman.
Sydney people whose memories go back to the
grand old days of Alderman Mick, when corporation
employees jugged for personating ratepayers were
kept on the payroll, expect a very interesting election.
Mr. Mac Kay Catches a Bus.
The Mac Kay in question is an unusual man, being
N.S.W. Police Commissioner no less, and he caught
the bus in unusual circumstances, as hereinafter
described:
Returning in a police car from a linoleum-laying expedi-
tion to Willoughby Mr. Mac Kay at 12.20 a.m. was turning
from Cleveland-street into Anzac-parade when, he says, a bus
crossed him at 35 m.p.h. Mr. Mac Kay had his son and
daughter-in-law and R. N. James, a Traffic Department
inspector, in the car. Concluding that the bus was going too
fast, the Commissioner swung his car round and set out after
it. He caught it in Alison-road, Randwick; saw Sharpe, the
driver, and Miller, the conductor, and accused both of being
drunk! Sharpe, he said, admitted that he had been driving
the bus.
Though both men objected to quitting their bus, Mr.
Mac Kay carried them to the Randwick bus depot, dug out
the man in control and again made the drunkenness charge.
Both denied it and asked that a doctor be sent for, to
examine the Commissioner as well as themselves. Miller also
wanted to look in the Commissioner’s car for liquor, but the
Commissioner wouldn’t have that, nor did he wait for a doctor
to come. Presently Sharpe appeared in court charged with
“having driven a bus in a manner dangerous to the public.”
It came out that at the bus depot, James said that Miller,
not Sharpe, was driving the bus. In the witness box James
said that Miller got out of the driver’s seat when the bus
stopped. Miller is a licensed driver. A detective, Crosbie,
told the Court that he saw a doctor at the depot, and the
doctor gave it as his opinion that neither busman was drunk.
Crosbie admitted having said. “As far as I can see they show
no signs of drink.” The doctor wasn’t called, the charges
of drunkenness not, in the words of Mr. Clancy, K.C., for
the defence, “being pursued.”
Mr. Clancy, K.C., held there was no case to answer. He
also held that, in claiming right of way over the bus, the
Commissioner was ignorant of Motor Traffic Regulation 71,
which governed the making of right-hand turns. Mr. Clancy
did not call evidence for the defence. The magistrate pro-
ceeded to conviction, saying that “the driving of such a large
vehicle across an intersection at 35 m.p.h. could hardly be
considered to be proceeding safely across the intersection,”
and that he was “not concerned with who was the driver.”
Although his previous record was clean, Sharpe was fined
£5, with 30s. costs, and loses his license for a year. Notice of
appeal was given. The Transport Department is said to be pro-
ceeding against Miller, but will undoubtedly await the result
of the appeal. All in all, what with laying linoleum, not
having had a drink “that night, nor that day, nor the previous
day, nor the previous day, nor the previous day” (that was
given in evidence) and chasing a bus along public streets
at 45 m.p.h. in the early hours, the Commissioner is un-
doubtedly a most unusual Mac Kay. It is an unusual case
altogether.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Harold Hardupp”: The foreign lady
in charge told me that the “bunkello”
was for let or to sale ; it was well related
to the sewer; it was entitled in Torrents,
and the price—either way—would make
me laughable, it was so vulgar. She also
offered to introducts me to the landlord.
He told me that he wanted to “letta da
place to a cleana tenant” ; if he got one
he “chargea da rent moocha da more
less.” I let the “bunkello” to a chap who
reckoned it a “pletty goot blace,” but
he didn’t like a “pletty Dago” as a “landt-
lordt.” A man who takes a hand in
estate agency these days, if it is only to
help a friend, gets to know all the lan-
guages.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; I have just had my
attention drawn to a misstatement by me
(B. 29/10/’4l) that wine could be
obtained from the grower at fivepence
a gallon. I should have said that, bought
in convenient bulk, it works out at five-
pence the bottle. It was an understand-
able mistake, however. Such is the
prejudice of Governmental and other
authorities, for whom the juice of the
grape has unfortunate moral associations,
of publicans who find it quicker and
more profitable to turn a tap and make
the beer flow, and of a habit-ridden
public, that even if it could be obtained
at fivepence a gallon it would be avoided.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Politicians sometimes see
further than technical experts. After the
1914-18 war various proposals were
trotted out for bringing Australia into
wireless communication with London.
Most of the experts advocated a chain
of Empire stations on the traditional sub-
marine cable model. For some reason
or other, W. M. Hughes, then P.M., got
it into his head that the 14,000 miles
could be bridged in one hop and that
the erection of two great terminal
stations in England and Australia would
ultimately justify itself, whatever the
expense. He stuck to his guns, although
experts ridiculed the notion, and there
was a brisk newspaper campaign on
behalf of vested interests. The indomit-
able Billy won, and the Beam was estab-
lished under A.W.A. auspices. Last year
it transmitted 26,000,000 words to and
from Australia, more than all channels
combined could handle in pre-war days.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Replying to an argument
of Prof. S. M. Wadham that we won’t
convince men that they should be fight-
ing this war by blaring at them through
loudspeakers, Lud Mayor Beaurepaire, of
Melbourne, retorted that while we are
committed to the voluntary system we
have to utilise all these quite obviously
theatrical methods to direct attention to
the need for reinforcements. Why do
we have to? I fully agree with his Wor-
ship that the methods used are theatrical.
I never saw anything more like a certain
stage play than Tobruk Day in Collins-
street, Melbourne. When Monash saw
the play I refer to, and discovered that the
troops depicted were supposed to belong
to his favorite battalion, he couldn’t
stand it and left after the second act,
although he was the guest of honor. A
sandbag fortification may be an impres-
sive spectacle when it is being shelled,
dive - bombed, machine - gunned or
assaulted by vast hordes of hostile Italians
and Germans, but when it is placed be-
tween the gutter and tramline, is gar-
risoned by five self-conscious soldiers
and is being besieged by small boys and
passed by indifferent motorists and pedes-
trians, it is more likely to provoke
laughter than to promote recruiting.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Brisbane’s
annual B.M.A. attempt at summer dress
reform has begun early with a statement
that a local gents’-wear firm already has
14 sizes of coat-shirt in stock. Although
described as a “challenge to the weather”
these nondescript garments don’t make
even a beginning at lowering temperature
and humidity in the air layer between
skin and clothing, which constitutes the
whole problem. Long trousers confined
by a belt at the waist—if any—cut off
air circulation midway and create the
usual perspiration-bath below the equa-
torial region. Upper latitudes are simi-
larly becalmed at the neck by a neatly-
fitting collar and tie. If the B.M.A. had
any real moral courage it would demon-
strate in bib-and-brace overalls, chopped
off at the knees and fitted with a light
cane ring at waist-level to hold the gar-
ment out in order to secure free air move-
ment over the body surface. Stetho-
scopes, pillboxes and other trade gear
“Aw, let's go to another show; that stuff gives me the willies."
could be stowed to any reasonable
amount in the numerous convenient
pockets which every worthy overall
carries.
* * % *
“K.”: Australian newspaper readers
who every Monday morning are en-
tertained with the cabled views of
John Gordon, editor of London
“Sunday Express” and the Empire’s
unchallenged champ, of office - map
strategy, must often have wondered at
the source of his inspirations. The mys-
tery has now been cleared up—he em-
ploys a tame astrologer who looks after
the prophetic side. The seer’s pronounce-
ments are usually sufficiently long-distance
to allow readers to forget that he
made them vague enough to be safe, i.e.,
“Great happenings must be expected in
the Pacific,” and “Mussolini will be fin-
ished by next spring.” But yielding to
temptation he pinned himself with a
short-distancer; “America will be at war
with Japan within three weeks.” That
was at the end of October. A washout.
But, of course, it won’t affect his job.
Anything goes with the soothsayers of
the Sunday Press.
* * * *
“Tasser”: Hobart “Mercury” has been
conducting a minor symposium on the
question of sex education in schools, get-
ting the views of persons from teachers
to ambulance secretaries. The general
idea appears to boil down to (a) teachers
should instruct children personally and
privately in the more intimate details
after they’ve had a grounding in biology
and physiology in class, and ( b ) private
instruction should be left to parents. I
rather fancy (a), because ( b ) raises the
question of who is going to instruct the
parents beforehand as to how to impart
sex knowledge to their offspring.
* * * *
“Bo”: An absentminded middle-aged
public servant of my acquaintance lately
decided to get married. One night, a
week or so after the honeymoon, he was
standing talking to some of the boys out-
side the suburb’s billiard saloon when
one asked whether he was coming in for
a game of snooker. “Can’t,” said Mick.
“Got to meet the wife. We’re going to
the flicks. I’d better be getting along
now.” At about 9.30 the main film was
interrupted by a notice flashed on the
screen: “Dr. wanted urgently at
manager’s office.” The surname was also
Mick’s, and two figures hurrying out
darkened aisles met at the door. The
doc. knew the other respondent to the
summons. “This call’s for me, Mick, not
you.” Mick grinned sheepishly. “I
know,” he replied. “But it just reminded
me —I had to meet the wife outside here
at ten to eight!”
* * * *
“Zake”: The rather apologetic-looking
nine-stoner and his large and domineering
wife and three kids were staying at the
seaside boarding-house. The other boarders
used to patronise the surf, but the a.-l.
n.-s. seemed to favor the swimming pool.
One night we got talking on the verandah
and I learned from the little man that
he was an ardent surfer. He kept to the
pool, however, and then one day one of
my nippers wanted to demonstrate how
he could go off “the springy.” Self-
sacrificially I put in a half-hour at the
pool. And there, standing up to his waist,
was the surfer who surfed not, one hand
clasping his floundering outsize spouse by
the back of her costume while he
reiterated at short intervals a firm “Now,
Bella, keep your mouth shut!” I raised
an imaginary lid in silent admiration.
* * * *
“Looby”; There are quicker ways of
judging the passage of time than by
peering at the calendar, which always
seems to have been hung in a bad light.
For instance, it’s much easier to say
“before the petrol rationing” than to
reckon it out in months. And, in the
home circle, “before we got the new
table” or “just after the radio went bung”
are always fairly accurate time-indi-
cators. But the girl friend has her own
method, as witness her confident state-
ment last night: “Oh dear no, it wasn’t
anything like two years ago. Only about
eleven hats.”
* * * *
“Cine Ma”; It was Fadden who
said films were good propaganda,
and music, opera and ballet weren’t.
Carrying his theory into practice,
he put such severe restrictions on
the fleshanblood theatre with respect
to getting plays into the country
that the few remaining playhouses are
threatened with absorption by American
movie combines, while the flood of Holly-
wooden celluloid flows in as usual. Nine-
tenths of the movie pabulum presented is
American in origin. On what grounds
is this supposed to be good propaganda?
Fifty R.A.A.F. men from Canada took part
in an Armistice Day march in New York
and small boys gathered round them and
begged them “to speak some Australian.”
Thanks to the movies, an Australian
would have no difficulty in speaking
“some American,” but, there being no
reciprocity in film propaganda, Ameri-
can youngsters apparently think that Aus-
tralians talk Binghi.
* « * *
“Si Anu”; I see the newsboys have
been criticising General Blarney and his
A.D.C. for arriving in Sydney “regi-
mentally undressed” inasmuch as they
wore open-necked tunics. It turned out
to be a furphy, the A.D.C. explaining
that they were wearing the safari shirt,
the standard tropical outfit worn by
A.I.F. officers in the Middle East. Recalls
the horror with which the Honorable
Board of the East India Company re-
ceived the protests of British officers in
India against the regulation compelling
private soldiers to wear stocks up to their
ears even when they were fighting in the
jungle. It took a century to get the regu-
lation rescinded, and in the meantime
many a poor Tommy, wearying of
the conservativism of the home authori-
ties, solved the sartorial problem by plac-
ing his forehead on the muzzle of his gun
and pulling the trigger.
“Pawang”: A reporter who asked
General Blarney what grounds he had
for describing Hitler as one of the great-
est brains the world had produced got
his reply: “Who can doubt it? Look
what he has done in 10 years. Once he
was the head of the Nazi party. Now
he has the army completely in
his grip. Hasn’t he proved his genius
for organisation? We delude our-
selves by dismissing such a force
as a megalomaniac. „The first step
towards conquering his genius is to stop
underrating it.” My notion of Hitler is
much the same as General Blarney’s
except that I would say that he is not
an extraordinary man so much as an
extraordinary ordinary man. He believes
what he believes so intensely and is so
completely focused on it that he can
galvanise people into action and focus
them in the same direction. The differ-
ence between him and a genius like Rem-
brandt is not the intensity of his belief but
its direction. The rabble of commen-
tators who underrate him aren’t focused
on anything, so they can’t possibly under-
stand him.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The name of Yalta in the
Crimea, which has come into the war
news through the German invasion, ought
to strike a stronger chord than the names
of the great industrial towns that Hitler
has captured in the Ukraine. In Yalta
Chekhov wrote his finest stories. He
was round about 50 and dying of con-
sumption, but there was not a note of
repining or complaining in his letters.
According to an Italian newspaper, the
Germans found Yalta in ruins ; fine villas
and sanatoria were reduced to twisted
masses of girders and cement and scarcely
a building in the modern section was
standing. No doubt this won’t earn even
a mention in the war histories, the de-
struction not being sufficiently colossal.
But Yalta will continue to be remem-
bered as the town where the art of the
short story was mastered by a quiet,
gentle, painstaking little man with a beard
who practised medicine in the mornings,
wrote in his study in the afternoons and
coughed most of the night through.
* * * *
“Exdig”: John Longstaff, when in the
mood, used to tell of some strange experi-
ences that befell him when he was liaison
officer between the American and Aus-
tralian commands in France. The Yanks
went into action as gallantly as the
Diggers, but lacked the Diggers’ shrewd-
ness and experience, and their impetuosity
brought trouble. Longstaff’s most vivid
memory of one battle was his discovery
of an American advanced dressing station
where even the medicoes had lost their
heads as the wounded poured in, and
wounded men who had arrived first re-
mained unattended whilst the doctors and
staff fell over one another in attending
to most recent arrivals. Longstaff called
a Digger A.M.C. corporal and asked him
to take charge and see what he could do.
The two-stripe man ordered even the
medical colonels about, and in ten
minutes had brought the place to order.
But when Longstaff thought to ascertain
the name and regimental particulars of
that corporal for favorable mention he
found the n.c.o. had faded away.
* * * *
“T.W.N.”: Hearing sounds of a
struggle outside my King’s Cross (Syd-
ney) flat at 2 a.m., followed by a heavy
thud and a groan, I decided to investi-
gate. I found that the chap from the
next flat, homing from a celebration, had
come to grief in the hall. His wife, pant-
ing heavily, was striving to lift him. We
managed to get him up, but then, sight-
ing the ’phone with a most bewildered
expression, he struggled violently towards
it. “Mush ring up!” he exclaimed.
“Mush tell wife I’m at friend’sh place
looking after shick friendsh!”
TWO VOICES.
“The Australian forces overseas need strengthening
greatly; a maximum number of fighters is required
to meet the enemy. The valiant resistance of the
garrison at Tobruk symbolises the desperate odds
against which our men are contending in all theatres
of war.” — Mr. Curtin in “S.M.H (I9/11/’4l).
“The number of men serving in the Australian
forces —sea, land and air—is evidence that conscrip-
tion is not required to invoke the patriotism of
Australian men.” — Mr. Curtin,, same date, same paper.
Quite so, but when it comes to reconciling
Such contradictory sentiments as these,
I feel that anyone equipped to do it
Could prove that black is white, or bones are
suet,
Or chalk is really cheese.
Backs to the wall our sons must fight, you tell
us;
The odds are desperate, the outlook blue;
Yet any hint of even mild compulsion
To fill their ranks inspires you with revulsion —
That’s what you tell us, too!
Sore though their need, disquieting the picture
You bid us vision on the other side,
You’d hate to see our aid by law augmented ;
The present method leaves you quite contented
And fully satisfied.
Two voices, yes! Yet to this rumty-tumming.
This facing-both-ways there must needs be
bounds.
For all your verbal skill you can’t, it’s certain,
Go running with the hare for ever, Curtin,
And hunting with the hounds.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Wodgil”: Though the Irish immigrant
may have ceased to come to Australia
(B. 13/8/’4l), he can still be seen in
Maoriland. Indeed, that Dominion has
an organisation called “Citizens of Eire”
who banded together to lodge objections
to compulsory service in the armed forces
—in most cases, on the ground of status;
in a few, on that of conscience. One
hopeful person appealed on both grounds
and was ruled out on both. He told the
board he would take up arms only in Eire,
and was dryly informed (1) that this placed
him out of the category of conscientious
objectors, and (2) that the question of
status had already been decided against
all gentlemen raising it, Eire, under
Maoriland military law, being a part of
the British Commonwealth. One soli-
citor appeared for 56 unsuccessful clients.
Twenty-two described themselves as
laborers, eight as barmen, six had jobs in
freezers, one was a clerk and another a
male nurse.
* * * »
“D.E.”: In Sydney, as has here been
remarked, people who back horses and
dogs and take tickets in lotteries figure
as “investors” in the daily and Sunday
prints. This queer misuse of language
has apparently begun to affect the clergy ;
anyway, no less a person than the presi-
dent of the Methodist Conference,
preaching at Chatswood (N.S.W.), was
reported in “S. M. Herald” as having
said that “the amount invested in the
totalisator for the Melbourne Cup was
an all-time record for Australia.” Per-
haps the reverend gentleman merely
quoted what appeared in the “Herald”
itself. Exactly the same remark was
attributed to Professor Roberts. Pos-
sibly the prof, read it in proof or in the
first edition and remonstrated; at all
events, it was altered in another edition
to “the big betting on the Melbourne
Cup.” Sydney papers cater for the plague
of punting by giving an inordinate
amount of space to it. It is conceivable
that they helped to spread it by applying
the term “investing” to the irrational
pursuit.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; Some of our language
experts might get busy with the word
“stop,” which sounds clear enough but
has got tangled up. It was brought home
to me lately on the question of breaking
up a party, when half said “We must
stop” and the other half said “Oh, we
can stop” ; and they meant exactly oppo-
site things. Stop should not mean “stay,”
as so often it does. I always remember
a rather precise friend who advised those
travelling, “Be sure to stop at the So-
and-so Hotel; the beer is good. But don’t
dream of staying there; the beds are
awful.”
* ip * *
“X.S.”: The rejection by the Sydney
Divorce Court (B. 12/11 /’4l) of the plea
that a good smack entitles a lady to leave
her lord may be a valid judgment when
the lady comes from those social circles
where politeness does not rule. It doesn't
apply in others. In a recent case in Mel-
bourne a husband was charged with wife-
beating, and the lady appeared in court
with a black eye, a nose like a turnip
and one arm in a sling; but instead of
the police finding her an assistance to
them she made an impassioned plea on
behalf of her tremendous spouse, and
begged not to be separated from him
even for 24 hours. In Collingwood and
Carlton, when tempers rise, a blow is
as good as a kiss and clears the matri-
monial atmosphere. In East Malvern and
Toorak resentment can smoulder for a
lifetime under an exterior of complete
politeness and only manifest itself in un-
conscious ways. In this environment a
husband who so far forgot the rules as
to slap his helpmate would be commit-
ting a social solecism of the direst
description. A husband of my acquaint-
ance who has never exchanged a harsh
word with his wife entertains a lot. In
some ways he is a perfect host —but he
kicks his guests black and blue under the
table, and doesn’t know he is doing it.
T * if *
“Colbun”: A recent American survey
of average ages for physical and mental
efficiency-peaks in various activities makes
it look as if the “too-old-at-40” pessi-
mists may not be so wrong after all.
Hockey and football players put up their
best efforts at 24-25, boxers at 26, base-
ball pitchers at 27 and other baseball
players at 28. Professional golfers do not
attain top form until between 30 and 34.
In chemistry peak years of efficiency are
28-32, in physics 30-34, in mathematics
34-38, and in astronomy 43-47. Most
inventors do their best work between 31
and 35. Authors who produce only one
outstanding work generally do it between
35 and 39. Prose writers reach the cre-
ative peak between 40 and 44, and show
a rapid decline after 50. It’s no use
quoting Bob Fitzsimmons or G. B. Shaw
in disproof—individual instances vary
widely on both sides of any human mean.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: I maintain that
any schoolkid who can achieve a genuine
howler at exam, time is not stupid but
"I dunno, Joe; the monotony of married life 'd just about kill me.”
“ You'd better confiscate those lobsters , Prendergast—I fancy I have
some stout!”
particularly direct-minded. For example,
the lad who asserted that Henry VIII was
very cruel to Anne Boleyn because he
“ironed her.” His history book said that
“he pressed his suit on her,” and what
more natural conclusion could a 12-year-
old reach? That a grass-widow should
be the wife of a dead vegetarian is equally
reasonable when you’ve never heard the
slang term before. There are the mak-
ings of a great journalist in the child
who defined “&c.” as a sign used to make
people believe that you know more than
you do. The small girl who said that
Thomas a Becket led a dissipated life and
three nights in Canterbury killed him dis-
played a commendable suburban moral
standard. What better solution of the
old, old argument can be desired than
that Bacon was the man who thought he
wrote Shakspeare? Or a more reason-
able conclusion than that by a lad with
a houseful of sisters that the Tower of
Babel was the place where Solomon kept
his wives? And what a statesman liter-
ally lies hidden in the child who defined
ambiguity as a way of telling the truth
when you don’t want to!
“Cheercup”: There may be a body of
opinion that sees no reason why beer-
drinking shouldn’t be
taxed out of exist-
ence, but is this
country going to sit
down quietly while
it is robbed of its
cup o’ tea? House-
wives’ Associations
are already casting
around for substi-
tutes. Mrs. Down-
ing, of the Mel-
bourne body, recom-
mends fruit juices,
hot water with a
dash of milk and a
concoction made out
of bran and treacle.
Sydney’s Mrs. Glen-
cross also favors
fruit juices, and for
children, “garlic
water flavored with
orange or lemon!”
Of course there are
a lot of other liquids
that are potable and
non - intoxicating.
Wasn’t it Bishop
Berkeley who recom-
mended tar-water (of
all things!) as being
calculated “to warm
without heating ; to cheer but not in-
ebriate”? But it’s a dreary prospect.
* * * *
“John Bones”; Queer coincidences?
About 15 years ago I took my newly-
married wife to Parramatta (N.S.W.) for
the day, and in the afternoon we had
a look over St. John’s Churchyard.
We had viewed the tombs of Baron Alt,
Samuel Marsden, Lady Bourke, Lady
Mary Fitzroy and many other notabili-
ties, and were making across the ceme-
tery for the gate when she exclaimed,
“Oh, wait a moment till I see what’s on
this one!” Making her way round to
the front of a leaning headstone, evidently
of very ancient vintage, she emitted a
startled yelp. When I went to look, too,
I read on the face of the stone, “Sacred
to the Memory of John Bones, Obiit
1829.” I’m pretty sure the missus ex-
pected to be a widow before the week
was up. Now, she says she never did
have any luck.
» * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne got its first
taste of anti-aircraft fire last week. The
occasion was the first test of wholly Aus-
tralian-made A.A. guns of 3.7 calibre
and with a ceiling of 30,000 ft., now in
mass production in Victoria. The usual
white drogue, trailed a mile behind an
aeroplane, was the target, and a few
seconds after it was sighted there were
white puffs all round it. The night prac-
tice had to be abruptly discontinued. The
moment the white drogue was picked up
by the searchlight the gun went into
action, and after a few rounds blew the
target to oblivion. The range was at
Werribee, west of the city, but the
rumble shook windows 15 miles east of
it. Ammunition, radio, searchlight bat-
teries and most of the other equipment
were Australian.
V
“Lao-dah”: Faulty staffwork? My
“Argus” one day last week contained a
cartoon depicting Mars sitting on a skull
and playing the lovers’ game of pulling
off the petals of a flower labelled “Japan”
while he recites the usual formula, “Shf:
loves me, she loves me not.” The num-
ber of the rays is such that Mars must
get “no” for an answer. This doesn’t
harmonise with the opening sentence of
the leader: “If General Tojo, Japanese
Prime Minister, and Mr. Togo, his
Foreign Minister, had wished to sabo-
tage the negotiations upon which Japan’s
special envoy to Washington, Mr.
Kurusu, is about to enter with the U.S.
Government, they could not have done
so more effectually than in their state-
ments of Japanese policy.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The chemist said:
“Benzine it will be you’re wanting? If
it’s for cleaning clothes the best benzine
isn’t benzine at all; ’tis this mixture here,
which isn’t a mixture at all, but a pure
chemical. But if it’s benzine you’re want-
ing, you can have it by the ton, only,
under the war regulations, you can only
have sixpenn’orth and the price of that is
eightpence.” According to the signboard
outside his name is MacPherson. 1 don’t
believe it.
EAT MORE LAMB.
We cannot all, however wishful—harkee,
My ageing brothers, full-blown sisters, too!
Spring to our country’s call by donning khaki
Or snappy costumes of aerial blue.
Yet there are minor ways, the hoardings tell us,
In which we still may be of real use
By helping to deflate the boist’rous bellows
Of Goebbels and by cooking Hitler’s goose.
Pass me the pepper, Sue! The mint-sauce,
Sam!
Let’s eat more lamb.
We may not all, whatever our ambitions
Suggest or harps enjoin in divers tones,
Assist in manufacture of munitions
Or bung our boodle into war-time loans.
We’re past the period of rush and hustle,
Of storm and stress, of ginger and of go;
No longer may we bank on thew and muscle,
What’s worse, we’re lamentably short of
dough.
Still, it will prove our loyalty no sham
To eat more lamb.
You fleecy pets, so long associated
With Mary in the peaceful days of yore,
It’s strange, it’s passing strange, to think
you’re fated
To play a more heroic part in war.
Each cutlet into which we dig our pecker.
Each tender chop which we dismember, brings
Something into the Commonwealth’s exchequer
Via the bankbooks of our shepherd kings.
To save us from an economic jam
There’s naught like lamb.
Tempt me not, butcher, with a specious quarter
Of sheep that long have left the lambkin fold.
The sirloin and the steak that clicks with porter
Make no appeal to me; they leave me cold.
Your pork and veal excite no longing in me;
Your sausages I view with dubious eye,
Something—l know not what it is—within me
Warns me ’twere better that I pass them by.
Being the sturdy patriot that I am,
Gimme some lamb!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. •• .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. ■ • ■ • • • 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
NEW TAXES AND THEIR INCIDENCE
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
November l&ue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
This Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It Is surprising how quickly many
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
S pints a day and so get rid of 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If your kidneys don't work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Fre-
quent or scanty passages with smarting and
burning are further evidence that something
is wrong with the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . *
used successfully the world over by millions
of people suffering with backache and other
kidney disorders. They give quick relief and
Will help flush out the 15 miles of kidney
tubes. So be sure you get DOAN’S JiACK-*
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS,
POLITICAL POINTS
died the Secretary of State would succeed,
“and after him other officers of the Ad-
ministration, in the order of their rank.”
The Bulletin knew this was coming;
“Until strong racial barriers between Aus-
tralians and Chinese are broken down, the
two nations cannot become more friendly,”
says Mr. Samuel Wong, of the Chinese
Nationalist party, in a letter to the P.M.
“Surely Chinese could be allowed to bring
their sons out here—this would not affect
the White Australia policy very much.”
A leader in the Sydney Sunday print from
which the foregoing was taken wound
up with these words:
We cannot hope to buy security at
China’s expense the Burma Road is as
much our lifeline as it is China’s.
Obviously the forebears of that editor
never worked at Lambing Flat or in the
Ovens valley.
The Old Diggers’ vote for conscription
sorely embarrassed the Sydney dailies. In
the beginning some them ignored it alto-
gether. Presently it had to be men-
tioned that the Old Diggers were swing-
ing into action, and this was done in a
few lines at the bottom of a column. Now
it will be necessary to come down from
Calwell, had the gall to ask
Curtin “whether he would use National
Security powers to restrain conscrip-
tionists.” Curtin said no. Had he said
yes he would presumably have had to
start on the archbishops and bishops of
the Church of England, who have issued
a pastoral letter to the effect that “ex-
tension of the principle of compulsory
military service to service overseas”
would be “an immense relief to many
in Australia,” and that “every man and
woman should be at the disposal of their
country wherever she might need them.”
The pastoral letter was published on the
same day as Calwell’s question.
Chiding the Old Diggers for support-
ing conscription, Curtin said that “those
who seek to have a united nation would
do well to avoid introduction of issues
which, by splitting Australia, weaken
Australia.” Printed directly underneath
was the statement of Major Sharland,
president of the S.A. Diggers, who said
he was “firmly convinced that the people
would agree to conscription without any
qualms, because it means equality of ser-
vice.” Major Sharland was fresh from
the Brisbane conference, where he men-
tioned that S.A. units were “being rein-
forced by Westralians.” Is the P.M.
satisfied with that position? Does he
think it fair to his own State? He knows
—none better —that if conscription were
put to the vote his State would carry it.
The Curtins had their first setback
when the Senate carried a motion against
an item lifting sales tax on fishing equip-
ment from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. Codings,
who leads for the Government, “strongly
criticised the Opposition for wasting
time on such a small matter.” It must
have occurred to somebody that this
wouldn’t go down in Tasmania, which
is having a State election ; anyway, “the
Government accepted the amendment.”
Australians would feel more comfort-
able if they had a fisher fleet which could
do for Australia what John Bull’s has
done for Britain in two wars ; but while
politicians like Codings are about they
will never get one.
After a week of turmoil, the U.S. coal
strike was “settled”—if any coal strike
in America or Australia can ever be said
to have been “settled.” The “settlement”
coincided with a stay-in strike of miners
in the Wadarah (N.S.W.) mine, and with
threats of another general strike unless
the Government surrendered as usual —
in this case by altering a clause in the
award which says that strike and pithead-
meeting periods are to be deducted from
annual holidays. Under that award the
miners gained substantially, and they
have since been granted State pensions
at 60 and Commonwealth child endow-
ment, but concessions make no difference.
Something else should be tried —for ex-
ample, restriction of horse-racing to one
afternoon a week, and total abolition of
dog-racing for the war period.
Though with nothing of the grim
unanimity which characterised its con-
scription resolution, the Diggers’ congress
at Brisbane agreed to submit an Anglo-
American union motion to the American
Legion and the Empire Service League.
“Why,” a critic said, “Lindbergh might be
President in six months.” An objection
which might have to be reckoned with
some day, but not in six months. Failing
death or removal by impeachment (a vir-
tual impossibility) Roosevelt will be in
the White House for another three years.
If he died in the meantime he would be
succeeded by the Vice-President; if he
“Presumably by permission of Minister Forde, two Owen guns were ‘demonstrated ' to
the public in Martin-place, Sydney.”
“I no underschtandt, mein friendt. Vill you eggsplain again, pleass?”
the fence on one side or the other, and
it hurts!
Melbourne citizens were called un-
patriotic because, while they loyally ob-
served the blackout regulations, they
refused to see eye to eye with the State
Emergency Council as to the primary im-
portance of the A.R.P. activities. They
have got some confirmation from Blarney,
and so has the territory overridden by
“Blackout” Heffron. Blarney says the
money spent on A.R.P. could be much
more effectively applied to night fighter
squadrons and points out that copying
London is slavish imitation. There is
an immense difference between 20 miles
of water and 2000 miles of ocean, says
Blarney.
“Blackout” Heffron, the terror of Syd-
ney and suburbs and country towns,
“challenged” Blarney’s statement that
N.E.S. expenditure in Australia was out
of all proportion to the danger of air
raids. Somebody ought now to challenge
Heffron and his counterparts in the other
States to publish the full cost of N.E.S.
since September, 1939.
Archie Cameron got home very neatly
on his enemies in flapper-newspaper
offices and so-called Civil Liberties
Leagues without saying a word.
They tackled him in a pack, yelp-
ing that, as an army officer, he
was banning Left-Wing books ana
periodicals at a great rate. He let
them yelp, having evidently heard that
they were prodding Forde to make a
statement which would prove their “case”
against the “Fascist” conscriptionist to
the hilt. Forde made the statement, and,
in respect of Cameron it was to the effect
that his connection with military intelli-
gence work had been brief and that he
had banned nothing. Now one of the
pack is nervously wondering whether it
didn’t get too close to libel.
Hobart “Mercury” salutes the end of
Tasmania’s first five-year Parliament:
There was missing the flame of leader-
ship which marked the early days of a Gov-
ernment that has descended to drabness.
Last night was the end of a Parliament that
had lost its beacon and outlived its useful-
ness.
True of every other State Parliament,
particularly the last three words.
The Owen sub-machine gun may be all
that is claimed for it, but the young in-
ventor —good luck to him!—is unfor-
tunate in some of his patrons. His inven-
tion has been taken up by flapper-
papers, which have boomed it as if it
were a new brand of lipstick or style of
undress. One of them has been black-
guarding the Army officers who have not
meekly surrendered to this flapper-press
agitation. Their concern is for the lives
of the soldiers who would have to use
the weapon; and, after all, Diggers’ lives
are rather more important than the senti-
ments of newspapermen and politicians
who are —and will remain—thousands of
miles from the battle.
Average age of the 18 Leg. Councillors
in Tasmania is 64. Thirteen are 60 or
more; four are 70 or more ; one is over
80, Only one is under 50. They get
from £370 to £5OO a year, according to
distance of their electorate from Hobart.
This year the Council sat 22 days, so
their salaries ranged from £l7 to £23 a
day for every day worked. Who’d be
an old-age pensioner while jobs like that
are lying round?
In re Maxie Falstein, who tackled
W. J. Smith, the Gun Ammunition man,
on the score of a horse-float constructed
in his A.C.I. works, it was shown that
no alteration was made in the “Hansard”
report, which differed from some news-
paper versions. The Parliamentary Com-
mittee’s majority report was to the effect
that “the float was not built at Govern-
ment expense.” The minority (Labor)
protested that “the evidence was incon-
clusive,” and recommended “immediate
investigation by a Government auditor.”
“S, M. Herald” let its Canberra man
have a crack at “young Mr. Falstein”;
When Mr. Falstein leaves Parliament... •
the thought that his Canberra interlude gave
him at least a chance of learning a lot
should be of consolation to him on rain-
swept nights when the surf thumps out
on Coogee Beach the message “Never
again.”
Very smart, no doubt; but by running
its ticket of “outstanding candidates” and
sneering at the quality of U.A.P. candi-
dates Granny helped to give Maxie his
“Canberra interlude.”
Addressing by Canberra ’phone the
representatives of commercial broadcast-
ing stations assembled in convention at
Orange (N.S.W.), Ashley, the new
P.M.G., said he would be gratified to
learn that they had taken positive action
to encourage members to promote a
greater interest in Australian artists and
literature, and to arrange regular broad-
casts of the works of Australian poets,
authors and composers. The conven-
tion must have thought the man had got
the wrong number.
Curtin would have saved himself, as
well as taxpayers, a lot of trouble if he
had introduced the one income tax he
recommended to Fadden, with the taunt
that Artie was not game to do it. He
has already found it necessary to make
“important amendments” to the tax he
added to the States’ collection, and others
will follow. One “important amend-
ment” provides for abatements where
taxes, Federal and State, exceed 18s. in
the £. In some cases, according to
Lazzarini, Chifley’s deputy, they reach
21s. in the £. In such cases Lazzarini’s
Government will waive its claim to 2s.
in the £, but it can’t guarantee that
the State vulture won’t keep its claws
fastened on the other shilling.
After a session marked chiefly by a
ferocious outbreak of privileged libels on
public servants and private citizens and
by the alleged abolition of wages tax
(“beneficiaries” are roaring that more is
being deducted from their pay-envelopes
than before) the Sydney “Parliament” has
adjourned for three months. It will be
summoned “earlier,” McKell said, if the
“grave international situation” becomes
“graver.” N.S.W. people want to see it
called together for one purpose and one
only—the ending of its sorry existence ;
and the sooner the better.
The Hughes-Evans (“Hands Off
Russia”) “Labor” party, which a year ago
was for recalling the A.1.F., has had a
Sydney Town Hall rally at which a Rev.
Churchward “urged that the utmost pos-
sible aid be given to the Soviet forces.”
The chairman, a Mr. Booth, translated
this command into more specific terms;
We believe that it is our duty to estab-
lish a second front to ease the burden on
Russia.
Well, who or what’s hindering “them”?
Appealing to the R.S.L. and others not
to “split Australia on the conscription
issue,” Curtin used the visiting British
Minister as an example. “I am very grate-
ful to Mr. Duff Cooper for having so
aptly stated what I believe to be the
position in Australia,” Mr. Duff Cooper
having stated:
Australia conveys an impression of
unity, an impression of courage and an
impression of endeavor before all to whom
it may do good.
Then Mr. Duff Cooper went to Maori-
land, and his first words on arrival were
“I am very glad to learn that conscrip-
tion is in force in New Zealand.”


WANDERINGS OF A STRICKEN SOUL.


CHRISTMAS GIFTS FROM BAKER’S
A Four-Pair Scissors Case
■
m
SSI
Case made as No. 602. Size about
H x 3in. when folded. Fitted with
4 best - quality Sheffield - made
Scissors—l 7in. Cutting-out, I
Sin. Household, I Embroidery,
and 1 Nail. 42/- Complete.
df
523—BREAD BOARD & KNIFE,
coloured Knife Handle and
Coloured Design on four corners.
Knife slips into slot at top of
Board. 12/6 complete. Postage
1/- extra.
gd
6006— THREE-BLADE STOCK,
with Castrating, Sheep and Long
Skinning Blade, 4in. Smooth
Horn Handle. 12/9 each.
K ; \r<:w WJN ° bakes
«■
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY., 3 HUNTER ST.,
LTD., SYDNEY.
77 BAKER’S STANDARD
RAZOR. Best Quality Full Hol-
low-ground Blade, Black Handle,
fin. blade, 14/6 each,
blade, 15/6 each.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Chris Watson’s death leaves W. M.
Hughes the sole survivor of the first
Labor Ministry. The others were Daw-
son (died 1910), Batchelor (1911), Mc-
Gregor (1914), Higgins (1928), Fisher
(1928) and Mahon (1931). Of the second
Labor Ministry only Billy and Pearce
are left; of the third, Billy, Pearce and
O’Malley; of the fourth (all were
Fisher’s), Billy, Pearce and Gardiner.
“El V.” farewells an old-time P.M. :
It was hard to recognise in the sober, keen-
minded, clean-shaven businessman of later
years, who hated speech-making but was a fine
committee chairman, the inspiring, lithe, black-
bearded figure of the John Christian Watson
who was Labor's leader in the early days of
Federation. In his prime he was a lucid and
incisive speaker, a match for any of them in
debate at a time when the House held Deakin,
Reid, Barton, Lyne, Isaacs, Hughes and more
of the same calibre, but it was as a leader
that he excelled. In fact, in the years when
he led the Opposition, after his brief term as
first Labor P.M., the most frequent taunt hurled
at the Treasury Benches was that, through his
masterful and insinuating tact, Watson was
the real Prime Minister. 111-health struck him
heavily, as it did Deakin, always a friend—this
and the feeling that there were difficult times
ahead of Labor which would call for leader-
ship by a fit man led to his retirement from
politics in 1910. Only Hughes and Cook,
from among those who went with him into the
first Federal Parliament in 19Q1, were at his
State funeral in Sydney.
Nowadays when a change of Govern-
ment is imminent, the press expects to
be notified of it at a conference. The
procedure was much simpler in 1904.
Then Chris Watson confided the news
that he had been “sent for” to a small
group of Labor members and a single
pressman and exacted a pledge of secrecy
"for the present.” The pressman was
Frank Fox, who, born in Adelaide in
1874, was the editor of the long-dead
“Australian Workman” at 18. In 1904
he was on The Bulletin editorial staff;
and three years later he became first editor
of the “Lone Hand.” Going to London,
he got on the “Morning Post” and did
the 1913 Balkan war for it. An artillery-
man in the Great War, he was twice
wounded on the Somme. He was
knighted in 1926, and, still going strong,
has a pile of books to his credit.
Australia’s new Director-General of
Posts and Telegraphs in succession to
Daniel McVey is Lawrence Bede Fan-
ning. He started in the service in 1905
as a telephone attendant in Sydney and
has been concerned with the telephone
system ever since. He was born in the
Northern Rivers district of N.S.W. 56
L.B.FANNING.
years ago, and was educated at Lismore.
Apart from telephones his favorite relax-
ation is golf ; his handicap is 16. He is
vice-president of the Kew Club, Mel-
bourne.
Brigadier Jack Edwin Stawell Stevens,
awarded the D.S.O. for deeds in Syria,
was born at Daylesford (Vic.) 45 years
ago, and went overseas from Army H.Q.
in Melbourne. The official citation says
that he handled his brigade with great
skill, courage, cheerfulness and deter-
mination, and on June 12, when fighting
at a river crossing, went forward regard-
less of his own safety, although severely
wounded.
Air Commodore J. E. Hewitt, Deputy
Chief of the Air Staff, went from Scotch
College, Melbourne, to the R.A.N. Col-
lege at Jervis Bay and thence into the
Navy. The aerial side interested him
more than the nautical, and in 1928 he
was at the R.A.F. Staff College at And-
over, England. After doing liaison work
at Australia House he returned to Aus-
tralia and was given command of No. 104
Bomber Squadron. Then he was named
Senior Administrative Staff Officer,
Southern Area H.Q., serving till 1940,
AIR COMMODORE J.E.HEWITT.
when he became Director of Personal
Services. A youthful-looking 40, he has
been married 16 years and has three
daughters. He is a son of the manse.
Colonel Harold Clive Disher, who told
a Melbourne audience that if he were a
multi-millionaire he would hire some
enemy to occupy Australia for six
months to show the home population
what war was like, was one of the first
medical men to go abroad in this war and
the first to be awarded a C.B.E. In 1917
he served with the sth Field Ambulance
and in 1918 was R.M.O. of the 4th Field
Artillery Brigade. In peace-time he mixes
pastoral pursuits and rowing with medi-
cine. He was senior anaesthetist at Royal
Melbourne in 1939. He rowed in the
inter-State regatta in 1914 and was stroke
of the A.I.F. crew which won the King’s
Cup at Henley, England, in 1919.
For the first time in Melbourne's
musical history one of the soloists at the
magnificent performance of Beethoven’s
Choral Symphony appeared in military
uniform. He was baritone Raymond
Beatty, long known to Australian audi-
ences. A student of Sydney Con., he
attracted the attention of Clara Butt, who
gave him a scholarship, and of Alfred
Wunderlich, who gave him another. With
their aid he made a three years’ tour of
the Commonwealth and England, appear-
ing overseas with Sir Dan Godfrey and
the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestra,
among others. Last year he sang in
“Faust” under Baronet Beecham’s baton
in Auckland, M.L. Beatty has been one of
the most travelled vocalists in the A.8.C.,
singing on successive nights in Sydney,
Brisbane and Melbourne.
One of Melbourne’s numerous band of
footballers who have enlisted, Morrie
Shapir, baled out from a crippled
bomber in England the other day and
appropriately enough made a parachute
landing in a football field. He was a
former North Melbourne League man. A
broken leg has put him out of circulation
for a while.
In Australia, questing for funds to
relieve a war-time situation in his dusky
diocese, Dr. George Alexander Chambers,
Bishop of Central Tanganyika. He is a
Sydneysider who began his ecclesiastical
career as a curate at Mosman, later
became rector at Holy Trinity, Dulwich
Hill, and then Warden of Trinity
Grammar School, Sydney. He was chap-
lain to the Archbishop of Sydney when
consecrated to his present office. His
vast cure contains upwards of 3,500,000
dark-skinned souls, and he has 40 assis-
tants to help him look after 100,000
native Christians. Internment of all the
German missionaries in the country has
added to his labors.
Down in Melbourne from the Inter-
national Settlement of Shanghai, W.
Charters, deputy fire chief of one of the
most picturesque and . hard-worked fire
brigades in the world. Run on the volun-
tary principle at one time by stockbrokers
and bank clerks, it is now a highly effi-
cient, modern fire-fighting organisation
which has had to deal with fires caused
by bombs and street fighting in the midst
of a population of 4,000,000 packed like
sardines, with national boundaries of all
sorts running through it in every direc-
tion. Charters was born in Scotland,
studied engineering, served with the
B.E.F. in the 1914-18 war and went to
Shanghai as a junior fireman in 1920.
He wants to join the Melbourne fire
force.
Lieut. A. G. Hultquist (he got safely
through the Grecian and Cretan cam-
paigns only to succumb to influenza)
is the second Maoriland M.P. to lose his
life on active service—Capt. Lyon was
the other. Both were members of the
Labor Party. Hultquist was a native of
Bunbury, W.A., son of a Salvation Army
officer who with his wife still lives in
Auckland, and was an electrical engineer.
He won the Athenaeum medal for oratory
in 1933.
L. C. Hunkin, Deputy-Director of
Man-power Priorities in S.A., is better
known there as Public Service Commis-
sioner. Born in the Speck 57 years ago,
Hunkin, in 1905, moved over to Adelaide,
where he has been, in turn, trade-union
secretary, M.H.A. for East Torrens, and
secretary of the Public Service Associa-
tion. While in Parliament, Hunkin was
the driving force behind the passing of
the Superannuation Act, In 1930 he
succeeded Price Weir as Commissioner.
A blunt but likeable little man, “Les”
can tell many a good story about public
servants, past and present.
A lot of things have happened to Rear-
Admiral M. W. S. Boucher, who was
Australia’s Second Naval Member in
Melbourne from 1939 to 1940. He was
an R.A.F. pilot in 1925, then commanded
the aircraft-carrier Courageous. Then he
became R.N. Director of Air Material.
After his Australian service he was put
on the retired list, but has bobbed up
again as a pilot in the Air Transport
Auxiliary which ferries ’planes from U.S.
to Britain. He has crossed the Atlantic
with almost every recent type of aircraft.
8.8. C. has its Maoriland flavoring.
Deputy-editor of the “Listener” is John
Pringle, who also undertakes Home De-
partment talks. Aubrey Williams is
supervisor of broadcasts in French and
German. Both are old boys of Otago
Boys’ High School, Dunedin ; Williams,
son of a Methodist parson, very widely
travelled, had some newspaper experience
in M.L. 20 years ago.
H. C. Meyer, who succeeds R. G.
Peake as general manager of the S.A
H.C.MEYER.
Harbors Board, is a graduate of Adelaide
University and has been a public servant
for 30 years. He left a Harbors Board job
to fight on Gallipoli and in France and
Egypt, earning a M.M. at Bullecourt, and
later did a spot of surveying in New
Guinea. He has been the board’s chief
engineer for the last six years.
Into the Silence:
At Kyneton, Victoria, Dr. H. G. Loughran,
who was everything in Kyneton. Before graduat-
ing at Melbourne University he went off to
the Boer War, returned to complete his medical
equipment, then practised in W.A., Queensland
and Victoria until the 1914-18 war, when he
served as a regimental M.O. He was at The
Landing and in France, and returned to
practise at Kyneton. He was a lightweight
champion boxer in his youth and a leading
golfer, tennis player and rifleshot. His father
was a onetime chief of the “Hansard" staff.
One of his sons is a major in the A.I.F.
In Melbourne, after a sudden illness, William
Hyland, managing director of the Flinders-lane
firm of David Hyland and Sons. He was as
well known in Sydney as in Melbourne.
At Dunedin, M.L., aged 82, Captain Alex-
ander Innes Murray, who had 50 years at
sea and was chief officer of the Dunedin when
she carried the first shipment of frozen meat
from M.L. to England.
In Melbourne, Enid Derham, poet. She
was educated at the P.L.C. and Melbourne
University, where she won the Shakspeare Prize
and graduated M.A. with first-class honors.
Then she went to Oxford, returning to her
Alma Mater to be senior lecturer for many
years in English. She was locum tenens for
Walter Murdoch, professor of English at Perth
University, for a time. Her publications, mostly
in verse, included The Mountain Road and
Empire, a morality play for children. Major-
General F. P. Derham and Colonel A. P.
Derham are brothers.
In Adelaide, at 67, G. J. Cowie, Dalgety’s
S.A. manager from 1923-40. Melbourne-born,
he was educated in England, joining the co.’s
London staff in 1898. Back in Australia in
1908, he served the co. in various capacities
in Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne before
making Adelaide his home.
In Adelaide, at 92, Alfred Vaughan, S.A.
Government photo-lithographer for more than
30 years. He was a lad of five when he arrived
in S.A. with his father Richard, who as a
builder left his mark on Adelaide. A.V. was
the father of Crawford, a former S.A. Premier;
Howard, onetime S.A. Attorney-General; and
R.W., of Brisbane.
At Toowoomba (Q.), aged 84, James Track-
son, who helped to build the first telephone ex-
changes at Melbourne, Ballarat and Brisbane,
had a hand in installing Melbourne’s cable-trams
and put in the first electrical installation at Par-
liament House, Brisbane. In 1902 he drove
Queensland’s first motor-car, a snorting steam
contraption, following it up a few years later
with Brisbane’s first internal-combustion vehicle.
A surviving brother is managing director of the
Brisbane engineering firm which James and a
third brother founded in 1883.


AND HELP PRESERVE THIS INDUSTRY OF YOURS!
«■
r
if
■■■l
: -..- 1;;
11
' ~ , ';■ ■ i■■ ■■ >.
V-M0
m
, v
: ■ «
w&
m
m
s a
PP
jß|
... V,* - »* t
■' ‘ ’ -: ■' ; : . . .: ••• J&i.
:-h-
-k ran
M
m
mS
V •> M Jl «&
;: P*
*
S
: v
■
-v,-■
■
*(. .
I
H
\
Sit
■
i
m
m
H
%*** pi&ejiZi .
fg
The famous wines which we produce in this country make
perfect Xmas gifts, whether you give a case, half a dozen or
a single bottle. There is nothing like wine to promote good
fellowship and good health.
W/\/£S at fite y*tai .
Z/b? —-
Ct
V'-
\ =
£
///
rr=
Sherry parties are the most fashionable way to entertain today.
They have been highly praised by The Lancet, famous Journal
of the British Medical Association. Both port and sherry are
correct and popular for afternoon or evening entertaining or
at any time when friends drop in.
5W (VW£S
B
r
- Ln7
■=?
The wines to serve with meals are light wines. Among the light
red wines claret and burgundy are the best known. Among
the best known light white wines are hock and chablis (dry),
and sauterne (sweet). If the main dish is dark meat, most
people find that a red wine blends best. If the meal is built
around a dish of fish or poultry, you will probably prefer a
white wine with it. But let your own palate decide ... the
best wine for you is the wine you like best.
DID YOU KNOW
THIS ABOUT YOUR
OWN WINES?
RECOMMENDED BY
KING'S PHYSICIAN
“Wine in moderation,” wrote Lord Dawson ot
Penn, for so long physician to the King, “aids
digestion and revives a man’s flagging energies
after a day’s toil.” Scores of famous doctors
throughout the Empire, including Sir Arbuth-
not Lane, M.D., Sir Richard Crichton-Browne,
M.D., Dr. R. Hutchinson, etc., have advised the
regular use of wine. The immortal Pasteur
called wine “the most hygienic of beverages.”
APPLAUDED BY OVERSEAS
CONNOISSEURS
Our wines have won the approval of connois-
seurs everywhere. In competition with the
world’s best, they have won award after award
at international exhibitions.
YOU HELP THE WAR EFFORT BY
SERVING WINES
Ships which used to carry our wines overseas
are now carrying munitions and supplies to
our soldiers. Meanwhile the wines we cannot
export must be sold. We must use these wines
ourselves just as we must consume the lamb
and bacon and cheese and apples and other
foods we cannot export. For these industries
must not be weakened; because if our industries
are weakened, the whole country would suffer.
To-day we need every ounce of strength in our
all-in fight against Hitler.
dfg
df


ABORIGINALITIES
M “M. U. Ray”: “Cod,” said old Jim,
“will bke at anythin’ when they’re bitin’.”
That, said the know-all, “is much too
sweeping. Anything is a big word. Frin-
stance, it could mean a spud or —or an
old sock.” Jimmy screwed his old eyes
up. “Them, too,” he said, briefly. So
they bet drinks on it, went down to the
river, stuck one of Jimmy’s socks on a
hook and heaved it in. Then they put
the line on a springer and went back for
some more drinks. After a bit they went
back to the river and Jimmy hauled in
a five-pounder with the sock half-down
its gullet. The know-all bucked a bit,
but he shouted all round, being too much
of a know-all to know that we’d worked
the joke for the fourteenth time, and that
the five-pounder was back in its tank
waiting for the next know-all.
“Doubting T.”; If “Zake” has recov-
ered from his hilarity (B. 22/10/’4l), I’ll
give him a few hints on whiting fishing,
as practised in Westralia. The cruiser
drifts over water that reflects the nature
of the sea-bed 50ft. or so below. Dark
water means reef and weed—heavy lines
here for snapper, rock-cod, jewfish. A
milky shade means a sandy bottom —and
over go the whiting lines, three hooks on
each. I’ve seen a woman lift two 15in.
whiting and a 22in. flathead in the one
drop over —and that flathead fed five
people. We don’t use worms, as “Zake”
suggests. And if ever he wants a spot of
real fishing I advise him to go up King
Sound way, where in the slack of the 30ft.
tide one starts with a 51b. sash weight as
a sinker, tying other sash-weights on as
the tide gets into its run. That’s where
they catch real fish.
* * * *
“K.P.”; Dr. W. J. Penfold, farewelled
in a recent Bulletin, was responsible
for an outstanding advance in the manu-
facture of anti-diphtheritic serum and
other biological products obtained by
building up antibodies in the serum of
horses. Regular bleeding to the required
extent weakened the animals seriously
and restricted their period of usefulness
till Dr. Penfold kept the corpuscles
alive after separation, mixed them with
saline solution and put them back into
the bloodstream. The result was that,
instead of requiring long recuperative
periods between inoculation-series, the
animals could go on almost at once. No
horse-lover could wish to see a healthier
and more cheerful lot of prads than those
of the Commonwealth Serum Labora-
tories stables at Royal Park, Melbourne
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: I can take “Old-timer”
(B. 22/10/’4l) a lot further back than 20
years in my recollections of the Indian
hawker. Let’s make it 50. Then Abdul-
lah didn’t travel in a two-horse van ; he
went afoot, with his stock-in-trade ’ en-
veloped in an immense calico sheet,
knotted at the top by the four corners
and carried with an admirable balance
upon his head. Thus loaded, he would
tramp for hundreds of miles ; yes, hun-
dreds. And the wonders that his bundle
contained! Spread out on the opened
sheet it was a veritable haberdashery,
drapery and mercery combined, with a
trifle of gimcrack jewellery. At an
even earlier date the Chinese hawker
was Australia’s pedlar. His equipment
was the traditional bamboo and the two
buckets. With this across his shoulders
he traversed town and country, usually
at a jog-trot. But both types were con-
sidered fair game by the “gentlemen of
the road”—many the alien hawker that
simply vanished ; farm women might re-
mark that he never seemed to call any
more, and that would be his only epitaph.
* * * *
“Jesmond”; The southern shores of
Australia are due for an invasion in
numbers that will make Hitler’s millions
look like scouting patrols. For a month
pioneer battalions have been coming
ashore every night to prepare for the
main armies which will arrive during the
last week in November. In Victoria,
which gave up the fight years ago, the
invasion will not be contested, but in the
Bass Strait islands armies of men,
women and children will do their best
to decimate the raiders, but without much
success, for there seems to be no diminu-
tion in their numbers, though over
2.000. are destroyed every year since
Flinders estimated one army to be
132.000. strong. The invaders are
short-tailed shearwaters, or mutton-birds,
and while they destroy nothing and take
nothing away they do leave eggs for
cooking, carcasses for eating and an oil
which is proving increasingly valuable to
sufferers from wasting diseases.
» * * *
“L.L.”: Hema had borrowed £5 from
an acquaintance. Some months later this
man saw the Maori punting heavily at
the races and asked him for it. “Oh,” re-
plied Hema, “I can’t pay t’at back.”
“Why not?” “Well, you see, you trust
me for t’at fiver.” “Yes, too right, I
trusted you.” “Well,” concluded Hema,
“if I pay you back I preak te trust.”
Jft * *
“Drover”: After six months on the
road with a mob of cattle, Joe the cook
had a thirst that even his cheque for
three figures would be strained to satisfy.
Hitting the town, Joe made straight for a
tailor’s shop, knowing that if he didn’t
get a suit before he’d had his first drink
he’d never get one afterwards. “What
kind of pockets would you like?” asked
the tailor as he put down Joe’s measure-
ments, “Side and hip and” .“Aw,
never mind about pockets at all,”
answered the thirsty Toe impatiently ; “I’ll
hold me money in me hands so that I
can see meself spendin’ it.” When after
three weeks “on it” Joe left for the near-
est waterhole, his unworn eight-guinea
suit remained with Bung as security for a
bottle of rum.
* * * *
“A. Perist”: I like “Akrabo’s” notion
(B. 29/10/’4l) that not only does a bee
survive the loss of its sting but it also
grows another one. A bee, like every
other true insect that has passed through
the grub and chrysalis to the adult state,
is incapable of replacing any lost limb or
organ. It is, in fact, incapable of
growth. Like the fly, it emerges from the
chrysalis just the size it will be for the
rest of its life. And that size depends
entirely upon the amount of sustenance
that the grub has been able to absorb.
♦ * * *
“Tolliver”: The bush isn’t the only
place where even tough blokes get the
“creeps*” when alone in the dark (B.
22/10/’4l), My offering in that line is
the dark loneliness of the sea, or even
the beach. Few men can stand to go out
alone in a small boat on the lone, dark
waters or walk the night beach alone,
with the ghostly white sand dunes on one
hand and the black clutching waves on
the other. But a light makes all the
difference. Such fears are deep-rooted
in the human flesh ; they date back to the
times when the night wanderer was likely
to be seized by some huge beast of prey
leaping from the jungle, or some fear-
some serpent reaching up from the
waters. Probably they acted as a means
of survival, since he who shook with
terror and ran probably lived and trans-
mitted his timorousness to his offspring,
“ Don't call ME sweetie!”
while he who was bold was eaten and
left no offspring. Many native races,
even the bold Zulus, refuse to stir out
after midnight, so fearful are they of
unseen terrors. Even our abos., who
were about the toughest of all primitive
men regarding the dark, didn t care too
much about bush-walking during the
small nours.
. * ,*. .
w n? P S . Pwneermg a selection in
W. Qland I had only a horse paddock
J* t 0 , lts en f I sidelined and
hoppled one horse m the mob. Each
morning I walked that two miles with a
racing pad on my arm caught the
h PPl®d horse, and chased the rest of the
mob home to the yard. I had acquired
a half-grown cat and a pup for com-
pany. These used to follow me every
morning, and puss was so wet and miser-
able from the trudge in the long dewy
grass that I used to sit him in front of
me and give him a ride home. At first he
was dead scared, but later nothing would
make him miss that wild career home
after the horses, and he became a regular
Glondin at balancing himself on the front
of my prad with the wind whistling
through his whiskers.
« « * *
“D.R.H.”: “Gumsucker” (B. 5/11/’4l)
as a textbook theorist might explain why
a revolver in the hands of a newchum will
necessarily land a bullet many feet over
the mark. A carelessly held and heavily
loaded shotgun also throws high. More-
over, the kero.-tin I referred to was
placed on the high bank of a dam, and
Pioom was below it: a combination of
factors tending, metaphorically, to throw;
a charge into the vicinity of St. Pete.
The muzzle-loader used was the pet toy of
my last knickerbockered years. The skin
of my arms was habitually ingrained with
burnt-in black powder from the worn
nipples. The gun was tied together with
many pieces of wire, and its bore was
corroded to about two-thirds of its origi-
nal size. It could kick the heart out of
a jack donkey. And if “G.” is game to
use it loaded with lead balls he’s a better
man than Charlie or I. True, I used to
fire thatch-pegs out of the old gun, but
then it was always lashed to an arm of
the horse chaff cutter for the occasion and
fired by means of a long bit of string.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I wouldn’t be afraid of
“Taylor Ville’s” red-headed champion (B.
19 /11 / ’4l). I’m as good an amateur bird-
imitator as there is, and if Ginger got
rough with me I’d simply cry like a
curlew and reduce him to a heap of
palpitating terror.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: I dunno what “Taylor
Ville” and “The 0.D.” are getting into
holts about (B. 19/11/’4l), but the first
bloke reckons he has a cobber with a
face that would scare the big fellow, it's
so tough. Mat seldom worried about
faces —if he didn’t like ’em he usually
altered ’em —and the only time I ever
saw one stop him was when we were
snatchin’ grapes one year in Mildura
(Vic.). We’re stopping at a boarding-
house in Lime-avenue and riding bikes
about seven mile out and back to work.
There was a coot in the room next to
us must have been on night-shift or
something; anyway, we never saw him,
but we used to hear him about 4 a.m.
every day, when he’d start practisin’ on
one of them mandolin things. It sounded
like somebody droppin’ peas in a tin
dish— hard peas—and the storm broke
one Sunday mornin’. Mat had been
growlin’ for a week about the noise, and
himself go properly, roaring what
he . d do t 0 the flamer i£ he didn , t st his
adjectival plunking and threaten i n g , 0
come straight thr J ugh , he wall at | im
There was a short silence, then a knock
on our door, which opened to admit a
face It had pink cheeks, china-blue eyes,
a dink little m 0 on it ’ s r u nd
was built on a body about high
and yj n _ w j de j t surv eyed us indignantly
£or a moment then s ' oke .. w |, at do
you mean> .. it dema nded, “yelling and
shouting like that? I shall play my music
when and where j bally well like so
there r j t withdrew. Mat watched it
g 0? fascinated ; then, “Blime,” he said
wdb reverence, and tiptoed back into
bed
’* * #
..n,,,. . r, t> ;ii t,, A ,
sbn f lulCe 1 , 80x t . : Blll „ B ?” hard ’ K
?, hot > boasting in the Ittfle pub that
co “ ld >‘. ft 3n y ma . n present off the bar
CK - Ir ls * lair - A wizened individual
wlth a thlck red thatch stepped up, bets
changed hands and Bill proceeded to
business. Standing on a chair he gave
a mighty heave, which raised, not the
wizened one, but his hair, scalp and all.
With a chuckle he of the red wig re-
trieved his crowning glory from the floor,
but Bill was already disappearing over
the horizon for home. He arrived in a
state of collapse, moaning “I’ve scalped
a man.” The boys still call him Sitting
Bull.
“DINGO JOE'S” LUCK.
“Dingo Joe” would wax loquacious when for
beer he used to spar,
And he told this tale one evening to the crowd
in Cronin’s bar;
“I was ’way up in the desert, chasin’ Lasseter’s
lost reef,
An’ had lived for months on damper an’ a
bit of _ bully-beef;
I was trampin’ in to Darwin w’en the thort
occurred to me
That I’d give a bit to sample a ref reshin’ cup
of tea;
Now, don’t larf—though wishful thinkin’ some-
times gets you blokes down here,
It is useless in the desert, w’en y’re miles an’
miles from beer.
“So I thort I’d boil the billy, but it weren’t
any good,
You could search the bloomin’ landscape an’
not find a stick of wood;
Even camel dung—that stand-by of the traveller
up there —
Was as scarce as angels’ visits —all a bloke could
do was swear.
Some well-chosen words I uttered, w’en a brain-
wave seemed to come,
An’ I grabs me ole black billy, an’ I searches
in me ‘drum’
For me bit of tea an’ sugar; for some grass
went stretchin’ back
On a narrer strip wot looked like a deserted
camel track.
“So I fishes out me matches an’ I sets that
grass ablaze,
W’ile a north wind pushed it forward—did it
go? Oh, spare me days!
With me billy held above it o’er the desert sand
I sped,
Both me eyes were full of cinders, an’ me face
was puffed an’ red;
Was I out of breath? you ask me—well, it
wasn’t that, maybe.
But you’d think, t’ hear me gaspin’, that the
? breath was out of me;
An’ I thort that I was euchred w’en I reached
the Fourteen Mile,
An’ I raved an’ cursed an’ shouted, ‘Bile —vou
rotten blankard ... bile! ’
“But it couldn’t last for ever—it had been a
fair ole run,
She at last began to bubble, an’ I knew that
I had won;
Fifteen miles or more I’d covered —I deserved
a spot of luck,
For a bloke wot ran as I did can’t be classed
as short of pluck;
But a sudden notion hit me, an’ I got a nawful
shock,
An’ I acted for some seconds like a bloke wot’s
done ’is block;
Then I kicked that billy from me, an’ I groaned
in anguish dire . . .
I had left me tea an’ sugar where I’d lit that
flamin’ fire t”
VICTORIA.
THOMAS V. TLERNEY.


“Poor devil — he's been leading a double life, and now he's got to
track himself.”
about, is it?” “My oath, it is!” replied
Dad. “Since y’ got engaged Hetty’s
never got that ring y’ gave her orf her
damn’ finger, an’ she spends so much time
gawpin’ at it she’s a good three cows an
hour slower in her milkin’. If y’ win
that flamin’ bracelet a man might as well
go and buy a milkin’ machine an’ be
done with it!”
* * * *
“Gyx”: “Valetta’s” par. (B. 5/11/’4l)
on outback distances is no exaggeration.
I had occasion to send an affidavit for
completion to an octogenarian way out
beyond White Cliffs (far-west N.S.W.).
In due course it was returned, sworn by
“J. Smith, per E. Jones.” Naturally, I
wrote and pointed out the irregularity.
The reply to this was that “the old cove
couldn’t travel” and the writer had to
walk 80 miles to the nearest J.P. to swear
the affidavit on his cobber’s behalf. An-
other old fellow, a stripling of 75 out
Menindee way, kept me waiting many
weeks for a reply to an urgent letter. In
due course he wrote and apologised for
the delay, which he said was caused
“owing to taking a walk up the Darling
to Bourke,”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The big yellow dog had
been king of the town strays long enough
to make him arrogant, so when the blue
dog with the red spots and the torn ear
came loping down the Balranald-road
alone the king arose and fronted him.
Behind the king gathered his hangers-
on, six or seven canine nondescripts. The
blue dog ignored them, padded wearily
to the pub horse-trough and refreshed
himself thirstily. The reception com-
mittee waited politely until he was
finished, then the king led them forward.
The blue dog had flopped in the shade,
head on forepaws, to rest, and beyond
a certain wariness took little notice of
the stiff legs, cocked tails and strutting
performance of the locals. Then the
king said, “Who the hell are you, an’
what do y’ think y’re doin’?” or words
to that effect, and his pack yelped in
support. The blue dog arose, shook him-
self, had another lap or two at the water
and headed south again. The king
opposed this. The blue dog tried to go
round, and, finding himself blocked,
looked wearily up and down the street.
He surveyed the hectoring blockader and
his tribe, smiled briefly and went into
action. There was a wild flurry of dust
and fur, yelps and khyikes, and the blue
dog emerged and trotted steadily south-
wards, not deigning to look back. The
king, sadly damaged, headed for the
trough, only to be pounced on by his
pack, all eager to repay old scores. More
dust, fur and noise arose, then the pack
drew off and went about the town. The
yellow dog drank, brooded awhile, sud-
denly got up and headed south. An hour
later 1 overtook them, the blue dog trot-
ting steadily on and just behind him,
admiring and patient, the deposed king,
his follower.
* * * •
“Mac J.”: Mac revved up the engine
and the huge truck, loaded with cow feed,
moved off. A ghastly scream rent the
air, and Mac braked hard, sprang out,
and with horror-stricken face rushed
round, wondering whom he’d have to
scrape off the wheel. A very irate lady
was unfastening her small Pom from the
back of the truck, where she had fastened
ir for safety, “Hell!” Mac muttered,
mopping his brow, “I thought I felt some-
thing tuggin’ it back!”
« * * •
“S.W.Q.”: The cook was at the pub,
80 miles away, on one of his periodical
booze-ups, so the boys out on the run
had old Charlie cooking for them. Not
being too squeamish, they put up with
“Me”: Work on the big railway cutting
was in full swing. “Wingy” O’Leary, the
ganger, was standing on the bank looking
down on his men when a hefty young chap
from the town near by asked for a job.
“Have you ever done any o’ this work?”
asked O’Leary. “Well,” said the lad, “I
can do as much as any of those coves
down there.” “Righto,” “Wingy” said,
“you can start at dinnertime.” The young
cove worked like a steam navvy, and at
knock-off time asked the ganger how
he thought he’d got on. “You’ll do me,”
said O’Leary. “I got a brother at home,”
said the new lad ; “he can do twice as
much as me.” “Well, bring him out in
the morning,” said O’Leary, “and I’ll
give him a start too.” At blow-up time
the next evening they both came up to
O’Leary to ask him if he was satisfied,
“Yes,” the ganger said, “you’re both
good men and do a lot of work.” “Our
father is home,” said one of the chaps,
“and can do as much as both of us.”
“Wingy” looked at them hard. “In that
case,” he said, “tell him to come out in
the morning, and you two mugs can stop
at home!”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Struck a sundowner roam-
ing the south coast district of N.S.W.
who carried an old stethoscope in his
swag. He used it when out after walla-
bies. Reckoned that by putting it to
the ground he could hear ’em thumping
the ground up to half a mile away, and
could get the direction, too.
* * ♦ ♦
“Aratta”: Sam Dobbie, who had
recently become engaged to Hetty Grey-
box, was confident of his horse’s chance
of winning the Ladies’ Bracelet at the
Grasstree Gully races, and so was
Hetty. Dad Greybox, however, showed
no enthusiasm; in fact, he expressed
himself in derisive tones about the
nag and its chances. As race day
approached Sam’s hopes soared. “Y
can put y’r shirt on him,” he told his
future father-in-law. “The trial he did
this mornin’ shows him a Phar Lap agen
anything he’s likely f meet.” At this
confident assertion. Dad seemed to get
grumpier; and, pressed for the reason
of it, he let himself go. “Well, if y’
wanter know, I’ll tell y’,” he said. “Y’re
goin’ t’ give Hetty that bracelet if y’
win it, 1 s’pose.” “Too right I am,” cried
gam. “That ain’t anything to get sore
the bread being mixed
with the grease in the
wash-up bowl, but
things came to a head
over Charlie’s teeth.
Some time before he
had lost his top set, and
a passing rider had
found them and stuck
them up in a fork of
a tree. Weeks later a
boundary rider had
brought them into one
of the huts. Charlie
left word for anyone
passing that way to
deliver them to the
camp. In a couple of
days a family of station
blacks appeared, the
lubra very self-con-
scious about her top
set of bleached-looking
teeth. Charlie wrath-
fully retrieved them
and put them straight
into their rightful place.
The boys didn’t feel
too good about that, but when later one
of them caught Charlie fishing them out
of the dough he was mixing they decided
to do their own cooking.
♦ * * *
“Taylor Ville”; Counted seven pairs
of Mexican spurs at the trucking yards
this week —big, heavy contraptions with
rowels like cartwheels without felloes.
It’s a long way back to the days when
the long-necked spur was in fashion.
Since then the bush has had several favor-
ites, chief of which was a heavy steel
spur with sides an inch to an inch and
a quarter wide. Now it looks as though
the imported fashion has come to stay.
And, after all, it’s a sensible one. The
man who does a lot of mixed riding gen-
erally likes heavy hooks which stay down
on the boot without bottom straps —if
you strap a spur down its rigidity makes
it too severe for use in hard riding. More-
over, the big rowels are blunt and kind,
although they might be nasty if used
to punish. Also, they fit loosely, a most
important consideration. The most
damnable spur for rough, hurry-up work
is the small-rowelled military type. It
has to be strapped down, and the small
rollers, fitted neatly, are easily jammed
by grass or hair. And when a small,
sharp-pointed rowel becomes thus fixed
it cuts like the devil if used in a hurry.
* * * *
“Bet”: The meenister of the little
N-Q. Scotchbyterian kirk had the dis-
turbing habit of rising on his toes during
his sermons and for emphasis bringing
his heels down with a force which made
the little wooden building ring. With
this in mind, the president of the
Women’s Guild suggested that a strip of
matting be bought and placed behind the
pulpit. Then up spoke a braw Scotch-
woman, horrified at such a betrayal of
her country’s traditions: “What do ye
want to be getting matting for-r? Buy
him a pair-r of r-rubber heels. They’re
cheaper-r.”
“Atrax”: Adam Lindsay Gordon imi-
tated Marcus Clarke in his description of
the bright scentless blossoms and songless
bright birds of their mutual land of exile.
It has been the fashion to decry them,
but I, a dinkum Aussie, consider that
they were in the main right so far
as our brightest birds and flowers are
concerned. Parrots have awful voices ; so
have regent-birds and other brilliantly-
garbed honeyeaters. Kingfishers, diamond-
birds, robin redbreasts, bee-eaters and
dollar-birds haven’t a musical note
among them. Crested bellbirds and
golden-breasted whistlers are about the
only gaily-dressed vocalists who can in
any way compare, and that poorly, with
the soberly-clad magpies, butcher-birds,
shrike thrushes, warblers and larks which
provide our real bush music. Most of
our indigenous scent-bearing flowers, too,
are insignificant in appearance. Home-
sick exiles as were Clarke and Gordon,
they had little inclination to seek the finer
details of this great lonely land, so dis-
tant and so different from all that they
regarded as true beauty.
* « * «
“Propalong”: The station has been
short of hands owing to wholesale enlist-
ments, and we’ve had some curious sub-
stitutes. The latest importation from
Adelaide brought with him what we
thought was a fishing-rod until one Sun-
day he unwrapped a longbow and a dozen
footed and tipped arrows. The mob left
the week’s washing to soak and gathered
round to see the fun. The bow was one
of the old type that handled a 34in.
arrow, and, luckily for him, Jacky could
shoot with the thing. But Long Bob kept
up a fire of sarcastic allusions to over-
grown schoolboys and blokes playing
Robin Hood till, finally, he was invited
to have a shot. The long ’un, having
been shown how to hold it, stepped man-
fully forward and drew mightily. We
roared as his face registered his astonish-
ment at the strength of the bow. He
had another try, drew the arrow to the
pile and let go. The shot landed half a
chain to the left of the target. Bob stood
looking at the abraded and oozing skin
on his left forearm where the string had
hit. Then he said “Gripes!” and went
into the hut.
* * * *
“Jeff”: “Hairy” Simpson had dropped
Matilda willingly in the township when
a bloke invited him into the pub. After
several shouts he realised a trap had been
set and he’d swallowed the bait with the
beer. For twenty years he’d dodged
work, and now, because of labor-short-
age, this road contractor had landed him.
He hadn’t the heart to refuse. His first
hour of yakka shifting heavy timber
nearly killed him. No sooner was this
task completed than the boss hurried him
on to shovelling sand. Exhausted after
this back-breaking job, Simmo sneaked
behind a tree for a spell, but the boss
spotted him. “Hey, you!” he bawled.
“C’mon, shift these bags of cement, y’
lazy blighter!” His very temporary em-
ployee glanced with contempt at the pile,
picked up Matilda and yelled back “I
said me name was Simpson —not
Samson! ”
“well, can you let me have some of that stuff for curing the
tobacco habit?"
REJECTED.
The wood-duck cry in the silence
Their sorrow for the lost,
But I —l live where the red logs build
A wall against the frost.
The Pleiades shine on the miles I’ve tramped,
They shine where the battles rage—
But that is out where the darkness is
And they said I’m over age.
The Pleiades shone when I was young
And lit the dreams I knew,
And young men go to the imminent fight
And living dreams are few.
They knew the beat of the wild swan wings
Who fly with war’s black gage—
But that is out where the darkness is
And they said I’m over age.
There are men of the west who creep tonight,
Like shades, on desert stones,
With a good red hate to heat their blood
And fire in their bones.
And the Pleiades know where I would be
On the war god’s deadly stage—
But that is out where the darkness is
And they said I’m over age.
For whom are the wood-duck crying
That sleep ’neath Aigean skies?
While I—l sleep where the red logs burn
And the hidden curlew cries.
And north of east are the Pleiades,
Low, low where the brave engage—
But that is out where the darkness is
And they said I’m over age.
N.S.W.
THE O.D.


A Man’s
First Thought
is far Bis Family
Through hard work, careful planning and
often by self-sacrifice, a man accumulates an
Estate to safeguard the future security of his
family or other dependents.
But so that his life’s work and good intentions
shall not be jeopardised, and, to avoid hard-
ship being inflicted on his family, he cannot
do better than follow the lead of many
thoughtful men and women in taking three
important steps:—
1. Consult his Solicitor and have his Will drawn in precise
legal language to save misinterpretation and costly litigation.
2. Appoint an Executor and Trustee who is competent and
trustworthy in place of one who may not live to complete
his trusts.
3. Have his Will revised regularly to meet changing conditions.
The appointment of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as Executor or Co-Executor and Trustee
ensures that the estate shall be managed with the experience,
intelligence and fidelity which have characterised the Company’s
service for more than 63 years. Security is ample. Fees are
fixed and moderate. Consult your Solicitor or write or call for
full particulars.
o!S
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
- -
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 BLIGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capita! (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £958,760.
c . , BOARD OP DIRECTORS;
cr (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; John Fordyce;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.; G. S'. Cohnan, C.B.E.;
Sir Alan Newton.
„ , NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) ; W. D. Stewart: R T. Hilder
,, N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
dfg
df
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383.
86371.
The WILDAL COUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord. Written
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Off. Reserves.
£ £, £ £
1931.. 158,239 Nil Nil 142,768 336,506
Charged to development, £4l .. 336,465
1932.. 234,903 8- Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 17£ 17$ 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
1940.. 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
1941.. 451,640 14 14 364,000 86,318 749,610
Australia has much for which to be
thankful to this co., whose able and
enterprising management has built up an
industry which in the days before the
war of 1914-18 was largely in the hands
of Germany and German-controlled
plants in Belgium. Today this industry
and others the co. has built and helped
are the foundations on which rests Aus-
tralia’s production of munitions and
other essential war goods.
There is over £714,000 investel in
shares in other cos., several entirely new
industries here. Among these are Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corp. and Australian
Aluminium Co., whose works near Syd-
ney fabricate rolled and sheet strip and
extruded rods and sections in aluminium
and its strong alloys, using imported
ingots. These fabricated products are
used wholly for defence purposes, in-
cluding aircraft production. After the
war, this plant will revert to manufac-
ture of ordinary aluminium and the
allied products for which it was origi-
nally intended. E.Z. is also substantially
interested in Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills, now well on its feet after only
three years’ commercial production,
thanks partly to the protection war has
given. Other holdings include Australian
Fertilizers, Commonwealth Steel, Imperial
Smelting Corp., 1.C.1.A.N.Z., Imperial
Magnesium Corp. and Metal Manufac-
tures.
In the national interest, production
statistics aren’t broadcast, nor are details
of the contract with the British Ministry
of Supply, which is on an f.o.b. Risdon
basis, and extends until August, 1942.
This contract means the co. gets spot
cash for its zinc, while Britain carries
shipping and other risks and insurance
costs. Zinc is also being supplied to the
Federal Government and others in Aus-
tralia at a price far below that at which
the stuff can be had in other countries.
The steadily-increasing munitions’ de-
mand for zinc, both in the U.K. and
Australia, has kept the big Risdon plant
operating at high pressure. Also, the
Government took over distribution of
spelter (the name under which zinc goes
to market), thus relieving the management
of the risk of offending commercial cus-
tomers.
There was a slight upward adjustment
of metal prices last term, and zinc sales
were assisted by the usual by-products,
the superphosphate plant, and the sale of
lead concentrates from the co.’s West
Coast (Tas.) mines, where production and
costs were assisted by further mechanisa-
tion, underground and on the surface.
Here ore reserves remain around
1,500,000 tons of average grade, extrac-
tion being replaced by the proving of
new ore.
After allowing £125,000 (up £25,000)
for amortisation, etc., balance on work-
ing account was £65,748 stronger at
£690,958. Dividends turned in £24,045
(up £8849) and interest and rents £27,178
(down £1047), making total income
£73,550 better at £742,181. Exes.
(£379,397) were £159,548 heavier, owing
to taxation (£320,000, up £156,604), which
was about £93,000 short of requirements
under the October Budget. The profit
claimed (£85,998 lighter at £362,784) is
reconciled with the figure in the table in
this way:
Profit and loss balance .. ~ .. £362,784
Net addition to depreciation reserve, etc. 86,318
Net unexplained additions other reserves 2,538
Profit as per table £461,640
After deducting the year’s net addition
to the depreciation reserve (now
£2,727,288), which is included and then
shown as written off in the introductory
table, the balance (£365,322, down
£85,271) was equal to 14 p.c. on capital
as against 17.3, 15.6, 17.7, 20.6, 12.4,
9.8 and 8.9 p.c. back to 1934.
The div. was kept at 14 pc., but a
reduction in the amount distributed must
be expected, the chairman says, owing to
mounting costs and taxation.
Balance-sheet figures indicate some-
thing of recent expansion:
„ , , „ 1937. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Debentures . £401,600 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Sundry creditors 309,718 199,416 221,312 255 137
Deposits and
interest .. 59,585 203,432 211,035 225,696
Overdraft .. 8,296 62,393 28,360 47,920
Tax provision 119,183 107,829 161,103 251^677
Mt. Eead-
Rosebery
mines 457,524 457,524 457,524 457,525
r ropert les,
plant, etc. 3,835,137 3,959,003 4,038,722 4,234,410
Book debts . . 287,916 194,916 218,994 262,135
Shares other
• • 353,781 500,468 579,461 714,397
Stocks . . 439,148 613,744 631,996 734,191
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 1,286,105 1,271,578 1,292,372 1,062,671
To make net additions totalling £195,688
to plant, etc., strengthen the holdings in
other cos. by £134,936 and carry an extra
£102,195 of stocks and £43,141 of book
debts, the board went outside for an extra
£68,046, and drew upon cash, etc., for
£229,701. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£1,844,641) was only £17,475 less
than at the previous balance.
To provide for further extension,
400,000 new £1 ords. were offered to both
prefs. and ords. at June 20 last, 16 for
104 at par. When all the money on that
lot comes in, paid capital will lift to
£3,000,000 in equal amounts of ords. and
fully participating 8 p.c. cumulative prefs.
Anticipating a strong post-war reconstruc-
tion demand, the market pays 48s. 9d. for
the ords. and 51s. for the prefs., obtaining
yields of 5.7 p.c. and 5.5 p.c. respectively
so long as the 14 p.c, continues.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends— N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary, serves. Reserves, t
£ £ £ £ £
1931.. 35.607* 36,000 Nil 472
1932.. 38,668 «6,000 Nil 2,668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 Nil 5,496 8,636
8J p.c.
1934.. 50,472 36,000 6,710 7,762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6,710 4,905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6,710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6,710 5,948 34,650
1938.. 60,304 36,000 6,710 17,594 52,244
12£ p.c.
1939.. 69,207 36,000 10,066 23,141 75,385
Divs. from subsidiaries, £15,172 ~ 90,557
Capital reserve, £72,153 .. .. 162 710
1940.. 80,989 36,000 10,066 34,923 197,633
1941.. 89,801 36,000 10,066 43,735 241,368
f Excluding depreciation res., £58,939 at 30/6/’4l.
Includes £29,376 paid by subsidiaries from reserves.
The factors mainly responsible for the
big leap in profits over the last four years
have been the war and a change in
policy with regard to provision for de-
preciation.
To get the business into perspective, it
is necessary to go back to 1922, when
the present co. was formed as a holding
concern. It gathered £400,000 of 9 p.c.
pref. money to help lighten the debt and
finance expansion of the two operating
cos.—Lincoln Spinning Mills and Lincoln
Knitting Mills. Three years later a fire
made reconstruction inevitable, and 16s.
per share was lopped off ord. capital,
reducing it to £80,527. For the next
decade it was a struggle to keep up pay-
ments to the prefs., owing to heavy allow-
ances for depreciation. These allow-
ances, which totalled over £288,000 for
the dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1937, enabled plant to be brought up
to date and so increased the co.’s com-
petitive power. In 1938 the board decided
enough had been done in this direction,
and the allowance was reduced, being
nearly cut in halves. One result was a
sharp lift in profits, another was that the
ords., which received their first div. (8|
p.c.) in 1934, got 12£ p.c. for each of the
last three years.
Meanwhile, the holding co. took over
distribution of the two operating cos.’
products in 1932, and halfway through
the 1940 term it completely changed its
character by taking over manufacturing
activities as well. A capital reserve of
£72,153 in respect of plant appeared dur-
ing the process.
The war has created abnormal condi-
tions for the co. As for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, acting-
chairman Richardson says:
We have devoted our energies to meeting
the huge requirements of the Defence De-
partment. Large quantities of our products
are now required, including quantities of
yarn for India.
After making a bigger but unspecified
provision for taxation and allowing
£17,230 (up £1074) for depreciation, the
board figured net profit £BBl2 better at
£89,801, or enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 66.8 p.c. on the written-down
ord. capital, compared with 55.8, 41.2,
30.2 and 15 p.c. back to 1937. The div.
was kept at 8j p.c. and a 2d. bonus was
again added, making 12? p.c, for the
year, and nearly as much was put on
the shelf as was distributed, lifting the
lay-by to £241,368. In addition, there
is a depreciation reserve of £58,939 (up
£16,137 net).
Balance-sheet figures reflect all-round
expansion:
1932. 1939. 1940. 1944-
Paid capital. . £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Liabilities .. 41,248 *33,838 *168,550 *205,379
Freeholds .. 89,161 81,596 117,715 120,884
Plant.. .. 176,275 114,124 192,134 204,604
Stocks . . 215,483 341,805 419,107 464,364
Book debts, etc. 99,279 113,462 190,620 226,426
* Indudes an unspecified provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £45,257 of stocks and
add £35,806 to debtors’ balances, £12,470
to the book value of plant and £3169 to
freeholds, the board increased the over-
draft (£116,083) by £26,058 and the
amount coming to trade creditors, etc.
(£89,296), by £lo,77l—the etcetera is
mainly an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion. The improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£485,411) was £44,234.
A “considerable quantity” of spinning
machinery has been ordered from Britain,
and extensions are being made to
premises to house it. Also, an auxiliary
knitting mill has just been set up at
Woodend. No hint is given as to when
the new plant is expected to arrive or
how it is proposed to finance it. The
chairman has pointed out that present
heavy wear and tear on plant will mean
substantial maintenance charges in the
future. As for the current term, costs
continue on the up-grade, and the tax-
gatherer will take a much bigger slice of
earnings. Still, defence contracts can be
expected to keep the plant busy and to
yield satisfactory returns.
At 13s. 6d. (10s. 6d. a year ago) the
f.-p. 4s. ords. return 3.7 p.c. on a 12?
p.c. distribution. Obviously a lift in the
div. and other possible benefits are ex-
pected. The pound prefs. at 295. 6d. (265.
9d. a year back) yield 6.1 p.c. The net
tangible backing is 365. Id. prefs. and
15s. lid. ords.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1931.. 11,675 7 p.c. = 7,700 3975 64,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8„712 6 „ „ 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ „ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937.. 12,762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69,948
1938.. 12,180 10 „ ~11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ „ 11,000 1232 72,360
1940.. 11,812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
1941.. 11,669 10 „ „ 11,000 669 73,841
The rapidly-growing maze of legislation
connected with taxation, control of capi-
tal, etc., has thrown so many compli-
cations into the administration of estates
that the advantages of the corporate over
the private trustee become daily more
apparent. One result is a steady increase
in the volume of business placed in the
expert care of the trustee cos. But the
corpus and other commissions charged
by these cos. have remained unaltered,
which means that they have been unable
to pass on any or all of the burden of
rising costs, which have inevitably fol-
lowed the extra work involved in admin-
istration, collection, etc.
The next table shows the effect of all
these things upon the Permanent’s busi-
ness;—
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,865 54,142 44,580 82.3 „
1936.. 19,613,027 64,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 62,513 79.7 „
1938.. 21,117,323 70,121 57,841 81.7 „
1939.. 21,890,250 72,998 00,166 82.4 „
1940.. 22,534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4 „
1941.. 22,854,436 78,087 65,818 84.2 „
New trust business put on the co.’s books
last term exceeded the value of estates
distributed by £319,828. The improve-
ment in gross earnings from all sources
was £3073. But exes, made off with all
the increase and £143 besides. After
striking £6OO off the book value of
premises, the net result was 10.6 p.c. on
the £llO,OOO of paid capital, compared
with 10.7, 11.1, 11, 11.6, 10.5, 8.2 and
8.1 p.c. back to 1934. The distribution
was kept at 10 p.c., and £669 was put
on the shelf, making the support for
capital £73,841.
What the co.’s own funds turn in and
what it gathers in commissions, etc.,
aren’t separated in the published
accounts. But 10 p.c. on capital alone
is equal to only a shade under 6 p.c. on


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ $ 9|C
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W, DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric, and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
% 5|C sf! Jfc
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE ARMIDALE SCHOOL.
3400 feet above sea level.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE.
The only GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOL situated
in the country.
Spacious buildings and grounds—4o acres of
playing fields.
Well-equipped Junior House separate, from the
rest of the School with its own playing fields
and tennis courts.
Matrons are trained nurses.
School prepares boys for the various Public
Examinations.
Boys are trained for Professional, Commercial
or Pastoral careers. A Special Agricultural
Science Course is offered.
Arrangements may be made for boys during
the short holidays.
Illustrated Prospectus on application to the
Bursar.
G. A. Fisher, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
DON’T RISK THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN
No friend or acquaintance should be expected to become your
Executor or Trustee. This is a heavy responsibility which demands
experience, knowledge, care and trust.
Safeguard the results of your labour now. Appoint as your Executor
and Trustee an organisation which, for over 55 years, has been a
true servant as well as. a personal friend of the property-owner and
the man-on-the-land.
Have you any particular problem? Write without obligation and in
the full knowledge that your letter will be treated in the strictest
confidence
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
( Incorporated in Victoria )
2 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman);
(Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.C.; James Kidd; A.
Robert C. Wilson. Manager: J.
FRAILTY
Colin A. Sinclair
E. Heath, C.M.G.;
G. H. Shipway.
The Symbol of
Security!
OF AUSTRALIA.
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman) ; Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman) ;
Owen E. Friend; Geoffrey F. Hughes;
Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.; Robert Vicars.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
#JL # L/ #
Correct belt tension, the all important facto:
in power transmission with belting, can now
be automatically controlled by Ludowici
Pivot and Torque Drives a great step up
in belt drive efficiency.
The 23 different stock sizes and types of
Ludowici Pivot and Torque Drives cover
every possible application. Increase pro-
duction, eliminate belt slip, lengthen belt
and bearing life by installing an A.T.C.
drive in your plant.
Victorian Office: 20 Queen's Bridge Street ,
SOUTH MELBOURNE. Agents All States.
gdfg
: •
Hi
UK
m
i
m
iwMMUi
WSi
m:
m
.....
mShT:
/
I:. / /;
'
I
>
1
m i'
k
s |
mm
**m
BRSVI
IHHi
ii
r
341
capital and reserves combined. Appear-
ances are, therefore, that increased costs
leave very little net gain from the trust
and agency business these days, and the
margin of profit can be expected to get
narrower before it broadens.
At the end of September last the co. s
own funds, together with £11,037 coming
to sundry creditors, were invested £84,533
in mortgages, £53,721 freehold, £31,181
Government securities and £32,645 cash,
etc. Mortgage securities suitable for
trustee loans are reported to be increas-
ingly difficult to obtain.
The market expresses its confidence m
the co.’s ability to maintain a 10 p.c.
distribution by pricing the £5 shares
paid to 11s. each at 20s. 6d., at which
figure the return is 5.5 p.c. on the basis
of last year’s handout. The cover is
18s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Placer Development, Ltd.
Placer Development, which derives its
income from Bulolo Gold Dredging, Pato
Consolidated, Asnazu Gold Dredging,
Rutherglen Gold Dumps, Gold Dumps
Pty., American Placers, Placer Manage-
ment, Universal Placer Mining Corpora-
tion and Kern County Land Company,
shows $1,089,264 (Canadian) profit for
the year to April, compared with
$1,100,660 for the preceding year.
Bulolo profit for the year to May,
before amortisation, was $3,912,671,
down $893,737, but the slip was compen-
sated for by the better showing of Pato
Consolidated, whose five dredges and five
hydraulic plants handled 16,981,500 c.y.
of gravel for a profit, after allowing for
Colombian taxes but not depreciation
and depletion, of $2,262,544, up
$1,063,286 (Canadian). Estimated gravel
reserves are 558,000,000 cubic yards
averaging 14.2 cents (U.S.A.) per yard,
of which about three-fifths is fully de-
veloped, Bulolo reserves are about
140.000. c.y, for dredging and
21.000. c.y. for hydraulicking.
Asnazu handled 860,300 c.y. of difficult
bouldery but rich ground. Profit, again
deducting Colombian taxes but excluding
depreciation and depletion, amounted to
$176,183 (Canadian), up $19,512. No. 2
dredge commenced operating in October
last. Gravel reserves for No. 1 plant are
26,819,000 c.y., averaging 31.25 cents
(U.S.A.) and for No. 2 unit 69,000,000
c.y., averaging 13.3 cents.
Of the Australian re-treatment con-
cerns, Rutherglen Gold Dumps treated
100,028 tons for a profit, subject to de-
preciation and depletion, of £8066 ; Gold
Dumps Pty, shows a working surplus
(subject to amortisation) of £25,382 from
246,621 tons.
After having been held back in the
collar by war-time dredge-construction
delays, London - backed Harrietville
(Tronoh) shouldn’t be too long now in
augmenting Victorian gold production.
Thorapsons-built, the 4,000,000-c.y.-p.a.
plant will dig to 130 ft. and be the largest
yet to enter the Ovens Valley, where
96.000. c.y. of recoverable 1.92 gr.
wash is measured up to an average depth
of 85ft. The co. looks like kicking off
with a debt approaching £lOO,OOO, but
that shouldn’t long stand in the path of
distributions if the 3.22 gr. values come to
light in the first six years, as anticipated.
Paid capital is £375,000 in ss. shares;
vendors are entitled to allotment of 10
p.c. of any further issues.
* * * *
To unify control of oil-bearing areas
at Lakes Entrance, as advocated by the
Commonwealth Oil Advisory Committee
in 1938, Austral Oil Drilling has been
granted a license covering 8i sq. miles,
including the areas previously held by it,
South Australian Oil Corp., Midwest
Oil Co. and Wiluna Ajax Gold Mines.
The Austral co. acquires all plant on the
field, creditors of South Australian Oil
are to be paid in full and the shareholders
of that co. and Wiluna Ajax will retain
a 9 p.c. and 4\ p.c. interest respectively
in any net profits accruing to Austral Oil
from operations on the area of the new
license. Prospectus for the working co.
to be formed to implement the Ranney-
Fairbanks report will be put out when the
terms and conditions of the promised
Commonwealth and State support are
known. Discussions to this end have
been proceeding in Canberra.
* * * *
On December 8 Hill 50 (W.A.) pays
a ninepenny dividend on all shares,
and on December 10 collects a shil-
ling call on the recently-issued 125,000
contribs., making them paid to 3s.
Although it is impossible to antici-
pate future distributions, directors hope
to see another ninepence go into share-
holders’ pockets early in April, and to
collect the final shilling on the contribut-
ing scrip at the same time. Profits of
£37,000 net are needed to continue the
sixpenny quarterly dividend of the past
two years; ninepence a quarter would
require £56,250 a year. Div. situation
will be reviewed in March, when the
new treatment plant will have been in
operation six months.
* * * *
Blue Bird, at Norseman (W.A.), went
broody, laying no golden eggs for share-
holders last term, when the 7oz. and 4|oz.
values of the two previous periods gave
way to 2oz. returns, including sands. De-
spite doubled throughput (3693 tons),
profit came down from £43,767 to
£12,753, and that after charging the pre-
vious year’s taxes (£6296) direct to re-
serves and capitalising £2865 of develop-
ment, Proved and probable ore is some
3000 tons better off at 14,733 tons, but
overall grade at 25dwt. is an ounce and
a half down. A 600-tons-momhly-sands
plant is now helping things a bit.
* * * *
Metropolitan Mining and Develop-
ment, Ltd., a Perth co. operating at Mt.
Magnet—a graveyard of gold-bearing
shoots at depth—didn’t do well last year.
Accounts show a surplus of £BOO2, but
after chipping off £9833 special develop-
ment and £13,111 spent on the Morning
Star mine, which the Mines Department
forfeited for non-fulfilment of labor con-
ditions and has since given to Swan
Bitter Co., an adverse balance of £14,920
is carried forward. There is also an addi-
tional debit of £1585 for expenditure on
plant, etc. Ore reserves are estimated at
1600 long tons of 15dwt. grade, and Dr.
Moss, consulting engineer, thinks the
possible ore indicated by a winze below
No. 4 level amounts to 500 tons. Pros-
pects aren’t brilliant.
* * * *
Word comes from Westralia that
Leonora Central has had a reverse.
Dumb for a year or more, the co.,
through its acting chairman, told share-
holders in October, 1940, that a tributor
had succeeded beyond anticipations in
getting the mine into production on a
satisfactory basis, and that a payable
ore-body 150 ft. in width had been proved
for a great length. This story at the time
didn’t cause any local excitement or im-
provement in a paralysed market. Funds
in hand were then next to nothing. Last
June it was announced that two geolo-
gists and a mining expert had inspected
the mine on behalf of big interests.
* * * *
The Tyrconnel mine, which has had
the biggest output of gold on the Hodg-
kinson field (N.Q.), is regularly turning
out 400 to 500 tons of 4dwt. ore a month.
A few months ago a shoot of 7dwt. ore
was reported between No 5 and No. 6
south levels, but it looks to have been
of short duration, as the values keep low
enough to encourage the wolf. It is a
t- • . . o.i •u „„ j
big, persistent lode which earned some
short rich shoots, now worked out. At
present it seems to have just a little too
much of Australia in it to gladden the
, c j. . ~b
hearts of the syndicate working it, but it
has definite possibilities of further shoots,
* * * *
Burma-Malay Tin has acquired work-
incr nirfintiQ on a nnmhpr of Conner
mg options on a numoer or copper snows
in the Mitchell River district, lying to the
north of Chillagoe (N.Q.). These include
the Red Hill and Hannahbelle, the former
f u- t, „ A™
of which has a good oxide ap. There
IS an impression that the copper shows
here have no “bottom,” largely because
the 0.K., chief Coppermine of the district,
j.j . ’ , i .i tj a/
did not go down to any depth. 8.-M.
is prepared to test some of its options
to sufficient depth in the sulphides to
prove or disprove that idea,
* * * *
Further prospecting areas for oil shale
have recently been taken in the Alpha
(C.Q.) district, so it appears that recent
prospecting work has been encouraging.
A statement issued by the Brisbane Fuel
Substitute Committee, representing motor
traders there, gives the oil-shale deposit a
good write-up.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
si 4 D f he : SLSTpmbabk. If:
ford Cotton shares look attractive at present
prices. Australasian Paper and B.H.P. should
also be worth holding. . ..F.T.C.t The term of
the loan has to do with the price, and the
p rem j um 0 f £g on me £lOO bond also affects
the eventual yield, since only £lOO is received
on redemption Don: Inflation, if it came,
would affect bank scrip particularly, See answer
to E.S.; also suggest Castlemame Perkins,
Woolworths and Howards... .J.F.P.: Don’t
know the concern. Can’t trace in Sydney
’phone b00k... J.S.L.: (1) and (2) Roughly
correct. (3) The Commonwealth Bank has a
trading branch, a note-issue department and a
]arge savings . b ank branch. (4) There were
trade reprisals by Belgium. (5), (6) and (7)
Mostly right J.L.: (1) Yes. An outline
of the agreement appears in the Commonwealth
Year-Book, 1940. (2) The C.S.R. and Milla-
qUjn cos re^ne a ji Australian sugar. Numerous
separate and distinct mills, including co-operative
cos., produce raw sugar. The refining charge
r A e P res f en o t s a very small part of the. selling price
About 800,000 tons of sugar is being produced
j n Australia annually, of which a little over
half is consumed locally.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
ANGLO-AMERICAN PITFALLS.
* [Cond ens edfr°m a long article in American “Foreign
Affairs m which Geoffrey Crowther, editor of London
u- “towvdy examines Anglo-American
diffeiences which could be obstacles to the post-war co-
operation envisaged in the Atlantic Charter. The portion
ot the article here condensed deals with what would
be one ot the most immediate aspects of the problem—
agreement between British and Americans on a common
ground of policy and action towards ensuring that Ger-
mf-n? would not start yet another world war. In his
article Mr. Crowther also examines economic and other
aspects of the collaboration problem: what is here given
can be taken as an example representative of his general
argument that the proposed collaboration is not some-
thing that can be taken for granted, but, if it comes at
all, will be achieved only through the making of
considerable readjustments on both sides.]
The Declaration of the Atlantic, signed by the
President of the United States and by the Prime
Minister of the United Kingdom, marks, in effect, the
assumption by the two great English-speaking democ-
racies of the leadership of the free world.
To the overwhelming majority of Englishmen,
and to very many thousands of Americans, this recog-
nition by both nations of their common needs and
common responsibilities is the great good that is
coming out of the evil of the war. It is an inspiring
picture—two great nations, each satisfied with what it
has got, and therefore devoid of any aggressive inten-
tion, joining together to police the world on behalf of
their joint ideals of personal freedom, social security
and liberated commerce.
To adopt this as a deliberate policy, as the heads
of the two Governments have done, has required, or
will require, very substantial changes in the ideas that
have prevailed and in the attitudes that have been
adopted hitherto. Nor are these changes required on
the American side alone. It is true that the Ameri-
can people, if they are to sail this new course, will
have to modify or abandon two of their hitherto most
cherished beliefs the first, that they need not concern
themselves with what goes on beyond the oceans ;
the second, that there is a natural and historical
antipathy between American and British interests. But
the British people, too, will have to change both their
beliefs and their policies.
Britain has always been a naval power, but her
diplomacy has nevertheless always looked inwards to
Europe. With the sole exception of 1870, there has
not been for centuries a European crisis without
Britain’s participation from the start as one of the
protagonists. Indeed, Great Britain has usually been
the organiser of whatever Grand Alliance is current.
If Britain’s policy is now to be based on her mem-
bership of an Oceanic Commonwealth, she will not
find it so easy (and perhaps not so necessary) to form
her European coalitions. This is a point of view
which the British Dominions have always expressed ;
it now receives enormously stronger backing.
The shifts in traditional policies will thus need
to be as great in the one country as in the other. In
the psychological field, it is in Britain that the adjust-
ment to the new policy will probably be found most
difficult. If the American people have to learn the
responsibilities of their strength, the British people
have to learn the limitations of their weakness—and
there can be little doubt which of the two is the more
painful adjustment to make.
To America, the war has brought the clearest
demonstration of the need for taking sides in other
nations’ wars. To Britain it has taught the complete-
ness of her dependence on American support. To
both, in other words, it has proved the need for co-
operation. But for this lesson to be embodied in a
practical policy and for the policy to be /maintained
in periods of lesser stress and cooler emotion requires
a long period of re-education in each country.
The nature of the Anglo-American problem can
be adequately illustrated by the central problem of
the political field—the problem of deciding what to do
about Germany when the victory has been won.
There are, broadly speaking, two kinds of peace
that could be made with a defeated Germany. There
would be the kind of peace which took as a basic
assumption that the German people are fundamentally
peace-loving, that having got rid of Hitler and the
Nazis they will not make the same mistake again, but
will settle down as members in good standing of the
community of peaceful and liberty-loving nations.
For purposes of identification, we can call this the
optimistic solution. The other type of peace would
be one that refused to take the risk of the German
people breaking out again under some third aggres-
sive despot, but determined to keep arms out of their
hands at least for a generation or two. This is what
might be called the realistic solution. It would impose
limitations on the actions of Germany, which the
democratic victors would not accept for themselves ;
on the contrary, they would retain a margin of strength
decisive enough to repress all infractions of the treaty
by Germany.
It is not relevant here to argue which of these
approaches would be the right one. But it is vitally
important that those who write the treaty should be
very clear in their minds which of the two they pro-
pose to follow. Versailles is a fearful warning of what
happens when the attempt is made to mix the two,
and when the chief supporters of the treaty have dif-
fering interpretations of it. French policy tried to
make Germany unable to attack again ; British policy
tried, less effectively, to make Germany unwilling to
attack again. But as neither had a free hand, neither
succeeded.
After the present war, then, it is essential that
the two countries which will have to make and maintain
the peace, Britain and the United States, should make
their choice clearly and stick to it. Which is it to be?
The last of the Roosevelt-Churchill Eight Points made
it clear that it is to be a realistic peace. This does
not, of course, mean that it is to be a severe or repres-
sive peace. But we have been told that the aggressors
are to be disarmed at once, while the disarmament
of the victors awaits some future day when all nations
abandon the use of force and “a wider and permanent
system of general security” is established.
There can be little doubt that this accords with
the views of the British Government and the British
people. Is it the majority opinion of the American
people? Will it be if the United States is drawn into
actual belligerency? It is difficult for a visitor to the
United States, even after careful inquiry in several
different regions, to determine the answer. There is
a greater tendency in America than in England to
draw a distinction between the Nazis and the German
people. The distinction is drawn in England, of
course, but not to the extent of believing that Ger-
many, on the morrow of the flight of the Nazis, could
be trusted as an equal member of the community of
nations —or at least as an equally armed one.
Great emphasis is laid in America on the necessity
for a “just” peace. Would a peace which imposed
unilateral disarmament on Germany, but no other
disabilities, be considered “just”? On the whole, the
guess may be made that the American people, at the
time the peace treaty is drafted, will be ready to
approve the imposition of restraints on Germany’s
freedom to rearm. Mr. Roosevelt has proved himself
a very accurate prophet and interpreter of the Ameri-
can people’s wishes, and he would hardly have com-
mitted himself to this Eighth Point unless he felt con-
fident of being able to secure agreement to it.
To write the treaty in this way, however, is one
thing, to enforce it is another. And such a treaty
would require enforcement. Whatever care were taken
to nurse Germany’s susceptibilities in other directions,
it is only too probable that arms inequality would be
felt as a grievance by a people with such a proud mili-
tary tradition. Germany cannot be expected volun-
tarily to accept these restrictions, or to observe them
unless she is compelled to. A treaty of this sort, how-
—Pittsburg “Post-Gazette,” U.S.A.
SHIPS ON THEIR SHOULDERS.
ever generous it may be in all its other clauses, would
require a large corps of inspectors, constant vigilance
against infractions, and the maintenance by the victors
both the ability and of the readiness to march in
at once if the treaty were broken,
This is the catch about the whole “realistic” policy,
r democracies do not remain vigilant, they are not
to maintain expensive forces just in case there
18 trout ! le > a " d they are not easily persuaded to take
f c^lori least ol all marching in where there may
de 8 1° do until the danger has grown to
and u threatening proportions. It may be
. at e have had such a bad scare
smi r e May, 1940, that they will have the resolution
arid clear sight not merely to disarm Germany but
t? ee P her disarmed. The rnenace of a vengeful
Germany and of a Third German War will be near
ar, M, eai - enou gh, and after the events of
uf- ir 9P°ssible tor any Englishman to
believe that anybody else will do the job of holding
Germany in check for him. We are not justified in
.„. ng certainty that the British people will be
Wl lhng, m 1955 or 1965, under the leadership of some
r CW Ibwm, to enforce the peace they have written,
Eut th® relß f T l3ll *: 6 ' • . . _
What of the American people. To them the
menace will appear much more distant, much less
clear. To many of them it will seem to have vanished
with the death or fli § ht of Hitler. Public comment on
the Eight Points bas made it clear that the “optimistic”
hne of thought, as defined here, has many adherents
in the Unit ed States; and if this is the case when the
Nazi-German menace is so urgent and frightening,
ts more H so r" i v be wl r ,he ? azis h 4
1£ S ta America
now, in the middle of the war, to prescribe universal
disarmament as the formula for peace, will it not be
armed Britain, rather than arms-minded but disarmed
Germany, that will incur American censure after a
decade of peace?
There is no reason to suppose that this reaction
will go so far as to lead the American people to dis-
own a treaty they will have helped to write. But will
they assist Britain to enforce it? There will be no
escape from the dilemma by saying that it is not
America’s concern. Britain will insist that the war of
1939 turned out to be very much America’s concern
and that consequently anything that is done to prevent
its recurrence falls in the same category. Moreover,
the whole policy is likely to rest on American sup-
port, for the British people may not be willing to run
the risk of incurring the permanent hostility of a
people twice as numerous as themselves unless they
are assured of help in the hour of trouble.
It should be repeated that no assertion is being
made here that what has been called the “realistic”
policy is more right, or more likely to be effective,
than what has been called the “optimistic” policy. But
it is argued that either one is likely to be more effec-
tive than a mixture or alternation of the two. Ger-
many must be made either unable or unwilling to start
another war. To begin with the realistic policy and
give her a grievance and then, when enforcement be-
comes necessary, to switch to the optimistic policy
(it would be “appeasement” by that time) would be
the surest way of ensuring the outbreak of another
war. The choice of the realistic policy has not been
made by the present writer ; it is the choice of Mr.
Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill. The only plea made here
is for consistency and resolution in carrying it out.
Possibly both peoples will have learnt a lesson
from this war before it is over and possibly both will
exhibit the “clear thinking and courage” so signally
lacking in the democracies in recent years. Perhaps
the treaty can be drawn in such a way as to increase
its appeal to the American people. For example, it
could be left to an international body, not to Great
Britain alone, to determine whether Germany had
broken the treaty, and the policing force, though its
backbone must necessarily be either British or British-
American, could similarly be international in form.
But when all these adjustments have been made, the
question will still remain: will the United States be
prepared in time of peace to use force, or at least to
assist the use of force by others, to enforce a treaty?
It can hardly be expected that the two countries
should see eye to eye in a matter of this sort. Great
Britain has felt the weight of the bombers, it has been
brought close to starvation. It is a small island, vir-
tually part of the European Continent, close to a dis-
ciplined, skilled and intelligent people who outnumber
the British by almost two to one. Naturally, it will be
more fearful, more vigilant, less able to comfort itself
with easy optimism than a vast sub-continent, three
thousand miles from trouble, almost self-sufficient,
with a secure margin of population and industrial
power and confident in the belief that there will always
be time to do something about it later on.
Neither attitude can be put down to defects in
the national character, other than the common defect
of being a democracy. The Americans, if they were
reduced to a third their present size and transferred
to the British Isles, would almost certainly react as
the British do. The British, in the days when their
position in the world was similar to that which the
United States now has, certainly pursued a not dis-
similar policy. It would, therefore, be just as foolish
to think that the differences in view are due to dif-
ferences in moral rectitude as to believe that they can
be removed by argument. It will have to be taken
for granted that the two nations view things differently
and they will have to learn how to serve the common
ideal of collaboration while retaining their differences.
Hitler’s Tactics in Russia.
C From a New York “Daily Mirror” article by Major
P. de Seversky.)
The Germans have been fighting a different kind
of war in Russia than in Western Europe. Phases of
their strategy which puzzle observers can be reason-
ably explained as soon as we recognise that the larger
purposes in the eastern theatre of combat are essen-
tially unlike the Nazi objectives in the West.
Hitler’s war on England aims at the annihilation
of that country—an aim in which he has failed be-
cause of the inadequacy of his own aviation equipment
for the purpose and the high quality of the R.A.F,
defence. He is not so much concerned with the
physical acquisition of the British Isles as their elimina-
tion as a military and political factor. In other words,
maximum destruction has been his primary objective.
In the Low Countries and France, his purpose
was to take over territory as a military base for the
attack on England. He needed the ground on which
to organise his next move. It was a matter of indif-
ference to him if in the process vast damage was done
to the local industries and resources.
But in Russia he aims at actual possession of the
factories, the mineral and petroleum sources and the
labor man-power of that country. Every time the
Nazis destroy a bridge, wreck a machine plant,
annihilate a harbor, they are reducing the total value
of the victory. If victorious. Hitler will have to rebuild
those economic and communications properties.
Germany wants to capture the Russian Bear
intact. It is willing to be scratched in the process, if
necessary, rather than use instruments which might
kill the animal. Hitler is not concerned merely with
exhibiting a fine bearskin as a trophy, but wants to
utilise the living animal.
In relation to port cities like Leningrad and indus-
trial aggregates in the Ukraine the Nazis have avoided
the use of all-out destructive methods such as they
employed against Rotterdam, Prague, Coventry, Bel-
grade and other points. Only cities without basic in-
dustrial value, such as Minsk and Smolensk, have suf-
fered the annihilation type of offensive.
Knowing full well that Germany’s principal
interest was to take the bear alive, the Kremlin leaders
answered with the policy of “scorched earth.” By
destroying everything themselves as they retreat, the


THE BRITISH NAVY USES EXIDE
The British Navy—from battleships to submarines —
places implicit faith in Exide Batteries for essential
equipment. Bear this in mind when buying a new
battery for your car, radio or home lighting plant.
Obtainable from dealers throughout Australia.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
I-,.-.'"
m
<s.
m
mst
#
V
.
....
Strength of the Philippines.
f Condensed from a Baltimore “Surd’ article by Howard
M. Norton, for seven years a Far East correspondent.)
Russian: "zc': to deprive the Nazis of the economic
fruits of their advance.
Outwardly there would seem to be no answer to
this “scorched earth” tactic. On examining more
closely the German procedure, however, it becomes
clear that the Nazi High Command does have an
answer and is attempting to apply it. We discover
that not once has Hitler stormed a Russian city of
genuine industrial or strategic value. Instead he has
sought to surround such cities and thus to take them
with a minimum of damage.
On a larger scale he has similarly sought to sur-
round entire districts and regions, thus preventing
extreme “scorched earth” destruction by the enemy.
When the Russians are attacked head-on, as at
Smolensk, they can pick up their belongings and
retreat farther into the interior, burning everything
behind them. But when retreat is cut off by encircle-
ment, the trapped population and armies cannot burn
and wreck things without burning and wrecking them-
selves.
In short, frontal attacks have been kept at a
minimum by the invading forces, and large-scale
movements of encirclement have been the fundamental
strategy.
Most military comment on the Russo-German
conflict has failed to understand that the encirclement
strategy is the direct answer to the “scorched-earth”
policy. To this writer that seems a key to the relative
slowness and roundabout methods of the Germans.
The Philippine Islands face a troubled and uncer-
tain future with the comforting knowledge that nature
has done its best to make them impregnable. Military
strategists declare that the natural bulwarks of the
archipelago have so thoroughly consolidated its posi-
tion that a modicum of effort there could seriously
discourage invasion efforts—perhaps indefinitely.
Out of all the islands’ 10,850 miles of coastline,
there are only three points where invading troops
might successfully land with profit. And even at
these points the advantages would be overwhelmingly
with the defenders. Reefs and shallows would keep
the invader’s transports far off shore. Jungles, moun-
tains or muddy rice-paddy fields would make the
going difficult if he succeeded in getting his forces
ashore. And any invader could count on a vast amount
of effective guerrilla effort by native Filipinos long
familiar with that type of fighting.
Though it is accepted military strategy that an
invasion of the Philippines probably would begin with
a naval blockade of Luzon, the site of Manila and
largest of the islands, observers believe this would not
be the decisive phase of the battle. Manila is admit-
tedly vulnerable economically, but for months essential
imports have been stored in and around the capital,
and there is today a serious question whether an enemy
could afford to hold the blockade, in the face of prob-
able United States naval action, until Manila’s de-
fenders were starved or frightened to the point where
invasion might be practical.
To take the Philippines, the invader must take
Luzon. Until he gets that island, with its 40,814 square
miles of forests, minerals, farm produce, a strategic
bay, he hasn’t got anything, strategically or economi-
cally. The other 7082 islands of the archipelago
count little in the defence set-up. The extreme southern
islands are mainly jungle and swamp. The Japanese
might land there, and might conceivably establish air
bases. But they would find themselves still 500 to 600
air-line miles from Manila, scarcely better off than if
they had based their ’planes near Hong Kong, on the
China mainland.
The central islands—the sugar belt—are inten-
sively cultivated and densely populated. They, too,
present landing possibilities, but few advantages to
the forces once they are landed. Reefs and shallows
surrounding the central islands rule out the use of
larger naval craft. Air bases might be established
there for the bombing of Manila—200 to 300 miles
distant—but the reefs and shallows complicate supply
problems.
Also to be contended with is a hostile populace,
deft in the ways of the guerrilla (as the American garri-
sons learned more than 40 years ago). The islanders
are intensely resentful of Japanese inroads on the
islands and of Japan’s covetous interest in them. A
Japanese invader of the densely-populated central
area, therefore, could be confident of serious guerrilla
trouble, yet could not claim to control territory of
any great significance.
At Davao’s “Little Japan” settlement, on the
southern side of the southernmost sizable island (Min-
danao), there are 20,000 Japanese. Should Tokyo’s
troops attack, they would admittedly find a welcome
there. But it is 800 miles by sea from Davao Bay to
Manila, and 550 miles by air. And in the last few
years a far-sighted Manila Government has been send-
ing thousands of Filipino settlers to the south-west
peninsula of Mindanao. Ostensibly they are farmers,
but, more to the point, they are there to offset the
growing influence of the Japanese. (In all the Philip-
pines there are 28,000 Japanese.) Among these settlers
is no small number of the newly-trained reservists of
the Philippine Army.
Invasion of the Philippines from the Pacific (from
the east) is generally regarded as out of the question,
Rocky cliffs, rugged shores barricade the Pacific fronts
of all the islands, all the way from Y’Ami Island in
the north, which lies just 78 miles south of Japanese
Formosa, to Saluag in the south, only 36 miles north
of Dutch Borneo. All down the 1150 miles of the
archipelago chains of mountains face the Pacific, an
additional barrier to any landing from the east.
So, for the Japanese or any other invaders, the
most likely course would be to attack Luzon from
the west or south, then capture Manila and take over
the other 7082 islands at leisure. But even the west
and south shores of Luzon present only three landing
points regarded as being of strategic value, all of
them well defended by Philippine-American forces
today. These are: Lingayen Bay, on the western
shore, 100 miles north of Manila ; Balayan Bay, on
the south-western shore, 75 miles south of Manila ;
Batangas Bay, adjoining Balayan Bay to the south-
east and about 85 miles south of Manila. All other
possible landing points are either blocked by jungles
and swamps or are too far from Manila to be desir-
able.
Manila Bay itself, a potential point of landing, is
well guarded against direct attack. Two naval bases
and fortified Corregidor Island—the Philippine Gib-
raltar—make it extremely formidable. There is no
doubt at Manila that invaders from the north (Japan)
would head directly for the Lingayen Gulf. From the
shores of the gulf southward, good roads lead to
Manila. But if these were blasted by retreating de-
fenders, the cultivated back country might pose ex-
treme difficulties for mechanised equipment. Most
of it is low, and much of it devoted to muddy paddy-
fields for rice.
Approach to the gulf presents the gravest danger,
For 30 miles from its mouth to its farthest inland
—London "Star."
NO TRAFFIC.
beach, it is shallow and strewn with reefs. Transport
ships and all but the smallest naval craft would be
forced to anchor outside. For the actual landing
operations a vast fleet of shallow-draught ships prob-
ably would be needed. They would have to carry the
troops from 10 to 30 miles into the gulf, and, theoreti-
cally at least, they would be under the defenders’
guns all the way.
It is possible for a superior enemy to land at the
Lingayen Gulf and probably also push on to Manila,
but military strategists point out that the enemy must
be “vastly” superior to the defenders (at least three
or four to one in the number of troops), must be Will-
ing to accept staggering losses of man-power and
must have complete control of the northern South
China Sea and the air over Luzon. With America’s
fleet in the picture, and possibly also part of the
British fleet, many strategists believe, it would be all
but impossible for Japan to obtain such complete
superiority.
Simultaneously with any attempt to land at the
Lingayen Gulf, an invader probably would send a
sizable force to attempt a landing at Balayan and
Batangas Bays, south of Manila. Both bays are mod-
erately deep, and troops probably could land directly
from transports close to shore. But once ashore they
would face a towering mass of hills and mountains,
extending off into the distance toward Manila and
traversed by only a few narrow, winding roads. Moun-
tain terrain, such as this, is perfect for defence.
Already confronted with a bleak geographical
outlook, the prospective invader of the Philippines
also faces an ever-increasing defence force. Under
Gen. Douglas MacArthur, former Chief of Staff of
the United States Army, the insular forces since 1937
have been expanding at the rate of 40,000 to 50,000
yearly. Under the draft system, all Filipino men
between the ages of 20 and 50 must register for mili-
tary service, and between 90,000 and 120,000 are
registering yearly as they reach the age of 20. Today
the Philippines possess a trained reserve of more than
150,000 men, in addition to the regular army, the
Philippine scouts and members of the United States
Army stationed in the islands. For long-range naval
defence, Manila will continue to depend upon the
United States fleet.
The Philippines have built 85 airplane landing fields
and 46 of them are in regular commercial use. There
are five Philippine military airports and three main-
tained by United States armed forces. In addition, the
United States Navy is building a flying-boat base on
Laguna de Bay, a huge inland lake to the south of
Manila. Presumably this base, when completed, will
service craft of the Catalina bomber class, ’planes
which could fly the thousand miles to Japan’s new
Indo-China bases with a full load of bombs, and still
have sufficient fuel reserve to return.
Manila itself is preparing for the worst while
hoping for the best. The Manila and Subic Bays are
mined and “dangerous to shipping.”
Hitler Could Win, Yet Lose.
(Condensed from a New York “Times” article by
Edwin L. James.)
Putting aside the idea that Hitler wishes to rule
the world, the purpose of the Nazi leader may be re-
constructed from purely German official premises.
There is plenty of foundation for the statement that
Hitler’s dream is a German Europe. He seeks to im-
pose his will on the Old World from the Urals to
the Atlantic, from the Arctic Sea to the Mediterranean,
with Africa a tail to his kite. He wishes to crush all
resistance to German arms
in all of the countries of
the Continent, and he has
declared that the reason for
which he wishes to crush
Britain is to keep Britain off
the Continent.
But that is not all of
the Hitler plan. He does
not seek merely to conquer
the Old World militarily.
Indeed, that is but a means
to an end. What he really
seeks is the whole of
Europe organised under
Berlin, politically, economi-
cally, fin anc ia 11 y and
socially, in his “New Order.”
Making that blunt, he
wishes the whole of Europe
to collaborate with Ger-
many, which means work-
ing for Germany.
Such being the Hitler
plan, it is plain that a mili-
tary victory would be but
the beginning. Finances
cannot be run from a tank,
and trade cannot be run
with machine-guns. Pre-
suming that Hitler had won
the war —which he hasn’t —
it would require the willing
co-operation of the conquered countries, of the rest
of Europe, to permit his scheme to work. Politically
and economically the other peoples would have to
work with the Germans and do it willingly to give the
Nazi plan any chance of success. The presence or
absence of that co-operation might very well measure
the difference between success and failure,
Where the German plans have gone astray and will
go awry is that Hitler has taken no account of the
hearts that beat in hate and resentment over the wreck-
age of their countries and their lives. He cannot
understand, for example, why the French do not wel-
come the prospect of playing a role in his new order
for Europe. Doubtless he will never understand,
The Nazis are unable to understand why the
people of Norway are showing resentment and hate
at the occupation of their country. The firing squad
and the scaffold will not change that, will not bring'
the Norwegians into any plan of willing economic
and financial collaboration with Germany. They will
never work hard for Hitler.
Repression in Holland and German concentration
camps will never put the financial and economic brains
of Rotterdam and Amsterdam at the service of Berlin.,
The double-barrelled hatred of the Belgians at an-
other German occupation does not indicate that
Brussels and Antwerp intend to collaborate for the
greatness of the Third Reich.
That Hitler does not expect the Poles to col-
laborate is indicated by his efforts to wipe that nation
from the face of the earth,
In what was Yugoslavia, in Denmark, in Greece,
indeed almost everywhere the detested heel of the


German soldier rules, the resentment boils. It doesn’t
solve anything for Berlin to declaim about the Com-
munist attempts to stir up trouble. It isn’t that. It is
hate of the Germans which is at work.
Even if Hitler’s armies wipe up all resistance in
the Old World he seeks to rule, how is he going to
wipe out the hate for him, the existence of which will
make impossible the realisation of his dream? Are
the people of France going to be glad ever to work
for the Germans? Are the Dutch and the Danes, in
peaceable servitude, going to toil for generations to
make their masters stronger? Are the Greeks going
to forget their heritage and buckle under? Are the
Belgians going to belie their history and become a
willingly serving province of the Reich? Are Rus-
sians, now fighting so well, going to become slaves
in a collaboration with the Nazis?
The answer is going to be no. As long as the
hearts of the conquered peoples beat in the pride of
remembrance of their one-time greatness, so long will
Hitler never achieve a Europe united in servitude to
Berlin, working for Germany’s greatness. If those
hearts no longer beat, they can no longer serve any-
one, including Hitler.
There is the Fuhrer’s dilemma.
U.S. Billions on Billions.
(Extract from a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Caret Garrett .)
On May 16, 1940, the President went with his
first emergency message to Congress, saying that in
view of the alarming events in Europe—Holland hav-
ing fallen, Belgium being about to surrender and
France already despaired of—it was necessary to re-
examine ideas of national defence. What he proposed
was an extraordinary appropriation for the U.S. Army
and Navy and industrial preparedness, amounting all
told to somewhat more than one billion dollars.
On May 28, after a conference between the
Treasury and Budget people on one side and the heads
of the appropriation and finance committees of Con-
gress on the other, on how to raise the money, it was
announced that the total emergency-defence pro-
gramme was going to cost four billion dollars.
On May 31 the President asked Congress for
another billion and a quarter for good measure, and
after that it could call it a day and go home, and
that brought the programme above five billion dollars.
In June-July, the Congress, which had refused to
go home, authorised a two-ocean navy, and that made
it a programme of more than eleven billion dollars.
Three months later, Congress meanwhile having
passed the Draft Act and the War Department con-
templating an army of 1,700,000 men, with equipment
to be provided emergently for 3,000,000, the pro-
gramme had grown to twenty-five billion dollars.
In December, which was the sixth month, the
entire idea of defence had to be recast. Until then
we [Americans] had been thinking of national and
hemisphere defence. Thereafter we were to think of
defending freedom everywhere in the world. We were
to become the arsenal of democracy. And before we»
were through it would probably cost us thirty-five
billion dollars.
In March, 1941, which was the ninth month, the
Lend-Lease Law added seven billions, and then it was
forty-two billion dollars.
In July, 1941, the President asked for nearly eight
billions more, and then came the Supplemental
National Defence Appropriation Bill, which increased
it again, and a statement prepared by the Budget
Bureau for the House Appropriations Committee
found the grand total already visible to be fifty-three
billion dollars.
On top of that there would come another very
large appropriation under the Lend-Lease Law,
because the British had notified that what had been
provided was nowhere near enough, and this would
increase the cost ten billions, more or less, rather
more if Soviet Russia continued to fight well and
came down heavily on the arsenal of democracy, and
that would raise the total to at least sixty-three billion
dollars.
In August, the Director-General of the Office ol
Production Management was foretelling that in 1942
expenditures would be running at the rate of thirty
billions a year, which would be one-third of the total
U.S. national income, and other O.P.M. people were
saying that the ultimate cost, in the course of two or
three years, might rise to one hundred billion dollars.
1812 and 1941.
[Various comparisons between Napoleon’s and
Hitler’s campaigns in Russia have been drawn since
Hitler’s was launched on June 22 (two days earlier in the
year than Napoleon began his). In the article here
condensed from New York “Herald Tribune” Walter
Millis holds that other factors besides the Russian
winter beat Napoleon.]
It is worth noting that it was not the Russian
winter of 1812 which defeated Napoleon’s Grand
Army (though winter helped to complete the wreck).
The Napoleonic soldiers, when properly supplied, had
withstood without difficulty winter campaigns. And
the first snow did not fall that year until November 4,
when the retreat was already nearing Smolensk, where
Napoleon intended to take up winter quarters. But
by that time the disorganisation was already extreme ;
and its roots can be traced to the early days of the
campaign, when the heavy rains encountered in June
had rendered impassable roads which were abomin-
able at best, or the succeeding intense heat and drought
had killed the transport horses and exhausted the men.
The effect was cumulative. As the Grand Army
entered Moscow it was already much wasted ; a part
of its cavalry was already on foot and its artillery
short of draught horses, while the burning of the city
and consequent destruction of its supplies confirmed
what Napoleon already knew —that unless the Czar
could be intimidated into making peace, retreat was
sooner or later inevitable.
At the moment of his greatest seeming triumph,
in other words, Napoleon was already far out on the
end of a very dangerous limb. The seeds of disin-
tegration, sown by the earlier difficulties, were not
yet apparent ; but they were already exerting their
effect. Napoleon was a prisoner of the previous
failures. Short of peace, there was nothing left but
to fall back upon his supply dumps. The retreat was
ordered. And then every weakness in the whole opera-
tion, up to that time more or less concealed, became
apparent with a devastating suddenness.
. The wastage of men left the French numerically
inferior and made it impossible to block off the Rus-
sians and protect the line of withdrawal. The short-
age of supplies compelled foraging, in a terrain already
pillaged and empty, and foraging destroyed march
discipline. Organisation began to collapse. The con-
verging Russians forestalled any opportunity to escape
from the disastrous situation, and the winter cold
completed it. But the cold was a secondary element;
indeed, the worst moment of all, at the terrible cross-
ing of the Beresina, was the result not of cold but of
the sudden thaw which made it impossible to go over
on the ice.
Winter is no great threat today ; but it was not
winter which did the damage in 1812. The damage
was done by attempting an objective too large for
the numbers and the time available, by imposing on
the supply system a task too great for it, and by the
ability of the Russians to preserve their armies in
being and to fight stubbornly and fiercely when
brought to action.
Today there can be no close repetition of 1812.
Can Hitler be sure, however, that each of these basic
factors may not again be present, gnawing at the vitals
of his stupendous adventure as they undermined
Napoleon’s? Conceivably the disintegration may
already be at work within the inner economy of his
great host, to become apparent only suddenly when
the cumulative effect of strain, distance, mud and
casualties begins to tell.
Dragnet Digest.
General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The U.S. Communist party dived under the bed
on October 10 and came up holding a banner with a
—Memphis “Commercial Appeal,” U.S.A.
AFTER AN R.A.F.VISIT.
strange device: “No Strikes.” The “Daily Worker,”
official and slightly dizzy organ of the party, an-
nounced the new edict in a three-column editorial
headed: “Every Factory Part of Battle-front Against
Hitler.” In the tone of a cracked and welded bell
the editorial pointed out that Uncle Joe Stalin expects
every American to do his duty and no more of these
funny cartoons showing a boss booting a worker. Or
a worker booting the boss, either. “Without the un-
interrupted production of materials Hitler cannot be
defeated,” the editorial went on. “Labor leaders
should deal with employers in such a manner as not
to weaken the defence effort.” Harry Bridges was
quoted as urging “the fight against Hitler” without a
single reference about contributing to “the fight to
save Bridges.” Even he is expected to work. Old
subscribers were quite worked up about it. — New
York “World-Telegram.”
jfc ifc
President Roosevelt’s anti-Japanese oil embargo
—which he himself admitted might lead to war with
Nippon—now appears to be 100 p.c. effective. Britain
and the Netherlands Indies also have stopped all oil
supplies to Nippon. The Japanese Navy, like all
others, must have oil to exist. Cut off from adequate
oil supplies it must be ready to fight to restore its
sources of supply. Equally the Japanese Navy is
keenly interested in Nippon’s formerly large overseas
trade. It needs a big and active merchant marine to
maintain its position. But that merchant marine now
is endangered, not only by a lack of fuel oil, but also
because of diminishing trade. Nippon’s markets in
British- and American-controlled areas and in Latin
America have practically disappeared, routes to Europe
are closed by the British blockade, and foreign ex-
change, which international shipping must have, is
impossible to obtain because of British-American
financial pressure. If the Japanese Navy decides to
throw its support to the Japanese Army for war, war
is very likely to come whether Britain and the United
States want it or not. — Rear-Admiral Yates Stirling in
Washington “Post.”
*****
H. J. Laski, in his book Communism, states:
“Closely allied to this educational effort must go a
campaign against the bourgeois superstition of religion.
It is necessary here, the Communist admits, to go
carefully, since, above all in the working class, the
power of religion has been immense. But Marx’s
famous phrase, “religion is the opium of the people,”
sets the temper of Communist purpose. Religion and
Communism are incompatible, since social develop-
ment, as the laws established by historic materialism
have shown, is not affected by supernatural forces.
There is, moreover, an incompatibility between the
commands of most religions and the tactics of Com-
munism. Christianity, for example, with its emphasis
upon the duty of submission to the powers that be
and its precepts of self-abnegation, stands definitely in
the way of an offensive against the bourgeoisie.—
Quoted in New York “Sun.”
*****
A British military Court has recognised the right
of a private to describe his sergeant with a seven-
letter word meaning an illegitimate offspring, if the
word is used circumspectly. Sergeant F. Cox over-
heard Private Charles Hazzell mumbling about “these
b s with three stripes!” “Are you talking about
me?” the sergeant asked. “Well, I ain’t talking about
myself, am 1?” said Hazzell. Major G. R. McCor-
mick, presiding at the trial, observed that that parti-
cular “demonstrative word is used a lot in the army.”
“But not to non-commissioned officers,” Cox said,
“Well,” the major said, “I’ve had it referred to myself
but generally one turns a deaf ear to it,” The Court
acquitted Hazzell, ruling that “it might have been an
improper remark, but it wasn’t insubordinate lan-
guage,” Hazzell saluted smartly, but outside the
court he muttered: “I don’t see how that
Hitler ever got to be such a without getting
to be a sergeant, even in the German Army.”— New
York “World-Telegram” London correspondent.
*****
A smoked turkey sent by Clipper to a very well
known American magazine writer who had gone on
to London after pausing in Lisbon a few days and
cabling a story home was refused transit by the
Portuguese authorities because his story was so full
of errors. They were so mad at him that they made
Pan-American Airways lug the turkey back to the
United States. — New York “Herald Tribune” Lisbon
correspondent.
* # H: ♦ ‘ ♦
Eight-knot ships with low power mean an aver-
age speed of the convoy of five knots. In every con-
voy will be found 10 ships, probably more, capable
of an average speed of 10 knots. These 10 ships are
automatically reduced to five knots or a 16-day Atlantic
voyage instead of eight days. A turn round once a
month instead of twice a month, taking an average,
involves a reduction of 30,000 tons a month carried by
one convoy only. The Box type of low-powered ship
with a full speed of eight knots is bound to come
nearly to a stop in the westerly gales of the next six
months —an unnecessary risk to our seamen and a ter-
rible waste of cargo space. The fact that this poor
type of ship is quicker off the slip in no way com-
pensates for the loss of time spent at sea. Sixteen-
knot ships, I think all convoy commodores would
agree, would be almost immune from submarine attack,
make air attack easier to avoid, and have a better
chance against surface raiders; but, above all, the
precious cargoes would be exposed to enemy action
only half the time. Surely we owe it to our seamen
and to the public that every means should be taken to
eliminate the slow, unhandy ship? It seems almost
unforgivable that such ships are still being put afloat.
—Hugh J. Tweedie, writing in London “Times” as
“one with some practical knowledge of convoy work.”
*****
Almost nine complete years the Nazis have been
making machines for war. At present 22,000,000
Germans are working at it. Also, 2,000,000 laborers
have been brought into Germany from foreign coun-
tries to help. They toil from 10 to 12 hours a day,
from 60 to 72 hours a week. In addition, millions of
workers in Italy, France, Belgium and Czechoslovakia
are also making war machines for the Nazis. Ameri-
cans cannot turn back that ever-mounting torrent of
steel unless they work with all their might.— “ Christian
Science Monitor” article.
*****
British air forces throughout the world received
more than $284,000,000 worth of warplanes, spare
engines and other aeronautical equipment from Ameri-
can factories during the first seven months of 1941.
This sum would buy more than 8000 first-line pursuit
’planes, or approximately 2000 long-range bombers.
The British actually received a variety of ’plane types,
including trainers, pursuits, bombers and observation
craft, with spare engines and parts, the actual number
of each being kept secret at the request of Prime
Minister Churchill. According to Colonel Jouett,
president of the U.S. Aeronautical Chamber of Com-
merce, the total number of combat ’planes sent to
the British during the seven-month period was “nearly
twice as many as the British lost in defending the
British Isles, as shown by their own figures, during the
entire year of 1940.” — New York “Herald Tribune.”
*****
It has been revealed from London that British
merchantmen travelling alone or in convoys have
been carrying on foredeck catapults Hurricane fighters
prepared to take off against raiding bombers. The
method is described as “the most effective devised to
date against the raids on British shipping.” It is far
from a fully satisfactory method, however, as the
fighter pilots, unless near to land, must make crash
sea landings or bale out, in which case the pilot him-
self is often lost and the ’plane nearly always.— New
York “Times.”


53?
9
r
i
When the toast is
fm
Merry Christmas
A
&
SKI
WMI
at
I
Si
r S
i
W|
1
SS
Bum
Pem
QUAtI
SPECIAI
:
SS
&
Si
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
AND BOTTLED IN BOND
UNDER SUPERVISION OF
THE COMMONWEALTH
EXCISE
S«
S?S5> A^SMBStHr.
SHMh
CMS
THE UNITED DISTILLERS P
MELBOURNE, AUSTRALI
*5
Sft
IS
«
No
a
Prog
b f&Skf/r
"iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimm,
“Skee” is the happiest means of exchanging
greetings appropriate to the Christmas season.
99
Metropolitan Prices: Bottles 10 / 3, Half-Bottles 5 / 6, Half-Flasks 2 7 9
S.K. tt.F.P.


MTS
LYS
%
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
-w«*. ' ' A ■• w ' V.-.W
<A ■ " * ’'■*■ . ~
Jp
,'f;''V,-
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
British Sheep Studs.
“R. Ney”: There’s a difference be-
tween running flock and stud sheep of
the British breeds, as J. Hockley, of
N.S.W. Agricultural Department, points
out. The breeder of studs will need to
lay out more money on the property.
Improvements have to be kept at a high
order because buyers have to be im-
pressed and because lines of studs reflect
their environment; also because fences,
yards and watering places have to be
adequate for smooth and economical
working.
There must be ample subdivision and
improved pastures, with fodder conserva-
tion, for risks of loss of condition or
starvation can’t be taken with high-priced
animals. Even the temporary shortage
of natural grazing that occurs each year
can knock back growing lambs unless
provided for. You can’t get a good price
for a stud ram that has been stunted, no
matter what his breeding.
There is a wide difference between
mating flocks and studs. With flocks you
can put a thousand ewes in a paddock
with 20 or 30 rams without worrying.
But studs must be hand-served, the ewes
have to be classed into groups, rams
have to be classed to suit ewe groups and
you won’t let one ram have more than
50 ewes. You’ll need teasers and to know
what percentage of ewes are served and
what percentage returns for service.
Hockley points out that though mating
two or more rams of the same blood line
in the one paddock with a large flock
of ewes might save fencing costs and
men’s wages it won’t allow of keeping a
precise pedigree record and visible charac-
teristics in the rams cannot be traced to
a definite sire.
An important fact with British breeds
is the tendency of in-lamb ewes to get
overfat and lazy, which results in weedy
lambs and shy mothers. The stud
breeder needs a lambing paddock that
will provide adequate water, shelter and
shade and with grazing scarce enough to
make the ewes exercise themselves in
obtaining it.
Milk Fever.
“Huxave”: It mainly affects heavy
milkers and during peak production, from
the sixth to the tenth year. Poorer types,
or cows in their second season, usually
escape. Cause is a sudden fall, some-
times as much as 70 p.c., in the calcium
content of the blood.
The practice of milking cows com-
pletely out during the first 72 hours after
calving brings on the trouble. Over this
time only small quantities of milk should
be removed from the udder. Best plan
is to leave the calf on the mother for
that period.
Milk fever appears as attacks of excite-
ment and trembling, followed by floun-
dering and unsteady gait. The hind-
quarters give and the cow falls. If she
has the fever she will lie on the brisket
with her head turned in to the shoulder.
Coma sets in and breathing becomes
stertorous. Temperature is often sub-
normal, and there’s little milk in the
udder.
An injection of calcium boroglu-
conate gets at the cause, cuts out risk
of mastitis and assures the usual milk
yield. Two ounces of calcium gluconate
and three drams of boric acid are thor-
oughly dissolved in 12oz. of boiling
water. This must be cooled to blood-
heat. Clip the hair from four spots on
the neck and dab with methylated spirits.
The needle must be sterilised before use.
To inject, take up a fold of the skin be-
tween the fingers and thrust the needle
immediately beneath, pumping in 3oz. at
each injection. Recovery is rapid.
Inflation of the udder with air is a
cure. Use the approved outfit. First
wash the udder with a weak antiseptic—
2oz. of lysol or dettol to five pints of
water —insert the teat siphon into the
teat canal and pump until the quarter is
well distended. After treatment of all
quarters, teats and udder should be well
massaged. Remember to keep everything
sterilised.
After treatment the cow should be
propped up in a natural position with
sandbags till she rests on her brisket.
Bloating or asphyxia may occur if she
is left prostrate. Don’t give her any
liquid.
Phenothiazine.
“J.R.D.”; Deaths of two horses after
drenching with phenothiazine is reported
from Glen Innes (N.S.W.). There was
nothing to show why they died. Hun-
dreds of horses have been treated with
the drug with excellent results.
Dose rates for horses vary according
to body weight. Here is a guide: Heavy
draughts, 20z.; light to medium draughts,
l^oz.; hacks, loz. ; ponies, i-loz.,
according to size.
Phenothiazine is more successfully
given to horses in powder form mixed
with the feed. To ensure that none of
it is left starve the horses overnight, but
not if they’re poor—it might prove fatal.
Phenothiazine has a constipating effect,
hence a bran mash is recommended in
the feed before administering, and the
powder itself should be given in a bran
mash, with a third bran mash to follow
the dose.
Horses have been given phenothiazine
in doses larger than those recommended
without serious results, and the Glen
Innes deaths have yet to be proved as
due to the drug. Research workers in
U.S.A. who gave very large doses to
horses to find out how much could safely
be given reported that symptoms of ill-
effects from the drug range from loss of
appetite and listlessness to severe
abdominal pains and ansemia.
Great care should be exercised in
dosing cattle with phenothiazine ; the
dose rates fixed by the makers should
be strictly followed. There has been
little trouble with sheep, the only known
losses being the result of faulty drench-
ing. If phenothiazine could be manu-
factored at reasonable cost there would
be nothing to compare with it for keep-
ing down worms in sheep.
Cover Crops for Bananas.
iirr i
n ' • * over cro P s on banana plan-
m P- co «. dltlons ] an( * t ? m ‘
peratures and stop washing and leaching.
• t U b mcreases water capa-
yan eps diamage.
oraunmer cover cro P s > Black, Poona
, n ., ant cowpeas produce a splendid
u k of gieen matter for turning under
in autumn Black and Poona mature
eaihest and finish about March A mix-
i Ure or • Booua with Giant
ie rP S i? e §9 m S BB about May.
Field peas or lupins make good winter
planting. Sown during March or April,
they can be turned in any time from
June to August. To get maximum growth
plant only sound seed in prepared land.
Better to steer clear of velvet and rice
beans. The first run wild over banana
plants, the second are liable to bean-fly
attack.
Crops planted on richer soils benefit
if 2cwt. of superphosphate an acre is
drilled in with the seed. On poorer soils
"So THERE y' are — l've been searchin' for y' up hill an' down dale."
equal parts of super, and bonedust at
2cwt. an acre. The fertilisers also benefit
the banana plants. Crops should be
turned in when the seeds are in the milk-
dough stage. Fork-hoe into the soil if
mechanical hoeing isn’t possible.
Harvesting Canning Beans.
“Little N.”: What stopped “Poler” (B.
12/11/’41)? He got as far as telling
how to grow beans for canning, but said
nothing about the harvesting.
Since canneries will pay good money
only for the best sample, harvesting must
be done properly. Beans are ripe when
the pods have turned deep yellow, just
before they completely dry out. Shatter-
ing and staining are likely if you wait till
all the pods are dry, and dry beans may
crack during threshing.
According to area the beans can
be pulled out by hand, scythed at ground
level or cut off with a special cutter some-
thing like a skim plough. This last is a
frame fitted with two heavy knives and
run on a pair of wheels. The knives skim
along just under the surface, cut off the
plants and throw them together in a
windrow. Some use sleds instead of
wheels. For both the ground has to be
fairly level and free of heavy clods,
stones and weeds. You can get through
up to 14 acres a day with the machine.
After cutting the plants are forked into
cocks and left to weather a couple of
days. If it rains they’ll have to be
turned. They can be threshed straight-
way. A wheat header can be adjusted
for the work, and rubber used to pad
the concaves and beaters will stop seed
cracking.
Then comes grading. The canning
bean must be of high quality and appear-
ance. Eliminate all discolored and dam-
aged seeds. If everything has gone well
there won’t be many and the job can be
done quickly by hand.
For next year’s crop select seed-plants
in the paddock, picking those with high
yield characteristics, early maturity, free-
dom from disease, small and even seed
and even ripening of pods. Plant the
selected seeds from each plant in a row
to themselves and the best of them can
be kept for improving the stud plot the
next year. A crop of Little Navy beans,
being leguminous, makes a great rota-
tion and the straw trash is good stock
feed. It can even be baled and stored as
fodder.
“Mattock”: Westralian Minister for
Agriculture Wise has ordered 1000 tons
of South African soil ballast to be
dumped well out to sea. It was intended
to tip the ballast at Bunbury, but W.A.
won’t take risks of letting in agricultural
pests or diseases. The alert Mr. Wise also
ordered the destruction of banana
suckers sent from Darwin to Carnarvon
for planting. They were infested with
banana beetle, and Carnarvon banana
plantation is the only one free of the pest.
Meantime all hands in W.A. are warned
against sowing seeds sent from abroad —
often in letters from the A.l.F.—unless
they are fumigated. Painful memories
of rinderpest, red mite and white snail,
all of which sneaked in from abroad and
were hell’s own job to subdue, are the
reason.
“Bundalinga”: In a series of tests cov-
ering seven years, Jones variety of sor-
ghum at Wollongbar (N.S.W.) experiment
farm has outyielded White African by
22 per cent., and saccaline and sumac by
30 to 40 per cent. Jones sorghum pro-
duces excellent leaf, grows to a good
height and has a soft stalk.
“Brecko”: In Westralian wheat trials
Bencubbin again scored as the outstand-
ing mid-season variety. Its acre average
over ten years was 11 bushels 581 b. for


5
E
RO
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
& Ce. Pty. Ltd., King St., Sydney
dfgd
fg
NO PRICKING
NO PRIMING NO PUMPING
Hot instantly. Only one fuel
Kerosene. New long life
wool wick. No expensive burn-
ers to replace. See your local store.
df
LANE'S
GENUINE
'pukmil
B L U E F LAME
KEROSENE STOVE
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1803)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
SYDNEY OFFICE MANAGER; A. M. MURDOCH.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, WAGGA, HENTY. HAY, MOREE, TOWNSVILLE,
CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES', LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
lor
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY;
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the
discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the will
of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient
to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the require-
ments for Matriculation at the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than
the 10th January, 1942, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College and not later than the 7th February. 1942. in the case of
those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may be
obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
An automatic self-contained sanitary system
which can be installed by any handyman.
No water supply required.
• NO SMELLS. NO FLIES. NO GERMS.
Gives modern sani-
tation at small cost.
Efficiency, mechanism and long
life fully guaranteed.
Price, £lB/8/- f.o.r. Sydney.
Including sales tav and crating.
Plus 20/- war surcharge.
Write Dept. B for illustrated pamphlet.
Approved by the
Board of Health.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gdf
gd
(—TEi
S IS
the Gin
made as Gin
should be
made the
secret of the
House of
Gordon since
1769
Gordon’s
StandiSnpte me
TANQUERAY,GORDON & CO„
LTD. LONDON, ENGLAND.
C Vu lahqeSl gat diUllkhi in the wolld
WfS
*4«PM|TMWT
00^5
A
o,'*“
r 1
r jfi
s TIL^oV^%S
o»°
33K
Hi’S
*HSSfS*fSr»‘! T ;
,11“'’
Il« ,s i.
09
&/7» M
fmWi
'm;
r;<
tsirss
ia»
f I
\*€SMSm
April sown, 10.61 b. for May and 20.381 b.
for June. Early-maturing Bungulla,
second-best, averaged 12.131 b. for May
and 19.181 b. for June. Out of four
crossbreds, M 47, early-maturing, and W 4,
late-maturing, did well and are to get
a further chance.
“J.J.H.”: Students and woolgrowers
will find much useful information in
Textile Fibres and Wool Quality, by
R. D. Minter. It reviews the whole range
of textile fibres, and the chapters on wool
quality will be valued for their clear
definitions of wool types, trade and
manufacturing terms. The author has
been an instructor in wool and sheep to
the G.P. and Associated Schools of
N.S.W., and is well known among wool-
buyers.
Outback Occasions.
No.11.
ACQUIRING A PET.
The occasion when we decided to have
a pet galah marks a period on our place.
Whenever we want to remember any-
thing that happened years ago we always
start by saying “Well, it was before the
time Father went after the galah,” or
“It’s since the galah episode.”
Father had been away up north of our
place where there’s a lot of swamps and
some big box timber. There was some
land to be thrown open up there, but
after he’d had a look at it and found
that though it was only about 10 miles
direct it was about 46 round the swamps
he decided against it. He’d gone the
direct way, being on a horse, and as the
bottoms of the swamps were hard sand
it was easy going, but you can’t drive
wheat wagons through water. Anyhow,
Father got home and said the deal was
off.
About a week later he said “Y’ know,
there’s a lot of cockatoos and panots
nestin’ up in that swamp country.
Wouldn’t be bad t’ ride up there some
Sunday an’ have a look round. Them
white cockies are too destructive, but I
wouldn’t mind a galah. Y’ can teach ’em
tricks.”
Father, Jack and I set out on horse-
back. We had some tucker, an axe, a
tomahawk and a length of clothesline.
The swamps were pretty full that year,
and we had to ride through a good bit
of water, but it was fairly shallow. When
we got among the parrot timber Father
would ride up to a tree, look for hollows
and listen. He reckoned you could tell
if there were “younkers” by the noise.
After a bit he pulled up near one tree,
listened, grinned and said we’d give it
a go, but we’d boil the billy first.
We tied the horses up, had a bit of
scran and then we tucked our trousers
up and waded out to the tree. Father
stuck the tomahawk in his belt, looped
the clothesline round his waist and started
to climb. A couple of galahs came up
and took a mighty keen interest in
Father. They flew around and called
him names and settled on the top limbs
and eyed him with suspicion. The first
hollow was about 20 feet up, and Father
got to it and looked in. A big goanna
looked out, and Father swiped at it with
the tomahawk and fell off the tree into
the water. This amused the galahs, and
they flew round and round shrieking.
Jack and I weren’t game to shriek, but
we looked at each other and sort of
shrieked inside. Father got up and wiped
his face and swore and started up that
tree again. The goanna watched him and
then climbed out on the tree and started
to go up ahead of Father,
Father shooed the go., but it wouldn’t
hurry, and he was afraid to crack it with
the tomahawk for fear it would fall on
him. So he had to hang on while the
go. went up a foot or two, then he’d
climb a bit and wait. Jack and I started
throwing balls of mud at the go. but
Father yelled at us and we stopped.
After a bit Father struck a smooth
patch on the tree and couldn’t go any
further. There was a limb about three
feet' above his reach and a hollow just
above it. Father sang out that he could
hear young galahs in the hollow, and
then he got the clothesline and threw it
across the limb, his idea being to pull
himself up with it. He pulled the loop
tight, gave it a couple of tugs to make
sure, then hauled himself up and got
astride the limb.
Then a magpie arrived and took to
Father. Its nest was in another tree fully
a chain, away, but it must have thought
Father could jump the distance or some-
thing ; anyhow, it went for him. Father
hung on to the limb with one hand and
swiped at the magpie every time it dived
at him. Then he yelled to us to get the
flamin’ thing out of that before he fell
and broke his neck. So Jack got a brain-
wave and went to the magpie’s tree and
the bird started to hop into Jack.
Father started chopping into the hollow
with the tomahawk. It was a cross-
grained old yellowjack he’d struck, and
it took some chopping with a little axe,
but he stuck to it until he got a hole
big enough for his hand. He stuck his
hand in and pulled out a full-fledged
young bird and yelled out to me to look
at it. I looked at it. Then the two old
galahs arrived again, hovering round
Father’s head and shrieking, and the
young bird got a grip on the back of his
hand and held on. Father yelled to me
not to stand there looking, so I started
to climb the tree to help him.
Father took his hat off, put the bird
in it, tied the clothesline round it and
lowered it down to me. I put the hat
and bird inside my shirt and climbed
down the tree. Jack, seeing that the
prize was taken, left his tree and, fol-
lowed by the darting magpie, waded over
to me. We both looked up and were only
just in time. Father had started to lower
himself by the rope but forgot he’d un-
done the loop. He came down like a
high diver and landed in the water be-
tween us, splashing us heavily.
He waved his arms about and got up
and fell over again when the rope got
round his ankles. When he got free of
the rope he found he’d lost the toma-
hawk, and we had to wade around in
the water feeling for it with our toes.
After we found it we all waded ashore
and sat down and panted. Father took
most of his clothes off and hung them
over bushes to dry, but had to put them
on again because the bushes were crawl-
ing with black ants, it being manna
time.
It was just on dark when we rode in
the home gate and Mother came out. I
got Father’s hat out to show her the
galah, and in it was a full-fledged young
night owl. So Jack and I went and put
the horses away while Father got out of
it the best way he could.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4£d. per line; all others at
2£d. per line.
For thoughtfully discussing an increasingly grave problem and giving instruc*
live first-hand evidence a New South Wales farmer is placed first this week.
Drift to the City
In this country, life on the land has
never been regarded as eminently desir-
able except by those who cherished in-
dependence above everything else. In the
last 10 years the independence of many
farmers has been whittled away by in-
creasing financial difficulties ; and the only
reason why they remained in the country
was that there seemed to be little pros-
pect of improving their condition else-
where. Now that there are abundant
good opportunities in the cities the drift
has become alarmingly evident; after
this harvest has been taken off there will
be a vastly increased rush to the cities of
broken farmers, sharefarmers, farm hands
and those employed in handling farm
supplies and products.
The decline of a great industry occurs
slowly and almost imperceptibly. People
who talk about it are regarded as Jonahs
or cranks. But there is no pessimistic
theorising about my claims —the plight of
my neighbors proves it. I live in what is
regarded as a safe wheat and sheep dis-
trict with a 20in. rainfall. Across my
boundary fence my neighbors have fared
as follows;
Owner in A.1.F.: Four-thousand-acre farm
(much rough county) abandoned to pests and
weeds. No one will rent or sharefarm it.
Sharefarmer on good country: Great worker
with all the qualifications needed, and the will to
win, broke after a lifetime of hard work. Got
moving orders from the landowner because
sharefarming doesn’t pay him either. Going to
city after harvest.
Younger sharefarmer on same owner’s land:
Born to the game and a great worker. Put off
and went to the city. Returned to the country
because he didn’t like the life. Now is farm
laborer and rabbit-trapper.
Owner of farms just mentioned and other
land: Reducing all forms df production in order
to restore lost soil fertility. Two hands put off
have gone to city jobs and one to army.
Moderate-sized farm of one-man capacity
owned by three brothers; Worked by two of
them, who have to go shearing, etc., to pay
their way.
Farm abandoned, to mortgagee by family
after owner’s death: The family didn’t care
to inherit the mortgage.
Sharefarmer in deplorable financial straits.
Farm abandoned to mortgagee after 30 years’
work; Farmer bought motor-truck by selling
farming plant. Now does contract work (mostly
for defence works) and claims to be making
a better living than he ever did at farming.
One son assists him and the other works in a
mill.
It is futile to expect, as some do, that
there will be a vast settlement of returned
soldiers on the land after the war. There
isn’t enough good land available (the
land which has been vacated is generally
second-rate, and has fallen into the hands
of large landholders who seek to cheapen
production by using mass methods). The
experience of last war’s R.S, settlements
on indifferent land has been so lamentable
for all concerned that the experiment is
not likely to be repeated.
There is only one way to stop the drift
to the city, and that is to restore pros-
perity to the men on the land. Pros-
perity has been lost through low prices
and decreasing soil fertility. Subsidising
prices is only a palliative and is imprac-
ticable for our great farming industries.
Cheap money and cheap transport would
have the same effect as higher prices and
they are not beyond the powers of a
Government really determined to cuje the
drift; they would also facilitate a change-
over to a more diversified type of farm-
ing (as in the case of wheatgrowers who
are now producing for a glutted market).
The restoration of soil fertility is a
tremendous task with many technical
problems still to be solved. But I have
no doubt that the problems will be solved
as soon as farming pays well enough to
make the landowners think of their sons
and their grandsons, farming the same
land after them. —E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Railways
The fact that India, East Africa, Japan
and the U.S.A. all have petrol rationing
should convince most Australians that
this is something more than a local politi-
cal ramp. Recent activities in Iraq and
Iran have temporarily removed the threat
to our oil supplies from that quarter, but
any move by Japan, either an invasion
of the N.E.I. or direct participation in
the war, would mean a practically complete
stoppage of oil supplies to Australia.
Tanker space is at a premium and what
little foreign exchange we can acquire
these days must be earmarked for essen-
tial war supplies.
Considering these facts, and remember-
ing that motor transport, civil or military,
calls for oil, shipping space and foreign
exchange, it is rather hard to follow the
mental processes of those writers who
clamor for support for “modern” methods
of transport at the expense of the self-
contained railways.
It is obvious that modern war cannot
be waged without vast fleets of motor
vehicles ranging from tanks to motor-
bikes, but when masses of supplies have
to be handled behind the line, or to serve
industry, any sort of a railway is by far
the more efficient arrangement under
almost any conditions. Which is why
Hamm and Hazebrouck figure regularly
in the news, autobahnen never.
Perhaps the two weakest points in
Australia’s defences are the dependence
on imported fuel for so much transport
and industry—the former from city buses
to coastal shipping, the latter from milk-
ing machines to rural power systems—
and the deplorable state of the national
railways, the only transport system which
cannot be blockaded.
Individually there is little wrong with
the State systems apart from general
shortage of equipment, but as a national
service they don’t exist. After 85 years’
operation, at a time when there is a
desperate shortage of shipping, not a
man, not a gun, not a ton of supplies
can be railed between the two major
cities without transhipment.
Yet even the fools who left major
transport to shipping and squandered
millions on “tourist” roads must have
known that any sort of a local war would
bring a shortage of both petrol and ships
when we would have to depend on rail-
ways to do jobs they would never be
called on to undertake in peace-time.—
Mistri Sahib (Egypt).
“Hanidson’s” par. (B. 22 /10 / ’4l) is
much to the point. The Federal Gov-
ernment should prohibit the transport of
metropolitan newspapers by any other
means than train or producer-gas vehicle.
There is another way in which mil-
lions of gallons of petrol might be saved
annually, and that is by compelling all
commercial travellers to use the train.
I happen to be town clerk of a country
municipality, and on an average four
travellers a week call and try to sell me
something. They carry no samples and
can rarely supply information that is not
obtainable from a trade catalogue, and
there is not a single item the council
requires that I could not buy by post. Yet
w'eek after week these birds tour up and
down the coast in expensive cars, using
hundreds of gallons of petrol—soo travel-
lers, working five days a week for 48
weeks, and using only ten gallons a day,
would use 1,200,000 gallons of petrol a
year. Unfortunately, there are a lot
more than 500 commercials on the road
in this State alone. — Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Boards and More Boards
No newspaper has been more persis-
tent than The Bulletin in its protests
against the multitude of boards and com-
mittees which are slowly strangling this
country’s industry and enterprise. To
satisfy himself whether or not these pro-
tests are well-founded a colleague of
mine went to the trouble of tallying up
the number of boards and committees
appointed under the National Security
Act Regulations. He was astonished at
the result. No fewer than 61 boards and
committees have been constituted under
that Act alone since the war began. Even
that figure, large as it is, does not tell the
whole story, as these facts show:
This number does not take into account
the numerous boards appointed under
other Acts, State and Federal, both before
and since the war began.
Each of these boards has a State com-
mittee or sub-committee in each State
(some of them have more than one in each
State), so that the total number cannot be
fewer than 350.
Average number of board members is six,
all receiving “such fees and expenses as
the Governor-General shall direct.”
Each board has a chairman and secre-
tary (some of them have managers, too)
and staff.
Every possible human activity, from the
growing of barley to the making of
machines of war, is governed by a board;
every product of human energy, literally
from a needle (Tinplate Board) to an
anchor (Shipbuilding Commission), has its
attendant board.
But only the Almighty and the bureau-
crats who administer the regulations
know where the line of demarcation lies
“ This'll be a reef knot!”
between some of the boards. Where, for
instance, do the duties of the Egg Board
cease and those of the Egg Supervision
Committee begin ; or those of the Rabbit
Skins Board and the Rabbit Skins
Appraisement Board? And what is the
difference between the Central Medical
Co-ordination Committee, the Medical
Equipment Central Committee and the
State Medical Co-ordination Committee?
—W. K. D. (Q.).
A Board at Work
As from 3/11/’4l, Sydney Egg Board
assumed control of egg marketing
throughout N.S.W. Actually, this means
that the board takes control of every
blessed chook in the State, for though
people with fewer than 20 “adult, domesti-
cated female fowls” are supposed to be
outside the board’s rule they can be dead
sure that the suspicious eye of official-
dom is on them the moment anybody
might suggest they’ve acquired a couple
more chickens. The strange aspect of
this is that, though nobody with fewer
than 150 chooks was permitted to vote
on the question of control, that control
is exercised over everybody with 20 or
more.
A week of the new form of control
had barely passed when a “S.M.H.”
correspondent said:
It has caused disruption of trade
channels and a state of confusion. On
scores of dairy farms where poultry is a
sideline the past week’s eggs have not
been disposed of and heavy wastage
threatens.
H. G. Fraser, a Shellharbor man, had
an experience, that can be taken as typi-
cal. From his hens he collected eggs
that gave him a credit with his local
storekeeper of £1 10s. a week. The week
the board took over Fraser’s storekeeper
had to refuse his eggs. Fraser learned
that a board floor had been set up at
Wollongong to which he could take his
eggs, though who was to compensate him
for the journey wasn’t stated. At other
centres on the coast storekeepers refused
to accept eggs, some of them stating that
they were cutting out the egg trading
altogether. The same thing is sure to be
happening inland.
Eggs are being taken only from farmers
with fewer than 20 hens or from the few
who have obtained permits. For the
latter the storekeeper is merely a board
agent, distributing the return obtained
from the board, less the board levy.
There’s more to it than that, but no-
body should be surprised. Board control
of land products was never satisfactory,
and it never will be, simply because the
law of supply and demand won’t stand
interference from anybody.— Chicker
(N.S.W.).
Banks
If Mr. Rowley (B. 5 /11/’4l) had studied
the figures of the private banks as well
as he has those of the Commonwealth
Bank he would have noticed that the
deposits of the banks—money deposited
with them by the public—increased by
more than 55 million pounds during the
period he mentions. Therefore the banks
did not make credit to invest in Treasury
bonds and Government loans ; the public
made the credit in increased spending and
savings due to the production of more
wealth both in Australia and from in-
creased exports.
A curious statement appears in the
second paragraph of his letter. He in-
dicates that the banks admit they lend
money which is not their own property.
Of course they do—how else could they
get it to lend? The money lent to the
Government and to the borrowing public
is in the first place
deposits taken from
the lending public,
which lends its
money to the private
banker because it
knows the money
will be well looked
after, cautiously in-
vested by practical
men, and that it will
be out of the hands
of monetary cranks.
The increased de-
posits in the trading
banks do come, in
part, from the Com-
monwealth Govern-
ment as the creator
of bank credit, I
admit, but a large
proportion doesn’t.
The increase in the
national income isn’t
all due to the
creation of credit; a
great deal is coming
from the conserva-
tion of foreign ex-
change, from in-
creased exports and
decreased imports,
as well as payments from Dominion Gov-
ernments for war materials manufactured.
The increase in the deposit-without-in-
terest figures is due to increased turnover
by business and manufacturing interests ;
similarly, increased Commonwealth Bank
savings deposits are due to more savings
by wage-earners. The public holdings in
fixed deposits in the banks decrease as
interest rates fall to prevent competition
with Government loans.
Mr. Rowley, in his final paragraph,
asks why the banks should be paid inter-
est on their increased holdings of Govern-
ment stocks. The answer is that, under
the present economic system, people who
lend expect a return for their money.
Does Mr. Rowley think that the public
should not get any interest from new
loans ? I cannot see any distinction, as
the money invested by the banks is the
public’s money.
People with ideas about stifling the
activities of the private banks should in-
vestigate these activities in a practical
way and stop theorising. A large propor-
tion of the small businesses and a lot of
the big ones are in existence today be-
cause of, and in many cases owe their
start to, the practice of most of the bank-
ing institutions of lending temporarily,
and without security, small advances to
tide them over difficult periods and to
pay cash for their goods to obtain dis-
counts. These advances are given on the
integrity and ability of the borrowers
only. Let some of the monetary cranks
go to a Government institution for an
unsecured overdraft and find out for
themselves something about what the


elimination of private banking would
mean. —W. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Mortgage Banks
My experience as a bank manager in
various parts of N. S. Wales and Queens-
land bears out “Julia Creek’s” conten-
tion (B. 29/10/’4l). The average farmer
or grazier who is progressive can nor-
mally obtain his requirements from one
or other of the trading banks ; the man
who wants his advance for all but eter-
nity is no good to any bank, mortgage
or otherwise. When the P.P. Bank went
into liquidation nearly every advance on
the Darling Downs that caused a head-
ache had been originally taken over from
the State Agricultural Bank.
Money which is too easily obtained
and which shows too small a margin of
security is no good to either the lender
or the borrower. Anyone who wants the
dinkum oil on long-term advances
should consult some of the insurance
companies which lent out large plasters
in the Balranald-Moulmein district in the
days when Victorian railways were being
extended across the Murray, and that
wizard of finance J. T. Lang was going to
guarantee the wheat-farmers 7s. 6d. per
bushel. Besides, too easy finance tends
to inflate land values. The Richmond
River had a bitter experience of that in
1919-20, when all the banks were chasing
advances, and, in consequence, land
values went up as high as £9O an acre
for bare paddocks. Today, £45 to £6O
is their limit.
Again, a Government mortgage bank
will be inevitably subject to political
interference. I remember the late W. H.
O’Malley Wood coming to my town in
the days when he was president of the
defunct Government Savings Bank. I
knew the old man pretty well and bluntly
asked him why his popshop had taken
on such rotten advances as I knew they
had in numbers of cases. I have never
forgotten his reply: “Well, my boy, it’s
like this. I decline an advance because
I regard it as possessing insufficient
margin. Then Harry [the local member]
comes in and urges acceptance. Appli-
cant is a strong party supporter and
good fellow. Still I say no. Next is a
memo, from the Premier telling the
bank point-blank to make the advance.
So, as a dutiful public servant, I do as
the boss tells me.”
Those political advances contributed in
no small measure to the debacle of 1931.
(I know it is fashionable to credit Lang
with the entire responsibility. Person-
ally, I believe Lang is entitled to one-
third, incompetent management to an-
other third and political interference to
the balance.)
Anyhow, why should one section of
the community benefit at the expense of
the whole? In the main, it will be the
thriftless and incompetent that will avail
themselves of the mortgage bank. The
man making good can already obtain his
financial requirements, and will not be
bothered with the circumlocution and
red-tape of a Governmental institution.
I believe the vast majority of men on
the land would prefer to see Mr. Forde
applying his well-known talents to in-
ducing some of the militant union bosses
and extremely vocal aid-to-Russia gentry
to enlist in the A.I.F. — Sandpatch
(N.S.W.).
THEIR Bit
Rationing of newsprint may have
diminished the volume of publicity con-
cerning the doings of sassiety, but it cer-
tainly hasn’t stemmed the flow. The
hardships of the unfortunate womenfolk
who struggled out to Flemington to brave
the rigors of the Melbourne climate dur-
ing Cup week were feelingly revealed.
In fact, “mink capes, fox furs and hun-
dreds of fur and fur-trimmed coats were
thrown over summer silk frocks, making
the scene a very wintry one.”
At risk of harrowing the feelings of
O.F.M. readers I continue the quotation:
“A few stalwarts wore their white or
light-colored silk short-sleeved and low-
necked frocks unflinchingly, proudly dis-
playing the goose flesh on their frozen
arms and laughing while their teeth chat-
tered.”
Thus did the women of Melbourne do
their bit. — Barwon (N.S.W.) .
Rationing
Australia’s economic problem is the
diversion of men, machines and materials
from peace-time to war-time production.
In my opinion the correct and fairest
method has not yet been tried. To tax
incomes to hardship point is apt to dis-
rupt rather than to divert industry and
moreover denies to the individual an
opportunity to make provision for his
post-war future. Compulsory loans are
open to the same objection as far as
industry is concerned, and are dishonest
unless the people are told that they will
have to pay taxes after the war to repay
the loans they have been compelled to
make. In any case these methods attack
only one aspect of the problem.
It is necessary to do three things: to
prevent a demand for unnecessary pro-
duction, to raise money to pay the Gov-
ernment’s war expenses, to prepare to
counter a post-war slump. To these ends
ail luxury production should be banned
and all necessities, strictly rationed on a
fairly low basis as soon as the productive
capacity thus disemployed can be en-
gaged on war work. Price control should
be tightened considerably. By prevent-
ing a good deal of spending saving would
become virtually unavoidable. Whether
savings are lodged in banks or invested
in bonds is not of primary importance.
Taxation should be levied at whatever
rate is necessary to pay the war bill, but
not at any higher rate.
After the war rationing should be
lifted to unfreeze these savings, and price
control retained to maintain their value.
Today the problem is being considered in
a generalised and abstract way. We are
told to spend less and to consume more
primary products. The two appeals taken
together make nonsense. Rationing
would block undesirable spending en-
tirely, and divert purchasing power into
savings and towards important industries
which should be sustained.
It is useless to expect the individual
to decide whether to buy a suit and help
the woolgrower or to buy a war bond
and let the woolgrower look after him-
self. Rationing would solve the indi-
vidual’s problem and incidentally end that
prolific cause of excess spending, a
dST’i r ee i& U rf Scw, pe ° ple n6Xt
. I. G. McD. (N.S.W.).
D “ t( , (h . ,
If this war settles one thing it will be
the contentious question of whether a
democracy is constitutionally able to
assume sufficient force and direction to
defend itself successfully against a tofali-
tanan dictatorship Our own failure to
conscript men and wealth even at this
eleventh hour would seem to provide the
answer without waiting for the numbers
to go up; but fortunately the other de-
mocracies in the British Commonwealth
have done better in this respect than we.
The question is not a new one. The
Romans in times of great emergency
which seemed beyond the capacity of the
ordinary governing authority appointed
a dictator, but only for a period of six
months. His authority was absolute, and
for the period of his appointment the
powers of all other magistrates ceased.
If he made a mess of things he could
be called upon to pay with his life,
Quintus Fabius Maximus was made die-
tator during the second Punic war when
Hannibal was on the rampage, and, inci-
dentally, by his delaying tactics saved
Rome.
We might have difficulty finding a die-
tator on such terms. Admittedly they
abound in every Government depart-
ment and on every board and commis-
sion, but the shortness of the term and
the fact that the appointee might be
answerable for his deeds would surely
make the job unpalatable.—T. E. P.
(N.S.W.).
Conscription
We have been at war for over two
years and the Government should by
now have some idea of its man-power
and monetary requirements. Adequate
man-power is available to fill the armed
forces and the factories, and there is
plenty of money for payment —but only
if the authorities have the courage to con-
script, Now is the time to act. Our war
commitments must be met immediately,
irrespective of the sacrifices involved.
Dislocation of our civilian production
must be accepted. The fate of France
should help Canberra to realise that it
amounts to national suicide to leave
munitions workshops short of skilled men
when luxury goods continue to roll off
the production line.
To the normally intelligent Australian
conscription is no longer a bogey, but
a stark and urgent necessity. Menaced
as we are, the choice confronting us is
“Conscript or Perish,” and in Churchill’s
words, “There is not a day nor an hour
to be lost.” — Forus (N.S.W.).
“Conceited Little Prigs”?
Having watched my daughter and her
pal since they joined the W.A.A.A.F., I
say most vehemently, “Stamp out these
uniformed services—they are merely an
imposing futility.”
The girls were medically examined,
blood-tested, X-rayed, inoculated, vac-
cinated, disciplined, paraded, photo-
graphed and heaven knows what else
(all at the taxpayers’ expense), and
after months of training were given uni-
forms and allotted for duty.
If this duty was of any apparent con-
sequence I would not object, but in actual
fact it is doing nothing more than the
small routine tasks which in civil life
would be left to the sub-junior office-
boy. On their own admission the girls
have scarcely anything to do.
Worst of all —I say it sadly—the wear-
ing of a uniform has converted both of
them into conceited little prigs whose
sole topic of conversation is the “Flight”
—a young officer who, old school tie and
all, would be better employed doing a
job abroad than in training glamor-girls
at home to do nothing in particular.
If women want to do war work, let
them emulate the munition workers, who
wear their own clothes and don’t pose.
One such girl in a day will do more to
win the war than a whole squadron of
uniformed peacocks in a month. —
Furious Father (Vic.).
The Merchant Navy
Agree with “Steamship” (B. 8/10/’4l)
on the merchant navy. But why stop at
merely extending the notice “Open to
Men of the Services” to include “and
Men of the Merchant Navy”? Why not
provide some distinctive means of recog-
nising them in the streets ? Perhaps a
full Uniform would be too expensive, but
surely a cap, or something of the sort,
with distinguishing marks to denote rank,
would not be asking too much.
Any man who enters the war zone in
the service of his country, whether with a
uniform on his back and a rifle at his
shoulder or not, must be regarded as a
combatant and given the privileges, few
as they are, of one. I’m not belittling the
Royal Navy or any of its branches when
I compare the difference of armaments
between merchant ships and fighting
ships. But there is that difference and
we do well to remember it. Because a
man rides the high seas in a ship fitted
with many guns and heavy armor it
makes him no more of a hero than he
who brings our food and necessities of
life in ships supposedly “armored” with
one or two small guns.—C. A. H. (M.L.).
One Income Tax
Even if “one taxing authority” (B.
5/11 /’4l) achieved nothing more than the
elimination of stupid inconsistencies in
the deductions section of taxation forms,
it would be more than justified. At
present, “ expenditure incurred by a per-
son carrying on primary production in
exterminating pests, ploughing, grassing,
grazing lands, etc.” is deducted for both
Federal and State purposes, but ‘‘expen-
diture incurred by a person carrying on
pastoral pursuits in respect of wire-net-
ling, or by a person carrying on primary
production, in draining swamp lands or
in clearing” is allowed as a Federal de-
duction only. Apparently State officials
find a fundamental difference between
the two classes of rural activity, but I
fail to see it. Small wonder is it that so
many farmers are put to the (unneces-
sary) expense of calling in accountants to
help them deal with anomalies like these.
And here’s another “beaut” that makes
it hard to say which of the two branches
of government is the more inconsistent.
Both Federal and State authorities allow
certain deductions for medical, hospital
and funeral expenses, but only the State
Government is magnanimous enough to
go the whole hog and allow a deduction
for dental expenses as well. I wonder
what the Federal attitude would be
towards a citizen who required hospital
treatment when complications set in after
the removal of his teeth. Maybe I’m
dumb, but the idea of making a distinc-
tion for revenue purposes between a
man’s teeth and the rest of his body
doesn’t make sense to me. —P. S. C.
(N.S.W.).
Another Ha’penny On
How can the Federal Government
defend another id. a letter for postage?
The first jd. was added because of the
1914-18 war, another because there was
a depression. Now another id. for an-
other war, and that will doubtless remain
till 20 years after the war has finished.
The Treasurers have had millions of
the people’s postage money, and most of
the public think that it is immoral to
use takings from a social service for other
purposes. Maoriland and S’Africa have
Id. postage services, and S’Africa has
proposed that the service shall be id.
That already is the rate on unsealed
letters. — Enniker Eaton (W.A.).
“For Temperance”
The article “For Temperance” (B.
8/10/’4l) hit the nail on the head. I
for one saw its force in Adelaide, when
a crowd gathered outside a hotel at
6.5 p.m. to see a sailor who was fighting
drunk. A cobber had received a cut eye
in his attempt to get his friend away
from the bar.
Police arrived, and, the victim’s powers
of reason having deserted him, it was
necessary to lock him up. From some of
his remarks it is likely that he missed rhe
evening train to Melbourne, and would
therefore be seriously dealt with by his
captain. The police behaved with marked
restraint, but the spectacle of a man
brave enough to serve with the Navy
these days being carted off by policemen
in the main street of a city cannot be
anything but a sad sight.
Such men deserve better of their coun-
try than being served at public bars until
they lose their senses. As The Bulletin
contributor suggested, the remedy is
largely in the hands of hotelkeepers them-
selves. —E. S. B. (S.A.).
“I move that this branch of the Agricultural Bureau urges the covernment
to establish a munitions factory in this district."


Has Yonr cai lost the
speed it used to have?
Racing champions will tell you that Champion Spark
Plugs provide top performance and fullest speed. You, x
too, can enjoy smooth, top speed performance by in-
stalling new Champions. They soon pay for /
themselves in the fuel they save. Factories,
Feltham, Eng. Windsor, Can. Toledo, USA.
CONTAINS SILLMENT
THE MIRACLE MINERAL
Sillment seals Cham-
pions against trouble-
some leakage, at the
shoulder and past the
center electrode, com-
mon to ordinary spark
plugs. This patented
feature corrects rough,
uneven and wasteful
engine operation
caused by leaky,
overheated spark (
plugs.
wm
m
V V >0
mm
mu
illlslt
JV A
min
f&gsm&wmm
L&USwj&JiWs
mm
mm
tiU*
rrfV^s<3‘
Install new
Champion Spark Plugs!
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— W. H. Hart, Esq. (Chairman) ;M. J. Ryan, Esq.; F. E. Loxton, Esq.;
Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., 0.M.G.; ,E. E. D. White, Esq.
General Manager —D- S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busiaeaa.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Words of “Vilikins and His Dinah,” with or
without music.—2952.
Student of mineralogy would like to hear
from persons able to supply mineral specimens,
especially well-crystallised, rare or unusual
varieties. No dealers. —2921.
To buy second-hand church bell in good
order. State weight and price.—2949.
To buy Catholic Encyclopedia, complete.—
2899.
To buy holey dollar and dump.—2904.
To correspond with collector of sea shells,
Barrier Reef preferred.—2905.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the address of the Military, Air
Force, Naval Services Club, and who are its
officers? (2) What services does it offer? (3)
Are its services available to returned soldiers
of the 1914-18 war as well as present members
of the forces? (4) During what hours is it
open ? —2950.
(1) It is on the third floor at 21 Macquarie-
place, Sydney. G. J. J. O’Sullivan is president
and R. Hutchinson secretary. (2) Its services
embrace free legal advice, general information,
land and pension matters, employment, finan-
cial assistance and meals. (3) Yes. (4) Twenty-
four hours a day.
* * * *
(1) Does the Federal Government accept
Commonwealth bonds and inscribed stock in
payment of death duties ? (2) In payment of
Federal income tax? (3) Are they accepted
in payment of Victorian death duties? —2951.
(1) Yes, but only in certain issues. These
include all 4 percents, 3£ due in 1947, 3| due
in 1942, 3+ due in 1943 and 3* due in 1948.
(2) No. (3) No.
* * * *
(1) Our family consists of husband, son and
self. Our property, freehold and grazing land,
is held by us as joint owners. In the event
of death of any one of us, would the others
become the owners without a will being made ?
(2) Would death duty be payable on the share
of the one who died? (3) By making wills
leaving all to our son, but leaving a life inter-
est to surviving parent, would this obviate the
paying of probate duties until the son inherits?
(4) What is the best procedure to save duties ?
—2919.
(1) and (2) Yes. (3) No. (4) Cannot offer
any suggestion.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
(1) Can the owner of a vessel dismiss the
captain whilst the vessel is on the high seas,
or must he wait, or is the dismissal inoperative
until the ship reaches port ? (2) Does your
answer apply as well to sailing ships as to
steamers, etc. ? (3) Procedure necessary to
transfer ownership of a vessel, including the
different documents to be completed to effect
the transfer? (4) Does the transfer have to be
registered at the port where the ship is regis-
tered before being effective, or does it come into
effect immediately upon signing? (5) Any addi-
tional formalities where the ship upon the
transfer will change nationality ? —2900.
(1) The contract of service between an owner
and master is a matter of agreement. Reason-
able notice must be given of discharge having
regard to the terms of the contract. (2) Yes.
(3) Sale must be effected by bill of sale in
accordance with Sec. 24 of the Merchant Ship-
ping Act, 1894. (4) Yes. It must be produced
to the Registrar at the ship’s port of registry.
(5) Depends on the shipping laws of the new
nation.
(1) What is the complete stanza containing
the line “You boasted the Day, and you toasted
the Day” ? (2) From what poem is it taken ?
—2855.
(1) —
You boasted the Day, and you toasted the Day,
And now the Day has come,
Blasphemer, braggart and coward all,
Little you reck of the numbing ball,
The blasting shell, or the “White arm’s” fall,
As they speed poor humans home.
(2) “Der Tag,” by Henry Chappell.
* * * *
Particulars of the tulip-tree; suitable soil
and climate ? —2BBB.
The tulip-tree ( Liriodendron tulipferum ) is
deciduous, and, although it grows to 30ft.
under ideal conditions, by systematic pruning
it can be shaped into an excellent subject for
a large lawn. The foliage is a brilliant green,
and the large flowers of yellowish-red are
formed similar to the tulip. It is only suitable
for cold and medium-temperature areas where
there is shelter from destructive winds.
* * * *
Method of preserving oranges? —29s9.
Oranges can be preserved whole, and in
glass jars make a fine-looking exhibit for dis-
play purposes. The flavor, however, in this case
is insipid, and the cut fruit gives a much
better-flavored article. The ripe oranges are
cut into “V”-shaped sections with a width of
about |in. at the rind. After packing the cut
fruit in jars, fill with cool, strained syrup made
with 51b. to 61b. sugar to one gallon water.
Place the jars in a cold bath which is brought
to the boil and kept boiling for fiye minutes.
Then remove the jars. An alternative method
is to cook for 35 minutes at a temperature of
190 deg. F. Oranges so preserved can be used
in salads, or if served with cream make a
palatable sweet.
* * * *
(1) What type of kiln is used at N.S.W. Gov-
ernment kilns making charcoal for producer-gas
units ? (2) Can kilns be obtained from the Gov-
ernment? (3) Cost of such equipment? (4)
What timbers are best suited for the purpose?
(5) Any technical or legal obstacles likely to
prevent manufacture of charcoal for the market
by private enterprise? (6) Are satisfactory re-
sults obtained by pit-burning? (7) Any Gov-
ernment pamphlets issued on the subject? —
2955.
(1) The kiln used is the Princes Risborough
type, in two sections, diameter 7ft. by height
Bft., the bottom section being bedded on a base
of bricks (preferably firebricks); the top half
and lid are removable. The kiln holds some
five tons of hardwood, producing about one ton
of charcoal of the heavier species; lighter species
of timber produce correspondingly lighter char-
coal. (2) Not at present, but the organising
manager will supply names of firms which manu-
facture the kilns. Plans of the Princes Risborough
kiln are obtainable at the organising manager’s
office at a cost of £1 Is. (3) The plant employed
at Government kilns consists of eight kilns, com-
plete with screening plant, lifting gear, charcoal
sheds and housing, and the capital cost is
about £BOO, varying according to location. It
would be quite practicable to commence pro-
duction on a much smaller scale. (4) The
timber species most favored are in the order
stated; Ironbark, box (excepting brush box),
river red gum, spotted gum and grey gum.
These are the heavier species, but some of the
lighter hardwoods are being tested. (5) From
the technical point of view charcoal manufac-
ture for producer-gas units is a somewhat com-
plex process, but if instructions are carefully
followed there is nothing to stop private enter-
prise producing charcoal up to market stand-
ard. At present there is no restriction upon
the production or sale of charcoal in N. S.
Wales, but the Government proposes to intro-
duce legislation providing for the licensing of
vendor producers and selling agents. It is
hoped that under this scheme it may be pos-
sible to provide for the testing of privately-
produced charcoal. (6) Unsatisfactory results
caused the Forestry Commission to abandon
pit-burning. Such charcoal often contains un-
burnt wood, dirt, sand, wood tar and other
substances likely to harm gas-operated vehicles.
(7) The N. S. Wales Forestry Commission
Division of Wood Technology, 96 Harrington-
street, Sydney, issues a pamphlet, “Charcoal
for Mobile Gas Producers,” which contains
all necessary information, including directions
for both kiln- and pit-burning.
* * * *
How to harvest swede turnip seed without
machinery ? —2927.
They’ll be ready when the pods are papery
without being brittle. Cut the plants with a
sickle, tie in bundles and stock to cure. If
shattering is severe, spread hessian or canvas
sheets and stock on them. Spread a sheet
in the cart when taking the bundles in. Thresh
on a clean floor with a flail. The seed will need
winnowing afterwards. If you can borrow a
reaper and binder to cut the crop you’ll save
a lot of time ; that is the Maoriland method.
* * * *
Is there anything to choose between soda
ash and ordinary washing soda for destroying
white wax scale in citrus-trees? —2968.
The soda ash is preferable. Ordinary wash-
ing soda (sodium carbonate crystals) contains
round 63 p.c. water. When the crystals are
exposed to the air this water content is gradu-
ally lost, the amount of loss depending on
temperature, humidity and length of time of
exposure. The washing soda thus is reduced
to a white powder or soda ash (water-free
sodium, carbonate). It is not possible to esti-
mate how much water content has been lost
from the washing soda, so that there is a ten-
dency to apply an excessive strength of soda to
the trees, causing burn and dropping of foliage.
If washing soda is used, then it should be stored
in airtight containers. Soda ash, on the other
hand, if used in the correct proportions, has the
same effect on white wax scale as the ordinary
washing-soda crystals, can be stored without
deterioration, and with it there can be no
variations in the strength of the spray applied
so long as the correct quantities are weighed
out in making the solution. Soda ash, moveover,
represents a saving in freight, as the grower isn’t
paying for the delivery of the 63 p.c. water
content.
* * * *
Highest number of spectators at (1) Test
cricket match in Australia, (2) Test cricket match
in England, (3) Australian rules football match
in Australia, (4) football match in Great
Britain ?— 2938.
(1) 87,798 at the third Test at Melbourne,
1936-37. (2) 33,800 at Lord’s, June, 1938.
(3) 96,834 at Melbourne in 1938. (4) 149,547
in the Association International between Scot-
land and England at Hampden Park, April 17,
1937. At the Cup final at Wembley Stadium,
April 28, 1923, 126,047 passed through the turn-
stiles, then the crowd burst in, and the attend-
ance was estimated at over UO,OOO.
♦ * * *
(1) How many times did Fred Kay and
Tommy Uren fight each other? (2) What
Australian championships did both win ? (3)
With whom, and when, were their last con-
tests ? —2394.
(1) Eight, Uren winning five —two on knock-
outs —and Kay three on points. (2) Uren won
the Australian light-, welter- and middleweight
championships, and Kay the welter- and middle-
weight ones. (3) Uren’s last fight was at
Bathurst on August 30, 1930, when he out-
pointed Ted Monson in 15 rounds, and Kay’s
at Sydney on October 9, 1920, when Billy
Shade stopped him in 15 rounds.
* * * ♦
(1) When N.S.W. defeated Great Britain in
Rugby Union Test at Sydney in 1930 what were
the half-time and full-time scores? (2) Names
of N.S.W. team and scorers ? (3) Was it the
first time N.S.W. had defeated England? —ls72.
(I) N.S.W. led at half-time 10-3; full-time
scores were 28-3. Scorers: Crossman (2),
Cerutti, Towers, White and Ford tries; Ross,
five goals. Prentice kicked penalty goal for
Great Britain. (2) N.S.W. team: Ross (full-
back) ; Crossman, Towers, Egan and White
(three-quarters); King (five-eighth); Malcolm,
captain (half-back); Breckenridge, Ford, Pal-
freyman, Telford, Storey, Blair, O’Connor and
Cerutti (forwards). (3) No; N.S.W. defeated
England at Sydney in 1908 by 6-3.
* * * *
In Test cricket what are the rules relating
to the covering of the wicket against rain ?
2021.
The wicket shall be completely protected
against rain if necessary and as far as practic-
able 24 hours before the time advertised for the
start of a Test match or until play begins.
After the first ball has been bowled 'the covers
shall not protect more than 3ft. 6in. in front
of the popping-crease (i.e., 7ft. 6in. from the
wicket) at each end. It is the duty of the
umpires (who are the sole judges of the fitness
of the ground) to insist on this being rigidly
attended to.
Brief Answers.
T.J.W.: The wearing of those militia service
stripes is not authorised A.J.F.: The
drenches mentioned in the article “Watch Your
Sheep” (B. 5 /11 / ’4l) are for the “barber’s
pole” worm, which is really the large stomach
worm. Not necessary to boil the mixture, but
warm water will help it to dissolve... .A.D.:
Krivitsky’s real name was Ginsberg. He was
found shot dead in his hotel room in America
early this year, and a finding of suicide was
given... .W.R.P.: Know of no private estab-
lishments which conduct correspondence lessons
in general school work... .H.M.V.: Write to
the Public Service Board, 21 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney G.R.: (1) If the figure occurred in
a treatise on physics it would mean “one
point twenty-nine, multiplied by ten raised to
the seventy-ninth power.” (2) “An” before
“his” is incorrect; “If I were king” is correct.
(3) Webster (1874) says bomb is pronounced
“bum,” but the 1937 Webster and the latest
Oxford prefer bom. (4) It is safe to bet that
every teacher would give you a different list.
But in all Vieuxtemps, Wieniawski and possibly
Tartini, Sarasate and De Beriot would be likely
to figure... .W.H.S.: Each school settles that
for itself; there’s no binding rule. A penny
for each over-trick would be about right m
your case N.D.P.; Naturally under the same
conditions of temperature and pressure cold
water will freeze faster than hot. But water
which has been boiled and allowed to cool will
freeze faster than water from the tap, owing
to the fact that boiling has driven out a certain
amount of the air bubbles normally found in
all water H.F.8.: The translation is:
“Greatly missed. Here lies the one that I
loved so much for nine years. Alas! She was
my wife for just so many months and a mother
for just so many hours.” A wife, evidently,
who died soon after the birth of her first
child D.P.H.: Using that method, about
41b. of meal for the sow and lib. for each
piglet should be adequate... .W.S.G.: ( Ma-
warra, “a pleasant place”; Derribong, “green
trees.” Coolangatta means “a splendid view”..
T.N.8.: That would do the job, but 3-4-50 is
the strength to apply Bordeaux mixture for
potato blight. That is 31b. copper culphate,
41b. freshly-hydrated lime and 50 gallons of
water. To make up four gallons of the mixture
at this strength use 4oz. of the bluestone and
soz. of the lime... .P.McD.: The U.S. Stars
and Stripes flag was adopted by Continental
Congress on June 14, 1777.... J.L.K.: Have
never seen the term “gun-money” used in that
sense. It was the name given to the money
coined by James II as “sinews of war” on his
attempts in 1689 and 1690 to recover his lost
kingdom. The coins were mostly made from
brass cannon and kitchen utensils and were
of the nominal value of 6d., Is., 2s. 6d. and ss.
A.E.G.: On pre-war figures Berlin is ranked
after London, New York and Tokyo in point
of population D’A.W.: Such expressions as
“In a quarter of an hour we hear” and “The
orchestra broadcasts tomorrow night” are gram-
matically incorrect, but as idiom they are so
common that they could be classed as passable
colloquial English J.V.R.: Dismissed by
Governor Game in purported exercise of his re-
serve powers as representative of the King. The
subject is too wide to be discussed here. See
The King and His Dominion Governors, by
Dr. H. V. Evatt, also an excellent survey of the
Statute of Westminster by Justice Owen Dixon
published in Vol. 10 of the “Australian Law
Journal” (1936) Y.P.K.: “Lay-by” differs
from hire-purchase and time-payment in that
neither property nor posesssion passes until the
goods are paid for. There is nothing peculiar
about its legal nature. Don’t know where it
originated, but similar systems exist in other parts
of the world. Don’t know of any books dealing
with the subject... .R.F.M.: Yes, the machine is
liable to sales tax, unless made out of second-
hand material W.J.S.: Members of the Mer-
chant Marine do not come within the “prefer-
ence” Acts E.H.: Subject to disqualifications
and exemptions, too numerous to enumerate here,
every man above the age of 21 years residing
in N.S.W. is liable for jury service who has in
N.S.W. in his own name or in trust for him
(a) a clear yearly income of at least £3O per
annum arising out of lands, houses or other real
estate or partly out of real and partly out of
personal estate or ( b ) a clear real or personal
estate of the value of at least £3OO.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted: and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
McC.:
With Russia and with China
We’ll settle the Nazi crew.
And Hitler, Goebbels, Goring
In hell will surely stew.
And Ribbentrop will loudly yell
“Sweet champagne I once did sell,
But it’s damned dry down here in hell.”
And Hitler say; “Too true.”
M.A.H.: —
War ! Nations’ venom!
What thoughts are mine when raised is thy foul head?
More welcome snakes to hear with joyous mood—
Their rustling in near undergrowth for food.
....H.D.W.: Feeble....D.A.W.: “But all this
is ridiculous.” You’ve said it S.L.C.: Try
a woman’s paper W.K.U.: Magazine stuff.
G.M.: Couldn’t get past the first page
A.W.R.: Thin... .0.W.K.: Yours, t 00....
J.E.M.: Not for us C.R.: Out J.M.:
Don’t want “the very beau ideal of a glamor-
boy” P.L.W.: “Mothercraft,” surprisingly
enough, came close; the other’s well off our
beat.... P.T.J.; None of them for u 5.... M.W.:
Just a trifle... .J.F.: Appalling A.D.: “Re-
morse” didn’t move us.... Carp: Glorious it
should have been; not Furious.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.P.D.: Get more sweep into your lines
M.S.: That design might be all right for wall-
paper W.E.: You take an unholy delight in
drawing characters scraggy as poorhouse pud-
dings F.F.; The drunk first offered his over-
coat to the park statue during the early-
Edwardian era R.J.; Everything is out of
proportion, including what you hoped to get
for it R.P.H.; Even barbers and radio
comedians have given up that joke J.D.:
You’d hardly expect two hunchbacks with dis-
figured faces to be saying anything funny, any-
way A.C.: That hospital jest has been sent
up to the theatre for sterilisation... .T.G.N.:
Horrible... .P.W.G.: Lolly-legged, flat-chested,
with seaweed hair and a nose like W. C. Fields
—take her away! W.C.J.; Try standing in
that position yourself; if you don’t rick some-
thing we’ll shout... .M.M.G.: Can’t see the
point in pictorially recording a volcano erup-
tion with no humans present and submitting it
as a joke—or is that the joke?


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
h mm
Hill
mi
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms on]y from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Wans Step Out of March.”
— “D.T:” heading.
A change from marching out of step.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The scent of the new orange-blossom from
the dense green groves of River Bend sickened
her.”— Short story.
Gave her the pip.
4* 4* 4*
“One reason why cooking is such an art
with the Chinese is because they put it first
in their likings. They prefer food to the
cinema.” — Woman’s paper.
Eatee before talkie.
4« 4* 4* 4*
“Her words were enigmatic, but her ex-
pression was adverbial.”— Woman s paper.
And his reply adjectival?
•J#
“Have you ever tried slicing apples for a
tart?”— “Woman.”
We have, though we admit she’s had
us on worse jobs.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Is it really unlucky to see the moon over
your left shoulder?”— Woman’s paper.
Yes, especially if you were expected
home while the sun was still shining.
“Shipping Minister’s Pledge to Russia.
“We shall deliver the gods.”
—Melbourne “Sun:”
The only one who won’t object will be
Mars.
T V T
“Before applying personally for a position
the typist-secretary should give her nails great
attention. If lacquering, use colorless. And
don’t cut your nails —file them.”
— Woman’s paper.
For reference purposes?
4 4* 4*
“A steady rise in the cost of building materials
means that even the inferior type of flats will
be dear, and once they are up they look like
stopping up.”— “D.T.”
Or at least while the wallpaper remains
in sufficiently good condition to hold
them together.
“It is right enough for women to be getting
around in uniforms, but that is no reason why
their husbands should be left to cook them-
selves.” — Letter to “D.T.”
Paradoxically, they’ll be in hot water if
they don’t.
4* 4* 4* 4>
“Yes, poultry-raising can be a profitable
sideline. But, remember, hens can only be
made to paw by scientific feeding.” —Answer
to correspondent in Sunday paper.
But not to whinny if you’re a bit late
with the bran and pollard.
“Bent said he was unable to pay his debts.
He had no money and was unemployed.”
—" D.T .”
Joy can be purchased, now and then.
While cash remains; but it’s no joke
And life is catastrophic when
A man’s not only Bent but broke.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man of unquestioned voracity himself,
the mendacity of his pupils discouraged him.’
—Short story.
Naturally he was soon fed up.
Frustration.
Thish writing game ish awful queersh.
Whenever I get shlightly tight
I think of lotsh of good idearsh,
But can’t — hie —conshentrate to write.
When sober, I can conshentrate,
But my idearsh are gone. Ish clearsh
I’m up againsht a hoshtile fate.
Oh, well / Lesh get some more idearsh !
T . W. NATHAN.
The Last Straw.
“Some women snore just as irritatingly as
men.” — Medical journal.
Yes, indeed! My poor Aunt Violet
was afflicted in this way, and Uncle suf-
fered intensely. He tried every-
thing from cottonreels and auto-
suggestion to hanging a mega-
phone over her bed so that every
time she snored she’d wake her-
self up. All proved futile.
Under the stress of night-
starvation Uncle’s moral char-
acter disintegrated, and he
cleared out with a blonde in the
next flat.
A few days later he threw
himself into a concrete-mixing
machine.
Yes, the blonde had turned
out to be another snorer!
T.W.N.
With monotony unceasing all the taxes
are increasing.
Now then. Treasurer, here’s something
for your axe;
Though the public’s mood may worsen,
why not tax each adult person
On The Privilege of paying blasted
tax ?
ELM.
Nothing’s Special.
Not all the week-end specials appear
in the department-store advts.
First, there’s the Saturday Afternoon
Special Argument.
“I’m going for some tobacco,
Martha”
“Down to the barber’s to have a bet,
you mean. Well, you’re not. There’s the
lawnmower, and there’s the lawn. Put
them together or see what happens.”
This goes on till the race is over and
the radio announces that the horse you
were going to back won at twenties.
Another good Week-end Special is the
argument over where to drive. You have
only a gallon of petrol left and you want
to go to the beach. But Martha wants
to go to Aunt Emma’s, and as Aunt
Emma is one woman who makes your
spine pleat itself you drive round and
round the block while the Special Argu-
ment proceeds. By the time you yield to
the Aunt Emma view the petrol’s nearly
exhausted, so you go home and the argu-
ment, like all the best serials, is continued
in comfort.
But the Week-end Special which you
really look forward to is that especially
lovely moment when you set the alarm
clock for Monday morning.
“Thank heavens, that’s another week-
end over!” you think, while to the wife
you say sorrowfully: “Well, back to work
again tomorrow. Isn’t it a pity week-
ends go so fast?”
E.
A Question of Temper.
“Oh, it was beastly of me. I lost my
temper,” sobbed Maria penitently.
“Right-oh! We’ll say no more about
it,” I said magnanimously.
“But I want to let you know how sorry
I am,” she went on.
“All right, I’m glad you’re sorry. Well
“Found her in the last batch of reinforcements, sir!”
drop the subject,” I said, and turned to
my paper.
“That’s you all over!” said Maria
sharply ; “you never consider my feelings.
I’ve said I’m sorry ; and really I don’t
see why I should have. It wasn’t all my
fault by any means. You saying that I
have a temper is quite unjustified.”
“But I didn’t”
“Now don’t prevaricate. My mother
used to say”
“Oh, your mother!” I said, and
stopped. I still hoped to read the paper.
“That’s right! Sneer at my mother.
Abuse me for having a temper, as you
call it, when you well know that it was
all over your own vile temper about my
wanting that hat.”
Well, Maria has her hat. She also still
has the temper which she loses without
allowing it to get lost.
M.
Chastisement.
“I think husbands could find other ways of
chastising their wives besides beating them,”
says a writer.
Yes; when her eyes with anger glow
Or glisten.
Restrain that urge to land a blow
And punish her as I do Flo —
Don’t Listen!
P. O. M. C.
The Week’s Truth About Thailand.
Monday. —According to a message
received by the Vichy Radio, Phra
Boopoo Dingprajdokityala, spokesman for
the Minister for Sacred Elephants, in a
speech at Bangkok denied Thailand’s
intention to attack Japan, but it was sig-
nificant that he used the term “fiends”
when referring to the Japanese, who, it
is now estimated, have 15,000 troops
spread menacingly along the Indo-China
border. It is denied by Bangkok Radio
that all trade has been suspended with
Japan, which, it is pointed out, has just
placed an order for \\ million teak spit-
toons and fan handles. Colonel Mom
Willi Jhungalplodda, who is in charge of
the pointed-bamboo defences on the
northern frontier, told the special corre-
spondent of the Sunday “Flier” that
poisoned tips now made the bamboo
defences impregnable against tanks.
Tuesday. —Bangkok Radio today offi-
cially denied that Phra Boopoo Ding-
nrajdokityala referred to the Japanese as
“fiends.” He had called them “friends.”
According to an unconfirmed report
received by Ankara Radio, Indo-Chinese
frontier guards along the Mekong River
fired on a Thai patrol, killing 139 and
wounding two. It is feared that this may
flare up into a full-scale war, thereby put-
ting a match to the gigantic powder
magazine which is the Pacific. Accord-
ing to well-informed circles in Tokyo, the
spokesman for the Thai Cultural Rela-
tions Ministry, Nai Vejetaryan oo Boo-
padoopp, in a speech at the ceremony in
Ayuthia of the Feast of the Thousand
Skunks, accused the ABCD Powers of
attempting to encircle Thailand.
Wednesday. —Unconfirmed messages
from reliable sources in Saigon reveal
that the frontier incident between Indo-
China and Thailand is now known to
have been much more serious than was
at first supposed. Casualties are esti-
mated at over 4000, and Indo-Chinese
guards are known to have penetrated
eight miles into Thailand before they were
hurled back. Bangkok is stated to be sim-
mering with anger, as it is known that
the trouble was fomented by the Japanese
as an excuse to take over the whole of
the country as a “protective” measure.
Sources close to the President expect that
the State Council will move swiftly to
break off diplomatic relations with Japan.
According to the Helsinki Radio, permis-
sion has been demanded of the Indo-
China authorities to station a further
150,000 Japanese troops along the Thai
borders.
Thursday. —According to the Basle
(Swiss) Radio, there are indications that
a Jap-Thai rapprochement is imminent.
Color is lent to this theory by the report
that a Thai mission led by Ach Padua-
manadanana Bung is leaving for Yoko-
hama to inspect Nippon’s latest battle-
ship, the 65,000-ton Buckshi Maru, at
the invitation of Admiral Yoho. Accord-
ing to the correspondent of the Nashville
“Bugle” in Korat, the “incident” now
known as the Battle of the Mekong River
was used by Japan as a testing ground
for a new type dive-bomber which, it is
believed, is being made under license
from plans released by the Luftwaffe.
Madrid Radio reports on “reliable
authority” that an abortive attempt to
assassinate Sangbup na Damrongisintitt,
the pro-Axis leader of the secret Orange
Dragon Society, has resulted in the round-
ing up in Bangkok of all notorious terror-
ists of the Democracies who have infil-
trated into the country.
Friday. —lt was officially announced in
Bangkok today that the alleged frontier
incident along the Mekong River was in
reality nothing more than the shooting
by a Thai corporal of a leopard whicn
had entered a camp and threatened the
guards. According to Ankara Radio,
England is expected to send a stern note
to Bangkok over the arrests of British
‘citizens accused of complicity in the
attempted assassination of Sangbup na
Damrongisintitt. Chungking reports that
Japan has now demanded permission of
Indo-China to station
350,000 troops in the coun-
try. This threat to Thai-
land’s independence is ex-
pected to have grave reper-
cussions in London and
Washington. The “Japan
Times and Advertiser,”
which reflects the views of
the F. 0., says it knows no-
thing of a reported Thai
mission, but goes on to
warn Thailand not to let
itself be inveigled into any
anti-Japanese moves by in-
terested Powers, and pre-
dicts that Thailand will
shortly be eager to join
the Co-Prosperity Sphere
and the New Order in
East Asia.
Saturday. —Opinion in Washington
naval circles, according to the Oshkosh
Radio, is unanimous that the unconfirmed
report that four of Britain’s super-battle-
ships are speeding to the Gulf of Siam
indicate Britain’s determination to enforce
her rights. According to the roving re-
porter of the “Daily Yellowguff” in
Burma, hair-trigger tension has again
increased on the Indo-China frontier,
where 500,000 Japanese troops are said to
be massing.
Sunday. —The British Foreign Office
disclaims knowledge of any trouble in
Bangkok. Reports from Singapore sug-
gest that Sangbup na Damrongisintitt,
who was stated to have been the victim
of an attempted assassination in Bangkok
on Thursday, is now in Singapore, where
he has conferred the Order of the Swivel-
eyed Python on the British C.-in-C.
Bangkok Radio has officially announced
that relations with Japan are normal.
BO.


3
1000
"This is
awfully decent of Dad
99
GIVING a child a Teddy Bear Is right enough, but
think how he would thank you at 21 when he
found that you had been building up a £lOOO A.M.P.
Policy on his life for him!
What a present that would be! And how cheaply
bought, if you take it out when he is a toddler! If you
assure your baby under the A.M.P. Society’s ZN Policy
you can cut the cost of his (or her) life assurance by
more than half.
Under the Society’s Table ZN a father aged, say, 30,
can take out a £lOOO Policy on his child aged, say, one
year old next birthday, payable on the death of the child
at any time after his or her 21st birthday, for the small
annual premium of £7/17/6. Should the child die before
age 21, all premiums will be returned to the parent, plus
interest at 4 per cent, per annum. Should the father die
before the child is 21, no further premiums will need to
be paid until the child reaches 21; after that the child will
pay the premiums and the policy will be vested in him or
her, but think what he will have been saved!
Better let the Society send a representative to talk
this question over or, if you prefer it, the Society will
send you booklets that will tell the whole story. Write now
while you think of it.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire .
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.B.E. Chairman of the Principal Board
A. W. Sneddon, F.I.A. .. General Manager and Actuary
C. M. Martin Chief Inspector and Secretary
A. E. Webb Manager for New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart and Canberra, A.C.T.
District Offices throughout all States.
A THAr *
The Task
that few men want
Experience has shown what a grave mistake it can be to let sentiment govern
the choice of an executor and trustee. Family dissensions, differences between
relations, can lead to loss and distress. Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
will be glad to send you—free of charge—a book (entitled, " The Task That Few
Men Want "> —which provides a practical and efficient solution to this problem.
Write to or call at the Company's offices, 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, or any Branch
of Burns, Philp & Company Limited, or Burns Philp (South Sea) Company, Limited,
for further information.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - Robert John Nosworthy • Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
MANAGER—C. H. Chester
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET* SYDN EJ
TELEPHONE : B 7901. Box 543 B . s * p>o - Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Conscription of Wealth
Before it flamed into the real thing,
the preliminary to the present conflict
was referred to as “a war of words.”
In Australia there is still a war of words
going on, principally amongst classes
which don’t want to make a contribu-
tion to the struggle until the other fellow
has made his contribution first. And
evefl then, if the other fellow is still able
to walk and talk and put a good face
on things, the bona fides of his contri-
bution may still be queried by the section
which has made little or no contribu-
tion.
It has reached the stage now where
some people on the higher incomes are
taxed to the point where it will pay them
to work only a few days a week—where
a man in N.S.W. on the rare and admit-
tedly high income of £40,000 a year will
get only £5658 of it for himself, against
£3408 in the case of a man on £20,000
a year and £2282 on £lO,OOO a year,
Even in the case of a person earning
£5OOO a year the remainder after taxing
is only £1726, against a remainder of
£1476 in cases of £3OOO a year. Persons
on under £l5OO a year have not been
touched by Curtin’s increased income tax,
though in many cases they would be in
a better position to pay moderately in-
creased taxes than the man on £lO,OOO
will be to pay taxation on a scale that
has cut his equity in his income to little
more than half of what it was—all in the
space of 12 months!
In the instance of companies the position
is far worse, flat-rate and sliding-scale
taxes socking the small shareholder along
with the larger one. The employer who
exerts himself and risks his capital, health
and sanity is horribly mauled by com-
panson with the highly-paid “executive
or c^vd servant.
In spite of this terrific taxation, it is
common to find a train-traveller sagely
shaking his head and remarking that the
only way to finance a war of the present
magnitude is by conscription of wealth—
with particular reference to the “wealthy,
of course. There is some idea that the
city buildings, the suburban homes and
back-country stations can be taken over
and used for the purposes of fighting the
war. The idea is just as sensible as that
of recommending that all grandfathers be
conscripted for fighting before the young
and virile are called up, because past
expenditure in most cases is of no value
where current expenditure is wanted, just
the same as old people whose energy is
spent are no good as soldiers. there
may be cases where existing assets, such
as factories capable of turning out mum-
tions, military clothing, etc., are of un-
doubted value for current war purposes,
hut it would be utterly unjust to con-
script” these things without compensation
and without conscripting all other kinds
of wealth. In any case, it is the output
of these factories that is wanted, not the
factories themselves, and the best way
of obtaining the output is to obtain funds,
by taxation of current incomes, with
which to buy the output,
The wealth that is of most use for the
purpose of fighting this war is currently
produced wealth. We want raw materials,
labor and organisation of the most fluid
and flexible kind, plus the services of
existing factories and facilities of the
appropriate sort. We want, in short, the
means of turning the rawest of raw
materials into the newest and most effi-
cient weapons of war. Most kinds of
goods and property constructed in the
past for peace-time use are of no value
to the war effort whatever. The only
possible way in which most past-estab-
lished wealth could be turned to war
account would be by offering a present
producer of desired materials or services
a share in past-acquired property of other
people in exchange for a greater share of
his current production. But this, too,
is impracticable. Taxation is so heavy
at present on all the higher incomes that
there will be no surplus to be diverted
towards the acquisition of assets created
in the past. Properties being bought at
present are bought with past savings, not
from current earnings. The greatest sur-
plus of earnings exists among the under-
£B-a-week people, but their surplus could
only be swapped on a collective basis,
not individually. This surplus which they
possess is, nevertheless, the key to the
real diversion of all but essential living
requirements to the war effort. It is this
surplus, now swelling the turnovers of
retailers, picture houses and the deposits
of the savings banks, that Canberra so
far has refused to tax directly or even
partly appropriate by means of compul-
sory post-war credits.
The only practical form of wealth-
conscription is that which takes the form
of taxation. It gets right down to the
heart of the problem. From the point
of view of equity, too, it largely nulli-
fies the value of the rich man’s assets
for the duration, thus making them worth
only a fraction of their value for that
period. The nation largely has the use
of his working assets because it takes
most of their profits. How severe is this
taking of profits can only partly be shown
by reason of the heavy company taxa-
tion now being imposed before dividends
are passed on to shareholders —and most
businesses or properties these days are in
the form of companies. In private cos.
the tax rate rises in accordance with the
various shareholders’ incomes, and is plus
a heavy undistributed-profit tax. In
public cos. the co. pays taxes on its own
figures, and then the shareholder pays on
his own figures. In this connection, whereas
a man on £lO,OOO a year would have re-
ceived £3905 for himself under Menzies,
he gets only £2035 under Curtin; the
one on £5OOO gets only £1479, against
£2235. People like J. Maloney, M.L.C.,
president of the N.S.W. Labor Council,
may still say that there, “can be no
equality of sacrifice until the whole of
the people are on one level and on the
same standard of living,” but here indeed
is sacrifice, whereas in hundreds of thou-
sands of other cases there is none.
Mr. Chifley has said, with seeming in-
dignation, that “the workers have borne
the privations of peace, and are now
asked to bear the privations of war.” The
workers must participate in the cost of
this war, and it is not to their credit if
they try to evade it. But Mr. Chifley
should know that any attempted evasion
will cost them and the whole of Aus-
tralia dearly in the end. We must pay
as we go, or else pay double or treble
later. The Treasurer doesn’t talk of con-
scription of wealth. But he might do a
service—and prevent a lot of time-wast-
ing arguments —if he told the people
that the only wealth that can be con-
scripted for war service is currently-pro-
duced wealth, and that except in the case
of those under £l5OO a year, and
especially those on under £8 a week, that
wealth has been already largely con-
scripted. With regard to the lower (but
huge in their aggregate) incomes, the
Curtin Government says “no conscrip-
tion.” It is relying on the voluntary
system.
In his attack on the Budget in the
House, Senator McLeay showed that
an income of £250 in the highest
taxed State in Australia would pay
£23 16s. in Federal and State taxation,
compared with £32 in Maoriland and
£47 2s. in the United Kingdom. On the
other hand, an income of £5OOO in the
same State in Australia would bear £3334
in taxes, against £2747 in Maoriland and
£2837 in the U.K. Though taxes in the
U.K. on £250 are more than twice the
rates operating in Australia, on the higher
incomes Australian taxes are the most
severe in the world. Treasury officials
have calculated that only 13,600 people
received more than £2OOO in income dur-
ing 1940-41. Only 2100 got more than
£5OOO. But 2,708,000 people got £4OO or
less —they represented 90 p.c. of the
income-earners. In total, this 90 p.c. took
70 p.c. of all incomes, but were being
asked by Labor for only £3,750,000 in
direct Commonwealth taxation out of an
aggregate of £560,000,000 received by
them. In contrast, incomes from £4OO
to £lOOO, aggregating £145,000,000 of the
national income, were contributing
£9,500,000 ; incomes from £lOOO to £l5OO,
aggregating £28,000,000, were giving
£11,750,000; while one small section of
incomes of more than £l5OO, consisting
of £67,000,000 of the national income,
were required to contribute £25,750,000.
These figures represent Federal tax alone.
When State tax is added the position be-
comes more disproportionate still.
* * * *
The banking regulations, it is forecast,
will be brought into operation at the end
of this week. It will probably take some
time before they become fully effective.
* * * •
National Press Pty,, publishers of
“Smith’s Weekly,” showed a profit of
£6783 for the year to August 31, before
providing for taxation, which compares
with net earnings of £1261 in the preced-
ing term. A div, of 10 p.c. and a bonus
of 5 p.c. are being paid, against a 3 p.c.
distribution last term. The co. acquired a
lease of “Smith’s” on favorable terms in
1939, when the paper was losing £250 a
week.
* * * •
Gordon and Gotch’s return to a 14 p.c.
div. basis was a surprise to the market.
Previously highest price for the shares
during 1941 was 415., but following
announcement of the increased div.
buyers were offering 425. without attract-
ing sellers. The undistributed-profits tax
may have been a factor in the div. restora-
tion, but in any case there seems to be
distinct evidence of good profit-earning.
Sales of local publications have largely
offset the drop in turnover caused by the
ban on many U.S.A. periodicals; Aus-
tralian weeklies have much-improved cir-
culation figures, for the most part.
♦ * ♦ *
In 1940-41, which included 10 months
of war’s second year, total Common-
wealth and State taxation ran out at
£25 18s. 3d. per head, compared with
£2O 12s. lOd. in the preceding term and
£l7 19s. 6d. in the last pre-war year.
Commonwealth tax has risen from
£lO 13s. 9d. to £l7 17s. Bd. a
head since the war started. Last term
N. S. Wales showed a further rise
in its taxation exactions, but Victoria,
which has more sense of responsibility in
these matters, showed a reduction, as did
South Aus. and Tasmania. Queensland


EVER ONWARD! ... In these progressive days the urgent
call is for still greater speed . . . more intensive organization.
The problems involved in this aim are being successfully solved
by Australian industry at war. Hand in hand with industry, and
in the same progressive spirit, the Bank of New South Wales is
helping to speed up the Empire drive to victory.
FELT S TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
ADDRESS OF CHAIRMAN (SIR WALTER MASSY-GREENE,
K.C.M.G.), given at the 21st ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the
COMPANY at FELTEX HOUSE, 261 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
on the 14th NOVEMBER, 1941.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company
have been in your possession for some days and i
am sure I will be complying with your wishes it i
take them as read.
FINANCIAL;
As the Consolidated Statement of Assets and
Liabilities and the Statement of Aggregate Profits ot
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd., and all Sub-
sidiary and Sub-Subsidiary Companies reveal the
position of the Company in greater detail, I propose
to refer to the principal movements in the Balance
Sheet as shown therein, rather than that of the
Parent Company.
As the Consolidated Statement shows, the net profit
of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year end-
ing 30th June, 1941, was £156,674 after providing
1. £54,246 for Depreciation, and
2. £113,405 for Taxation
£167,661
The corresponding figures for the year ending 30th
June, 1940 :—•
Profit, £160,152, after providing —
1. £38.798 for Depreciation and
2. £79,825 for Taxation
£118,623
It will be seen that the greater provision for
Depreciation and the very much heavier rates of
Taxation are responsible for a slightly lower profit,
nothwithstanding the increases in the Company s
capital and in the volume of business, about which
I will say more directly.
In moving the adoption of the Accounts to 30th
June, 19'40, the Deputy Chairman, Sir George Pearce,
drew attention to the establishment of a Special
Reserve of £.30,000 to meet unforeseen contingencies.
It has been found necessary to utilise this provision
to the extent of £20,000 to meet additional taxation
imposed since those; accounts were prepared. On this
occasion an amount of £30,000 has been added to
General Reserve and £20,000 to the Special Reserve
to reinstate this at £30,000. After making the
necessary provision for Preference and Ordinary
Dividends and the transfer to Reserves, the balance
of Profit and Loss carried forward is £56,463, against
£47,575 brought forward from the previous year.
Since the accounts were made up the new Chifley
Budget has been presented. Notwithstanding the large
increase the Directors had made in the provision for
Taxation, which in the Balance Sheet under discussion
stands at £146,650, we now estimate that it will
require an additional amount of £20,000 to £25,000
to meet the demands of the Taxation Commissioner.
It was to meet a. contingency of this nature that the
Special Reserve to which 1 have just referred was
created, and it should, therefore, be possible to meet
this further levy without interfering with the profits
of next year’s operations if such a course appears
to be advisable.
It will be noted that Reserves have increased only
by £9,052 in spite of the addition of £30,000 to
General Reserve. The difference of £20,948 is made
up of capitalisation in certain subsidiaries of reserves
since 30th June, 1940, the reduction on the other
side of the Balance Sheet being in the item Good-
will, etc.
An alteration has been made in the Balance Sheet
by bringing in as a Liability the dividends on
Second Preference and Ordinary shares for the half-
year ended 30th June, 1941, paid respectively on Ist
July, 1941, and Ist October, 1941, amounting to
£47,294. This item previously was not brought to
account in the Balance Sheet.
These two items have the effect of apparently, but
not really, decreasing the aggregate of Reserves am,!
Accumulated Profits by £10,048.
TURNOVER:
The aggregate turnover of the Group has been sur-
prisingly large. The growth of trade in our overseas
subsidiaries will be referred to later.
It is impossible to estimate how far war conditions
have affected our business. At the outbreak of war
the Company’s business was growing fast. Plants have
since been altered and modernised and there has been
a diversion of a large proportion of our normal
civilian production to Defence requirements, about
which I will say more later on. This diversion has,
however, affected our profits, as Defence work has
been accepted at rates of profit materially below those
which we would regard as normal. Your Directors
entertain no doubt when peace is once more restored
that the developments which the Company has under-
taken during the war, mainly to enable it to con-
tribute to the war effort, can be adapted to the
peace requirements of industry. Meanwhile this ex-
pansion of business, which was not confined to Aus-
tralia, threw upon the Company very heavy financial
obligations.
THE NEW ISSUE OF SHARES:
Herein you will find the reason which actuated
the Board in deciding to seek the permission of the
Federal Treasurer for the issue of 235,968 new
ordinary shares at a premium of 10/- per share, and
about which you will be anxious to be informed.
As I have already indicated, our group has been
engaged in an increasing production of goods for
Defence purposes. An inevitable consequence of this
development has been the acquisition of plant and
trading assets, alterations to existing plant and
premises and the holding of increased stocks and
book debts, for the financing of which it was found
necessary to seek fresh capital rather than to depend
on external credit. I feel sure that, bearing in mind
the unusual times, shareholders will approve this
policy, particularly as the effect will be to reduce
the ratio of external liabilities to assets, and enable
our organisation to cope successfully with the urgent
demands on it for Defence requirements. We have
undertaken to maintain a substantial reduction on the
amount of accommodation we get from our Bankers.
THE COMPANY’S CONTRIBUTION TO
THE WAR EFFORT:
During the year an entirely new Mill was built
and equipped in N.S.W., at the request of the De-
partment of Munitions, for the production of hard
Felts ; this plant is now in full operation and supply-
ing the Department of Munitions with large quan-
tities of these special Felts, which are used in con-
nection with the production of shell cases for the
Army and Navy.
As you are aware, our Wool Companies for some
years have formed an important section of our
activities, and under the British Wool Acquisition
Scheme these Companies have assumed even greater
significance. Special attention has been directed io
the achievement of the highest standards of quality
possible. The national value of these plants both in
war and peace times should be mahifest, and 1
cannot refrain from emphasising this feature, con-
vinced as 1 am of the importance of an extensive
local market for wool as a vital factor in maintaining
the permanent prosperity of the Australian Pastoral
Industry. Our Company has maintained its position
as the largest consumer of Australian wool in the
Commonwealth,
Our Wool Scouring and Cqgbonising industries are
extensively engaged upon the handling of wools for
Defence requirements and on behalf of the British
Government.
In addition to the heavy demands within Australia,
large quantities of our combed products are also
being shipped to India for manufacture there into
khaki and other military textile materials.
In order to meet these military requirements, we
have extended our plant very considerably during the
past twelve months and our production is now three
times greater than our pre-war output; these sus-
tained Defence requirements have meant that our
civilian customers have not been able to secure their
full requirements, but we have apportioned whatever
has been available in the most equitable manner pos-
sible, and this is fully appreciated by our clients.
In the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company and
the Consolidated Balance Sheet you will have noted
on the Assets side wool purchased', but undelivered,
reflected by a corresponding liability on the other side
of the Balance Sheet of a similar amount. The
asset is a gilt-edged one, the value of this wool
having been guaranteed by the British Government.
I am pleased to be able to record that we are
producing the largest quantity of Military boots
made in Australia by any one Company.
Until about a year ago the Company had never
before attempted the manufacture of boots, but we
started experimenting, and, later, in response to an
urgent request for more production from the Depart-
ment of Supply and Development, arranged for the
change over in some of our footwear plants to the
production of Military boots. We have received the
Department’s written appreciation of our ready
response to its appeal.
The Company and its subsidiaries are also manu-
facturing a variety of miscellaneous lines for defence
purposes in addition to the major items before men-
tioned. Some of the defence goods we make are dis-
played in our Head Office show-windows, and I invite
shareholders to have a look at the variety of defence
requirements the Company' is able to meet.
OVERSEAS SUBSIDIARIES.
New Zealand:
Overseas our subsidiaries have again grown sub-
stantially. In ray last address to you 1 outlined the
i general policy we intended following in New Zealand.
There have been unavoidable delays owing to war
conditions, but very good progress has been made,
and in New Zealand factories, as elsewhere, we have
been able to heip considerably in supplies for defence
requirements, as well as giving due attention to
essential civilian requirements. Our factories in New
Zealand now T cover a wide range of activities, includ-
ing as they do the manufacture of all kinds of felt,
footwear and accessories to the footwear trade, the
manufacture of plain and stippled body carpets and
absorbent medicated cotton—wool. Much of this
development was planned before the war, and the
partial fulfilment of that programme has fitted well
into the New Zealand national economy. Apart from
the assistance we have been able directly to give to
the war effort there, it has been officially recognised
that certain of our products are essential for the
maintenance of civilian requirements during the war.
You will remember last year I had to tell you of
a very damaging fire which occurred at Wellington
and destroyed completely the premises of New Zealand
Slippers Ltd. This factory has since been rebuilt arid
is now the best of its kind in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. There is a greatly increased demand for all
our products made in New Zealand, and I think I
am safe in saying that the Board’s decision to expand
in New Zealand on the lines indicated has been fully
justified.
The opportunity was taken when publishing the
Balance Sheet for this year to include some typical
photographs of the New Zealand plants showing an
interesting sidelight on our New Zealand activities.
South Africa:
In Africa, as elsewhere, the unusual difficulties
common to the times have been experienced, the
shortage of labor being particularly acute. There
has also been difficulty in shipping, and our African
subsidiaries have been very short of raw materials.
In spite of these troubles, the expansion of the
plants provided for in past years has been beneficial
and turnovers have considerably increased. From
the modest beginning about ten years ago, when a
slipper factory was established in Durban by our
Managing Director in South Africa, Mr. E. R. D.
Faulks, an important chain of industries has been
gradually built up. Our subsidiaries are well estab-
lished at Durban, Johannesburg and Capetown, and
most of the shoes and .slippers worn in South Africa
are made by them. These companies manufacture also
a considerable quantity of hair felts and absorbent
cotton-wool. Restrictive conditions, dictated by the
needs of our own national economy, have prevented
us from keeping South Africa adequately supplied
with plant and raw materials; so that the completion
of their programme has been retarded to some extent.
Bearing in mind the difficult industrial conditions
now prevailing there, 1 can assure you the results
reflect very favorably on our South African staff. You
will have noticed the descriptive illustrated matter
relating to these subsidiaries, published with the
Annual Balance Sheet.
Foreign investment is of great economic advantage
to Australia, and this is particularly true at the
present time. The Board has always attached con-
siderable importance to our ex—Australian enterprises
and their contribution to our aggregate prosperity has
been substantial and consistent. As they are now
very well established, there is good reason to hope
that their importance will steadily grow’.
EXPORT BUSINESS:
During the year our export trade has grown con-
siderably, much of it being for defence work in
other Empire countries.
New markets abroad have been opened up to us
is a result of war conditions, and such trade must
be regarded as a benefit to the Commonwealth as well
as to the Company. I do not, of course, put this
phase to you as something which has been established
permanently, as it is impossible to foretell what world
trade generally will be even in the near future, but
it is hardly necessary to point out the present value
of this trade to the country, compensating as it does
for other export business lost to Australia as a
result of the exigencies of war.
Under the heading of New Markets I am referring
mainly to felted products and not to the large export
trade in wool-tops. The latter business is, of course,
at present conducted under Governmental control,
but this is no reason to suppose that we will not be
able, after the war, to maintain our wool-top busi-
ness with overseas countries, about which I have
previously informed you and which was opening up
satisfactorily just before war broke out.
CONCLUSION:
All the plants have been maintained during the
year in good order, and, as we and our subsidiaries
are engaged either on defence requirements or, in
the main, on necessities for civil consumption, share-
holders can regard the future generally with reason-
able confidence.
and Westralia had increases. Alto-
gether, State taxation increased by ss. 3d.
a head to £8 Is. 2d. a head in 1940-41.
The rise among the States has been un-
broken for more than a decade. In the
second year of the last war total Aus-
tralian taxation was only £4 16s. 3d. a
head.
* * * •
After lagging for a month, the Com-
monwealth £lOO million cash and con-
version loan received a rush of support
at the finish The Treasurer anticipated
that final figures would show a 90 p.c.
conversion, cash applications of £34 mil-
lion, and total cash subscribers of 80,000,
with 66,000 conversions. The number of
subscribers for £2OO and under was more
than 60 000—“ an improvement on the
previous loan.” Mr. Chifley mentioned
that “strong support” came from “large
financial institutions,” but so far has not
stated to what extent the underwriters —
the banks—contributed to the filling of
the loan The previous operation, of £35
million in cash, was also announced as
having been oversubscribed, but it was
later disclosed that the underwriters had
absorbed over £lO million of the issue,
What the banks take out of these loans is
really a provision of bank credit, not a
public loan. Though the big loan has
been more successful than was antici-
pated by the Government a few days
before it closed, there was a noticeable
amount of flogging at the finish, and the
spread of the contributors was still too
small considering the number of people
who have been relieved by the Govern-
ment of any direct compulsory contribu-
tion to the cost of the war. There should
have been many more £lO and £2O sub-
scriptions.
* * * *
Australia’s national income for 1941-
42 may reach £lOOO million. The per-
sonal and company income portion of
that may run to, say, £B5O million. That
is equal to £l2l for every man, woman
and child in the Commonwealth, and
represents less than £2 10s. a week. There
are about 3,000.000 in
Australia, so the average per income-
earner rises to £283 a year, or about £5
10s. a week, which is fl ss. a week above
the basic wage. It is interesting to note,
however, thlt those who are actually
on the average income of £5 10s. a week.
and even up to £8 a week, are asked to
pay comparatively little direct war taxa-
tion. The Canberra Labor Budget
exempted from additional war taxation
all those who were in receipt of under
£3O a week! There is a great deal of
ignorance on the matter of average in-
comes. The £5 10s. a week quoted covers
the highest and the lowest, and includes
an approximation for the undistributed
earnings of companies. Labor, it seems,
still has delusions about vast hoards of
untouched wealth among a large number
°t rich’ people. It is almost as difficult
at the moment to find a really rich
person as it is to find a legitimately poor
one-
_. * , * * , *
Canberra Government s crude
taxation policy threatens to have a wreck-
in 8 eff ect on many smaller industries con-
du<?ted in the form of proprietary cos.
It is not that the average imposition of
war-time taxation is too high over the
whol e people, but that the Labor Govern-
ment seems to be seeing red as soon as
“company” or “employer” is mentioned,
Taxes in the case of many companies are
savage rather than severe. This taxation
in most instances occurs before income
passes to any shareholder, so that the
ultimate recipient’s rate of tax is not con-
sidered at all—except in the instance of
proprietary cos., and in these cases the
rate may go to as high as 255. in the £!
If it is the Government’s policy to dis-
courage private employment it is doing
it thoroughly. The Chifley Budget does
not tax luxuries and extravagant private
spending so much as it hits sav-
ings, thrift and employment-giving enter-
prise. The Government’s war effort
hasn’t so far reached the velocity where it
is necessary to discourage private em-
ployment on a wholesale and indiscrimi-
scaJ|e - But t* l6 tax proposals of the
Chifley Budget are so full of crudities and
oversights that through the breaking ot
the pnvate-co. employer it cannot help
but make for unemployment. The
spenders are the chosen people of the
present time, not the men who put their
incomes back into an employment-giving
enterprise.
. * , . , , , . . , . ,
•« » st ; u |P tende f d to tax income derived
b V Australians from overseas sources
irrespective of whether the income has
borne tax at lEs source or no . The
{Continued on next page.)


Eight new designs in
LADIES' WATCHES
from PROUDS
"fHESE distinguished watches are as
serviceable as they are beautiful.
All have high-grade 15-jewelled
Lever Movements, and are recom-
mended and guaranteed by
PROUDS. Note the values!
A new note in style and dependability. In C/N/
Chrome Case with Steel back DU *
A very modern watch in Chrome Case with “TC/
Steel Back. Yours from Prouds for .... / D •
Accuracy, prestige, and beauty offered
shapely Chrome Case with Steel back
Attractively designed moderately priced QC/
reliable time-keeper in rolled Gold Case .. OD ~
Rich simplicity in dainty, modern desian.
9ct. Gold Case
Trim smartness in rolled Gold. Note new shape rtrt/
and gold-filled band ... 7U *
An aristocratic baguette, in distinctive rolled OC /
Gold Case 7 J
In Chrome Case
75/
Another outstanding example of Prouds
value! Chrome case with £.t\/
Steel back OU"
Write for new,
finely - illustrated,
coloured catalogue
pty tTD.
rv S r" !
Ammouneing-
A NEW Complete Modern
Effective Letter Writing
The first practical, thorough, complete
training and service in the NEW
technique for modern needs approved
by experts in England, U.S.A. and
Australia, written wholly for and
applicable to Australian conditions.
fTHIE NEW Hemingway & Robertson Course and
Training Service in EFFECTIVE CORRES-
PONDENCE provides a thorough training in the
new technique of modern effective letters . . .
good letter writing which wins new friends, new
business, collects old debts, stirs to action those
who are dilatory . . . and withal, builds
goodwill.
Every possible phase of business and social
letter writing is completely covered, supplemented
by examples and practical hints. And this
training provides you with an indispensable
accomplishment ... in any occupation . . •
in business or social life . . . equally valuable
to the Executive as to the clerical assistant; to
the social leader or the private secretary.
This NEW course and service brings you the
experience of the world’s best correspondents.
Wholly written for and applicable to Australian
conditions, it has been approved by experts here
and abroad, and provides you with the quickest
and most effective means to advancement to-day.
Wholly printed, containing in addition to the
hundreds of examples of letters of all kinds,
numerous charts, self-examination questions, and
progress exercises for practical work and test,
the twelve texts in the course provide the most
complete training available.
Post the Coupon jor free, illustrated Brochure.
Department of Accountancy and Commerce
Hemingway & Robertson
Founders of Commercial Education in Australasia
38a Barrack House, 16 Barrack St., Sydney.
38a Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
Offices in all Capital Cities, Newcastle & L’nceston.
To HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON,
Please send me Free, illustrated Brochure of
the NEW H. & R. Training Course and Service
in the modern technique of Effective Corres-
pondence.
Name Age -
Address
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON.
Gen. Manager.
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Aset. Gen. Manager,
m
m
For greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVEN A~
yfy W*
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
281?
committee appointed to investigate the
position reports that most cases of double
taxation will occur as overseas tax on the
(say) company’s earnings and Austra-
lian tax on the dividend when it
reaches Australian hands. It admits that
there may be some cases where the div.
itself will be taxed abroad, but “such
cases are considered too small and infre-
quent to have any real significance on this
inquiry.” Except where income from
abroad already has borne div. tax, the
taxation of ex-Australian income irrespec-
tive of what taxation the ex-Australian
company has paid will be little different
in principle from the present method of
taxing Australian divs.
* * * »
The Bulletin has emphatically dis-
agreed with the Curtin-Chifley taxation
proposals right from the time the Budget
was brought down. Its objection has
not arisen from any fancy that taxation
should not be used extensively to pay for
wasteful expenditure like that incurred in
a war. On the contrary, it still believes
that taxation in the main is not being
used enough. But the lopsided nature of
the taxation exactions is so obvious,
unjust and unworkable that this paper is
astonished that any Government charged
with a major task like that of conducting
a war should present them seriously in
Parliament. In most cases the ordinary
M.P. is not affected by the disproportion-
ately heavy taxes to be levied on those
on the higher incomes and on companies,
he belonging to the favored class get-
ting less than the untouchable £l5OO
in Parliamentary salary. But it is the
fact that he is not being taxed addi-
tionally that should worry him. The
few tall poppies can never pay for this
war, and the burden must eventually
make its weight felt on the lower in-
comes. If this fact continues to be
ignored as the Curtin-Chifley Budget
ignores it, then the burden will be a
calamitous and employment - reducing
shock when it comes home to its inevit-
able resting place.
The taxation proposals have had a
fairly rough passage in Canberra even
before they get anywhere near the
Senate. The proposed addition of a
wife’s separate income to that of the
husband for the purpose of calculating
the rate of tax “will, it is understood,
be virtually abandoned.” A committee
from both sides of the House is to study
the new taxation bill as a whole. Mr.
Coles, partly by whose grace the Labor
party remains in office, doesn’t like the
form company taxation takes, and is
to be a member ; this chain-store expert
appears to be finding out at length that
the difference between this Budget and
the Fadden Budget is rather more than
that between Tweedledum and Tweedle-
dee. Other members of the committee
will be Treasurer Chifley, Messrs.
Fadden, Menzies, Scullin and Spooner.
The committee will also report on the
disallowance of mining calls as a deduc-
tion for taxation purposes and also on
the Gift Duty (Assessment) Bill.
* * * *
Shares in chain-store cos. were very
sick in last week’s otherwise reviving
market. G. J. Coles shares have slumped
from 675. in August to 565. last week.
The big worry here is company taxation.
* * * *
Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co.
is to pay to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment a “50 p.c. return from the docking
receipts of all ships on which charges
were levied by the co.” There is also a
suggestion that the co. will refund portion
of the profits earned by it since soon after
the outbreak of war. The co., of which
George Davis is the chief shareholder,
has met the Government co-operatively
in this matter, which was brought up
before Labor assumed office. The co.
has a long-term lease of this former Com-
monwealth undertaking, but the Govern-
ment has the right to assume control of
it in war-time. Fortunately not even the
present Government feels disposed to do
that, partly because of the compensation
it would involve. The history of Cockatoo
as a Government workshop alone should
be enough to discourage any speculative
thoughts in that direction.
* » *
Prices of goods produced by sub-
sidiaries of Australian Consolidated In-
dustries were “declared” by Customs
Minister Keane last week. The goods
covered are figured rolled glass, bottles
and glass containers, and all products of
Crown Crystal Glass and Dott and Co.
Pty. Plain sheet glass has already been
declared. Senator Keane said that the
Prices Commissioner has reported that in
the first two years of the war A.C.l.’s
profits were greatly increased by war
conditions. The co. had raised the price
of sheet glass by 8 p.c., but “prompt
action by the Commissioner” brought the
prices back to their old level. Except in
a few minor cases there had been no
increase in A.C.I. charges, and the main
reason for the present declaration was
that the co. was about to apply for per-
mission to increase prices because of
rising costs.


HAVE you
ANV
COLUMBINES
BILL-THEYRE
GOOD THESE
HOT DAVS j
/
h
mmm
m
mm.
HH
WIPES/'
BUY '
YOURSELF
A PACKET
TVE EATEN
v ALL MINE
COLUMBINE
CARAMELS
*■»*«»/
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandulai
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &. CO..
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
fg
Smokers are saying—
“l’m not cutting down
my smoking, I’m smoking
‘Hillmans.’”
The greatest tobacco value
in Australia —Specially Cut
for slow smoking— therefore
must be economical.
As perfect a tobacco nature
can provide and art can devise.
No throat rasps, cool to the
tongue however much it is
smoked.
LOOK AT THE PRICES,
TOO! From Manufacturer to
you. That’s why smokers are
sticking to “Hillmans.”
PRICE LIST as from Ist June, 1941.
Per 11>.
Four Square 9/6
First Crop, mild 9/6
All British, mild 9/6
Riverhead Gold, medium ... '9/6
Old Peter, dark 9/6
Cavendish Strong 9/6
Beech Nut, medium 9/6
Africa, mellow and mild .. . 9/6
Soldier’s Own, mild 9/6
Normandie, medium 9/6
Winning Post, medium 9/6
Three Bells, strong 9/6
Bird’s Eye, medium 9/6
Nigeroid, in pipe only 9/6
Barlock, in pipe only 10/-
Latakia, in pipe only 10/-
Cahill’s Special 10/-
White Lodge Medium 10/-
White Lodge Light 11/-
Union Leader, medium 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium 11/-
Imperial 14/-
Premier 16/-
Postage Extra.
When ordering please state whether
for cigarette or pipe smoking.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
COMPANY
Tobacco Blenders,
Box 6, Post Office, Valley, Brisbane.
Telegrams, “Comgrow.”
’Phone No. 84587.
SUNDRY SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
Ballet
Sydney Minerva’s stage is ideal for
ballet. Its design as a blended integral
of the theatre rather than a hole in the
wall seems to contain the ballet rather
than frame it, and the ample breadth and
depth make so much difference that the
preliminary “Les Sylphides,” beautifully
staged and done against a black back-
drop, seemed as entirely new as the main
offering. A piano duo was quite capable
of handling anything called for in musi-
cal accompaniment.
The main piece, “Faust,” runs to
striking, modernistic settings by Loudon
Sainthill, but, again, the theatre itself
makes a very definite contribution to the
setting. Helene Kirsova is producer and
choreographer of “Faust.” A three-act
ballet in five parts, it follows a satiric
version of the Faust theme written origin-
ally for ballet by Heinrich Heine, and
provides the cunning touch of a female
Mephistophela, danced by Raisse Kous-
netzova. Edouard Sobishevsky is old
Doctor Faust, Valery Shsevsky young
Faust and Tamara Tchinarova the tempt-
ing Satana. These, and all others present,
dance some lovely ballet in the vigorous
style of “The Prodigal Son,” in perfect
contrast to the classical movements of
“Les Sylphides,”
* * * *
Gilsullivan’s “Sorcerer’
Before his reappearance at the Royal
on Saturday the “dealer in magic and
spells” hadn’t been seen in Sydney since
1905 ; should he now disappear for as
long again he’ll scarcely be missed. The
story of his patent oxy-hydrogen love-at-
first-sight philtre has nothing to dis-
tinguish it from a dozen other stories —
all tiresome and trifling —of a dozen
other love philtres.
But the players tackle it heartily. Ivan
Menzies’s clowning as the Family
Sorcerer is perhaps a little too hearty ;
Maxwell Oldaker is the young gentleman
who languishes in a “lucid lake of liquid
love”; Viola Wilson the lady of his
choice ; Sara Gregory, Evelyn Gardiner
and Peggy Shea others of the lovelorn
ladies. Richard Watson makes an admir-
able Dr. Daly, the vicar who sighs for
the feminine attention he attracted as “a
pale young curate.”
* * * *
By the time Isadore Goodman’s second
pianoforte recital in Sydney came along
it had been revealed to the city’s daily
newspaper critics that the local lad was
as fine a pianist as any that could be
imported. The Bulletin made that dis-
covery about five years ago, a circum-
stance that has tempered this paper’s
enthusiasm for the various pianists from
foreign climes whose claims have been
boosted by the A.B.C. and other entre-
preneurs. At the present moment Aus-
tralia, despite its small population, is as
well represented by pianoforte virtuosi
as any country, its team including, as
well as Goodman, Percy Grainger, Ernest
Hutcheson (these two co-opted by the
U.S.A.), William Murdoch and Eileen
Joyce.
ARTBURSTS
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, which
have held 17 one-man and four mixed
shows this year, are winding up the
season, as it were, with a “Review of
1941” —a show contributed to by 16 of
the “one-man” exhibitors (two of them
are ladies) and 26 painters from the mixed
collections. Among the most competent
pictures in the show are William Dobell’s
“Coster Lady,” J. Muir Auld’s “Near the
Township,” George Duncan’s “Land-
scape in the Alps,” Ronald H. Stewart’s
“Foam on the Stream” and John Elder-
shaw’s “The Golden Pool,” together with
characteristic contributions by Lionel and
Daryl Lindsay. A water-color by Frank
Medworth, “Malcolm Campbell’s Boat-
shed,” lets slip the usually carefully-
concealed fact that Mr. Medworth is a
first-class draughtsman. The most charm-
Evelyn Gardiner and Ivan Menzies,
hoist with his own petard, in “The
Sorcerer,"at Sydney Royal.
ing thing in the show is Raymond
Wallis’s “Farmyard Corner.”
* * * *
In the Gloucester Room at the Aus-
tralia is a small mixed show by the
Deka Art Groun (“As artists we desire
freedom to paint as our consciences dic-
tate, independent of any creed,” says the
catalogue). It’s a bit alarming to hear
suggestions that that freedom is threat-
ened, but there’s no doubt the Group
means well—it gives half its sales pro-
ceeds to the Red Cross. That disarms
criticism, and it is enough to say that
such sound painters as Jerrold Nathan,
G. K. Townshend, Percy Lindsay, W. M.
Whitney, Walter Dowman, D. M.
Brooks, the miniaturist, and the versa-
tile Harry Edgecombe are among the
exhibitors.
AT THE TALKIES
Sydney Prince Edward offers a nicely
mounted screen version of Harold Bell
Wright’s novel, '‘The Shepherd of the
Hills.” It’s a strange sort of a tale set
among the curious mountain people of
the Ozarks, and though it’s mainly well
done it could have been improved by
telling a bit more of the early story and
leaving a little less to the imagination.
Harry Carey as the father shepherding
a son—whose mind has been poisoned
by the influence of Beulah Bondi as the
vitriolic head of a mountain family—on
to the right path, and John Wayne as
the son, do good jobs ; but, while this
pair are the pillars of the story, the film
rests mainly on Betty Field, a lass who
seems to have had little difficulty in
handling the couple of difficult parts in
which she has appeared so far.
* * ♦ *
A new Australian film, “Racing Luck,”
was let loose at Sydney Civic last week.
Any criticism of it must be governed by
the fact that the film was obviously made
on the very minimum of cash—possibly
a step in the right direction since British
and French studios seem able to make
films as good as and often better than
the Hollywood variety for considerably
less expenditure—but, by any standard,
it’s not a very successful job. The
trouble lies not so much with the players
—some of these, Joe Valli in particular,
are sound, and some show promise—but,
as usual, with the directing and in the
conception of what makes a film. Until
those factors are looked into and cor-
rected Australian films are in for a rocky
time.
* * $ *
Sydney Liberty has a tiptop double
bill made up of “Rage in Heaven” and
“Whistling in the Dark.” The former
film has Robert Montgomery turning in
an excellent psychological study of a
mental cripple who convinces himself
that his wife and friend are carrying on
together and devises an ingenious and
elaborate method of killing himself and
fastening the blame on to the friend.
George Sanders, as the friend, turns in
some good work, Oscar Homolka also
good, and Ingrid Bergraann, as a nerve
specialist, in her third screen appearance,
suggests again that she is one of the very
few young actresses on the screen who
should go a long way. “Whistling in the
Dark” is a wild piece about a radio
genius who is kidnapped by gangsters
and forced to devise a perfect crime for
them. Newcomer Red Skelton is the
fellow and he gets the guffaws.
tie * * *
Ladies, that marvellous Clark Gable
has gone and won the V.C.! You can
see how he got it in “They Met in
Bombay,” at Sydney St. James, where
Clark and Rosalind Russell are two jewel
thieves who go from Bombay to China to
escape from the police, and there Clark
gets into the army by mistake and kills
a lot of Japanese soldiers and the colonel
or someone gives him a V.C., but Clark
gives it back and asks the colonel to
keep it for him while he goes to gaol to
reform and then comes back to enlist
properly. Isn’t he wonderful?
* * * «
“Manpower,” at Sydney Plaza, depends
mainly on a good solid cast —the story
of the fellow who gets tangled with his
best friend’s missus is too old to carry
much weight. Marlene Dietrich is the
wife, Ed. G. Robinson the husband, and
George Raft the friend and foe. It’s
mounted in a suitably rough setting and
carries some interesting technical side-
lights with Robinson and Raft as mem-
bers of an emergency crew called out to
deal with any trouble in high-tension
power lines. Others in the crew are
Frank McHugh and Alan Hale, particu-
larly good as a tail-story merchant.


THE SERVICE MAN
Battle Joined in Libya.
Ek Dum”: Their advent into Libya
was probably the least skilful move ever
made by the Germans in this war. This
page remarked (B. 9/4/’41): “Summer
is most favorable for defence, especially
when it is conducted against an enemy
whose communications by land are hun-
dreds of miles long and on routes of
which over 150 miles of flank depth must
be turned into a front, and which is
served by a coastal road always under
naval fire.”
After the German arrival on the
Libyan frontier on April 14 the summer
came down like a lion. The German
forward forces, with their helot Italian
infantry and labor armies, were watered,
as the now-captive Italian armies of
Graziani had been the summer before, by
a long pipeline from Cyrenaica. Their
bases along the coast were bombed. Their
ships went to the bottom by the dozen
carrying reliefs and munitions with them.
Tobruk ate into their side, with the
Royal Navy pouring ointment on its
wounds and handing it fresh weapons.
A section of the Luftwaffe, far larger
than Wavell’s Army of the Nile had ever
dreamed of owning, was planted in Sicily
and North Africa to attempt to blast the
A.I.F. out of Tobruk and the British out
of Malta. With Malta in Italian and
German hands, the sneaking distance to
Tripoli would have been greatly reduced.
On the European continent it was a
year of triumph for the Germans. In
Britain, moreover, they killed thousands
of women and children and wrecked un-
told numbers of dwellings, warehouses,
shops, factories and workshops, though
with relatively small damage to the war
effort. On the high seas their U-boats and
bombers inflicted death in cruel forms
on thousands of seamen and non-com-
batants. In Yugoslavia, Greece, Crete,
eastern Poland, Bessarabia, the Baltic
States, Russia, they won victory after
victory which brought millions of un-
happy people under their sway. But
they won no victory in Tobruk. There
over 1000 air raids, hundreds of sorties
against the wire and pillboxes, combined
with incessant bombardment, failed to
winkle out the lively and aggressive
garrison.
At the end of 224 days the German
mechanical ranks both round Tobruk
and along the Solium front had thinned
out. More Italians had been brought in
to fill the human gaps. It would be
wrong to say that the Axis armies of
Africa were placed on the defensive in
November, 1941. They had been on the
defensive from the time of their arrival.
The Axis aerial blows weakened as
the R.A.F. and the R.A.A.F., expanded
by the addition of the S.A.A.F., which
had finished its job in Abyssinia, grew
in strength. For nearly two ifionths
Malta had ceased to be on the defensive
and had become a strafing depot from
which British imperial airmen continu-
ally blasted Naples, Brindisi, Catania,
Syracuse, Messina any port, in fact,
which might dispatch ships and troops
to Africa —while spying out convoys and
handing them over to the attention of
Andrew Cunningham’s seadogs.
The British move against Libya in
1940 had made its first stirrings on
December 7 and its last decisive battles
in Cyrenaica had taken place in the first
week of February, 1941. This time the
move was earlier.
On Tuesday, Nov. 18, British troops
holding the lines east of Solium began
their first advance. Roughly speaking,
the front stretched south-south-westerly
across Mussolini’s old barbed-wire line
on the Libyan border down the road to
Jarabub, the last and most inland of
the old Italian strongholds, captured by
South Australians and Queenslanders
some time after Benghazi’s fall.
An aeroplane view of the country
which was to be penetrated is some-
what as follows: At Solium the coast
bends northward to Bardia, the road
sneaking and climbing about the jump-
up of a plateau into which the land rises
in sheer escarpments, which form the
Libyan border. On the heights, about
eight miles inland, Fort Capuzzo stands
guard over a crossroads approach. One
of the roads comes in from the south-
west on the Egyptian side. One is the
main road to Sidi Barrani and Mersa
Matruh. A broad, winding macadamised
highway, it follows the coast 70 miles
to Tobruk, then to Derna and Benghazi,
bending off a right arm into Bardia.
Another track drives s.-w. along the
high interior escarpment. This one was
built in the days of Turkish rule by
Enver Pasha, who had a better idea of
where to put a military road than the
Italians. It meanders down and round
the escarpment’s southing edges till it
finds the aerodrome at El Gubbi. Then
a section dawdles north-west along a vast
wadi, paddles up a jump-up pass on the
sheer edges of the plateau of Marmarica,
pauses to greet another road from Egypt
coming in, via Sidi Omar and Half ay a
Pass, near the great El Adem aerodrome,
and marches on over low, undulating
country and crosses the main coastal road
from Solium and Bardia at Rezegh. Ten
miles further n.-e. it enters the Tobruk
defences, roughly from the south-east. The
main coastal road flows west to another
of the aerodromes which ring Tobruk
and El Gazala.
The Tobruk-El Gubbi-El Adem road
goes almost in a straight line s.-s.-w. to
Jarabub, which is over the southern edge
of the escarpment and well away from
the rainbelt. It is plain sailing from
Jarabub westward —as African land-
sailing goes—by the Zawia-el-Aja track
to Benghazi and El Agheila, near the
bottom of the Gulf of Sidra at the final
turn-off to Tripoli, another 450-odd miles
away.
Of all these entrances to the enemy’s
domain the British imperial forces
seemed to take advantage at once.
A few days before, the forces along
the Libyan frontier, with those which
had relieved the A.I.F. in Tobruk, were
constituted as the Eighth Army, under
General Alan Cunningham, who had
fought the Ethiopian campaign to a suc-
cessful conclusion. He had his two
superb Indian divisions, which had scaled
the heights of Keren; he had British,
Maorilanders and South Africans. An
“army” is not constant in size ; it may
consist of five to seven divisions, with
armored support and ancillaries.
Instead of half a dozen old medium
tanks such as were used to break down
the Italian defences at Sidi Barrani last
year, and the ramshackle collection of
hopping mechanical coackroaches with
which the Hussars fought the stirring en-
gagement of the El Agheila-road after
the capture of Benghazi, there were
British and American flying pillboxes of
the newest vintages and machine-guns
and Bren carriers galore. And in the
air, instead of the slow but reliable and
very limited supply of Gladiators and
their congeners with which General
Maitland Wilson’s air supporters had to
make shift in his advance, there was a
sky full of Tomahawks, Blenheims,
Hurricanes, heavy bombers, and even
some of the terrible two-engined Beau
fighters with range enough to allow them
to chase the Regia Aeronautica home
to Sicily. The air forces were com-
manded by Air Marshal Arthur Coning-
ham, a little streak of greased lightning
born in Brisbane and educated in Maori-
land. He fought with the Maorilanders
in the last war.
For the first time British troops have
faced the Germans on equal terms as
regards equipment. For the first time
they have gone into battle with air sup-
port comparable to that of the enemy.
Admiral Cunningham, now the “old per-
manent” of the Mediterranean command,
was there with his fleet.
The aircraft formed the van; the
heavy tanks followed to break the way
for the mechanised units. At every one
of the entrances to the enemy-held terri-
tory— from the south, making clean
across from Jarabub, in and up the
escarpment south of the Halfaya position
and Sidi Omar, up the main road to Fort
Capuzzo, round Bardia along the coastal
road, down Enver Pasha’s track to El
Gubbi, thence to El Adem and Rezegh,
the junction just outside the Tobruk
perimeter—the forces rushed, spreading,
so soon as they topped the cliffs,
as from the ribs of an opening fan to
permeate the whole country in which the
enemy was likely to be.
Tobruk waited expectantly. The boys
of the 9th Division and their com-
mander, Major-General Morshead —who
on Nov. 21 was in Cairo being decorated
by General Sikorski —no doubt chafed
to be there, but realising how the siege
must have told on them, General Cun-
ningham had sent in fresh, trained-to-the
minute troops by sea, and brother-
Admiral Cunningham, by some magic of
his own, got in enough tanks to support
them. It would have been unfair to ask
long-besieged troops to do this job.
The R.N., of course, joined in. While
Barham, the veteran which led the van
of the sth Battle Squadron at Jutland,
and other battleships stood out to sea
with their 15-inchers, a cruiser squadron
moved cheekily in on the morning of
November 18 and plastered Sofium, Hal-
faya and the Capuzzo area, which held
the enemy’s forward concentrations and
dumps.
The firing line even reached right
across the Mediterranean to the doorstep
of Mussolini’s own lair, where the R.A.F.
advertised its abundance of men and
equipment by touring Messina, Naples
and Brindisi with as much attention as
their colleagues across the water were
giving to Bardia, Benghazi and Tripoli,
and to the roads and wadis where the
enemy was massed.
There was no certainty where the
main enemy mechanised forces were. In
a land of alternate escarpment, wadi and
gravelled plain, fast tanks may be any-
where —or everywhere.
The first Italians were easy to find.
A satisfying huddle of them were found
around the aerodrome road near El
Gubbi, with the escarpment between
them and Tobruk and nothing at all
between them and destruction but a
white flag. Their few tanks were blasted
into submission; 150 prisoners were
tipped into the cornsack and away went
the invaders with a rush for Rezegh.
They came in there on the evening of
Wednesday the 18th. For old hands re-
maining in Tobruk it must have been a
red-letter hour when the ’planes reported
their approach or when their guns were
heard. For months the lonely men
of Tobruk had been isolated by at least
70 miles of enemy-held territory from
relief. Now they had friends close enough
to drop a shell within the outer marches
of the perimeter itself. Tobruk, how-
ever, was a little too busy to do much
cheering. Every gun it owned was turned
on its luckless besiegers.
By Thursday morning British armored
columns were permeating every track
and negotiable passage in the country
east of the Tobruk-Jarabub line, and in
some parts west of it, like water coming
through holes in a colander. The British
imperial airmen, having done their pre-
liminary main job, swept still further
ahead to clear away the aerodromes and
pound the roads on the way to Cyre-
naica.
On Thursday both. Germans and
Italians issued feeble communiques:
They had, “after tenaciously holding the
enemy, attacked and repulsed British
armored units, destroying numerous
tanks and taking prisoners.” German
bombers, it was claimed, had routed
“concentrations of British tanks and lor-
ries on the Egyptian border and bombed
military objectives at Mersa Matruh,”
Next day Berlin proudly announced that
the advance had been decisively brought
to a standstill within 36 hours of its com-
mencement.
This was true—up to a point. All the
advances, except that on the extreme
south from Jarabub and that along the
coast by air and sea, where the combined
air force and fleet were going through
the motions of playing a giant mouth-
organ with the coast from Bardia to
Benghazi as an instrument, had pulled
up suddenly, like a boa-constrictor who
has flung his first coil round his prey.
The furthest advanced troops outside
Tobruk were, on Thursday afternoon,
preparing to welcome a delegation of
tank corps men from within the city. The
Indians at Sidi Omar, which was captured
before the week-end, began to curl a lov-
ing arm round the forward troop and
equipment concentrations of Halfaya.
Fort Capuzzo, battered on its height, was
receiving the first kisses of Maonland
machine-gun bullets. Maoriland took
the fortress to its bosom on Saturday,
the 22nd, while experienced Eyeteyes of
Solium and Bardia were removing the
mothballs from their white flags and
burying souvenirs. Bardia’s surrender
followed. Leaving an occupation force,
the Maorilanders pushed on towards
Gambut.
West of the Bardia-Sidi Omar line the
angular advance to El Gubbi westward
and then north-west to Tobruk’s environs
had formed a net of about 2500 square
miles, in which it was now discovered
that most of General Rommel’s tank
forces seemed to be floundering, ready
for fight.
While Tobruk’s armored delegation was
forcing its way through the perimeter,
impeded mainly by minefields which had
to be carefully dealt with, and their oppo-
site numbers were counting Italian tanks
mopped up near Rezegh, a vast milling
battle or series of battles began in which
the infiltrating British columns sought to
wioe General Rommel and his tinned
Huns off the face of Libya. It is a
gigantic affair, certainly on the scale of
some of the major decisive battles on
the Russian front, but with very dif-
ferent results. By Saturday evening a
very large part of Rommel’s armies had
been yarded into a space bounded by
the lines Gambut- (halfway between
Tobruk and Bardia) Sidi Omar-Capuzzo
and was fighting for its life, while the
British formations along the El Gubbi-
Rezegh road cleaned up the heavy
western remains of his more forward
Panzer forces, and the original 100 or so
roving British mastodons which had been
exploring the enemy’s interior positions
were increasing every hour.
Also the Tobruk inmates, having with-
drawn their south-eastern sortie which
was obviously only a feeler, though it
broke right into the German-Italian ring
of investment for three miles, made an-
other probe south-westward. Here their
operations could be more useful. A
break-through on that side would help
to cut off retreat and supplies from the
Germans involved in the main battle.
They captured 1100 prisoners. Until
the battle is decided between the
tank battalions, their essential job is to
hold Tobruk firmly, and not to take the
slightest chance of weakening the defence
and allowing the enemy to sneak in and
play the game which the Anzacs taught
him by forming a thorn in the attackers’
side.
By November 23 the position was that
the Jarabub advance had disappeared in
the desert, where it was unlikely to meet
much immediate resistance. Bardia,
Capuzzo and the crossroads, key to the
Libyan west-coast region and all the
roads directly to the south were under
British control. Solium and Halfaya,
where, it was estimated, a division of
German and Italian troops with fairly
strong mechanised forces were concen-
trated, were surrounded.
There were engagements in progress in
the El Gubbi region, near Gambut —
where there was an enemy concentration
—and on the Sidi Omar-Sollum encircle-
ment, but the weight of the main and still
unfinished tank battle was shifting west-
ward, and its vortex was near Rezegh.
General Rommel obviously was trying
throw his weight into a mighty blow
which would break his way through into
the Jebel Akhdar, so that he could estab-
lish defences in the well-watered and fer-
tile Cyrenaica terrain. Caught where he
is, he is in a difficult position, cut off
from petrol supplies, his water pipeline
already severed. Unless he can make
westward, there is nothing for him but
surrender or complete and immediate vic-
tory, even though rain, which has already
fallen in heavy showers, may give him a
respite as far as water is concerned.
It has been no walkover. Indeed, the
battle for Libya is far from won. Except
for the Maorilanders and Indians in the
Sidi Omar-Capuzzo areas, few British in-
fantry had, up to Sunday night, made
contact with the enemy. It will be sur-
prising if the Germans do not utilise
much better than the Italians the advan-
tages of rugged terrain further west. And
there is still Tripoli, something like 1000
miles away, a long, hard road to traverse.
The Cairo spokesman on Sunday night
was evidently striving hard to tone down
the overoptimism of “famous” correspon-
dents with a warning that the battle was
stern and not yet over, though the enemy
had lost 190 tanks and lorries to British
losses of 60.
On Monday morning the struggle in
the Rezegh area was described as “bitter,
confused and crucial.” The crossroads
there had changed hands several times.
Of the fight in general Cairo H.Q. said:
It is no cakewalk. German armored
forces are fighting desperately and giving
battle everywhere. It is false to suppose
that they are fighting for a retreat.
A fighter pilot described the battle
scene as looking from the air like a giant
prehistoric arena, with fire-breathing
scaly-hided monsters pitted against each
other, lumbering slowly forward, swing-
ing this way and that. The fight, he said,
was raging for miles, and the gUn-flashes
were “outdoing any fireworks display.”
The main engagement was expected to
reach a climax on Monday morning
within a few hours. Gambut, where
large forward fuel suplies were stored,
was under imminent threat.
And 15,000 German and Italian
prisoners were reported by United Press
to have been roped in.
New Phase in Russia.
“Ek Dum”: Capture of Kerch, last out-
post in the eastern Crimea on the strait
which divides the peninsula from the
doorstep of the Caucasus, was announced
by the Germans on Nov. 17,
They claimed to have taken 100,000
prisoners in the eastern Crimean opera-
tions, and declared that nine Soviet war-
ships attempting to evacuate troops from


THE No, 150 DEEP-SEATED
KEMP
IN ALL KIP LEATHER.
£9/19/6
(MOUNTED)
This saddle is
very good
value. It has
Kemp pads,
deep seat,
good long
pads and
short pane
with leather
points.
PIGSKIN SEAT 10/-
EXTRA.
N.S.W. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
WALTHER t STEVEMSOM
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
STYLE SMARTNESS
+
SUMMER COOLNESS
m
t .
g -
m m
w.
ill
m
n g
YOI7’LL feel fresh as a
daisy, even on the hottest
day, if you’re wearing a
Soltine Suit. The secret
of Soltine’s comfortable
coolness is in its unique
weave that lets the fabric
"breathe.” Extra twisting
of each thread accounts
for Soltine’s long-wearing
toughness, and produces
a springy, firm texture
that makes a suit of Sol-
tine Cloth hold its shape
without sagging or creas-
ing. The smart Cluster
stripe pattern above is one
of the many fine new Sol-
tine Cloths now available
from your tailor or store.
See'them—they’re the best
suitings money can buy!
Born. Shorn, Woven and Worn in Australia
the Crimea had been sunk, 24 damaged,
60 merchantmen of 235,000 tons sunk
and 69 others damaged in the same
operations. A Berlin military spokesman
remarked on Nov. 18:
With the capture of Kerch the German
and Rumanian troops are now in a posi-
tion facing the Caucasian approaches, while
Kerch Strait into the Azov Sea is closed
to Soviet traffic. This means that all
parts of the eastern side of the sea from
Rostov to Temryuk are cut off from com-
munication with the south.
They declared that, with the improve-
ment in the weather, operations in the
Donetz Basin were continuing.
The same day London announced that
the evacuation of Kerch, under terrific
pressure from the Luftwaffe, was “car-
ried out in masterly fashion and in per-
fect order, according to the Russians,
and with practically no loss of men or
materials.” The evacuation was said to
have occupied three nights, while the
Russian Air Force and Fleet Air Arm
drove off Stukas, and a heavy artillery
division at Yenikale on the n.-e. point of
the peninsula laid down a barrage.
Despite this, Losovksy, on Nov. 19,
denied that Kerch had been taken. Fight-
ing, he said, was still going on in the
approaches to the town. But a few
hours afterwards the Russian High Com-
mand admitted the evacuation. It de-
clared that it had been made without
serious loss, but that the Germans had
lost 20,000 men and large numbers of
guns and 40 ’planes.
Other movements had begun to
develop all along the eastern front. In
the north, Russian victories were reported
in the outskirts of Leningrad, from which
the Germans said the Russians were
trying to evacuate troops by air. The
fighting at Tikhvin, south of Lake Ladoga,
was said to have resulted in villages being
captured by the Russians and the “peter-
ing out” of the German offensive. Ger-
man pressure on Murmansk was reported
as checked. The Russians claimed local
but smashing victories round Kalinin,
north-west of Moscow. Southward of
the capital, Moscow reported failure after
failure by the Germans, though admit-
ting that the situation was grave in some
sectors and particularly at Tula.
The most “complete” failure was said
to have followed an attempt to sneak
round Rostov and encircle it from the
north. General von Kleist, with two tank
divisions, one mechanised and one storm-
troop division, had pushed in a few miles
north of Rostov against Russian forces
which he outnumbered six to one, in-
tending to turn south to Rostov itself.
But he succeeded in penetrating only the
first and second Soviet defence lines. The
Germans were pushed back, losing thou-
sands of men, 133 tanks and hundreds of
lorries, and part of their formations were
surrounded.
The truth unfortunately appeared to
be that the enemy held the initiative
everywhere. There was nothing to sup-
port the Russian view that “Marshal
Timoshenko can hold the Germans
for months, retreating where the pressure
is too great, while preparing for an offen-
sive in the early spring organised on the
basis of Allied land forces, actively
assisted by the R.A.F., taking over a sec-
tion of the southern front.”
Several wedges have been inserted
in the Orel-Tula-Kursk sector, but
the real direction of the thrusts had not
become obvious at the week-end. It
seemed certain, however, that the main
objective was to repeat the earlier
manoeuvres at Gomel, break the freshly-
cemented joint between the Don and
Moscow Russian army groups and draw
some of the red blood of Timoshenko’s
southern defence northward, while the
Crimean forces found their way across
the Kerch straits and the Don and pre-
pared for the drive to the oil-pipe lines
and whatever Caucasian or Volga and
South Don objectives the High Command
proposes to attempt to enclose.
The weather at the week-end was bitter,
but the whole front south of Moscow was
alive. The forces which Marshal von
Rundstedt had used in two fully count-
tered thrusts at Rostov were so small in
comparison with the importance of the
objective that the only conclusion that
could be drawn was that both were feints,
designed to draw as many Russian troops
as possible into the Rostov area from the
Caucasian side before starting one of the
wide encircling movements which have
proved so unpleasant for the Red Army.
Runstedt’s third movement was a light-
ning drive eastward north of Rostov.
The Germans on November 21 said
that “further progress had been made”
both here and in the Donetz Basin
further north. Round Kalinin and Tula
at the same time German artillery pres-
sure began to grow fiercely.
On Sunday, November 23, the capture
of Rostov was announced by the enemy.
The Russians denied it and claimed that
street fighting was proceeding in the
suburbs.
Rostov is an industrial city of 521,000
people on the west bank of the Don
River, which the Germans have still to
cross in that region. But its capture
means that the enemy has the Don
bridgeheads near the mouth. The oil
pipeline from industrial Russia, both to
the Caucasian and Trans-Caucasian
oilfields, is cut; so is the main railway
between the Don and Donetz industrial
regions, Moscow and the oilfields. The
only rail communications which central
and north Russia possesses with the bulk
of the oil supply is by the Volga line via
Stalingrad, from which the enemy now
is only 250 miles.
The Russian defence forces further
north are virtually outflanked. The
ground is freezing harder every day in
the Moscow sector, and there the Ger-
man attack is growing in strength. It
may reach a culmination this week.
With the cutting of the Caucasus rail-
way the main supply line for Britain
and U.S. armaments via Iran has been
closed. It was reported during the week
that a “new” road had been opened for
supplies via Baluchistan and Meshed.
The Meshed road from the Indian border
railhead is an old and much-used one,
popular alike with traffic making to
Tehran and to the country across the
Russian border to Samarkand and Tash-
kent.
It is on the cards that the route will
be used to feed goods straight across the
border into Asiatic Russia, transferring
them thence to Europe across the Volga
by the Tashkent line or by road. But
this is a long way round, and a large
move in that direction would certainly
induce an attempt by the Germans to
drive across the Volga and the Kazak
Steppe to the Afghan and Indian borders,
a move which they probably contemplate
in any case.
The only other external supply routes
are those from Archangel, which soon
will be closed, and by the Trans-Siberian
railway, which is threatened by tire Mos-
cow thrusts.
In short, the position is increasingly
serious for the Russians.
For 194 Days.
Ek Dum”: The Australians and their
cobbers held Tobruk for 194 days, which
is about a record for a modem siege.
The Tobrukians were aggressive from
the first. The day after the Germans
announced jubilantly that they had been
“safely trapped,” they drove back 20 con-
fident German tanks which nosed in
through the perimeter, and they followed
up this feat by paying a couple of calls
on their own account with the bayonet,
leaving their calling cards in the shape of
226 dead Germans on the wire. They
suffered ceaseless clockwork air raids.
They were shelled incessantly. One
sector of 6000 yards sometimes had as
many shells a day. They were often
short of food and almost destitute of
water for washing.
On October 1, when the Australians of
the 9th Division had lost 500 men, the
R.N. began to move them out. “It was
like a school breaking up,” said Major-
General Morshead, “We went with our
tails up,” An A.I.F. 'instructional and
advisory force was left with the British,
Indian, Czechs and Poles, when after six
weeks the evacuation was completed.
Of course, there was the usual wag to
welcome the relief forces. The first non-
com. to step ashore was greeted with
“Welcome, Sarge, welcome to Tobruk,
a good Rexona town.” And, thanks to
the efficiency of the R.N. and the com-
bined air forces ahead, the voyage to
the debarkation port was described as
“like a ferry ride to Manly.” Despite
air raids over Tobruk while troops were
preparing to march into the ships, not
a man was lost.
Another C.I.G.S.
“Ek Dum”: Changes in the British
Army Command have not done much to
introduce the “youth” which every
amateur strategist longs to see in charge,
but it is likely to produce a more aggres-
sive policy.
General Alan Brooke, who becomes
C.I.G.S. at 58 —succeeding General John
Dill, 18 months his senior—is a fighting
Irish artilleryman from the kind of stock
that produced Wellington, Wolseley and
Kitchener.
The press was delighted to find that
Lieut.-General Nye, the new vice-chief,
was a “mystery man probably the
youngest vice-chief (48) ever to be ap-
pointed in the British Army.” Actually
Cromwell was C.-in-C. before he was 46 ;
Wellington had Waterloo behind him at
that age and had been made a duke.
Wolseley at 40 was a G.C.M.G. and
K.C.8., and had received the thanks of
Parliament and a grant.
Nye, like William Robertson, C.I.G.S.
in the last war, rose from the ranks. He
was one of those officers brought forward
by the Chamberlain Government’s re-
organisations in 1937. His mind is the
same type as Brudenell White’s —he is a
staff man and a well-known strategist,
and there are no “mysteries” about him
except in newspaper offices.
Lieut.-General Bernard Paget, 54, who
succeeds General Brooke in the Home
Command, belongs to a distinguished
family of soldiers and scholars. His
father was in the latter category and a
Bishop of Oxford ; the son commanded
Camberley Staff College at the outbreak
of the war, and in the last war won the
D. 5.0., M.C. and the Italian Silver
Medal for Valor. He is succeeded in
the British South Eastern Command by
Lieut.-General B. L. Montgomery.
Lieut.-General Pownall, till now vice-
chief of the General Staff, has been
seconded to a special command. General
James Marshall-Cornwall, who has had
command of the Libyan front, has been
brought home to take over the British
Western Command.
General Dill, the retiring C.1.G.5., a
dour North of Ireland man who suc-
ceeded General Ironside last year, goes
out to Bombay as Governor with promo-
tion to field-marshal. He will be 60 on
Christmas Day, so age can scarcely be
the reason for his retirement —he was
actually in the field in Flanders in com-
mand of the Second Army Corps last
year.
However, this is a very peculiar war,
and Bombay is a very peculiar and im-
portant centre.
“Fong Tsz”; Pacific-zone furphies
were as thick as hail last week. One of
the many was a positive assertion that
the Japanese had compelled the Indo-
China Government to dispense with 150
civilian servants inimical to the “new
order.” This the Indo-China Government
called “a lie.” And one “famous” jour-
nalist went so far as to suggest that
Uncle Sam should attack at once —that
the Japanese Empire must be smashed
for the sake of world safety. The plain
facts are that, after several conferences,
the Japanese delegates were still at
Washington at the beginning of the week,
and that the session of the Japanese Diet
had ended without the outburst of hostili-
ties which were to have attended its
deliberations.
* * * *
The R.N., busy as it is with Libyan
coastal bombardment, has not been too
busy to give Mussolini’s Navy some
attention. A British submarine appa-
rently bagged a cruiser during the week-
end. The ship had not been identified on
November 24. The R.A.F. torpedoed
another cruiser and a destroyer was be-
lieved sunk.
And it didn’t take long for the R.N. to
take the gilt off the German triumph over
the destruction of H.M.A.C. Ark Royal.
H.M. Corvette Marigold has bagged “the
U-boat which, it is practically certain,
took part in the attack on Ark Royal.”
Of the crew, 34 were taken prisoner.
« * * »
“Ek Dum”: General Tom Blarney’s
statement on the Owen gun, which Mel-
bourne “Age” printed in full:
I do not know anything about the Owen
gun, but apparently it is pretty good. The
Thompson sub-machine-gun, however, is a
most effective weapon, and has been issued
to all units in the Middle East. To replace
a gun of its efficiency is a serious matter.
The Owen gun has not yet proved itself.
It will not be known whether the gun is a
success until it has been tested over a con-
siderable period in the field.
* * r *
“Aileron”: Dead in Germany, Major-
General Udet, Q.M.G. of the Luftwaffe.
He was a daredevil character, ranking in
his flying days with men like Bishop.
And even the R.A.F. owes him some-
thing for his contributions to fighting
technique.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: So soon as the first batch
of A.I.F. men on leave from Darwin
arrived in the south—2oo N. S. Welsh-
men and Queenslanders —Sydney news-
papers asked them to name their com-
plaints, and they obliged with a will.
They said they “wanted to fight” {that
nobody ever doubted), that bread sup-
plies in Darwin are irregular, that some
Darwin civilians “displayed snobbishness
towards them,” and that beer once ran
out and there was a two-months’ drought.
They complained of boredom and in-
activity. Heaven grant that none of the
young men is ever sent to garrison Cape
York, Aitape (New Guinea) or, above
all, Baluchistan, where generations of
British soldiers have put up with the bore-
dom, alternate bitter heat and cold,
drought and snakes for years at a time
without holiday. Before the grandads of
Darwin’s garrison were born, women
were putting up with far worse Darwin
conditions than those of today without
a murmur. And, strange as it may seem,
there are thousands of Australians living
in the N.T. under conditions which make
those of a military camp seem paradise
—and liking it.


SPORTING NOTIONS SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "Pilot's" Understudy)
Lucrahve racmg for the first time in
the ownership of Australian Alec Hig-
gins, who bought him at a high price for
Indm, returned £l4OO in stakes alone
when he defeated High Road and El
Golea m the Eclipse Stakes at Fleming-
ton on Saturday. It was probably his
farewell race in Australia, and he will
leave for his new home winner of £21,743
in stakes.
* * * * *
Higgins, who has a huge team in Cal-
cutta and Bombay, had a good after-
noon, another of his purchases, Santa, a
nve-year-old brown horse by Marconi-
gram, winning for him at Randwick later
in the day. Higgins has trained many
good English horses, but few have been
better-credentialled than Lucrative, win-
ner of the Victoria Derby, A.J.C. St.
Leger and Sydney Cup. If transport can
be obtained in time Lucrative will have
his first Indian race at Poona in July, and
then be prepared for the Viceroy’s Cup,
1| miles, at the Royal Calcutta T.C.’s
meeting.
Lucrative raced through the spring car-
nivals at Randwick and Flemington, but
it is doubtful whether he showed better
form than in winning the Eclipse Stakes.
He had the job of taking the field up to
the tearaway Keelie, who had a break
of 10 lengths at the half-mile, and for a
stride or two, when High Road passed
him on the turn. Lucrative appeared
beaten. Rider J. Purtell, however, had
kept something in reserve, and, favored
by an inside run, Lucrative ran right
away over the last 100 yards to defeat
High Road by 2\ lengths. Backed from
7 to 2 to 9 to 4, his win was costly to
bookmakers.
Trainer F. Godby has a remarkable
record of success with horses owned in
other States, and now he has the distinc-
tion of having won the Eclipse Stakes
with a horse owned in India. Lucrative
entered his stable only about a week
before the race, however, and much of
the credit for his condition goes to his
former trainer, H. Freedman. Godby
won the corresponding race two years
ago with Maikai, owned in Westralia.
A pronounced betting drift preceded
High Road’s defeat by Lucrative. Two
of his stablemates. Neutron and Chat-
field, had won earlier in the day, but
bookmakers gambled against High Road,
whose price eased from fours to sevens.
The colt had had some trouble with his
teeth, but recovered quickly, and Robert-
son did not anticipate that it would pre-
judice his chance. No excuse appeared
possible for him. He had the run of the
race, looked the winner a furlong and a
half from home, but was outstayed. High
Road did much better than the Oaks
winner, Primavera, but interference in
the straight contributed to the latter’s
failure.
El Golea ran his usual honest race,
but, though he battled on gamely, a mile
and a half is a shade farther than he
likes. He has raced unluckily since win-
ning the Mentone Cup, but three seconds
and a third have yielded £1075 in prize-
money. Tranquil Star ran considerably
below her Williamstown Cup form;
Throttle, winner of the latter race with
a strong finish, lacked dash at the busi-
ness end on this occasion; and Saint
Warden, though a good fourth, was never
really dangerous. Carpentier dis-
appointed, and Keelie backed from 20
to 1 down to twelves, stopped to nothing
when caught.
Stable calculations apparently were
upset when Neutron defeated Crojick,
also trained by Lou Robertson, half a
head in the Ormond Handicap. Whereas
Neutron eased from fives to tens, Crojick
started second favorite at fives after sixes
had been laid. Crojick was definitely
unlucky to lose. He lost three or four
lengths at the start, was behind nine
horses rounding the bend, and, after
being hampered slightly in the straight,
would have won in another stride. With
three seconds and two thirds from his
last six starts, Crojick deserves a change
of luck. Bevera (third) attempted to lead
a w a Y, but Sir Richard was the big
disappointment of the race. Backed as
if unbeatable, he weakened to finish fifth
after momentarily looking the winner at
the to P of the straight.
......
Neutron’s success was long overdue.
Now four years old, he was a maiden
until Saturday, but on several occasions
had shown decided promise. As a
juvenile he ran second to Lucrative in
the Rawdon Stakes. Maybe there is still
hope for Dark Felt, who was unplaced
in Saturday’s race. Dark Felt has yet
to win, but his placings include a third
to Lucrative and Tranquil Star in the
Victoria Derby, and a second to the sub-
sequent Caulfield Cup winner, Velocity,
in the Chatsworth Plate at Flemington.
A spectacular plunge was landed by
Chatfield in the Stansmore Two-year-old.
The Manitoba-Amour Propre colt had
race( i only once previously for a sixth to
Leahero in the Flemington Stakes, but
he must have shown a smart trial at
Aspendale Park, where he is trained pri-
vately. From 10 to 1, his price short-
ened to second favoritism at fours, and
he did not leave the result in doubt,
Clear a furlong from home, he won de-
cdsively from Attorney and Leahero ; the
latter might have been closer had he not
run rather greenly. Attorney, a Law
Maker colt, reveals promise, and should
be a bargain at his yearling cost of
150gns. Regency, warm favorite, let his
backers down badly. He did not appear
to appreciate being on the outside of the
field, and ran considerably below the
form that enabled him to win the Raw-
don Stakes very easily a week earlier,
’.* . *
Associated with Robertson in his win-
ning double was his apprentice J. Neale,
16 years old and weighing 6.12. Neale,
suffering from a broken wrist, had his
arm in a sling when he applied to Robert-
son for a job about two years ago, and
the trainer, admiring the lad’s pluck in
riding a push-bike about 15 miles in
such circumstances, decided to give him
a trial. Neale has made the most of his
opportunities. He won at his first ride in
a race, and has a record of three wins
from 15 mounts. Under Robertson’s
tuition he should develop into a good
j oc k e y.
Pioneer saved bookmakers a substan-
tial pay-out when, starting at 20 to 1,
he defeated the 5-to-2 favorite Register
by half a head in the Maiden Two-year-
old. Register was unlucky. He got away
slowly, and, coming from last, would
have won in another stride. His defeat
completed a disappointing day for owner
W. R. Kemball, another of whose horses,
Regency, had failed when favorite earlier
in the afternoon. Register, however, has
shown stamina in all his races, and, being
by The Buzzard, a sire of stayers, his
turn will come later. Nalong, a filly by
Valiant Chief (sire of Lady Valiant)
shaped fairly in third place, and Com-
pere, who finished fourth, may repay
following.
Pioneer’s success was a welcome change
of luck for his Maoriland owner (F. C.
Christie) and trainer (H, Griffith). Griffith
was confident he had two smart young-
sters in Pioneer and Silver Mask when
he arrived in Australia early in the spring,
but they performed below expectations in
their early races, and Christie did not wait
here to see Pioneer win. The horses are
due to return to Maoriland immediately.
Pioneer is a brown colt by Paper Money
from Mud Lark, but, although smart,
his time on Saturday was a second and
three-quarters slower than that recorded
by Chatfield in the Stansmore Two-year-
old.
The Rosstown Plate was a repetition
of All Veil’s winning performance in the
Strand Handicap a week earlier. Backed
from fives down to 9 to 4, he was ridden
a well-judged race by Badger, and won
decisively from Orteli and Orcadian. All
Veil has always been partial to the
straight-six, but Saturday’s performance
with 9.9 was one of his best. He has
been a fine money-spinner for G. J.
Barton and W. Balloch, who bought him
as a yearling on the advice of Sydney
trainer J. Carey. Needful and Phoines
disappointed, but Treleen and Romford
shaped fairly behind the place-getters.
Manrico, racing for the first time for
about 11 months, showed plenty of dash
early but knocked up toward the finish.
Bets of £2OO to £2 and £lOO to £1 were
laid against Trent Bridge for the Tara
Steeplechase, and, starting at 50 to 1,
he outstayed the favorite. Sachem, after
the latter had looked a winner. While
Trent Bridge had no form to recommend
him, his stablemate, Sarthorn, was the
medium of fair support at 8 to 1. Sar-
thorn fell at the fourth fence in the lane,
and brought down Bold Brat, who broke
a leg and was destroyed. Sachem lost
ground in avoiding the fallen horses, and
was unlucky to be beaten. Trent Bridge,
a five-year-old gelding by Parenthesis, was
the biggest runner in the field, and will
improve with experience.
Though only a distant curtain raiser
to the main summer racing, the Warwick
Farm meeting at Randwick on Saturday
brought to light one or two promising
performances for future reference. Noth-
ing much worth noting came out in the
November Handicap (Ifm.), which had
only six runners, but some of the sprint
efforts were attractive.
Radical, looking well, though not at
his top, had a nice win over the six
furlongs of the Horsley Handicap, run-
ning it on a fast track in 1.11. At his
two previous starts in July the Brazen-
Extreme bay, raced on lease by R. Mead,
had won the Grafton (N.S.W.) Ramornie
Handicap and a Welter Handicap at
Doomben (Q.), both over six furlongs.
In the Horsley he was reasonably well
placed about the middle of the field of
15, was a steadily improving sixth into
the straight, got to the front nearing the
post, and just won from Henchman and
The Miller.
In another stride Henchman would
have won, and in another couple of
strides it might have been The Miller’s.
Both were a long way back early, and
each ran a slashing race to get within
a neck and half a neck of the winner.
Both are brown sons of Harinero, and
Randwick winners up to a mile. Hench-
man has the disadvantage of tending to
get out of his ground in recent races,
which would be nothing to the good
having in mind a hard Randwick mile
with a big field. In the Horsley he looked
hopeless as they swung for home. He
was then behind about 10 horses, spread
fairly wide across the track. He was
taken to the outside, and, wide out, was
still well out of it with half a furlong
to go, but finished fast and missed win-
ning very narrowly.
The last time E. F. Smith brought The
Miller down from Newcastle he won
three at Randwick in a row, ending with
a Bondi Handicap (7fur.) on January 25,
having previously won at one mile and
before that at seven furlongs. On those
occasions he proved his ability to mix
it with them near the lead all the way.
In Saturday’s sprint, however, he was
as badly placed early as Henchman, being
back with the tail-enders for half the
journey. In the straight he fairly battled
his way through into the picture. He is
a heavy and particularly powerful-looking
customer, who should be able to carry
plenty of weight. Now a four-year-old,
he looks like an honest miler. Ridden
by an apprentice, he carried 7.11; Hench-
man, a three-year-old colt, also with an
apprentice up, carried 7,12.
The suburban performer Bruce Wood
should make his presence known in
slightly weaker company. The other three
were just too strong for him over the
last bit, but he was a close fourth, after
being well forward to the straight and
then breaking away to a clear lead.
Perhaps in view of the excellent state
of the track the time for the main sprint
event should have been a shade better
for the result to be a sound guide. The
1.11 was equalled in novice company by
another Newcastle invader, Messrs. M. J.
and G. Cameron’s grey four-year-old
horse Sir Andrea (Andrea-Sargood) win-
ning the first division of the Farm Novice
easily by two lengths in that time from
Pendulate and Stainless, the latter a
solidly backed favorite in need of the
run ; she led, but weakened sadly in the
last furlong. The second division of the
Novice, too, was run in only a quarter-
second slower time, Mr. F. W. Hughes’s
bay Marconigram filly Marcoperi com-
pleting a hat-trick of wins with a two-
and-a-halt-lengths win over Belle Money
and Walkalong.
The Hoxton Park Juvenile Stakes was
also run in good time, the Hall Mark
colt. Hall Stand, beating the much-
boomed Riverton in SB^sec. —half a
second outside All Love’s Australian
record time. McMenamin, a strong be-
liever in using early pace, if any, had
Hall Stand a good four lengths in front
when they’d gone a furlong, and though
Riverton got to within a length and a
half at the end, Hall Stand was never in
any danger of defeat. The Harinero-
Causina colt. Jungle King, carrying a
71b. penalty, was four lengths away,
third.
In the Breeders’ Plate, Hall Stand led
to near the post, and, in a bumping finish,
went down by only a head to Bangster,
a protest on Hall Stand’s behalf being
dismissed, possibly on the ground that
a lot of allowance must be made for
youngsters running about. Despite the
fact that Breeders’ Plate form is almost
always worth following, and though,
owing to penalties incurred by several of
the starters for wins in lesser events, Hall
Stand was extra well in it, Riverton was
made a hot favorite, as he was in the
Breeders’ Plate, in which he was hope-
lessly left. This time he got away all
right, but he ran wild. Young Thomp-
son was reefing at him to keep him on
the course in the first furlong, and he
again ran out at the turn. In view of
this, Talking’s half-brother (he is a chest-
nut colt by Midstream-Society) should
shortly do a lot better.
Hall Mark leaves his hall-mark plain
on his progeny ; Hall Stand isn’t the only
one bearing a close resemblance to him.
It is remarkably different with the stock
produced by Peter Pan in his unfor-
tunately short stud career. As noted here
before, Peter’s stock could hardly be
more varied as to both color and con-
formation. W. Kelso has two at the
extremes of the color range, though
they’re two of the good-lookers. Red
Pete is a shapely customer, taking
after his sire’s chestnut coloring; Pan-
urge, ridden along by Munro to win the
Maiden Handicap (Im.) on Saturday by
over two lengths, is a black gelding.
Hunting Tower, who showed out well
for a while at Rosehill on the previous
Saturday, but then weakened right out
of it, slightly led Panurge till Munro
called on the black in the straight, after
which it was no race. But Hunting
Tower hung on well enough in second
place, both to suggest that he won’t be
long breaking his duck, and to return his
place-tote supporters the Santa Claus
dividend of £l7 Is. for ss. Turmoil was
a distant third.
• • i • • *
In the November Handicap Aristocrat
beat the M.L. mare Serenata, Breeze and
three others. Serenata was unlucky.
Showing her best form since she was
FOR HAWKESBURY.
(At Rosehill Today.)
Two-year-old Stakes (colts and
geldings): Orderly, 1 ; Lance Cor-
poral, 2 ; Messara, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes (fillies) :
Oriole, 1 ; Miss Hua, 2 ; Antelope, 3.
Novice (first division): Fireleaf,
1 ; Frustrate, 2 ; Qui Va La, 3.
Novice (second division): Fer-
managh, 1 ; Shunteh, 2 ; Warrah, 3.
Flying: John Halifax, 1; Old
Sport, 2 ; Dawn Mary, 3.
Hawkesbury Handicap: Mus-
tapha, 1 ; Sologram, 2.
Encourage Mile: Christopher
Milne, 1 ; Cadger, 2,
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
Two-year-old Stakes: Easy Mark,
1 ; Oriole, 2 ; Kiaree, 3.
Canterbury Handicap; Serenata,
1 ; Aristocrat, 2 ; Kurrawid, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Radical,
1 ; Bruce Wood, 2 ; Poi Morse, 3.
Campsie Handicap: Rodrigo, 1 ;
Early Bird, 2 ; Tetreen, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(Before Acceptances.)
(By Our Melbourne Representative.)
Appeal Hurdle: Naverino, 1 ;
Merridale, 2 ; High Wave, 3.
Juvenile Handicap : Attorney, 1 ;
Lar Toba, 2 ; Blue Valley, 3.
Benefit Handicap: Reception, 1 ;
Bow Tie, 2 ; Orcadian, 3'.
Fund Handicap; Fountain, 1 ;
Lady Sykes, 2 ; Bianca, 3.
Benevolent Highweight: David
Innis, 1 ; Pannade, 2 ; Strategy, 3.
Relief Trial: Law Student, 1 ;
Deliberate, 2 ; Londoner, 3.


A MAN’S SIZE JOB
■
> 8
5 v
JUTTING the 123 gear teeth on the huge munition press
pictured above, measuring 5 feet 6 inches high,
was not only a BIG job —it was one which demanded
intense care, great accuracy and the necessary equipment.
We can cut gears from 1 inch to 6 feet with accuracy.
ENTRUST YOUR GEAR-CUTTING WORK TO US.
RAPSON & DUTTON PTY. ITD.
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURERS
General, Marine, Motor and Diesel Engineers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
TELEPHONE 82277 (3 LINES) TELEGRAMS: “RAND." BRISBANE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1668 of 1941.
BETWEEN WILLIAM GEORGE IRWIN
Petitioner and
ETHULLEANNEAR FEDELIA ELOISE
IRWIN Respondent.
TO ETHULLEANNEAR FEDELIA ELOISE
IRWIN late of Bourke Street Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
GEORGE IRWIN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted him and without any
such cause or excuse left him continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
The Eleventh day of February next, and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED the Fourteenth day of November,
a.d. 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. N. ROACH, Petitioner’s Solicitor, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1818 of 1941.
BETWEEN BERYL TITUS Petitioner and
RICHARD TITUS Respondent.
TO RICHARD TITUS late of Hamilton.
TAKE NOTICE that the said BERYL TITUS
has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a disso-
lution of marriage on the grounds that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Thirteenth
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and forty-two and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 18th day of November, a.d.
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. P. WHITE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2119 of 1940.
BETWEEN ZENA MAY ROACH Petitioner
and
TERRANCE WILLIAM ROACH Respondent.
TO TERRANCE WILLIAM ROACH late of
Watt Street Newcastle in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ZENA MAY
ROACH has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Thir-
teenth day of February next and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 18th day of November, a.d.
1941.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GEORGE R, VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Personal andf Missing Friends.
WILL MRS. EMMA BLYTHEN or her
daughter, LYNETTE BLYTHEN, last heard
of in New South Wales, or any person knowing
of their whereabouts, please communicate with
the PERPETUAL EXECUTORS, TRUSTEES
& AGENCY CO. (W.A.), LTD., 93 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, W.A.?
Estate Walter James Thomas Davis,
Deceased.
JAMES DAVIS, born Wilmington, South Aus-
tralia, father Walter, mother Jessie (nee Mc-
Kenna), schooled Day Dream, Broken Hill,
Drover-Station Worker, Broken Hill district,
R.C. About 1907, when aged about 23 years,
left brother Walter at Broken Hill on droving
contract with companion Eastman, both of
whom said to have died suddenly near Queens-
land border. Anyone knowing whereabouts or
able prove death James Davis please communi-
cate with ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EXECU-
TOR COMPANY, LIMITED, Currie Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2058 of 1941.
BETWEEN MARY AGUSTA NINA DOYLE
Petitioner and
EDWARD PATRICK DOYLE Respondent.
TO the said EDWARD PATRICK DOYLE.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
AGUSTA NINA DOYLE has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Thirteenth day of February One thousand
nine hundred and forty-two and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of November,
1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALLEN AND LAURENCE, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2112 of 1939.
BETWEEN MELVA MELIN DEREPAS Peti-
tioner and
JOHN FREDERICK DEREPAS Respondent.
TO JOHN FREDERICK DEREPAS late of
Ganmain in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MELVA
MELIN DEREPAS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thirteenth
day of February next and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 18th day of November, a.d.
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1991 of 1941.
BETWEEN ANDREW NELSON Petitioner and
JOYCE IRENE NELSON Respondent and
LESLIE ERNEST BATES Co-respondent.
TO JOYCE IRENE NELSON late of Swansea.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANDREW
NELSON has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of your
adultery with the abovenamed co-respondent
at Belmont and Katoomba and other places
in the said State at various times since the
month of March 1940 AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Thirteenth
day of February 1942 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the said suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had by you on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of November
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1991 of 1941.
BETWEEN ANDREW NELSON Petitioner and
JOYCE IRENE NELSON Respondent and
LESLIE ERNEST BATES Co-respondent.
TO LESLIE ERNEST BATES formerly of Bel-
mont and Swansea.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANDREW
NELSON has commenced a suit in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
from the said Joyce Irene Nelson on the
ground of her adultery with you at Belmont
and Katoomba and other places in the said
State at various times since the month of
March 1940 AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Thirteenth day of
February 1942 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had by you on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of November,
1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
CLIVE CLARKE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
brought over, she was hampered in try-
ing to go through between Breeze and
the rails in the last half-furlong. Breeze
ran a striking track gallop during the
week, equalling an Ajax record, but she
still fails to reproduce such form in
races. Podmore took her straight to the
front and tried for an all-the-way win,
but she punctured at the end.
The last item on the card, the one
mile Leumeah Handicap, saw the hardest-
ridden and closest finish of the day,
McMenamin on Santa only just manag-
ing to hold off Tel Asur, vigorously
ridden by Munro. At his previous start
in a mile-and-a-quarter event at Rose-
hill Santa was taken out to lead by 10
lengths or more after they’d gone two
furlongs, and had nearly that margin to
spare at the end. In the Leumeah
McMenamin took him to the front after
they’d gone a furlong, but he was never
far from the field, with Tel Asur always
fairly handy. Munro brought Tel Asur
nearly level at the leger, and from there
they fought out a tough finish, Santa just
seeing it out by half a head, with Mus-
tapha third, half a length away.
* * * *
Bing Crosby, the American crooner,
night-club proprietor, racehorse and race-
course owner, made a suitably spectacular
debut as a winning owner in Australia
when Miss Hua won a mid-week Juvenile
Handicap for him in Sydney on October
19. The Crosby colors were a sight to
tax the possibilities of Disney techni-
color —pale blue, with yellow-and-red-
hooped sleeves and yellow cap, to say
nothing of blue shoulder straps, blue-and-
yellow bow tie, and, on the cap, a blue-
and-yellow tassel, with also the word
“Bing” at the back, advertising the
crooner to riders in the rear, if they
could get near enough to read it. On this
occasion they didn’t. Subsequently G. F.
Gorrie, Miss Hua’s trainer, was asked to
take the gay livery to the A.J.C. office
for possible censorship under the A.J.C.
rule banning facings to registered colors.
Miss Hua’s win was as spectacular as
the colors —she won at ease by four
lengths in time (53Jsec.) which equalled
the track record for 4 \ furlongs. As well
as making an Australian winning-owner
of Crosby, she made a winning sire of
the Heroic horse Hua, who downed Ajax
in the 1937 Victoria Derby, after win-
ning the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
and next year had next door to a walk-
over in the V.R.C. St. Leger, beating
Pantoon in poor time. Hua’s 1937 record
also included a second to Ajax in the
A.J.C. Champagne Stakes, third to
Avenger and Ajax in the A.J.C. Derby
and third to Ajax and Avenger in the
Caulfield Guineas. Miss Hua’s dam is
the Tippler mare La Rasade.
* * * *
Jockeys can take it. Six months ago
Arthur Dewhurst, winner of the 1940
Caulfield Cup on Beaulivre, and one of
the most popular jockeys in Victoria,
was injured so seriously in a fall at
Ascot that it seemed improbable he would
ever ride again. Broken ribs, perfora-
tion of a lung and spinal injuries placed
him on the danger list for some time and
necessitated a long spell in hospital. A
remarkable recovery preceded his first-up
win on Jessie Matthews at Kyneton last
week, and the crowd did not forget to
show its appreciation. Good riders are
not plentiful in Melbourne, and Dew-
hurst’s successful return is doubly wel-
come.
* * * *
Amount wagered on the Cup week tote
at Flemington was £400,155. During the
same week the sale of war-savings certi-
ficates in Victoria totalled £71,581.
* * * St
Known to the Australian Turf for the
greater part of his lifetime as Theo
Marks, chairman of the Rosehill com-
mittee, Sydney architect, formerly a
handler of huge racing commissions, and
all through one of the most popular
racing figures in Australia, Theodore
John Marks passed hence in Sydney on
Sunday at 86. A handsome cut of a man
—very much so when he was younger—
he landed some colossal winning plunges.
He also at times had pretty solid losing
bets, but he was a good loser ; nobody
ever heard Theo Marks whine to the
papers about a bad day in the style that
has become something of a fashion in
recent years. As architect, he designed
stands at Rosehill, Randwick and Flem-
ington, and also in India. He became a
director of the Rosehill Club in 1913 and
its chairman in 1920.
* * * *
C. Peck, one of England’s prominent
trainers, and known to many Australians,
is retiring at the end of this year. Peck,
when training for the late S. Joel, turned
out such good winners as Pommern
(Two Thousand Guineas, New Derby
and substitute St. Leger), Bachelor’s
Button (who beat Pretty Polly in the
Ascot Gold Cup), and Polymelus (Duke
of York Stakes and Cambridgeshire of
1906). Peck, who has been training for
H. S. Joel, will be succeeded by J. E.
Watts, who won the 1927 Derby with
Call Boy.
* * * *
The V.R.C. committee has decided on
a searching inquiry into what has become
known as the Deimos case. Deimos,
ridden by R. Bailey, defeated Danny
Marie by two lengths in the Oakley
Novice at Bacchus Marsh on October 23.
A protest was upheld, and Bailey was
suspended for one month for alleged
interference shortly after the start. Sub-
sequent appeals by Bailey and the connec-
tions of Deimos were upheld, but,
although the race reverted to Deimos,
his backers lost their money. Bets always
follow the decision of the stewards on the
day. Few protests have caused more
controversy, and the V.R.C. stipendiary
stewards and racecourse inspector (H. G.
Saker) have been instructed to make a
full investigation and report back to the
committee.
M.Q. and Rafferly
George Elliott (10.2) put up another
good performance as a welter when he
met Ron McLaughlin (10.7) over 12
rounds at Leichhardt last week. Ron,
looking much the stronger, tried to rush
him off bis feet with a slather-and-whack
offensive, but George coolly and cleverly
outboxed him, using his right hand well
below the brisket and particularly well
in planting short uppercuts to the jaw.
George weakened a shade after the ninth
round, but was at that stage so well
placed on points that he looked a cert.
The ref., however, made it a draw.
* * * »
Evidently the Alabama Kid must be
considered a good influence on the war
effort or something. He’s still in these
parts, gathering small but easy pickings.
Last week the South Australian middle-
weight Jack Young was served up to
him in Adelaide, and was so completely
outclassed that the ref. called it a night
in the seventh round.
* » * *
Bobby Turner, who launched himself
into the game in the heavyweight class
with a good points win over Jack Ranger
at Sydney Stadium last week, is a nephew
of the old-timer of the same name who
was lightweight champ, nearly 40 years
back. The present Bobby already has a
good grasp of the boxing side, and is a
fair straight puncher, too.


WOMEN'SLETTERS
From Sydney
A short jacaranda-blue coat and a
white frock brought into relief the deli-
cate porcelain coloring of Lady Diana
Cooper at the Government House
reception in honor of her celebrated hus-
band and herself. This was a late-after-
noon affair, and about 400 guests came
to greet the visitors, pay their respects
to the Governor and Lady Wakehurst
and enjoy the freshening breeze that
swept up from the harbor. Lady Wake-
hurst was tall erectness and bright gaze,
wrapped in Pekin blue and white pat-
terned silks. The Hon. Henrietta Loder’s
silks were also deep blue and white. And
let not the warm and quick smile of
Alfred Duff Cooper go unnoted. Also
noted were the super gladioli. Many of
these were sent from Exeter by Mrs.
Cecil Hoskins.
Saturday was a busy day. There were
the Warwick Farm race meeting at
Randwick, two fetes (Melody Fair
and Carnival Under the Stars), the
opening of the Kirsova ballet season at
the Minerva, and a performance of Gil-
bert and Sullivan’s “The Sorcerer” at the
Royal. Fresh breeze and blue sky made
Randwick the perfect setting for the
summer frock and hat. There being no
matinee at the Minerva, Alec Coppel
and his betrothed Myra Morton enjoyed
the horseplay in the sunlight. Every
second woman wore a white hat. Mrs.
Pat Osborne’s, however, suggested a
toothsome pink fondant. Panama straws
are first favorite, but the rare Leghorn
is looked on with the eye of envy.
As far as could be seen nobody at the
Royal rushed to buy one of sorcerer
John Wellington Wells’s Saturday night
penny curses. There may have been
some perfectly ready to pay even three-
pence for a really satisfactory bit of dam-
nation, but restraint was the keynote.
Ivan Menzies, as the sorcerer in a res-
pectable line of business, who drew off
his gloves and blew down them so neatly
before he departed in a final whiff of
sulphur, was a great joy. As usual the
G. and S. hall-mark brought in the
crowds. Two well-dressed women were
Mrs. H. J. Brady and Mrs. C. L. Jones.
The first was in white, the second in grey.
Helene Kirsova launched her six weeks
of ballet at the Minerva on Saturday night.
This should prove a stimulus to the
students of ballet, and should give some-
thing of the polish of the professional
to the notably fine Australian product.
The theatre was crowded out, and the
State vice-regals were in the audience.
Helene, all ivory moire and orchids, and
husband Dr. Erik Fischer met the Gov-
ernment House party at the entrance.
The Hon Henrietta Loder, Joan Holman
and Peter Lubbock were also applause-
makers, as well as Admiral and
Mrs. Grace. The Mervyn Finlays,
Stephanie Edye, Margaret Dovey and
Barbara Smith were sprinkled among the
multitude.
Those who last Sunday surfed off a
golden beach under an ardent sky, golfed
or played tennis and then went home to
just the sort of lunch they liked should
remember that there were friends who
did these happy, comfortable things in
the beginning of this year, at the end of
last year. Now, they are prisoners of
war. To be a prisoner of war in Europe
must be pretty hard for any man ; for
an Australian during the winter months
it must be a desperate sort of hell. These
prisoners need help, and that help can
be sent only through the Red Cross. On
Friday next a chance will be given to all
to help stock one of the parcels which
the Red Cross sends each week on this
mission of mercy. There will be badges
on sale. There will be collection-boxes.
Those especially who remember happy
hours at work or at play with some par-
ticular prisoner of war should give gener-
ously to the fund that benefits all.
Mrs. Gregory Blaxland has stepped into
the front ranks as organiser as the result
of the Red Cross lunch in aid of prisoners
of war. The idea was a good one. The
Town Hall was begged, borrowed or
stolen for the occasion. The decorations
had a direct bearing on the cause and
were red and white. As one came into
the Town Hall from the vestibule the eye
was led from the two great standards of
red and white gladioli to the stage, which
had a white background surmounted by
the red cross. On the many tables were
floral decorations in red and white. Even
the tissues covering the rolls were
printed with the cross. Over 450 people
lunched. It was no mere “having a
banana with Lady Diana,” as in Ella
Shields’s old song. The oysters, lamb and
salad, creme de menthe ices and black
coffee were served with Australian wines
and preceded by cocktails, the whole
being the gift of an unnamed friend.
The Duff Coopers were the star
guests, and sat at the long table at
the top of the hall in company with Lady
Wakehurst, Mr. McKell, the Cricks, the
Alexander Gordon lady and the Wilfred
Johnsons. There, too, were men of the
sea Admiral Grace and Commodore
Muirhead-Gould and their respective
wives. Up in the galleries a small com-
pany of V.As., who had dashed about
with cocktails and savories, sat waiting
for the speech by Mr. Duff Cooper. It
was worth waiting for.
He expressed everything that was in
his listeners’ hearts when he drew com-
parison between a London battered and
scarred and Paris glittering and un-
touched —the pride that the English felt
in their capital’s scars. Lady Wakehurst
made the speech in reply in her usual
direct phrasing and clear diction. Hats
to be commended were worn by Mrs.
Leon Lyons, Mrs. David Yaffa, Mrs.
Ernest Watt, Mrs. Sep Levy and Mrs.
Roy Buckland.
Mrs. John Metcalfe, wife of the
Deputy-Principal Librarian of the N.S.W.
Public Library; is carrying on a tradi-
tion of service to the community. Like
Roosevelt, she is now in her third term
as president—her domain being the
Lyceum Club. She is also State sec-
retary to the National Council of
Women. Another movement which
has her great interest and support is the
Mosman Children’s Library. War work
is not overlooked. Mrs. Metcalfe has
certificates for advanced first aid and
home nursing, and an instructor’s certi-
ficate in A.R.P. The knitting circle of
the Lyceum Club, which works for the
Lord Mayor’s Fund, is another of her
patriotic works. Montgomery Dunn
made this picture. .
Mrs. Metcalfe’s father, Harry Vagg,
had been, when he retired the other day,
35 years a member of Berrigan Shire
Council. His property in the Mulwala
district is in the Riverina near the Murray
River. For half a century Mr. Vagg has
taken a leading part in district affairs.
He was for many years (in the good old
horse-and-buggy days) president of the
Yarrawonga A. and P. Society, and is
now president of the Corowa P.P.B.
Lady Diana Cooper’s white and gold
good looks have a cool quality about
them, and rise superior to clothes.
At the Mayoral reception given for the
British Minister and his wife she wore
the same frock in which in the morning
she had bought a school of seals on the
Post Office steps, in which in the early
afternoon she had visited the koalas, and,
believe it or not, she still managed to
look attractive and well groomed.
The dress was of white linen, its loose
blue sleeves let in with red. It had
come out of Singapore. The hat was
white, big, wide and deep of crown —a
regular sun hat. Lady Diana’s smile was
neither wide nor frequent, and the firm
roundness of the chin was as Gains-
borough liked such things.
With Mayor Crick and his Mayoress
(very trig in navy and wearing a navy
hat, wide of brim, as is her custom) the
Duff Coopers stood before the fireplace,
which was banked with hydrangea, the
mantel topped with an immense Union
Jack woven in flowers —delphinium, small
daisies and the red blooms from one of
Australia’s flowering trees. Cabinet
Ministers, aldermen, Consuls, and their
wives, were at this party. Premier McKell
and Mrs. McKell were there, knight Tom
Gordon and his lady and the Andre
Brenacs. Greece and Poland were among
our Allies represented by their Consuls-
General. The Rear - Admiral Grace
couple, the Commodore Muirhead-
Goulds, Major-General Fewtrell and his
wife and the Wing-Commander Alex-
anders were among the hundreds.
On Friday night at Admiralty House
(by permission of Lord and Lady
Gowrie) a concert of chamber music,
arranged by the Sydney Junior Chamber
of Commerce, will benefit the Y.W.C.A.
services appeal.
In this year’s N.S.W. women’s chess
championship the strongest contestants
were the musical Frey sisters and the
veteran Mrs. B. Davey. In the end violin-
ist Mignon Frey, who is Mrs. C. Ghey-
sens, tied with the veteran, but beat her
in the play-off ; sister Carmen Frey was
third. The women champions are all
young, with good looks and intelligence
behind the looks.
Tonight at the Con. Betty Hilliard will
lift her mezzo-soprano for the Musical
Association Benevolent Fund and the
Red Cross. Associated will be Frank
Hutchens, G. Vern Barnett and Richard
McClelland’s Ladies’ Quartet.
From Melbourne
If there is any spring-cleaned, fresh-
painted world coming along, the girls
and boys of the Girls and Boys’ Clubs
of our industrial suburbs will be making
it. At the week-end they put on a good
show at Exhibition Youth Centre, where
Isabel Green, Bob Menzies’s fair and
energetic sister, arranged a fete. Among
other entertaining exhibits was a doll’s
house made altogether of match-boxes.
They’re hearty lads and lassies at these
centres. When the Dugans visited the
Collingwood show they were seen off by
every boy there, some clinging to the
wheels of their car, some riding on the
running-board. It’s fine to see them at
the Exhibition, the really lovely gardens
of which were formerly most frequented
by the city’s down and outs, who slept
the time away on benches and under the
trees. When first the Exhibition Boys’
Club used to try to get the boys to help
with a bit of painting, or the like, they
painted one another more than the walls ;
but nowadays the lads do as slick a bit
of work as could be seen in a day’s
march.
Lorna Moriarty, who has announced
her engagement to old Xaverian Aubyrn
Hugh Byrne, known in the wool trade
from Spencer Gulf to Cape York, is
known as a broadcaster and repertory
player. Athol Shmith made this photo-
graph.
A craze for toy-making has swept over
Melbourne. Women artists are doing it,
and portraitists like Isabel Tweddle and
sculptors led by Ola Cohn are putting
pretty work into faces for dolls. The
Teachers’ Training College concentrates
on marionettes, and they had a play after-
noon for their friends, which showed that
in manipulation of the strings some of
the students are very clever. Occupa-
tional therapy classes in convalescent
homes are doing it, and turning out some
of the best toys, by the way. And every
competition calls for more toy-makers
to try their luck. Perhaps out of all this
welter there will emerge a new Cutie or
Donald Duck or Teddy Bear. All the
girls’ schools in their annual exhibitions
of needle-work seem to go in heavily for
toy-making in wool and rag. So far there
is no mention of a distributing centre to
see that every child in the Common-
wealth gets one in its stocking.
Complete lack of side, a suspicion of
an Aberdonian accent and the short hair
and natty collar and tie that the mind
associates more with business than with
creative art, made Robert Hughes seem
good at first sight as he sat in the big
empty Town Hall waiting at rehearsal
to hear the Melb. Symphony Orchestra
get going on his composition, which was
one of the highlights of Saturday night’s
Australian “celebrity” concert. Friend
Hughes works at accounts every day, and
composes in his spare time. Bernard
Heinze heard of his stout heart and de-
termined to give him a chance; so a
bursary at Uni. Con. and study with
Nickson thereof followed. Hughes does
his own orchestration and says naively
that he does make mistakes, but they are
more easily covered up in orchestral
works than in, say, a violin sonata. Seems
strange that a young Scot from Aberdeen
without anything but the urge should
compose while hundreds of trained-from-
their-youth-upward young fellows and
girls don’t.
“Jean Campbell has been dragged down
from her literary heights by me,” was
the way Leila Pirani described her col-
laboration with Jean to produce Passport
to Paradise, a South Sea and Australian
story of the glamorous maiden and air-
man type, which has been demanded by
their publisher and will be out before
Christmas. “Sometimes Jean dictates
and I type, and then I shut her up and
dictate,” is Leila’s frank version of the
get-together. A nice airman, who, with
many others, has to thank Leila for hos-
pitality which she so generously gives
(and her parties are the kind that people
almost ask to be invited to) has supplied
correct accounts of aeroplanes, so that
the two women wouldn’t go wrong in
description of flights and landings. Jean
is busy rehearsing for Terence Crisp’s
new plays.
No one was found to admit that “We
won’t go home till morning” had been
adopted as their slogan by the balleto-
manes who formed part of the gathering
at Mrs. Russell Grimwade’s last week,
when a National Ballet Society was given
its christening party ; but signs halfway
through the meeting were that the late-
afternoon affair would last long enough
for breakfast bacon and egg to be relished
under the hospitable Grimwade roof. The
introduction of some belated pep talk
by the Brookes dame (“Mabel” to her
friends) saved the situation and the ballet
societies to function in the coming brave
new world. The ballet’s friends are deter-
mined that Art must be saved, and they
themselves must do it; so on December
18 and 19 Edouard Borovansky and
hearty co-operators hope to see the Prin-
cess Theatre resound to the strains of
ballet music.
Mostly, when stage designers make
their bow in this solemn port, they an-
nounce that they have already done all
the right things, travelled to glory by
way of Moscow Art Theatre and seen
the elephant and heard the owls at
Chauve-Souris (Peace to its bones!) and
the big British theatre movement. But
young Helen Pullen refreshed the spirit
by saying simply that she had come to
be stage designer for the new Gong
Theatre by way of Preston High School,
private studio lessons in town and a
Collins-street business house. And Helen
appears to have the goods. She had to
look up Baroque and Scroll for her
advertising job, and so when producer
Jubal told her to submit examples of
work for a Moliere set she just went
ahead and did it. Being trained on prac-
tical lines, Helen knows that you have
in these sad days to know not only what
10 use for sets, but where it is at this
minute—and she does know, bless her!
What’s the matter with Melbourne? In
a shop within a stone’s throw of The
Bulletin office is a window display of
entries in a competition for one of our
numerous war funds. Two sections open
are “Originality” and “Typically Aus-
tralian.” “Originality” one brings in
entries by every post, but so far the
“Typically Australian” entries don’t
come. Mrs. Jack Kemelfield, of the
Originality Group, is puzz'ed why some-
one doesn’t make a toy platypus or send
in a copy of a battered dustbin, which,
from a tour of our bayside suburbs, one
would pick out as almost as typically
Australian as the dead marine which a
County Court Judge once outspokenly
declared to be the national weapon.
Entries are free ; so girls are invited to
get in touch with Mrs. Kemelfield at her
Group’s shop, open for a week at Man-
chester Unity building.
When Terence Crisp produces “Asmo-
dee” or “The Intruder,” the play that had
bouquets handed to it from Jimmy Agate
when it was put on at The Gate, Lon-
don, in 1939, he will have a cast which
believes in the play as it believes in the
rising sun. Jean Campbell is almost Mel-
bourne’s best-liked amateur, and Betty
Howden, Jeanette Caldwell and Angela
Fink can stand up to heavy going and
never flinch (or make their audiences
flinch —which is more important). Ter-
ence is going all out with rehearsal, and
the great night will be Wednesday, Dec.
3, at Central Hall, with a second per-
formance on the following night.


A MAŢER OF POLICY
By A.C. HEADLEY.
O’SHAUNESSY was a liar and a poet, and on a
day in the history of time he came to me
with a great unburdening of his soul. For a
while he sat in the shade of the verandah and
sucked avidly at the short stem of his black pipe, and
I could see that his spirit was filled with unrest and
I waited for what he would say. He would speak, I
knew, only when the scatterings of his mind grouped
themselves into a picture that was as clear as the sky
and the trees and a sleek brown cow in the shade.
“This pipe,” he said reflectively, “is too new.”
For a certainty I had seen that same black stub
in his mouth all the years he had come to sit on my
verandah and talk about the hard times. “It cer-
tainly stinks,” I said.
But once again O’Shaunessy was silent. From
the corner of my eye I watched him suck at the pipe,
and I could see that misery hung over him. There
was a new and unaccustomed droop to his shoulders,
and his soft grey eyes were troubled. And then he
took the pipe from his mouth and tapped it forcibly
on the verandah. “I have bin sold into Egypt,” he
said dolefully, “and the soul of me has bin sold into
bondage.”
For a moment I harbored the paralysing thought
that he had taken a job, but knowing O’Shaunessy as
I did it was a fancy not hard to dismiss, so I sat there
watching the mournful droop of his bottom lip, wait-
ing for him to continue.
“The life of me,” said O’Shaunessy, “is sombre as
the fall of dusk” —at this point his voice rose an
octave of the scale —“and for what?”
“Yes,” I echoed, “and for what?”
His soft eyes turned to me. “You might well
ask,” he said bitterly, “for what. For what? —when
the hands of me hold the pain that is worse than the
ache of a tooth.” Abruptly he extended his hands
before me and I took in the swelling of the knuckles
and the parts that were raw and uncovered by skin.
Apparently O’Shaunessy had been fighting. I said
as much and his eyes lit with the thought of it.
“Fight, man?” he said. “ Twas not a fight, ’twas
a battle, and the salt taste of blood is still on the lips
of me. Fifty-three minutes it was be the watch of
Jimmy Godden, that is known to be ten minutes slow
always. Fifty-three minutes with the mouth of me
filled with blood and the heart of me strong with pur-
pose. Fifty-three minutes till I beat the black devil
to his knees and the soul of him cried for mercy.
Fifty-three minutes till I stood over his cringing form
and the heart of him called out that no man could
stand before the might of O’Shaunessy.” He looked
at me. “Man,” he said, “I wish you could have been
there to see the glory of me.”
There was another silence and it was still un-
broken when I had taken the makings from my pocket
and rolled a cigarette. Clearly O’Shaunessy was wait-
ing for me.
“And who,” I said tolerantly, “was this black-
hearted devil?”
O’Shaunessy blew through the stem of the black
pipe.
“ ’Twas no black devil,” he corrected.
“It was yourself who said it,” 1 reminded him.
“A slip of the tongue,” said O’Shaunessy, “and
a slander on the greatness of a man. If ’twas said,
’twas the heat of a moment.”
“And who,” I asked gently, “is this greatness of
a man?”
“Joe Haddock,” said O’Shaunessy simply.
My eyes were popping when I looked at
O’Shaunessy. There was a reason for it. Two reasons.
The first was that O’Shaunessy had never so far as I
know weighed more than eleven stone ; on the other
hand Joe Haddock had never weighed less than four-
teen. It was a difference clearly in Haddock’s favor
and one that O’Shaunessy was not likely to have over-
looked. The other reason was that O’Shaunessy and
he were the best of friends. In fact, when the urge—
as close to work as either of them got—to do a little
gold fossicking in the hills was on them they usually
went together. The whole thing seemed inexplicable
and I said as much.
“Sure,” said O’Shaunessy, “friends we’ve always
been and friends we still are and never a quarrel was
there between us.”
It was more than confusing. “Then why?” I
asked.
“ Twas a matter,” said O’Shaunessy ambiguously,
“of policy.”
“And what matter of policy,” I said, “would
make you fight for fifty-three minutes with your best
friend?”
O’Shaunessy stuffed my cigarette tobacco into his
pipe and lit it before answering.
“ Twas the policy,” he said, “of the widow
Sherlock.”
I well knew the widow Sherlock. She kept the
store in the cluster of a dozen or so houses that was
described as the town. She was tall and thin, and when
you were ten minutes from the town you could hear
the sound of her thin voice and no explanation was
needed as to why she was a widow.
“And what,” I demanded, “has the widow Sher-
lock got to do with it?”
“It was her conceived the idea,” O’Shaunessy
admitted. “A matter it was of debt and the desire of
her for a husband.”
“You could put it more clearly,” I suggested.
“If ’tis clearness you want,” said O’Shaunessy,
“you can have it. You will know then that the widow
Sherlock is owed twenty-nine pounds two shillings by
me, and twenty-seven pounds by Joe Haddock.”
“She speaks of it often,” I said.
“And where would we be getting the money,”
said O’Shaunessy, “to pay our honorable debts?
Times,” he added reflectively, “are bad.”
“For the life of me,” I said, “I can’t see what
this has got to do with your fight with Joe Haddock.”
O’Shaunessy sniffed. “A proposition it was she
put to us, and this is the wording of it. That we
should fight and the loser should marry with her and
the winner should have all the debts of him wiped
off the slate. And her to be the referee.”
“Then,” I said, “I don’t see why you should
come to me with such a look of abject misery. You’ve
squared your debts.”
It seemed as if O’Shaunessy had not heard me.
He was staring out over the hills and I could catch
the glint of excitement in his eyes.
“Man,” he said, “what a fight! A battle fit for the
pages of history and only the fierce courage of the
O’Shaunessys to carry me through. And the widow
Sherlock there to see that no advantage was given
or taken. There were the fierce fists of him pounding
me and the fierce fists of me pounding him and the
blood on our bodies redder than the flannel of a
petticoat. There was a time when the lungs of me
were tight with pain and the breath hard to find.
Twenty-nine times was I knocked down and twenty-
nine times I rose to my feet with the spirit of me
strong with conquest. For fifty-three minutes we
fought, and the widow Sherlock dancing about us
and waiting to claim her own. Man, it was an incite-
ment. And the strength of me was too much for the
“Now, sir, ten pounds for you if you can tell me whether Tut-ankh-Amen's great-great-grandmother
Was a brunette or a blonde?”
likes of him until I beat him to his knees and he
called on me for mercy.”
Hearing O’Shaunessy tell it you could almost see
that battle. “You were happy to win, I’ll be bound,”
I said.
The look of abject misery settled itself once more
over O’Shaunessy’s face.
“Win I did not,” he said simply. “I was disquali-
fied be the widow Sherlock for striking Joe Haddock
on the back of the neck. It is a foul, she says, and
she has a little book to prove it. And now because
I have not the money to pay my fare away from this
place I must marry with her.” He cocked his head,
looked at me speculatively and repeated the last sen-
tence.
I sat there and looked out over the hills and the
vision came to me of the widow Sherlock and of her
thin sour face.
“O’Shaunessy,” I said, “how much would you
need?”
O’Shaunessy considered.
“I could be doing it,” he said, “with a five-pound
note in the pocket of me. ’Twould be sufficient for
my fares to some distant place and to keep me while
I was getting work.” He looked at me speculatively.
“You couldn’t see the way of you clear to lend me
that sum?”
“There are other sums,” I reminded him. “Matters
of two shillings and five shillings”
“Times,” said O’Shaunessy, “have been hard but
the record of my borrowings I have kept and I have
not forgotten.”
Once more I looked out over the hills.
“O’Shaunessy,” I said, “I am going to lend you a
five-pound note.”
The misery lifted from his face. “The goodness
of you will be spoken of wherever I am,” he said.
“And I will slave the hands of me to the bone to
send it back to you.”
I didn’t think it worth while to tell him that I
was getting almost five pounds’ worth of satisfaction
out of the frustration of the widow Sherlock.
IT was a week later that I had occasion to come
1 into the town, and when the sign in front of, the
store came before my eyes I couldn’t help thinking of
O’Shaunessy. It isn’t often that anyone has a chance
of taking the widow Sherlock down a peg and I
tethered my horse and went into the store to savor
the fullness of it. I hadn’t seen O’Shaunessy since
the.day I had lent him the fiver, so I judged that he
had gone seeking the fresh fields and the pastures new.
The widow Sherlock was behind the counter,
looking more than ever like a predatory eagle. She
looked at me, thrust her skinny hands on her hips
and said “Well?”
“I was wondering,” I said, “when the wedding
was coming off.”
Her thin lips drew together in a tight line.
“Weddin’s?” she said. “What’s all this about weddin’s?
I been ’earin’ about it all the week. What weddin’ an’
’go’s gettin’ married to ’oo? Everyone who comes
inter the place keeps arstin’ me about weddin’s.”
I thought it was only natural for her to try to
cover up her embarrassment over O’Shaunessy’s de-
fection. But there was a certain amount of pleasure
in turning the stick in any wound of the widow Sher-
lock, and I took it with both hands and twisted. “You
wouldn’t know anything about Patsy O’Shaunessy,” I
said, “and a battle for the favors of a certain lady.”
“You’re right,” she snapped, “I wouldn’t.”
And in that moment I realised that her voice car-
ried conviction, that she was speaking the truth. I
wiped a hand across my brow. So that was it!
“You say,” I stammered, “that there’s been more
people coming in and talking about weddings.”
“A dozen or more,” she admitted.
A dozen. And twelve five-pound notes make sixty
quid. I turned and made my way out of the store.
The widow Sherlock’s voice tailed after me. “If y’
see anythin’ of O’Shaunessy or that good-for-nothing
mate of his,” she said, “you might mention that I’d
like to see them.”
But I knew I wouldn’t be seeing any more of
Patsy O’Shaunessy.
I’M sorry —not for the sake of any five-pound note,
* but because O’Shaunessy has left us. O’Shaunessy
was a liar and a poet and in the five years he has been
gone a legend has sprung up, a legend embellished by
the passage of time, a chronicle of the titanic struggle
between Patsy Cadwallader O’Shaunessy and his mate
Joe Haddock.


“IT'S DIPPING DAY AGAIN”
By D.L. ROGERS.
DIPPING day is a sort of landmark with us. We
| do a lot of our reckoning by it from one month
to another.
“Paddocks’re lookin’ dry,” says the old
man, shaking his head. “Haven’t had a decent drop
of rain since that lot just before last dipping.”
“Let me see now,” muses Mum. “It must be time
we did the house out again, Carrie. The last time
we did it was the day after last dipping. That’s four
weeks ago.”
Carrie sits with her chin on her hand, elbow on
the table, gazing out through the open door with a
vague look in her eyes. “Four weeks,” she agrees.
Then, half to herself, “That makes it five weeks since
I had a letter from Harry. My last came before last
dipping.”
Harry is Harry Johnson, the youngest of old
Dan’s family of boys, and' the only real cobber Rory
and Carrie and I ever had outside our own trio. He
more or less grew up with us in the first few years
we spent working old Dan’s dairy on the shares.
Maybe it was because we were just kids having fun
together, but he and Carrie never appeared to take
any serious notice of each other, even after we came
back to Dan’s after that year at the Allison place,
until he enlisted with Rory. Then, when they
came home on final leave, you could see that things
were, somehow, different between him and Carrie and
they weren’t just kids any more.
When their mob went overseas Carrie took to
writing long letters and going over regularly to the
station for mail instead of leaving it to me to collect
when I go over with the cream ; and after a while
she grew older and quieter in her ways, less and less
like the kid sister who used to be as apt as any boy
at riding and swimming and shooting and getting into
mischief, till nowadays she’s so shut away inside her-
self that it’s hard to know what she thinks and feels,
especially concerning Harry.
Now the old man looks at her across the breakfast
table, and, arch as a circus elephant doing its tricks,
gives me a wink and says “Aw, he’s probably busy
writing to somebody else, Carrie, me girl.”
Carrie doesn’t say anything, but Mum suddenly
speaks in the sharpest tone I’ve ever heard her use,
“Don’t you think it’s about time you were making
a move, Dad, if you want to get an early start?”
Mum is generally so mild that this sort of thing
comes as a real surprise from her. The old man
looks from her to Carrie and back again, puts his cup
down with a bang, pushes his chair back and mutters
something to me about getting the horses up while he
fixes up the dip.
When we’re outside he says, “Well, I dunno!
Wimmen are —queer!” And then, after a couple of
minutes, “Hell, they’re only a couple of kids, any-
way.”
I just shrug my shoulders and go off for a bridle.
It’s never any use stopping to argue with Dad—Rory
always reckoned he couldn’t see a brick wall till it
fell on top of him. Carrie is eighteen, and Harry is
nearly as old as Rory, who is a year older than me.
Maybe we do seem pretty young from the point of
view of fifty years of age, but none of us will ever be
kids again. I’ve never really thought about it before,
but now that I have got round to it I can see that it’s
so and that lately I’ve been growing into myself just
as much as Carrie has done, and it’s something I can’t
help any more than I can help having to shave more
often.
Still, I can see, too, that it might be difficult foi
anybody else, like the old man, to understand the
change in us. Maybe if there hadn’t been a war we’d
still have acted like kids whenever we were all together.
But when Rory and Harry went overseas some abstract
things out of our lives that won’t come back when
they come back went with them —the open, easy com-
radeship that held between the four of us, the decent,
foolish fun we had and the fine feeling of knowing
each other without doubt.
The old man comes along and roars “What the
blazes’re you standin’ there staring at the bridle for?
You could ’ave had the horses up be this. We won’t
be done by milking-time if you’re going to stand about
moonin’ and rolling cigarettes.”
THE dogs, Blue and Digger, come running after me
when they spot me going down towards the creek
with the bridle in hand. They trot along together, a
little ahead of me, fooling amiably with each other in
pleasurable anticipation of some activity more interest-
ing than chasing calves out of Mum’s garden. Per-
haps they’ve figured out already that it’s dipping day
again. They’re both good dogs, keen for the work,
though Digger is just a nondescript sort of mong that
Rory found and brought home otfe day. Blue is pure-
bred cattle-dog and old and wise in his job. The only
lure that can make Blue lose interest in the muster
is a fox, and there’s often one to be found in those
deep back-paddock gullies.
On past dipping days we kids used to toss up
before we started out to help with the muster, and
whichever two won the toss were deputed to attend
to possible side issues, just in case Blue unearthed a
fox or we ran across anything else worth a chase.
The unlucky pair were supposed to stay with the
cattle as duty demanded. This scheme worked well
enough until we found that, by some unholy streak
of luck, Rory was always one of the two who won the
toss. After that we decided to take it in turns instead.
On a day like this we would have been in fine
fettle, ready to look on anything as an adventure.
It’s a beautiful day, mild and clear with a cloudless;
sky and a warm tang in the air. When we got up this
morning the moonlight was so bright we scarcely
needed to light the lanterns in the bails, and anybody
wide enough awake could have counted all the stars
they’d ever want to see.
But adventure is over on the other side of the
world with Harry and Rory. Carrie and I are the
ones who’ve lost the toss and have to stay with the
cattle, Carrie because she’s a girl, and I because I’m
just one of the mugs that can’t wear a uniform. My
shadow, bobbing along ahead of me in a queer, un-
gainly imitation of my limp, is sufficient reminder.
The horses are scattered about just over the creek,
picking about at what grass there is. There’s the
draught and -the brown mare belonging to the place,
Dad’s ugly roan, the little chestnut that really belongs
to Rory but is Carrie’s while he’s away, and my own
bay.
The bay lifts his head as I go towards him,
edges away, and then when I speak to him stands hesi-
tating, giving me a long look of speculation, his nos-
trils quivering. But he doesn’t run away.
He was as wild-hearted as any brumby when 1
bought him from old Dan towards the end of last
summer. Dan had had the bay foisted on to him as
part payment of a debt, couldn’t do anything with him
and seemed glad to get rid of him. He reckoned if I
wanted to get my neck broken it was my own lookout.
Mum was shocked over this callousness, and Dad
growled that Dan ought to have more common gump-
tion than to sell me a horse like that,
“How the hellTe Carrie and me going to manage
all the work if you go getting yourself smashed up?”
he said, and five minutes later offered to bet me ten
bob he could ride the bay to a standstill himself. He
would have had a go, too, if Mum hadn’t put her foot
down.
But sometimes I think that old Dan might have
understood, in a way, why I wanted the bay so much,
wildness and all, or he wouldn’t have let me have him.
Dan’s three brothers all went to the last war, but Dan
had to stay at home and look after the cattle. Maybe
he got pretty sick of riding quiet horses round quiet
paddocks, bringing in the calving cows and rounding
up the herd for milking. Maybe he remembers what
it’s like to feel too safe. This time it’s his sons
that’re over there.
The bay lets me go up to him and suffers me to
put my hand on his mane, though you can see he s
still wondering if he’s done the right thing, and if it
wouldn’t be more in keeping with his pride to make a
bolt for freedom even now. Generally I have to
catch the roan or the chestnut and drive him up to
the yard with the others. But a minute more and
the bridle is on, it’s too late to bolt ; so, as if he has
finally made up his mind that it’s to be peace instead
of war between us, he slowly turns his head till his
nose touches my shoulder. He is cobbering up at last.
IT feels good to be on his back and to know that
* he’s mine. One of these days—perhaps next year,
or the year after, or the year after that —he and I will
go off to have a look at the country. A good horse
makes you independent. You can ride wherever you
want to go, and there’s always work to be had for the
asking, according to Mick Schultz. We could go drov-
ing inland, or head up to the Gulf country and the
Peninsula, or to the stock routes down south. But
in the meantime it’s dipping day again. The old
man and Carrie will be waiting up the yards for me
to bring the horses. For the next few hours Carrie
and I will do a lot of hard work and galloping about
while the old man does a lot of yelling and swearing
and cracking of his whip. Those few damned steers
will keep breaking away like they always do just
when we’re trying to yard the herd, until we all lose
our tempers with them and with each other. The
place will be full of noise and dust and the smells of
sweat and cattle-dip for a while. Then the cattle will
go bellowing thankfully back to their paddock, and
we’ll go thankfully into the house for hot tea and
scones.
The old man will say hopefully, “Well, I don’t
care how soon it rains now that that job’s off our
hands. The frogs were croakin’ early this morning.”
Another dipping day will be over, and we’ll be
back in our routine for another month.
REVENGE
By LES ROBINSON.
the white-ants had eaten all the clothes-
props, the electric light and telegraph poles,
\ the fence posts and the dead trees they could
find, they commenced to devour my abode. I
did my utmost with noxious fluids of various kinds,
and by smoking indoors the worst tobacco procurable,
to deter them. The only sufferer from these drench-
ings and the inseparable stench seemed, however, to
be me.
Munch, munch, gnaw, gnaw. I used to lie in bed
and listen to them steadily and ceaselessly destroying
my aged home. In the hours of darkness they built
those covered ways-, their lines of communication,
which look like pyjama girdles made of chewed saw-
dust mingled with sand.
One night as I lay there wondering which rafter
would crash down first and whether it would fall
upon the bed or not, I was startled by a high-pitched
voice that emerged, it seemed to me, from a very inten-
sive concentration of gnawing and munching in an
overpopulated portion, doubtless, of the wooden wall
near my left ear;
“Because, in particular, of the vile tobacco smoke
with which, in the vain hope of asphyxiating us, you
are always filling the hut, we are arranging for it to
collapse suddenly, when most inconvenient, as, for
instance, during a nocturnal tempest of unusual
severity. Don’t imagine that merely by moving the
bed about you will evade the large amount of annoy-
ance you so richly deserve and that we are toiling
unceasingly to inflict upon you. You appear to cherish
the belief, extraordinary and absurd, that this aged
and long-suffering domicile, once yours but now much
more ours, esteems you highly and would like you to
go on living in it for ever. What, may I ask, have
you ever done for it? Nothing at all, except to try
with pieces of wire, bootlace and string to prevent it
from falling down. You give it no respite, you clean
it too often ; no one could possibly irritate the old
wreck more. It is tired—tired of being a habitation.
What it longs to be really is a heap of crumbling
ruins.”
I was, therefore, not nearly so surprised as I might
otherwise have been when, on a dark and stormy
night, a dozen or more of months later, I was awak-
ened by a prodigious crash.
I thought of air-raids first; then I thought of
thunderbolts. I had, however, for some reason
or other, perhaps awareness in a subconscious
manifestation of impending disaster, likely, no doubt,
to be experienced every now and then by anyone
sharing a wooden dwelling with white-ants, moved,
the preceding evening, into a near-by cave. When
the storm abated, I noticed, whilst raking among the
debris, that the white-ants had constructed with those
tunnels in bas-relief a big “V” for Victory on the door
of the hut.
I resolved to be revenged.
The diligence of insects, and that of ants in
particular, has been greatly extolled. All my life I
have been urged to emulate it. “Why?” I used to
exasperate the urgers by asking. Now, at last, I
decided to accede to the request.
So if you should chance to hear, as you are passing
the huge termitic mound, somewhat in appearance
resembling a tombstone, near the ruins of my former
abode, muffled sounds as of gnawing and munching
emanating from it, do not imagine that the white-ants,
having eaten, all the woodwork in the neighborhood, are
devouring one another. If you broke into that mound
you would perceive that the ceaseless gnawing and
munching was being made by me. I am, in fact, very
busy indeed at present. Some night, when most incon-
venient, as, for instance, during a tempest of unusual
severity, this abode of the white-ants will collapse
as suddenly as mine did, and on the ruins of it you
will find emblazoned an even larger “V” for Victory
than that which its multitudinous occupants wrought
upon my door.


Mainly Mail-Order
df
CYPRUS
DE LUXE
The ideal watch for
the Service Man.
Waterproof, Shock-
proof, Uustproof,
Anti - magnetic,
Stainless steel case,
£7.
T’ully Guaranteed.
Regimental Colour
Patch Brooches,
2/6 each.
diam'ond
&• WATCH
SPECIALISTS
gd
112 MARKET ST!
) SYDNEY.
OPR DAVID JONES
(■fatlMteri
I CLOCK-WATCHER
(Memory Joffeer) Set '' for i,nv
I j 30 ' remind you, when the
gong strikes, that: —•
o The eggs are boiled.
• To tune into your
favourite programme.
• To keep that appoint-
ment.
• To time that cake,
etc.
Contains a simple
rugged clock mechanism
fitted in plastic case.
Automatic re-setting.
Type 57, reading 0-30
minutes 12/-
Type AlB, reading
Ideal for Presents. 0-60 minutes ... 17/6
POST FREE.
AMPLION (A/Sia) Pty. Ltd, 383 Kent Street,
Sydney.
TYPEWRITERS
of every descripti
Smiths, Coronas,
Royals, Reming-
tons, Underwoods
and many others
for you to choose
from.
AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES
Each machine guaranteed.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone
8
SOME COMMON SENSE
ABOUT
Discard the old type
steel Truss. Try the
amazing new Roussel
Appliance. Enables you
to do the hardest work with comfort and security.
Definitely holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for possible improvement or recovery. Made to
suit each individual case and costs little.
Recommended by Doctors everywhere. Satis-
faction guaranteed no matter where you live.
Send for details, self measurement form, testi-
monials and 14 days’ free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street. Sydney.
WINCHESTER
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 17/6
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 19/-
Complete with Batteries.
Postage Extra Outside N.S.W.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING STREET. SYDNEY.
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
Judgment Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr.
Market St.), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2355.
fg
TILLEY LAMPS
For the Farm, Camping
or Fishing.
Save your eyesight with Britain’s
best Lamp. 300 c.p. of steady
brilliant light at a cost of Jd.
per hour using only kerosene.
Stormproof, insectproof and
easy to operate. Used bv
Navy and Army. Model EXIOO
illustrated may be used as a
storm lantern or as a hanging
lamp or table lamp. May be
carried around, set down or
hung up. Price, 77/-.
Write for Tilley Lamp catalogue.
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty.. Ldd.,
380 Kent St., Sydney. MA6336.
Country Agents everywhere.
DINGO TRAIL”
for attracting- Dingoes to Traps or Baits.
Per 4oz. Bottle, 31/-
From Gulgong, N.S.W.: -‘Since using it
my Joss from the ravages of the dingoes
has been practically nil.”
Prom Queensland: “ ‘Dingo Trail’ acts
admirably before the dogs get in amongst
the sheep.”
DINGO TRAPS
Double Folding Spring 9in. jaw, 16/-,
lOin. jaw 18/6 each (carriage extra).
GIBBS' RABBIT DECOY
A bottle costing 13/6, post paid, will treat
1300 baits. Instructions given.
FOX DECOY WHISTLES V 6 each.
For all station
R. J. BROWN
supplies write—
Dept. B, 39 Bligh
Street, Sydney.
SERVICE FOR
THE DEAF!!
Mr. R. A. Noedl, L.1.8.5.T., wishes to announce
that he is able to render a most efficient service
to all afflicted with Deafness, no matter what
type or style of Hearing they may be using.
"ELECTRAVOX" SUPREME
The sensational Hearing and small, compact and
of amazing clearness. Batteries used in the
Electravox are obtainable anywhere.
R. A. NOEDL 1.i.b.5.t.,
The Block, 428 George Street, Sydney.
* ’Phone: MA3774.
You may be a
future
TEX
MORTON!
Learn the
HILLBILLY
GUITAR,
Hawaiian Guitar,
Spanish Guitar or Ukulele in 30 MINUTES!
Let Norm. Scott, the singing stockman,
teach you!
His simple but complete Postal Instruc-
tion course costs only 2/6 a week.
Write today for complete details.
NORM. SCOTT, Hawaiian Club,
Dept. B, 296 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tune in to 2GB every Sunday 9.45 a.m. *
dfg
UlSltl
W/
LEARN VENTRILOQUISM
quickly —my new method
teaches it thoroughly in very
short time.
THE VENTRILO
is a little instrument that fits_ into
the mouth, cannot be detected. With the aid of
the VENTRILO you can imitate many kinds cf
birds, animals, etc. Everything for ONE
SHILLING, including a FREE booklet giving
full instructions how to become a Ventriloquist
and throw your voice,
FRFF Catalogue full of Jokes, Magic
lI\LJy Tricks, Puzzles, etc. Send now.
WILL ANDRADE
173 Pitt St., Sydney. 52 Swanston St., Melb.
THROWING THE BOOMERANG
A New Sport with the Famous Aus-
tralian Weapon. Full Battle Size,
length two feet. Every Boomerang
carefully tested by an expert and
fully guaranteed. Will traverse a
circle of 60 feet or more in dia-
meter and return to the, thrower,
and, with practice, a secotod circuit*
lof 30 feet across can be achieved,
before the Boomerang comes
* back. Proficiency quickly
I attained. Great fun and
excitement with two Boome-
rangs in competition. Full
directions for throwing sent
1 with each Boomerang; failure
impossible. Price 3/6. or Two
for &>-, carriage paid. Obtainable only from 1
I THE UNION MFC. & AGENCY CO.. '
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
df
CUIMBING
TO'M'A-TO
IBIEEET
Amazing New imported
CLIMBING TOMATO!
BEARS FOB A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001 b. per plant. Large,
red, smooth tomatoes. Climbs
12-20 feet. 2/6 packet posted.
erb flavor!
MAKES DELICIOUS JAM
PURE WHITE
TOMATO!
For Rheumatism.
Sciatica, Gout,
etc. (100 per cent.
NON-ACID!) Sup-
Disease free! Dro_„-- r
2/6 Packet, posted,
15-DAY TIMBER KILLER!
Kills all trees, roots to top, large
or small, in 15 DAYS! New method.
NO BINGBARKING NECESSARY!
Prevents Suckering. Will not in-
jure the soil. 5/6 Tin. Post Frea
N.S.W. SEED CO., 693 George St., Sydney.
L J
*Vs
fat, flabby
STOMACH
REDUCTION AND SUPPORT
The GOVERNA BEI,T supports
correctly the delicate organs,
and, by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes waistline
fat and bulge with every move
you make.
7 DAYS’ TRIAL, OFFER
In 7 days your waistline will
be Sin. smaller . . , Sin, of
bulge and strain gone . . .
OR NO COST! Write for full
illustrated details of 7 DAYS’
TRIAL OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COMPANY,
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
P 2&
BATTERIES DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Cut your costs in half. Every
type of wet battery for car, truck,
cycle, radio, home or theatre lighting
approximately fifty per cent, cheaper
than retail. Marshall Batteries are
entirely new throughout and guaran-
teed in writing. Our 16-page cata-
logue on how to choose and look after
batteries is yours for the asking. The
Marshall Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42
Harbour Street, Sydney.
DEHORNING
Get rid of
Homs BEFORE
they start!
One application of
HAYES CHEMICAE
DEHORNER
Dehorns without bleeding
any calf up to two months.
Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from
its mother for 30 minutes. An easy, cheap, humane
iiethod. Price per pot sufficient for 35 to 50 calves,
0/6. Large size for 210 to 300 calves, 30/-.
HAYES VETERINARY Post Free.
COMPANY, 351 Queen St., Brisbane.
aar n,
*3
i v
y*
gd
A genuine and Instruc-
tive toy. An Australian
patent. Priced at 5/6.
Postage paid to any
part of Australia.
Write to John Sterling,
Fisher’s Chambers, 554
George Street, opposite
St. Andrew’s, Sydney.
Send for the new in-
genious toy—a battle-
ship that you can build
and blow up again and
again. Made in sec-
tions ; easy to assemble.
15 inches long. Strongly
made. Packed in an
attractive carton.
fg
df
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
f UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
J. P. TALTY
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
iiin. knee pads. Sin. thigh
pads. 4jin. to Sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St., Sydney.
Are you
watching ,
his health?
If your dog's
coat is dull,
loose or ragged
—if he is listless,
won’t eat or is
out of sorts —!
start him now on
a course of
BARKO Condition Powders. He will soon be
lively and eating with his old healthy appetite.
BARKO tones up a dog’s whole system.
gdf
gd
BARKO
CONDITION
POWDERS
1/6 All Chemists.
FINE TOBACCO!
Whitelaw’s Famous Import
Blend Number One.
A fine quality leaf which could not be purchased
anywhere at less than 24/- per pound. Despite
new duties, WHITELAW’S SPECIAL POLICY TO
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS enables us to offer this
tooacco at the lowest price consistent with its fine
quality. Save yourself the middleman’s profit—
buy direct and enjoy an extra fine quality smoke,
expertly blended, fragrant, cool, and satisfying.
Your money back if not satisfied. Send crossed
cheque or money order. (If cheque add exchange.)
Available in Ready Rubbed Pine Cut or Ready
Rubbed for Pipe, 41b. 9/3 delivered; 11b. 17/6
delivered. James Whitelaw and Co., Factors,
Importers and Blenders of Fine Tobaccos, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (Note new address.)
Bankers: Bank of N.S.W., Head Office.
LATEST RADIO SETS
£2O Below Retail Price.
You can buy direct from factory if
no Century Agent in your District,
and thus save up to £2O on retail
prices. Marvellous tone, sensitivity
and economy; world-wide reception
brings overseas news direct to your
borne. Absolute satisfaction is
guaranteed by FREE TEN DAY'
TRIAD TO INTENDING PUR-
CHASERS. Illustrated catalogue of
Battery and All-electric sets post
free on request.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
What Better Present ?
A BERT OLDFIELD
BAT
(Personally Autographed)
Size 4 13/6 and 17/6
Size 5 15/- and 19/6
Size 6 17/6 and 20/-
Wicketkeeping Gloves,
from 11/6
Compos 1/-
lllustrated Catalogue Free.
Bert Oldfield,
54 HCNTEH ST., SYDNEY. 8W4257.
U-'S
zm -
m
CERTAIN DEATH
THE SAFEST. SUREST AND MOST
ECONOMICAL SOLUTION OF THE
RABBIT MENACE.
The only way to carry the maximum
number of sheep is to clear out ALL
the rabbits, and that’s where Cyanogas
comes in. because Cyanogas WILL
clear out all the rabbits— quickly,
safely and certainly.
CYanogAS
Obtainable from all Storekeepers in Australia.
fg
df
LAMBS SAVED
Humane—Safe —and as quick as the fastest
knife. Lambs suffer no setback —fatten
weeks earlier. No risk of Infection —No
losses. Don’t judge this instrument by othe)
machines, TRY A DAKOUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/16/—; Large, £4/10/-
Also LAMB DE-TAILEK, £3/5/-. From
all agents or the distributors: IfAiN &
SKAKIGHT, 19b O’Connell Street, Sydney.
►AROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
By Using the
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
gdf
tA/IcAolA&rii
WAY IS TO
AS YOU
6DITARS ...... non 3/- weekly.'
SAXOPHONES 3/6 weekly.
PIANO ACCORDIONS
TRUMPETS
BANJO MANDOLINS
UKULELES
3/6 WEEKLY.
3/- WEEKLY.
3/’ WEEKLY,
10/6 EACH
Write for free catalogue
of instrument you prefer.
Wty2cAo£uynX
PTY
LTD
* ° « C I STREET,
3h t?h. -c.
SYDNEY
25'-
MAY
SAVE
*25
_ nj,«iffiTTFini ■ i_
K.WzHmn
Amazing: new discovery cuts oil and gras
bills, adds power, pep and quiet, increases
motor compression without rebore or new
rings.
If your engine knocks, if it has lost com-
pression, eats petrol and oil . . . it needs a
tube of OVBHAUL. 25/-, post free.
HI Slop hoy#
1 W M 335 PITT ST. SYDNEY
gd
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
26/U/pl (See Page 26)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to The Bulletin Service Department.
For local office address, see Page o.


i
mi
■ m
: vi
DOUCTS
do their j
ti
vs
Si
mi
■
m
«i «
** m
f.
I » «' a *
m
a long way down, but Dunlop
chute cords will ensure a happy
Parts of complicated radio mechanism
are made by Dunlop. Interior of one
of Australia’s training ’planes.
fg
df
gd
fg
The wheels and many other parts of this
Australian-produced Beaufort Bomber are
Dunlop equipped.
With this load they can’t risk
blowouts. R.A.A.I-'. bomb-carriers
use Dunlop tyres for safety.
RUBBER IS VITAL TO DEFENCE
Steel helmets or tanks ... gas-masks or
guns .. . parachutes or ’planes .. . ships
or torpedoes .., almost any war equip-
ment you can think of has, as part of its
make-up, indispensable rubber com-
ponents. And it is Dunlop, with its
unparalleled facilities in the rubber
manufacturing field, which has been
called on to produce the great bulk of
these. Illustrated here is a cross section
of the Dunlop products in war service.
There is a myriad of other products and
Dunlop factories are working round the
clock to send them all forth in a con-
tinuous stream to stand behind the ser-
vices ... to do their duty.
DUNLOP RUBBER AUSTRALIA LTD. Cine, in Vic.)
■fill
>
v :
m
Who would have thought that this torpedo had anything to do with Dunlop?
Several Dunlop rubber products are used in R.A.N. torpedoes.
V.#
This mobile water-purifier uses many T>unlop
articles and is one of the most popular vehicles
overseas _
■■■■■'
The Dtinlopiilo gymnasium mat used in
this kind of A.I.F. training will smooth
things out.
dfg
df
gd
An ingenious machine fabricated with steel, rubber
and ebonite by Dunlop for use in munition making.
mm
>•*>' * ;.
it#
ir
*'tv;
Dunlop products figure very prominently In the
mechanism of these modern “light horse.”
A
■
No searchlight can operate without the aid of
rubber. Dunlop products are well represented here.
mm
mmm>
j
.VO
I
m
These heavy machine-guns, too, are well
equipped with Dunlop products.
■
mks
-¥
%
...... . <
yJy.jJUj.- y.
: -.y
ipy
■
Dunlop supplies rubber boots, gas-masks, hose
and many other rubber articles for A.K.P.
