

*•
■mi
m
r:
V5"*
/~N
S
n»**'
CSS
I
S
1
n
f/5 W&' * an a
. resources
The manufacturing Wive less, as
Icmtle* of *-*“*£ Research &
I as the Company s to . da y
S-a *-*'•
engaged -» *«* person
ta the operation a „d in the
wir ele»s eornnrn. leM eq»>J’" e ”J.
ro .nnf.et»reo Anstraha*
V.w.v. » a “
r A rrunF. ns OF
ARE ** NV * A Z 1 pP A*A* V *
riKK< KSh 1
FOR
iiii:
i Hi : ' in "
» EPTS
„v.. " l V,,,,N
SHIP mWN ""
AlBt l?iES
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A'SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62.—N0. 3205.
Wednesday, July 16, 1941.
Uncle Sam in Iceland
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
freelance
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
MAORILAND'S SLANG.
When he says he’s short of “hoot” a
Maorilander means he’s short of money.
For those nine out of ten who don’t know
why they should use “hoot” for “money”
Sydney J. Baker has written New Zealand
Slang (Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd.).
“Hoot” has romantic history, for it comes
from the Maori utu and originally meant
payment in blood for an injury or insult:
When the missionaries first settled in New
Zealand they found that the savage in-
habitants had no conception of any recom-
pense except the grim recompense of blood.
Under Christianising influences the natives
were induced to forgo the blood-revenge
for injuries on receiving a solatium in
goods or land, and so utu came to have
the double meaning of revenge and recom-
pbnse, and eventually became recognised
as the Maori word for money.
This aspect, the influence of the Maori
on the New Zealand language, with its
corollary in the influence of English
speech on the Maori vocabulary, is excep-
tionally interesting in Mr. Baker’s survey.
“Toe-ragger,” now obsolete in Maoriland
but still used in Australia as a term of
contempt, is another word with a his-
tory: the Maori had no greater insult
than to call a man tau rika rika, a slave;
whalers on the Maoriland coast borrowed
it to curse each other and so, anglicised
to “toe-rigger” or “toe-ragger,” it found
its way to the bush in Australia.
From various acknowledged sources,
Mr. Baker quotes a list of words that
have been borrowed the other way round
—from the English into the Maori.
“Hiruharama” is the classic example.
That’s what happened when the Maori
tried to get his tongue round “Jerusalem”
and the word, passing as authentic Maori,
has been returned to the white New
Zealand vocabulary as the name of a
settlement.
Some more of the English words bor-
rowed by the Maori (with the whole his-
tory of Maori and pakeha implicit in the
list): pihopa (bishop), rekureihana (regu-
lation), haeana (iron), hoari (sword),
kawenata (covenant), kereeme (claim),
mokete (mortgage), motoka (motor-car),
takoha (tax), tokena (stocking), topi-
tongia (torpedoed), tupeka (tobacco). All
the blessings of civilisation! Inciden-
tally, Mr. Baker doesn’t mention waipiro,
which is common New Zealand usage
for “beer.”
Next to the Anglo-Maori interchanges,
greatest interest lies in the slang of the
early days; of the whalers, miners and
the first settlers. One term the pioneers
used, now obsolete, should never have
been allowed to decay; the excellent in-
sult, “He’s eating his toot”:
“To eat toot” was the pioneer way of
describing the period during which new
immigrants settled down to the cold facts
of New Zealand life. More correctly the
expression was “to eat tutu,” for it was
from the poisonous plant of that Maori
name that the phrase was taken. The fol-
lowing quotation from R. B. Paul’s Letters
from Canterbury, 1857, is explanatory:
“Those who have come out in the last two
or three ships have, I am told (with a few
discreditable exceptions), passed with un-
precedented rapidity through the crises of
unreasonableness, false pride and grum-
bling which old settlers call ‘eating their
tutu.’ ”
While it’s of considerable value both
for the student and the general reader.
New Zealand Slang can’t be said to live
up to the publisher’s description of it as
“the first comprehensive survey of indi-
genous English speech in this country —
from the argot of whaling days to chil-
dren’s slang in the twentieth century.” It
is “comprehensive” only as an outline,
and even as such it should surely have
examined current speech more fully, with
some reference to the effect of the talkies.
In details it is sketchy. For instance,
Mr. Baker gives a list of some 40 examples
of children’s slang (“stunner,” “dickin!”
etc.) and then admits “the list could be
extended to three or four times the
length without difficulty.” But why not
extend it? And why not give the mean-
ings and derivations of the slang terms?
And why spell “hang-of-a” and “han-
gishing” as “hangava” and “hangashun”
without any indication that the spelling
is to be regarded as phonetic? The
answer is, apparently, that this book is
intended as an introduction to a “Dic-
tionary of Australasian Slang” which Mr.
Baker hopes to publish in the future.
In many places Mr. Baker makes state-
ments that, if not wholly incorrect, call
for considerable modification. “We use
‘midgic’ for a shilling.” Maybe some
Maorilanders do, but in the North Island,
at any rate, people who say anything but
“bob” are pretty rare. “Cracker” for
karaka, he says, is “falling into disuse” ;
but, unless all virility has gone out of the
nation in very recent times, all right-
minded small boys still smoke “cracker-
berry” pipes. And all good Taranaki
men will be looking for Mr. Baker when,
meaning to say that a certain abomin-
able type of wire gate is known with
humorous contempt as a “Taranaki gate,”
he says baldly, “Another writer states
that ‘Taranaki’ is now used as an adjec-
tive of contempt, in the South Island at
least.”
Mr. Baker concludes with an analysis
of the New Zealand accent (a more
elaborate comparison with the Australian
would have been interesting) and an
eminently sensible warning to those
National Broadcasting Service people who
are trying to foist an incorrect version
of the southern English accent upon a
New Zealand speech that would be best
left alone. Most Maorilanders, says Mr.
Baker —and this applies equally to Aus-
tralians—regard their broadcasters as
affected. Mr. Baker supports the
N.B.S.’s attempt to correct the pronun-
ciation of Maori place-names, but this,
too, has its silly side. Do the announcers
in Wellington still say “Fonganui” when
everybody else says “Wanganui”?
Julian Ashton.
One thing Julian Ashton didn’t do in
his charming Now Came Still Evening On
(R.P. 25/6/’4l) was to portray himself
as his students saw him. In the old days
in the studio on the north side of George-
street he always ate his lunch with his
students, munching rice and chicken he
had brought with him in a billy. Some-
times he would sit completely silent. At
others something would start him talking
and he would range over the whole
gamut of affairs, human and artistic.
He had been strongly affected by
French impressionism in Paris and he
loathed English academic painters. When
Holman Hunt’s “Light of the World” was
sent on a world tour and was greeted
everywhere with extraordinary outbursts
of religious fervor he was disgusted. He
disliked what he called its fussy detail
and said that art was not vaudeville and
our feelings about a picture weren’t neces-
sarily any indication of the worth of the
picture. Afterwards the students went to
the Gallery and looked at the picture.
Nuns were telling their beads in front of
it, women and children were kneeling on
the floor and some were weeping. The
students all took their master’s valua-
tion and repeated what he had said
about it.
Another of his stories was of his early
days as a student when his teacher sent
him on a tour of the galleries of Europe,
He told him looking at pictures would
not tell him anything and told him to
take a pot with him and draw it daily
and send home the sketches. A stream
of pots, said Ashton, poured from him
back to England from every capital of
Europe. He had. the same attitude
towards his own pupils.
I was knocking about Sydney looking
for a teacher and had heard'of Ashton’s
prestige. But I wouldn’t have gone to
him if I hadn’t met one of his girl stu-
dents who spoke so enthusiastically about
him that I decided to become a pupil.
One morning we climbed a flight of
rickety stairs and entered a large untidy
room set round with easels at which
young men and women were working.
Canvases stood with their faces against
the wall, there were skulls and a skeleton
in one corner and busts of Julius Caesar,
Voltaire and Socrates stood on pedestals,
and there was one large cast, I remem-
ber, of a figure from one half of which
the skin had been removed so that you
could see the nerves and sinews, while
the other half had no flesh on it, so that
the skeleton was visible. It looked to me
more like a medical school than an
artist’s studio. The students nodded to
the girl, stared at me and grinned at one
another, and then a door which led into
another room suddenly opened. I caught
a glimpse of another row of students
standing in front of another row of
easels and staring intently at something
in front of them that was hidden from
me.
The person who had opened the door
and was now looking at me was of middle
height with a roundish red face and a
white moustache discolored at the ends
and his tight skin was covered with
thousands of little wrinkles, especially
about the eyes. He looked, it seemed to
me, like a seaman. He was smiling, evi-
dently at something he had just been
saying, but as soon as he saw me he put
on a fierce expression and, when I was
introduced, merely grunted. When the
girl said I wanted to be a painter, he
said: “Ha! So he wants to be a painter.”
He pointed to a vacant easel and then
to a cast, and went away without saying
anything further, and I felt like one and
sixpence, and decided that the time was
not opportune to ask him to look at a
portfolio of my sketches I had brought.
But the girl only laughed and, handing
me her charcoal, showed me how to pin
up my paper, and told me to draw the
cast in outline. It turned out to be the
skull of an aboriginal, not a cast but a
real skull.
I drew that skull daily for weeks, and
occasionally Ashton would pause in
front of my easel, grunt, suck his breath
in and go away ; or he would take the
charcoal from my hand and start work-
ing on a clean piece of paper in a sort
of ecstatic frenzy which I couldn’t imi-
tate. When he had finished, the floor was
covered with bits of broken charcoal and
he would throw the butt down and grunt
“That’s more like it!”
One day I asked him if I couldn’t do
something else except the skull, and he
took a sharp glance at me and said:
“Ha! So you want to take a short cut,
do you? Young man, you could draw
that skull till your dying day and still
find something to learn from it.”
Which was perfectly true ; but I wanted
to get into the life class, which was
situated behind the door where I had
first met him. I did eventually get into
it, after drawing that infernal aboriginal’s
headpiece some hundreds of times, but
all that happened was that I had another
illusion shattered.
I had romantic notions about artists’
studios and when I looked at the model
I was disappointed. She was an old
woman —about thirty, which was old for
me in those days—and so skinny she
might have been a sister of the skeleton
in the other room ; her knees were red
as if she had just been scrubbing, as pos-
sibly she may have been; her eyes were
blank and her face white and drawn, and
she seemed to be trembling with cold and
exhaustion. There was a black cloth
behind her, and she was sitting on a chair
with her legs crossed, and for some reason
her right arm was raised above her head
and her hand was clutching a wire
stretched across the studio above her.
There was an oil stove smoking beside
her. At the end of 40 minutes a student
looked at his watch and then went up
to the dais and made marks on the floor
and chair to indicate her position ; he
had to release her hand from the wire
with his fingers and she walked stiffly
across the dais to a curtain and came out
with a wrap around her.
With my head full of images of Paris
Salon nudes, this did not coincide with
my conception of artistic subject-matter,
but when a student suggested that a more
attractive model might be provided, an
old Crimea veteran with a bullet wound
in his leg, who was usually drunk and
always loquacious, was substituted. “If
you can’t draw a dead fish properly, you
can’t draw an Aphrodite,” said Ashton.
I didn’t do any better with the models
than I had with the skull. My drawings
looked wooden, they were all out of
proportion, and even when the shapes
seemed right there was no life in the
figure. I thought that if only I were
allowed to look at the model, shut my
eyes and walk into the other room I
could set her down on paper; but when
I mentioned my idea to Ashton he
scowled and said: “Ha! Short cuts as
usual.”
So I decided I was intended to be a
writer, not a painter, and I gave up art.
This is no reflection on Ashton. He was
a teacher of painting, not a psychologist,
and there were all sorts of things divert-
ing me from painting which he didn’t
know of. One day I showed him some
drawings I had got published in a maga-
zine. “Ha! A passion for print, I see,”
he said, sucking his breath in. Years
later I met him at a literary banquet
and he recognised me immediately. “Still
thirsting to see yourself in print, eh?”
was his greeting.
Which isn’t to say that he was un-
kindly. He was only unkindly to that
part of the pupil which Ashton thought
stood between him and becoming an
artist. He was the kindliest of teachers,
but he held that only by discipline and
work could an individual become good
at anything, from pulling stroke in an
eight-oar to painting a picture. And
that has always been the creed of the
true artist.
F. S.
Lower's Lunacies .
There aren’t many professional humor-
ists who can work it; “Beachcomber,”
D. B. Wyndham Lewis and Robert
Benchley are the masters; and, pretty
often in the 128 pages of The Bachelor's
Guide (Frank Johnson), the Sydney man
L. W, Lower does the trick every bit as
richly as the top-rankers—the miracle be-
ing to burst into inspired lunacy that
makes outright laughter irresistible.
Lower, commenting on a taxi-driver
who accepted his fare in stamps: —
This, if one has the taste for it, a
taste for wit, clowning and nonsense based
on satire, is the real thing. Some of
the skits are labored, some feeble, but
there’s no doubt whatever about tjhe
master-touch when Lower, viewing the
statue of Sir Henry Parkes, wonders
“Why they should ’ave built ’im with
a pigeon on ’is ’ead . . ; or when,
having read that “pigeons should be
carried on passenger ’planes, or, failing
that, distress rockets,” he observes: —
Pigeons are much better than rockets.
(Byron.)
The difficulty of lighting a pigeon so
that it will leap into the air and go off in
green sparks must be obvious to all.
But can you put a small ring on the leg
of a sky-rocket?
No. This must be obvious to those who
have never reared a sky-rocket.
There’s the suggestion, “Look what
a saving in freights would be effected if
farm produce could swim to the London
market” ; the sound advice to “refrain
from all fatty foods, such as candles,
lubricating oil, and petroleum jelly” ; a
fine piece of satire on “the new domestic
journalism” when he “peeps inside” a
slum home ; a bit about how not to see
that a woman wants to sit down that
will win the hearts of all Sydney tram-
trackers ; directions about dealing with
white-ants, beginning (“carefully” is the
touch of genius) “Carefully smash the
table with an axe”; a first-rate book of
humor and one that should be exported
in large quantities to Malaya and the
Middle East.
Anyone who walks into city bookshops
and takes a look towards tables or shelves
labelled “Military Text Books” will agree
that these new Diggers are singularly
earnest about their job. In Sydney shops
any day or on Friday nights they crowd
around such displays as if there was a
free issue of something good on. Three
specimens of the sort of literature they’re
studying and buying have come along
from their publishers, Robertson and
Mullens, Melbourne Military Map
Reading for the New Army, With an
Appendix on Judgment of Distance
(2s. 6d.); Exercises Based on Military
Map Reading (Is.) ; and The Bren Gun
(Is.). All by experts.
The Empire on Stamps: Patrick
Hamilton (Peter Davies). For stamp
fiends who, when they see a swan on a
W.A. stamp, a kiwi on another, and a
Hottentot up a palmtree on a third, want
to know why. Historical and geo-
graphical backgrounds briefly explained.
The Warrior: Thomas Ryan (Peter
Davies). Lively historical fiction, set in
the Middle East in the time of Alexander,
with plenty of scrapping, as conducted in
those days, against a background of
ladies of the oldest profession.
The Crowthers of Bankdam: Thomas
Armstrong (Collins). Solid novel about
solid woollen-millers in the solidest part
of the Yorkshire Pudding block. With
love and some rather self-conscious
frankness. Fair reading, if you haven’t
read too Bankdam many family sagas.
Social Studies: Kathleen Donovan
(Angus and Robertson). Textbook to
cover the course in social studies and
civics in three States. It traces the growth
of communities through tribes and City
States to races and nations ; outlines Gov-
ernmental systems, and the Australian
system in detail. The section on Parlia-
ments, and particularly that on preferen-
tial voting, might well be distributed
among the 285,126 Australians who were
unable last year to mark their Common-
wealth ballot papers correctly.
The Australian Gardener: Leslie H.
Brunning (Robertson and Mullens), This
is the 26th edition of a book which has
been the standby of the home gardener
for upwards of 30 years. It is both con-
cise and compendious.
Take our own experiences. We said to
the taxi-driver, “We are afraid we are stone,
motherless, hearts-of-oak. Will you accept
empty bottles, a penknife and two dirty
handkerchiefs?”
“Oui,” said the driver (an educated man).
“But I shall have to give you the change
in sparkplugs.”
“It is well,” we said.
We turned to go, but the training of a
thousand years drew us back.
“You have served us faithfully for the
past 10 minutes,” we said. “If ever you
need a reference, come out to La Perouse.”
We took off our left boot. “Some little
recognition of your service,” we said.
“Thank you, sir. Thank you.”


HEA
VITAL NEWS!
Don't let your Radio miscon-
strue the news by blurring the
most vital sentences. A modern
Radio enables you to follow
every word of overseas as well
as local broadcasts accurately,
and with a clarity of tone that
makes listening a pleasure.
--1
&'
IC~
SPECIAL RADIO OFFER
Anthony Horderns' are making a special offer
of latest "Uni" Console and Mantel Radios for
a limited period. They are available on Easy
Terms. See and hear them without obligation,
on our Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
mm ■■
m
■
m
m
'' ■ i I li
- V
:
M
■
m
28 gns. 6-Valve ''Uni" Radio £2510'-
6 Valve Dual Wave Console Model, housed in a very attractive cabinet,
using two 6 volt G.G. valves in push pull. Splendid tone and overseas
reception is guaranteed. Fitted with 12 in. speaker and full A.V.C. Installed,
serviced and guaranteed for twelve months within the metropolitan area.
Valves guaranteed for 90 days. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, 28 Gns.
Sale Price £25/10/-
Available on Easy Terms of 52/- Deposit; balance in convenient monthly
payments.
REALISTIC SPORT DESCRIPTIONS
w
&
18 gns. 5-Valve 'Uni' Console Model £1519'6
Five Valve Dual Wave Console Model, housed in attractive maple veneered
cabinet. Fitted with dynamic speaker. Deep tonal qualities. Excellent local
and overseas reception assured. Fitted with best quality component parts.
Installed, guaranteed and serviced free for twelve months within the metro-
politan area. Valves guaranteed for 90 days. Regular Price 18 Gns.
Sale Price £l5/19/6
Available on Easy Terms of 32/- Deposit; Balance in convenient monthly
payments.
m
• Radios.—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Delivered free only
within our delivery area.
f
£ 7 1
%
' V.
r-
YOUR HOME ENTERTAINMENT
m
USE THIS SET IN
EVERY ROOM!
13 gns. "Uni" Mantel Model EIl/19'6
Excellent local and overseas reception assured. An ideal second
receiver. Splendid tone. Modern, easy to read dial, fitted with
best quality component parts. Installed and serviced free for 12
months within the metropolitan area. Valves guaranteed for 90
days. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £l3/137-
Sale Price £ll/19/6
Available on Easy Terms of 24/- Deposit; Balance in convenient
monthly payments.
"Make Your Money Fight Buy War Savings Certificates
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'PHONE: M 2401
(DAY OR NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY


BIRDS OF A FEATHER
By GAVIN S. CASEY.
They were talking about old times, and their
faces were glowing with satisfaction. They sat
on their tall stools at the bar, and went on and
on, excited and pleased, and absorbed in their
common memories. They had come in with different
parties, and the men who had been with them had
been fidgety and impatient when they had first got
together. But now the others realised that it was a
great occasion. They were drinking and talking a
bit among themselves, and listening sometimes and
grinning tolerantly.
“Do you remember that big M.P. in Cairo?”
asked Dick. “Remember how we handled that cow?”
“What about the captain who dealt with us,
though?” said Tom, grinning.
They took a swig at their drinks and sat for a
moment chuckling over something they had said or
done to the captain, and soon they were wrangling
about a hill the old unit had taken, drawing diagrams
on the counter with fingers dipped in beer. After that
they reached the old goldfields days, before the war
and just after it.
“I thought we were on to it that time at the
Border,” Tom said. “We looked closer than we’d
ever been to something big.”
“All we got was a long, dry walk home, though,”
Dick pointed out. “Still, it was all in the game.”
They sat reflecting again, doing the long trek
from the Border Reef to town together. The barman
refilled their glasses. Other customers drifted in and
out. Their earlier companions decided that it was
time to go and do some work. But the friends stayed
where they were, drinking and yarning.
Their talk followed old tracks and hard ones on
the goldfields and overseas and up north in the cattle
country. There were men and women of several sorts
in the stories, and the memories were good ones for
men who were middle-aged and respectable. They
were good, courageous recollections of times that had
passed too fast. They were memories of mateship
and movement, of a changing scene and careless years
and of things they could both look back on with
satisfaction.
“Gosh! They were grand days,” Tom chuckled.
“I wonder if the kids nowadays have any like ’em.”
“They don’t,” said Dick, disgusted. “Booze and
women and speed!”
“Well, you weren’t so bad on that sort of thing
yourself once,” said Tom amiably.
“Hell! But'we worked for ’em,” Dick growled.
“We sweated the booze out, an’ women were a treat,
not a habit.”
They grew slightly gloomy thinking about modern
times. They got restless, too, because the present
tugged at them. Tom remembered the office and
Dick looked up at the clock and thought with a start
that Mary and the kids must have been waiting at
least half an hour. They drifted out of tune with
each other and fidgeted and drank a final round
swiftly and determinedly, instead of lazing and yarn-
ing over it. Then they were in the street, and the
warmth came back in a flood as they shook hands.
“It’s no use sayin’ I’ll write when I’ve been prov-
ing for the best part of twenty years that I won’t,”
Dick said. “But the invitation’s dinkum, Tom. I’ll
be disappointed if you don’t get up at Christmas.”
“I’ll be there,” Tom assured him. “We’ll have
some yarns then, all right.”
'"P HEY made off in opposite directions, and Tom felt
* a trifle airy and vague through the liquor, and
pretty good, and a bit jealous of old Dick, too. His
mate had stayed brown and lean and hard up country.
Cockying was tough enough since wheat and wool
had gone to glory, but it was a proper life. It was
the sort of thing men like them might be expected to
drift into when they settled down. And as for the
money, there wasn’t too much of that anywhere. He
was jealous of Dick, all right, but not in a way that
made it hurt, really. When all was said and done,
both of them had more to look back on than most.
They’d had experiences and they could remember
things that it was fine to remember.
Tom thought about old Dick that third day of
the Retreat, and Dick in the back-country, and Dick
dealing with the big Afghan teamster up north, and
Dick in a dozen other scrapes in which he had shown
his mettle. It did him a lot of good to remember
that he’d always held his own, too.
They’d stuck together in lean times and dan-
gerous times, and good ones, too, up until Dick
had got married. It had been great to see him again.
It wasn’t like meeting a casual friend you hadn’t seen
for a few years, and feeling stiff and awkward because
you’d shaken off and forgotten the little, trivial bit of
your life he’d had any share in. There were big
things between Dick and himself. Birds of a feather
flock together, Tom thought.
He tramped along the sunlit street, feeling fine
and remembering. After a while he was right back
when he and Dick had been kids on the ’fields. They’d
never been out of trouble even then, and in the gang
warfare that went on between streets and districts
they’d always had a mob that could give a good
account of itself. He grinned a bit over the trouble
they had with old Mother Jackson, and the time
they’d caught the fence guard at the oval with his
back against the pickets, and had tied his coat-tails
to one of them and climbed over in comfort to watch
the sports. He grinned over a lot of things, but when
he got right back to the very first time he and Dick
had met it made him thoughtful.
He plodded on, thinking about it, and he could
see it all in his mind’s eye.
f T happened out on the dumps one day when he’d
* been having a game on his own. He was pretty
keen on knocking about with the mob, but he liked
to go on his own out in the bush or to the old aban-
doned mines at the north end of the belt sometimes,
too.
This day he was having the time of his life
among the ancient, silent, rusting machinery on the
old Sunset. He was up on the driver’s platform with
a jammed and useless lever in each hand, and though
the frayed wire ropes in reality sagged sadly from the
still winder-drums to the poppet head they were alive
and active to him. When he tugged at the stiff old
throttle they spun their hundreds of feet down into the
earth. The engine pulsed beneath his feet. The mill
roared and chattered alongside him, and every now
and then the whistle blared and the bell rang signals
from the men below. Sometimes he gave weird cries
to indicate the whistles and the bells. It was a pretty
satisfying way to spend a morning, but not the sort
of thing you’d like to be seen at.
Then a stone hit him in the calf of the leg and
he leapt around in fright, nearly falling off the plat-
form, and there was Dick on the ground leering up at
him. At that time, of course, Dick was just a vaguely-
known kid whose people had come recently to occupy
a house in the next street, and who was one class
higher at school but no bigger.
“Who y’ hittin’?” yelled Tom.
“What y’ doin’?” sneered Dick. “Playin’ engine-
drivers like a kid, I bet!”
“I wasn’t,” said Tom indignantly. “I was seein’
if I could git some of these gadgets off to take home
an’ make things, if y’ want to know.”
Dick looked disbelieving, thoughtful, cynical and
quarrelsome.
“Takin’ things off!” he said after a while. “Then
you’re a thief. A flamin’ thief, that’s what you are.”
“Who says I’m a thief?” Tom howled, glad in
his heart to have the charge against him so reduced.
“Do you say I’m a thief?”
“My oath!” said Dick. “An’ my old man used
to work on this mine, too, an’ if I like to tell him
you’ll git slung in quod, see?”
“Your old man!” said Tom as scornfully as he
could.
He climbed down from the platform and ad-
vanced cautiously. Dick eyed him, weighing him up
as he came. Tom stopped when his nose was about
a quarter of an inch from Dick’s. “Now talk about
your old man,” he bellowed. “Now say I’m a thief.”
“Thief!” said Dick obligingly.
They hurled themselves at each other then, and
they milled about and then they clinched and fell and
rolled and came to rest on the edge of the shaft. Tom
scrambled to his feet and jumped back, his heart
hammering with fear, but his hat vanished over the
side. “There! ” he yelled. “Look what y’ done now.”
Tom went to the edge of the shaft and looked
down. The depth made him feel sick, as depths always
did. He came away quickly before he got giddy. The
hat was only about twelve feet from the surface on
a little ledge made by a piece of the timbering which
had cracked and bulged inwards. Dick was standing
well back, apparently abashed at this fearful loss of
property for which elders had paid, and over which
elders would be irritated.
“There!” shouted Tom. “It’s just down there.
You’d better climb down and get it.”
“Git your own silly old hat,” said Dick sulkily.
“You knocked it off,” hooted Tom, dancing with
rage. “Who’s a thief now? You wait till I tell ’em
at home.”
“It dropped. I never done it,” said Dick weakly.
“Come an’ look at it,” ordered Tom. “It’s on’y
a few feet down. Come an’ look what y’ done.”
But Dick wouldn’t come near the shaft. Dick
looked pale, and with sudden glee Tom realised that
he was afraid, too.
“Cowardy, cowardy, custard!” he said. “Fright-
ened, that’s what you are.”
“Who’s cowardy?” roared Dick. “Do you say
I’m cowardy?”
“Yes,” said Tom.
“Well, climb down an’ get it yourself,” chal-
lenged Dick, inspired. “You go down, just to show
you’re not frightened.”
Tom thought of the depth, and moved a little
further from the shaft.
“Stinker Black climbed right down to the
hundred-foot level,” he said. “It’s easy. There’s the
rope, an’ footholds in the timber all the way.”
“I’m not frightened of Stinker Black. Who says
I’m frightened of any old Stinker Black?” demanded
Dick, moving tactfully in the direction of the old
boiler-house.
“Gripes, Stinker’d just about murder you,” Tom
said loftily. “Stinker’s the champion fighter of our
school.”
“If he’d murder me he’d skin you alive, I bet,”
replied Dick.
“Don’t you worry,” Tom skited. “Stinker leaves
me alone. He’s pretty good, but he knows better than
to touch me.”
“Well, you fight him tonjorrow then,” said Dick.
“You fight him tomorrow, first thing, if you’re so
brave.”
By this time they were walking away from the
mine toward the town snarling at each other. Tom
(Continued on next page.)
“But it's my legs that are cold !”


was without his hat, but he was so glad to get away
from the gaping mouth of the deep, silent shaft that
he didn’t care. He felt brave enough to do anything
but climb down that shaft. He was pretty uneasy,
because this kid knew he had been afraid and it
didn’t balance the score that he knew the kid had
been frightened, too. He had to do something pretty
desperate to prove himself.
“All right,” he said. “I’ll fight Stinker first thing
if you’ll fight the winner, see? If you don’t fight the
winner you’re a coward, like I said.”
“I’ll fight the winner, all right,” said Dick, sneer-
ing. “I’m not frightened of anyone you’re not
frightened of.”
They felt pretty nervous about the wild and
savage Stinker, but anything was better than that
shaft.
IT was funny to remember it all so clearly the best
1 part of fifty years later, Tom thought. It was a
funny business. He could remember the trouble at
home about the hat, too, now, and the two fights with
Stinker. The fights had been grim affairs for kids,
and after that he and Dick had cobbered up, and in
a couple of years they hadn’t needed to be frightened
of Stinker or anyone else, except grown-ups, of course.
Actually, it had all started that day out on the
lease, and since then they’d been in plenty of fights
and tight corners of one sort and another together,
and never let each other down. It would be some-
thing to remind old Dick about when he got up to
the farm at Christmas. But it was the sort of thing
you couldn’t find words for, and, anyway, it really
wasn*t a thing to talk about. It hadn’t been men-
tioned between them for fifty years. Dick had prob-
ably forgotten it altogether. He had himself till it
came back today. But it was certain that both of
them had the wind up that morning everything started.
We were birds of a feather then, too, Tom thought.
We were birds of a feather right from the jump, and
it hasn’t worked out too badly.
THE
SHEARING
By MARGARET TRIST.
i i r\ ARN them,” mumbled Uncle Henry through
] his moustaches. “Darn them! What’s keeping
LJ them now,?” He pulled his turnip-like watch
out of the pocket of his working shirt and
squinted down at it. Then he squinted upwards at
the sun. The sun and the watch agreed. He put the
watch back in his pocket and stared impatiently down
the reserve. A thin, near-old man was Uncle Henry,
with a wiry body enclosed by tough, leathery-brown
skin. He stood now leaning against the big gate,
cursing furiously to himself and kicking at the gate-
post in annoyance. No matter how hard he looked
he could still see nothing. There was not even the
faintest cloud of dust on the horizon. Uncle Henry
turned and stamped towards the house.
Aunt Emmie met him at the verandah steps. A
large, determined-looking woman, she had a cleft in
her chin that you could have put your little finger in,
a quantity of black, coarse-textured hair piled on
top of her head and bright, dark birds’ eyes peering
curiously through glasses. She fixed her eyes now
on Uncle Henry, first on his face, then let their gaze
fall to his feet.
■ “You don’t come on this verandah in them boots,”
she said.
Uncle Henry looked at his boots. They were a
good solid pair of boots, generously besmirched with
the soil of the paddocks. Uncle Henry had long since
given up arguing with Aunt Emmie. He turned and
slunk off towards the shearing-shed.
The shed was open, freshly scrubbed and aired.
The machines were oiled and waiting. Tomorrow was
the first day of the shearing. Behind the shed the
newly made-up bunks in the shearers’ hut were wait-
ing. Three shearers, local men who had arrived
early, had gone off to bring the sheep from the lower
paddock. An unconscionably long time they were
being about it, thought Uncle Henry. He left the shed
and went to the shearers’ hut to see for the millionth
time how the newly-installed shower worked. Uncle
Henry was proud of that shower. He had been
humble and apologetic when the inspector had called
and said he must put one in. He was sorry to have
overlooked it so long. Aunt Emmie had sniffed.
“Things are coming to a pretty pass,” she had said.
From the door of the hut Uncle Henry suddenly
detected a faint, faraway blur of dust. It resolved
itself into a slowly-moving cloud. Faint bleatings,
a dog bark falling clearly on the air. Uncle Henry
trotted off towards the gate. But halfway he came
to his senses. It would still be an hour or more
before the sheep arrived. He paced about the empty
paddock, fretting and fuming, looking up into the
cloudless sky, fearing that rain would suddenly descend
out of nothingness.
Halfway down the reserve, Tom MacFarland,
Jim Murphy and Alec Gray rode behind a docile mob
of sheep. The combination of Tom, Jim and Alec
was not one that made for haste. The sheep ambled
and the men behind fell into line. None of the three
had ever given a sheep a brainstorm yet. Their mobs
always arrived tranquil and submissive, baaing more
in content than consternation.
THE coming up of the sheep was like the calm
before the storm. The house, like the shed,
waited. Two long tables, placed end to end, were set
up on the side verandah. The cupboards were packed
with food. Cooking and baking had been going on
for days. Bread dough was rising under a clean cloth
in the fireplace. Aunt Emmie moved quickly and
capably about the house, and gave innumerable orders
to the nieces who were helping her. The house was
packed with nieces and nephews of all ages. Aunt
Emmie and Uncle Henry had a way of'gathering
nieces and nephews unto them. They came on holi-
days and never seemed to remember to go home.
As the clouds of dust and the sounds came nearer
the younger children went off to the big gate. Two
installed themselves on opposite gateposts and the
rest clambered on the gate. Uncle Henry fussily
ordered them off. They took no notice. It was only
Uncle Henry. The excitement finally took Aunt
Emmie. She and the girls took up positions on the
verandah and watched, too. Apart from the sheep
sounds the silence was intense, holding the house and
the shed and the hut and the empty paddocks in its
spell.
The bleating came nearer. The afternoon sun-
shine began to fade. A light wind got up and on it
came the smell of the sheep—a nice smell, warm and
• strong. The slumbering reserve awoke and began
to echo.
“You don't catch me Working on a place what ain't got a bombproof shelter."
“They’re here,” shrilled the children, “They’re
here.”
“They’re here. They’re here ” cried the girls on
the verandah together.
Uncle Henry went trotting towards the gates.
Soon the sheep were in sight. They came slowly
through the trees. Once in the clearing the leader
made placidly for the open gate. At the gate there
was a moment of panic. The gesticulating children
and Uncle Henry’s hearty welcome were looked on
with suspicion. The leader stopped in his tracks, and
the sheep, moving closely together, started to climb
on each other’s backs. The children laughed in glee.
Alec Gray drew up on the right and cracked his
whip half-heartedly. The leader, who was only being
temperamental, went forward at a trot. His mates
tumbled in after him, trying ineffectually to all get
through the gates at once. For the first time the mob
showed animation. They baaed continuously. The
afternoon air was heavy with dust. The children, over-
excited, shouted and laughed and waved their arms.
Uncle Henry ran uselessly among the sheep. Behind
the mob, Tom and Jim and Alec had drawn together
and rode abreast through the gate. The dogs trailed
in after them, their tongues lolling out self-satisfiedly.
“We’re here,” shouted Alec.
The sheep were up. Things had started. It was
shearing. Shearing and spring. This life, this move-
ment, this high excitement was spring. Sunshine and
grass shooting in the paddocks and bluebells
carpeting the reserve and the warm wool smell of
the sheep.
THAT night the shearers arrived. Besides Uncle
Henry and Alec and Tom and Jim, there were five
men. * Uncle Henry took a stand and was proud that
he could still shear with the best of them. Alec was
rouseabout, Jim and Tom picked up and yarded. Alec
and Jim and Tom, being considered in some vague
way part of the family, because they had come so
often before, occupied three small bedrooms at the
rear of the house.
The first night’s tea was very quiet. Afterwards,
everyone sat on the verandah waiting for the men
to arrive.
They came singly. First a tiny speck of light so
tiny that it could have been sheep’s eyes gleaming in
the darkness —the light growing bigger and bobbing
among the trees, the pounding of hooves through the
silence. One of the boys going down to open the
gate. A whistle ; an answering hail. A deep voice
asking “Where’s the boss?” Uncle Henry rising
slowly from his chair on the verandah. Slowly, but
with dignity. He felt his position keenly.
The last man arrived before ten o’clock. At that
hour supper was served on the verandah. The swing-
ing lamp smoking a little, the moths beating against
it, the table underneath it laden with steaming cups
of tea and sandwiches and scones and generously-
sliced fruit cakes.
The children stayed up for supper. They ate
heartily, gulping scalding tea, laughing and talking
loudly, pleased to be noticed, showing off and growing
shy by turns. At the top end of the table sat Aunt
Emmie and Uncle Henry. Aunt Emmie beamed.
Uncle Henry told jokes of all the shearings he had
ever known. The men had heard them all before,
but they laughed to please the old chap. A queer old
coot, but harmless and decent in his own funny way.
The light shone on his bald head and smiling face.
It shone, too, on Aunt Emmie sitting quietly,
dominantly alert and very straight at the end
of the table. The girls stood back from the table,
teapots in their hands, aloof and mysterious in the
shadows.
DAYLIGHT found the whole house astir. On the
quiet morning air came the sound of the milk
squirting into the pails. The shearers washed noisily
outside their hut. In the kitchen the fire burned
briskly in the stove. Above it fat smoked in the big
frying-pan. Steam rose from the spouts of the kettles.
Breakfast was soon after six. By seven the engines
had started. By eight it seemed as if a whole day
had been lived.
The spring day was filled with sunshine. If you
came out of the bright sunshine of the day into the
shearing-shed it was dark and cool. The smell of the
wool clung heavily to it. It was filled with the roar
of the engines. In the narrow confines of their pens
the sheep bleated and turned. The men bent to their
work. Their grey flannel singlets were wet with per-
spiration. Their hair clung wetly to their heads. The
muscles and stood out on their arms. The wool
fell in a dark mass from the tightly-held sheep, leav-
ing them white. Sometimes on the whiteness a spot
of crimson showed. Released, the sheep got uncer-
tainly to its feet. It stood hesitating. A push sent it
lumbering down the ramp to blink in the sunshine of
the yards.
On and on through the day went the sound of the
engines, filling the shed, filling the air, sounding
through every nook and corner of the house. Singing
a song of wool and sheep and men —a song of shear-
ing, a song of spring.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
tfWie Tnellcume^Sxmdl
Seppelt's
IMPERIAL AIRWAYS BUILDING
The transfoiming influence of the passing of the years as great cities depict it in their external appearances has been illustrated in London most markedly
in the last fifty years in that thoroughfare which extends from Victoria Station in the east to Ebury Bridge, spanning a railway in the west. The influence
here referred to may be designated “natural,’ a distinction necessary since the Nazi conception of warfare came into practical being with the years 1914-18.
In the half-century this thoroughfare has undergone remarkable “natural” transformation. A cynical phrase stated it began at a palace and ended —the
latter woids had better be omitted. From a busy but bedraggled thoroughfare it became one of the finest in the metropolis. The erection of the new Victoria
Station, which abolished practically the whole of the south side, led the way to the much-needed reform. Stately buildings took the place of comparatively
ancient terraces of houses, superb in their common unaesthetic attributes. So much for Buckingham Palace Road. Not the least notable of the late erections
is the new terminus of Imperial Airways, with its eleven-storey clock tower. The terminus has a curved facade, with a driveway for vehicles to and
from Croydon Airport. The back part of the building overlooks the rail entrance to the huge and comparatively modern Victoria Station. It is significant
that this building, the child, as it were, of a new form of human activity, bound to profoundly influence the destinies of mankind, should have been
opened in 1939, a year always to be memorable in the world’s history. Its architectural features are worth recording, at least some of them. The ceremonial
gateway, used only by Royalty, is appropriately enough surmounted by figures of the mythological gods of speed—-Mercury and Perseus. Built entirely of
Empire materials and by British labor, “Airways House” contains on the ground floor a huge booking hall, freight, luggage and insurance offices, a
lestaurant and post and telegraph office. On the upper floors are staff offices, while on the top floor of the tower is electrical equipment. A private platform
giving full access to the Southern Railway system is provided at the rear, and here travellers entrained for the Empire Airport at Southampton. The war,
needless to add, severely affected the activities of “Airways House,” but when Nazism is a thing of haunting and fearsome memories, it will proceed with the
great work for which it was intended. If, perchance, it falls a victim to Hitler’s bombers, on its site will rise an even nobler edifice.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62. —No. 3205.
Wednesday, July 16, 1941.
THE CHANGING OF THE GUARD.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
XT 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ) :
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
UNCLE SAM IN ICELAND.
President Roosevelt continues his sustained exhibi-
tion of adroitness in the role of Conjuror Extraordi-
nary. In this he rivals Hitler, some of whose profes-
sional surprises have been remarkable enough. It
can even be said that —for the time being, at least—
Mr. Roosevelt has taken over Hitler’s position in the
spotlight.
If the Russians continue to hold out —as a people
of their weight of numbers in a country of Russia’s
size should be able to hold out, even discounting the
pipe-dream statistics of Friends of the Soviet by
75 p.c.—Hitler will have enough on his hands to keep
him from taking the initiative elsewhere. Being able
to do just that has been a very large part of Hitler’s
success, and Mr. Roosevelt, with a resort to ingenuity
rarely excelled in statesmanship, has practically engi-
neered his country into that very strong position which
Hitler has hitherto occupied pretty well on his own.
Those who urged, secured and supported entangling
alliances for Britain and the Empire in the past, and
who still urge them for the present and the future
(they are immensely gratified with the Cripps-Molotov
agreement), could find food for thought, if they were
capable of digesting it, in the fact that the U.S.A. is
now able to take up this most impressive position in
world affairs. The U.S.A., under President Roosevelt’s
astute leadership, is able to do this wholly by virtue
of the fact that it has all along stood out against
entangling alliances in any shape or form. The odd
thing about the alliances fraternity is that, while they
were always ready to burst into jubilation whenever
Britain —and the Empire—entered further into the
tangle of commitments to police the world and protect
this, that and the other portion of it, they have always
reserved a great part of their admiration for the U.S.A.
on the ground of that country’s singular idealism.
The fact is that it has been Britain, with the Empire
in tow, that has been “idealistic” —meaning unrealistic
—while United States foreign policy has been, and
in appearance still is, clearly realistic and hard-headed.
In world affairs the U.S.A. has sensibly reserved to
itself complete independence of action. Now, when
it chooses to act, it has the initiative. The surprises
will be sprung by it, not on it.
Thus even the announcement last week of the
moving of U.S. naval forces into Iceland had a sur-
prise effect, though Mr. Roosevelt in his May “fireside
chat” had indicated such advancing of the United
States frontiers. A glance at the map shows how
much nearer to Europe the U.S.A.’s Atlantic frontier
has been advanced. The move is no doubt closely
related to Mr. Roosevelt’s promise that war materials
would not only be made and sent to Britain but would
be delivered. It must considerably strengthen
America’s ability to help Britain, both for the dura-
tion of the limited participation at present agreed to,
and when, or if, it comes to shooting. The U.S.A.’s
frontier, either for defence or for attacking, is now
actually thousands of miles out across the Atlantic.
This is a positive realisation of part of what Mr.
Roosevelt pledged, and can be accepted as an earnest
of the rest to come. Perhaps over and above that
practical side, it has the incalculable value of keeping
the world guessing. The guess is changed from What
will Hitler do next? to What will America do next?
That might be decisively arresting in some quarters.
Pending any move from those quarters, the U.S.A.
holds the initiative, with the implicit understanding
that it is prepared to shoot at the drop of the hat.
In America the move into Iceland will be heralded
as another defeat of the still noisy and still consider-
ably influential diehard isolationists. They have lost
all along the line, but they have made, and are still
making, a very hard fight of it. It is a measure of
their strength that President Roosevelt has had to
resort to conjuring ingenuity in leading his country
closer and closer to direct involvement on the side
fighting for a cause which the great majority of the
country agrees is its own cause as much as Britain’s.
The moving of American naval forces into Iceland to
take over there and allow the British garrison troops
to be moved elsewhere, on the stated ground that
German occupation of Iceland would be a grave
threat to America and “an even graver threat to ship-
ping in the North Atlantic, and to the steady flow of
munitions from the United States to Britain,” must
no doubt be also considered as a testing of American
feeling. It looks like a form of trying it on the dog, to
find out whether the dog is yet fully ready to bark and
bite if necessary, or wants to stay at its kennel.
On the face of it, the need for such shifts might
seem odd, but the U.S.A. is an odd and complex
country, and some odd things have happened there.
That the United States was ever hogging for “action”
—as “leadership” sheets like the Sydney “Telegraph”
represented—is now laughable. But it is true that
the great majority in that country identifies itself
unreservedly with the cause for which Britain is fight-
ing, and now even accepts —along with a good deal
of formerly staunchly isolationist opinion—that the
U.S.A. is actually in the war already. The President
and the defeated Presidential candidate, Mr. Willkie,
are practically team-mates on that same majority
side. It is a toss-up which of the pair has made, the
more forthright pronouncements and pledges lining
the United States up with Britain. Mr. Roosevelt has
declared that America “will not accept a Hitler-
dominated world”:
Our patrols are helping now to ensure delivery of the
needed supplies to Great Britain. All additional measures
necessary to deliver the goods will be taken. I say
this can be done, it must be done, it will be done.
Mr. Willkie;
We are beginning to see that a British victory, with
our aid, will be the greatest reaffirmation of the demo-
cratic faith that history has ever known.
If we help Britain to the limit we may become
involved in hostilities. If we do not help her at all,
we also may become involved in hostilities. If we do
not help her to such an extent that she survives, it is my
judgment that we will inevitably be drawn into war.
These brief statements are characteristic of much
more that has been said by both, leaving no doubt
whatever of the present stand of the President who
was returned for a third term with 27,241,939 votes
and the defeated Presidential candidate who secured
22,327,226 votes, which was a record popular vote
for his party. With such public weight backing them,
it might well seem that where they were prepared to
lead the country would be prepared to follow. That
view would overlook the difference —often very wide
in democracy—between political expediency and states-
manship. Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Willkie are now
in double-harness performing as statesmen ; but at
the election which won them such huge and close
support they were of necessity politicians, and as poli-
ticians both of them made commitments and half-
commitments not at all helpful to their present stand.
Then, while Mr. Roosevelt declaimed “I have said
this before, but I shall say it again and again and
again—your boys are not going to be sent into any
foreign wars,” Mr. Willkie, for his part, represented
himself as the man of peace, and trenchantly criti-
cised Mr. Roosevelt’s foreign policy on the ground
that it was leading the country to war.
No doubt both were sincere, as politicians, then,
just as they are now sincere as statesmen. But the
plain fact is that the views of both have undergone
a change in the meantime under the force of events,
while the great combined majority which backed
them as politicians has been confused and so has
lagged behind them. Hence the necessity for Mr.
Roosevelt’s repeated resort to conjuring tricks, of
which the move into Iceland is the most spectacular
and probably the most significant. Yet another of
Mr. Roosevelt’s careful testings and manipulations of
American public feeling, it also signifies that the
President has become still further confident that that
feeling is with him. He has performed a great feat
of national statesmanship in thus leading out of con-
fusion to decision, and nothing short of great states-
manship could have done the job. At the same time,
by securing the initiative to the British-American side
he has given a new and brighter direction to the war.
A Bishop and His Friends.
For some years prior to the end of August, 1939,
Bishop Burgmann, of Goulburn (N.S.W.), was
extremely vocal on such subjects as “Russia’s mighty
experiment for the world” and the passionate love of
freedom and peace that inspired a Red strike designed
to embroil Australia with a foreign Power. The
silence of Dean Maitland was nothing to the silence
that settled on the bishop after September, 1939. A
certain interest was felt in his reactions to the Russian
invasions of Christian Poland, Finland, Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania and Rumania, especially as the invaded
countries were all members of the League, and as
such entitled to Russian protection of their political
independence and territorial integrity; but he did
not gratify it.
Now Russia’s enforced belligerency has unlocked
the bishop’s lips and set his fountain-pen moving again.
He has spoken for the Friends of the Soviet on the
theme that “we,” Britons, Australians, Canadians,
Maorilanders, South Africans, Americans and Russians,
must hang together or “we’ll” hang separately. He has
expanded his sentiments in a letter to “S. M. Herald,”
the opening sentence of which was “Russia’s entry
into the war has created a difficult emotional problem
for many people.” Evidently it hasn’t created any
emotional problem for the bishop, whose complacency
has returned to him in full measure. And if
doubts assail him as to whether the controllers of
“Russia’s mighty experiment for the world” were really
actuated by the purest motives and the profoundest
political sagacity when they came to terms with the
other gang in Berlin and invaded western Poland
and bloodily dismembered Finland and grabbed the
Baltic States, Bessarabia and North Bukovina, he
has not mentioned them.
Dr. Burgmann handsomely admits that he has
“more sympathy with the Left than with the Right.”
As handsomely he allows that “the folk on the ex-
treme Left in Australia have adjustments to make as
well as those on the extreme Right.” “Adjustments” is
right, and in a world in which anything is possible
the folk on the extreme Left may be capable of
making them ; but their record does not inspire con-
fidence that the “adjustments” will be made.
In August, 1939, they gave it out that “Chamber-
lain must at once sign the Anglo-Soviet pact against
the German butchers, and extend it to the Japanese
butchers, instead of attempting to make treacherous
bargains with the Fascists.” That appeared when
Chamberlain and Daladier had, at Moscow’s invi-
tation, sent a military mission to Stalin’s headquarters
to work out plans for a pact. Hitler was then
threatening the Poles ; and the folk on the extreme
Left performed in these terms:
In the organ of the Fascist beast of prey, drug-
addict Goring, the Poles are accused of possessing “a
rule Of the cudgel.” Germany under the Nazis is under
the rule of the headsman’s axe and the midnight
strangler; of dehumanised thugs, the dregs of humanity.
Then came the news that Moscow had signed
up, not with Chamberlain and Daladier, but with
Hitler. It stunned the folk on the extreme Left at
the moment, but, rallying, they explained that it repre-
sented “a great victory for the Soviet and for peace.”
Hitler, compelled to recognise the growing might
of the Soviet Union, sends Ribbentrop to Moscow to
try to make terms. The Soviets agree to sign a non-
aggression pact, but Ribbentrop will find that in the event
of unprovoked aggression the pact becomes null and void.
Something had gone wrong with the liaison work.
During the ensuing month these agitated pronuncia-
mentos were issued from the extreme Left:
The savage German Fascists have launched a new
aggression against Poland, and the British Empire and
France are at war with Germany. This war, launched
for the purpose of the conquest of Poland and its subjec-
tion to the Fascist Empire of Hitler, is an act of stark
aggression, without justification of any kind. Therefore
lovers of justice and liberty throughout the world will
support the struggle of the Polish people for their
independence.
The Government of the Polish ruling class which
refused to have Soviet troops on Polish soil has fled to
Rumania. The Red Army is now engaged in saving the
White Russian and Ukrainian minorities from the Nazi
invasion and its accompanying horrors. The 5,000,000
Polish Jews also welcome the Red Army. The
Ukrainian and White Russian territories were seized
by the Polish imperialists at a time when Soviet Russia
was engaged in a life-and-death struggle with White
Guard armies.
There was no further deviation from the party
line. The folk on the extreme Left dutifully
applauded the invasions of Finland, the Baltic States
and Rumania, nor did they issue any more appeals
to “lovers of justice and liberty” to support the struggle
against the “savage Nazi Fascists.” On the contrary,
Australian workers were counselled to go in for war
stoppages and strikes, and extreme-Left invective was
diverted from Hitler, Goring and Goebbels to Mr.
Churchill, Mr. Roosevelt, Mr. Menzies and General
Blarney. The war with Hitler was denounced as
“imperialist” and “a people’s peace” was demanded.
This cry was heard only last month at the A.C.T.U.
congress in Melbourne. There 71 delegates, opposing
a motion pledging “uncompromising” A.C.T.U. sup-
port for “the struggle against the aggressor Powers,”
voted in favor of “a democratic peace imposed by the
peoples of the belligerent countries, which should be
brought about by breaking the power of millionaire
owners of banks and industries.” One of the majority
delegates recalled that the Communist party had
“advised its members and workers to enlist to help
Poland” ; now, he said, “it suggests that the war effort
be abandoned and that a revolution be organised when
some foreign Power invaded Australia.” And on June
22, the day on which Hitler began his war on Stalin,
the extreme Left issued a manifesto containing these
paragraphs:—
It suited Hitler to put aside his anti-Soviet plans
and substitute friendly relations while he dealt with
the British and French imperialist rivals....lt is very
unlikely that he will attack the Soviet Union now, unless
there is an understanding with British and U.S. imperial-
ists. There is not the slightest evidence... .that relations
are other than peaceful and friendly... .Our task is to
fight the class enemy at home, thereby hastening the
end of the imperialist war and safeguarding the future
of socialism in the U.S.S.R. and all countries.
Truly, the bishop has some very queer friends.
But he is concerned with another question that “forces
itself upon our attention: if the Bolsheviks were as
bad as they are painted by some” (but not by the
Bishop of Goulburn or the Dean of Canterbury),
“where do they get their present powers of resistance?”
They must feel that they have something precious
to fight for. May it not well be that to them the
Bolshevik revolution has meant a new life and the
promise of a still better life?
It has certainly meant a rapid extinction of life for
many Old Bolsheviks ; for the thousands of Red Army
officers, headed by Marshal Tuchachevsky, who were
“removed” in the 1937 purge, and for millions of
kulaks, “borjoice,” old-regime leftovers, minor
officials and alleged saboteurs and counter-revolu-
tionaries “liquidated” previously, apart from those
other millions who perished in the famines. In any
case, it is only natural for men capable of bearing
arms to fight for their homes, their families and their
country against invaders. This has been done in every
age in every part of Europe and Asia, and under
every system. It would have been done in Russia,
probably with equal resolution, if the last Czar, his
wife, his daughters and his crippled son had not been
slaughtered in their prison in the name of the Bol-
shevik revolution.
Australians respect the Russian soldiers and air-
men who are fighting for their homeland, and from
the beginning of the new war they were united in the
hope that the Russian soldiers and airmen would go
on fighting till they had ensured its preservation. But
most Australians draw a distinction between these sol-
diers and their Government, which, if it had been
honest and resolute, might possibly have prevented the
horror that broke loose in September, 1939, and would
at the worst have compelled Hitler to wage war on two
fronts, and thus saved its own people from the full
shock of an encounter with an enemy who had no
other Continental foes to contend with, having beaten,
overawed or seduced them all.
The Churchill Government draws no such dis-
tinction. When things were going very badly for the
Government at Moscow it chose to sign an agreement
with that Government, an agreement in which “the
two Governments mutually undertake to render each
other assistance and support of all kinds in the present
war against Hitlerised Germany,” and “further under-


take that they will neither negotiate nor conclude an
armistice or a treaty of peace, except by mutual agree-
ment.” Britain had the same sort of arrangement with
Russia (1914-17) and France (1939-40), and all are
familiar with the sequel in each case. There was no
occasion for any hazardous addition to these one-sided
and ill-starred experiments. Britain could have given
Russia all the assistance of which it is capable as an
associated Power —which is what the U.S.A. was in
1917-18 and assuredly will be again if it comes into
the present war.
The new commitment immediately raises awkward
questions touching the League States which the
Moscow Government grabbed in whole or part, and is
likely to have unpleasant reactions in other countries,
not only foreign. This the Dominion Governments
could and should have pointed out. Nevertheless the
narrative says that “the Dominions were kept fully
informed throughout of the negotiations for the pact
with Russia” (their Governments may have been, but
their Parliaments and peoples were not) and that “the
step has their full approval.” If this is so Canberra
must have said “Yes, Mr. Churchill,” once more.
On one point Australians will not change. They
will continue to regard their own Communist minority
with hatred and contempt. They can’t forget what
these twisters and quitters have done and tried to do,
and although they have stood a lot from their Gov-
ernment they will not permit it to cancel the outlawry
of Communist organisations and publications, though
sentimental clergymen, doctrinaire professors and Pink
writing boys plead for them till they are black in the
face.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Defamation of the Dead.
One of the scurrilous Communist rags that keep
appearing surreptitiously, despite a weak-kneed
Federal ban, came out with some doggerel in which
the shade of Henry Lawson was visualised as express-
ing disgust at the condition of the Australian Labor
movement, the implication being that Henry was a
Communist.
Lawson was a Labor man, a champion of the
worker all his life. But he was an Australian, too,
and like all other dinkum Australians he would have
abominated the whole Communist programme, from
unrestricted immigration of the “black, brown and
brindle” to civil war, and the entire Communist
methods, from work-stopping to hands-upping.
If Lawson had been spared, his pen would have
been at the service of the Australian fighting man, as
it was in 1914-18. And, like other Australian Labor
pioneers, he would have been horrified to read —as
was read last week —that, with arbitration available
for all, costly electric furnaces at Newcastle, devoted
to the munitions programme, had been damaged
because 150 furnacemen had quitted them to hold a
stop-work meeting ; that 5000 Sydney engineers had
knocked off for a day to discuss a case already under
consideration in the Arbitration Court, and that a
visiting British trade-union leader had been threat-
ened in Adelaide with the Communist formula for
opposition: “You will be one of those dealt with
when the people take control.”
These things Lawson would have fought as
strenuously as he fought the injustices of his day, and
with the same burning love of country and under-
standing of its people that made him write, with
poetic prescience:
There are boys out there by the western creeks, who hurry
away from school . . ,
To climb the sides of the breezy peaks or dive in the shaded
pool, . .
Who’ll stick to their guns when the mountains quake to the
tread of a mighty war
And fight for Right or a Grand Mistake as men never fought
before.... , , .
There are boys today in the city slum and the home of wealth
and pride . _ , .
Who’ll have one home when the storm is come, and tight
for it side by side.
Some of Lawson’s mates still live. His verse is
taught in Australian schools. Young Australians grow
up admiring him. There are societies for the per-
petuation of his memory. It is a bitter thing that
his name should be used by apostles of a foul foreign
cult to further their evil work.
The Syrian Business.
Old as he is, W. M. Hughes has a keener eye for
salient facts than any of his colleagues. He said in
May that “the Anzacs were driven out of Greece
because —and only because —They lacked equipment”
—having aircraft in mind, of course. It was true, and
true of Crete as well —of that calamitous campaign
an airman member told the Commons last week that
“there were no heavy anti-aircraft guns on the Melemi
aerodrome, and we were rarely able to put more than
two ’planes in the air for continuous daylight con-
trol” —but Mr. Fadden was quite huffed about it.
Utterly impenitent, Billy let himself go again last
week on another consequence of Mr. Eden’s luckless
visit to the Middle East. He said he was “amazed
that the Empire should continue normal relations with
the Vichy Government” when the Vichy Government
was “carrying on an active war against the Empire
in Syria.”
Such diplomacy passes the comprehension of the
ordinary man. The whole thing seems shadowy and
unreal.
And so it does ; but Mr. Stewart, who is playing at
being Minister of External Affairs, having been
appointed to that post because he is a local authority
on motor-bus traffic, was indignant. Mr. Stewart pro-
tested that the apparently irreconcilable presented
“no difficulty” to “people who are fully informed.”
It is possibly true that the ordinary man cannot
understand all the implications of the situation, because
he is not, and cannot be, informed of the associated
factors. British spokesmen have repeatedly intimated
that Britain is fighting for the restoration of French
freedom and independence. We believe this fact is
being more and more accepted by the French.
This means, if it means anything, that the Australians
serving in Syria—and all three services were repre-
sented —were ordered there to engage in a crusade.
Through its Churchill Government, Britain is already
committed to restore freedom and independence to
Poland, Norway, Belgium, the Netherlands, Yugo-
slavia and Greece, all within their pre-war boundaries,
and, if Mr. Stewart wasn’t talking through his hat,
our Australians have been roped in by way of free-
ing the French. What this Commonwealth owes to the
France that made a separate peace the Lord alone
knows. Anyway, fighting the French Government and
its soldiers, airmen and seamen —white, black and
brown —in Syria seems a queer way of achieving
freedom and independence for them and their empire.
The previous story was that the British imperial
forces were ordered into Syria to drive out the
Germans. Our Great Dailies, with surprising
unanimity, became very eloquent and positive on this
subject just before the invasion was launched, and
their enthusiasm for a Syrian campaign was echoed
in other quarters. From his strong post in Sydney
University, Mr. Roberts, the Pooh-Bah professor, saw
“German warplanes” pour into Syria and emphasised
“the important fact that the Germans” had seized
control of the Syrian aerodromes, which number nine
in all” ; he also approvingly quoted a Turkish report
that “the equivalent of an entire division of Germans”
had arrived. Other authorities, doubtless as emi-
nent, though unnamed, had been dug up by news-
papers to prove that “Dr. von Roser, Hitler s under-
cover man in Syria,” had “virtually taken over the
mandate from the French” ; that under German direc-
tion “a great round-up of anti-Nazis” was in pro-
gress at Beirut; and that the Germans had taken oyer
Syrian railways, were “transforming over 20 Syrian
airfields into offensive bases” and were employing
“thousands of Frenchmen” in the construction of “five
new aerodromes for the Germans,” a German air
force of “180 bombers” having landed,
Sydney dailies, for their part, were sure that the
campaign would be a walkover. To “S. M. Herald
it was merely a matter of scattering “a diminished,
demoralised and dissident” armed mob commanded by
a poor creature, “the ignoble Dentz.” The Daily
Telegraph” was even more confident that the oppo-
sition would be a joke: “There is no heart in the
French Syrian army ; the men are too frightened to
oppose the Nazis and have no stomach to fight the
British.” Anyone possessing a nodding acquaintance
with French history and psychology would have known
that the French would fight ; and our Australian war
correspondent testifies that they fought savagely and
well.” And “the ignoble Dentz” proved quite a stub-
born character.
No Germans have been seen in Syria by our men,
and if there were any about those fine fellows would
have found them. The lion’s share of the fighting fell
to the British and Australians in the three services.
There seem to have been no secessions worth men-
tioning to the small Free French forces employed.
The Syrian affair doesn’t say much for British
Intelligence, British diplomacy or British statesman-
ship, and it has added another sorry chapter to the
history of modern journalism. It is all over now—
anyway, an armistice has been “initialled” —but it leaves
a dreadful impression that, by making demonstrative
feints with aircraft and exploiting the credulity of
British agents, correspondents and editors, the enemy
tricked us into doing what he wanted us to do.
Furphies and Possible Traps.
“Nobby II”: The landing of United States marines in
Iceland set newspapermen and isolationist Senators
following false and doubtful scents.
One rumor was that U.S. destroyers had been in
action in the Atlantic with U-boats and had dropped
depth charges. The Senate Naval Affairs Committee
called the Secretary for the Navy and his Chief of
Operations before it for their testimony. They “gave
categorical denials that the U.S. Navy had engaged
in combat with German naval units.”
Next it was discovered that Uncle Sam had built
a large base in Ulster and had landed troops there.
The troops faded into thin air, and if there is an Ulster
base, built by Americans, it would seem that their
status is only that of private citizens who have a con-
tract with the British Government. A tale that Presi-
dent Roosevelt might send troops to the Azores fol-
lowed. There was another denial.
A shopworn rumor that reared its head for the
umpteenth time was to the effect that more than 4000
German technicians are fortifying Dakar, Casablanca,
Oran and other North African French ports, most of
which are already fairly well fortified. The story was
retailed to a newspaperman by a Vichy French
officer of the Foreign Legion who was unaccountably
spending his leave in Lisbon, and who naturally rushed
to tell the first British citizen he met of something
which his own Government would wish to be kept a
profound secret. The officer added that while at
Casablanca he frequently saw German U-boats enter
port to refuel and take on fresh food.
In fact, he seemed anxious to provide all the
material necessary to Vichy to tempt the British Gov-
ernment into another stupid adventure, this time in
French North Africa.
Nothing would suit Hitler better.
Dim Sims Over Asia.
“Feng-Shui”: The fourth anniversary of the Chi no-
Japanese disturbance has been marked by a flare-up
of hostilities. Conflicting claims are made as to the
results achieved since the “Incident” started. This
much is certain: scores of Chinese towns and cities
have been bombed and devastated, thousands of
civilians have been killed and maimed, and myriads
more have been wiped out by disease and starvation.
One extraordinary feature of the conflict is that
the Chinese have hitherto refrained from attempting
air reprisals. The great sprawling wooden wens of
Nippon would make perfect targets for a bomber, and
there is no reason to suppose that the Chinese could
not have sent a few over, even if they lost them and
even if it had been strategically ridiculous to do so.
But all they did was to send over a ’plane or two to
drop persuasive pamphlets.
Confucius taught a Golden Rule in the negative,
“Do not unto others what you would not they should
do unto you” ; and the Chinese have more or less lived
by this precept. They have always preferred to build
walls against their invaders rather than carry the war
into the enemy’s country. The Confucian concept has
worked out well in practice, at least to the extent that
the Chinese have retained their suave, indulgent,
tolerant way of life and preserved their culture longer
by several tens of centuries than any other imperial
nation.
Whether their abstention from bombing Japanese
cities is due to their Confucian conditioning or to
physical causes doesn’t matter. The important point is
that the results have been psychologically to their ad-
vantage. If they had bombed the Japanese in their
homeland all they would have done would have been
to stiffen Japanese resistance, just as Hitler’s bombing
of England has stiffened England’s resistance. If they
had dropped bombs on Tokyo and Osaka instead of
pamphlets they would have made it easier for the
Japanese Government to convince its nation that they
were inhuman ruffians. So in these respects their
restraint has served their cause.
Since the Japanese have a food problem and are
told that the Chinese are to blame for it, the Chinese
would have done even better for themselves if they
had dropped rice puddings or dim sims instead of
pamphlets. Nevertheless, they did refrain from giv-
ing the Japanese one convenient additional excuse for
more and more reprisals.
How much this has got to do with the fact that
the Japanese have conducted their war with strange
leisureliness I wouldn’t venture to say, but the fact
remains that it has been one of the slowest and most
lackadaisical wars in history. And most of the
Japanese indignation seems to be expended in the
direction of any country but China. Had the Chinese
been able to spread and had spread ruin and destruc-
tion in Nippon they might have galvanised the
Japanese into producing the Churchill type of leader
and the Blitzkrieg kind of general. But nothing of the
sort has happened, and what seems to distinguish
Japanese strategy at present is vacillation and inde-
cision.
Now, on the occasion of the fourth anniversary
of the languid war, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek is
reported to be preparing for a vast attempt to seize
the offensive in the hope of achieving victory in 1941.
Rice puddings and dim sims would cost him far less
than high explosive, and he would have to give the
Japanese that for nothing.
A Neglected Paradise.
Stirred by a howl of alarm rising from those parts, a
party of N. S. Wales politicians recently careered
through the N. S. Wales South Coast district, a vast
area stretching from Sydney to Cape Howe, bounded
by the Pacific on the east and the Dividing Range
on the west and comprising possibly 10,000 square
miles of some of the richest country in Australia.
In addition to its wealth of production —dairy,
fruit, grain, coal, gold, silver-lead, silica, timber, meat,
fish —it contains magnificent bush and coastal scenery,
and to the eye of the visitor has all the appearance
of an earthly paradise.
No part of Australia has suffered more from the
dreadful effects of centralisation. No part has suc-
ceeded so well in overcoming that disability, largely
because the railway tentacle from the huge octopus
on Port Jackson stops short at Nowra, having barely
penetrated 100 miles. This forced the area to rely
on two other forms of transport, sea and road. Since
neither is a Government monopoly, neither is designed
purely as a means of feeding the octopus. Conse-
quently, places like Bateman’s Bay, Moruya, Bega,
Cobargo and Eden, though small, have continued to
thrive, a condition not common to towns of similar
size which have the doubtful privilege of rail connec-
tion with the city.
But there are natural ports along that coast that
should be serving the southern tablelands and
Riverina, should long ago have had railways running
west across the ranges into the wheat and sheep
country beyond, not only to bring grain and wool by
the shortest route to the sea, but also to bring the
sunburned westerners down to that sea for summer
holidays —a sea abounding in splendid beaches and
inlets stocked with fish. Of late years some attempt
has been made to connect with the west by road, but
with nothing like the enthusiasm and cash expended
on the main road to Sydney.
Now petrol rationing and Commonwealth com-
mandeering of the little coastal vessels threaten to
leave the South Coast practically isolated Councils
and other public bodies are alarmed ; wharves are
stacked with timber, metal and farm products ; the
fleet of motor transport is to be cut down Sydney
politicians, having galloped through, made typical
statements to Sydney papers:
We will favorably consider any definite plans tor
building wooden ships. Producer-gas units may also
rel eve § the position to some extent. Attempts may be
made to restrict us and hold us back, but any forces
wishing to impede us will be swept aside.
To which the South Coast could reply that Sydney
politicians have been holding it back for years. Mean-
time, since transport is vital to its existence and th
seems little chance of getting it by sea, the Common-
wealth Government has an obvious duty to consider
the special circumstances and make available as much
fuel as can be spared to maintain road transport.


Society
"AND TI'S PRINTED
WITH WINBLE'S INKS"
“Jamwood”: Radio has a dismal ten-
dency to shatter our illusions about
celebrities. When I read The Good Com-
panions I conjured up a picture of
Priestley as a lighthearted fellow of the
travelling theatre, a merry, carefree soul
with an advance-agent’s thirst and a fund
of juicy stories about actresses. Then
I heard him over the air paying out
solemn platitudes and dull politics in an
appallingly monotonous croak that
seemed to be coming from the bottom
of a well. Exit my delight in Priestley.
1 suppose I shall read him again, but 1
can never do it without thinking of his
humorless microphone style and his
mournful voice. Dorothy Thompson pro-
duced a different impression. Her articles
I never cared for, and not only because
the lady political writer is one of my
aversions; the sentiments are always
so sloppy and the sentences move as
slowly as a flat-footed pug who tele-
graphs his punches. And the lady looks
buxomly sentimental in her photographs.
But what a change was there when
A.B.C. broadcast her! Hard voice, cock-
sure manner, bewildering cataract of
words at the rate of about 240 to the
minute—it was as if there had been
summoned to the stoodio “that red
matron whom the flies would worry,
who talked so often, always in a hurry,
and with such wild contempt for stops”
• —though not for Murray. An acquaint-
ance tells me there’s a news-reel of
Dorothy doing her radio act. I’m not
going to see it.
* * * #
“C.R.”: “There is still some sort of
department dealing with economic co-
ordination,” remarked Major Cameron,
M.H.R., the other day, “but I have never
been able to discover what its functions
are, though I have seen some shocking
examples of time-wasting and misdirected
effort.” He should come to Melbourne
for further confirmation. There are fac-
tories intended to further the war effort
standing half-finished while flats go up
in fashionable suburbs, particularly St.
Kilda. Flats in St. Kilda are very much
in demand, as St. Kilda is a very nice
place to live in in the summer. Con-
sequently good bricks go into flats in St.
Kilda and good bricklayers go to St.
Kilda to build the flats, and there is a
shortage of bricklayers for munitions
factories.
-r. * *
“Spokeshave”; Pedestrians in Collins-
street, Melbourne, were presented with
the spectacle of a 15-year-old boy distri-
buting largesse on a scale only equalled
by legendary Oriental potentates, except
that he didn’t know he was doing it. As
he ran across the road he left in his wake
a succession of one-pound notes. Having
just paid an account at the “Argus”
branch office, he was making off on
another errand, and there was a hole in
his pocket or something. The youth
returned to the “Argus” office and put
an advertisement in that journal’s “Lost
and Found” column.
“Blue P.”: The habit of offering cash
rewards for news has its risks. Mel-
bourne “Herald” announced that a young
woman had been scattering £1 notes
across Collins-street, complacently add-
ing that a reader had telephoned the story
three minutes after it “broke.” Next day
the “Argus” came out with the facts,
having got them at first hand from the
boy in the case.
* * * *
“K.P.”: I admire “Dr. Wrigley’s”
gallant effort (B. 25/6/’4l) to thrust all
the blame for that suffocated footballer’s
untimely end down the poor old
epiglottis. Followed to its logical con-
clusion, his argument serves equally well
for freeing the rope from any responsi-
bility for the fatal result of judicial
hanging on account of Nature’s careless-
ness in constructing the upper cervical
vertebrae. Nor should the scragged
gentleman be held guilty—on my
esteemed colleague’s line of reasoning,
only the dangerous permeability of the
victim’s earthly tabernacle permitted the
knife or bullet to reach a vital spot. Even
at the risk of seeming obtuse, I still main-
tain that when a dead man is found to
have a solid wad of chewing-gum plug-
ging his windpipe and no other apparent
cause of death can be detected, that wad
of chewing-gum killed that man, however
it got there.
"No , the doctor is NOT in. Could you call again tomorrow ?”
“Fran”: Although our fellows lost
most of their possessions in the JEgean
campaign, their humor remains intact.
One of them wrote in a letter to his
people: “I am well, and so I ought to
be, seeing that I have been deGreeced
and exCreted in the last month.”
* * * *
Wellington (M.L.) gets a windfall:
Robert Hogg, recently dead, left the Turnbull
Library at Wellington a collection of over 2000
volumes in excellent condition. He belonged to
the same family as James Hogg, the poet,
friend of Scott and Carlyle, and the collection
includes 22 first editions of the Ettrick Shep-
herd’s 33 works, as well as a complete set of the
periodical “The Spy,” conducted by James Hogg
in 1810-11, so rare that the Cambridge History
of English .Literature has stated that no copies
survive. There are also a copy of the first
Edinburgh edition of Burns’s verse and a “first”
of “Treasure Island.”
Robert Hogg was a Musselburgh postman.
He was suspended in 1898 because he had
stood for election to the Town Council. A
born fighter, Hogg took the case to court and
established the right of public servants to serve
on local bodies. He arrived in M.L. in 1900
and for over quarter of a century was a sturdy
figure in journalism and politics. He edited
“Truth.” Once, after waiting two hours to see
a Cabinet Minister, he overheard that worthy
ask his secretary “whether that confounded
pressman” had “gone yet.” “No!” thundered
Hogg through the half-open door, and in he
stalked and had his interview. As “Robin
Blochairne,” he published three volumes of verse;
one was praised by London “Times.” The
family talent has descended to a grand-
daughter, Marion, who has issued a book of
verse at the age of 13.
• * * *
“Ashburton Pea”; I remember Wool-
cott Forbes (B. 25 /6 / ’4l) 13 years ago
when he was a stockman on Peeda-
mulla station, North Westralia. We
called him Lou Brandi, and he had odd
habits. Climbing windmills in white shirt
and dress trousers was one. I watched
these efforts on three occasions, and when
he had finished the only thing about Lou
that wasn’t ruined was himjself. His
constant endeavor was to be impressive,
and this peculiarity has certainly led him
into queer doings and to strange places.
* * * *
“R.E.”: A remnant of an almost-
forgotten fashion in creeds turned up in
England the other day when a “pastor'’
of the Four-Square Gospel Church got
14 days for nonpayment of a fine. There
was a time when the F.-S. Gospellers and
their foundress, Aimee Semple Mac-
pherson, were “front-page stuff” in that
exuberant country which, as our Pro-
fessor Murdoch once remarked, staggered
the world on one occasion by not pro-
ducing a new religious cult for a fort-
night. The aforesaid “pastor” told the
Court that his “real means were of
boundless wealth in the Bank of Heaven.”
When the Court refused to accept a
cheque on that bank all he could muster
of the stuff that buys beer was one-and-
a-penny. Aimee dabbled in millions of
dollars.
♦ ifc * *
“Pawang”: A man in Melbourne,
obviously upset, asked me the other day
whether it was a fact that two children
of the same parents born within 18
months of each other were likely to be
mentally or physically deficient and, if
so, whether their deficiencies in either
direction would be transmitted to their
offspring. He,said he had been told or
had read somewhere that it was scientific
opinion that they would be. I don’t
know what scientific opinion is, but I do
know a Middle European resident in
Victoria who is the eldest of 22 children,
all by the same mother and none of
them twins. He is a man of 50 and
shows no signs of being either mentally
or physically deficient; in fact, he is a
musician of distinction and practises his
art eight hours a day with an enthusiasm
and endurance I envy. Most of his
brothers and sisters are living, but have
been widely scattered by Hitler. His
account of them—he was their main sup-
port when he became a 14-year-old vir-
tuoso —his father and mother, their home
life, the noble meals they ate, the
strenuous life they led and their varied
interests is as robust a chronicle as could
be imagined. It would have been
humanly impossible for some of the
double eleven not to have been born
within 18 months of one another, and I
would sooner believe his story than any
alleged scientific evidence in contra-
diction.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: A.B.C. has its
faults, but I can forgive it a lot since
listening to some Old-time Melodies,
What can better recall the brave days of
the World’s Innocence than:
Sunnz urv ther See-e,
Orl Berrittish bo-o-orn,
Say-y-y-lin’ ev’ry o-o-shun,
La-a-a-rfin’ fo-o-oes ter scorn?
Or recapture their soft sentiment like:
On ther aidge urv ther cli-hiff,
W’ere the puppiez are bo-horn,
Gahd perlanted er gaharden,
Er gaharden erv lurv?
And the poignant tragedy of:
Eef ter remembah rne-e-e wud givvthee-e
paya-ain
Reemembah me-e-e no-o mo-o-ah?
Alas! it is true that White Wings have
Grown Weary and La-ha-board Watch
is replaced by Port. But Ther Boyz urv
ther Bulldog Breed still run true to type,
bless ’em!
“Capricorn”: For weeks past the
Northern Military Command and the
“Courier-Mail” have been at loggerheads
over the closing of the Brisbane Recruit-
ing Centre at week-ends. At first the
brass-hats put up a stout defence in the
true brass-hat style of quoting regula-
tions. That left their flank open to the
Ink-slinging Brigade, which yelled “Red-
tape!” and charged. The 8.-hs. retired
to organise a new campaign, which was
launched in the form of a letter: “In
reference to the inquiries by you which
are submitted to this headquarters from
time to time for information, it will be
appreciated if, for future purposes, you
will submit such inquiries in triplicate
for record purposes, one of which, of
course, will be returned to you with what-
ever comment can be made”!
# # $ *
“S.T.S.”: A lesson in slang, from police
evidence in an Adelaide court. “He
came up to us outside the hotel about
8.20 p.m. and said, ‘Am I sweet?’ 1
said, ‘Yes, you are sweet enough.’ ‘Well,’
he said, T want a bottle of beer ; here’s
two bob.’ I said, ‘We are police officers.’
‘But you told me I was sweet,’ he said.
‘So you are,’ I replied ; ‘what’s your name
and address?’” Adelaide sinners must
be singularly guileless. The same con-
stable had, the previous midnight,
gathered in two men within 10 minutes
by simply standing outside the same pub
and being asked for flagons,
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: After four years in
Sydney, never having lost the habit of
watching the faces in the street so that
I am pounced upon
by the sharp-eyed
young hawk who
wants “a zack for
a bed, mate,” and
the suaver gent, who
puts it to you man-
to-man in his depre-
cating Oxford accent
that a shilling will
see him through ;
and never having
lost the still more
absurdly rustic habit
of standing idly on
the footpath to be
trapped in the bleary
meshes of the
metho.-fiend or cor-
nered by the most
pathetic highway-
man of all—“ Can
you spare a penny
for an old, old
man?” I thought I
had had my lug
bitten from all pos-
sible angles. But,
when I put that to
the company, I had
to admit that I had
never struck the
sorrowful one who’s
lost his fare home—
usually two bob to
Parramatta. Then,
the very next day,
I met it. She was
no longer young, her voice quavered
and she was most ladylike ; someone had
stolen all the money out of her purse
and, could I lend her only sixpence for
her tram fare home? For The Story
at last? I could. “I’ll pay it back to
you, lovie,” she said. “God bless you,
darling.” Bless you, too, lovie ; but, if
you want to keep the story convincing,
forget the blessings and the levies —they
have the professional note.
* * * ♦
“Con the Dip”: ’Struth, ’ow do them
selfish cows uv politicians expect a man
ter make a crust nowadays? Wot with
them lettin’ the flamin’ Johns nark the
pitch whenever there’s a good bunch er
mugs bein’ got tergether, the game’s
gettin’ so’s it ain’t worth a bunch er dog’s-
meat. Take the Bris. Show next month.
Useter be the bonzerest layout uv simps
a bloke ever seen in a pipedream. Any-
thin’ wotever, right back ter the rich
uncle an’ the shikkered sailor wot me
old dad useter work before Ttler wus born,
them easies from outback wiv the 'air
on their teeth they’d come at it. Well,
yer mightn’t believe it could ’appen in
a free country, but jist as I’m readyin’
things up fer a trip ter Sunny Queens-
land, where they’re alwuz singin’ out fer
yer ter go ter, strike me fat if a demon
don’t word me ter come along ter ’ead-
quarters. Well, they ain’t got a thing on
me, but there’s three big ’ardfaced blokes
from Sunny Queensland’s cop force sit-
tin’ at a table, an’ they’s got me record
spread out, pickchers an’ all. They gives
me a squiz over that’d make yer blood
run cold, and the biggest one ses, nasty-
like, as Bris.’s likely ter be orful un-
’ealthy in August fer me. Against the
Constertooshun, that is—ain’t intercourse
between States supposed ter be abser-
lootely free? Free, me mincepie! That’s
the way blokes gets druv inter crime, and
Menzies or none of ’em don’t do a thing.
SCHOLASTIC REFORM.
“N.S.W. Education Minister Kvatt is dabbling- with
all sorts of new theories, including abolition of the
cane” (13. 9/7/’4l).
By musty old proverbs he won’t be beguiled,
Such as sparing the rod involves spoiling the
child.
He’s down on the notion that urchins are
stopped
From doing what’s wrong by the fear of being
whopped.
Deterrents more mild on delinquents he'd
launch
Than strokes that descend on the hand or the
haunch.
Moral suasion’s the process, it’s safe to assert,
He views as more seemly than corporal hurt.
The birch with its swishes, the cane with its
stings,
He’d dump in the limbo of obsolete things;
Those agents corrective we’ll never have back,
Including the thumbscrew, the boots and the
rack,
Detestable relics of tyrannous times,
Obnoxious reminders of barbarous climes.
And, if chastisement’s banished our sanctions
among,
Perhaps it’s as well to begin with the young.
The lash and the leg-irons, by convicts abhorred,
Have pretty well gone, so to speak, by the
board.
The prejudice grows, as we get more humane,
’Gainst legal infliction of physical pain.
Hence it’s easy to see why compassionate guts
Would veto what youngsters describe as “the
cuts.”
And none, except mothers maybe, will be vexed
If the slipper is banned by authority next.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


"It wouldn't be hard to guess how she got that fur coat."
“Hamer”: My newsboy coined his own
slogan: “ ’ltler gets it in the neck.” He’s
a hard-working imp, but after half a
dozen people had passed on ignoring his
call he looked disgusted. “Blime,” he said,
“I wish a bloomin’ good murder’d come
along; a bloke would sell ’ees papers
then.” I call him “my” newsboy because
I adopted him long ago when a pedantic
old codger reproved him for calling out
“Full account of the ’orrible ’error!”
“Where are your aitches, my boy?” the
ancient asked him. “I’m keepin’ ’em till
there’s a hawful haccident,” replied the
urchin smartly.
* * *
“Sphinx”: Fear of the cane (B.
9/7/’4l) never disciplined me or 20-odd
other boys in the same class; if any-
thing, we preferred it to any other form
of punishment and rather revelled in the
glory of being able to take the “cuts”
without batting an eyelid. Up to sixth
standard the best teacher I ever knew was
a grey-haired Westralienne who never
caned but who could wither the most
unruly hobbledehoy with half a dozen
words. Her classes gained heaps of
secondary-school scholarships. After
sixth standard—well, the Westralian
secondary school I attended for five years
used neither cane nor detention, nor, as
far as I can remember, any form of
punishment except a good verbal lashing
plus sensible discussion with students
when necessary. That school’s percent-
ages of intermediate and leaving certi-
ficates were astounding, and it has turned
out more candidates for the Rhodes than
any other school in the State.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The last bastion of “Peace
on earth” has fallen. A microphone is
to be installed in a Sydney court,
and if the experiment succeeds all
N. S. Wales courts may acquire ampli-
fiers. As one who knew the quiet
atmosphere of the average court, I used
frequently to slip into one for a doze
when the hurly-burly of city life got the
best of me ; it was the best substitute for
the old silent picture show I could find.
Court reporters will now be denied those
humorous interludes that occurred when
a cross-examiner misunderstood the wit-
ness’s reply, and heaven knows what the
effect will be when some badgered wit-
ness, fed up, suddenly shoves his face
against the mike and yells “That’s wot I
said and I stick to it!” I foresee a lot
of nervous ailments among magistrates
and depositions clerks if the idea goes
through.
* * * *
“Retired Volt”; I often wonder how
much the censorship has improved since
the last war. During that conflict the
branch in one of our Great Cities
was located in the cable company’s
office. One evening the deputy chief
censor rushed in and inquired whether
anyone knew where the charwoman lived.
The chief censor had paid a surprise visit
from Melbourne and had asked for the
most confidential of confidential files, and
it couldn’t be discovered anywhere. They
found the charlady, an elderly Irish-
woman, and she went into the censor’s
office and, throwing up a window, dis-
closed the missing file reposing on the
sill within easy reach of passers-by on
the pavement. With robust Irish wit
she explained she had put it there out
of harm’s way while she was doing her
dusting and somebody must have closed
the window. I presume a new regulation
governing the departmental attitude to
Irish charladies was issued.
* * * *
“Sing 9”: The driver of a service-car
which was pulling a trailer must have
thought he’d won a lottery or something,
the way people in the streets of Goulburn
(N.S.W.) waved and shouted to him as
he drove through that city. Waving
back and grinning hugely at this demon-
stration of his popularity, he drove up
to a petrol station, to find the trailer
blazing merrily behind. They saved the
car, but the trailer and a gas-producer
went west.
* * sK *
“Lao-dah”: Our new recruit to the
diplomatic corps says he is going to
China to learn, and one subject in which
he believes the Chinese have something
to teach us is water-conservation. A true
bill. Chinese water-conservation dates
back to 4000 8.c., and if primitive in
methods, according to modern
scientific standards, it is remark-
ably efficient. The Yangtze and
the Yellow must have been stag-
gering propositions, but they were
solved by brains and man-power
without machinery. Millions of
farmers draw their supplies of
water up from a network of
canals, which cover the country
from Peking to Canton, by means
of hand-worked and foot-worked
watermills ; they had to do so or
perish. Life has been easier in
Australia, and Australian rivers
are allowed to run to waste or
are dammed up by expensive pro-
projects like the Hume Weir
which never get paid for. A
Chinese weir is simply a mud
bank up which water-borne traffic
is hauled by coolie-driven wind-
lasses ; but by this simple method
whole provinces enjoy water
transport and irrigation. Another
thing the Chinese could teach the
new Minister is good cooking. You can
get better food in Little Bourke-street
cafes than in leading Australian hotels ;
and it is cooked and eaten by Chinese
artisans and market gardeners. The
Chinese chef cooks every part of a pig
or a bullock. The casual Australian
throws some of the best parts into the
slush bucket and calls the Chinaman a
dirty eater.
* * * *
“Youanmi”; A delightful little publi-
cation which has come my way is “Your
Husband, a Complete Astrological
Analysis Which Every Woman Should
Possess ; Is. 6d.” Therein I learn that
“astrology is such a vast subject that the
beginner is apt to feel appalled at the
enormous amount of knowledge which
must be absorbed before he can even read
a horoscope.” So, “why try to swallow
it [too right!] at a gulp? There are
ways of simplifying it —of taking the
study gradually, and really enjoying it.”
Then, under the 12 overworked signs of
the Zodiac, are such invaluable items of
advice as the fact that chaps born under
Gemini have the unusual fault of often
“failing to come up to a woman’s ideal” ;
the Cancer husband has the remarkable
quality of never shaking oft" a “feeling of
injury” if his missus walks out on him
for another man ; a Leo cove has “strong
likes and dislikes” ; a Virgo doesn’t like
his strife “to spend the housekeeping
money on hats” ; a Libra should “have
work which takes him out for a good part
of the day” ; Pisces fellows “have great
loyalty to friends... .provided they feel
they are trusted or looked up to.” But
I award the leather medal to Aquarius,
who “is inclined to give his wife the feel-
ing of being shared with the rest of
humanity, which is very displeasing to
a woman.”
* * # »
“Q.A.Z.”; Ever since 1 finished with
geometry I’ve hated anything that was
“proved”—foods of “proved” nutritious
value, pills of “proved” curative proper-
ties, clothes of “proved” quality, foreign
correspondents of “proved”. reliability,
and all the other odds and ends of our
existence that have been “proved” to do
whatever the advertisements claim for
them. Shattering it was, therefore, to see a
Sydney aquarium notice which an-
nounced that for sixpence—it might have
been a shilling—the public could enter
and inspect a large and living shark
which was “a proved man-eater.” I
hadn’t the heart to ask who proved it.
* * * *
“Gyx”: She entered my N.S.W.
country-town shop (I am a chemist)
accompanied by a spidery-looking grey-
hound, and asked the price of “a bottler
cawf mixture fer the kids—the cheapest
you ’ave.” I told her. “Aw,” she said,
“I’ll ’ave to let it wait till payday. But
you can wrap me up another of them
powders fer The Duke.” Let dog-racing
flourish though the Commonwealth falls!
* * * #
“Nakh”; A unique form of conscien-
tious objector turned up at the Richmond
(Vic.) court the other day, charged with
refusing to take the oath for service. He
is an Irishman, aged 28, and he stated
firstly that he was exempt, having come
from a neutral country, Eire ; secondly,
that on his father’s deathbed he swore
that he would never go into his Majesty’s
uniform or take the oath of allegiance,
although he loved the King. His first
contention was overruled on the ground
that, for the purposes of the British Army
Act and the Commonwealth Defence
Act, Eire is part of the British Common-
wealth, the same as Australia, and any-
body born there is a British subject. His
second was given more sympathetic con-
sideration. Finding him guilty, the Beak
fined him a pound and remarked: “I
appreciate that you took that other oath
and consider you have to fulfil it, notwith-
standing any punishment you may suffer.”
* * * *
“K.P.”: In regarding Dr. H. S. Sulli-
van’s forecast of an increase in mental
disorders as purely a matter of conflict-
complexes, “Pawang” (B. 2/7/’4l) has got
the doc.’s line of argument wrong end
up. Among the mental classes to which
he refers as particularly liable to go off
their rockers in a psychological war, the
dominating influence is not one of con-
flicting impulses but of sheer childish
funk. A convincing mass-demonstration
of what Dr. Sullivan was driving at was
provided by the people—more than
250,000 —who panicked along hundreds
of miles of American roads in a state
of abject terror caused by mistaking a
wireless rendering of H. G. Wells’s “War
of the Worlds” for the description of an
invasion.
* * * *
“Strict Veg”: An irresponsible joke
has cost a Melbourne pleasure-launch
proprietor a £5O fine. He was taking a
party down the Yarra and a girl aboard
placed a camera on the deckhouse.
According to his own account, in
moving the machine to a safer place he
accidentally pulled the trigger, and told
the girl about it, whereupon she twisted
the film for a fresh exposure. Developed,
the snap was found to include a ship
carrying war material and to show the
after-gun provided for its protection.
The girl swore that if he had deliberately
taken the exposure she would have
noticed it. It was the first prosecution
of the kind in Victoria, and the size of
the penalty ought to make camera-users
feel as nervous as if their apparatus was
a tiger snake in action.
* * * sfc
“Lao-dah”: My observations of human
nature don’t harmonise with those of
“Mac Hoots” (B. 2/7/’4l) when he sug-
gests that State politicians would vote
themselves out of existence if they were
bribed with three years’ salary as com-
pensation. Australian politicians are
just like civil servants. Dozens of able
Victorians have given up private jobs
and large incomes and gone into the
State civil service because a Govern-
mental position carries with it social
prestige—or, if you like, the satisfaction
of doing a communal service. This in-
gredient of human nature is what makes
socialists hopeful of the collectivist
society. Unfortunately the socialists
leave out of account another ingredient
of human nature —the tendency of a civil
service to become stereotyped and antago-
nistic to exceptional talent. That is why
many of these able civil servants even-
tually gave up their public positions and
went back to private enterprise. They
got more money, but that is not why
they did it.
“He doesn't know , but his ship sails this afternoon."
FACES IN THE STREET.
“Having failed to discourage the activities of
pavement photographers by prosecutions and fines,
the Sydney City Council has decided to license
a certain number to ply their calling.”
Cops would tap them on the shoulder
But they only waxed the bolder;
Even summonses and fines could not defeat
Stubborn victims of oppression,
Sponsors of a new profession,
Viz., the art of snapping faces in the street.
Bumbles viewed their photographic
Stunts as menaces to traffic;
Civic dignity they threatened to disturb.
Now at last they find their mission
Legalised by recognition,
The chaps who stalk their quarry from the
kerb.
Harried sore, they stayed the distance;
Proved the virtue of resistance
When it’s passive—on the lines that Gandhi
gave.
Now they count it for a blessing
To be sure they’re not transgressing
When their cameras are clicking on the pave.
Lonely souls are scarce regarded
Worth the trouble of being “carded”;
But how quick they’ll focus Hetty and her
Herb!
What a flair the craft possesses
For the Basils and the Besses
When its shots are aimed from studios on
the kerb!
Why require your leave about it?
They can operate without it
In assurance that is equally complete.
Yet I still resist conviction
They’re a permanent infliction,
Those who help themselves to faces in the
street.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £32,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,900,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
& n<.
j
THE SKY-WAYS ARE TODAY’S HIGHWAYS
Pre-war standards of efficiency and comfort are being
maintained by Empire flying boats on the air route
between Sydney and Durban, via Singapore, Palestine
and Egypt. A new regular service between New Zealand
and Sydney is operated by Tasman Empire Airways.
Travel Interstate . . . Inter-Dominion . . . throughout
the Empire ... in shipboard comfort at Airways
speed ... by Qantas Empire Airways.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
(Incorporated in Queensland)
SHEIX HOUSE, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 8W4481.
Also at BRISBANE and MELBOURNE.
Bookings at any recognised Travel Agency throughout Australia.
Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
A Sydney parson, “happy today
because we have Stalin as our friend”
—and he is now “tantamount” to an ally—
considers that Joe “represents a people
who have gone through cruel agony to
maintain the cause of true religion.”
Then the dear man added “We are here
to express our grim determination to
fight all dictatorships ; dictatorships gave
the world the Gestapo and the Ogpu.”
But isn’t the latter now maintaining “the
cause of true religion”?
Billy Hughes couldn’t understand “why
the Empire should continue normal rela-
tions with the Vichy Government” when
the latter was “carrying on an active war
against the Empire in Syria.”
Such diplomacy passes the comprehen-
sion of the ordinary man. The whole thing
seems shadowy and unreal.
Billy’s colleague Stewart, indignant again,
“explained” that it was because “the ordi-
nary man” couldn’t “understand all the
implications of the situation.” The
“implication” there is that (1) Stewart
did, and (2) Stewart is no ordinary man.
As always when Labor is in, the Syd-
ney Government is “considering” the
amalgamation of eight industrial muni-
cipalities with the City Council, and, the
Leg. Council permitting, the deed is to
be done before the next municipal elec-
tions. “This,” according to a “spokes-
man,” “will assure Labor winning City
Council control from the Civic Reform
party.” And when the pendulum swings
again, all an anti-Labor Government need
do is amalgamate Edgecliff, Double Bay,
Rose Bay and Vaucluse and win the
council back to the Civic Reformers.
This is what is known as political vision.
Stalin has been reduced to recalling
Litvinov from his retirement to send out
an SOS to the English and the Ameri-
cans. Lit., a skilful propagandist, like
the clever men ofi his race who have done
Stalin’s publicity job for him almost
everywhere, began with an adroit appeal
to the Anglo-Saxon sense of humor
(“Hitler has had no training as a Channel
swimmer, so he evolved the plan of a
Blitzkrieg against Russia”) and to the
current idolatry of Churchill.
Mr. Churchill, with characteristic and
statesmanlike acumen, declares that a
German victory over Russia would be
fraught with disaster for Britain. We
equally recognise the menace which a
Hitler victory in the west would constitute
for Russia.
Strange that “we” didn’t recognise the
menace in August, 1939.
An M.P. and an admiral with excellent
records in the last war have been interned
in Britain for upwards of a year, and
only they and their families seemed to
have entered any protest. But thousands
of people in Australia are making a
dreadful fuss because two Com —beg
pardon, anti-Fascists —who were princi-
pals in the “stop-the-imperialist war”
agitation were held after they had served
a very light sentence —they refused to
enter into a bond required by the magis-
trate. As well as appealing to a national-
security committee they started a hunger-
strike, Now that Stafford Cripps has
signed up with Molotov, Canberra will
perhaps withdraw, apologise and pay
compensation.
Dr. Nott, of Canberra, wants to launch
an appeal for a field ambulance and hos-
pital unit, manned by Australians, to go
to Russia. He claims that most of his
friends support the idea. Very nice of
them, but, if anybody feels like making
appeals, what about one for ambulances
and hospital units to replace the ones
lost by the A.I.F. in Greece? There, an
entire field hospital allowed itself to be
taken rather than leave the wounded
Aussies under its care.
A Perth “Sunday Times” man put a
leading question to a woman who had
weighed in with an application for the
child bonus, and got this answer:
Yes, it’s very nice; but every working-
man’s wife would give it up for one thing,
and that is to be sure of a steady job for
her husband. All the allowances in the
world don’t matter much if your bread-
winner is out of work.
A great truth, simply expressed.
Among bills likely to come before
the Victorian Parliament is a “measure
dealing with the muzzling of working
dogs, particularly in pastoral areas.”
What is really needed is the muzzling
of politicians, particularly in Parliamen-
tary areas.
Lines from the “Internationale,” as
sung in the Sydney Town Hall in the
“The Germans fiercely object to Russia’s scorched-earth policy.”
THE FIREWALKERS.
presence of ladies and gentlemen whom
Reds complacently refer to as “toffs”:
Arise, ye starvelings, from your slumbers;
Arise, ye criminals of want!
No saviors from on high deliver,
No trust have we in prince or peer;
Our own right hand the chains must shiver,
Chains of hatred, greed and fear.
Chorus.
Then, comrades, come rally
And the last fight let us face;
The Internationa//^
Unites the human race.
To gratify the lingering prejudices of a
well-nourished bishop and Lord Mayor
“God Save the King” was beefed out on
the same platform.
A Mr. Dodgshun, who represents
Ouyen in the Victorian Assembly, wants
to help the national war effort. In Mr.
Dodgshun’s opinion, one of the best ways
to achieve this would be to appoint a
senior State Minister as Liaison Minister
at Canberra and set up all-party com-
mittees, as at Canberra. Mr. Dodgshun’s
remarkable proposition was supported by
Mr. Cain ; but then Mr. Cain is a re-
markable man.
Stung into Telling All by Mr. Allnult
—or Allnark —of Mildura, Premier Dun-
stan informed the Victorian Assembly
that the car which carried him and his
deputy from Melbourne to Canberra and
back had to be requisitioned because
“the conference was of extreme import-
ance to Victoria.” It was the one at
which Dunstan joined the other Premiers
in rejecting the one-income-tax plan on
sinfully provincial grounds.
Hollway, Victorian U.A.P. leader,
opposing abolition of State Parliaments;
How could the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment continue effectively if it were sud-
denly loaded with State functions?
It should be “how long can a country
of 7,000,000 people continue to put up
with six States and their precious func-
tions?” Not one of the functions
couldn’t be handled by a single Parlia-
ment or delegated to a regional council.
It has been revealed by Premier Dun-
stan that since 1938 Victorian commis-
sions and boards have increased from
63 to 79, though boards like the Cine-
matograph Operators and Plumbers have
been disbanded. It is confidently ex-
pected that by 1958 everybody in the
State between the ages of 19 and 90 will
be on a board or commission of some
sort, and there will be no reason why
the Dunstan Government shouldn’t last
for ever. Unless, of course, the people
wake up and decide that a superfluous
State Parliament which delegates its re-
sponsibilities in such a wholesale manner
is ripe for the dustbin of oblivion.
Victorian Labor-leader Cain, in a
debate on petrol rationing:
The people responsible for more wastage
than anybody else are the military.
It has been said by others. Probably,
like Mr. Cain, they support the policy of
voluntary military service. But people
who believe that only volunteers should
fight oughtn’t to quibble if those volun-
teers get the best of everything and
plenty of it.
There is no mention of De Gaulle’s
having taken part in the Syrian campaign.
Yet he was recommended to the British
as a master of mechanised warfare, and
as one of the few generals who were not
overwhelmed in the invasion of France.
Strange that he should be content to be
a political general when the mili-
tary talents attributed to him could be
usefully employed.
Comrade Garland, of the Adelaide Gas
Employees’ Union, became mightily in-
dignant when William Holmes, the old
British Labor leader, advised Australian
unionists to boot out Communists.
“You,” shouted Comrade Garland, with
that Chesterfieldian charm which
tinguishes his kind, “will be one of those
dealt with when the people take control.”
These Garlands have a fond delusion
about “people taking control” in this
country. Nobody would get a greater
shock than the comrades if they ever
tried it.
They never let go. Hollway, the Vic-
torian Opposition leader, hearing that
the Government might reduce or abolish
the fraudulent unemployed-relief-tax,
admitted that “most of the community”
would approve. All the same, though
the Commonwealth child bonus has
arrived, he suggests that it should be
transformed into a “social service” tax.
“Once a tax, always a tax,” is the slogan
of the State politician.
If Russia doesn’t win the new war it
won’t be the fault of the Pink writing
boys. The style of these worthies was
cramped by the pact of August 23, 1939,
but they are making the most of the
freedom which came to them last month.
One paper brought out an illustrated
section which might have been issued as
a supplement to the Moscow “News.”
Scully, from Gwydir (N.S.W.), told
Commerce Minister Page that his wheat
stabilisation scheme was “ruinous” to
wheatgrowers and that 95 p.c. of those
in the Scully electorate were opposed to
it. The member may be right on both
points, but it is strange that criticism
should have come from a man represent-
ing a district where heavy crops, early
harvests, premium wheats, short fallows
and no fertiliser costs should make wheat-
growing a far better game than it is in
the Victorian Mallee or the eastern part
of the Westralian wheatbelt.
“A move to establish cultural and trade
relations between Australia and the
Soviet Union will be made at a meeting
in Brisbane which will be held at Mr. A.
Crafti’s premises, Wickham-street, Valley.”
That is how it was reported in the
“Courier-Mail” of July 5, and the thing
looked to have about as much significance
as a meeting to form a junior football
club. But, according to Sydney “Sun’s”
London “special,” it “received unusual
prominence” in London:
The Dominions Office announced to
newspapers the formation of the Brisbane
association, stating that proposals had been
submitted to Moscow in connection with
closer Australian and Russian diplomatic,
trade and cultural relations.
The “special” declared also that “Aus-
tralia” was “expected to play a prominent
part in a general agreement between
Russia and the British Empire,” and that
“discussions with the Menzies Cabinet
are now proceeding.” Australia was told
nothing by that Cabinet, but three days
later it learned from London that a
Russo-British agreement had been signed
at Moscow. How about making “Mr. A.
Crafti’s premises, Wickham-street, Valley,”
the headquarters of our “Government”?
In his ire at Tasmanian criticism of
the Labor Senators from the Speck who
voted their fellow-isleter Hayes out of
the President’s chair, Joseph Silver
Collings tried to have Beck, M-H.R.,
impeached yes, impeached. A. J.
McLachlan raised the question whether
the Senate could hale a member of the
House before it, even if it adjudged him
guilty of contempt, which it didn’t. If the
impeached party refused to attend to
receive such punishment as the Senate
majority chose to impose on him, an
awkward situation would arise for the
House. The Constitution makes no
express provision for the impeachment
of a member of either Chamber. Any-
way, it is rather ridiculous for a party
leader in the Senate to invoke this ques-
tionable “right” when he and the other
party leader tamely submit to legislation
being deposited in a mass from the other
shop with the unspoken command “Pass
this and look sharp about it; we’re in a
hurry.”


THE KING IS STILL IN LONDON.
(And the headmaster’s still in Geelong.)
“I favor absolute union with America, even if it means the sacrifice of the monarchy.”—Dr. Rolland, headmaster of Geelong College, at a meeting of Melb. Uni. graduates.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. Bv takin- out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.°
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, IjXD.
“THE A.C.A.”
Hus a m p l e funds *o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1/38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne
Queensland; A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane
South Australia; Paringa Building, 13 Bindley Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
. oul p^ V ' n9 ’Jen V°°,
v/otrV «»•
v#o ; -fteri"" * oe \
P urtiP ‘ n «enui?* ° nW °" sieve and
P -g en U.. te^« e \ iVe a
V>«V V" U Tus ViVe , - w
StoV® 7 _ \ t \»9|' ts el J o g
Ker ° Se -Sonl V' eat ' p°n\ct
9 .
no' s ®
o-^su^ove.
jl
S\U^
6 \j^ Ho
MHHI
s&s
■
rnmmiiiii
ĵ
j
PERSONAL ITEMS
Stacey, who embarrassed the
P.M. by refusing to sit on one of his
crowd of Parliamentary committees and
telling him to his face that in excluding
Tasmanians from his enlarged Ministry
he had made a tragic mistake, was once
a surface worker at the Wallaroo copper-
mines and could swing a banjo with the
best of them. Noting the increasing
amount of logging being used at the
mines for underground timber work, he
left his job and went to the Adelaide
Hills to become a supplier of timber.
Successful in business, he turned to muni-
cipal affairs and was, for a term or two,
Mayor of St. Peter’s. Then he did the
impossible by wresting the Adelaide seat
from Labor, and has held it ever since.
The Government is worried about
Stacey ; it realises that if the large and
indignant man refused another nomina-
tion for Adelaide it would lose the seat.
Wounded in Syria, Lieut. Alan Treloar,
who, if times were happier, would be
studying at Oxford. Victorian Rhodes
scholar for 1940, Treloar transferred from
the University Rifles to the A.I.F. last
year. His father, Lieut.-Colonel J. L.
Treloar, is on Blarney’s staff as Depart-
ment of Information liaison officer. A
brother is in the Empire Air scheme.
Brigadier Jimmy Heane has given up
the presidency of N.S.W. Fruitgrowers’
Federation after 19 years. He served in
the old A.1.F., was several times men-
tioned in dispatches and returned with a
string of decorations. The presidency
goes to F. B. Mackenzie, a Kurrajong
man who also served with the old A.I.F.
and who has specialised in citrus culture
and straight talking since he came back.
For the largest slice of his life Frank
George Underwood, depicted here by
Dubois complete with cigar—he is a chain
smoker—has moved in a world of sport.
Born in Sydney 68 years ago and edu-
cated at The King’s School, Parramatta,
he went into his father’s brewing business
F. G. UNDERWOOD.
on the Clarence River. Rugby Union
was his early love ; a member of the old
Pirates and East, he repped against
Queensland, Maoriland and England
from 1898 to 1903. In 1904 he became
secretary of the N.S.W. Sports Club,
and for 37 years he skilfully guided its
affairs through many vicissitudes. Now
he has retired with a life-membership.
The Turf also knows him well; for 26
years he has been associated with the
Canterbury Park R.C
J. E. Edwards, an Old Digger, has been
on Adelaide’s only afternoon paper the
‘News,” since it started in 1923 ; and
latterly he has been its “Mr. Pirn”
columnist. He now moves to the rapidly-
growing northern S.A. town of Whyalla
to edit a paper of his own.
Reported “missing, believed killed,”
Private Chris Walker, one of the best-
known knights of the Inky Way in
Melbourne. Assistant editor of the
“Sun,” he resigned to enlist. The
authorities wanted to preserve his
talents for the Department of Infor-
mation, but Chris preferred an anti-
tank unit and overseas service. In
the Middle East he transferred to an
infantry battalion. Another brother,
Lieut. Lachlan Walker, has been
posted as missing ; another is abroad with
the A.I.F. and another has just enlisted.
Their father died last week.
The Australian Natural History medal
goes to Frederick Chapman, Common-
wealth palaeontologist from 1927 to 1935,
for his great honorary work in establish-
ing native flora in the Maranoa Gardens
Balwyn (Vic.). A Londoner, born in
Camden Town, Chapman became State
palaeontologist in Melbourne in 1902,
and has since made more contri-
butions to knowledge of Australian
zoology, geology and origins than almost
any other man. His reputation is world-
wide. His published writings exceed 500,
and there is scarcely a scientific body,
here and abroad, in his line of study of
which he isn’t a distinguished member.
Though 77, he still gardens assiduously in
Melbourne.
Sidney J. Baker, who is to get £250
from the Commonwealth Literary Fund
to continue his researches, is a nephew of
Henry Baker, leader of the Opposition
m lasmania. He hails from Maoriland,
has been round the world as a journalist
and now lives in Sydney. Still only 28, he
has been studying Australian slang, collo-
quialisms, accent, and also pidgin English
for about seven years, has written two
books and is at work on a third. He is
assistant-editor of a radio weekly.
An Australian origin can be claimed
for Air Vice-Marshal Collier, British air
attache to Russia ; before her marriage
his mother was one of the Misses Hall,
principals of Riviere College, Wool-
lahra, Sydney. Collier left Oxford
University in 1914 to join the
R.A.F. In 1916, whilst on a recon-
naissance flight over Germany, he
made a forced landing and was
taken prisoner. With 10 other
officers, Italian, Russian and French,
he employed his time studying lan-
guages. After the Armistice he was
appointed aide to the British Avia-
tion Command on the Rhine, and
was then lent by the British Government
to Latvia as instructor in aviation, after
which he was made air attache at the
British Embassy in Russia. In the present
war he served in France from the out-
break to the capitulation.
At 64, having crowded a fair amount
of excitement into his life, Harold Pearce
has decided to sit back in his native
Hobart. He has sold insurance at Dun-
edin, Shanghai (while there he knew Sun
Yat-sen), Hong Kong, Yokohama and
Hobart; in later years as manager of
two companies.
“X.T.” farewells a landmark: —
Adelaide Uni.’s Economics Profes-
sor Keith Sydney Isles is giving the
Commonwealth Government the
benefit of his knowledge of the
Keynes compulsory savings plan. Born
in the Speck 38 years ago, Isles was
educated at the Tasmanian and Cam-
bridge Universities, He has taught
the dismal science at Edinburgh Uni.
and Swansea College, Wales, has written
several books and holds the right to tag
B.Com., M.A., M.Sc. to his name.
Melbourne is discovering that some
of the finest music in Australia is being
produced at St. Paul’s Cathedral, under
Dr. Alfred Ernest Floyd’s direction. A
Sunday performance of Bach’s titanic
St. Matthew Passion, with the little
chorists assisted by leading soloists, was
of such extraordinary quality that a de-
mand has arisen for an encore in some
secular auditorium, though probably the
beauty of the Anglican cathedral is a
big ingredient of the pleasure. Floyd
came to Melbourne as organist of St.
Paul’s in 1914 after a career as composer,
critic, conductor, adjudicator and organist
at Winchester Cathedral. The ardent,
energetic little man has done wonders
with the St. Paul’s choir. He was for
some time music critic of the “Argus,”
and an acidly-polite contest broke out
between him and Thorold Waters, editor
of a musical monthly and “Sun” critic,
which raged for years. He is 64 and
was made in Birmingham.
Taken prisoner in the Crete campaign,
Lieut. Michael Russell Clarke, who left
a barrister’s practice in Melbourne to
enlist, and served in Britain, Libya and
Greece, before going to what the enemy
sneeringly called “the Island of Doomed
Men.” His father, Russell Clarke,
pastoralist and sportsman, is the eldest
surviving son of William Clarke, Aus-
tralia’s first baronet.
Old Victorians retain vivid memories
of Colonel Tom Price, of the Mounted
Rifles —“Fire-low-and-lay-’em-out Tom”
he was called after the shipping strike of
the early ’nineties. The workers never-
theless had a sneaking regard for the big
fellow, and gave him a magnificent re-
ception when he led his troops through
Melbourne prior to embarking for the
Boer War. A son —the youngest—re-
mained in South Africa and is now re-
cruiting officer for the Rand. The eldest
son is a general in charge of one of the
London areas.
J. D. Statton, here pinned down by
Counihan, has the big job of manager
of the Commonwealth munitions factory
in Melbourne. His connection with the
industry started with the building of the
small-arms factory at Lithgow (N.S.W.),
and he has been up to his ears in it ever
since. Born at Ballarat, he was schooled
at Urquhart-street and the School of
Mines, where he studied electrical engi-
neering. His first job was with Lonie
and Dingle, the lake city’s engineering
firm ; then he went to the McKay har-
vester concern, then to the Newport
workshops, where he worked on the first
A 2 engine, the biggest step in Australian
engine-making. In 1909 he was selected
to go to the Pratt and Whitney Cos. in
U.S.A. to study the manufacture of rifles.
He spent the next 23 years at Lithgow,
ending up as assistant manager. Statton
J. D. STATION.
is known to munitions men as “Old Jim,”
and to munitions girls as “Pop.”
“Ente Marid”: This is a cosmopolitan
war all right. King George, of Greece, a
quiet democratic sort of man, as much
at home in England as in Athens, got
out of Crete with a guard of 24 Maori-
landers under Second Lieut. W. H. Ryan.
The other day he took an afternoon off
to give Ryan the Cross of St. George
(with swords) and the gallant 24 the
Medal of George I (with swords). Ryan
in private life is a civil engineer. A
Maori battalion gave the King his first
sight of a haka, sang “Haere Ra” for
him and followed with the battalion song,
conducted by the composer.
Individual and picturesque to the last,
Randolph Bedford has gone to join his old
Bulletin mates of the late ’eighties and ’nine-
ties. Sydney-born in 1868, he began to con-
tribute to the paper at 18. A year or two
later he turned up in the “S. M. Herald”
office looking for a job. “Last place of em-
ployment?” he was asked blandly. “Laborer
in a meatworks,” roared Randolph. He didn’t
get the job, but in 1888 he was a reporter at
Broken Hill, and from the Barrier he went to
Melbourne “Age.” David Syme formed a high
opinion of him, but Randolph was too restless
and reckless to stay in a staff job. He was a figure
in the Bohemian society which centred about
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
the young Lindsays, and he wrote short stories,
sketches, a few novels —and in later years a
few plays—and jingle in the worst handwriting
this side of Chungking. The first job the
present managing director of The Bulletin
had in the office was to type Randolph’s copy
so that the comps, could read it—and Bulletin
comps, can read almost anything.
And Randolph wrote on mining and followed
the lure of gold in many countries, with indif-
ferent success most of the time, though here
and there he did well. Billy Pagan, Mining
Engineer, was born of these experiences.
So was Explorations in Civilisation, perhaps his
best book, a collection of Bulletin articles.
Early in the last war Bedford turned up in
Brisbane and roared his way into the Labor
party. One of T. J. Ryan’s suicide club that
voted the Leg. Council out of existence, he
stalked over the remains into the Warrego
Assembly seat and held it to the end (1923-41),
though he made one break when he resigned to
try to roar Jimmy Hunter out of Federal
Maranoa. His constituents showed what they
thought of him by demanding the right to pay
all costs of his funeral. Randolph was excel-
lent company and a good hater. He wrote too
much and too carelessly, but his best stuff,
racy and robust, was very good indeed.


SOLVE YOUR OWN PRODUCER
GAS PROBLEMS
Progressive farmers, graziers and garage men are not waiting for someone else
to solve their petrol rationing problems. They are tackling the matter them-
selves, and solving them by learning themselves how to handle the various
jobs associated with the installation, maintenance and 1 preparation of fuel.
They are learning to do this through the simplified practical course in Producer
Gas provided by Kingsford Smith Colleges. Remember! the secret of success
with Producer Gas is to understand it.
Learn Producer Gas Thoroughly
KINCSFORDSMITH
WMcOLLECESm
PRACTICAL TRAINING OR
HOME STUDY COURSES
• HOW TO BURN YOUR OWN CHARCOAL
• MANUFACTURE of Producer Gas Units
• CONVERSION of PLANT FROM PETROL
•MAINTENANCE of P.G. UNITS
FARMERS AND STATIONARY ENGINE OWNERS!
Producer Gas will considerably reduce the cost of farming in Aus-
tralia, but if you are going to take full advantage of this new
economical power, you MUST understand your subject. You must
have more than just a superficial knowledge, you must have a thorough
grounding. The simplified Home Study course at Kingsford Smith
Colleges makes it possible to gain a thorough knowledge of Producer
Gas Engines in your spare time at home. There are no weighty text-
books to wade through in the Kingsford Smith Colleges’ course, and
you are taught by an easy system of instruction sheets and diagrams.
No high educational standard is needed to follow the course.
SIMPLIFIED METHOD MAKES LEARNING EASY
The course includes coaching by Producer Gas experts, specialising in
this work, and as Kingsford Smith Colleges are under the same
direction as the well-known Diesel Engineering College and the Col-
lege of Civil Aviation, you receive the benefit of the latest and most
up-to-date methods of technical training. Students of these Colleges
are now holding well-paid positions all over Australia, and what
has been done for them can be done for you.
HOW TO CONVERT AND MAINTAIN YOUR
OWN PLANT AND VEHICLES
The Kingsford Smith Colleges’ course is the quickest, most thorough
method of obtaining the knowledge you need to enable you to convert
and maintain your own plant efficiently. Everything is made clear
by simple, easily-followed diagrams and instruction sheets. The
Kingsford Smith Colleges’ course is an essential for every Stationary
Engine Owner, Farmer, Truck or Tractor Owner, Garage and Service
Station Man. It is a practical course for practical men.
YOU CAN BECOME A PRODUCER GAS EXPERT
In every neighborhood there will be wonderful opportunities for
those who learn about Producer Gas Engines early to make big
money installing and servicing Producer Gas units. Scores of our
students have already had great success in this field, but for every
one employed there are hundreds of openings. This easy-to-follow
course covers every phase of the subject manufacture, installation,
conversion, service, and the production of charcoal. Send that coupon
off now while you think of it.
j
j
KINGSFORD SMITH COLLEGES
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
Please send me particulars of your Producer Gas course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 16/7/’4l,


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: I got back from a spell
at the outstation to learn that a mate
of mine was in a scrub-cutting camp
about two miles down the river. After
tea I saddled a horse and set off for the
road-gate on the way to Monty’s camp.
The cook hailed me: “Y’ can go straight
down the river now; they pulled down
the fence last week.” This meant saving
a mile, so I headed down river. Canter-
ing along in bright moonlight the nag
suddenly baulked, pitched me into the
dust and waited. I looked around but
couldn’t see or hear anything, and got
on again. The nag moved forward and
stopped dead, turning side on. Though
it was an open patch of country, he flatly
refused to go on ; a test showed he was
willing to go back or sideways in either
direction. A bit puzzled, I got off, looped
the reins on an arm and had a look at
the ground. We were right on the old
fence line. I had no trouble in leading
the moke across the line, whereupon he
cantered on to Monty’s with enthusiasm,
twitching his ears in apology for not
having seen that the fence he had been
used to was no longer there.
* % H* *
“B. 4”: “Valmak” (B. 25/6/’4l) may
have seen only sluggish ophidians; and
zoo internees are like that, never having
to battle for a crust nor being in danger
of constituting a repast for others. But
our Queensland outback slitherers pro-
ceed differently. Watched three hawks,
desirous of dining on Joe, pursue him in
a cloud of black dust as he fled from the
feathered furies across a burnt ridge. I
had to canter to keep the shrieking pro-
cession in view, only to catch a glimpse
of brown lightning disappear into a log.
Again, when I was ploughing, a frog
doing six-foot bounds tore down the
headland, with Black Joe throwing him-
self in leaps after the prospective hors
d’ceuvre. Grabbing a trace-chain, I
joined in and had to streak to be in the
fun. A belt on the ribs steadied Joe, but
I didn’t recognise the frog. He’d half-
melted with the fright and the pace, and
could hardly thank me.
1= * * ¥
“Matilda”: It was the fifth request for
tucker that week. “Why don’t you call
at the place down the road?” I de-
manded of the shrewd-faced swaggie.
“Have a heart, missus!” he protested.
“One look at them dogs is enough.” “But
they’re not savage,” I insisted, “and none
of you ever go there.” “Well,” grinned
the knight of the billycan, “when you
see the mongs as mud-fat as they are y’
can bet the missus is a rotten cook an’
has to throw a lot of stuff to ’em, so
we shy clear of there.”
* * * *
“Capricorn”: Unlike dogs, horses very
rarely demonstrate deep devotion to
their masters, seeming rather to tolerate
them. A case of equine devotion, how-
ever, comes from the Blackall (Q.) dis-
trict. A youth was carrying a pea-rifle
on horseback when the gun went off,
wounding him mortally. The horse was
a young gelding he had reared and
trained and with which he had recently
won a prize at the Blackall Show. The
horse stayed beside his fallen master till
the youth was found. Then he was taken
home and unsaddled and let go. He
went straight back to the scene of the
accident, although he had never been
there before that day. He was again
taken home, and put in a paddock. Two
days later he disappeared. He was found
back at the scene again ; and hoof-
prints showed that he had spent his vigil
walking in a circle about the spot where
his master had lain.
* * * »
“Cubberlie”: Ted Scorfield has ven-
tured on a woman’s preserve, wherefore
let him beware. The sex had a double
grin at his drawing of the lady who was
demonstrating why a delicate touch was
needed for cream puffs (B. 18/6/’4l).
Those feather-light morsels are not
touched with the hands at all until after
they are cooked. Now if the lady had
said pastry
“Poli”: That Cousin Jack of Oswald
Pryor’s (B. 9/7/’4l) who wanted the boss
to sack his workmate on the crosscut
saw should have been sacked himself.
Anybody who’d attempt to saw the top
“Next time I give a word of command don't you say 'What'!"
log of a heap while it was still on the heap
needs the attention of an alienist.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat got a job with a
mild sort of religious crank, but got on
all right, though the boss’s habit of say-
ing prayers for its success before begin-
ning a job and prayers of thankfulness
for its finish had the big fellow mutter-
ing once or twice. Then came the blaz-
ing Sunday when Mat, after a hard
week’s toil, sought repose in the shade
of a gum by the creek, only to be dis-
turbed by the cocky, who insisted that
Mat should doll himself up and go to
church. “Not on y’r life!” said Mat,
lying back in the shade. Then the cocky
bowed his head and, in a loud voice, im-
plored the Creator to forgive Mat his
sinfulness and to work the leaven of
divinity in Mat’s cankered soul in order
that it might awake and so forth. Slowly
Mat heaved himself up and towered over
the supplicant. “Ain’t there,” he asked,
“a prayer for those in peril on the sea?”
“No,” said the boss ; “that’s a hymn. But
who’s in peril on the sea?” “Nobody
I know of,” came back Mat in a sinister
tone; “but someone’s in peril on the
land, an’ if y’ know a hymn for that y’
better sing it damn’ quick, y’ flamin’ ol’
pest.” Thus was Mat once more out of
work.
* * * *
“T. McN.”: If “Flight’s” yarn about
riding over the Downs (B. 9/7/’4l) and
watching a couple of wedgetails separate
a joey from its mother, one killing the
joey while the other held the doe off,
is gospel, all I can say is that Downs
eagles must be blind or “Flight” is a
master of camouflage. Out our way the
wedgies would no more think of coming
near the earth while a man was within
half a mile than of trying to swallow a
pound of melted butter through a red-
hot tube.
=f= * * *
“Poddy Calf”: Wandering into our
district, which is principally a grazing one,
the agent for dairy machinery opened up
by offering to install a large and expen-
sive separator. Having no luck, he
switched over to milking machines. 1
pointed to a herd of cows rearing some
vealers and said that we bred our own
machines here. “Oh!” he exclaimed
disappointedly, “you’ve got a large family,
have you?”
* * * *
“Pick”: Billy the Dane, fossicking
around Kiandra (N.S.W.) got the idea
that, as all the rich patches of gold were
being found along the Eucenbene River,
sluicing the whole hillside which led to
the Redbank, richest of all the claims
around the district, would be a good lurk.
He decided to construct a dam and
bring a water-race from across the plains.
First he excavated a quarter-acre dam
site in a hollow depression near the
summit of the slope ; with the soil that
he dug out he built an embankment to
hold back the water, and for outlet
purposes in the embankment built a
sluice-box made of hardwood planks.
But if that sluicebox had been full of
milk it couldn’t have attracted more
snakes, and for anything that propelled
itself by its ribs Billy had an unbeatable
horror. But though the old fossicker
abandoned his dam, the race turned out
a money-spinner. It crossed the Charcoal
and Wild Horse Plains from a perennial
waterway on Charcoal Plain, and
traversed the grassy land that lay between
there and the dam three miles away—
lands that were greatly coveted for
summer runs by the Monaro and Riverina
sheepmen. In drought times drovers
brought big flocks to the high plains, and
the shepherds had the strictest orders to
see that their sheep didn’t cross the
Dane’s race. Actions for trespass which
the old fellow brought in the Warden’s
Court usually favored Billy, and damages
up to £lO a time were awarded him
when he could prove that sheep had
crossed over.
* * * *
“Gidya George”: Had Tom Moore
visited North Queensland he would prob-
ably have substituted the pawpaw for the
sunflower in his song about that plant’s
worship of Sol. I cut down one pawpaw-
tree ; it measured over 35ft. before it
sprouted a leaf —just a cabbagelike stalk
no thicker than your wrist in its mad
race to climb above the other trees and
spread itself in the beneficent rays. One
pawpaw growing beside the house on
the shady side was over 10ft. from the
corner round which the sun shone. That
darned worm got down on its hands and
knees, crawled along the ground to the
corner, hit the sun, stood erect, grew
and bore fruit.
* * * ♦
“Barwon”: Was out laying poison
baits for foxes along a Macquarie
(N.S.W.) ridge and stopped for a smoke.
The antics of a crow in a rung yellow-
box seemed worth investigating, so I sus-
pended operations to await developments.
Kelly power-dived on to one of my baits
back in the line and then flew across to
a parallel ridge, where he dropped the
hunk of strychnine-charged rabbit near
the end of a hollow log. He then retired
to his observation-post on the yellow
box. In a matter of 10 minutes a fox
put his head out, Sherlocked the land-
scape and then took the windfall. His
subsequent contortions and eventual de-
mise were watched with great interest by
both of us until reflex movements were
over. Then Kelly flew down and pic-
nicked on the deceased’s eyes. A few
minutes afterwards he made reconnais-
sance of the line for a further titbit for
offensive purposes elsewhere, selected it
and flew westward. I found the other
victim next morning, eyeless but otherwise
intact, half a mile off my line. If the
crow reads this he can come into part-
nership on a 50-50 basis in the pelt busi-
ness any time that he feels like it.
* » * *
“Double One”: Another prize-winner
among The Bulletin’s proverbs of the
long ago was “The creek is driest the
day before the rain” ; it held a strong
appeal for me, a sheep-and-wheat cocky
belting out a crust on poor-rainfall
country. It has stuck in my memory
since.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Hearing that old Sarah
Mallikolo had died while 1 was away, I
went over to express due condolence to
her husband, old Bos’n. To my regret
that Sarah had been buried during our
absence, thus preventing the sending of
suitable floral tributes, the bereaved
spouse replied; “Had to bury that one —
she die. No damn savvy that one all
time since come Queensland from island
long time. Die ’long hot weather, try
keep ’er so brother blong ’er come from
Rock’ampton, but no can keep. No
damn savvy. One,
two, three times be-
fore she sing out
want go back island.
1 tell that one island
no damn good, she
too old, man woman
blong that island
steal box blong ’er,
all thing blong ’er.
No good, keep sing
out want go island.
Three time 1 go
Brisbane ’long her
for steamer, all
time she got friteled,
no go ’long steamer,
come back. Larst
time we go that one
get noo toofs ’long
Brisbane. What want
noo toofs for?
Plenty old, kai-kai
too much all time,
too much more when
got noo toofs. One
year an’ she die. Too
much kai-kai long
noo toofs I think.
Six pound them
feller noo toofs. Ten
pound that feller
funeral blong ’er,
noo toofs all buried.
No savvy she got,
got noo toofs, then
die one year, no
make kai-kai blong me, no more make
plenty kai-kai blong ’er. That one damn
silly, I think.”
* * * *
“Moturoa”: It was well after closing
time when the sergeant and a constable
made their surprise visit, and the bar
was full of thirsty Maoris. With a cry
of warning, Henare sank his pint and
make a break for the open spaces, fol-
lowed by a puffing policeman, who
shouted “Stop! Stop!” But Henare in-
creased his pace, casting a quick glance
over his shoulder and yelling back:
“Better you stop, boss; you ain’t got
anybody chasing you! ”
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: “Yair,” said Hairy
Harry, “there’s dawgs and dawgs all
right; but I’ve never yet struck one to
touch a big kangaroo dawg I once ’ad
called Scouger. Real gun dawg ’e was
—sit under the barrel until ’e ’card the
‘bang,’ and then ’e’d be off like a shot t’
collect whatever I was shootin’ at. Fast?
Strike me! ’E was like a streak of lubri-
cated lightnin’. But it was ’is speed that
finished ’im. I usually did me shootin’
with a .303 or .32, but I was out one
day with an old .44 that was so slow y’
could almost see the bullets travellin’
through the air. Anyway, I spots a ’roo
only a ’undred yards off an’ took a
standin’ crack at it. Scouger’s crouchin’
under the barrel, and as soon as ’e ’ears
the ‘bang’ ’e’s off so fast I can ’ardly
follow ’im with me eyes. Then, just as
’e reached the ’roo and jumped at it, ’e
seemed to crumple up, while the ’roo
’opped off for the lick of its life, which
was funny, ’cos I was sure I couldn’t’ve
missed at that distance. I runs up to see
what’s wrong with Scouger, and, cripes,
if ’e ’adn’t stopped the flamin’ bullet in
the neck just before it would’ve ’it the
’roo! ”
THE VIOLIN.
Last noon, as I trod a city street
And hearkened its drone and din,
At a Quayside corner I chanced to meet
A man with a violin;
And there, as a nor’-east breeze blew in
With the scent of the sea and its salt,
He summoned a voice from his violin,
Compelling my feet to halt.
A sweet compulsion! for tired was I
A stringer of yarns and rhymes—
Of a world that had somehow gone awry
In the maddest of madcap times.
While, high and low, with his magic bow,
Soft music he set afloat,
The folk of the town trooped to and fro
’Twixt city and ferryboat.
All heedless they passed with souls unstirred,
While 1 stood muted and spelled,
For none of them heard the sounds I heard,
Or visioned what I beheld.
For there, like one in a dream who takes
His way to a realm withdrawn,
A vision was mine of a sea that breaks
On a waking coast at dawn.
Away from the Quay with its sounds and
signs,
Through years I travelled again
To Manly, dreaming behind its pines,
And mated with singing men.
There mates, in fancy, with poets three,
Who saunter and sing no more,
I heard the voice of the psalming sea
That chants to a wave-worn shore,
There breathing the breath of sweet release
From the clutches of care and strife
With those poets three I talked of peace
And the lovely lights of life.
But the vision passed and the music died
When mute grew the violin,
And the world, like a grim returning tide,
Drowned both with its drone and din.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“Maori Bill”: Canberra, always
anxious to receive delegations from
furrin parts, could do worse than cable
the N’York press for a few boo-boo boys
to educate us about ourselves. One noos-
paper artist, explaining a screen short,
remarked that “another bird of prey,” in
a curious collection, was the cassowary,
which hailed from “Noo Zealand down
under,” and he transferred another
northerner, the gourier pigeon, to the
Shivery Isles. Still, be didn’t beat the
N’York “Times,” which journal had half
a column about the downfall of Marion
Waite, who had been reduced from hav-
ing a cigarette flipped from her lips every
night in Ringlings’ Circus by Australian
Billy Waite “with a seventy-foot bull
whip” to selling toy whips at a street
corner. Marion, it appears, was herself
some whipster. She “could pluck a pistol
from an adversary’s hand a score of
yards away” with a single whip flick ;
and both she and her husband were
“skilled users of the boomerang, a curved
piece of wood, the Maori weapon of
war.” Describing a 100-yard circle, the
fearsome thing “returned to their hands.”
That’s a trick I’m particularly anxious
to have some boo-boo boy try —to catch
a boomerang when it returns, either in
his hands or with his coconut.
* sp * *
“Bogaduck”: Old Steve, the black-
smith, had just made a set of horseshoes,
the biggest 1 had ever seen. It took a
Jump of iron 22in. long to make a single
shoe, and as that represents twice the
width of the hoof, plus an inch, that
meant that the horse —a draught belong-
ing to a stone-carter —had a hoof lOjlin.
across. The horse was one of the finest-
looking I ever saw, and when it walked
across a patch of damp sand it left hoof-
prints the size and shape of a big frying-
pan. I now have one of the animal’s cast
shoes nailed up on my workshop door,
but every stranger who sees it refuses
to believe that it isn’t a fake, in spite of
the fact that it has been worn down. I
don’t mind, for the horse is there to be
seen by all sceptics, and I’ve already won
two bets on it. Any of the Council
know of a bigger-hooved prad?
* * 4c *
“B. A. Ker”: With the water in the
dam merely a foul-smelling slurry, the
boss decided that a general clean-out
was in order “before the rain comes.”
Detailed off for the task, Joe the rouse-
about literally plunged in to his job.
Sploshing behind the scoop, with the cold,
odoriferous scum seeping back to the
swathe in the mud and percolating his
boots, Joe stuck to his handles like a
Briton. After half an hour of it he de-
cided that bare feet would be less un-
comfortable and, removing the number
“If you can lend us a couple of petrol coupons we'll come!"
nines, continued uncomplainingly. At
“smoke-oh” he was muddied but still un-
bowed. But when lunchtime arrived he
sought the boss out. “This is no good
to me; I’m pullin’ out!” he announced.
“What for?” asked the trump, trying to
look surprised. “Well, I believe in a fair
thing,” the rousie declared ; “and it ain’t
a fair thing to make them ’orses wallow
around in a bog like that!”
* * * *
“Herby” writes from Cornedhorse
Creek:
I’m swingin' the old black billy north on the
chance o’ landin’ a road job out from Casso-
wary, an’ when I reaches the nearest pub t’
the job at Lingerandie I agrees with meself
that me persuasive ways oughter get me a pot
and a handy slant on the ganger’s shortcomin’s.
Me bein’ cautious-like, on account o’ bein’ so
well-known in the liquor trade, before I hoists
the knot across the verandah I takes a screw
at the nationality label painted over the door.
When 1 spots it’s the same moniker as once is
claimed by a decent sort o’ old take-down
what useter bank the burr-cutters’ wages down
Mungindi way, I barges in and seeks the re-
ception committee by bangin’ me old tea-can
on the bar. Sure enough it’s old Mungindi
Mick, an’ he greets me real friendly-like, doesn’t
wait f’r me t’ make the customary appeal, tells
me the road gang’s good spenders, but a
pretty tough lot, and says how sorely he’s in
need of a reliable bloke about the bar. Well,
the beer was jonick, Mick’s wages was right and
the side-pickin’s on Friday nights and Satur-
days profitable and easy. I was on Easy-street.
But I’d overlooks! the bookkeepin’. In
return f’r muttonfar, damper, goat an’ doss,
the timekeeper on the road job attended t’ this
sideline o’ the hotel business, and when he
confidentially tells Mick his takin’s f’r the month
don’t come within a mile an’ a half o’ his out-
lay f’r booze, Mungindi speaks t’ me directly
personal-like. I rec’lect him sayin’ a lot about
me bein’ too ready on the pick-up when me
proper job was chucker-out. All the same, I
bears no malice. It was the best job I ever
had —while it lasted.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: “Bamekaw’s” juvenile
abo. smoker (B. 25/6/’4I) was quite
elderly compared with one infant I met
at Normanton. I used to keep a tin into
which was carefully scraped the remains
of my smokes (I indulge in dark plug)
because I was constantly being invited by
Black Brother to provide free tobacco.
Sitting on the wharf one day, a gin suck-
ling a baby in arms put the usual nips
in, so the tin of souvenirs was duly pro-
duced. The lady filled up, and, after
puffing away for some minutes, stuck the
stem of her pipe in the baby’s mouth.
He took a couple of dozen draws with
obvious enjoyment and then returned to
his morning-tea.
* * « *
“Yagan”: All aboriginals are not good
trackers; only a comparatively small per-
centage are first-rate. Nor is the abo.
a tracker purely by natural instinct—he
has to be taught. Thus his ultimate
ability depends largely upon his degree
of intelligence. Some abos. are so dull
in the dome they can scarcely run down
food enough to keep themselves alive ; but
to the intelligent abo. the earth is an
open book. Early in life he learns all
about animals and the kind of tracks
they make. He even extends this to the
feet of his fellow-tribesmen and his tribe’s
enemies ; he can name an individual or a
group of individuals merely by examin-
ing their footprints, such prints being to
him as individual as a person’s face is
to a white. Thus in deciphering a track
he knows at once the animal that made
it, and also if the animal was tired or
fresh at the time ; also how long since
it passed, and in reckoning this he will
take into account the heat of the sun
or the effect of a drying wind in effacing
the track. A bruised leaf, a bent twig,
disturbed blades of grass—these and
countless other items will speak volumes
to him. Thus it is possible for the
tracker, on discovering certain signs, to
tell whether the tracked ones are young
or old or merely middle-aged. To the
white man observing all this for the first
time it looks an unfathomable mystery,
"Haff minute, Lizbeth , We're a-movin' the pianner."
yet there have been, and are, whites
capable of following a track almost as
well as an abo. But they had to learn
the game, and their tutor always has been
an aboriginal.
* * * *
“Wang"; “I’m travellin’ one time with
a bloke who wus the greatest windbag
Ive ever known,” related Dan. “I got
that way in the end I’d sorta hear but
wouldn’t know what it was. Same as
people what live near the sea don’t hear
the waves breakin’. I’d put in a ‘Urn’
or Yair now an’ then, an’ that seemed
to satisfy him. One night we struck a
travellers’ hut just on dark, an’ when
we went inside an’ lit a candle we found
a chap lyin’ in one of the bunks. He
gives us a grin, then turns over with his
dile t’ the wall. Me mate starts maggin’
at him right away. I get inter a bunk
an’ lie there fer an hour awake, me mate
yappin’ hard all the time t’ the other
bloke, who doesn’t say a word back.
Then 1 drop orf t’ sleep, an’ wake up a
coupla hours later t’ find me mate still
yappm’. The other bloke don’t say a
word, but I can ’ear him movin’ restless
in ’is bunk now an’ then. Then I drop
orf an’ don’t wake till mornin’. I m
gatherin’ wood outside when me mate
comes out. He’s in a tearin’ rage. ‘That
bloke in there,’ he ses. ‘Larst night I tole
him all the yarns I knew, an’ gave ’im
me views on the war an’ politicks. E's
jest woke up, an’ spare me days if the
cow ain’t a furriner what hardly under-
stands a word of Hinglish, an’ ’e's stone
deaf as well!”
**s . *
“Simon Crusher”: Bill the Preacher
and his lurid language were such an in-
stitution on Brumby Downs station that
even the missus could hear one of his
ten-minute stretches of profanity without
turning a hair. But when she invited
three city relatives to the station for a
holiday she reckoned Bill would have to
be muffled. She explained the position
to him—she didn’t mind strong language
herself, but these city-bred women were
different. Bill knew, and promised that
nary a curse would pass his lips within
earshot of the ladies “Damn me,
missus, if I say one word out of
place, y’ can keep me pay for
a month.” When the visitors came
the missus took it upon herself to show
them over all the station buildings. As
the four women stepped through the
store door, Bill, who was under the
counter looking for a bolt, straightened
up to see who it was and bashed his crust
underneath the counter. The outburst
of language was almost awe-inspiring, and
concluded with: “If the ape who de-
signed these counters had had any
sense he’d never have well”
Bill’s face appeared above the
counter then, and his features froze in
horror. Then came his rush of apology:
“Strike me hooray, missus, Tm
awful sorry.”
* * * *
“Oscar”: The cop in a small S.A.
district had to call upon an old lady
who lived alone. Screaming at the top
of her voice, she drove him from the
premises. Later, dressed in uniform, he
returned, and was cordially welcomed.
When he asked the old woman why she
had driven him away earlier in the day
she looked surprised and then said:
“Gripes! Was that you? I thought you
were one of them flamin’ sell-you-any-
thing - lady - nothin’-down-and-only-two-
bob-a-week blokes!”
* * * *
“Surfboat Bill”: “We’re after a big
Noah’s Ark that’s been cruisin’ off
the beach,” says Joe, the bowhand.
“There’s on’y three of us two pullin’
an’ one on the sweep. There’s a
bit uv a chop on, but we chuck out the
big oildrum with the shark hook an’ a
couple uv salmon an’ wait fer results.
Suddenly down goes the drum in a flurry
uv foam. Young Bill gets so excited he
steps on a mackerel and belts his nose
on the quarter bar. ‘lt’s ’im,’ he yells,
and sure enough we see a fin like the
sail uv the Cutty Sark break water.
Sam, the sweephand, says ’e’ll fix the
blankard, ups and lets fly with the harpoon.
The jacko watches it cornin’, catches it
in his mouth an’ starts pickin’ bits uv oil-
drum out uv his teeth. We ups anchor
lively, but the oars are no sooner out
than the Noah bites the blades off. Then
he flips his tail over, busts the sweep
like a match an’ swims round, waitin’
for us ter do somethin’ else. Just then
young Bill goes an’ sticks his leg up on
the gunwale. There’s a whackin’ splash,
and the next thing we know is the law-
yer’s got hold o’ Bill’s leg, pullin’ for
all he’s worth. Sam an’ meself rush over
an’ grab Bill, an’ there’s the shark hang-
in’ on ter one end an’ us on the other.
Well, the old Johnny’s pullin’ Bill’s leg
an’ we’re pullin’, pullin’, just like I’m
pullin’ yours!”
POSITION VACANT.
“Say what y" like,” said Burry Bob, “but what
this country needs
T’ make it go flat out f’r stoush is a man
who’s full o’ deeds.
A rawboned, bull-voiced, dead-game bloke t’
stir the dopey mob;
Rough-cut an" with a flashin’ eye an’ one idear
—the job.
Now I bin thinkin’, long an’ hard, about this
problem deep
In wakin’ hours an’, strike me fat, when all
of you’s asleep.
It’s plain that shilly-shallyin' ain’t goin’ t’
make us sing:
What Aussie’s badly needin’ is a old-time
fightin’ king.
“I had a scrappin’ partner once, all fists an’
ginger hair,
A bloke who’d toil or sing or stoush, but
never take a dare.
He’s full o’ yarns o’ early days when England
was a pup
An’ how the kings they had around would
shake the whole place up.
Them kings, they loved their grog an’ girls, an’
chucked their alleys in
Surrounded by the stacks o’ foes they’d donged
upon the chin.
Now that’s the sort of chief we need t’ fill us
full o’ sting:
The country’s simply howlin’ f’r a dinkum
fightin’ king.
“These Parlymentry blokes an’ such, they have
their use an’ place,
But when it comes t’ runnin’ wars they haven’t
got the pace.
They muck about with laws an’ regs. an’ call
f’r volunteers,
An’ try t’ bluff the enemy with votes an’
loans an’ cheers.
But when y’ take these Hitlers on y’ havcter
go scone-hot,
Y’ got t’ lash out hard an’ quick with every-
thin’ y’ got;
Y’ need a bloke t’ lead y’ who can make y’r
pulses ring;
An’ 1 reckon what this country needs is a old-
time fightin’ king.
“Say what y’ like,” said Burry Bob, “of this
there ain’t no doubt;
Y’ can talk y’r way into a fight but talk won’t
get y’ out.
The blokes that fought at Agincourt or
followed Genghis Khan,
It weren’t so much the Cause they loved, their
magnet was the Man.
An’ though we’ve changed in many ways an’
kid we’re civilised,
We still must have a rallyin’ point before we’re
galvanised.
It takes a man that’s full o’ sand t’ make a
nation swing;
So I reckon what this country needs is a old-
time fightin’ king.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


20 Investments in One!
Your purchase of FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES secures a spread” of investment over 20
leading Australian Companies listed on the Stock Exchange.
You also obtain a yield, at present prices, of around 5% per
annum, and your investment is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 gives full details. Your copy posted free on request
to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. G.P.O. Box 4028 V.V.
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
mo,
m
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers;
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILDCAL COUMN
New Zealand Breweries, Ltd.
To Re — Rc —
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1931.. 165,878 124 p.c.= 136,533 29,345 127,652
1932.. 86,739 8 „ „ 87,382 127,009
1933.. 77,224 7 „ „ 76,460 764. 127,773
Insurance reserve taken in, £35,000 . . 163,135
1934.. 76,821 7p.c.- 76,459 362 163,135
1935.. 82,836 7 „ „ 76,459 6,377 169,512
1936.. 90,402 74 „ „ 81,920 8,482 177,994
1937.. 105,559 84 „ „ 92,843 12,716 190,710
Share premiums, £135,777 .. .. 326,487
1938.. 143,698 84 p.c. =139,007 4,691 331,178
Written off freeholds, £135,777 .. 195,401
1939.. 146,446 84 p.c. =139,007 7,439 202,840
1940.. 136,390 84 „ ~ 139,007 200,229
1941.. 120,339 7| „ ~122,652 197,916
+ Excluding fax reserve, now £65,000.
Until a couple of years ago Maoriland’s
social and economic reforms brought
more into this co.’s cashbox than its own
higher costs and taxation, the natural
complement of Government policy, took
out. A high level of war-time activity
has continued to prevail, but financing
of the national effort has called for still
steeper taxation, both direct and indirect,
and profits on a declining scale have
shown up since 1939. And results as
stated exclude £35,000 taken from a pre-
existent tax reserve (now £65,000, not
treated as a free reserve herein, it was
drawn on for £lO,OOO last year) to meet
increased commitments in that period.
Cos. paying the maximum rates now have
to earn £2 for the taxgatherer for each
£1 for shareholders.
This co.’s string of breweries, which
have been steadily added to since
it amalgamated a half-score leading
brewers in 1923, slake by far the
greatest part of the Shivery Isles’ thirst,
which per capita is not so long as
the Commonwealth’s. Chief competition
comes from Dominion Breweries, Ltd.
Statistics and balance-sheet movements
suggest that the co. is brewing more of
the amber beverage than ever. Still, de-
clared gross earnings, after deducting beer
duty, not all of which is passed
on, shrank £46,586 (to £718,910) last
year. Including undisclosed taxation and
depreciation, £30,529 of that was offset
by a cut in outgoings (£598,571). On
capital, the £120,339 (down £16,057) of
profit claimed represented 7.3 p.c., as
against 8.3 and 8.9 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. After four years at 8y p.c.,
div. was reduced to p.c., reserves
being tapped for £2313 to pay it.
The moderate proportions of these visible
reserves need to be considered in conjunc-
tion with these solid-looking figures:
1937. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital .. £1,092,271 £1,635,379 £1,635,379
Mortgages. . .. 39,473 101,446 100,014
Sundry creditors.. 170,917 456,795 629,818
Freeholds, etc. .. 553,084 1,185,637 1,179,584
Plant, etc. . . 120,668 268,996 270.969
Investments, etc... 559,609 544,478 707,865
Stocks . . . . 160,217 213,985 208,760
Debtors . . . . 211,804 329,345 326,364
Cash . . .. 17,142
The lift of £163,387 in investments, etc.,
reflects the Fraser Government’s com-
pulsory loan. The total of £707,865,
however, includes advances to the trade
as well. The contribution necessitated
further outside assistance of £171,591
net. The decline in the surplus of more
or less liquids (£513,157) was £16,410.
Over the past two years market for the
pound ords., covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 225. 5d., has fallen
from 375. 6d. to 31s. 6d., the lower
figure returning an immediate 4.7 p.c.
The cost of war grows, and difficulties
confronting dairying and meat-raising ex-
porters, on which the economy is so
largely dependent, portend contraction in
spending power. Conscription may bring
labor troubles.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co. (S.A.)
~ _ # To Rc—
Alar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1931.. 11,764 10 p.c. 9000 1
Provident fund, £lOOO j 1764 47,131
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
1933.. 10,213 10 „,, 9000 1213 50,504
1934.. 12,210 10 „ „ 9000 1
Provident fund, £l2OO j 2010 52,514
1935.. 12,186 10 p.c. = 9000 3186 55,700
1936.. 12,828 10 ~ .. 9000 )
Provident fund, £lOOO j 2828 58,528
1937.. 11,337 10 p.c. = 9000 2337 60,865
1938.. 12,284 10 „ „ 9000 3284 64,149
1939.. 13,225 10 ~ „ 9000 1
Provident fund, £l2OO \ 302 67,174
1940.. 13,786 10 p.c. = 9000 1 , q ..
Provident fund, £835 | 71,120
1941.. 12,984 10 p.c. = 9000)
W/o freehold, £2650.. 1 430 71,555
Provident fund, £904 J
There isn’t the profit in trusteeship and
the agency business that usually goes
with it that there used to be. While
corpus and other commission charges
have remained unaltered, the work in-
volved in administration and collection,
etc., has greatly increased, and so have
costs, including taxation. The trustee
cos. have thus been unable to pass on
these burdens, the only offsets against
which have been a steadily expanding
volume of business, slowly mounting re-
serves, and the skill of managements in
their assault upon controllable outgoings.
How the business of this Adelaide co.,
formed 31 years ago with the blessing of
Elder, Smith, has stepped along, this
table shows;
Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p.c.
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9 „
1934.. 12,276,708 41,034 28,824 70.2 „
1935.. 12,509,078 43,395 31,209 71 9 ,
1936.. 12,950,598 43,952 31,124 70.5 ,
1937.. 13,701,443 46,496 35,159 75.6 „
1938.. 13,791,547 47,207 34,923 73.9 „
1939.. 13,992,312 50,874 37,649 74.0 .
1940.. 14,088,070- 52,942 39,156 73.9 „
1941.. 13,958,748 51,321 38,337 74.7 „
Last term the value of estates wound up
exceeded that of those put on the books
by £129,322. Still, over a period, steady
expansion can be expected, and the rapid
growth of industrial activity in S. Aus.
augurs well. Despite higher taxation
(£3789, up £1012), outgoings were got
back £Bl9. But income was £1621
lighter, due partly to the drop in interest
rates. Before writing £2650 off the free-
hold, the net result (down £802) was
14.4 p.c. on the £90,000 of paid capital,
as against 15.3, 14.7, 13.6, 12.6 and 14.2
p.c. back to 1936.
Div. was kept at 10 p.c., at which it
has been steady for 23 years. The market,
which doesn’t expect any alteration in the
rate in the absence of compulsory loans,
prices the pound shares paid to ss. at
12s, 6d. (same as a year ago) to return
4 p.c. The backing is 9s. in net tangibles.
At March 31 the co.’s own funds
(capital and reserves), together with £2084
coming to outsiders, were invested in free-
hold, etc., £66,050. Government securi-
ties £87,875, advances £13,172 and cash,
etc., £5946.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
1931.. 12,642 7 p.c, = 6568 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7„ „ 6568 90,515
Surplus.
1933.. 14,031 7 „ „ 6568 7,463 97,978
1934.. 12,469 7 „ „ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935. . 16,057 7 „ „ 6568 9,489 113.368
1936.. 18.822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125,615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7,248 132,863
1938.. 22,746 7 „ „ 6662 16,084 148,947
To contingency fund, £2OOO .. 146 947
1939.. 27,366 7 p.c. = 6662 ) 0 nnA
To contingencies, £2500 j 18,204 165,151
1940.. 30,077 7 p.c. = 7517 {„ n
To contingencies, £2500 j 20,060 185,211
1941.. 28,585 7 p.c. = 8891 1 isiqi ..
To contingencies, £l5OO j 1& ’ 194 203,400
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
War has not checked the growth of this
20-year-old Australian fire, marine and
accident underwriter, whose business
spreads throughout the Commonwealth,
out over the South Sea Islands and north
to the Indies, Asia and elsewhere.
Whatever the co. lost in some centres
last term it more than made up in others.
Also, it threw off a subsidiary, Consoli-
dated Insurances Pty., thus making re-
insurance a family affair. An extra
£76,978 of premiums (£423,093) was col-
lected. Reinsurances amounted to 37
p.c. as against 27 p.c. for the previous
term, leaving the gain in net premiums
at £15,228;
Ret Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1926. . £97,486 £55,048 £33.890 56.5 p.c. 34.7 p.c.
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 „ 32.3 „
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 „ 39.8 „
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 „
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 „ 39.8 „
1935.. 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 „ 39.7 „
1937.. 170,729 105,358 61,626 61.9 „ 36.2 „
1938.. 206,037 122,537 72,021 59.4 „ 34.9 „
1939.. 224.287 132,110 77,277 58.9 „ 34.4 „
1940.. 251,039 145,280 90,180 57.9 „ 35.9 „
1941.. 260,267 148,269 110,931 55.6 „ 41.6 „
There was a saving of £2 6s. p.c. in the
loss rate, one of the best for nearly 20
years; but the expense rate jumped
£5 14s. p.c.—tax bill alone (£20,036) was
£5718 heavier. That left the underwriting
surplus £8512 lighter at £7067, equal to
4.8 p.c. on capital as it now stands.
The shrinkage here was largely offset
by a gain of £7020 in interest and rents
(£21,518, or 14.8 p.c. on capital). The
net return from all sources (£28,585,
down £1492) was thus 19.6 p.c. on the
£145,600 of share capital, of which
£24,775 came in last term. The high
return from investments is mainly due
to the fat accumulation of reserves
(£203,405). It all looks very comforting
for shareholders, despite the mounting
burden of costs.
The next table shows the solid nature
of the financial structure:
1929. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital.. £93,175 £95,175 £120,825 £145,600
Sundry creditors* 99,072 124,161 247,274 267,705
Public
securities . . 121,675 204,958 221,073 254,674
Fixed deposits 27,000 23,500 32,500 35,000
Cash, etc. . . 13,872 48,323 57,262 60,^52
Shares subsid. 4,996
Book debts, etc. 49,671 40,328 54,590 74,678
Freeholds . . 74,041 74,041 195,401 195,401
* Includes provision for contingencies.
The fresh capital, together with surplus
earnings and an extra £20,431 from
sundry creditors, etc., went mainly into
Government securities (up £33,601) and
book debts, etc. (up £20,088). When the
books closed, net tangibles were equal
to 131 p.c. of the year’s net premiums. If
the business continues to expand at last
year’s rate, it may not be long before
shareholders are asked for more.
The market prices the pound shares
paid to 10s. each at 255. 3d., as against
21s. 9d. two years ago. At 255. 3d. the
return is 2.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The net tangible backing is 475. lid. per
pound of paid capital.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends N
A B Nominal
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 . . 396,113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 5,776 401,889
1940.. 41,453 10,500 19,200 2400 9,353 411,242
1941.. 36,717 10,500 19,.200 2400 4,617 415,859
* Subject to goodwill,; £BO,OOO.
With the death in August last year of
Alex. Bell, chairman and manag-
ing director, Australia as well as.
Harper’s lost a true friend and an able
and indefatigable servant. He was also
chairman of the Central Wool Commit-
tee, having relinquished the deputy-
chairmanship of the Commonwealth
Bank to direct Australia’s biggest war-
time commercial venture.
The exceptionally strong position in
which Harper’s finds itself today is largely
due to his efforts. He filled executive
positions from those trained in the busi-
ness, traded on short terms both as
buyer and seller, and looked askance at
“supported accounts,” preferring to have
thousands of customers on the books
rather than be a silent partner in a more
limited number of retail establishments —
the co. is in the difficult dry-goods trade,
and manufactures much of its own re-
quirements.
When Alex. Bell became m.d. in 1919,
the co. had reserves of £39,952, creditors
and suspense accounts totalled over
£248,000, and cash and investments
amounted to £22,000-odd. At the close
of last accounts corresponding items
figured at £415,859, £38,180 and £445,535
respectively. Knight Arthur Robinson
has stepped into the chairman’s seat,
and Frank Harper is general manager,
so continuity of policy is assured.
War has had no effect worth mention-
ing on the co.’s Australian sales, but its
overseas turnover has fallen away, owing
mainly to lack of shipping space. After
unspecified allowance for taxation and
contingencies, net earnings last term
were £4736 lighter at £36,717, of which
£15,873 came from investments. The
£36,717 was enough to pay the pref.
and B (employees’) share divs. and show
9.9 p.c. on the £240,000 of ord. capital,
compared with 11.9, 10.4, 11.2, 11.6, 10.1
and 12.2 p.c. back to 1935. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c., at which it has been
steady for the last 24 years, with a 2 p.c.
bonus added in ’29 and ’3O.
Here is the business looked at from
another angle:
1934. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 47,297 34,243 35,736 38,180
Freeholds .. 146,188 144,264 143,949 143,636
Plant, etc. .. 42,251 38,574 33,702 31,192
Stock.. .. 163,432 126,616 132,500 146,510
Sundry debtors 95,905 92,241 101,652 93,218
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 278,780 420,487 436,226 445,535
Outside liabilities are nearly times
covered by book debts alone, and share-
holders can see the whole of their capita)
and a bit more in Government securities
and cash.
At 355. (365. a year ago) the ords.
return 4.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 295. yield 4.8 p.c. The
net tangible cover is £5 2s. Id. prefs. and
48s. ords.
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £*£/£/£/
1931.. 17,572 10 p.c.= 25,000 1,502 256,710
1932.. 27,750 10 „ ~ 25,000 1,954 796 257,506
1933.. 23,416 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,754 1,662 259,168
1934.. 27,070 8 ~ ~20,000 2,913 4,157 263,325
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~20,4)00 1,759 9,579 272,904
1936.. 31,802 8 ~,,20,000 1,957 9,845 282,749
1937.. 33,068 8 „ ~20,000 2,992 10,076 292,825
1938.. 35,645 8 „ ~20,000 2,955 12,090 305,515
1939.. 34,117 8 ~ ~20,000 3,135 10,982 316,497
1940.. 36,634 8 ~ ~20,000 4,993 11,641 328,138
1941.. 30,721 8 ~ ~20,000 4,140 6,581 334,719
The management has been accumulating
fat over a long period, and the position
is even more attractive than those figures
alone suggest. Consider this financial
structure:
1936. 1939. 1940. 1941.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 33,068 41,497 49,110 42,627
Tax provn. . . 21,362 20,929 24,262 28,289
Stock . . 135,930 146,930 161,962 176,604
Book debts . . 38,364 71,576 59,468 43,512
Cash . . . . 47,122 35,375 39,225 37,631
Freeholds and
plant . . 66,292 65,520 .62,102 59,701
Investments . . 309,471 319,521 338,753 348,189
At the end of May the co. had £106,010
more invested outside the business than
in it, and appearances are that these in-
vestments earn more than half the divi-
dend. Including stocks and debtors, the
more or less liquid surplus (£563,309, up
£13,011) is 455. per share.
From headquarters at Rockhampton,
the co. does a large merchandising and
agency business extending into central
and far-western Queensland, which after
years of drought and low prices is now
benefiting from satisfactory seasons and
British and Army beef purchases. And
Imperial buying has helped in wool,
sugar, dairying and other directions, too,
though the sheep’s staple is the only
primary commodity for which the war-
time future is assured.
Walter Reid’s trading yielded only little
below the previous term’s margin of
gross profit:
Gross Gross
Profit. Exes. Profit. Exes.
1929. . £128,432 £81,456 1937.. £95,208 £62,140
1931.. 92,044 74.472 1938.. 101,091 65,446
1933.. 81,298 57,882 1939.. 100,851 66,734
1934.. 82,440 55,370 )940.. 106,144 69,510
1936.. 87,592 55,789 1941.. 105,030 74,309
It was principally undisclosed taxation
(the reserve for the purpose increased
£4027 net) that pulled the final result


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. \V. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
v ♦ * *
DAVIES & COLLiSON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Position Vacant.
REQUIRED for Singapore, qualified Mechani-
cal Engineer-Draughtsman capable of under-
taking Bucket Dredge design, erection and
working. Only applications from persons pos-
sessing experience in the above work will be
considered. Salary, 5.5.5700.00 per month,
equivalent to Australian £1220 per annum.
Applications, with Testimonials, and stating
age, qualifications and experience, to be sent
by Air Mail to Post Office Box 194, Singapore,
S.S.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE |
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly In the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITA!. 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman);
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.O.
General Manager; C. Darvall.
Head Office; 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
irginia tobacc
other, sweete
w
m
m
STATE EXPRESS
QIIALIIY
10 for 7d. : 20 for 1/2
Also flat fifties and round fifties
*
■
im
mm
qSBb
vm
ffW
ITS
777
cv 2 #
mm
fTHREE
Virginia cigarettes
VISCACELLE - WRAPPED FOR FRESHER FLAVOUR
back by £5060. The £30,721 of profit
ran out at 12.3 p.c. on the share-register
total, as against 14.6, 13.6, 14.2, 13.2 and
12.7 p.c. back to 1936. The £6581 re-
maining after maintaining the 8 p.c. div.
and striking £4140 off fixed assets lifted
visible reserves £84,719 in excess of paid
capital, which since the beginning of the
century has grown from £93,750 to its
present figure with the aid of only £11,250
of cash subscriptions.
At 365. 6d., yielding an immediate
4.4 p.c. and covered by net tangibles of
465. 9d., the pound shares have holding
possibilities. After an association with
the business over 62 years, for long as
chairman and managing director, W. H.
Rudd, to whom much of the present
solidarity is due, died last year. His
place as managing director is taken by
F.L., of the same ilk.
Including 2s. 6d. sent out since the close
of accounts, Victoria Gold Dredging,
Newstead (Vic.), has distributed 28s. 6d.
a share in divs. since the commencement
of dredging in mid-1938 —£356,250 in all,
of which £137,500 was paid last term out
of profits of £150,808:
Year Treated, Gold, Gr., Costs, Net
Mar.,’ C.y. Oz. C.y. Pence. Profit.
1939* .. 1.217,750 10,827 4.27 4.0 S £73,410
1940 2,286,297 20.692 4.34 3.68 157,591
1941 .. 2,570,082 19,792 3.70 3.28 150,808
* 8i months.
Dredge path to date, however, has been
through some of the best-grade wash, so
future earnings may not assume a quite
so corpulent appearance. Permission to
dig a new 2,500,000-c.y. block recently
added another year to the co.’s life —
something over four years at last term’s
rate of turnover. Bore values average
around 3.6 gr.
* * * *
Some magnesium carbonate is being
produced from S. Aus. magnesite, and
F. H. Paulding and Co., which holds one
of the biggest deposits, has been asked to
install plant to supply Australian phar-
maceutical needs. Latest Mines Depart-
ment review mentions monthly railing
of a small tonnage of magnesite from
Copley, in the far north, while at another
deposit near Port Augusta a B.H.P. pros-
pecting option has been taken.
* * * *
Mt. Molloy coppermine, near Mareeba
(N.Q.), raised 50 tons of 20 p.c. ore in
the last two months. In one of the prin-
cipal faces the ore nipped out so quickly
to a blank that there is a chance of the
ore-shoot being faulted away. If funds
are available it may be picked up again.
A new adit is being put in ; this will take
60ft. of crosscutting to get to the lode
footwall outside of the old workings.
This show was once a fair copper-pro-
ducer. Recent rich patches of ore show
it is worth spending a bit more on, as it
seems to be a faulted ore-body.
* * *
The Consolation mine, Herberton
(N.Q.), is turning in as much as 300 tons
of low-grade copper ore in its best
months to Chillagoe Smelters. It has
been in demand as a fluxing ore, but
always carries 1 p.c. or 2 p.c. of copper.
A new main shaft being sunk has dis-
closed a body of iron gossan 30ft. to 40ft.
thick. It opens up possibilities of further
bodies of carbonate ore lower down.
* * * *
Mainly through shortage of man-power,
gold production is trailing badly in the
West, for the first half of the year being
67,5050 z. down to 530,0510 z. Eastern
States are being scoured for skilled labor.
* * * *
Prospects of Wiluna (W.A.) have
brightened. A few months ago the life of
the mine was estimated at 18 months ;
now, as the result of exposure of un-
expected additional ore, it has been ex-
tended to two years, and if developments
continue promising deeper sinking may
be undertaken. It is three years since
R. E. Binns —then consulting engineer
and now a director —reckoned the end
was only two years off.
« * * *
First and final liquidation dividend
from Westralian Renown is a shilling per
100 shares. From the beginning for
every step the co. took forward it slid
two backward. Its first reconstruction
in 1936 realised £20,000, less heavy cost
of underwriting; creditors got a big
hunk of the balance. A year or two
later, after meeting with several misfor-
tunes, including defects of plant, short-
age of water and yields lower than prom-
ised, being pressed by another lot of
creditors, the co. attempted a second
reconstruction, but failed. Later still, the
shutters were put up.
* * * *
Mt. Charlotte, Ltd., which secured the
ownership of Hannan’s Reward-Mt.
Charlotte mines, Kalgoorlie, after a long
and costly legal fight, has begun produc-
tion. As a kick-off 296 tons broken over
a width of 75ft. has been treated —47
tons at the Paringa and the remainder at
the South Kalgurli mill, average head
value s.lsdwt. a ton. The co. hopes to
equip the property with a 50,000-tons-p.a.
treatment plant with money borrowed
from the State Government. Diamond-
drilling is said to have indicated over
1,100,000 tons of 5.36dwt. ore in one sec-
tion, of which half a million tons, aver-
aging 5.9dwt., is reckoned to lie in a 61ft.
ore channel between the 150 ft. and 750 ft.
levels. Management at the Westralian
end is vested in the Paringa co.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
JAPAN’S HOUR OF DECISION.
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” article by William
Henry Chamberlin.)
It is obvious that an hour of decision is approach-
ing for the small groups of men in the Japanese
Imperial Palace, in the War Ministry, in the Navy
Department and in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The relentless swift movement of events is forcing de-
cisions, even of the hardest character, from everyone
from President Roosevelt in the White House, from
Stalin in the Kremlin, from Marshal Petain in his
improvised capital at Vichy. Japan is no exception.
Japan’s imperialists paint an alluring picture of
a Japanese Empire, enlarged, rounded out and made
impregnable by the acquisition of the Dutch East
Indies, with their riches in rubber, tin, many tropical
products and that commodity which is more precious
than gold in a world of force —oil. Malaya also con-
tains tinmines and rubber plantations, along with iron.
And the Philippines, which could scarcely remain out-
side the Japanese orbit if Malaya and the East Indies
should fall, contain large reserves of iron and man-
ganese, together with their sugar and coconut planta-
tions.
Japanese moderates, and a few of these moderates
are in the Army and Navy, stress the danger, even
from a military standpoint, of cutting off all sources
of supply except those in regions which are under
Japanese military control. They point out that an
attack on Singapore, or on any of the British, Dutch
and American strongholds in the South Pacific, bristles
with difficulties.
Like Italy a year ago, Japan is a declared par-
tisan of the Axis. Just as Italy immobilised British
and French naval forces and French troops, Japan
has retained in the Pacific much the greatest part of
that American Navy which could be effectively utilised
in the Atlantic.
Great Britain and France coddled Italy to a cer-
tain extent and permitted some goods whose ultimate
destination was Germany to pass through the blockade
into Italy. In the same way Japan has been coddled
in the sense that America and Great Britain, avowed
sympathisers with China, are still selling valuable
strategic raw materials, especially oil, to Japan.
Japan raises for America certain difficult prob-
lems in strategy and diplomacy. Would it be advis-
able, as some advocates of a “tough” foreign policy
contend, to use the naval forces which are immobilised
in the Pacific to force Japan out of its Axis orientation
by a show of force, backed by actual force, if neces-
sary? Are there still possibilities of detaching Japan
from the Axis which an adroit and enterprising
diplomacy might employ? Or is the present policy the
best until Japan commits some overt act?
Some future historian who will have access to all
the diplomatic reports and other sources of informa-
tion will best be able to pass judgment on America’s
Far Eastern policy during the present crisis.
U.S.-Japanese Stalemate
[On July 7 the Japanese war against China entered
its fifth year, with no apparent sign of end. In the article
here condensed the “Christian Science Monitor’s” former
chief Far Eastern correspondent, Randall Gould, examines
—of course from a U.S. viewpoint—the disastrous effects
of that war on U.S.-Japanese relations, which have
become more and more strained.]
One of the greatest paradoxes of the current
period in world history is the fact that beyond any
question many, and perhaps most, of the leading
figures in both Japan and the United States earnestly
desire a settlement of Japanese-American differences
—yet seldom have prospects for such settlement with-
out further, deeper trouble seemed more remote.
There is almost every possible reason for a settle-
ment. The word “almost” indicates the single excep-
tion which for the present wrecks prospects for accord.
That exception may be summed up in three words —
“Japan’s national policy”—and it represents a force
lying athwart not merely the national policy of the
United States, but likewise the whole course of civil-
ised thought and action for which the democracies
and the democratic-minded nations are struggling on
the world front.
Every writer who brings forward the thought
that this would be a good time for Japan and the
United States to compose their differences proceeds
on the happy assumption that commonsense prevails
in international relations. The commonsense of the
Japan-America situation leads toward a settlement.
But in China a situation has been built up over a
long period of time based upon a twisted fabric of
untruths, half-truths and wishful, one-sided thinking.
The basic fact is that Japan would profit best by
promptly realigning her China policy and by as
promptly making this the basis for a restoration of
normal good relations with the United States. The
problem is to cut through Japan’s self-spun maze of
unrealities. Once light has been let in the rest might
be unexpectedly easy. But in a country where every
source of information is closely controlled, and where
for years a process of false education on international
politics, economics, even social relations, has been
carried on with consistency worthy of a better cause,
the initial task is not easy. A sudden reversal of
policy would be self-destruction for those who have
brought matters to their present pass, and that detail
in itself is not negligible.
With the abandonment of Japan’s so-called
“Shidehara policy” of peaceful economic penetration
of the Asiatic mainland, Japan began to turn her back
on the whole basis of understanding with modern-
minded Powers, The doctrine of the “have” and the
“have-not” nations was eagerly seized upon. Japan,
it was argued, was justified in expanding by force,
since that was what others had done before it. It
was easy for the possessor nations to talk sancti-
moniously, the by no means wholly unjustified argu-
ment ran, since they had great spaces and natural
resources while Japan’s fast-multiplying population
was cramped and had little to draw on. (Official en-
couragement of population increase, Japan’s unused
areas in Hokkaido and several other pertinent con-
siderations were passed over.)
All this sounded extremely reasonable to those
who wished to believe it. It wholly left out of con-
sideration the changed currents of international think-
ing as represented by the League of Nations, or such
concrete moves as the American decision to free the
Philippines. It also, and even more fatally, omitted
to consider the fact that Japan was profiting by peace,
but it might and probably would lose by war.
The solid fact in the latter particular is a matter
of record. Despite the troubles in China occasioned
by Japan’s 1931 seizure of Manchuria, and by its sub-
sequent interferences in North China affairs, Japan’s
trade with China during the first half of 1937 achieved
boom proportions. In the face of half a year of para-
lysing hostilities, the full year 1937 stands today as a
top point in China’s international trade —and it was
Japan which reaped the lion’s share of the benefit.
Since then there has been no such trade for anybody.
Japanese hopes of cashing in handsomely by turn-
ing vast areas of China into a colony have been dis-
mally disappointed, and there is nothing in the imme-
diate outlook to support the view that bombs and
bayonets are the best media for cultivating customers
in China or anywhere else.
From the Japanese position in China stems the
present bad position with the United States. Of
course Japan frequently expresses keen desire to settle
her difficulties with China—but it always develops
that it wants to settle them upon a basis of victory.
At no time has Japan shown an inclination toward a
peace based upon recognition of a tragic error on its
—New York “PM.”
“SALUTE TO THEE, ITALIA. FOR THY MOST
GLORIOUS WAR!”
own part. Yet no other peace could be durable, and
no other peace would leave the United States in a
frame of mind to resume normal relations, including
the granting of necessary credits.
It has been suggested that Japan would agree to
withdraw from China militarily in exchange for “full
economic co-operation from the Chinese.” In the first
place, no responsible quarter in Tokyo has publicised
any such willingness, and, in the second place, it is
unlikely that interpretations on the meaning of “co-
operation” would be taken for granted by the Chinese
or anybody else in view of what such “co-operation”
has meant so far in occupied China. “Co-operation”
up to the present time has meant to the Japanese mind
that Chinese industry, agriculture and man-power (also
woman-power and child-power) are to be devoted vir-
tually exclusively to the Japanese interest, with the
Chinese relinquishing everything but the bare oppor-
tunity to toil for a subsistence allowance. Under
Japanese pressure the Far East has adopted anew
and startling sort of dictionary in which “co-opera-
tion,” “sincerity” and similar words bear little
resemblance to the facts.
The foregoing is not to be construed as imply-
ing that a settlement of disputes is impossible. On
the contrary, it must come eventually. But there are
difficulties still standing in the way of settlement, and
the fact that these difficulties are built up out of fic-
tions makes them no less bothersome.
An economist with whom I discussed this situa-
tion in Shanghai— not an American, a Japanese or a
Chinese, but a European—expressed the opinion that
if a businessman rather than politicians and militarists
were in charge of Japan’s destinies he would survey
the current international situation and find that Japan
was engaged in a losing gamble in which losses should
be cut without delay.
The whole course of Japanese policy would be
changed. The Army would be withdrawn from China
as rapidly as that by no means easy operation could
be achieved without disaster, while at the same time
the national effort would be given new and wider
channels through catering to the tremendous demands
of the world.
American friendship for Japan would then come
back with a rush. There would be an abundance of
aid for Nipponese efforts to restore a sound peace-
time status. Credits now withheld would be forth-
coming, the military machine would become a produc-
tive rather than a consuming and destructive force,
Japan’s industries could be returned to commercial
purposes, and all the great trade opportunity now
going to waste would begin to be capitalised in the
best Japanese money-making tradition.
Two years, according to the economist, should see
Japan out of the red ink on its China adventure, and,
what is much more important, in full swing toward
such prosperity as the country has never before known
—coupled with solid bases of association with the
two nations most important to it, China and the
United States. f
If this idea could become implanted in the right
Nipponese minds, present courses might be refresh-
ingly reversed.
German Peace Offensive.
[Referring to German peace moves, Mr. Anthony
Eden, in a speech at Leeds, said that “we” (presumably
the British Government) “anticipate that during his cam-
paign in Russia Hitler will seek to present himself” in
the make-up “of a man of peace,” but “Hitler stood
condemned by his own deeds as a man of perjured faith,
and Britain was not, in any circumstances, prepared to
negotiate with him.” Apparently—though little came to
Australia concerning it —a strong “peace offensive,”
either seriously intended or for propaganda effect, was
launched from Germany in the direction of America
shortly before Hitler turned on Russia. The following
interpretation of the Nazi proposals is condensed from
a New York “Sun” article by George E. Sokolsky.]
The German peace offensive is definitely
on, and it has a pattern. It is naturally de-
signed to bring this war to a truce or a ter-
mination at a moment most favorable to the
Nazi. President Roosevelt has said that all
this is German propaganda, and let us regard
it as such. But these reports, rumors,
innuendoes and whispered confidences ought
to be published so that we may know what it
is that they want us to believe. The know-
ledge cannot hurt us ; the suppression of it
may. The pattern, as it has come to me, is
something of this order;
(1) There is to be a political and economic
unit in continental Europe which would in-
clude Holland, Germany, Austria, Czecho-
slovakia, Poland, Rumania and Bulgaria, and
of which Hungary and the Scandinavian coun-
tries would be satellite States. This would be
the Nazi Federation of States, with a unified
currency, a unified tariff system and with more
or less identical legal, social and economic pro-
cesses.
(2) Closely associated with this Nazi
Federation of States, but autonomous in many
respects, would be the peripheral countries,
Belgium, France, Spain, Portugal, Switzerland,
Italy, Greece and Turkey. These peripheral
States would not be permitted to develop re-
venge military establishments, as Germany did
under Hitler, nor could they pursue a foreign
policy detrimental to the Nazi. They would
be put into the Nazi Zollverein, and their cur-
rency would be pegged to the Nazi currency.
But their domestic administration would be
autonomous; they could pursue their own
political and social systems and establish
domestic economies not unified to the Con-
tinental system.
(3) The British Empire would stand on the
present status, but would not be encouraged to con-
tinue its historic economic domination of Europe.
(4) The British would, however, be encouraged
to participate in the Bank of International Settlements,
which would be revised and reorganised as the medium
for the stabilisation of European currency on the
gold basis, if possible. By that is meant that if Great
Britain could wangle a gold loan out of the United
States, say of ten or more billions, for the rehabilita-
tion of Europe, Great Britain would be permitted to
place at the disposal of Europe her undoubted finan-
cial genius. In fact, such a loan would mean the
restoration of the capitalistic gold standard in Europe.
(5) The Anglo-Nazi joint economic penetration
would be stimulated in all non-European areas except
where, by agreement, lapan is to be recognised as
having special rights and privileges, namely, in the
East of Asia, from the Siberian to the Indian borders.
(6) Soviet Russia would be regarded as separate
and apart from European affairs, a sphere unto her-
self, but with special interests in Persia, Turkestan
and Mongolia. It is suggested that steps would be
taken to negative Soviet cultural and political activi-
ties outside her designated sphere.
(7) The Suez Canal would be made an inter-
national waterway, with full rights for all countries.
(8) Nazi accesses to raw materials and foodstuffs
would be recognised in principle and a rearrangement
of colonial possessions, particularly as regards man-
dated and derelict areas, would be made forthwith,
with due regard to certain basic supplies, such as oil,
ferrous metals and foodstuffs.
So much I make out of these reports and rumors.
Naturally, I cannot vouch for the veracity of a word
of this. Naturally, I do not know whether this is or
is not what Hess brought to England, But this much
I do know: the Nazi peace offensive has produced
these terms out of a vast whispering campaign which
is sweeping the world.
I put them down in black and white only because
there may be a grain of truth in them. I cannot


ESSENTIAL SERVICE
KEEP
j
BRANDY
IN EVERY HOME
understand why anyone should insist that there have
been no moves in the direction of peace. Peace now
would leave Hitler in an advantageous position. It
would stabilise the Nazi domination of Europe. From
the logic of the situation, it is possible to understand
why Hitler would conduct a peace offensive. It is
also possible to understand why in these circum-
stances Great Britain would wish the United States
to deliver or quit talking. It is also, from the logic of
events, possible to understand why England should
prefer to continue the war if the United States can
immediately take on the burden of its conduct.
* % * * *
(The following interpretation of the Nazi pattern for
Europe is from a New York “Journal-American” article
by M. S. Rukeyser.)
Nazi officials, in drawing up the post-war blue-
print, presuppose an Axis victory. On such a basis
existing national boundaries in Europe would be
ignored, and the New Europe would be subdivided into
raw material and industrial regions. Tentative dis-
closures by the Nazis themselves indicate that they
are thinking in terms of four great subdivisions:
(1) The industrial north in enlarged Germany.
(2) The Balkans and Middle Europe devoted to
farm pursuits and consumer-goods trades under
German technicians.
(3) France and the Low Countries as producers
of fodder, fats, dairy products and other agricultural
items.
(4) The Mediterranean and mountain areas as
supply centres for minerals and specified crops.
Under the Nazi dream Germany would be the
clearing house for European trade, and would allocate
specialised duties to the other component districts in
the new United (Captive) States of Europe. The
Nazis regard the British Empire, the United States,
Italy and Japan as the other principal world trading
areas.
*****
(“Christian Science Monitor” comment .)
Actually what is happening is that Berlin is try-
ing to make “peace” with the United States, and some
Americans are being taken in. There is no more
prospect of real peace in any such move than there
was in Hitler’s “peace” with Chamberlain at Munich.
Indeed America today is in much the position of
Britain then. Can Americans learn from others’ ex-
perience? There are enough examples of countries
which have made “peace” with Nazism.
There is a concerted Nazi “peace” drive against
America. The Hitler interview with former Ambas-
sador Cudahy is only one form of the effort to lull
Americans —as one people after another has been
lulled into apathy while the Nazis have knocked out
the immediate opponent. Another weapon of the
Nazi attack on American morale is the “Blitzkrieg
film” and other gentle forms of terrorism. The
Boston “Globe” reported that the first showing of this
official Nazi propaganda film was given on June 2 at a
“Christian Front meeting at Hibernian Hall, 184
Dudley-street, Roxbury.” The “Globe’s” account
added: —
Women in the audience having sons in the United
States Army were urged bv Francis P. Moran, director
of the Christian Front, to tell their sons what they had
seen in the film and to impress upon their sons the
impossibility of any nation’s defeating the German Army.
In one hand, Hitlerism says “You’re safe ; you’re
a long way across the ocean and we love you besides.”
For those who won’t take that sleeping-powder there
is a club: “You are unprepared and the Nazi war
machine is invincible ; just look at what it did to the
Poles and Belgians.”
But Berlin knows better than to offer any real
peace terms. It even turns down the ones offered by
Senator Wheeler. Instead, as President Roosevelt is
pointing out, the Nazis try to make America think
that Britain is asking for peace. Their real hope is to
paralyse the United States. All Americans want a
just and durable peace. But any study of the condi-
tions for such peace will disclose that America would
have to transform its very nature to come to terms
with Nazism.
Let those who question this once understand
that the essential conflict today is between two con-
cepts of man —one pagan and slavishly material, the
other partly Christianised and free—and they will see
what the price of peace must be. Let Americans stop
troubling about the possibility of gallant Britain’s
asking peace —although any submission by Britain
would be a disaster to America —and recognise that
Berlin’s real peace drive is aimed at the United States.
Jft Jfc * * ♦
(From a New York “Sun” article .)
What Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden has had
to say about Great Britain’s war aims ought to satisfy
almost everybody except those incurable Utopians
who think of the coming peace as a heaven-sent
opportunity to start building another house of cards,
at Geneva or elsewhere.
Mr. Eden has stated that (1) “Germany is the
worst master Europe has ever known” ; (2) that “five
times in the last century she has violated the peace” ;
and (3) that “she must never be in a position to play
that role again.” The first two of these propositions
are incontrovertible, the third derives inescapably
from them. The prime requisite of any peace is that
it be secure and enduring, and it cannot be either if
any large nation with Germany’s record of depreda-
tions remains free to rearm for conquest.
This truth is so self-evident that future historians
will never cease to wonder why Great Britain did not
learn the lesson in the first World War. The record
of the 20 years between the two wars is one of need-
less and dangerous capitulations to German wheedling
and German threats, whereby Germany was enabled to
rebuild the military machine that Britain and a score
of other nations, including ourselves, had spent so
much blood and treasure to destroy. Britain is now
paying heavily, along with the rest of the world, for
those errors, and Mr. Eden is a thousand times right
when he proclaims that they must not be repeated
when once again the destructive power of Germany
has been brought down.
Nazi’s Submarine Problem.
(From an article by the Manchester 'Guardian's" naval
correspondent.)
When we are considering the Battle of the
Atlantic we sometimes forget, in face of our own
difficulties, that the enemy, too, has his problems.
There is no doubt whatever that the losses
in personnel of the German submarine service
in the opening weeks of this war were a terrible
shock to the Berlin Admiralty. At a moderate
computation, no fewer than 3000 officers and
men were lost before this war was six months
old. These were all highly-trained men, those
who had been secretly prepared before Hitler
admitted that he was building new submarines.
They were the men who were to form the
“core” of the submarine service as new boats
came forward, who were to provide the skilled
minority among the part-trained in each crew.
There can be little doubt that the long
period of quiescence in the U-boat war in the
Atlantic last year—when the British losses fell
as low as 27,000 tons in a month—was en-
forced on the Germans by the losses of these
skilled men quite as much as by shortage of
new boats to replace the sinkings. Indeed, we
may fairly assume, on the experience of 1917,
that new deliveries in the winter and spring of
1939-40 were diverted to the submarine school
as training boats in order that the numbers of
trained or semi-trained men might be restored
as speedily as possible. Even the survivors of
that first sea Blitz must have been needed
ashore as instructors.
It is too early to say whether or not the
present-day U-boats’ crews show signs of in-
experience and of the incompetence due to
undertraining. We should have to know much more
than is at present public knowledge about the cir-
cumstances of recent sinkings of enemy craft and
also of the circumstances in which attacks on our
merchant shipping have been defeated before attempt-
ing any estimate of the quality of the men now
carrying on the submarine commerce-destruction
campaign. But, basing ourselves only on the known
facts about the last submarine war, we may fairly
deduce that Admiral Raeder is having quite as much
worry about the Nazi submarine service as his pre-
decessor had, and that there is still at least one-fifth
of the personnel afloat that is “picking up the job”
while actually under fire.
Air Mastery When Peace Conies.
[Another of the many proposals for ensuring future
peace once the war has been won is advanced by Air-
Commodore L. E. O. Charlton in the article here
condensed from London “Fortnightly.” Like many
other specialists in a particular line, Air-Commodore
Charlton would seem to err on the side of oversimpli-
fication of a stupendously difficult and complex problem,
but as an expert on air matters his general statement
is interesting, quite apart from whatever possibilities
there may be of his final suggestion being realised,]
One lesson this war has taught us, and that is
of the efficacy of the bomber, especially in the night
sky. It is a fair inference that as the war proceeds
aircraft of all types will show improvement. Sub-
stratospheric flight is not far off, and on the day it
arrives the anti-aircraft gun, the searchlight and the
aural listening-post will cease to influence the course
of battle in the air. Even if it does not come in time
to take part in the present struggle it will most surely
follow shortly after, so that the ensuing peace-time
interval will witness the perfecting of this form of
flight in preparation for the war to come.
It is clearly the bomber of the immediate future,
possibly improved out of all recognition, with assisted
take-off, a ceiling ten miles high, a speed through the
rarefied atmosphere at that altitude of at least 500
miles an hour, and a weight-carrying capacity higher
than any yet known, which will be the handle for
aggression in the years to come. Its crew can laugh
all forms of ground defence to scorn ; it will bid de-
fiance to the fighter, particularly at night. As an
engine of destruction it will be supreme. Is there any
way in which this aerial Moloch can be diverted from
its purpose and compelled to subserve the needs of
peace instead of war?
It is quite certain that progressive nations will
never forgo the profitable conveniences of transpor-
tation by air simply because the civilian aircraft can
be transformed into a bomber at short notice. Indeed
it would be a poor reflection on human courage if
such an inglorious retreat from scientific achievement
were ever seriously considered. This war, like the last,
will provide a mighty stimulus for aeronautical de-
velopment, and commercial aviation will reap an
immense harvest. When peace arrives it is natural
to assume that it will endure for at least a score of
years, and during that period it may well come about
that ocean liners will be largely superseded by the
air’s successful rivalry. But such a glowing picture
will be robbed of all its beauty of perfection if the
bomber is permitted to keep pace with that develop-
ment, and can continue to exercise its threat on cities
from the safe altitude of the sub-stratosphere. In that
case there will be no security against war’s recurrence
and the world will be upheaved at intervals as it was
before. At all costs this must be prevented.
Actually the means of this prevention are now at
hand, and it is the ironical truth that the deeds of
science, harnessed to machines of war, have created
them. It is the super-weapon nowadays which alone
enables warmongering nations to pounce on their
small neighbors and induce a world-wide state of war.
—Chicago "Times.”
“IF I SHOULD DIE BEFORE I WAKE.”
(This drawing won Joseph Burck the Pulitzer Prize
for the best U.S. cartoon of the year.)
and of all super-weapons, the submarine, the tank and
the bomber, it is the last which is the main destruc-
tive agent in the hands of the unscrupulous aggressor.
A nation which has been wholly disarmed in this one
respect can say farewell to military power, for at the
first signs of resurgence on its part its cities could be
laid low one by one, and not all the striking capacity
of its mechanised divisions could compensate for the
deprivation of its air power, nor for its consequent
inability to conduct reprisal bombings.
In modern war a nation once conquered and
overrun cannot rise again in armed rebellion to throw
off its chains. For its liberation it must wholly de-
pend on the course of events outside its boundaries,
provided that the Power which overran it is still being
confronted by a well-armed and determined adversary.
Otherwise it will be permanently enchained, as far as
permanence applies to the vagaries of an ever-shifting
world. In former days wars of liberation were quite
often waged successfully, the reason being the absence
of the super-weapon from the scene. Men then fought
breast to breast, or with muskets at short range, and
the sword or other weapon could be fashioned secretly
or disinterred from hiding places when freedom’s
lovers gathered for the fray. But neither the tank nor
the bomber can be produced in secret, and even less
can they be disposed of underground to await a day
of wakening. Once down a nation so conquered and
overrun must stay down until the machinations of a
deliverer from outside have borne successful fruit.
There is no other hope.
Fortunately for the future peace of the world
there is an application of the foregoing conclusion that
directly affects the present situation. This war is pre-
eminently an air war, and it is the weight of the
bomber’s broadside that will eventually decide it. It
is our avowed aim to accumulate air power, with
America’s help, until we possess a universal mastery of
the air. It follows that we shall emerge at the end of
hostilities as the world’s greatest Air Power, as we did
on the last occasion. But then, as fate and national
stupidity would have it, we threw to the winds the
great air weapon that lay within our hands, rapidly
seceding from pre-eminence to the low order of a
fifth, or sixth, World Air Power. That, of course, will
not happen again, if only for the sufficient reason that
we have suffered too sharply for our neglect.
On this occasion we will control the air of
Europe by ourselves, and, together with America, the
world’s air will be in the keeping of the English-speak-
ing races. Then will be the time for them to forbid
a recrudescence of their former air power to other
nations and thus safeguard peace. It will be a golden


opportunity which must not be lost, and we will not
prove worthy of our final victory if we lose it.
[The writer goes on to suggest that all the victor
nations would “make common cause to air police the
world.” He does not set forth how the cost would be
borne; presumably by some sort of counterpart of the
League of Nations, using pooled contributions.]
In this way, and in this way only, can the spectre
of further war be banished, and in no more appro-
priate way could such banishment be brought about.
For its own sinister purposes war has sharpened its
weapons to such a nicety of edged perfection that they
are meet at last to be used in the interests of universal
peace.
Japanese Tribute on Crete.
(From a New York "Times” Tokyo correspondent's
report.)
A glowing tribute to the heroes of Crete is paid
by the Japan “Times Advertiser,” organ of the Foreign
Office, which suggests the creation of a special order
of knighthood embracing every officer and man. The
“Times Advertiser” writes: —
“Unreinforced, unfed, unshaved, unslept, unre-
lieved, unwashed, unled in terrible confusion, unsup-
ported by anti-aircraft guns, uncertain of escape, un-
tended when wounded, unburied when dead, unre-
mittingly bombed and blasted, exhausted, red-eyed,
grim, gaunt, stripped of the veneer of civilisation in
the long last condition of fear, knowing only bloody
hand-to-hand fighting was their lot; dimly pondering
in the half-light a demoniacal torment, for all they
knew enduring Armageddon—this was the incredibly
horrible reality of those gallants, which only Dante
could describe.
“Knowing the final fear, these battalions never
can know peace again, but at least they can accept
the adulation of lesser folk who have followed the
course of the war and now would bestow laurels.
That is, if they have time or stomach for petty honors
after that screaming fury of fire, detonation, blood
and anguish.”
Even the Germans, the paper suggests, will raise
a hand in testimony toward those whose heads are
bloodied but unbowed, and, it adds, if the Anzacs
were asked about the men with wings who over-
whelmed them, they would answer in the character-
istic idiom of their country, the upraised thumb.
“The Japanese, these admirers of physical courage
and self-sacrifice,” the paper concludes, “grant par-
ticular honors to the samurai of Crete.”
Policies Which Led to War.
(Condensed from a “Contemporary Review” article
by G. P. Gooch.)
The twenty years between the two great wars
form one of the most unsatisfactory chapters in the
history of British diplomacy. If our victory had been
used with reasonable intelligence, the whole story
would have been different. The main problem
throughout was Germany, the most formidable, in-
dustrious and highly-organised nation in Europe, who
was certain to recover her strength. It was the task
of British and French statesmen to avert another
catastrophe in one of the only two possible ways.
The first was the path of reconciliation, implicit
in the Fourteen Points and eloquently outlined in
Mr. Lloyd George’s Memorandum of March 25, 1919.
It was in this direction that the average easygoing Eng-
lishman, when the passions of war began to cool, in-
stinctively desired to travel. It would have involved
such steps as the admission of Germany to the League
at its foundation or soon after, the fixing of repara-
tion demands at an amount capable of being paid
within a generation, the implementation of Article
VIII of the Covenant concerning disarmament, and
the return of some colonial territory under a man-
date. Such a policy would doubtless have been inter-
preted in some quarters as evidence of weakness of
will. Yet many millions of Germans, including the
majority of the manual workers and war-weary
veterans, were ready for a new deal. Was it beyond
the resources of inspired statesmanship to guide our
old foe along the road of democracy and international
co-operation, to make the growing generation feel
that life was not intolerable for the citizens of a proud
though defeated country?
The rival policy, favored by the majority of
Frenchmen and based on the assumption that Ger-
many under any regime is an incorrigible offender,
consisted in depriving her of the means to aggress,
not merely during the first years of peace when she
was weak from loss of blood, but for the time further
ahead when she had recovered her spirits and her
industrial strength.
The tragic events of 1940 have helped us to
understand the French demand in 1919 for the per-
manent control of the Rhineland and its bridge-heads.
The yearning for this solid pledge of security was
frustrated by the Anglo-American veto, and the com-
pensating Anglo-American guarantee collapsed with
the repudiation of Wilson’s signature. The vacuum,
for which France was not responsible, was never
filled. During the Locarno quinquennium it seemed
as if she was converted to the gospel of reconcilia-
tion, but the change was only skin deep. Clemenceau
spoke of the comedy of Locarno and denounced
Briand as the leading light of French defeatism.
Beyond the Rhine the political position of Stresemann
was equally weak. The League was widely regarded
in Germany as a “Committee of Conquerors,” and the
smart of defeat was still very keen. Locarno was a
failure, not necessarily because it was based on wrong
principles, but because it was not implemented by
larger measures of conciliation.
If there was too little conciliation during the
Weimar era to win the average German to the new
order, there was too little firmness when Hitler came
to the helm. Despite his first pacific assertions there
was no valid reason to suppose that he had renounced
the ambitions enshrined in Mein Kampf, or that he
would fail in due course to use the armaments he
was piling up. The Fiihrer was Young Germany’s
answer to Versailles, his name a symbol of revolt
against foreign dictation. Austen Chamberlain and
Winston Churchill called attention to the danger, and
alarming dispatches arrived from our Ambassadors at
Berlin. That the British public was sick of wars
and opposed to expensive rearmament during the
early years of the Nazi regime was realised and con-
fessed by Mr. Baldwin ; but it is part of the respon-
sibility of a Government to see further ahead than
the man in the street, and to take the nation into its
confidence on the vital issue of national security.
The policy of appeasement was honorably meant
and energetically, though not very skilfully, pursued.
It came too late to bear fruit, and it was interpreted
by the cynical dictators as a sign of weakness which
encouraged them to go ahead. Only force, or the
threat of force, they believed, could win for their
peoples their place in the sun. If Dr. Rauschning’s
reports of Hitler’s conversations shortly before and
shortly after his accession to power are reasonably
correct, there was never a chance of satisfying the
new Napoleon. Hitler and Mussolini would probably
have made friends even without the Abyssinian inci-
dent, for both were out for the destruction of the
status quo; but the policy of sanctions made their
rapprochement inevitable. After the creation of the
Axis it was difficult for us, perhaps impossible, to
avert war except by continual surrenders which we
felt unable to approve. When our tardy rearmament
campaign at last got into its stride its effect was to
bring war nearer, for with our vast resources our
strength was bound to grow rapidly from year to
year. Hitler and Mussolini, who had long been pre-
paring for conflict, adjusted their timetables accord-
ingly, and struck when their power was at its height.
In fairness to the British statesmen who bore
the burden and heat of the day we must remember
that our tradition is to grope our way ; that public
opinion was divided and confused ; that the Govern-
ment dared not commit us to responsibilities which we
might be unable or unwilling to fulfil ; that Germany
—Lynchburg “News,” U.S.A.
“THEY’RE STILL THERE, BOSS!”
and Russia were never easy to deal with ; that our
policy had occasionally to be subordinated to the
fears of France ; that the emergence of Italian colonial
ambitions was a new complication ; that American
aid in the reconstruction of Europe was withheld ;
and that the conduct of international relations is
perhaps the most difficult of the arts. The tortured
peoples, emerging from the horrors of the fiercest
struggle in history, craved for a new world without
knowing how to create it, and no master-builder was
at hand. The transition from the institutions and
ideology of the long era of unfettered nationalism to
a system of collective security, the limitation of arma-
ments and peaceful change proved too great a task
to be carried through with a rush. Yet the organi-
sation of the world, first attempted in the League of
Nations, was well worth trying and will assuredly be
tried again. Such a revolution requires time no less
than skill and resolution, but there is no reason to
regard it as beyond the wit of man.
Dragnet Digest.
{General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources.)
The Nazis are now running around in economic
circles. Not only have war and armaments confiscated
the full increment in productivity in the old Ger-
many since 1933, but the colossal cost of fighting
during this period is cancelling out most of the eco-
nomic benefits from the overrunning of 14 other
nations and the bringing of three more within the
Nazi orbit. The Reich has manoeuvred itself into an
illogical position. It takes military power to keep
forcible possession of her neighbors, and yet it re-
quires peace to test the validity of Nazi plans to im-
prove living standards through introducing science and
invention into the agriculture and industry of all
segments of the new United (captive) States of Europe.
Unless the Nazis succeed in a spectacular manner in
providing more and better goods to the conquered
peoples, it is unthinkable that they can long suppress
the desire of these peoples for independence.— M. S.
Rukeyser; New York “Journal-American.”
* * * * *
Current strikes are doing much to indicate clearly
where radical influence is active so that it can be
scraped off as a barnacle from the American Labor
movement. The number of outright Communists or
Nazi agents active in recent strikes is probably not
more than 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. of the union membership,
and their active sympathisers do not raise the inten-
tionally disruptive total to more than 10 p.c. Even
these figures probably are large for most cases. But
the 2 p.c. or 3 p.c. can be a very irritating factor.
And because they are energetic, often fanatically
zealous, ruthless in their use of deceit, vituperation
and physical violence, they sometimes swing an influ-
ence far out of proportion to their numbers. — Tully
Nettleton; “Christian Science Monitor.” [lt seems
most probable that but for widespread Communist
disruptive activities in America since the war started
—as also in Australia —U.S. feeling for Russia in its
present trouble would be much more enthusiastic than
it appears to be.]
% :jc He Jfc Jfc
The Hess case, which broke while he was in Ger-
many, made a great commotion among the German
people, Mr. Cudahy said. He declared that the popu-
lar belief was that Herr Hess was an idealist, who
had come to the belief that by personal contacts with
the British leaders he could persuade them that the
war would end with the destruction of both Britain
and Germany unless they would make peace through
him. — New York “Times” interview with the former
U.S. Ambassador to Belgium, following the publica-
tion of his interview with Hitler in May.
* * * * ♦
If Mr. Charles F. Kettering were not a trained
scientist and the director of one of our great indus-
trial laboratories his forecast of anew device to
master the submarine might be dismissed as another
optimistic dream. His assurance that “we have been
working with the Navy for six years” indicates plainly
enough that he refers not to some sudden inspiration
but to something which has been the subject of sys-
tematic and earnest experimentation. The detection
of submarines under water may be considered solved
reasonably well. The question now is the perfection
of a device to catch submarines on the surface at
night. —New York “Times.”
*****
A little less than one hundred and fifty years ago
this world was called upon to witness what may be
described as a full-dress rehearsal of that which is
now going on. For nearly 20 years Napoleon Bona-
parte dominated the Continent of Europe and threat-
ened Great Britain with invasion. He took over one
Government after another and put members of his
family as puppets upon the thrones of kings and
princes. He was apparently sweeping all before him
when his unconquered ambition made the fatal mis-
take of invading distant Russia. That invasion proved
to be the beginning of a final retreat. Discontent and
dissatisfaction grew throughout the occupied terri-
tories of once independent nations. Then followed
Waterloo, and Europe was set free again. Today the
world is awaiting another Waterloo. It may come on
the Continent of Europe, or it may come on the sea.
It may come in Africa. It may come in Asia. We
have faith that it will come. — Dr. Nicholas Murray
Butler; address at Columbia University, U.S.A.
% ❖ % Jfc
Here in England the standard of luxuries has
completely changed. The greatest luxury now is to
sleep the whole night in bed in a state of undress. The
next best is to sleep at all. Then it’s a great luxury
to have a really hot bath and be able to bake as long
as one likes. It’s a great treat to have a meal com-
pletely up to pre-war standards, with no skimping at
all.— Letter from an English girl, published in New
York “Times.”
J{C JjJ
The greatest glory of England does not lie in her
vast colonial possessions, in her wealth or her navy,
but in the quiet heroism and independence of her
average citizen. The Englishman obeys the law
because he knows that respect for the rights of others
marks the difference between a dog kennel and civilised
society. But he does not recognise the right of others
to interfere with his freedom of thought. If his
country does something which he believes to be wrong
he gets up and says so, and the Government which he
attacks will respect him and will give him full pro-
tection against the mob, which today, as in the time of
Socrates, often loves to destroy those who surpass it
in courage or intelligence. There has never been a
good cause, however unpopular or however distant,
which has not counted a number of Englishmen among
its staunchest adherents. — From “The Story of Man-
kind,” by Hendrik van Loon.
He % % % %
It must be remembered that the equipping of the
Red Army has absorbed vast sums each year for more
than a decade, and that the equipment certainly in-
cludes large quantities of heavy materials. In the
war against Finland geography played a great part.
On a broader front the Red Army may be a serious
obstacle even to the Germans, if only by sheer weight
of numbers. Travellers say that the Germans would
not find much food in the Ukraine, as precautions had
been taken, and any excess removed. Spring opera-
tions would be bound to destroy cultivation and the
prospects of the harvest for 1941. Unquestionably a
war against Soviet Russia would be popular in Ger-
many, where it is believed that “once we have got
the Ukrainian cornfields and the oil of the Caucasus,
we can cock a snook at Churchill indefinitely.” The
Germans do not yet realise—as competent observers
do here —that by invading Russia instead of England
Hitler, whether consciously or unconsciously, abandons
his faith in complete victory and henceforward plays
merely for a stalemate. — London “Times” special cor-
respondent at Stockholm, writing before Germany
attacked Russia.
* * * * *
Visitors to Russia just after the Bolshevik Revolu-
tion were shocked by the numbers of nomad children
who kept themselves alive by petty plunder and beg-
ging. A similar phenomenon in Spain is described by
a correspondent of the “Hamburger Fremdenblatt,”
and his description is reproduced in “Fascism.” The
Government has now organised arrangements for the
collection of such children by the welfare society of
the Falangists. Twice a day an automobile is sent
out to pick up vagrant children in the streets. Such
children become the foster-children of the State, which
teaches them a trade. — Manchester “Guardian.”


J'V n
K A
\ 6
Product of Scotland
“BIRKMYRE”
WATERPROOF TARPAULINS
Made from Scottish Canvas by British Trade Union labour,
"BIRKMYRE" tarpaulins give maximum protection. The famous
"BIRKMYRE" proofing process is recognised as the World's
Best. It is IN the canvas not ON the canvas and —it stays
IN! In various weights and colours. If difficulty is experi-
enced in getting supplies, write Wholesale Distributors :
GOUROCK ROPES AND CANVAS LTD.
(Incorporated in Scotland.)
BRISBANE MELBOURNE SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Not a kangaroo was in sight over the vast
plain.”— “Sun.’’
It was a boundless horizon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dieting frequently has an ill-effect upon a
woman, making her feel bored, irritable and
depressed.”— “Sun.”
Fed-up because she’s not fed-up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Alighting from his car in the midst of the
angry mob, the little man soon showed that he
had plenty of spirit.” —Short story.
Ah! for those good old pre-ration days,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“My wife forced me to shave off my
moustache because she said it made me look
like Hitler.”— Divorce report.
He may have looked like Hitler, but
he was certainly no dictator.
“Potatoes can be made more attractive.”
— “Sun.”
How about buttons on the jackets?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Newsprint phobia seems to have dulled all
sense of proportion in the ‘Sydney Morning
Herald’ and ‘Daily Telegraph.’ So savage have
they become that they are incoherent. All the
‘Daily Mirror’ can say is R.1.P.”
—“Daily Mirror.”
All in the same boat!
“I'll stick him up and you grab the cigarette!"
“Thirsty men blamed for marriage rows.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Though a beer-thirsty man
And a pest all his life.
He’d a reason to booze —
A revenge-thirsty wife.
E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The common spiny lobster or crawfish is a,
creature of queer habits.” — “World’s News.”
It’s even been known to follow a drunk
around on a string.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Beans Up, Carrots Down!”
—Market report heading.
Well, haven’t they always grown that
way?
4* . 4* 4* 4*
“Come to lovely Tui Glen and take your
choice of 12 shady sports for picnic grounds.”
— M.L. paper advt.
Bring your own spots, and make it a
real picnic.
!• 4* 4* 4=
“The stewards inquired into the running of
Grandfather.” —“Greyhound Recorder.”
Well, it’s his own fault.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A Minneapolis (U.S.A.) firm is manufac-
turing bullet-proof baby carriages.”
— Woman’s paper.
To save the little pets from being shot
out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Letters often cause estrangement. The re-
cipient draws a meaning from your words
which was not intended.” —Sunday paper.
He misreads between the lines.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some men marry because they get tired
of restaurant meals.” — Woman’s paper.
Then they soon get to like them again.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Doris and Nick thoroughly enjoyed the
impromptu repast. Sitting under the willows,
they ate corned beef and smoked cod sand-
wiches with relish.” —Serial novel.
Some people will come at anything
when they run short of tobacco,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Maple bed-settee, strong, includes ottoman,
hall-stand, two armchairs, bookshelves, slow-
combustion stove and garden seats.”
— For-sale advt.
What, are they hanging on to the
garage?
“Taking the kick from a difficult angle
from just inside the halfway line, he put the
ball clean between the pots. There was a sigh
of relief, followed by terrific shouting.”
—Sporting paper.
As the two blokes boozing in the bar
said afterwards, it was the narrowest
squeak they’d ever had.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, refined cook-general, sleep in.”
— Ad. in suburban paper.
Until what time?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Destroy the excess weight on those ugly,
shapeless legs.”— Advt. for obesity cure.
Kill the fatted calf, as it were.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Petitioner gave evidence that her husband
was always complaining that marriage to him
was irksome. He often struck her and ordered
her out of the house....£7 per week alimony
pendente lite was granted.” —Law report.
He kicked the cat; he kicked about
This thing and that; he kicked her out;
So her life wasn’t sunny.
The kick-back came (as is its trick );
He’s now to dig down in his kick
To pay her alimony.
Hamer.
Frustration.
“Enjoy the simple daily satisfactions of work,
play and love.” —Magazine article.
I shouted at my work with glee,
And was the old man glad !
"If you don’t can that row,” said he,
"You’ll get the sack, my lad.”
With prancing steps I went to stake
My wages all in play,
But, when the winnings I would rake
In, they were swept away.
“Yet love’s still mine!” I cried. “I’ll woo
And win my girl or choke.”
But when I went to look for Lou,
She’d found another bloke:
K. W. I. N.
The Human Angle.
“A businessman needs to understand human
nature.” —Psychology article.
Bill Toppem looked sourly at the
apples on his barrow. They should have
been selling better than they were. Here
it was nearly fold-up time and the barrow-
was still laden. He couldn’t make it out.
The bruises were all turned artistically
towards the back, the small apples were
neatly hidden behind the bigger ones,
and yet the crowd went by.
Bill looked again at his signboard. It
read: “Apples, 16 a shilling.”
Then he had his brainwave, and in
10 minutes he hadn’t a core left on the
barrow. He had printed another sign
which read: “Apples, 12 a shilling. Four
extra given FREE with every dozen.”
GRAN SMITH.
Horse Sense.
As it was my birthday, Maria bought
herself a new hat and announced that she
would accompany me to the races.
For the Welter she selected Catsmeat,
because she said its colors matched her
woollen jumper. There really was only
one horse in that race. It didn’t get a
place actually ; but that was just one of
the accidents that happen on the race-
course. The 100-to-l Catsmeat was third.
“Did you back it straight out?” I
asked Maria.
“Of course I did! ” she said indignantly.
“I suppose you think I would be ashamed
and go sneaking round a corner! But
it beat your horse, anyway.”
With a groan I went to see what price
I could get about Showhoof, which,
according to special information, was a
cert, if they put Munson up. Showhoof
didn’t win either. It was irritating when
things were going badly like that to know
your wife was also throwing away your
money on hopeless crocks because she
liked the way the horse swished its tail.
“Not all the black cats you stroked
on the way will save you if you back
things like Falldown,” I told her bitterly.
“The form horse for this race is Swift-
sure.”
Swiftsure would have won, too, but
within a few yards of the post something
came like a flash on the outside. “Fall-
down!” screamed Maria, and her smack
on the back nearly sent me over the
stand rail.
On the way home Maria counted her
winnings. It appeared that she had
backed Catsmeat on the place tote. And
other incomprehensible accidents had
happened.
“Certainly I won’t pay the fares!” she
said. “You brought me out, and it’s the
man’s place to pay them. And let me
tell you, Aitchem, if you can come out
here and lose money as you have today
you ought to be able to give me more
housekeeping money. It’s a dis-
grace”—
Hastily I changed the subject. “How
on earth did you think of backing Lions-
food in the last?” I asked.
“Well, the jockey’s name was Simpson
and he was red-headed,” said Maria.
“My sister Molly used to go with a chap
of that name, and didn’t we see Ginger
Rogers last night? It simply shrieked
to be backed!”
I groaned. But I gibe no more at
Maria’s boast about women knowing as
much about racing as men.
H. M.
Coup de Grace.
“Some of the coughs prevalent this winter
have a most debilitating effect.”
—Medical journal.
I hate the cough that seems to burst
My lungs and leaves me weak and ill;
But most of all I hate the blow
Of coughing up the doctor’s bill.
T. W. N.
The Skin Game.
“The N.S.W. Hairdressers’ Union believes
that the State Government will introduce a
bill to license beauty workers and establish a
system of proficiency tests before granting new
licenses.”
That’s the Government all over —can’t
let well alone. If the licensing idea is per-
severed with it will mean that flappers
who have gained a doctorate of black-
head squeezing or have become Fellows
of the Incorporated Society of Crows-
foot Removers will be muscling men out.
As one of the pioneers of a trade
which is in danger of degenerating into
a profession I deplore this tendency to
control and qualification. Learning by
error is, I have found, ever the best
method.
I began as a manicurist’s apprentice,
later graduating to eyebrow-plucker’s
laborer. Two years as a journeyman
mole-sandpaperer rounded off my general
knowledge of women’s faces, and it was
with confidence that I set up my own
shingle. I was fortunate in having a wife
to experiment on. Her brother Charlie
was my assistant. He’d have made an
excellent beautician if he hadn’t been
addicted to hopping out for a pint every
so often.
It was I who evolved the feather-and-
fan pattern in eyebrow plucking, and
with a mixture of hydrofluoric acid, zinc,
benzoin, cabbage water and distillate of
nutmeg hit on a wonderful eyelash food
that after two applications made Greta
Garbo’s lashes look by comparison about
as hirsute as a primus pricker.
I happened to be busy ironing out the
corrugations in a dowager’s forehead just
after I’d made up the recipe and, anxious
to see how it went, I entrusted the first
try-out to Charlie. Unfortunately he
started on it just after he’d downed his
fourteenth schooper, and the idiot plucked
the eyelashes and applied the cream to
the eyebrows. Luckily it was only the
wife, and, although she looked a bit queer
for a while, blinking only three hairs with
each lamp and sporting eyebrows as thick
as saltbush hedges, my laboratory re-
search had been vindicated.
Most of the world’s great discoveries
have been made fortuitously, and that of
face-lifting was no exception. The way
I stumbled upon it was peculiar.
I had just finished pruning a wart on
Mrs. Posh-Wothers’s nose and was idly
testing the resiliency of her skin when
the six gin-and-peppermints I had tossed
off half an hour before began arguing
with my inside. My efforts to check the
outsize in hiccups were vain, and as it
came my fingers involuntarily gripped
my client’s rather pendulous jowls. As
I rose up on my toes I found that her
face came with me. Glancing in the
mirror immediately thereafter I was
struck by the fact that Mrs. Posh-
Wothers’s expression from its wonted
lugubriousness had taken on one some-
thing like George Formby’s in his madder
moments. I drew her attention to it and
she was delighted with the effect.
I then proceeded to gather up the
slack in earnest, though what to do with
it had me puzzled. Fortunately the lady
had a “bun” and I hid it under that,
keeping the folds in place with Bulldog
gripfast. It would undoubtedly have held
if some idiot hadn’t told a funny story
in her drawing-room that night. The
unaccustomed strain on her risible
muscles was too much and the thump
of her descending jowls nearly broke her
collarbone. But I had got the idea, and
with improving technique many of my
clients had to take their hats off to blow
their noses.
My experiences with mud packs weren’t
so hot, though I was the first, I think, to
devise the funnel stuck out of mouth and
ears so that the enveloping mud wouldn’t
prevent clients from breathing and hear-
ing.
My main trouble was in stocking an
ideal mud. Some was too dirty, others
not dirty enough. I tried everything
from Bulli soil to the real soggy stuff
from up Moree way. The best I found
by accident. We had a rush and
ran out of material. Always resourceful,
I told Charlie to put on old pants
and a pair of bowyangs and dig
up the city street outside. He roped it
off and started with pick and shovel, and
the greasy exhibit he got under
the blocks was beautiful! Unfortunately,
after about four months, when he’d dug
up half the street and traffic had to he
diverted, the City Council woke up that
the workman wasn’t its.
I was compelled to send Charlie
further afield. One day he brought in
a bucket of nice glutinous stuff. I put
it on a client’s face and, it being a cold
day, shoved the radiator in front of her.
When I tried to prise the mud off it had
become firm as a brick ; actually, it was
a brick, for I found out that Charlie had
got it from a brick pit near his boarding-
house.
I believe it wore off eventually.
Bo.


7
I
V.
a?
a
s
o
V
£
ACv.
vr/
\
v>
>
Ar
BECOME AN ARTIST-Quickly
Let Brodie Mack Teach You at Home!
AX last you are able to learn all branches of art tinder the supervision of this
famous Australian artist. Amazing short-cut method simplifies art. You learn
at home.
Make Money In Your Spare Time
BRODIE MACK has made it possible by means of this remarkable Course for you
to earn money in your spare hours. He shows you how to “cash * n ” on his
experience. He teaches you how to rapidly develop your latent ability so that you
are able to produce striking illustrations and art work. The fact of you read g
this announcement points to you having a desire to be an artist—-then send tor this
amazing book and let us prove that we can make you a skilled artist.
How To Be An Artist—Is FREE!
NEVER before has a book of this nature been offered free. That is why you
should send for your copy now. It shows you how to draw develop your
talent —how. to cartoon, the secret of illustrating, etc. Fill in the coupon and
send at once, NOW'.
Tear This Out—Post Now!
'» am am am on on» naßHiraaEKKiaH m mt mm m m
The Brotlle Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, Wayne House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir,
Please send me, FRED and without obligation, my copy
of your famous Book, “How To Be An Artist.” I enclose
stamp to defray postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
16/7/’4l
I (H I
HI
mi
f
YOU CAN GET STRONG
Complete Home Cy min one Outfit.
NOW ONLY 20/-, or 2/6 DFPOSIT
HERE’S an opportunity for you to develop big
1 muscles and obtain great strength by taking
advantage of this astounding bargain! Now only
20/-, or 2/6 deposit, for this famous £3 value.
Complete Home Gymnasium. Watch your
muscles grow! Surprise your friends! Every-
thing GUARANTEED. The big chest ex-
pander alone is worth more than you pay for
the entire outfit.
HERE'S WHAT YOU GET
1. —Complete set of Wall Apparatus
attachment.
2.—Two high-tension Grip Apparatus ;
builds strong wrists and forearms.
3.—Book on Jiu-Jitsu.
4.—Foot Stirrups; for legs, thighs,
stomach.
5. —Complete Muscle Building Course.
6. Complete Boxing Course.
7.— Rowing Machine Attachment.
8. —3-S t r a n d
Progres-
sive Rubber
Chest Ex-
pander.
w V
((MONEY BACK jv
IF NOT b
iem)
Jf/.
yanuiWK-
-4 STI
| ra
rH Pi
ss
s
i ;»'—
ff A
.
*lNc
6°K(^WK Sf ;
SSvMC II
ft
cfiMP
H4.U
mztiUL
Money Back Guarantee
LET us send you this whole won-
derful Muscle Building Outfit,
Courses, etc., to try at our risk for
only 20/-. If you’re not satisfied
within 10 days, just return the course,
and your money will be refunded. V\ e
will send it C.O.D. if you like. Just
pay the postman a few pence extra
for postage, or pay by instalments of
2/6 per week until 25/-is paid in full.
LIMITED OFFER —RUSH COUPON
GYM. SUPPLIES, SALES DEPT. 24,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,
I enclose 20/- or 2/6 deposit for your complete
Muscle Building Outfit and Courses, and in accordance
with your GUARANTEE if I am not satisfied you
will refund my money in full.
Name
Address
16/7/’4l
Buiness, Rollery, Etc.
The Basic Wage
Equality of sacrifice is of great political
importance during war. It is not merely
a matter of theoretical consequence, or
something to do with a man’s soul alone.
It is decidedly a war-winning factor. The
economic aspect is very wide ; it applies
to nearly every walk of life.
Every now and then we hear how
the cost of living is moving up or
down. During war it is almost bound
to move upwards. Prices and costs rise,
and it becomes more expensive for every-
one to live. Some people are compen-
sated for increased living costs —it may be
that they are profiting in some way
from the increased activity created by
war, or have their wages regulated
according to living costs. Others
are unable to increase their incomes
in proportion to the rising cost of
living, and thus suffer from war-time in-
flation. Both classes, as well as those
who neither gain nor lose by reason of
increased living costs, probably have to
pay some direct or indirect war taxation.
The fact that some have lost purchasing
power by reason of war, as against gains
by others, is not taken into account by
the authorities when deciding the rates of
taxation.
Some people clearly pay double taxa-
tion when war-time inflation gets on its
way. The middle incomes in Australia
are a case in point. Many persons in
office jobs have had no salary rises since
war began, but at the same time have
had to pay greatly increased taxation on
income, and have to bear the added
burden of increased sales tax and other
indirect levies, as well as generally in-
creased costs. Their wages are not
governed by any arbitration-court award.
Basic-wage-earners, on the other hand,
have made up to them most increases in
living costs. So far as the main items
of living are concerned, such as food,
clothing and fuel, they are fully covered.
When they depart from the essentials of
life they also feel to some extent the
burden of war-time inflation. The pre-
vention of war-time inflation, clearly,
would be one of the greatest factors in
ensuring equality of sacrifice. In Aus-
tralia it has been impossible to prevent
it entirely. But it has been minimised, in
spite of the periodic calls for financing
the war effort by expanding bank credit.
The Prices Commissioner, Professor
Copland, has had a far-reaching and
important job to do since war broke out.
The policy of the Treasury and the Com-
monwealth Bank, which is to pay for
war as far as possible out of current
income, has assisted greatly in keeping
living costs from rising at the rate we saw
in 1914-18. Recently the authorities were
able to announce that since war began the
increase in living costs in Australia was
p.c. During the same period the
basic wage in the six capitals had been
lifted from 795. to 86s. —nearly 9 pic.
People on the basic wage, and those
whose incomes are based on the basic
wage—in the case of skilled workers
earning overtime the rates might run to
£8 or £lO a week —are protected against
indirect taxes on the cost of items which
enter into the wage basis, and those earn-
ing under £8 a week pay very light war
income tax. The average last year was
less than 1 p.c. of their incomes.
This section of the community is clearly
a controversial one when the question of
equality of sacrifice arises, as it does
every time a Budget is presented in Can-
berra. Those who say this class should
escape additional income-taxation usually
do so on the ground that people earning
under £8 a week are the greatest contri-
butors of indirect taxation, such as excise,
sales tax, Customs duties and high in-
ternal prices caused by duties. Without
going into the point that increased wages
in themselves create high duties and costs,
it is interesting to investigate the point of
what items in the living requirements of
the basic-wage-earner are covered by
awards and are therefore protected from
increased indirect taxes.
The Commonwealth Year-Book says
the cosTof-living index governing the
basic wage is based on what is known
as the “C series.” This index covers
food and groceries, rent of four-
and five-roomed houses, clothing, fuel,
light, household utensils, household
drapery, fares and “other miscellaneous
household requirements.” It would be
difficult, of course, to compile an index
covering “essentials” of all families under
all conditions. The statistician’s compila-
tion is at best an average. When a wage-
earner comes to spend his margins for
skill on non-essential things he may find
that he isn’t protected at all. He is out
in the open then, and has to cough up
his share of sales tax and other indirect
levies. But that should be only after he
has attended to the essentials of life.
To decide whether the basic-wage-
eamer is on a fair thing is not really a
matter of war economics at all. Within
the limits already mentioned, his stand-
ard of life has not been affected by war.
This standard was decided before war
occurred, and it has not since been
altered. So it all boils down to what has
been said here a number of times before:
If the basic-wage-earner was on a fair
thing before war broke out, he is on a
particularly good thing now. He hasn't
suffered anything like the workers of
Britain and Germany.
As far as one can judge, the wage-
earner has lost half of the advantage
of the prosperity loading granted by the
“Reddaway” award in 1937. But that loss
occurred principally before the outbreak
of war. Following the introduction of
a loading of from 3s. to 6s. a week,
the index of “real” wages rose from 1166
to 1203 —a lift of about 3 p.c. The rise
in money wages in the same time was
5 p.c. Thus almost from the outset 40
p.c. of the prosperity loading was ab-
sorbed by higher costs. That all hap-
pened in 1937, before price control came
into operation. At the end of 1940 the
index of real wages stood at 1169, indi-
cating that virtually all the “Reddawage”
had disappeared ; but since then money
wages have been lifted by an average of
3s. per week. When the June figure for
real wages comes out it should stand in
the vicinity of 1200, indicating that the
buying power of the basic wage stands
at near the highest figure it has reached
in recent years.
C. V. Janes, economist to the Bank of
New South Wales, told the blunt truth
last week when he said Australia couldn’t
maintain its living standard and keep up
a total war effort at the same time.
People who have earned their livings as
middlemen, agents, union secretaries and
generally as “passengers” on the Austra-
lian industrial machine may perhaps have
wishful theories that credit-juggling will
remove war’s burden and actually im-
prove our living standard at the same
time ; but anyone well acquainted with
production, transport and finance knows
that with all the credit in the world at its
disposal Australia’s production capacity
is limited by its labor, plant and trans-
port facilities, and by its available raw
materials. Since its production capacity
is, in point of time, limited, for the time
being the requirements of war have to
come largely out of our ordinary civil
requirements, though we may assume that
some increase in total production has
taken place since war began. As Mr. Janes
pointed out, we aren’t in any way short
of food; but metals, oils, chemicals,
timber and all derivatives thereof are
urgently needed for the war effort. And
it is surprising how many things in every-
day use are partly made from those
items. For the time being, too, we
won’t be oversupplied with woollen or
cotton clothing. Apart from things we
are essentially short of, some of the pro-
ducts we would ordinarily have in abun-
dance are being supplied to other parts of
the Empire. In return we get facilities
for buying many things we don’t pro-
duce in the Commonwealth, or which it
is more convenient to buy elsewhere.
* * * *
Australian war expenditure for the
year to June 30 was £169,857,000. That
was £16,643,000 below the Budget
estimate. But outgo was still at the
rate of £465,361 a day. In 1941-42
it will be higher still. In 1940-41
£11,000,000 was spent by the Common-
wealth on behalf of other war adminis-
trations, which isn’t included in the lore-
going figures. It is a recoverable sum, but
for the time being it represents a tax on
Australian productive capacity. It is more
than offset by our expenditure overseas.
* * * *
Of the Commonwealth’s £169,857,000
war expenditure last year, £65,074,000
came from revenue, £101,211,000 from
loans and £3,572,000 from trust-fund
surpluses and public gifts. But since the
£l7O million or thereabouts spent —or, at
least, that portion of it spent in Australia
—represents a tax on our production
(and consumption) it would have been
far better had all of it been raised by
actual taxation. The reason why it was
not raised by taxation is purely political.
The fact that £l7O million-worth of pro-
duction was taken from us shows that
the same amount of income could have
been taken from us with no more actual
hardship than we have experienced so
far. The only difference would be that
we would be holding less Commonwealth
bonds, less war-savings certificates and
less cash in the bank. But we would know
that we hadn’t increased our after-the-
war commitments, and that taxation rates
should return to normal after the
struggle was over. With light taxes, ordi-
nary debts and non-inflated production
costs we could expect buoyant business
conditions when our industries again be-
came able to apply themselves to peace-
time requirements. There will be arrears
of civil requirements to make up when
the war is finished.
« * * »
The £lOl million borrowed last
year is partly represented by the
amount which the under-£B-a-weekers
don’t pay in income tax. It is also partly
represented by the tax escaped by those
on higher incomes where State taxes pre-
vent the Federal authority from getting
its fair share of tax. The obstacles in
the way of getting this additional tax
revenue are political.
» * * *
A report from Melbourne says it is
unlikely that the Budget, scheduled for
the end of July, will be presented before
the middle of September. The entire
Australian war effort is involved, but
Labor is still theorising about “social
services.”


\
V9^
m
m
Years of P
Olympic
TYRES
A record of progress that speaks volumes for the un-
surpassed quality of Olympic Tyres. 100% Australian.
Every penny of wages and dividends remains in Australia.
6r4225W
0OH!
tce %Wc
(if '
SS
\T
/\TT
V-i
/i"
If
>c
y f /
mv<
<S&>
Victory will not mean a rose-strewn path for post-war youth. The
processes of readjustment will create problems, and they will create
circumstances in which the young man without financial reserves (no
matter how small) may be severely handicapped.
Take no risks with your child’s future! Build up, through the
Commonwealth Savings Bank, a strong safeguard against dependence
upon others. A small weekly deposit, made regularly, quickly grows
into a substantial reserve —a reserve which will reinforce your child s
security at the most critical stage of his or her life.
commonuieoLTH
SflUinOS BARK
of n USTRDLIH
j
CRAVEN A
nevei varies- titetfri,,
always smritittpetit!
to for lOd. 20 for 1/8
o
m
E 1867
PREVENT
A T S
Memories of the petrol war of a few
years back have been revived by the
severe rationing of the stuff in Australia
and the outcry that has followed. It was
the independent oil cos. that brought the
price of first-grade petrol down to Is. sd.
a gallon, and it is these cos. that are
getting it in the neck now. By an agree-
ment that has been in force more than
12 months the oil cos. agreed to a cartel
whereby they were to sell according to
their pre-war proportions of the market,
any excess sales being subject to a crush-
ing penalty. As petrol rations were
reduced these quotas were reduced, pro-
portions being maintained. Many motor-
ists preferred the quality of some in-
dependent petrols, but in such cases the
monthly quota under the cartel was soon
used up, and the motorist had to turn to
other brands. Now only one “quality”
of petrol is being marketed in Australia,
so the independent cos. have lost even
the individuality of their spirit. They
can’t afford to take losses like the big oil
cos., and the rationing now in force,
which is more severe than in Britain, is
knocking them badly. In cases where
Government contracts have been taken
away from them they have added diffi-
culties. And Canberra is still unable to
give a gaslight explanation of the whole
petroliferous mystery.
* * * *
The New York revelation that the
Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey has tied
up to it and associated cos. the British,
French and U.S.A. rights to the Bergius
process of extracting petrol from coal
should be worth investigating by Can-
berra. In 1927 the Bergius process pro-
duced petrol from brown coal at 15 cents
a gallon. It is costing more than that to
get petrol out of Newnes shale.
* * * *
Australian sharemarkets were more
pleased with the outlook last week than
for some time. Both London and New
York Stock Exchanges were inclined to
take a more hopeful view of the situation
in Europe, Hitler’s invasion of Russia
being slower than some people expected.
War campaigns are dubious things to
base stock prices on, but, influenced
principally by New York, definite im-
provement in market tone was evident
almost throughout the Australian share
lists. In a few days the Wall-street indus-
trial share index rose from 123.58 to
127.64. Rises on Australian ’Changes
were far less spectacular, but almost the
whole list benefited. Broken Hill Prop,
fully-paids, after a notable weakening to
38s. 6d., sold up to 395. Bd. Adelaide
Steam was in demand, the recent low
level of 275. giving way to sales at 275.
9d. Electrolytic, Zinc was much firmer,
and buyers were more evident than
sellers in the brewing section. The export
trade of Australian breweries has in-
creased greatly of recent months, offset-
ting at least to some extent the drop in
custom from troops going overseas.
* * * *
The activity in Adelaide Steam shares
last week seemed to have something to
do with reports that J. and A. Brown-
Abermain-Seaham Collieries was going
to pay an increased div. Adelaide owns
more than 526,000 shares in the coal co.,
which for 1939-40 paid a 5 p.c. div.
Actually, div. reports in each case seem
to-be a bit ahead of schedule, as
J. and A. B.’s handout isn’t due until
October, the Adelaide Co.’s final coming
along in September. It is probable, how-
ever, that J. and A. Brown has had a
very good term, like most other coal cos.
—at least, good by present-day coal-co.
standards. Though Adelaide has been
hampered by Government incursions into
the shipping business, the sharemarket
has already made substantial provision
for any setbacks in the price now paid
for the scrip—27s. 9d., compared with a
highest price of 30s. 7d. this year and a
highest of 365. 3d. in 1940. Last year s
div. was 6y p.c., which looks like being
maintained.
When J. M. Keynes got off the Atlantic
clipper in New York last month he told
reporters that the rise in prices in Britain
had been halted, and “stopped dead” in
Germany. The theory that price-inflation
arising from war conditions was inevit-
able was “emphatically rejected” by the
economist. The United States, said
Keynes, could also control price-inflation,
adding: “In England, in reaching the full
output, some rise of prices is inevitable
and justified, but you have got to have
the feel of how far it can go. The rise
that we have had has been largely due to
increased shipping costs. Germany did
not have that problem. But after allow-
ing the rise we have stopped it dead.”
Keynes also said that the most important
part of the last British Budget was the
Chancellor of the Exchequer’s pledge that
the cost of living would not be allowed
to rise further.
* * 5fC *
Victoria has pricked up its ears fol-
lowing announcement of developments in
the aluminium industry. Premier Dun-
stan has referred to the State’s deposits
at Boolarra, in Gippsland. Australian
Paper Manufacturers took up three
leases in the district in July, 1938. Vic-
torian Mines Department has recorded the
existence of bauxite deposits at Burgess
Creek (Callignee), Galliondale, Thorp-
dale and other parts of Gippsland. Since
1918 20 applications have been made for
leases. Quantities of bauxite have already
been mined. In addition to its aluminium
content, bauxite provides a heat-resistant
for lining furnaces.
* * * *
It was reported in Melbourne last
week that the canning of 18,000,000 pork
and beef sausages a month was to start,
delivery to commence in August to the
Defence Department for shipment to the
Middle East.
* * * *
It is intended that Australia should
supply the Empire forces with 4,000,000
pairs of military boots by March next.
The industry is being geared up to turn
out 100,000 pairs a week. Three months
ago the output was 25,000 pairs a week,
and it has since risen to 85,000 pairs.
All civilian work that might affect mili-
tary production is being pushed aside.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, Broken Hill’s
mine-with-a-future, shows a profit of
£142,575 sterling for 1940 after providing
£190,950 for taxation. In 1939 net profit
was £142,575, taxation £59,257. The
1940 tax provision represents 134 p.c. of
the net profit shown after providing for
tax. It is a staggering rate, and is partly
due to British levies. But Australian base-
metal mines aren’t neglected by the tax-
gatherer either. Briseis Tin (Tas.) earned
a profit of £40,624 last year after pro-
viding £30,613 for taxation, exclusive of
Tasmanian div. tax. North B.H. and
B.H. South will have to make big pro-
visions for 1940-41 and later war years.
Holders of scrip in base-betal mines not
yet earning profits should take full cog-
nisance of the taxation factor in basing
their anticipations.
* * * *
No wine is being brought into the
United Kingdom, except for church pur-
poses. The ban on imports, originally
for three months, was extended to six
months, and has since been prolonged
indefinitely. Shipping space is the trouble.
Australian wine exporters thus face an-
other bleak period.
* * * *
Relative values: A Sydney firm export-
ing to the Netherlands Indies a product
which contained soda-ash as one of its
principal components was prohibited
from so doing by the National Security
Regulations. The value of the soda-ash
was small compared with the foreign
exchange received, but it was because
of a possible shortage of soda-ash that
the export ban was imposed. A shortage
of soda-ash in this country would prin-
cipally affect the beer-bottle industry.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT'S" Understudy)
As the result of a chill “Pilot” (J. F.
Dexter) has had to go into a private
hospital As enthusiastic as ever, he
wanted to return to work after a day
or two, but the doctor in control says
“Not yet.”
* * * *
The unspeakable ruffians who make it
their foul business to nobble or shoot
at favorites have been at work again in
Melbourne. While betting on the Grand
National Steeplechase was in progress at
Flemington, Cheery Jack, the hot
favorite, was discovered to have been
doped and had to be scratched. The
affair was no less sensational than the
shooting of El Golea in mistake for the
Melbourne Cup favorite, Beau Vite, last
spring.
The C. 1.8. is co-operating with the
V.R.C. in an attempt to trace the
criminal or criminals. Although he
looked quite normal when he left for the
course, Cheery Jack became nervous and
fretful when he reached his stall at the
racecourse, and when farriers attempted
to shoe him he went mad. His tongue
was dry, there was a scum over the eyes
which apparently blinded him, and it
was with the greatest difficulty that he
was controlled while being examined by
the club’s veterinary surgeon (E. N.
Wood) and one of the stipendiary
stewards (Dr. G. G. Heslop). Obviously
he was in no condition to race, and the
stewards permitted his withdrawal at
2.56 p.m., 24 minutes before the race was
to start. Swabs were taken of his saliva,
and these have been submitted for chemi-
cal analysis, but no report was available
at the time of writing.
It is generally agreed that Cheery Jack
must have been “got at” before he left
for the course. Watterson, foreman for
Cheery Jack’s Sydney trainer, R. C.
Stanton, stated that he left the horse
unattended for about 20 minutes while
he went to a near-by hotel, where he was
staying, to change his clothes prepara-
tory to taking Cheery Jack to the race-
course. The criminal or criminals could
have completed their nefarious work in
that time. In one respect, it is fortunate
that whatever was administered to the
horse took effect too soon. Had it
worked only during the race Cheery Jack
and his rider, Meenan, might have been
involved in a frightful smash, with pos-
sible danger to other runners. The V.R.C.
veterinary surgeon expressed the opinion
that Cheery Jack certainly could not
have jumped the fences and probably
would have crashed through them.
The stewards opened and adjourned
an inquiry, and no expense will be spared
by the V.R.C. in an attempt to get to the
bottom of the scandalous affair. Money
is nearly always the motive behind such
cases, but big money was not involved
in respect of Cheery Jack. There had
been little pre-post betting on the race,
and Methuen’s success at 50 to 1 in the
G.N. Hurdle relieved doubles book-
makers of practically all liabilities.
Cheery Jack’s withdrawal caused con-
siderable confusion in the betting ring.
He was favorite at 7 to 4 when betting
settled down, with 6 to 1 bar one on
offer, and his scratching necessitated
a complete readjustment of prices.
Stewards announced that all Cheery Jack
bets made on the course were to be re-
turned, and that all bets made on the
winner and placed horses prior to the
time of Cheery Jack’s withdrawal were
to be paid at tote odds. Bets made after
his scratching were paid at full odds
marked on the betting ticket.
National Debt, an 11-year-old gelding
owned and trained by South Australians,
landed some substantial bets when he
outstayed Brightello and Sachem. His
price shortened from tens to sevens after
Cheery Jack’s withdrawal, and in the end
weight of money made him favorite at
7 to 2. He ran right up to the form that
had enabled him to finish second to
Cheery Jack a week earlier. Confidently
ridden by his Adelaide jockey, Kenny,
he made a fast forward move from the
seven furlongs, joined Sachem in the
lead at the last fence —where Brightello
was a close third —and won in time
only outside the record for the
race.
National Debt is by Trillion from a
Lord Alwyne mare. He had several races
on the flat before he was bought for 80
guineas about five years ago by C. A.
Watts and his trainer, F. Dougall. A
very lucky purchase, for other races won
by National Debt include the Adelaide
Grand National and the Great Eastern
Steeple at Onkaparinga. It was feared
that his racing career had terminated
after a fall at a Pt. Adelaide meeting
about three years ago. One of his hips
was knocked down. Veterinary treatment,
combined with a spell of several months,
resulted in his recovery.
Brightello and Sachem had every
chance, and Highland March, though he
finished fourth, did not flatter his backers
over the concluding furlongs. Accord-
ing to his rider, Highland March jumped
stickily and was never going well. Locks-
lea, the early leader, finished a poor fifth,
but prejudiced his chance by attempting
to run wide all the way. This cost him
many lengths.
Bridge of Dee had figured in a minor
sensation on the eve of the race. His
then lessee and half-owner, O’Brien, the
bookmaker, expressed annoyance at the
poor price offering against the horse for
the National, and announced his inten-
tion of scratching him. Later he sold his
share in Bridge of Dee for £l5O to an-
other bookmaker, Miller, but stipulated
that he was not to run in the National.
A bill of sale to this effect was signed
and stamped, but, as a result of over-
tures made on the morning of the race,
O’Brien agreed to waive the National
clause on Miller increasing the purchase
price to £3OO. The V.R.C. was informed
of the sale, and Bridge of Dee took his
place in the field. Starting at 6 to 1,
after touching 7 to 2 when Cheery Jack
was withdrawn, Bridge of Dee fell when
seemingly going well about a mile from
home. O’Brien had previously raced
Bridge of Dee on lease from the other
part-owner, J. Hall.
Several spectators in the flat reserve
voiced their disapproval after Isambard,
starting at 9 to 4, had beaten his 7-to-4-on
stable companion, Bureaucrat, in the
Doutta Galla Hurdle. Their annoyance
was quite unwarranted, as Bureaucrat
was much the better backed of the pair,
and the job of conceding Isambard 411 b.
was beyond him. A three-horse race
became a two-horse race after Spirak
lost his rider at the second jump.
Although Bureaucrat gained ground at
practically every hurdle, he had to make
his own pace under 11.13, and Isambard’s
last run, combined with his big pull in
weight, was the deciding factor in the
result.
Isambard, who is part-owned by ex-
Premier Mair (N.S.W.), had won the
Maiden Hurdle at Flemington a week
earlier. As a hurdler he is compensating
for his many failures on the flat. Third
money of £5O reverted to the club.
Con Naru, who is trained on un-
orthodox lines, inasmuch as he never
visits the training tracks but does his work
on roads, beaches and hills, justified his
backing for the July Handicap from 20
to 1 down to twelves. He headed the
pacemaker, Master Craft, in the straight,
and had enough in reserve to win from
the faster-finishing Grandson and Orca-
dian. Master Craft weakened into fourth
position, but will soon do better, and
Orcadian should not be expensive at the
380 guineas for which he changed hands
the preceding day. Moonray, a heavily-
backed favorite, disappointed again. He
declined to put any heart into his work,
and was never a possibility.
Previously regarded as a miler, Somer-
set, who is in the veteran stage, lasted
long enough to defeat Rivette by half a
head over the mile and a half of the
Braybrook Handicap. His starting price
of 25 to 1 revealed bookmakers’ and
backers’ opinion of him as a stayer. It
was Rivette’s first placing since her suc-
cess in the two Cups of 1939, and obvi-
ously she is returning to something like
her best form. She may have been un-
lucky, as she was forced to cover a lot of
extra ground rounding the turn into the
straight, and finished wide out. Son of
Aurous ran another good race in third
place, and a win for him would not be
out of its turn. New Warrior and West
Wind weakened over the last furlong.
Bought by “Mortimer Alson” for a
career as a steeplechaser, Naverino won
the Trial Hurdle at his second start over
jumps. Well backed, he was always one
of the leaders, and won by a neck after
an exciting duel with Liquid Asset.
Parcem looked a certain place-getter until
he lost his rider at the last jump, and
Napoleon secured the minor placing.
Naverino is a five-year-old by Beau Fils,
and more should be heard of him as a
hurdler.
Davanthus, outsider (at 10 to 1) of
seven runners for the Footscray Steeple,
outstayed the favorite, Whernside, after
they had taken the last fence together.
His success was a welcome change of
luck for his owner-trainer, Bence, and his
rider, Rohloff. Nevizes was beaten into
third place after having every chance, but
St. Robert, who passed over the National
in favor of the Footscray, jumped stickily
and was never dangerous.
* * * *
Sydney invaders had a royal day at
the Brisbane Doomben Cup meeting,
winning three of the seven events. Despite
that he had to be taken very much on
trust in a mile and three furlongs handi-
cap, the Cooper-owned s.nd always greatly-
boomed Gold Salute was a foregone
favorite for the Cup. In the event he
was a foregone loser when he pulled his
way to the front with about half the
journey still in front of him. A light-
weight may have won by that method,
with luck, but Gold Salute, burdened
with the stiff topweight impost of 9.8,
had no hope of getting away from the
field, and was beaten by the first chal-
lenger. The tactics used on Gold Salute
—willy-nilly or otherwise —had their
effect on Lord Valentine’s track-record
winning time, 2.15|. The five-year-old
Valamita gelding finished brilliantly, com-
ing from well back and forcing through
a crowded field, to beat the Queenslander
Speeder by a length, with another of the
Sydney contingent, Buzalong, a head
away third.
The southern visitors were also first
and third in the Flying Handicap, run
over the six furlongs course round the
turn —Winnipeg first, Panchio third, with
the Victorian Industry separating them.
Radical completed the Sydney hat-trick,
winning up the “straight six” by half a
head from the other equal favorite, Hi
Mark.
♦ * * *
Moorefield, the Sydney suburban track
which Captain Cook could have picked
as a future racecourse looking in from
his ship through the Botany Bay heads,
used to have a standing reputation as the
Punters’ Paradise. Bookmakers entered
it in a spirit of abandoned hope, saw
nothing in the blue waters of the bay
except a temptation to go and drown
themselves, and kept their pecker up only
by looking ahead to later revenge at
Randwick. Recently the reputation has
been somewhat tarnished, but it was re-
habilitated most satisfactorily—from the
punters’ point of view—at last Satur-
day’s meeting.
Of the seven races, five were won by
favorites, and a sixth winner was only
quarter of a point off favoritism. Next
to the books, whatever gods punters
patronise must have been under the great-
est strain, answering petitions. In four
of the finishes the winning margin was a
head or less. The first of these —Master-
piece’s win in the opening hurdle event
—was a most fickle augury for the books,
Masterpiece being a comparative out-
sider. The old chestnut, carrying top-
weight on a track that looked grassed
for dairy purposes and fairly heavy, put
up easily the most remarkable perform-
ance of the day. Coming into the very
short straight, with only one jump to
take and the going downhill, the well-
backed Belvoir had a break of four
lengths. Masterpiece was twenty lengths
back, but his run home from there, to
get up and win by half a head from El
Banado and Belvoir, deserved all the
cheers it naturally did not get.
The scratching of Martheus, who had
beaten John Halifax at Randwick, took
most of the competition out of the Three-
year-old Handicap. John Halifax was
backed at odds-on, and duly won, though
he looked taut as a greyhound. He had
only half a length on the outsider Gaunt-
let at the finish, but that looked to be
more by grace of McMenamin than any-
thing else. Phalaran, third, was saddled
up again later in the day, and on that
occasion got within half a head of justi-
fying this nowadays unfashionable prac-
tice.
McMenamin, who looks to be in par-
ticularly good riding form, rode the
second of his winners in the Juvenile
Handicap, getting Chatham’s Choice
home by two lengths, the easiest winner
of the day. At that he had to survive a
protest, lodged on behalf of Harprey.
Bookmakers expressed their opinion by
offering five to one against the second
horse on the protest. Beline —solidly
backed on the strength of that eternal
trap for punters, a good finishing run at
a previous start —was a close third to
Harprey, but the winner beat them both
easily. The distance was six furlongs ;
Chatham’s Choice—a solid bay colt by
Chatham-Spanish Victory—was full of
running at the end, and looks as good as
certain to do well over his sire’s pet dis-
tance, one mile. Though the track had
not cut up at all, 10 of the 17 acceptors
were course scratchings. The time —
I.l6j—was an indication of the going;
an “open company” field was to take
1.17 before the day was out.
The topnotch apprentice J. Thompson,
who, like McMenamin, is on the lathish
and lanky side, made his score a century
of winners for the season by winning the
Carlton Mile on Sobersides, from Denita
and Calruin. Sobersides was extra-
heavily backed, was near the van all the
way, and ran the mile out very strongly.
With a little luck Thompson should end
the season as winning jockey ; he is half
a dozen winners ahead of W. Cook.
Thompson has the essential attribute of
first-rate horsemanship, just about perfect
balance.
Cook kept his place in the running by
winning the main handicap on Aristo-
crat, topweight at 7.13, heavily-backed
favorite, and just there from Hilarious
by a head. Hilarious looked unlucky.
Though well enough up all the way to
have won if she’d had it in her, she
seemed to suffer from crowding near the
turn, and had bare galloping room over
the last half-furlong between the winner
and the third horse, Legion Bird.
The disappointing imported Irish horse
Vergure won the first division of the
Flying Handicap by half a head, plus
McMenamin. On occasions Vergure,
who has always been treated by handi-
cappers with considerable respect, has
seemed to have been almost ploughed
into the ground in order to make the
most of his pace. McMenamin held him
in third place till they turned for home,
and by dint of hard riding just managed
to beat Phalaran. Generally, however,
it was very modest company, and Phala-
ran looked something of a good thing
beaten.
Had Phalaran won he would have
given the Nailon stable four winners—•
with Sobersides and Aristocrat, and, in
Brisbane, Lord Valentine —inside an
hour. As it was, the stable had three
winners in barely half an hour, with a
second and a third also in the day’s tally.
The second division went to Melorado,
from Canvasser and Sir Hugh, in the
inglorious time of 1.17, adding yet an-
other favorite to the day’s record and
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(Before acceptances.)
Brush Hurdle: Masterpiece, 1 ;
Belvoir, 2 ; El Banado, 3.
Nursery Handicap: Milanja, 1 ;
Linemond, 2 ; Gramada, 3.
Flying Handicap: Martheus, 1 ;
Novice, 2 ; Gundagai, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: Stylish, 1 ;
Cable Boy, 2 ; Highborn, 3.
Ashfield Handicap; Hilarious, 1 :
Alluring, 2 ; Calruin, 3.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(Before acceptances.)
Leamington Hurdle: Bureau-
crat, 1 ; Isambard, 2 ; North Cape,
3.
Lillimur Two-year-old: Reg, 1 ;
Primavera, 2 ; Naval Revue, 3.
Murrumbeena Handicap: Son of
Aurous, 1 ; West Wind, 2 ; Kooren-
been, 3.
Godfrey Watson Steeple: Bridge
of Dee, 1 ; Sachem, 2; Whern-
side, 3.
Malvina Welter: Bluebeard, 1 ;
Marcius, 2 ; Master Craft, 3.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 672 of 1941.
BETWEEN ETHEL MARION WHITE Peti-
tioner and
OSCAR RAYMOND WHITE Respondent.
TO OSCAR RAYMOND WHITE late of
Singleton in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL
MARION WHITE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Fourth day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and Forty-one and in the
event of you not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of July, 1941.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Bank Corner, Wickham, N.S.W.; by
his Sydney Agent: MERVYN A. DOYLE,
Solicitor. 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1731 of 1940.
BETWEEN THOMAS WILLIAM HAMPTON
Petitioner and
MARTHA JANE HAMPTON Respondent.
TO MARTHA JANE HAMPTON late of 43
Hobart Road New Lambton.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
WILLIAM HAMPTON has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the First day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 556 of 1941.
BETWEEN ENID WINIFRED SCOTT Peti-
tioner and
JOHN THOMAS SCOTT Respondent.
TO JOHN THOMAS SCOTT formerly of
Dubbo and latterly of Chatswood but
present address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ENID WINI-
FRED SCOTT has commenced a suit against
you for dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Third day of October One thousand nine hun-
dred and forty-one and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of July, 1941.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
COLQUHOUN & KING, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1030 of 1941.
BETWEEN ALICE DOROTHY IVES Peti-
tioner and
CHARLES ALBERT IVES Respondent.
TO CHARLES ALBERT IVES formerly of
Windsor in the State of New South Wales
but now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALICE
DOROTHY IVES has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
praying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of your desertion of her for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Third day of October One thousand
nine hundred and forty-one and in the event
of your not so doing within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of July One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART, Solicitors,
197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND, ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO DOUGLAS EDGAR DREWE formerly
of Brisbane in the State of Queensland
but whose present whereabouts are un-
known Accountant.
TAKE NOTICE that an action No. 37 of
1941 has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhamp-
ton by petition filed therein and writ of
summons issued thereout on the Twenty-
seventh day of June 1941 by ALMA ISABEL
DREWE of Carrollee Hotel Haly Street Kinga-
roy in the State of Queensland married woman
claiming a dissolution of her marriage with you
on the grounds of your continued desertion
without cause for a period of five years and
upwards and it has been ordered that service
of the said writ of summons and of the said
petition on you by filing and sticking up on
the notice board in the registry of the said
Court a copy of such writ of summons and an
office copy of such petition and the affidavit
verifying the same and by publishing this
notice once in the “Sydney Bulletin” a news-
paper published in Sydney in the State of New
South Wales shall be good and sufficient ser-
vice of the said writ of summons and of the
said petition upon you. If you desire to defend
the said action you must within Thirty days
from the date of the last act done in com-
pliance with the said order enter an appear-
ance at the said registry and in default thereof
the said Alma Isabel Drewe may by leave of
the Court or a Judge proceed therein and judg-
ment may be given against you in your absence.
DATED this Third day of July 1941.
(1.5.) F. J. RUSSELL,
Registrar.
R. L. WEIR, Solicitor for Plaintiff, Mary-
borough; Town Agents: REES R, AND
SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors, 178 Quay Street,
Rockhampton.
leaving bookmakers to flounder home
tripping over their bottom lips.
# * * *
The A.J.C. stewards held G, H.
Gorvin, owner-trainer of Brucas, respon-
sible for the incident in which McMena-
min weighed in 71b. light after Brucas
had finished first in a pony race at Vic-
toria Park. While “satisfied there was no
dishonest intent,” they fined Gorvin £2O
for “carelessness.” The young man is
appealing.
* * sH »
Though he has never quite fulfilled his
early promise, Petruchio, that son of
Bullhead-Lovebox who was raced by
Alan Cooper, has earned good money
recently for his present owner, T. W.
Gleeson, and trainer R. H. Abbott.
Favorite, at 5 to 2, for the first division
of the Flying Welter at Kensington (Syd-
ney) last Wednesday, Petruchio led
nearly all the way, and, although Miss
Pentheus made the finish interesting, he
beat off her challenge without being
pushed out, and his time, 1.7, equalled the
track record for 5| furlongs. Petruchio
has an engagement at Grafton this week,
and is a fancy for the Grafton Cup. In
that race he will have stiffer opposition
than he encountered at Kensington.
Three days before he won at Moore-
field, Vergure was beaten at Kensing-
ton. The race was the second division
of the Flying Welter, and, as is repeatedly
the case with Laidlaw’s horses, the book-
makers demanded a shade of odds, call-
ing 6 to 1 Benburb and 7 to 1 Melrose —
there were eight other starters. The
three mentioned had the finish to them-
selves, and Benburb, who was ridden by
Maher, got up in time to beat Vergure
by half a head. Not a bad perform-
ance, for, whereas Vergure had moved
away smartly from a good position, Ben-
burb had to make up a lot of ground
from the extreme outside, having been
hurdled off.
* * * *
Whether Lugano will appreciate the
Derby distance or not he has proved that
a mile will be no trouble to him. This
he demonstrated at Flemington on
Wednesday, when, carrying 9.1 and con-
ceding lumps of weight to 14 other two-
year-olds, the son of John James-
Bucentaure had another good win—his
third in succession—and he was favorite
at 7 to 4. Portable and Centenary, whom
he had defeated on the previous Satur-
day, were in the field again, but this time
they ran unplaced, two outsiders, Cloudy
Bay and Morvi, being the others whose
numbers were posted by the judge. Young
horses that show up early in July rarely
distinguish themselves in the spring, but
it may possibly be different with Lugano.
* * * *
Illegal bookmaking is hard to stop
anywhere, and it is probable agents of
starting-price layers in Sydney still find
means of sending away information from
racecourses. J. A. Estes, editor of “The
Blood Horse,” after a recent visit to Santa
Anita, said the Los Angeles area was
practically free of illegal bookmakers, and
wrote as follows:: —
Santa Anita not only takes the precau-
tions most tracks take to keep the results
from going out via telephone and messen-
gers, but it also keeps a big staff of
spotters on hand at all times to find wig-
waggers and short-wave radio sets. Doctor
Strub, who was with me, borrowed my
programme and whacked on the rail to illus-
trate a common variation of wigwag tech-
nique. “A man will stand at the rail and
tap his programme like this, as if he were
nervous, and another man with binoculars
outside the track will translate the dots
and dashes. We stop nearly all of that
sort of stuff, and what we can’t stop inside
the track the district attorney can stop out-
side the track.”
* * * *
Next to the State of New York, patrons
of Florida meetings are the heaviest tote
bettors in America. At last year’s meet-
ings the average per day for each person
was a little over £l9. At this year’s meet-
ing at Hialeah Park (Miami, Florida) the
$149,528 (nearly £45,500) put through on
the three-year-old race, the Flamingo, was
the largest amount ever bet on the tote
on a single race at that track.
* * * ♦
At 24 years of age, Man o’ War is
still one of America’s most prominent
stallions doing stud duty. Up to the end
of 1940 his progeny had won $2,760,703
in North America, and it is reckoned that
this year they have already earned enough
to put him ahead of his sire Fair Play,
who previously held the American record
with $2,780,820. As Man o’ War is
credited with having won at least
£A93 5,000, he may be a possibility for
the million mark. His vitality is remark-
able, seeing that this year’s two-year-old
list includes 20 of that age by him.
* * * *
An aerial display and a march by
troops are among the features favored
by some of those associated with the
running of the Red Cross meeting at
Randwick in September. It is improb-
able they would swell the funds to any
extent. What the public wishes to see at
Randwick is high-class racing. Give
prize-money on a scale that will draw
good horses and there will be little need
to go beyond that to attract the public.
* * * *
C. S. Howard’s winnings at Santa Anita
in seven years must be a record for an
owner at one track over that period. His
figures are as under:
1940-41 $174,835
1939-40 141,450
1938-39 120,600
1937-38 33,750
1936-37 37,320
1935-36 6,150
1934-35 2,825
$516,930
Seabiscuit, Kayak 11, Mioland and
Porter’s Cap are the principal contributors
to that total, which at the present rate of
exchange would be about £A 157,180.
• ♦ * *
Weight-for-age races attract such poor
fields at meetings in the State of New
York that there are now only two open
to older horses —the Saratoga Cup and
Jockey Club Handicap. Last year the
Saratoga Cup provided a walkover.
Maryland is even worse off, the solitary
w.f.a. race being the Pimlico Special.
America gives very valuable prizes for
two- and three-year-old races, but,
though American writers never tire of
expatiating on the greatness of that
country’s horses, the fact of there
being scarcely any w.f.a. racing for horses
of four or over suggests that after they
are three very few come up to the neces-
sary standard.
* * ♦ *
In Australia it is unusual for any racing
pressman to achieve wealth. It is not
so in England. The estate of the late
A. F. B. Portman, who for 50 years was
editor of the “Horse and Hound” and
was killed as a result of enemy action
last September, was proved at £105,786.
* 4! *
At the end of last year it was whis-
pered that the crack American colt Whirl-
away was occasionally doped, and it was
inferred that the officials shut their eyes
where a “big shot” like owner Warren
Wright was concerned. These rumors
were revived when Whirlaway ran away
with the Kentucky Derby after being
beaten six lengths by Our Boots at nine
furlongs less than a fortnight earlier.
Of course, these rumors reached Wright,
and before the running of the Preakness,
a week later than the Kentucky Derby,
he asked that Whirlaway should be given
both a saliva and urine test after the race
regardless of where he finished. Whirl-
away won by over five lengths, but I
have not read in any American paper
whether he was subjected to either of the
tests requested by his owner.
•jt •i'
In commenting on the destruction of
horses in England, the “Horse and
Hound” said that Mrs. Lambert, of
Lyndhurst, Hants, having been compelled
to kill her horses in order to save the
food, sent a contribution of £lOO to Lord
Beaverbrook, then Minister of Aircraft
Production, for the purchase of a bomb.
The donor estimated that the amount
mentioned represented the value of the
food the horses would have consumed in
normal circumstances.
* * * *
An English writer says that amateur
riders have ever been subject to scath-
ingly facetious remarks, particularly as
when, at a Midlands meeting, onlookers
imagined that one famous amateur had
not been too busy. On returning to the
paddock and dismounting, the jockey
stooped down, felt one of his mount’s
legs, and shook his head dubiously, over
which actions a disgruntled backer ejacu-
lated: “Don’t worry, guv’nor. His legs
are all right. But I’m not so sure about
his teeth. Just see if by any chance he’s
got any left!”
M.Q. and Rafferty
The McNabb, of Lithgow (21.12), had
no trouble whatever disposing of Henry
O’Donnell (14.7) at Carlton Stadium
(Sydney) last week. It was a matter of
shape up and k.o.
* * * *
The Victorians continue to clean up
invaders from above the border, Eddie
Miller (9.1) being the latest casualty in
the rout. He fell a victim to Kid Young
(9.1*) per k.o. in the tenth found of a
12-rounder at West Melbourne Stadium.
* * * *
Efforts to get Ron Richards back into
the ring appear to have succeeded. When
he retired he threw three Australian titles
into the arena, where various hands col-
lected them. Unless he’s been over-
indulging in melon and other easy fruits
since he “retired” he should gather his
discards back again fairly easily. For
a start, he is to meet the chan who laid
hands on the heavyweight title, Billy
Britt.
Footbrawl
More than 20,000 turned out at M.C.G.
on Saturday expecting a close go between
Richmond and Melbourne. Melbourne
ran the Tigers ragged. The only Rich-
mond man who showed out was Titus,
who got five of his side’s eight goals.
Richmond missed its big follower, Dyer,
who was with the Victorian side in Adel-
aide, and the game ended Melbourne
14.24, Richmond 8.13.
Out at Essendon the locals were short
of six of their regulars, but that didn’t
stop them trouncing the disappointing
Footscray side by 15.14 to 9.11. Foot-
scray is repeating its bad old habit of
bolting away at the start of the season
and then folding up like a broken con-
certina when the struggle for the final
four gets tough.
Geelong, at home to Collingwood,
clinched its grip on the wooden spoon by
kicking the day’s lowest score and reso-
lutely insisting that ’Wood double its
score. The dreary affair ended with Col-
lingwood 14.12 to 7.16, and Geelong now
sits in sulky silence at the bottom of the
class.
The sad story of £9 and a single point
was enacted at Fitzroy, where the locals,
inspired by a promise of 10s. each from
a group of barrackers, cantered forth to
what looked like easy money against
North Melbourne. But North, like ’Roy,
has been improving lately, and the startled
half-note chasers found themselves over
two goals behind in the last quarter.
Then followed 25 minutes of the stuff
that giveth the barracker blood-pressure
and laryngitis as Fitzroy went after the
bonus. It was kick for kick, goal for
goal, in a rattling finish, and North pre-
vailed, 18.16 to 18.15.
At South Melbourne the rejuvenated
Carlton team, which had begun to look
like premiers, went down before the
faster Sowth by 16.13 to 14.9, and at
Hawthorn the locals struck everybody
speechless with astonishment by beating
St. Kilda, 13.12-9.15, and thus recording
'their second win for the season.
» * * *
In an inter-State match in Adelaide for
patriotic funds about 23,000 saw Vic-
toria win by 22.9 to S.A.’s 19.17 after a
their second win for the season.
* * ♦ £
In Sydney’s Union Rugby competition
West has achieved a unique record for
the code. It has played 12 matches and
drawn five without winning one. Its
latest draw was a six-all affair against
Gordon.
• •••••
University and East still share the top-
of-the-table position. The Students staged
another last-minute rally to touch off
Drummoyne, two tries, both converted,
giving them a win, 19-13, after they had
been trailing 9-13 with four minutes to go.
East downed Manly 13-3 and was never
in trouble, though the forwards had some
torrid encounters.
Randwick is back in “the four” (East,
’Varsity, Parramatta and ’Wick), but had
many anxious moments opposed to
North. At the final bell the Greens were
behind 18-16, but Gray-Spence had a
penalty kick before the ball was dead,
and raised the flags—l 9-18. Parramatta
and St. George had a ding-dong forward
battle. Parra’s pack and backs were
slightly superior, and gained a 6-nil win.
"" * * * H=
At Sydney Cricket Ground the Soccer
team from Hong Kong, beaten the previ-
ous week, made a reorganised “Australia”
side look cheap, scoring five goals to two.
The Australians were all N.S.W. men.
Their showing recalled the remark of a
South African after a Sydney C.G. Soccer
“test” in other years—“ They couldn’t
beat the Durban Post Office.”


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1056 of 1941.
BETWEEN WILFREDA MINNIE POOLE
(falsely called Wilfreda Minnie Roberts)
Petitioner and
FRANK ROBERTS Respondent
TO FRANK ROBERTS late of Dapto in the
State of New South Wales last known at
No. 3 Gordon Grove Malvern in the State
of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILFREDA
MINNIE POOLE claiming that a ceremony of
marriage was performed between herself and
you has commenced a suit against you in this
Court and is applying to have the marriage an-
nulled on the grounds that at the time that the
said ceremony of marriage was performed you
had been lawfully married to one Margaret
Roberts (formerly Margaret Matthews) and
that the said Margaret Roberts was then still
living and was your lawful wife AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the Twenty-fourth
day of September One thousand nine hundred
and forty-one and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition herein
may be had on application to the under-
signed or his Sydney Agent ALFRED ED.
McINTOSH Solicitor 107-109 Elizabeth Street
Sydney free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-seventh day of June
One thousand nine hundred and forty-one.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
OWEN J. THOMAS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Church Street, Wollongong.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G,
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 146 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
J
$
>"
jutfli
COME TO
SOUTH
AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land where the romance
of the past lends colour and vivid interest
to the present. Modern cities, mountain play-
grounds, sunsplashed beaches, scenic splen-
dour. primitive native life, draw an everlasting
throng to this country, where holidaying is
inexpensive and the costs of modern transport
services quite moderate.
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Agents for South African Railways throughout
Australia and New Zealand,
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Elderly man, wide experience managing
country stores, wants position south Riverina
or north-east Victoria. Available September.
Good refs.—lB97.
To buy back copies of American technical
periodical “Machinery.”—l96o.
To buy The Jungle, by Upton Sinclair. —1947.
To buy copy of Sarah Grand’s Adnam’s
Orchard and two Penguin Books by Ernest
Bramah, Kai Lung Unrolls His Mat and The
Wallet of Kai Lung. —l94s.
To buy a “B.H.P. Shapes and Sections Hand-
book.” —1922.
To buy Tiburon, by Kylie Tennant. —1936.
Information Sought.
Origins and meanings of the Australian
place-names Drummoyne, Coonamble, Pyr-
mont, Artarmon? —1385.
Drummoyne was named after William
Wright’s home, Drummoyne House, on the
Parramatta River. Coonamble was the aboriginal
name of J. R. Patterson’s cattle station in that
district and the town was named after it.
Artarmon was part of the grant to William
Gore, who was Provost Marshal in 1806, and
is believed to be named after an estate in the
British Isles. Gore Hill was included in this
grant. Pyrmont was named in 1806 after a
German spa, as it was such “a pure and un-
contaminated spring.”
HP * * *
At what age are police mounts retired and
sold from the Victorian Police Force? —1123.
Police horses owned by the Victorian de-
partment are retained until they are unservice-
able, when they are condemned and destroyed.
They are rarely sold, except, for instance,
when for some reason an animal is considered
unsuitable for departmental purposes. If young
and sound, it usually brings a fairly high price
at auction.
* * * *
I have a dividing-fence trouble with a neigh-
bor. What is the legal form of notification to
him of my intention to fence, and a brief outline
of the proper steps for me to take. Is it correct
that six months’ notice must be given and that
the work must not be done before the expira-
tion of that time? —ls3l.
You can do your own half pf the fence,
but cannot complete his half until six months
after notice. Notice should be in the following
form; “Take notice that I, Bill Smith, being
the owner of land described as (describe land)
adjoining land owned by you, Jack Johnson, de-
scribed as (describe adjoining land), hereby re-
quire you to assist in equal proportions with
me to make a dividing fence between our
respective properties and also take notice that
in default of your so doing for six months
after receiving this notice 1 intend to complete
the same and hold you responsible for the cost
of one-half of the said dividing fence.”
h= * * *
Particulars of the Queensland Women’s Land
Army?— l9s9.
It has been going for over a year and trains
both city and country girls, the latter living
for either four or five weeks —according to the
speed with which they absorb their training—
at the Land Army farm at Indooroopilly.
The farm is in the charge of a practical farmer,
whose wife cares for the girls, doing their wash-
ing, ironing and cooking for them. At the end
of their training girls must guarantee to take
a position on the farm to which they are
allotted at a wage of 20s. to 255. a week and
keep. Tuition is free, and girls are charged
15s. a week for living on the training farm,
although that charge is eliminated if the appli-
cant proves she is unable to pay. No uniform
is required —the fewest and simplest clothes
with which the trainee can manage being all
that is necessary, plain, tidy working clothes
and comfortable low-heeled working shoes pre-
ferred. A trainee should also bring her own
towels, three small sheets, two pillowslips and
what blankets she requires. The training farm
is about five miles from the Brisbane G.P.O.
For further information, write to the secretary,
Women’s Auxiliary Transport Service, Gray’s
Building, 240 George-street, Brisbane.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible by “connecting” two stars
close to the Southern Cross to obtain a true
north-south line? (2) Would such a line be
true according to meridian or magnetic poles?
(3) If our sun is “pulling” the earth through
space at a terrific speed (Sir J. Jeans), would not
direction be purely relative as far as we are
concerned? (4) Hence, would not a true north-
south line be an impossibility unless the “con-
nected” stars were travelling parallel and in
exact accordance with our sun ? —1705.
(1) Going from the head of the Southern
Cross to the star at the foot, and then pro-
ceeding about four times its length, we
reach a point in the sky which is very close
to the southern point of the heavens. This
point will always be due south. (2) This direc-
tion would be true south, not magnetic south.
(3) The direction so found would be, of course,
relative to objects on the earth, and is
governed by the earth’s rotation. (4) Since the
stars are so extremely distant the movement of
the earth with the sun makes no difference to
their apparent directions.
* * * *
(1) When and where was “Les Cloches de
Corneville” first produced in Australia ? (2)
A few particulars of Shiel Barry, the Austra-
lian actor who took the part of Gaspard the
miser ? —l5lO.
(1) On November 23, 1878, at the Academy
of Music, Melbourne, under direction of Henry
Bracy. (2) Shiel Barry was born in
Parramatta (N.S.W.) and in 1859, when 16 years
of age, played his first part on the stage of the
Parramatta Theatre. He later travelled with
various companies in Australia, and went to
England, where he toured the provinces. He
made his London debut as the Doctor in sup-
port of Dion Boucicault in “The Rapparee”
at the Princess Theatre on September 9, 1870.
He played there for some time, and later
accompanied Dion Boucicault to U.S.A. Later
he toured the West Indies. He returned to
England in 1875, and on September 4 created
Michael Feeney in “The Shaughraun” at Drury
Lane Theatre, with Boucicault in the title role.
Later toured the provinces with Chas. Sulli-
van in Irish plays. On February 28, 1878, he
made a great hit as Gaspard in the original
English production of “Les Cloches” at the
Folly Theatre, London, which ran 705 nights,
including its transfer to the Globe Theatre.
Afterwards he bought the provincial rights of
the opera and toured it for years in the U.K.
In 1889 he played the Demon in “Cinderella”
(played by Minnie Palmer) at Her Majesty’s
Opera House, London. In 1890 he helped the
New Zealand composer, Luscombe Searelle, to
stage his opera of “The Black Rover” (played
in Australia as “Isadora”) at the Globe Theatre,
London. In this opera he played Chichanque,
an Indian chief, which was specially written up
for him. He died on March 13, 1897. By his
marriage with Rachel Pocock he had a son,
also called Shiel Barry, born in 1882, who
acted for many years on the London stage with
Tree, Waller and other managers.
* * * *
Re article on gallstone (B . 14/5/’4I) please
give details of proper method of deep breathing
to promote movement of the diaphragm ? —1659.
Exercises are best done at bedtime and in
the morning before dressing, since all tight
clothing renders them useless. Standing before
a looking-glass, the subject holds arms out
horizontally level with shoulders, palms facing
glass. In this position, while taking as full
a breath as possible, arms should be stretched
away from body to their utmost extent. It will
be found that the deeper the breath the more
the arms can be stretched, and the more the
abdomen sinks in. Arms and shoulders should
now be moved round until the right arm is
straight in front and the left arm straight be-
hind, and then be swung back again. Exercise
should be repeated five or six times.
* * * *
Cure for warts? —1528.
Depends on number, location and type.
They can, of course, be cured by removing or
destroying all the wart tissue. Surgical methods,
including electric needles, are satisfactory, but
leave a small raw surface which must be pro-
tected from infection. These methods also
leave some scar tissue and, when many warts
are present, are time-consuming and often im-
practicable. Strong acids are dangerous and
frequently cause more destruction than is neces-
sary and sores which are slow to heal. Such
chemical treatment should be given by a doctor.
Various solutions may be injected round the
warts to cause the death of the wart cells by
blocking the blood supply. Radium and X-rays
are used with considerable, but not uniform,
success; such treatment can be given only by
specialists. In all large clinics for skin dis-
eases, either X-rays, radium or 'some form of
electro-surgery is the treatment chosen for most
warts at the present time.
* * * *
Correct proportions of beeswax {or other
wax) and Castile soap used in making boot
polish consisting of these ingredients with
genuine turps and hot water? —ll72.
One pound of beeswax, 2oz. pearlash, |lb.
good yellow soap (no need for Castile), 1| pint
turpentine, two tablespoons methylated spirit,
enough water to make mixture correct con-
sistency. Boil pearlash in a little water, scrape
into it the wax and soap, stir well till melted
(adding more water if needed), allow to cool
to warm, take away from stove, stir in turpen-
tine and lastly the spirit. Mix well by stirring
and, if necessary, add hot water to make a
smooth thick paste.
Brief Answers.
V.E.M.: Paul Jacklin is not now associated
with the Commission... ,J.M.; Victor Sil-
vester’s ballroom orchestra is, as far as can
be ascertained, composed of drums, saxophone,
piano, violins and bass.... J.W.C.; Coin is
(if metal is gold) a spade guinea of George 111,
and date would be 1791, not 1701. Value
would be its metallic gold value by weight.
If it is not gold it is a brass game counter in
imitation of a spade guinea. These counters
are worth about one penny a dozen. The
nearest watchmaker and jeweller will settle the
question of its metal... .S.W.: When mixing
beeswax and turpentine for polishing purposes
allow one quart turpentine to each pound of
wax. A little boiled linseed oil stirred in while
mixing is an improvement. Best way to blend
is to stand vessel containing the wax in an-
other of hot water, bring to the boil, then
take it outside and add turps, as vapor is very
inflammable. Stir constantly while mixing....
S.S.: The job can’t be done... .E.H.S.: The
N. S. Wales Technical Education Branch pro-
vides no course in watchmaking—most people
learn the work in the trade. There are books
on the subject... .M.L.E.: The complete list
of reserved occupations may be inspected at
any Area Office, or is obtainable at each sub-
Treasury or from the Government Printer, Can-
berra. Soap manufacture is included in the
revised list of September, 1940. Amendments
to revised lists are made from time to time as
the necessity arises... .T.P.: As the Federal
Income Tax Act for 1941-42 has not yet been
enacted, no information is available as to any
alteration that may be made in the deductions
allowable for children... .J.H.McL.: You do
not say what capacity the batteries are, but if
of the ordinary 100 ampere-hour type of car
battery they will run the refrigerator motor
without any trouble. The current drain of
3j amps, gives a comfortable margin. Theoreti-
cally, they would last about 25 hours on one
charge... .F.S.: The A.C. end of a rotary con-
verter delivers only a third of the applied D.C.
voltage, and the usual method is to use a step-
up transformer to get the necessary 240 volts.
The usual type of motor for rotary-converter
work generally has a large number of commu-
tator bars, and i-h.p. should be ample for
your needs. Filters are also very necessary to
smooth out the A.C. hum and the commutator
ripple... .A.G.: Origin and meaning of names
can be checked at the Public Library....
J.W.G.: Files of The Bulletin are available
to anyone who wishes to go through them....
H.M.; Any good school history book will pro-
vide the information... .J.W.F.: W. H. Bailey,
of England, makes Thirlmere water motors;
don’t know of any Australian make of the type.
Size of dynamo depends on head of water
available —a 75-watt dynamo requires 6700 foot-
pounds, equivalent to 351 b. pressure or a head
of 80ft., the volume of water being 12 gallons
a minute... .5.8.: Consult the exchange branch
of the Commonwealth Bank in Sydney; men-
tion this paper... .J.R.: No in every case....
S.McC.: The occurrence of copper in alluvial
ground is most unusual; definite advice as to
payable contents could not be given without
knowing depth, nature and extent of the ground.
At the present price, ground containing one per
cent, copper would be worth about 16s. a ton
gross. One per cent.copper is equivalent to 22.41 b.
per ton of alluvial material. (2) If the copper
is present in the native state, any of the methods
usually applicable to gold washing should be
suitable. Suggest you apply to the Mines
Department of the State in which the deposit
is situated. (3) Refer to the Chamber of Manu-
factures, O’Connell-street, Sydney... .W. 8.:
The matter was covered by the reply to a
question in the House of Representatives on
May 18, 1939, when it was stated that “the
Commonwealth Bank was not directly con-
cerned in financing the construction of the East-
West railway. The total cost of construction
of that railway was £8,470,000. Of this
£1,826,000 was provided from revenue and
£6,644,000 from the works loan fund. Of the
amount provided from the works loan fund,
approximately £5,300,000 was borrowed from
the Australian notes fund, the balance being
borrowed partly from other Commonwealth
funds and partly from the public. The greater
portion of the notes-fund moneys loaned to
the Treasury for this purpose represented profits
derived from interest on investments. These
transactions took place before the note issue
was transferred to the Commonwealth Bank
in 1920”... .H.T.R.: You would appear, on
facts stated, to have an action for breach of
warranty. Consult a good solicitor... .J.G.H.:
He may apply to the Equity Court by sum-
mons under the Encroachment of Buildings Act
for an order fixing the compensation payable
to the adjoining owner and requiring him to
transfer the land encroached upon to the owner
of the building C.R.R.: Not aware of any
such statutory protection... .J.S.: British born.
M.C.G.: Yes E.M.W.; Information
too scanty. Can only advise you to see yet
another solicitor R.8.M.: Depends on terms
of lease. If lease is silent, he has no such
right... .D.D. and J.S.: See “Whitewash,” page
30 of The Bulletin book Handy Hints for the
Farm... .P.A.: (1) Dipping the blade in hot
water will clean it and certainly won’t do any
harm. (2) If polished surface has been affected,
nothing can be done... .H.F.R.: It is not
necessary to issue a receipt, but if you do it
must be stamped... .J.F.L.; It becomes the
property of the survivor, but is also liable to
probate duty... .J.McD.: Impossible to advise
without seeing contract. The usual rule is that
a debtor must seek out his creditor, and it is
no defence to say that the creditor has not
come to receive payment... .A.R.: (1) Five
per cent, on first £lOO, three per cent, on
balance. (2) Vendor £6 3s. 9d., purchaser
£8 ss. (3) Vendor £3 35., purchaser £1 11s. 6d.
—to be taken into account if sale completed
by conveyance within three months... .H.McC.:
(1) and (2) Yes P.M.: Development of chil-
blains may be prevented to some extent by
wearing thick shoes, warm stockings and gloves,
and especially by active exercise. Calcium lac-
tate (15 grains three times daily for two or
three days, with parathyroid extract, one-tenth
of a grain daily) has proved valuable in many
cases. .. .J.W.: Such courses are forbidden in
N. S. Wales. In any case, you are worrying
unnecessarily... .N.H.F.; (1) and (2) Surgery
offers the only cure. (3) Fee is a matter of
arrangement with the surgeon. (4) and (5)
Operation could be performed in either Sydney
or Perth and in either a public hospital or
privately... .R.M.K.: The commercial prepara-
tion known as “Fasteeth” (any chemist) is of
use in preventing excessive movement....
A.A.H.: (1) Yes; and the self-administration of
thyroid gland is dangerous for other reasons.
(2) Fellow’s syrup, three times a day after
meals. (3) Ordinary diet. (4) Tennis or golf,
by preventing too much preoccupation with
your health, should be helpful.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused;
L.S.: —
God save our King, we loyally sing,
And Britishers for ever cling.
S.P.:
The mount of blood and steel he’d built would not
suffice
To cope with yeomen filthy bribes shall ne’er entice.
Ah, England, land of heroism and great deeds,
Do not tremble, just keep faith in the man who leads.
H.M.8.:
Herr Hitler plans, we all can see.
To swallow Europe ; later,
To gobble up the world piecemeal,
And reign, a World-Dictator.
Come, join the dance, free nations all.
And push and pull Mr. Skater
On the thin-ice of the two-front war,
The would-be World-Dictator !
. ...G.C.: “While yet the Boche was clothed
in pells.” Hell’s pells, presumably... T.S.:
Promise in the verse... .J.F.: The “do’ed" did
for it... .L.P.: Their sincerity’s their only merit.
. ...V.L.: There is a certain doleful inevita-
bility about the way the breeze follows the trees,
the dales the tales and the birds the herds....
E.S.: Neither quite does it... .D.O’D.t All
pomes ending at the pearly gates are refused
admittance... .E.R.M.: No use if it’s been pub-
lished overseas... J.P.G.: Try it on the girl....
J. 8.8.: At “thick’ning loom” it fell with a
sick’ning thud H.0.M.: Poets all over the
world would be grateful for another rhyme
to “beauty” and “duty”; but not at the cost of
pronouncing “virtute” “virtuty”... .K.C.: The
grin gradually faded H.M.; You’re com-
peting with Henley and Kipling... .E.H.M.:
Try a religious journal... .L.S.: Up and at
’em! :
The hoodlum who offends by sporting muddy Shoes
On tram and train seat cannot be excused;
Also those ill-mannered persons who cross their long
legs,
Tripping one over, ne’er a pardon begs.
Then there’s the chewing-gum fiend, making grimaces.
Whilst riding in ’bus at opp’site places.
I note flappers in public combing their hair,
Apply powder and lipstick for to look fair ;
It sure is very bad taste and all should decry
Such boudoir secrets to the public’s eye.
. ...N.O’K.: First it sizzles; but then it
fizzles C.N. and R.W.T.: “The ear-piercing
horns of motor-cars; the clash of glasses in
the public bars; the yell, yell, yell of the
newsboys.” Ah, yes; and the well, well, well of
the editors... .G.H.R.: It’s off our beat
M.L.: Too 10ng.... J.A J.: That yarn has been
doing the rounds for years... .F.T.W.: Some
good stuff there, but as a whole it’s too senti-
mental 1.5.: Still not close enough
R.W.L.: “Impossible?” Yes... .G.T.D.: We
always go out when a “dainty little fairy”
comes in... .R.G.W.: “Is there anything I
could write to suit you?” Haven’t seen it yet.
. ...8.R.: So you “dabble in short stories.”
We don’t... .A.F.: Bright; try a woman’s
magazine... .T.J.E.: “Black Sheep” has been
pretty well shorn by other writers....
D.R.McC.: You’ve a long, long way to go.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.R.H.: Picture is too crowded... .E.M.;
The smudgy landlady indulging in feeble back-
chat with scared boarder doesn’t interest us.
A.S.G.: Very stiff and angular, and those
thin scratches are useless for reproduction....
D.McD.: Medium scrapbook stuff... .J.E.C.;
Humorless, idea-less and badly drawn, but other-
wise can’t be faulted... .M.E.: It might be a
rough-out for an Egyptian frieze, an A.R.P.
warden frying an egg during blackout test or a
steer being pulled out of a well —we await your
elucidation... .F.J.8.: Variation of an old, old
gag... .C.C.D.: Very hard and wiry, but you
look like improving... .P.C.: Dog with straight
hind legs and Tamworth-sow tail being chased
by fat man in underpants should have made us
laugh, but it didn’t P.A.: Away with your
Kentucky hillbillies!... .A.8.C.: Wait till you
get to X Y Z in the art school and we’ll
be interested in you.


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets, contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
B2I
GLAND
TONIC
WRITE
TO-DAY
T. JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . , 500 watts
6AM Northam . . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
BRAN DAt ERA
m
%
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. B&ANOA.DKK * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM, ENG
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
All Types of Luggage Stocked
is®
m
m
mm
OVERNIGHT BAGS
Calf Leathers, Outside Pockets.
English Frame . . . . 45/-
C. E. KITCHING
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
PTV.,
LTD.,
SUDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
They asked us to “Meet Boston
Blackie”: —
“Pleased to meet you, Blackie.”
“Yeah.”
“Up at Sydney Capitol these days?”
“Yeah.”
“Got a reputation as a safebreaker?”
“Yeah.”
“Do a bit of amateur ’tec work on the
side?”
“Yeah.”
“Track down the gang, save the navy
bomb-sight, outwit the inspector and get
the gurl?”
“Yeah.”
“Nice work, Blackie.”
“Yeah.”
♦ * * *
That arresting psychological study
“Night Must Fall” is echoed in a current
film at Sydney Embassy, “Poison Pen.”
The tranquillity of a little English village
is suddenly shattered by filthy, gossiping,
anonymous letters, generally containing
just sufficient truth or common rumor to
root them in the recipient’s mind ; the
effect on the stolid, unreasoning mentality
of the villagers is skilfully developed to
something a little short of mass hysteria,
culminating in the suspicion, persecution
and eventual suicide of one woman, and
the murder of another villager by a dull-
witted laborer distracted by letters about
his wife. Although the quality of the
film is mainly in its dramatic value, its
weakness is the attempt to make it some-
thing of a mystery by trying to conceal
the writer of the letters —fairly obvious
about a quarter of the way—and so, to
a certain extent, handicapping the histri-
onic ability of the player. Flora Robson
makes an excellent job of the role as the
vicar’s spinster sister whose constant re-
pressions and forced interest in the dirty,
uninteresting little lives of the villagers
drive her to the insanity of the letters ;
but she could have made an even better
job of the part if, instead of having to
conceal it for more than three-quarters
of the film, she had had the full running
time to show the development of the
vicious, insane streak in her make-up.
She could have done it, and the role,
psychologically accurate, would be worth
it.
An excellent feature of the few English
films that are coming out these days is
the splendid supporting casts they manage
to rake up. Recalling a few shows —
“The Stars Look Down,” “On the Night
of the Fire,” “Proud Valley,” and others
—the minor roles were so perfectly cast
and acted that many of them would have
been worth developing out to a complete
film. The same applies to “Poison Pen”
—the stolid oaf who murders the grocer
in a drunken fury brought on by anony-
mous letters about his wife and the
“foreigner” from another part of Eng-
land who is suspected of writing the
letters and who hangs herself on the
church bell rope are both excellently
played and would have both made arrest-
ing tragedies.
* * * *
In “Strawberry Blonde,” at Sydney
Regent, Rita Hayworth plays the title
role, and, film being in black and white,
the shade has to be taken for granted.
Certainly she has all the other features
of the species and turns them on to good
account. The show sets out as a tiptop
comedy, with all concerned making a
good job of portraying, with a touch of
burlesque, familiar types and manners of
30 or 40 years back the strawberry
blonde, with the boys lining up outside
the barber shop and whistling to her,
James Cagney as a rough-and-ready Irish
youth always willing to peel off and shape
up with a straight back and knuckles
down, Olivia De Havilland as the less
glamorous friend of the s.b., who bags
the Irish youth. As usual, the filmsmiths
decide that the moral of the tale should
not be treated with levity, and for a while
the film takes a sloppy sentimental turn,
but it picks up again towards the finish
and rounds off as well as it began.
* * * *
In “Yes, Madam,” at Sydney Embassy,
there are some of the purest bits of sheer
damnfoolery and fallabout seen for many
a moon. It’s about a couple of cousins
who inherit £BO,OOO apiece provided they
can each stay one month in domestic
service, but there’s nary a serious thought
or moment in the film. They land their
jobs with moneyed sassiety in the form of
a button baron and his sister, and they
“Give us a bob for a shave, lady."
Donald Meek, Hedy Lamarr and James Stewart in “Come, Live With
Me,” at Sydney St. James.
hold ’em in opposition to a third cousin
who lands all the boodle if either of ’em
gets the sack. There’s none so deft as the
English filmsmiths at making light, slight
and entertaining comedies, and this one
is as light, slight and entertaining as any
of ’em.
* * $ *
Current newsreels and shorts include
“From the Four Corners” —a well-made
propaganda film based on the meeting in
London of a Digger, a Canadian, a
Maorilander with Leslie Howard, and
brief discussion of what they left behind
in the home countries and why they left
it —and a striking film account of the
S’African war effort and some good shots
of the Union’s soldiers —fine young
giants. Both good items.
STAGE AND CONCERT
One of the things they nearly always
do well at Sydney Minerva is murder.
That goes for any theatre, because the
mere fact that there’s a body about the
stage, or that somebody is about to be
a body, inevitably creates tension. So
that, even if Aileen Britton didn’t act
as well as she does, the matter of whether
or not Hal Thompson is going to be
successful in his attempts to poison her
would sustain the interest in “The Two
Mrs. Carrolls.” Miss Britton makes such
an appealing and convincing victim that
the piece becomes something more than
a blood-curdler. Hal Thompson gets by
pretty well with his difficult role, but
lacks something of polish and something
of depth to convince as a ladykfiler who
really kills ’em. Charles Kilburn,
Dorothy Dunkley, Diana Parnham, Ben
Lewin and Kathleen Robinson give good
support; as also does William Constable’s
magnificent set.
Whitehall Productions are trying two
experiments at the Minerva. They’re run-
ning two plays a night—currently “Spring
Tide” at 6 p.m. and “The Two Mrs.
Carrolls” at 8.30 ; and they’re co-opting
a number of Sydney’s best amateur
players to assist the professionals. Both
good notions.
* t- * *
In pre-war days many an imported
foreign singer filled the Melbourne Town
Hall for extended seasons without hav-
ing one whit more talent than Heddle
Nash, the English tenor, who spread a
magnificent repast of music at the British
Musical Society’s rooms the other even-
ing. But Nash is laboring under the dis-
advantage of living in Australia. This
did not make his singing of Mozart’s “II
Mio Tesoro” or the Dream from Mas-
senet’s “Manon” any less musically de-
lightful. As an interpreter of Handel he
was outstanding, and he also proved a
first-rate Wagner exponent. Nor was he
any less attractive in his English ditties.
He has a voice that is sonorous, flexible
and expressive and deserves a bigger
audience.
■¥ * * #
Billed as from Broadway, Melbourne
Tivoli’s latest bill, “Ballyhoo,” is a stew
of acrobats, jugglers, dancers, singers
(alleged), lovelies and comedians, served
hot and steaming by local and imported
talent to the perfect satisfaction of packed
houses nightly. Astutest item on the pro-
gramme is Eddie Gordon, a dumb cycling
comedian who, apart from hisses, snorts
and wheezes, never utters a word but
succeeds in conveying his meaning, if
any, far more effectively than the most
voluble of his fellows. Syd Beck, only
slightly more vocal, runs him a good
second and reaches almost the limit in
those anatomical distortions which vaude-
ville audiences like. Page and Nona
make a notable contribution to the
science of dancing on the tightwire, and
Raymond Baird makes another to musi-
cal history by playing two saxophones at
once where one is too much; but he
turns in an astonishingly good perform-
ance of the “William Tell” overture on
a single instrument. The indigenous
Veterans of Variety have been seen and
heard before, but are none the worse for
that.
* * * *
Sydney Tiv. complains that the vaude-
ville acts in its current show were
described (B. 9/7/’4l) as being “all good,
though mainly revivals.” Actually three
out of nine acts are revivals, and, as
“mainly” implied a clear majority, 33|
p.c. doesn’t count. It was said, however,
that they were “all good,” and in recon-
ciliation the Tiv. is offered a peacemaking
pint from this office’s emblazoned beer-
mug—with a 33j p.c. head.
ARTBURSTS
Harold Abbott’s “Dulcie,” a portrait
with a touch of the precise, icy beauty
of a Lambert, is outstanding among the
handful of oils and pencil drawings on
show at the Macquarie Galleries, Syd-
ney. The same quality, that of a genuine
and careful painter, is revealed in
“Hydrangeas” (a bit too chilly) and in
“Class at R.A. School.” Pieces in Mr.
Abbott’s other manner, adopted from the
American Grant Wood, are not so suc-
cessful: to the extent that sociology
creeps into the portraying of carefully-
selected country “types” against carefully-
selected country backgrounds, the true
artistic impulse goes out of them ; flesh
tones and the real individuality of the
sitter are intellectualised into harmony
with the equally artificial greys and fawns
and blues of the landscape. In the por-
trait of “Helen,” a young girl against a
farm background, art won a lucky vic-
tory over self-conscious “documentary.”
* * *
Harley C. Griffiths reports the results
of his latest struggles with the problems
of light and shade in 61 canvases at Mel-
bourne Velasquez Galleries. Large still-
life, comprehending a multitude of
objects, alternate with landscapes so tiny
that some of them could be accommo-
dated on a postcard. Not that their size
is anything against them —Whistler,
Bonington, Constable, Jan Steen, Corot
and most of the big men loved to paint
tiny little sketches and some of them are
regarded as more valuable than their
more pretentious works. Size has no-
thing to do with art, and, in fact, present
observer liked Mr. Griffiths’s midgets
better than his more expansive works.
The portrait of sculptor Orlando Dutton
looks alive.
* sfc * Jj?
On view at the Hotel Australia are
slums, trees, a bottle-o, an Arab who
looks like Henry VIII and other items
in oil by S. Herman. The mixture of
grime and garishness was too much for
this viewer, but it might be worth put-
ting on record that one Sydney critic
found “remarkable strength and import-
ance” in some microscopic nudes, appar-
ently painted on wood and, in two cases,
lacking faces. Wait till somebody paints
a horse without legs!
“F.S.”: Apropos of those learned
Americans who have issued a modern
version of the New Testament (B.
25/6/’4l), I daresay that when they have
rested from their labors they will have
a go at Shakspeare. When Shakspeare
said “Now is the winter of our dis-
content made glorious summer by this
sun of York,” he meant something—
he had an emotion and endeavored to
give back that emotion in terms of his
medium, which, as Tolstoy said, is all
that art is. No doubt the American
gentlemen would make it “The Duke of
York arrived today and was given an
enthusiastic reception by the loyal towns-
folk.”


THE SER VICE MAN
Dark Days for Russia.
“Ek Dum”: The German campaign
against Russia is running the usual course
of German campaigns in this war. There
were initial terrifying drives, as in France
and elsewhere ; a sudden lull while the
High Command consolidated its forces ;
then savage scouring thrusts aimed at
administering the coup de grace.
During this period, as usual, press and
radio were unreasoningly optimistic. They
took Moscow bulletins for gospel and
repeated all the old stories about the
might of the Russian war machine,
meanwhile shouting that Britain —fighting
for her existence and needing every ounce
of sea-power and aerial strength to guard
her cities and ships and break the U-boat
offensive —should “send help to the
U.S.S.R.”
The offensive against Russia began on
June 22. By June 29 the enemy had driven
a long spearhead to the vicinity of Minsk,
nearly 200 miles from the nearest point
on the German-Polish border. He had
virtually taken one-fifth of Lithuania
and the important railway junction at
Dvinsk (Daugaupils). He had advanced
in the south some distance, and gener-
ally had built up a vast salient about 600
miles in diameter between Lwow (Lem-
berg), Minsk and the Dvina. He was
pushing forward in the Minsk region to
extend his line on each side of the
spearhead, which came to rest on the
Beresina, a river which Napoleon had
such cause to remember.
Gradually the German columns wheeled
into a front which was first established
between Borisov and Bobruisk, then
extended to Lepel, further north. They
spread like a plague of locusts over the
Baltic States and pushed out a tentacle
to grab Ostrov and Pskov, on the way
to the key railways of the north and
Leningrad.
Finland meantime showed little activity.
Swedish reports said that the Finns had
driven across the base of the Kola Penin-
sula in the extreme north, cutting it off
from the rest of Russia and capturing
Murmansk, but there was no official con-
firmation.
As was pointed out before (B. 9/7/’4l),
the pause on the Beresina, the Dvina and
the Dnieper was just as consistent with
consolidation and creation of a new series
of supply bases as with the holding up
of the advance by Russian opposition.
The Russians, however, insisted that they
had held up the advance. Newspaper
correspondents and commentators the
world over rejoiced at the apparent ex-
haustion of German driving power. The
fact that at the end of the third week the
deepest point of the German advance was
over 400 miles from where it started did
not quench the fires of optimism. The
map showed that by July 11 the enemy
had driven an ugly-looking bulge into the
U.S.S.R. north of the Pripet marshes.
He had all Lithuania, most of Latvia,
and most of Estonia, together with every
inch of ground which the Russians had
taken from the Poles and most of Buko-
vina, which they had taken from the
Rumanians —about 130,000 sq. miles.
Although it was pointed out that the
Luftwaffe had been smashed to bits, and
that “after three weeks not a single city
of any strategic importance on Russian
soil was in the hands of the Germans,”
cool-headed military observers were in-
clined to reflect that the retreat of the
Russians —even assuming that they had no
defence lines on their “new” Polish terri-
tory—had looked like a horse race beside
the measured retirement of the 8.E.F.,
isolated on its flanks and deserted by
its allies, in Belgium.
Moscow issued a claim that the Ger-
mans had lost 1,000,000 men, 3000 tanks
and 2300 ’planes in 21 days. This was
evidently a reply to a German claim that
over 400,000 Russian prisoners, mainly
from the armies of the Bialystok (Polish)
area, had been counted and that Russian
casualties must be at least as many more.
The High Command placed the Bialy-
stok count at 323,928 prisoners, including
several generals and divisional com-
manders, and the total Russian material
destroyed on all fronts at 7615 tanks and
4432 guns, plus 6233 Soviet ’planes. The
Russians retorted that their casualties
had been under 250,000 in killed,
wounded and missing, and that they had
lost 2200 tanks and 1900 ’planes.
On Friday the Russians said they had
brought down 68 German ’planes, with
a loss of only 18 of their own ; on the
previous day they had brought down 28
German machines and lost six:
The best German pilots have been shot
over Britain and Russia. The Germans
are now using raw youths whose main
object is to avoid combat.
Halfway through July 12 Moscow
Radio declared that “after stopping the
German Panzer attack in its tracks,
the Russian armies have begun a counter-
offensive on all important fronts.”
This followed a broadcast announcing
the division of the fronts into three
—the northern, under Klim Voro-
shilov, former C.-in-C. and now Vice-
Commissar for Defence ; the centre and
most important front under Timoshenko,
the present C.-in-C.; and the south under
Simeon Budenny, featured as the creator
of the Russian cavalry.
In this, there was something disturbing
in that a reorganisation was necessary at
a crucial moment when unsettlement of
command should have been the last thing
thought of in a well-planned machine.
Evidently the job had become too large
for one man to handle, or the zones found
it difficult to continue in contact.
Losovsky, Vice-Commissar of Foreign
Affairs, known to some Australians as
their tutor in revolutionary methods while
he was secretary of the Red International,
took the air. He said:
The real war is only beginning More
than 1,000,000 Germans have been killed
and wounded since the invasion began on
June 22. Germany’s difficulties are in-
creasing and she is heading for catas-
trophe We will never give the Germans
a chance to take breath. We will counter-
attack so soon as they pause.
He accused the Germans —according to
the Moscow English version—of “using
poisonous substances,” which was inter-
preted to mean gas. This the Germans
“flatly denied.” They said that they had
not used, and would not use, gas on any
front.
About the time that Losovsky spoke
an Order of the Day was issued by Man-
nerheim in Finland. He said that he had
sworn during the last war that he would
never sheathe the sword until the last
inch of Finland was free and this was
“now about to be realised.” A little after-
wards he broadcast a welcome to Ger-
mans “joining their Finnish brothers at
the front.”
Swiftly on the heels of this, at midnight
on July 12, came a special communique
issued from Hitler’s headquarters. The
Stalin Line, it said, had been pierced at
all important points. The Germans had
pushed across the border and were driv-
ing towards Leningrad on the north, east
of Lake Peipus, and only 150 miles from
the old capital. They had crossed the
Dnieper and Beresina on the Bobruisk
front and were 200 kilometres (125 miles)
east of Minsk —which meant that they
must hold the Orsha railway junction.
They claimed to have captured Vitebsk to
the north on Friday (July 11), showing
that their new line had considerable length.
They had, according to their statement,
therefore, held Vitebsk and these other
positions some hours before the immi-
nent counter-offensive had been an-
nounced by Moscow.
Further south the German armies, it
was asserted at Berlin, had pushed on
120 miles from Novograd Volynsk and
were “just outside Kiev,” the capital of
the Ukraine. Germans, Slovaks and Hun-
garians were, it was said, chasing fleeing
and broken Russian armies out of
Galicia. Germans and Rumanians, under
Marshal List, had crossed the Dniester on
a wide front —and were therefore threat-
ening Odessa.
The Germans alleged that as they went
the Russians, living up to their destruc-
tive policy, were showing no regard for
civilian property, wiping out everything
“in the most unscrupulous manner,
scarcely behaving like civilised peoples,
even destroying and poisoning cattle and
poultry.” But such measures are war-
ranted by the emergency and by Russian
history.
From Saturday onwards, Berlin Radio
claimed that Moscow was in a panic,
that the Soviet Government had noti-
fied foreign diplomats of its impending
departure from Moscow, and that mass
executions were taking place there at the
rate of 1000 per day.
Berlin made astonishing claims on.
Monday morning. It asserted that the
Stalin Line had proved to be 30-
odd miles deep; that it had been
smashed at every decisive point;
that it “could be safely said that
complete victory was now assured”;
and that the result of the new battle
would be comparable with that of the
breaking of the Weygand Line in France.
The immediate consequences, it was
asserted, were the crossing of the
difficult river systems of the border
country, the entry all along the
line into country inside all im-
portant Russian defences, the impend-
ing occupation of Kiev, an advance to
Vitebsk (an important strategic point on
the Leningrad - Kiev main railway),
an advance a little further north
to the environs of Polotsk and
beyond Orsov in the development of
the final phase of the surrounding of
Leningrad, and the entry into the
Ukraine across the Dniester —vital both
in a surrounding movement to nutcrack
the Donau Basin and to cut off the Black
Sea ports. The Moscow communique on
Sunday admitted that there had been stub-
born fighting in the Pskov, Vitebsk and
Novograd Volynsk areas on Saturday,
but stated that there had been “no im-
portant change on the front” ; that there
had been no major operations on Satur-
day night, and that a mechanised regi-
ment of Germans had been annihilated
and 102 German ’planes brought down
against eight Russian ones. The Ger-
mans claimed that Saturday’s Russian
losses of ’planes were 188 —163 in com-
bat and by A.A. guns and the rest de-
stroyed on the ground.
Unfortunately, a reference to fighting
round Vitebsk was admission enough of
the German penetration of the river sys-
tem in the north-central area. And there
was no mention by Moscow of the com-
munique from Hitler’s personal head-
quarters, which certainly called for a
vigorous commentary if salient statements
in it were untrue.
If only a fourth of the German claims
are true, the situation (July 14) is
ugly. Several deep salients have been
driven into Russia, including three which
reach for Leningrad, Moscow and Kiev.
Between the drives in deep pockets are
Russian armies which may possibly be
trapped like those of Bialystok and of
France and Yugoslavia. All the central
drives may presently merge, or, if the
great central one on Moscow outstrips
the rest in distance and maintains its
present weight, it may widen and become
like a huge mechanised blade which could
be used to flail either north or south and
cut European Russia to ribbons, exiling
whatever parts of the population and
the Red Army that can escape its thresh-
ing to the east and the north. And vast
quantities of oil, coal, grain, timber,
minerals and especially iron, together
with electric power, may soon lie under
Hitler’s hand. Always supposing that the
enemy is telling even portion of the truth.
It is, of course, not too late for the
Russians to rally under their present or
other leaders. They are a tough and re-
silient people and, unlike all the other
countries which the Nazis have over-
whelmed, have vast territories to retreat
to. More than once in their history an
enemy has apparently completely defeated
them and then found the tables turned.
Napoleon looked to be in an even better
position than Hitler looks today, when,
with 30,000 dead on the battlefield of
Borodino behind him, and winter immi-
nent, he entered Moscow in 1812, Two
months later he was floundering in disas-
ter, with his men dying like flies, in
what was up to that time the most lethal
retreat in the history of war.
In any case, defeat of Russia would
not mean defeat for Britain any more
than the overrunning of a dozen other
countries has done. The support of the
United States is worth 40 times that of
Russia. The resources of the Dominions
have scarcely been tapped. Australia,
for one, is only coming to the edge of
being on a war basis.
A voice is badly needed to point out
that the British Empire has so far been
the only unbeatable adversary whom
Hitler has tackled. It has thwarted all
his efforts for upwards of 22 months, and
has turned the tables both in the air
and at sea. It has stopped the German
advance in Libya and —as announced on
July 14—put 683,000 Italians out of
action ; it has captured Ethiopia, broken
the back of the German Navy, smashed
the Italian Navy and Air Force to
smithereens, and carried on some side-
shows into the bargain.
In short, Britain and the Dominions
and the Empire can win the war. But
full-scale American help will shorten it
immeasurably and pay incalculable divi-
dends to civilisation.
"Offensive" Becomes
"Invasion."
“Aileron”; The R.A.F.’s air offensive
is being pushed deeper into Germany.
While British fighter squadrons have
long since made daylight raiding over
Britain on any scale a thing of the past,
the British effort over German and
German-occupied territory is not limited
by time, light or weather. The only de-
duction to be drawn is that a big reserve
of heavy machines was built up as a
preliminary—crates which can barge
through any storm and knock fighter
squadrons silly when they interfere —and
that, nearer home, where lighter and less
modern bombers are in use, there is suf-
ficient fighter escort to make interference
a perilous adventure for the German air-
defence arm.
“Experts” who report these things havfc
a way of attributing the new successes
to the much-advertised Liberators and
other types of U.S. aircraft. But these
can provide only a small section of the
striking power of the R.A.F. and the
F.A.A., judging by the general scale on
which the attacks are being conducted.
Useful as Uncle Sam’s contribution may
be, almost everything that he has learnt
about machine-building for this war has
come from the R.A.F. and British de-
signers. For instance, the Curtis Toma-
hawk is the offspring of the Hurricane
and Spitfire, and most of the heavy craft
sent over the Atlantic are returreted and
generally brought into line with realities
after arrival. Fighters, too, are often par-
tially reconstructed to fit them with
Boulton Paul power turrets. And, gener-
ally speaking, the horse-power of most
of the American machines is only at 1939
level compared with the new British
machines.
A very useful Ministerial change was
made when J. T. C. Moore-Brabazon
became Minister for Aircraft Construc-
tion. Moore-Brabazon is one of those
quiet-mannered Meath Anglo-Irishmen
who are like steel inside. He holds No.
1 British flying certificate. In 1909 he
won the “Daily Mail” prize for flying a
circular mile in an all-British machine,
and he won the first British Michelin
Cup. His work with the R.F.C. during
the last war was marked chiefly by his
building up of the technique of aerial
war-time photography. He has since
had a finger in the pie of British air
development, and that all the time.
Little has been heard of Moore-
Brabazon’s operations since he replaced
the much-advertised Beaverbrook in the
Aircraft Construction Ministry. Nobody
is likely to catch him as he caught his
predecessor when he went to take over:
I found Lord Beaverbrook conducting a
perfectly coherent interview with four
persons and also ’phoning America on one
telephone and a hairdresser on the other.
He was asking the hairdresser to cut his
hair.
Moore-Brabazon made what was vir-
tually his first speech of any importance
in the Commons the other day, after the
new air offensive had been in progress
continuously—with only one day’s break
—for a month.
He remarked that when he was a
private member at the outbreak of war
he had in mind a sort of premium figure
which he believed the British aircraft
industry could reach. Now, “we have
very nearly got to it.”
Answering criticism of the British
policy of developing three types of heavy
bomber, he declared that the heavy
bomber was a new aeronautical concep-
tion and that variety in types was called
for by way of experiment:
The U.S.A. thought it had the biggest
bomber in the world, but when its repre-
sentatives came to England they found
three models very much bigger than any-
thing they had seen in their own country.
He revealed that there was a lag
in U.S. deliveries, that “not anything
like” the numbers provided for under the
production programme were being deli-
vered, and that supplies now being
handed over were practically what were
ordered at the beginning of the war. The
bulk, however, are heavy and medium
bombers. Actual U.S.A. deliveries last
month numbered 1476, an increase of
142 over the previous month. But from
now onward each month will see accel-
erated deliveries from the U.S.A. and
Canada —whose output includes several
modern types, among them Hurricanes
and Blenheims.
The Minister remarked that the Luft-
waffe had used at least 700 machines in
the big raids on London, but the heaviest
of these onslaughts would be child’s play
compared with the attacks which would
be made on Berlin before many months.
The enemy, of course, is not idle, and
it would be stupid optimism to imagine
that the present lull in his operations is
likely to fast or that he is lacking in new-
type bombers or long-range fighters.
There is no evidence that the Russian
campaign has reduced Luftwaffe strength


to any serious extent. Germans scoff at
the Russian figures, and if they are really
so one-sided as Moscow claims then
U.S.S.R. ’planes should be bombing Ger-
man cities and towns ; obviously they are
not.
At the same time, if the present British
offensive is carried much farther, the
Luftwaffe will have difficulty in catching
up, moi*e especially in trained personnel.
The Empire Air scheme will not reach
its peak point till September. Its Cana-
dian schools started operations in May,
1940, with 168 pupils, and now have
17,000 in training at 85 per cent, strength.
Already thousands of graduates are in
the R.A.F. or in the advanced training
squadrons and in the transatlantic ferry
service.
The R.A.F. began last week with
attacks on Osnaburgh, Cologne, Frank-
fort, Munster, and on several places
along the French coast, especially Calais,
where a ship was sunk. Simultaneously
another series of attacks began in the
Mediterranean, where Palermo was plas-
tered and several ships damaged.
As the week went on, what the Air
Ministry now describes as its “air in-
vasion” gathered force and spread to a
wider ambit, so that the furthest targets
of the heavy night bombers were 300
miles inside the Reich, and the French
coast was scoured. The great crossroads
of western Germany—Hamm, Aix, Osna-
burgh, Cologne among them—find new
fires burning almost every night, while
German naval ports are given something
of a rest.
On Wednesday night and Thursday
morning the R.A.F. reached out to grab
at the Leuna oil refinery works near
Leipzig, 650 miles from British bases,
with fiery fingers, and it could have
been little consolation to the German
firefighters then to know that Naples
quays were being battered just as vigor-
ously. In one raid on Naples 47
were killed; in a second, 99. On
Thursday there was a battle royal
over the Channel ports, Blenheims
waded into Cherbourg and Le Havre,
hitting 20,000 tons of shipping, much of
which became a total loss, and blowing
up or burning quays and warehouses.
A few squadrons went on to wreak havoc
on a big chemical works near Bethune.
British losses for the day were two
bombers and 10 fighters ; the enemy lost
10 fighters.
German activity over England was
more lively than it had been for weeks,
but still was a feeble flicker compared
with raids before May 10.
Southampton had one sharp raid. The
High Command claimed on Tuesday to
have raided Plymouth, Birmingham and
Aberdeen, started large fires and sunk
a 3000-ton merchantman. The Midlands
were attacked fairly heavily, and five
German machines were shot down. Next
night the attacks were repeated on a
slighter scale, and a few bombs were
dropped as far afield as Scotland. At
the week-end there were some raids in
southern England and elsewhere.
The R.A.F.’s attacks on the Ruhr are
such that its railway systems have been
brought almost to a standstill, one report
says. But the Germans continue to assure
a sceptical world that the raids are “in-
significant.”
The Air Ministry announces that in
June a greater weight of bombs was
dropped on Germany than the Germans
say was dropped on England in April.
A heavy raid, believed to be by
Italians, was made on La Linea in mis-
take for Gibraltar. Many Spaniards were
killed. The Italians claim to have set
half Gibraltar on fire and sunk three
British destroyers.
Armistice in Syria.
“Ente Marid”: A month from the in-
vasion of Syria, which began at 2 a.m.
on June 8, General Dentz asked Lieut.-
General Maitland Wilson for armistice
terms, which were transmitted to Vichy
through the U.S. ambassador and reached
the French Cabinet on July 10.
Australians and Scots had taken
Damour wadi. Other forces, including
A.I.F. men and Indians, were closing
in on Beirut from the east. The Iraq-
Tripoli pipeline was under British control.
Mr, Churchill remarked in the Com-
mons that “the British Government”
would be “glad to see the end of this
most distressing conflict in which be-
tween 1000 and 1500 British, Australian
and Indian troops have fallen, killed or
wounded, to French bullets.” He vaguely
attributed the campaign to “the lament-
able confusion into which the affairs of
so many good people in many parts of
the world have been thrown by the vic-
tories of Hitler’s armies.”
The offer of surrender was not a will-
ing one. The French were cut off both
from supplies and reinforcements, and
found it difficult to carry on longer
against the British Imperial and Free
French forces, well supplied from
outside with fuel and ammunition and
fresh men.
General Weygand came from North
Africa to help consider the terms. On
the night of July 11 Berlin Radio reported
that they had been rejected.
At a minute after midnight on July 11,
however, the Australian batteries ceased
fire, though the French continued in
action till 4 a.m.
Australian dispatch riders escorted
General de Verdilhac from Beirut to a
British post at Acre, where he met
General Maitland Wilson, British G.0.C.,
Lieutenant-General Lavarack, command-
ing the Australian troops, and General
Catroux, of the Free French.
Twelve hours’ discussion followed, and
the armistice agreement was then
“initialled” in Beirut by General Dentz,
rushed to Vichy, and returned to Acre
for signature at 11 a.m. on July 13.
The talks at Acre had been prolonged
into the darkness, so that matches and
car headlights had to be used to provide
illumination ; but the discussions, though
long, were friendly, and the delegations
lunched together.
On Sunday General Maitland Wilson
appeared to take it for granted that the
campaign was over, and issued a state-
ment in which he spoke of the ending
of a “painful and necessary” incident
forced upon the Allies, adding an expres-
sion of pleasure that the whole of the
proceedings had been conducted without
acrimony.
It was a campaign which never should
have been necessary, though, now it has
been fought, it has yielded strategic ad-
“This is Jim Alistair, known as Tubby, calling 'is missus. We'e just
back from a woderful tour of the Oly City. Keep your chin up,
kid. We'ave a bonzer captain. Look after. ...”
vantages. There was fighting off the coast
between British and French naval units ;
providentially the French Navy was not
added to the number of our enemies.
In North Africa.
“Ek D.”: There has been only mild
activity among the Germans and Italians
in North Africa.
The Suez Canal and Alexandria were
bombed on July 5 and 6. Two persons
were killed and 14 injured in Alexandria.
At the week-end, Port Said and Malta
were bombed —the latter by Italians.
R.A.F. raids grow heavier daily. At-
tacks on shipping, which must be peril-
ously scarce for the Axis, are incessant.
Last week all leading Cyrenaican ports
and aerodromes were battered and the
heaviest raid yet was made on Benghazi,
which has had more than 300 more
than one a day, leaving out the period
when British forces held the town —since
Italy entered the war on June 10, 1940.
Ten tons of bombs a day are being
dropped on Benghazi quays. At Tripoli
on Wednesday the R.A.F. hit two large
ships, and the R.N. battered Axis supply
lines throughout the week.
In Crete an outbreak of cholera is re-
ported to be hampering German effort.
Certainly little use has been made of
Crete as a jumping-off place for aid to
the African forces.
British reinforcements are pouring into
Egypt. With Abyssinia conquered, the
troops there are due for release to other
fronts, including a division of S. Afri-
cans, some of whom, with the S.A.A.F.,
already have left for Egypt, and are
about to be reinforced by the largest con-
tingent to leave the Union, which was
farewelled by General Smuts.
Tobruk holds out. The Germans
claimed on July 13 that they had repulsed
a heavy tank sortie and bombed Tobruk,
but the initiative remains with the garri-
son.
Americans in Iceland.
“Nobby II”: Since last summer Iceland
has been heavily guarded by British
troops, who were landed there after Ger-
many invaded Denmark. An American
report swore that 80,000 British and
Canadians were garrisoned there.
The guard was a measure vital to
Atlantic defence. Iceland is a large
island —larger than Hungary, about 5000
square miles smaller than North Island,
N.Z. Its population is under 120,000.
It is separated from Scotland by a strait
about 500 miles wide; from Reykjavik,
the capital, to Leith is 807 miles. It
hangs from the Arctic circle in about the
same latitude as middle Norway. German
bombers operating from its fields could
command the whole of the north passages
from the North Sea to the Atlantic and
the seas off the Canadian coasts. They
have once machine-gunned Reykjavik.
Iceland is a free sovereign State. When
the British Government notified the
President of its Council, Hermann
Jonasson, that the British forces would
have to withdraw as they were needed
elsewhere, he came to an understanding
with President Roosevelt to land U.S.
marines as the nucleus of an army which
will gradually replace the British.
President Roosevelt ordered the U.S.
Navy to “take all necessary steps to
ensure the safety of communications and
approaches between Iceland and the
United States, as well as on the seas be-
tween the U.S. and all other strategic
outposts.”
Berlin was not amused. Its Foreign
Office spokesjman remarked that “Roose-
velt” had “entered the area of war opera-
tions proclaimed by the Reich and must
take the consequences. Iceland is not
in the Western Hemisphere.”
The President, however, says that the
step is a defensive one and that defence
of the United States will be effected with-
out regard to geographical considerations.
His move, however, brings his country
immeasurably nearer to war with Ger-
many, especially since some British troops
remain on the island for the time being.
Vice-Admiral Royle.
“Nobby II”: The late sunrise of Nov.
21, 1918, showed the North Sea off the
Firth of Forth lined with two “gigantic
columns of 13 naval squadrons, repre-
senting an almost illimitable vista of
ordered power” the Grand Fleet in
being. Presently, between the two
grim and seemingly endless lines,
appeared the little Cardiff, of the Ceres
class, 4290 tons —the R.N. still keeps her
for a rather dangerous pet leading
another line of monsters. Between the
steel walls of Britain there entered the
Firth the Friedrich der Grosse, with
Admiral von Reuter’s flag, nine other
German battleships, five battle-cruisers,
seven cruisers and 49 destroyers, all dis-
armed, moving slowly as to a funeral.
The big German ships came to anchor
in the middle of the Firth between Kir-
caldy and Aberlady. The Grand Fleet
took up positions, and as Beatty’s Queen
Elizabeth went down the line the British
ships were manned and there was cheer-
ing from every deck.
Flags ran up the halliards from the
old Queen’s bridge. Beatty was coldly
telling De Reuter that the German flag
must be hauled down at sunset and must
not be rehoisted.
During the afternoon Commodore
M. H. Hodges (H.M.S. Renown) went
aboard the Friedrich der Grosse to con-
firm the signal and tell the Germans that
they were to be interned at Scapa Flow.
The Commodore’s staff consisted of Com-
mander Royle, Lieut. N. B. Deare and
the Commodore’s brother-in-law, F. C.
Tiarks, R.N.V.R., as interpreter. F. C.
Tiarks is now a director of the Bank of
England. Royle is about to take up his
position as the Commonwealth’s “First
Lord.”
Vice-Admiral Royle has commanded
many noted ships. He was Naval Sec-
retary to the First Lord for three years,
and he flew his flag in the ill-fated Glori-
ous as Vice-Admiral, Aircraft Carriers,
1937-39. He recently has been Fourth
Sea Lord. He followed Admiral Colvin, re-
tired, as Naval Attache in Tokyo in 1924.
General Wave!! has reached Simla to
take over as C.-imC. India. In was un-
obtrusively announced that Iraq defence
has been allotted to his zone —a fact
which might have more significance than
appears on the surface.
“X.T.”: The War Cabinet has decided
that prisoners of war in Australia may
be employed in building camps for them-
selves, in reafforestation, harvesting, road-
building and road-maintenance. On jobs
“for which Australian labor is not avail-
able,” they may be hired by civilians.
From the Government captives will
receive from 6d. to Is. per day, but
private employers will be asked to fork
out whatever the Army Department be-
lieves to be “normal pay” ; Government
will collar the difference. Somebody
might suggest that the difference be allo-
cated for some specific purpose —to in-
crease military pensions for the widows
and youngsters of servicemen killed in
acquiring the prisoners, for instance.
* * * •
“M.S.M.”: The writer of that par.
about Major Silverstone (B. 9/7/’4l)
must have mixed him up with someone
else. Though Silverstone pere served
with the A.A.M.C. in Egypt during the
war of 1914-1918, his son was too young
to serve in the last war. Born in Decem-
ber, 1906, he was a militiaman for many
years, xose to the rank of captain and
left with the A.I.F. as such. He was
promoted major after leaving Australia,
and was posted missing from Crete —to
the great and, as I write, still-unrelieved
anxiety of his wife and family.
* ♦ * *
The unspeakable unfairness of a system
of enlistment which sends away only
sons and whole families and leaves other
families at home intact was illustrated
again when five brothers, the Warners, of
Tumbarumba (N.S.W.), were reported
missing. They all enlisted in March, 1940
—their ages were 43, 35, 28, 26 and 19.
They fought together in Libya and again
in Greece.
* * * *
The Commonwealth now has eight
merchant ships on order in four yards.
A couple of vessels are under construc-
tion, and a start will be made on four
others before September. It should be
the beginning of a continuous policy of
shipbuilding.
sf*
“Nobby II”: According to some New
York papers (June 6), the Suez Canal has
been closed to traffic since February,
owing to the sinking of ships in the main
channel and the laying of delayed-action
mines by German aircraft. Delayed-
action mines are something little has been
heard about. Each mine is fitted with
several levers. Several ships pass safely
over the mine, but each one in its passage
turns over a lever. When a certain
number have been turned over —some-
times as many as a dozen are fitted —the
balloon goes up. Another type of mine
now in use by the Germans is one which
is exploded by the sound of the ship’s
propellers.
* * * *
It was a kindly thought of the Vatican
to broadcast lists of Australian and
Maoriland soldiers held as prisoners of
war in Italy. A Sydney priest, Father
Henry Davis, is the announcer, and he
provides the full home addresses of the
boys, adding that they send affectionate
messages to their relatives and are all well.
Official Australian casualty lists still give
only the soldier’s number and the place
where he enlisted. Maoriland lists, more
ample from the beginning, specify the
relationship, as well as the full home
address, of the casualty’s next-of-kin
father, mother, wife, brother, sister, son,
daughter, grandmother, aunt or cousin, as
the case may be, and, where there is no
relative, the name of his closest friend.
This should have been in “S. M,
Herald’s” agony column:
“Joe, come home at once. All is forgiven.
—Winnie.”


Womwn's Letters
From Melbourne
Friday presented another street-appeal
day, this time for the Free French. In
spite of pessimistic forebodings to the
contrary, the appeal was a great suc-
cess, well over £BOO being raised from
the sales of buttons alone. When stall
proceeds are added the committee should
feel its effort was really worth while. The
power behind the scene was again the
Angliss lady, Melbourne’s high priestess of
button days. She has all details at her
fingertips and a committee of street
sellers ready for the first SOS. French
costumes gave color to some of the stalls.
Strella Wilson delayed her departure for
Sydney to do the rounds as spruiker, with
support from Marjorie Gordon and
Pierre Mann. The Royal Park Military
Band did its piece at the Town Hall, and
interest was caused by the march of the
Brighton State School Children’s Band
of boys and girls under ten who blew
whistles and trumpets and thumped
drums with red-cheeked concentration,
keeping excellent rhythm the while with
lungs and feet.
A bridal group in varying shades of
orchid was the choice of Marjorie Coote
(Athol Shmith photo.) for her marriage
in Wesley College chapel with Keith
Walker. The bride’s marquisette gown
and tulle veil were in faint pastel tones.
and ’maids (sister Elizabeth Coote and
Jean Morison) played a more forceful
note with their Angora frocks and feather
hair adornments. Clive Harris and an-
other Clive, the ’groom’s younger brother,
were equerries at the church and after-
wards at the Oriental. First home will be
a flat in Mitcham. The bride is the
younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. W.
Coote, of Quambatook, and the ’groom is
a son of the J. Stanley Walkers, of
Mitcham.
The Free French concert in Central
Hall started off unpropitiously with a cold
house and a sparse audience whose
response to the artists was as green
timber is to a match. But after the inter-
val along came Strella Wilson, who, with
“One Fine Day” and a group of patriotic
numbers, worked up a rumpus of clap-
ping. Late arrivals had by then filled
rows of seats, and a diversion was caused
at the door by J. Skolnik, of “wonderful
wines,” who bought whatever his pockets
would hold of the goods still left on
the chocolate girls’ trays. In the audi-
ence were Captain Tallon and some
French officers and young sailors with
windblown faces and the spray of salt
water upon their collars. The lads liked
Alan Goad’s “Shortnin’ Bread,” although
they didn’t know what it was all about.
Much appreciated also was an im-
promptu item from a visiting ship’s chief
engineer who didn’t wait for accompanist
Edith Harrhy, but was “On with the
Motley, the Paint and the Powder” in
French before his accompanist had sorted
out the score of “Pagliacci.” She couldn’t
catch up, so improvised.
Present were the Fraser lady, whose per-
sistent urging among her friends sold
half the tickets; Prof. Chisholm, with
wife and daughter ; M. Vanderkelen, Mrs.
R. C. Salmon and daughter Tony Love,
Mrs. Bob Staughton, and Mrs. Alan Vasey
in violet coat and snippet of daphne (and
looking much better since she has reduced
her A.I.F. Women’s Association work
from five days a week to one). Eirene
Angliss, Paddy Wilkinson and Mrs. Colin
Anderson sold flowers, and among usher-
ettes was Audette Jobson in sailor get-up
and red pom-pommed cap.
Frederic Eggleston, upon whom the
accolade of Knight Bachelor was con-
ferred at G.H. last week, is dreaming
o’ nights as he did in his boyhood of
bandits and adventure. He and his staff
for the proposed Australian Legation at
Chungking will travel over the Burma
Road. Mrs. Garnet Malley, whose col-
lection of Chinese gowns and jewellery
was admired at the recent Chinese Exhi-
bition, did such a trip this time last year,
from Hong Kong by boat, rail and ’plane
through Indo-China up the Burma Road,
and so to Chungking and Chengdu.
Reasons for her choice of route were
twofold. The first, for adventure ; the
second, to miss most of the Chungking
bombing ; but the Japanese Blitz there
was a long one, and she arrived right in
the middle of it. From the sky the
Russian Legation looked like a ruined
crater, and a few hours afterwards the
British Legation followed suit. The pas-
sengers heard this news when they
arrived safely at Chengdu, 200 miles
away. A curious incident was lunch in
Chungking when Mrs. Malley found her-
self at the same table as two Germans.
She had little to say to them, but acceded
to their request for the loan of her Ran-
goon newspapers with news of Italy’s
entry into the war. She says that those
who go walking in Chungking must be
sound in wind and limb, for the place
is hilly enough to suit a mountain goat.
“How to Preserve Health, Charm and
Grace” was the provocative title of Mrs.
Charles V. Mackay’s lecture in the
nurses’ sitting-room of Royal Melbourne
Hospital. The audience was all-feminine
and the room steam-heated, so she was
able to demonstrate her advice per
medium of a bathing suit and her own
very supple muscles. The younger set
auxiliary, assisted by some nurses, pro-
duced tea for the audience, members of
other auxiliaries and their friends. About
£3O was made towards expenses for the
hospital fete, to be held in November at
the home of Air Commodore and Mrs.
Victor Hurley, associations being Air-
Commodore Hurley’s long pre-war ser-
vice with the hospital as hon. medico and
council member, and C. V. Mackay’s
past responsibilities as superintendent —
he’s now executive medical officer for the
Anti-Cancer Council.
In honor of A.C.F. Commissioner
Lieut.-Col. R. G. Goward, the Lord
Mayor invited kindred spirits to a mid-
day aperitif. It was an informal meet-
ing, and everyone smoked blithely in
spite of the “No Smoking” notices at the
oil-painted feet of bygone Mayors. In
fact, cigarettes were provided, the notices
being as threatening as “Beware of the
Dog” on Pekinese-inhabited service flats
In his short address the colonel, who
looks hale and fit, said all’s well with the
Comforts overseas, from big canteens
to tea tents on the beaches and lorries
on the move ; that soon residential clubs
of moderate cost to men on leave will
be opened in Singapore ; that all com-
missioners work in harmony and that he
himself would remain in Australia to
make room abroad for another man (in-
terjection from the L.M., “Another good
man”). Present also was Mrs. Goward.
She’s from Sydney, and the garment she
was most appreciative of bringing over
here was her fur coat, for winter hit this
city properly last week.
The Tin Alleys keep their flag flying ;
for standard ( e.g “Judgment Day” and
“Midsummer Night’s Dream”), and for
variety, last diversion being three pickings
from “Tonight at 8.30,” in the Union
Theatre for the University Patriotic Fund
and the Free French. In the first one-
acter, “Still Life,” Jean Lawson and
Frank Brooks played the couple who
meet, love and lose one another in a
railway refreshment-room, comic relief
on the other side of the stage being pro-
vided by Ruby May and Joy Youlden,
with Keith McKenzie as the sentimental
porter. Second play, also done here by
Fay Compton in 1937, was “Hands
Across the Sea,” with Esme Broadhurst,
Elden de Steiger, Douglas James and
Brian Vance as a few of the satirised idle
rich with bad manners who subsist on
fancy cocktails and hysterical telephone
conversations. Final offering was
“Fumed Oak,” skilfully done by Joyce
Turner and Keith Macartney, with sup-
port from Peggy Ray (but for an inkling
of her pseudonym her pals wouldn’t have
recognised Mrs. John Ray or, profession-
ally, Dr. Margaret Mackay, in the trap-
pings of the poisonous old mother-in-
law), and from Ceaviney Jenkins as the
unbeautiful child with adenoids. Joyce
seems to be capable of playing any role.
Keith as the worm who turns turned skil-
fully, ticked off his spouse and, the better
for imbibing at the local pub, made an
exit for great open spaces among much
laughter from the audience and female
tears upon the stage.
From Sydney
Last week was one of alliteration.
Blackouts and ballet ruled its opening,
and the Free French its closing. The
blackout sent patriotic and law-abiding
housewives hunting through the shops
for materials, from black panne velvet
to black crepe paper to keep any vagrant
rays of light from giving a possible enemy
the slightest assistance. Those maids and
matrons who had forgotten to arm them-
selves with raw material, hung black
evening frocks across the pane, hoping to
heaven the drawing-pins would leave no
permanent scar. Lovers in Manly on
the heights of Warringah and Ku-ring-gai
and down the slopes of Neutral Bay
switched off the lights altogether. Air
wardens dashed about busily and happily
by the light of the moon. Only the
inhabitants of four blocks of flats are
reported as saying “Pooh to you!” when
Authority knocked, demanding them to
douse the glim.
Helene Kirsova unloosed her long-
talked-of ballet season on Sydney last
week. The ballet was for the Red Cross,
and the opening night was very social
and vice-regal; and that Sydney has still
some luxury clothes was proved by the
glossy plumage of the audience. Helene
herself, who came to Australia with the
first De Basil Company and then met and
married Denmark’s Consul Erik Fischer,
produced and arranged the choreography
of “A Dream and a Fairy Tale,” the
spirited sailor-ashore interlude and
“Vieux Paris.” A special handclap goes
to Louden Sainthill for the scenery for
“Les Matelots.” Also the red, white and
blue slacks in which the sailors proved
their mettle might easily merit “heavenly
trousers” applied to them by one young
ballet ardent.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst, daughter
Henrietta Loder and Peter Lubbock were
in the first-night audience. In the group
with them sat Helene Kirsova’s husband,
Dr. Fischer. Mrs. Randolph Kidder and
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones bade the Gov-
ernment House party welcome.
Pretty Joan Prior, of Mosman, is a
real Bulletin baby. Grandfather S. H.
Prior was managing director and editor
of this paper for many years, and Joan’s
father, H. K. Prior, who earned his
majority in the 1914-18 war, is its
present managing director. During the
week-end Joan became engaged to Peter
Vesper, eldest son of old family friends,
the Peter Vespers. Both families are
well known on Bradley’s Head. Peter,
following in father’s footsteps, is a
chemist. Raymond Sawyer photo.
For really good staff work the Legacy
Ball takes a lot of beating. Everything
is worked to a timetable, and, unlike that
of a much-publicised gentleman overseas,
it works to the dot. From the arrival of
the executive committee at eight o’clock
to the singing of “Auld Lang Syne’ at
one ack emma, every minute of last
Thursday evening was accounted for in
the little blue book issued by the com-
mittee. This year the president, Legatee
A. E. Symons, and his wife were handed
out a reception and sherry party by
chairman J. Reid Hill and Mrs. Hill.
After that it was on with the dance,
bidding welcome to official guests who in-
cluded three colonels and a general,
Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress, William
Morris Hughes and his Dame Mary, the
Frederick Stewart and the Lazzarini
couples.
Colorful scene of the night was the
presentation of debs, by Mrs. C. A.
Burnet. Twenty pretty youngsters (June
Prior among them) became free of the
social world after the passage up the red
carpet and their curtsy to the night’s
importants. Each girl’s father is a veteran
of the last war, and each was partnered
by a cadet officer.
You could buy spiced bread, iced with
a pig’s head (this on Mrs. Brenac’s stall,
which netted £112), learn how frogs’ legs
should be cooked, watch a ballet of
sprightly nymphs dance the can-can, or
go steadily ahead spending money at the
Free French Fair in the Town Hall last
Friday. There was a cinema inside the
door, the sign of which read: “Free
French Cinema, but you pay ordinary
rates.” The belles of Lorraine, Normandy,
Brittany, flower-girls of Nice, Provence,
their pretty headdresses either bonnet-like
to the face or else flung upward, haloes
of stiffened white lace or muslin, sold
oranges, violets, the red pom-pommed
white cap of the French Navy, cakes,
cabbages and even the homely apron.
The middle of the hall was set off as a
square for dancing, and there was an
old-fashioned lamp-post for illumination.
Here Andre Brenac, leader of the Free
French Forces, allowed himself to be
auctioned as a dancing partner. One
lady offered 10 shillings, but was beaten
by a rival who bid £l. What with one
penny added to another, the fair’s takings
will come to £lOOO.
Students of the Women’s College
received loud commendations for their
presentation of “Children in Uniform.”
The Assembly Hall of the Teachers’ Col-
lege held quite*a large and applauseful
audience. Members of the cast who did
outstanding work were college principal
Camilla Wedgwood as the sympathetic
governess, Joan Morgan as Manuela and
Margaret Salenger as the saucy Use.
Sir Evelyn and Lady Wrench (he’s
founder of the Overseas Club) are among
this week’s notable visitors. Tonight the
Overseas members in Sydney are giving
a reception in their honor in the Aus-
tralia Hotel, and on Friday the Society
of Women Writers entertains them at
lunch in the Carlton.
Margaret Gillespie might well look
pleased over the first of the lunchtime
concerts which with a small group of
music-lovers she launched last week.
Margaret is president of the club ; the
Sydney de Vries couple and Mrs. Gordon
Henty are others associated with it. The
Music Club will pitch its tent once a
month in History House ; part of the
new home of the Historical Society. This
is near the Quay, opposite the starting
point for the Bondi and, on racedays, the
racecourse trams. History House was
used by the Raynor sisters as a children’s
theatre ; then Duncan Macdougall turned
it into his Playbox. Now, refurbished
and redecorated, it will form a setting
for music. Before the concerts a light
lunch is served ; and nibbling at the first
day’s buffet were the Gordon, the Gilles-
pie and the Alfred Davidson ladies.
Marjorie Hesse was the pianist, Gert-
rude Concannon the singer. Raymond
Hanson also played. If your soul craves
good music you will find it here once
again on July 21.
The Society of Women Writers’ film
1 party to help its card party, which will
in turn help the Lord Mayor’s Fund, is
still being talked over. The film was
taken by C. Scott Waine when he and
his family were in England and Europe
in 1939, and his audience followed him
on an enchanted journey. There were
the tall busbied guards of Buckingham
Palace ; here were found famed buildings ;
here, too, blazed the massed flowerings
of London’s parks and gardens. Down
through Devon, the onlookers went,
past unbelievable houses that twinkled
or stared from under thatched eye-
brows. Here were the pastel tones
of the Lake Country; there fields
of poppies and bluebells and fields brave
with mustard. Here was the chateau
country murmuring of joust and tourney.
Lastly was the splendor of the Dolomites.
Mrs. Scott Waine’s ermine coat was
wrapped about a frock of peacock tones.
Small daughter Margaret and Pamela
Hordern, Rosemary Parker and Wendy
Burge sold camellias which had been
gathered in the early dawn by the Villa
Maria Boy Scouts. Two hundred beauties
had come from the gardens of Ball
Green, the home of General Anderson
and his wife, who is a writer herself.
Singer Marie Browne practically
brought her own flowers. She arrived
with a basket of camellias for the
cause, and took home the same
basket filled with other camellias.
In the short interval she sang in a voice
as attractive as herself. George Fitz-
patrick helped to stage-manage affairs
and keep them running smoothly.
The Sydney University Law Society’s
dance will commence at nine o’clock in
Grace Brothers’ auditorium on Saturday,
July 26. Object: Christmas hampers to
be sent by the Law School Comforts
Fund to the society’s members on active
service.


STAMPS
100 New Zealand*, all different 8/-
100 Australians, all different 4/-
40 Pacific Islands, all different 4/-
We buy all Australians for Cash. Ketail and
Air lusts—Free. Wilcox, Smith & Co., 14
Manse Street, Dunedin, N.Z. (Est. 56 Years.)
Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S.
FORM A GROUP!
JOIN A GROUP!
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
s
AT the present time, Australia needs all the
zinc that is available for the making of
munitions. In order to meet this national emer-
gency, therefore, John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
has found it necessary to restrict supplies of
Corrugated Galvanized Roofing Iron to those
who require this qualify for the catchment and
storage of drinking water. In all other cases,
Terne-Coated Iron is now being supplied. Plain
iron sheets are also restricted, but to a lesser
degree.
im
N
N
7S LTHOUGH introduced to the public and the building trade for the
first time, Terne-Coaled Iron is not new but has been widely used
throughout America and the Continent for many years past. It has
also been used for many years by the metal trades of Australia in the
manufacture of petrol tanks, oil and paint drums, etc. Its hard wearing
tin and lead surface possesses particularly good anti-corrosive proper-
ties and can be painted without "weathering." There is. of course, no
loss of strength or rigidity and all sizes and gauges are available.
m
John Lysaghl (AUSTRALIA) Ply., Ltd.
SYDNEY— MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
T 75
NORTH OF TWENTY-ELGHT
“P.D.”: The murder of a 28-year-old
Victorian girl has horrified New Guinea.
She was found dying in her bedroom,
and was just able to gasp out that a native
had awakened her by pulling aside the
mosquito net over her bed and had
attacked her savagely with an axe. And
now New Guinea whites are demanding
sweeping reforms in native administra-
tion ; the influence of talkies and sugges-
tive papers and periodicals should receive
attention.
* * *
“23-4”: The A.I.F. got a new sort of
private for the infantry when Dr. F. W.
Whitehouse, lecturer in geology at
Queensland University and a past presi-
dent of the Royal Society, joined up.
An Ipswich native, he holds doctorates
of philosophy and science, has conducted
geological expeditions and is an authority
on fossils —which doesn’t necessarily
mean State Parliaments.
* * * *
“P.D.”: A D.C.M. has come to a 24-
year-old Queenslander, Lance-Corporal
Alexander Taylor, for intrepid work at
Tobruk. Three times Taylor braved
enemy machine-gun fire. “On his own
initiative and single-handed,” he ad-
vanced on a machine-gun nest and
“wiped out six men in the post with
his tommy-gun.” On the same night
he helped to destroy an anti-tank-gun
post and stayed behind alone to cover
his section’s withdrawal; again he stayed
behind “with his platoon commander and
gave covering fire for the platoon with-
drawal.” Wounded during the action, he
“gallantly stuck to his job to the last.”
Taylor has a brother at Tobruk, another
in the Navy and a sister in a Melbourne
munitions factory.
* * *
“R.R.P.”: Randolph Bedford fitted the
description “colorful” perfectly. A lot
of stories will be told about him, but
few will better the one about the time
an elderly member rose in the departed
Queensland Leg. Council and spoke a
piece about “the gallant pioneers who
had built up the flocks and herds.”
Roared Randolph, “Point of order. With
typical Tory disregard of facts, the
honorable member pays no credit where
credit is due. He says not a word about
the busy bull and the indefatigable ram.”
Randolph’s regard for the late J. F.
Archibald never dimmed. It began from
the time when Bedford, broke and badly
in need of £300 to pay for specialist and
hospital treatment for an ailing child,
told Archibald all about it. Said Archi-
bald, “Here’s a cheque. Get the opera-
tion done. Begin writing for me and
keep on’ writing till the debt is paid.”
Bedford wrote, often for 18 hours a
day, some of it his best work. His
epitaph for Archibald was, “There was
a real mate.” A year or so ago, broad-
casting over A.8.C., he had a good deal
to say of Archibald and The Bulletin.
“Lid”: To Chungking with F. W.
Eggleston goes Charles Que Fong Lee,
who, born in Hong Kong in 1913, was
educated at Brisbane and got a B.A. at
the University. He joined the Common-
wealth public service in 1936. Lee did
special studies in Chinese and Japanese
and will rank as Oriental secretary to
the Minister.
* * * *
Treasurer Cooper, rising in outraged
dignity to deny that his Government had
increased taxation or was wasteful,
weighed in with the statement that in-
creased tax revenue came from increased
prosperity. That may be true, but it doesn’t
excuse the collection of a thumping
amount by an unemployment-relief tax
when unemployment has fallen to nothing
and the necessity for relief has dis-
appeared. Nor is the fact that other State
Governments are getting away with the
same form of legalised robbery an
excuse either.
* * * *
“Norther”: The Taylors, of Gayndah,
have had their 59th wedding anniversary.
He’s 86 and she’s 77, and both look good
to see the diamond jubilee. They pro-
duced 15 good Australians, 11 of them
sons, all living. Dad rides his pony to
town regularly.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A fine Australian
crossed the Great Divide when W. H.
Dowling died at Myra Vale station in
the Normanton (N.Q.) section of the
Gulf Country. A famous horseman was
Dowling, and one of his last wishes was
that, whatever happened to him, his
entries for the Normanton races should
carry the battalion colors of chocolate
and blue under which he had seen four
years of active service. Four comrades
of the first World War bore him to his
last resting-place.
* * * *
“Balander”: Queensland’s cotton crop,
harvesting of which has begun, is expected
to yield about 12,500 bales. Australia’s
consumption of cotton goods is equal
to about 350,000 bales of raw cotton lint,
and since the war has put a check on
imports there is justification for the
Cotton Board’s appeal to dairy-farmers
and others to get into cotton-growing and
bring next year’s harvest up to at least
25,000 bales. Australian cotton manu-
facturers used 35,000 bales in 1939 and
could use 80,000 bales this year. There
is plenty of suitable land within the
25in. to 30in. rainfall area.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”; Scorfield’s cartoon of
the A.I.F. cookery school, with the big
Diggers taking a lesson from the in-
structress” (B. 18/6/’4l), raises the old
question: who make the best cooks,
women or men? Women may rule in
the home kitchen, but when it comes to
a big job, or a real fancy job, the cal!
comes for the male. 1 suppose the
biggest and busiest hash foundries ever
seen in Australia were those of Boulder
in the gold-boom days. Julian C.’s
Alhambra for one used to serve 1000
meals a day. That took some organis-
ing and some cooking. Julian was his
own cook, with half a dozen offsiders.
Some of the big hasheries of the Boulder-
Block (The Dirty Acre) used literally to
roar at meal hours. In Harry L.’s two
girls did nothing but serve tea. All these
joints had men cooks, for no woman could
have stood up to the job. And the
tucker was good. A proverb of those
days, once printed in The Bulletin, was
“In W.A. they house you like a pig but
feed you like a prince.” Men are more
inventive ; women go on cooking the old
routine stuff all the year round. 1 recall
one of Harry L.’s lamb chops, flattened
with the chopper, then fried in egg batter,
garnished with browned breadcrumbs,
served with white sauce, green peas and
mashed potatoes. Peas out of a tin, of
course. Fancy cooking and serving about
200 of that! In both Julian’s and Harry's
foundries they served three kinds of
soup, four entrees, all the hot roast or
boiled joints, with at least three vege-
tables, followed with six sweets. That
was hashery and organisation. Me for
the man cook every time.
“Hamfat”: Randolph Bedford wrote
a play called “The Boss Cockie.” It was
not a success, and Randolph decided to
retrieve his shattered fortunes by a lecture
tour. His manager was Ron McLeod, son
of William McLeod of The Bulletin —
always a generous friend to Randolph—
who had, with strong parental dis-
approval, taken to the stage, and had had
a part in Bedford’s play. The lecture
tour struck bad weather, literally and
figuratively. At one town, where, in spite
of cold and rain, some sort of an audi-
ence had gathered in the chilly hall,
McLeod, worried about the failure of
the lecturer to appear, went in search of
him. He found Bedford in a fire-warmed
bar parlor, centre of an admiring crowd,
whom, over drinks, he was telling good
stories he should have reserved for his
paying patrons. “Bring the audience up
here,” Randolph commanded. The audi-
ence was willing, and Bedford entertained
it, and much more than the worth of the
takings was swallowed by reason of the
orator’s determination to be leader in
the “shouting,” as he usually was.


BETTER RETURNS FROM WINTER PRODUCTION
Keep on feeding TRI-CAL-OS BONE
FLOUR to supply the essential minerals
calcium and phosphorus. Regular
feeding of Tri-cal-os prevents deficiency
diseases and bone troubles, maintains
good all-round condition and enables
stock to make the best of winter
fodders. Tri-cal-os has a guaranteed
minimum of 33% phosphoric acid and
40% lime and is specially processed to
ensure maximum digestibility.
Obtain particulars about Tri-cal-os from Davis
Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney; G.P.O. Box
4058, Melbourne; G.P.O. Box-758K, Brisbane; G.P.O.
Box 712 P, Adelaide; and G.P.O. Box 688, Perth.
'SC
MOOT
Way-Bio
STRIKE PREVENTIVE
Kills the Maggot—Does Not Scald—
Cannot Wash Out. Heals the Wound
Without Scab Formation.
m
o
&£pdyf
Non-poisonous. Prevents reslrike. Harmless to
fleece. Contains no mineral oils or harsh ingredients.
100% EUCALYPTUS OILS.
(Highly antiseptic oils combined with viscous residuals.)
HEALS WOUNDS AFTER LAMB-MARKING, BARBED WIRE CUTS
AND ALL INJURIES TO STOCK.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE. Q’UAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALI AN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY.I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Feeding the Calves.
“Illawarra”: Since condensed and
powdered milk and cheese are demanded
for export, the factory price for whole
milk has encouraged farmers to change
over, the uncertainty of the pig market
being an additional factor.
Not only pigs are affected by the
change; the milking herd may suffer
through the owner rearing his heifers on
inadequate substitutes.
Calves can be reared on as little as
25 gallons of milk with a gruel supple-
ment of equal parts of pollard and linseed
meal plus a cup of limewater. A half-
pound each of pollard and meal, boiled
in a gallon of water and cooled to 90deg.
F., makes a good, cheap meal for a six-
weeks-old calf.
Other gruels are: Pollard ; equal parts
pollard and skim-milk powder; skim-
milk powder; three parts pollard, three
parts dried whey and two parts good
quality dry-rendered meatmeal. Add a
cupful of limewater to the first two.
An average calf should be fed like
this: First week, up to 121 b. of x ; second
week, 121 b. of x ; third week, 91b. of x,
sylb. of y; fourth week, 61b. of x, 111 b.
of y ; fifth week, 31b. of x, of y ;
sixth to 24th week, 221 b. of y. X means
milk containing 3.5 p.c. of butterfat;
y means gruel or separated milk. Feed
half the amount in the morning and the
rest at evening. Calves not getting any
fresh milk should be grazed on green-
stuff or supplied with green lucerne hay.
Sleepy Sickness.
“F. 8.”: Half the losses in lambing
ewes are due to sleepy sickness, mostly
caused by faulty feeding. Nearly all
affected sheep are carrying twins.
The unborn lamb’s main growth takes
place in the last month, when the ewes
require more nourishing feed. Give the
flock regular exercise by walking them
for a mile night and morning during that
last month. Use only quiet dogs and see
that all the ewes are moved. Feed so
that they will rise in condition steadily
from tupping to lambing. Supplement
the pasture if necessary and supply a lick
of equal parts of bonemeal and salt.
Watch for ewes that are dull and keep
apart. If they stumble when driven they
have sleepy sickness. Later stages are
shown by glazed eyes, walking in circles
and general collapse. Nothing can then
save the ewe, but in the early stages put
her on fresh, good feed and dose with
loz. Epsom salts and |lb. molasses, and
then with the molasses but no salts each
day. Ewes caught in the early stages and
treated will very likely pull through.
Yellow Big-head, Etc.
“R. Ney”: Though not so common in
Australia as in Maoriland, the skin trouble
in stock known as facial eczema or derma-
titis, trefoil dermatitis, yellow big-head,
aphis disease or plain sunburn is common
enough. It can be expected after a dry
spell breaks and there are lush pastures
and strong sunlight, particularly if there is
heavy trefoil or crowfoot in the paddocks.
Animals on country infested with St.
John’s wort suffer a breakdown of the
unpigmented skin, something in the weed
—and in buckwheat, cathead and some
medics and trefoils —making the unpig-
mented skin susceptible to ultra-violet rays.
There are two types of the trouble—(l)
where there is small digestive disturbance
and no jaundice, and (2) in which diges-
tive disturbance, jaundice and liver
changes occur, as when sheep get yellow
big-head. Symptoms of (1) are a red-
ness, itching and swelling, raw sores —
they come from the animal rubbing the
part —and wet or dry scabs, with a final
shedding of the dead skin. This skin-
shedding may change earmarks and even
destroy an entire ear ; newly-shorn sheep
and white pigs, horses and cattle with
white points may get sores, the sheep and
pigs along the back, the large stock on
the points.
Symptoms of (2) are discharges from
eyes and nose, stomach cough, sneezing
and evidence in the mucous membranes
of jaundice. There will be shaking of
the head, restlessness and a desire for
shade; ears droop, eyelids, face, lips and
under-jaws puff. Rubbing of the parts
causes infection and scabs; there is
sloughing of skin. General loss of con-
“ That's right, Ma—head him orf!”
dition follows, even to a cessation of cud-
chewing. Blackfaced sheep are immune.
When symptoms show, move the stock
to a fresh paddock with ample shade.
Put affected sheep in the woolshed, or
make hessian sheds for them ; something
dark is needed in which they can be kept
some time. A black ointment like nigro-
sene, Bismarck brown, Condy’s crystals
or lampblack and lard is useful, but
doesn’t last long. Shedded victims should
be hand-fed and let out to graze at night.
As they recover they can have some day-
grazing, but with the shelter open if they
want to get away from the sun.
Wash away the discharge from bad
cases and lance head swellings, flushing
out the cuts with a weak solution of
Condy’s and water. A 50-50 solution of
raw linseed oil and lime water or plain
oil will soften scabs. Epsom or Glauber
salts will relieve constipation. In two
or three weeks the patients should re-
cover, except those which have suffered
liver damage.
Best prevention is to control the feed.
Spread good lumps of dry hay in pad-
docks lush with trefoil. If there has been
supplementary feeding from troughs,
keep it up. Give the sheep alternate spells
in the lush paddock and in a bare one,
with some hay.
“Mother Liquor” for Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: The Maoriland Agri-
cultural Department has done useful work
determining the value of “mother liquor”
—it remains after sugar of milk has been
taken out of whey —for bacon raising.
The sugar of milk is removed by evapo-
ration and crystallisation and the residue
varies in content —about 15 to 20 p.c.
protein—and is rich in those amino acids
which make for development and milk.
The experiments were made with first-
cross large white on large black, born
June 6, 1940. Piglets were weaned on
July 30, and divided into two groups of
six, one of which received a light meal
ration plus “mother liquor.”
The group started out with 71b. grain
and 12 pints “mother liquor” per day
for six weeks, after which the grain was
increased to Bylb. and the liquor to 14
pints—the liquor was broken down to
one in five with water.
The control group began with 141 b.
grain and one pint molasses a day. After
six weeks the grain ration was 171 b. ;
after another fortnight, 201 b. Molasses
was cut out and replaced by whey. In
another three weeks grain was again in-
creased —to 231 b.
Each group had the ration in three
feeds, with abundant water. Each also
had a few swedes in the first months,
plus Jib. meatmeal per day. The average
cost of “mother liquor” per pig was
2s. 6d. ; of molasses, 2s. 4Jd.
Six months from littering all the speci-
mens were sold in fine condition and
going over 2001 b. There was no doubt
about the advantage of the use of
“mother liquor.” It gave the youngsters
a great start. They were 101 b. lighter
than the molasses group when the trial
began. At the end of a month they
were 61b. ahead of their rivals. They
made a bit over 11b. per day gain. In
the next 30 days their gain was 1.651 b.
per day.
Both groups finished a little on the fat
side —the molasses pigs the more so.
Harrowing Hints.
“8.C.”: Harrowing to be worth while
must be done properly. On dirty country
lift the leaves as soon as they start to
clog and clear the tines. Pick up roots,
stones or big sticks likely to drag and
carry them off to the headland.
Sometimes the ground might be so
dirty that the set actually becomes a
rake. Loosely tie with wire sticks a bit
longer than the length from front to back
of the harrows, allowing one stick to trail
behind each leaf. When a heap is
gathered, prop the harrows with the sticks
and drive on. It’s quicker than holding
the leaf with one hand and dragging the
stuff away with the other, and it will
leave the rubbish in handy heaps that
can be forked up and burnt in a spare
hour.
Over dry, lumpy ground that doesn’t
take the tines too well drag a heavy
chain looped loosely from end to end
of the swinglebar and striking the
ground ahead of the forward tines. If
the set is inclined to buck through the
forward part digging in, fix a small
wheel or a rounded bit of wood to the
main harrow-bar to keep its weight up.
Fix a couple of light iron runners to
the top of the centre section. Turn it
over on the runners and stack the other
sections on top and shifting is done easily
and swiftly. Old sulky tyres can be
shaped into runners with a fire and a
heavy hammer. When using half a dozen
leaves or more, have two sections fitted
with runners.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bundalinga”: As stock feed, potatoes
are rich in carbohydrates, but poor in
protein. They are best fed with bran
and chaff. Cut them up to avoid risk
of choking. Don’t feed old, rotten or
frosted tubers, as stock may be poisoned.
Cattle can be given up to 20lb. of potatoes
daily, and sheep up to 11b. Boil the
potatoes for pigs, and feed them with
skim milk and grain.
“Billy See”: A cheap rat or mouse
poison: One teaspoonful of yellow sheep-
dip powder, one cup of pollard, a sprinkle
of bran ; mix dry and lay out in open
container. Another: Three teaspoonfuls
plaster of paris, one cup of pollard,
sprinkle of bran; mix dry as before.
“Jayem”: In the five years that he has
been showing his merinos, Niel McDon-
ald, Bullaway, Bugaldie (N.S.W.), has
won more than 400 prizes. His record
this year is already approaching the 100
mark, including 16 championships. Bull-
away stud was founded on Haddon Rig
blood in 1936. The owner, whose father,
Malcolm McDonald, bred good merinos
at Caledonia, does not believe in pamper-
ing his sheep. His ambition is to win a
grand championsihp at Sydney sheep
show,
“Canbelego”: Three Australian records
for production were made by A.I.S. cows
in W. H. Thompson’s Alfa Vale stud,
Nanango (Q.), during the past year. With •


TIMBER KILLER !
Kills largest trees in FIFTEEN
DAYS from roots to top. New
method. NO RING-BARKING!
Prevents suckering! Eradicates
BLACKBERRIES! 5/6 tin, posted.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO (15ft.)
BEARS HEAVILY FOR A WHOLE YEAR!
Yields 2001bs. Sow NOW. 2/6 packet.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 75 George St., SYDNEY.
Good-looking Good Value
For a good-looking shoe that offers even
better value, here is the shoe you should buy.
A boldly-punched full galosh model with the
popular square toe; made in black or richly-
coloured brown calf, and obtainable in full
range of sizes and half-sizes.
ABBEY
SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY. a
In fine
quality calf
39/6
VohftS UiwnU teiestbcf
ONCE A YEAR
M
I
ms*
Atmospheric changes affect seal.
Coating burns off filament.
Vacuum declines with age.
Vibration upsets balance.
Heat injures insulation.
Gases upset stability.
Tiny grid wires warp.
Joints are strained.
REVALVE WITH
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN MADE .... ALWAYS AVAILABLE
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA), ltd.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty., Ltd.
we«m
sarrrs
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
151 CLARENCE STREET, facing G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ROOM ONLY
Single Rooms from 5/6
Double Rooms from 11/-
Hot and Cold Water
BED & BREAKFAST
Single Rooms from 7/6
Double Rooms from 15/-
Spacious, Up-to-date Dining Room—All Meals a la Carte. Banquets, Functions, etc., by arrangement.
Telephone; 8W1531 (7 lines). Cable and Radio: Grancentral. G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
14,246.251 b. of milk and 540.761 b. of
butterfat in 273 days, Alfa Vale Gem
10th set new figures for milk and butter-
fat yields by senior two-year-olds. Her
butterfat yield, however, was exceeded by
another Thompson cow, Alfa Vale Pansy,
with 568.621 b. By yielding 721.231 b. of
butterfat in 365 days, Alfa Vale Gem
7th became the holder of the Australian
record for b.f. production in that period.
Her yield was 125.741 b. in excess of the
previous record, made by Oak Villa
Champion 12th seven years ago.
“Mullengah”: A few years ago R. R.
Shaw, Pine Knoll, Parkes (N.S.W.), began
pig-raising. Today he has 360 pigs and
markets a truckload every quarter. He
started the pigs to utilise wheat grown
on his 400-acre farm. Base feed is
kitchen refuse from Parkes ; the pigs are
topped off with crushed wheat. No grain
has been sold for two years, as Shaw
considers he gets more by feeding it to
the pigs. They are Tammy and Berk,
crosses.
“C.S.”: The C.S.I.R. is out with a
pamphlet on soils and vegetation of Tas-
mania. Major problems are restoration
of fertility in the gravelly soils of Cressy
and Longford districts and erosion con-
trol. Applications of lime and coarse-
grained superphosphate are being inves-
tigated as a means of increasing fertility.
Sheet erosion is common on the slopes
of the apple-growing soils of the south
and on the basaltic soils. Gully and
sheet erosion occur on the black soil
south-east of Launceston. Stabilisation
of sand dunes on the north-east coast is
a serious problem. The council claims
the dunes should not be grazed at all.
“Sandpatch”: Nine years ago I made a
survey of all the agricultural settlements
in N.Q., and found that molasses grass
(B. 18/6/’4l) was in high repute for its
fattening qualities, particularly on the
Daintree. Lucas Hughes showed me one
paddock of 70 acres which had carried
160 head of big stock from June to
October, four totally dry months. He
assured me they came off fat. Molasses
grass has certain very definite advantages
in the tropics. It seeds prolifically, grows
very quickly and makes fat and milk. On
new jungle burns where ink weed
grows inches in a day, and which is liable
to rapid erosion if not grassed quickly,
molasses grass is valuable. It is not
fussy and will grow on comparatively
poor soils, provided heat and moisture
are present. But I can’t agree that it is
likely to keep off ticks.
“Huxave”: Australian methods of
millet harvesting still lag behind Ameri-
can. The U.S. crop is cut just after it
has passed the flowering stage, carted in,
hackled and piled on drying racks to a
depth of 4in. There it remains till it
reaches the right stage for baling. Asa
result, American-cured millet has a repu-
tation for color and super-resiliency.
Crops yield greater poundage. N.S.W.
millet crops are the heaviest for years
and will provide a carryover. Yet some
farmers face loss through baling before
the fibre was sufficiently cured. This
induced heat, mouldiness, discoloration
and brittleness. Smut also affects quality.
One of the best controls is dusting of
seed with 2oz. per bushel of ceresan or
copper carbonate. Cost works out at Id.
per acre.
“Huxave”: There is a good market in
N.S.W. for disease-free bean seed,
hitherto mostly imported. Up to £5 a
bushel has been paid for pure Canadian
Wonder. On a return of 15 bushels an
acre, costing between £1 10s. and £2 ss.
an acre to sow, the grower could look
for at least £45 an acre gross for a crop
taking about five months. He’d have
to know something of roguing, harvest-
ing and grading and be able to irrigate
the crop as well as beat off disease.
“Mt. Boppy”: E. Braithwaite, Idavale,
Bellingen (N.S.W.) grows 10 acres of
cowcane. He uses it as a standby in dry
seasons, and chaffs it to provide roughage
for his Jerseys in winter. The cane is
fed with bran, and the cows do well on
it. In addition, they are grazed on oats
during winter. There is a marked lift
in yield as soon as the cows go on to the
pastures of rye grass and red clover.
“Huxave”: Before the war Australia
imported all her sunflower seed from
Argentina and Manchuria at £15 a. ton.
Now the price for local-grown seed is
£28 and many are taking it on. Latest
estimates are that within 12 months the
local crops will be sufficient to supply the
Commonwealth’s needs and leave a sur-
plus for oil-production. Cold-pressed
oil is a good runner-up to olive and
almond oils ; warm-pressed gives a first-
rate substitute for linseed in paints, soaps
and lubrication.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Last year eggs ex-
ported from Australia were valued at
over a million pounds. Shipments to
Britain were over 17 million dozen. With
modern processing methods a case of
30 dozen eggs can be reduced to 101b.
of powder, which retains the full food
value and can be shipped as ordinary
cargo. The Commerce Department has
obtained the necessary plant, and is to
begin operations in time for the opening
of the export season. It hopes to treat
about two-thirds of the total export out-
put and increase to a 3000-ton seasonal
output.
“Jacko”: “Peapod” (B. 25/6/’41)
omitted one most important point about
the care of harness —he didn’t say what
sort of oil to use. Oil must be animal
or vegetable, and never mineral. Pure
neatsfoot is best —and I mean pure.
Raw castor and linseed are good. If
using animal fat make sure it doesn’t con-
tain salt.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
How to skin a fox ? —1222.
Insert knife on inside of back leg between
hock and paw and run right across crutch to
same place on other leg. Peel the skin away
from each leg, then run from crutch down
underside of tail to within few inches of tip.
To clean tip, get two sticks and use them as
grip to peel skin off the last of the tailbone,
placing a stick on each side of bone, then
clamping them with fingers and giving a quick
pull. Next, open skin right along stomach
from crutch to lower jaw, also running out
from breast on inside of each front leg to
paws. Open skin round throat and over head,
cutting off ears with skin, open over each
front leg, then peel back from rump to
shoulder.
* * * *
To cure a pig weighing about 200 lb. for
bacon ? —1782.
Take 251b. salt, 151b. brown sugar, lOoz. salt-
petre and 5oz. bicarb, soda. Crush saltpetre
very fine and sprinkle it evenly over meat
(flesh side up), rubbing well in. Sprinkle soda
same way, then a layer of sugar, then a thick
layer of salt. Allow brine to drain away for
three days to carry off blood, then save the
clean brine in a basin. At the end of a week
turn the bacon and rub in more salt and sugar,
mixing it well with the clean brine and rubbing
well in. Turn weekly for three weeks, repeating
process, then hang up to drain, wipe off salt
and dry for a week. Smoke if preferred, or
keep plain.
Outback Occupations.
No. LXXVII.
MONEY FROM RABBITS.
“Rabbits,” says young Jack, “is worth
money. They’re getting six and eight
bob a pound for ’em.”
“Who is?” you ask.
“Blokes around here,” he answers.
Further inquiry reveals that apparently
most of the district has given up farm-
ing and is tramping over the hills and
dales following traplines.
“Have we any rabbits?” asks the
missus.
“Have we any rabbits! ” echo the boys.
“Ask the inspector,” you grunt, think-
ing of his last letter.
“Y’oughter buy a hundred traps,
Dad,” says Jack. “Me an’ Tom’ll work
’em. Y’ could let us have a percentage
on the skins.”
You light your pipe. “Trappin’ rab-
bits,” you inform them, “is not a game
f’r amachures. I remember when me
an’ ol’ Sid Willis was lads. We got on
t’ some real rabbit country down in south
Gippsland. Gripes, they was thick! We
had over 300 traps out an’ ”
“Wait a minute, Dad,” Jack expostu-
lates ; “three hundred traps!”
“Three hundred,” you assert firmly.
Grins break out, you catch your wife
lowering her left eyelid at her younger
son. This sort of thing has happened
before. You look your wife coldly in
the eye and declare, “A hundred an’ fifty
traps is nothing t’ a man who knows
how t’ work ’em. If rabbit-skins are
worth eight bob a pound I’ll get 100
traps in town t’morrer an’ show you
fellers.”
Which is largely why, two evenings
later, you are setting the 34th trap near
the gate in the back paddock. Your back
and legs are aching from the continued
stooping, your hands are sore from the
setter and the gravelly ground, your right
thumb is throbbing where a tender trap
sprang and got it a half-hour previously.
Somehow you battle on, picking out pads
and burrows, scoring a line from trap to
trap with a pointed stick. At last it gets
too dark to see, and with a prayer of
thankfulness you hide the 38 traps you
have left and make back to ftie house.
After tea you fall asleep in front of
the fire, to be awakened by someone
shaking you forcibly. “It’s nine o’clock,
Dad,” says young Jack ; “y’oughter be
going after y’r first catch.” You bite
back a groan, and cold panic seethes in
you as you visualise the cold and dark
outside. “Jack,” you say, “how’d you
an’ Tom like t’ go round?”
Jack rejects the idea. How would he
know where to go? Besides, he doesn’t
know enough about the game. Stiffly
you light the hurricane lamp and start
forth.
Every confounded trap holds a rabbit.
Stumbling about in the fitful light of the
lantern, you murder them one by one
and dump their carcasses in the chaff-
bag. Then you reset the traps. By the
time you have 501 b. of rabbit in that bag
you can hardly stand up. You lose the
trapline twice, finding it the first time by
a squeal and the second by falling over a
trap-chain. Somehow you get the last
trap reset and straighten up for home.
Then an awful thought strikes you. The
darned things will have to be skinned.
Make the boys do it. You grin feebly
and jump as Jack’s voice cries “Is that
you, Dad?”
“Who didja think it was?” you answer.
He comes out of the night. “Mum got
a bit worried. You’ve been away so
long”
“Away so long?”
“Yair, it’s nearly half-past twelve.
What happened?”
You can’t believe it. He shows you
his watch. Without a word you hand
him the bag of rabbits and turn for
home. You are stained and filthy, dog-
tired and almost asleep on your feet. You
get the worst of it off, gulp the hot tea
she has ready, advise her not to be silly
worrying like that and fall into bed.
“Dad,” calls Jack, “will I set the alarm
for four?”
“Four!” you echo. “Why?”
“Well, you’ll hafter go f’r y’r morn-
ing catch then and get the line reset f’r
the daybreak run an’ ”
You sink back, muscles shrieking in
protest, a sick feeling in your stomach.
It is defeat and you know it, but you
smother it up, perhaps.
“Jack,” you call, “now that I’ve shown
you how t’ go about it I’ll leave the rab-
bitin’ t’ you an’ Tom. I’ve got too much
t’ do t’ be botherin’ with traps”
“Righto, Dad ; but you’ll hafter do
the mornin’ catch t’ show us where the
trapline is. We can’t pick it up on our
own.”
“Huh!” you snort. “Anyone’d think
y’ was a couple o’ city blokes. You
ruddy well find them traps y’rselves.
Always wanting y’r daddy t’ show y’!
Ain’t y’ ever goin’ t’ grow” But
then Nature wins and you fall into deep
slumber.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of per line; all others at
2ld. per line.
First place this week for a self-confessed failure as “a filler-in of forms”—
an art (or science) in which the Australian gets more practice than the citizen of
any other country.
Forms
After considerable experience with the
many and varied forms devised for the
torture of the public by the dozens of
boards and Government departments
which supervise every phase of Austra-
lian life, I thought that I would at least
be entitled to a pass in the rather difficult
art. Now I know that even as a filler-in-
of-forms I am a failure. I was floored
by the child endowment application. On
the surface it looked simple, and 1 went
ahead, filling in the sections which had
special reference to my own case, indi-
cating by strokes those sections which
did not apply. I sought out a friend who
could testify to the correctness of my
statements and induced her to fill in the
requisite section. I interrupted the busy
morning of a patient J.P. and persuaded
him to witness my signature. Then I
posted my form.
Soon I received a courteous letter and
a special form. The letter pointed out
that I had failed to fill in the section
dealing with children absent from home.
Would I please answer all questions on
the enclosed form —“strokes will not be
accepted.” So against the first query,
“Number of children not living with
you,” I wrote “None.” To the subse-
quent questions as to their absence from
home, the amount I pay for their main-
tenance, etc., I was forced, since strokes
were forbidden, to write “See above.”
Then I posted the thing back to its special
department. I’ve heard no more yet.
But I’ve no doubt that any day now I’ll
get further inquiries regarding the
number of my children belonging to an
aboriginal father, not to mention the
other sections I ignored in the original
form. — Loulalo (Vic.).
Child Endowment
If the administrators of child endow-
ment had set out to make it as ineffective
as possible, they could scarcely have
loaded it with a more serious handicap
than the exclusion from its benefit of the
first child, which probably demands the
greatest sacrifice of all on the part of the
young parents. Their highly-prized free-
dom has to be given up, and an entire
reconstruction of their way of living has
to be made. With the advent of the
first child, however, the parents become
“family” conscious, and the prospect of
a second and third child is not regarded
as something strange and dismaying.
To encourage young married couples
to commence family life, every induce-
ment should be offered for the first child.
Basic wages should be adjusted to the
requirements of man and wife, and then
endowment should be given to cover cost
of living for the first child as well as suc-
ceeding children. If the principle of
child endowment is sound, the exclusion
of the first child must be unsound.—
G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
My neighbor brought up four children.
Their cost at the age of 19 was £lOOO
each. He has done his bit, but in his
older age, when he would reasonably like
a little comfort and desires to save money
for his old age, he finds that he is called
on to pay, by taxation, for the families
of other people who are as well able to
pay for and keep their offspring as he
was. — Justice (W.A.).
Coal
In his speech to the nation on June 17
the P.M. promised that the Common-
wealth would assume more extensive con-
tiol over the coal industry in the in-
terests of increased production. If he
does so it is to be hoped that some of
the anomalies in the scheme under which
the industry works in Queensland will
be removed. The Coal Production Regu-
lation Act, the governing Act in Queens-
land, sets up coal boards, which not
only limit the quantity of coal an owner
may produce, but also the price at which
and the customer to whom he may sell it,
as well as the time and mode of trans-
port.
These powers, wide as they are, are
only such as Australians have come to
expect from the innumerable boards
which their Governments have super-
imposed upon industry, and consequently
would call for little comment were it
not for the system upon which the boards
must act in fixing the quotas of produc-
tion.
The Act stabilises the industry as
at 1932. Mines are alloted a quota
based upon their production in that year,
and mines opened or expanded since
1932 must take what is left, which is
not considerable. It so happens, how-
ever, that some of the old mines are not
able to maintain their 1932 production,
and in some cases are able to produce
very little coal at all. In these circum-
stances it would be expected that the
other mines, and particularly the newly-
opened mines, would receive increased
quotas, but such is not the case. Their
quotas remain the same, but they are
allowed to sell over their quotas to make
up the deficiency subject to their paying
into a fund a royalty of Is. for each ton
sold over their quotas, the fund being
divided among those mines which sold
less than their quotas.
Mines of which I have knowledge have
the capacity and plant to produce 20,000,
30,000 or 40,000 tons of the besbgrade
coal each year, but are alloted a quota
of only a few thousand tops. They sell
regularly two and three times their
quotas and pay Is. on every ton oversold
into the fund.
In a nation at war to which coal-pro-
duction has become a greater need than
ever, it is incomprehensible that a system
should be persisted in which restricts
some mines to only a fraction of their
capacity and pays a royalty to others for
possessing what are in some cases mere
“holes in the ground.” The sooner the
P.M. remedies it the better. — Smilax (Q.).
Essential Foods for England
Having lived in London under food
rationing and finding Sydney a city of
incredible plenty, I decided to send
parcels of essential foods to friends in
England. I was told that it would be
wisest to buy the foods from one of the
leading stores, which would dispatch and
insure them. I entered one of these
shops, regretting that out of such despe-
rately-needed foods for Britain wealthy
Australian stores must get a profit.
It cost 11s. 6d., with insurance, to send
a parcel containing two small tins of
sheep’s tongues, two of camp pie and
21b. of sugar. When such foods mean
what they will to a man, woman or child
in the winter coming in Britain, surely
some way, not connected with private
enterprise, can be found to make it easier
for those of us who try to carry right
sentiment into constructive action.—
Maclean (N.S.W.).
Men v. Machines
The Bulletin (11 /6 / ’4l) quotes an
American expert who suggests that Ger-
many has 250 divisions that can be put
into any field of war and Britain no more
than 50. Therefore, it says, let’s get
busy and enlist more divisions. But how
many more divisions is Australia capable
of supplying and yet maintaining her
present (or improved) munition-produc-
tion? Surely a tank or a ’plane is worth
droves of soldiers armed with courage
and bayonets?
If this war proves anything at all it
proves that sheer weight of man-power
is meaningless. When Germany in-
vaded the Netherlands she was, during
the course of the campaign, opposed by
the armies of Holland, Belgium, France
and Britain, of which Holland and Bel-
gium were computed to have armies of
a million men, each carrying a rifle,
France five million, and Britain nearly
half a million —a total (without Luxem-
bourg) of nearly seven and a half mil-
lion men. All quite powerless against
tanks and dive-bombing.
Wavell’s astonishingly small army con-
quered seven or eight times its weight of
Italian man-power, and subsequently the
German mechanised column recaptured
Cyrenaica in record time. It should
have been obvious to everyone that
soldiers with rifles are useless against
mechanised forces, except where there
is some natural geographical obstacle
which prevents the use of tanks, such as
the English Channel, or where, as in
Northern Norway, there are no aero-
dromes.
Big armies of infantry are, indeed, a
danger; they are unwieldy, their food
supplies are a problem, and armored
divisions can, by cutting their communi-
cation lines, cause them to panic. In
my opinion Mr. Menzies is right and
The Bulletin’s editorial —usually so
sane—dangerously wrong. Remember
that a few Hurricanes and Spitfires saved
England when seven and a half million
men failed.— Strategist (S.A.).
No Hardships Yet
There are no hardships in carrying
out the policy enunciated by Mr. Men-
zies. In fact, Australians at home have
not encountered any hardships since the
pioneering days of 1840-80. I am hope-
ful, however, that the speech is only
Chapter One, and that Chapter Two will
come soon with a provision for the sys-
tematic financing of the war by taking the
loan of whatever money is required in
the proper proportion, coupled with com-
pulsory universal service for any zone
required for the proper defence of Aus-
tralia.
Under the present so-called method
the flower of the nation is defending the
country while slackers enjoy the privi-
leges and breed up a nation of indifferent
citizens. It is shameful to realise that
bands and other so-called attractions
have to be brought out to organise a
rally to get money and recruits.
Why does Australia hang back in this
respect? Precedents should not be re-
quired, but if the people will insist on
them then take an example from the so-
called Labor-Socialist Government of
Maoriland, which leads the Southern
Hemisphere in war control. Abraham
Lincoln said:
Voluntarism is the unprincipled dodge of
cowardly politicians. It has ground up the
choicest seed corn of the nation. It has
consumed the young, the generous, the pat-
riotic, the intelligent and the brave and it
has wasted the best moral, social and poli-
tical elements of the country and left the
cowards, the shirkers and the moneymakers
to stay at home and procreate their kind!
—Herbert Yeates (Q.).
Clerks and Other Specialists
In an advertisement in the Brisbane
press calling for recruits for the Aus-
tralian Army Pay Corps (service in Aus-
tralia), the inducement is offered, “com-
mence rank as corporal, good prospects
promotion.” The notice is perfectly true ;
there are good prospects of promotion in
the army, but in no branch is promotion
so sure as in this and similar non-fighting
units.
It is one of the minor mysteries of
the army why the army clerk and indoor
worker should be rated so much higher
than the fighting man. All army clerks
are given promotion automatically, or at
the very least draw specialist’s pay, the
army still retaining the belief (true in
Wellington’s day) that ability to read
and write is the mark of a specialist
and should be paid for as such.
Similarly, lowest rank in the army
Legal Corps and the Dental Corps is
captain, and the holder of a commission
in these units retains his status if he trans-
fer to a fighting unit. On the same
principle the Director of Entertainments
and the band leader of the A.I.F. com-
menced their military careers as lieut.-
colonel and lieutenant respectively, only
the Lord and the Army Board knowing
how they escaped the Defence Act provi-
sion that promotions are to come from
the ranks.—D. Laney (Q.).
An Industrial Achievement
The shoals and shallows of the indus-
trial sea were never better negotiated than
recently in Perth when the unions con-
trolling the essential fitting, turning,
blacksmithing and welding industries sank
their precious privileges in a common
cause and arranged a new agreement. It
all shows how sweet reasonableness, if
given a fair chance, can overcome indus-
trial difficulties to ensure amicable work-
ing arrangements in most critical hours
without resorting to strikes. The em-
ployers conceded the State basic wage
(several shillings higher than the Federal)
and the Federal loadings; the unions
accepted Federal working conditions as
to junior labor and other very essential
features to relieve the anxieties of their
employers. — Adsum (W.A.).
The Job for Women
“Colin Street’s” argument (B. 25/6/’4l)
met with my approval till 1 found that he
would like to see married women “keep
their jobs and take temporary leave
shortly before confinement. Adequate
creches and day nurseries must be pro-
vided for the care of the children while
the mothers are working.”
How long is the “temporary leave” to
last after the birth of the child? The
child should be naturally fed for a period
of nine months, for the most part at
intervals of four hours. Industry will
need to be radically altered to enable the
working mother at four-hour intervals
to go to the creche, feed her baby for
the prescribed twenty minutes and return
to her work. If the creche is to be scien-
tifically run it will need to cater for more
than one or two infants, so the travelling
distance from place of work to creche
would in many cases be considerable.
When the child is weaned, of course,
a creche or other institution would be
able to look after the growing child prob-
ably more scientifically than could a
mother —the only snag being that the
working wives mightn’t care to have
children at all if they are only to see
them at night, when all the best clinical
babies are fast asleep. Besides, the “ade-
quate creches and day nurseries” would
need such armies of trained mothercraft
nurses, etc, that it would almost seem
simpler to train the individual mothers
and let them do the job for themselves,
with more enthusiasm and sympathy and
—though it’s old-fashioned —love than
paid nurses could muster. The prospect
of an institution-bred populace gives me
the horrors.
I’m tired of the suggestion that a
mother’s duty is done when she has given
birth to her child. I’m also tired of the
suggestion that housework is only for
morons. I’ve tried being a working wife.
And I’ve come to the conclusion that the
laws against the employment of married
women are not only just, but they don t
go far enough. The married woman,
especially with a family, has a full-time
job. It is a varied, interesting, responsible
job, demanding brains and artistry and
understanding, superlatively well paid.
"Ease up, Johnson —you're pullin' too hard!"


LEAVES FROM THE BOOK
: S - 5 ■ -
mm
i a
OF GRACIOUS LIVING
SMI
A' =
fWEOtD
whisky
on
m
mmm
ismmm
i 'N>
lira
:
S '
'«52
Live that record “round” again, in the cheerful com-
panionship of Skee.
Its warm, clear colour is like captured sunshine. Its linger-
ing fragrance speaks of leisured maturity. Its full, smooth
flavour rests like velvet on the tongue.
For every occasion . . . for every mood ... let your choice
be Skee.
SKEE
FINE OLD
WHISMYi
Jor those toko appreciate the good things of life.


“Bill's dropped 'is plug o' terbacker."
with labor-saving devices to make possible
time for physical and mental recreation.
But, above all, it is the job women are
fitted for and the job women prefen—
Feminine Anti-Feminist (N.S.W.).
Birth-control
Contraception and abortion (B.
25/6/’4l) are only the symptoms of the
disease. The birthrate is low because
parents do not want children, and the
cause of this is not an economic one,
because the poor have a higher
birthrate than the rich. The real reason
is the lack of a national aim.
Australia is a land without an ideal.
There is no rich hinterland to be settled ;
there is not, or was not till the present
war, any outside threat sufficiently power-
ful to force us to unite. Consequently,
since the 1914-18 war all classes have con-
centrated on getting a larger share of the
national wealth. That has made wealth
seem the end of existence for too many
Australians. With this luxury has be-
come the mark of success, and people
having to choose between a car and a
baby prefer the car. Contraceptives, as
an easy means of birth control, fit
in with this idea of life and encourage
parents not to have children.
Encouragement of marriages by grants,
child endowment and increased care of
mothers and babies are all good and
necessary methods of increasing the popu-
lation, but they scarcely start to solve
the problem. Australia’s real need for
a higher birthrate is a national ideal,
something that we are prepared to make
sacrifices for. Nationalism would serve
lor a time, as it is doing in Germany,
but Christianity has the only philosophy
which can continue to provide a purpose
lor living for people in all stages of a
nation’s development, and a return to
Christianity is the only real hope for a
high birthrate in Australia. —F. C. (Vic.).
A common contention is that birth
control will ultimately result in racial
decline. It would be more comforting to
regard it as an adjustment to the machine
age. Surplus population is apt to be an
embarrassment in an age of labor-saving
machinery. It is a mistake to place em-
phasis on the necessity for an improved
birthrate while the labor market is un-
able to absorb the unemployed. Even in
normal times the unemployment problem
remains a reality, and we are no nearer
its solution today than we were ten years
ago. Industry is unequal to the task of
absorbing surplus man-power. Australia
is overpopulated rather than the reverse,
and birth control seems the only medium
of adjustment.— Blue (Q,).
Because “Colin Street” does not
recognise the one lawful means of limi-
tation of population, self-control, he
must bring pseudo-statistical support for
his anti-social doctrine. Since it is impos-
sible to obtain a definite figure for the
abortions procured annually in any coun-
try, it is false to say that the dissemi l
nation of any particular form of know-’
ledge has reduced that figure. As to the
statement that “where contraceptive
knowledge is not available abortion flour-
ishes,” the lie is given by Ireland, where
distribution of contraceptive instruction
is punishable by law, and yet the birth-
rate is the highest in the world.
While condemning the sterility of body
resulting from abortion, “Colin Street”
gives little thought to the sterility of mind
and will engendered by the use of contra-
ceptives. That loss of mental stamina goes
deeper than the fear and betrayal of
leaders ; it lies rooted in the individual
inability to make a choice and abide by
it. The abuse of power of government
is no greater than the abuse of the faculty
of procreation.—P. S. (N.S.W.).
I’m still old-fashioned enough to be-
lieve that God’s opinion should interest
a people who are fighting “a Christian
crusade” and giving their lifeblood to
maintain the Christian way of living.
Birth prevention by artificial means is
an “unethical” device, i.e., against the
interests of the human race at large.
And how any human act or habit can
be “unethical” and at the same time
something good and moral for the
race needs a little mental violence to
appreciate. Contraception is against the
law of nature, because it deliberately and
by artifice frustrates the end intended by
Nature, and for that reason it can’t be
pleasing to the Author of Nature.
Dr. S. J. Holmes, Professor of
Zoology at California University, has a
pertinent remark to pass on this point:
“Intelligence has outwitted Nature in the
matter of regulating the birth supply, but
Nature gets her revenge by remorselessly
extinguishing her adversary.”
In the first book of the Bible we get
a pointer as to what the Almighty does
think of the business. In the 39th chap-
ter of the book (Genesis) we are told of
a chap called Onan who deliberately prac-
tised birth prevention, “And therefore the
Lord slew him because he did a detest-
able thing.”— Christianus (Tas.).
Admittedly “positive encouragement of
parenthood will do more than banning
of contraceptives to increase the popu-
lation,” but a wise society will not
choose between abortion, infanticide
or contraception. A society with the
well-being of its citizens at heart will
endeavor to make things better for the
parents-to-be and eliminate the need for
any type of family limitation. Abortion
does take a terrible toll, but that should
not lead to the hasty decision that birth
control is harmless, for haven’t nervous
disorders alone increased alarmingly over
the last years? And what is positive en-
couragement? Money won’t do it, as is
evidenced by the fact that 13 years of
family endowment had little or no effect
on the population of N. S. Wales. How-
ever, as propaganda has proved an in-
strument of such force on the war front
perhaps it could be utilised to equally
good advantage on this one. —A. P.
(N.S.W.).
Blind attempts to “space” a pos-
sible family by means of contraception
with the limited knowledge at present
available seem to me dangerous and in-
effective. How can parents tell that,
of a possible family of six or seven,
the one or two elected to human exist-
ence may not be the very poorest speci-
mens of what the unborn ones might
have been? The Spartan father, having
the prerogative of life or death over his
offspring, at least had the opportunity of
inspecting the finished article.—D. D.
CTas.).
Rural Education
I object to the centralisation of schools
(B. 18/6/’4l). Primary-school children
spend approximately seven hours away
from home if the school is within half a
mile, and that’s long enough without add-
ing further time for travelling to a “cen-
tral” school.
In large city classes, too, the “weaker”
pupils are carried by the smarter ones,
pushed along “class for age,” and manage
to get into an intermediate high school
or a non-competitive high school. Here
they drift until they leave school grate-
fully at 14, plus the four months added
for this year in N. S. Wales.
In a small school children have prac-
tically individual tuition, and a weak one
is made to repeat a class, and thus gets
a sound foundation, more useful than a
smattering of French or Latin.
It is the application of the pupil which
is of paramount importance. This and
a hearty home interest in school work
will get more results than all the “proper
teaching facilities” obtainable in town
schools,— Bursar (N.S.W.).
Wheat
“Soe” (B. 11/6/’4l) returns to the
charge with a few more fallacies. The
first is that the report of a royal com-
mission outweighs in importance the
considered testimony of the Government
Statistician, who is primarily concerned
with facts and not opinions. Royal com-
missions may perform a useful function,
but I have some recollection of the find-
ings of one at least being blown sky-high
by a Chief Justice and his jury.
I have heard of the McKay works, but
formed the impression that they manu-
factured all sorts of farm machinery, and
were not exclusively engaged in the
manufacture of implements for wheat-
farming. I seem to have seen McKay
products on sugar, peanut and maize
farms in Queensland.
Finally, “Soe” asserts that some
peculiar brand of credit is going to pay
for our wheat exports after the war is
over. About the only nation that will be
able to indulge in the luxury of selling
on credit when Hitler is finally settled
will be the U.S.A. If that country
finances European wheat purchases, you
can bet it will be in the interest of Ameri-
can (and perhaps Canadian) wheat-
growers.—Sandpatch (N.S.W.).
Sea Mullet
Unless the N. S. Wales and Queens-
land Governments take prompt and
effective action there will be no market
supplies of sea mullet in a very few
years. The last annual report of' the
Queensland Fish Board showed that the
yield had fallen by nearly a million
pounds and £10,774 in value below the
previous year’s figures. N, S. Wales is
even worse off. This year’s season is
nearly over and it has been by far the
poorest on record.
Investigation by the C.S.I.R. fisheries
division with the co-operation of State
officers has shown that mullet do not
spawn until they are three years old
and at least Min. long. The present
minimum sizes of llin. and 12in. permit
the taking of one- and two-year-old fish,
thus cutting off the spawners of the
following years. Unless the minimum
size in both States is increased to 13in.
for nine months of each year, and Min.
for the spawning-migration months of
May, June and July, the present diminu-
tion must inevitably continue to the point
at which market supplies will be un-
obtainable.
The Queensland Fishermen’s Associa-
tion has decided to oppose the increase
in minimum sizes as likely to reduce
fishermen’s incomes by 25 p.c. As nearly
half of the fish sold in the Brisbane
market are mullet, they stand to lose a
lot more by this unwise action. The
Q.F.A.’s suggested alternative is to limit
takes to 15 cases for each fisherman and
to prohibit netting from midnight on
Friday to midnight on Sunday during
May, June and July. The association has
asked representatives of the N. S. Wales
industry to support it.
In the interests of their fishing indus-
tries and of an important source of Aus-
tralian food supply, it is earnestly to be
hoped that the two State Governments
concerned will adopt and enforce the
C.S.I.R. recommendations at the earliest
possible moment. Limitation of indi-
vidual takes is impracticable and would
need an army of inspectors to enforce.
As for the Friday-Sunday break I have
yet to meet the fisherman who could
resist the temptation offered by a big
shoal on a calm Saturday or Sunday
evening with his nets ready on the beach
and an ice-supply available. Size limits
can be checked at the market and a few
drastic examples would secure immediate
compliance. More important still, strict
enforcement of size limit is the only
effective manner in which young fish can
be protected until they reach the age of
reproduction. —Dickie Beech (Q.).
Eat More
An advertisement inserted in the press
by the Department of Commerce gives
the ideal breakfast —baked apple and
custard, lamb chops and bacon, buttered
toast, and a glass of milk. Too right it’s
ideal, and I often wonder what it really
tastes like. So must many thousands
of Australians —work out the cost of it
for a man, his wife and family and you’ll
see that if the average working class
man has such a breakfast he’ll need to
be satisfied with bread and dripping for
the remaining two daily meals.
This urge to- use more Australian pro-
ducts is a good one, and many thousands
of Australians would eat more lamb,
more bacon, more apples, wine and every
other Australian product—if they had
the money to buy them. Not one family
in a hundred eats all the good food it
would like to, simply because it cannot
afford to.
If the Department of Commerce wants
Australian families to eat more local pro-
ducts, the simplest way to do it is to give
them enough money to buy the goods.
In this country there are hundreds of
families who do not know the taste of
bacon, and the lamb chops they can
afford to buy are as tough as greenhide.
—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
“Advance Australia!”
Australia has some fetishes, among
them the idea that transport in many of
its forms must be Government-owned.
Hence the railways. But how we do
fool ourselves! In one Victorian port,
and it is one instance of many in Aus-
tralia, there was small shipping facility,
so an agitation arose for a breakwater
and harbor in order that large vessels
might carry the goods of the faraway
district to the bloated capital. The Gov-
ernment provided the new facilities.
Then the railway heads and the local
member of Parliament wanted a railway
—“why shouldn’t we get a cut out of
the carriage of all those goods to the
city?” So a railway was built to com-
pete with the harbor.
Some years later the people of the dis-
trict said “Railways are out of date; let
us have a bitumen road.” . And they
had it.
Then it became necessary, because the
road competed with the railway, to put
an expensive “transport board” on the
job, again at a great cost to the public.
These three Government facilities still
compete for one lot of trade. Yes, we
have brains. — Transport (W.A.).
Blackout
I run a small petrol-driven generator
for our lights, shop and dwelling, as there
is no town-lighting scheme. The board
first of all allowed me what I considered
to be a reasonable ration, and by doing
some close figuring and cutting out all
outside battery-charging I did well
enough. Suddenly my license was re-
called, and it was cut down 10 gallons.
I raised a terrible howl, and my ration
was restored. I had hardly finished con-
gratulating myself, however, when it was
rudely cut again, this time not so heavily
but enough to make it awkward.
Where is the justice here? Am I sup-
posed to go about the shop striking
matches when my petrol runs out and
grope my way to bed by candlelight?
City people would consider themselves
hard done by if it was a case of lights
out at 10 p.m. I can imagine the hulla-
baloo. Neither do folks living in more
prosperous places with town-lighting have
to suffer. Yet because I have to run my
own plant, stuck out in the bush* I have
to do without lights.—R. H. G. (W.A.) V


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
HIDDEN RESERVES
Pelmanism is a scientific training.
It substitutes good and faithful
habits of mind and memory for
slovenly and fearful ones. Thus it
promotes steadfastness, definiteness
and continuity of effort
Pelmanism is endorsed publicly by
more than 100 Prominent People.
Pel«ianists are found in practically
every calling.
Pelmanism is permanent in its effect
on the Mind, Memory and Person-
ality.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
tqken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
44,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established
In Melbourne for over 33 years.
lus all is a hidden reserve of strength and energy. It is increased in volume and quality
by the demands made upon it in normal times, for the exercise of strength gives greater
strength.
But the demands made must be specific and, in a sense, intended Worry, fret^ e
distraction of divided attention and the indulgence of emotion that does not lead to fruitful
action are not exercises of strength. They make demands, sometimes enormous demands,
on our reserves without putting anything back.
Admittedly at the present time it is not possible to avoid altogether emotional states for
whS! there is no immediate and obvious relief. We feel anger indignation, anxiety and
sometimes fear. We are told so much but know so little. And for many of us is the added
ache of waiting for news of loved ones. Thus the strain on our reserves of strength and
energy is great and it will tire us if we are not careful.
Hundreds of Pelmanists are in the Forces. Their emotions have led to fruitful action, their
energies are being directly applied to the great specific purpose and their strength is renewed.
For us others there is the day s work. War or no war the shop must be opened the house
kept and the dinner cooked; trains, trams and buses must run to schedule, lathes turn, sa
cut and hammers strike. Cows must be milked, the land ploughed, seed sown and crops
garnered. All the ordinary business of life must go on, and it is our part to see that it does
go on. The more competently and thoroughly we do that which lies before us each day,
the greater will be our strength to resist the disturbing influence of events outside our control,
the more healthful will be our hours of relaxation and the more energy we will have for any
specific war work we may undertake.
The Pel man Institute makes no apology for the preceding paragraphs. Implicit in the work
it does for every pupil is the attainment of a condition in which feeling, thought and action
are so proportioned that the development and manifestation of the personality are possible.
There is an urgent demand for
Speed and accuracy in observation, ease in concentration, soundness of judgment
and decision, greater definiteness of purpose, stronger will and increased self-
confidence, greater power to co-ordinate knowledge gathered and stored by a good
and' retentive memory.
The Pelman Institute recognises today’s need for intensification of effort and sets out as
ouickly as possible with all those who seek its service to tram the conscious and subconscious
alike so that every faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a goo per
formance of anything that has to be done, without making undue calls upon our reserves of
strength and energy.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy of “The Efficient
Mind,” 76 pages, post free. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SS.
I N
Now Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute. Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders X,ane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind."
Name
140
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
• For local office address
see Page 8.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
* 252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
SEND “THE BULLETIN
THE LADS OVERSEAS—
TO
Special Concession Rates:
12 months . . 15/-
6 months . 8/-
3 months, 47-
post free.
0
0
&
0°
%)
e
\o
6® i •
‘
\\®
**
,-•" , c °; v
\ K 4^ c > V
C/ vV v l *^ tV s^\O c
U'


eep your car!
Keep your car as good as it is —for these are
war times and it isn’t so easy to get new parts
or new models.
From the spin of the fan to the lightning
strokes of the pistons every moving part is
fighting for power and as metal meets metal,
the arch-enemy “friction” is slowly taking
toll of the engine’s efficiency.
The enemy of friction is Oil not just any
oil —but Purr-Oil.
In these days so much depends on maintain-
ing engine - efficiency that the matter of per-
fect lubrication is of vital national importance.
Don’t gamble with your engine. Insist on
Purr-Oil a pure solvatised Oil selected and
refined to the highest known standards by
Independent Oil Industries Pty. Limited, an
entirely Australian Cpmpany.
INDEPENDENT OIL INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
FEDERAL ROAD, GLEBE
Marketers of the famous SPECIAL PURR-PULL and PURR-KOLL Motor Spirit
