

m
£-■
/A
Mfill ill
SVH
r?gi
11
£
#5
'j.
MHO
HOST HOLBROOK says:
“The Bull Inn has for centuries been an adorn-
ment to picturesque Long Melford in Suffolk.
Built nearly 500 years ago by a wealthy wool
weaver it was converted to an inn about 100 years
later. It was remodelled during the Georgian
period, and it was only during 1935 that a brick
facade was removed to reveal the almost perfect
preservation of its magnificent Tudor timbering.
My Worcestershire Sauce has for generations
been the perfect appetiser. It is still brewed in
the same old way and matured in vats until frag-
rant and appetising.”
Jhe Mr/c/s Appehserj
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
WORCESTERSHIRE
a. 34-
S3v
S m UHITtO
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 62,—N0. 3178
Wednesday, January 8, 1941.
An Empire to Keep
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapei.


q
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 241
The Red Page
FREYA STARK IN ARABIA.
Because of the ease and grace of her
style, her intelligence, her quiet humor
and her powers of description, Freya
Stark would be readable on any subject.
Since she chooses to write about the
remote villages of Arabia, bringing the
charm of the unknown to the other
virtues of her writing, A Winter in Arabia
(Murray; Angus and Robertson), like
her earlier books, is a travel diary of
rare quality.
Its tone is subdued ; both the landscape
and the wild tribesmen among whom she
lived are described without melodrama:
luslim and I joined the women, whose
bright blue now trailed in that limestone
whiteness. I have been- noticing all these
days what great increase of dignity is given
to any public function when people dress
more or less alike; some quality of the
sculptured frieze falls upon them; the mere
fact of repetition gives them a reticent and
sober splendor.
The crowd, save for the women’s blue,
was dark in color, for the bedouin of all
the neighboring country had gathered to
the shrine. About seven thousand must
have been there assembled, an immense
concourse whose long line repeated the
line of the cliffs behind it. The sun shone
upon them, their four banners, like the
ark of the Israelites, rocked in their midst;
the tomb under its dome was dimly visible
in the shadow against an open door be-
hind it. For a minute or two I saw it all,
small, detailed and hard, like a miniature;
then the crowd noticed and engulfed us.
But this “reticent and sober splendor”
is as misleading as if a man came up
and told you matter-of-factly that he’d
just strung up his mother-in-law to the
chandelier ; for, beneath its calm surface,
A Winter in Arabia is a book of danger-
ous adventure, never far removed from
bloodshed and tragedy. The natives
among whom the traveller spent the
winter had .only very recently been per-
suaded by the distant British Resident
to call a truce to their immemorial blood
feuds, tribal hatreds and tradition of ban-
ditry. Every man still carried arms;
none had any love for the foreigner, and
the camel men, who saw that the cars
and trucks of the English would deprive
them of their livelihood, had open hatred;
Italian propaganda worked ceaselessly to
stir up discord, and only the shadow of
the R.A.F. bombers kept the uneasy
peace. Several times on a journey across
the desert Miss Stark’s life was in great
danger; a solitary white woman among
mobs of hostile natives, she saved herself
by a quick wit and her understanding of
the native mind.
The natives’ minds move simply but
realistically. “What is the war in your
wadi?” they ask the traveller instead of
“What’s the news?” Bedouins who had
never seen a white man, but had heard of
the R.A.F. and of the “English peace,”
asked her —without irony ; they believed
that Governments could and would do
as they pleased—“ What of the Govern-
ment? Does it mean to let us live or will
it kill us?” In the activities of the R.A.F.,
even when their villages are bombed, the
natives seem to take a certain pride. That
sounds like a limp apology for imperial-
ism, yet Miss Stark was not molested
when she fell among tribesmen whose
village had just been bombed because
they stole the Resident’s camels, and she
writes: —•
Our milk is brought to us by the young
Se’ar bride whose wedding in the hill-
side cave I watched the other night. They
are nice people. It is their tribe that
has just been bombed by the R.A.F. I
went to see them some time ago to ask
what they felt about it, and found they had
been listening to the explosions with the
most philosophic detachment. The fact
is that, by establishing a rigid code in this
matter of bombing, we have turned it into a
sort of warfare which the medieval Arab
can understand; when the affair is over,
the R.A.F. are usually invited to come to
the punished area and collect their unex-
ploded missiles, and the question is con-
sidered at an end. ■
Miss Stark doesn’t appear to be opti-
mistic about the permanence of the “Eng-
lish peace,” but she shows that some of
the people are grateful for it. Said
Mansur, the postman, twirl-
ing his silver cane, “My
brother was shot dead from
the house opposite ours in
the palm grove, and we
had the blood feud to carry on,
and it was inconvenient because the
door of each house could be shot at
from the windows of the other.” The
English paid him baksheesh for his
brother’s death, so that the blood feud
could cease without disgrace. “And it is
pleasant, for I and my next-door neigh-
bor can walk together side by side and
neither need shoot the other. Thanks be
to God.”
A Winter in Arabia is decorated with
excellent photographs, showing a barren
country of forts and ridges, and a people
with fine-cut, remarkably intelligent
features. Miss Stark’s anecdotes bear
further witness to the fine side of the
bedouin nature, for Qadhi, who thought
of opening a shop “to pass the time,”
told her that he hadn’t yet decided what
he would sell in it, “but I have begun
by writing a poem to hang by the door
on the day that it is opened.” One of
the villagers is a keen and reverent
scholar; another, when she asks him to
put a heavy box on top of some books
in which she is pressing flowers, refuses:
“But,” said Husain, “one should not put
anything on top of a book. The word
of God may be inside.”
"Wooden Hookers."
Down in the dark holds of old wooden
ships, stored in casks and hogsheads,
were wine and whisky and rum for cabin
passengers and crew. Others aboard,
convicts or bounty-brought emigrants,
had none of it. Every day the young
third mates groped their way down
through the dark, carrying tallow candles,
to draw off a jug or two. The liquor
spilt out across the boards, grease spotted
them here and there ; if, perhaps, flame
from the candle should catch the spirit,
that was the end of another ship. A few
buckets there might be on board to use
in throwing water on the flames, but that
was all. For the rest the only thing to
be done was to close down the hatches in
the hope of smothering the fire, douse the
decks with water to keep them cool
enough to work on, and clap on all pos-
sible sail in order to make a landfall
before it became necessary to take to
the invariably inadequate, and almost
always leaking, boats.
That was the fate of the India coming
to Australia with English emigrants in
1841. Fortunately a French whaler was
close handy and took most of the crew
and passengers aboard, though some were
drowned when the longboat capsized and
some were burned.
When the William Brown, taking other
emigrants to the United States the pre-
vious year, struck an iceberg, the crew
took possession of the boat, threw the
women and children into the sea, and
when they tried to clamber back again
cut their hands off at the wrists with
knives.
In 1842 the young mate of the Mathesis
set his ship on fire when bringing emi-
grants to Victoria: the crew took to the
boats immediately and stood off half a
mile, coming back only when the pas-
sengers, who had managed to escape from
the ’tween decks, where they were locked
in, had the fire under control.
The stories are told by C. Bede Max-
well in his Wooden Hookers (Angus and
Robertson ; “recommended by the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund”). The case of
the William Brown has no real place in
the plan of the book —its purpose is to
record the passages of the bounty ships
to Australia in the 10 years from 1838,
and later of the “sandalwooders”—but
Maxwell’s heart is set on ships, ships,
ships, and it and Bertil Hjelmstrom’s
bathtub in which he navigated Torres
Strait in 1935 force their way in.
Wooden Hookers is ships all the time.
Even if they made one trip only in the
emigrant trade Maxwell picks them up
at their launching and carries their long
story along till they cast up on reefs or in
backwaters. It’s a record of fever, fire,
murder and shipwreck, but always with
the emphasis on the saga of the ship. It’s
clear where the India was when her mate
set her alight—midday July 20, in lat.
16deg. S., long. 33deg. W., and Bahia in
Brazil the nearest known port—but
there’s no such painstaking care, or in-
terest, in the number of her passengers
who were drowned. The story of the
emigrants will be better told for history
in a less discursive monograph; for
popular consumption the story of the
wooden hookers needs a more vigorous
narrative.
Australia's Books.
The copyright of Fergus Hume’s The
Mystery of a Hansom Cab —sales ulti-
mately exceeded 559,000 copies—was
sold by Hume for £5O, and only one
copy of the first edition is known to
exist; Kendall’s first appearance in print
is recorded in the “Australian Home
Companion and Band of. Hope Journal” ;
John Farrell was a brewer; Nat Gould
and “Smiler” Hales worked together on
Sydney “Referee,” and Gould penned 130
novels in 28 years ; Victoria Racing Club
secretary Byron Moore produced two
books of fairy tales; Quong Tart,
wealthy owner of a Chinese cafe in Syd-
ney, was an occasional scribbler of short
stories; Grant Hervey’s novel, An Eden
of the Good, was written in Bathurst
Gaol; all except six copies of The Poems
of Randolph Bedford went up in flames
in 1904; the first book of verse written
by a woman and printed in Australia was
Fidelia Hill’s Poems and Recollections
of the Past; Roderic Quinn is one of a
family of nine children ; George Gordon
McCrae lived to the age of 95 ; Molly
Skinner, joint author with D. H. Law-
rence of The Boy in the Bush, also wrote
a successful midwifery textbook ; “Dry-
blower” Murphy was responsible for a
novel called Sweet Boronia: a Story of
Coolgardie; and The Bulletin’s “T.
the R.” put out a volume of verse—
Along the Road to Cue —as far back
as 1897.
These facts—there are half a million
others—are between the covers of Aus-
tralian Literature (two vols.; Melbourne
University Press), by E. Morris Miller,
Vice-Chancellor of the University of
Tasmania, Described as “A bibliographi-
cal and descriptive survey of books pub-
lished by Australian authors from 1795
to 1935, in the class divisions of poetry,
fiction, drama, essays, criticism and an-
thology, and including biographical and
literary sketches, together with additional
works issued during 1936, 1937 and
1938,” it is an amazingly inclusive and
extremely valuable contribution to the
study of Australian letters.
Initiated by the late John Quick, the
project was entrusted to Professor Miller
when Quick died in 1932. Miller was
assisted by Fred J. Broomfield, early Bul-
letin sub-editor, who, “during a period
of life that he should have spent in ease
and retirement,” ransacked the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, for material ; by Ber-
nard Cronin, Firmin McKinnon, H.
Rutherford Purnell and others. The
Commonwealth Government and Mel-
bourne “Herald” helped financially.
The publishers are to be congratulated
on the excellence of the layout, printing
and binding.
The work is not a critical survey of
Australian letters —although the editor
does not refrain from assessing values —
but rather a vast compendium for those
who desire to study or write about what
has been written in Australia or by Aus-
tralians. Miller stresses the need for a
comprehensive critical history of our
literature.
This book will save literary historians
many weary hours of drudgery. Bibliog-
raphy possesses little attraction for the
Australian literary scholar. Apart from
a small group of librarians which in-
cludes Binns, Pitt and Cooke, one notable
exception has been Percival Serle, who
is also a discriminating anthologist and
a lifelong friend of Australian writers.
Serle’s A Bibliography of Australasian
Poetry and Verse (1925) is a masterpiece
of research and accurate documentation,
and Miller readily acknowledges his debt
to its compiler. Unlike Serle, Miller has
avoided elaborate documentation on the
grounds of the extra time and labor in-
volved, and because such details are only
of concern to a small circle of specialists.
He is content, as he is in the matter of a
comprehensive critical survey, to leave
the compilation of an entirely technical
bibliography to someone else. It is a
work that is needed, and the longer it
is left the more difficult will be its
completion.
In the bibliographical section Miller
differs further from Serle by resorting to
a chronological arrangement. The biblio-
graphies, together with an alphabetical
list of non-Australian authors of novels
associated with Australia and three very
elaborate indexes, occupy more than half
of the text of the two volumes. The
remainder is given over to a lengthy in-
troduction, surveys of the various sections
and over 200 biographical and literary
sketches in which the editor frequently
interweaves comments of his own with
the criticisms he has judiciously plucked
from books, pamphlets and the files of
newspapers.
Future biographers of Lawson and of
Kendall, Clarke, Gordon, Boldrewood
and most other of our principal writers
will not need to complain of the absence
of references to their intended subjects.
Yet, energetic as Miller has been, he
has not collected, as he confesses, trie
whole of the available material. He
bemoans the lack of indexes to ar ic es
relating to Australian books and authors
which have appeared in Australian
periodicals and which have not been
bibuSraphies Sde°he obscure
true bibliographer
; imperso „a! as the man who com-
jf timetab i es , victor Daley
r , . , y , u .
18 san £ inn
Brown a 1 ’ 1 ’
were Archibald and Walter? As
Miller points out m + more
bmguage, time will sort out the good
stuff fr on \ thf- mullock, and i s
the job of the bibliographer to dicta
to the historian. . .
One danger about leaving it to time is
that in the passing years a small quantity
of commendable work is likely to be
buried with the rubbish. The Endeavour
Press a few years back resurrected Louis
Stone and Ernest O’Ferrall, Joseph
Furphy was given a new lease of life
by Cape, and Chris Brennan is coming
into his own again. There are others —
Barbara Baynton, James Edmond,
Edward Dyson, Dowell O’Reilly, Price
Waning and Ernest Favenc among them
— w ho merit republication. There is the
case of a group of students who recently
completed a course on “The Short
story in Australia” and whose reading
W as restricted to Green’s An Outline of
Australian Literature and Mackaness’s
Australian Short Stories. Listed in
Miner’s two volumes are books of short
stories by at least 40 autho rs and half
a dozen anthologies that would hav’e
id read i ng . A ll but a few of them
haye j been out of circulation.
„„ ~ ~. „
the sheep and tne“goats are a I
her( ?ed togethei in the lb!lo S. p
sections, Miller has attempted to indicate
the sheep m the biographical and literary
sketches, which take up nearly 500 pages
aa< 3 cover over -00 writers, in
the biographical sections a multitude of
new and interesting facts is presented.
In assessing the value of the authors
Miller makes liberal use of excerpts from
established critics such as Green,
Kellow, Strong, Nettie Palmer, Zora
Cross, Furnley Maurice, Jose, Murdoch,
Bertram Stevens, A. G. Stephens, Stable,
Sladen and others. When he essays an
opinion of his own he is conservative,
although generally sound. There is a
slight bias towards scholarship in the
library scholarship in the school of
hard knocks taking second place. At
the same time the dry-as-dust word-
spinners and the dreamers from the
universities are gently put in their places.
Stopping as the book does at the end
0 f 1935, it necessarily lags some years
behind accomplishments,
A large grouch that Miller will often
be ca Ji ed upon to answer is the omission
au tobiographies and biographies and
books of philosophy, history, travel, art
and sc i ence- He states that “it is left for
a later time, or preferably for other
compilers, to prepare a complete or
selective bibliography of authors in the
othef classes of literature.” It is to be
h d that Msiler wi j| find the time, to
tackle the task himself,
Secref Weapons: J. M. Walsh (Col-
lins) More spies; operating in Ger-
man Makes an hour or so of lively
en tertainment.
„ ' A r .
Gen/ , , MnllenO
Ernestine Hill (Robertson and Mullens).
, ' 9 . .. , .
Liesel Asks Why-y-y . : Irma Schmerer
(Angus and Robertson). Illustra ed y
Eiesel; translated by N ettl & Palmer.
Based on a diary kept by the author
from the day of her daughter s birt , an
intended for parents, nurses, kindergarten
teachers. Entertaining as well as mfor-
mative.
Having pounced on the copy of Rose
Macaulay’s latest novel. And No Mans
Wit (Collins), the office flapper was soon
complaining in the reading of it. She
said that it took her to Spam, where they
hang fancy end-handles on the names
of everything, it being not enough to
call a general a general, he must be a
generalissimo. “And,” she said, if there
were half as many issimos in the book
it’d be half the length. Then a woman
in the tale went down and lived in the
sea, and another came up out of the sea
and married a parson. To cap these
singular occurrences, the printers of the
book bound a late chapter of the novel
into it twice over, so that the reader,
who had already been through that chap-
ter and pronounced it nonsense, de-
manded to know what further nonsense
was this. But no doubt the authors
legion of adpiirers will admire her none
the less.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—twfAouf deviation at Anthony
“THE SENIOR STORE’
imSuWu
LOW PRICES -
115/- SUITS
Made-to-Measure
105
K
I
H
«ps
■
a Hate
' - a - Ki
■
‘ ;
lUia/t'W
r> r :tri
m *
F- ■;
Cite:
: ::
|$K
V
I
>W'j\V4
P
*
4H
All tailoring reduced for the Sale. All wool worsteds,,
latest patterns in neat shades of grey and navy, as
well as new shades of brown, tailored in our best
possible manner. Regularly, £6/19/6. SALE, £G/8/6
Others: Regular Price, £7/15/-. Sale Price .... £6/19/6
and Regular Price, £B/8/-. Sale Price £7/ISA-
Expert cutters will personally supervise your order.
Write, phone or call for samples and handsome
style booklet which will be given free.
Write now for
112 page
Sale Catalogue
Phone M 2401, Day or Night
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
7/9 WORK SHIRTS
Shirts that will take all that
comes in a hard day's work. . . .
Check material with collar and
pocket attached, in grey and
fawn check effects. Sizes 14>, to
18 inches. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, 7/9. SALE, 7/3
q
37/6 "Tree" Brand
SUPER SHOES FOR MEN
Brogues with extra stout welted
soles, whole golosh models on the
"Ace" last. All have extra wide
welts and stitched heel seats. Full
and half sizes. Replacement price,
at Anthony Horderns' 37/6
SALE PRICE 31/6
• Men’s Wear Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all railway stations
inN.S.W. and seaports in Commonwealth.
q
M
m
13/6 PYJAMAS
6
British Ceylonette Pyjama,
Suits made in our own
workrooms, striped designs
in Small, Medium and OS.
Anthony Horderns' Regu-
lar Price, 13/6. SALE, 11/6
Unillustrated Spedals
8/6 Underwear 6/6
Natural wool underwear in a light
seasonable weight. Shirts with short
sleeves, underpants to ankle. Size
34 to 42 chest or waist. Anthony
Horderns' Regularly, 8/6. SALE, 6/6
Cotton Underwear
Stout brown cotton underwear that
will give good servipe.
Sizes; 34 36 38 40 42 44
Shirts, S.S.
Prices: 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/- 6/6 6/9
SALE; 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6 6/- 6/3
Underpants:
6/- 6/3 6/6 6/9 7/3 7/6
SALE: 5/6 5/9 6/- 6/3 6/9 7/-
3/6 Half Hose in
Reliable wearing fancy Cashmere
Hqlf Hose in a large range of the
latest jacquard and check designs,
on navy, grey, fawn, and brown
grounds. Sizes 10 to inches.
Anthony Horderns' Regluar Price,
3/6. SALE PRICE 2/3
10/6 "Hordura
Overalls
English drills Navy \
or Khaki bib and
brace style, full cut,
double sewn, all strain
points specially rein-
forced. Two front, one
bib, one hip and one
rule pocket. All sizes to
47" waist. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price,
10/6. SALE PRICE, 9/6
Larger sizes a little
V-r.


HIRTY
By A. C. HEADLEY.
THE girl I got,” Harry had said, “she’s gettin’
too old. She ain’t drorin’ the crowd.”
She had seen the girl Harry had, twice.
That day when he had offered her the job she
saw the girl with the set smile on her face, a face
white with powder and red with rouge, spreading
and fanning in lines at the corners of her mouth, and
dropping into wrinkling softnesses at her eyes. The
gu had been standing on the platform in front of the
Cn eu OW u . , .
, . e ba r looked at him, uncertain of what to say,
, m * ng ° * e * erd ai ? d * be no * se and brightness of
, e shows thinking of its cheap tawdriness. But what
e was telling her about the money was important,
and besides it was a job when jobs were hard to get.
like yeH«-'airedVr'ls.” ye
thij h it“^a:v e t beEi r ng H nd h now she was
thirty 11 y §et a JOb When yOU Were
T HE show was over and she was glad. Stand-
-1 ing high on the platform in front of the tent
plastered with posters, she was conscious of the cold.
The things she wore, the brassiere and the abbreviated
trunks, offered no protection against the cold, which
was like something hard pressing on her body. The
cold, too, was having its effect on the people in the
alley between the tent shows ; in an hour they had
thinned down to scattered twos and threes. With
her lips widened into an insincere smile, she watched
the men in front of the tent. Beside her, Harry, with
the megaphone, was exhorting them to avail them-
selves of the opportunity of a lifetime. His voice
was dry and grating.
The bareness of unshaded electric lights was hurt-
ing her eyes. She closed them suddenly, but it seemed
as though the light still went on behind her lids.
Harry’s voice droned out the set phrases she had
heard thousands of times, and the sound of it served
to increase her weariness. She was conscious of the
men’s eyes feasting on the bare parts of her body and
on the piece of flesh pinched by the tightness of her
brassiere ; she could almost tell what they were think-
ing—tent-show girl and the implications. The crowd
thinned abruptly, and she watched Harry hammer on
the big drum. The booming notes thudded out against
the grind of the merry-go-round. People came, mov-
ing up to the edge of the group until Harry was satis-
fied. He nodded to her and she climbed down from
the platform and entered the tent.
The grass outside the little roped-off ring of saw-
dust was damp. Beneath her feet she could feel the
soft movement of the wet turf. Tim was in the ring
waiting, his legs knobbly and ugly in the shoddy long
stockings. The few people already in the tent were
gazing at him curiously, but her arrival was sufficient
to distract their attention. She stepped into the square
and threw herself into a somersault. Tim, trying to
shake some of the boredom from his eyes, came to
the centre of the ring, cupping his hands and bridging
“When the sergeant's finished having his shave
HI call him up."
his legs to take her weight. She placed a foot in the
cup of his hands and was thrown, twisting, into the
air. Outside she heard Harry’s announcement that the
performance was about to commence.
More people came drifting into the tent, spread-
ing out and standing awkwardly and self-conscious.
They seemed almost ashamed to be there. Everything
now was waiting on Harry, and he came with his hat
pushed back on his head and his voice barking. He
was standing near the doorway, telling them over
again about the show. Presently they were going
through the worn-out series of jiu-jitsu tricks with Tim
for ever tumbling on the ground. The routine over
they stood apart, and she waited for Harry to make
the usual offer of a pound for anyone who could sue-
ceed in kissing her. She was abruptly conscious of
the alarm of being thirty.
She stood smiling automatically while indecision
and doubt hung over the small audience. A few of
the men were kidding one of their number, trying to
talk him into an acceptance of the offer. She watched
the man and the pinkness of his face and felt vaguely
sorry for him. She knew that Harry would pick on
him, and in a few moments he would be shuffling self-
consciously into the roped-off square.
... “ Frie " d '” said J the opportunity of a
kiss and
a one pound note to be kept as a souvenir.”
She watched the man waver uncertainly under
* e co ™ bined ,f' ssure ° f his companions and Harry
Then , hls month dropped open in a foolish grin. “I II
81vc ! a B °’ lc sald she epishly.
Jt was funn Y how she always felt sorry for them,
The fact of being m the ring seemed 1° ma ke them
more uncertain and shy than ever. Once there they
seemed to l° se all taste for their task. She waited
n ? w whlle the man moved towards her and watched
him w,nk as a cover for his embarrassment at his
companions. As he fronted her his mouth was hang-
,ng open m a loo ! e grin - He was close now and his
ba^ ds were reaching out to touch her. She moved
9 ulc kly and a moment later he was staring stupidly
from the floor of the ring The tent filled with
laughter. Then the show was over, and Harry was
ushering them out. She could hear the man s com-
pamons making fun of him as they pushed past the
canvas-covered exit and she knew that in a few
moments the V would be turning it into a dirty joke,
Now that the last performance was over, the
weariness she had been fighting all evening came flood-
in 8 back. There was a small iron-bound trunk in
tbe corner of the tent, and she moved over to it and
sat down. Presently Tim followed and took a place
beside her, and they watched Harry wiping his face
with a silk handkerchief,
“Business,” he said, “is crook.”
t Things’ll pick up,” she said,
“They’ll want to.” He was counting the takings
°ut of the bag.
Tim rose abruptly and went behind the canvas
a P to § et Messed. She sat there dangling her legs
over the side of the trunk and watching Harry. “How
l° n S to tr£dn time?” she asked.
Harry shrugged his shoulders. “Couple of hours,
Tons o’ time.” He rubbed a thin brown hand across
his throat. “Tim can nick down and git a couple o’
bottles. I could do with a drink.”
She waited for Tim to come from behind the
screen so that she could take his place. While she
dressed she heard Harry send him down for a couple
of bottles of beer. When she came out Harry was
stacking the money into little heaps.
“We gotter get the tent down and packed,” she
reminded him.
“There’s time,” he said irritably. “It’ll be time
enough when Tim gits back.”
She drifted moodily to the flap of the tent. Out-
side the night was clear and starry, but around her was
the bustle and confusion of moving. There was the
sound of people, of men swearing and of boils of
canvas being squeezed down to the earth. A man from
one of the other shows passed and wanted to know
how things had panned out and automatically she told
him that they weren’t bad. Things were never bad.
That phrase seemed to pop out of your mouth without
thinking. Weren’t bad. She thought of the winter
coming on and of the end of the circuit. She thought,
too, of being thirty. It was a thought she found de-
pressing. Tim came suddenly into range of the lights
with the bottles sloped on the bend of his arm. He
grinned when he passed her and went into the tent.
She followed him and got the cups out of the iron-
bound trunk. The beer was white with froth when
Harry passed it to her, and she waited for it to settle.
Harry said: “ ’Ere’s to things a damn’ sight better
in the future.”
They drank the beer and Harry opened the other
bottle. She didn’t particularly want it, but when it
was poured she drank it. She could see Harry, with
his cup half-finished, getting ready to talk. It was
funny with Harry the way a single drink could make
him friendly and talkative.
“They’re not gonner keep the truck waitin’,” she
reminded him. “We gotter get the tent down.”
Harry swallowed the rest of his beer. “You’d
drive a man silly,” he said without malice, “always
naggin’.” But he called Tim and went outside, and
she followed to watch them knock the pegs out of the
ground. When the tent was down they folded it in
some kind of order and carried it to the truck. Now
there was nothing to do except wait for the train. The
girl looked at her watch. An hour to go. She went
over to speak to a girl from one of the other tents.
They talked about nothing, each glad to have found
something to fill in the time.
She watched the truck pull out with the abrupt
feeling that they were being deserted. Already groups
were moving, getting ready to go down to the station.
She went over to where Harry had joined Tim on the
sawdust patch.
“You can go to the station,” Harry said. “Tim
an’ me are gonner ’ave a few drinks. You’ll be orright.
You got someone to talk to.”
D Y the time she reached the station, walking slowly
with the others, she found that most of the men
had disappeared to “fill in the time.” It was nothing
unusual; in half an hour they would come back talk-
ing louder than usual. In the waiting-room the women
sat in front of the fire and talked. The sound of their
voices stirred a vague irritation inside of her. The
things they talked about were the things they had
talked about on a hundred other nights. There was
never anything new. She sat there staring dully into
the fire, and she was glad when the men started
coming back. Tim, looking a little stupid, came over
and sat next to her. Through the doorway she heard
Harry talkative and friendly, and a moment later the
sound of the train.
There were moments of confusion while they
moved along the platform spilling themselves into
compartments. She kept with Harry and Tim, tagging
on behind them until they found a suitable compart-
ment. There were three people already in it, and she
was conscious of their undisguised resentment at the
intrusion. They were settled at last, Harry propped
with his back in one corner on the seat opposite, with
Tim next to him, while she sat between a woman and
a man on a seat facing the engine. The other pas-
senger, a man, his face dewlapped with flesh, occupied
the window seat. She saw his eyes fasten on her
curiously, and it was the way men looked at her when
she was standing on the platform in front of the tent
show.
“Might as well have the lights out,” she said, “and
get some sleep.”
Harry said “Yeah,” but there was no other com-
ment and she clicked the carriage into darkness. She
dropped back into the seat, closed her eyes and tried
to go to sleep.
From the other side she could hear the steadiness
of Tim’s breathing. She blinked her eyes open and
sat staring into the darkness at the black shadow that
was Harry. Things began to flood back into her
mind, things that drew the frets of worry on her fore-
head and things that refused to let her go to sleep.
She was conscious then of how much she hated this
life, how much she had always hated it. The two-
night stands in the country towns with the tenth-rate
act. She sat there thinking about Harry and the
tent show. This year things hadn’t been good. They
were barely taking enough to keep them going. But
the thing that came flooding into her mind was the
fact that she was thirty. With her fingers she touched
the corner of her mouth and she was conscious of the
soft, dry looseness of flesh. She remembered what
Harry had said when he had given her the job. “The
girl I got, she’s gettin’ too old.”
In the darkness she was suddenly conscious of
the warmth of her face, and her thoughts went back
to the beginnings and how she had hated it.
She had hated the tinselled cheapness and it had
taken her a long time to get used to the standing on
the platform in the sun and at night under the light
from unshaded globes. But, as Harry had said, it was
a job and the money was good. Then when that first
season was done and the shows were finished, she had
stayed with Harry.
“If things go all right,” Harry had said, “we’ll git
married.”
It was funny how that promise of the future had
stretched into years. Now she didn’t believe it, didn’t
believe that he had ever had the intention of marrying
her. Only the thought of the money and the fact that
it was a job had kept her with Harry. wShe hated the
weariness of throwing her body about that roped-off
square of sawdust. The muscles in her body were
firm and solid, but now they had a way of becoming
very tired, and she was always glad when the show
(Continued on next page .)


was over. It was a relief, too, at the end of the night
to release the strings on that set smile.
There were other things, too, she hated. Things
like the present, the quiet depression of a journey by
train ; the hours of waiting in the bareness of a rail-
way room ; the loneliness of night sounds on a deserted
railway platform and the thinking about tomorrow.
Now she was thirty. It wasn’t easy to get a job when
you were thirty.
She shivered suddenly in the darkness and thought
of the tent show and the rows of unshaded lights. She
hated it, every bit of it, but because she was thirty
she was beginning to be frightened of the time when
Harry would be discovering that the lines in her face
and the ever-growing weariness were bad for the
business.
“THE girl I got,” Harry had said, “she’s gettin’
1 too old.”
She had seen the girl that Harry had, twice—
that day when he had offered her the job and today.
Today she had seen the woman with the brittle
hardness on her face, a face white with powder and
pink with rouge. The woman in the lounge of the
hotel who sat with other women who looked like her.
She remembered how slow they were over a glass of
beer waiting for the soldiers from the camp. She
remembered everything. She remembered that she was
thirty.
THE DECOY
“Hate to thinksh what your back'd look like tomorrer without thish lotion
By KATHLEEN GRAVES.
I ATE in the afternoon they went out over the flats,
the man in front with his gun on his shoulder
L_ and a sugarbag slung across his back, the woman
and the child following, with the dog ranging
round them.
Ahead stretched the marsh, bronze fading to gold,
with here and there a clump of swarthy ti-tree. The
May sun was brilliant, but a south-west wind came
tearing across, whipping the bushes and rasping the
rushes. They walked in silence. The only sound
above the whine of the wind was the squelch as the
man dragged his heavy boots from the mud, which
held them as if reluctant to allow his passage.
Suddenly the man stopped. “Listen!” he said
sharply. The woman and child came up to him and
stood motionless. From somewhere over the flats
ahead a queer vibrating cry rose, borne back by the
wind. “There they are!” said the man, and an
exultant ring was in his voice. The dog stopped his
restless movements and stood poised, listening.
“Light’s goin’ already. We’ll have to keep
movin’,” said the man, and began slipping cartridges
from his pocket into the gun. At the click of the
breech the dog gave a shudder that might have been
ecstasy or fear.
“To heel, Blue!” said the man sharply. Some of
the emotion of the beast seemed to have conveyed
itself to him. “Don’t suppose the brute’ll be any use.
Better left ’im at ’ome,” he said irritably over his
shoulder as he moved off. To the woman the remark
included her and the child also. She paused irreso-
lute, then followed. The man strode ahead once more.
His old brown coat, its pockets bulging, blew out
behind him as he bent his head to the wind.
The marsh seemed unending, stretching to the
horizon to the north and east. Only on the west there
lifted a line of hills covered with bush, and above
them the sky was fading to a yellowish green. Then
suddenly the rushes broke in front of them, and they
came out on to the bank. Ahead stretched the mud
flats, purplish brown sliding out to where the sun
touched the wet to a dazzle of light.
The man shaded his eyes and looked into the sun.
Far out on the edge of a creek serpentining its way to
the distant river was a group of brown birds. As
they looked the birds, as if suddenly uneasy, set up
their cry again.
“Too far!” said the man. “I’ll send Blue out.
You’d best get under cover. That ti-tree there.
They’ll fly up river for sure.”
They crouched in the low scrub. The child leant
against the woman, breathing hard. Around them the
crushed ti-tree was bitter-sweet. The light over the
hills was no longer green, but saffron, the trees black
against it. Far away across the flats rose a single
cry, shuddering, rising to a scream, followed by
unearthly clamor. Looking up the woman saw a
splatter of dark specks against the saffron as the birds
rose and wheeled. The man was crouching in a clump
of rushes on top of the bank. She heard a click as
he cocked his gun.
The clamor grew louder. They were coming over,
up-river, as Mack said they would. The child was
trembling. The woman put her arm round her. “You
needn’t look,” she said gently.
She heard the beat of their wings as they drove
overhead, plover, a big flock, thirty or forty perhaps.
Then the gun spoke. The air seemed to open and
shut about them, once, twice. They hung on time as
the impact went through them. A shadow fell head-
long out of the sky. It fell and bounded on the bank
and a beating sound followed it. Looking out of the
screening leaves the woman saw a brown-and-white
wing beating,
The man got up and went over to it. As he
picked it up the dog came forward and snapped at it.
He swung the butt of his gun and hit the beast on the
side of the head.
The child stood up. “Can I see it, Mack?” she
called in a high voice. The woman said nothing. She
was looking at the bird. He held it by the legs ; one
long pointed wing trailed to the ground, the other
flapped wildly, and all the time it kept up a shrill
screaming.
The man put his hand over its head. “Come
here!” he called.
The woman went forward, the child at her heels
hiding against her skirt.
The man was holding the bird to the ground now,
i ts good wing beneath his knee, its head held firmly.
A piece of string was between his lips. “Take the
feet and tie them with this.”
She put out her hand and fumbled for the slender
legs. They jerked convulsively, cold, reptilian beneath
her palm. She wound the string round them and tied
it, her hands shaking.
“Tighter!” said the man.
She drew in the knot.
“Leave those ends free,” he commanded. The
back of her hand touched the fine silk of the bird’s
breast. When she drew it away she saw it was daubed
with blood. She stood up quickly, averting her eyes.
The man took the bird to the top of the bank
where a root projected above the soil. He tied it
quickly.
“Now get under cover, quick!”
Back in the shelter of the scrub the woman
put her arm round the child again. “I oughtn’t
have brought her,” she thought. “I oughtn’t
have come.”
There was a sharp scream. In spite of
herself she had to look. She saw the bird tied
to the root beating its good wing, lifting itself
to the length of the string, falling again, beat-
ing, falling, beating, falling, all the while crying
shrilly. Then in the distance away beyond the
marsh she heard a high-borne answering
clamor. They were coming back.
THE man was facing the other way towards
the oncoming flock. He sighted along the
barrel, tense, steady.
“They’re coming,” said the woman breath-
lessly.
“Oh, Gert!” said the child and hid her
face. “Don’t let me see. Don’t let me see.”
They were high overhead now, making a
great circle. She could imagine their heads
/ bent, looking down. Their wings did not seem
to move. Then they were coming down, manoeuvring
lower over the injured bird. It was keeping up its
screaming, beating madly, redoubling its efforts to get
back to them.
Down, down, down. Then poised for one steady
moment as if marking their lime, to fall in a steep,
swift dive. She heard the whistle of the wind in their
wings, saw the sun strike the white of their breasts,
and the dark flicker of their shadows as they swept
above their captive comrade. Their wings seemed
to touch it in passing. The woman forgot the death
waiting in the rushes and held her breath at the
beauty of the movement. Then the gun spoke, shat-
tering the air, and two fluttering masses of brown-and-
white were falling into the rushes. The rest, scream-
ing madly, were rising swiftly, to re-form overhead.
Again they came down in the lovely deep dive,
and again the gun roared twice. “Why do they do
it?” asked the child.
“They’re trying to protect it, darling. They know
it’s hurt. Don’t look.”
Time after time they dived, and two by two they
fell, littering the bright green of the marsh grass,
tumbling headlong into the rushes, fluttering out into
the purple mud, shreds and fragments of brown-and-
white, writhing brown-and-white tatters, flapping,
lying still.
In the end there were only six of them left, cry-
ing, circling undefeated.
The woman stepped out of the ti-tree. “Stop!”
she screamed. “For God’s sake, stop!”
The man lowered his gun. “What’s the fuss?”
he asked.
“Haven’t you got enough? Aren’t you going to
leave any?”
He came out of the rushes. “Might’ve known it,
bringin’ a pack o’ women.”
“They’re not all dead,” she said dully, looking at
the birds.
He stooped and picked up the nearest one. It
gave a convulsive movement as he lifted it. Deftly
he took its body in one hand, its head in the other
and twisted it. The bird hung limp.
The woman looked at him and her body sagged
a little. The man dropped the bird and cajught her.
“Here, steady now,” he said, his arms round her.
She lay limply against him. Then he felt her trembling
and held her closer in a sudden access of feeling.
“Poor little girl!” he said gently, and put his hand
under her chin and pressed his lips against hers.
“No, no, no,” she said in a stifled voice, and
struggled to free herself.
“Yes, yes, yes,” he mocked, locking her to him.
But with a sudden wrench she tore herself out of his
arms. “You beast, you murdering beast! I hate
you! I hate you!” she screamed, and seizing the
child’s hand she fled away across the marsh into the
gathering dusk.
THE VOICE OF THE SILENCE.
With darkness on its wings
The day has taken flight
Into the dream that brings
The star-traced dark of night,
And now that day has gone
The starlit dream of light
Lies like a frost upon
The dark slumber of night,
And all the night is damp
With snow-light shed about;
From every sky-held lamp
The winds of time blow out.
But still the dark is traced
Past each retreating sphere,
As far as light has raced
In frozen splendor clear.
And high where they revolve,
Like blossoms blooming white,
The frigid stars dissolve
The darkness into light.
But far the mirrored light
Flows deeply like a sea
Into the sovereign Night
Of dark eternity.
Oh, listen to the drowse
Of silence sounding deep
With power that seems to rouse
Eternity from sleep.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
/Itfhit Hfim-cfWie vieUcumeMundlxmquei/
Seppelt's
HALL OF THE GROCERS' COMPANY.
When people speak, frequently with an air of conviction, of the changes London is to witness in the years ahead, they usually fail to
differentiate between the superficial and the permanent. London, of course, changes superficially, externally is a better word. On the other
hand, London resembles the British character in certain essentials, “which changes not with the centuries.” The Guilds, for which the
city is justly famed, may be said to belong to that London which preserves marked characteristics not always easy to describe, “through
all the changing scenes of time.” They have had their critics as being more or less bizarre survivals of ancient' customs, but persistence in
attachment to these has not in any way impeded the rejuvenation of commercial methods. They unite the past with the present in a
manner which gives to the city a strange charm. The Company of Grocers was incorporated by Edward 111 in 1345, under the title of
“The Wardens and Commonality of the Mystery of the Grocery of the City of London.” It has played an important part in the
history of London and England. Coming to what may be regarded as modern times, its association with Empire movements has been
marked. It is interesting to recall that within the Grocers’ noble hall was held in 1896 the first Congress of Chambers of Commerce of the
Empire, opened appropriately enough by Joseph Chamberlain, then Secretary of State for the Colonies, to whose vision the Empire owes
a debt that will not pass away.


The Bulletin
Vol. 62 —No. 3178.
Wednesday, January 8, 1941.
SUITING THE WORD TO THE ACTION.
Britain and the British Empire are spearhead of resistance to world conquest. They are putting up a fight which will live for ever in the story of human gallantry.
We must be the great arsenal of democracy. We cannot escape the danger by crawling into bed and pulling the covers over cur heads.”
—President Roosevelt to his people.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. £. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252158; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, I2s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Slate cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 165.;
3 months, Bs. To members of the Services Abroad:
Half overseas rates.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 mokths, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom, 2d. per copy. To
all other places, 4d.
AN EMPIRE TO KEEP.
Already this war must have driven home to most
people that the only chance of continued Empire sur-
vival when it is over will be closer Empire co-opera-
tion. The dullest must know by now that there is no
hope for small, isolated, unprepared nations. They
may continue to exist, but only on sufferance, their
countries always liable to be overrun and their peoples
enslaved. There can be no hope, either, for divided
nations, and this goes as much for an Empire as for a
Norway.
These simple truths are so plain right at the
moment that it seems platitudinous to mention them ;
but, this war over, the hosts of cocksure “inter-
nationalists,” pedlars of nostrums for “world order,”
counterparts of League of Nations cranks under one
disguise or another, and all the rest of the small but
noisy gang of hot-air windbags, prepared, as ever, to
put anything but the Empire first, will arise again.
Unless truths which now appear too obvious to men-
tion are remembered and reasserted then, that sorry
gang will once more get a hearing.
On the other hand, if the main lessons that this
war has already taught, and may bring home closer
still, are generally understood, there could well be a
future for the Empire even greater than its past.
Thoughtful people in different parts of its vast ex-
panse are already focusing attention on the possibili-
ties opening out for a close-knit, co-operating Empire,
working on the simple general principle of one for all
and all for one, standing together in peace for their
general and individual benefit as they now stand in
war. This vision at least keeps to more definite and
visible ground than the fantastic cloudland that League
of Nations addicts lately represented as all pegged
out and workable. Fortunes from the Empire were
poured into that wild-cat scheme, and continue to be
poured into it. More Empire treasure was poured
into rickety foreign lands, to be lost or confiscated
there, while the Empire’s own huge property was
neglected, and, worse, left without protection.
The vision this war is fostering and should turn
into policy would mean the end of all that. A sound,
practical textbook for it has been written, under the
title Our British Empire, by Stephen Leacock, the
Canadian professor who did more than any other
writer of recent times to keep the Empire laughing,
and now does his notable bit towards keeping it living.
He traces out its history and its present geography ;
shows it as impressively vast; today standing “aligned,
dressing its ranks, as the onslaught of war comes
upon it.”
Behind it, since Gilbert first claimed Newfoundland,
are three and a half centuries of the expansion of the
British people overseas, of decent government and fair
play, of faults redeemed and bygone angers mellowed
into friendship. From the myriad graves that mark
where courage lies, on land or under sea, or mark at
least the spot where a life of honest effort ended in
rest, its spirit speaks. It is a great heritage. If there
is guidance to the world, and not mere devil’s chance,
the ordeal of the war will show what it has been worth.
Touching on its vastness, he points out that, of
the estimated 55,214,000 square miles of land surface
of the globe, about 13,353,000 square miles, nearly 25
p.c., is under the British Crown. Omitting all “dubious
cases, from Ireland to the South Pole,” which would
leave out mandates, the Empire still covers 11,750,000
square miles. In population the Empire includes
525,000,000 people ; about one-quarter of the estimated
world population. Of these vast numbers, however,
no fewer than 364,300,000 live in India, Burma and
the adjacent possessions. To get his figures shipshape,
squaring down to a more readily manageable estate,
Professor Leacock adds further huge areas to the
“dubious cases,” in one sweep omitting as unfit for
white habitation a vast tropical expanse that is an
empire in itself. He also omits on this ground “the
part of Australia north of the Tropic of Capricorn,
and with it, till science advances further, the dead
heart of the Australian continent.”
He can be excused for thus sweeping away an
area which includes Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns
and other parts in which white people manage to live
well and long. The estate generally is so vast that
drawing up a scheme for the management of it as a
whole might well bluff anybody. Even after these
wholesale omissions the estate is still vast. It is also
as lopsided in the distribution of its white population
as are, individually, such parts of it as Australia. Of
the total white population of 72,850,000 people,
49.000. live in the British Isles (England,
41.000. This leaves, with Professor Leacock’s too-
liberal omissions allowed, some 22,000,000 people
thinly spread over an area of nearly 6,000,000 square
miles. The position is worse even than these figures
have it. Total dwellers in the greater cities of that
select area number nearly 7,000,000, which leaves
dwelling outside these cities only 2\ people to the
square mile, this figure including all those who dwell
in the lesser cities, towns and villages.
“Connect with the realisation of this emptiness
the consideration of the enormous natural resources
contained in the Empire” and “the contrast between
our resources and our limited ability to use them
challenges us to do better.” It poses the problem of
“how to unify and integrate our vast domain.” It is
a problem for statesmanship to busy itself with when
the immediate problem of war is closed. Obviously it
will never be easy, but at least it would be easier, and
more profitable, both within its own wide boundaries
and to the world at large, than schemes for the es-
tablishing of “world order” by means of legalistic fic-
tions and unworkable international devices. If, says
Professor Leacock,
a new Arcadia is to be found, it is within and by the
British Empire that we can best find it. If this is so,
it means that our Empire not only contains in its
destiny the chief hope for universal peace, but the
chief opportunity towards that abiding plenty and pros-
perity on which alone universal peace can permanently
rest.
The scheme must include the starting again of
migration, and less selfishness about it. If those in
Australia who blocked the flow in the past have
learnt nothing already from general example in this
war, they may learn it from close example before the
war is over. Be that as it may, they will need hence-
worth to be overridden by wiser and more forthright
statesmanship than any Australia has so far had. The
broad basis of that future migration, as Professor
Leacock sees it —and all will agree with him —must
be first and foremost the distribution of British people.
He includes “Scandinavians, too, in any amount,” and
no one will disagree. Of others, he lays down the sane
formula: “Where we cannot marry, where we cannot
worship, where we cannot eat, there we cannot live.”
The practical general policy which Professor
Leacock advocates for the Empire is readily indi-
cated through his view on mandates, which might have
been expressed after, instead of before, the shelling
of Nauru:
....there is no very evident intention of giving away
any worth keeping. To our disillusioned eyes, islands
and mandates are indistinguishable from gun-platforms
and air-bases. It would be better to nail the flag to
the mast or to the coconut-tree. A certain aspect of
humbug on our part has often infuriated other nations
in the past. Plain speech wears better.
As for the means of developing what has ad-
mittedly been a neglected estate, Professor Leacock
expresses views that could have been inspired by the
experience with Rumania, and surely were inspired by
the experiences with Mexico and Russia:
At present the uncertainties of war and peace,
rebellion and revolution, the opportunities for repudia-
tion, the lack of a universal mechanism of payment,
make the situation of a bond-holding creditor or a
foreign Government or enterprise far other than what it
was. Even on the moral side the issue is not abso-
lutely clear except to those for whom property is
property and a contract a contract and with that an
end of it. This view, clear as day to Lord Chancellor
Eldon a hundred years ago, is dissolving now. Promises
overgreat, made under duress, altered by circumstance,
broken away from equity, will never hold when physical
force is lacking. The bearing of this on the develop-
ment of Empire resources with Empire investment is
obvious.
He points to the “lurid panorama of recent object
lessons, from Shanghai to Warsaw, from Prague to
Helsingfors,” as underlining the plain fact that “one
dollar under the flag is safer, and, in the long run,
better, than two outside of it.” As it happens, the
position in regard to this is steadily improving, 60 p.c.
of annual new British investment overseas now re-
maining under the flag as against only 20 p.c. 60 years
ago. Despite what has to be spent in the U.S.A., the
war should improve this position still more. The war
has already demonstrated the necessity of building up
huge industries for general defence purposes else-
where than in vulnerable England. That is one lesson
surely in no danger of being lost when peace comes.
What is now happening under war compulsion, in the
building up, the decentralising, of Empire defence
industries in Canada, Australia, Maoriland, South
Africa and other parts, might well be the lead to
general Empire policy. The simple guiding principle
henceforth must surely be to place the Empire first,
to hold it, to make it worth holding, and let policing
the world, bolstering up rotten regimes and all such
humbug go hang.
Savagery and Industrial Strife.
While London was counting its losses in the barbarous
German attempt to fire the City, and while the sur-
vivors among the seamen and passengers whose ships
were sunk by German raiders were bringing their
appalling stories to Australia, thousands of N.S.W.
unionists were brooding over their grievances against
the boss, and their official orators were thinking up
what they would say at the stop-work meetings.
The grievances were many and various. Men
building camps for the military at Cobbitty were dis-
satisfied with the pay and conditions. They struck
for a few days, and South Coast engineers, also dis-
satisfied with their pay, threatened to follow their
example. Men from 40 metal-trade shops demanded
pay for a full week’s annual leave, plus Christmas Day,
Boxing Day and New Year’s Day, and decided to
strike on January 10 if their employers didn’t give in.
Some of them knocked off forthwith, and others were
missing on Friday and Saturday. All hands and the
cook in the metal trades demanded exemption from
the Fadden income tax in respect of overtime pay.
And employees at the Commonwealth Steel Co.’s works
at Waratah, who are “making important materials for
the fighting forces,” denounced the seven-day roster
system, particularly in its application to the gun-
forging plant, and gave notice of intention to strike
if it were not altered as they prescribed. At the week-
end 1100 were idle.
By accident or design, the news about the
Waratah unionists was printed alongside an unvar-
nished account of the sufferings of the men, women
and children in the Rangitane and other ships. It
was mentioned that shells from the destroyers of the
Rangitane “killed women” —two stewardesses among
them —“smashed the upper works and turned the
deck into a shambles.” Among the dead were two
brothers employed in the engine-room.
They were seen assisting each other, though both
were mortally wounded. Helped into a boat, so riddled
with shrapnel that it sank immediately, they were
held up by mates until a German pinnace rescued them.
But they were too far gone, and they died that night
without being once heard to murmur in their agony.
In other ships there were cases almost as harrowing.
Some of the survivors, including women and children,
lived for weeks in the prison ships in agony from their
wounds. Many are penniless, and were wearing rags
when they landed. A ten-year-old boy had part of
one of his legs blown away. A young woman lost one
arm, the other is useless and her face was badly
injured by shrapnel. “Least said soonest mended,” she
remarked, “and I’ve got a lot to mend.”
All this—and it is only part of the story —makes the
grievances of these N.S.W. unionists look pretty cheap.
The horrors endured by the people of London, Man-
chester, Birmingham, Liverpool, Southampton, Bristol,
Ramsgate and Coventry, and by the men of the mer-
chant navy and the A.R.P. —to say nothing of the men
of the Royal Navy, the R.A.F. and the Army —make
them look cheaper still. After all these unionists must
expect to pay and give something for exemption from
the agonies and losses which millions of people of their
race are bearing with noble fortitude. And they are
not alone in having to work harder and pay heavier
taxes and higher living costs. Countless thousands of
their fellow-Australians are doing the same —in respect
of the increased exertions because mates have enlisted
or because the war has injured their businesses —
without any sort of material recompense. In the case
of dissatisfied unionists, arbitration procedure has been
speeded up and a flock of conciliation commissioners
has been appointed to inquire into and redress griev-
ances on the job.
The truth is that Communists are incessantly at
work among these men. They are not numerous in
any union, but for various reasons they exert an
influence out of proportion to their numbers, and
their influence is always baneful and, in some cases,
far-reaching. They have concentrated on Sydney,
Newcastle and the N.S.W. South Coast, which dis-
tricts have become the industrial storm centres of
Australia; and they are helped in their nefarious
operations by the strange reluctance of Governments,
particularly the Commonwealth Government, to
scotch them. At least one of their organisations has
shot up again, though it was supposed to have been
prohibited, and at least two of their “banned” publica-
tions are reappearing, though in abbreviated forms
and with violently altered propaganda—the demand is
now for a Hitler-Stalin peace, instead of war to the
knife against the Nazis.
In a recent issue of the “Tribune” Mr. Churchill
was described as “the most savage representative of
British imperialism.” Mr. Roosevelt was denounced
as “the great champion of freedom who is destroying
freedom at home, as are the leaders of other
‘democracies’ ” (“more and more in these days the
plans of the imperialists turn out a fiasco for them”).
Mr. Bevin’s plea to Australian workers for more
munitions was dismissed as “another cunning appeal
and cover up” (“if Bevin and his boss really stood for
freedom of nations they would begin now by freeing
British colonies”), and Mr. Curtin, Mr. Lang, Mr.
Beasley, Mr. Scullin and Mr. Fallon of the A.W.U.
were characterised as “energetic warmongers.” And
mud was thrown at the dead Chamberlain (“the
greatest scoundrel”), though not at Hitler—till August,
1939, Communism’s World Enemy No. 1. Instead,
some unspeakable ruffian gloated in this fashion:
It must be galling to the British imperialists that
Hitler regarded them as an easier victim than Soviet
Russia, and that so far he has been correct.
This poisonous propaganda will go on, and the
poisonous strikes will go on, until the Commonwealth
Government takes its courage in both hands and
strikes at the Communist conspiracy with every ounce
of the power that the national peril has placed in its
hands, whether Downing-street approves or dis-
approves.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Magpies' Corroboree."
Now that so many ships have been sunk in the Pacific
by raiders, obviously well informed, “leakage of the
news of movements of Australian ships” is to be ex-
haustively probed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment.” That’s a comfort; but it is to be hoped that
the probing won’t be confined to a search for secret
wireless, “neutral” code signals and “the fifth-
columnists, spies and traitors” whom Mr. Hughes sus-
pects of “being in our midst.” Many other things
should be considered from north to south, including
the methods of Ministers who gas to newspapers,
matter published in newspapers, radio-station per-
formances and happy-go-lucky proceedings in ports and
harbors, especially when there are troopships about.
Mr. Cameron addressed himself to the subject in
the House on December 12, when the few members
present were too sleepy to pay much attention to him,
and newspapers were too busy with more important
affairs, such as cocktail parties and the latest beach-
undress styles. Among other things, he said:—-
During the last fortnight, I have seen in Sydney
documents relating to the transfer of goods to a certain
transport which has been well discussed. On them
were the words, “These things to be put on His
Majesty’s transport , due to sail and the
date of the sailing was given. That document passed
through different offices, warehouses and departments.
Apropos, the enemy must have known in the last week
of September where H.M.A.S. Australia was. And it
is a fact that there were sinkings of ships in the waters
that wash Australia while our 10,000-ton cruiser was
at Dakar or thereabouts.
Mr. Cameron went on to refer to the publication
of “a complete statement of the intentions of the
Minister for the Army, Mr. Spender, in relation to
army organisation reform” and to that Minister’s pro-
fession of ignorance as to how the information had
been obtained. He remarked bitterly that he himself,
when Minister of the Navy, had “one such experience
in regard to the Turakina,” now at the bottom of the
sea, with her captain and many of her crew dead, the
rest being prisoners of war. Continuing, he said:
A leading daily newspaper published a statement
showing quite clearly how any person who wanted to
sink a ship could place his bombs; it named the places
which were most vulnerable and, if struck, likely to
cause the ship to sink in the shortest possible time. The
first loyalty of any man is to the fighting forces that we
are organising and sending overseas. Any individual,
society, wireless station, member of the forces, Cabinet
Minister or anyone else who comes between our objec-
tive of winning the war and the security to which these
men are entitled must take the count. If we go on
gabbling, serious results may follow.
Serious results have already followed, and there must
be a thorough examination of the position. If the
Ministry of Information were worth a tithe of the
£198,000 it is to cost this year, it might undertake the
examination and make the necessary changes ; but in
the matter of the rescue of those who escaped
slaughter in the destruction of the 10 ships sunk by
raiders in the Pacific the Ministry of Information was
totally ignored by subordinates of Mr. Hughes and
Mr. McEwen. Mr. Hughes blithely announced that
the rescue ship had reached Australia when it was
actually on its way.
Mr. Menzies himself is guiltless of blabbing and of
prattling loosely to newspapers, and so are the Labor
members of the Advisory War Council. On this
account and others, the Government would be greatly
strengthened by the inclusion of Mr. Curtin, Mr.
Forde, Mr. Makin and Mr. Beasley. It will be unrepre-
sentative of Australia so long as it is without these men
and so long as it does not employ the talents of Dr.
Evatt and Mr. Cameron.
"Swingin' Along the Road."
“Hamish McFoozletyke” celebrates Hogmanay:
None of Lie enthusiastic journalists who gloried in
“the spirit of carnival” which pervaded Sydney’s Kings Cross
on New Year’s Eve could have been in a riot in Glasgow s
Sauchiehall on a wet night with all the teashops closed. For
actual gaiety, Sauchiehall at its wettest is like the Bois de
Boulogne during a royal visit beside King’s Cross trying to
be gay. King’s Cross gaiety is just horseplay.
I started out about 11 p.m., having first had a good
sleep and two aspirins. Outside several drunken youths were
rolling down the pavement arm in arm thickly yelling a
lugubrious ditty called “Swingin’ Along the Roa-/i/c-t
Victor-ee.”
There were three roads to be crossed. This was
possible, though dangerous. Every main road seemed to be
crammed with citizens conserving petrol for the navy and
air force and the mechanised army by hurtling along at 20
miles an hour above the speed limit, which had been heaved
overboard with the liquor law hung round its neck. It must
have given drivers a warm feeling to know that priceless
British lives and tankers were being risked all over the
darkened seas to provide them with fuel for their dangerous
skittering. At every intersection where traffic was held up
momentarily by the police to save the lives of pedestrians,
the constabulary was urged to hasten with, its shepherding
by the hideous squawks of horns.
Nearing King’s Cross, the manifestations of “festivity
became more and more evident. The first was two coppers
protecting a pub, from an upper window of which a lady
leaned out and waved a glass. Next there was a lighted
church with a copper on guard. Then there were four
coppers guarding the intersection with an air which suggested
that they feared predatory hands might snatch it away.
After that came King’s Cross itself, with its crowd of
80,000 and its “gaiety.” There are three pubs at King’s
Cross. Their neon signs and all their windows were ablaze.
On the steps of one stood a stately managerial figure.
Surrounding him were one inspector, three sergeants and
three constables. Inside the glass doors, a formidable array
of muscular waiters in soup-and-fish paraded.
Apart from the palace guards, there was one cop to
every 20ft. of pavement to keep back the gloomy multitudes.
All round the streets, in fact, there were police every few
yards. The shops were shut, except those which were selling
soft drinks and comic hats.
The “revellers” leaned on walls or rolled by in a
stolid tide, which occasionally was torn asunder by a crocodile
of male and female flappers, many sozzled, or set leaping by a
hunger dropped in the middle of the crowd. On the out-
skirts somebody was playing the bagpipes and some soldiers
were settling a difference with the local youth.
The crew of a boarding-house was trying to infuse some
merriment into the proceedings by singing “There’ll Always
Be an England.” A large crowd, stirred by the weaving croco-
diles, looked on. The idea of anybody wanting to sing when
sober on a festive occasion seemed to be too much for
most of them.
At last, 12 o’clock struck, but no one was quite sure
it was New Year because somebody had interfered with all
the King’s Cross clocks. More hungers. A feeble attempt
to make the welkin ring with “Auld Lang Syne.” The crowds
began to make a beeline for home, tramping and jostling
each other wearily.
The lighted church looked so quiet that I felt 1 would
like to go in. I got no further than the door. There were
more people inside than usual —old men and women, a young
soldier or two with mothers. The constable on guard
watched sternly to see that nobody threw crackers into the
font.
In the roadway the glare of rushing headlights whirled
by dangerously. Somebody kicked a tin along the gutter.
In the distance could still be heard the drawling dirge of
“Swingin’ Along the Road t’ Victor-ee.”
In London, covered by smoke and fog, it was still New
Year’s Eve, with dreaded dusk two hours ahead. People
were hurrying to shelters. Worn-out men were falling asleep
among the heaps of burning rubble which once were historic
buildings. Mothers and wives were still weeping for the
firemen killed on Sunday night. Thousands of shivering
workers were wondering where their meals were coming from
now that their places of employment had been burnt out.
City streets were still flaming and impassable, even unrecog-
nisable. R.A.F. fighters and A.A. batteries were limbering
up against the chance of another night of horror.
R.A.A.F. and A.I.F. men are in action in Libya and
Egypt. Men of the Royal Navy and the merchant navy are
in peril on all the seas. But though these thoughts and
thoughts of suffering Britain quietened celebration in respon-
sible homes and in the real Australia, realities evidently had
not made themselves felt in the more “glamorous” parts of
flatland in Babylon-on-Port Jackson.
The Money's Worth It.
“We haven’t had a very strenuous session,” said
Opposition-leader Latham in the Perth Assembly
before signing off for another seven or eight months ;
and there is not a State party leader who couldn’t
have said the same. The sentiment was repeated in
the other Perth House by Chief Secretary Kitson—
“the session has not been as strenuous as usual.”
Readers of “Hansard,” if any, must have smiled grimly
at the “as usual,” for nothing less strenuous than the
palavers of this particular Chamber could be imagined.
Year after year its routine is the same, and for the
greater part of the six years for which they are elected
the 30 members, if not engaged in private business,
have nothing to do but draw their salaries and, if
they please, ride on railway passes which will carry
them anywhere in Australia and Maoriland.
In 1940 this “Parliament” met on July 25 and
members of the Leg. Council were engaged that day
for 46 minutes. They met again at 4.30 p.m. on July 30
and adjourned for the day at 6.17 p.m. On July 31
they were occupied from 4.30 p.m. to 6.15 p.m. and
from 7.30 p.m. to 8.11 p.m. ; on August 1, from 4.30
p.m. to 5.22 p.m. ; on August 6, for an hour and three-
quarters before dinner and an hour and 58 minutes
afterwards. On August 7 they sat for 75 minutes and
then awarded themselves a special adjournment for
six days.
August 13 proceedings were confined to prayers,
the swearing-in of a member and a motion of con-
dolence. They lasted eight minutes. On Aug. 14 the
House was engaged for just over three hours, on
August 15 for an hour and 27 minutes and on August
20 for three hours and seven minutes. Then came
another special adjournment, this time for a week.
Special adjournment over, members applied them-
selves to their labors for 45 minutes on August 27 and
for an hour and 42 minutes on August 28 ; thereupon
another special adjournment carried them into Sep-
tember.
September was another pleasant month. Meeting
always at 4.30 p.m. and having an hour and a quarter
for dinner and digestion, the House kept going as late
as 9.33 p.m. ; but that was a special occasion. The
last September sitting was over at 6.5 p.m.
October came in with a host of bills, and mem-
bers began dealing with them in a stern House of
Review spirit. They sat till 9.11 p.m. on October 1 and
till 9.24 p.m. on October 2. But on October 3, when
four income-tax bills, a land-tax bill and several other
measures were on the business paper, they were away
again at 5.32 p.m. On October 8 they knocked off
at 8.18 p.m. ; on October 10 at 6.20 p.m. ; on October
15 at 9.21 p.m. ; on October 16 at 8.44 p.m.; on
October 17 at 6.8 p.m. ; on October 22 at 8.56 p.m. ;
on October 23 at 6.15 p.m. ; on October 29 at 6.15
p.m. ; and on October 30 at 6.13 p.m.
Then came November, and the pace was on. On
Guy Fawkes Day, perhaps because they wanted to
see the fireworks, the gentlemen sat till 10.25 p.m.
On November 6 they left at 9.59 p.m., on November 12
at 9.47 p.m. and on November 13 at 9.42 p.m. ; but,
having perhaps become jaded because they were sit-
ting three “days” a week, they quitted on the follow-
ing day at 5.58 p.m. Closing time on November 26
was 9.37 p.m., on November 27 9.9 p.m., and on
November 28 6.18 p.m.
Then came the last week of the session and a call
for special exertions. On December 3 members did
not adjourn till 11.56 p.m., and on December 4 they
had their first all-nighter, the lights being kept on till
1.1 a.m. on December 5. Back at 4.30 p.m. they
struggled on till 3.2 a.m., the last 20 minutes being
devoted to the exchange of compliments. For the
year’s “work” was over and the gentlemen could now
run away and play.
And for this they draw £6OO p.a., plus railway
passes and postage, plus a couple of thousand for the
President and Chairman of Committees, plus two
shares in £B2OO for two of the nine Ministers (who
also draw expenses), plus the use of a good library
and refreshment-room. Softer snaps no members
have, even in this land of privileged politicians.
No Place for Corns.
“0.T.”: From this hill I can see across the inlet to
a low, wooded eminence where they say you can hear
the wonga pigeons at sundown. The seaward neck of
the inlet is protected by a stone training wall, along
which oysters grow and the blackfish can be seen
nosing in the clear water at high tide. A long tongue
of sand, golden in the morning, points upstream to a
green hill on which cluster a handful of red-roofed
houses above a sawmill. At night, when the tide is
running out, soldier-crabs perform evolutions on that
sand and, if you are lucky, you might see three or
four snipe talking to one another.
There are gulls, of course, the common grey and
white kind whose cry so fits the wildness of the sea
when the north-easter brings the long rollers crashing
against the five great rocks that stand, black and
solid, at the mouth of the inlet. One night, in the
height of the gale, a thin, high, bugling thread of
sound was blown down from the sky, and men who
had been in the west wondered what swans were doing
abroad on such a night.
In the morning the gale was gone and the sun
streamed across the sand and there was a couple of
hundred acres of white, brown and green tents, of men
in shorts and women in shorter ones and children of
all ages, sizes and descriptions. Men with rods fes-
tooned the training wall, coaxing the blackfish, and a
youth caught an octopus of large and evil propensi-
ties. A sawmill employee left his work, ran down the
sand, grabbed the writhing thing, turned it inside out,
said “Good fr snapper and jewies,” and was back at
work again, all within a matter of seconds. And later
a flapper in shorts was heard screaming, and there
was another rush. She had caught a stingray and was
horribly disappointed because her father wouldn’t let
her take it home for tea.
All day long tents mushroomed on the hillsides
and the flat, reaching far back up the inlet among the
gums until you never knew when a small brown boy
might shout at you or a brown woman ask if there
was a place to do laundry. There were a swimming
beach and a tennis court —up on the headland by the
signal station is a nine-hole golf course which gives
a marvellous view of headlands and beaches for per-
haps thirty miles —and near the tennis court the inevit-
able merry-go-round and cockshy stalls.
Small boys appeared from the near-by village and
in small, shy, country voices asked if you wanted let-
tuce, apricots, groceries or if you had any bottles.
There weren’t many bottles —the stuff was 2s. a time.
And if you went up to the village in the evening you
saw, sitting in cane lounges on the pub verandahs,
people unmistakably of the type that regards the pig
as unclean.
Sometime in the silence of one night, his move-
ments cloaked by the sigh of the sea, the old gent, with
the white whiskers wandered through the camp, and
next morning, had “Kodak” been here, he could have
written as he wrote nigh 20 years ago:
Now the tin trumpet wheezes and wails to the morn,
And the star that saw Christ on the day He was born
Grows pale in his skies that the shrapnel has torn
As this painted ball spins in its sleep.
And you thought how far, far away the war was.
No wireless to be always reminding you, no newspaper
posters flaring. No war talk. But your thoughts
turned to Libya and England and the Albanian hills,
and perhaps somewhere in the Atlantic —or maybe not
so far off in the Pacific —a merchantman was going
down. And in the little village where Jews sat in
the evening casual-gaited, slow-speaking youths in
khaki appeared, home on Christmas leave, and some of
them walked with their fathers, grey-haired men wear-
ing badges who suddenly found the old idiom on their
tongues again.
From this hill I can see across the flat and the
inlet to the hill of the wonga pigeons. Figures crowd
the bathing beach, the tennis court, the training wall
and all the space in between the rows of tents where
Australians enjoy a canvas holiday. And I wish the
fools who talk about Communism would come among
this happy, sunburned crowd —or any of the sun-
burned crowds up and down the coasts at this time —
and try to preach their creed of revolution and
destruction.
Beating the Gun.
“Aileron’s” warning:
When the 1914-18 war broke out British cars were the
world’s best. War needs compelled British manufacturers to
turn from ground engines to aerial engines, and from pleasure
and commercial cars to war transport, ammunition and
tanks, and when the cease-fire sounded Uncle Sam, backed
by his huge petrol supplies, had collared the world market.
When the present war broke out the British industry was only
beginning to make up the leeway.
Now, the same thing is happening in the air. Every
ounce of British effort goes into building fighters and bombers
and commercial aviation has had to go hang. It is no longer
possible for an Australian to get to London in nine days by
the Singapore-Mediterranean route, but it can be done via
U.S.A. by the Clipper service. The only two stages flown in
British machines are Sydney to Auckland and Lisbon to
England.
In addition to consolidating their hold on Pacific bases
—some are actually on British soil —the Americans are pushing
into routes which were wholly pioneered and organised by
British enterprise and capital. A round-the-world Clipper
service, with a base at Singapore, is projected, and American
newspapers are significantly resurrecting the feat of the Cuba,
which surveyed the Australia-West Africa route, without
mentioning that the machine was, as it were, a taxi acquired
to carry Captain Taylor, who made the survey on behalf of
the Commonwealth Government. „
Anybody who has any doubts about how far U.S.A.
aerial businesses are benefiting by war-time conditions need
only look at official figures. Aeroplane factories in U.S.A.
are certainly not putting everything aside to build military
machines for Britain. t „ „ „
Air transportation in 1940 in the U.S.A. showed a 55 p.c.
increase over 1939. American air companies during the year
placed about £9,000,000 worth of orders for new machines.
Schedules have been altered so as to provide the same
number of crossings per day in winter as in summer. Employ-
ment in the U.S.A. air industries is just on four times the
1938 figure. All plants are working 24 hours a day on
commercial as well as military schedules.
If some move is not made to preserve British Common-
wealth rights to established routes and maintain progress in
British commercial building—which might be done by the
establishment of a large section of the British commercial
air industry in the Commonwealth —the world will discover,
after the next peace conference, that Uncle Sam has won
the commercial war in the air hands down.


Society
"DON'T IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“D.E.”: It is nothing new for con-
cerns in the glassware trade to offer for
sale cunningly-blown beer-receptacles that
mislead the uncritical imbiber (B.
“Well, then. Wot about a contrack clearin' the burrs outa yer ziff!"
1/1;/’41). Thirty-seven years ago the
red-faced Scot who gave me my first Sun-
day-newspaper job handed me a circular
addressed to the Bungs of the village and
rapped out his invariable formula on
such occasions: “R-read that and give
’em hell —I want a libel action.” The
circular contained a list of “strong
deceivers” and other disingenuous im-
provisations at what were alleged to be
bedrock prices. I dealt with sellers and
prospective buyers to the best of my
ability, and, although my lucubration
didn’t have the slightest effect on them,
the boss was frankly pleased. So much
so that he straightway instructed me to
write something in the same vein about
a respectable trustee company which,
he asserted, was letting rooms to
Asiatic ladies for grossly improper pur-
poses. My article on that subject got
him his libel action. He lost it, and
sacked me.
“Arfpint”: The first beer strike of my
memory occurred jn the rather classy
Sydney suburb of Summer Hill. A chap
named McQuillan, who ran the pub there,
conceived the idea of lifting the price of
bottled beer (Australian) by a penny to
sevenpence, the odd copper being re-
turned when the empty was brought back.
The drinking inhabitants rose in their
wrath, decided to boycott the pub and
posted pickets. But the strike did
not last long, and Bung won. Most
of us found that, what with the drinks
we had when picking up our liquor in
town, broken bottles and bottles drunk
in the train, necessitating return trips for
fresh supplies, we were paying much more
for our beer than if we paid the seven-
pence. That little outburst occurred in
1909, a couple of years before the more
general Sydney beer strikes over the efforts
of publicans to abolish counter-lunches
and lift the price of mugs of beer from
threepence to fourpence. In both those
knavish plots the Bungs were soundly
defeated.
* * Sfc ST
“W.E.F.”: The Pioneer sergeant in
search of a missing fatigue party came
across a group of 1940 Diggers lounging
in the shade of the quartermaster’s store.
“Are you a Pioneer?” he shouted at the
most comfortably-established figure in a
giggle suit. “No,” drawled the young-
ster on the ground ; “there ain’t been one
in our family since grandpa’s dad died.”
* * * *
“Chink”: It is not strictly correct to
say that when Masefield was in Aus-
tralia a few years ago he “associated
only with officials” (B. 25/12/’4O). For
one thing, I recall a more or less breezy
evening when the Laureate forgathered
with the poets and near-poets and far-off
poets of Melbourne, and for another
scrap of evidence there is the fact that
I —not within miles of being an official
—took the visitor, at his own sugges-
tion, to inspect a bird show in Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Masefield soon got
sick of it. “Lhate this business,” he said.
“1 should like to open every cage door
and let these birds go.” It was, I
thought, a very bright idea, and I was
doing my best to stimulate it when one
of the officials of the show happened
along. “ ’Scuse me,” said he, “are you
the Poet L’r/ate?” “Well,” Masefield
replied, “er, yes, something of the kind.”
The official told the “L’r/ate” that he
would be glad to show him round and
explain everything. But Masefield said
he had seen enough, and left abruptly. So
Melbourne had at least one official with
whom Masefield did not associate.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: For the information of the
person who aspires to become a Knight
Commander of the Most Distinguished
Order of St. Michael and St. George, as
the Honorable Bertram Sydney Barnsdale
Stevens has done, let me in with the in-
telligence that the Order was originally
designed—in 1818—to reward natives of
Malta and the lonian Islands. It was
afterwards extended to persons who
should render “valuable service to the
King in his colonies and dominions or
in foreign affairs.” Admission to the
select band entitles you to obscure your
left breast with a large gold-and-enamel
star, and to hang round your neck by a
Saxon blue and scarlet ribbon a badge
bearing the pictures of St. Michael over-
coming Satan and of St. George stonker-
ing the dragon. Motto, to be worn upon
the badge, Auspicium melioris cevi—
“the token of a better age.” Archdale
Parkhill was the last ex-politician of note
to receive a K.C.M.G. He wasn’t “ex”
then, but he soon was.
* * * *
“Morehead”: A party of cocky young
universal trainees aboard a Sydney tram
had refused to pay their fares. A hot
argument with the conductor ensued. One
of the U.Ts. appealed to a fellow-pas-
senger, a hard-faced Digger wearing an
A.I.F. color-patch. “We believe in travel-
ling as far as we can for nothing,” he
cried. “Yeah,” said the man with an
NX number ; “well, why not try the ferry
trip to Egypt? Six thousand miles of
free travel there.”
« * * •
“R. Volt”: The benefits of the pedal
wireless which an amateur radio man
invented at the instance of Flynn of the
Inland aren’t confined to the Far North.
During the Christmas festivities a young
man was taken with acute appendicitis
on Maria Island, east of the Speck. A
pedal wireless set sent out incessant
appeals to the mainland asking for a boat
as a storm was approaching, when the
island would be inaccessible. After
several hours a radio station on the main-
land heard the feeble call, and sent a tele-
gram to Triabunna, the nearest Tas-
manian port. A fisherman put out, made
the island and brought back the patient,
beating the storm by a bare hour. The
sick man was rushed to hospital and was
operated on successfully.
“F.S.”: A long-distance record for
a doctor’s diagnosis was claimed when
Dr. J. G. Woods, a flying doctor, sat in
an Adelaide hotel the other day and diag-
nosed per radio and pedal wireless the
illness of a man on Lake Wallace station,
500 miles from Adelaide. There’s a
longer distance on record per ordinary
telegraph, when a member of the cable
staff on Cocos Island fell ill at the same
time as the island doctor. A medico was
brought into the Perth office, the Cocos
superintendent described the sick man’s
symptoms, and the doctor prescribed the
requisite treatment. The length of the
cable is 1500 nauts., as far as I can
remember.
m ♦ * m
“Cauboy”; Australian travelling
scholarship winners may or may not be
laboring at a disadvantage in the present
crisis (B. 25/12/’4O), but young Austra-
lian singers certainly are. Time was when
the orthodox procedure was to collect
money to send the promising young
vocalist off to London for his or her final
polish. Whether this was or was not a
benefit may be doubtful, but it was cer-
tainly a benefit if Melba happened to be
in the great metropolis. If a young Aus-
tralian singer or musician came to Lon-
don and the diva liked him she would say
to her manager: “Boom him.” Melba’s
name attached to an appreciation turned
all London’s eyes in his direction. But
he had to fulfil certain standards Melba
had, and she had to have a belief in his
potentialities. There is no Australian
artist now with Melba’s prestige, not to
mention her kindness to singers with their
way to make.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Victorian National Gallery
Director MacDonald says that the pro-
posed exhibition in the United States of
Australian and ML. art under the aus-
pices of the affluent Carnegie Corpora-
tion should help in the development of
friendly relations between the two coun-
tries. I fail to see it. The only praise
Australia has ever got from America for
a picture was for the Van Eyck Madonna,
lent to the N.Y. World Fair. The Ameri-
cans were impressed at discovering that
we had people in this country who could
spend £32,000 on a European old master.
But they thought our own painters were
hopelessly old-fashioned.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: I prophesy that we, the
old inhabitants of Sydney’s King’s Cross,
instead of frolicking in the street
next New Year’s Eve, will stay
quietly in our flats. For the dailies have
boomed the New Year carnival till, for
us, it’s bust. All the riffraff of Sydney,
louts, hooligans and outrageous adoles-
cents were on the rampage at the Cross
on the Tuesday night, out to smash things.
So huge was the crowd that the old danc-
ing in the street would have been impos-
sible ; but it wasn’t the sort of crowd
that wanted to dance. For the first time
in years genuine Crossites didn’t find
themselves at midnight holding hands and
singing “Auld Lang Syne” with perfect
strangers. As my landlady remarked at
3 a.m., escorting some undesirables from
the premises, “It’s always the visitors that
cause the trouble. A crowd of hoboes! ”
The bitter day will yet dawn when I shall
go to live at Mosman.
* * * *
“Colonel B’st’r”: The art of letter-
writing has degenerated sadly in the cen-
tury and a half since Bruce of Clack-
mannan was reported to have shot a
hawk belonging to Sir John Schaw, and
in the cause of peace Lady Schaw wrote
him out a draft apology to her husband.
“Madam,” he replied, “I did not shoot
the hawk, but sooner than have made
such an apology as your ladyship has had
the consideration to dictate I would have
shot the hawk, Sir John Schaw and your
ladyship. I am, Madam, your devoted
servant to command, Clackmannan.”
Could anything be more dignified and
yet to the point? Though I must admit
that W. S. Gilbert didn’t do too badly
in his reply to the man who wrote him
that the title “Ruddigore” was too remi-
niscent of Bloodygore. Gilbert’s answer
ran: “Dear Sir, —I cannot agree with
you. Ruddigore is one thing, Bloodygore
is another thing, and if in writing to you
1 said you had a ruddy cheek it would
very inadequately express my meaning.—
Yours, W. S. Gilbert.”
* * * *
“El V.”: I don’t know whether Musso.
can win against some other famous
fighters in the international sprints—
Stalin would be a strong favorite with me
if he were racing against the R.N. —but
I do know that nobody has a chance with
Benito as an autobiographist. Churchill
is long-winded for a P.M. —he has half a
column in Who’s Who, whereas Cham-
berlain packed his history into 28 lines,
Baldwin managed with 38 and Lloyd
George with 22. Hitler appears in Ger-
man Who’s Who on a special page by
himself, headed by a cross ; but his deeds
are condensed into fewer than a dozen
lines. Musso.’s triujnphs, however, call
for four pages in “Chi e,” which is more
closely printed than the English standard
work. Some of it makes entrancing
reading;—•
In the quality of Minister for Foreign
Affairs it fell to him to conclude nearly
all the treaties and trade agreements made
after 1922, especially those with Austria,
15/11/ ’23; with Spain, 21/1/ ’24; with
Albania, 7/2/’24; with Russia, l/3/’24;
with Czechoslovakia, 22/10/’24; with
Finland, 31/10/’25; with Latvia,
27/10/’25....
It is heartening to find that the next State
with which the hero made a treaty was
“La Germania, del 27, VII, 1925.” Thus
it is Hitler’s turn to have something dire
happen to his Third Reich as it has hap-
pened to all the original States with whom
his swift-footed ally made agreements.
Perhaps it has happened already. Per-
haps the disaster is Musso. himself.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: “Here in what was the splen-
did rural fastness of Campden Hill, but
now surrounded by a sea of bricks and
mortar, constituting Kensington and
Earl’s Court, stood —and happily, for the
most part, stands —this mansion famed in
the social and literary history of the past
two centuries,” says a Seppelt’s ad. in
The Bulletin of Dec. 25 under a fine
photograph of Holland House. Unhap-
pily, little of the old building now stands.
A fortnight before the ad. appeared the
English censor allowed publication of a
list of historic places that had been de-
stroyed by Nazi bombs, and Holland
House was among them. A correspon-
dent of a Melbourne daily saw the first
floor of the centre and oldest part of the
great Whig stronghold crash to the
ground, while firemen played on the
remains of the building with a hose from
the lily pond.
THE DIFFERENCE.
“ ‘An extra penny on tea.’ ‘Beer strikes spread-
ing'.’ ” —Headlines in Sydney dailies.
Another penny on our tea —the fourth one
Since war began! Yet no one gets the spike.
No malcontents have set the welkin ringing
With noisy protestations and with stinging
Incitements to a strike.
The cup that Cowper hymned and Doctor
Johnson,
Disdaining wine, would regularly swill,
Is it regarded now with less devotion
Than that extended to the headier potion
Acclaimed by Bishop Still ?
Another copper on the teapot! Nathless
No angry yells go up to heaven’s vault,
Like those emitted by the thirsty many.
Resolved to fight against the extra penny
On pints of hops and malt.
Strange that, while some denounce the extra
impost
On their pet stimulant as sorrow’s crown
Of sorrow, quite a goodly host of others,
Our possibly less unregenerate brothers,
Just take it lying down.
Disheartening to temperance reformers
It well might seem. Withal the reason’s clear.
Tea is but tea, however deftly blended
And hygienically recommended,
And beer—well, beer is beer!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“P.S.”: Fully accoutred, a Waac or
Wasp or whatnot in the female uniform
line arrived at a southern N.S.W. watering-
place and breasted the feed trough. Oppo-
site her sat a large, good-humored man
who seemed vastly taken by her getup.
“Auxiliary transport,” she replied to his
respectful inquiry; “we run shells and
things up to the front in trucks, and bring
away broken things that have to be
mended.” He seemed impressed. “1
see,” he said ; “you drive up to the front,
the soldiers unload the truck, load it with
broken—er —guns and things, and then
you dash back for another load. Should
be exciting. You’ll live in camps, of
course, behind the front.” “Of course,”
she said brightly. “I see,” he said
thoughtfully; “and what will you do
when you get lousy?” An electric silence
followed, during which the good-humored
man reached beneath the table, retrieved
a pair of crutches and took himself off.
“A dreadful person,” murmured the uni-
formed female to the landlady. “Poor
man,” said the latter, “he lost his leg
on Gallipoli. The wound has never
healed.” At tea the good-humored man
sat opposite a vacant place.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Ten years ago munici-
pal workers in a M.L. country town
found in a 4ft. storm-water sewer the
skeleton of a man which was identified,
mainly owing to an inscribed gold watch,
as that of a grocer of the town who had
mysteriously disappeared 40 years pre-
viously, just after a fire that destroyed
his shop-cwm-dwelling. Now a very old
woman, a hospital inmate, has told a
story that seems to explain all. Her
husband, a convicted thief, assisted sal-
vaging operations at the fire, stole the
gold watch and hid it under the grating
of the sewer. When he went to get it
the watch was not there. Local Sherlock
Holmeses deduce that the grocer wit-
nessed the theft, noted the hiding place,
and later went to retrieve his property.
When he lifted the sewer grating the
watch, held in position by its chain,
dropped into the sewer, at that time
nearly empty because of a drought. He
“You ’event been down to see me lately, Mrs. Jones; I Was afraid youd
’card somethin I’ve been sayin' about yer.”
“I tell yer I don't Want any more pris'ners t'night. Come an see me
t'morrer!
was overcome by sewer gas, and thus
perished.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The nine Brisbane doctors
on the B.M.A.’s Summer Dress Reform
Committee continue to demonstrate the
coatless cult to a perspiring but unrespon-
sive citizenry. The unresponsiveness in-
cludes proprietors of the more conserva-
tive eating-places, which stick to the “No
Coat —No Table” rule irrespective alike
of temperature, humidity and social
standing. But the committeemen are half-
hearted reformers, after all. It remained
for a mariner to demonstrate really
cool men’s wear on Brisbane’s hot-
test December day. He chose bib-
and-brace overalls cut off at the
knees and worn over an athletic singlet,
a battered solar topi and slippers,
and he carried a bottle of beer. Seated
comfortably on a shaded part of the
stone pediment of the Customs House
railings, he beamed benevolently on a
heat-stricken world and drank its silly
health.
* * ♦ #
“Nakhoda”: Victorian Government’s
complicated bushfire prevention organ-
isation was lucky last year to have the
assistance of the soldiers in the militia
and A.I.F. camps scattered about the
State, and yeoman service was given on
more occasions than one. This year it
will have the co-operation of the
R.A.A.F., whose pilots will maintain a
patrol over thousands of square miles in
the most densely forested parts, and there
will be two-way radio communication
between search ’planes and forestry offi-
cers on the ground.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Grim necessity caused the
Court of Criminal Appeal in Melbourne
to establish a new precedent at Christmas.
A man condemned to death appealed on
grounds of faulty direction of the jury.
So the Court was made to sit between
Christmas Day and New Year’s Day for
the first time on record.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; A much surprised Aus-
tralian girl has been prosecuted in S.A.
for not having, as an “alien,” notified her
change of address. She said she was a
good Australian and still considered her-
self so, although she had married a Greek
ally in Sydney. She was told that she is
now not technically an Australian, but
can easily become so on application.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Have often wondered
why most homes in Melbourne are full of
half-used pots of ointment, bottles of
something or other in solution and almost
untouched packets of powder. The other
day an innocent assistant put it in a nut-
shell. I went into an apothecary’s with a
doctor’s prescription for an antiseptic
powder that had to cover three or four
applications. “Why do you have to make
up such a quantity?” I asked the chemist
when he handed me an enormous card-
board tube of the decoction. “Because
that’s the least that can be made up for
two and sixpence,” said the chemist.
“But why doesn’t the doctor prescribe a
smaller quantity?” I ventured. “Because
we couldn’t charge 2s. 6d. for less than
that,” retorted the man of pills and
potions.
* * * 9
“Captain Pintle”: Even amongst
seamen few who watch the tug Eagle
giving a 10,000-tonner a cant away from
Port Melbourne pier in a southerly or
slewing a deep-laden freighter into Vic-
toria Docks realise that she is 50 years
old, has her original engines still in her,
and began life in barquentine rig. In
1891 she towed the Sobraon, later the Tin-
gira, from Melbourne to Sydney. Three
months later the Eagle was helping in a
gallant effort to save the barque Craig-
burn from being driven ashore in a gale.
In 1901 she lost by a hand in a
race with the Sydney tug Champion to
salve the full-rigged ship Port Patrick,
abandoned by her crew after broaching-
to off Wilson’s Promontory. The hand
belonged to the Eagle’s mate, but it
wasn’t his fault that she lost, because
one of the Champion boat’s crew had
got aboard with a tomahawk one skip
ahead of him and threatened to cut it
off if he put it on the rail. The Eagle’s
last big job was in 1923, when the Eastern
Moon lost her propeller off Cape North-
umberland and was towed 250 miles into
Port Phillip in a n.-w. gale after more
than 80 hours of continuous exhausting
work by the Eagle’s complement.
“F.S.”: Melbourne
city fathers, who . have
a penchant for gran-
diose schemes at in-
appropriate moments,
are again discussing
shifting the site of the
Town Hall. Present
position is bang in the
centre of the city, and
is probably worth
£1,000,000. Opinions
about the new site
differ. Some want it
where the General Hos-
pital, shortly to be
shifted to the Pig
Market, stands, hard by
the National Gallery.
Others want it to take
the place of the old
Exhibition Building,
the wooden deathtrap
which stands in spacious
gardens on the out-
skirts past Parliament
House. The Town Hall
is a relatively beautiful
building even if its posi-
tion is cramped and the
best - fed people get
their clothes crumpled
struggling to get into it
for “celebrity” con-
certs. The Town Plan-
ning Association be-
lieves that a competition should be held to
obtain the best design for the new civic
centre, but on all the evidence available
there is very little hope that the citizens
will get a more beautiful building than
the present one.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The value of the old law
forbidding an estate to be tied up indefi-
nitely has been unexpectedly illustrated
in S.A. A farmer who died in 1867 left
land worth less than £5OOO tied up till
the last of his seven children should die.
This has only now happened, and the
land has grown to be worth anything up
to £90,000 with nearly 70 descendants to
the fifth generation. The trustees have
naturally applied to the Supreme Court
for directions. A big Bar represented the
various sections, and the Court had to
decide the exact effect of words such as
“children” and “issue” when applied at
long range.
* * * *
“Bredis Holm”: If “Pawang” (B.
25 /12/’4O) is referring to the island of
Kisar or Kisser in his remarks about
eugenical experiments, I venture to dis-
agree with his conclusions. During the
Dutch wars some of the islands of the
Dutch East Indies changed hands more
than once, but by the Treaty of Amiens
all were handed back to Holland.
Although there had been a Dutch garri-
son there for many years, Kisar was com-
pletely forgotten, and the garrison was
never relieved. The men married native
women and founded a light-colored race
called the Mestizen of Kisar. The Mesti-
zen, isolated and remote, came more and
more under the control of the natives,
and were finally compelled to work for
the Rajah like the other natives. In 1882,
however, a Dutch ship brought a Gov-
ernment official to whom the Mestizen
presented a petition that they might be
given their freedom and be allowed to
live in separate villages, cultivate their
own crops and have their own Wyk-
mesiter. Agreement was reached with the
Rajah, and the lot of the Mestizen was
much improved, but they were not so
industrious as the natives, and continued
to go downhill, both from the point
of view of health and material wealth.
In 1917 a number of them were sent
to Koepang, where they were established
in settlements provided by the Govern-
ment. Many of the poorer, however,
remained in Kisar, and still live a life
separate from the natives, from whoxn
they are readily distinguishable by their
color and features. In the opinion of
the Resident Controller, with whom I
discussed the matter in 1929, the Mesti-
zen were definitely inferior to the natives
and were losing ground.
* * * *
“Bookworm” harks back:
In the earliest days of N.S.W. the demand
for “tucker” was much greater than for books,
and the few regular readers in the colony used
to exchange the literature in their possession,
but most of the settlers couldn’t read at all,
and didn’t want to. However, by the eighteen-
twenties an educated class had established itself
in Sydney and a need for a library was felt.
So a meeting was held on Friday, February 3,
1826, to consider the idea of establishing a
“Reading Room and Circulating Library” in
Sydney. It was decided to found an institution
to be called the “Australian Subscription
Library and Reading Room,” and the entrance
fee was fixed at three guineas, with an annual
sub. of two. In the following April an order
for books and periodicals was sent to London,
and the library was opened on Dec. 1, 1827,
in Pitt-street, with a stock of about 1000
volumes. It moved afterwards to the corner of
Bent and Macquarie streets, and in 1869 the
Government bought the site and the books, and
opened the “Free Public Library of Sydney.”
The first librarian of the new establishment
was Robert Cooper Walker.
THE REASON.
“Some women are trouble-makers because they
have so little to do.” — Woman’s paper.
Poor Adam might have lived at ease,
With blissfulness his rightful lot,
Surrounded by his fruitful trees
In such a very charming spot,
If he’d had pants for Eve to patch.
Some shirts that needed quick repair,
Or jobs to keep her up to scratch
And give Old Nick the glassy stare.
And mankind may, one might contend,
Have well been spared some hefty knocks,
Had Eve been forced to sit and mend
The holes in Adam’s chain-store socks!
N.S.W.
D. McM.


mm
■HI
CRAVEN A pJti,
neveivaries- titofri,,
always smecije*fresh!
10 for 10.1. 20 tor I 8
o
m
m
El 867
THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
By accepting a K.C.M.G. on the nomi-
nation of his garrulous successor, Stevens
takes a proud and sad farewell of Parlia-
mentary life. K.C.M.Gs. don’t thrive in
the N.S.W. political atmosphere. Park-
hill became one on June 23, 1936. On
October 23, 1937, his career as member
and Minister was one with the ruins of
Baalbec.
The Westralian newspapers knew on
election night that the C.P. would hold
Swan, but before the preferences were
counted ill-informed sections of the Stunt
Press insisted that Indignant, the Labor
man, had a great chance. Indignant lost
by 2383 votes to ex-Senator Marwick.
There is seldom much leakage of C.P.
preferences, and of 11,383 credited to
Ferguson Marwick got 10,451.
There may be something behind the
New Year greetings exchanged by the
Italian King and Franklin Roosevelt,
especially when the President’s “stab-in-
the-back” speech is recalled. Whether
there is or not, the President’s reply to
the King’s “cordial good wishes to the
people of the United States and to you
personally” was as smart as paint. He
expressed the hope that “the Italian
people” in 1941 would enjoy “the bless-
ings of a righteous peace.”
Sometimes it is matter for regret that
Cabinet meetings are never reported.
There was a mortal Ministerial struggle
to be first in with the stories of the people
landed at Emira by the raiders who
sank their ships, and the ensuing wrangle
must have been memorable. It would
have brightened an hour for people pay-
ing the new taxes to have an account of
what McEwen said to Hughes, Hughes
to McEwen, Foil to both parties and
Menzies to all hands, but they will have
to wait till one of the great men writes
his war memoirs—Billy, for preference.
Melbourne “Herald,” giving its own
experience of the rare old mess which
two service departments made of the
story of the Pacific sinkings:
Confusion was increased by the discovery
that the rescue ship had not reached port
after the Minister for the Navy (Mr.
Hughes) had announced its arrival, and
later by contradictory instructions issued
by the authorities.
A true bill, and Billy did not atone for
his serious blunder by blithering for the
rest of the week.
Sayings of Percy Spender, who has
taken to saying too much:
I feel it is my duty to go to Egypt....
to make sure that the A.I.F. equipment is
100 p.c.
The equipment position of the A.I.F. is
quite satisfactory. The Government has
received the most positive assurance.... I
am sorry if anything I am reported to have
said has been construed as throwing any
doubt on the position. I never intended
to imply that there was any reason to
suppose that the equipment position is not
satisfactory.
I am armed now with first-hand infor-
mation, and Australian troops will not
want.
Jerusalem was the venue of the last utter-
ance, Percy having been permitted to go
to the Middle East. He was. at Cairo
when he heard that the Australians were
in Bardia, and he is now “satisfied” that,
“with the equipment with which they are
being supplied,” there are “no troops
in the world who will surpass them.”
Spender’s first port of call in foreign
parts was Singapore. As usual in these
cases, 8.8. C. made the first announce-
ment that he was there, and readers of
a Sydney sheet notorious for its cham-
pionship of “outstanding candidates”
(Percy was one, but nearly all the others
flopped) could divine that he was going
further. Fortunately he doesn’t appear
to have demanded the dismissal of
Mackay or Blarney, though they and a
lot of their officers are beyond the age-
limits tentatively prescribed by Percy,
with the enthusiastic approval of his
newspaper friends.
State taxes paid during a financial year
are allowable deductions from income
taxed by the Commonwealth, but the six
tribulations don’t reciprocate. In Mair’s
State money deducted at the source for
the alleged relief tax is reckoned taxable
income, and on it the victim has to pay
Mair’s “ordinary” tax. With Common-
wealth and States now taking so much
out of the weekly pay, it will be legalised
robbery of the most infamous description
to tax what a man never handles, but Mair
hasn’t said what he is going to do about
it. Neither has any of the other Premiers.
They were all careful to close down their
alleged Parliaments before the new war
taxes came in.
It fell to Minister Stewart to announce
that Tatsuo Kawai, a distinguished
“While Mr. Hughes was talking hard in Australia, Mr. Spender was in Egypt talking
hard.”
“It must he a mirage!”
member of the Japanese Foreign Service,
had been named Minister for Australia,
and to add that the Commonwealth
Government warmly welcomed the
appointment:
I am confident that Mr. Kawai’s mission
will be a happy and fruitful one, and
that the exchange of Ministers will con-
tribute to the maintenance of peace and
stability in the Pacific region.
A striking change from previous remarks
by Stewart. He should now exert him-
self to secure for both Ministers as
much exemption as is obtainable from
provocative sensationalism on the part
of Cabinet Ministers, American reporters
and radio-blah merchants.
A Mr. William Bayles, a journalist, has
returned to the U.S.A., “after seven
years in Germany,” with the news
that “Germany’s war-time menu includes
dogs, cats and foxes.” This reads like a
serious challenge to Mr. Ralph Inger-
soli, the New York editor who wrote that
Hitler had Britain beaten in September
and didn’t know it. Reviewing the 1940
air war, a “high official” describes the
Ingersoll flight of imagination as “the
most fantastic piece of nonsense I ever
read.”
While there are gallant Polish legions
in Britain and the Middle East, there
are Poles of another sort. Consul-
General Noskowski has publicly stated
that “there are a few Poles in Australia
who are disloyal and ought to be in-
terned.” They are “all recent arrivals,”
he said ; “most are of Jewish descent,”
and “several are working in defence in-
dustries.” The extraordinary thing is,
not that German sympathisers took
advantage of the idiotic arrangement
under which 10,000 refugees were ad-
mitted, but that it was thought necessary
to make such an exposure in a news-
paper.
D m r ~ c .
.. Precious bit of snuffle from the Sydney
“Sun”:
This newspaper, in its effort to serve
the public, has always worked in friendly
co-operation with the department which
fully along the lines promised by him.
i..,, . , , ,
II gave no evidence but a slab can be
furnished. On the day the first A.I.F.
troopships left Sydney the “Sun” came
out with a cartoon which revealed with
complete effrontery what was afoot. If
anything had happened to any of those
troopships on their long voyage some-
thing sudden and unpleasant would have
befallen the Sun, and all the snuffling
in the world wouldn’t have averted it,
The Commonwealth’s war correspon-
dent in Egypt pays a just tribute to “the
unsung heroes of the Australian move
westward through the desert,” the
“drivers of mechanised transport.”
No hours are too long, no task too
heavy, no trail too rough to erase their
ardor in keeping open under aerial bomb-
ing the lines of communication to the men
ahead. I have met drivers who have been
on the job without a break for almost a
fortnight; they live, sleep and eat on their
trucks.
He met a Victorian who mentioned the
State Transport Board with a grin, and
confided that “I learned to take it beat-
ing their regulations in the Mallee.” One
way of repaying these lads would be to
do away with all State Transport Boards
and make it possible for a man who has
paid his dues to drive anywhere in Aus-
tralia. When the boys come home State
border restrictions should be things of
the past.
The 1940 leather medal for gall goes
to Mair, the Sydney Premier. Expressing
a fear that the national Government will
hold “huge revenues” from its new taxes
in “cold storage,” as if that were possible
these times, the gentleman had the effron-
tery to “warn” it that “the people who
have been called upon to bear this terrific
taxation will want to see something for
it.” They see something for it every
time they see a bluejacket or a man in
khaki or air-force blue. What do they
see for the terrific taxes that Mair’s Gov-
ernment gouges out of them? An exces-
sive establishment which piles up annual
losses.
Moscow Radio’s farewell to the Old
Year plumbed the depths of cant and
humbug:
Soviet Russia can take leave of 1940 with
feelings of great satisfaction.
This when the roads of Finland are still
black with the blood of Finns and Rus-
sians, slain in an unprovoked attack on
a little League partner whose territorial
integrity and political independence
Soviet Russia had sworn to respect, and
when Soviet Russia is still dripping with
the spoils of another League partner,
Rumania. “While the flames of the
second imperialist war flare up all over
the world,” the sickening stuff went on,
“Soviet Russia has a policy of peace and
neutrality.” Especially with Hitler,
though the thought of how Hitler may
double-cross him, as he double-crossed
Chamberlain, Daladier, Benes and Beck,
keeps Stalin shivering in his boots.
A leader to his people;
The nation expects the defence industries
to continue in operation without strikes or
lockouts. It expects and insists that the
management and the workers reconcile
their differences by voluntary or legal
means and that they continue to produce
the supplies so sorely needed. On the
economic side we are bending every effort
to maintain stability in prices.
The speaker was Roosevelt, though every
word might have been spoken by Men-
zies. Australian publication of the im-
pressive utterance coincided with an aval-
anche of work stoppages, actual or threat-
ened, on the part of unions engaged in
defence industries. It is part of the price
Australia is paying for unpreparedness
and lily-fingered treatment of Commu-
nists.
Australia is running short of wood for
matches and matchboxes, and the
C.S.I.R. reports “a rather frenzied search”
for home-grown supplies which “should
have been made years ago.” The search
for lots of things needed in war should
have been made years ago, but the pre-
vailing belief was that war had been out-
moded by the League. That was the
excuse given when the defences were
skittled.
Thurtle, a British Labor M.P., on the
Communist plague in the U.K.;
The public bitterly resents Communist
efforts to let down the fighting men. These
people are seeking to hamper us in the
fight against Hitlerism. Previously they
were loudest in the demand that Hitlerism
should be smashed.
Loudest not only in Britain but in Aus-
tralia as well. When they were against
Hitlerism these people performed pro-
digies of valor with their mouths and
fountain-pens. They boasted that they
had sent scores of Australians to join the
Red militia in Spain, “the greatest fight-
ing force the world has ever seen.” Now
all the fight has oozed out of them, and
they are white-anting for a Nazi peace.
In awe-stricken sentences, “S. M.
Herald” intimated that Hughes had “re-
ceived the rare distinction of being made
a Companion of Honor.”
The Order carries no title or precedence,
but it is greatly prized because membership
is limited tp 50.
Next day Granny had to announce that
the “rare distinction” had been con-
ferred on Garvin, the Sunday newspaper
man, and on a recent employee of the
Eden family paper—“ Arthur Henry
Mann, lately editor of the Yorkshire
‘Post,’ ” so it is a distinction to which
the editor of “Terewth” might legiti-
mately aspire. High above the C.Hs. on
the British list was the Sydney-born Gil-
bert Murray, who got the Order of Merit.
That is a rare distinction.


THE FORGOTTEN MEN.
“I see the civilians have reached all their objectives!”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability,
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A,
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE OUTLOOK FOR 1941
The Past Year a Guide to the Future.
All Important Financial News.
January Issue On Sale On Saturday.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.. 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
POPULAR
“ROOM ONLY” TARIFFS:
Singles—s/- to 10/- per day
Doubles —8/- to 18/6 per day
Suites, Family Rooms, etc.
Full Catering Services.
\ICTOR/4
PAIA€J
MELBOURNE’S
MOST POPULAR HOTEL
Little Collins Street
(Next Town Hall)
S. D. Horne Manager
VI-3
PERSONAL ITEMS
Waved is 57, Blarney 56 and Mackay
58 (born at Grafton, N.S.W., April 7,
1882). It is to be hoped that Spender
didn’t mention anything to any of them
about retiring lieutenants at 30, captains
at 35, majors at 40, lieutenant-colonels
at 45 and generals at 50.
Australia has at least 10 new knights. The
New Year brought K.C.M.Gs. to Justice
Owen Dixon, of the High Court, and
Lionel Lindsay, brother of Norman and Percy, has been knighted.
“What has the family done to deserve this, Sir Lionel?”
ex-Premier Stevens ; K.B.Es. to Harold
Clapp, chairman of Victorian Railway
Commissioners for many years and now
g.m. of the Commonwealth’s aircraft con-
struction branch, and Geoffrey Syme,
managing editor of Melbourne “Age” ;
K.Bs. to Fergus McMaster, the Queens-
land grazier and coffounder of Qantas,
Prof. Wallace, Chancellor of Sydney Uni-
versity, Clive McPherson, chairman of
the Australian Wheat Board, F. R.
Davis, of Davis Gelatine, Cockatoo Dock
and Newnes shale, Lionel Lindsay, the
artist and writer, and Constantine Trent
Champion de Crespigny, dean of Medi-
cine at Adelaide University and descen-
dant of the hereditary champions of the
kings of England. There is also a new
host of C.M.Gs., C.Bs., C.B.Es., 0.8.E5.,
M.B.Es. and the like. And Billy has be-
come a Companion of Honor.
Adelaide-born William Lawrence
Bragg, one of the New Year knights, is
one of the greatest living physicists. In
1915 he with his father, Dr. W. H. Bragg,
won the Nobel Prize for work on X-ray
and crystal construction. In the 1914-18
war W. L Bragg was technical adviser
on sound-ranging to the Map Section,
G.H.Q., France. Up to 1937 he was pro-
fessor of physics at Victoria University,
Manchester, and since then has been
directing the National Physics Labora-
tories in England. He was known as
“The Swot” at St. Peter’s College, Adel-
aide.
Victoria’s newest newspaper knight,
Geoffrey Syme, as managing editor
and part-proprietor of the “Age,”
has been the compelling force in Mel-
bourne’s most level-headed daily since
the death of his brother Herbert. David
Syme had strong ideals, and so identified
his family with them that Geoffrey be-
came editor for life under the terms of
David’s last will and testament. The
“Age” has stuck steadfastly to the old
man’s principles.
Just returned to Melbourne, Arthur
Dowling, of Heidelberg (Vic.), who,
going to London a few months ago for
his firm, had his fill of adventure on
his way back. He saw the windows of
his firm’s London
office smashed twice
by bombs, and he
was a passenger in
the City of Benares
when that ship was
torpedoed in mid-
Atlantic and 83 Brit-
ish refugee children
lost their lives. Some
of them died in
Dowling’s arms while
they were drifting in
freezing weather in
an open boat. He
had dived to the
rescue of passengers
struggling in the
water before he was
pulled into a boat
himself. A British
warship picked the
survivors up when
there were only four
left out of 26. Dow-
ling is a director of
Paterson, Laing and
Bruce, the Flinders-
lane concern, and
head of its Man-
chester department.
The new Modera-
tor of the Presby-
terian Church in N. S. Wales, Dr. Victor
Bell, is one of the few ministers of the
kirk who came to it from the Methodist
communion. He was born in N. S.
Wales, at Grenfell, and had four years’
business experience before he became a
clergyman. He served the Methodist
church in country, city and suburban
districts before he crossed over to the other
camp. In the 23 years of his Presby-
terian ministry Dr. Bell has had only
three charges—Greenwich, Newtown and
Strathfield, Sydney suburbs —and he has
been at Strathfield for the last 13 years.
His doctorate comes from McGill Uni-
versity, in Canada.
Bernard Trugott Zwar, now a C.M.G.,
is one of Melbourne’s leading surgeons,
but is best known as an administrator.
He was one of the founders of the Col-
lege of Surgeons of Australasia, is presi-
dent of the Victorian branch of the
B.M.A. and is president of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital. As such he has
the job of organising the big shift-over
when that sick bay is removed from
Swanston-street to the new, ornate and
up-to-the-minute institution at Parkville.
He was a medical major in the 1914-18
war.
Robert McCheyne Anderson, who
passed on in his native city last week,
was born in Sydney 13 years before
Haynes and Archibald founded The
Bulletin ; he somewhat upset his Scot-
tish family by choosing a business career
rather than a professional or scholastic
one, joining the Bank of New Zealand
at 15. He knew Archibald and the rest,
and was always interested in literature.
When his eyesight weakened in latter
days his daughter read to him. He wrote
pars, for The Bulletin, and could recall
the informal christening of the “Wild
Cat” column. It occurred in Pfahlert’s
Hotel. Someone suggested “Investments,
Wise and Otherwise” as a title. Archi-
bald bristled. “That sort of thing be
hanged!” he exclaimed. “I want a
column about wild cats!” The heading
was coined on the instant. Anderson
went from the B.N.Z. to the City
Treasurership, and in 1901 joined Allen
Taylor in the timber and shipping busi-
ness. In the Great War he became an
A.I.F. Brigadier-General in charge of
Administration in Egypt and London. A
K.C.M.G. came his way in 1917. After
several royal commissionerships he joined
the boards of a few well-to-do Australian
cos., and these were his last active in-
terests. He was widowed in 1928. There
are four sons and three daughters.
Dead at 66, in Melbourne, Richard
Percy Clive Baillieu, sharebroker and
sportsman. He was one of the founders
of the firm of E. L. and C. Baillieu and
its senior partner for many years. In
1929 he represented Australia as dele-
gate to the League of Nations Assembly
at Geneva, but of recent years he de-
spaired of the League. A friend of Italy
when Italy was a friend of Britain, he
received two Italian decorations ; but he
put them away when the Italians entered
the war and sent his son lan to fight
them his passing occurred when the
Australians were in Bardia. Baillieu was
a committeeman of the V.A.T.C. and a
member of the V.R.C. Among horses
he owned and raced were Aleconner
(Epsom), Almissa (Australian Cup) and
Parkwood (Newmarket).
On a health visit to M.L. and his native
land is Sir Kenneth Beatty, Chief Jus-
tice of Gibraltar. He was born at Yack-
andandah (Vic.) in 1878, graduated at
Melbourne Uni., went to London and
was called to the Bar at the Middle
Temple in 1908. Later he practised as a
barrister in N. S. Wales. He has had a
varied career in the British public service :
Public Prosecutor and Assistant Resident
Magistrate of the Transvaal, then magis-
trate and Registrar-General at Sierra
Leone, Judge of the Supreme Court on
the Gold Coast, C.J. of the Bermudas
and the Bahamas, and finally the law’s
chief custodian on “The Rock” in 1931.
Justice Frederick William Richards, of
the S.A. Supreme Court, was born
at Gawler, the son of a Methodist
minister, but was educated in Eng-
land—his LL.D. came from London
University. He was admitted to
the Bar in England in 1896, returned
to Adelaide and was admitted to
JUSTICE F. W. RICHARDS.
the S.A. Bar in 1897, and four years
later became associate to the Chief Jus-
tice. In 1908 he was appointed Parlia-
mentary Draftsman, and in 1916 became
Crown Solicitor, taking silk in 1922. An
appointment as acting-judge in 1925
was made permanent two years later.
At 71 the Judge still plays tennis and is
fond of walking.
Albert L. Nevitt became known in
North Queensland as a Cairns accoun-
tant ; nowadays he is a Brisbane share-
broker. Son of Tom Nevitt, M.L.A., he
was born at Normanton, near the Gulf,
half a century ago, and has lived in warm
climes ever since. He spent part of his
ALBERT L. NEVITT.
youth in New Guinea, then joined up
with Burns Philp in N.Q. Setting out on
his own as an auditor he built up a wide
connection in the sugar districts, and it
was only recently that he relinquished
this practice. He has a son in the A.1.F.,
and a daughter. He lives at Hamilton.
The N.S.W. Employers’ Federation
lost its president when Flarry Hughes
died at St. Vincent’s, aged 49. He was
a director of Richard Hughes, Ltd., the
can-manufacturers, a member of the
A.J.C. and of Tattersall’s Club, and had
troops of friends.
A master mariner with a long experi-
ence in sail as commander of clippers
of the Loch Line was Capt. W. J. Wade,
who died in Sydney recently. After a
varied career in steam and in municipal
employ in Manchester, he became Aus-
tralasian representative of the Manchester
Ship Canal Co. 18 years ago, with head-
quarters in Sydney. During the 1914-18
war he was assistant-director of cold
storage and food transport and was
decorated for his services.
New knight Clive McPherson is a busy
man these days. He is Australian Govern-
ment rep. on the British Phosphate Com-
mission, one of whose sources of supply
has been receiving the attentions of the
enemy raiders. He was born at St.
Arnaud’s (Vic.) in 1884 and educated at
Caulfield Grammar, Melbourne. An
expert on the primary industries, he is a
member of the Victorian Closer Settle-
ment Commission, and was deputed in
1930 to investigate the complaints of
British migrant settlers, with results that
were disconcerting to the Government
that appointed him.
Dead at 42, pianist Mischa Levitzki,
who toured Australasia in 1921 and again
in 1931. He was born in Russia of
Jewish parents, commenced piano study
at seven, and in his teens was sufficiently
advanced to be accepted as a pupil by
Dohnanyi. A tour of the U.S.A. in 1916
put him on the musical map, and for a
while American critics gave him a place
among the 12 leading pianoforte virtuosi.
He was near his zenith in 1921, when his
playing charmed by reason of a delight-
ful touch and a natural and unaffected
sense of phrasing and rhythm. But even
then he was more satisfying in Scarlatti
than in Beethoven.


HOTEL SYDNEY
300 BEDROOMS: HOT & COLD WATER,
, PHONE IN EVERY
lISHIE
8 9 puillHU
vlW(i| rmTmrmJfJ
>(vVS 'A
'Jfm
n
*
-p
g 2
<Sa
Right at Central Station
overlooking Belmore Park
—“round the corner” to
the business, shopping and
theatre districts.
Extra Comfort, Friendly
Service, Attractive Foods
and Very Moderate Rates.
Manager W. G. Bulfin
SMOKE-OH!
“Waiter on visiting American ship marries
wealthy passenger.”
He is now a firm believer in the adage
about everything coming to him who
waits.
4* 4* 4* 4*
What with the new taxation and the
increased price of beer, some of us will
have to indulge in a lot of wishful
drinking.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Radio programmes should be made more
cheerful in these times of stress.”
—Wireless magazine.
How about dropping the comedians
for a start?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although sentiment compelled him to keep
it, the large portrait of his dead wife worried
him.”— Woman’s paper.
It was a speaking likeness, no doubt.
“When friends gather round, drink a toast.”
— Woman’s paper.
When they fall flat on their faces you’ll
know the toast’s been a bit overdone.
“The newly-wed sales-wife, entered the
dining-man, accompanied by his room of the
hotel which he used to frequent.”
— "World’s News.”
The sales-wife refused stew on the
ground that she was apparently in it
already.
•5* 4*
“Jackets are important.”
—Fashion note, woman’s mag.
“My oath!” said the recently-skinned
potato.
q
Barely Acquainted.
“Among other notables at the nude club I
was delighted to meet a famous authoress.”
—Article by nudist.
He’d heard about her frequently
In stories somewhat fresh,
But now —a thrilling moment —he
Had met her in the flesh!
T. W. N.
’Twas Ever Thus.
“One very rarely marries the first man one
admires.” — Woman’s paper.
With emotion she was ashen, for a
film star was her passion; but he
twinkled out of fashion. Then she hur-
ried (with a hope that springs eternal)
on a wild search for a colonel. But
his language, too infernal, made her
worried. So she spurned his rude re-
cital, and to find a peer seemed vital.
But her wish to wed a title came no
closer. And she feared that if she tarried
any longer she’d be harried by regrets.
So she was married —to the grocer.
Now their troubles will come thickly,
for their daughter’s growing quickly,
and with love she’s looking sickly—for
Clark Gable. And she says, “If not an
actor, then Position’s the main factor,
so I’ll wed a rich attractor, if I’m able.”
And she’s keen on money-spinners such
as jockeys who are winners, while from
love of champagne dinners none can
shake ’er. So her parents view her sadly.
But she won’t end up too badly...
For she’s going out now —gladly—with
the baker.
EVE.
Sleeping Partners.
I’m never going on it with Finney
again—that’s final! He proved at our
New Year party that he is definitely not
a fit companion!
It had been rather heavy going, but
I was carrying myself like a gentleman.
With Finney, however, as soon as we
left the Pozzled Arms I knew what to
expect. Trying to avoid stepping on
something that wasn’t there he fell in
a heap, and I had a terrific struggle in
getting him up again.
Then he ran wildly down the street,
but a few moments later was again very
horizontal. I had some difficulty in
raising him as several huge dogs kept
pouncing around us ; at last I succeeded,
and with my hat pulled ashamedly over
my face I made a desperate effort to
drag him home.
But he was hopeless. He went down
again outside the corner fruit shop, and
outside the rectory he took the full
count. Pleadings and abuse were alike
ineffective. Even the appeal to the
ancient name of the Finneys left him
unmoved. Utterly disgusted, I aban-
doned him.
Of course, the drunken wretch got
me into trouble as usual. Much to my
horror I awoke beside him next morn-
ing in a cell. It appears that he made
me so exhausted that I fell asleep on
the pavement myself.
NAT.
Suspicious Customer.
“Telegrams will not be accepted if it is sus-
pected they are in code.” — News item.
He was olive skinned, with a sweeping
moustache, nervous eyes and a general
furtive manner. He handed over the
telegram form and waited while it was
read by the suspicious young chap be-
hind the counter:
“arvd sfe htl vry gd grls dent srts Iv frm
esn Brt.”
Arrested immediately, he was taken
to headquarters but was released when
”Hurry up and fix that periscope—I'm fed up standing here!”
q
E.
The Hen.
“Sir Leslie Wilson, at diploma day of the
Grafton (N.S.W.) Agricultural College, paid a
high tribute to the memory of the college’s
most famous hen, who laid so many eggs that
she was called Lady Lightning.”— “Sun.”
Like royalty she goes her way,
Laying foundations every day
For custard, omelet and cake.
Storms gather, revolutions break.
The right or wrong she does not ask
But concentrates upon her task.
And naught but sudden death can stay
Her purpose fixed, by night or day.
Because her head has not the room
For more than one idea to bloom.
Her egg can silence suddenly
The greatest flood of orat’ry;
The moral force within it pent
Is strong as granite or cement.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Detection Made Easy.
“According to an official, the police were
still conducting a vigorous search for a mart
with a tattered green coat.” — “D.T.”
So the old Force is the same as ever.
Laymen, perhaps, may ask why they
don’t search with black-trackers, trained
bloodhounds or some other patent clue-
finder. But the Force employs more
subtle methods.
I remember my first case in detection.
I hadn’t been in uniform long when
Inspector O’Gahagan, of the crime squad,
sent for me.
“Wairl, McSquirt,” he said, “we’ve had
our eye on you for some time now”— —
“You’ve got nothing on me, in-
spector” I began.
“Tut, tut!” he said, “what are ye
tor-rkin’ about. Ye’ve been doin’ foine
wor-rk lairtly. How ye ferreted out that
Klinghammer was the same felly that was
goin’ under the nairm of Klinghimmer
bates me. Ye’ve the mairkin’s of a good
detective, and ye should go far.”
“You think so, inspector?” I asked,
not without a touch of pride.
“Yes, Bourke fer a start, though the
felly we want you to pick up moight
have gone to Orbost or Rockhampton. Oi
want ye to go there and look for a marn
with a bulging, heavy suitcase. He’s a
dangerous criminal named Fred Simpson
or Joe MaegiHicaddy or something like
that; he’s wanted for murder or having
a dog widout a license or something—
anyway, he’s wanted bad. He’s a tall,
slim, stocky chap with a wart under his
right instep and a gravy-colored mous-
tache. Ye can’t miss him —he sticks out
loike a nigger among a mob of buck-
toothed Chows. Bring him in, McSquirt,
and yere reputairtion will be made.”
Now, the detective is born and not
made. I had fastened with lightning
swiftness to the inspector’s opening in-
structions ; “Look for a man with a
heavy, bulging suitcase.” Having none
myself, perforce I had to borrow the
inspector’s suitcase. It had in it his
dinner suit and a couple of boiled shirts,
which he kept at the office for urgent
functions. As these didn’t make it bulge
sufficiently I pushed in my overcoat,
spare suit, camping equipment and a
pair of extra boots that just fitted in
lengthwise. The bursting of the lock
was sufficient guide that it was bulging
to the requisite degree, and for heaviness
I added a few ingots of lead that the in-
spector used as paperweights.
Though the information I had to go
on was meagre, I was confident.
At Bourke I got on to a clue right
away, and for three days I was able to
shadow a fellow answering the descrip-
tion of the wanted man except that he
had red hair and a red moustache. But
I was not to be tricked so easily. In his
place, I argued, the first thing I would
do to render my gravy-colored moustache
less conspicuous would be to soak it in
red ink, with hair to match.
On the fourth day it came over dull
and I lost trace of him, but that after-
noon in the bar of the Miners’ Breather,
whither I had repaired with my suitcase,
confident that sooner or later he would
come in for a drink, I was able to give
my powers of ratiocination full play,
for as he came in I noticed that, instead
of slamming his right foot down care-
lessly on the brass rail, as would the ordi-
nary thirsty citizen, he put it down
gently. This was consistent with the
action of a man who had a painful wart
under his instep.
It was enough. I had the very devil
of a job, .what with lumping a heavy,
bulging suitcase, to effect the arrest, and
at one time as we struggled around the
pub precincts I nearly lost my grip on
him when my Dundrearies caught in the
swing doors. However, at last I suc-
ceeded in lumbering him to the station.
The look of amazement on O’Gaha-
gan’s face as I staggered into headquarters
a week later with what remained of his
suitcase in one hand and the suspect in
the other was good to see. “Here’s your
man, inspector,” I said triumphantly.
“Be hivens! If it isn’t ‘Red’ Wilson,”
he exclaimed. “We’ve been lookin’ for
you for 25 years for that garrotting job
at Redfern. Good wor-rk, McSquirt.
Forget about that other felly ; they picked
him up in a pinky joint at the Cross. But
this is a real feather in the Force’s cap.
Ye’ll get stripes for this, McSquirt. How
did ye do it, man?”
“Oh, I suppose I’ve just got the knack
for it, inspector,” I said modestly. Which
was perfectly true.
Bo.


ABORIGNALITIES
“The 0.D.”: Confirmed fishermen
have as many weird beliefs as
punters, amateur weather prophets and
bushmen. Trying for whiting on a
promising beach, I was told by a whiskeiy
individual who came and watched me
that I had no chance ; there was a south
wind, and no self-respecting whiting
would bite while it prevailed. He stayed
for some time, periodically reiterating
his creed while the wind mounted to gale
force, and then, convinced that I was
either a stubborn fool or a dead nark, he
went. Half an hour later I left, with two
of the biggest whiting I’ve ever landed
and four small ones. Several times after
that Whiskers came and watched me. I
never got a fish while he was there.
Trying another spot I attracted the in-
terest of another pundit who fished beside
me awhile until I landed a sand mullet.
“That’ll do me,” he observed weightily.
“Once them start y’ can turn it up.” I
stayed, caught more mullet and three
ivhiting. Whiting may know when the
wind is south or that the mullet are
biting; I’ll swear they are aware that
“experts” are about, for immediately the
pests show up the fish stop biting. I
pack up then, too.
“B. A. Ker”: To “head off” a bolting
horse is a natural but, I’ve always main-
tained, erroneous impulse. Left alone,
a runaway rarely does any serious
damage because, for one thing, he gener-
ally keeps on the road ; also, the clatter
he makes clears the road a quarter of a
mile ahead. Try to “head” him, how-
ever, and the frightened animal will
swerve away on to the footpath or any-
where else that offers no barrier.
Recently our baker’s horse cleared out
with the cart. Fully four miles the terri-
fied prad galloped without interference,
safely negotiating over 18 corners before
he wheeled into the home gate. The
latter ended the episode. A hub striking
the post swung the cart towards the fence,
the moke broke free, and the vehicle
gently rolled over to lean on the palings
like a drunk. Ten shillings covered the
whole damage ; an attempt to stop the
fear-crazed creature might easily have
cost lives.
* * * »
“Golden Mile”: Oswald Pryor’s indig-
nant mine boss who stirred up the sleeper
underground (B. 11/12/’4O) recalls many
a heavy-lidded hour below-surface.
There’s something particularly unhuman
about night-shift underground. One
starts for work when the normal citizen
is contemplating bed. Then come the
garish lights of the mine brace lighting
up the score or so of one’s fellow-pil-
grims-in-distress. No one is cheery, con-
versation languishes. Everyone, every-
thing seems to droop .with the unearthli-
ness of the midnight hour when grave-
yards yawn, only it is the gloomy pit-
mouth that yawns, spewing up its end-
less current of hot, peasoup-like air. One’s
turn comes; the cage drops—a thousand
feet, two thousand! The upper night
exchanges for the endless night below.
But even a thousand feet down seems
darker at midnight than at midday.
Crosscuts and drives seem sepulchral;
iron-shod boots ring hollowly on flat-
sheet and stone. The candle-lit proces-
sion of workers groping a dim way to
drive and stope suggests a scene in the
catacombs. Even though one may have
had ample daytime sleep one feels heavy,
unreal. As the hours tick on this heavi-
ness grows ; one, two, three take long
to pass. But the fourth is the heaviest-
lidded hour of them "all. Then the half-
hour crib-time. The extra-weary ones
snatch a cat nap of a few minutes. No
one talks much. Five o’clock, and one
feels the dawn coming. The sun rises
even underground, for by six o’clock one’s
blood is running quick again. Seven, and
one feels Old Sol climbing high in the
east. Eight, and one flies to the surface
—to find complete wakefulness and a
hatred of the thought of daytime bed.
* * He *
“Koro Heke”: “Pop’s” criticism of
Ma’s technique (B. 15/12/’4O) is all wet.
Blade shearing in Maoriland, we always
used the “breezer to the sneezer” blow,
and the knee to roll the sheep to the
shears. But no sane shearer crossed the
spine when using blades, or the boss
would have had him heading down the
“mutton track” at the double.
* * * *
“L.J.T.”: That snappy “Smoke-oh”
comeback to the quoted oddity about
Antarctic explorers seeing black icebergs
(B. 25/12/’4O) doesn’t alter the fact that
they are black—at first. The old idea
that bergs were just masses detached
from the ice-sheet when it entered the
sea and floated with only one-fifth of its
mass above water isn’t correct in the
light of recent research by the scientist-
priest Father Hubbard. A submerged
ice-foot, extending seawards from the
ice-cap wall, is the cradle of all bergs.
Avalanches, comprising tons of ice, con-
tinually hurtling over the ice-cliffs, strike
the submerged ice-foot, resulting in ice
masses, in a coat of boulder-clay and
ocean-floor deposit, shooting to the sur-
face. Their dusky complexion is soon
altered by the cleansing effect of ocean
travel.
* Jf: * *
“Ophir”: Those fellows who talk about
a snake striking like the tapping of a
hammer don’t know what they’re cack-
ling about. No ophidian can make more
than one strike at a time. It has to
recover, regain its poise and get into posi-
tion with head and balance to have an-
other shot. After each strike —hit or
miss—the neck muscles go flabby, the
head drops, the whole body relaxes.
Admitted, unless a man’s pretty slick, he’ll
get tangled up in the last of one strike
and the beginning of another ; but the
pause is unmistakable.
* * * *
“Merrangbaur”: “Some blokes,” said
Steve, “take realism too far. We’re drift-
in' for flathead a bit inshore one day
when Joe looks over the side to see a
bloke with orl ’is clothes on floatin’ on
’is back. The engine’s dead, but Joe
don’t waste a second. ’E ups with ’is
line an’ slings it at the bloke. The ’ook
catches 'is collar, an’ Joe tows ’im along-
side. ’E looks done in, ’cause Vs just
flappin’ ’is arms enough to keep ’imself
afloat. I ’olds the line while Joe reaches
for the boat-’ook. ’E jabs it at the bloke,
slips a bit as the launch rolls, an’ shoves
it fair in ’is stummick. There’s an awful
yell, an’ under ’e goes. ’E comes up
splutterin’, an’ we ’auls ’im aboard quick
an’ lively. ’E don’t seem to ’ave any
breath left, just lays there gurglin’, so
Joe rolls ’im over, planks ’is ’ands in
the small of ’is back an’ starts pumpin’.
Orl of a sudden there’s a flurry in the
water, an’ a coot in trunks slithers into
the boat, ’auls Joe orf the bloke an’
clouts ’im in the jaw. ‘Y’ flamin’ goat,’
’e ses, ‘y’ ve mucked up our lifesavin’
display! ’ Before we can chip in ’e ’eaves
the bloke back into the water, then dives
in an’ perseeds to rescue ’im! ”
* * * *
“Flight”: Of all worried husbands and
fathers, I give Willie Wagtail top place.
That little cove has to do nearly all the
building of the nest. The missus only
gets in the cup, kicks things about, pre-
tends to shape it and leaves the subse-
quent tidying to Bill. While she’s brood-
ing he has to look after her, take a turn
on the eggs when she feels like a change,
hunt all other things in feathers, scales
and hair from 100 yards’ radius of the
nest. When the family arrives Bill’s on
the job again day and night—the only
time left to him to sing is at night. His
daily jobs are multiplied to an unbeliev-
able extent, from foraging tucker for
half a dozen bottomless stomachs to fight-
ing out all rows brought about by his
missus as well as himself. Then, when
he’s brought his kids to maturity, Bill
has to belt all those youngsters from the
area around the old home, keep them at
a distance, reframe the nest and attend
to the rest of his marital jobs. And that’s
only the start of another cycle for W.
Wagtail, Esq.
* * ♦
“Dungeness”: Words of cheer for sea-
side holidaymakers in N.Q. from the
Innisfail correspondent of the “N.Q.
Register”: “Bathers must beware of
stonefish on the reefs, which are deadly
poison. Also Portuguese men-o’-war are
about the seashore waters in the early
year and can cause much pain to bathers.
Sharks do not bother bathers unless they
venture out too far. The worst time
for alligators is the early wet season and
floods.” A few encouraging references
to giant clams which either nip off the
tootsies of unwary reef-walkers or hold
their unlucky owners to be drowned by
the rising tide, serious and even fatal in-
juries caused by stinging shellfish, losses
of legs from festered coral cuts and bites
from sea snakes would have rounded it
off nicely as an invitation to visit Our
Sunny North.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A cock sparrow sat on
our roof airing his inflated opinions when
a large, ugly, unsociable mantis flew over'
the garden. The spadger attacked on
principle, but collected a clout across the
ear that sent him back squealing for his
missus. She was ready waiting on the
doorstep, and together they left at the
rebound, but Lanky outboxed the pair
of them, and off they went yelping for
the neighbors. Another cock joined in,
and the third round was a beauty. Feet,
wings, heads and legs spun like Catherine
wheels, the spags barracking like the
bleachers throughout, and at the bell all
four broke clean ; but just then reinforce-
ments arrived, and, waiving the rules in
deference to such a stroke of fortune,
the combined feathered forces tore in
again. That ended it. The whirring,
hysterical mass rolled over and over,
slowly falling the while, to land in a
flurry of dust among the snapdragons.
There the conquerors danced vigorously
upon the mangled victim, then returned
to the spout and noisily explained away
the whole business with all the lordly
magnanimity which Jerry uses after
jumping on some humble, domestic-
minded “aggressor.”
* * * #
“Bogaduck”: Normally confined to
the inland plains, particularly where belts
of trees line the watercourses, the galah
came south of the Murray about 15 years
ago, and by 1930 was at Bordertown, 100
miles farther south. This year odd pairs
are nesting on my place near Nara-
coorte, 50 miles on. Ample supplies of
the seeds of the Scotch star, saffron and
other thistles in those areas explain the
migration. Some regard the galah as
a pest —I’ll admit he can put away a fair
amount of wheat from ripening crops—
but if you shoot a galah at any other
time of the year you’ll find his crop to
be full of the seeds of weed pests. And
no more beautiful sight can be seen in
the back country than a mob of thou-
sands of grey and rose-pink galahs wheel-
ing against a blue-black thundercloud.
* He * *
“J.P.”: The mistletoe, which makes for
most eucalypts with the avidity of a
bumble to a free blowout, has never
shown a marked inclination for our
native pines. The only one I’ve known
play host to the parasite is a bunya pine
at New Farm, Brisbane, and it is flour-
ishing like the green bay-tree.
• He * 4c
“Colburra”: Not only garfish swim
with their heads half out of the water
(B. 11/12/’4O). I’ve seen a shark do the
same, but for a very different reason.
Blokes may talk about hooking a 10ft.
sea-lawyer and pulling him on board a
lugger or small schooner, but my experi-
ence tells that it can’t be done. The
demons fight too vigorously—either tear
out the hook on the way up or clear the
deck by lashing around and snapping
before anybody, at considerable risk, can
wield axe or hammer. So when the
Malays were hungering for fillet-de-shark
the bos’n got out the shark tackle —a ten-
gallon oil-drum, 40ft. of stout manila,
4ft. of steel chain and a barbed hook big
enough to hang up a bullock. Hook was
attached to chain, chain to rope, rope to
drum. Bait, a good-sized lump of dugong
or, better still, any rancid bacon, which
sharks love. The drum began to cut capers
that nearly sent the abos. on board into
fits. At first it careered away at a great
rate, then turned at a tangent, and off
again. Sometimes it disappeared below
so long that it seemed lost. But no shark
could stand such a constant strain, and
up it would bob again. For more than
an hour the play would go on. At times
the hooked one would squirm and writhe
almost on the surface in his endeavors
to cough up the barb. But it was no use ;
neither strength nor sharkish cunning
could outplay man’s ingenuity. Finally
the head broke surface, as though in
exhaustion—and a few bullets from the
skipper’s rifle sufficed.
“ Cranny, I've found out how to keep the flies out of the kitchen.
SOLDIERS.
Soldiers breasting the bar,
We’ve met you many a time,
Youngsters, all of you are,
Mimicking prime.
Your eyes are dark with dreams
Under the laughter there,
Seeking behind what seems
For the true things, stark or fair.
From towns in the burning West,
From rivers to north and south,
You were chosen Australia’s best
For the purpose firm in each mouth.
And you pass from the street in here,
Lonely in crowded ways,
For the comradeship of a beer
And the wish “Here’s happy days!”
The doubts and desires which rise
Since your will first whispered “Go! ”
We see them there in your eyes;
They are things which maybe we know.
We heard that cry of the heart
“Come back to the river and- hill! ”
The strength when true lovers part
Is the measure of manhood’s will.
Soldiers drinking with men
Too old to go to the war;
In our hearts we are sailing again.
Ah! age is the bitterest scar
Which every man must win.
Here’s hide! Aye, we sailed like this
Long since. A bitters and gin?
And make mine a schooner, Miss.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“Good job I 'ad presence of mind to say whoa back!”
“Arev”: Bill Todd was angry. “That
Muldoon,” he said, “is the most shift-
less fellow I’ve ever had as neighbor.
Half the time I have to go and get back
something he’s borrowed before I can
start a job. Today I could have had half
the fence up only for you lending him
my posthole digger. Now I’ll have to
do some ploughing instead —that’s if
Muldoon doesn’t get around someone to
lend the plough before I can get to it.”
Mrs. Todd looked helplessly at her hus-
band. “But what can I do? Say you
haven’t got the tools? He knows very
well you have.” Bill grunted. “Of course
he does. He knows every blooming tool,
implement and gadget on my property,
and he’s borrowed ’em all.” “But what
am I to say when he comes and asks for
anything?” said Mrs. Todd. Bill thumped
the table so that the plums his wife was
stoning bounced all over the preserving-
pan. “Refer him to me.” Bill stamped
out of the kitchen. As the last plum
went into the preserving-pan, Mrs. Todd
saw young Teddy Muldoon crossing the
paddock towards the dividing fence. Mrs.
Todd sneaked out of the kitchen and into
the dairy. After some minutes she peeped
out to see Bill making towards the stable.
She waved and Bill stopped. “How did
you get on with the Muldoons?” she said.
“What did Mr. Muldoon want to
borrow?” Bill grinned sheepishly. “It
wasn’t him this time. It was Mrs. Mul-
doon. She wanted the loan of the pre-
serving-pan.” Bill started to move off.
“I emptied the plums into the wash-up
dish,” he said.
* * * *
“Acombe”: Our expert wanted to
borrow a handpiece, so I volunteered to
guide and introduce him to the most
likely mark —“Silent” Knight, the local
“hatter.” As we approached the home-
stead soon after dark, a terrific din super-
imposed itself upon the noise of our old
truck. We shut off the engine and walked
to the open door. In the lighted room
two gramophones and a radio were run-
ning on full throttle; and “Silent,”
dressed in clean and incredibly gaudy
pyjamas and a dirty and incredibly bat-
tered hat, was singing lustily and perhaps
tunefully as he sorted out records. When
we succeeded in attracting his attention
“Silent” shut off his machines and asked
us in. “A man would go dippy in this
scrub,” he said apologetically, “if he
didn’t get a bit o’ music now and then!”
* * * *
“D.Mc.”: “You blokes want to go out
to Bumblegumble to see big eagle-’awks,”
remarked Joe Staggers. “Me and old
Bob Bender was chippin’ in between the
rows of corn one day when a big bird
swooped down on Bob like a dive
bomber an’ fastened to ’im with both
claws. I made a runnin’ jump an’
grabbed old Bob by both boots, only to
discover to me ’orror that the eagle-
’awk was sailin’ along with both of us
as easy as winkin’. Suddenly a terrible
thought came into my ’ead about Bob’s
boots. ’E never wore laces, an’ I could
feel those boots slippin’! We was ’un-
dreds of feet up be then ; I ’ad the shakes
proper, an’ me blood was runnin’ cold
when one boot comes away an’ I ’ad to
cling like ’ell to the other! But a strange
thing ’appened. We’re passin’ over
Murphy’s Lagoon when all of a suddin
the lot of us went tumblin’ down inter
the water. It turned out that old Bob
still ’ad ’is hoe gripped in ’is ’and, an’
w’en ’e spotted the water beneath ’im ’e
let that eagle ’ave the uppercut of its
life. Wot they calls actin’ at the cyco-
logical moment.”
* * * *
“Arev”: “What are you doing today,
Dad?” asked Mrs. Jupp. “Well, I thought
of sorting over those seed potatoes,”
answered Dad Jupp. “Why?” “Oh, I
just thought I’d turn the linoleum in the
dining-room if you were going to be busy
outside.” Dad considered. “Now then,
you can’t go moving heavy furniture. I’ll
fix the 1in0.,” he said. From the toolshed
he got pliers and chisel and started on the
pulling out of the old tacks. Mum, out-
side weeding the kitchen garden, heard
the steady flow of curses as Dad pro-
ceeded with that tedious job. After that
sundry bangs and thuds announced the
removal of the furniture to another room,
after which came the
rustling of lino, being
moved. A steady half-
hour’s hammering fol-
lowed, then more
bumps told of the fur-
niture being replaced.
Mrs. Jupp returned to the
kitchen, which seemed
to have encountered a
Bedourie duststorm.
Dad thrust a grimy face
through the door. “Heat
the water for a bath,
will y’, Mum?” he said.
“Gripes, it’s hard work
that. I busted a coupla
ornaments, but that
can’t be helped. Come
and have a look at the
job.” Mrs. Jupp gave
a deep sigh as she
looked through the
door. “The furniture’s
back all right, isn’t it?” Dad said. “Yes,”
said Mrs. Jupp, “but you’ve put the lino,
back the same way it was before.”
* * * *
“Australian”; The tallowwood bridge
across Blicks River, on the Grafton-
Armidale road, was erected 60 years ago.
The trees from which it was fashioned
grew on rich red soil at the edge of a
cedar brush in the Tyringham station
homestead paddock, and were supplied
gratis by John Perrett, who stated that
the bridge should last at least 50 years,
Despite buffetings from the terrific floods
of 1887, ’9O and ’93 and the huge trees
borne against it, the strong timbers have
resisted every onslaught. Tallowwood
posts from the same paddock were taken
up after being in the ground 35 years and
were still solid, but red-gum posts in
the same line of fence were all too rotten
to re-erect.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: A recent passing
reference on these pages to the abo.’s
“abundant lack of beauty” reminds me
of a similar quaint phrase used by C. W.
De Vis, sometime curator o£ Queens-
, , ’ P . , ... ~
land Museum in flrs describing the
golden bower-bird of N.Q. Latterly re-
garded as “one of the three handsomest
birds in Australia,” this bower-bird was
made known at the outset from a dull-
colored immature specimen taken by
Kendall Broadbent in the wild valley of
the Herbert River in 1882, and De Vis,
in scientifically naming the species, felt
.. , , / , B ... , ’ f „
impelled to tender a mild apology o
its plainness. In honoring this bower-
bird with the name of Professor New-
ton, he wrote, it is hoped that the
interest attaching to it will be accepted
as an equivalent for its plentiful lack of
color.” The awakening came seven
years later ; Archie Meston came down
from Bellenden-Ker with a beautiful bird
which De Vis pronounced to be new,
but which he later discovered to be the
adult male of his Prianodura new-
toniana. Moreover, it turned out that,
in addition to its radiance, the bird was
a highly-skilled vocal mimic and the
builder of the largest of all “theatres”
among our curiously gifted bower-birds.
Archie Meston, by the way, never quite
got over the loss of his name on that
lovely and cultured bird ; he continued,
with a measure of justification, to talk
proudly of “Meston’s bower-bird.”
* * * *
“Wannage”: Boongaree, chief of one
of the Sydney tribes, was the first abo.
to sail right around the continent. The
year was 1817; the ship Mermaid, 84 tons.
Lieut. King in command. Alan Cun-
ningham, the botanist, and Lieut. John
Septimus Roe, later W.A.’s first Surveyor-
General, were also on board. A sea-
rover of 1838 was Migo, a sub-chief of
the Swan River tribe. The Beagle was
his luxury yacht, Captain Wickham in
command, Lieut. Stokes second ; Charles
Darwin was on board. Although many
times a killer, Migo bore his brand of
Cain lightly. Clothed in white duck, he
helped as waiter to the officers’ mess all
the way round to Port Essington (N.T.)
and back again to Perth. High hopes
were entertained that he had become
civilised, but when he reached home he
lapsed again.
* * * *
“Mick the Miler”: Having spent a
good portion of my life chasing sheep,
I thought I knew something of the habits
of blowflies. I have seen flannel shirts,
blankets and even the tail of a foal
“blown.” Going out in the paddock the
other morning to gather mushrooms I
found that every one was “blown.” I’m
expecting them next to have a go at the
concrete stand for the tank.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: In all ordinary affairs of
life magpies are amongst the most intelli-
gent of birds, but for weeks a completely
deluded couple in this S.Q. locality have
been wearing themselves to a frazzle
satisfying the Gargantuan appetite of a
changeling which is now nearly as big as
the pair of them put together. They are
no inexperienced young parents, for I
have seen them bring up two legitimate
families during, the last two years, but
this season a channel-billed cuckoo has
kidded them into the idea that they have
produced a very miracle amongst mag-
pies. One would have imagined that they
could have detected the big blotched red-
and-yellow egg when the raucous red-
eyed cannibal mother first sneaked it
into their momentarily unguarded nest.
Duped by false parental pride, they do
not even seem to have noticed the mys-
terious disappearance of their real off-
spring, ruthlessly pushed ovar the nest
side by the sinister intruder before its
eyes were even open. It is already plainly
recognisable for what it is, but neither
the deluded footer parents nor even an
occasional visiting crow realise its iden-
tity, although any prowling adult of its
breed would be the objective of a mass
onslaught. Crass disregard of plain facts
is kindly understatement, but after all
Homo sapiens in this year of grace can’t
well afford to criticise other folk’s fail-
ings in that line with Hitlers, Quislings
and Mussolinis so frequent in his Euro-
pean nest.
“Go on, TURN it —you got the spuds to peel before breakfast!”
SPOILING HIMSELF.
“In the Rock Hampton (Q.) district the cactoblastis
are depositing their law® on the pawpaw trees.
They are thriving on the soft pithy wood.”
O Cacto, best of scientific notions,
From tropic lands you doubtless reckoned
fair
Brought hither, rolled on unaccustomed oceans.
To sup on leagues and leagues of prickly pear,
You were a benefactor, tried and tested,
From Queensland through to Noo South
Wales you ranged,
And champed and chawed and swallowed and
digested
Tucker you never boggled at or changed.
Demands you never made for any leisure;
With home-grown wogs you ne’er became
embroiled.
Eating, with you, was hobby, work and
pleasure;
Right noble was the way in which you toiled.
With magic rivalling some Indian fakir’s
Forward you surgfed, inexorably bent
On leaving pest-free, smiling, useful acres
Where once had been a hopeless tanglement.
Honor to you, O small Cactorum ! Scattered
Throughout our world are monuments galore
To many a human whose endeavors mattered
Far less than yours. No tribute could ignore
The speed at which you labored. Did you
suffer
From gnawing pains or windy flatulence
You bore them stoiewise. When pear got
tougher
It didn’t make the slightest difference.
So long as you, O gastronomic plodder,
Kept on to pear, a welcome little coot
You proved. But now you’ve gone and switched
to fodder
Which yields your masters such a luscious
fruit!
Ingrate! We gave you sea-trip, change of
habit.
We treated you as quite an honored guest.
Are you now to be numbered with the rabbit
As just another damned imported pest?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


What are the
Duties of ax
Executor
mJm
Q OUR Executor should assume control of your Estate imme-
diately and take measures to safeguard your assets. He
must manage the assets and deal with the problems of
claims, debts and taxes, including Estate Duties and
Income Taxes, and in general, substitute his business
judgment for yours. He must administer the Estate as the Will
directs and the law provides, and account for his acts to your
beneficiaries, and to the Court.
The foregoing is only a brief outline of his duties, but it suggests
the reason why those versed in affairs appoint an experienced
Trustee Company as Executor or Co-Executor with a friend or
relative rather than place the entire burden on a single
individual.
The services of The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Limited with more than 62 years’ experience as a corporate
Executor and Trustee are available at a fixed and moderate
charge. Consult your Solicitor or call or write for further
information.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
- , and. UtiL.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878
1 HUGH ST., SYDNEY, and at 401 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £957,320
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman) W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N SW, Manager; J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones Manager: K. M. Hughes
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Pulp and Paper
Paper is now being made at the co.’s
Burnie (Tas.) mills in many finer varieties
from eucalyptus pulp. The quality is
good and prices remunerative, though the
chairman says that the landed cost of
U.K. writings and printings are now
about twice the co.’s wholesale prices.
War, of course, and the isolation
of Scandinavia have created extra-
ordinary conditions in the paper
trade ; importation of paper is severely
rationed in Australia. Associated Pulp
could not have begun production at a
more opportune time.
Flotation took place in April, 1936.
North 8.H., B.H. South and Electro.
Zinc each subscribed for 75,000 £1 ords.;
Zinc Corp. took 50,000 and Australian
Glass 25,000. Amalgamated Zinc (De
Bavay’s) took another 150,000 ords.
for cash, and Wallace H. Smith,
a Melbourne sharebroker, and the
public subscribed 500,000 ords. on
similar terms. Deferred shares of
£1 each totalling 150,000 were handed
fully-paid to Gerald Mussen and others
for assets, timber concessions and rights
in Tasmania, and 100,000 deferreds went
to Tasmanian Paper, a pup of the De
Bavay co., for similar consideration. The
only advantage the ords. possessed over
deferreds was the right to one exclusive
div. of 6 p.c. before the deferreds could
participate in earnings. The ords. have
received such a div. since the close of
last accounts, so all scrip now ranks
pari passu.
World prices rose while the Burnie
mill was being erected, and the co. had
to go to the bank and its Broken Hill
friends for working capital; however,
commercial production of paper from
imported pulp began in August, 1938.
Later on (in Dec., ’3B) electric power was
brought through from the Great Lake,
and the Burnie pulp mill began supplying
pulp made from timber from the co.’s
own eucalyptus forests and concessions
and from outside sources. Forest Sup-
plies, Ltd., of Burnie, did the cutting and
delivery to the pulp mill.
The prospectus visualised an output
of 15,000 tons of paper a year. Plant
capacity has been increased to 22,500
tons p.a. A loss of £51,823 was incurred
during the year to April 30, 1939, with-
out providing for depreciation and exclud-
ing £7773 of administration exes, charged
to plant account.
Last term (in Oct., ’39) the No. 2
paper-making machine started work, rais-
ing capacity to its present figure. The
Government granted the co. a duty of
£3 10s. a ton British and £8 a ton foreign
on its main lines. The co. says these
rates are lower than the duty on brown
paper. Under present conditions, as
shown, the question of protection does
not arise, but the co. is somewhat per-
turbed about what will happen after the
war. In the prospectus it was stated
that “direct monetary assistance, by way
of bounty or otherwise,” would not be
sought from any Government, but that
protection would be expected from over-
seas “dumping.” Price-fixing operates on
the co.’s products at present, and it has
no difficulty in selling all the paper it can
produce. Wholesalers have been
rationed, and the order-book is con-
gested.
The pulp mill is now operating “very
satisfactorily,” and its output is still rising.
Research is going on with regard to the
peculiarities of eucalyptus pulp ; a small
quantity of imported pulp is still used
in some papers. Last term no timber was
drawn from the co.’s own forests; it
came entirely from outside sources and
the Government concession. The deli-
vered cost of wood rose slightly.
The co. does not disclose its output
or value of turnover. Gross profit, after
providing an unspecified amount for de-
preciation, for the term to April 30, 1939,
was £57,317, and sundry income £1126.
Administration exes., including £15,934
of interest, took £26,726, leaving net
profit at £31,717. Accounts were dated
five months after their closure, and made
no mention of a div.; at the annual meet-
ing on Oct. 30 an ord. div. of 3 p.c. in
respect of 1939-40 was declared, and a
3 p.c. interim in respect of 1940-41. If
a 6 p.c. div. is the full distribution for
the current term it will call for £72,300
on total capital as it stood on April 30
last.
At the beginning the co. agreed to buy
the Ringwood and Woolnorth forests
and a 23-acre mill site at Burnie from the
Van Diemen’s Land Co. for a total of
£45,040 in cash. Included in the Gerald
Mussen transaction were another 20-acre
Burnie factory site and the right to cut
50,000 cords of pulpwood annually from
the Surrey Hills forest, 31 to 43 miles
south of Burnie, on the Emu Bay rail-
way. Tasmanian Paper transferred the
right to cut pulpwood on the 450 square
miles Kermandie concession, in the Huon
district, southern Tasmania. This con-
cession was subject to certain decisions
being made by 1940. Owing to this
condition and the location its present
value isn’t clear. There are other Gov-
ernment concessions handy to Burnie.
Since 1937 £92,145 has been added to
rights, concessions, research, patents, p.
and 1. debit capitalised, preliminary exes.,
etc. At April 30 last this item appeared
at £319,043. Other balance-sheet figures
for the past two years compare as
follows:
1939. . 1940.
Paid capital .. .. £1,200,000 £1,205,000
Liabilities . . . . 341,826 342,424
Freeholds . . . . 100,834 110,017
Buildings and plant . . 971,967 991,809
Stores 61.373 100.552
Stocks 52,057 33,059
Debtors 26,679 72,105
Cash, etc 16.529 9,304
Rights, preliminary exes., etc. 314,062 319,043
The increase of £5OOO in capital during
the year was due to the acquisition, for
deferred shares, of a patent from Robert
Woodhead, the paper-making expert who
saw the co. through its initial stages. Mr.
Woodhead has now retired from active
management. Since the close of accounts
there has been further capital outlay on
plant, etc., and the associated cos. which
have advanced £113,000 to the co. on
loan are going to convert their debt into
ord. shares. The sponsor cos. have an
option over 300,000 ords. up to five years
after commercial operations commenced.
The trading assets of the co. indicate
the lively turnover already spoken of.
Stocks are low and book debts are in-
creasing. Since announcement of the
div. the price of the ords. has risen from
265. to 31s. 6d. The market anticipates
good returns to show up in the near
future, and it may not be disappointed.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 7J p.c. 10 p.c. Off. serves.
1929.. 76,468 18,000 18,507 38,312 8,135 210,907
Profit on sale of freeholds, £8024 .. 218,931
3 p.c.
1930.. 37,427 18,000 21,508 12,223 10,278 194,349
Loss.
1931.. 46,070 Nil Nil Nil 10,311 137,968
1932.. 34,983 Nil Nil Nil 9,147 93,838
1933.. 29,071 Nil Nil Nil 8,650 56,117
Profit.
1934.. 20,527 Nil Nil Nil 8,746 67,898
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Reserves.!
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 .. .. 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 . . 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790 capital written
off = £23,558 211,330
Reserves capitalised, £185,148 .. 26,182
ei p.c. 3 p.c.
1938.. 68,009 18,000 19,338 12,148 7,771 36,934
1939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
1940.. 56,061 18,000 19,360 Nil 8,274 53,161
f Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
About three years ago £219,790 of ord.
capital (= 10s. per share) was jettisoned
and £23,558 of .reserves was rubbed out.
This mainly on account of the failure
of Craig, Williamson (Melbourne), which
ceased trading in March, 1937 the
Sydney co. was interested through
Marcus Clark (Vic.), which also owns
the ords. in Miller, Anderson (Adelaide).
At the same time the Sydney co.’s pref.
slate was cleaned by a cash payment of
£7500 to the firsts and £8622 to the
seconds, together with the distribution
of 135,000 f.-p. 10s. ords. to the firsts
and 235,296 similar shares to the
seconds. The firsts’ div. remained un-
altered at 6 p.c., but the seconds’ was
lowered from p.c. to 6j p.c., the new
rate in each case not being subject to
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act.
That left the amount of capital to be
fed at £1,002,786 (£33,109 less than pre-
viously) in 300,000 first and 297,848
second prefs. and 809,876 10s. ords.
The 1938 accounts raised hopes that,
with the prefs.’ state cleared, the way
would be opened for moderate distribu-
tions to the ords. as well as for regular
payments to the prefs. Though more
than sufficient to cover current pref. re-
quirements, earnings have not come up
to expectations, and the ords., which got
3 p.c. in 1938, have been passed by for
each of the last two years ; and it is
difficult to say exactly what the future
holds for them.
The co. runs a large department-store
business, mainly on a t.-p. basis, with
headquarters in Railway Square and sub-
stantial connections in the country, par-
ticularly in the industrial centres of
Wollongong and Newcastle. Keen com-
petition from chain-store and other
traders has kept prices down, while costs
have continued to climb, and so has the
burden of taxation, while strikes have
interfered with turnover.
Last term there was a substantial in-
crease in sales during the first half owing
to growth of employment in the metro-
politan area and industrial centres ; but
strikes brought a contraction of turnover
during the second half. After allowing
something for contingencies, including a
larger but unspecified provision for
taxation, and striking off £8274 (up
£744) for depreciation—shown as written
off in the table —the amount available
for distribution was only £4624 better
at £47,787. This was sufficient to pay
the pref. div. and show 2.5 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 1.4 p.c. and 5.6 p.c.
for the two preceding years. The £10,427
put on the shelf lifted the lay-by to
£53,164, which is subject to £72,378 of
goodwill, leaving £19,214 of ord. capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books.
Uncertain of the future, the market
speculates in the ords. at 3s. 3d. At
14s. 6d. and 12s. 3d. the 6 p.c. and
p.c. f.-p. pound prefs. return 8.3 p.c. and
10.3 p.c. respectively. The net tangible
cover (book value) is 655. 6d. firsts,
455. lOd. seconds and 9s. 6d. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1937. 1938. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital 1,035,895 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages. . 530,360 517,639 507,769 490,566
Other debts 114,094 101,771 109,800 155,201
Freeholds . . 656,687 661,809' 671,860 672,618
Leaseholds.. 4,426 4,226 4,026 3,826
Plant, etc. 68,540 67,163 67,071 62,222
Stocks . . 191,117 183,532 181,360 234,867
Book debts 556.368 569.967 559.774 547,104
Shares, etc. 125.947 122,456 118.913 116,480
Cash, etc... 12,916 8,426 6,388 10,900
To finance a growth of £53,507 in stocks
and clip £17,203 off mortgages the co.
leant upon sundry creditors for an extra
£45,401 and reduced its big pile of book
debts by £12,670 last term. Excluding
shareholdings, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£147,104)
was £17,151. Shareholdings are mainly
the ords. in Bon Marche (Syd.) and
Marcus Clark (Vic.), neither of which is
contributing to the pool at the moment.
The position will further improve when
the co. is able to sell its old premises
at the corner of George and Pitt streets,
Sydney, where seven floors are now
leased at “a satisfactory rental.”
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1930.. 28,939 2* p.c. = 18,750 10,374 216,405
1931.. 1,201 Nil 11,601 206,005
Loss.
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Profit.
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
1934.. 31,978 3 „ „ 22,500 11,429 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 „ „ 37,500 12,692 176,452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 ~ „ 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 . . 169,759
1938.. 70.696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65,227 6 ~ „ 45,000 19,421 175,854
Goodwill written off, £2,000' . . 177.854
1940.. 70,335 6 p.c. = 45,000 23,166 180,023
Defence activity in Australia and con-
struction of workers’ houses in Maori-
land have assisted this co.’s earnings up
to the present, but the Maoriland
stimulus shows signs of slackening, and
in the Commonwealth the amount of
ordinary building going on threatens to
contract. A new regulation issued from
Canberra will restrict activity in the
£5OOO-and-upward range, though less
expensive suburban cottages may still be
erected without asking permission.
Kauri Timber especially among old
Australian investment cos. is, in the words
of Noel Coward’s latest song, “living in
a changing world.” The timber trade has
been that way for years ; it was endeav-
oring to readjust itself to new conditions
when war broke out. There is very little
timber in city buildings nowadays, and
steel and concrete have taken its place
in dozens of other uses. Nevertheless,


Public Notice.
The Producers’ Co-operative Distributing
Society, Limited.
NOTICE.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Fifteenth
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in
The Producers’ Co-operative Distributing
Society, Limited, will be held at the Society’s
Head Office, Quay and Valentine Streets, Syd-
ney, on Friday, 24th January, 1941, at 2.15
p.m. sharp.
BUSINESS.
To receive Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet as at 30th September, 1940.
To elect Directors.
To elect Auditor.
To transact any other business that may be
brought forward in accordance with the Rules
of the Society.
Dated at Sydney the 20th day of December,
1940.
By order of the Board,
G. GASKIN,
Secretary.
Position Vacant.
The Farleigh Co-operative Sugar Milling
Association, Limited.
Applications are invited until noon on
Wednesday, 29th January, 1941, for the posi-
tion of MANAGER at Farleigh Mill.
Residence, firewood, light and water supplied.
Applications to be addressed to the under-
signed and endorsed “Manager” and must
state age, qualifications, salary required and
when prepared to commence duties.
A. P. BOWERMAN,
Secretary.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
V * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Australian and
overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
PROTECT THAT WHICH YOD HAVE...
The results of your life’s work may one day pass to someone
who lacks your own vision, foresight and directive ability,
unless you take this wise precaution.
Entrust your affairs to an organisation which, for over 35
years, has safeguarded the interests of the property-owner
and the man-on-the-land.
APPOINT YOUR EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE NOW.
w
m
m
StCO^,
Security
Economy
Service
Consult
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
Or AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED
{lncorporated in Victoria )
3 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE: Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman)
M.L.A (Vice Chairman) ; Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E., M.L.0.; James Kidd;
Robert C. Wilson. Manager; J
; Colin A. Sinclair,
A. E. Heath, C.M.G.;
r. G. H. Shipway.
ESTABLISHED 1834. j
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITA!. PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND (Used wholly in the business) 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. 4,739,013 10 0
Directors:
Edward R. Knox (Chairman); Orwell Phillips (Deputy Chairman):
Owen E. Friend;
Robert J. A. Massie; Geoffrey F. Hughes; Sir Donald C. Cameron, K.C.M.G.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Plan to Preserve
1
««»■ _
is Security
there is
Happiness
also, __
*&■
mm
sa
THERE are scores of ways in which young men and women use A.M.P. Life
Assurance policies to preserve their happiness, and to protect that happiness
against its enemies of care and fear.
Young couples take out A.M.P. policies to make certain that the money will
be available to pay off mortgages on their homes. They take out A.M.P. policies
to ensure that money will be at hand for their children’s higher education, whatever
happens; to assure that there will be dowries for their daughters when they marry,
and something for their sons with which to start life; to provide a fund for their
own old age that they may continue always to enjoy the peace and happiness of their
youth.
A.M.P. Policies are Paths to Happiness. The Society has a book, "Peace of
Mind,” and several smaller booklets that tell all that has been discovered about these
paths since the A.M.P. was founded 91 years ago. They are written for young people.
Send for them and study them.
Use this coupon. Don’t delay a single day.
To the A.M.P. Society. COUPON
Please send me the booklets marked with a cross. It Is understood between us
that I put myself under no obligation in asking for these:—
O You—What has the Future in Store?
□ See the World—A Counsel for the Adventurous.
D For Women: the Way of Independence.
D Higher Education. Peace of Mind.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
New Zealand Office; Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Kauri Timber’s management was coping
with the problem to the extent of steady-
ing divs. at 6 p.c, for the four years to
the close of last accounts. The co.
felt the first blow from King Concrete in
1927 ; then depresh. played up with earn-
ings. Limited recovery really began
somewhere towards the middle of 1934,
which was about the time things in
general started to look up. Since the
commencement of the 1934-35 term
shareholders have averaged 5.7 p.c.,
though, after providing substantially for
depreciation, reserves haven’t visibly
benefited much.
Last term net profit on trading, before
providing £23,166 for depreciation
(shown as written off in the table), was
£53,167, compared with £47,753 in 1938-
39, when £19,421 was written off. Sub-
sidiary cos. turned in £9926 (compared
with £10,132), and general investment
revenue was £7242 (against £7342). Net
profit as per the introductory table was
thus £5lOB higher at £70,335 ; the steady
div. and enlarged depreciation provision
allowed £2169 to be added to reserves,
which now stand at £180,023, after
deducting £lO,OOl of goodwill and
patents, off which £2OOO was written with-
out explanation last term.
Less depreciation, last year’s net earn-
ings were 6.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 6.1, 6.7, 6, 5.6 and 5.3 p.c. back
to 1935. Combined net earnings of the
co. and its subsidiaries, disclosed for the
first time in 1938-39, were £59,554, down
£6120 compared with the preceding term.
Thus the improvement in the parent’s
actual trading figures was really more
than offset by reverses in the results of
the subsidiaries ; the falling-away in the
pups’ accounts was greater than Kauri’s
income therefrom would suggest. The
pups include a holding in Commercial
Boxes and Plywood Pty., Melbourne, and
a 50 p.c. interest in Vanikoro Kauri
Timber (issued capital, £90,000), which
operates in the Solomons. The co.’s
freehold and leasehold forest areas are
mainly in Maoriland, where it has
extensive subsidiary milling interests.
There are timber investments in West-
ralia also ; the recently-acquired area at
Marylands is already profit-earning, with
improvement promised.
Balance-sheet figures show that for the
past three years the co. has kept its
stocks at a high level:
1935. 1937. 1939. 1940.
Paid capital. . £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities . . 36,242 38,134 70,868 45,853
Freeholds . . 70,973 52,741 1 ... 7n ...
Leaseholds .. 57,614 29,053 j 69 ’ 6M 70 ’ 634
Plant, etc. . . 121,274 116,381 152,880 142.203
Stocks, etc. . . 175,885 215,340 336,577 322,718
Book debts . . 106,821 117,908 214,811 204,181
Shares other
cos 152,978 100,922 173,969 173,969
I n v e stments,
cash, etc. . . 314,649 303,797 75,091 88,421
Restriction of imports makes these re-
serves of timber particularly valuable
now ; they include heavy log stocks for
the plywood department. Last term all
stocks declined by £13,859, and there was
a drop of £10,630 in book debts. The
cash holding was increased by £13,330,
and £25,015 was knocked off the outside
debt. There was a net decrease of £9687
in the book value of fixed assets. Im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£569,467) was £13,856. Shares
in other cos. (£173,969) were unchanged.
At 21s. 3d. the 255. shares return 7.1
p.c. so long as the 6 p.c. div, continues.
The net tangible backing, including sub-
sidiaries’ reserves, is 335. 4d. a share.
Value of Westralian gold yield for
1940, although slightly below that of
1939, topped £11,000,000. Perth Mint re-
ceipts were 1,541,662 gross ounces,
against 1,518,9500 z. Apart from pro-
duction, the principal items of interest
during last year were Board of Trade
critical reports on the De Bernales
group, the British Treasury’s refusal to
change the domicile of Great Boulder
from London to Perth, the closure of
Lancefield, an important deep level dis-
covery in the Lake View section of the
Lake View and Star group, and increased
output from State batteries, which to
date have treated in the aggregate over
2,500,000 tons for a yield of nearly
£11,000,000 worth of bullion. Less money
was returned to shareholders in dividends
in 1940, the total of £964,596 comparing
with £1,226,051 in 1939. This fall is
mainly attributed to five cos. —Lance-
field, Great Boulder, Norseman, Blue
Bird and Sons of Gwalia —distributing
less.
Following a fall of rock in the lower
levels of Lancefield and the fact that
diamond-drilling on the northern and
southern extensions failed to produce
satisfactory results, the co. decided to
give up and get out. Happenings at other
mines, however, more than offset Lance-
field’s bad luck. On the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, Lake View group and
Great Boulder substantially added to
their ore reserves, giving both more
visible years of existence as producers.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie increased its
ore reserves to 657,000 tons, and is now
producing about £400,000-worth of gold
a year, of which roughly half is profit.
North Kalgurli reported that the new
N.E.D. lode was proving bigger than at
first expected, while good values con-
tinued. With Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
North Kalgurli gave a further impetus
to mining in the calc-schist areas at the
north end of the Mile by the completion
of the treatment plant on its Croesus Pro-
prietary—the second Kalgoorlie string to
its golden bow. Paringa announced
promising developments during the year,
and added to the size of its holding by
the purchase of several adjoining blocks.
South Kalgurli contrived to maintain its
tonnage and revenue figures, but struck
trouble in keeping up the volume of the
millfeed, although there is still two years
of ore in sight. Litigation over the Mt.
Charlotte at the northern end of the
Hannans belt was ended, and the de-
velopment of this property, in which
there is much local interest, will probably
be undertaken in a fairly big way this
year.
Outside Kalgoorlie, Wiluna began to
be treated as a salvage proposition fol-
lowing a bleak report on future prospects
issued in 1939. Indications are that the
mine might last another two years. On
the adjoining Moonlight Wiluna, worked
by Gold Fields Australian Development,
values deteriorated at depth during the
12 months. This co. acquired an option
on an old Mt. Ida show which seems to
have a chance. Coolgardie became more
firmly dug-in as a gold-producer in 1940.
Both Tindals and Phoenix (formerly Bay-
ley’s Reward) did better, and both began
increasing the capacity of their plants.
Ora Banda United, at Ora Banda, also
spoke of installing a plant to extract
wealth from a big low-grade formation.
Largest low-grade mine in the West —
Big Bell —maintained production. With
the present high price of gold, interest in
low-grade mining revived, and it was
stated that fresh overseas capital was
knocking or about to knock at West-
ralia’s golden door. Among local cos.
the rich Blue Bird, Hill 50, First Hit,
Edna May Amalgamated and Ora Banda
Amalgamated experienced a good year.
Since 1936 the little Blue Bird has pro-
duced £200,000 worth of shining yellow
eggs and paid handsome dividends. Edna
May Amalgamated paid its first dividend
and acquired additional areas for boring
after mastering a deluge of water and un-
covering the buried remnants of the old
Edna May shoot. Several of the mines
of the De Bernales group headed by
Yellowdine and Comet reported good
results, and in the aggregate added some-
thing substantial to the State’s gold yield.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
HITLER’S HOLD ON STALIN.
[Despite the Nazi-Soviet pact, the miserable showing
of the “Mighty” Russian Red Army in Finland, and
the rest of the shabby Soviet performance, there is still
a certain amount of wishful thinking regarding possible
Soviet action against Germany. In the article here
condensed from the New York “Times Magazine,”
Calvin B. Hoover indicates how utterly silly that notion
is, arguing that Germany could beat Russia at any time
and that Russia’s main safeguard is its desperate poverty.
He allows, however, that in the event of a German
defeat the Soviet would be in at the kill, which would
be running true to form.]
During the year and more which has elapsed
since the announcement of the original Soviet-Nazi
pact the world has waited for some sign of dissension
between the contracting parties, opinion outside Ger-
many seeking in every shift of the international
kaleidoscope a new sign that Stalin was contemplating
some move which would reverse the tide that had
flowed so strongly in Hitler’s favor.
When Stalin’s forces first moved into Poland,
many saw the certainty of conflict over the division
of Polish territory. When the invasion of Finland
began, once more there were those who said loudly
that Hitler had paid dearly for his Polish victory by
placing himself at the mercy of the “Colossus of
the East.” This talk was allayed somewhat by the
showing made by the Soviet forces in Finland, but
was once more revived by the Soviet occupation of
Bessarabia. It is heard again in every frontier brawl
in the Balkans.
In contrast to this wishful thinking, all analysis
leads to the conclusion that the dynamic partner
in the Soviet-Nazi pact is Hitler and that so long as
he remains undefeated by the British he is in a
position to decide how long the present pact shall
remain unbreached. In this contract between two
totalitarian States the term of its continuance depends
simply upon the comparative military power of the
two contracting parties and upon the convenience of
the more powerful party.
The pact which brought together two parties of
such unequal power was created by two forces of
approximately equal strength operating from oppo-
site directions. These two forces were Stalin’s fear
of the German military machine and Hitler’s desire
to have a free hand to deal first with Poland and
then with France and Great Britain. These forces
were of equal strength only up to the time when
Poland was conquered. After the defeat of Poland
the factor of Stalin’s fear of the German might began
to outweigh Hitler’s desire to restrict the war to one
front. After the French disaster Stalin’s fear became
far greater # than before, while Hitler’s anxiety to
protect his rear in the East almost disappeared.
Since the failure of the German aerial attack
either to prepare the way for invasion or to bring
the British to terms, Hitler’s concern for protection
of his flank and rear has reappeared. The combina-
tion of Italy’s reverses in Greece with her naval losses
has accentuated Hitler’s anxiety and has necessarily
strengthened Stalin’s bargaining power.
On the other hand, Stalin must be fully con-
scious of the temptation which always exists for the
Nazis to turn their arms against Russia. Living in
constant fear that this decision will be taken, the
Soviet Union nevertheless gives little indication of
taking any preventive step. Since the French debacle
the German High Command has possessed far more
divisions than could be effectively used in any pro-
posed invasion of Britain. These divisions are avail-
able for use on any new front which might con-
ceivably come into existence. In such circumstances
a Soviet attack at the present time would be suicidal,
and of this the Red Army Command seems fully
aware. Consequently, for the present the Red Army
possesses only a certain nuisance value, in that Hitler
would prefer not to have to deal with the annoyance
of a Soviet attack, however certain of victory the
German High Command might be.
If the German Army is not successful in its siege
of Britain, it is possible that the temptation to restore
prestige might lead to a decision to invade Russia.
Such an invasion would not present a difficult military
task for the German Army. The organisation of
industry that must supply the Soviet armies, the
training and morale of the Red Army itself, and
finally the sentiments of the Russian population
toward the Soviet regime are not such as to presage
a Soviet resistance as successful even at that of Poland
or France.
The rapidity with which German columns would
probably sweep from the frontier of White Russia
to Vladivostok could be expected to add new laurels
to German arms. After such a victory the Germans
would very likely be in a weaker military position
than before on account of the expenditure of
munitions involved. Only in case it proved possible
to come to terms with the British, which would
leave them in possession of their Russian conquests,
would such a venture prove profitable. Consequently,
only desperation or the prospect of a long-continued
stalemate seems likely to produce such an eventuality.
On the other hand, only a decisive defeat of
the Germans by the British would be at all likely
to produce a Soviet attack upon Germany. This is
rot owing, it must be repeated, to any feeling of
friendship and loyalty between the two dictators. It
is owing solely to tremendous German military pre-
ponderance and the recognition of this preponderance
by Stalin and the current edition of the General Staff
of the Red Army. Nevertheless, on the assumption
of a decisive German defeat in the war there can
be little doubt that the Soviet Army would be in at
the kill, just as was true in the case of Poland.
When one recalls the preoccupation with Russia
as a field for German expansion displayed by Hitler
in Mein Kampf, it would appear well-nigh certain
that, in the event of the defeat of Britain, German
arms would eventually be turned against Russia.
One thing more than any other protects Soviet
Russia at the present time. That is Russia’s poverty.
An invading army would find precious little in Russia
now that would be of much value for military or
any other use. Given even five years of German
domination, it is almost certain that considerable
dividends would accrue to the conqueror. In ten years
such dividends would be very large indeed. But these
dividends are not to be had now.
From the German point of view it is perfectly
safe to allow Soviet occupation of any territory which
it is not considered opportune to annex at the
moment. Soviet occupation might, indeed, be con-
sidered a sort of pre-digestive process that softens
up an alien population for German exploitation later.
From the Soviet point of view, of course, it is
hoped that the territorial gains thus obtained would
be permanent. Perhaps, if Hitler won, his lust could
be turned in other directions. Perhaps he would be
so weakened by the present war that an attack could
be postponed. In the meantime something might
turn up. In any event the Soviets have been saved,
for the moment, from having to face the power of
—New York “Herald Tribune."
“Won’t you walk into my Axis?” said the Spider to the Fly.
German arms, and at least a temporary territorial
profit has been made.
The continuance of the Soviet-Nazi pact thus
depends primarily upon Hitler’s convenience and will
continue to do so so long as he remains undefeated.
Only a complete reversal of the German military
situation could give Stalin a position of dominance
in his relations with Hitler.
* * t * *
(From a New York “Times” article by Alexandre
Barmine.)
It is argued that Stalin’s major fear is that a vic-
torious Germany would turn against Russia and march
into the Ukraine. I do not think that Stalin worries
too much over this.
Let us assume a victorious Hitler decides to annex
the Ukraine. Would Stalin —who did not hesitate at
mass executions, the exile of millions to Siberian con-
centration camps, which destroyed the effectiveness of
the Red Army and demoralised the country, in order
to maintain his regime—now baulk at conceding the
Ukraine to Hitler if that became necessary for the
same reason? That seems hardly likely.
During a discussion at the Communist party con-
ference in Moscow Kalinin pointed out that what
Russia required above all was peace to complete the
“construction of socialism.” Peace at almost any
price!
Also, there is a consideration which many ob-
servers seem to have overlooked. I first stated it in
May, 1939, in an article anticipating the Nazi-Soviet
pact and the partition of Poland. It is even more
pertinent now. I wrote then: “The ruler of totalitarian
Russia has no reason to provoke the downfall of
Hitler and Mussolini, because he knows that demo-
cratic revolutions in Germany and Italy will have
immediate repercussions in Russia. The defeat of
Hitlerism will also signify the end of Stalinism. The
totalitarian regimes are more interlocked than it
appears. Being equally unpopular, they share the fear
of mass revolt. An example in any of these countries
will be contagious.”
It may be asked, why should the Russian people
be expected to fight for democracy when all liberty is
denied them? Can Stalin afford to arm a population
existing, as it were, in one huge concentration camp?
Stalin has to fear such an alternative more than
any capitulation or double-crossing neutrality. The
interests of his regime finally determine his policy.
He has, therefore, every reason to remain on the side
of the totalitarian Powers.
Obstacles to Invasion.
(From a National Geographical Society bulletin.)
The English Channel, though narrow, still pre-
sents a special threat to would-be invaders of England
which existed in William the Conqueror’s day. Know-
ing the hazards of a hostile shore, William carried also
some lightweight portable units of a medieval Maginot
Line —small wooden towers to serve as temporary
castles for defence.
For the heavier, bulkier supplies in almost astrono-
mical quantities that a modern mechanised army re-
quires, the Channel’s choppy waters are an even
greater barrier. The American Expeditionary Force in
the World War was provided with 16,380,068 ship tons
of supplies, or more than eight tons for each soldier.
A 1940 army requires infinitely more tonnage because
of today’s higher proportion of material to personnel
(due to the greater speed with which ammunition is
used up and to increased use of airplanes, tanks and
trucks).
Excluding air and tank corps, according to mili-
tary estimates, simply to maintain the up-to-date army
calls for a ton of supplies per day for
each 50 men. In an attack many of the
requirements are doubled, such as that
for ammunition. Providing such supplies
across the English Channel to a mechan-
ised force would present special hazards.
Supplies in such bulk would make good
targets: while concentrated at points of
embarkation in the cluster of France’s
Channel ports, while being transported
across a minimum of 22 miles of open
water, and during debarkation on hostile
soil—the last being rated as the costliest
of all warfare’s manoeuvres in terms of
human life.
The needs of men alone, without
reckoning fuel or ammunition, if based
on World War experience, would require
shipping space for each man’s daily 41b.
of food, 41b. of clothing and equipment,
ilb. of medical supplies and |lb. of radio
and signal apparatus. Mere handling of
these vast quantities requires extra men in
addition to actual combatants. In the
World War, for every three men moved
overseas in the A.E.F., a fourth man went
along to attend to supplies.
Invasion, however, can run on man-
power for minutes only. Then artillery
becomes essential to supplement the
machine-guns of landing parties sent
ashore in small boats or dropped in para-
chutes. Thereafter, the requisite stream
of supply ships to the invaded spot could
not be inconspicuous. The shells of guns
and howitzers weigh from 26ilb. to
4301 b. each, packed. A field gun can
fire three tons of ammunition in two
active hours.
Transporting ammunition and artil-
lery becomes a problem of space as well
as weight. Far from being crated and
stowed compactly away in a ship’s hold,
guns and shells must reach the invasion point mounted,
ready to move into action and arranged for facility in
unloading rather than for space-saving. As a result,
an arms shipment which would be one ship’s cargo
in peace-time fills a whole procession of ships in “com-
bat loading.”
After invader troops have established a landing,
their needs are further skyrocketed by the demand
for supplies to maintain supply lines. Materials to
repair docks and build warehouses and cranes to un-
load cargo must be provided. The A.E.F. built 17 new
ship berths in French harbors, adding warehouses and
dock equipment. For any inland advance, invading
forces must be supplied with road graders and road-
mending materials, pontoons and structural steel for
bridges, railroad trackage, locomotives and rolling
stock.
If air bases are established, the supply stream
must further be swollen with fuel and more equip-
ment, with a consequent increase in vulnerability.
Germany’s Petrol Position.
(From an article in New York “Sun.”)
Before the war began statistics had proved to the
satisfaction of everybody who puts faith in statistics
that Germany did not have enough gasoline for more
than a few months of intensive aerial warfare. The
supply, it was said, could not be replenished, whether
from Russia or Rumania, as fast as it was used up, and
Germany’s plants for distilling gasoline from coal
could furnish only a small quantity of aviation fuel.
As the war progressed people wondered whether
there was not something wrong with the calculation.
If anything, German aerial attacks, weather permit-
ting, seemed to gain in intensity. What is the ex-
planation? Flad Germany larger stocks of fuel than it
was supposed? Are replenishments arriving more
plentifully? To answer these questions it may be
useful to look at the calendar:
In September, 1939, the Germans used up enor-
mous quantities of gasoline in their Blitzkrieg against
Poland. Thereafter <£erman flying was restricted to


routine reconnaissance until April, 1940, when the
campaign against Norway began, quickly followed by
the assault on Holland, Belgium and France.
After the conquest of France on June 23 there
was little activity on the part of the German air force
until August, and it did not reach its peak of intensity
until well into September. This fact is somewhat
curious, when it is realised that the most opportune
time to strike at Britain would have been immediately
after France fell, and before the British had time to
reshape their plan of campaign. It is extremely curious
also, if one adopts the view that the statisticians were
wrong and that Germany had plenty of gasoline, that
devastating mass raids such as those on Coventry and
Birmingham are not more frequent.
But these phenomena seem perfectly explicable
if the statisticians were right. On that basis, the long
pauses between October and April and between June
and August were necessitated by the exhaustion of
gasoline reserves, the failure to maintain the bombing
of England at peak intensity is ascribable to a fuel
stringency, and similar reasons explain why Italy has
not been able to harass the Greeks from the air, for
Italy is now dependent almost entirely on Germany
for fuel supplies.
Famine Threat to Europe.
[Condensed from part of a Jong “Saturday Evening
Post” article by Peter F. Drucker, this item adds further
information to that which has already appeared in “Uncabled
Additions” on the subject of famine-threatened Europe and
states clearly where the blame will lie if famine occurs.]
Ever since the Germans broke into the Low
Countries, Red Cross officials and relief workers of
the American Quakers have predicted famine in
Europe. Hoover —the world’s leading expert on war
relief—has said repeatedly that about 20,000,000
Europeans will face starvation this winter. The
American Friends Service Committee talks of a hunger
threat to some 35,000,000 people in Belgium, Holland,
Norway, Poland and unoccupied France ; private in-
vestigators add another 5,000,000 for occupied France.
Whenever a ship or Clipper arrives from Europe
the New York papers print interviews in which return-
ing medical or relief experts speak of wholesale
famine in Europe. The following excerpt from the
New York “Herald Tribune” is a fair example:
Doctor Stokes (a professor of pediatrics at the
University of Pennsylvania who had toured France for
the American Friends Service Committee) warned that
3,000,000 French children would desperately need milk
this winter, and that failure of France to obtain vita-
mins would mean the death of more boys and girls
than the 1,357,800 men France lost in the World War.
The main British argument for the maintenance of
the blockade of all German-conquered countries is, of
course, that to feed the people under Nazi domination
would mean to feed workers for Hitler’s war machine ;
and certainly the Germans would not hesitate to use
the labor power of Holland, Norway and France for
the production of weapons against England.
The British do not maintain that there is no
danger of famine on the Continent. On the contrary,
a semi-official English newsagency published a report
that “35,000,000 people in Poland are facing direct
starvation, while 75,000,000 others in German-occupied
territory are likely to have only scraps left over after
Germany has mulcted the foodstuffs she needs, and a
further 150,000,000 people on the Continent will have
to go very short this winter.” But it is the British
assertion that a famine could only be the result of
deliberate Nazi policy.
It appears highly probable that the basic British
claim is correct; On a purely statistical basis there
should be enough food in, German-occupied and
German-controlled continental Europe to provide
every man, woman and child with at least a bare sub-
sistence. Even without any imports from overseas,
without recourse to accumulated food reserves and
under the assumption of a sharply reduced harvest,
there need be no shortage—theoretically.
Of course bread, potatoes and sugar would con-
stitute the staple items, and everything would have to
be severely rationed. For people used to good and
plentiful food, especially for the Dutch, the Danes
and for a large part of the French, it would be a very
sharp cut in standard. But it would not be a starvation
diet.
Is it then true that Hoover and the Quakers are
alarmists without cause? On the contrary, it is only
too probable that their forecasts will turn out to have
been correct. For the conclusion that there is enough
food for everyone in Europe rests on a purely statis-
tical basis. It is arrived at by dividing the entire food
supply of the European Continent outside of Russia
by the total number of inhabitants.
On such a basis there would hardly ever have been
a famine in the world’s history. The main problem
of food supplies is usually not their total size ; it is
their distribution. And while there is, theoretically,
enough food in Europe, a famine could be prevented
only if the food were distributed evenly—which
seems a political improbability and a physical im-
possibility. The Germans would have to be willing to
organise such distribution and to transport, at their
expense and with their equipment, food from the
Balkans, Denmark and Holland to Poland, Norway,
Belgium and France. But is it likely that they will
feed the conquered countries? It is the strongest point
in the British argument against supplying food from
overseas to Belgium, Norway and France that the
Germans can be expected to grab it at once and to
ship it all to Germany.
Impartial American eyewitnesses have reported
numerous instances in which the invading Germans
have carted away food reserves from France, Norway,
Denmark, Holland and Belgium. It seems highly
improbable that the same Nazi officials who take away
food from already insufficiently supplied districts
would make an effort to bring additional supplies to
mese countries from faraway regions.
According to the German story, they take away
only those goods of which there is a surplus in the
region and bring in others of which there is a de-
ficiency. The Germans even claim that the seizure of
foodstuffs was done solely to equalise Europe’s food
supply and to ensure that no one goes hungry. Their
news services and propaganda broadcasts are full of
reports of German soup kitchens for Belgian and
French civilians. And these reports are —at least
partly—also borne out by impartial and experienced
American newspapermen.
It is not necessary, however, to discuss the re-
liability of Nazi reports in order to understand what
is happening. The Germans undoubtedly seize all
those foods of which there is a real shortage in Ger-
many : milk and dairy products, eggs, meat, chocolate,
fresh fruit and vegetables. The individual German
soldier buys or steals them in order to send them
home to his family ; local German officials requisition
them in order to improve the scanty rations of the
German people at home.
But this unorganised looting of all the good things
the Germans have had to go without is not the major
problem. What will count in the long run is the defi-
mte policy of the Germans,
And there seem to be two
sharply divergent trends
within the German High
Command. The army
wants to feed the civilian
population of conquered
countries well enough to
prevent real hunger. The
soup kitchens for civilians
in Belgium, Holland and
France have been supplied
by the army and draw
upon army food stocks.
To some slight extent
this is due to a survival,
even in Hitler’s total war,
of the traditional dislike
of the professional sol-
dier against war on women
and children. The main
reason, however, is the
conviction of the high
army officers that the best
way to reconcile the
people of the defeated
countries to German
supremacy is to treat them
fairly, though severely. But
the Nazi party politicians
do not share this view.
They, especially the power-
ful secret police, believe
that the conquered coun-
tries ought to be made to
bear the full burden of the
British blockade. Goring,
Goebbels and Himmler seem to think that hunger will
mobilise public sentiment in the defeated countries
against the British blockade, so that the French, Nor-
wegian, Belgian, Dutch and Danish peoples will come
to regard Germany’s fight against Britain as their own
fight against the threat of hunger and starvation. The
Nazi politicians seem to think that hunger will make
the conquered countries forget that it was Nazi aggres-
sion that caused the hunger.
They also believe that German morale requires
that the defeated countries go hungry while Germany
has enough to eat. It appears therefore desirable, if
not essential, to these Nazi leaders that there should
be no equal and equitable distribution of food in
Europe, and that the food deficiencies of the defeated
countries should not be filled, but accentuated, as long
as the blockade lasts.
In every previous clash over the question of ad-
ministrating the conquered territories the army has
lost; over Austria, Czechoslovakia and Poland. The
last reports from the Continent indicate that in this
present conflict over the food supply for the territories
conquered this year the army is losing again, while
the Goebbels-Himmler policy of kicking the opponent
when he is out seems to be winning. The Germans
are now seizing foodstuffs systematically.
Close observers of Nazi rule in conquered Europe
see even more sinister motives behind the policy of
Himmler’s secret police than the desire to starve the
defeated nations into revolt against the British blockade.
These reporters point out that the Russian secret
police—from whom the Nazis have learned many of
their methods —used large-scale starvation in order to
break the peasant opposition during the first years of
the Soviet collectivisation drive ; districts which proved
particularly “stubborn” were cut off from food sup-
plies until famine and disease had destroyed the moral
and physical power of resistance. There is little in
the record of Himmler’s secret police to indicate that
they would be too squeamish to use so effective a
weapon. The secret police will not only not give the
defeated countries any of the food surpluses of the
European Continent but will loot them systematically
and as part of a carefully-thought-out policy.
The experience of American relief workers in
German-occupied countries certainly makes such a
view appear plausible. Wherever they could work with
the German army they encountered considerable will-
ingness to co-operate, and a readiness to give guaran-
tees that food brought in for civilian use in defeated
countries would not be confiscated. But relief workers
report that in the far more numerous cases in which
their contacts had to be with Nazi civilian adminis-
trators and the Nazi secret police it was made quite
clear to them the Nazis would not encourage and
probably not even permit the large-scale feeding of
civilians.
It is therefore true that a famine in Europe will
be Germany’s fault not only in the sense that she is
the aggressor. German willingness or unwillingness
to assume the responsibility for the food supply of the
civilian population in the defeated countries will mean
the difference between survival and starvation to
millions.
U.S. Aid. Needs to Improve.
[President Roosevelt, in his latest broadcast, reasserted
the United States pledge of “all aid to Britain short of war.”
“We have furnished the British with great material support,”
he said. “We will furnish far more in the future.” In the
article here condensed from the American “Mercury,” Fritz
Sternberg suggests that the aid so far given is insufficient to
ANOTHER “EXPERIMENT NOBLE IN INTENTION.”
ensure the defeat of Nazi Germany. He believes that unless
there is a great increase in the aid that objective cannot be
achieved, and he questions whether there can be a sufficient
increase without the impetus of a war declaration.]
This being a mechanised war, it may fairly be
regarded as at bottom a duel in industrial production.
Other factors will enter into the final decision, but
productive superiority is the minimum and basic con-
dition for victory. The fact must be faced that in
such a duel Great Britain can avert defeat, and turn
it into victory, only on one condition: that the United
States mobilise its economic resources to the point of
wiping out Hitler’s productive advantage. This in-
volves not merely the raising of American output for
Britain five to ten times above the present level, but
the tremendous speeding up of the whole process.
It is not a question, therefore, of America’s enter-
ing the war. The question, rather, is whether America
can accelerate production without the impetus of a
war declaration. Technically it has all the facilities
for expanding its war manufactures and speeding up
their tempo to the degree necessary for British victory.
Whether the country can muster the moral driving
force to exploit these technical possibilities is another
matter —a matter on which the outcome of the war
really hinges. Unless there is a full popular realisa-
tion of the stakes involved in this rock-bottom eco-
nomic reality, future historians may have to record
that American aid to Britain was too small and came
too late.
It simply is not true that Hitler’s Reich has ex-
hausted its reserves while England only begins to
exploit its resources. The Nazi triumphs of 1940 pro-
vided Hitler with great new reserves. Germany pre-
pared for the war by mobilising her entire economy in
advance, through the timely establishment of an Eco-
nomic General Staff. That staff, for which we ought
to have a healthy respect on the evidence of its past
work, is now carrying out the economic reconstruc-
tion of the conquered countries. The same efficiency
is being brought to the task. Already reports in Ger-
man economic publications indicate progress, and the
work will certainly reach a feverish crescendo in the
coming months, in preparation for the spring cam-
paign.
We have to take into consideration, moreover, a
fundamental change in the nature of Germany’s war-
material production. Prior to the Western offensive,
German factories were working to equip an army
geared for land war ; the needs of air power were
considered secondary, except as a co-ordinated
auxiliary of the army; naval needs came last. Now
the army is fully equipped and practically intact. The
whole weight of production can be concentrated in
the interests of the other two arms, the air force and
the navy—precisely the arms decisive in the campaign
against the British Isles.
Both the facilities inside Germany and the facili-
ties commandeered from beaten nations will be ex-
ploited to the full. Factories are being decentralised
and many processes transferred to regions beyond the
present reach of British bombers. Shipyards in Ger-
many and in occupied areas are being reconditioned
at a terrific speed. The time required for the building


of a small submarine is estimated at nine months;
from August 1, 1940, to May 1, 1941, the Germans
will have had time to construct a new submarine
armada.
While thus expanding his own economic war
potential, Hitler is laboring to reduce England’s poten-
tial by means of air attacks on factories, shipyards,
transportation and other economic objectives in Eng-
land. His advantages in this respect, as against similar
raids by the British, are obvious. The German air
force is numerically larger, has shorter distances to fly,
a smaller area as target and comparatively easier access
to British industry because of its excessive centralisa-
tion. The air conflict is part of the duel of production.
Optimists point to the fact that American eco-
nomic aid to Britain has been growing. A graph of
that aid would show a consistently upward line. These
relative and percental increases are conducive to a
false complacency.
During the first year of the war, Britain placed
with American firms orders to the amount of
$2,000,000,000, of which one-quarter, about
$500,000,000 worth, was actually delivered in finished
goods. In the same year Britain spent about
£2,000,000,000 on the war. Since the domestic pur-
chasing price of the pound remains at about $5, the
sum may be translated as $10,000,000,000. American
deliveries thus amounted to only 5 per cent, of Britain’s
total war expenditures. That, rather than an impres-
sive graph, is the more accurate measure of America’s
contribution.
Nazi war expenditures total from 1.6 to 1.8 bil-
lion dollars a month. Thus Britain’s entire war outlay,
including American supplies, did not even reach Ger-
many’s in the first year of war, quite aside from the
fact that Germany started with a gigantic accumula-
tion of war goods.
Those figures suggest the extent to which Ameri-
can supplies must be increased if the United States is
really determined to help Britain to attain material
superiority over, or even equality with, Germany. An
analysis of the steel industry makes the urgency of the
situation amply evident. The production capacity of
the Nazis is now not less than 42,000,000 tons of steel
a year, as against 17,000,000 tons for England and her
Empire. Moreover, the conquest of Denmark and
Norway has placed in German hands uncontested corf-
trol of Swedish iron ore, part of which formerly went
to Britain.
The American steel industry is in a position easily
to bring about a complete change in the picture. By
supplying 25,000,000 tons of its steel to Britain, the
United States could put the two major belligerents on
a level of equality in this all-important item. This is
the potentiality. What is the reality? According to
the Department of Commerce:
August exports of iron and steel were the highest for
any month in history... .The United Kingdom took
more than half of the August steel export, buying
653,866 tons, or nearly double July purchases. Canada
also nearly doubled its purchases in August when it
took 108,017 tons.
Assuming that the August figures, described as the
highest in history, remain average in coming months,
America’s steel deliveries to the United Kingdom
would reach an annual total of under 8,000,000 tons.
This is hardly more than the Germans now get out of
Luxembourg and Belgium. Eight million tons of
American steel cover less than one-third of Britain’s
deficit as compared with German capacity. Of course,
each ton of steel delivered in its manufactured form,
as finished implements of war, contributes to improve
Britain’s position. Indeed, with transport facilities at
a premium and labor facilities inside Britain taxed to
the limit, more and more of America’s steel exports
will be in the form of finished products ready for use.
The 8,000,000 tons estimate therefore is probably too
low. But the gap between the 25,000,000 tons needed
and the tonnage shipped remains strikingly vast.
It is, if anything, an understatement to say that
Germany’s productive system is now double that of
Britain. (The advantage is reduced, of course, by the
circumstance that Germany is short of some raw
materials and hence obliged to use substitutes, while
British industry, thanks to the Royal Navy, has access
to raw materials the world over.) If the United States
decides to aid Britain economically in a measure
sufficient for a British victory, the minimum American
support must be about equal to the whole present pro-
duction of British war industry. If that minimum can
be made available, a Hitler triumph can be held off.
If it is exceeded, the preconditions for an ultimate
British victory are created. That is the only way, in
this writer’s' view, that Britain can win.
Health Problem in Bombed Britain.
(From a report in New York “Times” by its London
representative, James B. Reston. )
So far the British people have not worried very
much about the health aspect of life under war condi-
tions. But Government officials who know that health,
industrial production and national security are in-
separable are worrying more about this question every
wet and misty night.
The great majority of British people live in about
20 large urban communities, which are also the main
targets for the German bombers. Since at any minute
during the 14| hours of the blackout the homes of
these people are liable to be destroyed by high explo-
sives, most of them have sought some form of shelter
and thus exposed themselves to all sorts of natural
disasters.
The majority of the people of London, for
example, are supposed to spend the night in their small
steel shelters. These are sunk in the sodden earth of
backyards. They are damp, cold and draughty, and
over a period of time they would defy the strongest
constitution plus all the cod-liver oil in the world.
Similarly, the communal shelters of almost every de-
scription are a danger to the health of the nation.
They are certainly not so cold or damp as the little
steel shelters and some of them are sanitary ; but most
of them are poorly ventilated, unhygienic and defi-
nitely insanitary.
These two factors, exposure and congestion, are
only the beginning of the problem. Probably the most
important factor is that people are living abnormal
lives. Because of the noise or fear or both, they are
not sleeping. Hundreds of thousands of families are
broken up and the menfolk, living bachelor lives, are
not eating properly and regularly. Even those families
that are lucky enough to be together have problems,
because often there is no gas or the milk does not
arrive and normal meals cannot be cooked.
The Government is trying to meet this problem
in many ways. It is urging local authorities to improve
the ventilation of shelters and spray them daily. It is
putting nurses in all the large shelters, and urging
people who have colds to wear masks over their faces.
At the same time urgent efforts are being made to see
that all diseased persons are kept out of the shelters
or isolated.
In the Government’s view the disease most likely
to result from people lining up in the rain and spend-
ing their nights in this abnormal way is diphtheria, and
the outline of the Government’s shelter health pro-
gramme recommends that a free inoculation system be
introduced.
Speaking in the House of Lords on the condition
of the shelters, Lord Horder said it “would be not only
foolish but criminal and wrong to say that we are even
within sight of a solution to the hygienic problem of
shelter life.” This statement, together with the obvi-
ously dangerous conditions that exist in shelters all
over London, has alarmed many persons who remem-
ber what happened under more favorable conditions
during the influenza epidemic of the World War.
Many members of the medical profession are out-
spoken in their fears that epidemics may sweep the
—Richmond “"Times-Dispatch." U.S.A.
THE MEDITERRANEAN PATROL.
country from end to end before spring. They have
reminded the Government that industrial workers and
even the men of the Royal Air Force will not be
immune in these epidemics if they start, and have
urged the most drastic measures to meet the problem.
The army, the great part of which lived under
canvas last winter, has been moved indoors. The
commonsense of the British people themselves —the
safety valve for everything here —is already coming
to their rescue. Since the rainy season started more
and more of them have been moving indoors. They
have been bracing up one room in a house and sleep-
ing under the kitchen table. It is not safe, they admit,
but many of them would rather die in reasonable
comfort than pass out in a waterlogged, backyard dog-
house.
Making Way for Peace.
(From a New York “Herald Tribune” article .)
The economic policies of such great nations as
the United States and Britain can be tremendously
effective instruments in promoting world order. In
the dawn of a British victory it will be economic ques-
tions—the feeding and reconstruction of a shattered
Europe, the revival of industry, the restoration of
markets —which will be crying most imperatively for
settlement, which will indicate the lines along which
the machinery of international organisation must
develop and will supply the pressure that will secure
genuine consent to the erection of such mechanisms.
But, more than that, if far-sighted and enlightened
economic action is both the easiest and most prac-
tical means of making good a future peace, it is also
a powerful present weapon for winning the victory.
Democracy, no more than totalitarianism, need wait
upon military victory to demonstrate its powers of
organisation. With energetic action and full co-
operation in trade, tariff, lending and fiscal policy, the
United States and Great Britain between them can
display to the world a democratic international eco-
nomic order more powerful in defence, more produc-
tive of the good things of life, richer in opportunity
for every member people who would take part in it,
than anything which the barren and bloody “new
order” of Hitlerism could ever show, even if it did last
a thousand years.
Here is the place to begin, not only on the peace
after the war, but on the winning of the war
for liberal democratic ideal. Whatever political
“machinery” may be needed can grow from founda-
tions so laid —can grow, and will if the foundations
are laid with firmness and foresight.
Dragnet Digest.
( General items of information and comment condensed
from various acknowledged sources .)
The London public is divided into two schools of
opinion on the question of sheltering, namely, those
who prefer to run the risk of going down with the
house, and those who would rather chance being
smothered underneath it. I and most of the others in
this house are of the former school of thinking. We
usually congregate in a room in the attic round a big
fire. We all take turns at making tea, and sit and tell
yarns. 1 have got used to the sound of bombs and
gunfire, and if we get an unusually quiet night the un-
wonted quietness keeps me awake. We are all busy
hauling home wood from the wreckage of the bombed
houses, to the great delight of the police and A.R.P.
wardens, who would otherwise have to make bonfires
of it. 1 usually go out early in the morning to make
the haul, and when I come home at night have some
wonderful fires. — The secretary of a London physician,
in a New York “Times” letter.
* * * * *
In order to prevent the Poles from listening to
8.8. C. broadcasts, the number of wireless sets in the
territory of the Government-General of Poland has
been reduced from approximately 4,000,000 before the
War to 8500. This latter figure includes 3324 sets in
use in Cracow, now serving as the official seat of the
German Governor, Frank. Only 2712 persons are
allowed to use wireless sets in Warsaw, 1593 in Radom
and 686 in Lublin. Needless to say, only German
officials and the German Army are entitled to this
privilege and the Poles themselves are strictly forbidden
to have sets. — Polish correspondent; London “Times.”
* * V * *
The Emperor of Japan is known as “The Son of
Heaven,” but the word “Heaven” has a meaning
somewhat different from that understood in the
Western world and by some religious devotees in the
Orient. Whereas, to the orthodox Christian mind,
heaven is a place outside of this world —somewhere
above the skies, where God, the Creator of the Uni-
verse, has His dwelling—to the Japanese the word
“Heaven” (Takamagahara) was a place on this earth,
whose location has been lost in the passage of the
ages. Heaven, as it is understood by Japanese, may
have been in Australia —for one school of thought
believes that its location was somewhere in Oceania,
while others contend that it was in continental Asia,
possibly China. Neither of these theories, however,
has yet been supported by satisfactory documentary
evidence. — “Far Eastern Trade Bulletin.”
*****
In October fewer than 290 ’planes were delivered
to Britain and her Empire of almost 350 that were
scheduled to be delivered. At that Britain received
more than 80 p.c. of the combat ’plane production of
the U.S.A. In November and December the scheduled
deliveries of all types —combat and training—was to
be more than 350 a month, but it was doubtful if the
schedule would be met. Not until next May or June
does the present programme call for deliveries to
Britain at the rate of around 500 a month. Not until
1942 will this rate commence to approach 1000 a
month. These schedules are not likely to be met; they
are already behind. — Hanson W. Baldwin; New York
“Times.”
*****
The decision to abstain from reprisals for terror-
istic bombing seems to us a psychological, political
and strategic error. Hitler has again been allowed
“to get away with it.” He threatened Britain and he
has carried out his threat, with apparent impunity.
It is true that since he resorted to terroristic bombing
the R.A.F. seems to have intensified attacks on mili-
tary objectives in Germany, and it may be that Ger-
man civilians have been made to suffer more in con-
sequence. But the consequence is not linked up with
the cause in the minds of the Germans. Hitler has
resorted to terrorism and there is no hitting back on
behalf of the men, women and children who are his
victims. The German terroristic system can be broken
if the terror inspired by the R.A.F. amongst the civilian
population is greater than the terror inspired by the
Gestapo. Successful reprisals would, therefore, achieve
three things—they would break the civilian morale
in Germany, they would destroy the power of the
Gestapo, they would hearten the people of Britain
and satisfy their sense of justice. And, beyond this,
they might bring all terroristic bombing to an end,
especially when it becomes apparent that the R.A.F.
is securing an ascendancy in the air. Once that has
been achieved there will be no limit to the humani-
tarian ideals which Hitler and Mussolini, and all the
other gangster rulers of our time, will uphold as essen-
tial to the “chivalry of the air.” — London “Nineteenth
Century.”
*****
When Franco entered Madrid he gave the people
bread. The country was his. But he lost it. He ran
out of bread, for one thing, and he ran out of money.
In the old days, a Spanish workman would con-
sume a little more than two pounds of bread, and
now he gets about three and one-half ounces. Bread
dipped in olive oil, with chickpeas, a few greens and
an occasional piece of fish or meat, constituted the
normal worker’s diet, and it was fairly cheap. Now
the Spaniard must pay premium prices for his old
staples. The party fixes food prices, but to get anything
he must pay twice or three times the legalised scale.
Bread is a major problem now, but will grow
worse. Being broke, Spain won’t be able to do
any heavy buying of foodstuffs abroad, and her wheat
crop, despite pressure on the peasants to urge war-
torn acres to produce more wheat, will be off 20 per
cent, from the normal four million and a quarter metric
tons. Only potatoes will be an abundant cropland
that’s what Spaniards will have to eat this winter
and that’s about all. The greens will be gone. Chick-
peas, another staple food, will be way below require-
ments, as will barley and rice and corn. There are two
million soldiers under arms, at least half a million
men in gaols, and there isn’t available to till
the soil. — Frank Gervasi, in “Collier’s,” U.S.A.


the easy-
SHAVINC
RAZO
Eor perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 13/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Blade size 2in.
„ , ALL POST FREE.
Luard to convert the Plum into a safety razor
3/6 extra.
q
#3
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury ; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.:
Sydney Sampson. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Produce! Produce!”
A discredited cry a decade ago, when
production and consumption were all
out of balance. But production of the
right kind of things in great quantities
is now the aimed-at goal of all partici-
pants in this war, and some of the in-
terested onlookers as well.
An American view of a vital matter
—from the circular of the National City
Bank of New York:
Discussions of inflationary dangers in
defence finance and of policies to guard
against them should take account of the
importance of the capacity to produce,
and of order in the markets and in cost
and price relations, as well as of fiscal and
monetary measures.
From any viewpoint, the imperative need
is the greatest possible production and free
flow of goods. It is needed for the success
of the defence programme; it is needed to
put the unemployed to work; and it is
needed because the only sound way to keep
prices down and to avoid moving into the
vicious spiral of inflation is to produce
sufficient goods to satisfy the purchasing
power which will be put in circulation
by the Government’s defence financing. If
production is insufficient the only defence
left against inflation will be to repress
consumption.
In Australia the position is much the
same, with the exception that thousands
of Australia’s fittest men are engaged
in fighting a war. Thousands more are
in the militia. These men are not pro-
ducing anything, thus making it harder,
even if the ranks of the unemployed are
being availed of to fill the gap, for
normal production to be maintained, let
alone increased.
But the idea of increasing production
where possible in order to offset the
withdrawal of defence materials from
civil life should never be despaired of.
This paper, though all along it has taken
the view that defence expenditure repre-
sents an undeniable attack on our living
standards, has also acknowledged that
by harder work and increased efficiency
we may do much towards maintaining
those standards. The cost of war has
to be offset against our ordinary income
first of all; then any extra production
will help to reimburse our loss of
income.
The National City Bank again:
Much is being written about the self-
denial that will be necessary to carry out
the armament programme. Clearly, when
an important share of productive effort is
devoted to providing armament, people
cannot have as many other goods and
services as they could have if the total
effort were devoted to turning out the
things used in everyday life. This, how-
ever, is not the practical view of the
matter. The fact is that the output of the
country is far below what it could be if all
its labor, capital and technical abilities
were efficiently employed. Thus while con-
sumers must give up goods and services
which they might have, it need not be true
that they must give up things which they
have.
“The output of the country is far
below what it could be if all its labor,
capital and technical abilities were
efficiently employed.” This, while per-
fectly true of conditions in the U.S.A.,
is only partly applicable to conditions
in the Commonwealth. The U.S.A. never
really recovered from the depression, in
spite of New Deal squanderings. Its steel
industry has been working far below
capacity at times when B.H.P. has been
unable to fill orders. Unemployment
ratios have been considerably higher
than in Australia for several years. Most
of the Commonwealth’s increased pro-
duction for war purposes will need to
come from greater efficiency, since trade-
union unemployment has fallen to near
7 p.c., and defence is estimated to cost
20 p.c. of our national income this year.
So the question remains as to whether
re-employment and increased efficiency
—Australia might well pay more atten-
tion to efficiency and the elimination
°f waste, especially political waste—can
counter the full extent of war’s consump-
-o°n °f labor and materials. Says the
N ew York authority;
If “self-denial” means harder work, by
management, capital and labor, it is called
for. The question is entirely whether the
armament is carried out by increasing
production and employment to full capa-
city, or by diverting man-power and
capacity from present activities. In public
policy more thought should be given to
overhauling the measures which repress
production; otherwise measures which re-
press consumption may have to be intensi-
fied or new ones established
A . .
Australia IS not Without its “measures
that repress production” ; it has a costly
* t n < ™s, nt *******, **«■>.
d bas ? bsoJet e railways protected from
competition by law, and it is not alto-
gether without monopolistic hindrances,
,’ h£Se rf ar to be f ™- Some
Sdy , tha f oar bank mg system represses
production.” The system is not per-
feet, but it isn’t natural for a banker
to stand in the wav of wanterl nrodne
+ - d • m Ine Way ° wan * ed produc-
tlon ’ smce new or (expanding solvent
clients mean extra profit to him. Any
faults in our banking system are more
like . ly to . arase from lack of co-operation
or intelligence than from anything else,
Getting back to the main problem
a B ain > the City Bank concludes:
Much of the talk as to whether labor
Stl ould retain its social gains is unrealistic.
u h s y c ? nn ,u t be , retained by legislative fiat,
but only through production,
A , . e . . . ,
And that, of couise, is the hard, sharp
point of the whole thin S-
Broken Hill Prop, continues to figure
as Australia’s most vital manufacturing
concern. It is after more capital now to
f urther its shipbuilding programme, to
uu? rnagnesium from its Mundallio
s r £a ses (eight miles from Port
ugusta, 5>.A.) to make ferro alloys, com-
plete lts Whyalla (S.A.) blast furnace and
scbem e in tbe
ari l e , district. With per-
£ u f J h l T are
disked for £2,500,000 in £1 shares
at P ar - This would represent something
more , han one foj . five _ about five for 23 *
, a , boUt
or * wnicn the current 7j p.c. div. would
ca H for £1,050,000. Though last year’s
claimed profits of £979 138 were short
Q f this the 1938-39 fimirp nf fl /m tn
• ’ figure of £1,431,513
] s more lia keeping with the co.’s earn-
ing capacity. At present output is far
above any previous level
’ ,
The last published figure relating to the
steel-production capacity of BHP’s
Newcftle works and those of its Port
Rvmbla associate was 1,600,000 tons for
the two plants, with 1,720,000 tons in
s 'Bht. Pig-iron production is scheduled
1° start at Whyalla i n March. Australian
lr ° n an ? Stee J h , as c t leared off its div.
f r . rear f to shar^ bolders > and m its
a J eSt t™ disclosed 6.2 p.c. on ord. capi-
however > has not yet re-
ceiyed . m s°™ e . from . this source ; A.I.
dfflfinn g UP US P ° Sltl ° n m eV£ry
c , * _ *
Y£ f F ° f th - e § rou P has
1° rai ™ ficatlo ns m some way,
f thei by es t abllsh ment of a new mdus-
try ° F c P-. usin S steel or by a venture into
W at s V f n '
tbe present been shelved, but
Garnet tin areas, near which Tableland
Tin, N.L., is already digging out good
tin with a small dredge. BM P. is enter
ing the shipbuilding trade at a fateful
moment; there is a vast demand for ton-
nage throughout the Empire, and Aus-
tralia itself will want a great deal of ship-
ping in future years. Ordinarily ship-
building in Britain is a precarious occu-
pation—at least, it has been since the Old
Country lost its virtual world monopoly
of the trade. But B.H.P.’s venture may
stand a better chance, especially if a few
years of heavy demand enable the estab-
lishment cost to be written off quickly.
Again, as an additional outlet for steel,
shipbuilding would help to steady the
co.’s chief activity and provide a first
profit on the steel, even if shipbuilding
itself lapsed into a state of unremunera-
tiveness.
* * * *
A deflationary Budget? The additional
note circulation issued by the Common-
wealth Bank during the Christmas shop-
ping period was £7,669,206, against
£6,319,762 last year. There was a public
demand for this extra spending money
based on purchasing power, and there-
fore it was issued. Whatever else it may
indicate, the additional pocket money
drawn out of banks, etc., shows that busi-
ness was brisk over Christmas in spite of
the war Budget.
* * * *
The sharemarkets opened for the new
year in strong tone. The B.H.P. pro-
posed issue of additional scrip had an
effect on the whole share list. Thus,
while B.H.P. shares were outstanding with
a lift of 35., going to 475. 9d., brewery
and paper shares, Electrolytic Zinc,
A.C.1., British Tobacco, sugar scrip.
Masonite Corp. and Drug Houses were
all higher by a few pence or more. Scrip
in retailers, including chain stores, was
generally weaker. In the mining section
North Broken Hill improved and Mt.
Lyell was better; there were some
isolated rises in the gold section, but
Emperor and Loloma both weakened.
Tin shares were down slightly, especially
Malayan stocks.
British Tobacco shares were bought to
yield 4.1 p.c. at 495. Henry Jones scrip
returned 3.8 p.c. on the reduced div.
basis (10 p.c.). Electrolytic Zinc ords.
at 525. 6d. yielded 5.3 p.c. ; there is a
great demand for spelter at present, and,
without giving any secrets away, the co.’s
chairman says he has reason to expect
the high rate of consumption to continue.
A.C.I. fully-paids are giving 3.6 p.c., and
Colonial Sugar shows 3.5 p.c. Austra-
lasian Paper ords. at 345. return 4.7 p.c.
Cement shares are sought after ; Austra-
lian Cement £1 shares in Melbourne sold
at 375, 9d. on ’Change’s opening day,
returning 6.6 p.c., and Kandos 16s. scrip
at 325. 6d. yielded 6.1 p.c. Standard,
another Sydney co., returned 7.4 p.c. at
20s. 6d. for its 16s. shares. Apparently
defence work is utilising at least as much
cement as the building trade has ceased
to consume since war began.
In the foregoing there are some
high and low returns. Among the higher
ones, those from cement cos. seem reason-
ably secure, and that from Electro. Zinc
isn’t bad. Australasian Paper’s yield is
quite good, and prospects in this case
are particularly bright. Associated Pulp
and Paper, still in the expansion stage,
also has possibilities. This scrip was in
demand last week at 30s. 9d. A stock
that possessed attractions at last week’s
price of 17s. 3d. was Woolworths, yield-
ing better than 5 p.c.
* * ♦ *
Coinciding with the U.S A’s increased
and more definite interest in Britain’s
war, the Federal Reserve Board of the
U.S.A. is anxious to clear the decks of
the New Deal financial machinery, which
has outlived its usefulness (if any) or
political value. The Reserve Board has
made a report to Congress, the first in
its history ; it recommends steps “to pre-
vent inflationary tendencies attributable
to defects in the machinery of credit con-
trol.” The main suggestions are:
(1) That the power of the President to
devalue the dollar be allowed to expire
on June 30.
(2) Immediate repeal of the power of
the Treasury to issue silver certificates
against the difference between the purchase
price at 77 cents an ounce for fine
silver and the established value of
1.29 dollars, which has amounted to 1500
million dollars on previous purchases.
(3) Repeal of the power of the Treasury
to issue currency against purchases of
foreign silver.
(4) The use of the Treasury’s stabilisa-
tion fund, which has been hitherto reserved
for stabilising the dollar in relation to
foreign currencies, to absorb and control
the excess reserves of the U.S. banks.
(5) Repeal of the power of the Treasury
to issue 3000 million dollars of paper
money unbacked by precious metal. [This
power has never been used.]
(6) Sterilisation of imports of gold in
order to eliminate them from the credit
base.
(7) Increase of the reserve requirements
of the banks in order to lessen infla-
tionary possibilities arising from the present
7000 million dolia!- excess reserves in the
Federal reserve banks.
(8) Cessation of the sale of Government
bonds to the banks, a procedure which
increases the potentialities of rearing
on the debt structure an even greater credit
structure, with its consequent dangers of
inflation.
The recommendations “are believed to
have the support of the Administration.’'
Roosevelt realises the dangers of booms
—and there is great danger in a war-time
boom; it was he who threatened to
revalue the dollar in April, 1937, in order
to check the incipient boom then show-
ing up. Unfortunately at that time the
U.S.A. (and some other parts of the
world) was on its way back into depres-
sion, though neither the President nor
Mr. B. S. B. Stevens knew that just then.
Roosevelt seems to have learned a lot
since 1937, but Australian State Premiers
are not a bit more advanced in adminis-
tration or understanding.
Jfc # * *
Tea has gone up a penny a pound,
and there is talk of lifting the price of
petrol by a penny a gallon as well as
rationing the stuff further. It is perhaps
unfortunate that the price-rise is contem-
plated at a time when motorists are com-
plaining of the quality of petrol now
being sold ; some of it seems to be in-
ferior to what used to be known as
“second-grade.” If Australia is paying
the same price overseas for present sup-
plies as it did for pre-war second-grade
there seems to be room for official in-
quiry. Foreign funds are precious to
us ; they should be carefully spent.
* * * *
Of recent weeks the sale of war-savings
certificates has slowed down. The total
has, however, reached nearly £17,000,000.
Christmas holidays and spending have
had something to do with the slackening,
and the New Year taxes have made some
people reluctant to commit themselves
further until they find out the practical
effect of these taxes on their welfare.
* * * *
Bank clearings in Sydney and Mel-
bourne for 1940 were a record. In Syd-
ney the total was £1069 millions, com-
pared with £932 millions and £942 mil-
lions in the two preceding years. Mel-
bourne’s figure for 1940 was £985 mil-
lions, 1939 £Bl2 millions and 1938 £B3B
millions.
* * * *
Davies, Coop and Co. has brought a
substantial area in Collingwood (Vic.) for
its flax-processing subsidiary. All tex-
tile manufacture in the Commonwealth
continues to expand rapidly, as it did
in the last war.
* * * *
In spite of shipping uncertainties (the
co. draws its supplies of linseed from
S. America and India), Meggitt, Ltd.,
has maintained its interim ord. div. at
10 p.c. The co. has been finding diffi-
culty in meeting all demands for its.pro-
ducts, which have been stimulated by
a variety of causes over the past 12
months.
* * * Of
From London: The Tin Producers
Association (B. 16/10/’4O) has declared
war against the 100 p.c. excess-profits tax.
It declares that imposition of this burden
not only prevents a producer from in-
creasing his current income, but deprives
him of the possibility of deriving any
future income from an important propor-
tion of his capital assets, as he is asked
to produce in increasing quantities for the
benefit of the Empire and sell the excess
for no profit whatever. Thus the tax
amounts to a capital levy, not a tax on
profits. Finally, it is argued, the appli-
cation of the tax in its present form
would cripple the industry’s powers of
future development. So far no threat
of change of domicile has been made by
tinmining cos. with headquarters in
Britain. The thing which seems to have
jarred upon the City in the attempted
flight of Gt. Boulder was the endeavor
by an important revenue-producer long
settled in the country to escape taxation,
inequitable though it is, at a critical stage
of the nation’s history.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Results of the first four races at Moore-
field on Saturday gave the books genuine
cause for lamentation, but the last four
were in their favor. It is decidedly un-
usual for three divisions of a suburban
welter to be won by double-figure
chances, and, while the respective wins of
Jocular and Grand Billy were much to
the liking of the books, Mortine made it
the “end of a perfect day” so far as they
were concerned.
The Moorefield Club committee called
for cheers for the A.I.F. for its great
feat at Bardia. They were freely given,
and no doubt the club, to show thorough
appreciation of “our boys,” will as freely
donate the profits from one of its future
meetings to war funds.
••••••
In the Peter Moore Cup Petruchio
acted up to his Randwick form. He took
charge when the field settled down, and
was a sure winner over the final half-
mile, though Breeze, with a game finish-
ing run, got within half a length of him.
Sign On was a moderate third, and then
Irak. The soft going evidently bothered
Triggerman, Tuckerbox and Überous, as
they were never doing sufficiently well
to raise the hopes of their backers. Start-
ing up the hill Triggerman was second-
last, and being hard ridden, while Tucker-
box was about the middle of the field.
Conditions did not suit either Sedunum,
Bonny Loch or Pierce, and on a firm
track some of the beaten division are sure
to show different form. The track had
cut up when the Cup was run. The time
was only a half-second better than that
recorded by Climax in her race, and she
carried 21b. more than Petruchio, whose
last two runs have returned his owner
£B5O in prize-money and a lOOgns.
trophy.
Sioneel’s withdrawal from the Moore-
field Handicap was a surprise. As first
money of £220 was worth winning, pre-
sumably it was due to the belief that the
soft track would tell against him. In his
absence Early Hope was always a short-
priced favorite, but he was disappointing.
The Kite, with River Namoi as his near-
est attendant, set a pace that was a little
too fast for Early Hope’s liking. He
moved up coming to the turn, but it was
apparent he had no chance of winning.
River Namoi closed on The Kite in the
straight, and was a little too good at the
finish, third place going to Lord Valen-
tine, who was much closer to the first
two at the winning-post than at the top
of the straight.
Climax won the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap, for which she was a warm
favorite from the opening of the betting,
but it was only a moderate performance.
Sylveroni and Consonance were the early
leaders, with Climax always handy. After
entering the straight Climax took charge
from Consonance, and then, stalling off
Wee Woo, won by a neck. Wee Woo
commenced well, lost ground soon after
starting up the hill and made a good run
from the straight entrance.
El Kenny was third, without ever being
dangerous, while Brown Bomber and
Edifice, though soundly backed, did not
give any trouble. Edifice ran un-
generously, but Brown Bomber’s poor
display was probably due to his rider,
Duncan, getting his foot out of a stirrup
shortly after the start.
Tanda and Kimbell had a good set-to
all the way over the last half of the colts
and geldings’ division of the Juvenile
Handicap, and the former lasted longer.
Marcovelian was a good third, but,
though fourth, Fort Morgan, from B.
Payten’s stable, did not run nearly as well
as expected. He is a neat colt by Mel-
fort from Gold Mast, and with experi-
ence will do better. The winner, who is
trained by J. H. Hanslow, is by Grand
Boy from Rodent by Eudorus; while
Kimbell is by Soft Step from Emily Rose.
The field included Blue Cap, a good-
looking colt by Piccadilly from Girton
Girl.
•••••#
Mary Lou, a nice filly by Pantheon
from Beau Chance, won the fillies’ divi-
S ion of the Juvenile Handicap. She led
up the hill from Belle Doree, Arenessa
and Hi § h Flush > and scored by a half-
head from Arenessa > who looked like
beating her at one stage. Blue Metal ran
fairly, but Owl’s Rest did not do nearly
as well as at R a "dwick, and her stable-
companion Epic Poem (half-sister by Pic-
>° Feminist) failed to show up.
She cost . F - w - Hu S h « SSOgns. Celeste
was again slow in finding her legs, but
made up some ground in the straight,
D -‘ , r t . ,* „ * .
* ,Va f ' S’f, • w ,T“ r fir ,f d - m ‘
!° n IFIy ‘ n » Welter £r . om barr ‘ er '
™\u “V*■ wa L' n char .S a ,en‘ar-
'"®‘I e s f tra ' Bht ’ it”? ™ ay , s T°, k y dls ‘
f oscd ° £ hlm - The latter looked a cer-
tainty halfway down the straight, but was
outstayed by Jocular, who beat her in the
last c °uple of strides. It was Jocular’s
hrst win since the Borough Handicap at
Armidale in February of last year. About
tbat time he was weighted 201 b. above
*b e minimum in suburban welters, but,
consequent on his many failures, he was
on the minimum in his division on Satur-
da Y-
A * . * I ’ ’, ’
ta £f aZ “ ® r * Cen * race *. over longer dis-
*ad deprl Yf d , him of his dash
f n nd l . J % he h neV Z reall^ot
f ltj nor dld P rey Deib y- Many Ways
gaVe me fU the I . mpressi o n she would im-
pr?Ve gracing, and even with a little
will be harder to beat
next hme. Camsioni should win atmid-
n?ee 1 tm 8’ and Brazen Lad is looking
partlc £ larl y well. The stewards thought
should have got a little
?° re °, ut °i Ma u ny but accept e d
- 1S exp | anatl ori that the snortness of the
rm §s attached to the mare s breastplate
contributed to her defeat.
Grand Billy made one act of the second
division of the Welter. Electra, who was
slow off the mark and sixth going
up the hill, tried hard to get on terms
with him in the straight, but did not
have the slightest chance. Only that
Trade Mark’s behavior caused him to be
sent from near the rails to the outside at
the start, he would at least have been a
place-getter. He was one of the bunch
nearest Grand Billy after going three fur-
longs, but the effort in getting that far
forward from a bad position took so
much out of him that he was left with-
out a run at the end, though he did not
finish far behind the place-getters. Miss
Poppy and La Capitana ran well, as did
Mag.
Mortine had not previously started
since last June, but that did not prevent
her from decisively winning the third
division of the Welter. Always promi-
nent she went to the front from Bruns-
wick Joy turning for home, and the race
was practically over. Manlock, voted
“a certainty,” was outpaced early in the
piece, and was narrowly beaten for third
by Can March, who was on the extreme
outside at the barrier. Sylvienne and La
Danseuse showed pace, and Aussie Bee
finished fairly, but it was a one-horse
affair. There was backing for Loyal Lad,
but he was not a winning possibility after
going three furlongs.
* * * *
A gamble by bookmakers against
Counsel, beaten favorite for the Glen-
bervie Handicap, and a statement by
Counsel’s trainer, G. Alessio, that his
gelding was injured on the morning of
the race and would not have started
had he not been assured of favoritism,
savored of the sensational at Moonee
Valley on Saturday.
Counsel’s form pointed to him as the
probable winner with Melbourne’s lead-
ing jockey, Harold Badger, aboard, and
bookmakers opened him favorite at 6 to
4 on. Early backers looked askance
when the price eased to 9 to 4 against,
but 2 to 1 was the general quote at
barrier-rise. The story of Counsel’s early-
morning escapade had reached book-
makers, and they considered it worth
while taking a risk. Many keen backers,
also aware of the circumstances, looked
elsewhere for the winner, but a number
of nice bets would have been landed
had Counsel succeeded, instead of being
beaten a length by Retnuha after look-
ing a winner when he challenged the
latter at the top of the straight.
Shying on a road near the Valley race-
course, Counsel had veered into a patch
of long grass, trod on a broken bottle
and cut a heel. The wound bled freely,
but Alessio did not consider that it
needed veterinary attention, and Counsel
raced with plates to keep the injured
foot from the ground. Incidentally, he
moved freely in his preliminary, and
Alessio was hopeful of success.
No wrong construction should be placed
on the trainer’s statement that Counsel
met his engagement only because he was
certain to be favorite. Alessio told
The Bulletin representative that he
would not have thought of running him
had he been one of the “roughies” in
the field, but explained that many people
get the wrong impression when a pre-
post favorite is scratched. They jump
to the conclusion that organisers of place-
cards, a form of illegal betting with a
tremendous following in Victoria, have
offered an inducement to scratch. “And
that’s why I declined to withdraw
Counsel,” Alessio added. “Countless
people probably chose him as one of
their four place-selections, and I am
determined never to have my name
associated in any way with stories relat-
ing to place-card men.”
Retnuha has run most of his best races
at Moonee Valley, and has been a bar-
gain at his yearling cost of 45 guineas.
Spell him backwards and you have the
name of his breeder, A. Hunter. Owner-
trainer J. Flannery believes in giving his
horses plenty of milk, and bought two
cows to provide the necessary for Ret-
nuha and another of his horses, Law
Bracket, who ran unplaced in the Cum-
berland Handicap on Saturday. Retnuha’s
win was a triumph of milk over eggs, as
raw eggs play an important part in the
diet of the runner-up, Counsel.
Owner Bill Bamford, trainer “Snowy”
Baldwin, and jockey H. Badger won a
Moonee Valley double for the second
time in less than a month with Alcmena
and Procyon. Both horses were success-
ful on December 16, and on Saturday
they won the Seafield and Dunalister
Handicaps respectively. Alcmena has
raced only twice for as many wins, and
now she is to be given a brief let-up
prior to being prepared for important
autumn races. She might not be in the
same class as the champion filly, All
Love, but, all going well meantime, she
will be among All Love’s rivals in the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
Bamford, formerly a leading amateur
rider, was under-bidder at the last Mel-
bourne yearling sales for Flatterer and
Silver, both recent winners, and, missing
those horses, decided against bidding for
another. Visiting St. Albans Stud, Gee-
long, a little later, however, he found
that three yearlings were available for
leasing. One was Beauty Spot, who sub-
sequently won the fillies’ division of the
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes for her
breeders, but Bamford chose the Gay
Lothario-Andromeda filly, now known
as Alcmena. It was good picking, as,
although Alcmena surprised her connec-
tions at her first start, her success on
Saturday proved that it was no fluke.
Backed from 2 to 1 against down to
10 to 9 on, she hit the front early, and
was not afterwards headed, winning
comfortably from Narwal and Danae.
Portion of the Alcmena winnings was
played up on Procyon in the Dunalister
Handicap, but Bamford was afraid that
the soft ground might prejudice his
chance, and cut his bet accordingly. That
accounted for Procyon easing from 5 to 2
to 4 to 1 and being deposed of favoritism
by Bow Tie. Procyon, however, was not
worried in the least by the going, which
had improved during the afternoon.
Sharing the lead with Ajon to the turn,
he shook the latter off at the top of
the straight and won cleverly from Beau-
filer and Limerick Lace. Ajon tired and
just missed a place, but Bow Tie was
beaten before the turn, and neither Con
Naru nor Old Vienna was ever dangerous.
Procyon might yet be a good substi-
tute for the Victoria Derby winner
Lucrative. Bamford took a fancy
to Lucrative as a yearling and deter-
mined to buy him, but, accepting the
advice of a man associated with the
youngsters concerned, purchased Pro-
cyon instead. Procyon began well by
winning a division of the Maribyrnong
Trial Stakes, but he disappointed later
and was gelded. Three subsequent wins
in sprint races have proved that his
early form was no flash in the pan, and,
although Bamford missed a classic
winner, he might possess an Oakleigh
Plate or a Newmarket winner instead.
Ronalla, equal favorite with Merridale
for the Banyule Trial Hurdle, gave his
backers a shocking run for their money,
and his form was investigated by the
stewards. They accepted the explana-
tions of the part-owners and trainer, but
suspended J. Maher for two months for
not riding his mount out. Winner over
hurdles at Ascot and Moonee Valley in
September, Ronalla was well-backed at
5 to 2 and 2 to 1 on Saturday, but,
tailing off early, was in a hopeless posi-
tion throughout. He finished fourth of
the five runners to complete the course,
but was over 20 lengths behind the
winner, Merridale.
Merridale, who had won at Kyneton
at his previous start, could have in-
creased his winning margin of little less
than two lengths from Gold Stripe, whom
he led 12 to 15 lengths at the last jump.
Now five years old, and, like Procyon
and Alcmena, by Gay Lothario, he gave
fair promise on the flat on occasions, but
apparently hurdling is his forte. Raced
on lease by Harry Freedman from his
breeder, Rupert Hart, Merridale has had
nothing much to beat in either of his
last two races, but he is a comparatively
inexperienced hurdler and seems certain
to improve. If his immediate form
warrants it, he will be nominated for the
Grand National Hurdle. Probably he
would have won on Saturday in any
case, but the way was made easier for
him when Jean Friar hit hard and lost
her rider at the hurdle near the six fur-
longs. Jean Friar was leading Merridale
at the time, and this Friarsdale mare
can be jotted down for future reference.
Convalescing in hospital after an
operation, trainer Dick O’Donnell
listened-in to Bathing Beauty winning
the Cumberland Handicap from Denis
Girl and Cythorn. Always a stayer of
promise, Bathing Beauty has come solid
with two wins and a third from her last
three starts, and some keen judges pre-
dict that she will not have much diffi-
culty in paying her way when the better-
class handicappers return for autumn
racing. Starting equal favorite with
Pantoon on the strength of her third
in the Bagot Handicap, the Parenthesis
mare was rushed from second-last at the
five furlongs to be third between the
three and two, but she carried on with
the work and outstayed the pacemaker,
Denis Girl, to win by half a neck.
Neville Percival has the happy knack of
getting the best out of slow beginners,
and he has shone in this respect on
Bathing Beauty in both her recent wins.
Her success on Saturday, however, had
an unfortunate sequel for Percival. He
was suspended for one month for cross-
ing Fearless too sharply rounding the
home-turn.
Denis Girl was “nursed” in front by
De Valle, but, although she looked like
winning when she shot away from Bath-
FOR WARWICK FARM.
(At Randwick.)
(Before acceptances.)
By “PILOT."
Maiden Handicap: Innisfail, 1 ;
Alluring, 2 ; Real Gem, 3.
Nursery Handicap (colts and geld-
ings): Goldbrook, 1 ; Condignity,
2 ; Kimbell, 3.
Nursery Handicap (fillies):
Awake, 1 ; Mary Lou, 2; Blue
Metal, 3.
Sefton Handicap: Winifred, 1 ;
Petruchio, 2; Tuhitarata, 3.
Farm Encourage Handicap: The
Miller, 1 ; My Dear, 2 ; Plantage, 3.
Warwick January Handicap:
Tuckerbox, 1; Tusculum, 2 ; Femi-
nist, 3.
Berala Handicap: Merton, 1 ;
Lady Dunnottar, 2 ; Glorious, 3.
FOR ASCOT.
By “SENTRY.”
Normanby Trial Hurdles:
Southern Night, 1 ; Erasure, 2 ; Jean
Friar, 3.
Effingham Handicap: Intrepid, 1 ;
Leicester Square, 2 ; Silver Light, 3.
Anglesey Trial: Chapani, 1 ;
Palencia, 2 ; Star Boarder, 3.
Chesterfield Handicap: Celeris,
1 ; Cumulus, 2 ; Procyon, 3.
Inverness Handicap: Companion,
1 ; Cackle, 2 ; Alibi, 3.
Sandhurst Welter: Bankshaw, 1 ;
Lord Windburra, 2 ; Pine Peak, 3.


START THE NEW YEAR WELL
Buy a No. 136
“TUMBA”
CATTLE DROVER POLEY
*
VALTHER & STEVEKSOM KJ:
"as CEORCE ST. SYPWEY
£l2/15/-
(MOUNTED)
The flap is
sewn direct to
the seat, giving
a narrow grip.
Every stitch in
the panel is put
in by hand and
all the dees are
lined with metal and
attached strongly to
the tree.
N.S.W. freight on saddles
paid for cash with order.
ing Beauty entering the straight, she is
only a little mare, and 8.12 stopped her
right at the finish. Cythorn shaped fairly
in third place, but Pantoon again failed
to justify his heavy backing, and seem-
ingly is better now in private than in
public. Fearless, with an allowance
reducing his weight to 8.5, chased Denis
Girl for the greater part of the trip, but
was beaten when crossed by Bathing
Beauty. This Sydney-owned horse,
whose only win in Melbourne was the
Epsom Cup, has returned to N.S.W, for
a holiday at Eulomo Station.
Pannade is building up a remarkable
record for consistency with four wins
and two thirds from his last six starts.
He started slightly less fancied than
Spearwings for the Coburg Welter, but,
while the latter weakened into fourth
position after having every chance, Pan-
nade hit the front on the bend, and,
ridden right out, won narrowly from
the pacemaker. Royal Roger, who raised
another effort in the straight. Mantalini
shaped well in third place, but well-
backed Maluno lost his position sud-
denly between the five and four furlongs
and was pulled up about three from
home. Apparently he struck a nerve.
Pannade, who completed a winning
double for jockey V. Hartney—latter
had won on Retnuha earlier —has proved
cheap at the 750 guineas he cost book-
maker E. O’Brien several months ago.
* * * *
Feminist’s success in the Denman Han-
dicap pointed to her for Tattersall’s Cup,
but though she duly won she did not do
so as easily as anticipated. It surprised
me to see Yours Truly make quite a good
race of it, as he finished in wearied
fashion in the Denman Handicap, but it
must be added that in his preliminary on
Wednesday he moved with marked free-
dom. Dollar and Australasia did the
early pace-making, with Yours Truly
always handy, and Feminist and Marengo
well placed. Yours Truly led into the
straight from Feminist and Marengo, but
though at the leger the last-named raised
the hopes of his backers, Feminist fin-
ished too strongly for her opponents.
Yours Truly came again, and cut
Marengo out of second place. Con-
sidering the latter had not previously
raced beyond nine furlongs, and had not
done anything approaching a distance
preparation, he gives promise as a stayer.
Sedunum was fourth, but his weight
was sufficient to anchor him palpably in
the last hundred yards, and of the re-
mainder nothing was a possibility from
the top of the straight. Malagigi’s penalty
completely settled him. Feminist’s win
was her seventh for H. S. Thompson,
who gave 390gns. for her as a yearling.
* =H * * '
After his Melbourne Cup failure
doubts were thrown upon Beau Vite as
a two-miler, but though the company
was not of the strongest he won the
Auckland Cup in brilliant style. Until
within half a mile of home Beau Vite
was not well placed, but then he got a
good run, and at the finish was going
away from Old Bill, whom he beat three-
quarters of a length. Beau Vite was
favorite. Cheval de Volee attempted to
repeat his “all-the-way win” of last year,
but was beaten three furlongs from home.
Royal Chief was sixth. The pace was
slow in the early part, the mile and a
quarter taking 2.10|, but, timed from
Cheval de Volee, who led at that stage,
the last half-mile was run in 49. Beau
Vite did considerably better.
It was not due to not being in form
that Royal Chief gave no trouble in the
Cup, as he subsequently ran Sir Beau to
a head in the King’s Plate, the mile
being run in 1.36 f. As the cabled result
of the Great Northern Derby did not put
Sir Beau among the place-getters, he may
not have started. Kindergarten, who made
a record for that race of 2.31, had scored
three wins and two seconds in his five
starts this season up to Dec. 21. One of
his wins was in the Alison Cup, H mile,
in which he beat 19 other runners of
various ages. He is by Kincardine (half-
brother, by Gay Crusader, to Gothic,
winner of two Newmarkets) from Vala-
dore.
* * * *
Loquacious, dam of Feminist, died this
season when foaling to Midstream. How-
ever, her foal, a colt, lived, and a foster-
mother was quickly found for him. This
season’s Kia-Ora yearlings include a colt
by Midstream from Loquacious, and his
half-sister’s deeds are bound to make him
sell well.
* * * *
Admirers of Kingsdale believe he
would be equal to giving Yaralla a hard
race, but it is probable Skerries is very
close to Kingsdale as our second-best
two-year-old, and he was easily downed
by Yaralla. Excuses were made for
Kingsdale when Skerries, in receipt of
71b., beat him in the December Nursery.
Subsequently, Kingsdale defeated a
moderate field in the Juvenile Stakes, but
when Skerries and Kingsdale were
weighted for the Nursery Handicap on
the concluding day of Tattersall’s meet-
ing the latter had to concede 121 b. He
did not run, and the style in which Sker-
ries won suggested he would have had
little chance if he had done so. It is safe
to anticipate the A.J.C. handicapper con-
siderably revising his opinion of the two
when he next weights them. Of the other
youngsters that ran at the meeting Papil-
lon came out best. America beat her a
head for second in Tatt.’s Nursery Han-
dicap, but she was giving him 71b. Final
Victory has entirely failed to fulfil the
promise of his first race.
• * * *
Petruchio’s win in the A.J.C. Flying
Weller was achieved in no uncertain
fashion, and as a sprinter he may yet
fulfil the promise he gave at two years. He
was soon in charge, and though Waireka
closed on him at the turn he quickly
left her again. Waireka again finished
indifferently, and, as she looks particu-
larly well, the question arises whether she
is suffering from the severity of com-
peting against older horses in handicaps
last season. In the Peter Moore Cup
Petruchio again outpaced his opponents.
* * ♦ *
There were two unlucky losers at
Randwick last week —Gallant in the New
Year’s Gift and Tuckerbox in the Alfred
Hill Handicap. Checked twice when
trying for openings, Gallant’s rider had
finally to pull out and bring his mount
on the outside in the straight. Finishing
strongly, he was third, not half a neck
behind the winner. In the Alfred Hill
Handicap Tuckerbox was last at the half-
mile, and, as he appeared to be going
comfortably, his backers were wonder-
ing why Cook did not attempt to make
more use of him.
Tuckerbox was second-last at the
straight entrance, but then he put in such
a great run that 50 yards from the judge’s
box he was a possibility, but had to put
up with third place, less than half a
length behind the winner. Bonny Loch
ran a game race, as Munro was riding
him hard before reaching the turn, but
he was lucky in getting a run-through
on the inside of Mabson halfway down
the straight, and even luckier in Tucker-
box being so badly placed at the home
turn. It was reported Cook stated that
his cap came down over his eyes early
in the race, and for a time he did not
know where he was going on Tuckerbox.
* * * *
Derby winner Pont I’Eveque did not
finish last season as the best of the Eng-
lish three-year-olds. That honor, on
subsequent form, could be allotted the
Aga Khan’s colt Turkhan (Bahram-
Theresina), who defeated his stable-com-
panion Stardust (favorite) in the York-
shire St, Leger at Thirsk on November
23. At Newmarket at the end of October
Stardust won the Champion Stakes, a
mile and a quarter w.f.a. race for all
ages, from Hippius and Pont I’Eveque
(7 to 4 on), but was disqualified for
swerving, and the race went to Hippius,
a three-year-old son of Hyperion. Con-
sequent on all English racing fixtures for
this year being abandoned, it is certain
some high-class young stallions could
now be purchased at reasonable prices
in that country. America may benefit
but not Australia, the risk associated
with getting them here being too great.
* * * *
The V.R.C. is looking ahead and has
reduced its prize-money for the New-
market from £3OOO to £2500. For the
four days of the autumn meeting the
distribution will be £l6OO less than a
year ago. The difference is not great,
and there will be a good betting market.
The distance of the King’s Plate has been
increased from a mile and a half to a
mile and three-quarters, and the Appren-
tices’ Handicap to a mile and five fur-
longs. Such alterations should be pleas-
ing to those racing men who have
deplored the alleged tendency on the
part of clubs to shorten races. Change
in the system of training may be deemed
advisable if more long-distance races are
put on clubs’ programmes. Nowadays
a nine—or, at most, 10 —furlongs gallop
appears to be generally regarded as a
sufficiently severe test for anything.
Which reminds me that at Randwick
some years ago I heard Maoriland
trainer R. Mason ask a fellow-trainer,
with whom he was very friendly; “Why
don’t you send that horse of yours
further than a mile? You are getting
him ready for a long race.” The reply
was: “If I were to send him fast over
a distance an ambulance would be neces-
sary to get him home. Besides, he is
a wonderfully-winded horse.” Subse-
quently I heard Mason remark: “His
wind may be all right, but his muscles
will need building up to run two miles.”
The horse did not win on that occasion,
but when later taken over by another
trainer, and treated to a lot of long,
strong work, he won one of Australia s
principal long-distance handicaps.
* * * *
J. T. Cush never has many horses m
his team, but wins his share of races. At
Moorefield on Saturday he was respon-
sible for winners in the two-year-old
Mary Lou and Mortine. The latter,
however, surprised even her trainer, who,
though she had worked well, could not
bring himself to back her because she
had not raced for several months. Cush
had All Love on parade at Moorefield,
and it would be difficult to find a more
sturdily-built filly. She looks up to any
weight, and should not be inconvenienced
by penalties incurred for some of her
autumn races. Now that High Till® * s
discredited by his recent failure m Mel-
bourne, it looks certain that Yaralla
and All Love will be the autumn stars,
so far as Sydney and Melbourne two-
year-olds are concerned.
Queenslanders, however, believe that
Triad and Mannerheim will prove for-
midable opponents for Sydney s best.
Mannerheim’s Canonbury Stakes win
was decisive, and his success at the
Q.T.C. (Brisbane) meeting on Saturday
is proof that he has gone on the right
way. He carried 9.7, and won the Bald-
win Stakes as he pleased in I.H for the
five furlongs. Good as is Mannerheim,
some northerners do not regard him the
equal of the Double Remove filly Triad,
who is in the A.J.C. Sires Produce
Stakes and Champagne Stakes. “She
has the stride of a Phar Lap,” one of
her enthusiastic Brisbane admirers told
me the other, day, adding: “When Yar-
alla and All Love get through with her
they will know they have been gallop-
ing.” If she is that good a trip to Sydney
for her should be certain.
* * * *
M. McCarten put up an unusual record
when, at Moorefield on Saturday, he
scored on two horses whose tote prices
were respectively 381 to 1 and 37 to 1.
Of course even those bookmakers whose
liberality in odds is well advertised did
not lay those prices, the general quote
against Grand Billy being 14 to 1, and
Mortine 20 to 1. It will be a long time
before anything ridden by McCarten will
again return such tote odds. Success
quickly sways the public, and backers
will now pay attention to outsiders ridden
by McCarten. 1 am always pleased to
see McCarten on winners, as he does
credit to his calling both off and on the
racecourse.
* * * *
E. McMenamim has had his share of
bad, as well as good, luck during his
career. His most recent mishap caused
him to miss two winning mounts on
New Year’s Day, and, though broken
collarbones frequently mend quickly, his
was so badly fractured last week that
he is likely to be out of action quite a
long time. It is to be hoped he will be
ready to resume on Beau Vite at Rand-
wick in the autumn. That horse’s recent
form in Maoriland suggests he is even
better than when racing in the spring,
in which case such w.f.a. races as the
Autumn Plate, Cumberland Plate and
A.J.C. Plate will afford him full oppor-
tunity of increasing his earnings.
* * * *
Times recorded at Moorefield last
Saturday proved rain had affected the
track to some extent, but it was quite
safe. With fields large for several races
there was not a semblance of an accident.
The time for the Peter Moore Cup was
1.421, against the course record of 1.40
made by Cherry King five years ago.
* * * *
With new time records so numerous
nowadays, it is surprising that Re-
nowned’s record of 1.3 for five furlongs
at Moorefield in October, 1931, has not
been lowered. Fly (twice) and Radical
have equalled it, but the chances are it
will still be some time before it is beaten.
Both of Saturday’s fields took 1.5, but,
in addition to their being of moderate
class, the track was against time-making.
At Randwick this season there has been
one new two-year-old record, All Love
running five furlongs in 581. She did the
same at Flemington, and from a time
standpoint is ahead of Yaralla. There-
fore special interest attaches to their
meeting in the autumn.
* * * *
Last week the V.R.C. stipendiary
stewards proved they were not respecters
of persons by calling upon J. Holt to
explain the alleged reversal of form by
Manrico, Everything ended happily for
those concerned, but the fact of the
stewards making a move tended to dis-
pose of any idea that they favored some
trainers more than others. I have always
been a staunch upholder of the stipen-
diary system, but it would be nonsense
for me to write that there have not been
occasions on which some owners and
trainers appeared to have greater luck
than others in escaping official attention.
* * * *
J. T. Jamieson leaves for Maoriland
next Sunday, and is hopeful that Glady-
nev will give him a better run in the
Wellington Cup than Malagigi did last
year. Round Up, who for a time was
prepared at Randwick by the trainer
named, has recently raced again in
Maoriland, but without doing anything
to uphold the high opinion formed of
him by Australian handicappers.
* $ * *
Lockray is slow in returning to the
form he displayed at Randwick last
April and May. He has lately been
something of a tip, but that there was no
justification for it was shown when he
finished last in the Alfred Hill Handicap
with 8.7 (minimum 7.0) on New Year’s
Day. He was weighted at 8.7 for the
last Metropolitan and 8.5 for the Mel-
bourne Cup, so it will be gathered that
if he strikes the form that warranted
those imposts he should have little diffi-
culty in winning when so much more
favorably handicapped. At six years he
is not too old to return to his best.
* * *
Some jockeys who ride a lot of work
at various courses rarely get mounts in
races, and when they do it is generally
on something that has little chance. If
they appeal to a trainer to give them a
real chance they are likely to be met
with the reply that his owner prefers
another rider. In the circumstances it
is difficult for them to make ends meet,
and if they do a little “tip-slinging” it
is excusable.
* * * *
The yearling sales at Randwick are
not far off, and it is to be hoped that
buyers will include some men who could
really afford to race one or two, but
evidently regard it as much cheaper to
worry owners and trainers for “infor-
mation.” It is surprising the people who
sink their dignity—if they ever possessed
any—in this fashion on racecourses. The
possibility of a winning tip causes them
to be quite affable to men they would
scarcely condescend to recognise else-
where ; and, after all, a lip from an
owner or trainer does not put them on
a sure road to wealth.
* , * * *
One cannot help wondering to what
extent the new taxation and its method
of collection will hit racecourse attend-
ances and increase “off the course”
betting this year. The reduced pay en-
velope will, of necessity, cause many
people to lessen expenses, and some who
have hitherto gone racing on Saturdays
will probably decide that one way out
for them will be to cut out that cost,
and have a starting-price bet or two with
money saved from train fare and cost of
admission. Nothing is gained by being
pessimistic, but facts must be faced, and
owners and trainers should avail them-
selves to the fullest extent of prize-money
opportunities early this year. There is
no telling what may be their position
before its close.
* * * *
There was little in the way of out-
standing form during the recent four
days at Randwick. Rimveil and Yaralla
were really the exceptions, though
Trimmer made a good showing. The
first-named’s win in the Villiers Stakes
with weight-for-age proved him a rattling
miler, aild Yaralla was undeniably the
best two-year-old. Unluckily a hit in
an eye prevented Ensign showing his true
worth in the Chisholm Handicap, but
he strengthened his claim to be reckoned


q
'h
S H
*0
m
m
q
Solo Ag.nts ; JOUBERT Q. JQUBERT PTY. LTD.
fOR WWK M£N AND IVOMfN
Loss of vitality ami premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821, GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. I’riee
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
819 George St., Sydney
on
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
SAVE MONEY
IT'S
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
M NEw ii
CHAMPIONS
A
■i,. V.’ffiSS
•SS«>2
sss
Ilia
✓s
21!
- <S S^BSSS
/In Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
HCHAMPIDN
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring BETTER ACCELERATION
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
improve acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ly. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
... and more! Champions
save you money.
a high-class sprinter. Malagigi won two
handicaps, the Summer Cup very easily,
but weight-for-age completely stopped
him in Tatt.’s Cup in a field that was not
particularly strong.
Feminist was another winner of two
races, but in 8.2 she had 131 b. less than
w.f.a. in Tatt.’s Cup, and her form was
not better than when she won the 1938
Metropolitan with 7.11. All going well,
she will now be trained for distance
racing in the autumn, but as the handi-
cappers are sure to take care of her she
will, in order to add to her winning
record, have to show herself a better
weight-carrier than when she ran no-
where with 8.6 in the Caulfield Cup, and
did no better in the Melbourne Cup
with 8.3.
H-
The track was either very heavy at
last week’s meeting in Auckland or else
Royal Chief and Beau Vite must have
waited on each other nearly all the way
in the Clifford Plate, which the latter won
by a neck in 2.11 f for the mile and a
quarter. As Royal Chief was conceding
Beau Vite 31b. there will be very little
between them in the Wellington Cup
weights. Each will get his full load, and
Gladynev (third last year with 7.11), who
has gone over, may stand a good chance
of winning this time.
* * * #
Challenge Stakes and Anniversary
Handicap weights were issued on Mon-
day, and, though High Caste won the
former with 8.12, it will surprise me if
he is asked to tackle it this year with
10.8. Next to him are Beaulivre and
Gold Salute with 9.12, and as they have
done very little since they returned to
Randwick after a holiday it may be safe
to include them among the doubtful run-
ners. Trimmer and Ensign will meet on
the same terms as in the Chisholm Han-
dicap, and will be 51b. better off as com-
pared with Panchio. Caesar will meet
both 31b. worse than in the Chisholm
Handicap, and Petruchio will be 41b.
nearer them, but there is no doubt as to
his improvement. Penthides has his share
in 8.11, and of those above Bst. the best
may be Trimmer, Ensign and Petruchio.
Below that mark Tuhitarata, Waireka
(despite her recent failures), Gallant,
Winifred and Miss Pentheus may have as
good chances as any, but Ensign,
Trimmer, Petruchio, Tuhitarata and Gal-
lant impress me as a collection likely to
supply a couple of place-getters.
The Anniversary Handicap may prove
an easier race than Tattersaff’s Cup, but
Malagigi did not run well enough in the
latter to make me fancy him for the
Anniversary with the same weight, 9.1.
Feminist is up 101 b. for her Tattersall’s
Cup win, but may be more likely to im-
prove than Yours Truly, who meets her
41b. better. Marengo may be preferable
to either. He did nothing approaching a
distance preparation for Tattersall’s Cup,
and though he has 51b. more than in that
race he is up to weight.
St. Constant is favorably treated, but
the last furlong may trouble him, and,
while Veiled Threat, Kurrawid and Dollar
have little to carry, Tusculum may
be the best lightweight. He cannot be
recommended on his Summer Cup run,
but he did not show his true form in
that race, his poor display puzzling his
trainer as much as anyone else. Marengo,
Feminist and Tusculum may be best
worth taking as the second leg of a
double.
♦ * * *
The Associated Racing Clubs —Rose-
bery, Kensington and Ascot —could not
have made a better appointment than that
of H. Jenkins as secretary, in place of
J. Underhill, who retired recently.
Capable, energetic and not obsessed with
a sense of his own importance, he is sure
to be a success in his new position.
* * * ♦
Several country clubs are having a lean
time, and the Bega District J.C. deserved
a much better return than four starters
for the Bega Cup, with its £lOO prize-
money and £lO trophy. The winner
turned up in Le Rappa (Scintillation-
Moorcello), who earlier in the day was
last of three in the James Cochrane
Stakes, for which he started at 7 to 4 on.
At 5 to 2 he was third in demand for the
Cup, the favorite being Sailmaker (6 to
4), who ran last.
* * * *
Gay Lothario’s yearlings sold well in
Melbourne last season, and it is prob-
able they will be as much in demand this
year. That sire has been keeping him-
self well before buyers. At Moonee
Valley last Saturday he had winners in
Merridale, Alcmena and Procyon, and
in Perth Gay Prince had an easy win in
the mile and a half w.f.a. rac;, the C. B.
Cox Stakes. However, there were only
three starters, and things were made easy
for Gay Prince when the even-money
favorite Romanette stopped at the post.
* * * *
Old horses are having a good innings
in important handicaps in Australia this
season. In the Perth Cup Fernridge
added to the number, and he was not
only an outsider at 16 to 1 but made a
W.A. record of 3.24} for two miles. By
Fernkloof from Arctic, Fernridge is a
nine-year-old gelding, and has done a lot
of racing. He was a 65gns. yearling.
* * *
Increased taxation has already caused
many Melbourne racegoers to reduce
their betting expenditure. The tote turn-
over at Flemington on New Year’s Day
was £8034 less than on the corresponding
day the previous year.
* * * *
When the horses in the estate of the
late W. K. Sharpe were offered at Court
Manor Stud a few weeks ago 101 were
sold for $225,325, an average of $2231
(nearly £A67O). The highest-priced stal-
lion was the grey 10-year-old Gino
(Tetratema-Teresina) at $19,500 ; and the
most paid for a brood mare was $16,500
for six-year-old Sun Celerima (Sun
Briar-Celerima, by Teddy). Next came
Sun Dancer (Sun Briar-Masked Dancer)
at $10,500, and then Rivalry (Blandford-
Laura Dianti) at $BOOO. Another mare
realised $7900, and as others sold from
£AIOOO to £A2OOO, America evidently
furnishes a good market for well-bred
brood mares.
* * *
Maoriland-bred horses have won their
share of important handicaps in Aus-
tralia this season, their score including
Epsom Handicap (High Caste), Metro-
politan (Beau Vite), Caulfield Cup (Beau-
livre), Cantala Stakes (Gold Salute) and
A.J.C. Summer Cup (Malagigi). They
have also taken their share of w.f.a,
races, and, unless Ajax stands in the
way, should score well in those in the
autumn. Tidal Wave should be a danger
in the St. Legers.
* * * *
According to American writers racing
in that country was never in a more
flourishing condition. This is confirmed
by the fact that new clubs are starting
operations in various States. The latest
addition to the number in California is
the Golden Gate Turf Club, with its
racecourse near San Francisco. Its first
meeting, extending over 36 days, started
on December 28, the prize-money total-
ling approximately £A 132,000. A nine-
furlongs handicap of $50,000 was the
most valuable race of the fixture.
* * * *
If Beau Pere had gone to America he
would have been looked after by L. B.
Mayer, who intends breeding in a big
way. Subsequent to the success of the
French-bred horse Hunters Moon IV in
the Cesarewitch in England last October
he was bought by Mayer. Several valu-
able brood mares purchased in England
arrived in America at the end of last
year.
* * * *
America’s principal race for two-year-
old fillies is the Selima Stakes, run at
Laurel (Maryland). There were 11
starters when it was recently decided,
and Valdina Myth (Sortie-Sweep Myth)
won by a neck from Big Event. The
principal part of interest to Australians
may be the value of the prize. First
money was $23,580 (approximately
£A7090), second $2OOO, third $lOOO,
fourth $750. Although the track was
stated to be fast the mile took 1.41|.
* * * *
Australian trainers would like to be
rewarded in the same fashion as those
of America in connection with some im-
portant races. The Widener Stakes of
$50,000 will be run at Hialeah Park on
March 1, 1941, and the trainer of the
winner will receive a bonus of $5OOO
from the Miami Jockey Club. To en-
courage trainers to prepare their horses
for something more than sprint racing
trainers of each winner at distances be-
yond nine furlongs will receive the
following bonuses at Hialeah Park: Nine
and a half furlongs, $5O; mile and a
quarter, $100; 11 furlongs, $150; mile
and a half or further, $2OO. Up to the
middle of October 265 trainers had
applied for stabling accommodation at
Hialeah Park. That fact gives a fair
idea of the number of horses that will
compete at the 46 days’ meeting com-
mencing on January 8.
M.Q. and Rafferty
McLaughlin Beats Westbury
First Australian fight—of the pro-
moted variety —for the New Year was
the encounter on the morning of January
1 of Ron McLaughlin and Alan West-
bury at Newcastle. McLaughlin’s great
strength—he has the muscular and other
appearance of a recruit from a smithy —
stood to him in a splendid, hard-fought
battle. So did his left hand, with which
he hooked Westbury freely, sending him
down for “seven” in the eighth round
with a peach of a punch of this brand.
Westbury fought for the body, where
McLaughlin is extra-strong; about the
only time present scribe remembers see-
ing the tough Sydney lad on the canvas
was when Tod Morgan put him there
for the count with a left hook to the jaw.
McLaughlin won the Newcastle fight
comfortably on points, which should
mean a capacity house at Leichhardt if
they get them together there again. There
is some talk of matching them for the
Australian welter title, the rightful owner-
ship of which should soon be cleared up.
For the present Hockey Bennell seems
to have as fair a claim on it as anybody
else. The clearest way of settling it would
be to match Westbury and McLaughlin
again, winner to meet Hockey. It’s
alleged that Hockey has declined to meet
either Westbury or McLaughlin, but there
are always plenty of such allegations
flying round. And any who might be
getting the shirt off to put it on either
Alan or Ron might be well advised to
remember that Hockey never fails to put
up a good scrap when the title’s at stake.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia,
now touring the United States .)
With the season practically over, aver-
ages compiled by the P.G.A. make inter-
esting reading. Topped by Ben Hogan,
who played 71 rounds for an average of
70.63 a round, the list of 27 of the lead-
ing professionals stretches down to
Jimmy Thomson —his poorest year for
some time with 66 completed rounds for
a 74.07 average.
Others; Sam Snead, 58 rounds,
71.18 ; Byron Nelson, 47 rounds, 71.23 ;
Jimmy Demaret, 40 rounds, 71.57 ; Henry
Picard, 26 rounds, 71.84; Ed Oliver, 65
rounds, 71.86; Dick Metz, 57 rounds,
71.91 ; Craig Wood, 53 rounds, 71.92 ;
Ralph Guldahl, 60 rounds, 71.96;
Lawson Little, 57 rounds, 71.98.
The figures show how close and com-
petitive the game is in the United States.
Scores and distribution of prize-money
have been very close. Hogan, in leading
at this late stage, is also noteworthy in
that in his 71 rounds of tournament
golf since Jan. 1, 1940, he has never
failed to collect a cheque in any event he
has entered. Considering the strength of
the fields this is a most outstanding
achievement. Hogan’s fighting qualities
were prominent all through the year.
Fred Corcoran, P.G.A. tournament
manager, ventures the opinion that any
player who does the winter circuit
should make the tour on 1000 dollars.
Fred said; “Many times I have watched
with interest youngsters return empty-
handed and disheartened, only to spring
to the top in their home-secaon com-
petitions within a few months. During
the trip they gained something which did
not immediately show on the surface, nor
until they returned home did they get the
full benefit. To assume or even hope
that a professional entering the big-
money swing for the first time will reap a
harvest in prize-winning equal to the
amount his trip costs him is nothing short
of ridiculous ; the pace is too fast and
the quality of the players already
seasoned and established at the top too
high for a young star to hope for more
than a sideline glimpse of the winning
purse.” All very true. A young fellow
has to be unusually gifted to score favor-
ably against the topnotchers in these
events.
During the P.G.A.’s annual meeting in
Chicago the following resolution was
passed: “For the purpose of keeping the
official guidance of this association in
truly American hands it is proposed that
only those who are citizens of the United
States be permitted to hold executive
positions.” This ruling will have far-
reaching effects. It will hit many old
English and Scottish professionals who
hold high positions in the various U.S.A.
associations.
Ed (“Porky”) Oliver, who was disquali-
fied after tying for the open champion-
ship in June, has at last been admitted
to the P.G.A. Oliver had some differ-
ences with the body over how long he
spent as an assistant, but was able to
prove his eligibility—after the champion-
ship.
Miscellaneous
Rain played ducks and drakes with the
Melbourne patriotic match. The only
exciting feature of the batting was the
dismissal of Bradman for none and 12.
McCabe’s team won —nine for 449
(Barnes 137, Badcock 105 and Sievers
55 n. 0.) to the Bradman combination’s
205 and 141 (Hamence 73 and 35). For
the winners O’Reilly took nine for 94 and
Grimmett seven for 146.
* * * *
With so many calls for strenuous exer-
tion in other spheres, it seems incongru-
ous that a large party of young men
should push bikes furiously round a track
for six days ; but it happened in Sydney
last week, and about 8000 people (at 10s.,
ss. and 35.) saw the finish. Rogers and
Porter won; Brooking and Bloomfield
were second ; and Windon and Grieg
were third. The distance traversed was
1955 miles.


t * \o^
10-
x.
90
10
40
JAM®*'
A
I If Ait*. 'St/
ISH «■! w I
JiiL
CT|
.ft
• v - f;.
I Ijmti-'
i/-A: , A
If w / ■. i j
i :am i . - s
■
m 4 i
■
■■V
"AF
mi
■ a
-ii f
■is
I
7 : ;
■HI
■ii
«
SOLTINE
CLOTH
RE6i
m '
HMWi
■■
■ I
/
■
£
''
pgsiißis
\, -
N
■v vt:
Hi
I
BORN SHORN WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
THERE’S nothing like Soltine Cloth to keep you
cool and fresh through the heat of Summer. It’s
an exclusive fabric that breathes —lets the hot air
out and the cool air in. And, despite its lightness,
Soltine is strongly woven to tailor well. Each thread
has extra twists for extra strength and extra wear
so that a Soltine suit holds its shape without sagging
at the seat and bagging at the knees.
Next time you order a suit ask your store or tailor
to show you the smart new range of checks and
stripes and worsteds. You’ll find just the pattern
you’re wanting.
If unable to obtain, write to Box 489 G, Post Office,
Melbourne, or 3042NN, Post Office, Sydney, and Well
advise you where you can get Soltine Cloth.


BRANDALER’A
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKANDAOBH * CO, Ltd, SIKMINUHjLU. ENO
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—-
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1940, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1941; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, Etc., Insuring with
Any Insurance Company not Registered
in New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents for any
goods or property within the Sydney Fire
District, and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an
insurance company not registered in the State,
are hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales returns showing the amount
of such premiums paid by them in respect of
the said property to such insurance companies
during the year 1940.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1941; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for
every day of default.
Note.— Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act. „ _
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary,
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS
ARTBURSTS.
Australian Art in 1940
The year 1940 kicked off imposingly
with a big show of British painters at the
Sydney National Gallery. Conventional-
ists and “modernists” were both repre-
sented, and the Orpens most pleased those
people who hadn’t learned that Orpen
should be sneered at because he could
paint and draw.
Max Meldrum’s win in the 1939 Archi-
bald Prize competition was generally
applauded. Meldrum has stuck to his
guns with Scottish obstinacy through
years of discouragement, and his sincerity
is as unquestionable as the logic of his
principles.
A show of “Art for the Theatre and
Ballet” in Sydney demonstrated that this
field is almost entirely at the mercy of
the followers of Modigliani and Jacob
Epstein. A notable one-man show in
February, at the newly-instituted Jamie-
son Gallery, Sydney, was that of Norman
Lindsay, who, though he took to oils
seriously only a few years ago, is now
easily the foremost Australian practi-
tioner in those fields in which his talent
has most congenial scope. Lister Lister’s
annual show at Horderns’ gallery, Syd-
ney, demonstrated that the veteran is as
skilful and active as ever. That strange,
fanatical soul Vassilieff demonstrated
at Riddell’s, in Melbourne, his conver-
sion to yet another new style of painting
of his own invention.
The Australian Academy of Arts’ show
in Sydney was a broadminded affair with
all styles represented—even that of
Arnold Shore. Adelaide Society of Arts
put on an annual mainly memorable for
the excellence of Margaret Johnston’s
portraiture.
April brought a memorial show of
Gruner’s works at the Sydney National
Gallery, a splendidly representative show
that did justice to a notable painter. His-
torical pictures lent by the Common-
wealth edified Adelaide in May. Lively
happenings in the same month were a
show of John Frith’s remarkable plastic
caricatures at the Jamieson in Sydney
and a display of Adrian Lawlor’s cour-
ageous onslaughts at Melbourne Athe-
naeum. The month included a bright
show by the Australian Art Society in
Sydney.
“Retrospective” Max Meldrum and
James Quinn shows in Melbourne and
Mary Edwards’s showing of Oriental
portraits in Sydney were mid-year events
of note, and Sydney had also three group
shows —those of the Water-color Institute
(in which exhibits were sane but unexcit-
ing), the Contemporary Group (whose
pictures were exciting) and the Primitives,
these lattir being mostly people who
claimed never to have exhibited before
and who publicised their quaint naivete
in the interests of a patriotic cause.
Rupert Bunny’s show in Sydney
brought to light some work that recalled
this painter’s great days. The rest was
in his latter-day impressionist style, appre-
ciable only by the attuned. A show of
Nipponese “cultural objects” under offi-
cial Japanese auspices charmed every-
body.
A memorial show of Bill Mclnnes’s
work at Sydney National Gallery was
splendidly organised and particularly well
arranged—an eye-opener to Sydney folk
who had seen only a few Mclnnes por-
traits and didn’t know he was an all-
rounder. In October there was a show
of imported “contemporary art” in Syd-
ney which moved respecters of the
verities to very forceful objections. Sep
Power’s horses, dogs and ladies graced
Melbourne Athenaeum, and the Royal
Art Society in Sydney staged a show that
shocked nobody.
In November Sydney Gallery held a
show of European art, in which French
impressionists and post-impressionists
were contrasted with painters of politer
Eric Reiman, “Chips” Rafferty, Betty Bryant and Albert Winn in the
tiptop Australian film “Forty Thousand Horsemen,” at Sydney Mayfair.
schools. The most beautiful work was
signed by names Australia had never
heard of before.
The Fifteen Group in Sydney held a
show in which household names were
rife. Howard Ashton’s landscapes
created a lot of interest—he so seldom
exhibits. A Lionel Lindsay show near
the end of the year was chiefly notable
for fine etchings and woodcuts. Lesser
work than this has earned knighthoods
in Australia. Appropriately enough the
year wound up with a show of commer-
cial art —the only sort Australia will have
much money for in the stern days ahead.
* * * *
Vic. Nat. Gallery Students’ Show
This exhibition of pupils’ work at Mel-
bourne’s National Gallery comprises the
usual still-life and charcoal drawings
from cast and model and other studies.
These are hung in the new wing that has
just been added to the institution in
Swanston-street. H. Williams got the
Ramsay prize for a portrait of a man,
and the Bernard Hall prize of £5O for
the best portrait of the year went to
Irene Hill, who is now in the running
for Australia’s premier art prize, the
travelling scholarship.
AT THE TALKIES.
“North-west Passage”
An M.-G.-M. film, and as finished as
that firm can turn ’em out. Showing at
Sydney St. James, it’s a fine outdoor piece
filled in with plenty of vigorous action
and enhanced by rugged and often beau-
tiful mountain, river and forest scenery.
The story, covering the first part of the
book, deals with the expedition of one
Major Rogers and some 200 of his
“Rangers” to exact penalty from a tribe
of Indians for making too free with white
men’s scalps. The expedition—dragging
heavy whaleboats over hills, wading for
days waist-deep through swamps, the
relentless attack on the Indian village, the
terrible privations suffered by the remain-
ing fifty men on the return journey and
the rigid discipline enforced on the ex-
pedition by its leader to keep it together
—is arrestingly portrayed, and more
often than not with a striking degree of
realism.
Major Rogers is played by Spencer
Tracy with his usual quiet, natural act-
ing ; he is particularly suited to the role
in appearance, general bearing and man-
nerisms. Robert Young, as Tracy’s map-
maker, and bewchus Ruth Hussey provide
fleeting heart-interest and a striking pic-
torial scene towards the end of the film,
where the pair of them are watching
Tracy and his men march away. Walter
Brennan furnishes his customary excel-
lent portrait of a rugged old-timer, and
the rest of the cast fit their roles as if
made for them.
Apropos of the Commonwealth Film
Censor’s description as “too gruesome”
of a scene in the Australian film “Forty
Thousand Horsemen,” wherein a few
horses are shown falling during the Aus-
tralian Light Horse charge on Beersheba,
there are in “North-West Passage” several
scenes which are far more “gruesome”
than anything in the Australian film. For
instance, during the attack on the Indian
village one of the Rangers loses his
reason, and carries away with him the
head of an Indian wrapped in a piece of
cloth. Starvation and other privations
on the return journey culminate in his
rushing off into the bush and being
caught kneeling over the head and feed-
ing off it like an animal.
* * * *
“Pride and Prejudice,” at Sydney
Liberty, will make a fair light entertainer
for anybody who hasn’t read Pride and
Prejudice. Jane Austen’s whole appeal
lies in the charm of her prose and the
malicious precision of her characterisa-
tion: in the talkie, the prose, of course,
is gone ; and the characterisation, though
satisfying in Laurence Olivier’s Mr. Darcy,
Edmund Gwenn’s quietly humorous Mr.
Bennett and Greer Garson’s Elizabeth, is
marred by Edna May Oliver’s laborious
caricature of Lady Catherine and by
Mary Boland’s vulgar Mrs. Bennett.
Frills, girlish goings-on, the trials of
young love, and Mrs. Bennett’s search
for husbands for her five daughters. Mary
Boland is as much like an English gentle-
woman as Uncle Sam is like old Uncle
Tom Cobley.
* * *
Frank Hurley’s official film of the war
in the desert, showing at Sydney theatres,
has one amazing scene: a column of
Italian prisoners, thousand after thou-
sand of them, strung out over miles,
seemingly from horizon to horizon. That
is the only dramatic shot, though the
whole thing is intensely interesting: the
foul-looking duststorm, tanks and lorries
bumping across the open country, the
shattered walls of Sidi Barrani, piles of
captured war material, prisoners being
watered at a well sunk by the Roman
legions, more prisoners helping to un-
load supplies from a British ship and
looking thoroughly pleased with them-
selves to be out of the war.
* * * *
The Ritz Bros, are loose again, this
time in “Gaucho Nights,” at Sydney Capi-
tol. It’s a bright stretch of farce in their
usual vein—sheer tomfoolery, plus a dash
of pretty vicious satire. Their best effort
in this line is a song number, “Section
77b” —apparently a section of U.S. law
concerning bankruptcy. Cast in the same
film are the Andrew Sisters, a singing
trio with a loose screw or two, and so
making ideal company for the worthy
brothers.
* * * *
Printed here (B. 11 /12/ ’4O) that Sydney’s
new Globe newsreel theatrette was a
Hoyts’ concern. The management has
since stated that the Globe is an inde-
pendent house, and supports the state-
ment with an exclusive showing of some
Pathe gazettes of the brutal and wanton
damage done to Coventry by German
bombers. Frank Hurley’s Sidi Barrani
films are also showing, together with the
customary shorts and other newsreels. A
good bill.
* * * *
Most current bills at the moment are
considerably enlivened by good shorts,
particularly Disney shorts. A revival of
four of them at the Lyceum to support
“Snow White” would bear inspection at
any time, and a couple of new Disney
efforts are showing at the Regent and
Plaza. “Bone Trouble,” at the Plaza, is
good Disney, which is saying a lot; “Put-
Put Trouble,” at the Regent, is even better
Disney than usual. It has Professor
Donald Duck in considerable pother with
an outboard motor and Goofy, the
hound, tangling himself into a steel
spring coil and testing the laughing appa-
ratus of the audience to the limit. At
Sydney St. James, supporting “North-
west Passage,” there’s an engaging
M.-G.-M. cartoon dealing with the ad-
ventures of a certain swaggie flea and the
tyke on whose back he chooses to camp.
Also a rib-tester.


PUBLIC NOTICE
♦
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
wishes to advise its friends that following twenty-
two years of trading throughout the Commonwealth,
the name of the Company has been changed to
CALTEX
LIMITED
The Control and Management under Caltex Limited
will remain the same in every respect, as it was
under the Texas Company (Australasia) Ltd., and
at the same addresses in each State.
Caltex Limited will continue the marketing and
distribution of the popular Power Chief Motor
Spirit, Texaco Motor Oils, Texaco Industrial Oils
and Greases, Light of the Age Kerosene, and Super-
power Kerosene.
CALTEX LIMITED
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Papua’s New Administrator
“Gain”: Papua having been consider-
ably developed and become a possession
which it is vital to hold, the status of
its official head has been reduced from
that of a Lieutenant-Governor to an
Administrator.
It is the poorest-paid post of its mag-
nitude in the British Empire ; the man
who holds it now draws a mere £l5OO a
year. Even the burnt-out bit of useless
Africa called British Somaliland boasted
a Governor who drew £lBOO a year, an
amount also paid to the Governor of the
Falkland Islands. Most of the West
Indian and Central African Excellencies
draw from £2500 to £4OO0 —the latter
sum is paid for the job in Tanganyika,
which is not nearly so important as
Papua from an Empire viewpoint.
British Governors, too, have the pros-
pect of transfer and promotion in front
of them. The Administrators of New
Guinea and Papua are at a dead end.
A few days before his illustrious uncle
Gilbert Murray was given the Order of
Merit in the Birthday Honor list, Hubert
Leonard Murray, C.8.E., stepped into the
Papuan job which had been held by his
other uncle, Hubert Murray, the elder,
for 32 years—a record period of tenure
in such a job for the whole Empire.
Murray is a rare specimen among Ad-
ministrators in that he was trained on
the spot for the position and enters upon
it knowing thoroughly the country, its
language and its people. He is an old
Fort-street boy from Sydney, and after
four or five years in the Customs went to
Papua in 1909 as private secertary to his
uncle. In 1916 he was promoted to be
official secretary. Member of the
Executive and Legislative Councils for
some years, he married a daughter of
Justice Herbert.
Murray’s reputation with the native is
not so great as that of his predecessor,
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor, not
to members of the staff personally.
The Muse aroused:
A.H.:
Adolf, Adolf, give me your answer do,
I’m half-crazy to know what’s become of you.
It’s only a mild conjecture,
And I s’pose I’ll get a lecture,
But I guess you look grand, standing hand—in—hand
In Hades, the Devil and you.
E.E.:
Herr Hitler, I say, is awaiting the day
When Satan and Judas —the traitor —
Appealing in state at the Devil’s own gate
Will welcome the world’s greatest hater.
P.O.: No fire in that rain Berkshire:
No cadency sublime our soul o’erpowered....
L.K..W.: Roll swag, with poem securely in
middle; take track for dear old shack where
pines and pawpaws grow... .H.R.N.: The
usual M.E.; Doggerel T.R.; Not this
time M.N.L.D.: You can’t rhyme “among”
and “sun” A.D.8.: Clumsy patches spoil
it M.M.: Prose W.J.: Nothing original
about “Evening Thoughts”... .J.P.W.: Try a
woman’s paper... .T.G.N.: “Secret Informa-
tion” censored by the office boy... .C.D.A.:
Why don’t you take to crossword puzzles or
something?... .8.R.; “Wayward Women” not
allowed on the premises D.L.R.: “Test
Flight” finished in the w.p.b C.R.L.: We
began to wonder whether it was a story written
in Latin with English quotations or vice versa.
H.T.: Call for the body D.A.L.: It’s
a shame that such things should happen to
“one so young and beautiful”... .C.H.C.: That
philosophical swagman has worn out a dozen
Bulletin doormats... .8.E.E.: Cut it by more
than half and come again J.J.S.:
“Prestige” tarnished R. 8.: Well, why not
write about the farm? E.W.: John Henry is a
dull clod M.D.; Not that one; keep trying.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.F.L.: When it comes to scratching you
could give any hen an easy walloping
R. 8.: Your hand is still too heavy; also it’s
as well not to give all of eight figures the
same nose,.. .James L.: Take a look at a
present-day motor-car sometime, and try again.
. ...J.E.: Linework too harsh... .R.H.: Why
should the horse be leaning against the hay-
stack while the farmer pokes a stick down a
hole? 8.P.: You’ve given your doctor
enough lines of worry on his brow to suggest
that he screws his hat 0n....M.M.: Most
artistic were the beautifully clear fingerprints.
W.M.: Such sound drawing justified situ-
ations and gags less feeble... .D.N.: Drawing
“dashed off in ten minutes” proved so dashed
bad it was dashed into w.p.b. in lOsec
E.A.P.; But wouldn’t he have to get up on
tiptoes to pat the dog you’ve given him?
8.G.: Linework too timorous; draw with a
defiant air for a change and see what result
looks like S.R.: Look to your anatomy.
but he knows his work, has helped to
frame most of the legislation which he is
to operate, has a cool head and a friendly
nature and the advantage of believing
that Papua is the centre of the earth.
On Emira Island
“Kaloa”: The Germans picked a good
spot on which to land the captives of
their raiders in Emira Island, which
Dampier christened Squally Island in
1700 and the Germans later called Sturm.
It lies in the Ysobel Channel, just off
the north of New Ireland and New Han-
over, and about 60 miles from Kaewieng,
where, in “the German time,” the brutal
Bulowinski reigned with a ruthlessness
and cruelty which would have delighted
Herr Himmler and other distinguished
compatriots.
Emira is about the last outpost before
the Marshalls, of which Louis Becke
wrote more than a little. It is the usual
large coral extrusion of those regions. A
little over a degree south of the Equator,
it is eight miles long, low, undulating,
with a certain amount of timber grow-
ing on the raised reef of which it is
formed
Round about it are newer reefs and
small islands, their shores lazily awash.
Northward can be seen the 2000 ft. peak
of Mt. Eunainaun on Mussau, an island
of about 160 square miles and 15 miles
away, one of the wildest and least de-
veloped spots it is possible to imagine.
The climate of Emira is a sample of
the rest of outer equatorial New Guinea.
The island sits in its surf fringe like a
green-yolked poached egg in a dull mass
of molten lead which passes for sea in
those parts.
On the horizon the strange masses of
the tropic horizon writhe and twist them-
selves ever changingly into the most
fantastic shapes.
Now and then the gourier shakes it,
and quick, savage rain showers lash the
inhabitants, though there are only one
white planter and his family and a few
native coconut and taro growers to enjoy
the climate. The natives are gifted canoe-
builders and loom-weavers.
Tho rasfawavs were luckv to get away
The.castaways were: mcxy to get away
so quickly. There would certainly
been deaths if they had been compelled
to remain for lons
“Tlrl”- Rrkhnnp T nd Mavor’s “Christ-
Lid . Brisbane Lua Mayor S ,
mas message to his people included a
plea to them to fork out rates and arrears,
if any, so that the city might be made a
“better place to live in.” In view of
the council’s sorry financial perform-
ance, and in view of what Mr. Forgan
Smith’s Government is taking from rate-
payers, and in view of what the Federal
Treasurer has just done to their pay
envelopes, I should say that Brisbane
people are pretty well satisfied with their
city as it is.
* * , * *„ . 0
The Commonwealth Government has
suddenly remembered W. L. Payne and
Fletcher, the commissioner who sug-
gested a scheme of administration and
development for the Northern Territory.
It was a very good scheme, but it did
not please clerical and other pastoral m-
terests, so it was pigeonholed. Now the
neglected pair have received 0.8.E5.,
decorations which were ladled out to
clerks and typists in the last war.
* * * *
“F.S.” on an annual exodus: —•
This js the season w hen every second artist
j n jvielbourne gets the wanderlust look in his
eye. Within the space of a half-hour’s walk
around the city I met one who was off to New
Guineaj another who was going to Centra i
Queensland per caravan, and another who was
arra nging camel transport from Alice Springs
to the country back of the Hermannsbuig
Mission. One of the Melbourne pilgrims told
me that he could fed absolutely nothing in
front of the Victorian landscape, but when he
tQ £ en t ra i Australia the beauty of those
f or bidding ranges made him almost swoon with
ecstasy.


SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR GIRLS
River Road, Greenwich, North Shore,
and
Moss Vale.
For girls of all ages from Sub-Primary to
Leaving Certificate Honours. The schools are
ideally situated, excellent cuisine, qualified
mistresses, good examination results. The
school at Moss Vale is in 381 acres, with
special facilities for hockey, tennis and riding.
Apply to Headmistress at Schools.
KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of 3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles
of kidney tubes and filters become clogged
with poisonous waste and the danger of acid
poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and
may be the beginning of nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles, puf-
flness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Frequent or scanty passages, with
smarting and burning, show there is some-
thing wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 2T feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters.
Don’t delay 1 Ask your chemist or store
for DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS ...
used successfully the world over by millions
of people. They give quick relief and will
help to flush out the 15 MILES of kidney
tubes. GET DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS at your chemist or store,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
With a tale of heroic endurance flying
like a banner of glory before them, the
survivors of the Pacific raiders’ terror-
ism arrived in Sydney. Over 5000 waited
outside the station for more than an
hour to cheer the victims of the sea war
on women and children as they left
Central.
The courage of the women caught in
this disaster cannot be too highly praised.
The pathetic little bundles in which men,
women and children carried the remainder
of their belongings raised a lump in every
onlooker’s throat. The amazing thing
about this arrival was the cheerfulness
of the survivors. They laughed as they
tumbled out of the train. They waved
hats and native spears. Even the wounded
refused to be downhearted. They were
taken to St. Vincent’s; the well were
driven off to hotels and boarding-houses.
W.A.S.Cs. were busy serving refresh-
ments from the moment the train drew
into the platform. Lord and Lady
Gowrie were there to greet the arrivals ;
so were Senator Foil, Treasurer Fadden
and Attorney-General Manning.
New Year’s Eve revellers drained the
1940 brew to the dregs and in city and
suburb contrived to get a kick out of it.
King’s Cross put on the motley, and
all the beaches from Palm Beach to
Bondi had their fun. Dwellers on the
north side could make a night of it at
Luna Park. Here at midnight was a
rich and multicolored fireworks display
—like tumbling fountains of crystal, like
the opening of some deep red rose. And
yet, and yet, it did seem, after doing the
rounds, that the fun was a rather painted,
cardboard affair, that Sydney’s heart was
with her kin across the waters.
New Year’s Eve was a grand time at
the W.A.S.C. (Women’s All Services Can-
teen). This is on one of the lower ramps
of Central, and from early afternoon
everything was so cheery and bright, with
rainbow streamers crisscrossing the ceil-
ing and red and yellow', blue and green
balloons bobbing everywhere, that you
could understand the soldier caller, a
little bit under the season, who said to
the O.C. as he gazed at the incline of the
floor: “Say, captain, is that the floor, or
is it me?” He was reassured and stood
up to the long counter for his cup of tea
“out of the pot, please.” Members of the
W.A.S.C. have learned that the boys don’t
like cups of tea poured out of urns, so out
of the pot it always is.
A small army in yellow overalls was
busy serving and preparing for the
night’s feast. Turkeys by the dozen were
in storage at the butcher’s opposite.
Hams were ready to be cut. There was
a great case filled with jam-rolls ; a
woman helper was deftly turning out
pasty, flaky and light. A small moun-
tain of bread was already cut for sand-
wiches. There is not a scrap wasted.
Even the crusts and the cut-off pieces of
bread are saved for the Pyrmont soup
kitchen. On arrival there they are
toasted and cut into sippets. The big
dish of the evening was to be the haggis.
This was carried in at midnight by
Commandant Mrs. King-Patrick, who
organised the W.A.S.C. In good Scots
style the haggis was piped in.
“Major” Jeayes was Patrol Officer on
New Year’s Eve. She told that in
the five or six months the canteen has
been going the police have never
had to be called in to keep order.
The soldiers are lambs once they
enter the door. Some of them sing and
some of them play and some just sleep
while waiting for their trains. If any of
them has a minor accident it is attended
to in the tiny clinic. Here there is always
a qualified woman in charge. Already
the little first-aid station has treated 5000
cases. When you recollect that there are
4000 helpers, that is not so astounding,
but it must be very comforting to the
woman who gets a cut or a burnt finger
to know it is being properly dressed.
C.U.S.A., St. Andrew’s, the Anzac
Buffet, as well as all other places of sol-
dier refreshment and entertainment, made
quite a feature of their New Year’s Eve
merry-making. Mothers and wives all
over Australia must bless the women run-
ning these soldier canteens for their un-
remitting sympathy and cheeriness for
the soldier lads, many of whom are far
from their homes.
The smartest dance on New Year’s Eve
was the one at Redleaf to benefit the
King George V Memorial Hospital. Red-
leaf, brilliant with lights above a star-
lit stretch of harbor, was ideal setting
for the bubble of spirits, the swish of
rich frocking. There were nine hostesses,
and the dance, which started at nine
o’clock, went on till two. Mrs. H. D.
O’Connell’s white taffeta frock with pink
roses climbing on a trellis of amethyst
was among the admired. It was worthy
of the great silver platter of shortbread
which, as president, she bore in at mid-
night to the skirl of the pipes. The piper
marched round the room, speeding the
old year out and welcoming 1941. At
midnight there was a blackout, cut across
for a fleeting moment by Father Time.
White was worn by Mrs. Rex Money
and by Sheila Tonkin. Ivory white and
spreading were Sheila’s moires. Mrs.
C. H. Buchanan’s water-blue taffetas were
among the admired.
Lotte Lehmann again this Christmas
remembered to send her good wishes, in
several cases accompanied by gifts, to the
various institutions that had evoked her
special interest when she was in Aus-
tralia. As usual the huge iced cake went
to the T.B. soldiers at Randwick ; and the
Salvation Army Aged Men’s Retreat at
Box Hill, Melbourne, received its big
parcel of smokes.
In the first week of this New Year
the tax man has done some sloshing with
his axe. Well, wfiat if daddy has begun
on his Gandhi-rib diet and mother wil!
be inevitably compelled to a strip-tease
act? Australians are hardy, and the sun
shines most of the year. So forward to
a brave New Year.
O.C. Entertainments W.A.S.C. smiles
from this Peter Pan photograph. She
is Mrs. A. F. Cameron, of Vaucluse,
and whether in uniform or summery hat
and frock her dominating thought is the
welfare of the W.A.S.C. Not only is Mrs.
Cameron responsible for organising the
canteen concerts to entertain the guests
in uniform ; it is her job to keep a round
of card parties, dances and other money-
makers going to help the canteen
finances. Under her guidance, auxili-
aries, younger groups and friends have
raised over £5OO. Over the Christmas
and New Year holidays the canteen has
been particularly bright with song and
sketch. Minnie Love and Marie Ormis-
ton were two very popular artists.
Miriam Edwards, who was Miriam
Hyde, in celebration of Christmas
brought out a small book of verse. It
is called A Few Poems, and there are
13 sets of verse. They are gentle and
sometimes lyrical, and tinged with wist-
fulness. Miriam, who is a clever pianist
and composer, is at her best when her
muse utters eulogy of music. The small
book is clearly printed and published
by the Economy Press, of Adelaide, the
writer’s home town. At present she is
there spending Christmas vacation with
her people.
Faith Macarthur Onslow arrived at
the Rose Bay air base in good time to
welcome her Ivan Lloyd Phillips when
he arrived from abroad by flying boat.
Ivan is a member of the Colonial
Administration Service in Palestine and
has now three months’ leave. The big
event of the furlough is his wedding next
Saturday to Faith, whose father was
Brigadier-General Macarthur Onslow of
Camden. The wedding will not, how-
ever, take place in this Onslow strong-
hold, but at the fashionable St. Mark’s
at Darling Point. Bride’s mother will
follow up with a reception at Redleaf,
Double Bay.
All the way from Hollywood, from
Australia’s old friends ’cellist Lauri and
pianist Dorothy Kennedy, come a reck-
less-looking Irish terrier and a spray of
holly, red with berry, set in a frosty blue
night sifted with stars. “A Happy New
Year!” they say.
There’s still time to buy votes for
Marie Ormiston and make her the
“Queen of the Fighting Forces.” These
tickets give you a chance to win prizes,
including a Morris roadster valued at
£243, a diamond pendant, a refrigerator
and a wireless set. Secretary Eileen
McLennan feels confident of Marie’s suc-
cess. Among other schemes to raise the
wind is a novel show, “Stars of Yester-
day and Tomorrow.” This will be pre-
sented at the Radiotorium in George-
street. The names of the committee are
those of stars of the entertainment
world, starting with president Minnie
Love and organiser Myra Dempsey. Ray-
mond Sawyer’s was the camera that made
this picture of Marie.
Pianist Dorothy Beattie had this letter
the other day from a niece in London:
You must be very worried about us over
here, so this is to tell you that the chances
of getting a direct hit are as remote as getting
a direct hit from the pigeons flying over
Trafalgar Square. Kev. has just been home
on a week’s leave. He must have missed the
flicks and the theatres, as most of these close
in the evenings. We are all very cheerful, and
the Master of the House, after much kicking
on our part, has eventually persuaded us all
to sleep downstairs. Dad, Nellie and I sleep
on camp beds in the shelter. Mummy sleeps
with her head in the housemaid’s cupboard
and her feet in the kitchen. It makes me
mad to see all the lovely places in London
which have been bombed, but when one sees
the size and vitality of London one knows it
will never be razed to the ground. I start work
again this week on a mobile canteen, and I
have offered my little flat [she is a war bride,
and the flat has never been lived in] to house
some of the poor, homeless people from the
East End. The last time I went down to see
Nigel [soldier husband] it took me 17 hours
to get from Canterbury to London, and I
travelled by one seedy train, a navy lorry, six
trams, foot slogging, and a tube. I can look
back at it all now and laugh, and though I
will forget the bombs popping all round me,
I know that I will never forget the chivalry
of a Tommy Atkins who carried my heavy
suitcase for me, and threw me flat in the street
and insisted on protecting me with his body
when the bombs were thickest. One came down
five yards from us —but didn’t explode!
What woman would not crave a frock
in a shade with so romantic a name
as moon rose? A fashion expert says it
is to be one of our autumn tints. It is
a mixture of crushed strawberry and a
dash of lavender. Skirts are on the up
and up, and 17 inches from the ground
is considered the smart length. A
fashion writer in a New York paper
pretends to foresee the revival of the
fashions of the 1920’5. A look at any
old illustrations will remind that woman
then apparently had no waistline at all.
She just had that tunicked-to-the-knee
look. That, after all the waist-reducing
exercises woman all over the world had
been doing, and still is doing with mili-
tary drill and one thing and another,
would never be again received with
womanly cheers. Pigskin buttons for
coats seem a good notion in a time
when even the metal button might be
better employed smacking one of the
Nazi boys. Pleats and tucks and drapes
are on every afternoon and evening
frock, though not necessarily all at the
same time.
Already thousands of Sydney citizens
have crowded to see Charlie Chaplin’s
“Great Dictator.” It is both funny and
clever. Strangely enough, it is the women
who laugh most heartily at the absurd bit
where Benzino and Adenoid (the two dic-
tators) keep turning the barber chairs
higher and higher so that each may be
able to look down on the other. Adenoid
racing out between inspecting bullet-
proof suits and parachute hats, answer-
ing telephone calls and dictating treaties,
to give the waiting painter and sculptor
a one-minute’s sitting for their works of
art, is a bit that will send artists into
guffaws. The picture has its bitter-sweet,
too, in the love story of the little Jew
barber and his Hannah.
Back in Sydney are the E. P. Holling-
dales and daughters Nadine and Pat. In
the three years they have been away the
world’s face has somewhat changed, but
not the cheerful smile of England,
declares Mrs. Hollingdale. The family,
too, arrived with a smile still intact in
spite of their lovely old furniture and
pictures having been blown up two days
before they were to have been shipped
for Australia. Another Hollingdale
daughter, Mrs. A. Bankoff, whose hus-
band is head surgeon at the St. John
and Elizabeth Hospital in London, has
remained in England with baby daughter
Alexandra, who was born in Canada.
Suzanne, only daughter of Dr. F. W.
Traill, of Woollahra, and her husband,
Forbes Officer, plan to live on the North
Shore line. Pymble will be their address,
and that’s not so far removed from
Wahroonga, which was the ’groom’s
home suburb. St. Stephen’s, in Mac-
quarie-street, gave its blessing at 11
o’clock on a morning of last week. Suit-
able to the hour and the weather were
the bride’s white crepe frock and white
felt hat. This was of the halo order,
its brim gaining a wedding-garment effect
from its edging of stiffened net.
A friend in London tells that Seymour
Hicks, who is doing a giant’s work in
keeping the man (and woman, too) in
uniform, on leave in London, in gay
mood, has given that city a new theatre.
It is called the Uniform Theatre, and it’s
just the Garrick under a new sign. The
point is that the uniformed person enter-
ing here cannot pay more than eighteen-
pence, and may pay much less. The
shows put on are of the variety mixing,
and it has a three-shows-a-day bill with
all the best artists, Seymour included.
Margaretta Scott, Dorothy Ward, and the
well-known-to-Australia Mark Ham-
bourg are a few of its well-knowns.
Seymour Hicks has shown what a grand
person the English actor can be. Since
the outbreak he has been busy organ-
ising concert parties for soldiers in camp,
and for the ordinary man and woman
of England, who can all do with his brand
of fun.
From Cincinnati last week came greet-
ings from singer Marie Houston. She
chose a novel design for her card. On
a dull red background are three silver
gramophone records. Behind these rise
holly leaf and berry, and three burning
silver candles with much overflow of
red wax. That page says “Merry
Christmas.” Opened up, the inside sheet
shows a giddy spin of the records spat-
tering silver quavers and semiquavers.
This page in silver letters wishes “Happy
New Year from Marie Houston, who
would like to sing for you, on records,
all through the year.” If that’s not a
neat wedding of sociability and business,
what is? Anyway, Marie’s is one of
those crystal-clear voices that go well
with all the seasons and can be listened
to with joy even before breakfast.
A letter from New York tells that
Sydney’s old friends De Basil’s Ballet
Russe are having success at the Fifty-
first-street theatre. Among programme
favorites is “Graduation Ball,” which
had its premiere in the Theatre Royal,
here. Backed by a group of ballet en-
thusiasts (enthusiasm ran to a cool
hundred or so each), David Lichine was
able to produce this madcap romp
set in a young ladies’ finishing
school. Sydney liked the brew when
it was served here. New York has a
special commendation for Tatiana Ria-
bouchinska. Eric Landerer, too, is picked
out for his playing of the piano music
in “Paganini.” Jascha Heifetz was filling
the Carnegie Hall, and Kirsten Flagstad
still had her place in the sun.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .... 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
6GE
Geraldton 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Personal and Missing Friends.
Would JOHN BORAN, one time of Adelaide,
a brother of James Boran, deceased, or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, please communi-
cate with Public Trustee, Pirie Street, Adelaide?
Estate of Bridget Covil.
Any persons having information regarding
the relatives of Bridget Covil, nee Dogherty,
are requested to communicate with the District
Public Trustee, Public Trust Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Will NORMAN AUSTIN CHARLES BOOTLE,
late of Gulgong, N.S.W., Solicitor, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with R. H. Nelson, Solicitor, Box 25 Dubbo,
N.S.W.?
Divorce Notices.
TO JOSEPH CLEMENT PALMER formerly
of Wellington in New Zealand but now
of parts unknown Chemist’s Assistant.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at New Plymouth citing you to
appear and answer the Petition of STELLA
MARY PALMER of Matapu near Hawera
in New Zealand wherein she prays for a divorce
from you on the grounds that a Deed of
Separation was entered into between you on
the sth day of February 1937 and has con-
tinued in full force and effect down to the
present time and such Citation intimates that
in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and to pro-
nounce sentence thereon notwithstanding your
absence.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within 45
days after the date of this publication to
attend in person or by your Solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at New Plymouth and
there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will
be supplied to you on your applying for the
same at the Supreme Court office at New Ply-
mouth.
Dated at New Plymouth this 17th day of
December, 1940.
(L.s.) L. W. LOUISSON,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
RICHARD JOHN O’DEA is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service is
at the office of St. Leger Harold Reeves,
Esquire, Solicitor, Brougham Street, New Ply-
mouth, in New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
The year 1940 was given a quieter fare-
well than its predecessors. There were
parties in plenty, but few were formal.
Some hotels in town were quiet and didn’t
spread themselves out for dancing ; others
were fairly bright, and there were
enough uniforms about to give the even-
ing momentum. The usual crowd who
scream and blow tin whistles possessed
St. Kilda waterfront in a chilly wind and
a shower of rain. To go to the other
extreme the lavish homes at Portsea were
practically all occupied by their owners.
Few houses to let at hills or beaches were
untenanted over the holidays, though
some held fire till the last moment. Only
a short time ago cancellations of hotel
bookings were rampant, the new Budget
being the cause. The economy problem
adjusted itself, but the general impres-
sion was that elderly people and children
formed the biggest percentage of holiday
visitors.
Among the very few New Year’s Eve
dances held for worthy causes was a
bright do at Woodlands Golf Club, which
club is the nucleus of a solid little war
job. Early in the war members and asso-
ciates went into conference and formed
themselves into a recognised patriotic
fund so that they could choose the reci-
pients for the money they raise. They
had collected £7OO at the end of the old
year. Of this £3OO was used to pay for
100 beds for Red Shield House. The
Woodlands golfers also sent £25 worth
of Christmas hampers off to the troops
on service. The women baked cakes,
sliced up sandwiches and cajoled pals to
play bridge in one another’s homes. There
were golf competitions and innumerable
putting and other fancy fixtures. The
sum, which grew steadily bit by bit, is
a credit to a club that’s by no means
wealthy.
It would have taken a lot more than
the afternoon’s pouring rain and plunge
backwards into winter to have spoiled
the wedding of Sunday Wenman and
Keith Johns. After the ceremony in All
Saints’, East St. Kilda, the little villa
behind the petunia boxes in Elwood that
is the Wenman home was taxed beyond
imagination, but the scrum added to the
fun. The overflow carried its drinks into
passage or kitchen or Sunday’s bedroom,
where suitcases labelled for the Spirit of
Progress were being battened down, and
where a pastel-blue frock and a headpiece
like a proboscis of flowers were waiting,
to be exchanged with the cream taffeta
wedding gown. There was no formality
about the party, but all the good-fellow-
ship that’s part and parcel of theatrical
life.
Sunday’s mother, whom everybody
knows as “Floss,” produced as if by
magic a spread fit for a king, practically
everything made by her own fair hands
except the wedding-cake, a picturesque
white and gold edifice baked and iced by
Geelong friends, Mrs. H. Russell and
Mrs. E. L. Peers. Papa “Chas.” Wenman,
looking cherubic as always, received
plenty of compliments upon his family
and handed out a bouquet to his sister-
in-law Maggie Dickinson (his first Cin-
derella), looking very well indeed in tea-
rose-pink lace. Another identity of the
stage in the last war was Alyse Wyatt,
handsome and imposing in all black and
dangly fringes. Jennie Brenan was there
and the George Dickensons with Lynette,
whose silk frock was figured in cute little
sailor hats. She didn’t emphasise the
novelty act with a sailor upon her head,
but her blue turban suited her.
In a sergeant’s uniform was the bride’s
uncle, George Dickinson. An absentee
who sent a wire was Norman Cossar,
of Adelaide, whose wife had for escort
a very young son. Their present was a
picnic hamper basket containing every-
thing, even cottage linen. Among the
wires was one from Nurse Ryan in
Queensland. She was the children’s
nurse when they were babies, and accord-
ing to Floss “she used to bath them in
that tub we’ve made the fruitcup in.”
Afterwards she was passed along to Mrs.
C. N. Finn for Paddy and Joan, two more
attractive girls who were at the wedding
with their mamma. An unexpected
present for matron-of-honor Mrs. Dudley
Barr, which with its simple message of
affection nearly made the beautiful
Patricia ruin her make-up, was a diminu-
tive clock, no larger than a man’s wrist
watch. It came from Maggie Dickinson.
A New Year’s week wedding took
place at Christ Church, South Yarra,
when Gwen Morton, elder daughter of
Cr, and Mrs. E. L. Morton, kept a morn-
ing appointment with Lieut. Robert
Rennie Smith. Like many other war
marriages, the ceremony was hurriedly
arranged, Gwen was in town collecting
her frock and buying her shoes a bare
quarter of an hour before Canon C. H.
Murray was prepared to perform his
duties as officiating padre. But the bride,
who is the soul of efficiency, arrived safely
at the altar with her white hat at the
correct angle and dewy gardenias upon
her shoulder only ten minutes late. She’s
a young woman with plenty of brains
and a degree of Master of Science.
The ’groom, who is an old boy of
Geelong College and of Ormond, also
has a science degree ; the romance began
when he and Gwen were at the Univer-
sity. Bob, who is the only son of the
late Brigadier-General Robert Smith and
of Mrs. Smith, of Geelong, comman-
deered as best man the services of Lieut.
A. R. Smith, no relation, but a pal of
solid standing and a comrade at arms in
the same regiment, the 2nd Anti-Aircraft.
The bride’s sister, Mrs. Russell Clark,
was matron of honor. After the wedding
Cr. and Mrs. Morton gave a small lun-
cheon at the Windsor, at which there
were toasts and speeches in plenty. The
newly-married pair left for an unknown
honeymoon destination, the only clue to
their choice in the matter being a surf-
board tied on to their car.
Herewith an Antoine portrait of
Heather, twin daughter of Dr. J. H. Slee-
man, of Portland, who In her home town
this week was married to Charles For-
rester, erstwhile of Toorak, now a Flight-
Lieut. in the R.A.A.F. stationed at Rath-
mines (N.S.W.). Heather, like the rest of
her sisters, has fair hair and blue eyes.
She has a talent for painting miniatures.
Red Shield House occupies an im-
portant place in the scheme of things for
the comfort of troops in town. It’s the
Salvation Army’s hostel and canteen in
the wilds of upper Little Bourke-street.
Within its precincts the men of the three
services who mix there quite happily can
ease up in the matter of apparel. No-
body minds if they take off their coats
and sit in their singlets on a hot day.
They can also bring in their wives or girl
pals for a snack or meal at the canteen.
The lads with sore toes are appreciative
of a chiropodist’s services during week-
ends and on Wednesday evenings, and
those with torn clothes can get them
mended on the spot. When the need is
urgent the man in distress disappears
into a dressing-room and passes out his
pants through a door to the fairy god-
mother of the institution, Mrs. F.
Walters, who has a sewing-machine
handy. There’s also a pressing-room
for the men’s use, from which they
emerge so spruced up that they hardly
know themselves reflected in the shop
windows.
There are a billiard-table, several out-
fits of table tennis, a library, plenty of
easy chairs, etc. The men can get break-
fast till noon, at which hour dinner comes
on, for one of the best things about the
institution is that the lads aren’t rooted
out of their beds at a given tick of the
clock. They can lie there and have their
sleep out; no one complains. Mr. Walters
is on duty from 7 a.m. until 10 p.m., and
from then onwards a night-watchman is
on the job to let in the night owls. The
usual shilling covers a bed, towels, soap,
hot showers. There's no ostentation
about the house with its 203 grey-
blanketed beds, but there are home com-
forts there in plenty.
Though the Salvation Army bears the
brunt of the work and responsibility, a
spot of outside help is much appreciated.
Woodlands Golf Club associates run a
roster for helpers every Saturday morn-
ing. Girls from several insurance cos.
cover their typewriters at five and take
turns at the canteen. The 1.C.1. girls
also assist, and so do the unattacheds.
From this body of helpers are drawn
the reliable pair who are on tap every
Monday at crack of dawn to cook early
arrivals breakfasts. The Comforts Fund
assists with the rent of the canteen, whicn
adjoins the three-storeyed hostel.
Pictured here by an Athol Shmith
f t, f ,.i t r, or
S r 1 n r w ain Y Ih ic w n wri l
of Group-Captain and Mrs. H. N. Wng-
ley. Pam helps in the canteen at Air
Force House, and enjoys the summer for
the sake of her favorite sport, swimming.
°
Her father, who is the member for per-
sonnel on the Air Board, was awarded a
C. at the New Year.
Out of the New Year honors bag came
perks for politicians, academic minds,
law and medicine, men of initiative and
organising ability, two artists, a padre,
welfare workers of both sexes, business-
men, statisticians, the A.B.C. and some
plain honest blokes who do their jobs to
the best of their ability. Still there are
thousands just as honest and worthy who
will never get anything. Regarding those
who do the most useful work many re-
search scientists are peering down their
microscopes unheralded and unsung, and
are likely to stay in just that position—
neither big salaries nor decorations come
their way very often.
Dameries didn’t come to Australia this
trip. Although a Dame’s a high and rare
honor, while knights’ ladies are as plenti-
ful as sparrows in an apricot-tree, it’s
doubtful if the latter are envious of the
rara avis. Some charming women have
been made Dames, but there’s a sugges-
tion of a battle-axe about the word that
calls for much femininity to counter.
There’s not much to be said for knight-
hoods, but they are possibly useful as a
means of encouraging charity. People
with handles to their names get good
service from waiters and bellhops, but
they say they’re expected to tip better
than anyone else. The waiters and the
b.hs. agree about the expectations, but
not the realisation. “You never know,”
one replied when questioned on the point.
“Sometimes they tip less, sometimes not
at all.”
Among popular New Year honors is
the knighthood bestowed upon Colonel
Constantine Trent Champion de Cres-
pigny. That he owns such a bagful of
names and gets away with them speaks
a lot for his personality. In addition he
owns the right to tag on to his signature
D. V.D., M.D., F.R.C.P. He’s the
vice-president of the College of
Physicians of Australia and Dean of the
Faculty of Medicine of Adelaide Uni-
versity. He possesses a keen wit and a
large library, and an instructed taste for
literature.
Among Melbourne artists Lionel Lind-
say’s knighthood is popular. The Harold
Clapp couple kept their New Year deco-
ration a secret from their family, sons
Bob and Harold and daughter Mrs. Geoff
Smith, until 1940 had only an hour or
two to run. Numerous friends in and
out of the Air Force are pleased with
baubles bestowed upon Lieut.-Colonel
Guy Moore, Wing-Commander E. C.
Wackett and Wing-Commander Allan
Hepburn. Another good scout who’ll
have an order pinned upon his chest is
Flying Doctor Clyde Fenton, who sent
the famous telegram of one word to the
Commonwealth Government when it re-
fused to provide him with a new ’plane.
He got his ’plane ; in fact, he got two.
Dr. Clyde Fenton and C. R. Herschell
might be bracketed together in the New
Year honors ; the Flying Doctor received
an 0.8. E. and the man who was largely
responsible for making his flying genius
available to the outback got a C.B.E.
Herschell founded the Victorian section
of the Australian Aerial Medical Ser-
vices which produced the flying-doctor
service, and his enthusiasm has kept the
service largely the pet of Victorians ever
since. Another bit of pioneering he did
was the Great Ocean Road which runs
from Geelong to Lome, hanging on to
the cliffs by its eyebrows. He founded
the trust which built the road by tolls
after the Government had jibbed at the
notion.
Among feminine recipients of honors
are Mrs. Abe Harris, of Melbourne, and
Miss E. Quigley, of the Brisbane Hotel,
Launceston. Though Mrs. Harris is best
known as a worker for Jewish charities
other deserving causes have counted her
among their staunchest workers for a
number of years. Miss Quigley, who is
something of a personality in Tasmania,
has a heart of gold to balance her excel-
lent business head.
Irene Vanbrugh, who can now call her-
self Dame, is one of the few distinguished
women who don’t mind telling you their
age—hers is 69. Reason is that she was
sensible enough not to resort to artificial
aids to maintain the illusion of youth
and charm when she became too old for
glamorous parts. She was 52 when she
last visited Australia with husband Dion
Boucicault, and the two paired in “Aren’t
We All?” “The Truth About Blayd’s”
and “The Notorious Mrs. Ebbsmith.”
Younger women got the leading role, but
she continued to hypnotise audiences
while playing middle-aged women with
nothing to do but knit and murmur odds
and ends of conversation.
Tom Playford, Premier of S.A., in-
viting his predecessors to lunch, had as
guests Barwell, Lionel Hill, Butler and
Richards. Only Richards remains in
politics, and Gunn and Vaughan have
been long absent from S.A.
The headmaster of one of Mel-
bourne’s public schools, recuperating
after speech day by tramping over the
Gippsland mountains, ran against an artist
friend at work on a landscape. “What
do you think of it?” asked the painter,
pointing to the view of distant hills and
valleys and near-by pastures. “The love-
liest landscape I’ve ever seen,” said the
pedagogue. “I like it so much that I’ll
buy it from you.” “What is it
that particularly appeals to you?” asked
the artist. “Fifty miles of country and
not a parent in sight!” sighed the school-
man ecstatically.


LET
ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN
ft. Ml w
V\vi\\v jju\y v v r i V.V \ wZy'o* „
Established 1808 in Keigrn of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager,
Oueensla:d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch; Wayinouth Street, Adelaide
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Berth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Victoria i d nokman TEENE RY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
THE SERVICE MAN
Australians in Hardies.
“Bk Dum”: General Wavell chose
New Year’s Day for the beginning of
the final attack on Bardia, where 30,000
to 40,000 of the remnants of Italian divi-
sions had taken to the concrete fastnesses
which Graziani built and gunned for
defence as one of the first preparations
for the attack on Egypt.
Meantime, the troops who had taken
part in the last battle were rested. Lines
of communication with Mersa Matruh
railhead were consolidated, and supplies
and artillery brought up and placed in
position. At the same time advance
troops , went beyond Bardia and tied up
the Italian lines of communication, and
the Royal Navy, the R.A.F. and the
R.A.A.F. kept the defenders and their
supporters occupied.
First, there was heavy artillery prepara-
tion from sea, land and air, concentrat-
ing on the outer ring of defences. In
these preliminaries, Australian Gladiators
particularly distinguished themselves.
Eight of them met five Italian bombers
and 45 fighters while spotting for the
artillery. One wing of Italians showed a
clean pair of heels ; the other was forced
into a dogfight, which saw an Italian
bomber and a fighter brought down.
Another small Gladiator formation shot
down two out of a formation of 45
Italians and damaged four others so
badly that there was little chance of their
getting home.
In three weeks the Imperial Air Forces
wrecked 200 Italian machines at the cost
of 20 of their own ’planes, from which
most of the pilots have been saved. The
British and Australian squadrons estab-
lished complete ascendancy in the air and
drove the enemy from all main aero-
dromes nearer than Derna and Benghazi,
which are more than half an hour’s flying
to the west. This placed the British at a
great advantage in their preliminary
attacks on Bardia.
On Jan. 2 Rome Radio suggested that a
full-scale battle for Bardia had developed.
Next day, British headquarters at Cairo
announced that just before dawn Austra-
lian troops, supported by tank divisions,
had penetrated a section of the Bardia
defences. The communique was as terse
as most of those which emanate from
General Wavell’s headquarters.
The news came as a surprise. General
Blarney was that day in Palestine listen-
ing to Mr. Percy Spender, who “brought
greetings from your Prime Minister and
fellow-Australians” to the troops.
Nevertheless, details showed that the
main infantry blow against the forts had
actually been administered by the A.l.F.’s
crack Sixth Division under the fighting
Iven Mackay, who in the last war was
a constant worry to his superiors from
his habit of always being in the front
line where fire was heaviest.
On Friday morning it was bitterly cold
as the division, which had been in the
front line several days, lay to arms.
’Planes roared overhead in the dawn
with their cargoes of bombs. Battleships
and monitors released their broadsides in
a continuous roar. Heavy artillery land-
ward and eastward thundered as the chorus
of an almost continuous 24-hour batter-
ing reached its four-hour culmination.
Destroyers snaked through the smoke
into Bardia harbor, where one of them
sank a ship and captured another, while
desultory Italian shells screamed over-
head to fall into the sea. Daylight saw
long lines of Italian armored transport
and tanks on the western road being
battered out of existence.
In Bardia itself there was littlp sign
of life. The nerve-shocked soldiers of
the garrison huddled deep in their ice-
cold dugouts. On Thursday evening their
spirited artillery defence had seemed to die.
Suddenly the R.A.F. squadrons, save
for spotting ’planeS, swooped off to the
west, where British patrols were already
making contact with Italian outposts
round Tobruk, and marines of the Free
French forces were stabbing at the
coastal road.
Warships and artillery moved their
ranges inwards to let the dust settle and
give visibility for attacking troops. The
defenders, peeping over their mangled
parapets, saw the rocking noses of the
new fast, heavy British tanks crunching
over barbed wire and such barriers as
might obstruct the infantry.
In their wake the armored transports
of the A.I.F. Sixth Division swept up
from the south-west, breaking through
the tangle of smashed wire and virtually
taking the fort in the rear.
As the Australians reached the ring of
screening pillboxes and machine-gun
posts they hurtled from their vehicles,
stripped to shorts and singlets.
With bayonet and hand grenade they
hurled themselves irresistibly through the
Italian outer defences “like a whirl-
wind.” Posts crumbled. Italians went
down in droves before the charge. They
were overrun and trampled under as the
yelling waves of Aussies passed over
them with a shearing eastward movement
which gouged a way deep into the de-
fences. The charge turned south again
towards the outer edges of Italian
ground, herding and crushing Graziani’s
men backwards on an anvil of established
British and Australian positions.
Our casualties were light—under 500
killed and wounded, it was announced
in Melbourne on Monday. The on-
slaught was so sudden and terrific that
the enemy had little chance to resist. He
quickly learned, as many a foe of the
British and the Diggers had learned
before him, the terrible power of the
charging bayonet.
Into the gaps made by the initial
attack, fresh British troops were poured.
Before the impetus of the movement
had slowed up, large masses of Italians
were cut off, a defence ring two miles
deep into the heart of Bardia and nine
miles long, covering a large part of the
zone of possible escape from the be-
leaguered port, had been completely
occupied and 25,000 more Italians were
in the hands of the Army of the Nile,
of which nearly 8000 were included in
the spoils of a mere 13,000 to 15,000
assaulting A.I.F. troops.
For all practical purposes Bardia was
in British hands after the A.I.F. attack.
Friday, January 3, 1941, has been added
to the historic dates on Australia’s roll
of battle honors. General Berganzoli,
G.O.C. in Bardia, and four other senior
generals were among the captives ; the
town was surrendered at 1.30 p.m. on
January 5.
The official British communique gave
the A.I.F. credit for showing “great
dash,” and Mr. Churchill praised the
“magnificent manner” of their fighting
and spoke of the achievement as “a fine
feat of arms.”
It is only the beginning. The A.I.F.
with the rest of the Army of the Nile
will soon roll on to face the last battles
for Libya, which may be fought at
Tobruk, after which the road will be
open to Tripoli on the west and to Addis
Ababa in the east.
Mussolini’s African empire has almost
ceased to be. He can remain on the
Dark Continent only so long as General
Wavell is pleased to tolerate his presence.
He is evidently to have such help as
German airmen can give, but that will
not save his African empire, nor can
the transfer of U-boats to the Mediter-
ranean save it.
Pacific Raiders.
On New Year’s Eve it was announced
that the R.A.N. and the R.A.A.F. had
rescued 503 victims of German raiders
who had been deposited by their captors
on Emira Island. Emira is in the de-
feoceless mandated territory, only 70
miles from Kaevieng, which holds a large
white Australian population.
The prisoners included 70 women and
seven children, some wounded. They
came from ships which had disappeared
over several months: among them were
the five lost off Nauru early in Decem-
ber, the 16,000-ton Maoriland passenger
liner Rangitane, reported missing at the
end of November, the Holmwood and the
French New Caledonian steamer Notou.
The story of the castaways was not
easy for the public to sort out. Masses
of conflicting stuff appeared in the
dailies, and the confusion was increased
by a private war between the depart-
ments controlled by Mr. Hughes and
Mr. McEwen, which seem to have agreed
only on one point—that the £198,000
Information Department wasn’t to come
into the picture. Sifted from the mass,
however, the stories of some of the wit-
nesses captains in particular gave a
fairly clear idea of the extent, methods,
efficiency and ruthlessness of the raiders.
The first ship to go was the Turakina.
She had the usual one after-gun allowed
by the Hague Conventions and inter-
national law. When the raider was
sighted off the M.L. coast on Aug. 20
Captain Laird wirelessed his position in
defiance of the Germans and set out to
fight.
For 2\ hours he kept up the unequal
contest. He and 33 members of his gal-
lant crew went down with the ship. The
rest —23 —are still prisoners.
The Notou was next; then, among
known ships, the Holmwood. Her qpp-
tain declared that she never had a
chance. She was sunk on Nov. 25 by
gunfire, after officers, crew and passen-
gers—they included children—had been
transferred to the raider.
At 3 a.m. on Nov. 27 Captain Miller,
of the Holmwood, heard an alarm
sound. Then a heavy gun fired. A
German sentry said that the Rangitane
was being attacked. Presently the cap-
tain and officers of the Rangitane were
conducted into the bowels of the raider.
The scene was 320 miles off the Maori-
land coast. In the early light the Rangi-
tane’s captain had seen sinister-looking
ships which began to throw out the long
beams of their searchlights. Captain Up-
ton —an R.N.R. man —ordered a wire-
less message to be sent out: “Suspicious
vessels sighted.” The raiders immedi-
ately fired. The Rangitane laid her one
gun but could not fire.
Shells crashed through the wireless
cabin, putting the main transmitter out
of action. While the operator, F. Nor-
man, tried to mend it, the rest of the
wireless crew rigged up an emergency set.
The ship was by this time receiving
a heavy battering, but for the sake of
the passengers the captain withheld his
fire, fearing that if he replied to the
raider he would be torpedoed and that
there would be heavy loss of life.
The bridge was wrecked. People were
being killed and wounded, but passen-
gers and crew alike behaved calmly.
Then a motor-launch raced alongside
and told the captain to hurry “before the
’planes came,” which meant that the
distress signal had got safely away.
The remaining ship’s complement were
taken aboard one of the raiders.
The group of raiders reached the
neighborhood of Nauru. Two were
flying Japanese colors and had Japanese
flags painted on their sides. The third
was the Narvik.
The prisoners were mainly battened
down in limited accommodation in the
holds, and much of their food was poor
and sour. On one ship the women were
brought up while a dead girl was buried.
On December 8 there were seven ships
off Nauru. From one ship a young
honeymoon couple sent a wireless mes-
sage announcing that they were on the
point of reaching home.
The captain of the Komata, a 3600-
ton freighter, told the story of
what followed. It was a morning of
drizzling rain. About a mile and a
half away he saw what seemed to be an
8000-ton Japanese ship. Near by was
a smaller ship, about 4000 tons, which
drew up signalling “Don’t use your
wireless.” The captain gave the order
for a distress signal. At once a shell
crashed into his bows —the range was
almost point-blank. The wireless mast
and the bridge went in succeeding con-
cussions.
The captain found himself lying on
the deck pitted with shrapnel wounds.
The first mate, who had been standing
beside him, had been blown to pieces ;
the second officer, L. Lloyd Hughes, a
Maorilander whose home is in Sydney,
afterwards died of wounds.
Thirty-two survivors, dazed and
shocked, climbed into the lifeboat. The
captain and four others were taken to
the 8000-ton ship which bore the name
Tokyo Maru, had a Japanese flag
painted on her side, and appeared to be
the supply ship of the smaller raider,
Manyo Maru, called the Black Panther.
Already the captains of three other
ships from Nauru waters were there —
those of the Vinni, Triadic and Triaster.
There was a difference of opinion as to
the treatment accorded prisoners. The
captains seemed to agree that they were
treated with as much consideration as
the congested quarters, food shortage and
general conditions would allow. But in a
4000-ton ship without passenger accom-
modation there were 150 prisoners and
a crew of 200. The stench between
decks was horrible and the black bread
was sodden and bewhiskered.
For five days after the Komata was
sunk the raiders remained at sea travel-
ling 14 or 15 miles apart at night but
coming closer in daylight. On Thursday,
December 12, the smaller one put in at
an island, remained there for a day and
then sailed back to Nauru. The captain
of the Tokyo Mam proposed to his five
captive commanders that two should be
sent ashore at Nauru with a white flag
to instruct the shore staff not to use their
wireless and to arrange for the landing
of all the prisoners there.
Later the German said that the weather
was too bad to put into Nauru, but that
he had found another island that would
serve, and which he called Sturm —the
old German name for Emira, a transla-
tion of Dampier’s Squally Island. He
was polite about it, and passed round
the whisky bottle.
On December 20 the ship sailed round
a little, low patch of coral with an
emerald crown. Germans landed.
Next morning the prisoners from the
8000-ton Tokyo Maru were taken ashore,
but the Black Panther had disappeared
over the horizon. She took her prisoners
with her —about 200 of them, it was
thought. On December 27 Nauru was
shelled.
The Germans on the larger ship left
their prisoners with a chart and a life-
boat, and warned them not to start for
Kaevieng for 24 hours. Meantime, Mr.
Cook, the planter on the island, sent his
boys for a fast launch which he had in
harbor 18 miles away.
The prisoners, exhausted, hungry, some
wounded, many ill and unused to either
the tropics or an open-air life, lay round
listlessly while four captains got palm-
leaf shelters built and secured food.
Captain Hopkins and the sawmill man-
ager, Mr. Collitt, set off for Kaevieng in
New Ireland. On Christmas Eve, as the
sun was sinking, the Government launch
Leander arrived with provisions and a
doctor. On Christmas morning the
schooner Shamrock turned up. In the
afternoon a flying-boat came to take off
the captains. Rescue was on the way.
Before long the captives were spread
over the cities and hospitals of the Aus-
tralian coast, all except some of the Nor-
wegians from the Vinni, who were trans-
lated swiftly to Hong Kong.
From the stories of the survivors,
several facts emerge clearly. One is that
several German raiders, well equipped,
are at large in the Pacific. The second
is that these raiders have sources of in-
formation in Australia and Maoriland
which are both prompt and accurate in
advising the sea murderers of the where-
abouts of ships. The third is that the
coasts of Australia and Maoriland have
been so little defended that the raiders


Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by correspon-
dence *
ENGINEERING COURSES: Motor
Mechanics, Fitting and Machining, Engineer-
ing Trades Drawing, Engine Driving, Boiler
Attendants, Diesel Engine Operation, Suction
(Producer) Gas.
TRADE COURSES: Electrical Trades (Elec-
trician’s License), Carpentry and Joinery,
Building
PRINTING COURSES: Composing, Printers’
English and Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
SANITATION COURSES; Sewer Plumbing,
Water Plumbing, House Drainage.
RURAL COURSES: Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Wool Classing, Station Bookkeep-
ing, Farm Science, Farm Arithmetic, Farm
Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL AND SECRETARIAL
COURSES: Accountancy, Auditing, Com-
mercial Law, Bookkeeping, Business Prin-
ciples, Shorthand, Commercial Correspon-
ART COURSES: Ticket and Showcard Writ-
ing, Dressmakers’ Art, Elementary Art.
HOME HANDICRAFTS COURSES: Dress-
making and Millinery.
CERTIFICATE COURSES; Health, Meat and
Food Inspection, Local Government and
Shire Clerks.
PUBLIC EXAMINATION COURSES: Nurses’
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists and
Intermediate Certificate.
SECONDARY COURSES; English, Mathe-
matics and Mechanics (to Leaving Certificate
standard).
OPEN TO ALL WHO CANNOT PERSON-
ALLY ATTEND EVENING CLASSES AT
SYDNEY OR COUNTRY TECHNICAL
COLLEGES.
FEES
25/- a year or 10/- a term: Single subjects.
Half fees to students under 21 years and re-
ceiving less than 30/- weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Secretary, Correspondence Teaching
Division, Sydney Technical College, Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the correspondence
course.
Name
Address
B.
KITCHING’S
TRAVEL Goods Specialists.
Military TOILET SETS
PRICE:
42'-
OTHERS:
32/6 to 70/-
MONET
BELTS.
6/6 to 9/6.
WET PACKS,
12/6 & 25/-
MIRBOBS,
Stainless
Steel,
2/6 and 3/-
Free
Dellverj
to all
Suburbs.
q
VERY NEAT AND HANDY
Comprising:—Hair Brushes, Clothes and
Shaving Brushes, Containers for Toilet and
Shaving Soap and Tooth Brush, also Steel
Mirror, Comb, Ftfe, Scissors, and Safety
Razor. In a beautiful Solid Leather Case,
with Zip Fastener Attached.
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
319 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY. 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
have time and again approached them to
take their prey without feeling appre-
hensive.
The Fired Cities.
“Ek Dum”: For 89 hours England
had a respite before the barbarians re-
turned in force, which they did on the
night of Dec. 29. They chose the City of
London —the “square mile” —for their
target.
The City in peace-time is the least popu-
lous part of London at night; but there
and then you can find newspapermen,
employees of the markets, the railways
and the bus system; and big shelters
are established.
The streets are narrow and tortuous, full
of dead-ends, and many are difficult of
access for big fire engines and ladders.
In late December, when the sun sets at
4 p.m. and does not rise again till 8 a.m.,
St. Paul’s Churchyard seems abandoned.
The Germans went in for a develop-
ment of R.A.F. methods applied to a
different kind of target—the train of
machines, heavily-loaded, flying at short
intervals, crisscrossing and methodically
dropping incendiaries on the target. The
attack was intense for an hour, and per-
sisted in a milder form for three hours
afterwards, but it did not reach its usual
second phase—the blasting of the burn-
ing buildings with high explosive.
Though vast damage was done,
none by the widest stretch of
imagination could be called military. The
big railway stations —Liverpool-street,
Cannon-street, Broad-street, Moorgate—
are intact. The General Post Office in
St. Martin’s-le-Grand, not far from St.
Paul’s, was untouched. But streets and
churches, warehouses and shops, the halls
of the ancient guilds and blocks of flats
round St. Paul’s Churchyard were gutted
over an area which reached from the
Minories—a street which runs from Aid-
gate towards the Tower —to Salisbury-
place, off Fleet-street, where Australian
newspapers have their offices under the
tall, white steeple of St. Bride’s, in which
Pepys was christened, and Gough-square,
where Samuel Johnson lived.
Trinity House, home of the light-
house and pilotage authority, the “Guild
of the Most Glorious and Un-
dividable Trinity, and of St. Clement
in the parish of Deptford Strond,”
was gutted. The Guildhall is a ravaged
shell. The quiet yard with its sanded
paving, its pigeons and its champing
horses and gleaming carriages is just
hollow walls. About all of the building
itself which has been saved seems to have
been the most ancient part —the front
which has stood for over 500 years.
The Great Hall where Lord Mayors
and Sheriffs are elected, with its statues
of great Englishmen and its two Queen
Anne effigies of Gog and Magog, is burnt
out. The fine art gallery, the modern
aldermen’s court and the council chamber
were almost completely destroyed ; but
all this will rise again.
The Lord Mayor’s Church of St. Laur-
ence Jewry, which stands at the corner of
Guildhall Yard, was a victim —the fire
which burnt the Guildhall spread from it.
It was a Wren church decorated with
priceless carvings by Grinling Gibbons.
St. Bride’s Church—Milton lived beside
its churchyard, and Fleet-street attends
it when feeling religious—4s another rum.
St. Paul’s narrowly escaped ; the lead on
its roof was melted by the heat. The
not-very-beautiful conglomeration of
buildings round the cathedral is mostly
smouldering heaps of rubbish.
Fog came down next day over lit-
tered streets and sodden pavements, across
which the hoses snaked as the bone-
weary firemen gradually beat down a
series of conflagrations which might
have laid waste the City as completely
as did the Great Fire of 1666.
Into the ruined quarter through the
smoke and the steam, picking their way
among the heaps of broken glass and
tumbled masonry in an atmosphere in
which it was possible to see only a few
feet ahead, city workers came next
morning.
As they emerged from their tubes or
buses, no matter from what direction, a
ghastly scene confronted them. The
little central area round which cluster the
Bank of England, the Mansion House
and the Stock Exchange was almost un-
damaged, but all who travelled west of
here must have had the illusion of hav-
ing stepped into Pompeii the day after
its destruction. Travellers from Moor-
gate Station and Liverpool-street found
the broad highway of Fore-street, which
runs into Moorgate near Finsbury Circus
on the east, blocked. The ancient St.
Giles Cripplegate at its west end—one
of the London churches bombed in
August—was flattened out. Conditions
have been compared to those of blasted
Rotterdam in the quarter-mile-square
block which holds the Guildhall and
which is bounded on the north by Fore-
street and London Wall, on the south
by Watling-street, on the east by Old
Jewry and Coleman-street and on the
west by Aldersgate-street, St. Martin’s-
le-Grand and Paul’s Churchyard.
This is the very heart of historic
London —Basinghall-street; Wood-street,
the street of “Poor Susan” ; Bread-street,
where Milton and Governor Phillip
were born ; Milk-street, birthplace of Sir
Thomas More; Aldermanbury, where
Judge Jeffreys lies buried ; Friday-street;
Watling-street, which became a thorough-
fare in Roman days ; Paternoster Row,
in which is Stationers’ Hall. Doctors
Commons were near here ; much else of
Shakspeare land and Dickens land, all
the greatest scenes in London medieval
history and pageantry. Wellington, Nel-
son, Kitchener, Roberts, every British
hero, every king and queen, every great
British and Dominion statesman has
traversed it to receive the City’s honors.
Fortunately the weather became so
bad that on the last two days of the
old year the Germans were compelled
to hold off. But on the night of New
Year’s Day they were at it again, and
there was damage over a wide area of
London, while 1500 Royal Engineers and
wreckers tore down or blew over teeter-
ing walls and cleared the debris from
the streets.
The last wall had not fallen before a
meeting at the Mansion House discussed
the plans for rebuilding the Guildhall
and other important buildings. And a
huge recruiting campaign for roof-
watchers and fire-fighters has begun to
provide against future fire-fiend tactics.
At the same time, the moment the
Channel fogs lifted the R.A.F. set out
for a practical revenge. Inside the first
hour of a 3i-hour attack 20,000 fire-
bombs were dropped on Bremen docks,
mills, oil plants and the Focke-Wulf air-
frame factory. The Germans reported
that British ’planes had bombed three
localities in the north, damaging indus-
trial works and killing five persons,
though fires could be seen from the air
for over 120 miles.
Twice more the R.A.F. went back to
Bremen and left the whole of its indus-
trial quarters a smoking ruin. They set
fires burning in Cologne and Brest and
round other occupied ports, and blasted
the naval port of Emden for the twenty-
ninth time. And they followed the retir-
ing Italian Air Force from the Channel
and again pasted Taranto and Naples
and Palermo, the great city of Sicily.
All this despite heavy snowfalls and a
wicked Continental blizzard, reported as
the worst for years.
This is better—during the week to
Dec. 22 merchant shipping losses were
43,000 tons. The November weekly
average was 86,000 tons.
* * * *
The fourth contingent of R.A.A.F.
trainees has reached Canada. They are
a versatile and representative lot —one
played Rugby Union for Australia,
another is a noted buckjump rider and
the rest include operatic singers, civil
engineers and sheep-breeders. They will
need all their versatility to ward off the
Canadian January cold, which sinks
occasionally to 40 below in Winnipeg.
* * * ’»
Of 35,163 recruits accepted for the
R.A.A.F. last year, 10,519 volunteered
during the week in which Paris fell and
Italy came in. The same thing happened
during the last war; July, a bad Gal-
lipoli mgn(h, brought the greatest num-
ber of A.I.F. men (36,575) enlisted in any
month ; and August (25,714) was the next
best month. It will be interesting to
notice the effect of Bardia, now that
A.I.F. recruiting is about to be resumed.
Victory and defeat alike stir the imagi-
nation.
sf: Jfc ♦ ♦
Parts of Eire were bombed last week,
with loss of life and damage to property.
Magnetic mines attached to parachutes
were also dropped. The Dublin Govern-
ment has protested and asked for repara-
tions. Berlin Radio says Germany will
give “a clear and unmistakable answer.”
* * ♦ ♦
Escorted to her anchorage by South
African bombers, the Queen Elizabeth
has arrived at Cape Town, via Trinidad,
without having sighted an enemy ship.
Her “ultimate destination” has “not been
disclosed.”
* * * *
General Priccolo, Commandant of the
Regia Aeronautica, announces that, save
for a single group, Italian ’planes now
in the English Channel region will be
withdrawn and used for intensive attacks
on Greece. Another Italian official de-
clares that German ’planes which have
arrived in Italy will be used to bomb
British shipping in the Mediterranean.
♦ * ♦ ♦
On June 2, 1939, the British submarine
Thetis was sunk on her trials off Llan-
dudno with the loss of 99 lives, and one
of the messages of condolence came from
Hitler. Raised from the deep, recondi-
tioned and rechristened Thunderbolt, she
sank an Italian sub. the other day.
* * * *
Though the Greek front has been
plunged in snow and ice, there has been
a good deal of fighting. The Italians are
making desperate efforts to avoid the dis-
aster which would be involved by the
capture of Valona. On Jan. 3 German
mechanised forces were reported at Elba-
san, and German dive bombers were
declared to be taking part in the Italo-
Greek campaign. The reports have not
been confirmed officially. Germany is
not at war with Greece ; the German
Embassy is still open in Athens, and Ger-
man citizens go about their businesses in
various Greek cities. The Berlin account
is that the dispatch of German ’planes
to Italy does not imply any change in
formal diplomatic relations with Greece.
* * * *
Some U-boat commander seems to
have blundered in the Atlantic on Dec.
19, when the big French submarine Sfax
and the naval tanker Rhone, 2785 tons,
were sunk on their way from Casablanca
to Dakar, 74 seamen going down with
them. No British submarine was within
500 miles of the area where the ships
were attacked.
The Air War Day by Day.
Dec. 31-Jan. 1; A few attacks on
Britain by isolated ’planes ; otherwise all
quiet. R.A.F. raids Cologne and Low
Countries ; objectives included factories,
Emmerich bridge and various dockyards ;
two British machines lost.
Italians claim to have bombed
Salonika, Prevesa and airports of Janina
and Kotzani; also that a British ’plane
was shot down when “formations flew
over southern Italy dropping rockets.”
R.A.F. bombs ships in Taranto, 11
bombs bursting round target; also
Naples and Palermo (Sicily).
Increased activity on Bardia front, in-
cluding appearance of small formations
of Italian bombers covered by 10-to-l
escorts of fighters.
Jan. 1-2; German raids on London
resumed; heavy damage over wide area.
West Midlands raided for first time for
10 days, and attacks over Liverpool and
Merseyside continue for several hours.
Berlin claims to have scored direct hit
on Essex armament factory.
German ’planes drop bombs near
Drogheda in Eire,
R.A.F. begins raids on Bremen in re-
prisal for Sunday’s attempt to burn
London, dropping 20,000 incendiary
bombs which cause fires over a wide
area. Air Ministry reports “definite
military objectives hit,” including docks
and warehouses and Focke-.Wulf bomber
and fighter factory.
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. join in pre-
liminaries for attempt to take Bardia.
Several raids on Italian fortress, port
and communications, and aerodromes
further to the west in Libya. All
Libyan aerodromes west of Benghazi—
-150 miles from Egyptian border —now
under British control.
Italian Air Commander Priccolo
announces that German ’planes will
operate from bases in Italy and that all
Italian ’planes save one group will return
from the English Channel.
For 23rd time R.A.F. bombs Durazzo
(Albania); one Italian and one British
’plane lost. Greeks bomb troop columns
south of Valona, blow up ammuni-
tion dump and destroy large numbers
of Italian troops near Pogradek.
Jan. 2-3; Long and heavy raid on
Cardiff; theatres, shops and commercial
buildings damaged; many killed and
wounded. Damage small from desultory
bombings in other parts of Britain.
Germans claim several successful raids
with small formations.
For third successive night Germans
bomb Eire. De Valera protests to
Germany.
R.A.F, continues reprisal raids on
Bremen, despite blinding snowstorms.
Ships and dockyards, warehouses, rail-
ways and shipbuilding and submarine
yards severely damaged. Emden attacked
for 29th time and visits paid to Flushing,
Ostend and Brest. All ’planes return.
Further R.A.F. and R.A.A.F. activity
during development of attack on Bardia.
Derna and Tobruk attacked, grounded
’plane wrecked, several others damaged.
German air formations arrive in Italy.
Jan. 3-4: Hundreds of high explosive
and incendiary bombs dropped on
Bristol; Germans claim also to have
attacked several other towns, including
Southampton. Only one small raid,
which killed a man and two women,
over London suburbs.
R.A.F. continues destruction of
Bremen, large portions of which are now
a blazing ruin. It blasts Elbasan
(Albania), where German mechanised
units are reported to have arrived. First
German ’planes take part in Greek war,
fighting under Italian colors.
Attacks on Italian Libyan aerodromes
and on Bardia lines and fortifications
continue.
Jan. 4-5: Air-raid casualties in Britain
for seven months to the end of Novem-
ber: 19,545 killed, 25,570 wounded.
Raids on Britain throughout night mainly
on west-of-England town —number killed
and wounded, fires started, some
damage ; raids also on South Wales, light
damage and casualties.
Industrial portion of Bremen reported
a smoking ruin. Brest twice attacked
by R.A.F. in bad weather ; fires started
on waterfront; enemy fighter destroyed ;
one British ’plane lost. Two raids on
German cities —one Hamburg. Coastal
Command machines hit two merchant
ships off Norway.
Jan. 5-6: Further fire raid on Lon-
don fails. Brest attacked, destroyer
bombed out of action by Coastal Com-
mand.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them •
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SilLiv does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’CORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a od. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6d. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne,
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK. LIMITED
Established 1872.
_ HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
directors James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
. P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly. Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
nJ; °™ ce^ a t London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 147 Branches and Receiving
unices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
tmough the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
_ ank oners the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHAVING PERFECTION
Distinctive features of the British ECLIPSE RAZOR
are that it will take any make of wafer blade, whilst
the self-centring’ blade ensures 100% efficiency and
has a magnetic handle to pick up; it is adjustable
to light or stiff beards. Fine craftsmanship has
brought ECLIPSE BLADES to the very zenith of
shaving efficiency. Packets of 5 blades 1/6 per packet.
Sold everywhere. Remember that ECLIPSE RAZORS
and BLADES are viade in England.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Ibis page is set apart for the service of Bullete
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
1 o avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Dentist, skilled operator, mechanic, accus-
tomed sole charge busy practices, desires posi-
tion in Brisbane. Refs.—9157.
Typist, own machine, exp. MSS., wants work.
Moderate charges.—9200,
To buy Stirling’s Treatise on the Summation
of Infinite Series and Newton’s Method of
Fluxions and Infinite Series. —9201.
Information Sought.
(1) In 1925, what was the strength of Britain’s
Atlantic fleet? (2) Mediterranean fleet? —9195.
(1) Five battleships, two battle-cruisers, six
light cruisers, 45 destroyers, six submarines, one
aircraft carrier, one minelayer, one repair ship
and numerous drifters and small craft. (2)
Eight battleships, ten light cruisers, 36
destroyers, two aircraft carriers and many
small craft.
* * * *
Biographic details and any other information
concerning the U.S. President Zachary Taylor?
—9181.
Taylor was a Whig, fifth in descent from an
English emigrant of 1658, and was born in
Orange County, Va., November 24, 1784. His
father. Colonel Richard Taylor, was an Ameri-
can officer in the Revolution. At 23, Zachary
Taylor entered the army, fought the Indians in
the Black Hawk and Seminole Wars, defeated
the Mexicans at the Rio Grande border of
Texas, became a major-general and, with
General Winfield Scott, was a hero of the
Mexican War. He was elected President in
1848. He was a cotton planter and had a
large landed estate in Louisiana. By religion
he was Episcopalian. He died at the White
House July 9, 1850, and was buried at Spring-
field, near Louisville, Kentucky.
* v * *
I believe one of the suburbs of Sydney is
called Beecroft. How did the name originate ?
—8834.
The suburb referred to was named Beecroft
in honor of the wife of Henry Copeland, a
former Minister for Lands in N. S. Wales.
The maiden name of Mrs. Copeland was
Hannah Beecroft and the family names are
perpetuated in that locality by the naming of
streets such as Beecroft-road, Hannah-street
and Copeland-road.
* * * *
(1) Would it be possible to use a four-cylinder
motor-car engine to propel a 12- or 15 -ton
boat ? (2) What would be the mileage per
gallon 3—9171.
(1) Yes. Many car motors have been installed
in boats. To give economical results the pro-
peller should be geared down. (2) Depends
upon the power of the engine and its suitability
for the work.
* * * *
(1) What is ambergris like? (2) To whom
should it be submitted for identification ? —9200.
(1) Ambergris varies from a soft, black, pitch-
like substance through stages of dark and
light brown to grey and almost white; the last
is of the best quality. All ambergris possesses
a musty odor, and all varieties are soft enough
to retain the impression of the fingernail.
The harder brown-to-white specimens, when
broken or cut with a knife, exhibit a more or
less mottled appearance, showing small white
spots. In some cases also the material is seen
to be built up of layers of laminae. A piece
of ambergris immediately becomes liquid when
placed in boiling water, the dissolved substance
floating. When penetrated with wire or a
needle which has been heated in a flame, a
black liquid is formed round the puncture
which, during cooling, becomes sticky like
pitch. Ambergris more closely resembles a
plastic pitch-like substance than a hard wax
or fat. Finds vary from large pieces weighing
lewt. to small pieces a fraction of an ounce
in weight, but the former are very rare. Beach
sand adheres to some specimens, but when it
is removed the characteristic properties of
ambergris are apparent. (2) Sydney Techno-
logical Museum.
* * * *
What is the Apocrypha? —9169.
Apocrypha is the title given to Hebrew
writings not regarded as canonical by the Jews,
and regarded as only historical records by the
Protestant churches. The term applies mainly
to the additional Old Testament books, but there
are also some Christian writings of the same
character. The Apocryphal books include 1
and 2 Esdras, Tobit, Judith, Esther x-xvi,
Wisdom, Ecclesiasticus, Baruch, Song of the
Three Holy Children, Bel and the Dragon, the
Prayer of Manasses, and 1 and 2 Maccabees.
* * * *
(1) What and where is the longest river in
the world and what is Us length ? (2) What is
the widest river in the world? —9168.
(1) The Mississippi (U.S.A.) if the Missouri be
counted as part of the waterway; length 4221
miles. The Nile and the Amazon come next,
each with a length of about 4000 miles. (2)
The Amazon, which has a normal width of
from four to six miles for a considerable length
of its course, is usually regarded as the world’s
widest river, but in flood time various great
rivers, notably the Mississippi, spread over as
much as 100 miles of country.
(1) Was Easter Island ever completely sub-
merged? (2) Racial character of inhabitants ?
9190.
(1) Not in historical times. (2) They range
in color from sallow white to deep brown.
Some are distinctly Melanesian, others Poly-
nesian in type. A few Chileans are employed
by a sheep and cattle co.
* * * *
Is an assassin merely a murderer or has the
word any deeper sense? —9177.
Assassins were first heard of in Persia about
1090. They were a secret religious sect at the
bidding of whose chief they murdered persons
as an act of duty. Similar bodies were formed
in various connections in later times, but the
term assassination is now only used to specify
the slaying of some public personage, and does
not necessarily imply plot or collusion, although
the majority of assassinations in recent times
have beeen connected with political movements.
* * * *
(1) Any figures concerning the numbers of
blind people in the world? (2) What countries
suffer most? (3) Proportion of blind to total
population in various countries? —9175.
About 1,200,000. (2) The most numerous
sufferers are the natives of the British Indian
Empire, whose blind total 443,653. Russia in
Europe comes next with 247,000, and then
Egypt with 148,280. (3) Proportion to each
million of population in 1914 was: In Egypt,
13,133; Russia, 1492; India, 1408; Bulgaria,
1329; Spain, 1275; the United Kingdom, 780.
Belgium was lowest with 429 per million.
* * * *
(1) What is arnotto and where obtained?
(2) What is its use? —9170.
(I) It is a reddish-yellow dye, obtained from
the seeds of Bixa orellana, a South American
plant. (2) For coloring cheese and butter, also
chocolates and soups. A preparation of the
pigment imparts an orange tint to certain
varnishes.
* * * *
(1) Difference between visible or sensible
horizon, astronomical horizon and artificial
horizon. (2) Given an uninterrupted view, how
far can the ordinary person see, and how does
this distance vary as the person’s height above
the earth varies? —9l73.
(1) The visible horizon is the limit of vision,
the apparent line where sea and sky or land
and sky meet. The astronomical horizon is a
plane which, perpendicular to gravity at any
point, divides the celestial sphere into two equal
portions. An artificial horizon consists of a
surface of mercury or other fluid whereby the
altitude of any particular star can be reckoned.
(2) An ordinary person at a height of sft. can
see for three miles; at 20ft., six miles; at 50ft.,
94 miles; at 1000 ft., 42 miles. Figures are
approximate.
* * * *
(1) What metals are used in making bells?
(2) Details of some of the largest bells in the
world? (3) How many changes can be rung
on a peal of eight bells? —9180.
(1) Usually from bell-metal, an alloy of
copper and tin. Small bells used for interior
functions are often made of silver, gold or
brass. Ordinary handbells are made of brass.
Bismuth is frequently added to bell-metal
alloys to increase resonance. (2) The largest
bell in the world is the Great Bell of Moscow
which weighs 198 tons, is 90ft. high and 60ft.
round the rim. It was cast in 1653 but fell
down in a fire and remained sunk in the earth
until 1837, when it was placed on a platform
and the interior used as a chapel. The largest
bell in use is another in Moscow which weighs
128 tons. The largest bell in the United King-
dom is the Great Bell of St. Paul’s, weighing
174 tons. Other large bells are the Great Bell
at Pekin (53 tons), Nanking (22 tons), Cologne
Cathedral (25 tons), Big Ben, Westminster (13
tons), and Great Peter, York Minster (10 tons).
(3) 40,320.
* * * *
What is the origin of the system of trial by
jury? —9l74.
It developed from a system known as com-
purgation. This was a system of trial which
prevailed in England up to the reign of
Elizabeth whereby an accused person could
claim the right to summon 12 personal friends
to testify their belief in his innocence.
* * * *
From what part of London do the Cockneys
come ? —9183.
To be entitled to be called a Cockney one
must be born within sound of the Bow Bells,
the peal of the London church of St. Mary-
le-Bow, Cheapside.
#
(1) How to remove ink stains from an
Australian oak table ? (2) How to repolish it
if it is necessary to use anything that will
remove the present polish? —9l79.
(1) Dissolve a teaspoonful of oxalic acid in
half a cup of hot water. Rub the stain with
a rag dipped m this, tied on a stick, as it is
"p° u g °° a - for l^ e Increase the strength
if the stain is obstinate, or scrape a little with a
knife. If the acid is unobtainable, use cloudy
ammonia mixed with raw linseed oil (2)
Color and polish are usually restored by several
applications of good furniture polish, or bees-
d)^ solved in turpentine to
k u B as L e L A few andr °Ps of wood stain may
be added, but are not usually necessary
* * * *
How to concrete the inside of a 100(W
galvanised-iron tank? —9l92. 8 ‘
Punch 4in. holes in the tank at intervals of
about 12in. Both the inside and the outside
of the tank should then be lined with a small
mesh wire net, tied by means of laces passing
through the holes. A cement mortar consist-
ing of one part of cement to two parts of
sand may then be applied over the wire fabric.
The wire serves a double purpose in holding
the cement mortar in position and reinforcing
it after it has set. After about 24 hours the
tank should be kept wet either by filling it or
by frequent sprinkling.
* * * »
A drawing done in ink and water-color has
become smoked. Treatment to restore? —9lßs.
You can clean the picture by making up a
solution of chloride of lime and water. Take
a cupful of chloride of lime; put into a wide-
necked pickle bottle, fill with water, shake well
and allow lime to settle. Pour off clear liquid
into a larger bottle, refill bottle with water,
shake again and allow lime to settle. Again
pour off clear liquid and you should have about
a quart of clear chloride. Pour into a flat
dish large enough to hold drawing; take draw-
ing and soak in clear water for five minutes;
take out of clear water and place face up-
wards in the chloride bath. Watch very closely
and see whether the dirt disappears. As soon
as the discoloration is gone, take out of bath
and place in clean water; then lay flat on a
towel to dry. But if the picture is valuable,
send it to an expert.
* * * *
(1) What species of bear are found in North
America ? (2) Maximum weight attained by
the different species? —9l97.
(1) The bears of North America comprise four
distinct groups—the brown bears of Alaska,
the grizzly bears, extending from Mexico to
Alaska, the black bears, from middle Mexico
to the forests near the circle, and the
polar bears of the far north. (2) The Alaskan
brown bears are the largest living carnivores,
and sometimes attain a weight of 15001 b. or
more. The grizzly may reach 8001 b., but an
average specimen would scale between 5001 b.
and 6001 b. The average weight of an adult
black bear is between 4001 b. and 5001 b., and
a large male polar may tip the beam at over
10001 b.
* * * *
What is the background in mythology of the
Flying Dutchman of Wagner’s opera? —9l7B.
The Flying Dutchman was a mythical
mariner who, according to the legend, was
doomed, as an expiation for his crimes, to be
for ever striving to reach harbor with his ship
but never succeeding.
* * * *
What planets, other than the earth, have
moons ? —9184.
Jupiter has four large and five small satel-
lites or moons revolving round it. Saturn has
10, Uranus four, Neptune one, and Mars two.
* * * *
Course, length, etc., of the Brahmaputra
River? —9199.
The Brahmaputra is a great river of Asia,
with a total length of about 1800 miles. It
rises under the watershed of the Mariam La
(height 15,500 ft.), flows along the north side
of the Himalayas, where it is called the Sampo
and later the Dihong, and emerges into the
plains of Assam. Thence it winds through
Bengal, joining the Ganges at Goulanda to
form the estuaries, and empties ultimately into
the Bay of Bengal. It is navigable to the
enormous height (at Janglache) of 13,800 ft.
above the sea level.
* * * «
(1) How to concrete the floor of a garage
18 ft. x 10//., present floor consisting of loose
sand and rubble? (2) Quantities of materials
required ? —9176.
(1) Existing foundation should be thoroughly
drained and consolidated. Use a mixture of
one part cement, two parts sand, four parts
broken stone or gravel gauge, and not
more than 54gal. of water per paper bag of
cement. This will make a floor 4in. thick.
Materials should be thoroughly incorporated
by mixing three times dry or until of a uniform
color and three times wet. Operations should
be carried out continuously until completed.
The surface can be finished with a wooden float
or a steel trowel, according to whether rough
or smooth surface is desired. Cure by cover-
ing with wet bags as soon as hardened, keeping
wet for at least 10 days. (2) Fourteen paper
bags of cement, one cub. yard of sand, two
cub. yards of broken stone.
* * * *
Following information concerning the Medi-
terranean: (I) Length, (2) width, (3) area,
(4) depth, (5) tidal movements, (6) islands?
—9187.
(1) Total length from west to east, 2200
miles. (2) Greatest width of the sea proper,
about 700 miles. (3) Water area, 900,000 sq.
miles. (4) Greatest ascertained depth, 14,695 ft.
(5) Almost tideless. (6) Contains many islands.
Principal ones are Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily,
Crete and Cyprus, and the Balearic, Lipari,
Maltese and lonian groups.
* * * *
How to sweeten beer kegs which have been
allowed to stand without being properly washed
out and have become sour and musty? —9lßß.
Burn £lb. flowers of sulphur in each cask
on a flat tin or some other protecting metal so
as to avoid damage, then fill with water, allow
to stand for 24 hours and wash casks
thoroughly. If that does not prove effective,
fill the casks with a solution of one part
formalin to 100 parts water, allow to stand for
two days and then wash casks thoroughly.
* * * *
0) Ages of Tod Morgan and Joe Hall?
(2) How long have they been boxing? (3)'Did
Hall ever hold the Australian featherweight
championship ? —9152.
(I) Morgan is 38; Hall 124 years younger.
(2) Morgan began in 1920, Hall iin 1930. (3)
Yes. Young Llew Edwards lost the title in 1931
refusing to defend it. Hall defeated Jackie
McDonald, then Teddy Moroney, and was
recognised as champion until Blandon beat him
in 1935.
* * * *
Recipe for Yorkshire parkins ?— 9172.
Mix with 41b. flour 4oz. coarse oatmeal, joz.
mixed spice, 6oz. brown sugar, and a full ]oz.
carbonate of soda. Rub in 4oz. butter or lard,
q


I^ArEY.^d
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mm&f ■<;
mmmmZrn
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool the World Over.
“Ghanam”: Australian wool more
than ever dominated world supplies last
year. The clip for the appraisement
season was round 3,600,001? bales—nearly
twice the output of the last year of the
Great War. It came from 117,000,000
sheep. Europe pastured just over
101.000. of which the U.K. held
30.000. Eire 3,200,000 and Spain pos-
sibly 16,000,000—it had 17,000,000 before
the civil war.
Russia had a bad slump in numbers —
from 72,000,000 to 47,000,000 in a year,
and the wool clip fell off by a full third.
In France and countries under German
control there has been considerable
slaughtering of wool-bearing animals, and
a great deal of stored wool or wool in
ports and factories has been destroyed.
The Continent had Buckley’s chance of
realising the 1,381,000 bales—Australian
weights—produced in 1938-39.
Animal Manures.
“Zedo”: The Nauru affair should
remind farmers of the vital need to con-
serve animal manures.
Most European countries now have
their system standardised, and the waste-
ful medieval habit of merely digging a
hole and piling all the farmyard refuse
into it to rot has given place to cement
tankage.
The best systems I saw some in
Hungary 14 years ago—call for a com-
paratively narrow pit like a silage pit,
but with much less batter, about 20ft.
by 6ft. by 3ft. or 4ft. deep. Some favor
straight-sided pits, in which case they
are shallower—not more than 3ft. deep.
Pits are fitted with a sump drain which
carries off moisture into a tank from
which it can be pumped or siphoned
back over the solid material in the pit
when new loads are added. Also, it can
be drawn off for kitchen garden
handling.
Everything goes into the manure pits
—yard manure, torn-up weeds, old milk,
household rubbish and washings from
the bails, ground bone from the kitchen.
In one I saw, a narrow cement drain
had been run round the tank about two
yards from it, and this was kept filled
with a phenol solution to blackout the
odor.
N.S.W. Wheat Championships.
“X.L.”: For a poor season, the yields
of the N.S.W. R.A.S. field champion-
ships were highly deserving —47 crops
averaged 30.34 bushels. Three out of
the four zones averaged 32.11 bushels.
Riverina and West are usually two zones,
but the drought this year was so bad that
they were combined.
In all districts rainfall was not only
below average, but was restricted mainly
between April and September. The
champion crop—grown on the central
slopes—was only five bushels below last
year’s top, and 15 central-slope crops
averaged 35 bushels. Bordan again
scored.
The judges remarked on the high
cultural standard maintained by most
of the competitors. Arrangements are
being made to hold the championship
as usual in 1941, when about the only
change in conditions will be the reduc-
tion of minimum acreage in the inland
from 300 to 200 acres.
Wheat and Sub. Clover.
“J.W.”: Tests at Rutherglen (Vic.)
Experimental Farm with rotation of
wheat and oats after sub. clover have
had interesting results. Wheat follow-
ing s.c. on unfertilised land yielded 26.2
bushels to the acre, against 14 bushels
when the wheat was sown on fallow
and 9.5 when it was grown on stubble
land.
Given Jcwt. super, the best the fallow
land could do was 26 bushels and the
“Change ends, you young loafer! Lettin' a woman do all the work.”
stubble 12.6 bushels. The clover rotation
plot romped home an easy winner with
34 bushels. With lewt. super, and Jcwt.
amm. sulph. the yields were: Clover
land, 36.9 bush. ; wheat on fallow, 34.3
bush. ; stubble, 14.5 bush.
Oaten hay results were equally satis-
factory. Relative figures on the un-
manured land were 56.2 bush., 39.6 bush,
and 21.6 bush.; but with a series of
dressings of from lewt. super, upwards
fallow land beat the clover land. With
the 1-Jcwt. super.-amm. mixture the
clover country turned off 66.4 cwt. hay
against 77.4 cwt. from the fallow.
One feature was the great improve-
ment of the quality of the clover land
grain. Average protein in the wheat
on fallow was 7.78 p.c.; on the clover
paddock, 13.65 p.c.
The Rutherglen authorities conclude
that on well-established clover land
two cereal crops in succession could be
reaped without fallowing, and the results
would be equal to or better than those
with fallow on regularly-cropped pad-
docks. These two crops, are followed
by two or three seasons in clover
pasture.
Most clover land does not need re-
seeding after two seasons under wheat
or oats, though sometimes it would pay
to put in a light sowing of clover and
other grasses with the last of the grain
or hay crops. If the new method works
in appropriate districts and does as much
as seems possible to limit fallow, a new
and highly profitable type of farming
should be developed.
Rot in Maize.
“Warroo”: Maize rots in root, ear
and stalk are caused by a variety of
fungi —fusarium and gibberella —which
are near relatives.
Gibberella usually follows fusarium
infections and persists on the dead stalks
until the spores are loosed from their
cases to reinfect young and tender plants
with disease (fusarium), thus completing
the cycle.
Rot causes heavy losses over the
whole maize crop. It’s responsible for
poor germination, feeble plants, bad
filling and other grain defects. Some-
times it results in the complete break-
down of whole plants.
A sharp lookout needs to be kept on
all crops from youth upwards. If a
crop shows irregular growth when it is
two to three feet high, with scattered
morning wilting, there is an even chance
that root rot is responsible. These
symptoms are a prelude to upper leaves
withering and to whole plants leaning
over ; also to shank rot.
Rot in ears is marked by a curious
splitting and darkening of the grain at
the dent end, and there are often softness
and discoloration of the centre of the
ear. Grain rot is generally due to
secondary infection.
As the infecting fungus lives generally
on dead stalks it is essential to keep
every maize field clear of rubbish. All
dry stalks should be carefully burned
and the crop should be rotated with
others which are not susceptible to rot.
Seed selection is important. If only
treated seed were used there would be
a lot less maize damage.
Red Clover and Italian Rye.
“Grasso”: Coast and tableland
country suits the combination in Eastern
Australia if the rainfall is reasonably
reliable and the soil is highly fertile. It
doesn’t like droughts, and if the land is
not rich it needs heavy dressings of
nitrogen.
Preparation should begin with late
spring ploughing, but it all depends on
the soil and climatic conditions. Second
ploughings should not be deep and the
seed bed should be well settled down by
natural process—not by rolling—by the
end of February. This system of
preparation makes for moisture conser-
vation.
As winter feed is the objective, sowing
should be done as early as possible in
March before cold snaps arrive. About
31b. clover and 121 b. rye to the acre is
fair measure. Seed can be put in straight
or mixed with fertiliser through the fer-
tiliser distributor, and carefully covered
with a shallow film of earth drawn over
it with a reversed light harrow or a
wire-netting harrow. Rolling after sow-
ing helps ; one of the great secrets of
success is a firm surface soil bedding.
Seven or eight weeks after germination
the paddock should be ready for light
grazing—stock to be allowed in from
half to a full hour. Watch the balance
of the plants carefully, otherwise the
rye may wipe out the clover.
When both plants are thoroughly
established they will stand fairly heavy
grazing, and are safe as wet-weather
paddocks.
Fertilising should be done with about
2cwt. super on rich soils. On poorer
land add Jcwt. amm. sulph., with
another Jcwt. as a supplementary dress-
mg early in July
to give the spring
growth a lift.
Second-year fer-
tilising in autumn
is sound practice.
If the paddocks
are to be used for
hay they should
be ungrazed from
the end of August
and may be cut in
December.
The best strains
are Maoriland
types Govern-
ment-certified leafy biennial rye and
Montgomery late flowering type red
clover.
The mixture is to be specially recom-
mended for rotation, particularly with
maize and potatoes.
Winter Feed.
“Ager”: Turnips are a great stand-by
for stock feed in winter.
The ground must be broken well down
before sowing. Rough cultivation spells
failure. Turnip seed is not very robust.
Quick germination is necessary for suc-
cess. Plough early then, and cross
plough. Harrow two or three times
until required tilth is obtained. The seed
does best in a medium granite loam,
but any well-drained soil will serve.
Sow up to late January according to
climatic conditions. On Tablelands wait
until the ground has warmed up and
moisture conditions favor a rapid ger-
mination. Sow at rate of Jib. to 11b. per
acre. Crop does best with from 901 b.
to lewt. super, to acre.
Roots weigh 61b. to 81b.—roughly at
20 to 25 tons per acre. Chop out too
thick a growth. You will get greater
weight per acre with an open stand.
Don’t sow on high ridges. The plants
do better on a well-drained level.
As turnips contain almost 80 p.c.
moisture, you must provide adequate
natural pasture grazing to supplement
the ration. It’s quite a good idea to
take a slice out of, say, a 500-acre
paddock— about 64 acres and sub-
divide the latter into four 16-acre blocks.
You can then stock each of these 16-acre


: H
*
; \;
Australian Radiotron Valves,
fitted in your set, is your
assurance that replacements
are available when necessary.
RADIOTRON
VALVES
WILL GIVE FULL TONE REALISM
TO YOUR RADIO
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.,
47 York Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
93 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.
THE COMFORT OF A SEPTIC TANK WITHOUT ANY WATER SUPPLY
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Matter is dissolved, rendered sterile and overflows into the soil.
Fully Guaranteed (7 Years Against Corrosion).
NO SMELLS, FEIES OK GERMS.
REPEAT ORDERS PROVE SATISFACTION.
The Commonwealth Government has lately
bought 97 more and the Hunter District Water
Board 13 more.
PRICE, £l7/17/6, includes 10% S. Tax.
Crating 10/6 Extra.
Over 1550 Satisfied Users.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
n
m
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd.. King St., Sydney
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimental radio.
The Annual Subscription is £l/6/8
(2 years, £2/5/8), payable at “The
■nniipf'in” Office. 252 George Street,
Bulletin”’ Office, 252 George Street,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yeany,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally _ appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A. , ,
llead “Radio” regularly and keep m
nUv«ince of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
blocks in turn, while remainder of
paddock provides the necessary rough
grazing.
Roots may be stored in pyramidal
pits, dug in a well-drained position, and
covered with straw and earth sods. They
keep well in pits, which are easy to open.
Turnips can be machine-chopped and
mixed with chaff to provide daily winter
feed for dairy stock. Tops provide a
good laxative feed at a time when sheep
need it most.
Aphis can be checked by grazing the
tops without any setback to the plants.
Turnips respond to frequent inter-
tillage, so keep soil moving, especially
after the ground has become workable
after rain.
After crop has been taken off scarify
and sow down to wheat or oats in May.
Bananas and Cover Crops.
“J.W.”: It’s good practice to use
cover crops with bananas. Not only do
they stop weed growth and provide fer-
tiliser but they check surface erosion.
Cover crops should go in at the end
of the year and be allowed to grow from
three to four months —throughout the
rainy season. A row of clear soil should
be kept in cultivation on each side of
the bananas and the cover crops con-
fined to the middle strips between the
main rows.
Legumes make the best job—cowpeas
of some varieties will continue growing
till early winter. They take no nitrogen
from the soil but make it nitrogen-rich
when they are absorbed. Field peas,
lupins and other legumes also do well.
If it is possible to plough the crop
in when it reaches the green-seed stage,
so much the better ; but this rarely can
be done without damage to the bananas.
It’s usual to cut the legumes off at soil
level and allow them to rot on the sur-
face until sufficiently broken up to allow
them to be worked into the ground with
a fork.
“Ente Marid”: Dates are not new to
Australia, but, except at Coward Springs
(S.A.) and one or two other isolated spots,
not much has been done with them.
Queensland is now experimenting in the
Central West and at Miles (Q.S.W.R.).
Varieties are Californian and Egyptian
Hayyani. Two-year-old plants are more
than 4ft. high at Rayford Park (Miles),
and, in the centre, advanced palms
already have produced small bunches of
fruit which give promise of good quality
at a later stage. The Department of the
Interior should try planting in Centralia.
“Canbelego”: B. E. Zweck, Myrtle-
ford, Henty (N.S.W.), has proved the
value of sub. clover. The seed feeds
sheep when no leaf is available, and last
winter 130 acres of sub. maintained 400
lambing ewes. Prior to the April rain
only seed sustained the sheep. Zweck
has 358 acres of sub., which has given
such good results that he does not intend
to renew 70 acres of lucerne which died
out after seven or eight years. He top-
dresses all pastures with lewt. of super-
phosphate per acre annually.
“Mundi”: According to the Com-
monwealth Weather Bureau, W.A. crops
will turn out considerably better than
was at first expected. The wheat yield
estimate has gone up from 19,000,000
to 23,000,000 bushels. But southern
rainfall has remained below normal and
there will be a considerable shortage
both in wheat and hay. In the
northern district the season is labelled as
variable, and, though stock are passable
in condition, great numbers are falling
off. North-central shows a majority
of poor crops, pasture and water are
scarce and the season is bad. The same
remarks apply to southern central areas.
South-coastal wheat has been ripening
too fast, though there are good hay
crops and pasture is plentiful, if dry.
Inland along the Norseman-Esperance
line the crop is light, pastures low and
the season a heartbreaker.
“Waratah”: On a large and formerly
wormy property, where the prevailing
is a trichostrongyle, a
C.S.I.R. experiment with nic. sulph.
extending over several years has proved
that in Tasmania, at least, nic. sulph. (B.
18/12/’4O) makes no favorable difference
to sheep that are adequately fed and
properly rotated. A large number of
sheep were divided into two equal lots.
One lot was regularly drenched with
nic. sulph., the other lot received no
medicine. Both lots were weighed indi-
vidually before, during and at the end
of the test. Laboratory egg-counts were
made from samples of dung from each
lot at intervals during the test. Proper
feeding and cleanliness were ensured by
rotation on improved pastures. The
weights of the undrenched sheep, both
individually and collectively, turned out
slightly better than those of the drenched
sheep, and there was no significant differ-
ence on the whole in the egg-counts made
from either lot.
“Goulburn”: Since C. G. Macindoe,
Dorrigo (N.S.W.), began pasture im-
provement in 1935, butter production of
his herd has increased by about 15 p.c.
each year. He grows maize or temporary
pastures for a couple of years, then sows
a perennial mixture of rye grass, cocks-
foot, red and white clovers. Pastures
are topdressed annually with lime and
super., and he uses animal manure by
harrowing the pasture after every graz-
ing. He conserved 80 tons of silage in
a pit last February.
“Mookau”: Dead in her thirtieth year
at Campbelltown (N.S.W.), Victoria, a
South Coast Ayrshire bred by T. B.
Brown. She was by Blondin out of
Barcheskie Beauty’s Queen (imp.). Her
youth was comparatively misspent, since
she did not make a record till she was
18, when she produced 15,5951 b. milk
and 573.351 b. butterfat in a 273-day test.
At 23 she was still able to turn out
10,9771 b. milk and 4481 b. fat. At 21
she was champion type and production
cow at Sydney Royal, and in 1935, four
years later, was second in the same
class. Her daughter, Glengowan Joyce,
held an Australasian production record
for two-year-olds and averaged 13,440-
odd pounds milk in four successive 273-
day lactations. Several other daughters
and granddaughters are in the 10,0001 b.
or over class. She bred only one bull
—a twin born when she was 20 —Glen-
gowan Victor, and he has turned out a
good sire. Anybody know an animal
to beat Victoria’s record?
Outback Occupations.
No. LI.
A MOUTHFUL OF TROUNLE (3).
You’ve got to the dentist at last. It’s
taken some time, certainly, but the missus
now has a firm hand on your arm —she's
had it there ever since you came into
town —and you’ve reached the waiting-
room. You no sooner do so than the
dentist pops out, smiles cheerfully and
says “Well, Mr. Fordcubbin, glad to see
you. Glad to see you. And Mrs. Ford-
cubbin, too.” He isn’t going to have any
teeth out.
You follow him into a small place
fitted up with what looks like a barber’s
chair, several white basins, a two-stand
shearing plant and a collection of steel
implements. A soft-handed girl appears
and stands near you. You feel this to
be a trick. No man could show fear
with that face and those eyes looking at
him from a range of three feet.
The dentist opens your mouth, pokes
round with something and says “H’m,
nasty lot. Do they trouble you much?”
“Unhuh, mug-wurble-oog,” say you.
“No wonder,” he says, slightly
appalled.
Suddenly something stings your gums
and your mouth begins to fill with what
feels very like a horseshoe, cold and hard.
The girl gives you a warm smile, the
dentist does something, and you feel a
tearing sensation without pain.
He says, “How did the wheat pan out
this year?”
You tell him that it was noodle purg
murch un ogg babe iggle sheerrup.
This seems to puzzle him a bit, but
he supposes that a market must be found
somehow, even in a place like that. After
which he lets go of your head and a lost
sensation sweeps over you.
Then the girl holds out warm water
and you wash your mouth, thinking that’s
one of ’em gone anyhow. The dentist
disappears, leaving only you and the
girl. You feel with your tongue, but
there is only the horseshoe. With some
difficulty you convey to the girl that
you’re ready for the next. Smiling
brightly, she assures you that all is over,
the seven are out.
You point to your mouth, asking
“Wha’ abou’ thi’ thing?”
She looks puzzled. You make signs.
She laughs lightly. “Oh, that’s the
cocaine ; it will wear off.”
You get up to join your wife. There
is a mirror in which you see yourself.
Your eyes are twice their normal size.
“Gosh,” you think as the first delayed
shock goes tramping over your entire
nervous system.
You get to the wife and she gets you
to the car, where young Jack is waiting
to drive you home. The missus holds
you and croons. She did that in the long
ago, a month after you were married, and
you broke down after working 85 hours
without a break to stop a scrub fire. Old
memories of your mother come out of
the past.
You feel better when you reach home.
Your wife and both boys are full of sym-
pathy, speaking to you with a new
respect, getting you things. You find
you can smoke, but an ache is beginning
to grow along your gums.
It has always been your creed to fight
off sickness and similar distempers with
work, so you change into your working
clothes and make for the pens where the
boys are hand-drafting some old ewes.
The missus protests, but you laugh
shakily and go on. Your mouth is giving
you beans.
“Well, the blankers are out,” you think
several times that afternoon. The missus
comes down with tea and cake. You try
the cake, but it’s no go, though you can
drink the tea after it cools a little, A
sudden vista of days on sops grows, and
you get up and go behind the shed and
pull yourself together. You know she
bought 21b. of fillet steak in town that
morning.
You and the boys get back to the
house. There is* a glorious smell of steak
grilling. Your injured mouth fills with
saliva. You haven’t had anything except
tea since breakfast and you’re mighty
hungry. You sit at the table, spooning
broth into yourself. On either hand the
boys sit, their strong young teeth macer-
ating that steak. You can smell it, you
can taste it. Why did she have to go
and buy steak today? An awful
feeling of tiredness, hunger for some-
thing solid, nervous rage and weakness
sweeps over you. You fight it back.
Then that worst of all things, self-pity,
comes. You’ve never known it before.
’Struth, you think, a man’s a flamin’ sissy.
You get up and make for the door.
Up the paddock, in the evening glow,
you know you’ll be able to pull yourself
together. Here, with those healthy young
galoots wolfing tucker in front of you,
with tucker all round, with the wife’s
obvious sympathy, you’re getting the jim-
jams.
“I wouldn’t go out, dear,” says the wife
warningly.
“I’ll be all ri’,” you say, making for
the door. There you’re just in time to
see the old mare break through into the
haystack. Shouting curses, you begin to
run.
Clear as a bell comes your wife’s voice
behind you. “Well, boys, your father
seems to be himself again.”


THE OT HER FELLOW'S MIND.
The contributor placed first is paid at the rate of 4|d. per line; all others at
21d. per line.
Pithy remarks on the renascence of a superstition on which Dean Swift was
thought to have said the last word earn first place for “L.H.W.” (N.S.W.).
Astrology
At 4.30 one afternoon 1 heard a female
astrologer give some startling informa-
tion in a talk on “Astrology for Boys
and Girls.”
It was gratifying to learn that the Presi-
dent of the U.S.A. keeps five astrologers
(presumably at decent salaries) to advise
him on all matters of State and domestic
policy. That the British Government
takes no step contrary to the advice of
its astrological team. That Hitler’s
success hitherto has been exactly propor-
tional to hH stargazing seer’s confidential
reports. That Mussolini has an old
astrological nurse whose guidance he has
strictly followed ; now she is either dead
or he has neglected to follow her ad-
vice. Every important businessman
should regularly consult the “wise men,”
as it has been abundantly demonstrated
that that is “the only means of success-
fully conducting one’s daily affairs.”
1 learned on inquiry at a store that
3000 astrological guidebooks are sold
to Sydney’s public every week at 3d. each.
And now I doubt the wisdom of Vol-
taire’s remark to a demagogue —“I don’t
believe a word you say, but I’ll fight any
man who tries to stop you saying it.” —
L. H. W. (N.S.W.).
Education
I’m fed up with people wanting to
educate the people. It just can’t be done.
People can be taught, but they can’t be
educated—that has to come from “the
inside.”
When I was a kid half a century ago
the idea of educating the people, still
moderately fresh, was in full blast;
Education was compulsory, and prac-
tically free in the lower grades. Humani-
tarians with drooping lids gazed over
one’s shoulder into distant space, and
spoke of all the good things that were
to happen when the noble masses were
set free from the trammels of ignorance.
Free libraries, museums, art galleries and
so on went up like mushrooms. Huxley
led the van of scientific lecturers to the
said ignorant masses.
And what is the result? Go to the
museums and art galleries that were to
work such wonders and hear the answer
in the echoes of your footsteps through
the empty buildings. See what books are
asked for in the libraries; if by rare
chance anything of educational value is
found, it will almost certainly be found
in the possession of someone who looks
—and probably is—abnormal. Ask
young—or middle-aged —people about
anything at all, and 19 times out of 20
they will show an almost complete
vacancy of mind about anything in life,
even the subjects on which so much time
and money has been spent in their school-
ing. When I was last in Sydney I went
to the Town Hall to find when the next
recital on one of the world’s greatest
organs would be given. The attendant
gazed at me in astonished pity. There
were no organ recitals. People didn’t
want them. But people used to want
them before some hundreds of millions
had been spent on their “education.”
So far from educating us, our system
of public instruction has made education
a bore, and no use, anyhow.
“Educate” should be an intransitive
verb, as “grow” should be. A child can
grow or a plant, but nobody really be-
lieves that we can grow children or grow
plants ; we can provide suitable condi-
tions and the children or plants will then
themselves grow ; but the growth and its
extent depend on the organisms. If,
however, the children —or the plants —
are overfed or overtended growth will be
weak and unhealthy or even cease.
Provide the conditions for education,
a capacity to speak and read (real speak-
ing and reading), a little very elementary
mathematics, easy access to the world’s
books, opportunity for varied human
contacts, free instruction for adults in
conversational languages (dead or alive),
and leave us to batter out our own
destinies.
And don’t try to “educate” anyone
till a way is found to “grow” hair on a
broom. —George Graham (Tas.).
Slums
“Nairb” (B. 4/12/’4O) is not quite
right in his claim that a slum area exists
in the model town of Yallourn. The few
down-at-heel houses up on the hill near
the old brown-coal mine were there
before Yallourn was born, and are a
legacy from the days when the Victorian
Mines Department ran the old mine.
These “shanties on the rise” will no doubt
disappear in time, and meantime they
have a decent water supply and electric
light, and the location is healthy. Yal-
lourn is the best-run town I have ever
lived in, and I don’t care how soon I
get back to it. — Killo Watt (Vic.).
I recognise “Sam Square” (B.
25/12/ ’4O) as just another of those under-
dog fanciers. He fondly imagines that
“the system” has only to be changed and
the slums will vanish. 1 wish it were so
simple.
In actual fact, however, there is no
excuse for the existence of slums in Aus-
tralia, even under our present system,
nor will a mere change in the system
secure their abolition. Slum conditions
are brought about in Australia partly
through drink, partly through gambling
“The kids asked me to bring one home!"
and partly through the physical, mental
and moral inertia of the Australian him-
self.
I live in a fairly green and pleasant
seaside suburb, some distance from
Sydney. There are many expensive-
looking houses all about. People come
here from the country in summer time
and rent these houses, furnished, for as
much as 12, 13 and 14 guineas a week.
Not all the houses are of the expensive
variety—further down the beach are
some that are no more than tin shacks
but still let at exorbitant prices prices in
summer. Into many of these two or three
families will crowd, eating and sleeping
all over the place, and living in slum con-
ditions. Some of the places are mere
boozing joints into which young men and
women crowd over week-ends and holi-
days, while they go through the motions
of what the mob calls “enjoying them-
selves.”
If you walk round about these
houses during “the season” you will
see their environs littered with empty
tins. Empty bottles, and often broken
ones, are strewn along the beach.
Flies are everywhere, feeding on the gar-
bage that the folks just throw out in
their backyards. None of these folk are
poor. They are poor only in the moral
and mental sense. They are abysmally
ignorant. They would create slums any-
where. no matter if they had an income
of £4OO s ',veek and lived in Admiralty
Housc.—Old Pacific (N.S.W,).
Life Assurance
It is time the Federal Government used
its “Security” Act and made life assur-
ance societies revise their penal imposi-
tions on unpaid premiums. Eight per
cent., compounded every six months, will
soon devour the cash surrender value of
a life policy. According to the Common-
wealth Year-Book, No. 32, 39,602 ordi-
nary life-assurance policies of a value
of £13,767,082 were forfeited during the
year ended June 30, 1938. Over 16,000
were surrendered. The war won’t be won
by crushing those who are pinched by
circumstances. — Platman (Q.).
Domestic Service
The fact that hundreds of registry
offices make a fair living seeking women
for home duties that leave Mrs. Big-
House free to get worn out on war work
or at the bridge table should have sent
“Melton” (B. 11/12/ ’4O) investigating
why women shy clear of domestic service.
It is futile to chide mothers for send-
ing their daughters to commercial
schools to learn typing and shorthand.
Does it matter if at the back of them
minds there is also the hope that by
working among men they will have
greater opportunities to marry? Cer-
tainly in domestic service their marital
hopes would reach vanishing point.
It is not by accident that there are
more ageing, unattached spinsters in
these Cinderella jobs than elsewhere.
Working early and late, seven days
a week —only a few hours off on one
day a week is the unwritten law —what
hope have these household workers of
forming friendships? Even if they were
reasonably accessible they would be too
tired and worn to be mildly cheerful.
Vital girls will not even consider toiling
for the numerous neurotic suburban
madames. That is why there is a demand
for country girls for this type of work.
The assumption is that they will be quite
dumb, non-assertive, and will sink all
individuality. Usually the girl from the
bush soon becomes aware of the rela-
tively good conditions and freedom her
sisters enjoy in office and factory, and
throws in her job. This here-today-gone-
tomorrow life of the slavey brings fees
to the registries and ads. to the dailies.
There are too many men who glibly
refer to the jobs waiting to be filled run-
ning homes for incompetent wives who
have never justified themselves in their
lives. How would they care to take on
a job in which they lose all prestige, in
which the conditions are hopeless, hard
and grossly unfair, to be exploited from
any hour to any hour? There is no
wages board covering household workers.
An employer need not define duties nor
stipulate working hours. The “good
home” which so many employers use as
a bait is often quite illusory. In too
many cases it is sometimes a slum room
hidden out of sight, a room with fur-
nishings that the allegedly charitable
employer would be ashamed to show his
friends.
In his introduction to One Pair of
Hands, a biography of domestic service
by Charles Dickens’s granddaughter,
Monica Dickens, Compton Mackenzie
asserts that any young woman who has
the tenacity to stick a cook-general’s job
for a few months has the courage and
will-power of an Amy Johnson or a Jean
Batten. Somebody put it even more
succinctly—they said “service” isn’t a
word ; it’s a sentence. —E. K. (S.A.).
Equal Pay for the Sexes
Women would appear to be digging
their own graves in their appeal to the
Arbitration Court for equal pay with
men. Many of them only hold their jobs
because the pay is unequal, and once they
attain their goal of equality it will not
be surprising if many of the women who
have fought so hard to this end find them-'
selves out of a job in favor of the men
they have struggled to “equal.”
Why should women want “equality”
with men when the best things of life
come as a result of their very inequality?
In struggling to imitate men they destroy
their most valuable birthrights, and where
they succeed in outstripping them in
achievement, as they very often do, it
takes a clever woman to subside into
second place and allow a man to put
over that all-conquering male stuff which
is one of his most attractive (and, for a
woman, profit-yielding) poses. From it
she will gather the same fruits as would
come to her from the economic indepen-
dence of an equal-pay job, and with all
the “frills” thrown in. In either case the
ultimate goal is usually £ s. d., and as
a battleground the drawing-room will
yield her more lasting victories than any
court of law. — Pax (Vic.).
Childless Novels
Despite the hopes of P. Radwon (B.
4/12/’4O), the “good wife and mother”
is unlikely to make a popular appeal in
fiction today. Writers who aim at a wide
market are justified in presenting the
bizarre, the shocking, the momentous ;
they know their job is to astonish, to
thrill, to ring the changes on the old
themes of sex, conflict, suspense, violence
and money. These are the things many
readers want. In their daily struggle
with reality they do not want it reflected
in idle hours over a novel.
The great majority seek “escape” litera-
ture, escape talkies, escape vaudeville.
Popular song themes —“Some Day My
Prince Will Come,” for example—satisfy
instinctive appetites and emotions in the
same way as other escape mechanisms.
The literati never tire of scoffing at popu-
lar trends, but they, too, are escapists.
Even novelists themselves are usually
escapists. Can anyone write about lurv
like the spinster novelists?
Obviously mere criticism of people s
reading tastes serves no useful purpose
beyond the purely personal feeling of
being so much more highbrow or intelli-
gent than the popular reader. A better
method of approach to literary prefer-
ence is to ask oneself “how do they get
that way?” The motive of popular
literary tastes is the need of many readers
to project themselves into environments
different from their own. Even knowing
all the circumstances behind this urge,
can any critic fairly condemn the average
reader? — Chas. Halbert (S.A.).
To Save Exchange
Over the radio another appeal came
to me to assist the Government to nurse
foreign exchange for war purposes by
refraining from buying imported
luxuries. Every pound of U.S.A.
exchange saved, it appears, will help in
the purchase of arms to destroy Hitler.
I have abandoned the thought of buy-
ing an expensive car, any of the remain-
ing Crown jewels of Russia, thousand-
guinea furs for my wife or priceless
antiques from Japan. I couldn’t afford
these (or any other) luxuries in any case,
being merely an Australian writer.
But if the Commonwealth Government
is so anxious about every pound of
exchange that can be saved, why does
it not stop the steady flow of cash that
goes out to pay for the flood of syndi-
cated stories, drawings and other maga-
zine matter that makes 80 per cent, of
the journals published in Australia un-
Australian? —H. M. (N.S.W.).
Food Price Mysteries
Latest Queensland statistics show that
on January 1, 1940, that State had more
sheep and pigs than ever before in his-
tory, and the greatest number of cattle
for 15 years. The Statistician described
the increase in pigs—2o.29 p.c. in 12
months —as “phenomenal.” Sheep in-
creased by 4.46 p.c. to 24,190,931 and
cattle by 1.67 p.c. to 6,198,798 in the
same period.
Queensland suffered no severe losses
by drought in 1940, although northern
N. S. Wales did. What sheep are
available there are being rushed to Bris-
bane, where market prices are nearly
double those in southern States. N.S.W.
meat operators go to Brisbane to buy
N.S.W. sheep. Yet, in spite of natural
increase within and unprecedented sup-
plies from outside, Brisbane faced a
heavy shortage in beef and mutton in the
Christmas and New Year season.
Economists of all hues and dimensions
constantly assure our Great Dailies that
the reduction of overseas transport by
enemy action is already creating a glut
in Australian-produced foodstuffs. State
Price Fixing Commissioners co-operating
with a Commonwealth pundit in the same
line perform solemn antics in “pegging”


prices, apparently a painful operation,
judging from resultant outcries from pro-
ducers and middlemen of various kinds.
In this Queensland rural area within
two hours’ car run of the capital, the one
district butcher jumped his prices up
from 10 p.c. to 25 p.c. all round several
months ago. The State Prices Commis-
sioner is not concerned with such indi-
vidual profiteerings, and the meat vendor
pays no attention to wholesale price “peg-
gings” because he produces most of his
own product. Vegetable and fruit
retailers in the same satisfactory position
follow his profitable example. Petrol
restrictions and extortionate railway
freights prevent buying in other places
where prices are lower. The new Federal
taxation will reduce many local incomes
to a point which will require definite
reduction of domestic living standards in
order to meet increased prices of essen-
tial foodstuffs created by local vendors.
All the Great Daily talk of glutting,
economics, price-fixing and pegging is
sheer blatherskite to any Australian
householder who will take the trouble to
think it out against his/her house bills
and local charges. What is going on in
tins small district is being repeated
throughout Australia on a similar scale,
and all that our far-too-numerous Gov-
ernments seem to be able to do about
it is to scuttle into recess. We of this
f.a.q. Australian household don’t mind
paying for a war of self-defence against
European savages, but we do object to
being food-profiteered by locals in a land
crammed with surplus foodstuffs which
it cannot get rid of. — Nagheer (Q.).
Union Secretaries
As one of them, I claim the right of
reply to some of the criticism appearing
on this page.
My job is to secure the best condi-
tions obtainable for the men who pay my
salary. Patriotism or any other senti-
mental consideration does not affect my
duty any more than it would the con-
duct of a trust or chain store. The busi-
ness director who allowed sentiment to
reduce dividends would get the sack. The
political leader who saw through both
eyes would lose his seat.
Even the welfare of workers in other
unions must be ignored when there is a
dispute between my mob and the capi-
talist boss. If non-combatants are in-
jured that can’t be helped.
Before condemning me and my class
compare our methods with those used
by men in other walks of life. When
you have considered the huge salaries,
the boundless privileges demanded and
enjoyed by many of those who lecture
us and pretend to be horrified by our
lack of patriotism, you may give a fair
verdict.
If my mob got a lead from those higher
up they might be ashamed of themselves,
but while they see the cash being
splashed on bureaux and commissions
and ornamental deadheads they don’t see
why they shouldn’t hop in to get their
cut. I’d like to see a list of contractors,
legislators, brass-hats and wage-fixing
lawyers who are working for a penny
less than the utmost they can get for their
services. A pretty blank page! I don't
blame them so long as they don’t con-
demn me. We are all equally patriotic
outside office hours.— List (S.A.).
Against Bush Fire Brigades
Big junks of public money go periodi-
cally down the drain in the formation
and equipment—in Victoria, at any rate —
of bushfire brigades in districts where
their scope of usefulness is so restricted
as to render them superfluous. Despite
the fact that the law prevents these out-
fits from operating within a mile of
Forestry Commission, Metropolitan Board
and other Crown-land areas, they con-
tinue to crop up at the beginning of the
hot weather in places that are practically
taboo to them.
I live in a mountain tourist resort, of
which about 75 per cent, of the total area
is absorbed by the Board of Works and
the Forestry Commission, both of which
maintain their own firefighting staffs and
equipment. The rest of the district
mostly comprises the township area, which
falls under the protection of the efficient
and well-trained local fire brigade. This
leaves hardly room enough for a rival
organisation like a bushfire brigade to
swing a cat —much less a hose —in. Yet
there has been much ado about the blos-
soming of one of these units, with an
imposing list of high-sounding officials.
The council has agreed to dub up fifty
quid for stationery and equipment, while
the residents —especially the traders —
will also be bailed up for boodle.
Bushfire brigades may be right enough
in remote districts where Crown land is at
a minimum, but they are more like im-
pediments in districts such as this. An-
other aggravating feature is that this
town, like many others in the country,
has been splendidly served for donkey’s
years by its local firemen, whose brigade
can well do with a bit of help in these
days when public money is almost wholly
devoted to the war effort. Instead of
joining forces with the boys of the old
brigade, however, the new aspiring hose-
and-bucket men want to field for them-
selves.
When a fire breaks out it doesn’t do to
argue the point over who’s to put it out;
the thing is for all firefighters to com-
bine together under the one captain, who
should surely be the chief of the local
fire brigade. Then all should pull to-
gether—in the same (not the opposite)
direction. — Morwell Hodges (Vic.).
Economy
The manager of an entertainment com-
pany, dissatisfied with the programme
sheets supplied to him free by the press,
decided to print a flash one of his own
and sell it to the audience. The public
refused to pay for what it could get for
nothing, but he still kept on publishing.
At the end of seven months the venture
had cost him £37,000. In order to make
ends meet he began sacking some of his
most popular entertainers, although their
salaries were only a drop in the dam of
wasted printers’ ink. Incredible but true.
The public has already counted the
A.B.C. journal out. It pays for entertain-
“Get down , Johnny , before nurse sees you!”
ment on the air, not on paper. To expect
listeners to buy a programme sheet which
is robbing them of their favorite items
on the actual programme is not a com-
pliment to their intelligence.— The Bird
(S.A.).
Benedict Brigades
The returned soldiers —the majority of
whom are married —have been enabled to
form a useful and substantial force for
home defence, training in spare time and
at short camps. Why can’t a similar
army be built from the ranks of the
Benedicts of suitable age—say 21 to 40
or 45? Plenty of non-coms, would be
available, for those over 30 would have
spent some years in the militia units of
former compulsory training days. Train-
ing could be at night, at week-ends and
at camps of short duration.
The result might not be as satisfactory
as long, continuous camp training, but
it would be far better than nothing at
all. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Policing the Mails
United States postal authorities are
sudden death on anything that savors
of fraud or chicanery being perpetrated
on the public through the mails. Their
investigations cover a wide and varied
field, right down to the miracle men,
well known to so many Australians —
those with dazzling financial schemes,
the chap who cures anything from
cancer to baldness overnight, and so on.
By prosecuting the offender and refusing
to handle any publications carrying
banned advertisements, Uncle Sam
immediately deprives the sharpster of
his access to the gullible, and so saves
the latter from themselves.
The Australian authorities, however,
do not appear to be actuated by such
ideals, and suffer no qualms of con-
science. On the contrary, provided the
necessary penny or twopence postage is
forthcoming, it is an open go for all.
Tip-slingers, medical “authorities,” con-
traceptive vendors and salesmen of
get-rich-quick schemes are all welcome
as customers, notwithstanding the fact
that their operations, in most instances,
conflict with State legislation.— Ricardo
(N.S.W.).
The Lesser Evil
Some time ago an O.F.M. bloke sug-
gested that a twopenny piece should be
invented. This struck me, too, as a good
idea until I realised that it would encour-
age the Big People to keep on charging
twopence for goods which, when times
are normal, should only be three-
ha’pence.
Newspapers and stamps were two for
threepence in the gone-but-not-forgotten
good old days, and so maybe it’s better
to treasure the trifling trey for a while
longer and hope to get prices back to
a more-change level.— A. Bob (N.S.W.).
War Effort?
Looking at this country’s war effort
from the viewpoint of first principles it
seems to me that we are either not wholly
earnest or not wholly intelligent. Per-
haps we are unholily vicious. War effort,
just like any other effort, can be measured
in ordinary units of work, ergs, Bedoux
units and foot-pounds. I don’t believe
that huge sums of money drawn from
taxation are alone adequate to the task.
What has got to be done is so much
work directly applied to war activity.
Work applied to the organising of
tennis or theatre parties must be very
inefficient so far as the ultimate aim is
concerned. All of this secondary work
is lost and should be unnecessary. The
first thing to be paid for from the Spit-
fire Fund is the buttons and other clap-
trap incidental to the collection. That
the money has to be raised by such
bazaarish methods is an indictment of
the public and the collectors. When
someone can show me that a tennis party
at Miss Sue Somebody’s place is a seri-
ous and necessary piece of war work then
maybe I’ll think better of the people
who go to it.
If the Nazi party funds came from
raffles and tennis we’d have a much
easier job. The British and the German
workers’ contributions to the war may be
a lot less voluntary than our little efforts,
but they are certainly less fictitious. Any
country which is justifying a colossal
taxation on the grounds of a desperate
war condition, and which simultaneously
allows utter waste of time and labor in
racing and greyhounds, ought to do some
more thinking.
People like myself who have really to
work for a lean living are getting pretty
sceptical of the reality of war effort in
Australia. It looks like a game for the
idle rich.—J. McGuire (N.S.W.).
The Medieval System
It is evident that a study of the
medieval system was not part of the edu-
cation of the correspondent who recently
on this page scoffed at medieval society.
Medieval man was at least thoroughly at
home with the essential idea of a Fed-
erated Europe, and modern federalists in
Europe could with advantage study this
period in history.
The system, of course, did not prevent
wars, but there was never a European
war until the seventeenth century, when
the medieval system had collapsed. In-
deed the whole medieval atmosphere,
which was that of a world unacquainted
with the national sovereign State, is worth
renewed study by a generation martyred
by the excesses of both nationalism and
sovereignty.— Chikkabiddi (N.S.W.).
Peace “Militia”
We take our young men and place
them in camp for three months, training
them to defend their country. Well, why
not give them some compulsory training
in looking after it, too? There are many
jobs left undone in Australia because of
the question of money. There are re-
afforestation, erosion-prevention, eradica-
tion of noxious weeds, building of out-
back roads, waging wholesale war on
rabbits and foxes and a hundred other
jobs. With wages bill almost cut out,
these jobs would be possible. Take the
young men and give them (on militia
pay) three months on these jobs.
There would be an immediate outcry,
of course, from Leftish trade-unionists.
Communists and their kind, who will say
that such an action is a subtle move to
destroy the Australian standard of liv-
ing. So was there an outcry from
professional soldiers when civilian armies
were introduced. But unless these jobs
are done there will eventually be no
standard of living at all in our land. —
Austfirst (S.A.).
“To Win the War”
I hold no brief either
for or against lotteries,
but the latest move on
the part of one of the
concerns certainly calls
for protest. It is starting
a series of what it terms
“War Service Funds”
consultations, and the
means by which it pro-
poses to “help the ‘Win
the War’ purpose of the
day”—to quote its own
blurb —is to allot £lOOO
from each consultation to
the R.S.S.I.L.A. for dis-
tribution at the league's
discretion amongst Red
Cross, Australian Com-
forts, Distressed Diggers,
etc.
Very worthy and de-
serving causes, but it
seems that the proposed
allocation is to be made
from the prize-money.
The promoters are appar-
ently not risking any of
their money, so it is
more than thick to call
these gambles a “War Service Funds”
effort. In effect, those responsible
are saying “Every time you send
us five bob, you are helping to
down Hitler.” It is a despicable form
of exploiting the Empire’s peril and
human weakness at the same time. —
Kingsman (Vic.).
The Upper House
An Upper House is necessary to the
effective working of constitutional govern-
ment. It acts as a brake on the vagaries of
the majority of the moment in the Lower
House. Where there is only one House
there is nothing to stop a Government
with a well-disciplined following suddenly
instituting a revolutionary programme.
N. S. Wales learned the value of an
Upper House during the disastrous Lang
regime of 1930-32.
In the same period, the Senate, by the
accident that it had a U.A.P. majority,
justified its existence. The knowledge
that it would refuse to pass ultra-radical
legislation for which the Government
had been given no mandate, and that its
action would be endorsed by the country
if the question were put to the issue, un-
doubtedly caused a strong section of the
Scullin Labor Government who would
have preferred such a policy to give
adherence, however unwillingly, to the
programme of rehabilitation known as
the Premiers’ Plan.
Elsewhere, the usefulness of an Upper
House that is no echo of the Lower
House has been proved as conclusively
as in Australia. One example will suf-
fice. In 1936, Spain and France both
returned so-called Popular Front Gov-
ernments —coalitions of various Leftist
parties in which extremist influence was
far too strong. Though the French
Popular Front wrought much ill, for
which France is suffering today, civil war
was avoided because the Senate thwarted
really revolutionary legislation. Spain
was not so fortunate, because she had
only one House of Parliament. The
Spanish Popular Front had its opponents
at its mercy. It abused its power to such
an extent that in less than six months the
exasperated opposition had risen in revolt
and Spain was plunged into the worst
civil war in her history. — Lyle (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
A.I.F. ABROAD
Corona Typewriters
at Special Rates
£l4/11/- Corona Stream-
line Zephyr to any
member of the forces
abroad for
£l4 POST FFEE
No better Xmas Gift for a Soldier.
MACDOUGALLS Pty. Ltd.
All States—See ’Phone Book.
CHAMPION POLEY SADDLE
I ■
J. P. TALTY
BUILT ON
HILL’S PATENT
(Guaranteed)
UNBREAKABLE
TREE.
Best selected kip
flaps and skirts.
4Jin. knee pads. Sin. thiirli
pads. 4-Jin. to sin. dip in
seat. All hand sewn.
BUILT TO SUIT ANY
WEIGHT OF RIDER.
Mounted 'with leathers, irons,
girth anl surcingle.
£l2 and £l3/13/-
Freight Paid.
Send for New Illustrated
Catalogue.
Manufacturing Saddler,
6 Cunningham St,, Sydney.
A
ff
i
fj'
1
(7
/iSSa
W
ir
554
S.
2^
> /
s
'—l
I
'S
“The dirty crooks —dud fivers /”
I STORour Rupture
Worries/
Mark® loeaHon,
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ItO! SSIOI, AI'IM.UWCE CO.,
DEPT. 27, 81 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
c Y'
With the new scientific
“FOOTHELP”
No More Suffering!
“FOOTHELP” gives you
greater ease and comfort than
you ever imagined possible.
It won’t cost you a penny
if we fail to fulfil these
promises.
{ Write To-day for
I FREE BOOKLET:
“Your Feet and How to
Treat Them Properly,” and
FREE Trial Offer to;
JOHN H. UNGER (Hept. 12H),
65 York Street, Sydney.
TVJNCmSTtR
NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
2- 750 ft. range, each .... 15/-
3- 1000 ft. range, each ... 17/6
Complete with Batteries. Postage Extra.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KIM! STREET, SIDNEY.
q
Electric Washing
Machines
Smail, compact,
340 volts 50 cycles
• Clothes capacity,
21b. (dry).
• Fully portable.
• Double - coated
green porcelain
enamel finish.
9 Water capa-
city, 8 gals.
® Guaranteed one
year.
® Limited number
to clear at £5
A.MPLION
(A/asia) Pty., Ltd.
882 Keut-st., Sydney
cw
SMOKERS!
It is claimed to be the best ever, and that is
the name,
“Best Ever”
Tobacco available in Flake Out or Ready Rubbed
for the pipe and FUAKE FINE CUT and Ready
Rubbed for cigarette making at 10/- lb.
For all your Smoking Requisites write to
SOL LEVY
q
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Goods sent C.O.D. if desired.
deaf:
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L, 1.8.5. T.,
The Block, 438 George St., Sydney.
BUY YOUR MEW BATTERY
from the Maker at Wholesale
Prices—Save £2.
Marshall Batteries are covered by a
watertight guarantee, and you can
buy them at a price which keeps
pounds in your pocket because a!i
the profits of the middleman are saved
for YOU. The Marshall catalogue is
packed with information about bat-
teries for cars, trucks, cycles,
home and theatre lighting. It will be
sent to you free of cost. The Marshall
Battery Mfg. Co., 38-42 Harbour
Street, Sydney.
p
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops per-
sonal attributes and qualities such as:
Self-contidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
Judgment Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ-
ing Pehnanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Or.
Market St,), Melbourne. Telephone: MU2356.
SAVE £2O when buying
your RADIO SET, if no
Century Agent is in your
district.
Ten days’ FREE TRIAL, and 40%
off’ retail prices. This free trial is
to ensure your complete satisfaction
before purchasing. “Century” Radio
Sets embody ail latest improvements.
World-wide reception brings over-
seas news direct to your home. Per-
formance and price will delight you.
1940 “Century” catalogue of Battery
and All-electric sets post free.
Write at once Century Radio Manufactur-
ing Co., 11-13 Dixon Street, Sydney.
CHANCE-A-TRY
THE LATEST AND BEST SOLDIER'S CAME.
q
q
q
Complete with Board, <
:ull directions, packed is a Neat Cox
Handy for the pocket.
Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
The Board, nearly | a yard square, can be
folded into a. small compass without damage.
The spinning Horse is made of metal and the
spinner board is clearly marked; nothing can
get. out of order. Players may appoint a banker
or take turns as arranged before play begins.
The Board is divided into four sections: —-
Cards —Heart. S.'pade, Diamond, Club. Numbers:
One to twelve in two rows. Dice: One to six.
Odds and Evens, also Rouge et Noir, may be
included in the game.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
LAMBS SAVED
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback —fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection—No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents or—
A. H. BAY,
Daroux Emasculators. 74 Pitt-st., Sydney
VROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES. OR INFECTION
By Using the
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.o. efficient—
q
TILLEY LAMPS
q
300 Candle Power. British
Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on li pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX 100' All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
bo used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.'
PRICE, 63/6 Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
Obtainable from your localagent or
W. Kopsen & Co. Pty., Etd.,
380 Kent Street, Sydney.
i>;*r
S®';'sifjffe
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
S.A. Agents: Goldberg Bros., Nth Ter., Adelaide.
MIXED CASES OF FRUIT.
Apples. Bananas, Oranges, Pineapples, Tomatoes,
Lemons, etc. Half bushel S/-. bushel 15/-, 14
bushels 25/- (all freight paid). CURRENT
PRICE LIST FOR CAS'E FRUITS. Pears 12/f.
501 b. Tomatoes, Nectarines, 10/- 241 b. Oranges,
Mandarins, 12/- bushel. Plums, Peaches, Apricots.
3/6 4 bushel. By fast passenger trains (f.o.r.
Sydney). ORCHARD PRODUCE DISTRIBU-
TORS, 75 George. Street, Sydney.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO
(12-2 Oft.). BEARS FOR A WHOLE YEAR,
Yields 2001 b. Also Pure WHITE 100 PER CENT.
NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (for Rheu-
matism), 2/6 Packet each. TIMBER KILLER!
Kills trees, roots to top, in 15 DAYS! NO
RINGBARKING! 5/6 tin. N.S.W. SEED CO.,
75 George Street, Sydney.
V
OILSKINS
for long, hard
wear anywhere.
Wearers of out
oilskins are our
best advertisement.
Hughes’ Tropical
Oilskins will not
stick, crack or
perish in the
hottest of climates.
Direct from manu-
facturer. No shops
supplied.
Write for Free Catalogue and Samples.
A. J. HUGHES
(Established 1803),
1218 REGENT STREET, SIDNEY.
DEHORNING
(■ft w
m
\ Get rid of
Hom s BEFORE
they start!
One application of
CHANDLER’S CHEMICAL
DEHORNER
will remove the horn
bud from any calf up
to two months. There is no bleed-
ing. Just apply the paste with a small
wooden paddle and keep the calf from its mother
for 30 minutes —the horn bud drops off in a few
weeks. An easy, cheap_< and humane method. Price,
D. &W. Chandler, Ltd., Qlfo
MELBOURNE and all branches. ’ Post Free.
First Cheap Edition
Water into Gold
by Ernestine Hill
A picturesque account of the early
days on the Murray and a lively
description of the irrigation settle-
ments. Profusely illustrated.
Price 6/-, posted 6/4.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth St., Melb., Victoria.
WAIST
DEDUCE
YOUR
The GOVERNA BELT will '
your waistline and give
athletic figure. Supports i
organs. By gentle, changin
sure, waistline bulge is elir
with every move you. make
7 DAYS' TRIAL 0
In 7 days your waistline a
Sin. smaller . . . Sin. of
and strain gone . . . 0
COST! Write for full illu
OFFER.
GOVERNA BELT COM:
Dept. 8., 243 Elizabeth St.,
details of 7 DAYS’
q
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
8/I/’4l (See Page 34)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss....,
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


“Current Problems”
® "Current Problems” is an alive and alert journal
dealing with all important aspects of Australian and
world affairs. It is topical, it is authoritative, it is
clearly written and capably edited.
0 "Current Problems” was founded in 1931; its editor
is A. M. Pooley, the well-known commentator and
authority on world affairs.
0 In its tenth year the directors of this journal have
decided to expand its scope. New features have been
introduced. The authoritative and informative articles
on foreign affairs featured by "Current Problems”
that have had'such appeal to the thinking public and
have firmly established "Current Problems” over the
past ten years will, of course, be retained at their full
strength and previous high standard. In addition, the
following new features will be introduced, com-
mencing with the issue of 15th January, 1941:
(a) Stock Exchange News.
(b) Advice and Comment on Unlisted Stocks.
(c) Informed Comment on the Federal and State
Political Fields.
(d) Current industrial Problems.
Subscription Rates s Single Copies ........... 13
1 Year’s Subscription ..... 12/6
2 Years’ Subscription ..... 24/-
3 Years’ Subscription ..... 34/-
If you haven't yet had the pleasure of
seeing a copy of “Current Problems, **
mail us this coupon.
If you are already a casual reader
of "Current Problems," send us
this coupon.-
“Current Problems,”
Box 2100 L, G.P.0., Sydney,
Please send me a free copy of “Current
Problems.”
Name
Address
“Current Problems,’ 5
Box 2100 L, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please enrol me as a subscriber to “Current
Problems” for . . . months, for which I
enclose.
Name .
Address
“Current Problems”
Alert A live Authoritative
